

pteEWAN’S Ai
-A*~ -»>. .-(V, .
IAELIC WHISKY.
BEAVER S
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet
R. O-. WATKINS SZ CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining 1 and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
w
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
WONDERFUL VALUE—A packet of Seven different
articles, comprising Yankee Rubber Baby, can be carried
in vest pocket and blown out to life size (causes roars of
laughter), Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
Coin and Card Tricks), the Wizard Fish (gives the defini-
tion of your character—very superior for parlor enter-
tainments), the Vest Pocket Tubular Microscope (\ery
useful for examining small objects), the Cinematograph
(or book of moving pictures), the great Yankee Bicycle
Puzzle (very ingenious), and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Disappearing Coin Trick (instruc-
tions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australia (Free) on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Hay market
XNEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
710 George-st., Sydney.
if
THE
The Perfect Motor Vehicle. Driven by Steam.
Climbs any hill. No Noise. No Smell. No Vibration.
Manufactured by the jCocomobile Co. of America.
In Stock and to Arrive. Send for further particulars to
: GIBSON, BATTLE & GO., 85 Pitt Street, Sydney, N. S.W.
SOLE AGENTS
“HERVEY’S RACKAROCK”
17 Years’ Unbroken Record as a Standard Australian Explosive. Cor. CLARENCE & KINC STS., SYDNEY
THORNE
J
Estbd. 1831.
WHISKY.
HOBART.
——
fiadleys Orient fjotsl.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.
CITY HOTEL
(First Gradr).
J. A. TURNER - - Proprietor.
H.M. the King’s
Jury of Experts
awarded them
highest honors
London Exhibi-
tion-
*
M
» The Lancet ”
says; “Pure and
genuine, and
specially suitable
for Invalids.”
ELI
D
PIONEER
LEATHER
fBELTINC.'
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C, Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
The Australian Sailorman’s Book—
E. J. BRADY’S
“Cbe Dim of many aiaters.”
A rattling collection of Sea Chanties. Price
ss. 3d. post free from The Bulletin office.
IN order to introduce our Gold Wire Jewellery
to the Australian public we have decided to
offer one of the greatest bargains ever seen in the
jewellery trade-vis., the above handsome Brooch
(any name or three initials) made of extra quality
Set. gold-filled wire, with heart pendant ; guaran-
teed the same quality as the brooch a( t j > v i s r !'J. se ‘ ’
complete. Sent post-free on receipt of P.O.LL or
M.O. for ss. in round wire or sq. twisted wire, l >c
gold, filled, Bs. (id. Illustrated catalogues sent tree.
SIMS and ELRICK, Manufacturing Jewellers.
Our only address —
COLE’S BOOK ARCADE, MELBOURNE. AUSTRALIA.
Mining and Dredging Plants. Engines, Boilers, &c.
Fowler Traction Engines.
The Clyde Engineering C°y.Lt
3
Desiccating Plants.
Hopper Waggons, &c.
PROOF
Head Office:
10 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manuf. Company,
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
(jri ky BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
6m One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spnng Sidk.es, £7
S-Spring Sulkies, £7 los. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies the best and strongest in Australia. £ll.
1 i«’ Rii.ro-ips £°o Buckboard Buggies from £9
10« l > Ladies* Phaetons (single and double), Dos Carts,
St *sBast%g& «5,"3£
Address ant 1 we will forward you our Illustrated
JgSRA
tharfwe can! -ffijSnno/do J, and you pay 15 per
193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
OUU SPECIAL N«. 2
£8 18/6
Delfrered at any Wharf «r
N.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO IOA
Too Stout
I was for years ; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to lOst. and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney
Sending, mention this paper.
USE -
SPOONER'S
SPOONERS
*
*
!>.*•»*•*.** •*** W#r^i%-
ATtHT LEATHER BOOTS
RIOS M
w ***
*u«. A*' MM« .***■•* ■
•=• r * *•**'':
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL. CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning- and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeeper*,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
The Bulletin
Vd 24.—N0. 1205 ]
[Saturday, March 21, 1903.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


Book trade Advertisement.
THE LATEST BOOKS BY THIS WEEK’S MAIL
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Whetham, Theory of Solution, 12s, postage 9d.
Braudes, Reaction in France, 10s 6d, p. 9d.
Ward, Figures, Facts, See., of Photography, la 3d, p. 3d.
Roberts, Promotion of the Admiral, Ss 6d,p. 6d.
Cleeve, The Man in the Street, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Stoker, Mystery of the Sea, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Giberne, Rack of this Tough World, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Voysey, Religion for all Mankind, 3s, postage 4d.
Hausbrand, Evaporating Apparatus, 13s 6d, p. Bd.
Bwmebt, Gates of Wrath, Ss 6d, p. 6d.
Thurston, The Circle, 3s <sd, p. 6d.
Obnet, Woman of Mystery, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Nprris, Lord Leonard the Luckless, 2s 6d &3s Sd e 6d
Flint Agnosticism, 21s, p. Is 3d.
71 CASTLEREAOH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doors South of King: St.) & at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane k Lendeg
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
Contain no Cocaine or
other Poisonous Drug .
For COUGHS,
COLDS,
LOSS OF VOICE,
BRONCHITIS,
and all Affections of
the Throat and Lungs.
20 1:05
soy^
The Great Antiseptic
Remedy for the Cure
of INFLUENZA and
PREVENTION of CON-
SUMPTION.
Invaluable for Singers
and Public Speakers.
Sold by all Chemists, tins, 1/6.
Sole Manufacturer: G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Australia.
SYDNEY DEPOT : S and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE. Agents in all the Australian States and New Zealand.
Melbourne and West Australia .. .. FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO.
South Australia
Launceston ..
.. PAULDING- & GO.
FAJB THOU N E & 00.
5 J A. P. MILLAR & SON
New Zeaiand SHARLAND * 00., Ltd.
THE RED PAGE.
PHARAOH AUSTRALIS!
Boomerangs have been found amid the ruins of Thebes.
-Cable, March 10.
TSING WILLIAM ! You who strut our land,
Despised and lonely ;
The regal sceptre in your hand
A waddy only:
Though the grudged blanket of an hour
Your robe of state is,
Though the sole ensign of your power
A poor brass plate is,
Though pious folk, with many groans,
Declare you silly.
Though little boys fling scornful stones
And call you Billy :
Attention! We have found you out:
In Thebes the holy
Your ancestor, without a doubt,
Ruled high and lowly :
He was not Papuan, nor yet
A mere Dravidian;
In middle Egypt he was set
Beside the Libyan:
And, when his glory ceased to blaze,
In some strange mer-ship
Hither he came to pass his days
In pure Sun-worship.
He brought you toothsome bunya-dates
For famine’s crisis ;
Corroboree corroborates
The rites of Isis :
Instead of pyramid you use
A tree for Mummy
(Since sacred spices are his dues,
The tree is gummy) ;
And thus you do your little best,
0 haughty hero !
To prove, however dispossessed,
You still are Pharaoh.
Love and the Soul Hunters, by Mrs. Craigie
(Unwin ; 2s. 6 d. and 3s. 6 d.), has come more than
once to our eyes since its publication last year.
But it has come indirectly, and has looked
unattractive, and has been passed unread. To-
day it appeals directly, “ with the publisher’s
compliments ”; and we defy the reviewers’ pro-
verb and look the gift horse in the mouth.
The first hundred pages accuse us of original
injustice. For, taking into account that she is
woman and he man, that she writes in English
and he in French, Mrs. Craigie may be matched
with Anatole France. That is P=style, R=sub-
stance, A=subtlety, I=serenity, S—satire,
E=savour ; total, PRAISE in capitals. Then,
alas ! the succeeding two hundred and fifty pages
justify judgment-at-a-glance; for they do not
increase, they diminish the mark on the mind.
&
The book gets its title from a mystical passage
in Ezekiel. For Mrs. Craigie, apparently, Ezekiel
is Ezekiel; for us he is an out-of-date dervish. In
the pleasant vernacular of the U.S.A*, he cuts no
ice. The story winds round an absentee prince from
one of those Middle-Europe States of the Active
imagination ; his secretary ; and Clementine. The
secretary is forty, and his passion is tremendous ;
bub Clementine smells April and May in the
'prince, and wins him to a promise not to make
her a morganatic wife, which is quite different
from a promise of love eternal. Clementine is the
bud qf a rare blossom; and we trust the prince
will cherish her.
d* d*
These and the other characters are vivid and
real. They say rather true things than “good
things” ; for Mrs. Craigie's youthful sparkle has
given place tp a middle-aged glow,—and if the
glow had heat as well as light the glow would be
better. But the knowledge, the wisdom of Mrs.
Craigie leave us illuminated and cold. She is
wise. Socially and philosophically, her book is a
minor education. And the way the epithets
gleam and fall is a delight. The expenditure of
2s. Qd. is recommended to far-back readers because
the book is uncommonly planned and written,
and can be read and re-read. Only, critically
metaphorically, it is a lake. And we desire
literary Niagara, and the tides of the Bay of
Fundy.
d* d*
Is it fair to complain because a tree is not a
tree, a lake is not a torrent ? Well, “ complain ”
is too strong; say “explain.” We are trying to
explain that Mrs. Craigie’s book is .mechanically
satisfactory, adequate, full; and that the cardinal
reason why it is second-rate, and must go to limbo,
is that it remains stagnant, dead ; and all the best
literature moves. Now furiously; now gently,
with the fury dormant; but moves. Literature
reflects and extends life; and the essence of life is
motion. Even “ dead ” life is in motion; we
know no death, in the universal application. But
dead literature, on its reluctant way to the dust-
heap, is really dead, in the literary application :
that is to say, its existence is limited to a point of
time, and the mental children it can beget in that
point of time. Then it ceases. And living litera-
ture ? It endures for a hundred points of time,
maybe for a point of eternity.
d*
(Dead means dead. Dead does nob mean dead.
This refers bo Mr!. Oaigie’s book. This floes nob
refer bo Mrs. Craigie’s book. The clue through
the maze of figures and {verbal] fallacies is
clear ; but you must unwind it yourself. If we
are always as obvious and ingenuous as Sydney
Telegraph's crusade against boxing oontests, yon
will reproach us for becoming unstimulating.)
d*
One paragraph about Restraint. Many toler-
ably intelligent people mistake Weakness for
Restraint. When they find a book well written,
but cold, heavy, dull; they say, “O admirable
Restraint! It’s grand to have a giant’s strength ;
but tyrannous to use it like a ” dwarf, it
should be: all big things and people are good-
tempered. But distinguish always between the
Restraint which can go farther, which dams itself
deliberately, and the weakness that does its
utmost and is damned deliberately. Restraint
simply means that you Concentrate to conquer,
reculer pour mieux sauter, and the test of it at
any moment is the effect, the result. There is no
virtue in Restraint itself. It is a means to an
end; and if the end be better attained by ex-
pansion, by letting yourself go, then to let go is
better than to restrain. But Weakness cannot let
go. Weak authors (like J. M. Barrie in The Little
White Bird) would be only too pleased to send
thunder rolling round the spheres, as Jove Shake-
speare does ; only, they cannot forge the thunder-
bolts. So they sit by the fire and spin—prettily
enough; and foolish critics chatter “O discrimi-
nating Art! O noble Restraint! ” Noble fiddle-
sticks.
«
Sydney Telegraph was mentioned above. Sydney
Telegraph is always being mentioned above, or
below, or round about. Living in Sydney, and
being under the necessity of reading a daily paper,
we read Sydney Telegraph, because it is the best
daily paper. Occasionally S.M. Herald ; but the
Telegraph always first. Now the Telegraph has a
new editor, E. W. Ward ; and the Herald has a
new editor, Thomas Heney—both known as
honest, intelligent, conscientious men. Two great
opportunities: what will they do with them ?
We want to bring home the great doctrine of per-
sonal responsibility to Ward and Heney. We
adjure Heney to improve the Herald so that we
will read the Herald first. We exhort Ward to
maintain his supremacy. In fighting for us, they
will fight for a hundred thousand readers as well.
Cash will follow; and glory; and Australia’s good,
which is the main thing we are concerned about.
We want a fight to a finish, between Ward
and Heney, to see which will make the brightest,
most entertaining, most sane and stimulating
newspaper—and public morals will applaud, in-
stead of deploring, this National Sporting Club
contest.
J* J*
The point of the Telegraph's re-engagement of
Ward asks to be more definitely stressed than has
been done in odd paragraphs. Here is an editor who
resigns his place on a point of principle. Years
elapse ; and he is recalled to his place, with added
honour. The Telegraph directory admits infer-
that it was wrong, and the editor was
right. It avows,that a courageous, independent,
conscientious editor is a better editor for its pur-
poses than a timid, unscrupulous, tirhe-and-di-
rector-serying editor. That is a rare triumph for
honest journalism—perhaps the most memora-ble
triumph in our journalistic history. More, it is a
vindication of company morals, a proof of the
community’s integrity. It shows that Australian
readers respect the sincerity and honour of the
press ; and that it pays the Australian press to be
sincere and honourable, as we always believed,
J*
Australia is a country by itself. Australian
readers are a class by themselves. They are too
intelligent to be gulled long by the methods that
succeed with the London mob. And they do like
to have some basis of intellectual faith, some hold-
fast anchorage for opinion. They want their facts
correct, and their comments just. If they do not
get them, sooner or later they will find out
the deceiver, and spurn him. The Telegraph at
one time undervalued its readers’ intelligence,
and there was a strong reaction in favour of the
rival Herald —dull, but conscientious. Now, we
believe the Telegraph is conscientious and brighter
—and we read the Herald last, or not at all.
«£*
We want to read the Herald first—for a change,
for the sake of the Herald, and for the sake of
Australia. And we ask Thomas Heney to look at
his ponderous leaders, and to look at Ward’s, and to
improve his own. Let him abjure the dogma that
a leader must be defined as a heavy article in
three paragraphs. Why heavy? Heney needs only
to employ better brains, and train them to a
better style. Why three paragraphs?—solemn
introduction, solemn statement, solemn applica-
tion—when one, or two, or four may be demanded
by the subject, And leaders should be kept
short: three short are better than two too long ;
sometimes four shorter ai-e better stilL
J* &
Then, look at the Herald's serial story—a kind
of syndicated orphan, inserted against the grain,
and given reluctantly its daily column chopped off
at random. Why not an Australian story ? Both
the Telegraph and the Herald have woke at last
to the fact that Australian writers can write
matter that will sell to Australian readers. The
Herald even understands that it is a newspaper
for Australia, not for the English any longer. On
9th March it inserted this advertisement on behalf
of its weekly, the Mail: —
rpO PRINTERS WITHIN THE AUSTRALIAN COM-
x MONWEALTH.-The “SYDNEY MAIL” XMAS
SUPPLEMENT.—TENDERS are invited for the produc-
tion of a COLOURED PICTORIAL SUPPLEMENT for
the Xmas Number of the “Sydney Mail ” for 1903, either
by three-colour process or lithograph. Size about a demy
sheet. Designs and tenders for the work at per thousand
up to 100,000, and stating the time at which delivery
could be made, will be received up to April 5,1903.
JOHN FAIRFAX and SONS.
Will the Australasian kindly follow suit, and stop
importing from England and Germany coloured
supplements that, with a little encouragement,
can be just as well done by Australian printers ?
Next, we want the Mail and the Australasian to
offer each an annual prize of for an Aus-
tralian design for the if they
feel generous. And
The serial story. A girl came to ns the other
day with a really good Australian story that she
wished published as a book—not a first-rate
story, but better than the stories the Herald and
the Telegraph print—much better for local
readers. It was a simple love episode in an Aus-
tralian setting—readable, unobjectionable, paper-
selling, not above the heads of the feminine
audience. We oould not publish it; because there
is not yet enough population in Australia to make
the book-publication of fiction profitable, unless
it contains some exceptional quality. This book
had no exceptional quality, though it was
written on a good level throughout. But it
struck us as just the thing for a daily serial.
About 70,000 words; prioe—say ss. per 1000—a
cheap book. We will give the girl’s address to
Ward or Heney—whichever writes first—as a
premium on well-doing. And there are several*
writers who need only encouragement--and sub-
editing—to keep serial columns tilled all the
year round. Ward and Heney are in-
vited to encourage tbam ; because Australia
is waking up, and it will pay. ——-1 here are
other things we should like to write to Heney
and Ward about, such as the necessity for paying
the junior reporters better, and making them
take pride in the accuracy and the style or their
copy ; but space, time, and life are short, and we
have to run away to the Congo.
«.
From Civilisation in Conf/oland, a Storv of
International Wrong-Doing, by H.
Bourne (London, King and Son ; K)s.
appears there has been trouble on the Congo in
the spring—and summer, and autumn, and win-
ter. Great Britain, Germany, France, Belgium,
Spain, and Portugal have settled in and about
Congoland like crows on a carcase ; and the
familiar “ blessings of civilisation ” have come to
the Congo aboriginal in their familiar guise of
gin, religion, disease, slavery, cruelty unspeak-
able, and unmerciful death. In his wild state,
the Congo aboriginal fought the aboriginal next
door, captured him and enslaved him, killed him
and ate him, or was himself enslaved or eaten.
He does these things still, but.under the sway of
beneficent civilisation he is taught to do
them for the benefit of the civilising
agent; and the lesson is impressed ' pon
him that he must not eat a potential ivory-
carrier too often. Now comes H. R. Fox Bourne
with a comprehensive account of the slavery,
murder, etc., continued in the always-blessed
name of civilisation ; and a humanitarian plea for
publicity in order that the trouble on the Congo
may end.
The question is, What are we going to do about
the bitter cry of the Congo ? The answer is
Nothing. The Congo is too vast, too far a wav.
We are bound to say we have scanned merely,
not read, H. R. Fox Bourne’s rather ) ou-
derous book. Life is too short; and H. R. Fox
Bourne’s style is too slow. Joseph Conrad, with
a few lines in “ The Heart of Africa, ’’ can firg our
imagination. We see the eternal procession of
Congo aboriginals tramping to the coast with rub-
ber and ivory for the benefit of civilisation-
starved, gaunt, hollow-eyed machines of misery,
with the whip-lash and the rifle-bullet as cure for
all the tortures that flesh can undergo. We see
the levies of Congo aboriginals armed to slaughter
other aboriginals for the benefit of civilisation,
billiard-balls, and garden hose; we can picture
the lingering agony of the wounded, the shrieking
despair of the women, the last dumb complaint in
the eyes of the dying child. And what do we care
about it all? Sentimentally, as much as you
please; actually—nothing. Life is so short:
the Congo is so far away. If a million Congo
aboriginals were murdered to-morrow, and the
cable said so, would half-a-dozen people in Sydney
lose their appetite for dinner? Never; unlesss
they had eaten too much breakfast. They would
say “How dreadful!” —and pass to furious dis-
cussion of the leprous gentleman at Strathfield or
the wily cove at Manly.
J*
Besides, we have our Congoland in Australia.
In the West and North the blessings of civilisa-
tion are being scattered almost precisely as they
are being scattered in th^Congo. Drink, disease,
and religion ; rape, slavery, and sudden death:
the Australian aboriginal gets his full civilising
share. Now, we do care about that. That touches
us and belongs to us. When we hear that a Nor’-
west squatter has flogged our own aboriginal to
death, we want to hang him out-of-hand, to dis-
courage the others ; and we would take real, per-
sonal pains to make sure that such a hanging
would be the inevitable consequence of such a
flogging. But the Congo aboriginal is too vague,
too far away.
Theoretically, the least act of injustice in Mars
or Jupiter should stir and revolt us as much as the
worst act of injustice in front of the G.P.O.
Practically, we are mortal: we can hold so much
emotion and no more; and when we use our pitiful
reactions on behalf of BoYrioboola-Gha we find we
have none .left for the “ Evanoose ”-boy. H. R.
Fox Bourne must',accept our limitations—and
apologies. We have to sweep our own door-step.
The Congo door-step is very dirty; but it is too
large, too far away.
During the last two or three years readers of
The Bulletin have grown familiar with the
signature “ Quilp N.” appended to verses nautical
and other. The writer, now settled in Maoriland,
has collected, under the title The Red West Road ,
and Other Verses (Wellington ; Turnbull, Hickson
and Gooder), some two dozen pieces that fairly
represent his talent so far as it has developed.
They are plainly the work of a beginner ; but
sometimes the full pulse, the warm sympathy,
the fresh impression, atone for the lack of form ;
and we catch a glimpse of the bitter fascination of
sea-labour, the glory and terror of the Sea.
hare little to recommend them. “ Nothing ’’ —it
might be said, but for this : that through “ Quilp
N.’s ” frequent crudity shines usually the true pic-
ture, the vital emotion. And those are a debu-
tant’s verses ; “ Quilp N.” writes better, and will
write still better. “Coastin’ and “Stokin’,”
for example, ate vividly set down ; but one has to
read them through to realise their value : quota-
tion of a stanza would be misleading. The book
kas an effective covo--design and illustrations by
W. Macbeth.
Current clippings —
There is a story of Turner sitting in a
boatmen of Chelsea ; he took a_ bottie of no .
drank from it steadily throughout the day wmie ne
worked silently taking notes of the
sky; he never offered a drop to his com.
panions, and he paid them just , the week
“ Turner *** savs somebody \ on six dajs
he 1 "ed in Paradise; and on the seventh he went to
Wapping."
John Hawkesworth, a miscellaneous writer onceweU,
known in London, was asked by Lord Sandwich to revise
Cook’s Vouaoe* Hawkesworth did scarcely anything to
V cT P t,yet he sold it to publisher Cadell for
.£6,000.
Savings of the late Commissioner Kerr, for many years-
Lond City Court Judge :—“ ‘ Caveat emptor means Let
the purchaser beware!’ And why? Because the seller
will cheat him if he can. Every Jew carries Caveat
emptor' in his countenance." “ Bankruptcy is*h®*« a
man owes a lot of money, and a solicitor and an account-
ant divide his estate between them. That s bankruptcj.
French opinion -.—LaSorcibre, Sardou’s new; play for
B >rnhardt, is a hysterical study of history bj a . . .
historian of hysterics.
One for her Club and her own Latchkey fights,
Another wastes in Study her good lights,
Ah take the Clothes and let the Culture go.
Nor heed the grumble of the Women s Bights 1
“ Omar for Ladies," by Josephine Daskam.
There are horrible grimaces in solitude. There are
fatal miscalculations in life. The great the
great reformers, the men that set thought fermenting
like yeast, they hide at the bottom of their hearts a
mausoleum. Buskin, all his life so active, raving of a
Beauty that should be stimuiating-and fruitful, was a
thwarted and unhappy man. At sixty he said, No woman,
has ever loved me." Nietzsche, too, in the clouded autumn
of his career, wrote, “ No one has ever sent me flowers.
In my time I have met men who babbled continually
the need of action, the duty of hatred. They saw red ;
they wished to destroy worlds. Some little blonde girl
came and kissed them. They withdrew from life and
action to shut themselves up in tame domestic happiness.
Action! What people call action is simply a passionate
hunger, a starvation of love.— Mdcislas Golberg .
The bravest and best-loved little schoolboy on the
Darlim-. He died on Sunday, February Ist . . - from
sunstroke. To the end he knew the touch of his mothers
hand on his forehead, but it was his “ wot* l with his
father upon which he constantly dwelt. They had spent
Christmas holidays together on the plain plucking the
wool frofn the rotten carcases of sheep, and it was while
at this work that the stroke fell. His little brown hands
were constantly plucking at the sheet through his short
delirium ...'He died quite peacefully. His father dug
the grave at dawn, and my eyes grew salt when he told
me that while his spade mechanically rose and fell he
caught himself looking round for his little companion so
hard was it to realise his loss. He was their only child.
“ Mother she was crazed with grief, continued the
stricken man, “and the fancy took her, and nothing
would satisfy her but she must have flowers. ‘He has
lived without them, can we not get a few for him even
now ’ she said bitterly. ‘ Just a few,’ she begged, it
seems so dreadful to send him to his grave without one
flower.’ But what could I do”—he waved his hand
over the blasted plains. “But women have strange
ways bf comforting one another, and the neighbours cried
with her, and went away and whispered together, and on
the Sunday evening’’— there was a long silence their
little ones‘came from all round, bringing great red roses
and gay poppies and blue forget-me-nots out of hats and
bonnets— they were not real, but the love that sent them
was when they were arranged they looked beautiful—
there was a faint scent of orange-blossom in the room that
made me look at mother—quiet, heart-easing tears were
running down her face ” v’
She nad poured out on the breast of her boy the
withered petals of the bridal vvreath she had treasured
for thirteen years. — The Sydneian.
Memoranda —
Bjornstjerne Bjdrnson’s 70th birth-anniversary was
publicly celebrated at Christiania on Bth December.
“ Not only did the capital bring homage [says a chroni-
cler Auguste DesmoineauxJ all Norway rose to salute her
poet. In effect, Bjornson embodies Norway, pe has the
strong sap, the sane strength, the rough manner, and
especially the frank pride of a young nation but lately
called to freedom, and encouraged to believe in its
destinv of greatness. For half-a-century Bjornson has
sung ‘ My Country,’ has exalted the duty of patriotism,
has stimulated the national pride. The Norwegian
National Anthem, ‘Ja vi elsler’ (‘Yes, we love’) is
Bjornson’s composition." The president of the Nor-
wegian Storthing, addressing him at his festival, stressed
his”role of patriotic poet in words that might be applied
to Australia. “ What have you taught us before all?
This : that we have the fight to be free and independent;
and that it is thus our right and our duty to raise
high our standard of wants and obligations. You have
said that Norwegians should become an intellectual
aristocracy. Noblesse oblige. It is you who have set our
task, laborious and glorious ; and you, more than any
other, who have roused the sentiment of honour and
conscience among your countrymen.”
The word ethergram has established itself. But ether-
graph, ether graphic, to ethergraph, seem needed by
analogy with telegraph and telegram. “ Ethergrams
were successfully working ” {Telegraph ; 7/1/3) should be
“ The ethergraph was successfully working.” The new
combination is not attractive, but it seems to be the best
we can make now. Marconi failed in his duty to the
language. He should have invented a word, as Van
Helmont invented gas, from antecedent nothing but the
suggestion of the Greek chaos.
Joseph Henry Shorthouse, dead at sixty-eight, was a
successful chemical-manufacturer who turned author in
his middle age. He held strong religious convictions, of
the Christian type, Protestant species ; and his historical
novel, John Inglesant, gained notoriety chiefly by its
polemic against the Papist species. As a story it is rather
tedious ; as a piece of literature, it is careful and null.
Heredity, diet, occupation set aside, we are chiefly
the product of the air we breathe. Purity, density,
humidity, temperature,—these are its influential
factors. But the suggestion that Maoriland’s birth-
rate decreases because Maoriland’s atmosphere, in
many districts, is especially humid, is plainly non-
sense.. Other things favourable, humidity does not
low^r vitality. Sailors are proverbially healthy ; the sea-
coast is a familiar health-resort ; Maorilanders themselves
are visibly and statistically .a vital race. A decreased
birth-rate results from increased wealth, comfort, educa-
tion, culture, and their train of consequences under
existing social laws. The suggestion is referred-to only
in order to urge some leisured enquirer, or some Uni-
versity professor who is net petrifying underthe dropping
of his monthly, salary, to ascertain the qualities of the
atmosphere in Australia and Maoriland, and to deduce
the effects .upon inhabitants. , We can perceive that
already the Sydney girl is unlike the Melbourne girl, and
that both are unlike the Brisbane girl, and we can
believe the difference is chiefly a question of climate,
atmosphere. But what is the precise difference of causes ?
arid how do they bring that precise difference of effects?
The man who will study those questions intelligently will
perform a valuable service.
Correspondents—
O.J. (*oulia) : Thanks. We reprinted on Feb. 14
Peter: No value A.H. : Returned Ignotus : In-
teresting ; no space.
A.O.S.
“Quilp N.’s” pen runs easily, and often he is too
easily satisfied. Verses like
“ Just so, 1 ’ old John replied. “ We, Mac.,
Have fought with mud and snag
Too long in this old river track,
And yet we cannot brag . . .
or—
Across the marshes drearily
The bull-frog chokes and stamps,
And ships come in and go to sea
Flashing their coloured lamps . . .


WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, and CO., Limited,
WOOL BROKERS AND PRODUCE SALESMEN
SYDNE Y.
BUTCHERS!
Send your
HIDES
SHEEPSKINS
TALLOW
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
_ SYDNEY,
The Leading Salesmen. Fall Values and Quick Returns.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Stores: PYRMONT.
Sole Commission. 3 Per Cent, -to the Grower
on Large and Small A_cc onnts A.like.
S. FREEMAN ,■ SONS LIMITED
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALT' I ES:
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE : WTNTABD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
HEALTH GIVING,
ENO’S
COOLING, ‘FRUIT REFRESHING,
AND INVIGORATING. SALT.’
NEITHER CRACK
SBoe
5807
5808
NOR BURN.
XBB
SHILLING BRIAR PIPES
QUALITY NOT BETTES
IN A GUINEA PIPE. . .
GUARANTEE.—ShouId any of our Celebrated CAN’T-B-BEAT Briar Pipes Crack or
Now Ono will be Exchanged for it imm< idiate'y on Application.
Sold by all Tobacconists. By Post, Is. 2d.
Bara a
Quality not better in a Guinea Pipe,
■til IL
RICHMOND,VA. \A
TOBACCO
Dark and
Bright
IS THE BEST.
Price, ss. lb., Post Free, all States.
A Perfect Pipe Tobacco.
HAVING secured the Sole Ag-encv for the
above brand of AMERICAN TOBACCO, we
have very much pleasure in recommending
same to our Clients and the Smoking Public.
“SOLID SHOT” TOBACCO, Splendid Aroma,
does not bite the tongue. With the ordinary
smoker this Tobacco is in great demand.
Save “Solid Shot” Tobacco Tags.
For Each 100 you will receive from the
Agents, free, one only C. 8.8. Briar
Pipe and Pocket Knife.
Sole Agent for C. B. B. Briar Pipes.
Send for Whole sale Price Lists,
“Arkansas” Mixture
A Blend of the very highest grade Tobaccos.
Packed in |lb. Tins, 7s, Cd. lb.
Sample |lb. Tins, 25,, post free.
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney, n.s.w.
FULL VIGOR of YOUTH
Every Man may
Possess It.
Are you a weak man? Are you nervous, fretful and
gloomy ? Is your sleep broken ? Have you paihs and aches
in different parts of your body ? Is your back weak and
painful 1 Do you feel that you are breaking up ? Are you
Rheumatic and Gouty ? Have you Varicocele ? These are
all the result of the waste of vital force. The gentle stream
of electricity from DR. McLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC
BELT going into the weak nerves for hours every night soon
replaces all the lost energy and makes every nerve and muscle
perfect. It cures permanently in every case.
*****
Wear Dr. McLaughlin’s
Electric Belt.
To the man whose vitality is exhausted and who finds
himself, while still young in years, a broken-down wreck of
what he ought to be, the DR. McLAUGHLIN ELECTRIC
BELT is full of encouragement. It is the success of the age
in elevating the condition of men suffering from impaired
vitality.
It is worn while you sleep. For six or eight hours every
night it pours a steady stream of electricity into the nerve
centres, saturating the weakened tissues with its life. This
is strength. From it comes the vim, the energy, the fire of
perfect physical and mental action. It renews the health and
happiness of all men.
DR. MCLAUGHLIN’S IMPROVED ELECTRIC BELT
Is unlike anv other appliance made; it does all we claim for it; it is the only Electric Belt THAT CURES WITHOUT THE AID OF DRUGS-
THE DAY OF FORTY GUINEA DRUG FEES IS PAST. No more tremendous prices to pay. All over the world our BELT has driven quacks from business.
WWa if in thev have to <ro It feeds the hungry nerves and tissues, develops by natural methods the tissues and organs; it gives life, vigor and vitality
tTevery paTof the wn out system. It is ages ahead of anything compared “as similar.” There is no other like it, they are all simply poor imitations.
OUR TESTIMONIALS COflE FROfl ALL AUSTRALASIA*
12 Durhani-street, Port Melbourne.
Dear Sirs,-It is with great pleasure that I Electric
testimony as to the wonderful curative powers of your High grade
Belt. I was suffering for a long time from rheumatism, lumbago, congesuon
of liver and kidneys, and chronic dyspepsia, and o m J free from all mv
now after four months wearing your wonderful , ma y
former troubles, and am my own man again. * & -J ca n upon me if
publish it in the interests of fellow-sufferers. A y —Oratefuilv yours,
they want further information, and I will gladly g STEVEN LEE.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co. lv _ . . T . „, nr „ vonr Electric Belt
Dear Sirs, -I am pleased to say that since I h rtroMer
I have derived great benefit from t.ie use of it, a "fJf e nature of my
in every way, though I have not as 3 y et fulliy you a Wll further report
work preventing a rapid recovery, but I will sena y
consider your Electric Belt the best remedy I have ever used, and as
such have recommended it to mv friends. I SWANSON.
Mt. Crosby, Queensland.
Mittagong, N.S.W.
T«e Dr. McLauohlin Co.
Gentlemen,—The first night I wore your Belt I slept splendidly, and have
improved wonderfully since—in fact, I can eat anything, do anything, and
sleep anywhere. Nothing in the way of drugs did me any good before.
Wishing you every success, and trusting that other sufferers will procure
one of your Belts, as I am sure they will never regret it,—
I remain, yours gratefully, «• “• BARB.
Angel Terrace,
Coolgardie, W.A.
Dear Sirs,—l got your Belt after all the doctors here had given me up
—after all the hospitals had passed me as an incurable. I had Sciatica so bad
that I could neither work nor walk. I wore the Belt two nights, and the
pain stopped. In a week I had no pain and began to mend ; in a month I
was out prospecting t»rain, and I would like to meet ft man more grateful to
you than I am. I don’t think I ever will. KELLY
Our Chief-of-Staff is the only Registered Specialist in Australasia who devotes his entire time to the exclusive use of Electricity.
If you have an old-style Belt that disappointed one°rif to had,andthafcwe have:nothing in common
s" x* g x: ~ •***• - EON T uELAY -
Write for FREE BOOK.
For the benefit of all persons interested in this
Grand Remedy, we publish a Beautifully Illus-
trated Book, giving cuts, and showing how we
apply Electricity in all CHRONIC AILMENTS.
It gives also many names of people cured. Write
for it. You may find the names of some of your
friends in it. Call and have a Free Test. See the
ease and comfort with which our Belt can be used.
Don’t delay, but call to-day, and g6c a book. It’s
full of good things a sick man likes to see. Advice
and consultation, either in the office or by mail,
are absolutely free. Write or call.
Or. f|)ctaughlin Co.,
85 King Street, Sydney.
Malbourne Offices: 167 E Swanston Street.


SMOKE
The Unrivalled
World Renowned
BRIAR
PIPES
LARGEST DEPOT :
231 Clarence St„
SYDNEY.
w&.
m
II
m
m
m
m
m
m
> //////A \\\V'
5^
Sssss*.
Ss^
m
mmm
mmmwm
I
M
i
m
i
■
«#
sag
1
I
I
*
■
m
■■ V
“ZITA” (Regd.) ADJUSTER
GIVES that charming dip-front or long waist effect now so essential
to well-dressed woman. It can be put on instantly and adjusted
to any depth. There are no spikes. The wearer will be surprised
at the extraordinary difference lengthening the front of the waist makes
to the figure. Never have results so striking been achieved by a device
so simple. | T MAKES YOUR WAIST LOOK SMALLER.
Size 1 for waists up to 24 in. Size 2 for waists above 24 in.
If unable to obtain from your Draper, send Money Order or English stamps for 18d. to the Manufacturers
W. PRETTY & SONS, Ltd. (Dept. 2 ), Ipswich, England.
All Roads Alike to
2: Oldsmohile
The enduring and reliable qualities of the Oldsmobile were recently
proven in a long distance run held in America between New York
and Boston —500 miles.
It was the only machine in the 1,000 pounds class that made the
run without a penalized stop, winning the highest award.
It is made to run and does it. The motor is of simplest construc-
tion, the result of 17 years’ experience in building of Gas Engines
and Automobiles. Starts at will from seat and is always under
instant control of the operator.
Sells in America for $650.00
(^" 1 35) and the freight here
is not large. The cheapest
reliable automobile made.
Write for free catalogue,
illustrated.
A gents :
W. A. RYAN & CO., LTD., Auckland.
Olds Motor Works,
Detro l i i J n,ohm
CLOTHED
AERTEX CELLULAR FABRIC
sssssassss
mended by the Medical. & Surc Preve nt a tiyeagainst CHHIs
Cellular Neglige Shirts.
Soft fronts of plain or pleated
Cellular Cloth; wrists, French
Print, Linen, or Cellular. Recom-
mended for Golf, Cycling, &c.
White body, 7s 6d ; colored, 8s 9d
Cellular Day Shirts.
Silk neckbands and soft wrists.
White and Self Colors, 4s to 7s 6d
Fancy Designs, 7s 6d to 9s 6d.
Cellular Dress Shirt.
Fitted best Belfast Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 0.8. or 0.F., one stud.
Cellular Cotton Body—
-6s 6d to 8s 6d
Cellular Lisle Body-
-93 6d and 10s 6d
Cellular Short-Front Shirt
for every-day wear.
Open behind, 2in. linen wrists—
-5s 6d, 6s 6d.
Open front or behind, square
cuffs— 6s 6d, 7s 6d
AERTEX
Cellular Combinations.
High or Low Necks.
s. d. '
White Cotton, trimmed
Lace 5 8
White Cotton, trimmed
Embroidery .. 7 6
White Cotton, trimmed
Lace .. .. ..96
White Lisle, trimmed Em-
broidery 10 0
AERTEX
Cellular Nightdresses.
White Cotton, trimmed
Embroidery .. ;• 9 0
White Lisle, trimmed Em-
broidery 20 0
White Lisle, prettily
trimmed, fine Torchon.. 19 b
Jf-' i
Pi:
Aertex Cellular Chemises.
White Cotton, trimmed Embroidery,
g g . White Lisle, heavily trimmed
Real Torchon, 14s 6d and 16s 6d.
Aertex Cellular Slip-Bodices.
High or Low Necks. All sizes
to 30in ; large sizes, extra.
White Lisle, trimmed Torchon, 6s 6d and 8s 6d.
Send for Illustrated Price List—Post Free.
DAVID BRAHAM & GO.,
73 & 75 King-St., Sydney.
Sole Agents.
Cellular Tennis Shirt.
With Collar and Pocket. The most
comfortable for all out-door sports
of all kinds. A great variety of
patterns stocked.
Plain Colors, 4s. 6d. to 7s. 6d.
F 'ncy Designs, 7s. Cd. to 11s. 6d.
amam
■ *'P, «'» ** *+
/<!>'.» o i* .♦ <* ip fr
, . . V«VW ♦ £3
B* HP, IP/4* *5
*. > «'* * *
►*p «> +* **" *2
• i# *t»
A Piece of
Aertex Cellular Fabric.
Fabrics by the yard or piece—ln
Cottons, Bd. to Is. 9d. ; Lisle
Thread, Is. 3d. to 2s. ; Silk and
Cotton Mixture, 3s. 6d. ; Merinos
and Wools, 3s. 3d. to 4s. 9d. ; Silk
and Merino Mixture, 4s. 6d.
Sendfor_Full_PriceJJisL___ >
Aertex Cellular Corsets.
Fitted real Greenland Whalebone.
s. d.
Cl Ecru 13in. deep .. ..15 6
C 2 ~ long waist, 14£in deep 16 6
M White Cotton, 14in., nar-
row spoon busk .. .. 21 0
G White Cotton, 141 in., with
Elastic Supporter .. 24 6
F Ecru, Riding or Cycling.. 12 6
Y Cycling, Boned French
Horn, Elastic Hips ..15 0
D 1 same shape as Cl, Watch-
spring Steels .. 8 6
BARTER’S
There’s SECURITY In
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
i FURRED TONGUE.
I
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
• at;.'/;'
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
They TOUCH the LIVER
Be Sure they are
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price.
Carter's
TATTERSA
L’S
IMPORTANT NOTICE
The Tasmanian Government having imposed a tax of One Penny
on every Five Shilling Ticket issued by Tattersall’s on and lst
January, 19 J 3, clients will please forward Idext?afor each 5 s
ticket applied for, or 4d. for every JBI, and so on.
NOW OPEN
DONCASTER H’CAP-Randwick, N.S.W., April 11 25,000 at 5/1
SYDNEY CUP—Randwick, N.S.W., April 13 ...25,000 at 5/1
ADELAIDE CUP—Morphettville, S.A., May 13 - 25,000 at 5/1
G. N. HURDLE RACE, Flemington, Vic, July 4 100,000 at 5/1
Subscribers will please note that GEORGE ADAMS (“TATTER3ALL ”) STILL
"CONTINUES his business in HOBART, under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN
GOVERNMENT, and that clients can send their subscriptions by letter to any friend or
acquaintance in HOBART, who will there have no difficulty in delivering the application and
securing the despatch of tickets and results direct to clients.
,r,f,°r? y n can als ° be paid thro,lgh an y Bank in Australasia, to the credit of GEORGE
ADAMS, Com me rei al Bauk of Tasmania, Hobart. Clients when so doing will please request
->an c to ut use GLORi.tR ADAMS of amount, with their name and full address.
■ Uilir °r ed t 0 m ° Ca " he forwaided t 0 Hobart through any PARCEL
DRRi VRivl CO. Uouig business with Tasmania.


Beauty, splendor, elegance! Rich
and heavy braids 1 Long and flowing
tresses!
Ayer’s Hair Vigor feeds the hair
and makes it grow long and heavy It
stops falling of the hair, completely
cures dandruff, and keeps the scalp
clean and healthy.
As a dressing for the hair you will
certainly be greatly pleased with it.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
You can always rely upon it for
restoring color to your gray hair all
the full, rich color it had in early life.
There is no doubt about this. You
need have no fear of being disap-
pointed. We speak with a knowledge
that covers over fifty years of experi-
ence with this valuable preparation.
Do not be deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Make sure that you get the genuine
Ayer’s Hair Vigor.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer 4 Co.. Lowell. Mass.. U.S.A.
W. H.Wigzell.
FRINGES : Best Natural Curly
Hair, 3/6, 5/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each.
TAILS and PLAITS : 20in. long,
5/6 ; extra thick, 7/6; 24in., 10/6;
extra thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings worked up,
2/6 per oz. Don’t be misled.
Our Plaits and Tails are twice as
thick as sold elsewhere at the
same price. Send color of Hair.
Only one address : 110 WILLIAM-
ST., cor. of Palmer St. SYDNEY.
Cable trams will stop at door. All work guaranteed.
Illustrated Catalogue post free. Prompt attention given
to country orders. Wigs made on shortest notice. All
Hairwork sent to the other States free of duty. Transfor-
mations, entire covering for the head, 30/- each.
Writ* To-Day.
Send
Postal Note.
/'N I YEN
VJ AWAY
THIS MONTH
...t0...
Advertise our
Ostrich
Tips.
2/6
The Bunch
Post Free.
3 Black Tips with Ospreys. A Marvel of Cheapness.
Miller’s Feather Shop,
Corner Bourke and Swanston Streets, Melbourne.
Mention The Bulletin.
Mmi
FLUID
OIL
CRUDE FLUID
POWDER
EMBROCATION
80APS
DIBINFECTORS
INHALERS
FUMIGATORB
disinfecting
FLUID.
«/* V
COLORLESS
FRAGRANT
NON-
POISONOUS
DOES NOT *
STAIN
KILLS ALL
DISEASE
GERMS
OXYGENATES
THE AIR.
Sulphur Candles -"i KINGZETT S
Formic Fumigators j PATENTS.
“HOW TO DISINFECT ” Book Free.
The “SANITAS” CO., Ltd.,
Bethnal Creen, LONDON, E.
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits eease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when every
other remedy has failed. English Prices, 4/0 anu i
Thousands of Testimonials. Of all Chemists, Stores, e .
Wholesale Agents :
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
‘25 High-street, Belfast, Ireland.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Matt a lasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
p er Half-dozen, free by post throughout
A astralia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS BRISBANE.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Kstahushbd 1849. For Llie Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Securl y of Freehold or
Leasel,oU City or Suburban
Properties, or on
~„" d , c,p -.( c o n lbined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentu.es, Inscribed Stock or Treasu. y B Us of any of the Aust aian States or New Zealand
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege ot repaying up to 20 per
cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any f ne.
Directors—Thomas Littlejohn, Esq Chairman ; The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin Short,
Esq. , Senator J. T. Walker; J. Abbott, Esq. ; The Hon. H. J. Black, M.L.C. ; F. E. Winchcombk, Esq., M P.
General Manager and Actuary—Richard Teeck, F.1.A., F.F.A FS S 4
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 109,
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
&2i‘ Send for a
Catalogue.
Wont Shaft Sulkies,
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles.
The Bent and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, i3o Sussex St., Sydney
Straight Shaft 3-Spring Sulkies, £8 10s.
Sarven Sulky Wheels Tyred, £2 4s 6d pair.
Discount to Wholesale Buyers. Send for Catalogue.
£lO BICYCLES £lO
From the FACTORY to the RIDER.
THE “EARL” SPEQAL 1903 MODEL
Westwood Steel Rims and Dunlop Principle Tyres.
Complete with Lamp and Bell.
Freight prepaid to nearest seaport town outside N.S.W. Trainage prepaid to any town i,
N.S.W. Reduction of 10s. per machine where three ordered 'at once. Less .fil per machir
where six ordered at once.
J. F. McDERMOTT & CO- 9 30 Pitt-st., Sydney
Sole Factory Agents. • Telephone 2671.
PI
Hotelkeepers, make your own
VERATED WATERS
THE " AUSTRAL ” DERATED WATER MACHINE occupies
only Four Feet square, will produce 160 dozen BOTTLES
per day of Finest Waters (Lemonade, Ginger Ale, Sodawiter
&c.) at a COST BELOW FOURPENCE PER DOZEN. These machines
are now working in all the Australian States, New Zealand, and
South Africa.
Write for Prices and Particulars.
Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers—
ECKERSLEY ANP SONS,
214-216 Queen Street, Melbourne.
WINCHESTER
MODEL 1902 SINGLE-SHOT RIFLE
JHE name “ Winchester ” on this
rifle is a guarantee in itself of its
quality. The Model 1902 is a hammerless take-
down, and can be taken apart easily and quickly.
It is made with an 18-inch round barrel, fitted with open
front and peep rear sights. It shoots .22 Short and .22 Long
Rim-Fire cartridges, and Bullet Breech caps. Some makes of
.22 Caliber rifles are a few pence cheaper, but they are a great
deal cheaper in quality than they are in price. We don’t
try to see how cheap we can make this rifle but how good.
FOR SALE BY ALL IRONMONGERS
w E stocks WINCHESTER GOODS.
M‘LEAN BROS. & RIGG, Ltd.
ELIZABETH STREET, fIELBOURNE.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks—Free.
PLAYS
Catalogue
Free
French’s Acting Ed tion.
Bare Books
French Novels
Books the Married
Extra Special Cataloi/ue of
Hooks Free.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE .
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne
mv uoa mvH aooo
all Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has ''•ained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustra
to the Hair. If vour Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin TRY IT. ' Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
•sa- For ECZKMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATUR ALINE.
For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
Washington H. Sour. & Co.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
Sold by
CONSULT HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
all Chemists and by WATKINS * MAOKAY, Chemists, Queen Street, Brisbane ; Mr. GORDON, 92 George
“ ’ Street, Rockhampton, Queensland, and
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Outcasts.
Ye are lost to the least of Earth’s praises,
U7U arS dUmb t 0 thG W ° rSt ° f her blame *
Wh ° daisies W ’ ned With Youth ’ a s P otl es3 white
The reddest red roses of Shame !
Ye, the natural heirs of her pity,
re slaves of Earth’s roadway and mart,
Where the restless cold heart of the city
Cries shame on each beat of your heart.
Yet, it may be, some soft sheltered maiden
Who spurns you, aloof and above,
With worse than your will may be laden
And less than your infinite love.
So you drift from dull day to dull morrow
Down the range of implacable years,
On your forehead the circlet of sorrow,
In your fingers the garland of tears.’
Oh ! flushed with the flame of hot kisses !
Oh ! chained with the chains of Desire !
May Time lay cool hand on your tresses
And loose you from fetter and,fire J
Oh ! weary, yet called to the riot !
Oh ! waning, yet forced to be fair !
May Death wrap you, restful and quiet,
And still that wild pulse of Despair !
Oh, gems ! if God fashioned and fired you,—
Oh, flowers ! if God petalled and planned,—
Shall man who down-trod and be-mired you,
Go safe from the wreck of his hand ?
U.K.
WILL H. OGILVIE.
The Song of the Axe.
In the first sweet dawn, when the foot-hills burn
And the gum-stems glow and change,
And the slow sun filters down the fern
In the gully beneath the range,
Clean-limbed to the work we loose from ltash:
The circling axe flies free:
Hah /—hah ! ”
So the lords that are
Shall bow t(. the lords to be.
The turning of blades that swirl and sway,
The blue as of blades that swing
To the hissing stroke as they bite a way
Through the heart of the range-side king s
True eye to the blow, true hand to the haft,
’Ware scathe when the axe-head slips !
Then, “ Hah !—hah ! ”
Hear the shout fly far
’Mid the leaping yellow chips.
A splintering wrench in the wedge-held rift —
Then swift to the stroke there come
The indrawn breath as the shoulders lift,
And the thud as the edge diives home.
The gleaming heads hum whizzing rhyme,
The steel plies patiently :
“ Hah—hah ! ”
Where the brown logs are
There, too, will the brown arms be.
V.
J.A.
In the West.
The sun has set beyond the distant trees
That fringe the far horizon, to the West;
Night, spreading forth her shadows o’er the land,
Brings to us time for sorrow, and for rest.
To-morrow’s sun will be the last, my wife,
We’ll watch in glory rising on these plains.
To-morrow wo must leave and wander forth;
Our home is lost, and nothing now remains.
Grim drought has held us in relentless grip
That closed around us like an iron band ;
And marching slowly, with resistless tread,
Has swept his burning breath across the land.
Each night we’ve waked to listen for the rain,
Our thirsty cattle’s moaning all we heard ;
Each day we’ve watched the cloudless skies in
And felt the bitterness of hope deferred.
Our flocks have vanished and our cattle gone,
No hoof now ranges on that lonely plain ;
But the poor skeletons that bleach beyond
Mark with a silent scorn the coming rain.
The grass will flourish o’er those bones anon ;
There other flocks and other herds will graze ;
But other eyes will see this desert bloom,
And other hearts rejoice in brighter days.
This home, to which I brought you as a bride,
The home where we have lived long happy years,
Will be the heritage of strangers now,
Wet with my toil, and hallow’d by your tears.
’Twas there we reared our children, all but one—
One little grave, with wattle’s gold above
Where oft I’ve seen you gaze: there sleeps our babe,
The first sweet bud that blossomed of our love.
Here have we sat—how oft!—in other days
And watched the mellow light of sunset pass
And paint with purple all those distant hills,
Across a billowy sea of waving grass.
How often have we roamed the livelong day
By rolling plains, and forest wild and free ;
How often we shall hear the Westland call,
Cramped in a crowded city by the sea !
A thousand memories come thronging now
Of things I thought forgotten in the past;
At joy and tears the page of bygone years
Lies open— but my eyes are filling fast.
N.S.W.
W.E.


Nip
»»
•• • •
Four Crown
Whisky
f
4*
y
* - -•« '
__
A LIVERS VAGARIES.
Nervous Weakness and Exhaustion.
A Great Change for the Better.
The Case of
Mrs e. SHE WAN.
(bs ock reporter.)
Mrs. Elizabeth She wan. of No. 8 Little
Ed ward-street, Pyrmont, was recently in-
terviewed by a press representative, and
gave her views on various matters of in-
terest.
“ I am given to understand that you
created a great surprise amongst your
neighbours a little while back,” said the
newspaper man. “ Will you kindly tell me
what it was all about ? ”
“With the utmost pleasure,” was the
hearty reply. “It was by shaking off a
long-standing complaint that I surprised
everybody, myself included, for I had been
Buffering for many years from dyspepsia.
The reason why my recovery was unex-
pected was because I had been uuder the
care of several doctors, taking their medi-
cines till I positively loathed the sight of it,
besides being treated as an out-door patient
at a hospital for five months, and no good
came from all the physics which had been
administered to me. What else could I
think than that I was incurable ? And to
be in such a hopeless predicament was really
awful. Earth and heaven were both blotted
out of my existence, as the inetfioacy of the
medical treatment I had received left me
alone in the world with nothing but physi-
cal suffering to endure. For years there
was scarcely a day passed but that 1 felt
intensely tired and so weary and weak that
I had to let my work go undone because I
wa3 unable to do it, and often I could hardly
get about for the terrible pains in my chest
and between my shoulders, jit seemed as if
something heavy was preventing me from
getting my breath, and if the weather was
at all warm the smothering sensatious were
frightfully distressing. Th 6 whole of my
system was out of order, the consequence
being that I was hardly ever without a de-
pressing headache, and a feeling as if my
eyes were swollen also troubled me. When-
ever I made an effort to do a little work the
exertion made me feel lightheaded, and at
times I was afraid to go outside the door on
account of giddiness, which used to seize me
and make me powerless to stand on my feet.
Another reason why I deemed it prudent to
keep as still as possible was that any exer-
tion gave me palpitation of the heart. It
might be through getting up from a chair
rather too quickly, or, perhaps, through a
little agitation caused by sounds in the
street that the palpitations came on ; but in
every instance I felt greatly distressed, to
say nothing of the fears about what might
be wrong with me which entered my mind.
So many people in this country die from
various affections of the heart that anything
wrong with that organ is naturally alarm-
ing, but I now know that it was my liver
which cause-, those serious symptopas to
appear. ”
“ Were there any other liver symptoms in
evidence ? ”
“ Well, the gall-like taste in my mouth
and the furred condition of my tongue
pointed to the fact that my internal organs
required renovating, while to digest my food
was an utter impossibility. Try what I
would in the form of light diet, it was *ll
the same, after eating being violent spasms
of wind in the stomach which almost drove
me frantic, and often I felt inclined to roll
on the floor in the excess of agony, which
was making my life insupportable TJje
food I had eaten was not taken from cnoice,
because I had no appetite for it, and it was
this continuous loss of appetite which
grieved me, as 1 knew that 1 could never get
strong so long as I was unable to take
nourishment to give me strength. And as
my vitality wasted away, so did my loins
and limbs ache. I felt as sore as if I had
been beaten from head to foot, and no won-
der that my bones were racked with aches,
for my body and brain seldom got any rest.
Sleepless nights I passed in profusion, al-
though if I slept at all I dreamed in such a
terrifying manner that •wakefulness would
have been far preferable. What a nervous
wreck I became, to be sure ! My nerves
were so weak and highly strung that if any-
body knocked at the door I nearly jumped
out of my chair, and then it took them a
long time to get steady again. A dread of
something happening tormented my mind
both day and night, but did I not have good
reason to be like that, considering that my
disease stood defiantly against my medi-
cines ? ”
“As you are so well now, Mrs. Shewan,
that statement is scarcely correct.”
“ I mean up to the time of taking
Clements Tonic ; then everything changed
for the better. I made a great mistake in
not heeding the advice of many of my friends
who had repeatedly urged me to take
Clements Tonic ; but I thought if doctor*
could not cure me, nothing could. V 7 hen at
last I became persuaded, Clements Tonic
soon showed what a mistaken notion this
was, for after taking two or three bottles I
felt quite different, my improved appearance
being the subject of general comment
amongst my neighbours. The appetite I
gained through the medium of Clements
Tonic was, to say the least of it, remark-
able. I was always ready for my meals,
and how could I enjoy them ? That dull
and heavy feeling after eating passed away,
and when my food ceased turning to wind
and creating pain, I could soon go about in
comfort and do a little work, for I always
woke up feeling fresh and vigorous after the
sound sleep which came through using
Clements Tonic, v® In time my chest and
head pains disappeared, and nothing gave
me greater satisfaction than the banishment
of my heart troubles. I could walk about
quite briskly without there being any pal-
pitation or dizziness, the only inconvenience
which I experienced after three weeks’ use
of Clements Tonic being from nervodsness,
for I still trembled a little if I had been ex-
erting myself very much ; but in a few days
later that trouble was entirely remedied,
and it has never come back again. My
digestive system wa3 thoroughly restored to
order, and from that day to this I must say
that the weary aches in my limbs have been
strangers. The acute pains in my head and
shoulders were also carried away by
Clements Tonic, which regulated my in-
ternal organs to a nicety. Such a catalogue
of human suffering as mine was could not
have been more severe, yet Clements Tonic
relieved me of every pain, besides pouring
into my system the invigorating and disease-
curing qualitie a it possessed, so that I was
left with the full vigour and health of my
younger days. The return of that alacrity
and cheerfulness of spirits that I was wont
to have made my recovery complete, and I
am not likely to forget that it is to Clements
Tonic that my gratitude is owing.”
“ V\ ill you make that admission through
the press ? ”
“ Willingly, for I recognise the fact that
many people are suffering in despair like I
was, and for their benefit you may publish
my testimony in any way you choose.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Elizabeth Shewan, of 8 Little Edward-street,
Pyrmont, Sydney, in the State of New South
Wales, Commonwealth of Australia, do solemnly
and sincerely declare that 1 have carefully read
the annexed document, consisting of four folios,
and consecutively numbered from one to four, and
that it contains and is a true and faithful account
of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic ; and also
contains my full permission to publish in any way my
statements-which I give voluntarily, without re
ceiving ann payment; and 1 make this solemn
declaration corucieniiously believing the same to be
true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths
Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Pyrmont, this tenth
o' March, one thousand nine hundred and two,
lefore me,
JAS. McDOUGALL, J.P.
Price 6s.
Post Free.
ON OUR SELECTION.”
BY
“ Steele Rudd,*
thebushT worker
FOR
r am-Bu/c
il SOOTHING BALM and EMBROCATION. Will be found
A "certain CURE for Cuts Burns Boils Barcoo
Eczema, Sprains, Ringworm, Sore Feet, Piles all
forms of Skin Disease or Muscular Affections, etc.
From all Chemists, 1/6 per Tin. A FREE SAMPLE will
be sent you. Address the
ZAM-BUK CO., 39 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Enclose Penny Stamp for postage, and mention this paper.
Ml
JIJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
Nehry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone Mo. 10U.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
“ They come as a boon and a blessing to men,
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waveriey Pen."
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
3VERY PEN made by Macniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
separately examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
IW BEWARE OF IMITATIONS. —*3
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAM
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
E PPS’S
GRATEFUL-COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST—SUPPER.
DON’T MISS THIS
OPPORTUNITY, if you are suffering: with WEAKENING,
NERVOUS, and DEBILITATING Diseases. Our CON-
CENTRATED BOTANIC REMEDIES will CURE YOU.
So CONFIDENT are we of this that we will send to any
sufferer a TRIAL COURSE (Free of Charge) and abide
by the RESULT. Send NOW and your ultimate CURE
CERTAIN. Address—
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Victoria Chambers, Elfzabeth-street, Sydney.
DRUNK
ENNESS
CURED
Absolutely Conquered In 20 Days.
iSSTSee my proposition to the Government,
November Bth, 1901, wherein I agree to
accept 100 Test Cases, and prove that my
Vegetable Cure for Alcoholism is a positive
and reliable remedy Home treatment
within the reach of all. No restrictions no
hypodermic injections. Full particulars free
W. LANGSTON, M.R.c.s.. E n*,.
129 Collins-st., Melbourne.
Rescued
From Drink
by a new discovery, odorless and tasteless, wbk'h any lady
can give in tea, coffee or food. It does its work so silently
tooks on ih.H l wl ) lle the devoted wife, sister or daughter
ndSnniM U t !a 1 '? reclaimed, even against hi! will
"’ thout his knowledge or co-operation. Send name
SYDNFV S°w HE ?^ UASY C0 -> 62 HUNTER ST..
SKee ' a “ d th6y WIU 86nd J ’° U booklet
RUPTURE
Throw away
your Truaa.
CURED withcut
operation or pain,
no detention from work, or depend-
ence upon Trusses. The only
humane treatment. Hundreds
cured. Write to-day for illustrated
Treatise No. io. Address:
1 SURGEON LANGSTON.
M.R.C.S., ENA.,
129 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
i'll Try IV
The Only Certain
Houst ache Producer,
Capillarine
Posted (under cover\
to any part of Austral
lasia or New Zealand
Price, 108. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
&
The Koeuit.
CRAIG
House,
5k AITKEIN, N.S.W. Barber’s Subdlv
680-682 QEORCE STREET, BYONEY.
LARGEST SALE OF ANY DENTIFRICE.
CALVERTS
CARBOLIC
Tooth Powder.
A unique and efficacious preparation for
cleansing the teeth and strengthening the gums.
F. C. CALYERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
& A i *■>
*
Ey es
>y.
£
■MORRIS'S 1
IMPERIAL
ftI EYE f
OINTMENT
■ curesH
TOOTH-ACHE
CURED INSTANTLY BY
BUNTER’S
Preventß Decay, Saves
Extraction, Sleepless Nights
Prevented.
N euralgic Head aches & all N erve
Pains removed by BUNTER’S
NERVINE. Of aU Stores.
NERVINE
“As a specific for Tooth ache it has no equal. I have
used it successfully for years.”—Prof. W. Wilson, M.D,
The BEST FAMILY MEDICINE
KAYE’S WORSDELL’S PILLS
Ate a certain Cure for Indigestion, Biliousness, Head ache,
Dyspepsia, Conetlpation, Liver and Kidney Complaints, &c
Of all Stores.
Rupture
Free Cure.
Wonderful Home Treatment That Cures
Without Pain or Loss of Time.
Dr. W. S. Rice (Dept. 268), 8 & 9, Stonecutter
Street, London, E.C., has invented a method that
cures rupture without pain, danger, operation, or
an hour’s loss of time from the day’s work. To
avoid all questions of doubt, he sends free to every
mm
MR. JOHN WESLEY.
sufferer a free trial of his method, and there can be
no earthly reason why anyone, rich or poor, should
not avail themselves of this generous offer. As an
instance of this remarkable method, the cure of
Mr. John Wesley, Castle Lachlan, Inverary. Argyle,
is a welcome intelligence. Mr. Wesley is a well
preserved and highly respected gentleman, 72 years
of age. After a short use of the Rice method the
rupture healed entirely. To-day he’s sound as
a bell. If you know anyone ruptured you should
tell them of this wonderful method, which will
be sent for trial free of all costs.
30 Days’ Trial.
We graut every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
REITS and
ARRLIA NCES
a trial of 30 days before 1
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases-
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Eleotrio-
Bells give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
. all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
i each Electric Bell that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount, paid. AVe mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you send '
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
ALL CHEMISTS
Anaemia,
Poverty of Blood *5
andWeakness
from Whatever Cause.
TABLETS
PER BOX
AT 3/6


W E SPECIALISE in but one direction, i e the
EQUIPMENT OF OFFICES
on an UP-TO-DATE SYSTEM,
No Business can
succeed without
METHOD.
This METHOD
we supply.
WABASH
EXPANSION
Business
Systems.
Letter Files.
Document Files
Card Index
Systems
For all
Businesses.
Write for
Catalogue.
WOOLLEY, BERGIN & CO.,
269 George St., Sydney.
Sole Ag-ents, Australasia.
rl"~]
fciyiJ.. t-.us.ktf.. Ll,
I TvlfeUafeiafei&l
r I •
CAN YOU DRAW
a Mechanical Figure Like This?
If you have a "knack” for it, cultivate it
We teach by correspondence
Mechanical Drawing,
Steam and Electrical
Engineering, Heating,
Ventilating, Plumbing.
Mechanical Draw-
ing is of special
value to Engineers
and Engineering
Students, Archi-
tects, Workers in
Wood and Metal
and Foremen of
■ Factories,
i Write for infor-
mation add Oata-
i logue " Bl”
AMERICAN SCHOOIi OP CORRESPONDEWCH AT ARMOUR
[nstitpte op Technology. Sydney : Box 629, 0.p.0.
HYPNOTISM, Magnetic Healing, &c.
SSS
m
Learn to Hypnotise 1
Wonderful, Mysterious, Fas
cinating l I teach you how
to become a Hypnotist so
that you can exert a strang]
And magic influence over
others. Celebrated instan 1
taneous method, discovered
and taught only by me.
Easily and quickly learned.
You can perform astonish-
ing feats aDd produce fun
by the hour. Surprise all
your friends and make your-
self famous. You can give
entertainments and make
money. Gratifies eve; y am-
bition, compels others to
love and obey you, and
brings health, happiness,
and success in life. Cures
diseases and bad habits.
Send two stamps for my big
FREE BOOK, which treatb
on all the wonders, secrets,
and mysteries of the art,
and shows yon Just how to
become a Hypnotist.
ADDRESS—
Prof. R. H. Barraden, 89 Pitt Street, BYDNEY.
♦
MEN
II
yon
are
suffering from
exhaustion, Vari-
cocele, Wasting,
Weakness, enclose 6 stamps (postage and
packing), and I will send a trial bottle of my
REMEDY, FREE.
IT COSTS YOU NOTHING
to try my Life Syrup Remedies, which
give back strength of body and brain, renewed
vigor, and development of the vital organs;
not a free prescription dodge, but a trial of
my wonderful remedy free for the asking.
Professor h. READ,
165 Collins Street, Melbourne.
»
n
VEGETABLE"
THE ROAD
TO HEALTH IS
PAVED WITH
GOOD
DIGESTION.
Charcoal
Speedily cures Acidity, Flatulence, Heartburn,
Impure Breath, Indigestion, Diarrhoea, &c. It
destroys all disease germs, and,absorbing all impuri-
ties in the stomach and bowels,gives a healthy tone
to the whole system. Wards off all attacks of Typhoid
and other Fevers. Prevents many an illness.
BRAGG’S PURE CHARCOAL POWDER in
Bottles; LOZENGES and BISCUITS in Tins
pleasant to take). Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
Having had complaints of the injury done by other
preparations,please see that each Bottle or Tin bears
the Trade Mark ‘J.L.B., in monogram,’on the wrapper.
MEDICAL GALVANISM'
“ IVT ESSRS. HALE AND SON’S FIRM has distinguished
itself in the development of ELECTRICAL
SCIENCE as a MEDICAL AGENT. By an entirely NEW
METHOD of application they have succeeded in produc-
ing an ELECTRIC BODY BELT, which for COMFORT,
EFFICACY and GENUINENESS is unquestionably far
superior to any previous invention. Yet the whole appli
ance is so compact that it only weighs a few ounces. In
this age of shams it is something to get an article that
has some power apart from imagination.” —Medical
Monthly.
HALE’S IMPROVED ELECTRIC BELTS have con-
quered the most OBSTINATE cases of NERVOUS and
other DISEASES after all other remedies have FAILED.
OUR SPECIAL ELECTRIC BELT WITH SUSPENSOR
FOR GENTLEMEN HAS NO EQUAL. Catalogue and
Price List gratis. CONSULTATION FREE.
HALE & SON, Medical Galvanists,
44 CASTLEREACH-STREET, SYDNEY.
OF INTEREST to MEN
TYEAR SIR, —I have been cured of weakness and De-
bility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
he pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to
Mr. ROBERT E. PARKHURST,
Pitt street, Sydney.
Mention
this
Paper.
Weals.
Men
AND
WOMEN
Can obtain atrength and vigor
by the use of DR. PIERCE’S
ELECTRIC BELT." A Won-
derful Restorative. The most
Scientific Electrical Appliance
ever made. Drugs do not cure.
San
This Belt does. Send stamp (any sort)
lor “Rooki.kt No. 2.“ 0 ./" Ti.it to-day.
Pierce Electric Co., 206 Post St.
U.S.A., VV. H. Soul & Co-, Agts. Sydney
ITCHING HUMOURS
SPEEDY CURE TREATMENT
FOR EVERY HUMOUR.
tlle affcc,fd Parts with hot water and CUTICURA
SOAP to cleanse the skin and scalp of crusts and scales, and
, ened CUtic,e - Dr y> without h ard rubbing, and
■"Jf OINTMENT freely to allay itching, irritation,
,*~ maU ° n ' and soothe and heal, and lastly take CUTI-
RA RESOLVENT PILLS, to cool and cleanse the blood,
his pure, sweet, and wholesome treatment affords instant
relief, permits rest and sleep, and points to a speedy, perman-
ent, and economical cure of the most torturing, disfiguring,
itching, burning, and scaly skin, scalp, and blood humours,
eczemas, rashes, and irritations, from infancy to age, with
loss of hair, when all else fails.
MILLIONS USE CDTICDRA SOAP
W C ? TIC lURA I URA , OIN ™ ENT ’ for preserving, purifying, and beautify-
-5* . cle ansing the scalp of crusts, scales, and dandruff, and the
stopping of falling hair, for softening, whitening, and soothing red, rough,
and sore hands, for baby rashes, itchings, and chafings, and for all the pur-
poses of the toilet, bath, and nursery. Millions of Women use Cuticura
bOAP in the form of baths for annoying irritations, inflammations, and
excoriations, for too free or offensive perspiration, in the form of washes
or ulcerative weaknesses, and for many sanative, antiseptic purposes which
readily suggest themselves to women, especially mothers,
CUTICURA RESOLVENT PILLS, CHOCOLATE COATED,
Are a new, tasteless, odourless, economical substitute for the celebrated liquid Cuticura
Resolvent, as well as for all other blood purifiers and humour cures. Put up in screw-
cap pocket vials containing 60 doses. Cuticura Pills are alterative, antiseptic, tonic,
and digestive, and beyond question the purest, sweetest, most successful and economical
blood and skin purifiers, humour cures, and tonic-digestives, yet compounded.
Cdticura Remedies are sold throughout the world. Australian Depot! R. Towns & Co., Sydney. Brttlah
Coar L^ Dd ° n ' *' rench Depotl 6KuedelaPaix « Pa™. Potter Dbuo Ind Chbm.
- » ,y
ARE YOU WEAK ?
Low-spirited, Tired of Life, Have you utterly
failed in your efforts to regain Health?
Go to the Fountain Head
And consult Old Surgeon Langston, who will Cure
you. Forty years’ practice as a Specialist is sufficient
Guarantee of the doctor’s ability.
AVOID unskilled pretenders, flaming advertisements and specious
cure-alls.
Vigor and Strength
for all who
desiro it.
OLD SURGEON LANGSTON,
Member Royal College of Surgeons, England, located in Melbourne
since 1886, has so perfected his method of treatment that it can
almost be said there are no hopeless or incurable cases.
Be the equal of your fellow man.
If yon are a sufferer from any nervous, chronic Blood or Skin diseases, or interested in the subject of
Neurasthenia and associated evils, write at once for book of information, blank forms, etc., and have the
old doctor diagnose your case.
Seek tlie Truth, It costa KTothingt
All communications strictly confidential. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, 129 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy ; is 6d post
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d.
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is.
The Art of Wrestling, post Is. Hoyle’s Games, post 2/6
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), Is 3d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, Is posted. Camille, Is 3d.
Secret History of the Court of England, 1 6 post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history), Is 3d ;
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), 1 - M post free.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
iMBRAcnro
THE POPULAR “ PLAIN HOME TALK. 1 '
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Chromoa. 400 Illustrations. 1848 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1902 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs.
Is 3d post free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted. Sappho, Is.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want.
The Wife’s Handbook, Is 2d posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post.
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illns. Leather bound, my price, 15s post paid
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic,
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is 3d.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s posted.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music comple e Is M.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted 1* 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d posted.
Send for my Illustrated Big Book
Catalogue— post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney.
ASTHMA and BRONCHITIS CURED
By using: CASE’S ASTHMA CURE, made from the Queensland Asthma
Plant. Relieves instantly, eventually Cures. 4s. 6d. larg;e bottle;
Posted to any State, ss.
J. W. CASE, Chemist, 140 Wickham-st., Brisbane.
Please mention Bulletin when writing.
USES
Insecticide
% Kills,
ALL,
INSECTS
go*'*
-
? c
fo«
°f
ATTOfO’
kew/w
A
(As]<
1%
USES
cor
i w %
BLAIR’S
GOUT $ RHEUMATIC
The Great English Remedy for
GOUT, RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA,
LUMBACO & NEURALGIA.
The acute pain is quickly relieved and cured in a
few days by this celebrated Medicine.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout & Co., 22!),
Strand, London, and sold at Is. ljd. and 2s. 9d.
per box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
ASTHMACURE
GRIWAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
For Asthmatic people who sutler irom
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault’s Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest.
GRIMAULT & Co., Paris. Sold by all Chemists.
NOTICE
To sufferersfrom Gout, Rheumatism. Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER'S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdestre & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B. —Insist upon having TRUMAN'S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdestre & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
R X CORO’s
The only Infallible Remedy for WEA KNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled and
unprecedented success throughout the World.
Dr. Rieord’s Essence of Life restores Health and Strength
to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 126. or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope
Agents for Australasia— PEßßY & CO., 47 Queen St.,
Melbourne J Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
F. H. Faulding & Co., 16 O'Ccnnell St., Sydney.
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Wo-n months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.


HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
BRANDY
Beware of
Cheap
Grain Spirits
Flavored
and
Colored
to
Imitate
Cognac
Brandy.
BOTTLED IM COGNAC.
PLUM
"'PI
THE
‘PLUM’
/GENTLEMEN. —This razor is superior to any other. It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, ring
xW like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind o!
edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, havin r had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 73. 6d.
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6(1 cake.
Price
{Sijigle Razor, in strong- Leather Case, 10s 6d; I’air, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 1 !•.
Single Razoi, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Rtzors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful Oise, 301.
Registered and sent Post Free to ant part of the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300 pages ; price, 4s. 6d. ; postage, Gd.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
■X'O DEITY COMPETITIOINT.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
■
TETsS
c »5
in
ic
You know a good thing when you see it. But do you always know a better when you see it ?
. 11 1S eas y t 0 know a § ood thing. A thrippence is a good thing. But the goodness there is in a
thnppence can never be enjoyed until you spend it. And you don’t spend it until you know something
better than a thrippence. The value of a thrippence, therefore, is as much in your own quick insight
and keen perception as in the money itself. If your good sense tells you that a better thing than a
thrippence. is a tram car ride over that long, dusty road you are travelling, you are indebted to your
own sagacity for at least half the benefit you enjoy by the exchange.
Then, what you and all the rest of the world seek is something that is better than your money,
so that in the spending of. your money you will get more than its value. Is there anything at this
particular time that will give you better return for your money than a Ruberoid Roof?
Full Particulars from
Fremantle, W.A.
J. M. Ferguson, I/td.
Adelaide, S.A.
A. W. Sandford & Co.
Melbourne, Vic.
Brooks, Robinson & Co.
Launceston, Tas.
Hedi,ey Button.
Wellington, N.Z.
James W. Jack.
E. RICH & CO., Limited,
• •
» 0
0 c
c a
■o JD
»«
«t
CQ


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission ns a Newspaper.
VOL. 24.— N0. 1205.
SATURDAY, MARCH 21, 1903.
Prick 6d
THE MARK TAPLEY GOVERNMENT.
"He said this-that this drought relief business was all rot and hnmbug, He had not give a farthing to it, and would not associate his name with it. But it suited the papers to continually
assail the Government, and to say that thousands of people in this State were starving, and that it was in a very bad way. Well, it was all bunkum and trash to say that the Government had no
money. They were going to get a lot of money shortly, and fron a new source-the carriage of newspapers."-Minister CRICK at Erskineville.
MINISTER CRICK (to man from Wayback): "I TELL YOU, IT'S ALL ROT. THERE'S NO DROUGHT. THIS GOVERNMENT DEOLARED THE DROUGHT
OFF MONTHS AGO. YOU STOP READING THE NEWSPAPERS AND YOU'LL HAVE NO MORE DROUGHT."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
•• Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William MAcleod, of
Botany-street, Waverlev, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS AFTER
Ist NOVEMBER , 1902
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ••• &
Half-yearly n 7 f)
Quarterly ... ... •“ v / v
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc.,and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Maclbod, managing director.
Literary communications to be ad,dressed to 3 F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number, is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor vrill carefully read and, where practicable,
aeknoivledge in the “ Correspondence" column aU contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form, of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing tivo columns in length, or, say, 8000 words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
-To Amateurs in ItiacTe and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient,
merit and interest and'adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture, which has to be re-drawn--will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival o f each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Goteli, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa — Messrs. Gordon and Goteh, Capetown;
Messrs. Gordon and Goteh, Durban, Natal; Solomon
and Wilsonp SS Rout St., Capetown; Solomon and
Wilson, Commissioners Street, Johannesburg ; Granger
Bros., Johannesburg ; Isaacs and Co., Durban; Argus
Printing Co., Rhodesia; Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
Ceylon. —Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
R.C.
Hong Kong. —Breiver and Co., SS Queens Road, Hong
Kong.
SATURDAY, MARCH 21, 1903.
An Unemployed Deputation.
A deputation of the Sydney unemployed
which waited a few days ago on Premier See
propounded to him the much-worried, much-
discussed theory that “ it is the duty of the
Government to find work for every one.”
Mr. See, as a man who is certainly not equal
to so large a contract, naturally repudiated
the suggestion with scorn, yet, in a sense,
and a very wide sense, the deputation was
right. It is the duty of the Government
(which in N.S.W. is made by the people, if
the people like to make full use of their
privileges) to find work for everybody, or,
rather, to so fix things that everybody who
wants work and isn’t lazy, drunken, in-
efficient or physically or mentally incapaci-
tated, shall find work for himself. And it is
the duty of the people to make a Government
that will do so, and that knows how to do so.
So far they have failed in their duty. If
the sovereign people don’t know how to
so guide the country that there will be
employment in reasonable abundance, the
Government that they create isn’t likely to
know either, for the thing created seldom
knows very much more than the creator.
The deputation which waited on Premier
See could get no further than the good old
demand for more or less useless works, paid
for, presumably, out of loans - the same old
remedy with which N.S.W. lias been trying
to cure lack of employment for 40 years,
with the result that the evil has grown con-
tinuously worse. And the See Government
knows no remedy save more or less useless
public works, paid for out of loans. The
Loan People have made the Loan Govern-
ment after their own image ; and when they
come as a deputation to ask the incapables
they elected why they are the incapables
they elected—when the people elect rulers
who know next to nothing, and then call on
them to ask why they don’t know some-
thing—the situation is ridiculous as well as
intensely pathetic.
• 9*9
New South Wales has 1,400,000 consumers
to supply employment for 1,400,000 pro-
ducers. If 1,400,000 consumers canlt supply
employment for 1,400,000 producers, then
there is no hope for this world, and there
never will be any, for, whether population
is large or small, the proportions, will be
always.* the same. Increase of population
won’t make the problem any easier. Aus-
tralia wants more people to make it strong
for defence, but if Australia can’t solve it
social problem now, it will be still less able to
do so when its population doubles or trebles
or quadruples. If New South Wales can t
make a living for its people at present, when
there are 160 acres for each inhabitant
to depend on, things won’t necessarily be
any better when the population quadruples
and there are only 40 acres for each inhabi-
tant. There should be no social problem in
Australia now, and there should be none
when the population is ten times its present
size, but if the same causes which create the
social problem now are allowed to continue,
the increase of population will only intensify
the trouble.
• * • •
It is easy to recognise some at least of the
reasons ivhy Australia has become old while
yet so very young, and why almost the
emptiest country in the world is so utterly
unable to support its mere smattering of
inhabitants. The huge burden of debt—the
insatiable, gnawing mortgage—is one reason.
The Bulletin has received acres of poetry
and prose about how the mortgage ate up
some little toiling cocky farmer; how he got
up to his labor before dawn, but always
found the mortgage up before him, and
working away, and how he sought his weary
couch late at night and left the mortgage
still hard at it. But the great national
mortgage—the £400,000,000 or so which
Australia owes to outside lenders, and which
is eating up the country bodily—has roused
no democratic poet to write burning words
of denunciation. Then, as the result of the
ever-increasing mortgage, there is a huge
section of the community which has no
visible lawful means of support, which knows
no trade because for a whole generation it
has lived by getting the Government to
invent more or less useless jobs for it, and
which, every time the current job is finished,
is back again on the brink of starvation ; and
every time the job is finished the public
mortgage is a little larger and the burden a
little heavier.
* * • *
Then again, New South Wales has listened
for many years to the glozing lies of the
Freetrade Importer. He has told it : “ You
must not provide yourselves with employment
by starting iron, brass and steel works,
cotton factories, woollen factories, silk fac-
tories, by making your own hats, boots,
whisky and so on, because we can import
them more cheaply than you can make
them.” The people have been told, by
Ananias, the importer, that they should
work shorter hours than the foreigner, and
get more pay, and yet if their goods, in con-
sequence, cost more than the foreigner’s
they should refuse to pay more, and should
instead buy the foreigner’s goods, and be
unemployed. They have been told by
Ananias, the importer, that unless their
new industries can produce from the very
beginning, while their workmen are still
comparatively inexpert, as cheaply as old
established industries abroad which have
learned to use every labor-saving device to
the best advantage, they should have no new
industries at all. They have been informed,
by Ananias, the importer, that the true
measure of a country’s greatness is the num-
ber of things it doesn't produce, but buys
from the foreigner, even if it borrows the
money to pay for them ; and that its lack of
industries to employ the people is the real test
of prosperity, and that imports are the only
true god. New South Wales believed this
pitiably silly lie, passed on to it by in-
terested parties, and returned to power one
Importers’ Ministry after another to keep
down local industry. The other States, to a
great extent, fo 1 lowed the same example, for
there never was in Australia a Protectionist
tariff one-quarter as heavy as that which
created the great manufactures of the United
States or Canada. Yet some of the States
did a little in the way of squashing the im-
porting superstition, and even that little
produced good results. Victoria, for in-
stance, has less than 50 acres to support each
inhabitant, yet its social problem is no more
acute than that of New South Wales with
160 acres per inhabitant.
* * * *
And even now New South Wales still
clings to the theory that we shouldn’t estab-
lish new industries. It is still of the belief
that the Australian should work shorter
hours than the world’s average, for more
pay, and that, if his product is consequently
dearer than that of the foreigner, he
shouldn’t produce anything at all. It still
believes that the State should import
£18,000,000 worth of goods annually,
while the people who should be em-
ployed making these goods here starve
in the Domain or paint railings for
the Government, and its faith in the
importer and in the pauper sand-shifting
job paid for out of loans is vast and
pathetic. Almost every successful effort
that was made in the Australian Parlia-
ment to suppress an Australian industry
was the effect of the New South Wales
vote. The result is that the affluent classes
get their goods a little more cheaply,
while the poor get nothing, and form
pathetic delegations to Premier See to ask
why they can’t find employment in the in-
dustries which they themselves suppressed
at the importer’s bidding.
* * • •
About thirty years ago (say in 1870) New
South Wales had 400 acres for every inhabi-
tant, and it had a public foreign debt of £2O
foreveryinhabitant Now ithasonly 140 acres
for every inhabitant, and has a foreign debt
of nearly £6O per inhabitant. In a few more
years, if things go on as at present, there
will be 70 acres for each inhabitant and
each inhabitant will owe £lOO of pubhcdet.
And this is taking no account of the fore g
private debts—the sums owing to fore g
mortgagees, foreign landlords, andjforagn
owners of all manner of Cornstalk enter
prises. Yet New South Wa ej .imported
more per head in 1901 than in 18/1-
was more money going out per hea VJ
for imports, far more money g oi p§ ° P ,
head to pay interest, less than half as much
available land per head, and the increase of
local manufactures, by reason ot JN. • •
slavish devotion to the importers, was only
a drop in the bucket compared to the in-
crease of liabilities.
* * • *
It certainly is the duty of the Govern-
ment to find work—useful work—for the
people. It is equally the duty of the
people, where they hold the reins o
power as in New South Wales, to
find a Government that knows how to
do this. If the people create Governments
that don’t know, they can’t expect their
Governments to know. It is no good
making a shapeless wooden god and then
reproaching it for not being a better god
than it is. The party which is most dis-
tinctly the creation of the people, and
which is most closely in touch with the
people, is the Labor party, and how little it
has done to meet the crisis is a matter of
history. Just because there are now only
140 acres per inhabitant in New South
Wales, where there were 400 acres 30 years
ago, there is so much the more need to
remorselessly break up the big land mono-
polies with such a graduated land-tax as
will make the holding of great areas in
the fertile part of the country impossible.
Because the foreign public debt is three
times as much per head, and the foreign
private debt probably five times as much
per head as it was 30 years ago, there is all
the more reason to stop accumulating public
debt, and to start systematically extinguish-
ing the foreign private creditor and absentee
with a crushing absentee tax. Because the
“great national resources” of a very barren
land are proving more and more unequal to
the support of the people, it is all
the more urgent to push on manufac-
tures as Canada, the United States,
Germany, and Argentina have done, and by
the same means which they employed—the
only means which makes new manufacturing
nations nowadays. Because the State can’t
afford to pay for £18,000,000 worth of
foreign imports per annum while its own
people stand idle, it is so much the more
urgent to cut down our foreign imports to
£8,000,000, and supply £10,000,000 worth
of employment for cornstalk citizens at
manufacturing the balance. But the Labor
party has never been an anti-borrowing
pai-ty ; it has never done anything serious
in the direction of a heavy graduated land-
tax and absentee tax, and it has mostly
been the friend of the rich importers
who loathe any new Australian industry,
because new industries only can find work
for the people by making the importing class
more and more superfluous. The fact that
the Protective tariff which Australia has got
to-day is a poor mockery of the thing which
built up American and Canadian industries
is a matter for which New South Wales is
mostly responsible, and for the compara-
tively slow growth of Australia’s new indus-
tries it is, consequently, also responsible.
• • * ■ *
The question has often been asked : In
what kind of country would the unemployed
problem cease from troubling ? It is difficult
to say, but an answer may at least be ven-
tured : A country which had no public debt;
which had a vigorous and intelligent public
works policy maintained wholly out of
revenue ; which wasn’t afraid to tax itself to
carry on that policy, and didn’t want to brag
about being the most lightly-taxed nation on
earth ; a country where the graduated land
tax made the holding of large estates abso-
lutely ruinous and impossible; wdiere an
absentee tax made the calling of the absentee
and the foreign investor in all his varieties
wholly unprofitable ; and where nothing was
imported that could be locally produced—
such a country, with a good education sys-
tem thrown in, and with sufficient common
sense to avoid all needless foreign complica-
tions, would come as near to solving the
social problem as anything this side of
Paradise. But no Australian State seems to
be aiming at that yet. The chief idea at
present is to deputationise John See and
urge him to raise another loan and start
building more bridges over dry creeks.
The Broken Prop.
William Bispham Propsting, leader of the Tas-
mania Opposition, has formally announced the
policy by which the island is to be Saved. It was
a sorrowfully weak deliverance, in the course of
which W. B. Propsting said that he was really
inclined to think that many things should be
done some day or other, but so far as the printed
report shows, he did not venture to say, straight
and openly, that if returned to power he would do
these things or any one of them. It is when one
reads the deliverances of a Propsting that he
full} 7 realises how badly this country needs a
strong man one who will state definitely what
in his opinion, should be done, and promise that
so long as he has a majority of even one behind
him, he will do it though the heavens should fall
in the middle of the proceedings. Also it is when
one reads the potterings of the Propsting varietv
of politician that he realises the chance there is
for a strong man-the chance of fame and success
and everything else that the politician aims at.
It is impossible to suppose that the people like the
dry, indefinite husks of Tweedledum and
I weed led ee which form their political food ; they
have to take them, for no other victual is offering,
but as for liking them that is beyond reasonable
probability. For instance, here is the first
notable item in Propsting’s exposition of his
policy:
In 1870, with a population of 100,765, Tasmania’s debt
was £1,268,000, and trade £1,441,000, while in 1902 the
population had not doubled, but the debt had reached
nine millions, and the trade was five millions. The debt
had cone from £l2 10s. per head in 1870 to £46 11s. lOd.
in 1891, and to £52 4s. Id. in 1902. That borrowed
amount of £9,000,000 had been expended by the State
partly on non-revenue-producing works, as roads, bridges,
immigration, etc. Now, let them examine the propor-
tions in which it had been spent on those works, as com-
pared with other Australian States. New South Wales
had expended £4l per head of its debt on revenue
yielding works, as against £ll per head on non-revenue
yielding works; Victoria £3B, as against £3 on non-
revenue works; Queensland £46, against £22; South
Australia £53, against £l7 ; West Australia £52, against
£l7. But what had been done in Tasmania ? Instead of
spending £5 or £6 where one would get revenue for every
£1 on roads and bridges, we had spent more than half our
borrowed money on works that would never yield one
pennv revenue. We expended on revenue-yielding works
£23 per head, as against £25 per head of our debt on
roads and bridges. It must, therefore, be remembered
that the interest on more than half our State debt could
not be obtained from any works upon which that money
was expended, but must be a dead cash burden on the
people.
• • • •
All that is true—absolutely and lamentably
true. Tasmania has spent more than half its
loan moneys on roads, bridges, revenue deficiencies,
immigration, defences, public buildings, State aid
to religion (!), and other non-productive works,
jobs and repairs that should be chargeable to
revenue. The purely unproductive part of its
debt exceeds the whole debt of every European
State bar two, and the interest bill which has to
be met out of taxation is, in proportion to popu-
lation, almost a world’s record. Also the island is
going from bad to worse in this respect, and unless
it reforms violently there is no visible prospect
ahead except State bankruptcy. Propsting, as a
man who realises something of this, and who
aspires to control Tasmania’s public affairs, should
surely have a remedy to suggest, and this is the
futile and one-legged remedy of Propsting :
Three remedies were suggested with regard to future
borrowings for public works ; the first was that the State
should stop borrowing altogether, the second that an
independent advisory board should inquire and report to
Parliament on the need of any projected work, and the
third was to make the State one electorate, so that mem-
bers of the Legislature should not be dependent upon
their activity to secure local roads and bridges for their
election. We knew there was objection to the first, and
it certainly would be unwise to shut down on loan
expenditure at a moment’s notice, but in the end we
would have to realise that the burden of debt would be
more than the agents of productiveness could with any
hope of progress sustain, and for his part he saw no
reason why the business of statecraft should be differently
regulated to that of any other well ordered business.
• • • *
Later on the Tasmanian Opposition leader said
that he advocated “the limitation of loans, with
the object at no distant time of making it the
settled policy of the State to govern and develop
with revenues alone.” But there was no word as
to how far he would limit the loans notv, or about
giving up now the nefarious habit of spending the
limited loans on unproductive works ; and the real
reform is to come at some future time quite
unspecified. Perhaps 10 or 20 years hence, when
Propsting is politically dead, it is his opinion
that someone should do the right thing, but the
Propsting of the present moment isn’t committed
in any way. The man who is prepared to do the
right thing now —the man who not only believes
that the State should pay its way wholly out of
revenue but is ready to start on these lines the
very day he gets into office —well, that man is as
scarce as ever.
• * • *
There have been, of late, one or two almost
bright years in Tasmania’s career of rotten
finance. A few years ago the island had not only
a large debt but a large accumulated deficit as
well. The Ministry was as dense as ever as to the
undesirableness of its borrowing policy, but it was
solid on the urgency of paying off the deficit, and
it did a good deal in that way. Once or twice the
amount paid off the deficit actually exceeded by a
trifle the new borrowings, so the total debt (fixed
and floating) actually, once or twice, showed an
infinitesimal decrease. And Propsting denounces
this decrease in rather severe terms:
In 1900, the people of this State paid £130,000 more
through the customs than were needed for purposes of
government. If Federation had not been accomplished
there would have been a relief given in customs to the
extent of at least £lOO,OOO. Mr. Bird now actually made
an argument of the fact that the relief given through
customs by the Federal Parliament was a justification for
putting similar or additional taxation on shoulders that
had long borne too much.
In 1900, this State had a surplus of £131,000, that sum
being taken from taxpayers in excess of State require-
ments.
Propsting, be it observed, denounces thS Govern-
ment for paying 000 off the deficit. He
denounces it for trying to raise enough new
revenue to replace the abolished inter-State cus-
toms, so as to keep the total receipts up to the
old figure, thereby enabling it te pay off some
more of the old deficit. In 1900 Tasmania raised
just about enough to carry out Propsting’s ideal
—that of a State which paid its way wholly out of
revenue. Setting the amount paid off the floating
debt against the additions to the fixed debt
incurred for public works, it remained just about
stationary. Propsting denounces the Govern-
ment of 1900 for living up to his ideal, and the
present one for trying to do likewise, and that is
what makes his case look so utterly hopeless.
* * * *
Again, Propsting is against the Government
for increasing the expenditure, yet isn’t sure that
the increased expenditure can be reduced :
In 1903 the expenditure, upon reducible items, was
£25,000 in excess of the expenditure of 1900. ... He was
notin sympathy with certain wild and thoughtless per-
sons who said our accounts could be adjusted by
retrenchment. He had observed that one member who
voted against his motion that the Government should
further reduce expenditure before imposing heavy and
burdensome taxation, now told the electors that reduc-
tions could be made to the extent of £lOO,OOO in our
annual expenditure. Such time-servers were unworthy
of the confidence of the inmates of a lunatic asylum. He
thought certain reductions in our expenditure to the
extent of at least £20,000 per year could be made, but to
effect them on any principle would take consideration
and time.
What satisfaction is there in denouncing the
Lewis Government for adding £25,000 to the
expenditure when Propsting doesn’t know, with-
out “consideration and time,” how to save even
£20,000 out of the £25,000?
* # • *
The leader of the Tasmanian Opposition has
many good ideas, in addition to many bad ones,
but be doesn’t offer a plain, direct, definite asser-
tion that he will nail liis flag to the mast as
regards one of them. He thinks the island should
give up the senseless pomp of an imported
Governor, and do with a plain local
Lieutenant-Governor, but he doesn’t pf°
mise that the first Propsting Ministry will
do this reform or fall in the attempt. He
objects to the ridiculous under-valuation of land
fo: land-tax purposes, and advocates the Maori-
Led principle whereby every man has to value
his own land. But that principle only works


when the State can promptly punish the man who
undervalues by compulsorily buying his land at
his own valuation, or a fixed per-centage above
his own valuation ; and to do that the State must
have money—either borrowed money or revenue •
and Propsting says he objects to borrowing, and’
that he can't retrench to any extent worth’men-
tioning, and at the same time he denounces the
Tas. Ministry of 1900, which only raised enough
to keep the State going without borrowing and
had no margin over for land resumption, as one
which taxed the people far too much. Also Prop-
sting says he believes in having only one House
of Parliament, which is a most wise and praise-
worthy idea, but he also says he believes in
dividing the State into five electorates to return
members to each House of Legislature. All
through it is the tale of a weak man who has
good ideas but lacks good courage. His land
resumption ideas, his closer settlement ideas, his
proposals for the abolition of borrowing at some
dim, uncertain, unfixed date, his assurances that
he won’t save by sweating the already iil-paid
public service—all these taken together require
much more revenue. And his denunciations of
the Government of 1900 for laying too heavy
burdens on the people, if they mean anything at
all, mean less revenue, and so all the scheme of
reform falls through again for the sake of catching
a few votes in, immediate present.
* • * *
The Bulletin doesn t mistake Premier Lewis
for either a strong man or a violently progressive
man. But to exchange him for the man who
denounces his miserably insufficient revenue as
something approaching extortion looks like in-
sanity. Nothing but very heavy taxation can
save a State which, by past follies, has accumu-
lated almost the largest unproductive debt on
earth. Premier Lewis hasn’t the courage to
tax the State enough to wholly arrest the drift—
it can only be arrested when the expenditure of
loan money for unproductive purposes is wholly
abolished. But the party which cadges for votes
by promising, or hinting, at a reduction of the
public burdens, and a consequent acceleration of
the downward movement, looks like a public
calamity. If it isn’t a public calamity then it
should sue its own utterances for libel, and recover
heavy damages. The cheapest dodge for catching
votes is to advocate a long list of reforms which
will all cost much money, and a reduction of tax-
ation at the same time, but the Government which
gets into office on those lines is always a fraud.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Victorian Deadlock.
As The Bulletin goes to press, the row between
the two branches of the Victorian Legislature is
just about in the old spot. The Assembly passed
a Reform Bill which was calculated to make the
House of 48 Rich Landlords a decent, respectable,
useful institution. The Landlords cut out all the
clauses which were calculated to improve their
institution and sent it back. The Assembly put
those clauses in again and sent the Bill back.
The Council struck them out and sent the Bill,
which began to look very like a football, back.
Now a conference of the two Houses is in progress,
and the Landlords hint that they are willing to do
anything except what the people really want. The
constituency which elects the House of Landlords
is a very large one, but the point at issue is
this: Owing to the high property qualification
for members the Council electors (a large and,
on the whole, liberal-minded body) can only
choose their Council representatives from a very
small handful of rich landlords. The available
landlords are so few that it is seldom possible to
get up a contest. Men whom the electors loathe
and despise go in, year after year, unopposed—
without a contest. The situation isn’t much
better than it is in Russia where, when the old
emperor dies, the people freely elect his successor
—but only the eldest son of the old emperor is
qualified to stand. The House of Landlords
appears willing to make concessions on almost any
point save that, and that is the only point that
matters. If Premier Irvine will fight to a finish
on the question of making every Council elector
qualified to sit in the Council it matters very little
for the present even if he drops other considera-
tions. Up to time of writing, Irvine, it must be
stated in justice, was making a very respectable
fight, and was being very badly backed up by
Shiels and Bent.
The Tory Notion of Closer Settlement.
Melbourne Argus publishes a series of articles
headed “The Land Our Mainstay: Promote
Closer Settlement,” yet if any Government
honestly attempted to do anything really useful in
that direction by compulsorily resuming land
whereon a farmer could make a living at a price
he could afford to pay (i.e., the municipal valua-
tion thereof) the rage £>f that journal.would be
something tremendous! Said articles give figures
showing how the big lAndowners have shovelled
unearned increment into their pockets of late
years. F'rinstans, round Colac, during the last
three years, no less than 38,000 acres belonging to
the local “first families’’—the Robertsons,
Murrays, Stoddarts, Calverts— have been cut
up and sold, in blocks averaging 140 acres each,
at from £2O 14s. sd. to £3l 11s. 9d. per acre !
Good land, no doubt; and it should be, when
a man gives £3l an acre and expects to grind
a living out of it at farming and dairying. And
this country mostly cost its original owners
£1 an acre ! Yet, shamefully as the Colac farmers
were robbed by the big monopolist, they
acquired their land; and the condition of their
districts, compared with the districts where the
great monopolist still hangs on to his huge estates,
is quite desirable. Compare Colac with Sunbury.
A few years ago both townships were about the
same- size; to-day Colac is six times as big as
Sunbury. Every morning half the latter town
rises and says its prayers with its face towards its
Mecca— Clarke’s big house of Rupertswood ; the
other half squints over its glass at the wasted
lands, and breathes a hearty curse at the land
monopolist. Sunbury simply exists by the grace
of Rupert Clarke and the local lunatic asylum—
a fit place for such an institution. Sunbury is
shut in on every side by locked-up lands,
200 acres of. which mean, at dairying,
a living for a family. Beyond it, the thriving
townships of Lancefield, Romsey, Riddell’s
Creek, Gisborne, Wallan, all live on the farmers
and producers scattered about. Sunbury alone
is Anathema. It is within easy reach of the big
markets, yet for nearly 10 miles on either side
the railway runs through a practical wilderness
sheep and an occasional boundary rider being the
sole occupants. Werribee is almost as bad ; the
Keilor plains worse. From Williamstown, a mile
or two out of Melbourne, right down to Geelong,
40 miles or more, the railway runs through but
three insignificant townships—Laverton, Werri-
bee and Little River. Three hamlet 3 in all
this wide stretch of well-watered, fertile
country, and Bent and Shiels groan because
moV oi W T d "" t J P a y! This should be the
r m S e y l ttled district in Victoria, and
forXh! *T?? UC f tlVe - There is aTn pl° room
S W W Mall , ee on the wide, rich plains
Argus and r^ W - of - Melbourne-and the
intheuKt ? f I P rora , ofcin §r closer settlement”
Sheol Locks, 150 miles from anywhere except
x"®? 1 ’ J vlu ' e the Clarke curse hangs like a blight
on the best part of the State. S
The Tariff Issue.
S \° U A d be the Siding principle of a Pro-
Government in its functions as an
_mploj er or a purchaser is easily enough indicated.
nrivS^ er , nm TV or , the P ublic weal > forces the
private individual to favor local industry by im-
posing a Protective tariff, it must, to be consis-
tent, itself favor local industry when it comes to
purchase goods. The fact that the tariff may not
apply to its purchases, and that, buying in a
reetrade market, it may effect a seeming saving,
should have no weight at all. The conditions
which it imposes upon the private consumer
by a tariff it must respect itself or be guilty
AI Q S wn ful treacher y to its own principles.
JN.S.VV. Government— professedly a Protectionist
one has been guilty on several occasions of taking
advantage of the Braddon clause of the Federal
Constitution to buy its goods under semi-Free-
trade conditions, thereby taking bread out of the
mouths of local workers. The exposure of that
fact may perhaps secure reform for the future and
establish it as the absolute rule of State Govern-
ment policy that local manufacturers are to have
the preference of orders under all reasonable cir-
cumstances. The Australian Government, if re-
ports be true, needs also to be reminded that the
faithful observance of such a rule is demanded
of it by consistency and political honor. It
is currently reported that a Federal postal
clothing contract has been given this year
to a manufacturer who will use foreign
material, instead of to a tenderer who would
have utilised Australian cloth alone, the
difference in price being in favor of the local cloth.
It is difficult to understand how a Federal Minister
could have been led to sanction such an arrange-
ment, for there is not even an apparent profit to be
got out of the treachery. The Australian Govern-
ment does not yet use the fourth of the customs
revenue to which it is entitled, and until it does
the addition of any sums to the gross of that
revenue doesn’t affect its net return in the
slightest. However, the report comes on good
authority. If Postmaster-General Drake has
been misled by an official into such an anti-
national line of policy he should promptly re-
consider the matter, and also reconsider the
official; if he is deliberately working against the
Protectionist system which the Government of
which he is a member has established, then his
colleagues should decide that he is a superfluous
person and act accordingly.
4
The Maoriland Licensing 1 Muddle.
The Maoriland local option law has struck a
memorable deadlock at Newtown, and the time
when an irresistible force ran into an immovable
obstacle on a plain is nothing to it. In the first
place, Newtown held the customary local option
poll on 25th November last, and Prohibition was
carried by a majority of 19 on a poll of 4982 votes.
There was a recount, and Prohibition was carried
by a majority of only four on a poll of 4985. Then
there was a further investigation, and so many
irregularities came to light that the poll was
declared by the magistrate to be null and void,
and to be no poll at all. And now this interest-
ing situation presents itself:
The law makes no provision for an appeal from the
magistrate’s decision in this matter.
It makes no provision for the taking of a new poll if the
old one is declared void.
The law prescribes that, “ If the returning-officer finds
that none of the proposals respecting licenses is carried
by the prescribed majority, then he shall notify the
Licensing Committee thereof, and the number of licenses
shall continue as they are until the taking of the new
licensing poll, subject, nevertheless, to the power of re-
fusing to renew licenses objected to under certain
sections of the principal Act.” (This merely refers to the
cases where a licensee does not behave and run his beer-
pump according to the law). As none of the proposals
were carried, the whole lot being annulled by the magis-
trate’s decision, the publicans claim that this means their
licences are to remain as before till next Local Option poll
—probably in 1905.
The law also prescribes that “No license of any descrip-
tion shall be granted or renewed until the electors have
previously determined : (1) Whether the number of
licenses in the district is to continue ; (2) Whether the
number of licenses existing in the district is to be re-
duced ; or (3) Whether no licenses are to be granted in
the district.” And as the electors haven’t decided any of
these things, the whole proceedings being annulled, and
as the electors can’t decide any of them because there is
no provision for a new poll, or an appeal, or anything,
therefore the Cold Tea party holds that not one license
can be granted or renewed, and that every pub. in New-
town must close next licensing day and remain shut for
ever afterwards.
The Act seems to have been drafted by an in-
toxicated Crow Indian in the dark, and Maori-
land is just beginning to realise its complications.
On the face of things, the public-house party is
absolutely right and lawful in claiming that
licences are to remain as before, and the Prohibi-
tionists are equally right in claiming that all
public-houses must close permanently next
licensing day, and, when two things like that are
both apparently legal, confusion is apt to super-
vene.
4
The A.W.U. Report.
The report of Mr. Donald Macdonell, general
secretary of the A.W.U., to his organisation this
year is a strong—but not too strong—indictment
of the law proceedings by which the A.W.U. has
been harassed within the past few months. It
certainly does not in any way justify the refusal
of Sydney D.T. to publish it on the grounds that
Comments upon the proceedings in Equity and Arbi-
tration are couched in such language as to render the
report as a whole unsuitable for publication.
For the same paper published without any visible
shook the annual report of the bogus Machine
Shearers’ Union—the language of which was quite
as excited. The A.W.U, people are in the position
of highly estimable folk who have suffered much
wrong and contumely at the hands of a law which
was intended to benefit them, and they feel hurt
in consequence. And it doesn't soothe their feel-
ings to know that their suffering is fairly
ascribable, not only to the cunning wickedness of
the other side, but in a measure to a certain lack
of the wisdom of the serpent on their own part.
Put fairly, the position as between the A.W.U.
and the N.S.W. Arbitration Court and the Pas-
toralists’ Union stands at this :
The A.W.U. represents the interests of the bush-
workers of N.S. W.—has represented those interests so well
in the past as to earn the fierce animosity of the Pas-
toralists’- Union—which is mainly dominated by the
sweating, freedom-of-contract, Chinese-labor fJPe of
pastoral employer. When the pusw 15 N ' S -' | V '
Arbitration Act made it seem inevitable that the P.U.
would have to meet the A.W.U. in a court of justice to
decide working conditions (the P.U. had before disdained
to meet the A.W.U., and affected to regard its interfer-
ence in the pastoral industry as an impertinence), the
pastoralists, with crooked wisdom, hatched a rival
industrial union.
This rival union—palpably a bogus affair promoted by
the pastoralists for the pastoralists—was able to secure
official recognition in an underhand sort of way ; and
subsequently held its legal position because the A.W.U.
constitution included some honest-meaning but unwise
rules, and could not very well have been left as the sole
industrial union in the industry. Consequently the
shearing.conditions could not come definitely before the
Arbitration Court last year and the Pastoralists’ Union
scored ail along the line.
Naturally there is “ language ” in A.W.U. circles.
By a curious conspiracy of circumstances, honesty
has been beaten by the other thing, with the help
of an Act. which was specially designed to ensure
honest, fair-play between worker and employer.
The situation is trying. But it will mend
with a little patience. In time the bogus
union will be knocked out; in time the lordly
P.U. will have to come to Court (with a sheepish
look on its face) to argue a straight, fair case
with the A.W.U., and to apologise—if it has
any grace of soul—for the shuffling evasions with
which it dodged the law so long. Wluit the
A.W.U. can’t understand is why—the equities of
the case being so clear —the Arbitration Court was
so tied down by precedent and custom and
“pointsof law,” and did not sweep aside all the
juggling sophistries and clever technicalities of
the other side, and declare, like a court in a melo-
drama, that it didn't care a darn for the rules and
would give the fight to the best man. But, really,
those precedents, customs and “points” are of
. some value. Without them, an absolutely just
and all-knowing judge, a superhuman man who
might be met with once a century, could adminis-
ter a court reasonably well, but only such a man.
The ordinary, human, fallible judge has to rely to a
great extent on the accumulated wisdom of bis
predecessors. At all events it is satisfactory to
notice that Mr. Macdonnell has a word of hope
in his report:
That we have suffered serious reverses in this State
goes without saying. That, however, must not daunt us.
Reverses come to all live Labor organisations, and we
must not expect exemption from the common lot. In-
deed, being one of the most advanced of those organisa-
tions, and dealing with the most important industry in
the Commonwealth, we must, expect to meet with more
than the average share of opposition.
We are upon friendly terms with pastoralists in
Victoria and South Australia, and as soon as the dis-
turbing element to the industrial peace of this State in
the shape of the Bogus Union is removed, the pastoralists
here will see the desirableness of coming to terms with
us as well.
4
Uncanny Candor.
The unholy alliance between Jenkins Iscariot,
late Kingston’s lieutenant, and now nominal head
of the Government in S.A., and John Darling,
leader of the Opposition, has been endangered by
a reporter in Perth (of all places). Darling, on
his way to England, is stated to have told a
Morning Herald interviewer that “although
his side was in the majority, he did not intend to
oust the Government so long as they legislated
for the benefit of the State ; but he was deter-
mined to push S. A. for all she was worth, and as
soon as the Government legislated against the
State’s interests, so soon would they be
thrown out of office.” This astonishing piece
of candor was eagerly seized upon, when
it reached Adelaide, by Langdon Bonython’s
Advertiser, which, however far it may have gone
back since Kingston’s time, has not ratted nearly
as much as Jenkins and Co.; and the Premier
was obliged to speak on the subject. This was
easy enough to do, with Darling away, and
Parliament not sitting. The Opposition (he said)
would have to double its numbers before it
could hurt him; Darling, though a very
fair opponent, would have taken office when-
ever he saw a chance; still, nobody knows
what next session may bring forth —and so
on. John Darling, a rich and busy wheat-
buyer, values his time at considerably more than
the salary a Premier gets in these retrenching
days, but it is generally known that he could have
done just what the Westralian writer said, almost
any time last session. It might have involved some
kind of arrangement with the Labor party, and
there are obvious difficulties in the way of breeding
from the hippopotamus and the horse. Still, the
L.P. detests the Yankee Premier so cordially that
the thing could be done; wherefore the Ministry
has steered the State in the direction of trans-
continental land-steals and all such other
measures as the Opposition might desire.
The puzzle is—what made Darling say so ? John
D. is as abstemious and level-headed as his
brother, late captain of the Australian XI., and
not in the least likely to effuse at the bidding of
a casual interviewer. Jenkins suggests that
that reporter was “trained on the goldfields,”
and it will possibly be found that he did em-
broider his material a good deal. However, he
may be a “humble instrument” for much good.
It is a great deal to hear matters called honestly
by their names, and a spade described plainly as
the mere disgusting shovel it really is; and after
this plain speaking the Unholy Alliance surely
must either burst up or come out into the light
where it can be labelled and photographed.
4
Perry on Education.
N.S.W. Education Minister Perry came out of
his shell, the other day, with a speech of astonish-
ing good sense on the State Education question.
At a time when, in several of the States, the
Tories are intriguing .desperately for the maim-
ing of the State system of education-the bitterest
foe to landlordism, sweating, militarism, class
rule and all else beloved of the Tory—Mr. Perry
takes occasion to outline for N.S.W a bold, for-
ward policy:—
In connection with the training of teachers, some
important changes were contemplated. Were our schools
developing what was best in the young? If not, the
teachers failed. Self-control, justice, honor, obedience,
and patriotism should be instilled into the minds of the
rising generation, and teachers who failed in this respect
were wanting in an important part of their work. . . .
So far as the city was concerned, the problem was
not such a difficult one as it was in respect to the
scattered country districts. It was not to be sup-
posed that country officers were all of the class who
failed to reach a high standard of efficiency. There
were most capable teachers to be found in the country,
who did splendid work. He thought that there were too
many schools in the country districts. It would be better
to arrange for the conveyance of children between, say, a
half and four miles, to a central institution. In the
future much more attention would be paid to the train-
ino- of teachers. His idea was that all who were desirous
ofl.aking up teaching's a profession should pass through
the-training schools and the University. Theie v\ere
teachers in the service now who should never have been
allowed to enter. It was in this connection that country
districts suffered, because, as a rule, the least capable
teachers were drafted there, in charge of small schools.
Indeed, he would go so far as to favor the adoption of
some scheme under which the less capable teachers could
be retired on allowances.
This may be rneiely talk. It is, alas, a common
thing for political pronouncements to-prove to -be
only talk, but it is a refreshing thing to notice a '
Minister even talking in this style. If it is Mr.
Perry’s intention to' really tvork towards the end
he has indicated, he is likely to leave a bigger
boot-mark on the sands of time than any of I is
present colleagues. To s«cure more competent
teachers, to retire the incapables, and to include
in the State education system some ideas of social
and political ethics, would ultimately do more for
N.S.W. than any half-dozen Acts of Parlia-
ment that could be named. It would, of course,
cost money—the great cause of inefficiency in the
State education system now is that the salaries
are not good enough to attract and retain com-
petent teachers—but the money could not be
spent in better fashion.
»
It is pitiful to notice the efforts of the Philpites
to saddle the Labor party with the fearful odium
just now attaching to the Q. income-tax. It is
alleged by the Philpites that the income-tax is a
“ part of the Labor platform. ” This is perfectly
true, but the Laborites have no difficulty in
drawing the distinction between an income-tax
and a poll-tax, and getting the public to see it
also. Two leading Philpian supporters recently
attempted to assuage the anger of their consti-
tuents by publicly announcing they had voted
for the tax “ under a misunderstanding,
and would never support it again.” The
Government, shamed by public ridicule,
has just announced that it does not
intend to exact the tax from Kanakas. A Kanaka,
however, gets his board and lodging and ,£6 per
annum. Does the Philp Govt, know that in
Western Queensland just now there are scores of
bush workers who have not lately earned even
£25 a year—at which the Polynesian’s yearly
ration and dole might be estimated ? And if this
be a sufficient ground for exempting Tommy
Tanna, should it not also be made a sufficient
reason for exempting a white worker from a cruel
imposition? Will Philp, the Poll-taxer, give
answer ?
4
As an instance of the petty narrowness and pro-
vincialism that is the bane and also the leading
characteristic of State Parliaments, the following
would be hard to beat. Rockhampton, a town
that only lives by assiduously throttling a better
place, objected, a few days ago, to rails being
landed for the Roclrhampton-Gladstone extension
at the port of Gladstone. It would be more con-
venient for the contractor to land the rails at
Gladstone, and would expedite matters consider-
ably, but Rockhampton points out that h
clause exists in the railway contract to
the effect that all rails required must be
dragged up the tprtuous, tedious Fitzroy,
and dumped on the Rockhampton wharves
before they can be used on the railway at
all. Queensland has not yet abandoned the
attempt to fly in the face of Providence and con-
struct harbors on shallow, exposed inlets and
build ports on the mud shores of wretched rivers
that were never designed to carry more than a
flat-bottomed dingy, and this little incident is ati
episode in the same crazy attempt.
How the nigger owns the North :
In illustration of a recent Bulletin remark that there
is “ one law for the white Australian and another for the
foreigner within our gates,” the recent case of one
Simmonds, of Hughenden, may be quoted. Simmonds
had the temerity to remonstrate with a Hindoo
hawker, who was using abusive language to
certain ladies in a hotel. The Hindoo waited until
Simmonds turned into a dark passage leading from
the hotel, and there rushed at him, drove a knife
some three inches into him. near the shoulder,
and tore the blade down through the body, at-
tempting to disembowel the unfortunate European.
Simmonds was laid up in a hospital for weeks, arid
finally lost the use of his right arm. A Queensland Judge
passed some very strong comments, at the close of the
case, on white men who dared meddle with fellow
subjects belonging to the same great Empire, and let off
this Hindu with six months. The gentle criminal carried
a knife with him specially prepared for such emergencies
and numbered six 'previous convictions. And the Judge
alluded sympathetically to him as a victim of bigotry and
racial hatred. Meanwhile Simmonds goes about trying to
earn a living with one arm in a district where it’s almost
impossible just now to earn a crust with two.
4
That old, quaint, wrinkled Freetrader, ex-Premier
Braddon, of Tasmania, got on a platform at Laun-
ceston recently to denounce the Australian Govern-
ment and what he called “the awful fallacy of a
high Protectionist policy.” Braddon was aFree-
trade Premier in Tasmania for 5| years, and his,
tariff, as an all-round thing, was nearly twice as.
heavy as that of Victoiia. He went on the simple
principle of putting from 20 to 60 per cent, on
almost everything, and hundreds of things that
Victoria admitted free Braddon heavily taxed.
The one thing he was proud of was that by taxing,
finished goods and raw materials equally he pre-_
vented local industries being established, but in
the way of sticking on heavy duties Freetrader
Braddon had r.o equal. There were 457 classes
of goods that highly Protectionist Victoria ad-
mitted free; on Braddon’s free list there were
only 144, and his duties ran, in many cases, to three-
or four times the Victorian figure. As an apostle-
of free trade Braddon is a very rare specimen,.
and should be pinned on a nice clean card and putk
in a museum. • ,
♦
What the Australian Labor party has got to
learn, so as to make it definitely cut off all.
connection with the rich importer gang, is'
that it is impossible to have high wages
and short hours without increasing the cost oQ
production, and unless the foreign article made
with lower wages and longer hours, is shut out By
a high Protective tariff, the result for the Aus-1
tralian is always liable to be no hours at all, and,
no wages whatever. As a case in point, this,
evidence was recently given by the head of a
Sydney saddlery firm before the N.S.W. Arbitra-.
tion Court: ~ i
I started business in 1855, and the present is the worst
year I have ever known. It the court grants the wage
increase demanded by the journeymen saddlers, I will,
import all I can, and that will be much cheaper than
manufacturing the goods here. A carriage pad, for
instance, could belauded here from England for£27s.
while to manufacture it locally would cost £2 10s.
The N.S.W. section of the Labor party is partly re-
sponsible for the fact that Australia has only a little
Protection under the Federal tariff. It hasenough
Protection to enable it to manufacture in many
lines with the eight hours’ system and with mode-
rate wages, but in several industries a very slight'
increase of wages will make it cheaper to import
again, and then the Australian workman goesoutin-
to the street once more. That will suit the importer
well enough; he wants to see the Australian work-
man anywhere except where he will make imports
superfluous. But the position is different with
the Labor party. When it adds 10s. to the cost of
the local production of an article by insisting that
the Australian workman shall get better pay for
shorter hours than the European, it does well;
but when it tries to shut.out the European article
by a half-crown duty, it is trying to a
laige doorway with a postage stamp.
7 — .... . ■
The following literary gem is having a wine circu-
lation in the Australian press—ik has beemgoitig-
round for a good while, but papers like the Argus
are still helping it along
Captain Archibald Curiue, the well known Melbourne
steamship owner, who is returning home from a visit to
India, is not an advocate of a white Australia.
“ I travel with my eves open,” said Captain Currie to-
day, “and my opinion of this country is that what ia


The EQUITABLE
LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
FINANCIAL
FOR YEAR ENDED
ASSURANCE IN FORCE
INCREASE IN ASSURANCE IN FORCE ..
ASSETS
INCREASE IN ASSETS
SURPLUS
INCREASE IN SURPLUS
STATEMENT
81st DECEMBER, 1902.
• ' *265,597,775
*• ' £19,916,124
“ £73,855,783
“ “ “ £4,889,175
*•••-- £15,418,151
" • " £620,434
THE NEW BUSINESS EXCEEDED THAT OF 1901 bt ...
£0,565,178
Local Directors have power to Issue Polloles, Pay Claims, eto.
«r WILLIAM M‘MILLAN, K.C.M.G., Chairman; Hon. C. K. MACKELLAR MB Mir
F. NORTON MANNING, Esq., M.D. ’
C. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia
F. C. COWLEY, Secretary. ALEX. JOBSON, Actuary for Australasia. DAVID FELL Auditor
S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, F. 8.5., Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland.
SAWMILL MACHINERY.
Single and Double Gutting BAND MILLS for
hardwood logs, CIRCULAR SAW MILLS, Com-
plete Outfits of any capacity. Band Resaws,
Engines and Boilers.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
2* CLARENCE BTREET, SYDNEY.
LL
The Rabbit Curse”
M»y be turned into “a blessing i„ di.gnise” by such as energy
systematically set about trapping dear bunny.
The Rosewarne Packing Co., Ltd,
“uw paying nign prices tor
in Narandera and Youn®, in anv niunHhr Q j J abbits at their Chilling Works
their ArtlCUarG 10 ‘ he Coror “ y
Head Office : 70 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The experiment will pay y ou well.
wanted is a lot of labor. Get labor from India—never
mind what color—and let ft white man be the boss.
Bring coolies under engagement, and send them back at
the end of it. I understand fully that what I say
is not popular, but it is my firm opinion that that is
what is wanted. When you go to India you are im-
pressed with the vastness of the work and trade going
on, and it strikes you how small and mean—how contemp-
tibly mean—this country looks when you come back to
it. What we want is population. With their huge popu-
lations and their resources, India and China 50 years
hence will be the workshops of the world. Of that I’m
firmly convinced. Our country is similar, and we want
crowds of people to make the huge trade that you see in
those countries.
Captain Currie, be it remembered, used to make
some money bringing the foul Hindu and the
leprous Chinaman to these shores, and he seems
anxious to resume the business. Most men have
a firm conviction that the business in which they
made money is moral, commendable, and essential
to the progress of the community; even slave-
dealers, kings, and baby-farmers feel that way.
Captain Currie says that what Australia wants is
population ; but at the same time he says the
imported coolie ought to be sent back again
when his engagement expires. That might mean
a lot more money for Captain Currie carrying the
nigger back and bringing more niggers to replace
him, but how will bringing a nigger here and
sending him away again permanently increase the
population ? And Captain Currie is most careful
to point out that the imported nigger is not to be
allowed to compete with his class—the class that
stands round and bosses the job—only with the
working class. That is wrong—quite wrong. If
this country is going in for niggers, let us have
nigger parsons, bishops, and ship-owners, and
accept the Buddhist religion, and be nigger all
round.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOE COMING WEEK.
Lyceum "The World."
Royal "Zaza.”
Criterion..“ The Lady Slarty.*’
Tivoli Rickards’Co.
Palace .............. "On and Off.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess's...... “The Fortune-Teller."
Her Majesty's..." The Emerald Isle.”
Theatre Royal.. ........ “Man’s Enemy.”
Bijou. ................. Woods-Williamson Co.
Opera House Rickards’Vaudeville Co.
♦
The long-looked-forward-to “ Zaza ” ma-
terialised at Sydney Royal on Saturday night,
and proved to be a rather inferior, and also rather
inartistic, problem play. Men have tried to
picture the pathos of the woman with a Past,
realising that all through life she has been merely
a chattel, a toy, and a very side issue of life.
“Zaza” looks like the crude work of some in-
experienced playwrights struggling with the same
ide\ IT hey mostly wished to show the refining
effects of a pure affection, but did not know how
to get the oyster of sentiment out of the gross
shell of circumstance. So they created Zaza, a
loud-mouthed, fast, garish concert singer, who
used to take by storm men who could stand the
expense of a good supper ; made her fall a victim
to one of her own conquests, and showed
how she developed for him a refined, tender,
altruistic affection, which broke her heart, but
lifted her up to be a great singer and a sad, gentle
woman nursing a life-long sorrow. The whole
process and its results are unnatural and im-
possible. Paula Tanqueray was a smirched lady
—but a lady. She was refined, educated, and had
brains. Zaza springs from the gutter. She is
illiterate. She throws herself upon Bernard
Dupresne as though he were a plate of chicken
and sauce, and in her love-making the subject of
supper is uppermost all the time. When she
lives six months in the cottage with Bernard
(and pawnB her jewellery to pay the exes.) the
home is squalid. The table-cloths are stained when
they are not absolutely ragged and dirty. Her
sprays and toilet requisites are mingled up with
the breakfast things, and her underwear is scat-
tered around the dining-room, on the corners of
screens, piano, windows and doors. The whole
atmosphere has that untidy dustiness which indi-
cates a grievous lack of bringing up—in fact, no
bringing up at all. The serene purity of her
affection does not make her soul revolt against
these surroundings till Cascart tells her that her
Bernard, has a wife in Paris. Then she
goes it Paris to meet that wife, meets
the baby girl instead, is reduced to a limp wet
rag, and grasps how much more attractive the
wife’s spotless home is than her unoouth den.
Thenceforward she hates dirt and untidiness ; and
the refining agent is jealousy and not love. She
is the same hurricane in her grief as in her appe-
tite, and Madame Dupresne arrives to find her
drawing-room swamped in tears. Madame
Dup resne speaks no word; only stares in well-
bred astonishment. Which is the most original
part of the play.
• • * •
To be moderately artistic the play should
end with the second scene of the third act. But
it is necessary to keep the show going till eleven
p.m., and another scene discovers Zaza a great
singer, and Bernard, two years afterwards, free and
anxious to marry her. And the lady tells him
with a stagey voice to kiss his little daughter for
her, and never to come again, and steals away in
an atmosphere of many bouquets, moonlight, and
green park, “ home.”
• • • *
Despite its crudity there is pathos in
“Zaza,” but it is in Nellie Stewart, not in the
drama. The abandoned concert singer is played
magnificently ; the hysterical woman who feels her
idol slipping away from her is pitiably real;
and the deserted mistress, stung to dignity by
Dupresne’s brutality, is realistic. That last
superfluous act even Nellie Stewart fails to make
real. It evidently gets on her soul. Harcourt
Beatty makes Dupresne a drab, uninteresting
being. He is a mere parrot, who does nothing
but agree with and kiss Zaza till he abuses her,
and his insteps look as though they were padded,
and he turns his toes in while he curses —which is
not Art. As a straight man of business, who can-
not understand this deplorable passion which
interferes so with money-making, Sydney Stirling
is decidedly good. There are other people in the
play, but they are overshadowed so utterly that
they leave no impression on the mind worth
speaking of; but they are hereby commended
as having played their unimportant parts fairly
well.
00 0 0
Enlivened by the presence of Melba and
depressed by the appearance of numerous drought
relief boxes, Sydney Lyceum broke out into “The
World ” last Saturday night with great success.
It took three persons to write the vaguely-named
drama, but it is not much the worse for that cir-
oumstance. In Act I. most of the characters are
leaving a realistic South African wharf. Robert
Owen is going home with a belt of diamonds and a
small son to seek the usual lostdaughter, and two or
three villains ( the drama swarms with villains) have
arranged to blow upthe vessel for the usual financial
considerations. One of them in a moment of
thoughtlessness, gets himself taken away by
the vessel, and tableau 11. ends in a fine,
loud burst-up, with Albert Norman holding Miss
Frances Ross in his strong right arm and com-
manding that the women go first. It is usually
Baker’s place to hold Miss Frances and defy the
world, but that heroic person is out of the caste
in this drama. All the most important per-
sons having as usual been saved on a raft,
the scene changes to London, where com-
plications arise between Albert Norman (who is a
disguised baronet) and his wicked younger
brother. Villain No. 11. is despatched to recon-
noitre the baronet’s apartments, and is robbing a
disgracefully weak safe when the baronet enters,
and recognises him as a man who did him a bad
turn some time ago. Therefore he gives him coin
to go and be dishonest elsewhere. The number of
persons who want to reform people by send-
ing them to be dishonest elsewhere is legion. The
hero then turns his back on his companion, who
promptly chloroforms him for his foolishness, but
is killed himself a minute later by the wicked
brother, who mistakes him for the baronet.
Albert Norman then fills in time by being arrested
by the remaining villains as a lunatic in the usual
sudden manner. He escapes from a picturesque
asylum by knocking the warders down in
heaps, and a little later another villain is
disposed of by falling down a lift. Meanwhile
Harrie Ireland, who is the diamond seeker’s lost
daughter and likewise the wife of a villain, dies
Eublicly in a ball-room through hearing that her
usband is dead. She has remarked very often
that Harry is sure, by reason of his evil ways, to
go to when he dies, yet in her last moments
she is full of joy because she says “ her soul is
going to join his.” Few people are in such haste
to go to .
• * • *
The acting in “ The World ” Ib uniformly
good. Albert Norman makes an excellent
impression as the hero, and Miss Brightie Smith
as the small son is an especial and extra success.
Bland Holt steps out of his usual beat to enact a
villainous Jew, and reconciles the audience
to seeing him steeped in crime. The drama
contains only two women to speak of,
Harrie Ireland, who acts with force as
a villain’s wife, and Frances Ross who is the
good and simple heroine. The sensations in
“The World ” are piled thick and high in every
act, like bones in a charnel house, and the
Electric Light Dance in the last act is a feature in
itself.
00 0 0
“The Lady Slavey ” is to be revived for
two weeks at Sydney Cri., beginning March 21.
Meanwhile, the Cri. continues with “When
the Lamps are Lighted,” a drama in which the
lamps are not lighted to any greater extent than
is usual, and are certainly not lighted sufficiently
to demand any special mention. The great Den
scene (why is there always a Den in melo-shrieko-
drama?), m which various persons are strangled
and poisoned and dropped into the Thames, is as
lurid as ever. The loudest Blot, besides the occa-
sional small blots due to the acting, is the tardy
forgiveness granted the heroine’s mother for her
“sin.” Her sin consisted in living with Man
No. 11. (for the sake of her dying child) when hus-
band No. I. was in gaol and couldn’t support her.
And husband No. I. when out of gaol exacted a
considerable amount of grovel before he took the
lady back. He meanwhile had been whiling away
the time since leaving gaol by getting drunk, and
he had no dying child on his hands to account for
his sin.
0 o*o
“ The Wrong Mr. Wright” vanishes from
Sydney Palace this week, and on Saturday “On
and Off,” a new farce, said to be of marked
hilariousness, will be staged for the first time in
Australia.
00 0 0
A change of programme at Sydney Tivoli
this week brought no new faces to the stage, the
Schenks, ventriloquist J. W. Winton, C.’ W
Hunter, Spry and Monti, and John Cosgrove
providing the bulk of the entertainment.
00 0 0
“Boy Jim,” a drama inspired by Conan
Doyle’s story of “ Rodney Stone,” was tried upon
a Melbourne audience at the Bijou the other
night, and is doubtless being continued until fur-
ther notice. “ Boy Jim ” has been successfully
inflicted upon the public of other cities therefore
Melbourne is not entitled to any apology from the
Woods-Williamson co. for the present production
All the same, this great sporting drama, in a pro’-
jogue and 4 acts, reminds one of a second-rate
sausage. It is stuffed with dark tragic mysteries,
sickly little jokes, clots of blood, top-boots, and
box in g-matches. The prologue is remembered
only as an incomprehensible in
an aggrieved actress told a busted lord that she w
leaving for America, and a young woman in loose
hair got herself concealed in the lord s mortgaged
castle because she was betrothed to his valet, and
had possibly gone astray with somebody else who
said he was the other nobleman. When the two
women have failed to explain their meaning and
have gone to their respective hiding places, the lord
resumes an interrupted game of cards tor tne
balance of his property. His brother cleans him
out of the estate, but has to give it all back again.
Then the brother also goes upstairs, leaving ms
marked cards behind him, and a sound of some-
body saying “Oh ” comes from the first fioor.
This noise in the distance is the only conceivable
reason for the programme’s announcement ot a
murder.
* • * •
Twenty years later people talk about the
alleged murder of the lord’s brother as an ancient
fact. Alf. Woods, who is 3!W>, states that he
stood upon a blood stain in the room where the
deed was done, and saw the ghost of the vanished
lord slip through the wall, whereupon the valet
from the prologue throws up his situation with
Alf. Boothman, who is a kind nobleman, and
enters the service of a bad nobleman, who is
abducting a maiden in distress. Then the bad
aristocrat strikes the valet senseless, and
throws a tablecloth over the head of the
maiden preparatory to carrying her way, but
Alf. Woods rescues the two victims and thrusts
the evil man of fashion into a pantry. Somehow
the baffled abduction took place in the coffee-room
of an inn, where the villain aforesaid was about
to hold a pugilistic conversazione. The gathering
of champions takes place two minutes later, and
the host, having been withdrawn from the pantry,
makes a match for £lOOO between his man and
Alf. Boothman’s “ unknown.” After this the
drama is mostly engaged in talking fight. Booth-
man’s “ unknown ” was to have been Frank
Harcourt, but the villain disposes of grey-
haired Frank, consequently Alf. Woods, the
young and beautiful, throws his cap _ into
the ring, and knocks the Game Chicken
out. After which the actress who went
to America long ago steps into the ring and
laments the decay of the Noble Art. This is by
way of introducing the sacred name of mother to
her bonny boy. She has preserved the secret of
her marriage for 20 years in order that she may
proclaim it from the very spot where her offspring
stood when he smote the Chicken dumb. A 4th
act brings to light the vanished lord, and professes
to explain why he was a ghost, but the mystery
by this time is far beyond all understanding.
Miss Maud Williamson makes picturesque appear-
ances as the actress and the mother. Alfred
Woods is robustiously feminine in the name part,
and the minor ladies of the co., being bright and
ornamental, tend to distract attention from cer-
tain men who merit a hearty word of scorn.
** * 0
The amusing Drink drama at Melbourne
Royal continues to show how insobriety is the
best policy for a young husband in Robt. Inman’s
position. The lurid adventuress who married him
for his money and liked him well enough while it
lasted, would never have left him if he had joined
the Band of Hope on his first wedding-day. He
took the downward path because it was strewn
with bottles of 3-star, and the path led him to a
doss-house, where the jim-jams came and worked
his salvation. Everything happened for the best,
owing to drink. Inman’s conduct was indirectly
responsible for the violent ending of Miss Duggan
after she forsook him for a wickeder and more
temperate person. All the crimes in the drama
can be traced to the hero’s relentless thirst, and
each crime was a link in the chain of circum-
stance which ultimately bound him to a nice new
girl. Regarded as a moral lesson, “Man’s
Enemy ” is not less dangerous than the average
melodrama, which deliberately discourages thrift
by introducing the murder of a respectable elderly
gentleman, who has a large sum of money secreted
in his coat pocket or his desk. When the present
scribe thinks of the many aged fathers and uncles
he has seen assassinated in consequence of their
riches, he wonders why the Employers’ Union or
the Chamber of Commerce doesn’t protest against
any further continuance of such democratic
horrors.
** * *
“The Fortune Teller” is counting its
third week at the Princess’, and although the
alleged Hungarian opera doesn’t please every-
body, the original verdict of approval has not been
upset. The music, as a rule, is dainty in its quiet
spots, and harmonious in its bursts of fury. As a
whole the show compares favorably with the
smartest displays of scenery and costumes this
country can remember. A more suitable com-
pany might have made the story more interesting
and amusing, but on the other hand, a better
libretto might have got less intelligent treat-
ment from a different company. The author
makes it rather hard for the principals to win the
sympathy of their audience. Madame Slapoffski
produces herself as three different people in turn
and none of them for long together. Her two
girl characters are not at all romantic heroines •
her boy character is an unconvincing fraud. As
the first girl she is beloved by a heavy baritone
whose smallest bit of small talk sounds like a
vote of thanks at an election meeting and
as the second girl she divides her heart
between a tame Count Bunthorne and a
large larcenous gipsy who wanders around in
quest of meat pies and other perquisites. Also
the boy whom Madame impersonates is but a
shadowy fiction flying from the clutches of an
insane pnma donna in short skirts. The average
comic opera makes at least one appeal to be taken
seriously, but the performance at the Princess’s
has no perceptible touch of genuine sentiment in
its composition. Moreover, the tame Count Bun-
thorne is a weak comedian, and the Hungarian
gipsy father resorts to a Dutch-American fccent
for purposes of humor.
“The Emerald Isle,” at Her Majesty’s
(Melb.), was just about to be let loose upon this
hemisphere when The Bulletin went to press.
A few thoughtful remarks on the musical aspect
of Ireland will appear in next issue.
*# * *
- The coming event of Wirth’s Circus has
begun to cast its hoardings before. With the con-
nivance of Melb. Board of Works and the approval
of the Lord Mayor and corporation, a piece of
waste land off Princes’ Bridge—directly opposite
Fitzgeralds’ Circus-building—is being prepared
for Wirth’s tents. The main entrance to the
circus will start in the Yarra Embankment-road
(or whatever its less appropriate name may be)
and continue down a slope specially prepared for
the occasion.
** m #
Changes at Melb. Opera House since last
week are a new farce by Gracie Emmett and co.,
a lively turn by the Lingard Sisters, a re-appear-
ance of John Coleman, and the new biograph
series of marine pictures. Jacques Inaudi con-
tinues to walk the plank and talk about trillions,
but the novelty of Jacques is wearing very thin.
* * #• »
At the Adelaide Tivoli, Wallace Brownlow
has been dropped into the programme, which now
also includes Mollie Bentley and that noble
Roman, Mark Antony. Just at present there is
not enough variety from the singing and talking
and dancing turns, but variety is promised. The
Royal’s doors are closed, but Fitzgerald’s Circus
played a successful season, Pagel and the lion re-
maining as friendly as of old. Also, on St.
Patrick’s Day, Patrick’s followers were to paint
the town green, and finish by packing the Town
Hall with a concert of the same hue.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Premier See, of N.S.W., has published cer
tificates signed by John Vernon (Deputy Auditor-
General). O. 0. L. Boyce (Chief Accountant at the Trea-
sury), and F. Kirkpatrick (Financial Under-Secretary), to
the effect that never, under any circumstances, has
N.S. W. paid any part of the interest on its public debt
out of loans. To which Tub Bulletin replies em.
phatirally that the certificates are waste paper, and the
contents thereof are unintentional bosh, and that the
signatures of the 12 Apostles and the prophet Mahomet
wouldn't alter the fact that N.S.W. has paid a whole lot
of interest out of loans, and other States have done like
wise. Frequently now N.S. W. floats a loan or two at a far
lower nominal rate of interest than its credit can stand
and adds the balance of interest to the public debt
—pays it, that is, out of the loans. When a State’s credit
is only good enough to borrow at SJ per cent., and it
floats a (nominally) 3 per cent, loan of £2,000,000 at 9*
that simply means that the lenders take part of their
interest in annual payments in the ordinary way, and the
other £120,000 (called discount) in State securities, which
are an addition to the public debt. Unless this £120,000
discount is made good out of revenue (which it isn’t)
then it is interest paid out of loans.
* * • •
Furthermore, N.S. Wales always finds, nowa-
days, that its income is £700,000 or £BOO,OOO or £900,000
short of expenditure. It is that amount short to pay its
interest—and other things. So it puts that amount
of loan money into revenue by pretending that
£BOO,OOO or £900,000 of temporary or unproductive
works are permanent and reproductive works, and should
be charged to loans. It shifts a lot of loan money into
revenue account, or shifts a lob of revenue charges into
loan account—the two operations are the same thing,
though the juggle may be different. And that £BOO,OOO
or £900,000 of loan money used as revenue enables N.S.W.
to pay its interest—and other things. The indignant
officials who deny everything state that interest is always
“ paid from consolidated revenue under the heading
‘ special appropriation.’” If they would lift their heads
out of their mouldy books and consider the various ways
in which “consolidated revenue” is borrowed, they
would perhaps be a rather less positive set of officials.
• • • *
The Citizens’ Life Assurance Co. Limited
(Sydney) completed, on 81st December, 1902, the biggest
year on its record so far :
Citizens’ Ordinary Lifk Department.
Expenses ... Added
Income. Claims. (including to
Dividends). {jn ' Funds.
1893 £20,488 £2,779 £3,073 £14,636
1894 81,080 4,716 4,662 £3495 18,208
1895 44,089 11,049 6,613 26,427
1896 65,483 16,101 8,322 81,060
1897 70,012 14,630 10,602 173 44,707
1898 98,262 18,012 14,373 7000 68,877
1899 124,841 22,276 18,720 876 83,464
1900 145,631 41,252 17,891 86,388
1901 168,520 34,282 26,584 107,664
1902 197,424 84,492 27,533 245 135,164
The life assurance fund of the Citizens’ Ordinary Depart-
ment has grown from £20,180 at the beginning of 1893 to
£026,755 at the close of 1902, which is most remarkable
progress. Only in one year (1901) is it stated that any
dividend for shareholders was charged against the
Ordinary Branch, the sum being then £2OOO. In 1902, all
expenses are put in one item, details being wholly absent.
Presumably, they don’t include any dividend. The In-
dustrial Branch, however, is regularly charged with
dividend.


m
mi
I sr
TRAMWAYS FOR MINES.
sro s estSS^m&ss
Steel Side and End Tip irucK*j. w^ee]s and Axlegj Jim Grows,
Switches, Bal -beaiin„ T _ - -LOCOMOTIVES from 10 to 400 h.p.,
deluding Compound Lig and every description of Light Railway Material.
CENTRAL Ml NI N G & T R AM PP r U AN CES^
PEOP. lid., ® n - SJmnw and Kopfkl, Ltd., London, Berlin and Paris.
Branches—Melbourne, Brisbane, Cairns and Zeehan (Tasmania).
“Let knowledge grow from more to more.”
Gasoline furnaces defy competition. Plumbago and all
crucibles, assayers’ outfits are supplied by Ernest de
Beer, Bourke-street, Melb.*
* * * m
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S. W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, of Melbourne, reports
that there has been a great improvement in the general
outlook of the engineering business sinc§ the new year
started, and that his pipe making works in Melbourne
and Perth are working full-handed. Amongst the orders
now being executed at. Footscray works is one for 7 miles
10 chains of 18in. diameter light steel spiral-riveted pipes
for the Victorian water supply ; and at Perth works a
contract is in progress for over 6 miles of lOJin. diameter
spiral-riveted pipes, flanged joints, for the Greenbdshes
Tin-Mining Syndicate. About two miles of these pipes
are to stand a test pressure of 8001 b. to the square inch.*
» « * *
lb is not generally known that in the treatment
of ore as much ot the valuable minerals is often lost in
the tailings as is saved by the appliances. This is due
in most instances to the inefficient machines used and
the difficulty in saving the fines and slimes. The best
machine to treat the latter classes are Luhrig Vanners.
These machines are in successful daily use in the principal
gold, galena, copper and tin mines in Australia and
Tasmania, proving their superiority over other so-called
slime machines. Messrs W. & J. Lempriere, 506 Little
Collins-street, Melbourne, are the general agents, and full
particulars can be obtained from them.*
• * * •
A. Kozminsky, 106 Queen-st., Melbourne,
having returned from England, is now prepared to
purchase paying mines, and mining properties (not
merely surface shows), situated in any part of
Australasia requiring further capital for development and
machinery. Only genuine and legitimate ventures,
capable of bearing the strictest examinations will be
entertained.*
• * * »
Scottish Critic, October 1902 writes, re the
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited. “ The
Company was established in 1873 and the management
has always been characterised by abundant enterprise,
tempered with the prudence which can alone make energy
valuable in a life assurance company.*
•** s •
In connection with the Penrith scheme for the
Sydney water supply, the New South Wales Government
made a contract with the Austral Otis Engineering Co. of
South Melbourne for the supply of a triple expansion
condensing duplex pumping engine capable of raising
four million gallons of water per day to a height of 250
feet. As later on it is proposed to remove these pumps
to Sydney to supply the high levels, the engines have
been fitted with a second set of pumps with a capacity of
one and a half million gallons per day delivered to A
height of seven hundred feet. The contract time for
manufacture and delivery of the above plant was 14
weeks, but the whole was completed and delivered within
eleven weeks. The Austral Otis company are manufac-
turers of every class of water works pumping plant, and
carry large stocks of pumps suitable for Mines and
Irrigation.*
S.A. Chief Justice Way is moulting. One
of hi's gaudiest feathers, the Way College, goes
out of existence after flourishing eleven years.
Sydney D*T. editor Ward seems to have
brought back with him the Argus atmosphere,
for the D.T. vigorously urges Victorian Premier
Irvine to accept as a meet and proper reform
measure any scrap of ’Pootra feather that the
Leg. Council offers him in place of his fairly
comprehensive Bill.
The undesirable immigrant. A Chinese
vegetable hawker, who has been trading at Ashfield
and Summer Hill, has been sent by 'the Board of
Health to Little Bay lazaret under suspicion of
tuberculous leprosy.
s-rsr ouJcefs^ce3A\ango,
Greeh/Aahgo,CasHmere.
'/IAMW® » MADRASI •
All G rocerja nd 3 roreKge p e r>, E.vg ry uj h ere.
SCHWEPPES DRY GINGER ALE
A record established by no other Mineral Water Company in the World,
SCHWEPPES Mineral
Waters have held the
Royal Warrant contin-
uously since 1834-
The figures for the other branch of the Citizens'
Life Assurance Co. show up as follows :
Citizens’ Industrial Life Department.
. m . Expenses Added
Income. Claims, (including Written to
Dividends), off. Funds
1893 ..£112,957 £24,532 £66,662 £21763
1894 .. 126,998 32,552 77,914 £6472 lo’oeo
1895 .. 133,404 51,135 71,766 10 503
1896 .. 146,647 60,362 74,630 _ 11 655
1897 .. 156,144 72,022 83,955 _ i«7
1898 .. 156,493 51,557 78,710 194 26 032
1899 .. 165,514 53,125 92,968 143 19 278
1900 .. 176,406 49,398 98,681 228 28*099
1901 .. 184,112 43,649 99,756 42 40’665
1902 .. 188,688 41,707 110,234 36,747
The funds of the Citizens’ Industrial Department have
increased from £110,624 at the beginning of 1893 to
£315,594 at the close of 1902. The assurance funds of the
whole concern now amount to £942,349.
The Citizens’ Life Assurance Co. lias a peculiar
arrangement whereby the expenses of the Ordinary Life
Department are supposed to be limited to 15 per cent, of
income, and the Industrial Department has to carrv the
rest, however much it may be. This system is better for
the Ordinary Department than for the Industrial.
Rtyaults are as follows :
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
Ordinary Industrial
Department. Department.
1893 .. £l5 0 0 per cent. .. £59 0 4 per cent.
1894 .. 15 0 0 „ 61 7 0 „
1895 .. 15 0 0 „ ... 53 16 0 „
1896 .. 15 0 0 „ ..50 17 10
1897 .. 15 0 0 .. 63 15 4
1898 .. 14 12 6 „ .. 60 511
1899 .. 15 0 0 „ .. 66 3 5
1900 .. 12 511 „ .. 55 18 9
1901 .. 15 15 6 „ .. 54 3 8
1902 .. 13 18 11 „ .. 58 8 5 „
The net result is that the Ordinary Department is
managed very cheaply—indeed, it is one of the most
cheaply managed life assurance offices in Australasia—
while the Industrial Department, though the manage-
ment isn’t startlingly expensive, as things go with that
lamentable and utterly thriftless line of business, has no
share in the economy.
Manager Garvan, by the way, stated loftily
at the Citizens’ meeting that “Absurd as it may
seem, we have received criticism because our ordinary
branch expense rate was so low.” Judging by the care
taken to send a copy of this statement to The Bulletin
office, it is presumably this paper’s criticism which Mr.
Garvan alludes to. If so the remark does very little credit to
the speaker’s straightforwardness. To distort a criticism
on the shabby device of making the expenses of the
Ordinary Branch look remarkably low by charging a
ridiculously large share of the total expenses to the
Industrial Branch, into an accusation that the expenses
were too low in a natural way, is a poor kind of ingenuity
at best.
Last year the interest realised"*by the Citizens’
Life Assurance Co. equalled £4 Is. per cent, per annum
on its average funds. This is a very low rate —about the
lowest among Australian offices—and it suggests either
that the assets require considerable writing down, or
that the £248,837 of freehold property which constitutes
more than a fourth of the assets is mostly occu-
pied for the society’s own purposes without any
rent being debited among the expenses. When
Australia gets a decent, sensible, and uniform
life assurance law it should be enacted that
when an institution occupies its own office property it
should debit itself with, say, 5 per cent, of the value of
the property so occupied as rent. This would at least
make the accounts of the various offices fairly uniform ;
at present the society which rents its office, charges the
rent among its expenses, and so increases the expenses,
and the one which owns its office sometimes doesn’t
charge itself rent, thereby reducing expenses and, on the
other hand, reducing the apparent return from invest-
ments. The Citizens’Co. wrote up the value of its office
property in 1891 by over £24,000. Then it domolished
that written up office altogether, and built a new struc-
ture, and there has been no visible writing off of any
size on account of the vanished property. Also, it
may be mentioned that there is no depreciation fund or
other visible reserve whatsoever, such as many British
proprietary companies possess, though as some Australian
mutual life institutions are in the same position this
isn’t a point on which the Citizens’ can be singled out.
In a general way the position of Australia’s principal pro-
prietary office appears to be improving in the Ordinary
Department—at all events, things look better than they
did last year, when no bonus was paid to policy-holders,
while the shareholders voted themselves a 20 per cent,
dividend. The Industrial Department was more expen-
sively managed in 1902 than at any date since 1894.
* m m *
The Commercial Bank of Tasmania, Limited
(Hobart, Tasmania) shows up, as usual, very well indeed:
Added
Dividends and Written to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend-tax. off. serves, serves.
June, 1896 £4,199 5 p.c.= £3766 £433 £190,753
Dec., 1896 3,833 5 „ „ 3714 119 190,872
Aug., 1897 4,969 5 „;, 4952 17 190,889
Feb., 1898 4,463 5 ~ „ 3714 £l,OOO 190,638
Aug., 1898 4,823 5 „ „ 3714 1,000 109 190,747
Feb., 1899 4,885 5 „ „ 3714 1,000 171 190,918
Aug., 1899 5 519 6 „ „ 4457 91,000 100,980
Feb., 1900 6,611 6 „ „ 4457 1,500 654 101,634
Aug., 1900 6,828 7 „ „ 5200 1,500 128 101,762
Feb., 1901 7,502 7 „,, 5200 1,500 802 102,564
Aug., 1901 13,497 8 ~ „ 5943 5,000 2554 105,118
Feb., 1902 8,640 8 ~ „ 5943 2697 107,815
Aug., 1902 8,906 8 ~ ~ 5943 2963 110,778
Feb., 1903 8,788 8 ~ ~ 5943 2845 113,623
The profits represent £6 19s. 4d. per cent, per annum on
the shareholders’ funds, as they stood when the half-year
opened, as compared with £7 2s. lid. per cent, for the
previous half year. The business shows an expansion all
round during the six months. Deposits now stand at
£1,562,186, and the reserve of cash and liquid securities is
£699,300, equal to 43 per cent, of all liabilities to the
public—a reserve of most unusual solidity. Out of this
amount £248,910 consists of Government securities, an
increase of nearly £68,000 during the half-year. The
Commercial Bank of Tasmania thus holds, nearly its
whole capital and reserves in State securities, a policy
which, if other institutions had done likewise according
to their means, would have gone a long way towards
making Australia its own public creditor.
“F.S.”: *• Proprietary,” in that case, is just a
fancy name for “ company.”
• • * •
“Bayswater” (or “ Bagsnatcher” or “ Big-
squatter” or something—writing none too legible): If
things go on as at present it is probable the co. will be
able to return 15s. or 16s. a share, and it may return
more. Anyhow, there is not likely to be anything gained
by selling at present prices.
* * * *
N.S.W. Civil Service Co-operative Society
directors (there are six of them) are anxious that their
remuneration should be raised from a total of i 300 to
£6OO a year, and a considerable section of the share-
holders object very strenuously. Objection is particu-
larly taken to the alleged “underhand” way in which
the change was brought forward. The proposed increase
In fees was given notice of among a series of verbal
c“a e n n g d edlo t? -an od-W 0 d-Wh r l I’e9; 1 ’ e9; , that 5n ru,e 7 * “ or ” be
to “ftate”- t-w ■ thatm rule .005 “colony” bechanced
and an n„ in rule x 300” be changed to “ 600,”
thisJif „ofc fh o Shareholders allege thafc the effect of
ignorance nf Ju 0 jWose-was to keep them in
double thp rv° i 6O ? that it was proposed to
meet!no- «L d^$ tora feeB ' Result, a stormy
director werp a erS7 r^ ostly hostile oneB - But th «
aid of r-t, ™ 6d W 'l h “ any P rox ' es . and with the
arman ,? eaver the meeting
Co one?fth h p n f qU u Btlon sti ," uns ettled. Civil Service
can afford tr?° an aß ' e manager ; whether it
mental dirpnt-n Pa - y £609 a Y ear to the more or less orna-
mental directors is another matter.
* * * *
Go fr^,^d^ Nl^ KD -, Firk and Marine Insurance
rien iir h»L n A i n a , ori ?o d) record ed in 1902 the best expe-
rience it has had for 10 years
Profits. Dividends. to 6 Be '
Reserve* serves.
1891 '' £l q’7«o 7i per cent. = £5625 £6,036 ' £28,667
18J1 ” 9,768 7* „ „ 5625 4,143 32,810
’off ” IoCC} 6 > 408 39 . 218
laoa" o’Tsi Percent. = 7500 4,251 43,469
JSSS -* I’, 17 ® 19 » .. 7500 676 44,145
1896 ' ‘ w ” ” 6625 ~ 43,654
1896 .. 5,822 7$ „ 5625 197 43,851
Loss. *
1807 4,872 6 „ 3760 _ 35,229
Profits.
1899 " iw™ •* « 4687 - 34 - 915
I9nn '' H’IS 3 ” •' 6625 5,784 40,699
1901 “ 1?’o?q 12 ” » 7500 5.904 46,693
1901.. 11,013 10 ~ „ 7500 3,513 50,206
1902.. 15,938 {Written* off ” 2000} 6 - 438 56 ' 644
The profits represent over 20 per cent., so the Standard
rire and Marine Insurance Co. is doing about as well as
even a, grasping shareholder could desire. The balance-
sheet is the same reticent old document as usual. It sets
f ®£bn that the total assets are £142,460, and of this
£77,987 is “Investments” and £31,337 is “Deposits.”
This is jibout a.s little information as a balance-sheet
could give. The invested funds seem to yield about 4J
per cent., which is a very respectable rate of interest.
The chief drawback about the Standard, from an inves-
tor s point of view, is the huge liability on its shares,
which are 15s. paid up with £9 ss. callable. A liability
like that is calculated to keep a nervous shareholder
awake at night.
* • * *
A very little time ago Maoriland voted to those
insolent London absentees, the Midland railway deben-
ture-holders, £150,000, when the highest courts in the
empire had decided that no money whatever was due to
them, Joseph Ward assuring the people that the proceed-
ing would have a good effect on Maoriland securities in
London. After the disaster of the last loan that £150,000
looks like a very unproductive grovel indeed.
• • *
The Adelaide unemployed, who were to get lots
of work on the new electric trams last winter, and who
see winter coming on again without the work materia-
lising, will be cheered by a letter from “ Investor” in the
local dailies that, in consequence of the unfortunate
aspect of the London money market, the Snow scheme
“ will probably be dropped by the promoters at the end
of the year. ”
• • * •
The Equitable Building Society (Launceston,
Tasmania) :
Profits. Dividends. &JSE
1900 .. £12,539
1901 ..£3Bll 7 per cent. =£3282 £529 13,068
1902 .. 3630 7 „ „ 3342 288 13,356
This old society is now in its 33rd year, and is still going
strong and producing good results for its shareholders.
• • * *
The Sandhurst and Northern Districts
Trustees, Executors and Agency Co. (Bendigo, Victoria)
closed a respectable year on 31st December, 1902,
though previous year’s results were not equalled by along
way:—
Added
Dividends; to Re- Reserves.
Profit - serves.
1895.. £950 6 per cent. =£l2oo £2414
1896.. 1112 6 „ „ 1200 2326
1897.. 1110 5 „ ~ 1000 £llO 2436
1898.. 624 5 „ „ 1000 2060
1899.. 1174 5 „ „ 1000 174 2234
1900.. 1273 5 „ „ 1000 273 2507
1901.. 2365 5£ „ „ 1100 1265 3772
1902.. 1452 6 ~ „ 1200 252 4024
The reserves consist of reserve fund £2500 and undivided
profit £1524. The Sandhurst Trustees is doing much
better than in some previous years. Most of its assets,
too, look good, though it is hardly worth while putting
in £313 worth of reconstructed deposit-receipts at “ face
value ” when they might be written-down to real value
with such a very small diminution in the apparent pro-
fits. “ Face value ” is a term which always looks bad in
a balance-sheet. The co.’s £lO,OOO worth of Victorian
Government stock also appears at “ face value,” and,
though it will doubtless be paid in full when the lean
falls due, still it would be better to write it also down to
market price. A company never knows for certain that
it will be alive when the loan falls due.
• * • •
Canada is to have another trunk railroad, and
the Dominion (profiting by past experience) will make no
land-grant concessions to the syndicate undertaking the
job ; but promises a money subsidy. The “ success of
private enterprise” in Canadian railways mostly con-
sists of the State giving a huge proportion of the
required capital, another big proportion being often
found by the towns through which the railway
will pass ?/the subsidy is forthcoming, and the rest, a
half or less, being found by “private enterprise.’V Then
private enterprise earns about 2 per cent, on its half of
the capital. Yet Australia (whose railways pay more
than that on the whole capital cost of construction) is
deluded into believing in the splendid results of private
enterprise in railways, and Victoria imports a Canadian to
teach her how to run her lines profitably. Speaking
generally—it’s a generalisation, however, to which there
are few exceptions—private railway undertakings are
not gorgeous industrial successes. But they are success-
ful—as gold-mining specs, are successful—for stock-
gambling purposes ; and that’s why they have attractions
for big capitalists.
. • * •
Inquisitive (Cardwell): Your letter has been
referred to our W.A. eorrespondent Mundric (Vic.):
Your letter simply confirms our general statement that
it is about as difficult a matter to get a lease cancelled
in Victoria as it would be to force a camel through
the eve of a needle. The forfeiture of the leases
to which you refer does not affect this general asser-
tion The explanation probably is that the Mines
authorities knew what the alleged representatives of
English capital were. They are boodle-hunters, not
bona-fide mining men, and are typical of a class not
wanted in Australia... .T.N.J. : BlayneyCo. defunct,
mine not being worked, but ought to be in full swing
scrip which you hold is worthless M.O. (Wyalong) .It
sounds big to say that “ Wyalong is the Charters Towers
nf N 8 W ” but C.T. produces more gold in a month than
your field does in a year... .Subscriber : Sell, if you can
make a profit. If you are inclined to hold in expectation
of divs. the Victorian Co. presents the better chance.
The principal W.A. yields for Feb. were :
Tons Ounces
Treated. Gold.
Perseverance ... 10,188 .. 17,063
Horseshoe .. 11,260 .. 16,907
Boulder 8,400 .. 13,098
Fingall 7,333 .. 11,582
Ivanhoe .. .. ... 11,098 .. 10,318
Associated North .. 1,057 .. 9,550
Brown Hill Extended.. 2,000 .. 9,000
Oroya-Brown Hill .. 2,951 .. 8,031
Associated .. ... 4,785 .. 5,655
Sons of Gwalia.. „. 7,450 .. 5,632
L.V. Consols .. .. 6,513 .. 6,255
Cosmopolitan .. .. 6,031 .. 4,400
Kalgurli 3,655 .. 3,474
S. Kalgurli .. .. 2,150 „. 1,898
Kalgurli Gold Recovery 290 .. 1 ,399
Boulder Main Reef .. 1,853 .. 1,260
E. Murchison .. .. 2,638 .. 1,244
White Feather.. .. 1,400 .. 1,206
• • • •
Reports received from London indicate that the
Oobar Gold Mines (Fort Bourke), N.S.W., have discovered
ayery rich run of ore in the northern section of the mine.
Five winzes have been sunk, and the average of 53
samples from these points was a shade under 2oz. of gold
per ton. It is stated that the profit for the first month’s
run after the recent rainfall was £l9OO, and that an aver-
age of £3OOO per month is expected in the immediate
future. These reports, although they come to hand very
late in the day, will be cheering to those of the Australian
shareholders who have not allowed themselves to be
frozen out of the co.
* * » *
White Feather Reward, Kanowna (W.A.),
which made Jerry MacAuliffe’s name as a prospector, is
very nearly cooked as a mining proposition. Where the
reef was cut from the new main shaft it was said to be
worth 45 dwts. per ton. A very few feet of driving
dissipated the hope that the mine was to prove a success,
and the exhaustion of funds will mark the abandonment
of the property. Co. was one of the first in the State to
start crushing, and carted its battery from Southern
Cross at immense cost. As high averages were of more
moment than costs in those days, tonnage was reduced to
make a good yield, the 10-head battery, even helped by a
rock-breaker, treating only some 160 to 180 alleged
tons per month. By this means, and with the aid of some
stone from the rich leaders on the Red Hill, from which
Doyle and Finney' have recently obtained such marvellous
yields, the shareholders were gulled into the belief that
they owned a marvellously rich property.
* * * *
Associated Northern (W.A.) shows up very
well in its recently-published annual balance-sheet. In
addition to expending £176,000 on plant, buildings and
development, and distributing £175,000 in divs., co. still
has its original working capital of £lOO,OOO intact, except
that it is invested in British Consols which have since
deteriorated in value. It is estimated that the ore
reserves above the fifth level are worth £1,500,000,
and will pay considerably more than £2 a share
in divs. In another month co. should be opening ,
out on the r.ew chute of ore cut by the diamond drill at
912 ft., and, if the drives confirm the bore, there should
be a very bright future before the co. A novel scheme to
raise funds for prospecting the three inside blocks
belonging to the co. has been proposed. It is suggested
that a syndicate of the shareholders put up a shilling a
share. This will realise £17,500, and, if anything good
is found, the syndicate and the co. will go halves. The
three blocks are situated slightly east of north of the
Iron Duke —now being worked. This line of country has
been very badly prospected hitherto, and it is quite
impossible to foretell what energetic, systematic work
may yield. Tributors on these blocks have had occasional
small parcels treated for low yields, but it must not be for-
gotten that the oxidised zone of the Oroya was so poor
that 49,000 tons yielded only 21,0000 z., and yet at 700 ft.
the chute averages Boz. per ton. At the annual meeting
the shareholders passed Oapt. Rodda a hearty vote of
thanks. Had they passed him a nice cheque he would
have appreciated it a good deal more.
• * • * /
Associated (W.A.) has completed the first
diamond drill bore from the 1050 ft. level to try and locate
the continuation of the Brown Hill-Oroya rich chute,
and has drawn a blank. The drill is again going down
from the same level at a more depressed angle, and it is
hoped that the next attempt will meet with more suc-
cess. A cross-cut is being put in from the same level to
thoroughly prospect the ground. The new manager. Mr.
Gleisberg, is displaying a great deal of energy, and may
eventually succeed in getting the mine once more into a
div.-earning condition. Quite recently rich pay ore was
discovered in one of the upper levels, and, as a conse-
quence, the monthly returns are likely to show material
improvement. In addition to erecting Merton’s furnaces
it is quite on the cards that a battery will be put up, and
direct amalgamation treatment introduced, as is the case
on the Ivanhoe and Golden Horseshoe. It is now found
that, on many of the mines, below the water zone, the
ore becomes much less refractory, and is, in fact, quite
free milling. This is especially the case in the Great
Boulder, which from the 1200 ft. downwards is a free
milling proposition.
• • * •
North Kalgurli (W.A.) is not likely to gain
much in value from Jim Henderson’s exhaustive exami-
nation. The lode is very patchy and faulted at frequent
intervals, which makes it difficult to gauge the value of
the property. From general appearances, however, it is
very unlikely that the co. will ever appear on the div.-
listj and, at best, the scrip can only be regarded as a
gambling counter. It is more than probable that the
erection of an up-to-date battery will be recommended,
not so much because the position of the property warrants
it, but because, in breaking down stone for the battery,
unknown bodies of ore may accidentally be opened up.
The fresh funds obtained through the recent reconstruc-
tion of the co. are nearly exhausted, and, unless a few
more rich patches of smelting ore are soon found, co. is
bound to again go into liquidation.
• • » •
Queen Margaret’s (W.A.) new venture, the South
Gippsland, at Vosperton, has proved a disastrous failure.
The test crushing of 230 tons only yielded 1330 z., an
average of per ton. Although such a result
would be regarded with respect on most goldfields of the
world, it is quite disdained in W.A. Co.’s option on the
property has still some weeks to run, and a further
parcel o’f ore i 6 now going through, but it is very unlikely
to prove any better or enhance the position of affairs.
00. was very short of funds when the last annual
report was published, and, as a vast amount of money has
been expended on the new property, and the returns
from the old have been abnormally poor, 00. must be
nearing Queer-street. A reconstruction in the near
future is inevitable if the 00. is to continue its existence,
but, as there is nothing to justify such existence, it is
highly probable that a wind-up will take place. In such
an event shareholders will get nothing, as the plant is
only fit for the scrap heap.
* *
Prospects of Mt. David mine (N.S.W.) are
reported to be good enough to justify the directors in
seriously considering the advisableness of doubling the
battery power. Mine hitherto has been typical of the
majority of N.S.W. shows. It was founded on mighty
expectations and realisations have been the very oppo-
site. It seems now that recent explorations in the
western ground have exposed large bodies of ore which is
considered fairly payable. Bulletin hopes, for the sake
of Manager Jack Pearce, that the new development will
pan out up to expectations. He has had a tough row to
hoe in working this mine, and will be rightly entitled to
much credit if he brings it to a successful issue.
* * • *
“A; magnificent development” is the phrase
»■ used by the manager of the Crowl Creek copper mine,
Shuttleton (N.S.W.), in describing the lode which has
been cut at the 270 ft. level. The deepest point at which
the lode was tapped before was 240 ft., and here it was
18ft. wide, of sulphide, averaging 22 per cent, copper.
The crosscut at the bottom level is about 70ft. south of
the winze, and allowing for the underlie of the lode, about
15ft. deeper. The lode was struck 50ft. east of the shaft, and
at latest advices it was proved for 6ft. in thickness, of dense
sulphide, reported to be even richer than that in the
bottom of the winze. There was no sign of the hanging
wall. This development proves the existence of a long
shute of high-grade ore, and leaves no doubt as to the
permanency of the mine, which, on present appearances,
lOught soon to become one of the principal producers in
N.S.YV. Shares are being quietly picked up in Mel-
bourne, contribs. being dealt in at from 9s. to 10s. If it
were assured that co. would proceed with smelting on
right lines, there would be more than this in protit in
the heaps of seconds at grass.
* • * *
“Gil-guy” writes :—“Re Boppy-Centralian par
(8., 14/3/’O3). The Mt. Boppy district is well-known
locally to be extremely rich in minerals of various descrip-
tions, notably copper and gold. The great water pro-
blem, however, makes it impossible for the working
prospector to do much on his own. Writer was one of a
syndicate formed to open up a reef that assayed well on
the surface; went down 17ft. and lost the gold ; were
nearly certain that the gold would show again, but
funds ran out, and water was unobtainable except by
carting, so had to throw it up. Close to the Boppy mine
itself are Budd’s 6 acres, Boppy South, Pender’s Hill, and
Redhaven, all of which have had good assays. Three
miles away are the Restdown copper show, opened about
18 months ago ; the Burra, which has produced good
copper; and Coree, also on Restdewn, which is still pro-
ducing gold. On Meryula, several parties have lately
struck good gold ; and within a day’s ride is Shuttleton,
the Crowl Creek bonanza. Still, with all these, and
many others, the district remains only about one-quarter
prospected, through lack of water.”
* » » •
“Golliwogg” has been chewing the latest
“ F.G.S.” report from Arltunga, and this is a sample of
the cud produced: “Prospective wire: ‘North-west
quarry opening well. Visible mullock in every piece gold
broken. Dollied 3cwt. gold for 600 z., coarse quartz.’——
Apparently more ‘ site ’ than gold at Winnecke’s ; how-
ever, it will take a ‘ dam site ’ more than ‘ blow’ (quartz
or the other kind) to rouse this tired continent.”
• * • »
Duke United, Maryborough (Vic.), last half-
year treated 7074 fathoms of wash-dirt for 5996)0z. of
gold, or 16dwt. 23gr. per fathom. The value was £24,508;
£2500 was paid in divs., and there was a cash balance of
£4927. Co. is trying the experiment of running the mine
under the management of a gentleman who admits that
he has had no experience -whatever in alluvial mining.
His practical knowledge has been acquired principally in
South Africa. To succeed with the disappointing Duke
he will have to be a man of exceptional ability. There is
no class of mining which presents so many serious diffi-
culties as that of working deep wet leads. The Duke
is a very treacherous mine in many respects, but worst of
all as to its patchiness in gold, and all the ability in the
world will not overcome the lack of precious metal.
» * * * •
Vulcan tin mine, Irvine Bank (Q.), last half-
year treated 3206 tons of tin stone for 287 tons of black
tin, valued at £10,650; divs. paid were £4400. During
its existence of 12 years, co. has crushed 48,274 tons of
stone for 5543 tons of black tin, valued at £181,033, and
£63,213 has been paid in divs. The deepest workings are
750 ft. down, and profitable returns seem to be assured
for many years to come.


ißv'x
'>7?
David Jones & Co.
“ORIENT” BOOTS.
Special Purchase of American-
made Boots, Black or Brown
Vici Kid,
Price
By Post
22/-
George & Barrack Sts.
SYDNEY.
HARRINGTON St CO LTD
Photographic Merchants, 66 King St , Sydney . Brisbane
The More Simple
Photography the
and Popular we can make the
better for our business.
fascinating Art of
THIS IS HOW WE DO IT!
CRACKSHOT
7/6
CAMERA
No Better Value procurable at Three Times the
Price. SELLING BY THE THOUSAND!
Postage Extra.
sr** -»•*«n«« »<«»
PICTURES t '^ e x S ftl ft ?NCHE^ ie 'A'bo r k U, f S ’”" tl "“^^ i, °*P'SOb]^ , t» I &c DO ' I ■
supplied with everv Camera *° f 81mple ins^ U etions enlbW SH f RP > BRILLIANT
developing and printing oi itpit g y t 0 wake & oed P hotos - 18
Latoo^etp inBt ™>«™ and containing all
PRICE 5/6, Postage Extra.
SOCIETY
Two little girls in Victoria have been in-
jured seriously by the explosion of a bottle of
medicine which one of them was carrying. The
medicine was “ a mixture of nitric acid and tur-
pentine,” and was surely intended for That Tired
Feeling.
* * • *
“P.N.”: I presume your contributors
“C.N.” and “J.A.C.” (B. 7/3/’O3) mean what
they say in writing of women, who were
SINCERE GRIEF.
FRIED : “ Whatever are you crying over a man who’s been dead for years
for? I never knew you as much of a friend of his.”
THE MOURNER: "I wasn't; didn’t know him ; but I married his widow.”
bathing naked, rushing, “as they stood,” for
assistance. But I have always understood that
the woman who bathes with absolutely nothing
on is a very rare specimen indeed. A woman told
me once that she knew other women who, even in
the seclusion of the bath-room, Were never quite
in “the altogether.” It is a question that,
although a trifle blushful, could easily be settled
by some of your lady writers.
Amid “the grossness and the slag” of
the N.S.W. Methodist Conference’s sectarian
row there stood out some points of bright-
ness and light. The conference passed unani-
mously a resolution objecting to any sort of State
subvention to any religious body, and proved its
sincerity by rejecting the offer of £2OO of State
cash for a Wesleyan charitable institution. That
is a good example for the other
Further, the Methodists gave emphatic discourage,
ment to any attempt to establish a system of
millinery trimmings for their President. As
is the case with all ecclesiastical organisa-
tions, sooner or later, a tendency to put
on ‘ ‘ style ” and frills lias shown itself
among the leading lights of the Wesleyan
Methodist Church, and the President rejoices in
a robe, or petticoat, or dressing-gown, or kimono
with lace adornment and mortar-board head-gear.
In Republican America priests and parsons alike
adopt the sensible system of wearing no uniform
at all when not actually engaged in clerical busi-
ness, sporting tweeds and serges like ordinary
mortals. This idea may yet be adopted in Aus-
tralia. Nothing looks hotter in a hot Australian
summer than a broad, square priest dressed in
massive-looking black, with the sun reflected
from a hot, thick hat, which shines with the
uncanny glare of boot polish and looks like a
black looking-glass.
* * * *
While the Victorian House of 48 Selfish
Pharisees is urging a reduction of the Education
vote and further retrenchment of the already-
sweated department, this is a sample of reports
teachers are sending from all over the State.
Elliminyt School, near Colac: Children in actual
attendance, 203 ; requested to leave, 22 ; awaiting
enrolment, 31; actual accommodation provided
for 130. A case of 234 youngsters demanding a
proper education, and the miserly Kyabram-Tory
crowd, instead of doubling the existing accommo-
dation, grizzles hysterically about the cost of
education.
• * * •
A Vic. railway traveller writes :
Now that the passenger train service on the Victorian
railways is so much reduced, goods trains are largely used
by passengers. Writer travelled on one the other night.
All went well for
about 30 miles of the
journey. Then, as
the train pulled into
a station, an un-
earthly screeching,
squealing noise an-
nounced that some-
thing was wrong.
“Hot box” laconi-
cally explained the
guard. It was a hot
axle-box on the ten-
der of the engine.
On arrival at the
engine we found the
driver already up to
his eyes in oil and
dirt. “ Get us the
pad - tin, Bill,” he
called to his fireman,
and Bill got it—like-
wise oil-cans, tallow,
spanners, pin-
pinchers, hammers,
chisels, and tools of
various kinds, till all
around the offending
axle - box lay para-
phernalia enough to
start a small locomo-
tive works. Lamps
• —hand-lamps, gauge-
glass lamps, slush-
lamps, any available
lamps—p rovi d e d
light. For an hour
the driver and his
mate, assisted by the
guard and station-
master, struggled and
tussled with that hot
box, getting out the
old “ pad,” cooling
down the hotbearing,
(the oil in the box
was boiling when we
stopped) putting in
new “pad,” &c. The
driver explained the
importance of the
“pad.” It w'as the
means of keeping the
oil on to the journal,
acting as a syphon.
Then we started.
After going at the
rate of about 15 miles
an hour to the next
station we stopped,
only to repeat the
whole performance.
That axle - box was
hotter than ever.
“ What is the cause
of the trouble,
driver?” I asked,
and that dirty, black,
oily, tired - looking
individual answered,
“Dirt principally. No cleaners; engines can’t run
for ever without being cleaned.” Another stage. Same
performance. Repeated several times. Reached our
destination about five hours late. Pubs, all shut, and
the place in darkness. Such is the record of our trip.
When a little thing like that causes such a delay, what
can be expected when a good smash occurs on, say, the
Adelaide express. And dirt may be the cause of it any
day. How long is the Vic. public going to stand
the antics of the Vic. railways, as administered by
cabbage-gardener Bent.
Cock i e s
with their
families are
drifting from
out - back,
driven in by
sheer starva-
tion ! Coming
Temora-wards,
from Hillston,
an unfortunate
woman, tramp-
ing along the
road with her
husband and
children, gave
birth toa child,
and had to
struggle on for
20 miles after-
wards to get
shelter. Fora
week their
whole subsist-
ence was flour
and water!
9 m
“J.F.D.”:
If ever, as
“Barbara’’ (B.
7/3/’O3) sug-
gests, a do-
mes t i c ser-
vants’ union is
formed, where
a competent
committee of
servants can
disqualify any
of its members
who are proved
to be thieves, im-
pudent hussies or
incapables, there will
be some fun. I can
imagine Bridget hauled
before the committee, said
committee having re-
ceived a letter from Brid-
get’s late employer hinting thatshewas three stock-
ings short on Bridget’s departure. “An’ is it the
dirty little praleen that is writin’ to yez, an’ you
want me to answer the charge ? An’ her stock-
ings like a bit of mosquito-net, that no dacent
woman would draw on her fut, with the dust
an’ the dirt goin’ through the holes until one’s
leg would be like a blackamoor’s. An’ the divil
take your committee for believing it; an’, if
there’s law in the land, I’ll have it of her.
Gimme the letter ! ” The president is upset, the
letter taken, and a surprised committee sits still
and listens to an indignant Irishwoman tramping
down the stairs to find a lawyer.
* * • *
While newly-enthroned Bishop Clarke ex-
presses a keen desire to meet the local Labor
leaders—the good, innocent man referred to the
heads of a genteel organisation called the Chris-
tian Social Union, but that is a detail—Methodist
boss Fitch ett, of “Greeds that Stole the Empire ”
cuts himself clear of all such folly. Parson Edgar
having in ve 1 in conference that “a service be
held in all Methodist churches on March 29
bringing before the congregations the conditions
and claims of the unemployed, ” Fitchett held up
his hands in horror. “If I knew,” said he, “ that
on a certain Sunday every Methodist preacher
would deal with this unemployed question I
would tremble—tremble for the pulpit.” Therein
Fitchett exposed the nakedness of his creed—the
Gospel according to St. Dives, not St. Lazarus
Yet he was probably wise in his generation If
as he said, “there were to be delivered at once
1500 amateur discourses on the condition of the
unemployed,” there would probably be such an
exposure of the incompetence of parsondom as all
the belief m the country would not serve to cloak.
**/ • •
Detective Macmanamny’s account of his
interview with Meyer Singh, the most interesting
of the sordid squalid score of fortune-telling
tricksters lately arrested in Melbourne, stressed
that dusky person’s profound contempt for the
pigeons who flocked to him to be plucked.
Clients from gu-Js of 15 to widows of 50, waited
at his door for hours humbly and respectfully
like people who wait the pleasure of a god. From
9 a.m. till 11 p m. the stream of florins and half-
crowns never slackened. Yet, beyond the turban
and the silken gown, there was no style, nothing
to suggest a superior brand of occultism. Mever
himself sat and smoked spat, and occasionally
dozed off in a b irely-furmshed room with a
curtain partion behind which could be seen the
seer s bed. The seer’s frying-pan lay around like
the frying-pan of any common mortal. Everv
thing was as sordid and ordinary as a gin -case
and except for his blackness and his incivility’
there were no points about Singh at all. Anv of
the struggling ruck of mediums, if she had had
sense enough to paint herself black, might have
done quite as well. Singh made his pile out of
the white woman’s innate love for a nigger-even
a beastly rude mgger who made her wlit outside
and didn’t even offer her a chair. biae
• *
Townsville, for the second time in a very
few years, has been nearly blown off the man I„
bygone days Townsville had a theory thaWhpri
was a “hurricane belt ” in North -Central n ™
land, and that it didn't lie i i that bei? Tf
Bowen,lid. Therefore, Tow„“m e waS S
m proving that a good harbor should be
ENGLISH AS SHE IS SPOKE.
SHE: “ What did he call you a ‘small nectarine ’
for?”
HER: “I think it was the nearest he could get to
‘little peach.’”
scooped out with public money at Townsville,
while to do anything at Bowen was an insult to
Providence. Then the hurricane came, and there
was hardly a roof, or a whole window, or an un-
bruised citizen, or a square yard of ground that
hadn’t a fallen house on it, in all Townsville,
while Bowen escaped. The attitude of Bowen at
this crisis was a great cock-a-doodle-doo. Now a
hurricane has struck both places, but Townsville
is the worse devastated of the two, therefore
Bowen’s attitude is a small cock-a-doodle-doo.
No other place in Queensland has such bad luck
with hurricanes as Townsville. Places which
return Labor members seem to escape altogether.
• • • •
The pale shadow of what was, all last
August, a bright blue divorce-case cropped up in
Adelaide last week, when J. H. Symon got the
Supreme Court to make the nisi decree absolute in
Hall v. Hall and Wilson. Petitioner, who has
treated his wife very generously in the matter of
money, has the custody of the children. The
reverend and red-headed co-respondent (at least
The Bulletin has always pictured him as red-
headed) has left for parts not very well defined.
* * * *
“There is no institution older than the
public-house; it ante-dates Christianity itself.”
Slab of wisdom from the annual report of S.A.
Licensed Victuallers’ Association.
* * » *
The curse of borrowing and begging, and
generally trying to lean up against a post, infects
Australian municipalities as well as State Gov-
ernments. Manly, the Sydney waterside place of
the beautiful position, and the dirty, smelly, in-
sanitary streets, and the frowsy parks, uttered a
wail through its Mayor the other day :
It is still a matter of regret that the Government can-
not see its way to grant a sufficient sum annually for the
proper maintenance of the reserves in the Municipality.
As has been pointed out repeatedly, the parks are used
principally by visitors from the city and suburbs, whilst
the cost of cleaning and repairing has to be borne by the
Municipality. This is grossly unfair to the ratepayers of
the borough, and I have on many occasions brought the
matter under the notice of the Minister for Lands, with
only little success. I was successful during the year in
having the previous year’s vote increased threefold, but
this, in my opinion, is not commensurate with the
amount of work to be done.
English municipalities of the same order as Manly
not only meet in full the cost of local improve-
ments, but also spend many thousands of pounds
in advertising their attractions.
* » « .
Reports from cyclone-stricken Townsville:
E n fd an( l suffered very severely. The
cathedral was almost entirely unroofed, and the principal
roof timbers were carried away. The interior was flooded,
the church furniture damaged, and the windows de-
stroyed. The cathedral services are being temporarily
arranged for in the Jubilee hall.
Two suburban churches and the Chinese mission church
.blown flat. The sub-deanery and the adjoining
buildings were wrecked,, the bishop’s lodge was
damaged, and the greater part of the property belonging
to the bishopric endowment was destroyed, only two
houses being left intact.
Ihe Church always seems to strike that kind of
luck.
PIETY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The crops of farmer Higginson were stricken by the
drought,
And ,so he prayed unto the Lord to send a water-spout.
Jt came—and drowned out half the sheep upon his neigh-
bor’s run.
“ I see the Hand of Providence," quoth farmer Higginson.
John Hogg by way of premium, to save his soul from fire,
Left all his wealth unto the Church. In poverty most
dire
He left his wife and child to sink—to beg their daily
bread—
“ ’Tis really Providential,” Hogg’s thankful parson said.
The frail and frisky Mrs. Spoon was taken by surprise,
Whilst entert lining late at eve a bard with soulful eyes ;
But hubby had a weakened heart, the shock was
opportune—
“ My heartfelt thanks to Providence are due,” said Mrs.
Spoon.
JASON.


Wild’s, in the Sydney Arcade, is the most
fashionable gentlemen's hairdressing saloon in
Sydney. Every attention possible is paid to the
customers by six expert hairdressers. Address.—
30 Sydney Arcade, entrance from George-stroet
or King street, Sydney.*
H*
V
m
&O TO HELI.-
KiOr.ANI* for P/etty stumps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nageiy,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
SILVER
STAR
STARCH
THE
BEST
IN
THE
WORLD
BILE BEANS
Divorce lawyers in Australia have just
discovered the charming ease with which mar-
riages may be unmade under the Restitution of
Conjugal Rights clause. There are many people
who, whilst anxious for a divorce, are not willing
to be branded with the reproach of adultery • anti
“ family lawyers ” oould tell of many an excited
and tearful discussion between husband and wife
as to which one was to be guilty of the “ miscon-
duct” which the law generally insists upon as the
prelude to divorce. But the R. of C.R. clause
can put an end to all that. When married people
agree to part, it is only necessary for one to
refuse to cohabit with the other; or for one to
allege that the other refuses cohabitation. Then
by application to the divorce court, a “decree for
the restitution of conjugal rights’’ can be
obtained, and if the other party refuses to obey
that decree, a rule nisi is obtainable on that
ground. It was due to the enterprise of an
American lady that the value of this clause of the
N.S.W. Divorce Act was discovered, and since
then R. of C.R. applications have simply
showered upon the court—some of them, of
course, genuine, but many simply due to That
Tired Feeling affecting matrimonial relations
• • « *
Glen Innes (N.S.W.) Examiner applies
an economic and prophetic eye (not to say a
Jeames-like one) to the visit of Governor Rawson
to that locality. It exclaims :
The advent of the august visit, moreover, must neces-
sarily be a magnificent advertisement for our unbounded
mineral resources, for the news will go forth to the
world, and will come in the light of a revelation to many
enterprising capitalists, some of whom may thus be in-
duced to invest here.
It argues well for the sense of Australian
Governors that they do not take the pitiable
adulation of the flunkey editor seriously—they
can’t, or they would become so inflated that they
would kill the bush editor for using their planet
without permission. Yet, again, they must take it
somewhat seriously or they would shriek with
laughter every time they passed a newspaper
office.
THE CASUAL AUSTRALIAN.
REGISTRY OFFICE CLERK: “Do you want to
register that child?”
COCKIE: “ Yes; an if yer’ve got time me an’ the
missus would like ter get spliced.”
“T.D." : The chairman of the Melb.
Chamber of Manufactures has just made the usual
declaration that no sweating now exists in Vic-
toria, and therefore the Factories Act has become
quite superfluous. Same day as this declaration
was made, I was officially shown a flannelette
underskirt with top band of tape, two puckered
flounces and two rows of braid, the whole of
been made up for the splendid sum of
The white slave who made it, considered a
fast worker, averages 14s. a week, when there is
any work going, for 10 hours hard stitching a day.
She provides her own machine, needles, machine-
oil, and as she is never allowed quite a sufficiency
of cotton, a little of her is spent in making
up the necessary supply. The excuse offered by
the benevolent anti-sweating firm which gives her
the work is that these underskirts are a line in
which prices are undercut. Therefore the cheap,
bargain-hunting woman isn’t attacking the pocket
of the summer-sale promoter, but is profiting by
the eye-weariness, aching back and aching heart
of another woman slaving for dear life at about
2|d. an hour.
* » • •
The moan of Red Tape, Junior :
Dear Bulletin.—We are getting on all right in the
service now, thank you. The N.S. W. Public Service
Board people have started a real up-to-date scheme of
examinations, and we do nothing all day but sit round
and admire it. They have selected 18 subjects, divided
into two groups, embracing almost the whole of human
knowledge. This exam, is not compulsory, and, if you
do pass, nobody guarantees you anything definite. But
as it has been drawn up by a combination of ’Varsity
dons and Public Service smarties, the papers hail it with
delight. Now, they say, at last we will have integrity
and ability recognised, and goodbye to patronage and
influence. True, they said it in ’95, when the Public
service Bill was introduced by G. H. Reid, and in 1896,
when the Board started its job, and again in 1898, when
lhe “ rB t °f the exams, started, and yet again when the
whole exam, system collapsed. So we have our doubts,
out probably it is all right. Hardly any of the 18 sub-
jects have any bearing on our work, and the Public
service Board probably couldn’t pass an examination in
them to save its life, and, when we have passed, the
h i probably change its mind and annul the
whole thing ; but, for the time being, everything is gay
and the goose hangs high.
* * * •
In Fiji the alleged Bible-burning episode
w ( “j c h has roused half Australia to skull-drag the
other half, has hardly created a ripple of excite-
ment. White Fiji doesn’t care what creed brown
T lji happens to profess for the moment. White
■“bi doesn’t care tuppence whether brown Fiji has
a bible or not, nor does it take brown Fiji’s alleged
co^ v o rs i° n s seriously. And when the Catholics
and Protestants send their rival commissions to
investigate the trouble, these commissions will
hnd white Fiji in general very indifferent to the
whole business.
“ Robert Hap ” writes in a forcible
strain :
fh^J, aSpberry y* ne S ar - Do the public reallv belies
that every manufacturer colors his “pure fruit juice’’
compound with “ a modicum of cochineal ? ” I’ve J made
thousands of gallons, and allow me to say that the ordi-
y,.c?uT"eal , of ? omme rce simply won’t act. When the
u , th ( e coloring matter comes in contact with the
' er r bU i Vr,C ’ aCetlC ’ compound, reaction
knmv' , P tn? d lml "" lness IS , th e result ; all the filtration
known to temperance won’t get it out. The quality of
evertnu 6 13 » 0t : transparency and brilliancy are
everything. Roseine—an aniline dye—is the coloring
fr‘r A / lyb ° dy ? fter a lon S hout of raspberry vinegar
is liable to run fearfully and violently amok on the
shortest notice and to imagine he’s being pursued by
long-legged carboys of acid in a corrosive atmosphere.
Just as soon as the hardened drinker of raspberry vinegar
eventuates, raspberry delirium will have to be added to
the list of public diseases.
* * * *
“ D : Re a. recent article on the Red
Rage regarding the dominant note in Australian
scenery, which
“R.Q.” inter-
preted as a
“ Weird Ex-
pectancy.”
The disease is
in town also.
Stopped in
front of a small
shop yesterday,
when an oily in-
dividual sneaked
on me as if he
were a camel going
to lick my ear, and
whispered quietly
about certain goods
inside. Glanced in
and the boss shop-
walker and three
assistants were rub-
bing their hands and
waiting waiting.
The barber’s the
same—an assistant,
mad with waiting,
had a towel around
onTlore Tsat in'the
chair. Everbody waiting,
expectantly—Dr. Dill-Macky and the Cardinal
waiting for telegrams from Fiji, Owe’Sullivan for
a new loan, the general population for next
Melbourne Cup.
* * * •
N.S.W. Justice Simpson, the other clay,
finally decided the future religious belief of a
family of young child to be Roman Catholic.
The father of the children died in 1895, and until
1899 they were educated as Catholics. From 1899
till 1903 they were brought up as Protestants, and
now they are to be Catholics again till further
notice. Trouble all originated in a “ mixed ” mar-
riage. Ever since the decease of the parents rival
relatives squabbled for the right to dictate the
religious belief of the offspring of the marriage,
but they all seemed to agree on one point—that
the right of paying for the children’s support
belonged to the other crowd. Finally the
R.C. faction seems to have undertaken the
responsibility, and vittles being more important
than creed, the small family gets a new religious
belief handed down to it from the Bench as if it
were a parcel containing nothing of any import-
ance.
* • • «
“Adelaide “ Nobody hears of a widower
rushing his deceased wife’s elder sister ” (Bulle-
tin, 7/3/ 03). And nobody (or hardly anybody)
knows that in S.A. he is allowed to marry her
niece. A clause to that effect was tacked on to
the D.-W. Sister Bill when it passed long ago,
just to oblige one prominent citizen. Another
prominent citizen has married his deceased wife’s
aunt. Of course, he couldn’t —but lie did.
GETTING EVEN.
BORDER (warmly): “ Oh, it’s all right, Mrs.
Cutjine, I know all the tricks of your trade.
Eo you think I've lived 20 years in boarding-
houses for NOTHING ?”
LANDLADY (frigidly): “I shouldn’t be at all
surprised, Mr. Sloepay.”
In England, nob so many years ago, almost
anybody could get almost anybody else into a
madhouse, and the keeper of such a place was
absolutely protected by law from all legal con-
sequences whatever. Apparently they are al-
most equally off-hand in Westralia to-day in their
dealings with the allegedly insane. During the
hearing of a case at Perth a servant-girl declared
that her master, a clergyman, had been unduly
familiar with her and then had had her sent to a
lunacy asylum, when she began to talk of legal
proceedings. Some evidence given by F. Horgan,
Clerk of Petty Sessions was, to say the least, re-
markable :
His Honor : Was any evidence taken on the charge?—
Not that I am aware of.
His Honor : What was the charge ?—Of being of un-
sound mind.
His Honor: By whom was the charge made?—By
Police-constable O’Brien.
His Honor : And what was the result?—She was sent
to the lunatic asylum.
Mr. Harney : And no evidence was taken ?—So far as I
can ascertain, no evidence was taken.
The girl was a “ new-chum,” only a year out,
and had no relatives or friends nearer than Eng-
land. The parson has taken steps to clear himself
of the charge ; he may be quite innocent, and the
girl may have been deranged, but the off-hand
ways of the W.A. law look very off-hand all the
same.
“The conditions of clerical
employment ” are again the subject
of complaints in the Sydney press,
where it is pointed out that the
slaves of the pen and the ink-blob
earn an average salary of only £1
to 255. per week :
The clerks nowadays are actually worse off than wharf
laborers or coal-iumpers, although the latter have more
laborious work. Still, most clerks in offices are only
obtaining about 30s. per week, and they have to keep up
appearances, pay board, tram fares, etc. How on earth
can a young’ fellow save money? And he is very often
uncertain about his position, on account of principals
from typewriting colleges looking out for positions for
some of the females who have been educated there.
There is an easy remedy, for the N.S. W. clerk at
any rate-form a union and appeal to the Arb.tra-
tion Court for a minimum wage, it has been, in
the past, the senseless objection taken by clerks
to unionism that has kept them so sorely sweated.
But even the high-collared and cheap-straw-
hatted one s pride in holding aloof from unionism as
a thing which is suggestive of plumbers and hod-
carriers may be bought at too high a price.
, . . . ~ c rr . , ,
A complaint from the city of Kingston and
many tabernacles :
Just at present Adelaide resembles a miniature New
York. Street advertisements, swarm. Small boys,
dwarfsf'dogs^'ho'rsesf’buggles^an 1 serve
purpose. A genuine 7ft. giant and a small man in an
immense bottle, who bill up a hair restorer, are upsetting
vehicular traffic.
* . , T 0 .„
According to the new N.S. W. police
rules the constable isn t obliged to always touch
his hat to the J.P.—only when meeting him at his
court (the rule applies also to the P*M.), or when
seeing him upon official business. All members of
the force must “touch” to the Gov., Ministers
and judges; junior officers to seniors; sergeants
and constables to police otticers and army and navy
officers in uniform. '
From the daily paper reports of the latest
Sydney tragedy (one life certainly, two possibly,
sacrificed).
According to the reports of the police and neighbouis,
the perpetrator of the deed is addicted to fits oi violent
temper, suggestive of temporary insanity, When thus
possessed he not only threatened the life of his wife, but
several people in the neighbourhood. .... Hanna came
home about 4 o clock on Saturday afternoon, exhibiting
his not unusual violent temper. He pointedly and
irrelevantly remarked that he had been trying all about
the neighborhood to buy a revolver. By this time he
had become very excited, and concluded iris remarks by
saying th,at if he could buy a weapon he would shoot her
down like a dog.
Then he did go out and buy a gun, and the shoot-
ing happened at once. It is impossible to under-
stand why the community should oermit —in view
of almost daily tragedies—insane persons, child-
ren, and criminals to carry firearms, when the
simple expedient of licensing sellers and holders
of shooting weapons, and imposing the same
restrictions on their sale as on the sale of poisons,
would meet the case. As things are, it would seem
that a man with a shaking hand and an insane
glare in his bloodshot eye, can go into a gun-
makers and have all the stock offered to him if
he has the means to pay for it.
* * * *
How “ J.F.D.’s” friend fell in :
lie spook business. I attended a seance lately with a
friend, and we were asked by a spiritualistic-looking
person if we wished to converse with any dead relatives.
My friend mentioned his father (who was then sitting by
the fire at home) and the medium him a lot of
interesting matter concerning the spirit of the supposed
defunct. . When the show was over my friend, to show
bis cunning, told the ghost-raiser that his father was
alive and well at home. “ You might think so,” said the
spook-elevator, “but you are wrong. Your father is
dead years ago. The spirits never lie.” It took me all
my time to stop my friend from wrecking the show.
The moral of which is that you should ask the
*' meejum ” to raise your mother’s spirit— not your
father’s. A mother is much more identifiable.
* « * »
At an aldermanic guzzle at Hurstville,
near Sydney, the other day, Chairman Sproule,
proposing the toast of the “King,” said: “It
was a remarkable coincidence that nearly 63 years
ago the King was born in England, anil he (the
speaker)was born 63 years ago in Ireland.” A
cockatoo in Redfern shares in this remarkable
coincidence.
* * * *
“ Wombat” : Now that the trades unions
are having their little disputes settled so quickly
and so well, would it not be a good idea for Dill
Macky and Cardinal Moran to take their shindy
to the Arbitration Court likewise, first regis'erii g
as unions to bring themselves within the Act?
* + * *
Country news in the Q. papers is most’y
like this:
AYR, February 12.
A Malayta native who attempted to murd r a fellow-
islander has been arrested by the police.
A South Sea Islander boy knocked down and attempted
to criminally assault the wife of the storekeeper at Kali -
mia Plantation on Monday night. He has been seoi.ri <1
by the police, and will be brought up before the Couit.
ONE TOO MANY!
NEIGHBOR (hearing of new arrival next door):
“Congratulate gov, Mr. Tip! Let’s see,
isn’t this your ninth baby?”
TIP: “ Yes, the ninth, bless his heart! I love
ALL my children, Mrs. Spottle; wouldn't take
a million a-piece for 'em — but—er — I wouldn't
give a cuss for another one.”
The objection of N.S. W. residents to have
hospitals for certain complaints established in
their neighborhood promises to become a
serious embarrassment. The Glebe diphtheria
hospital for children, the proposed consumptives’
hospital near Colah, and the quarantined leper at
Strathfield were made burning questions, and the
desire to move the afflicted on to parts unknown
seems to be universal.
» * » « *
In Victoria it has been decided that the
school boy with a lighted “bumper” in his mouth
must pay full fare whatever his age. Smoking is
to be regarded as a proof that the smoker is grown
up. New South Wales has a wise regulation to
the same effect, but it is seldom enforced.
OUR OWN FOLK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Though all the tuneful hours are sped,
And all the lamps are low,
Though, heart to heart, sweet lips have said—
Dear, it is time to go ! ”
kill up again, oh, comrades mine,
For there remaineth yet
One toast to drink, in red South wine,
One simple canzonet—
Our own folk ! our oivnfolk !
blioUdof whiits, though tamud /
Our own folk ! our own folk !
I oik of our own South laud.
Oh ! north and east o’ Leuwin Lights,
Deep in the morning glow,
And southward by the island heights,
Where Derwent waters flow,
The Homeland calls them to her shrine—
Folk we may not forget !
So, pledge them deep in red South wine
And chant the canzonet—
Our own folk ! our own folk !
Blooded of whites, though tanru d :
Our own folk ! our own folk !
Folk of our own South land !
MILKY WHITE.
THE WAVERER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Tho’ she hath said her lovingness shall be
Immeasured, and as constant as the moon
Who draws the seething tideways of the sea
By chains of silver passion to her shoon ;
Tho’ she hath said, Let Winter desolate
The climbing rose of every bud and leaf,
Vet will her heart remain, perpetuate, \
Above the wrack of sorry Death and Grief.—
And tho’ I know I may not ever pause
For fear of others’ thieving words and eyes,
I am in Dread ; and cannot stay the cause,
Which in my own self of a surety lies ;
For, like a waving vane, my heart will spin
To each fresh breath of foreign origin.
vie.
HUGH R. M‘CRAE.
HER FACE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There is a something in her face
Which in no other I can trace,
And feelings sweet as music stir
When I gaze in her dreamy eyes,
And breathe a perfume, as it were,
From flowers in Paradise.
At morn, at noon, and night, it seems
As if I moved by faery streams,
A strange light on the leaves and grass ;
As if her life-breath were the air
Through which the enchanted seasons pass
In her dream-beauty there.
It is thought’s paradise which she
Inhabits like a mystery,
Through which my feelings come and go
Like tunes which to her pulses stir ;
And my life, day by day, I trow,
Is one sweet dream of her.
R. CRAWFORD.


111 c 4 Dre*s artectiac tc Detail fafcalca Breeding.
EVERY LADY KNOWS ' r ”» T -
KLEINERT’S HOOKON
Correct Hose Supporter
S«M cmlj at tbe Best *hnp, T ° WeaT wtth the FORM CORSET
MR. J. SPENCER NOLAN, R.D.S.,
DENTAL SURGEON
{ieiw-ee-E Hark Far's i.
4 j O*f ort j^t,, Sydney
P“»-» «*«**«* ktat i*^ s «...
s-i.oest. WUK. UO ?«*«-I*::?x sa.dsom —*■* ■■: »*- ~.-.21- , _ • -
awtatvrfuianl Cortioe c-» a ****”; ««
=*=: »•«:, F .: ks< for » ii>-
* l4 « For comfort, tarcsttrth sad iarraes* is I* 2 ?* asr-uny
ftwh' »l"feai.' ttstritsa. sad Rcssias -, * F ’ r *Tl »s««hw(4
system, raid CUI tad =** ■ 5 «-»4<*sd oc it - *»
s ««**•■ ««.*»S*«d aSS. *
* ONt >
*' „.e s
i o
Wlw WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
A Reliable Glove
who'll yo*i out depend upon to give
SUnhMiMt—hui to get vre
bww > kut just uy a stnipie pair of
The Royal Kid Clove
to V otaairMd ia every color, aad
M **T Ptir otnis a ptnatet
**** 2 6 PAIR.
" . T. WATERS A CO. LTD.
” *** ****** AttMM,*
Kin * QW|e Sts.. SYDNEY.
\YT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
A\l Ai AMA\ AMAV AVXAV AVXAI AM.Si
$
c
(e)
Dress Fabrics
trade
Are Stocked by the
■ Li
Drapers.^
«a«*THE \ AR,WISHED BOARD
M
A WOMAN'S LETTER.
Sydney, March 17, 1903.
Mi Deab Abdci,—
The Tennysons will take up Palace-keeping at
the Macquarie-street residence daring Easter. A
dance, which will be small and exclusive and at
which four State Governors will be present, will
be given, and later, a very large garden party,
also a few other festivities, will make luminous the
time of the Tennysons' stay. For ti e last fort-
night Somebodies, Anybodies, and Nobodies have
been writing their nan.es in the Visitors' nook at
the Gov.-General's place. This book is in the
vestibule of the house, and you've got to walk
millions of miles down that weary avenne, and all
wno are fat, tired, or tight-booted wish that Lord
Richard Neville would put the Doomsday book at
tLe Lodge, near the Gate, By the way the noble
Aide-de-C. will look as though he had been pnt
through the Govt. House mangle when be sees the
pile of cards left for L a by persons whom he can-
not know by name cr sight.
Be the recrudescence of baby photography, now
that maternity is in fashion again. Any self-
respecting bantling should protest, right away.
One of the mast cherished possessions of my
doatmg relatives is my picture taken in very
early youth without any clothes on, sitting in a
basin with a pair of toy oars, and the inscription,
“ Paddling her own canoe.” Whenever females
congregate in the front parlor and have a
look at the photos., they stop at this pic-
torial revelation, and, after inquiries, are proudly
informed that tue nude object is aw. Those are
trying nKKnencs wh>»ii even the unclad object in
the basin blushes.
Drought Saturday was as like HCapital Saturday
as a wallaby is like a kangaroo. The girls sprang
their boxes at you from the same places with the
same pn—inlnn jf with the sene smiles. They
nearer ed the snips, shops and vehicles, and finally
banked £lCollectors say that tne poor men
whose boots bad obviously gone back on teem,
and the women who never wore Suzanne frocks,
were on this Saturday the cheerful givers foe
whom the Lord is credited with affection. It is
the other way on Hospital Saturdays. A certain
bootblack gave his earnings for the day—3d.—to
the fund, and thoughtfully stood by the girl col-
lector and pointed out to her what he called
“ good marks ” amongst the crowd.
A man told this collector wnen she rattled her
box under his chin : —'“Go away, or or 111
many you.” A rich woman with two small chil-
dren explained : “ I won't contribute myself, as
I wise tne children to have the credit. A lesson
like this is invaluable to the young mind.” Teen
she laboriously pecked two pennies from among
the sors. in her purse and handed them to the
children “ to contribute.*
A great audience, coo laming ei much of
Society as tis the misfortune to is in town this
bot-puu, lice w earner, was at the Royal to welcome
*“ Zaza " las. Saturday. There seemed to be a
preponderance of men. “ Zaza ~is just the kind
of play the bold things would infest. Tne king-
max. J. G. Ward, of XL L_ and Premier Barton
(I note that London Anr Ft mum has been entreat-
ing us to forego the vulgarity of “ Premier, "* and
call him " Prime Minister came in. in the wake
of Federal S.S. Co. man Owen Cox, the best
bored-looking young man in Sydney. Tee boxes
were filled with hue figures, insufficiently clothed,
even if much ted: am ended. and there was a
lovely woman in the audience who had green
roses in her hair, and tag hoops, set wita tar-
qaoises, in her ears.
Nellie Stewart s conception of toe F reach singer
and ean-eanner is a marvellous bit of close study
*»i insight. Some trides of " bnrrmiTg * were
wonderfully natural Zaza is dressing and combs
the moulted Lairs out erf her brush, rods item into
a cocoon, and throws it over the baleenv. trl-i
the slipping down of her garters while studying
ter part 1 Her dressing is an achievement—a
finger pest showing the road Delilah had
traversed from the gutter; smirched with
vulgarity, stained with sensuality, ano uncallasted.
A vkwent crossing of colors, and the hard,
abrupt lines in tne fashions of tier gowns make
for firework effect and assort well with ner loud
explosions of rage, or hysterical love, or disputed
animat possession. Then in the last act see comes
out in an ivory lace gown, on which the limelight
makes tender green shadows, as if she had been
all ter life at a school for saints, and dta of it at
that.
Severa. of Mra. G. B. Lewis’s ex-pupils (you
meet toem ail over Australia were m front to see
her plav cooky-housekeeper with the meteoric
Zaza. Her fine eyes and voice are still in the
front rang for cacemoe and brightness respectively,
and she makes the part stand out 11 re fllkn's
Promontory.
The German liner's passenger-list for last Satur-
day was as long as a factory chimney. As most
of tne departing voyagers had huge partie* to joe
them of. traflk was congested. The wife of Dr.
Cohen, a most ci art tame Fresh Air Leaguer,
went hones on a visit. The lsagns was there to
see her of with flowers, silver souvenirs, and
tears. Tne gangway Lad been bailed up when
Home-Sec. Lyoe hove in sight, and be was only
taken on board by special effort. Plain Bill likes
to be just in time not to be too late. It is part of
his elephantine rognishnesa.
Two cjdsluc open QAVi osetc p'reseitei by
certain men admirers with bnunfidlj-vrowfat
garters. One loti aoti is clasped with a silver gate
1 trended "Don’t get over tne Gate.* The ether
shows & locked gate and bears the notice, “ Tres-
passers will be prosecuted.” The which mottoes
are more giddy than original.
Mining man J. Whear Roberts parts with his
youngest daughter Gwenneth presently. She is
engaged to Dr. Hampton Caiiill, of the St.
Vincent’s Hospital.
With bat one rather “swift” exception, the
summer girls (and their well-trained mothers) who
follow the warships to Hobart year after year,
bare left there. They are now hack in their
respective, still broiling, States. These girls go to
Tassy in shoals and rather take possession of
Hobart, and make themselves objectionable to the
local girl by shelving her for the time being. The
proper study of mankind in Tassy is scenery ; but
there’s a section of tourists that goes to every
beauty-spot but never looks at anything but it-
self. and talks all the time about its favorite comic
opera sings snatches from it—or enthusias-
tically discusses the flounder it had for breakfast
that morning. It is this objectionable type of
tripper which, at the hotel tables* in the pauses of
over-earing itself, abuses Hobart city and calls it
dull and narrow. As if anyone went to Tasmania
to get the life you see in “ Zaza''! One heavy-
weight old lady, who wens through a glory of
apple and hop lands on the same river-boat, enter-
tained me the while with an account of how
Queen Alexandra behaved when she came into
her kingdom. I forget how the narrative ran,
but it climaxed with “and she ran over to
Denmark, and ' Father,’ she says. Tm Queen of
England 1 she says "; and the speaker snapped her
finger and thumb and gave a modified Tivoli kick
—in imitation of the Queen, I suppose.
One thing that delights a Sydney sider in
Hobart is the good condition of its cab-horses. 1
made the acquaintance of one on his way there by
tre Oonah. Dog-poor he was then, and I helped
him to s:ea from a bundle of lucerne. The
fragrant bundle was so tightly compressed that I
had to work at it with a batton-hook and a hair-
pin before I could make a loose place for the
horse to get the run of his teeth. A man came
along when there was a fair gap in the bundle and
aagniy asked, 4 " Who s.loved that great Austra-
lian adjective feed under the great Australian
adjective horse s nose ? 3 Then lie looked around
and saw me. I got scared and toad him the
captain did it. As Mark Twain says, ” Truth is
so precious, we ougit to economise it.”
Well, I met that same horse three weeks later,
and I'm certain he winked; he was then in
sfxencLd form. One of four, that pulled me and
19 other passengers in a brake np the steep grade
to the Springs oa Ms. Wellington.
Miss Mary Roomso' s pends, assisted br Moss
Annie Perry, Miss Julia Davis, and Messrs.
Robyns and Lewis Scon, gave the first of a aeries
of monthly recitals at “Minnesota,* Johnstos-
s trees. A mandate, on Saturday. March 7. About
130 viators were present, and, judging by the
applause. sincerely appreciated the music-" The
next recital takes place in April
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
"At the c-anain-dropping of Torn Roberts’
Commonwealth canvas officialdom showed anxious,
rather childish, haste tc see howc.ose it was to the
front rank. When Alfred Deaktn had
cuot>mg the a halt-marked genius, the
Commonwealth opening an unprecedented inci-
dent. its painteo record an unparalleled perform-
ance. etc., eic_, the curtain dropped, and the
interested pursued the faces of the decs. Meac-
wnpe Tom Roberts, with the moss business-like
and .east artz^ne-lik e air in the world, skipped
from group to group being petted on all «• :•=&.
Presently he glows in Royal circles of -sitters'
and folk to ,et :be.r patronage kiwi
as a preparation for the honors to cuce.
__ “I* evident to many who had sees the
Common wealth canvas in its early staxes. and
xnown tfiat the present Governor-General and his
wife were not enraptured with the poses they
were given, tr.at the artist had effected some
small but significant alterations, so that now my
Lord and Lady Trim ysen are a pair of the most
considered tgtrts on a canvas wnere Rovaltv
takes »>me room. Toe Madden family most have
geoi_,y intimated a wish, too, to be banded down
in a forward position tc poster.ty, for all its mem-
bers are strikingly shown. A ’notable and life-
like group is that at the left hand corner, of
cis. ops, consuls, and mayors, including the mdan-
cnaly and spiritual face of the Greek priest under
a tall s. igttxr bintta. Of the women mere is a
sir:xmg likeness of the Countess of Hopetoun.
and ter mas coospicaous position in the’line of
Royalty is said to have pleased her well
“Tne Hattons. who arrived too late in these
to be melded in the TwnrnTnrt canvas,
wjere keen in pinking out their oStial friends in
®p and rejo.gra.tmxting that on treir position
posttoo is tie only thing tnat otents to tie
pouredßiggohn Eeriest .coked win •■»•■* trra'V
l°fi ft*tik pe-xsure on : is fix tiered self in the
rrame, The Do-age rof Clive ten glanced at Lei
youngish pctarec eingy and restrained her jov.
Treasurer Turner s dime is, of cocrse, well to the
“ oc *» --- to me life Dame Forrest migtt
nave btnshod, tor the artist’s brash dealt kindly
*- • - *- r -’ t jflatte and gave ner figure the sprigfct-
-'rS* espressos of a_ the womankind—not ex-
cep-ttsg me countess ant the oUc Madden gin.
’ Tae Polo Team Match at Koovoreg. which
provided a boisterous finale to the sTouma-
met n was a smartly-dressed f suction. Autumnal
gart was favored by many, tut some light silks
wits r_g-capes and Russian s.eigis coats showed
we— _ pame Hatton, who gave the prizes,
cresset in burnt and bloe. mounting her
go,_ec -air waves with a forward example
of black autumn millinery. Governor Clarke
played a lone band, tilted bia boxer a bit
to the side, and generally gave himself a sporting
back air. The Austrian guest of honor, on the
other hand, pursued the women kind with smiles
and broken English compliments. Dame Forrest
was best at home with the Baron. _ Justice
Williams’ upright lady looked youngish in a
careful cream toilette, and Mrs. Robert Power put
all the girls to the blush by her sweet young garb
of shell-pink muslin.
“It was a bad move on the part of the newly-
fledged croqueteers to pit the interest of their
lawn carpet game against the polo tournament.
The mallet pushers couldn’t attract even a fringe
of audience, and had to play out their feeble match
with a badly-assumed pretence of enthusiasm,
whilst a great crowd cheered and watched the
hard-swearing polo riders charging at break-neck
pace towards the goals. At the ‘ quarters,’ when
fresh ponies were mounted, the most strenuous
she* would yell approval to the steaming men :
‘Well done, Bill! ’ *Go it, Bob !' and so on.
“In a Western homestead recently a grass-
widowed squire set his servants a bibulous ex-
ample, storming the cellar with some Bohemian
pals, and then initiating capers in company with
the kitchen wenches. When the returned mis-
tress heard erf the spree she dismissed the whole
regiment of domestics at an instant’s notice. The
Squire’s punishment was something like solitary
confinement for a month.
“ Cards to view the Falk—or, properly speaking,
the Barnett—display of up-to-date and high art
photography, led to great old rallies of the smart
clans last week-end. Returned Corona tors
whisked about the studio, pouncing with well-
simulated delight on the pictures of blue-blcoded
Londoners, and reeling off long intimate stories of
each in turn. One youngish Toorak dame gave
the bulk of the gathering the benefit of her more
or less imaginary experiences with most of the
family-treed and book-famed. The number of
matured beauties led to the remark that girl
charms were at a discount —the married woman’s
bloom being, from the eviden e adduced by these
pictures, foremost. ‘Quite right.’ chipped in the
camera man. *ln London, the only clever
women, pretty women, young women, are the
matrons between 39 and 50! ’ Then nearly every
woman nairing the alloted span felt like hugging
the artist.
“It is quite evident from the portrait show
representing British marrystoeracy in its most
beauteous poses, that there is no reticence what-
ever about holding up to the camera as much of
N .tore as the exigencies of smart toilettes will
allow. One rich and rare dazzler is pictured in
a stde position, revealing, through an almost
transparent gown of lace or something clingsome,
one long, exquisitely-enrred limb. Another wears
a theatrical suit, and exhibits a pair of trim limbs
of matchless perfection. A third beauty hires her
charming chest to the threshold of the pantry.
“Change of see--: has proved highly effective
in the case of a scholarly haribeior whose : eyeless
passion for a most witidr ruble yocag person had
impaired both body and mi ad. Xo one is more
anxious to hear of the bachelor s success and pro-
gress than the fair young lady, wr.*ose pathetic
helplessness during the erratic siege of her heart
was so comical
“ Melba, by latest advice*, has purchased a fine
Victorian vineyard. Those doing deals with the
Song Queen declare she aas the longest bead for
business of any woman ever encountered out this
way. Like her Scotch father she holds hard by
her bawbee*.
“Soo» smart girls and a large number erf sharp,
desperetedookmg spinsters stormed the gallerv
seats of the court to bear the grand finale to the
celebrated breach-of-reomhe ease last Monday.
Tie plaintiff—Miss Lfla Bayne—and her elder
rister G rt-.e. w nose name has been the most promi-
nent one during the trial slipped into their places
afccoammTs table very quietly, and sat close together
—a thin, bashful narrow, riuherold-fasbioned pair,
the sh arp face of the elder concealed by the aid of
two light veals, the fair little plaintiff's com-
p.eteiy shrouded in a dense black pall that
discounted the frisky effect of rose-pink neck
ci>-*ax golden fluffy hair, and a baby-frilled hat
Miss Grace—the finvnricr of the Bsvne family
Lad a few smiles for her sister’s counsel before the
start of the proceedings, while the gentle plaintiff
became painfully conscious of the' fact that the
gentleman charged with the breach was seated on
form not four yards awav. Ormond
Fitzgerald is rather good-looking. <if dark com-
Pjexion, evidently of rude health, but slow mind
He toox a sheepish look round the court avoiding
tue figure of blighted affection, and
tuereatter nxea ms eyes on a fat brief on the
table.
plriEUff-tbe placid, slow,
-~ E OHxra Wood—,et the one and onlv
tremor of gnef steal into his address when hi
recerreo to the lady as ‘the delicate girl the
sug.e girl the orphan. Miss Lila Bayne.’ It was
tie one effort at an emotional laose in all his
strangely-detached appeal Counsel Maeartbur
on at otner hand, cracked jokes, twitted
;ury about da beak girl, and reduced
m-.n of the two sisters evidence to humor-
ace material thereby greatly delighting the
miming audience. Meantime the plaintiff
and her sixter sobbed. Toe fltwd gatis on’v
v;« the Ch ef Justice, in the first periods
of his samxm-g-up, restored a blakeW
i° lbe . ‘ t,ro well-
educated, reiined ladies, whose evidence in the
wimaaa-bcx nad so surprised and pleased
him.’ The bighly-proper relation* observed by
the decorous lovers, sod the cold, distant kiss
accorded at rare and epecial periods to the hot,
anxious Irishman had mightily impressed the
bland Justice, and his hignly-glazed defence of
their character* from the term ‘adventuresses,’
pnjved bow deeply the demure behaviour of the
plaintiff had edified him.
“A race and cricket crowd fi.led the Princess
on Saturday night. ‘ The Fortune Teller ’
appeared in a new edition as far as dress and
gesture went. Less ami !e. less effort, and a new
dangle-curl wig of reddish tinge were three im-
provements in Madame Slap. Mr*. Ernest Raleigh,
the most ornate figure in the audience, plied a
huge ostrich fan in slow, languorous movements
about her smart box party. That punkah had no
imitators. Other fans fluttering in the circle
were of the Japanese doll kind, the fashion of
which calls for a quick allegro movement. Mrs.
E. Miller is not yet at the end of her ’Ome-
branded chiffon resources. This night she was
again regal in silk and brocade, with a radiant set
of jewels, mostly of the antiqne cut. Another
dame of great circumference and rich upbolster-
ings flourished a canonical cloak of vestment-hang
and wide ecclesiastical sleeves.
“Two dashing ladies left for a jaant abroad the
other day, and had a aplaohy send-off at Port
Melbourne. They made open confession of their
intention to get mated abroad. ‘ Don’t pretend
yon’re sorry we’re off,’ was the final shot to the
friends on the pier— ‘ two women less in the mar-
ket.’ And all the nice young persons blushed
furiously, and remarked ‘ How perfectly dread-
ful ! ’ But how honest! Never a society girl
weighs anchor from these shores who has not the
dear, fond, anxious hope of finding her partner in
the world’s road ways. And never returns one,
solos, that doesn’t have to massage the tell-tale
lines of her fruitless mission from off her defiant
face.
“ How to be ill elegantly was the task to Which
a stylish dame a while back devoted much
thought. A clever nurse quickly dropped to
the vanities of the patient, and humored her
accordingly. Pale pink and cream were the
sick-room colors prescribed by the patient. Pink
globes replaced the crystal covers, pink shades
softened the lamp-light. During sleep the room
was left in darkness, but with waking and the
coming of attendants with trays and comforts,
the rose glow was switched on, and the sick
one sat up in a pink fluffy glory, and sent her
illumined smiles of thanks on doctors and
domestics. The nurse meanwhile stood nervously
by and feared for the false complexion of the
‘case.’
“It’s quite astonishing how resigned some
flighty young persons can become to a low pres-
sure of health, and the narrow confines and soli-
tude of a sick room. The secret is—chatty nurses.
The Nurse is the consolation of sickness —a nice,
voluble, scandal-giving, gay. observant, memoried
nurse, that is. A South Yarra Betty Modish
wrote to a chum the other day, in response to a
sympathetic letter: ‘ Don’t fret. The operation’s
nothing—my particular batcher is the expert of
the place, and my nurse is a gem. You must
come and have a day with us. Simply brimming
over with the loveliest yarns. All the people you
know. Screw yonr switch on, for she’ll make
your hair stand aloft. What she doesn’t know,
my dear! I can let you come on Tuesday. I
simply love the woman. I only wish Ted would
let me engage her, for regular periods, to preside
at tiffin and the talk intimate.’
‘1 Western senator went off to investigate
Guinea and its dusky belles the other dav.
His cargo included a camera outfit, a case of
classic drapes (the snaps are intended for publi-
cation) and a packet of quinine. In saying good-
oye. a certain quick-tocgued Federal Minister
msae a witty allusion to the senator and the
White Australia subject, which will have to go
unpublished, though it seems a pity to waste
humor. They say in political coteries that the
spnghtly Federalist’s smoke-room stories are as
criLiaat as forked lightning and as full of sudden
stocks. A man of law is endeavoring to garner
enough of them to publish one day—for private
circulation only.
Miss Mary Clarke tal W of taking in a visit to
Russia on her honeymoon jaunt. Letters from
Kupert are eloquent of Russian interests and
charm'ing oddities. And Rupert ought to know.
Ail the Federal dames are concerned m the
P res * r -‘- unsettled feelings cf the Ministry. Toby
is an undeaned qcantitv ; all the women are of
that belief—save, of course, Mrs. Toby. The
res. contest for Federal supremacy is said to be
“?■ C. C. Kingston and A. Peakin. Deakiu
bius forpopc..HJitj, and becomes the Parliamentary
Pe. ; his rival aspires to be a Political Terror.
r - G*®ssvrell, the tight-lipped Health despot
is pot at all formidable in appearance. But when
toe.exy women—the Health dictator moves about
a *** approach him oc miners of sanitation, and
ge. m conundrums, ne sternly retires from con-
versational range. In his official position he
reckons himself the most harassed and worried
mdandca, in the State, and when he takes his
airing, he wants do ‘ shop' talk. The health
faddist js bo* going to tag the tired Gresswell
when off the rKli>
A Kshkmabie girl, undergoing a term of
oerss\er.'.eat. pmts aside the family crest for a
time. aco. substitutes the figure of a most gruesome
gravestone. A nasty ides : a era restone is not so
niuea a reminder of death as a svaibol of highly
unpleasant decay. *
You re sffeotionaSaly,
AKENEHI.


SOUR STOMACH.
A Sour Stomach is sure to lead to a sour face, a soar temper, and a soured life.
And no wonder —for a Sour Stomach means heartburn, dizziness, sick headaches, waterbrash,
belching of wind, loss of all appetite, and a coppery taste in the mouth. What could be more wretched ?
But all this sickly dyspepsia comes from your liver—and it can all be cured without a doubt
by Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People.
J Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills actually make new blood—and this new, pure, red blood sweetens the
stomach, stimulates the liver, sharpens the appetite, and strengthens digestion.
Then, there’s an end to your biliousness!
Cured in Sydney —Mrs. C. Mortimer, whose comfortable home is situated at 51 Westbourne-street, Peter-
h Bavs . * or years my stomach was sour and unsettled. Biliousness and dizziness often upset me. The bile seemed
to be all tiirowh niy blood' I had specks and dimness before the eyes, and could not sleep. I hated the sight of food,
and had a horrid heavy feeling on my chest after every meal. The Summer left me weak and wr-etched. When staying
at r uke Macquarie for mv health a lady ma’de me get some Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills from Newcastle, and two boxes quite
cured me * They seemed to drive all the impure mattes' from my blood and to brace up my nerves. My health is now
solendid 'i eat and sleep well, and enjoy working about the house. I look and feel years younger since I look Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills. Heartburn, wind, sour stomach, and indigestion have never troubled me since.”
From Storekeepers and Chemists, 2s. 9d. per box.
Beware of cheap, poisonous pills, dyed pink and sold as substitutes for DR. WILLIAMS’ Pink Pills.
%
PERSONAL ITEMS.
° eo a rBO fV™’ "ho performed so well i„
the S.A. and Vic. cricket match at Adelaide will
complete his 42nd year on March 27. 1
fS 9* Gardens ’ near Adelaide
rf n<l MarCh ’ MrS - El ' za heth Lewis at
the alleged age of 100 years and a day. Arrived
m S. Australia in 1840. * a
Prenner Philp created the idea and
founded the firm of Burns, Philo and On v
many years his only interest in the firm has been
as executor for others. lias Deen
Lord William Nevill, who got fire years
for fraud, and who appears to havjgot „„„ S”
most gorgeous suldeln htarei^rto^Th^rhe'S
nlw. * a «
Not generally known that the late Henry
Parkes, for a while after his arrival in New South
Wales s.gned hmiself “H. F. Parkes.” °F»
probably stood for “Falconbridge.”
Thirty-seven years ago to-day (March 21)
Louis Bertrand was sentenced to death in Sydney
by the late Chief-Justice Stephen. He is
fn England 0 reQent accounts . now doing fairly weli
Strong lan s aage and want of discretion
run m families. Cardinal Moran’s uncle, Cardinal
. ha< ?, a fl r W of el °q uen ce and a tendency to
put his tactless foot in it, just like his aggressive
relative of to-day.
“ T.D. : I noticed that among the 19
leading church dignitaries at Bishop Clarke’s
initiation, only five were bearded, the rest being
all of them easily mistaken for R.C. priests!
Is this another indication of the Romeward
tendency ?
One of the characteristics* of the little
Lieutenant-Governor of S.A. (Sammy Way) is
that he is never punctual. He often keeps the
Supreme Court waiting, and he was a quarter of
an hour iate for the opening of the Adelaide
School of Mines.
David Syme, of the Age, occupies spare
hours revising for the last time his published
works. David was a forward democrat 40 years
ago. He had ideas and courage. Some of the
present revising performances aim at the toning
down of those old enthusiasms.
The value of monuments. In the last
matriculation examination papers at Melbourne
University several youths and maidens described
Burke and Wills as the founders of Melbourne.
The monument in honor of the unlucky explorers
is the most conspicuous one in the city.
In N.S. W. country police-court. Freckle-
faced youth of about i 3 in witness-box. The
lawyer, who knew the boy well, started off:
“Your name is John Smith?” “No,” was the
indignant reply; “ ray name is Norman Reginald
Ponsonby Hyperion Smith. They only call me
‘ Jack ’ because that’s father’s name ; but mother
objects to it—it is too common.”
THE ADULTERATOR.
PARSON: “ Thou shalt not commit adult ”
BREWER ( confused and upset by recent salicylic
revelations) : "S’elp me, Parson, I'll give you
£5 for every grain of it you find in my beer.”
There is an historical precedent for “ Yes-
No ” Reid. Mason’s “ Mediaeval France ” states:
When the Crusade movement was started, Richard
(King of England) made so much shuffling first to go and
then to remain, that a feudal knight, Bertram de Boin,
wrote a “sirvente” (a satirical verse) in which Richard was
termed “ Knight Yea-and-Nay.”
One of the oldest residents of the Bathurst
district died recently at Macquarie Plains. Miss
M‘Callum, the lady referred to, went over the
Mountains 70 years ago, and has resided on the
plains in the one house ever since. She was aged
83, and was aunt to most of the old families in the
district.
The “unspeakable Scot” invades tributary
England more and more. The new Archbishop
of Canterbury is an Edinburgh man, and so is the
Archbishop of York, the other primate of the
English Church. The British Premier, three of
his Cabinet, and both leaders of the Opposition are
all Scotch.
A recent London lettter in Melb. Age,
dealing with Colonel Lynch’s case, cites among
others, the late R. D. Ireland, Q.C., and the late
•fudge Bindon as Irish rebels who were leniently
dealt with by the British Government. Neither
Ireland nor Bindon ever rebelled so far as any-
body this side of the world is aware.
The most liberal benefactor of St. Peter’s
(Anglican) Cathedral in Adelaide was a Jew—
D. M. Da Costa —who in life and after death
gave or bequeathed money and property worth
£lOO,OOO to that institution. The late Thomas
Klder gave or left .£lOO,OOO in hard cash to
Adelaide University, btiiidea larger sum to other
public institutions.
When Francis Murphy retired from the
tqieakership of Vic. Leg. Assembly, C.G. Duffy
was in the running for the place. On the day ot
the caucus at which the matter was to be decided,
C.G. got word that he was out of it. He accord-
ingly sent word that he retired from the contest,
owing to an accidental fall from his horse, ana
the position went to Chas. M‘Mahon. Duffy had
»ever been known to mount a horse until this
•'uvenient quadruped turned up. Anyhow, he
••> more politic than Brassey in his fallings off.
When Governor Hotham was expected in
a ’ U 1 th j 6! , 1r1y fifties - the reception com-
sM„PrmPi Se A that , tlle triumphal arch which
the landing-place at Hobson’s Bay should
Choice?’ •T tt °h’- K^ ICtoritt Wek ~ Victoria’s
meat Uch lfc W i ls su e:ffested, as an amend-
me t, that the motto should be “Hobson’s Bay
Welcomes Hobson s Choice.” y
of Mining Journal tells
of a sturdy female pioneer :
in vears^rhvJ ° f the late Padd Y Moran, who
from A Ut s !? me ver y sensational crushings
Paddv anrl P^a U . e A * e i’ ne ° f reef on Nolan’s Gully,
but the relict «tin' 8 S °" have [ onK crosse d Jordan,
anon bobs nn ln the olc * s P ot > an d eve r and
of surface stnff f h ® h f rs Mill with a small crushing
a * p r ,?T
»<£ ,K *" d *«•*•
„.iP r * MacLaurin, Sydney University Chun-
ofhpr’ri 18 r< f cl P len t of a presentation portrait the
bfc in ?h y ’ 18 now J a §ed 70. He spent his early
aboard th. n ph y ,’i and devel ?P ed hi 3 scientific bent
u h Challenger in her exploration period.
He is a doctor of laws as well as of medicine, and
it there were degrees in politics he would likely be
r«™ ?r j h rV lso - I 4; was Gfi orge Dibbs who
recognised the doctor as a politician, and gave him
the duty of representing the Government in the
Legislative Council.
Some days before the adjournment of last
Parliament a practical joker in the House
issued invitations to dinner to ten of the haw-haw
members on the Ministerial side and one member
ot the Labor party. The company met as an
appointed piace, and their host led the way to
his club which proved to be a notorious six-
penny hash house, where Bill Sykes and Moodier
Mullens were drinking soup from a plate. The
Ministerial dandies stuck to their guns, but the
man of the people ” broke away like one pursued
by tract-distributors.
A Queensland pressman :
Deceased Queensland Minister for Lands O’Connell
was one of the few straight men in the Coalition crowd.
Although a poor speaker and lame debater-he seldom
spok-e in the House, or out of it—he was a good adminis-
trator of his department. He entered Q. Parliament 12
years ago-same day as P.M.G. Drake, who was his one-
time employee. For 12 years the two fought on opposite
sides of politics, and in the end they were sworn in as
State Ministers, in the Philp Govt., on the same dav.
Summed-up, Mr. O’Connell was a man of mediocre
ability, no oratorical parts, but a hard worker, a staunch
friend and honest. Pretty nearly all the political
honesty the Philp Government ever possessed is buried in
his grave.
Dr. Morgan Thomas, who died last week
in Adelaide, leaving £50,000 to the local Public
Library, Museum, and Art Gallery, was the
biggest shareholder in the S.A. Gas Co.
Australia is craving for the benevolent citi-
zen who will leave his pile to create a fund
to accumulate at compound interest (along
with the contributions of other benevolent citizens
who might follow his example) for the extinction
of the public debt, but that citizen never conies
along. Yet the citizen who leaves his money to
buy pictures or help piano-banging colleges is
always with us.
Premier Seddon owes a great deal of his
popularity in Maoriland to the frequent use he
makes of the wires to keep
in touch with all and
sundry. Seddon has the
knack of sending tele-
grams ahead when on tour,
and self-important J.’sP.
and mayors feel surpris-
ingly flattered by these
little attentions. But the
practice works out awk-
wardly for those of his
colleagues who don’t in-
dulge in this kind of cheap
patronage. During Sed-
don’s absence last year
Ward made a tour among
the Seddonian preserves on
the West Coast, and he so
offended the mayor of a
certain town there that
His Wash up point blank
refused to take part in the
Minister’s reception and
sulked in his pub. (the
chief pub. -keeper is gener-
ally the chief magistrate
on the West Coast).
“ H.” sends this yarn :
Over 20 years ago Governor Ohermside, of Queensland,
had a lovely tenor voice, and was in great request among
the Very Best People at Constantinople. A cat episode
in which he was engaged is still remembered in the great
City of the Faithful. He brought some Angora kittens
from Aleppo as a present to a friend in Constantinople,
and when he got back to Aleppo other friends wrote to
him and demanded kittens also. Chermside gave his
general factotum money to buy young cats freely,
and the factotum, having pocketed the money,
simply said to his understrappers “ Let there be cats ! ”
And there were cats ; but the next morning Chermside’s
dwelling was surrounded by a howling mob of catless
people who wanted vengeance and their lost animals,
and a great deal of explanation was required to make
them depart without bloodshed. Queensland had a fair
show of losing a prospective Governor that day.
THE PRESENT UNCERTAINTY OF
THINGS.
BEEFY ONE: “Have you got a permanent billet
yet? ”
MISERABLE ONE: “No; I'm still in the Public
Service .”
Millionaire squatter Angas is one of the
fewpa,tora,a,tsw,,„,tillke,p S u ptheo ll trad 1 tio„,
of Australia. At Collingrove, Redbank, &c., the
overseer gives the “traveller” a ticket which
entitles him to supper, breakfast, and a doss in
the “hut.” South Australia has not quite reached
the “nannikin of dust” stae-e hut thino-s j™
vettinfr tlmt wav g g
getting that way. ...
A very new Sydney solicitor signalised
the day of his admission to practice by calling on
several prominent politicians and asking per-
mission to institute proceedings on their behalf
against advertisers who picture them on hoard-
ingsand elsewhere drinking beer and otherwise
falling away from their public dignity. Per-
mission unanimously refused.
.
lne remains of Doyle and Dahlke, allegedly
murdered by the Kenniffs, are still unburied. A
little heap of bones and ashes remains in the
custody of the Registrar of the Supreme Court,
and the relatives of the deceased may not take
possession until the appeal to the Privy Council is
disposed of. Yet one of the accused was very
summarily disposed of pending this same appeal.
hones and ashes were hnrierl lone nor,
Mis nones ana asnes were Duned long ago.
One of S.A.’s big pastoralists has a fad
H, call, himself an Anti-Monotoni.t. Says
monotony of domestic scenery is the curse of
ion. VV hen he has exhausted the possi-
bilities of permutations and combinations in the
arrangement of his furniture in the house, he
sleeps in various outbuildings by turn. In
summer he sleeps in the open, often up a
tree. At the beginning of the late monsoon rains
he nearly lost his life. He had dossed in a dry
creek-bed. A deluge descended on the hills 10
miles off. When the water came down he
struggled out, feeling, he said, a better man, and
more than ever wedded to his theory of change.
In Adelaide he puts up at the best hotels, but
changes his room every second night. Most of
the day he gives up to explaining to the landlord,
servants and guests why he does so.
Poor old Seddon has shamed even his
~
friends by allowing an alleged national purse ”
to be subscribed for him, chiefly by brewers with
an eye to liquor legislation, aspirants for promo-
tion to the Legislative Council, and miscellaneous
hangers-on. Speaking at Auckland the other
& a n ,i ,• - ~
day, on receiving the northern section of the
money, he referred to the attacks made on him by
the London press for accepting a monetary gift,
and gravely declared that his critics were pro-
Boers, whose enmity “I take as a great compli-
tyiptil- ” But he wiselv refrained from nointiu»
m ® nt :, retrained from pointing
out that what called forth the comments of
London Daily News was not his acceptance of
the purse, but his doing so after emphatically
declaring in England that “at his request” the
testimonial movement “ was not proceeded with.”
Tf fnlrec a trrenf deal of e-orv “lovalfv” fr. w.Me
it takes a great deal of gory loyalty to wipe
out a discrepancy of that size.
An eminent Australian of half-a-century
ago, whose son has since adorned the bench, had
a wooden leg—the high-toned artificial limb being
unknown then. Also, he had a character for
gallantry, and his one flesh leg and his wooden
onf *_ made wonderfully good time in pursuit
of pleasure. He met his Waterloo when
calling on the wife of a prominent citizen
during her husband’s absence. An
unscrupulous man-servant purloined
the wooden leg at a late hour of
the night, and refused to hand it
back to its eminent owner for less
than £lOO Then he got drunk on
the £lOO and told the story, which
broke up two households and fil ed
old Sydney with derisive merri-
ment.
The late Dr. Youl was once
holding an inquest at Yarraville
(Vic.), when a fastidious juror com-
plained that there was a very unplea-
sant odor about the place. “Oh,
that’s likely enough,” replied the coro-
ner, bluntly ; “there’s a dead China-
man in the next room.” And then up
rose a juror clad in his workaday clothes,
and modestly said : “ I beg your pardon,
sir, but I don’t think it’s the Chow’s
fault entirely. I think it’s me that the
gentleman smells. Y’see, sir, I works
in a bone-mill.” “ Heavens ! ”
exclaimed the coroner, “I
can stand a fair thing ; but
a dead Chinaman on one side
and a bone-mill on the other
is too much. You clear out,
and we’ll find another jury-
man ! ”
The career of Parson Ronald, M.H.R.,
has been watched with the keenest interest by the
clerical class. Every parson thinks in his heart
that he is a born statesman, and the old priestly
desire to interfere in civil affairs lies deep in the
heart of the black-coated gathering. Parson
Bevan made unappreciated overtures to more than
one constituency at the last election, and is still
very anxious to be taken up by some one. And
other parsons—many of them—are said to be
ready to bestow their services on their suffering
country at very short notice indeed.
An Adelaide man writes :
Dr. Morgan Thomas, who has just left over £o w OOO to
Adelaide Public Library, was a miserly recluse whom
everyone had forgotten, although he was once —nearly
half-a-century ago—Govt, surgeon and a prominent
character. He lived for 40 years in a little cottage in
Wakefield-street. The old man was a creature of habit
and went through exactly the same routine day after
day. He rose early and breakfasted at home. Although
80 when he died, and to a great extent a cripple, he
walked to the York hotel daily for dinner and returned
home to have another meal and to sleep, that midday
walk being practically all the exercise he ever took. He
saw hardly anyone, spoke to hardly anyone, and for a
score of years never got out of the rut of his existence by
one hair’s breadth. His wife died childless about 1860,
after having been paralytic and bed-ridden for a dozen
years. No one who saw the old doctor toilsomely pro-
ceeding along the street unattended, and with the aid
of a stout stick, would have imagined that he was worth
more than two and sixpence. He died in bed, being
found in the morning with his head on his hand as
though still asleep.
“ G.A.A.’s ” theory :
There is already much inquiry as to who will be Prime
Minister when Toby Barton takes the position which is
being prepared for him. Deakin, as next senior man in
the Cabinet, expects it as a matter of course, and there
is no doubt Barton would like to give it to him if he could.
Deakin’s chances are also good, because he has managed
to keep 19 out of 23 Representatives from his State as his
followers ; and 19 isn’t a bad following to start with. On
the other hand, Plain Bill Lyne will try his hand, and
this explains a good deal of his ceaseless journeyings to
and fro in the Commonwealth, trying to get outside
influence for his Cabinet position. Treasurer George
Turner does not care much whether it comes to him or
not, and goes on in his plodding way doing his work,
and not doing any special angling for future honors.
This may result in him getting the positioh. Over-
anxiety often kills a man’s chances, and Lyne weakens
himself by showing his hand too plainly. And, in spite
of all, Kingston, the quiet strong man, or possibly a rank
outsider, may pull off the prize. Even among the Free-
trade party, Reid’s chances are daily regarded as less and
less hopeful.
Re George Howe, Australia’s first printer,
the Newgate Calendar has this: —
In consequence of our directions for that purpose
nearly two years ago, we have just received a file of
newspapers from that far distant land to which our
convicts for many years have been transported — viz.,
New South Wales, first and still called Botany Bay. This
vehicle of news and advertisements is well printed and
tolerably edited on half and sometimes a quarter sheet of
paper. The printer and editor is George Howe, sent
thither a transport, convicted of highway robbery. This
man was a journeyman printer in London until he com-
menced highwayman, and from the number of his
escapes on the road and at the bar of justice,
was called Lucky George. In the infant state of the
colony it was found necessary to print the different
orders of the Governor and the regulations laid down by
the Government of England, and George Howe was tire
lucky convict who was honored with the situation ot
Government Printer, and which he still retains. His
types and office were found by the Governor, and in
place of working with his brother and sister convicts on
the roads or in the fields, Lucky George lived at his ease ;
and had he been commonly assiduous and sober, he might
have accumulated wealth. His career of plunder was of
necessity stopped, but he retained his propensities for
the bottle and an incorrigible partiality for laziness.


MACONOCHIE’S
DELICIOUS FRESH HERRINGS
SWIFT & COMPANY, General Agents, 7 Spring Street, Syt'nsy.
WATSON’S WHISK Y.
three star
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors.— In the case of ethnological and
natural history items , etc., always give date and
place of experience ; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific
value.
OUT BACK.
NEW-CHUM: “ You do some washing for me and
I'll give you a shilling.”
MARY: “ None of your dam, ’miliarity.”
“Ben Sun”: Be rabbit trapping (B.
28/2 03). “Bolered” is only partly right. Not
only squatters, but co-operative trapping parties
“goat bunny with wire netting.” They pick a
grassy place (near water preferably), and stick up
a small wire-netting yard with one opening. Next
they run a strip of netting in each direction away
from that to any manageable distance, enclosing
a V-shaped area, and staking the netting about a
f> ot above the ground. The spot chosen is, of
course, mostly minus burrows. Then, when the
rabbits are out feeding at night, the trappers go
cautiously round and drop the netting. Bunny is
then “beaten up” into the little yard and des-
patched. This method is most successful in
broken country, where rabbits come down in
thousands at night to the grassy fiats. As to
bleeding—all agents and exporters insist on that
now.
* * * *
The egg-laying contest at the Hawkesbury
College, to be decided at the end of this month,
has excited parties to as much recriminatory and
libellous language as a general election or a sec-
tarian row generally brings to pass. A man, who
went there the other day and listened for half-an-
hour to the bitterness which raged around one
fowl and another, puts egg-laying, as a passion-
breeding performance, ahead of Biblical inspira-
tion. The white Leghorn bird was, at that date,
on top, but owners of other fowls explained that
she got there by a base conspiracy which had
ramifications all over Australia, and which was
backed up by a web of intrigue which would have
broken the heart of a Catherine di Medici if she
had tried to disentangle it.
• * * *
“ D.H.R.” : Be strong men discussion in
a recent Bulletin. There was a fencer living in
the Warren district who used to carry out two
coils of wire, one on each arm, each weighing
lcwt., every morning to his work, a mile and
a-half, without a spell. Also, he once lifted a
wool-bale, containing 3421 b. of wl e it, and carried
it five yards.
“ Quartpot " : When in N.T., in the early
days, we found the best thing to protect our
horses’ eyes, or our own, against flies was Hollo-
way’s ointment. Rub this lightly round the eye,
and no fly will trouble either horse or man while
it remains; one application in the morning is
sufficient to last the day.
* * • *
“X. 8.”: Be that Cape weed and the
statement that returning cohentingenters intro-
duced it here. Must have been in 1880 that an
uncle of mine used to pay us kids Is. for a barrow-
load of the plant, which threatened then to over-
run the Western district of Victoria. Remember
well, too, thinking that the precautions taken on
Litany Sunday to ward off by prayer battle,
murder and sudden death, would have been better
en,ployed against grasshoppers, Cape weed and
rabbits, the treble fear always threatening the
farmers then. The uncle above-mentioned, an
irascible old gentleman, used to blackguard Baron
Von Mueller for introducing the plant. On what
proofs I don’t know.
* * * *
“Paw-Paw”: Large numbers of flying
foxes have recently been frequenting Goondi dis-
trict after the mangoes. After these visits have
often found young ones alive oh the ground under
the trees, some of them no bigger than a newly-
hatched chicken. Do they carry their young with
them in their flights ?
« • « *
Be poisonous fish (B. 14/2/’O3) a very
innocent-looking fish which abounds at, among
other places, St. Kilda (Vic.), is called the “cob-
bler.” It has two strong hooks on the head, which
it inserts into the hand of the unfortunate who has
hooked it, causing blood-poisoning, the effects
lasting often as long as six months.
“WyYung’ :Heregoes
for a peach and beer record.
Two Bairnsdale (Vic.) or-
chard employees fell to dis-
cussing the possibilities of
peach assimilation by the
human system. One
was from the North-
West and the other
a local man. The
stranger allowed
he could stow as
many peaches
as most of the
fellows he had
met. He claim-
ed the cham-
pionship of the
North -West.
The other said
he had never been
beaten, and didn’t
think he ever
would. A full case
of ripe fruit was hauled
under a tree, and both men
sat down to it. At the end
of 45min. there were only
three green peaches left in
the box. It was agreed to
tally up. The N.-W. cham-
pion had 97 stones in
his heap and the
Bairnsdale representa-
tive counted 103. The
peaches were of a
large canning variety.
Both men went home
to dinner and had a good meal, finish-
ing off with stewed peaches. Both
returned to work in the afternoon,
and ate more peaches at intervals. A
mate of the winner went into a local
pub. week before last, called for
a pint, closed round it “in once,” and
was getting a re-fill when a circus man, after
comment of a profane sort, offered to bet
him a “quid” he couldn’t make it ten pints in
ten minutes, loser to pay for the beer. The thirsty
one fell over himself in his haste to close with
the offer, borrowed a sov. from the landlord, put
it up and started. He had the ten pints all gone
in 9.25, collected his quid, and carried his five
bob’s worth of beer out into the warm sunshine
outside. Meeting a friend of the peach champion
he remarked, in emotion: “Tell Jim I’m all
right! Tell him I’m doing pretty good ! Yes—
let ’im know that I’m quite nice.” I believe that
when the elephant-eating champion arises he will
also come from Gippsland.
• * • •
“Scutum”: Re “Drover” and roads,
&c. (8., 14/2/’O3). A “neighbouring squatter”
can take lawful proceedings against drovers for
loitering on that part of a T.S.R., which he may
hold under annual lease from the Crown. But if
the “route” is not leased all the threats of all
the squatters are as harmless as George Reid’s
dog. _ Of course, the drover becomes liable in any
case if he neglect to travel his regulation number
of miles per day. Camping reserves for travelling
stock, which are reserved from sale and lease, are
placed at suitable distances along almost every
T.S.R. for the convenience of drovers. Any
complaint should receive consideration by the
Stock Inspector of the district, who is always
officially consulted regarding any action on travel-
ling stock reserves. The lessee of a run has every
right to use roads situated within that run, as he
pays rent on all vacant lands, roads included. On
stations which include a large area of freehold
land, the unnecessary roads are often purchased
right out from the Crown.
• • • *
“ Wallaroo ” : Re the benevolent idea of
Mrs. Curlewis. I doubt the joy of the outback
kid at the substitution of “ cool, moist fruit ” and
“clean tablecloth ” for “reeking meat and
damper. Had a very wayback youngster staying
at our house once, and, at first, took much plea-
sure m heaping his plate with vegetables pre-
serves and dessert, which he would not eat and
making up a cosy clean bed, that he refused to
lie m. Kid regarded the tablecloth with peculiar
aversion, and preferred to take his meat and bread
with the dog, on the back verandah, where he also
slept in a stale blanket remnant.
“ Polstar ” : Barley-grass seed has a most
penetrating nature. Have often found
seed between the skin and the flesh when
skinning a car-
case, and it has
a fiendish love
for the eyes
of the jum-
bucks, quick-
ly making
them stone
blind.
ROUNDING UP SCHOLARS FOR MORNING
SCHOOL, BRIG ALOW FLAT.
“I find the children little better than savages, hiding
in logs and trees to evade lessons.” —Extract from pro-
visional teacher’s report.
Be Bullaman’s par (Bulletin, Jan. 31)
about a two-headed iguana. This, though a rare
freak, is merely an instance of an aberrant, but,
comparatively not infrequent form of develop-
ment by partial dichotomy (twin-cleavage), as the
process is termed—see “Tumors, Innocent and
Malignant” (Bland Sutton), in which a two-
headed snake is figured.—S.F.
* * * •
“ J.D.R.” writes :
“ F.M.” (Bulletin, 21/2/’o3)in “ Without Encumbrance”
has done well. What a monstrous thing is this enforced
celibacy, practised by the capitalist on his workmen.
These tyrants, who are perpetually bellowing about the
lack of population, do their utmost, and successfully too,
to block that increase to population which is most
valuable—the native-born. What they want is not popu-
lation, but ready-made laborers (slaves), kanakas, or
Chinamen.
The statesman must arise some day who will compel
every squatter to provide accommodation for the families
of hi's regular employees ; and who will fine the man £lOO
who advertises for anybody “ without encumbrance.”
And, if that doesn’t suffice, he must go further and enact
that there must, among regular employees on a station, be
a certain minimum proportion of married men and a cer-
tain minimum proportion of children. The infamy of
prohibiting the increase of population—of prohibiting the
Australian child to exist —requires to be suppressed with
a strong hand and a large foot. The squatter’s refusal to
allow the Australian infant to exist in his own country is a
question in which the whole community is interested.
• • » •
“Euroa”: To “F.S.” (8., 10/l/’O3).
Not uncommon for swaggies to carry references,
often faked, no doubt. Still, I’ve had mates
(swaggies) who always, when we finished with a
job, no matter what, asked for
a reference—said they were
always handy to have. Again,
among the large army of “ come-
downers,” swagging the bush,
many have excellent references,
and some, after a few drinks, are
fond of flashing them in your
face; though others are shy of
showing the evidence of better
times to strangers. As an in-
stance of the “faked” variety
as well as a coincidence: I was
once camped in the King River
(Yic.) district, with a man who
had a number of documents; one
which he showed me set out at
great length the sobriety and
abilities of bearer, and was pro-
fessedly written by a one time
townsman of mine, who, I know
for a fact, cannot read or write.
While on the subject of refer-
ences : it’s hard to understand
how, when a self-styled Bul-
letin “representative” strikes
a bush pub., he fares so well.
In many cases his bare word is
sufficient. He gets a first-class
meal, is shown to the best room,
“just to drop a line to The Bul-
letin people, notifying them of
his safe arrival,” and is always
sure of beer and lodging, despite
Bulletin warnings. A few days
later you do receive a line, but it’s
from an angry publican.
“ Ferostag ” : A drought is no novelty in
Australia In the Sydney Gazette, March 5,
if 3, uti lo ,"! °j Australian newspapers, we
read! Ibe late drought has been severely felt
m all parts of the colony, and has been attended
with much loss to the gardener. In fact, vege-
tation was almost at a stand, and a great part of
the seed, for want of rain, perished in the ground.
The crop of potatoes has turned out very indif-
ferently. ” ‘ ‘ All parts of the colony ” reads quaintly
in view of the fact that this was 10 years before
Blaxland, Lawson and Wentworth scaled the
hitherto impregnable Blue Mountains and when
the total population comprised 7127 souls. The
inhabitants of Sydney then troubled not about
water conservation, and a Captain Coluett, writing
to Secretary Nepean in the same year, complains
he had to go three miles to get his water-casks
filled, owing in the first place to the dry season,
and in the second to the fact that the tanks cut
out of the solid rock at immense labor and expense
were entirely neglected and filled up with sand.
When the seed was perishing in the ground in the
coastal regions, the dryness of 1803 must have been
an old man drought out where Menindie now
stands.
“ Ben S.” : Despite recent Bul t
letin pars, Cape weed, by reason of its
short life, will never pay to encourage
in Australia. It grows in a month,
blooms for a week, and with the first
breath of summer dies. Also it grows
so thickly that, when it’s gone, the
ground is left as bare as a brick wall.
Further, it is too soft and juicy for ensilage.
“Bobrid” : In B. (7/3/’O3) “A.8.T.”
invents a pretty theory to account for the
“ squatting ” propensities of the rabbit, but, like
most theories, it doesn’t fit in with practice.
Had Nature intended his coat as a protection, she
would have clothed bunny in a dull grey one—the
monotonous and unvarying color of the Australian
bush [Nature didn’t build the rabbit for Aus-
tralia : bunny came here to cheer the home-
sickness of a blastiferous Hinglishman.— Ed. B.]j
but the greys are no more plentiful than the
browns, yellows, spotteds and blacks. Bunny,
with the wisdom of a politician, invariably lies
low when in a tight place; f’rinstance, when you
come between him and his burrow. Move away,
and he gets to that burrow “slick as greased
lightning.” No one ever yet saw a rabbit
“squat,” no matter what his color, when in close
proximity to a burrow—even a bright green rabbit
would know better, Watch a rabbit when a dog
is circling round him for a rush; he “squats,”
but he keeps a close watch on that dog, waiting
for an opening—no color question about that.
Come on a rabbit suddenly, and he “squats,” no
matter what his color. Apparently for the
moment he is “struck all of a heap,” and a- sn’t
know exactly what the best game is.
• * • *
“ D. 8.” : Awful is the agony endured by
horses in the interior during the fly-pest period
(Sept, to March). Common to see the unfortunate
animals bleeding from the eyes through continually
rubbing them against their forelegs, posts, trees,
and other objects in a vain effort to dislodge the
flies stuck in the mass of pus surrounding the
inflamed eyeballs. Have seen a horse totally
blind from this curse. Nowhere else, so far as I
know, do flies attack so persistently the eyes of
animals and humans as they do in the country
extending inland from the Dividing Ranges. There
is no effective remedy but the fly-veil, made of
A VICTIM OF DROUGHT AND FLIES.
F OR SALE, the THOROUGHBRED HORSE, Dead Finish by Drought
out of Hard Times. Used to saddle and Harness. A reliable
stayer. inspected at any time on Desolation run. The
accompanying photos, are a speaking testimony to the appearance and
versatility of the animal.
Photo, by C. E. Dowell , Tambo (Q.).
basil and attached to a headstall made for the
purpose. Veils of any other sort are useless, as
the horse will rub or tear them off. An Act is
badly wanted making it punishable to turn a horse
out in the summer months without one of these
veils, which can be made by any saddler for 3s.
1 hey possess the additional advantage of allowing
the horses to feed when they would otherwise be
standing heads and tails the whole day, a common
cause of horses losing condition on good feed.
LEAVING THE TOWN!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
So we’ve come to the end of our tether, and our cheque
is expended at last;
Who have lolled for the last months together in the bars
where we sit now aghast!
We have spent what we earned in the saddle, what we
made with the pick and the shears ;
Now it’s time for the bush-ward skedaddle, it’s farewell
to the bars and the beers !
We have taken our fill of their pleasure, now we sit with
our foreheads a-frown ;
For we’ve come to the end of our leisure —it is time we
were leaving the Town !
One trip—just one more—down the harbor; just one
noon on the sands with the girl;
Ere we give up the beach and the barber, ere our beards
once more tangle and curl 1
Just one night at the show to remember ; ah ! one cab-
ride, dear girl, ere we go
Where the sun burns the plains to an ember and the
teams travel dusty and slow !
Just one night, just one night for a guerdon, when the
sweat from our brow runnels down,
Just one night to recall, when we’ve spurred on the track
after leaving the Town 1
GRANT HERVEY.
AN ALTERNATIVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Lang hae we prayed, and prayed in vain,
Wi’ unction and wi’ awe,
Loard, gin ye hae na ony rain
We e’en wad dae wi’ snaw.
THE ELDER.


The late champion jockey, Frank Kuhn,
who was accidentally shot dead last week, was third
on the list of successful N.S.W. jockeys in 1899
with 18 wins ; second in 1900 with 32 wins; first
in 1901 with 62 wins; and first in 1902 with 65
wins. He has ridden the winners of such im-
portant events as the A.J.O. December, New,
Champagne, and Duff Memorial Stakes: Epsom
Handicap, Metropolitan, Challenge Stakes, Rose-
hill Cup, Wagga Cup, Junee Cup, Hawkesbury
Handicap ; V.R.C. St. Leger, Oaks, Maribyrnong
Plate, Newmarket Handicap, Ascot Yale Stakes,
and Caulfield Debutante Stakes.
Arthur H. Adams is sending some of his
impressions of London to Maoriland papers. An
extract or two :
And the Londoner, in a day’s journey, can reach
France, Germany, Holland and Belgium. The thing
seems absurd ; it is hard to respect the individuality of
places so tightly packed. In England I can always feel
France leaning on me ; and to the Continental nations,
the way their neighbors rub shoulders with them must
feel distinctly unhygienic. If I were a Frenchman I
would always feel suffocated. Europe is so stuffy !
My experience of the average Englander, I am sorry to
say, is that he does not bathe. A shower-bath I have seen
in only one London boarding-house, and I am experienced
in London boarding-houses. And in that boarding-house
the shower did not work. Of course, the clubman, the
aristocrat of England, bathes, not once, but twice a day ;
his clean, red, carefully and incessantly scrubbed appear-
ance is guarantee for ample ablution. And it is from
this class that the impression has got abroad that the
Englanders are a tubbing race. True, compared to the
foreigner, the English are exceptionally cleanly, but
compared to a colonial they do not show well.
The Englander has few ideals, which makes him the
practical man he is. He is the ideal sanitary inspector of
the world. Probably an enlightened federated world of
the dim future will employ him exclusively to look after
its drains, and will be well assured that he will do the
job thoroughly. It is this lowness of aim, the devotion
to the things that matter, that has made him the ideal
colonist he is.
A SCIENTIFIC PICK-ME-UP.—“No better
tonic and restorative for the victims of social fes-
tivities exists than a morning draft of Hunyadi
Janos. Sure, swift, searching, yet safe, and in
every respect salutary. The best and safest
natural aperient.*
At Castlemaine (Vic.) t’other day, a young
woman was charged with concealment of birth.
Evidence showed that on the day of her confine-
ment she went about her household duties as
usual, and when night fell buried her dead baby.
Next' day she again went about her duties as
usual.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
A Drink! A Tonic ! A Medicine !
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Call for WOLFE’S Schnapps and make sure that
you take nothing else.
If the man on the land wishes to remain
there in peace, he should employ W. N. Willis,
Land Agent, 21 Bligh-street, as his Agent.*
TOURISTS' OPAL
Tourists, we receive Opal from the Mine 3
in the rough, in large quantities. We
will show it to you in the rough and cut
it to any shape or size you desire. Every
color you fancy. Any quantity you desire.
Choice Australian
Opal, in 18ct. Band
Ring, £3/3/-
We carry quantities of it cut ready for setting.
quantities of it set as Rings, 20/-, 30/- to £5.
10/6 to £5. As Brooches, Bangles, Necklets, &c.,
We export Opal to several countries.
London Prices.
We sell it a
We stock
As Pins,
&c.
t one-half
Half London Prices
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS
The Oldest Jewellery 23 HUNTER ST.
House in Sydney, . .
15ct. Pin, forms
Dress Stud, set
with Choice
Australian Opal,
22/6.
Large stock Pendants,
various designs.
“B.” writes from the Roper River,
Northern Territory :
I take the following from “ Ben Bolt’s ” par. re Ragged
Thirteen (B. 13/9/’O2) : “The Ragged Thirteen struck
Borroloola in the beginning of 1880. . . . The principal
storekeeper (M'Leod) had £6OO stolen, and perished in his
pursuit of the thieves. One of the gang erected a gallows
on an adjoining station, and, after slaughtering their
cattle, sold the station beef. . . . This should fix up the
Ragged Thirteen trouble. They were not, strictly
speaking, outlaws, but as the nearest policeman was at
Camooweal, 150 miles away, they could afford to do as
they pleased.” “ Ben Bolt,” instead of fixing up the
“ Ragged Thirteen” controversy, has only made things
worse. The storekeeper M‘Leod mentioned above is at
present very much alive in the same store at Borroloola.
The “ Ragged Thirteen ” did not deprive him of a penny,
nor did they unlawfully kill cattle wholesale. The
nearest police to Borroloola were, and are, in Borroloola.
Camooweal is 44 0 miles away. The “ Ragged Thirteen ”
committed no offences while travelling to W.A. ; at that
time it was not an offence for travellers to kill beef on
their own.
The Bulletin respectfully asks these people to
go back to the beginning of the trouble, and find
out if there ever was any “ Ragged Thirteen. ” It
begins to have doubts.
* * • *
“00100 ” writes :
A few months ago a £25 horse belonging to a Bairnsdale
(Vic.) man died, and a post mortem revealed 751bs. of
sand in the animal’s inside. At the end of February this
year an animal worth £4O, belonging to the same owner,
died mysteriously, and the following is the table of con-
tents revealed by the post-mortem: 401 b. sand; lib.
s rap iron (assorted shapes); sharp steel wire, several
pieces ; buttons, halfdoz.; 1 knife blade ; glass (various) ;
and several brass and iron nails. Both animals were
stable fed.
* * • *
“Viator”; He those Flinders crocodiles
recently mentioned in The Bulletin as having
been shot on the banks of inland Flinders water-
holes. It is not generally known that these par-
ticular reptiles are harmless —as far as men and
stock are concerned. Shoot a duck and the
Flinders crocodile will draw your prize under the
water, but this is about the full extent of his
depredations. A very different and less gentle-
manly crocodile is the brute that lives in the
coastal waters. The drought has almost exter-
minated the particular species under discussion in
certain inland waters.
THE LATE FRANK KUHN, AUSTRALIA'S
CHAMPION JOCKEY.
Photo, by Brand, Sydney.
“ Kaylee ”: Have just explored Port
Augusta (S.A.). The sand is awful. I wouldn’t
live there for three times what I make in Adelaide.
Common occurrence to find the sand banked high
above your window-sill when you wake in the
morning, though there wasn’t any there the
previous night. Said too, that occasionally the
dust banks itself against six-feet paling fences, so
that you can walk on a level with the top thereof.
Quorn folk (25 miles distant) complain that they
get a good deal of it.
* « • *
“ Wal. ” : H.” writes on the Australian
fruit-eating bat, or “flying fox.” Though lam
personally and unfavorably acquainted with this
odoriferous beastie—zoologically pteropus polio-
cephalus—having lived amid a clump of Moreton
Bay fig-trees, where the brutes, hungering
for the seedful fig, made noises as of the
damned, I would be pleased if Bulletin readers
would supplement the meagre knowledge that
the creature produces at a birth but oneyoung one,
which is carried under the “ wing.’’ For in-
stance : (1) What becomes of the young one
immediately after birth and before it can cling to
the mother ? (2) How are the young fed ? (3)
How do the fruit-eating bats hibernate? (4) Do
they emigrate at regular intervals or only when
the fruit in their district is exhausted ?
Tasmanian Fishery Commissioners are
experimenting with all sorts, sizes, and varieties
of salmon, procurable
in Europe and Ameri-
ca. The result is that
the rivers are now
yielding a very coarse
hybrid, and salmon
fishers are throwing
up their licenses in
disgust. Curator
Moreton, of Hobart
Museum, has one
double-headed mon-
strosity.
“ J.F.D* : The
drunken lisp is evi-
dently not confined to
man alone. Have a
WILLIAMSONS “ ARE YOU A
MASON?” COMPANY.
MOLLY PEARSON.
MISS ETHEL
MOLLISON.
MRS. GEO. GIDDENS.
(Miss Kitty Drew).
GEORGE GIDDENS.
sick cockatoo—a splendid
talking-bird. Thought a
sip of brandy would im-
prove him; but I gave
him too much. A few
minutes after he had re-
covered his breath he
said, “ Whas sher time ? ”
“Sherishno luck about
the housh.” Then he fell off the perch and went
to sleep on the floor.
• • • •
Thousands of dead fish have been floating
down the Darling. Some whalers say it’s the
result of mineralised water let loose from above
the Bourke weir; others that the fish died from
shock on finding that they had enough water to
swim in.
“Yarrum”: i?e ravages of white ants.
Not generally known, that if the land whereon
a building is to be erected
be well and deeply ploughed,
there will be no white ants
to give trouble. In most
cases the building sites have
at one time been timbered,
and the termites have re-
mained in the roots of old
stumps. Know a house,
surrounded by ant - eaten
tenements, and it has never
been touched, because land
under it had been ploughed.
» * »
“ G.” : The little ways
of the ever - complaining,
ever - cringing cookie. A
Maroona Plains (Vic.)
farmer, having enough thresh-
ing to keep the threshing-plant
busy at his place from Satur-
day till Monday, refused the
workmen meals on Sunday,
and hunted them off to find
provisions as best they could
in a none-too-thickly-populated
district. “You fellows,” he
said, “ would eat a blanky farmer out.” And this
with a very decent crop and wheat at 6s. a bushel!
NANCY ’MONGST THE COWS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Is that a lyre-bird flinging his welcome to the morn?
Sweet rippling rondeau ringing to gladden day new born ;
Or heavenly paean coming from angels chanting vows ?
No ; that’s our Nancy, humming some music to the
cows !
Before the sun has lifted his eyes along our hills,
Ere morning’s mist-veil’s drifted from off the’ dancing
rills,
Comes Nancy to the cow-yard, with white arms full of
hay,
Then all the cows jog homeward like children in their
play.
Come, hail up, Meg ! here, Lucy! come, Sunshine ! come
on May !
Here’s lucerne sweet and fancy ; here Maggie, here’s your
hay !
Then, as the white milk hubbies its life-streams in the
pail,
She charms away their troubles and chants her glad all
hail!
VIC.
ALONE.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
■ less stamps (of any State) accompany.
Land-lubber : You say that collisions could and
should be prevented by fining each captain in a collision
£lOO or £2OO and giving him six months gaol. Well, you
are an unreasoning and inhuman ruffian. Every pre-
caution should be taken, but, even then, there will be
collisions while man is fallible. Are you prepared to be
fined £lOO and gaoled for six months every time you make
a preventible mistake in your occupation, whatever it is?
The fact that your mistakes may not cost lives makes no
difference. Some fallible person must look after ships i
drive locomotives, and tackle the other occupations
where he takes his own and other people’s lives in
his hand, or else civilisation stops short; and there
is a time in every man’s life when the tired brain
loses its judgment or the tired eye sees wrongly
W.W.S.: Verses a long, sad commonplace... .Alfred B. :
The “ Cattle-man ” is too strained and too far-fetched
E. : It was returned before (probably as being too
much spun-out) and is now, in any case, belated......
J.S.M. ; Haven’t time to work such things out
F. : Received; will be considered. Cheque for
former story forwarded to your initials ; may have gone
astray. Will investigate... Riverina: “Nags that are
Gone ” hardly up Inkumpinkum : Old Bulletin
yarn T. : “A Strange Night” has good points,
but is too crude on the whole Artesian:
Well, yes ; you certainly are a “ bore.”
Wool-Classer: Your sketch would make the ungodly
Australian shearer jeer. Description too tame, anyway..
..Marcus: Dull, dry and dreary Will W. : Capitally
constructed, but the style is stiff and the ending flat
B.M'K.: Sheer balderdash Rookie: Don’t remember
it Dinny : Good verse-form, but no pith in it
D.T.C. : Bit too technical, but well put together. May
have a chance J.B. (W.A.;: Merely productive of pro-
fane language Dick : Too labored M.J.J. : There
are many books—all of them worthless to the ordinary
reader. Consult a good doctor, who, if your eyes require
it, will send you on to a specialist W.M.G. :
Poems written for the praiseworthy object of
“ making your little boy laugh,” aren’t likely to be
worth publishing. Possibly your little son laughed at
the defects S.M. :No originality Unsuitable:
T.C.N.H Alfred T. : We rarely print dialect verse
D.M.R. : Idea rather too hackneyed....Genung : An
excellent yarn. Will print... .Huani: “Alice” begins
well, but the ending is a feeble fading away and an utter
lack of climax Tas.: To question the advisability of a
paper printing advertisements which it does not fully
believe to be true is plausible enough. But there’s
another side to the matter. If a newspaper acted as
censor of advertisements it would put itself in the
position of guaranteeing the advertisements it did pub-
lish —which would be too big a contract altogether. The
sensible system seems to be, as at present—to give
publicity to any advertisement not of an offensive
character and to let the public draw its own conclusions.
Thompson: The average “ Eastern Queen’’didn’t
■“ rise to wake her sleeping slaves with melody.” If the
slaves weren’t up first, and didn’t have the fire kindled
and the bacon fried and the Queen’s boots polished, what
happened wasn’t melody—it was ructions.... Tony :
“ Night-fall ” will do. “Damsel” too ancient a pun....
L. Chetw3'nd : Immoral poem in six verses declined....
Q.N. : “Johnson’s Girl” all right... .Denis 11. : Just
come back from “ Particular Friend’s ” funeral The
Young ’Un : Only one objection to religious poem—
the market for religious verse is very limited
Dick : Rather stereotyped. All poets have dreams
like that K.W. (Colac) : Don’t despond
Onlooker : No use for cryptic and purely local
sayings about “Mag.” Roy: There was 2d. to
pay on your poem.. . .MacSkither : Fourpence to pay on
your pars, for deficient postage, and that would make us
take a bilious view of Shakespeare even... .Possum :
“Omen” received. Twopence deficient postage....
G.A.Y. : Written on both sides of paper, and 2d. to pay...
Adonem : You don’t make your meaning apparent. No
time for tangles.... J. M. Prentice : The “ prentice-hand,”
t 00.... Harry S. : (1) The monkey-like peculiarities (lost in
later life) of the human infant have long been noted. (2)
The power of moving the scalp and ears is still possessed
naturally by some adults ,3) The theory is, not that
man is descended from the ape, but that man and ape are
widely-divergent descendants from a common ancestor..
Fiji : Good in its way, but rather too crude for Bulletin
Will. B. : Fantastic and unreal. . .Sirdar : Too bom-
bastic and pretentions.. . .Lucinda : Very prim and trim,
buthasnoforceor vitality.. . .Roger W.: Well written in a
formal and antiquated way, but too unwieldy and digres-
sive. .. .Trixie : Will duly consider anything you send....
Euri : Fairly good work, but hardly' force or novelty
enough... .Sawdust : Your pen-name just “fills the
bi 11.”.... J. W. Kilner : Rather labored humor
Flabby P. : Tale doest»’h quite arrive Bertha 0. :
Destroyed accordingly More sound than sense....
C.R.C. : A bald bit of narrative.... Hugh Ross : Too dull
and prosy Fred. Y. : Too sloppily written... .M.A.R. :
Too trifling for print.... Harlech : Overcrowded with
characters—-all feeble D.F. (W.A.): Good material,
badly worked up.. . .Suva: An old Bulletin yarn, clumsily
disguised.. . ,R.M‘G. : Too fragmentary and spasmodic...
Marcus: Badly dislocated in the middle....W.G.T. :
Broken-winded kind of verse ..Harold F. : Smoothly-
written conventionalities.. ..Violetta : Most of it is old,
and the rest isn’t interesting... .Fingerpost : Yes, if
accepted. Verse tolerable ; prose-sketch intolerable....
F.O. : Much too long and heavy for Bulletin Salt-
bush : “ Original.” Well, it’s certainly in an original
metre... .Josephine : Sorry, but it hasn’t merit enough.
... . May D. : Hardly well enough written, and too
obviously referable to recent occurrences.... Mere Girl:
Not enough in it....W.P. (Melb.): Doesn’t suit u 5....
George V.: Too stiff and prosy.... Nada : Situation rather
hackneyed... .Ocran : N I E00d....G. Sinclair: Not
within miles of the mark.. ..C.A.B. : Rather pretty, but
not strong enough... Possum : Pathetic, but somewhat
thin and conventional... .E.A.C. : Not quite up, but pro-
mises we 11... .Ne’er-do-Weel : Some of ’em good. Don’t
send in such a sheaf of yarns at once.. ..H.V.A. : Rather
feeble scrap Stanley Pollard: “Breaking Camp” re-
turned. Not interested in the very plain remarks of
tired drovers awakened from insufficient sleep....
A. 0.0. : Merely drab-tinted yarn of a man who loved his
fellow Bheep....D. Meade: Too much “blast.”....
E.M.P. : “Vulpine Victory” sent us to sleep Wal-
laroo: “Reconciling Sin” insufficiently sinful; besides,
you don’t give spicy details of the scrap between the red-
headed hussy and the wife.... L.L.W. : Voluptuary verse
too shaky—like the poem of the man who sees specks
before his eyes, and shaves himself with great bloodshed
....Quidam: Faulty....F.B. : Don’t strike any fresh
sparks on the mental anvil... ,R.V. : (1) Drawing has not
taken place ; (2) Can’t say.... A. J.W. : On too familiar
lines.. . .F.E.P.W. : A good idea, but needs a lot of con-
densation D.A.R.: You don’t get any throb into
“ Hay-pressing.”... .L.W.S. : Send it straight to the girl
. ...Acarb: No special brightness....Ei. : Declined
after some hesitation.... Rastenburger ■ 1) There is
nothing now to prevent it; (2) Any' Australian
citizen can contest any Australian constituency, whether
it is in his own or another State Ever Olf: That
sort of trifling verse is hardly in our line....
COL. J. H. GOOD LET, who has, by generous
gifts and good example, pointed the way to a
humane treatment of phthisis patients in
N.S.W. To his efforts mainly Thirlmere
Home and the Wentworth Falls Sanatorium
owe their existence.
Photo, by J. Hubert Newman, Sydney.
William (Kalgoorlie) : You’re another J.M. : Will
print “Aroha.” H.I.J. : Not in our line. Merely an
essay B.D.S. : Not bad; but we can’t give all that
space to an outside-Australia subject Riverina : The
eating habits of your local policeman don’t interest the
Commonwealth Unsuitable: F.L.8., Roy, Nil,
G.H.8., J.P.C., Albert S Milesian : If you wish
to know, verses are (1) too long, (2) too imitative of other
writers, (3) don’t contain any very original ideas. Short,
sharp verses with at least a flavor of original thought, are
what B. wants Wild Bee : Just miss the mark ; rhym-
ing too strained A.E.M. : Too unpleasant; the yarn
that has for its logical conclusion somebody being
violently ill doesn’t attract The Bulletin these days
M.M.L. : But the trouble is, dear Mary, that, however
much we might wish to, we can’t print matter just to
" oblige you and your friends.” That’s the way to death,
and we hate dying.


A KISS AND ITS CONSEQUENCES: WHAT CERTAIN CHRISTIANS THREATEN FIJI WITH NOW.
"'It is ray belief that we are on the verge of great trouble in Fiji. I predicted something of the kind a good while ago,’ observed the Rev. Dr. Moulton in the Methodist Conference. The text for nearly all the speeches was a letter which had been received from one of the European residents in
Fiji, confirming the news of the burning of Bibles. The writer also stated that the action of the Governor in publicly kissing the Bishop’s hand in the presence of hundreds of natives was calculated to make them believe that the Governor is inferior to the Bishop! A prominent clergyman thought that
Dr. Brown ought to go down to Fiji at once to guide, hearten, and strengthen their men on the spot. (Loud applause.) What a spectacle that must have been of the Governor kissing the hand of the Roman Catholic Bishop in the presence of the natives! (Cries of ‘Sham e!’) The Rev. W. Woolls.
Rutledge contended that they must be respectful, but firm. Whatever was done they would hit somebody. They could see at once what the effect of a Governor kissing the hand of the Bishop would be on the native mind. Another reason for promptness of action lay in the fact that it had been
announced that Cardinal Moran was to visit Fiji. They knew what would happen then — (‘Hear, hear.’) —what processions and displays there would be. If the Governor had degraded his office by kissing the Bishop’s hand, what would be done when the Cardinal came? (Applause and many voices—
'They will kiss his toe.’) He thought Dr. Brown ought to go to Fiji, but he ought not to go unaccompanied. (Applause.) They must not act timidly. It was decided to appoint a commission of three to visit Fiji at the same time as Cardinal Moran.” Daily paper report.


1 \I? W i°V IJje <\by lure t ru-tb of '*s®
\ feberK ivj
\ 6 f "in A^far?^
(Nov'tymlM'i'toiy j O'
, orje ''v'C l>o«eVf~
i*b "itere "tty o'^€r' = c^y,
ll)€ f]i(r i$ />wre <?oM £r i're-’.5
l° f><\y S
NNs> v v d\2\*v)or\<i-
I don C&v
We He*"
in Cow"^
sv<* he
n€v/2*'
seen ™) e
If 1 V
'✓free °r
iVs
*> *>■
py^e-W 1
//'*l/1 A
// (fc . AYM
/ *■ A jfll
T^>ll
s Africa, °fc ers
borient l-y wt>«% 'for
WcVi«TJ« rf f' ce^f.c^
'Ome ~ wH^v
x/oX
sWp
Af e ou^ell
l do \oy WoiAr > .
Vj witfj
\e~tter
' B'sH’* s °
our
y *>•* f^^iN
be |»|»V|^^4_
\ VV I'fJ” 2v
\\Orr,lL
l or lS X
J^k; 7
$p u j» n '
""’ltje
IJ* 'Vw •
W<\<> l*K«_
oj \ C»)i i<*
ky
V
00 l '
ll7
Kv*W*tt ou-r'
iKe OWe 'l© 1% * CAzgJ
THINGS VICTORIAN.


Key,
10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUSHMEN AND MINERS.
ROTHERHAM SPECIAL MADE ENGLISH
LEVERS, Pull Cap, Hand Finished, Extra
Jewelied Works, Perfect Timekeeper, with Pure
Silver Cases, Dust and Water Tight, £3 10s,
Extra Quality, with Chronometer Balance,
£4 10s, £5, £5 10s, £6, £7, £8 ;
Solid Gold, £lO, £l6, £2O.
A written certificate for 8, 4, and 6 years.
Try one ; you will not regret it.
Keyless,
£5.
FBEETRADB
PRICES.
Ij
\
BAtxiirnxM
S
BXJMXX
M
A. SAUNDERS.
Strong, Reliable LEVERS, “ The Challenge,” 15s.
The Unrivalled Lever, in Black or Nickel, 20s ; perfect
timekeeper. The London Lever, new f-plate model,
255; m Solid Silver, £2 2s; in Double Case, £2 10s, £3.
Rotherham LEVERS, £3los, £4, £5, £6, £7, £B. Gold
WATCHES, £4 4s, £5 ss, £6 6s, £7 10s. £lO, £l2 10s,
£l5, £2O. Mind, we guarantee you the utmost satis-
faction, “ otherwise we will exchange watch for you.”
Send for Illustrated book of particulars, post free.
NO
ADVANCE
20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Unrivalled non-magnet LEVER.
Perfect Timekeeper, Screw Cases,
dust and water tight, 20s.
A written Guarantee given with
each Watch.
20s.
Black or
Nickel,
30s.
.
'
r'Nr'
&-N=3
iC
Vv}<
zm*
'Hu,l
1/ un*,..
« FLY-BACK CHRONOMETERS.”
These we have at Every Priceand Style. In Solid
Nickel or Black, 30s ; Extra Quality, £2, £2 10s j
Split Seconds, £3 LOs. Pure Solid Silver, £5, £6, £7,
£B, and £lO ; Solid Gold, £l5, £2O, £25, and £3O.
A written certificate for 2,3, 4,5, and 6 years.
TRY ONE.
Silver,
£5.
Solid
Silver,
£2 103-
Rl
.V
'.S'
,
\-hy-'
■
>: v.
■
"WALTHAM LEVEES.
We are Special Direct Agents.
Pure Solid Silver Hunting Cases, Extra
Quality Movements,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, and £5 ;
Gold Patent Cases, Walthams, £4 4s, £5 5s •
Solid Gold, £7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O. ’
and £25.
Gold
Cases,
£4 4s.
Solid Gold CHAIN (Single or Double), £2 10s,
£3, £3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5. 15ct. Solid Gold, £5 10s,
£6, £6 10s, £7, £B, £lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d,
15s, 20s. Send for Price Illustrated Book.
15ct. Gold Bar and Scroll BROOCH, Pearls and
Red Stones, 355. Quite New.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Motto Registered Gold “ Dinna Forget ”
BROOCH and Amethysts, 9ot. Gold, 17s 6d :
15ct. Gold, 80s ; 18ct. Gold, 85s.
15ct. Gold, Extra Strong, with First-class
Opal, £2 5s ; similar, 355, £2, and £2 10s. f:
I ■' »•'- 1
15ct. Gold, Diamond and 2 Rubies, 22s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
(Registered) Gold Secret Name BROOCH,
15ct. Gold, Diamonds, £2 10s, £B, £4.
Any Name or Motto Free.
Six Different Patterns, Similar.
15ct. Gold 2-Bar Ivy Leaf, Set with Bed,
White, and Blue Stones, 22s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Iyy and Pearl Gold BROOCH, 255;
9ot. Gold, smaller, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Newest Solid Gold Name BROOCH, 7s 6d ;
with Raised Flowers each side (Any Name),
15ct. Gold, 15s. Latest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. 2-Bar Pure Diamond, Double Cut, £2.
2-Bar Gold Scroll Pearl Set BROOCH, 20s
Hall marked.
® mmw- S
>i nil i ; jii! !h BUSRiii"- 1
9ct. Gold Square or half-round BRACELET,
3 Red or Blue Stones, £2.
Very Neat and Cheap.
Ladies’ Curb Gold
Chain, Snap Padlock,
255, 30s, 355, £2 ss,
£3; 15ct., £2 10s, £3,
£4, £4 10s, £5, £6,
£7 10s, £B, £9, £lO.
10s extra for Key
Padlock.
All -with Safety Chain.
A. SAUNDERS.
Nicely Chased Gold BRACELET, 255. Very Neat and Pretty.
Sword and Sheath PAPER CUTTER, 6in. long.
Most Useful Present, 4s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Mizpah BROOCH, 2 Hearts, 10s
larger, 12s 6d. A Nice Brooch.
Gold “ Good Luck ” BROOCH, 10s 6d
15ct. Gold, 21s.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Wishbone and Arrow, with Red
Stone, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Wish Rone and Eorget-Me-Not, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Raised Flowers, 5s 6d.
Larger, 6s 6d and 7 s 6d.
10
11
L 5
12 13 14
A. SAUNDERS’
FEEETRADE PRICES.
10. —Round LINK, 9ct. Gold, £2, £2los,
£3 j 15ct., £4, £5.
11. —Rope Pattern, 9ct. Gold, £2, £2los,
£3 ; 15ct., £4, £5.
12. —Curb Pattern, Oct. Gold, £2, £2los,
£3 ; 15ct., £4, £5,
13. —Rope and Ball. 9ct. Gold, £2, £2los,
£3 , 15ct., £4, £5.
14. —Curb and Link, £3, £4, £5, £6.
15. —Chain andßondell, £4 to £7 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Latest Style, 15ct. Gold Pearl Set Buckle 2-Bar
BROOCH, 32s 6d. English Hall Marked.
A. SAUNDERS.
English Hall Marked 15ct. Gold Ruby and
Pearls, Scroll and Fancy Sides, £2.
18ct.
Solid
Gold, £lO
mmm
ax--
m
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Solid Gold Keyless WALTUAM
LEVER, Full Jewelled Works, Patent
Action, New Model £10, £12 10s.
You Can’t get a Better Watch.
14ct. Solid Gold, £810s.
Extra
Strong,
£l2los
@T/v
forSS
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Dinna Forget,
10s 6d.
Our own Registered
Design,
A. SAUNDERS.
CHARM.
New Gold Bell,
7s 6d.
15ct. Gold
Turquoise
Forge t-
me-Not
and
Pearl
Scroll,
20s.
S
m
f==t
A. SAUNDEKS.
Ladies’ Solid Silver Hunting
Keyless WATCH,
Fall Jewelled, 255, 30s, £2,
£'2 10s.
Price to quality of work'.
Guaranteed 2,3, 4 years.
II
a,Q)ia
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold BROOCH, 8-Bar Diamond, 12s 6d.
Very Neat.
A. SAUNDERS.
660= ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
Silver Hunting Keyless, 255, 30s, £2,
£2 10s, £3.
Solid Gold Keyless, £2, £3, £4, £5 ;
Superior Quality, £6, £7, £B, £lO. ’
ALL GUARANTEED.
Floral
PIN,
Pearl and
Tur-
quoise,
255.
15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Black Keyless WATCH,
Good Timekeeper, 15s ;
Extra Duality, 20s.
Guaranteed.
20s.
Post Card Gold
CHARM, 10s.
Any Name Free.
Silver, gilt, 5s 6d.
Gold Boot
CHARM, 5s 6d.
Latest Style.
Solid
Gold,
£6 10s.
m
A. SAUNDERS.
LADIES’ WALTHAM SOLID
GOLD KEYLESS,
J-movement, Chronometer Balance,
Jewelled, Perfect Timekeeper,
Extra Strong Cases.
Full Size, £6 10s ; Small Size, £5 10s.
Pure Solid Silver, same works,
£2 10s.
Silver,
£2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Pearl and
Turquoise Ploral and
Ribbon BROOCH, £2 10s.
.London’s Newest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Pearl and
Turquoise Heart
BROOCH, £2 2s.
The Latest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Solid Gold Opal LINKS,
with Initial, £2 10s.
Extra Strong.
A. SAUNDERS.
Beautifully Chased, 9ct. Gold,
large size LINKS, 22s 6d.'*
Plain, 21s, or with Initials)
nicely Chased, 22s 6d.
15ct. Gold, £2 ;
Silver, 4s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
(Registered).
Gold DINKS, 20s ;
15ct. Gold, 32s 6d ;
Silver and Gold, 10s ;
all Silver, ss.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold LINKS,
very pretty. 12s fid.
Large Size. 15s and ‘2os.
Silver, 2s 6d and 4s 6d.
MIZPA.H GOLD
CHARM, 4s.
A. SAUNDERS’
Watches,
Clocks,
Jewellery,
AND
Silverplate
AT
FREETRADE
PRICES.
SAVE 25 PEE CENT.
TO 50 PEE CENT.
Showrooms :
815 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Solid Gold, 5 pure
Diamonds. £l2 10s ;
Smaller, £5, £6, £7,
£7 10s, to £3O.
18ct. Solid Gold,
5 Pure Diamonds, £5.
Diamond and
Sapphire or Ruby,
£3 10s ;
larger, £4 10s, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ot. Gold,
3 Sapphires, Rubies,
or Opals, 4 Diamonds,
£3, £3 10s, £4,
A. SAUNDERS.
Opal Band RINGS,
9ct. Solid Gold, 17s 6d;
15ct. Gold, 30s ;
18ct. Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Buttercup Single
Stone Diamond
RING,
£3, £4, £5.
m§s&
A. SAUNDERS
18ct. Gold.
3 Pure Diamonds,
2 Opal Hearts, £4 lOs.
Latest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Solid Gold Buckle,
17s 6d; 15ct. Gold, 30s ;
18et. Gold, £2.
Solid Gold, Turquoise
and Pearl, 20s.
Newest Style.
trcr
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct . Solid Gold, 3 pure
Double-cut Diamonds,
£5, 1 Diamond and
£ Rubies or Sapphires,
£3.
18ct. Solid Gold Diamond
Band, £2, £2 10s, £3;
15ct. Gold, 30s.
18ct. Gold Buckle
KING, Diamond, and
2 Rubies or Sapphires,
£2 10s.
With Name, Band RINGS,
9ct. Solid Gold, 12s 6d, 15s;
loot. Gold, 20s, 25s ;
18ct. Gold, 255, 30s, 355, £2.
GENT.'S RING.
Solid Gold, Amethyst, 255;
15ct. Gold, £2 ;
18ct., £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
o * Sand-made Wedding RINGS and KEEPERS,
act. Solid Gold, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s each ; 15et. Gold, 15s
extra heavy, 25s ; 18ct. Gold. 20s ;
extra heavy, 30s, 355, 40s. Send for Card.
A. SAUNDERS.
JEWELLER AND SILVERSMITH,
815 AND 817 GEORGE-STREET
nearly opposite
RAILWAY STATION,
SYDNEY.


Wirth BROS Huge Snow
Herr li.wl
kW
V^i'eS'n'nj?
| 1?e&r
jj* '
<¥ 0
VWKiwe^T l^
'M*C r/
WIRTH BEOS’. SHOW, OPENING IN MELBOURNE ABOUT EASTER.


TO CURE SUFFERING ANIMALS.
Amost useful Veterinary Book is attached
to every bottle of Gondy’s Fluid. This
Book contains instructions for curing most
of the ailments and accidents affecting
Horses, Dogs, Sheep, Cattle and Poultry.
In this Book eminent Ve cerinary Surgeons
recommend Condy’s Fluid as a certain
cure for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs,
Broken Knees, Grease,Thrush,and Cracked
Heels in Horses.—Scab, Foot Rot, Fly,
etc., in Sheep.—Hoove, Foul in the Foot,
Wounds and Sores in Cattle..
Condy’s Fluid is made by Condy and
Mitchell Ltd., of 65, Goswell Road,
London, England, and is cold by all
Chemists and Stores. Beware of Local sub-
stitutes. Insist on having Condy’s Fluid.
AUSTRALIAN STAMPS
Bought, Sold & Exchanged.
Gibbons' PhiiatoHc Albums
and all requirements. Price lists gratis.
J. H. SMYTH & CO.,
88 KING ST., SYDNEY.
Before booking your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers’
Gazette & Sailing List, with map.
THOS. COOK & SON.
269 Collins-st., Melbourne. 4 Hunter-st, Sydney.
SPECTACLES
DEFECTIVE
VISION. r„
COUNTRY READERS
who cannot visit us
personally, we send,
Post Free to any ad-
structions and Price List our^ reSB ’n Wlt , h full in '
and popular SELF SIGHT-MEASURm^PATENT
fcdne °7 de-
glasses you may need. Write for ft to* *** 0f tbe
H. A. BARRACLOUGHV Ootickn
“Don’t shout”
■* 1 hear you. I can hear now
i as well as anybody.
‘"How?* Oh. some-
thing new -The Wilson...
Common-sense Ear*'.'
Drum. I've a pair in my
ears now. you can't see them
they’re invisible. 1 wouldn't
know I had them in myself,
only that 1 hear all right."
The Wilson Ear-Drum Is
really a substitute for the
working parts of the
natural ear. Has ( no
wire. Invisible, easy to ad
just. comfortable ? Totally
different from any other de-
j V,C€ Descriptive pamphlet sent upon request
J. CIIAtHHX), 229-231 Collins. SU Hel»-
POLITICAL
POINTS
Rumored that Larry Foley intends to
contest Northumberland against John Norton
at next State election.
John Burns has been quoting Scripture to
Imperial Jingoism: “ The eyes of a fool are on
the ends of the earth.”
The N.S.W. Public Service begins to hear
faint rumors that a general percentage reduction
is coming next financial year.
Sydney Evening News cynically congra-
tulates the Joey Carruthers party in N.S.W. State
politics in having ably shaped its platform so that
it means nothing, and can mean anything. All
the old drab platitudes of the ages are in it.
The silence of the big Vic. dailies over the
defeat of the Kyabram League’s candidate for
M'Kenzie’s seat is about the largest silence the
State has had since the days when the papers
were saying as little as possible about certain
banks.
“There are two types of democracy. One
of them is a blatant boasting of raising wages by
a prodigal expenditure of borrowed money, entail-
ing misery to the working classes when the boom
collapses.”—Rose, M.L.A. (N.S. W.J, on Owe’-
Sullivan.
Apropos Bent’s howl-and-smash system of
railway running in Vic., a young fellow (ganger’s
son), though only four years in the service, has
been in turn line-repairer, porter, cleaner, and
pumper at five Mallee line stations; also fireman
and occasional loco, driver.
Samuel Lancaster, the conservative boss
of the Kyabram Sweating League, comes in for a
bad time in the Age now. David calls his
speeches weak and foolish, and dismisses him with
a contemptuous sniff. David—with an eye on his
ancient enemies, the Upper House and the Argus
—is strong for constitutional reform, and is forcing
Irvine’s hand. Sammy Lancaster and Kyabram
are only the blown eggshells in Vic. politics now.
PERFECTLY CONVINCING.
JOHNY (to old veteran, severely): “If, as you
say, the Maoris hacked you to pieces you
would be a dead man.”
VETERAN: “Ah, yes, sir; but I was purjickly
collected, sir, and I shook meself teyether
again. ”
King O’Malley, the Brother with the large
hat, returning from a visit to Westralia, told an
Adelaide interviewer, “I am going to Tasmania
to stump the State against the gilded-spurred
roosters that fought me during the last Federal
campaign.” Well, when a Yankee fights with
Roosters the political atmosphere ought to be full
of Cocktails.
The utter insincerity and political dis-
honesty of Victorian Legislative Councillors is
shown by the attitude of Wynne and Cuthbert
towards the Reform Bill. These politicians, when
in office, supported the Reform movement in the
Council, as a necessary means of staying in office,
but as soon as they were thrown out their real
reactionary sentiments appeared. It will be the
same, from past experience, with Davies, the pre-
sent Reform Minister. No M.L.C. remains a
reformer a day after he ceases to be paid for
being a reformer..
If you earn only £5 per annum the Philp
Govt, ukases that you must pay a 10s. poll-tax.
If you make nothing at all, same Govt, ukases
you must pay your half-sovereign just the same.
And yet certain ancient Latin asses once wrote
something about “ Ex nihilo nihil fit.”
If strong press opposition can kill the
Philp Ministry, it is already dead, for the defec-
tion of the Courier leaves it with hardly a news-
paper to roll its end of the log. It begins to be
reported that Tozer will be recalled so that Philp
may fly from the wrath to come into the Agent-
General’s billet.
At Wollongong (N.S. W.), recently, an old-
age pensioner was fined ss. and ordered to forfeit
a month’s pension, for drunkenness. In other
words, the man pays a penalty of 455. for his
drunk whereas another man would get “the
rising.” How the Civil Service pensioner who
gets tight once a month must laugh in his sleeve
at his poorer brother.
Queensland bush-workers, starved out by
drought, are gradually making their way to the
sugar-districts on the coast. Within four or five
years an army of white workers will be busy on
Q. plantations, and every sugar-district should be
a White Labor stronghold. The old pro-Kanaka
lies are now so thoroughly discredited that even
the Philp papers are half-ashamed to print them.
Frank Kenna, one of the whitest Q. white
Australians, represents an electorate with the
following alien population :
Two hundred and eighty-four Chows, 774 Kanakas, 137
Japs, 10 Indians, and 14 other aliens.
That place is an authority on niggers, and when
it elects a White Australia man, the fact counts
for something.
When a man buys a new shirt in Tasmania
he is almost certain to find the name of Brownell
Bros, on the collar. They are excellent shirts,
too, and very cheap. Now in his later years old
Brownell proposes standing for Parliament
against Treasurer Bird with a vague idea that a
man who can make good shirts must necessarily be
able to make good laws—which doesn’t follow by
any means.
The protection to local workers provided
by the Commonwealth tariff makes Freetrade
Sydney Mail solicit tenders from Australian
printers for the production of next Christmas’s
colored supplement. The Mail will, of course,
be sold at the usual price. Who, in this case,
pays for the higher charges—if the charges be
higher—of the local production? Not the con-
sumer, certainly.
Now that the Sydney hatters are ancient
history, some of the Westralian railway em-
ployees seem inclined to drag forth a similar piece
of trouble. A Perth paper asserts that
Six or seven boilermakers have been dismissed from the
locomotive workshops. This step, say the dismissed men,
has been rendered necessary by the fact that the depart-
ment some months ago imported about a dozen boiler-
makers from England under a two years’ agreement.
If that be true, the Westralian Premier should
hear something fall, and fall heavily, too, next
election day.
Sydney daily press discovered another
instance of the wrongs of Federation the other day
in the fact that a naturalised Chinese parent in
N.S.W. could not
bring his children
to the State without
paying poll-tax on
them. There was
much indignation
over this, and the
“six hatters” inci-
dent was dug up
again, and the
“ Federal tyranny ”
was being bitterly
howled about—
when it transpired
that the grievance
(if any) was against
the Chinese Immi-
gration Restriction
Act of N.S. W., and
not against the
Federal law. Next
day it was explained
by a shipping co.
that it was made
liable for the main-
tenance of any
lunatics it brought
to N.S.W., and the
daily press had just
girded up its ink-
pot to remark on
“Federal tyranny ”
again, when it re-
membered that this
was the result of
State legislation also. The anti-Federal press is
nothing like the vigorous liar it used to be. A
tired feeling, due to the stony apathy of the people
towards its shrieks of “Federal tyranny” seems
to be coming over Ananias.
Everybody regards the State as a thing to
be swindled. If a new grocer starts near an old
grocer and kills his trade by selling cheaper, ne
one dreams that the dear grocer has a right to
recover damages from the cheap grocer. But the
water condensers at Kalgoorlie demand compensa-
tion from the State because it has killed their
business by supplying cheaper water. Premier
James rightly replies with a hint that these
Private Enterprise mendicants should go where
there is no water at all.
Freetrade Senator Clemens, of Tasmania,
gives away the show:
The great manufacturers in Victoria desired fco control
the stearme market. The Government proposed Id uer
pound duty on stearine, the effeet of which would have
been that those people engaged in making candles in
Tasmania would have been compelled to purchase stearine
from the great manufacturers in Victoria.
Victoria, in the days before Federation, had a
duty on stearine, so it has “ great manufacturers ”
Tasmania had no duty, so it hasn’t “ great manu-
facturers” in this line—it has only a soured
Clemens.
ODIOUS
COMPARISON.
HE: “ Your cheek,
darling, is as smooth
as —as smooth as”
SHE: “As the top of your
head.”
Another wail from Western Yic. about
Tommy Bent’s railways :
On Portland line recently train stopped an hour to get
up steam, the water haring gone off the boil; finally, the
passengers walked into town. A stock special, mainly
empties, broke in two on a down grade, and the engine
sailed off on its own. Last week a “ goods,” timed to
leave Hamilton at 7.15 p.m., started about 9 o’clock and
reached Ararat (little over 60 miles) at 20 minutes to 3.
This is a few days’ record on one little bit of line.
“Our resources” said N.S.W. Premier
See, almost on the very day when a huge, distracted
unemployed deputation called on him and
implored him to borrow a huge lot of money and
give the hungry multitude a job lifting silt out of
the rivers to keep them from starving—“ Our re-
sources are beyond calculation. We shall main-
tain the credit of one of the grandest countries in
the world.” O these resources —these blatant
bumptious resources! What a farce they begin to
look !
Mr. Ashton, having sat at the feet of Dry
Dog Reid and learned, produced this beautiful
Yes-No at a recent Joey Carruthers pow-wow:—
If borrowing was bad, the present Government must
go, because its be-all and end-all was borrowing and
spending money. (Cheers.) If borrowing was good and
necessary in the future, the present Government must
go, because its continuance in office had had such a
damaging effect on our credit that until it went out of
office we should not be able to borrow at anything like
reasonable rates of interest. (Cheers.)
“Cheers” either way.
Latest result of Yic. Railway Minister
Bent’s dunderheaded administration is that
several railway employees have gone bankrupt
owing to reduction of wages and time. Bent is
savage over this, and declares that, though he was
considering a scheme for a kind of railway bank
to advance money to employees who were in need
of it,’ he now hesitates in view of the black in-
gratitude of the staff. Also, he has called for a
list of insolvent railway men with a view to doing
something violent. Bent always has a view to
doing something violent.
Attorney-General Deakin, to a deputation
of trades-unions urging upon him some action in
regard to the “Taff vale decision,” adopted the
idea first mooted in The Bulletin, that if a
Federal arbitration law were passed it could
give power to settle all disputes by the simple
expedient of trades unions and employers’ unions
federating their inter-State branches, and thus
making every trade matter a federal one. The
anti-federal press is already raising a dismal howl
at the impropriety of such a suggestion, but that
needn’t worry the Australian Government.
“ Malle’s ” theory :
. Sydney Foreign-trade press is throwing out sugges-
tions that the Federal Parliament should dissolve in
December, so that the general election for the Reps, can
be held simultaneously with the partial election for the
Senate, and expense be saved, &c. If the Barton Govt,
is well advised, it will say “ Damn the expense,” and
hang on till the last legal moment. Every day sees Aus-
tralian manufactures extend, and every pound invested
in factories means votes secured, and a consolidation of
the party, and a vindication of the Protectionist policy.
Keep the importing gang out of office for another three
years, and the Foreign-trade party will shrink so that it
cannot be seen without a microscope.
“ Victorian Native ” writes :
I begin to be thoroughly ashamed of my State since
the Kyabramapootra got his knotted claw on the neck of
the Government. In the State schools, the newly-intro-
duced Sloyd system, which should do so much for the
youngsters, is made the medium of mean, underhand
sweating by the Department. A teacher showed me bills
amounting to 17s. he had paid out of his own pocket in
one month for materials, tools, &c. The Department
says certain things are to be obtained in connection with
Sloyd ; the inspector notices the absence of many such
and remarks, suggestively, that “Mr. So-and-so has
them, and is getting his pupils on finely,” and, of course
if the already sweated teacher hopes to rise in the De-
partment, he has to go and do likewise, for the
Department which Bogus Senator Reid used to adminis-
ter says these tools and implements must be there—onlv
it doesn t supply them. J
S.M. Herald’s Tasmanian correspondent
tells, very truthfully, why the Lewis Government
is probably going down flat at Hobart this
election :
NaturaUy one asks the question : “ What has made
he Government so unpopular ? ” The invariable reply is
that the people will not tolerate the income-tax. .
? s inclined to shift the burden on to the others
and the only thing about which all agree is that expen-
adrßHnnal 0 ! 1 d t ® C - Ut - down , as low as possible before
additional taxation w imposed. To the ordinary observer
there seems to be little room for retrenchment in Tas-
: a lntereBt bm ’ which amounts to about
£370,000 per annum, represents almost one-half of the
expenditure of the State. The cost of carry-
rng on the Government of the State is very low. The
2™ nnd n C eß getS , £l - 500 a >' ear ’ the Premiers salary is
£760, and other salaries are in proportion. The State has
p6 Kr° nS ’ n ,° 7s ‘ a da y minimum wage, and no
vigorous public works policy.” Again, it mav be saiH
there does not appear to be much margin for retrench!
ment. ...Asa matter of fact, Tasmania is cheanlv
governed and is lightly taxed. ... It is not quite clear
how the newcomers propose to square the finances
The Kyabramapootra shows
its tail and its cloven hoofs openly
now. On the debate which ended
in the rejection of the Vic. Coun-
cil’s amendments to the Reform
Bill, old Sammy Lancaster, one
of the choicest fruits of the
Rodney irrigation policy, did a
barefaced somersault in view of
everybody. In his maiden
speech, Samuel declared (Han-
sard, Oct. 15, ’02): “I trust
that in one Bill economic and con-
stitutional reform will soon become
the law of the land.’’ By last week
Samuel had amended his views : “Undue promin-
ence was being given to constitutional, as against
economic, reform. . . . He would support the
Government, in the sincere hope that it would
give way (to the Council) at the conference.”
Rodney seems to be as unprincipled with its
politics as with its water-rates.
No wonder the Vic. trains are perpetually
behind time and the engines always breaking
down. A recent return gives the suggestive
figures:—
N.S.W. Vic.
Av. miles open .. 2,782 3,185
Av. mileage run .. .. .. 9,690,818 10,282,493
Av. expenditure on loco, repairs .. £245,635 £117,613
Ditto rate per train mile .. .. 6’oBd. 2.74 d.
Total engine stock 677 517
Bent keeps 160 locomotives less (a large propor-
tion of his stock is disabled, too) to do more work,
and spends less than half what N.S.W. does on
repairs.
From a daily paper report of the opening
of a pavilion at a Sydney suburban park :
The total cost is £440, towards which the Government,
in the first instance, contributed £250, and afterwards
increased this year’s subsidy, making its total grant to
the pavilion about £350.
A Government grant of £3so—the suburb itself
only put up £9o—to build an ornamental shed for
a suburban brass band to blare from and suburban
missies to view cricket matches from ! That’s one
of the chief reasons why a loan policy, and an un-
dignified yearly crawl before the London Jews, is
necessary. What taint is there in the Australian
blood that makes possible this miserable spirit of
pawning mother’s bed to purchase a garish and
useless ornament ?
The latest idea for raising friction between
the Federal and State services is the question of
office-room. For instance, the Post Office
Savings Bank in Sydney, a Stato concern, still
occupies its old quarters in the Federal post-office.
The Taxation office and the Navigation Depart-
ment and others take up a considerable portion of
the Sydney Customs House. Other States have
similar instances. It would be quite easy to
make a book-keeping charge when the whole
question of transferred offices and property is
settled. But Sydney Telegraph especially is
fomenting the idea that State rights are threatened
again, and hints to the See Govt, that its duty is
to embark on expensive litigation to prove that its
officers can stay where they are already. This
costly thirst for law requires to be repressed.
THE WHOLE MYSTERY.
THE DISCIPLE : “I say , George, I’m thinki n’ of
becomin’ a great politician like you. What
ought I to read up to qualify?"
GEORGE REID : “ Comic Cuts— been the secret of
my success.”
Mr. T. A. Dibbs, general manager of the
Commercial Banking Company of Sydney,* has-
been taking a neat, effective, thoroughly business-
like hand in the Crouch-Reid fiscal controversy.
Mr. Dibbs has written thus to Mr. Crouch :
Most people do not attach much importance to what
Mr. Reid says when he is out on the stump. In your
clipping he says the committee exonerated him from,
blame; then what necessity to say that I was a
political opponent? I read the other day, that,,
in answer to a deputation, he said that if he got
into power he would disturb the tariff as little as possible,,
and in the next sentence he said that he would make
drastic alterations, statements made to please both sides.
The best answer I can give you is to read the report of
the Finance Committee, a copy of which you could get
on application to the See Government. The Committee
were Mr. J. R. French, general manager of the
Bank of New South Wales ; Mr. Yarwood, a very
able accountant ; and myself. Mr. Reid appointed
the bankers, Sir William Lyne appointed Mr. Yarwood.
Let me refer you to the last Sydney Bulletin, which is
worth your perusal, on Mr. Reid’s ever changing attitude
i? P9^* cs ’ f send you a clipping taken from it (28th
r eb.), referring to the particular subject of your inquiry.
—The finding of the committee was adverse to
Mr. Reid.
This—the cold, unfeeling statement of nasty
facts with the grave, composed air of the bank-
manager pointing out to the trembling applicant
the holes in the security he wants to raise money
on is about as nasty a snag as Yes-No Reid
could have bumped up against. The “P.S.” is
particularly cruel.


THE
CALLAGHAN
BUTTON BOOT
24/6
POST
AND
DUTY
FREE
Except to
West Australia.
ifei-
K
m
t-
m.
l iWmk V
i,; A;, , t ." '.■- i. . ■. ( t ;. 4';?* 1 •i*jjm%~s
| .-■' \
S> .
'&i //'f ■■'■•• %.
WEAR
GOOD
BOOTS
MEANS
ECONOMY.
Men’s French Calf, to Button,
Pointed or Medium Toe, Fine Made-
to-Order Appearance, price, 23/6
THE SAME BOOT IN TAN AT THE SAME PRICE.
Delivered, Post and Duty Free, to any address in the Common-
wealth upon receipt of 24/6 per pair. (The Extra Shillinir is
for Delivery.)
Please remit by P.O. Order or Postal Note.
We want to convince sceptics that all the Style, Fit, Elegance and Durability that
seems possible to be put into a boot J
IS PUT INTO EVERY PAIR OF CALLAGHAN BOOTS.
The trial of ONE PAIR will convince you this is true. If you are not convenient to
our premises, our perfectly-systematised Mailorder Department can fit you to your complete
satisfaction, or your money will be refunded. State Size of Boot worn and whether
Medium or Square-Shape Toe is required. ’
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 ceorce st., Sydney.
VITADATIO
—rv ■ 1 —'
BILIAEY CALCULI (Gall Stones).
SUFFERED MORE OR LESS FROM 188 S TO 1897.
To Mr. S. A. PALMER.
Dear Sir,—lt is with very great pleasure I testify to the
inestimable value of WEBBER’S Great Herbal Remedy—
VITADATIO. In 1888 I had a severe attack of gall stones
and congestion of the liver, which confined me to my bed
for some time. The doctor who attended me said I never
would be thoroughly cured ; but I used to feel quite
well between the attacks, which recurred very often—
sometimes two attacks in one week. In the year 1892 I
was very ill with my long-standing trouble, and had
another medical man, and he told me that gall stones
could only be cured by operation, which I would not
consent to. In February, 1897, I received a letter from
my sister in Dunedin, New Zealand, telling me of the
wonderful cures VITADATIO had effected there, and
urging me to take a course of this medicine. As soon as
I knew that VITADATIO was obtainable in the colony,
acting upon the advice of my sister, I obtained six large-
sized bottles of the remedy, and am happy to inform you
—and, in fact, the world for the matter of that—l have
been free from pain ever since and am now in perfect
health.
FLORENCE BURKE.
“ Walmea,” Pentland Parade,
Yarraville, Melbourne.
For further particulars ,
s. A. PALMER ,
184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The price of medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
Do You
Wear a
Truss?
If so,
TRY
Denyer's Elastic Truss*
IT IS THE VERY BEST.
No Discomfort to Wearer. Suits any Rupture.
PRICES: 17/6 Single ; 25/- DOUBLi.
Send Measure and P. 0. Order.
DENYER BROS. Opp. Hunter St.
AND AT MELBOURNE.
Newman’s
Antiseptic Pastilles.
The Best for all Affections of the Throat.
try them. price-one shillinc.
S. HARRIS, M.P. S., Pharmaceutical Chemist,
Telephone 2288. 82 KING-ST., SYDNEY.
CNGINEMAN'S MASTER KEY—AII subjects
"" relating to Examinations for Certificates of Com-
petency in all the States. 365 Pages, 106 Illustrations ;
6s. 6d. posted, by L. F. R. SCHNABEL, Consulting
Engineer, 443 Bourke-street, Melbourne. Also, Coles,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney.
The Veterinarian.
.1
'ALWAYS'
GI VES YOl* a
rosa^woMEVi
The 1
Standard
Preparations
of ... .
SALVITIS
RESTORING AND CONSERVING
THE HEALTH OP
Horses
Cattle
Sheep
Pigs
Poultry
Dogs
SHOULD
BE TRIED
Used by Leading Stockowners.
SALVITIS INDEX of DISEASES
To be had of Storekeepers, etc.
Direct Agents for New South Wales —
E. RICH & COnPANY, Ltd., SYDNEY
Glorious Rains at Last!
More Hopeful Prospects.
Now that the drought really appears to have
brokon, and prospects seem more hopeful, you
will feel inclined to invest in a Waterproof or
Oilskin Coat. In which case, post your orders to
Charles Gilbert, the Specialist in Men’s Wear,
Queen-street, Brisbane, whose values in these
goods are notoriously the best in the Common-
wealth. All coats guaranteed Waterproof, with
sewn and taped seams, at 215., 255., 30s. to 50s.
Oilskins, 15s. 6d., 17s. 6d., 225. 6d. (leather-bound
and double-lined). Carriage paid to any address.
Send a trial order to-day for anything in Men’s
Wear.
THE BULLETIN STOKY BOOK:
Price 4s 6d, postage 6d.
Missing Friends.
IF CEORCE KENNEDY (son of GEORGE and MARGARET
KENNEDY), formerly of Ararat, Victoria, will
communicate with the undersigned, he will hear of some-
thing to his advantage.
If dead, his representatives should communicate
Any information acceptable.
r. j. McCullough,
Solicitor, Barcaldine,
QUEENSLAND.
Local Government.
Queensland Local Government Act, which comes
“to force at the end of this month, is a measure
which N.S.W. would do well to copy at once.
1 here is no more important and pressing publio
question, for it must accompany, if not anticipate,
that rigorous financial reform which necessity will
soon impose on the Owe State. Whilst small local
undertakings a,re carried out and administered bya
central authority, prompted by agents whose Par-
liamentary interests urge them to consider rather
the gratification of their constituents than the
safeguarding of the public purse, there will be
necessarily great extravagance in carrying out
useful works, and still greater waste in the under-
taking of works not useful except as excuses for
spending money. Whilst, too, in those areas
where municipal institutions exist, local Govern-
ment is hampered and restricted by the State
Government, there will be serious discourage-
ment to the growth of “municipal socialism”
which has tended so much to economical industrial
development in other countries. The Queensland
Act is altogether an admirable one, and shows
that good can come out of Philp and Nazareth.
In the first instance it gives the widest powers to
extend local Government. The Governor in
Council may proclaim any area a town
or shire, unite any two areas under one
municipal government, and divide or vary any
area for the purpose of local government. Muni-
cipal areas thus created are to be governed by
Councils, for membership of which every male
adult ratepayer is eligible. The franchise condi-
tions are liberal: Every ratepayer (owner or
occupier) has one vote ; if the property which he
owns or occupies exceeds in value £soo* two votes ;
if it exceeds in value £lOOO, three votes. The rate
assessments are to be on the unimproved land
value. Very wide powers are given to the local
authority : it may accept gifts or inheritances to
hold them in trust for the people for any public
purpose, except that of religious worship ; and
enterprises and works which it may control com-
prise—
Aqueducts, baths, bores, bridges, canals, cemeteries,
crematories, dams, electrical works, experimental farms,
ferries, fire stations, flood gates and Hood warnings,
fords, gas works, gravel and sand pits, gymnasiums,
works for conservation of hydraulic and other power,
jetties, landing places, libraries, locks, markets, museums,
offices, parks, appliances for the destruction or preven-
tion of pests, pounds, public meetings, public music,
pumps, quays, quarries, recreation grounds, reservoirs,
roads, rubbish depots, sewage farms, disposal works and
depots, septi ■ tanks, slaughter-houses, sewers, viaducts,
wash-houses, watercourses, waterworks, wharves, weigh-
ing-machines, weirs, and wells.
Further, it may join with other local authorities
to jointly acquire and manage any such institu-
tions ; it may also assist, whilst not actually
owning or controlling, libraries, hospitals, schools
of art, and so on, which are not carried on
for private profit. In rating property the local
authority is given express power to tax lands
rented by the Crown from private persons , and to
tax private tramway, gas, electric-lighting, and
hydraulic power companies. When rates are in
arrear it may enter into possession of any lands and
satisfy its claims either by sale or lease. It is a
good, well-devised comprehensive Local Govern-
ment Act, and in 143 printed foolscap pages The
Bulletin cannot find any points for serious criti-
cism. Very advantageously it might, with a few
verbal alterations, be conveyed as a whole, into
the N.S.W. Statute Book—a task that wouldn’t
take a reasonable Parliament a week. But to
propose such a thing, of course, would be “to
insult N.S.W.” and to inflict a grievous wound on
the petty dignity of the State’s politicians—the
dignity which is reminiscent of nothing so much
as a pug-dog rejoicing in the ribbon which
symbolises its fat abasement.
The report of the Vio. Direotor of Education for
*O2 is a long way from being so good and pretty as
it ought. The Cabbage Garden has 257,355 State
scholars enrolled, but only an average daily attend-
ance of 150,939. Of these, 510 per 1000 were boys,
490 girls—an almost unvarying proportion. The
872 private schools in the State taught (or pre-
tended to) 21,812 boys and 25,218 girls—a propor-
tion that suggests that Mary gets more money
spent on her than Tom, either because she keeps
at it later (being thicker in the head) or else
starts earlier (being more precocious). The State
spent £800,232 last year on education, but only
.£565,930 of this went for primary instruction, the
rest being mopped up by administration, build-
ings, retiring allowances, technical schools, and
the University. The report girds once more
at the miserliness and shiftlessness of the
administration: “Many of the teachers’ resi-
dences need repair ’’ ; “an immense amount
of time and energy is wasted in attending to re-
peated and unavailing requests for repairs and
additions to schools ” ; “ the school buildings are
in a woeful state of disrepair ” ; “while education
in Victoria is lacking in efficient organisation,
educational waste, inefficiency and wrongdoing
must continue.” The final paragraph of this re-
port is a scarifying indictment of Parliamentary
neglect. “A peculiarly bad form of the wretched
and discredited pupil-teacher system has had full
scope, and of late years beneath the depth of pupil-
teacherdom there has existed the lower depth of
the monitor. Overworked, inefficiently taught
and over-examined, there is no wonder that the
pupil teacher becomes the merest artisan.”
Finally, “It will be found the truest economy to
spend time and thought and money on a system
of efficient training of teachers.” To which this
paper says a solemn Amen.
*
“ D.” writes
One of the worst prognostics for Victoria’s future is that
at present it has hardly any, if any, sowers of rebellion/
No country without a reasonable infusion of the spirit of
disobedience is worth a jot as a man-producer—that is, a
nation-producer. Even the old, scattered appeals to
declare our indipindince ’’ have cleared out for the West
or Africa or the back-street pub. ; while the voice of the
Jos. Symes is now all but inaudible in the land. The man
that wants to start a revolution ; the man that
wants to smash up the churches; the man who in-
veighs against the existence of squatters and is ready
to “ make one ” to settle that business ; the man who
gets disguoted with constitutional ineptitude, and wants
to rig up a secret society of Carbonari, or something ;
the enemy of closed roads and second-class carriages and
caste distinctions and feudal privileges ; the abolisher of
landlords and inheritance, and mayors’ balls and vice-
regal levees ; the poet who kicks over Mrs. Grundy’s
traces in moral problems ; the artist of every feather who
takes a delight in shocking the community by writing or
painting or graving or singing or acting the plain
brutal truth occasionally-—all these, the salt of
every community, seem to have departed from Victoria
and left her tasteless, the fit prey of palateless ’Pootras,
and worminess of every brand of wriggle. Give us our
rebels, ye gods, and let who will make our laws ! It is
posterity’s fate that affrights one. Fancy a posterity
whose political, social, artistic, and religious ideals
are being framed, without any serious opposition,
on ’Pootric counting-house lines, on suburban mayoral
lines, and on Simultaneous Mission or Minjster-
of-Lands-cum-Sunday-School-Teacher lines. One seems
to look down a fearfully regular vista of exotic
trees, interspersed with aproned statues and the
hideous petrified dreams of greasy loyalty, along which
landed magnates drive secure while spiritless men doff
their hats to them, and soapy poets make the air sickly
with loathly flatteries. A weary land truly, full of
marshes where all the rank growths of weedy and diseased
civilisation fester luxuriantly, where the ideals of the
strongest Upper House in the world sway undisputed,
where the divorce court will be the only supplier of
romance, the church peculation the only excitement—a
land of impeccable respectability without a rebel and,
therefore, without a man !
One woman with Sunlight Soap
will do quicker work than two
women with common soap.
SUNLIGHT
SOHP
REDUCES
EXPENSE
[ ' •’ “ - - ... v- • V--
'mm*-
> •.
fT
CORSETS
The Recognised Standard
High-Class Corsets
LATEST SPECIALTY
STRAIGHT FRONT
—hi ni hi r■■ iiim————■w—■
HOUVELLE FORM
Obtainable from Leading
Drapers Everywhere.
Avoid Inferior Imitations, and see that
■each pair bears the Manufacturer’s “Trade
Mark ” on band inside, as above.


Banking, Public Companies, Ac.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.-
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
$
&
4P
&
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
axr.s.-w.
|UontdepieteO.»ll.CoM CM-
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
rjA CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
1 SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
—THE-
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - ' 106 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Robhrts
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,595,870.
Policies issued 88,299- assuring £26,826,380.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,/67,U5.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—eauitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE*
LESLIE J. BARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
The Bank of north Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director-JAMES BURNS, Esq.
M J.T Canny. (Messrs. Burns. Philp &Co Ltd)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL - - *700,0W
Capital Paid-up ...£100,090
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders •• 250 900 ... *,3SU,WW
The
XLU V CLX
LIMITED.
f’APTTAU PAID-UP .. £456,927
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS
RESERVE FUN D (Invested in Government Stock; 58,0uu
£691,166
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst Mngr. W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
Id Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Royal Bank of Queensland
J LIMITED. ntyr
Queensland Smelting (Jompg.
** (LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
•DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
X 3 Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, the Branch
Office, 54 Market-street. Melbourne, or IRWIN HINDS,
Branch Manager, 6 Spring-street, Sydney.
The savings bank
HAS MONEY TO LEND in VICTORIA
at 41 per cent., in sums of £5OO to £15,000, on Town
Properties ; and £2OOO to £25,000 on BROAD ACRES
FOR FIVE YEARS, with option of paying off part
half-yearly.
FARMERS’ CREDIT FONCIER.
Loans from £5O to £2OOO at 4J per cent, for 31J years.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
29 Market-street, Melbourne.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors —Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Go.), Hon. John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessof, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farouhar. J. J.ALLEN, General Manager for Australia
l3l Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per oent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. . ■ £2,500,000^
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) ... ... £9576 13 4
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grioe, Esq. ;
O. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager
Our No. 56 ACETYLENE GAS Catalogue
3 the MOST COMPLETE
and COMPREHENSIVE
ever issued.
Tells all about the Best
ACETYLENE CAS GENER-
ATORS, LAMPS, and
everything in connection
with ACETYLENE.
Nearly 400 of our
Reliable Automatic
Acetylene Cas
Generators
in daily use.
Large Slocks of the
Best
Carbide
of Calcium
Quotations on application.
James MARTIN & CO.,
161 Clarence Street,
Nr. King-st., Sydney.
Shipping.
IST. D. L.
(NORD-DLLTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin-screw steamer.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
Interstate First-Class Return Tickets are now available
for Return by the Steamers of the P. and 0., Orient
Pacific, or M.M. Co.’s.
TO SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. TANGLIIM. let APRIL.
And Regularly Every 6 Weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents.
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
TN€ AB€RP€€N UN€.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
•MORAVIAN
AUSTRALASIAN..
SOPHOCLES
A. Simpson
T. F. Spalding ..
H. A. Schleman
Noon, April 10
Noon, May 1
Noon, May 22
•Calling at Hobart.
FARES:
, , . «« “S, <*.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £l2O.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standar .
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
agents.
Huddart, Parker & Co’s tine
MELROUItNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND POUTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
A.3XTI3
A
via
San Francisco,
California.
LINE
FASTEST AND BEST
ROUTE
TO
ENGLAND,
Via America and Canada*
Unrivalled Position in LONDON
(England),
The Langham Hotel
PORTLAND PLACE
And REGENT STREET, LONDON, W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality,
ilodern Appointments. Moderate Tariff.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS- TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. KILDA.
rrHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
i- Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
J-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
ZferEtuLet 2lLgluPsi
'EC&G.LLirty JiifanU
TRY l 7 \
RIDGES
FOOD
Refuse a///msfaf/ons *
Satisfying. Strengthening Soothing for Infanta
Agreeable. Digestible, Nourishing
AGEAfES EOR SYDA/EY.
SAYERS ALLPORE 6e POTTER?
RIDGES FOOD MILLS. LONDON. Emc
Publications.
Irrigation in Queensland
ANO OTHER AUSTRALIAN STATES.
By PERCY C. SMITH, C. E.
5/-. POSTED 5/6.
WATSON, FERGUSON & Co-, BRISBANE.
AND ALL BOOKSELLERS.
PERSONAL
In the Estate of ROBERT BRENT, late of
Woodbury, in the County of Devon, Eng-
land, Doctor of Medicine, deceased.
Francis Frederick brent, Com-
mission Agent, who left Hobart, Tasmania,
on or about 19th November, 1901, is requested to
communicate with the undersigned, who have
news of great advantage and importance to him-
self, as his share in the above estate is now payable
to him.
Information respecting his whereabouts is
urgently desired.
BUTLER, McINTYKE & BUTLER,
» Solicitors,
Murray Street, Hobart, Tasmania.
THE GREAT
/ OVERSEA \
\ OVERLAND /
HIGHWAY
TO THE UNITED KINGDOM,
Via NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH SEAS, and AMERICA.
The NEWEST, LARGEST (6000 Tons each), FASTEST,
and ONLY TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS engaged m
the TRANS-PACIFIC PASSENGER SERVICE from
Australia and New Zealand.
Round the World Itineraries compiled.
OCEANIC STEA MS HIE CO., LTV.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Managing Agents,
Pitt and Bridge Sts. SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
Admitted by Everyone as the
Finest Monte to Europe.
Crossing Canada in Summer with
Choice of Rail or Steamer Route on
the Great Lakes*
CHEAPEST ROUTE TO LONDON.
STEAMERS SAIL—
March 23, April 20, May 18.
Illustrated Guide-Books Free on Application.
UNION BTEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
Medical.
ROSE’S CELEBRATED
Eye Lotion.
Sold Everywhere.
TAKE ONTO OTHER.
Free for Asking.
WRITE to us and we will forward you our scientific
book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong and Vigorous— the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magic, and you will be filled with energy,
strength and ambition once more. Posted free. Write’
to G. Specific, Elizabeth Street, North Melbourne.
Hygienic Water Filters
AVOID TYPHOID, ILL-HEALTH, and DISEASE
BY USING OUR
Hygienic Water Filters
With Rubber Attachment to fit any Top.
THE CHARCOAL AND SILEX
which these Filters contain is the very
Best Water Purifier Known to Scientists as it
Removes all Germs and other Impurities.
When ordering mention size of tap in use.
PRICE : LARGE MEDIUM POST
SI2E.M., SIZE, pa!D.
Agents—VICTORIA: WARTZKI, FREEDMAN and CO
GEELONG, VIC.
Agent- QUEENSLAND : ARTHUR BRAY,
92 EAGLE ST.,’ BRISBANE
Agent-TASMANIA : WERTHEIMER, BENJAMIN and
ANDERSON, HOBART and LAUNCESTON
Agent—SOUTH AUSTRALIA : AUSTRALIAN TRADTNI
AGENCY, GENDERS BUILDING, ADELAIDE
Anent-N.S.W. : ANTHONY HORDERN and SONS-
HOLDSWOR *H, MACPHERSON & CO., SYDNEY
and all Hardware and Ironmongery Stores, ’
If not obtainable at your Storekeeper, send to
Sole Agent, Australasia
J. LANDES, 108 Pitt St., Sydney.
At Dawn and Dusk:
By V - J- Daley. In handsome cloth,
with portrait. Price 55. ; postage, 4d
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOB MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANOE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping’ab Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Allinga,
Friday, March 20
(To Melbourne Only).
S.S. Marloo,
Saturday, March 28.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oatrns
S.S. Buninyont;, Friday,
March 20.
S.S. AUinsra, Frid., March 27.
S.S. Warrego, Sat., April 4.
Jtest and Cheapest lloute to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are Interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PAND COMPANY’S
■ ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by Orient-Pacific, Messageries
Mari times and N.D.L. Steamers having room.
A. GORDON WESCHE,
63 Pitt-street. Acting Agent.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE. FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows:
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meal)
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
State Ports are available for return by P. and 0.,
Orient Pacific and N.D.L. steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Ollices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydnev.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
MANILA, CHINA,
t . . BY THE . .
“ E. AND A.”
JAPAN,
LINE.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Steamer.
Tns [ Commander. |LeaveSydney.
EMPIRE .. 4500 W. G. McArthur. . April 15
♦EASTERN . 3600 Winthrop Ellis ..May 13
AUSTRALIAN .. 3000 P. T. Helms .. June 10
EMPIRE .. 450') YV'. G. McArthur.. July 8
♦Does not call at Port Darwin.
EVERY CONVENIENCE FOR A TROPICAL VOYAGE.
The Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Europe via Canada,
U.S. America, or the Trans-Siberian Railway.
Forhandbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.,
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-st., Sydney.
OR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
rNLORODYME.
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp tlia name
of the Inventor—•
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
IHE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS jt
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad witli me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large num her of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation. u
ornamental hair.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6(1 to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers a. Wigmakers.
kend to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
15?” Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to
any Part of Australasia
CRAIG & AITKEW,
N.S.W. Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 George Street, Sydney.
GENTS.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address. —L.D.l., 300 Colli.ij Si., MsJjjyjna


Cunoii B that lawyers Gillott and-Snowden
of Melbourne one-time partners in the Gillott’
Croker and Snowden legal firm, should have
entered politics late m life, one the Upper the
other the Lower House ; both have gone, after
middle age, into the Melbourne Cornoratim,
both have been knighted. Sam Gilfott, with his
pubs, and other house property, i s b y far the
wealthier of the pair, but Snowden, who look,
after the pence and leaves the pounds to aecun.u
late, is likewise well-in. Croker, the middle
member of the original triumvirate, is neither
knight, politician nor pub.-owner. The mem
word “corporation ” sets him shuddering. Croker
is the lawyer beautiful, with a waist, and clothed
in supernal frock-coat.
LittdeDr. Maloney, the invincible battler
of Vic. Assembly, came up once again, the other
night, with his pet measure for the legitimation
of the unlawful child, and got the House to mss
it, or something remotely resembling it for the
fourth, time The little doctor always goes for a
heap more than he is likely to get, and his Legi-
timation Bill makes no conventional stipulation
for the marriage of the parents, but he alwavs
resigns himself at the outset to having the whole
of Ins clauses struck out and others put in to com
promise matters with Mrs. Grundy. The onlv
portions of the Bill as it eventually stands which
are attributable to Dr. Maloney are the title and
preamble Even then the measure gets bundled
on to the Legislative Council dust-heap at the end
of the session.
The Christian Herald, an English re-
ligious publication, has the following paragraph
in one of its pages m the November (1902) issue •
The prayers of the readers of this journal are requested
for the blessing of God upon those who conduct it and
also upon the sermons and narratives which are printed
On the next page the religious journal expects its
readers to swallow the following “narrative” •
Because of the difficulty of getting good domestic 'ser-
vants, a Florida planter has trained a chimpanzee to wait
at table and do other housework. The ape wears regular
livery, and goes about his business with a serviette
tucked under his arm in a most methodical manner But
he is an incorrigible thief, stuffs his pockets full of nuts
and fruit served at dessert, and puts his tongue when-
ever he has the chance, into all the sweet dishes.
Accompanying the narrative ’is an illustration
of a demoniacal and misbegotten object in livery
standing by the dinner table on two huge hairy
feet, with a. plate of soup in one paw and a serviette
in the other. It looks like a cross between a
fraudulent solicitor and a lost soul, and it is
looking at the soup with an expression of hatred
that no Christian paper should publish.
COVft *' Someone Professes to have dis
bands r UBIC aUayB paiu ’ and BU ggests that
doi sooth mtroduced ,nt o hospitals. Musi,
not soo !n° me Patl6ntS ’ but certainly does
or bona H SB from nerv °us complaints
.year or two'amTwith a ?| ydl ? e ? Hospital a
ioint T onffo 'j 1 . acute arthritis in left knee-
when a rl eda PT 3for^ho ur, twice a week
street. Several otht nfi' pl t ay \ n^ ln Macquarie:
perience 4 litH ,^ r P atlenta had a similar ex-
periostitis 11k nexfc to me suffering from
“That mu sir* J on ® leg amputated, used to say:
healtfy “er Ves and my PatieDt3 with
the nf ’• r d - en nurses > used to laugh at
'SE.'£? °“' B '» *»
sistance 1 to k p//sf t £ e •trenuoug re-
Act? Like the Nswfi* S e nP t . lsh ooftl Mines Reg.
a minimum of 100 ft o/air he Brltl . sh Act stipulates for
horse and hn» iv.' of . air P er minute for every man,
inspector measurinlrtflOf?“• the fact of the Govt -
guaranteeThT2o^S f lVe l ret r t in n , a r^ ain airWa / i 8 no
tity. The brafHoo a getting the required quan-
face, but L that rtWh lh i 3y be kept well U P to the coal
air scahng throueh iA 8 • Btr °"g en ough » Prevent
li hem r<*d • rou g" *t • Again : the volume of eases
ideal ln f prop ? rt . lon fco the output of coal. In an
some rai?o?o at ‘» n the volume of air would bear
required minimnm°? 8 r 0 ir COal raised ’ in Edition to the
ner ton of say, from 150 ft. per minute
very fiery mWs The o' - ?° n ' fiery u mine3 *> 850 ft for
«F»1 er y “m®*. The contention that the safetv-lamn
firsts tbe Jrauze to a VSSeSi?
reneU rv. Wh ", • air travels at such a high velocity
Surinam™ W ° f r u kl 'i? fa ° es - is an undeserved stigma on
test h of 1 non the which have stood a
the flam Bec ° nd >. 6 ?ooft. per minute, without
wsthlfl,!' Certainly the original Davy lamp
Fmvff h h fl 6 1 a very low velocity. But who would
railway/ l! a f nS ’ USeful as , they hav e been, now that
railwajs span the continent? Pure air can never be
hlFwe m V llneS or ofcher enclosed spaces ; still (although
ooniK erS ° f gas may exude from the coal at a pressure of
ventilathm T™ inCh) With ° Ur P"“«* LESS?. of
shrnild nFFhe th 18 i n °- reason Why the air in mmes
should not be as good as in' The Bulletin office. Atmos-
C h O-2 ('olrV^ >nt fr nS ?? avera p amount of 'O4 per cent, of
after df™ d ‘°xide, carbonic acid gas, black damp,
after damp, etc.) ; recent experiments reveal *7B per
cent, present in ordinary mines, and 275 per cent in
badly-ventilated mines. And one per cent, of this gas
causes shortness of breath ; 10 per cent.—death. g
“ Collier’s black lung,” it may be explained, is the
coating of the inner surface of the lungs with
coal-dust. In some bad cases there is partial
solidification of the lung tissue. The disease, due
to bad ventilation of mines, is rarely found in an
extreme form in Australia.
QUEENSLAND GOVERNfIENT.
Issue of £600,000 Treasury Bills.
PRICE OF ISSUE, £lO2.
invites APPLTCATIOKS Jaw’ t . hro^ h J the . Queensland National E.mk Limited,
. A* . the at a tlxed price of £lO2, of £600,000 TREASURY
RILLS, bearing interest at the rate of Four (4) Per Cent, per annum.
Six months interest will be payable on the Ist July, 1903. Princinal and all interest will be
payable, free of exchange, in Queensland, Sydney, Melbourne, or Adelaide P
Tt6as “ ry BillS iS e ““ pted ,r °" “ d “
at - lU b , e Tf iv f n vP r ” sp ® c t.uses may be obtained, and applications will be received
“ d a " d the »**—' B “ k <*
™ e ,y ST of , will be closed on or before TUESDAY, the 31st MARCH, 1903.
the treasury, Brisbane, 18th February.
21/-
wm
ajs
21/-
MOST MARVELLOUS VALUE
A SOLID SILYER KEYLESS
Hunting Watch.
Heavy Case, Sound Movement,
Perfect Timekeeper. . . . . •
GUARANTEED FOR TWO YEARS.
21 j-
Posted Duty Free to any part of Australia.
Send for my New Illustrated Catalogue.
QUEENSLAND LEADING JEWELLER
H. F. SMITH,
Queen Street, Brisbane
and at IPSWICH and TOOWOOMBA.
ROB ROY pens
Hinks, Wells & Co.--beg to draw attention to this new series of
turned up pointed and other pens, made of the same material, by the
same tools by the same process and at the same works, as the well
known series of Waverley Pens, which Hinks, Wells & Co. have for
30 years and upwards (prior to September 1901), manufactured for
and supplied to the proprietors thereof.
in
Sold by all
Stationers in 18
varieties in
6d., Is. & gross boxes.
HINKS, WELLS & CO., Birmingham, England.
That Bald Patch will get larger
if you don’t do something.
£? GAPILLA HAIR TONIC
All Chemists, 2s. 6d. per bottle.
SORE
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT <
FOR SORE AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
restores eyelashes-
a CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES.
IMEIVEIR RAILS.
Ask your Chemist fop the Little Book:
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
CURED
THE DEAF HEAR.
Deaf persons need no longer despair. Out of the mass of failures has come a
genuine success. Head noises can be cured and the deaf made to hear so
effectively that they wonder if they really were deaf. Particulars of a startling
discovery, based upon the science of Metallic Galvanic Electricity, that will
assist all persons suffering from deafness, fully described.
By sending vour name and address to THE L. R. VERNON CO., 60-64 Hunter-st., Sydney, you
will receive a full description of this remarkable method, which will enable you to restore your
Hearing at a very slight expense. The description is posted to you free, and you will be delighted to learn how
easily you can obtain relief. It will pay you to write to-day. Don’t neglect to do so.
HARLENE
EDWARDS'
FOR
THE
f
A
THE GREAT
HAIR PRODUCER
AND RESTORER.
The Very Finest Dressing:, Specially
Prepared and Delicately Perfumed
for the Toilet.
“HARUENE”
Produoos Luxuriant Hair, Prevents Its Falling
Off or Turning Grey.
UNEQUALLED FOB PROMOTING THE GROWTH OF
THE BEARD AND MOUSTACHE.
THE RENOWNED
REMEDY FOR BALDNESS.
For Preferring, Strengthening, anil Rendering the Hair Beautifully Soft; for Removing Scurf, Dandruff 4c. also for
RESTORING GREY HAIR TO ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
CHARLENE’ 1 PRESERVES, STRENGTHENS, AND INVIGORATES CHILDREN’S HAIR.
Full description and directions Jor use in 20 languages supplied with every bottle.
1/., 2/6 and (triple 2/6 size/ 4/6 per Bottle from Druggists &c., all over the World.
“HARLENE” Co., High Holborn, LONDON, ENGLAND.
WITH GREENER BOLT AS DRAWN, THE “ WARATAH,
SO -
WITHOUT GREENER BOLT, THE “ WONGA,
50/-
BAR LOCKS.
Left Barrel Full Choke
Right Barrel Cylinder Bore.
i or accurate and close shooting this gun cannot be surpassed, made of Best
Jaterials, and equal in finish and workmanship to guns of three times the
, ( n . c f e \ barrels are Browned Twist, carrying a high polish. BAR LOCKS, Treble
soit, half-pistol hand. Hammers are well down out of the line of sight. Vulcanite
iee -plate on best selected polished walnut stock. We will supply one or fifty of these guns to anybody. We
iav e only one pnce. Send your P. 0.0, with orders to—
CARRIAGE PAID.
T. TOMBLESON, Manager.
Sydney Small Arms Co.
57 P O. Chambers,
Pitt-st. f Sydney.
= High-Class Smoking Mixture
If
HAS NO EQUAL IN QUALITY.
MILO. MEDIUM. FULL.
In J-lb. AIR-TIGHT TINS.
Dr. J. A. AUSTIN writes : “ After a long- and fruitless quest for an ideal smoking mixture, I have at
last alighted on the famous * ARDATH,’ which is perfectly free from the crudeness and asperities of inferior
tobacco so injurious to the heart and nerves, and renders smoking a harmless luxury/*
Obtainable of all Leading Tobacconists.
Sole Manufacturers : ARDATH TOBACCO CO., 44 Worship Street, London, England.
J. BARTRAM & SON,
34 & 36 Market Street, Sydney
(Corner of
Clarence Street)
19, 21, 23 King Street, Mlelbourne.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES ....
The ENGLISH DE LAVAL STEAM TURBINE CO. LTD., Leeds.
Makers of Steam Turbines, Turbine Dynamos, Turbine Pumps, Turbine Fans.
(Over 80,000 Horse-power in use.)
Messrs. GREENWOOD & BATLEY LTD., Albion Works, Leeds.
Machine Toal Manufacturers and Electrical Engineers, Dynamos, Motors, Pumps, etc.
Messrs. CONNOLLY BROS. LTD,, Manchester.
Cables, Wires, Tapes, eto.
The Owl Cut-Rate Drug Co.
Manufacturing and
Dispensing Chemists.
We have special remedies for the correct and effective treatment of Nerve and Blood Diseases. Testi-
monials from all sources proving their efficacy. Write for Printed Price Lists ; they will be mailed free.
NOTICE.—Our ELECTRIC BELT, price 10s., usual price £l, is infallible in the cure of WEAKNESS and
STOMACH DISORDERS. Electricity re-invigo rates the vital nerve sections, governing the processes
of digestion and nutr tion. It effects a sure cure. DR. CLARKSON’S “ RE-INVIGORATOR,” a
VITALISING, NERVE, BRAIN, MUSCLE, and BLOOD STIMULANT. We still offer £lOO for
any case we cannot cure. Price, 7s. 6d. per bottle. Three bottles, £l. Post Free to all parts of
Australia.
Pyramid Pile Cure.— A certain remedy.
Fincham’s Face Bleach.— Clears the skin from Spots, Redness, Roughness, Freckles, Tan,
Sunburn. &c. Invaluable for Use in the country.
Fincham’s Infallible Worm Powders. —Specially suitable for children. A certain cure for
worms.
Fincham’s Celebrated Pectoral “Cough I Cure.”— lnvaluable for children. A Reliable
Remedy for Croup, Asthma, Whooping Cough, and all Throat and Lung Affections.
Fincham’s “Gout and Rheumatic Cure.”— Takes certain effect in cases of Acute Lumbago,
Sciatica, Lame Back, Headache, Shoulder and Muscular Pains.
Dr. Hughes’ “Fits Epilep.”— A certain remedy for Epilepsy and Fits in all forms.
Dr. Wilson’s “Neuralgia Mixture.”— One Dose Relieves, One Bottle Cures the most
agonising Face Neuralgia.
Fincham’s “ Capiline.”— A Nursery Hair-Wash for Children’s Heads. Unsurpassed. One Bottle
Sufficient.
All these Invaluable Remedies will be posted to any Australian address, securely
from breakage, on application to—
Note the Address : THE OWL CUT-RATE DRUG CO.,
C. P. FINCHAM, Pharmaceutical Chemist. 227 ELIZABETH ST., Opp. Hyde Park, SYDNEY.


FACILE PRINCEPS.
SEMPER !ObM
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
That cyclists throughout the Commonwealth
know a good thing when they see it is evident by the
great rush the Dunlop Tyre Co. are having tor their new
patented Vulcanised Dunlop cover. Over 4000 of their
grand wearing and speedy tyres are now turned out of
the Dunlop mills weekly, and then the supply does not
meet the demand. Cyclists should beware of imitations
being foisted upon ' them. None genuine without
“ Dunlop ” trade mark.* *
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The late Frank Kuhn was a smart jockey and a
smarter tactician. His Metropolitan victory on San Fran
was the result of wise forethought in preparing a clear
ran for the gee-gee. So many of the boys were “ a hit to
nothing ” on San that when Kuhn wanted to get through
from the ruck he had only to give the word “ I’m
coming!” It worked like a charm. “ He’s coming !” was
the signal for every well-wisher to pull aside and let the
conquering hero pass. The story goes on to say that a
few days after the race a hoy who hadn’t been considered
worth fixing, was in conversation with one of the “ He’s
coming ” crowd, when Kuhn put a couple of tenners into
the hand of the latter. “ What did Frank give you that
for?” asked boy No. 1* “For pulling out of San Fran’s
way," was the reply. “ Holy Saviour I” said the neglected
genius, “ I’d ’ave pulled my blanky horse up for twenty
pounds."
••, • *
Died last week at Sydney crack jockey Kuhn.
A victim to the deadly “pea” rifle, he was within a
month of 22, and ranked among the continent’s best
riders of recent years. Said that Kuhn left considerable
money and property—in fact, on the morning of the day
of his death (Newmarket settling day), ’tis said he col-
lected a big sum on account of Chantress’ success in the
Newmarket—she was ridden by the dead jockey’s
brother, L. Kuhn. At 14 Frank Kuhn began riding
ponies and soon topped all others at the game. Subse-
quently he joined Payten’s stable and did as well among
horses. He was one of the first Australians to adopt the
“ Tod Sloan " method.
# * * •
Independence won a race at Caulfield for book-
maker Sol. Green, which was only what might have been
expected of the flyer that chased Chantress home in the
Newmarket. Independence at 8.5 was a good thing on
paper, and yet the public backed comparative commoners
in preference to this first-class filly, forgetting that
bookmakers’ cattle run about as honestly as other people’s
when the real owner’s name appears on the card.
Independence, by Wallace —Elsie, is not unlikely to
mature into a stayer.
• • • •
“Prad”: Following is told concerning sensa-
sation (Great Scot) of last V.R O. meet. His grand-
mother, Ave Maria, had missed two seasons and, at 23,
her owner, W. J. Dangar, of Neotsfield, ordered an over-
seer to destroy her and another. The overseer, sooner
than shoot, bought the two for £1 each, and afterwards
discovered Ave Maria to be in foal to Clan Stuart. The
foal was a filly, subsequently named Scotch Mary—the
dam of Gree t Scot.
• • * *
“Tenax”: After all, what won the New-
market? Photo, of the finish in the Australasian,
taken apparently from behind the judge’s box, shows
Independence (next the judge) first, and the paper names
her Chantress, hut Chantress was on the rails. In Punch
they are correctly named, and Independence is just pass-
ing the post a neck ahead
* • • •
A fancied nag for Doncaster—Mr. Frank Foy’s
Ban Ceontha—shaped well, Saturday, in Warwick Farm
Flying Handicap (6 fur.). Lining up 8 and 10 to 1 with
6.7 in the saddle, she shot ou(, winning brilliantly, and as
if extra 2 furlongs of Doncaster mile would be more to her
liking. Mare’s weight in this race was only 21b. less than
what shell have to hump in the bigger thing, and she
shaped as if considerable improvement were possible, for
which there s plenty of time. Ban Ceontha is by His
Reverence (imp) from Gift of the Gab, and takes the eye
welL 9
• • * »
Turf scribes and others who contended that
Advance could have gathered Wellington Cup with
.another stone up must have experienced a big set back
when he finished fifth in Wanganui Cup, humping the
record burden of 11.3 ; and ’twas plainly the weight that
-stopped him. Winner (Mars) is 12 years old.
- * » » •
A.J.C. stipendiary stewards are amusing.
Atop of other vagaries they “carpeted” all connections
if-the Newcastle sprinter, The Shock, Saturday last,
jdter the nag had made a bold bid (well-hacked) for Flying
Handicap, and, later, appropriated Farm Stakes from a
lot of moderates. What prompted the action puzzled all
judges looking on. Stable explanation of alleged “incon-
sistent” running was “ accepted ” ; how could it be other-
wise, when there was nothing to explain i Heaps of other
glaring things were allowed to go unnoticed during the
afternoon —some in events The Shock contested.
• * « *
Winner (Peerlike) of Warwick Farm Handicap,
Saturday, is syrs. old, by The Australian Peer from Sol-
stice, by Grandmaster from Sunray, and a whopper. Six
furlongs from the post he' was in front, and, despite
Marathon, never lost ground once. Same nag appro-
priated half-a-dozen races in northern N.S.W. last season,
and as Saturday’s time (2.17 J for lin. 2Jfur.) was fast, and
he is sure to improve, there should be money in watching
his future.
• * * *
Wootton had a big dose of ill-luck at Warwick
Farm on Saturday, when, in different races, his Euston,
Marathon, and Incision (each heavily invested upon) ran
good seconds. Last-named has cost the stable stacks of
coin, for, though shaping well enough on the track to lick
almost anything, he invariably “cuts it” pronouncedly
with the colors up. After Incision’s showing at Canter-
bury three weeks ago, Wootton swore the nag would
carry no more of his money. He is probably sorry now
that he changed his mind, and so are many punters.
• • * •
Prize money for V.R.C. Autumn meet was
£389 less than that for same gathering last year, but
added money was a little more. Smaller fields lessened
the sweepstakes. Of £14,657 given, Sydney trained nags
scooped £4903.
* * * •
“Elmore”: How long some horses last. At
Miepoll (Vic.), t’other day (25/2/’O3), old Grandlight,
foaled away back in the seventies, won a four furlong
race in 55sec. from five others. He was ridden by another
old-timer in “ Bob ” Taylor, who has been riding now for
35 years. Owner of Grandlight keeps him in condition
between the shafts of a creamery cart when he isn’t
racing.
• • • *
“ Humber ” : The League people did a bare-
faced thing over the semi-final of the “Thousand” run
last Saturday. When half the race was over it was pain-
fully evident that the back-markers, including the star
attraction, Major Taylor, were quite out of it. The back
division, owing to some misunderstanding or something
else, allowed the limit men to get a long, uncatchable
lead, and the horrified officials realised that the black
champion would not start in the final of the big event.
So they promptly called it no . race, and, better still,
instead of immediately re-running the heat, put it in on
Monday’s programme as an additional draw. The official
reason for annulling the heat was that “ the back division
did not do their share of the pacing.” A beautiful theory,
truly 1 Why on earth should the winning division
be penalised because of the want of judgment of their
opponents. Briefly, the handicapped men are in this
position : If the back-markers don’t catch up to them the
race is declared off; if they do catch up, the limit men
haven’t much chance to win. Naturally, they can’t keep
■ahead when racing level, or they would not be allowed
hundreds of yards start in the first place. N.S.W. profes-
sional cycling has witnessed some funny catchpenny
methods, but surely the public’s collective leg was never
80 merrily pulled as on this occasion.
• • » *
“Butta”: Monday night’s cycling capped
the record of bungles and other things. The back-
markers in the semi-final of the big money wouldn’t pace
worth a cent, with the result that Taylor was beaten.
And the public hooted as only those taken-in can hoot.
It was the most disgraceful bit of sport ever seen in
Sydney. Taylor’s re-run heat was obviously thrown away
by trying to make his own pace—he burst himself and
couldn’t sprint at the finish. If the officials want to
impart “fairness,” the whole of the back-markers, bar
Taylor, in the semi-final should have been wiped out for
life. At any rate, the riders have shown their cronk
hand, and the public should grip the proffered paw with
a will,
* m 9 m
J'he real facts of the no-race incident in the
ney Thousand seem to be that the referee had good
reason to believe, by the way the back-markers reso-
lutely refrained from making any pace, that there was a
sort of conspiracy to keep the money in the country.
Taylor had overtaken the back-markers, therefore they
considered they had no more chance, and they were not
going to burst their aggregate boiler to help him bridge the
gap between them and the men in front. Without their
assistance it was practically impossible for h'™ to . °'' e F"
take the long starters, and the referee decided that it
was no race. The race was ordered to be run off
on Monday night, and when Monday night came
the back-markers refused to make any arrangement
with Taylor as to pacing, and the League does not
seem to have taken any steps to have put on pacers. At
the start Taylor overtook the back men and then went on
in a desperate effort to overtake the front starters with-
out any pacing at all. He succeeded in getting into the
front bunch, but in an exhausted state. Immediately he
dashed on, the back-markers paced one another along so
well that Morgan (10 yards—Taylor was four) was able to
flash to the front and win from Simon and Thorn,
120 and 80 yards men respectively. It was good tactics,
but it was certainly not sport, and merely a low-down
trick to keep the best man from winning. An ugly com-
plexion is put on the matter by Taylor’s statement that
he could have bought the chance to win, but wouldn’t.
* * * *
“Sprocket”: That wonderful jump by which
Major Taylor snatches so many races out of the fire is
a trick our “ wheelers” must learn if they wish to make
a certainty of winning “on the tape.” Bending low, the
darkie seems to grip his bike and fairly throw it along for
a yard or two by some knack of using the arms or
legs which is his own copyright or patent just at pre-
sent. The crack English jockey Fordham had a some-
what similar trick that often gave him a win where even
a top-notch jockey could do no more than secure a dead-
heat. Moving his hands (and what hands they were !)
along his horse’s shoulders, old George seem to be push-
ing his mount along, and then, just as the final stride
was to be made, he would give a quick jerk of shoulders,
arms, and hands that caused the spectators to swear he
fairly “lifted the horse up and threw him in.” Taylor’s
jump is a trick beyond doubt, and a paying one—a trick
that Australian riders should learn to perform while the
performer is still amongst them.
* • * •
At a recent St. Arnaud (Vie.) sports meeting
the old high “ ordinary " and safety bikes competed in
the same race. The rider of a safety machine was leading
when the rider of an "ordinary” spurted near the
winning post; his tyre struck the rising rat-trap pedal of
the safety, the “ordinary” was lifted off the ground,
carried upwards and over the crouching safety rider’s
shoulder, then dropped, landing safely and winning by
three-quarters of a length—at least, so we are told on
good authority.
* • * •
Weather and other things have caused Sydney
Thousand bike carnival to run with anything but the
smoothness of preceding big ventures handled by same
management. “ Other things ” are official bungling, &o.
—very pronounced last Saturday. Amusing to note the
wide disparity ’tween booming Daily Telegraph and
S.M. Herald’s estimates of attendances. D.T. said
Saturday’s assemblage was 15,000 ; Herald put it down at
11,000 —only 4000 difference. This scribe was an onlooker
and doesn’t think the crowd reached within at least 2000
of the Herald’s computation.
• * • •
Like many prominent theatrical people, Major
Taylor pays a professional boxer to have a bout or two
with him every day, and he invariably engages a colored
man. Cape Malay Tom Essler (misnamed “ the Kaffir”)
was with him for a while ; now lathy good-looking Joe
Thomal is the man. Taylor fancies himself some as a
sprinter, and, t’other day, had a cut at crack aboriginal
bowler Marsh, whom he beat; then the latter became
serious, and took his boots off. The top-notch bikist was
never in the second go.
*•• ' *
The Sydney Thousand meeting indicates that
the time is not yet when Sydney can run a bike
handicap to compete with the Austral. The entry
was disappointing, for the Melbourne riders could and
would have come for a £lOO handicap, and the local
riders eligible could have been counted on one hand.
Taylor, as per advt., charged £5OO for his kindness in
starting for the £lOOO, and if his action is to he regarded
as a precedent, Australian cycling has seen the last
attempt to run a colossal handicap for some time to
come. A race can’t he run on the-best-man-wins lines,
when a competitor is starting at £lOO a night. He wants
far too much dry-nursing. It simply can’t be done.
* • • *
“Euroa”: “E.E.” says (B. 21/2/’O3) re “two-
up” that there is no skill in “ headin ’em.” What price
this ? At one of the schools along Melb. wharf I saw a
darkie “ head ’em,” for a bet, nine times out of twelve.
Genuine pennies and an ordinary kip were used—the
other fellow saw to that. Darkie reckoned he could go
oil “ headin ’em” for ever, given level and dusty ground.
By investigating, “ E.E.” will find that, with practice, a
man can easily judge a spin for heads. lam with him as
to the suppression of " two-up,” because of the blasphemy
it causes. Nothing else on this profane earth can swear
quite like a two-up school.
*-* • *
The high-jumping at the March show in Ade-
laide brought out two geldinirs from Fitzgeralds’ circus.
One of them, Newhaven, was the first to fail, at 4ft. 7in.,
the other, Stockman, won at sft. 4in. In an exhibition
jump just afterwards Newhaven cleared 6ft. Two local
mares, Lubra and Brooklass, have always divided this
event before. In Sept., 1900, they both cleared 6ft.
• • • *
The League of Wheelmen in S.A. considers
itself very badly treated by the local Cricket Association.
The City Oval, under the latter’s control, is by far the
best ground in Adelaide for either cycling or cricket, and
the League booked it for Major Taylor’s appearance on
March 28th. Just then P. F. Warner wired for it on the same
date. The S.A.C.A. had four courses open to it, short of
losing the English visit altogether : to alter the League's
date, to alter Warner’s, to play cricket without a Satur-
day’s gate, or to have the match somewhere else. The
first two proved impossible, the third was financially not
good enough, and the fourth was thought unfair, as get-
ting up an opposition to a show for which one had let
one’s own ground. So Warner was told he could not be
taken on, and the Association claims that it is not to he
blamed because the Unley Oval, a suburban ground
jumped in and arranged for the Englishmen to come
there. The public, mostly caring much more for English
cricket than for one colored cyclist, is delighted ; hut the
Wheelmen reckon they have been given away by indirect
means. In the matter of gate both shows will, of course
suffer. ’
• * • •
Sydney Daily Telegraph’s reports of bruising
bouts are brilliant samples of robust lying. Saturday
nights wild scrambling struggle between tenth-raters
Barnes and Fray, at Golden Gate A. C., was allowed
I3COI. of Monday’s issue, and Fray’s bleeding nose was
worked for all it was worth. No nose was ever worked
so hard. They didn’t touch each other once in 20
attempts, for they either clinched or charged helplessly
past. Here’s a hunk of rubbish : “ The crimson fluid
became more painfully evident as the fight progressed
the white man’s body showing red daubs.” Later on it
is told that in the ninth and last round “the blood
began to trickle down the white man’s chin on to his
chest. In another portion of his story the hi«-hlv
imaginative D.T. man has the pair “staggering across
the ring, and then one of them immediately came with
relentless alertness .” Fancy a staggering man coming
with any sort of alertness. Early in the fight, ’tis saM
the white man ‘ staggered to his corner and fell heavily
into his chair, and yet the description of the last round
reads : the white man was as full of fight as ever, and
drove his colored adversary from pillar to post.” Best of
all, however, is the remark that, “ whatever blood stains
h J e rr® °" Ba ™ esdld not show on his dusky-skinned
body. Where did they show then ?
VICTORIA FINDS ITS HIGHWAY BLOCKED .
Daily Telegraph’s sensational descriptions of
glove tights are booming the game wonderfully. Even
novice tournaments at Sydney Gaiety and Golden Gate
A.C.’s last week had full houses, unknown before in the
connection, and every man of 500 gathered to see a tenth-
rate fight at Golden Gate A.C. Saturday night. ’Twas
noticed, too, that at light-weight championship’s battle,
Tuesday last, there were a hundred or more never
previously seen on such occasions, and this means, having
had their appetites whetted, they’ll go again and prob-
ably bring friends. Many regular followers stayed away
from the “ National ” under the impression that, through
the boxers being arrested and remanded, there would be
no fight; still the hall was crowded —1450 paid to go in
the galleries.
• * • *
A bruising enthusiast: —“I like Jessop bet-
ter than any fighter seen in Sydney for a long
time; he is cool, gritty, forceful, and clever, hut
lacks the finish that Larry Foley could give him. Few
pugs use their wits so well in the ring, or are so quickly
alive to changing situations. ’Tis in Jessop to beat the
best men of his weight in the world. Though Jessop and
Turner have now met four times without definite result,
on the last two occasions Jessop won palpably. Now a
match between Jessop and Tim Hegarty is a possibility.”
• • • *
Latest Mecca of the bruiser is Kalgoorlie
(W.A.). Last week ex-lightweight premier Jack
McGowan easily whipped back number Peter Murphy in
20 rounds,, and got the bulk of a ±’4oo house. Now
McGowan will meet Sydney third-rater Rollo, whom he
squelched handily months since, for big money ; then the
winner (probably McGowan) will take on champion light-
weight Turner, who heat him in Sydney t’other day ;
“ gate ” for the fight is expected to exceed £5OO. There’s
more coin for the boxer than any other athlete now in
the land, excepting perhaps Major Taylor.
• * • •
Lightweight-championship scrap. Bob Turner
and Ed. Jessop, for the title and £250, at Sydney National
S.C., attracted over 2000 people, and was the fastest and
cleverest seen for years. Both shaped in perfect fix, and
evidenced it throughout 20 most exciting rounds. Though
lightweight limit is lOst., the pair signed, on Turner’s
suggestion, to scale 9.6, or less, at ringside, and Turner
failing to pull the we ght, forfeited £25. Jessop forced’
the fighting, and completely nonplussed his bigger
opponent by getting close in and staying there, punching
away the while on both sides of the stomach with the
speed of a kettle-drummer, and often with as little effect
judging by the way Turner took it. Both were cool as
far as “ head ” was concerned. Close in it was always
Jessop's fight ; at arm’s length Turner was on ton
through capital left jabs, always well-timed. Scene in
the hall was stirring. Hundreds rose and cheered occa-
sionally, and at the end all were on their legs fairlv
roaring appreciation. Turner’s seconds warned him net
to shove the other man off right through perhaps the
first 12 rounds, and then Jessop heaped up points, but
“'llTv," V Tm-ner was j UBt ag no j gily erUreated to
shove him off ! and then Turner scored. Very little
blood was visible. What there was came from the open!
ing of an old scar under Jessop’s right eve, and a slight
graze on Turner’s nose, hut the Daily Telegraph man
saw a lot more. Referee M’Donald called the match a
diaw, though a good percentage of those looking 0 n
work? UP otherwise ’ Jess °P really did the be°tter
* • • ,
Frost-Williams battle, in Melbourne re-
vealed a more than possibility for Australasian’ lio-hr
weight supremacy. William/ won ah the w/v
the first round. A heavy left ish ™ af , ter
till the eighth round. Then, gathering himself un for 1
supreme effort, he played the tiger, hut Wil iams’ ?eft
working like a piston rod, did too much dama« ?„d h»
towel went in as “ corners M sonnrlpH ip i* la .
his shaping with Frost, who fought at
Sydney National with Jack e . at
new lightweight champion when the’ a
comer tackles Bob Turner. Port Melbourne
K “ Doherty,
then went down to p esent forefr!/ 1 / 6 d- ® ucoess i°n and
Dan Creedon in five P rounds each time y . M ‘ Co ! l and
his " form ” and " fix ” generally aS t 0 pick up
wharf-lumping. Stramrer -till 3 rwi a 1’ a J ld ias Kone to
" graft ” sometime and ™ f n^° h !, rt . y has Btllck to the
well. Write*? remembers l° UH he frets
Sullivan, and co.) tacklim.- tim „ ack Dumhers (Dooley,
intentions, but a day or at the same
completely. Remarkable^how filled them U P
Will work'in Sng.Vut S PUg
wharf-lumping or hod-carrying y takes klndl >’ to
At the gathering of continent’s
swimming champions in Brisbane, M.L.,
Vic., Q., and N.S.W. are represented.’
W.A. hasn’t developed a top-notcher
worth considering, and S.A. swimmers
are outside the amateur pale through
competing for money. First event (Satur.
day)—the furlong supremacy—went to
Dick Cavill by a yard from his fellow
N.S.W. rep. (Bob Craig), after a severe
tussle over the whole journey. Time
(2.36) indicates Cavill has fallen off
some. Middle of last month saw him
win N.S.W. premiership 4yds. from
Craig in 2.32 2-5. Fact of latter being
in fresh and former in salt water may
account for the difference ; but, given
some practice in fresh water, it has been
proved over and over, within recent year
or two, that swimmers can travel as
fast in one as t’other. Difference in
speed of other State champs, is demon-
strated in that Hamilton (M.L.) and
Frank Gailey (Q.) dead-heated for third
place, Ilyds. away, and Victorian Blacker
failed to finish.
• * •
Question whether stump outrig-
gersorthelongones are fastest cropped up
at settling over Tresidder-Pearce match.
Kemp told that while working with
Towns they had turn about in long and short boats, and
latter always proved faster. Towns endorsed this. Beach
hadn't tried a short boat, but asked, if they were really
speedier than the old style, how it was better time was
not accomplished. In recent big sculling race first mile
was covered in 6.2—he had done it in 5.46. "Were the
old-time rowers better than those of the present day?’’
asked the veteran. Chris Neilsen, inventor of the stump
rigger, was of the company, and offered to prove by
E radical test to the satisfaction of anyone that the latest
uild of boat was the faster.
• * • •
Mis-named Lord Hawke’s team went under to
Victoria, Monday—seven wickets to the bad. Close of
Saturday’s play saw the Englishmen 79 to the good (on
the first innings) and 2 out for 85, but they collapsed like
so many ninepins, Monday, scoring only 49 more. Fea-
ture of Victoria’s second effort was Graham’s 92—the best
innings he has played for a long time ; not a chance
occurred, and the driving was top-form work. ’Ome
team will oppose N.S.W. Friday, this week.
• • • •
E. M. Dowson, judging from his respectable
work in the Vic. match, is the amateur Braund of Lord
Hawke’s Eleven. A young fellow, rather tall, he bats
with free and graceful style, and bowls nicely on his day.
Puts them in with his left and keeps a good length as a
rule. Makes the medium-paced ones rise dangerously,
and tries a fast lower-pitched ball for a change without
making his intention too apparent. Dowson’s average on
Saturday—7B balls, 19 runs, 2 wickets—suggested that he
should have been tried oftener.
* • • *
After all the talk about the Englishmen being
a crowd of dashers their batting was somewhat dis-
appointing. They did nothing remarkable, but did it
very well, with the assistance of good luck. In the field
they were consistently smart—bar the wicketkeeper—
and never dazzling. Taylor behind the sticks didn’t
compare with the new Vic. man, Monfries, who also
batted usefully.
m • • *
Warner, the captain of the visitors, is a
startling revelation of baldness when he takes his hat off.
The theory that sea-voyaging serves as a hair-restorer is
utterly discredited in Warner’s case. He has taken teams
to America, the West Indies, S’Africa, Portugal and
Maoriland, and his head is like a billiard ball.
• • • •
Sydney first grade competition is at a highly
interesting stage. Printed herein 7/3/’O3 “supremacy
will rest with either North Sydney, Sydney District, or
Waverley. First-named two are in abetter position than
Waverley, who to win must come out atop in the next
couple of matches, while North Sydney gets defeated
twice—rather a remote contingency, but possible.” The
unexpected has very nearly happened. North Sydney
looks surely beaten in match against Sydney, to be
finished this Saturday, and it will be its second van-
quishment since the par. quoted was printed. Also
Waverley has won one match and seems certain to succeed
in that now progressing against Eedfern.
* * • * *
No one need complain of the deadly dullness of
junior cricket round Melbourne, at any rate. The other
day the Young True Briton and North Ooburg clubs
battled for second place in a district competition. N.O.’s
put up 58, the Junior Jingoes responding with 60. N.C.
followed with 70. Meanwhile a plentiful crowd of bar-
rackers made things lively, and when a Coburg bowler
was no-balled three times running they became quite
friendly and swarmed over the pitch to argue the point
with the umpire. They were persuaded away and the
game resumed. Then a True Briton was given out “ leg-
before.” This insult sent the barrackers daft, and, with
cries of “ Deal it out, blokes,” the Britons and their
friends seized bats, stumps, and such sticks and stones as
were handy and waded in. It took a sergeant and two
constables fully half an hour to calm the excited
cricketers. Perhaps it’s the painful gentility of senior
cricket that scares away the gentle public.
SCIENCE AND ART.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I have read, like other people, all the comments that are
By thffffiks who write the letters on the feature-smash-
I don’t know that gloves are better than bare fists, or the
through the death-rate, I should say
the gloves are worse.
Still, that’s only my opinion, which, of course, has little
But there ’is a term in bruising that has puzzled me of
dote on broken noses, and who gloat on frac-
Call'tdie^mash’ing trade a "science.” This it is which
“ gives me pause.”
Archimedes, finding what was wrong with Hiero’s bogus
WouldTscarce have called it "science" if he’d knocked
the jeweller down.
And Ptolemy’s repute stands high, though tis not known
that he
Ever plugged his brother’s head about 139 A.D.
Euclid (enemy of schoolboys, pupil of old Socrates,
Let us hope his master caned him till he could not sic
with ease !) ....
Euclid was a man of science, but I really don t suppose
He’d have been a great success at giving punches on the
nose 1
Isaac Newton 1 Humphrey Davy ! Kepler and Galileo 1
Herschel, Galen, Chris. Columbus, Roger Bacon, Watt
and co. ! ,
Morse, and Humbolt, and Marconi 1 Where’s your glory
or your crown ?
You ne’er smote a fellow-creature on the ear and knocked
him down.
Though these worthies had pretensions, all their claims
we moderns scoff —
“ Science” is the art of knocking other people’s features
off ;
And the swarm of gloating hoodlums who surround the
gory ring ;
They’re the true and only heroes where the Noble Art is
King 1
W. T. GOODGE.
A Great Debt Paid.
AN EXAMPLE TO FOLLOW.
An unpaid debt is a thing to avoid. There is a
sense of insecurity whilst the Bhadow of a debt
overhangs one. There are, however, various
kinds of debts. Legal debts, debts of honor, and
debts of gratitude. Mr. Christopher Hannan,
of Spring Gully, Victoria, has just repaid such
a debt. Moreover, in order that there should be
no misconception in the minds of anyone that
what he says is not fact, absolute and sure, his
statements have been confirmed by his two close
neighbors, Messrs. Andrew Hannan, and John
McLennan. Mr. Christopher Hannan, writing
to the proprietors of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills, says, “ I will do my best to repay what I
think is a great debt I owe you. Five years ago
I was taken very ill. So bad did I become that
for over four years I could not follow my occupa-
tion. A doctor in Bendigo said that I could never
hope to work again. I was weary, worn out and
completely debilitated. The doctor said it was
an acute attack of rheumatism* Try what
medicine I chose nothing gave me relief, and 1
settled down thinking that the rest of my days
would be a life of misery Luckily for me,
though, Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills were
brought to my notice. The first bottle made a
vast difference in me, and the second completely
cured me. This happened twelve months ago, and
not once since, in all that time, have I been visited
with the slightest signs of my old complaints. It
is therefore evident that I am as completely and
permanently cured as a man could wish to be.
Several people in the neighbourhood can confirm
every word of this. To-day lam a healthy man,
with all the pleasures that such a state brings
in its train, and my cure- .is due solely to Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills.’ Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills are a perfect Dfood purifier, and a
positive cure for biliousness, indigestion, constipa-
tion, headaches, sallow complexion, liver an
kidney troubles, piles, pimples and blotches, an
for female ailments. Put up in amber bottles
and the full name blown thereon.


Should send to us for their supplies.
We keep on hand the Best of everv t -x •
Ve don’t deal in low-4ad e s W Frmt * m seaso , n '
omy tne very best at lowest current market prices '
Wl wFth y us oUntr7 frUlt ‘ dealers t 0 get into communication
N.s.w, fresh food & ICE
CO. Ltd., SYDNEY.
New High-Grade Sports Goods.
VERY MODERATE PRICES.
GOLF CLUBS. DionenO.
**" sp,, " d <=>■** saga^as?"-
udjrtS* sSsSjfSSSss; "xs.” "ion"' ss.T re l^si t , jir i “ *° °**» mi »•«•
CANADA CYCLE & MOTOR CO., Ltd..
Branches in Ever, sure. Sports Depot: 357 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER.
REMINGTON
YOU GET THE BEST VALUE FOR YOUR MOXEY
BUY A
WHEN YOU
Double-Barrel . .
Hammerless Gun.
Thoroughly Guaranteed.
Kept n stock by the Largest Gun Stores in Melbourne and Sydney.
Remington Arms Company,
Head Office: 315 BROADWAY, NEW YORK, U.S A-
REMINGTON GUNS, £5 10s. to £ is
REMINGTON RIFLES, 23 6 post free
McLEAN BROS. & RICC, Ltd., 107 Elizabeth-St., Melbourne.
ONLY A FEW LEFT
of our Large Stock of
SECOND HANDS
We have sold a great number from £3 upwards and each one
is guaranteed
in perfect order.
OUR NEW MODELS 1903
We have only a few left—first come, first served.
are in the Harbor, and will soon be on show. Call at once if vou
require a cut into the second-hand lot. Another week will see the end of them.
New Sporting Goods just arrived for every sport. High-grade Quality
GOOLD BICYCLE CO.) 64 King-st»i Sydney.
A NIB,
A BOTTLE OF INK,
A SHEET OF PAPER and
A PEN CARBON BOOK
makes a complete outfit with
which any
MAN,
WOMAN OR
CHILD
can write a letter, and at the same
time make an exact copy without
leaving the slightest sign of copy-
ing on the original.
&
7,
7
m
It keeps a duplicate of bills you send out, of orders, receipts, bank checks. It leaves no vague
uncertain mark, but a tracing that is often clearer than the original.
From its testimony there can be no appeal. It will save any house or family much money by its
indisputable record.
There is no man or woman, professional or not, who would not at some time or other find
THE PEN CARBON LETTER BOOK
A True and Valued Friend.
For fullest particulars, price, etc., write to the sole
Agents For Australasia.: E. RICH & CO. LTD., svdney BRISBANE
Sydney City Council has been asphyxiat-
ing’ of late about 60 or 70 dogs per day at the
lethal chandler attached to the destructor at
Moore Park. If only this process continues, a
blessed silence will reign at night in the doggy
suburbs where Towzer used to bay the moon,
while Rover bayed Towzer, and Spot bayed on
general principles.
t
a
JL
■pOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “ Ellis’ King Btreet Coffee Palace,”
situated at 50 KINO STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor — GEO. W. ELLIS.
At a recent marriage in an Australian
town the bridegroom, who was entirely unaccus-
tomed to alcohol, had been induced by a friend,
shortly before the ceremony, to brace himself
up with a stiff nobbier of whiskey. When, after
mumbling through his part of the service, he
knelt by the side of his blushing partner in front
of the altar rails, he fell fast asleep, and the parson
had to shake him hard three times before he got
him to his feet. He fell asleep again while the
cleric lectured him in the vestry As the bride
left the church with her hubby she looked a very
embittered female, but the offender contented
himself with smiling fatuously as he gave a glove
to the verger in mistake for a fee.
By Special
Appointment
G. H. SMITH and SON,
TRIPICAL HELMET
with special air-spa r\
in while drill. <kc. and
in all colors in felt.
10/6 and 12 6
Sat and Cap Manufacturers
and Importers,
302 Ceorge-st. Sydney
Sombrero Soft Felt Hats,
All Shades and Sizes.
Boft Felt Hombergrs.
fn all Sizes and Colors.
Straw Hats. Stetson Hats
Polo Caps, Military and Naval
Caps, Ltvbrt Hats, Clerical Silk
Hats, Etc., Made to Order
SHBRPSHOOTIWg
For Sport and War.
W. W. CREENER.
HITS THE MARK!
180 Paqw. ioo TLirsnuTTora, U- nrrr •
Posted, 1,2.
Th« best V* worth ever Published.
■ F roe wishto get good work ind value
- TpL*—M purchase W.W CRiEHER’S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLES,
f of which are alwavs kept on
b»od- Catalogues aod all particular on
application to—
C. W. BUCKUND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
tVreeners Represen txuve\
pOR SSHA CEXTTRT
WILLIAMS’ BARBERS' BAR
h« b«n the FAITHFI L FRIEXD tflhe * R
mTIIT _ n TOKSORIAL ARTIST.
wiujl^- -THIS SHOP ISES OVLT
WILLIAMS, is • Sure PASSPORT TO PUBLIC FAVOR.
*n Pennr Sum P for w >iß*ms* Chaneinc F»—
Puzz.e. Lan you explain it? J. B WILLIAM* rv*
G.istonbary,Conn., I*S.A : «*, 3*Cto££!%S!Z
It is reckoned that it will take •f‘°oo 000
or more to repair Townsville alone after the recent
tear. *» d *•.d—*. doSto iss;
~ UeCtion “pper Should be given
.n M , artm J!^ piol , and Bteel P ills »re sold by
throu * hoat Australasia. Not genuine
without the signature. Be sure you get Martin a
&>le .proprietor, W. Martin/
chemist, Southampton, England.* F
A Sydney firm of universal providers
recently gave a big shirt order to a Brisbane
faetory. The firm has factories of£
own. and no doubt, the contract was sent to
Brisbane to dodge the effects of N.&W Labor
dTSI? If r he P* rti es of all the States
donot plump for Federal control of industrial
Su,es " ,ime
X.S.W. Public Works Committee has
been collecting fees with some vigor of late, and
ft^nv a f t e^ mUch - erideDCe about works which
aren t likely to receive a minute's notice in Par-
lament. and, indeed, some of them will never be
ZS&L? *' l , S “<» the Committee w 2
created under Parkes every Government going
into recess has thrown a bagful of speculative
inquiries to the hungry members. Reid having
nothing else for them one time, threw at them the
possible erection of a Parliament House on the
Rocks, and they considered this gravely and at
length, and took their fees like heroes.
One of the funniest items in the Reform
Bui conference is ancient Tory James Balfour's
intermittent appeal for peace—sweet, sweet peace
6ader of f the Council of Churches.
Brother Balfour is a fairly combative Christian.
£ nt !r S P 01 ?* 10 ® 1 T° r y character he deplores
neated discussion. Years ago. when land boom
companies were busting and the victims clamored
for their lost sugar, the same old Balfour was wont
to gaze reprovingly at the meeting, and cry
o-s-s-h . He desired as much peace as possible
concerning the vanished assets of the Freehold
Investment bociety, etc., etc. Just now he carries
an olive-branch inside his shiny bell-topper, and
goes around to luncheons, bringing with him the
Message of Peace, and dropping-like dew frorr
Heaven—the remark that both Houses have made
rash statements.”
Joseph Chamberlain in S 'Africa ;
Th e substitution of white labor for bluk was impcK-
able and undesirable. They need not
U ? * elution of the difficulty. sho -n
lab^rthl t r the drlstic remedy of introducing Asiatic
’w 9°T el ? lnent would be unable to give much
help, but might do something. rauon
t?^ Arly \ million of white men unem
but Joe Chamberlain s eve is
nxed all the tune on finding a job for the nigger.
DRYSDALE’S ANTIBILIOUS pills
for biliousness, indigestion, headache, loss of appeti'e
-r"f d A° eSS ’ lr T Prescribed hy phvsicians of the bighwt
W^ 0 -|*£ n °l!f dge their thc, rouch efficiency in
*T i?.P er f* 01 - pc« paid. F. J. Titnbiirv
chemist, Petne’s Bight, Brisbane • "F.
“ Deeby lays this charge :
For up-to-da te business-like methods X.S.W. Lands
department can give points to anv private concern t
farmer, near Orange, who leased from the State a piece
?ea« inforn,ed Privately that his
" ot * viewed as the land was to be sold on
u >opubl,C notlce °f th e sale was given
S??? , .g th f r . b > newspaper or otherwise, consequently
to,' h ° Wer ®^red the land at the upeetfirice of
haH t*K re^- abOUt il s!f the prioe « would have
rea.ised had the adjacent farmers got wind of the sale.
Victorian Railway Minister Bent, in
opposition to the views of the Chief Engineer,
proposes to, m future, maintain the permanent
way by contract; and has called for tenders for
,he weeding ot L. 500 miles of line for one. two and
threeyears. The work at present costs about
toO.OuO a year, but Mr. Bent considers he can
save a big proportion of that amount bv getting
the permanent-way men to take up the contracts
at sweating rates, and employ their unfortunate
children on the work. This cruel induce-
ment was unblushingly held out to the contractors
as a means bv which they might earn money at
the expense of their children.
Proud remark by Westralian Lands Minis-
ter Hopkins:
We still have the sinking fund of £BOO,OOO, and we hxve
Z'EZZZST*** •? that the sinkin £ fund is not going
to be grabbed by any impecunious Treasurer, as had been
done m the Eastern Mates. That fund is being invested
in Trustees m London.
} a > n hope—the grabbing Treasurer will get at it
just the same. Maoriland slso put its sinking
“.n a safe place, but the Treasurer got over
that by deciding to borrow every year a sum equal
to the year’s growth of the sinking fund, and put
that borrowing into revenue. If the sinking fund
was suspended by a rope half-wav between earth
and heaven it would be got at all the same.
TftE NEW
VULCANISED?
DUNL<>P
TYRE
m
Wi.
m
v/i
tifltl
mm
m
hjV
This Tyre
is vulcanised by our patent process under
a hydraulic pressure of 1200 lbs. to the
square inch, rendering parting of rubber
and fabric an impossibility—thus saving
fully 50 per cent, of die ordinary tyre troubles.
ASK YOUR AGENT
to show you a sample,
IT WILL DO THE REST.
None Genuine unless the Cover is
embossed with the word “ Vulcanised"
and this
TRADE
/
Mark.
15
PERFECT
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Aus. Ltd.
150 CLARENCE STREET. SYDNEY,
and at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.


A
mn
I iW
Kit?
A
• -
5/
I
lit
a
$
X
a 1
-s
\'
,‘>l/7 %i£
s
x*
•'/-'
,1
TO*
i//'7
ty/4,,
///
<-0-0
-e>
' v/
g6B
of®
9%
fc /
«rrrT
*/
///
<Y
(atc<v a. —
jAkh/Qy ?J
Are you Saving the Photos?
For every hundred forwarded to us we will give (or post free) a HANDSOME CLOTH-BOUND ALBUM made especially to contain
the Photographs. It will be well worth your while to have one.
BRITISH-AMERICAN TOBACCO CO., LTD. (OGDEN BRANCH).
Closer settlement has been absolutely at a
standstill in Vic. for the. past couple of years,
owing to the difficulty of getting hold of suitable
areas under the non-compulsory purchase system
Ex-Lands Minister Duggan made a frantic effort,
when in office, to throw open Crown lands, and.he
promised to have the Fumina district, way down
in the Gfippsland wilds, ready for settlement
within a few months. But the eyes had already
been picked out, and roads had to be made, and then
the bungling Thomas Bent and the demoralised
McKenzie came along and between them made
such a mess of the whole business that it is still
hung up. The last estate purchased, the Lurack
property in the western district went off like
wildfire, and even the Wando Vale estate, the
worst bargain yet made under the purchase for
settlement system, has every acre settled.
The great flaw in the Vic. Land Act
administration is the difficulty there is in ascer-
taining from the Lands Office or elsewhere what
areas are actually available to the public. >y lien
a new' Act is passed maps are published giving
unoccupied areas, and as each one finds an occu-
pier it is scored out in the office map, and remains
scored out until a new Act is passed. But the
scored-out area may be forfeited for non-payment
of rent or non-performance of convenants, or may
be abandoned shortly after it is granted, and no
one is the wiser except an occasional official, who
is probably out at lunch or consulting wuh the
Minister when you call, and a few people in the
immediate neighborhood of the forfeited or aban-
doned area. Surely there is a remedy for this sort
of thing with business management of the depart-
ment. Why cannot some of the sums of money
uselessly spent in advertising legal notices which
nobody reads be used to prominently advertise
every week the areas of Crown lands available to
the public, and the terms, &c. ?
Harry Morant and his sorry fate, told of
in “ Bushman and Buccaneer ” (now in its second
edition). The history of the Breaker and his
verses and letters, including photo, reproduction
of the Pietersburg gaol MS. Price one shilling.
Booksellers and Bulletin office (post free Is. Id.)
HAVE vou
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releasee
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
to am Pi»tation ; but do not, for I CAN
*\l Kfc V 01 ; d ,°? t sa y perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not how being cured,
fcend at once for
ALBERT'S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs
Housemaid s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores
tnGfeat Britain, 1/ljd. per b ,x. Prepared by
ALBhK J /3, I'arr 1 ngdon-street, London, England.
'tt" 1 ' BROS., Sydney Purchasers should
look for th “registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright)
"THE Dr. Austin Electric Belt is the only never-failing
■ cure for Rheumatism, Lumbago, Weak Back or
Kidneys, Nervousness. Liver, Bladder and Stomach
Troubles, Pains in the Head, and all those ailments from
which men and women suffer. It cures after all other
remedies have failed.
I Don’t Ask Anyone to Take
Chances cn my Invention.
It Doesn’t Cost You Anyth ng
if I Fail.
All you lose is your time, and if my Belt fails to cure,
you will have the satisfaction of knowing that the best,
strongest and finest electric .body -appliance in the world
- ONE WITH 50,000 CURES'TO ITS CREDIT- has
failed, and that there is ho cure for you in electricity.
Remember, my terms are — PAY WHEN CURED
■ lo'nK Y .T a r nd ,- te?t - ? dt I f ?ree ' .No charge -for-consultation,
explains mv method of t? a ’ ' v ' rlte for ra .V beautifully-illustrated Medical Book, which
sates rw&sfflsfts?
The Dr. J. n. Austin Electric Co.
39 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
/
HERR RASSMUSSEN
will guarantee to cure Nervous Weak-
ness, Blood Diseases, Piles, Rheuma-
tism, Corpulency, Liver and Kidney
Troubles. He will send his Book Free.
All correspondence will be held
confidential.
BRISBANE: 309 Queen St.
MELBOURNE: 150 Bourke St
WEAK, NERVOU
SUFFER
WHEN you can be quickly, and permanently cured bv takino- War-e u ,
Ld™.f fl? f e v f^ I S DEB l LTTY - POOR MEMonf ,VeAK SP?NF e Hl4Sv^^££ Vitality Pills which have cured so many
earest to it Vital Strength. Herr Rassmussen will guarantee thi« V ONDENCY, and all which robs Manhood of that which
give h,s skilled advice ne™i,„ 1., *. - s remedies FREE ! E IVFE eV ’T y case ’ no matter of how long standing, and he will
Treatment f'fc'^\ S -° ffices W- So don,t des P air > but
• i • , , , ; "6 U,J * jvassinussen \
• H 1 ve .His slvi 11 ed advice personally to all patrons of hi'
communicate with him without delay, no matter where you live.
T ve-*-T + T « ’ t,lraer in nis otti
ALF ALINE VITATTTV PTTTC 1 men ' y ost a Speciality. Pamphlet sent Free.
- VIIALITY PILLS, Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d„ posted.
Blood and Skin Diseases
- -
ATT> a r x-mr-r, & ulu removed a nd permanently cured by
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS. Boxes, 6s, Courses, 235. 6d. posted.
Anaemic Women
R e Se a^ 6 v at once communicate wi
TTIVrTTrT?*D CAT DTT T a ’ S
itn HLKK
O - iO <vt tlltJ
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS will cure them ]3 n „p. an nn
LIVER and KIDNEY TROUBLES cured at once by the ALFALiNE livp. &OXeS, bS \ LOUrSeS, 235. 6d.
His RHEUMATIC P.LIS are ™ NEY P,LLS > Is.
— M h lB P.LE POWDERS never Fail ;6s per box each.
The ALFALINE REMEDIES can only beobtained from .
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office
branches
547 George St., Sydney,
?HES AS FOLLOW— ° «/ €/ 7
ADELAIDE: 15 Pulteney St.
N Z. • 91 Lambton Quay, Wellington.
W.A., PERTH: 481 Hay St
KALHOORLIE: 111 Hannan St.
FREMANTLE; 117 High St-
BOULDER CITY: Piesse St.
« • ' * ! -i ••*r:a/ ■■TKrSf sir s £■■%?.


Biliousness
KNOCKED OUT BY
Chamberlain’s
Stomach and
Liver Tablets
Price, 1/6. Just what you need.
Biliousness is a condition characterised by
a disturbance of the digestive organs. The
stomach is debilitated, the liver torpid, the
bowels constipated. There is a loathing of
food, pains in the bowels, dizziness, coated
tongue and vomiting, first of the undigested
or partially digested food and then of bile.
Take three Chamberlain’s Stomach and
Liver Tablets to begin with and then
one tablet each following day for three or
four days until the bowels become regular.
If one tablet is not enough to cause a free
movement of the bowels, take two; or if one
acts too freely, take only one every other
day. Chamberlain’s Stomach and Liver
Tablets should be taken immediately after
supper. Eat sparingly and of easily digested
food, such as boiled rice and . milk toast.
Brink no coffee.
' NOTE.—If not able to obtain Chamber-
lain’s Stomach and Liver Tablets locally,
a package will be sent, post paid, upon re-
ceipt of 1/6, or six packets for 8/-, by
addressing Chamberlain Medicine Co., 64
Elizabeth Street Sydney. 120
A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching-, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
cases in six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
only Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s 3d
Of Chemists, or from PARIS MEDICINE CO., 28, Shoe-
lane, London, England.*
A visitor to the Delhi durbar explains
himself to Perth Morning Herald
India was the home of military and official snobbish-
ness. Nearly every third man one met was a major or a
captain, whose affectation was absolutely painful. The
natives were only one step removed from slavery, and
were kicked and buffeted remorselessly. The white resi-
dents scarcely had to exert themselves; they had servants
to do everything, even to lacing up their boots. The
natives were filthy in their habits, and in their villages
no attention was paid to sanitation. Heaps of putrid
matter, which lay untouched for months, were piled in
the streets, and it is a wonder that when the plague
broke out it did not carry away the whole population.
The hotels generally could not be compared with those
in Australia ; they were sparsely furnished, and none too
clean. The railway arrangements after the Durbar were
very bad. The conduct of the traffic was left in the
hands of the natives, the white managers apparently
taking no trouble at all.
Our fellow-subject enjoying the blessings of
British rule!
A DRUBBING ACHE
IN THE SMALL OF THE BACK.
is one of the commonest indications that the kidneys are not doing their work properly.
A more reliable test for
KIDNEY DISEASE
is to place some passed the first thing in the morning, in a covered glass and let it stand until
the next morning. If it is then cloudy, shows a sediment like brick-dust, if particles float about in
it, or it is of an unnatural color, then your kidneys are affected, and no time must be lost in taking
measures to restore them to health and activity, or you will soon begin to feel the effects by suffering
from Bright's Disease, Diabetes, or some less serious but more painful complaint.
Rheumatism, Gout,
Lumbago, Sciatica, Anaemia, Debility, Neuralgia, Digestive Troubles, Stone
Gravel, Bladder Disorders, all arise from defective aotion of the kidneys or retention of
URIC ACID
in the system, owing to this defective action.
The Kidneys. —lt is the province of the kidneys to separate from the blood surplus water
and urinary impurities. The kidneys of the average person filter and extract from the blood about
three pints of water-ip twenty-four hours. In this quantity of water should be dissolved about an
ounce of urea, ten to twelve grains in weight of uric acid, together with other animal and mineral
matter varying from a third of an ounce to nearly an ounce. If the kidneys, through weakness or
disease, are incapable of extracting this solid matter, a certain proportion of it remains in the system,
acts as a specific poison, and produces one or more of the diseases named.
Warner’s Safe Cure.
is the only known medicine which possesses the power to cure all disorders of tbe
KIDNEYS AND LIVER,
and all complaints arising from the inability of those vital organs to remove from the system urinary
and biliary poisons. This is the reason that Warner’s Safe Cure cures so many complaints of seem-
ingly diverse origin. Warner’s Safe Cure cures Rheumatism, Gout, Backache, Lumbago,
Sciatica, Persistent Headache, Neuralgia, Gravel, Stone, Bladder Troubles. Anaemia,
Debility, Indigestion, Jaundice, Torpid Liver, simply because it restores the kidneys and
liver to vigorous health and enables them to cast out the urinary and biliary poisons which produce
the diseases. So potent is Warner’s Safe Cure that it will even cure Bright’s Disease of the Kidneys,
probably the most fatal of all diseases flesh is heir to, a disease even more insidious than Consumption.
Mrs. Margaret McMillan, of 9 Bendigo Street, Collingwood, Vic., says:—“My mother was a
martyr to dropsy and gravel complaint. Her arms, body and legs were swollen to an alarming
degree, and suffered severe pains all over her body. She was under the treatment of several
doctors without deriving any benefit; in fact, she was getting weaker and worse every day. The
doctors then decided that she would have to undergo an operation to get the water away and reduce
the swelling. Before allowing this to be done, we determined to give her a course of Warner’s Safe
Cure. The effect of this medicine was soon noticeable. The swelling gradually disappeared, and
she began to ithprove in health and strength until she was finally cured. She has had no return of
complaint since.’’
Do not despair or be cast down. You may have suffered for years and have given up all
hope of recovery, but until you have taken a course of Warner’s Safe Cure despondency is quite un-
warranted.
A treatise containing full particulars relating to Warner’s Safe Cure, and accounts of many
remarkable cures, will be sent free, on application, to H. H. Warner & Co., Limited, Australasian
Branch, Melbourne.
I
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
■Safest and most-
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females, .
■ and the.
Sickness of Pregnancy.
DINNEF.ORDS]
MAGNESIA
y
A. : Ernie Jones gone westwards. South
Australia now has only two even moderately good
bowlers—Geo. Giffen and Travers-and both slow.
Kirkwood, who bowls well for his club, is, perhaps, next
Dest, though he generally loses his head in inter-State
matches, and sends down anything from a “donkey
drop to a fast “ yorker.” With Fred. Hack, " Jonah,”
ana Keeper Jock Mackenzie gone, unless S.A. can raise
some good colts it had best retire from inter-State fixtures
next season.
*i y * * * *
*' B”: If, as seems at present to be the case,
all proceeds of inter-State and international cricket
matches are to be grabbed by trustees of playing-
grounds and the Cricket Associations of the various States,
and no efforts made to launch a Cricketers’ Accident
r und to assist the indigent and injured players who
have helped to draw the boodle into the coffers of the
grab-alls, what is the use of the public rolling up at all ?
And, if the players won’t be financed when aged, why not
give them a retaining fee as “ coach ” to the different
clubs, and thereby foster the game? Australians must
work hard if their aim is to keep their prestige against
visiting English teams, and only- by “ coaching ” the
young ’uns can it be done.
* * • *
Since the race’s institution in 1859, mares have
only scored seven times in V.R.C. Champion Stakes. Of
these La Carabine got home twice. Once for 25 years
(’7l to ’96) mares didn’t succeed at all. Six times six-
year-olds have proved good enough, and 25 struggles
have seen three-year-olds first at the right end.
• • • *
Apropos Great Scot’s success in Australian
Cup. Told that a prominent turf handicapper had that
nag going—the second “leg” of a double—for £5OO, he
laid off £350 of the money to a trifle and then offered to
" take tuppence ’’ for the balance.
• • • *
Apropos Chantress’s win of Newmarket Handi-
cap. Only on two occasions during the race’s 30 years’
history has it gone twice successively to one stable, and
only thrice has one trainer been successful more than once.
J. R. Crooke got Aspen home in ’BO and ’Bl for Mr. John
Whittingham, and “Ike” Earnshaw succeeded with Sir
Foote last and Chantress this year; former had Mr.
John Brown’s colors up and latter Mr. W. Brown’s. The
two are brothers—shipowners and colliery proprietors.
’Twas on Earnshaw’s suggestion Sir Foote was imported,
and he also advised the mating of Chantress’s sire and
dam—Bill of Portland and Chand Bee Bee.
* * « *
No wonder that Wakeful is rather more of an
idol inN.S.W. than in Victoria, her native State. Her
Randwick record stands at eight wins out of nine starts.
Her one defeat was when she ran third for a Sydney Cup
after capturing the Doncaster Handicap. But at Caul-
field and Melbourne her backers have dropped their
money eight times out of 22. Until last Thursday, the
local public had not seen Wakeful win over a greater
distance than 1J mile, whereas they had seen her beaten
at 3 miles, 2 miles and If mile.
• » * *
“Punter”: Re Bulletin pars, on different
occasions anent money exacted from Mo. by horse-race
promoters in N.S.W., Q., and W.A., for the privilege of
further adding to his load of shekels. He is in a land of
milk and honey compared with S’Afriea. It costs the
chosen £lO5 to join Capetown Tatts., besides 3gS. a day to
bet at pony meets and sgs. at the bigger meets. Johannes-
burg Tatts. has 43 Moseses, majority of whom disgorged
£5OO each to join, and no more will be admitted unless
to fill gaps which may only occur at long intervals, for
the hooked-nosed hang on to a good thing tenaciously,
and invariably live long.
• * * •
Certain jockeys are becoming notorious for
their association with in-and-out performances. It looks
as though they are often working in collusion, by arrange-
ment with certain trainers who are also suspected of
pulling togsther.
» • • *
Listen, O punters ! It is the Argus guardian
of turf morality who assures you that everything was
right as right could be. “Annotate improved consider-
ably on any recent form she has shown, and the stewards,
being no respecters of persons, decided to hold an inquiry
into her running in the Brunswick Stakes. Scobie was,
however, able to give them a satisfactory explanation.
She has been sore for some time, and the soft going yes-
terday suited her much better than the going of Saturday.”
The “soft going” referred, of course, to the Autumn
Handicap race, which proved to be a very soft thing for
Annotate. She was well backed at 7to 1. In the Bruns-
wick Stakes, five days previously, the mare went out at
20 to 1 and ran nowhere. Therefore, the stewards being
no respecters of persons, called upon James Scobie, trainer,
forhis satisfactory explanation aforesaid. Brave stewards !
They didn’t recoil from the thought of summoning the
person of James Scobie to their presence.
* • • •
A comprehensive “ sports ” meeting. It is
clipped from the Mortlake Dispatch (Vic.), and relates to
the neighboring town of Caramut: —“ Nominations for
the Oaramut Cup, hurdle race (440yds.), two pony races,
time handicap bicycle road race, and two sheep-dog trials
close with the secretary on March 20th.”
» * * *
Before Stevenson leaves London for Australia
he will have to defend his title of English billiards cham-
pion against the fierce onslaught of our former visitor,
little Charley Dawson. Dawson was so keen on a match
that he offered to concede a start of 1000 in 18,000 to his
rival. Presumably he expects to outstay Stevenson, who
is not a strong man. The more brilliant player of the
two, with the advantage of a longer reach, Stevenson is
nevertheless likely to get beaten through inability to
stand the nerve strain of a tight finish after several days
of anxious play. It was the physique of John Roberts
that kept him'in the front for 30 years. Other men were
as good, or almost as good, as the champion—on occa-
sions. He was always up to his own mark when wanted.
Stevenson, the successor to Roberts, is seemingly the
sort of champion who needs a trainer in constant
attendance.
*' * * *
Perhaps the Daily Telegraph’s recent attack
on-the Sports Olub’a Creedon v. M’Uoll mill may be de-
fended by the plea of provocation. Considering how
near the club’s and the D.T.’s premises are at the rear,
there is no telling what agony the perspiring scribes may
have suffered when the yelling began ; and even the most
consistent follower of the “ manly game ” will never deny
that, when the fun begins, the crowd does yell. The
horrible shrieking at the ’Change during an interesting
sale is a fool to it.
* • • *
Every trade has its tricks. The business of a
racing club in Australia is to delude the public with the
promise of much better sport than they get. For an
ordinary handicap there are, say, 49 entries or more, and
the programme of the day’s races published in the morn-
ing papers includes the whole of these entries, with the
exception of a few early scratchings. Owners can with-
draw their horses at the cost of a small forfeit at any
time up to half-an-hour before starting time. That is to
say “ acceptances ” are declared as late as possible. If
they were declared by 4 o’clock on the previous day the
official programme would give only the probable starters
for each race, and the public would know what to expect.
As it is the programme is mainly a list of non-starters in
most cases.
<< * * * *
“Schue”: Re rare crib, games, here’s one. Oppo-
nents wanted five to win, and their first “ say.” Partner
and I were 24 short.. Felt inclined to acknowledge our-
selves beaten. My right hand opponent played queen, I
paired, third played a seven, and partner with ace made
28 and go” all round. Partner followed with ace
making pair, ace again, six, and fourth ace with 14 and
out. Though I’ve seen four aces held on more than one
occasion, a pegging score of 22 for one hand is a record in
my experience.
• • ■ »
. Maoriland Rugby Football Union is endeavor-
J ng ,™, lnd^ ce an team to visit the Plutonic Isles
in 1904.. Presumably if the team does come it will strike
this mainland in the pursuit of the filthy shekels. But if
the effort to boom the “ Australian game” is at all suc-
cessful, it is doubtful if the various States here will be
able to raise a team of Rugby players to make even an
interesting butchery' for a team that has first raged
through Maoriland. There the babies, when they get out
of their cradles, tuck their pillows under their arms and
streak out on an uneven track for the two legs of a table,
which their inborn instinct induces them to believe are
goal posts. Somehow, this writer does not think that the
Australian game will down the older and rougher one.
We are still savages at heart, and it makes 19 out of
every 20 people thrill when they see 15 men fall on one,
and the cracking of 17 different bones sounds over the
muddy field. That’s the real charm of Rugby.
• * » *
“P;®;”. : An interesting feature of Major
Taylors riding: is the way in which he scoops in private
matches and fails in handicaps. He has defeated two of
Australia’s best, Walker and Morgan, in special matches
for £lOO on each occasion. Single-handed he seems more
than a match for any Australian rider, but when he gets
into a bunch things seem to go wrong ; has pocketing
anything to do with it ?
• * • •
A leading Wesleyan minister, in Hobart, whose
son had, in a swimming carnival, won a gold medal pre-
sented by “ Tattersall,” refused to allow said youth to
accept same on grounds of religious scruples. To explain
his objections, which were as sands on the seashore and
carminated when not blazing, he sent a 200-paged epistle
to “Tatt.” Latter manfully struggled with the papa’s
view of the case, up to where the son of the man of God
would, by accepting the golden bauble, give up a pro-
mising career m a Sunday-school teacher, and become
instead a lost runner of dashed sweeps. The thought of
such formidable rivalry in the near future was too much
for “ Tatt.,” who peacefully swooned away.
* * • *
Is Maclaren the pivot of Anglo-Australian
cricket ? Has England no other captain ? Surely, as
Mac. is unwilling to come this way, there is Someone else
in England who can raise a team of sufficient skill and
grit to make an interesting stand against Australian
players. Australians would just as soon play against a
team brought out and captained by W. G. Grace, or Bill
Smith, or Adolphus Osborne Montmorency, as by Archie
Maclaren, so long as they can slog their leather and send
them in an exciting and attractive manner. This one-
man worship makes The Bulletin feel very tired.
An Electoral Problem.
The lately-issued N.S.W. electoral return shows
that, though we have one adult one vote one
adults vote is sometimes worth the votes of
several other adults, as witness the number of
voters in certain typical electorates:
Willoughby.. .. 10,421 Wentworth.. 9 9qq
St. George.. .. 8,692 Tweed.. *’ o’oof
Petersham.. .. 8,227 Wilcannia ~ 2 646
Leichhardt.. .. 7,389 Lachlan o’«"
Ashfield .. ... 7,331 Barwon *’ ru,
Warringah .. .. 7,482 Bourke „ 2,242
49)542 14,966
For the roughest of these inequalities the new
woman voter is responsible. Take the same elec-
torates, but count only the woman voters :
Willoughby.. .. 6,761 Wentworth ’ vns
St. George.. .. 4,772 Tweed.. . *' ,
Petersham .. „. 4,694 Wilcannia . " «7
Leichhardt.. ... 4,173 Lachlan .. *’ ooq
Ashfield .. 4,251 Barwon . ’* 734
Warringah .. .. 4,432 Bourke " 6 66
28^73
Of the districts which have far less than the
average, all belong to the wayback, and most of
them to the very dreariest of the wayback. Of
the six in this list, five are in the worst of the Far
West wilderness. These five have among them
3551 women ; five on the other list have 23,900,
and the latter five are the most favored part of
the country the part for which not only nature
but man also, has done most. It mav, in
fact, be accepted as a pretty safe rule "that
where the best is, there the most of
the women are. Clearly one result then
of enfranchising women, assuming that the elector-
ates are kept as nearly as possible of equal
strength, will be to give the countrv less Parlia-
mentary representation and the city districts
more. For the time, too, the drought tends the
same way. And, all things considered, this is
not wholly satisfactory as things stand, for the
country district hasn’t honestly too big a share of
representation even now, because every country
member sooner or later represents the place where
he lives and the people among whom he lives a bit
more than he does the place and the people that
he visits before election time. Nobody, however,
or at any rate hardly anybody, will risk the
suggestion that the vote of the man on the out-
side should count for two or three ; and, anyway
even if someone did suggest it, it wouldn’t be
adopted—wouldn’t be and shouldn’t be. Yet,
without something of that sort, the country dis-
tricts have to face the fact that, whenever a re-
distribution of seats does take place (and in view
of the figures it cannot be far off), their represen-
tation will be reduced, and the chance of getting
the bridge over Dry Creek, or the bit of bad road
down by Mulcahy’s made good ; will be les3 than
ever. If, then, they know their business and
really want the bridge built and the road made
their course is clear—they must hustle to really
get more local Govt. Given that they needn’t
trouble much about the re-shuffling of the elec-
torates ; without it, they need.
The Party Government Lie.
Isn’t it about time we devised some system of
Government preferable to the present faction or
so-called party system ? It may be that the average
Assembly would assume no higher a tone if the
House elected its Ministers, but the chances are
that it would. The present system is merely a
wrangle between the ins and the outs, and in very
many cases the difference between the two equals
the difference between one shilling and two six-
pences. About the most effective argument in
favor of it, so far, is that it is British, while the
elective Ministry is Swiss—that is to say, foreign.
But the use of the word “ British ” is enough to
make thoughtful people suspicious. Any rubbishy
thing seems to please the populace if astutely
coated with some saccharine stuff branded
“British.” The slightest knowledge of history
shows, however, that our precious faction
system isn’t so very British after all, and
it dates no further back than the accession
of William of Orange (1688). That monarch
was at a loss to devise a plan of Government
adapted to the new responsibilities of the
House of Commons, and on the advice of a certain
Sunderland, a clever man, but one of the
deepest-dyed rascals of his time, the Dutch re-
deemer selected his advisers from the party domi
nant in the House for the time being, though he
took care always to preside at Cabinet councils.
In fact, it wasn’t until the accession of that gruff
old rogue, George I, that the Cabinet sat without
the king, and it only did so because George
couldn’t speak English. But granting that the
party system has done good service in its day,
does it not seem evident that, when it began, parties
divided on principles? The difference between
hig and Tory wasn’t quite a difference between
1^ S
there be no progression in politics ? Does it
follow that, because the scheme of the villain-
Sunderland and his Dutch master was
good in its day, we must never improve on it ?
Uoes anyone take the party-system seriously ? A
good party hack must never think for himself,
but always vote at his party’s direction. He
must tongue-thrash the other side, and do his
best to persuade himself and others that things
would go to the dogs if that other side had its
way. Of course, nobody believes that the man on
one side really thinks everything the Ministry
does is right, and the man on the other side really
believes everything it does is wrong. The coun-
try simply regards both party hacks as liars. A
man can t be a good party man without being a
liar. Ihe system, in short, makes liars. Also, it
depends on liars.


Council don’t need summoning from a silent
tomb. They are immortal.
Will the members of the Vic. Reform Bill
Conference apply themselves in this hour of
trouble to the most helpful brand of liquid in-
spiration ? If they are well advised and take the
reliable D.C.L. for their brain tonic, even the most
obstreperous councillor may become amenable to
reason. In critical moments, when human thought
and foresight should be a little better than its
best, D.C.L. Whisky is the safest guide, philoso-
pher, and friend. D.C.L. ! —the Whisky of the
Wise, the Liquor of Light and Delight, the
to be continued in our next.*
An English court a couple of months ago
gave £5 damages against a railway company for
overcrowding. Another gave £5 damages for
allowing smoking when the bylaws prohibited it.
Still another allowed £5 for a crush in a waiting-
room. Railways in England are private con-
cerns, but the equity of the thing should be the
same. Every day the train and tram managements
in Australia offend not only against their own by-
laws, but against common rights. What seems to
be wanted is a man to test the question in a court
of law.
Cut this out and forward it, together with two
shillings and (nine pence postage) to The Koko Maricopas
00., Ltd., Australasian dept., Dean’s Place, Sydney, and
we will send you by return post a 4s. 6d. bottle of our
famous “ Koko for the Hair.” Our object in letting you
have a 4s. 6d. bottle for 2s. is to gain your continual
custom, which we can be sure of, once you have tried
Koko. Never has a hair preparation obtained such
flattering testimonials as Koko has received. We will
send you copies on application. Koko can be obtained
of all chemists and stores at Is., 2s. 6d. and 4s. 6d. per
bottle.*
Little State-Governor Clarke, of Victoria,
at a recent banquet:—
It was part of a Governor’s duty to study the politics
of the country, but he was expected to say nothing about
them. That was a pity.
The gentleman is quite wrong. It is not part of
his “duty” to study politics. If he cares to
undertake that study as a hobby, instead of
stamp-collecting or dog-breeding, that’s his own
business.
Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Not genuine without the signature.
Be sure you get Martin’s. Sole proprietor, W.
pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere..
“T.D.” smells treason :
The ‘.‘constitutional ” way- that, before all others,
offered itself to the Vic. Govt, for fighting down the
House of Landlords obstruction to reform was to tack
the Constitution Reform Bill, with all its original pro-
visions, on to an Appropriation Bill, and dare the Agar
Wynne and Cuthbert crowd to interfere with that and
bring all the public services to a standstill. When Irvine
iv,1 t r nde . d *?„ “ e^ au *t every constitutional
means, the Govt, still had an Appropriation Bill up its
sleeve. The passing of this measure is usually about the
last thing done at the tail end of a session, but artful
dodger Shiels carefully threw away the only serviceable
cudge l on hand by hastily getting the Assembly to pass
the Appropriation Bili before the second stage of the
conflict between the two Houses was reached. After
that I wouldn t have been a bit surprised to learn that
Irvine and Nick Fitzgerald had spSnt anighttogeE
each°o C ther eXpression9 the >' were to us/about
Patents for Inventions.— Arthur Griffi
and Alien’ International Patent Agents and C<
suiting Engineers, University Chambers, Phill
street, Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyrk
throughout the world.* ■ *
Mr. A. J. BOWLING, Elvira, Ky., writes :
life 5,»T"„"7’bS"
™ E wdliu> ,or ™. tS
The new antiseptic, formalin, which h
so good an Australian advertisement during plas
time, is now said to be a remedy for blood S
".L ”E S 1 C dilut s d into «l“ pSS
vel t n f’. A" the septicaemia germs- and is si
not to kill the patient at the same time.
The public appreciate the benefits to be derix
ten haSln fv, from the Modern Art Jew- Uefv Co
.“I” n *Th” bSt'Mr , d “.™e
SJSaMfS
these goods carry a reputation to be^enviedL*' tChe8 ’” '
Biliousness Banished.
Permanently and for Good.
“For eighteen years,” says Mrs. J. S. Pawlson,
of Wolfram-street, Broken Hill, I suffered with
extreme biliousness. The attacks were so severe
at times that I fell down in fainting fits. I con-
sulted several doctors, but their prescriptions only
afforded temporary relief. About two years ago I
gave Bile Beans a trial. After a few doses I felt
first-rate, and, continuing the course, I was com-
pletely cured, and have had no recurrence of the
fainting fits for twelve months, and the biliousness
ha 3 entirely left me.” Bile Beans have now a
world wide reputation for curing biliousness,
headache, indigestion, constipation, piles, debility,
female weaknesses, nervousness, bad blood,
pimples and all skin eruptions, bad breath,
anaemia, loss of appetite, sleeplessness, lumbago,
rheumatism, in fact all ailments that owe their
origin to defective bile flow, assimilation and
digestion. Bile Beans are obtainable from all
medicine vendors, price Is. Hd. or 2s. 9d. large
box (contains three times the quantity of the
Is. l£d. size.)
Amusements.
•y H E MUTOSCOPE. "
WONDERFUL LIVING PICTURES
now on view at
KING STREET ARCADE CORNER,
and
74 OXFORD STREET.
Real Life Portrayed with a Vividness and Realism
Never Before Witnessed.
ADMISSION FREE. _
L - ' VcfTITIVI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee Mr. Wm. Anderson.
Sub Lessee .. .. Bland Holt.
FOR EIGHT NIGHTS ONLY 1
BLAND HOLT’S
Universally Famous Drury-lane Melodrama,
T H B ‘W O R X. 33.
POPULAR PRICES—3s,, 25., Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
qrTterion th eatr e, sy d n EY.
SOLE LESSEE .. .. Mr. JOHN F. SHERIDAN.
Manager Mr. Frank Weathersby.
LAST NIGHTS of
WHEH THE LAMPS ARE LIGHTED.
JOHN F. SHERIDAN as DAN RAFFERTY.
SATURDAY NEXT, MARCH 21, by Universal Request,
the Success of the Season, the Operatical Comedy,
THE LADY SLAVEY.
JOHN F. SHERIDAN as
r Roberts, the Bailiff.
I M'Dougall, the Scotchman.
1 Pier Potts Point Morgan, the
Millionaire, and
'-Jeamcs, the Flunkey.
MATINEE, EVERY WEDNESDAY, at 2 p.m.
PRICES—3s., 25., Is. 6d. & Is. Box Plan and Day Sale
at White Rose Confectionery, Royal Arcade, 269 Pitt-st.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Under the Direction of MR. GEORGE MUSGROVE.
Manager, Mr. T. P. Hudson.
SENSATIONAL SUCCESS of MISS NELLIE STEWART
and George Musgrove’s New
ENGLISH DRAMATIC COMPANY.
in the Famous Comedy Drama,
Z A.ZA.-
(NELLIE STEWART’S MASTERPIECE).
Prices' as Usual. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
pALACE THEATRE, BYDNEY.
Under the Management of Messrs. WILLOUGHBY
and GEACH.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
THE WRONG MR- WRIGHT
SATURDAY NEXT, MARCH 21, ON AND OFF.
A COWAN, Manager.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor and Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
ANOTHER GREAT SPECIALTY,
HILL AND SYLVAINY.
Instantaneous & Emphatic Success of THE SCHENK BROS.
Splendid Reception of Mr. JOHN COSGROVE.
Big Success of London’s Great Comedian and Raconteur,
MR. W. 0. HUNTER.
SPRY and MONTI, PEARL LOVELL, MALVENA
MOORE, PROFESSOR MACCANN, EDNA SEATON,
and all our Great Tivoli Co.
Rickards* new opera house,
MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager—Mr. HARRY RICKARDS.
EVERY EVENING, at 8 p.m.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS at 2.30 p.m.
Enthusiastic Reception of MISS CRACIE EMMETT.
Splendid Success of FRED POPLAR, Miss KITTY WAGER,
DIAMOND DUO.
ELSIE M‘LACHLAN. LES WARTON. MAY LEWIS.
BIOSCOPE.
Prices—2s. 6d,, 25., Is. Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
Return of Mr. GEORGE MUSGROVE’S
GRAND COMIC OPERA CO.
EVERY EVENING, and THIRD WEEK of
THE FORTUNE TELLER,
A New and Original, Romantic Hungarian Comic Opera.
The Finest and Most Expensive Production of Comic
Opera Ever Given in Australia.
USUAL PRICES. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessee .. .. .. Mr. Bland Holt.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. William Anderson.
Bus. Manager, James Hendy. Treas., Julius Grant.
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S Famous Dramatlo Organisation
EVERY EVENING,
in the Great Sensational Drama,
3VI A. IST ’ S 3E3 3XT E 3ME Y»
headed by Miss EUGENIE DUGGAN.
Prices—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan's.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. Tallis. Treas., E. J. Tatt.
EVERY EVENING,
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO. in the Last Work of
the Late Sir Arthur Sullivan,
THE EMERALD ISLE.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Allan’s-
FREE
BY POST, A MED.
TREATISE by thatr justly-
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST,
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may OUK*
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HUJ»
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.
SYDUET.
At Poverty Point.
The struggle tor advertisement; two consecutive Asa
items
IIyTISS Emille Benson, who won the Melba Champion
Prize for Singing, and First for Soprapo Solo
and First for Illustrated Song, is a pupil of Madame
Nellie M’Clelland only.
TITISS Emilie Benson (winner of the Melba prize)
was a pupil of Miss Lizzie Armstrong for five
years ending September, 1902.
A scornful person who says he is a Hungarian pokes
borak at Musgrove’s opera, “ The Fortune Teller,” in
Melbourne A Rons. He says that Hungarians are dark, not
fair, and a Hungarian gipsy is usually black.; that the red,
white and blue flag has been substituted for the real red,
white and green out of pure ignorance ; that the Hun-
garian costumes and uniforms are a howling carioature;
that Buda-Pest isn’t at all like the same city on the
stage ; that the double-headed eagle of Austria is not on
view in Hungary—in fact, “ Hungarian ” jumps on the
show comprehensively and boots it all over the place.
“ X.” : Somebody alleges that “ the Calculating Boy
does everything Inaudi does.” As a matter of fact, the
■ Boy does nothing more than any other boy could be easily
taught to do, or made to appear to do, if he had the same
parental showman at his back. Whereas Inaudi, if not
absolutely unique in his way, is at least as remarkable as
the late Blackburne, who could, in his prime, play 12
games of chess on 12 different boards, blindfolded.
Inaudi’s mental calculations are astonishing— not paralys-
ing_to the smartest counting-house men. Also his trick
of photographing figures on his brain under most difficult
conditions is something more than an ordinary feat of
memory. The Calculating Boy doesn’t attempt any
mental photography worth mentioning. The strings of
figures which he repeats, by fits and starts, are chalked
on the boards before the performance begins, and he has
them by heart. Many a younger boy can reel off a dozen
propositions of Euclid with more facility than the Calcu-
lating Youth shows in his repetition of 150 figures.
An interesting point re municipal theatres comes from
Marseilles. While the City Council was discussing the
annual budget for the Grand Theatre, someone moved to
raise the ballet-girls’ salaries, whereupon one Payond
remarked, obscurely, that if they found themselves
insufficiently paid they always had a means of increasing
their gains. The whole corps de ballet recognised this
as a reflection on its morals (some people always think of
their morals at an emergency), and went on strike,
wherefore Payond had to apologise humbly. Yet if
Payond had said the opposite to what he did, it would
probably have incensed the ballet still more as an Insult
to its personal attractions. A wiser ballet would have
admitted that, owing to its great personal beauty, the
resource obliquely hinted at was always open to it if its
excellent moral training didn’t stand In the way.
The “twang” that J. O. Williamson complains of in
his local talent seems to be peculiar to his present comic-
opera co. For instance, some of the girls with only one
or two lines to speak in “ The Geisha” were badly afflicted
with either twang or post-nasal growth. But the minor
angels in “ The Fortune-Teller,” who are likewise Aus-
tralian, speak their one line with good enough accent
and discretion. All the teaching in the world couldn’t
make an effective speaker of one who lacks a quick and
lively sense' of word sounds and word values, but the
“ twang” habit can be overcome by a little study in voice
production. Pattie Browne had a painful accent when
she first appeared in “ Harbor Lights” at Melb. Princess’s.
She improved it a little during the run of the drama,
and before she went over to the Brough and Boucicault
co. her twang had been converted into the “ ring” which
is characteristic of educated Australian voices. The
twang will always yield to persuasion, whereas the effect
of post-nasal growth can only be removed by a surgical
operation. There are several bad cases of p.n.g. on the
stage hereabouts. One actress in a well-known dramatic
co. has an impedimental snuffle in her speech which
becomes quite exasperating to a frequent listener. The
boy Sydney Halliday is troubled with p.n.g.—or was
troubled when he played Little Lord Fauntleroy at Melb.
Bijou. And a girl who took a rather important part in
“The Runaway Girl” last year always spoke as though
her nose was blocked by furniture.
During her recent tour in Gippsland Mrs. G. B. W.
Lewis struck a happy little township on a Sunday and
gave a sacred concert. About half-way through the pro-
gramme Mrs. Lewis rose to recite “ The Penitent," and
was getting on nicely when a dog arrived. The dog, a
collie, came in search of his mistress, and applauded
vociferously with mouth and tail on finding her in the
front row. The stern glances shot by the performer did
not tend to reassure the owner, who was plainly nervous,
and used every wile in her power to keep the animal
quiet. Finally he sat down by her, and thumped the
floor vigorously with his tail. The elocutionist mean-
while had reached that stage in the history of the Peni-
tent where that improper person commences to yield up
the ghost. She became sepulchral and tremendously
impressive. The dog opened his mouth to howl in sym-
pathy. The owner clutched him desperately by the ear
to restrain him. Unfortunately she chose his sore ear.
“Suddenly,” breathed Mrs. G.8.W., “the dying man
gasped ! ” Then the dog, seized by his sore ear, gave a
yelp that rang through the hall like the wail of a lost
soul. The elocutionist tried to state what the dying
person said when he gasped, but the dog yelped again
Someone said “Take ’im out!” Someone else said
d Leggo his sore ear! ” Then he was taken out by his
flushed owner, and when the audience returned from
helping him out, the Penitent was quite dead.
N.S.W. is being gradually dotted over with the Iftvito-
scope, the new machine into which you drop a penny,
turn the handle, and see moving pictures. The instru-
ment looks like a cross between the butt end of a Hotch-
kiss quick-firing cannon and an elephantine stereoscope,
but it is a masterpiece of scientific construction, and
amongst the first rank of automatic machines. Each
instrument contains 1500 pictures, attached at one
end to a spindle, an electric battery of four
cells, a tiny incandescent light, a cash register,
and a highly ingenious apparatus which cuts off the light
when the public has had its penn’orth. That is when all
the 1500 pictures have been seen. The copper penny
makes an electric connection and brings the battery into
circuit, and the spindle being turned presses the loose
edges of the 1500 pictures against an automatic thumb,
which responds to the pressure till it turns on the electric
light. Then it refuses to budge, so that the pictures
slip past at a uniform rate, and the subscriber begins to
see things. Those 1500 pictures were photographed by
theMutograph at the rate of 80 per second, and num-
bered automatically on the back as they were taken.
Each picture is the 80th part of a second behind the
other, so it sometimes takes a dozen or two views to show
the lifting of a lip towards making a smile, or the droop
of an eyelid. The pictures slip away from the automa-
tic thumb so regularly and so quickly that the staid,
steady-going eye cannot distinguish the motion, and
sees only the changes in the attitudes of the figures. The
more minute the action the better the pictures, and
those which deal with facial changes are really splendid
works of art. The co. has two stands in Sydney, and is
exhibiting the machines in various suburban and country
towns. The Mutoscope is entirely devoid of the sight-
wrecking flicker of all other kinematographic shows.
Wilson Barrett’s recent season at London Adelphi was
limited to a few weeks The bounding author-actor-
manager no longer attempts to figure as a “ famous
London actor in a round of great characters.” He
appeals to the chuckle-headed masses with his latest clap
trap drama ; gets himself puffed and photographed in
the illustrated weeklies; and then returns to the hard
graft of a provincial tour. As a journeyman “ star ” he
is unique, anyway. Nobody else runs a persistently
heavy, humorless show on the same lines as Barrett runs
his, or with nearly as much profit. W.B. is the masculine
Corelli of the theatrical trade, ridiculed by respectable
theatre-goers, but envied and even respected by his
fellow craftsmen.
One night during the Melbourne season of " Zaza ” the
kiddie who appears to be playing the piano to Zaza and
her friend had the misfortune to slip off the music stool.
But, in spite of this unrehearsed effect, the piano practice
went on as before. The house roared.
An ape named Esah (after the original Jacob’s brother,
who was a hairy man) is playing the piano at London
Pavilion.
Oscar Asche, according to a fairly trustworthy London
critic, is “ an actor born to play Shakespeare.”
On the Maoriland tour the Melba company averaged
£BOO for each concert. Wellington topped the list with a
£950 house.
How are the mighty fallen 1 Dramatist H. A. Jones,
in a recent lecture to the Playgoers’ Club, mentioned
that London Lyceum Theatre shares, issued at £l, are
7Jd., while Empire music-hall shares, issued at 165., are
worth £3 ss.
ANOTHER DROUGHT SUFFERER.
"John, this is disgraceful!”
“ Don't blame me, my dear (hie), I had to get small change
to give (hie) to those dear girls collecting for the
Drought Relief Fund ” (hie).
'The latest surprising tale told in Mel-
bourne police court is that of a young woman,
who says a young man “assaulted” her in a
railway carriage while the train was standing in
Princes Bridge (Melbourne) station on Saturday
afternoon. The big Princes Bridge station isn’t a
quiet place at any time, and on a Saturday after-
noon it is generally a very respectable pande-
monium.
Premier Seddon recently told the land-
owners of Maoriland in a blunt and rather
threatening manner that the land of the State was
undervalued by about £12,000,000 ; and then made
a few casual remarks about the value of the Act
under which land can be compulsorily Jresumed at
the value placed upon it by the owner for taxation
purposes. Just now the re-appraisement is taking
place, and Dick has his eye on a £75,000 increase
in the Land Tax yield. Owners are scared; if
they object to the increased valuation there seems
to be a strong likelihood of their properties being
resumed right away, while, if they accept the
Govt, valuation they’ll feel bad about the £75,000.
Still it would be a blessing even to the landowners
if King Dick would raise the valuation by
£12,000,000 and devote the whole of his
£75,000 rise to a sinking fund for the repayment
of the State debt; and if Seddon was only the
man he used to be he might do it—but he isn’t.
Judging by the latest speeches of “ Joey”
Carruthers, the chief stock-in-trade of N.S.W.
Opposition is the one faded, battered, worn-out
fact that the See Government released Fried-
man, when the Judge reported that he had been
wrongly convicted, and that he should be
released. That one insignificant Jew, whose
liberation was done s in a perfectly legal
fashion, appears to be almost the only
reason the Carruthers party knows why
N.S.W. should put See out and put Carruthers in.
If N.S.W. has any sense, it will tell Carruthers
that it wants to know about what he is going to
do in the future, and that the small, impecunious
and unfriended Jew whose petty episode is away
out of sight in the backwasn of the past doesn't
matter. If Carruthers were game to say straight
out that if he becomes Premier N.S.W. will live
on its own resources, and not be always praying
for help to the Jew in London, he would have a
policy that would make him independent of poor
little dealer Friedman.
The Foster (Sydney) divorce-case will yet
drive some respectable legal gentleman into
lunacy. The question whether the lady plaintiff
is really Foster, or Barth, or Patterson, or Tar-
botten; whether her marriage with Foster was
legal or whether she then had a previous husband
living; whether, if there was such a previous
husband, the marriage with him was not illegal
through him having a previous wife living
at the time he married the lady who after-
wards married Tarbotten who died before
she married Foster; whether Foster’s other
marriage, if there was one, was legal through
this marriage being illegal; whether a divorce can
be granted when it is so difficult to find out
whether there ever was a marriage—the case is
full of hair-raising problems something like these,
but they are all so mixed that it is impossible
even to be sure one has got the right problem.
Anyhow, somebody is in gaol on a charge of
something, but it may be the Judge or the dog,
for all The Bulletin knows, just at the moment’.
A very brief consideration of the troubles of
Foster and Patterson and Tarbotton makes the
room whiz round till all sense of direction is lost.
General Hutton’s ideas of converting the
assorted military fripperies of the various States
into one harmonious institution will make havoc
with the pomps of sundry Personages. The
scheme for consolidating the mounted regiments
into one composite arm, to be known as the
“Australian Mounted Infantry,” means death to
the fancy dress uniforms of the Australian Horse
and N.S.W. Lancers and other beautiful gather-
ings. The Australian Horse are to give up their
silly and useless heavy swords, but the Lancers, if
they are going to cry over it, may keep the silly
and more useless lance for the present. This
making the pretty fellows into plain but useful
mounted infantry is a blow. War critics, especi-
ally since the last war, have all the world over
expressed the opinion that cavalry of the Caton-
Woodville painting class is doomed. The retired
shopkeepers, merchants and others who created
the Sydney cavalry fondly believed that the
Gundagai (K) troop of the Australian Horse and
the Parramatta half squadron of N.S.W. Lancers
would utterly confound these critics in the next
European war. Hence the passing away of these
famous units arouses the indignation of the man
who “ voted for the Bill.”
Pathetic indeed to see Pre-
mier John See publish, with a
flourish of trumpets, in the daily
papers, auditors’ certificates that
he never, never paid any interest on
loan funds out of loans. To the
mind of Mr. John See, that is pro-
bably absolutely convincing, and he
will be genuinely bewildered when
the hard, unfeeling monev-lender
points out that if a man has £IU
a week income and has to pay £1
a week in interest and has to borrow
£2 a week to keep going, the precise
facts as to which of his two pockets
he puts his borrowings into and
which he pays his interest out of are
absolutely immaterial.
As is usual when a Govern-
ment is negotiating with a syndi-
cate, a row has arisen over the price
of the Tasmanian cable, which the
Australian Govt, proposes to take
over from the existing cable co.
The price asked —about £70,000 is
regarded as excessive by the Govt.,
while the co. tearfully affirms that
it is going at half cost, or some-
where near that price. But in these
days, when wireless messages be-
tween America and Britain are
accomplished facts, it seems a rather
short-sighted policy to buy up in a
hurry a plant which may be soon
obsolete. Why not try Marconi
first ?
Melb. Age, speaking of the
anti - reform dronings of brewer
Nicholas Fitzgerald, M.L.C., said
he “ summoned from the grave of
reactionary phantoms most of the
hoary platitudes, exploded fallacies,
and political cant that were em-
ployed to delude a century ago.”
One of the platitudes referred to
as having been hoary during a hun-
dred years of burial in the phantoms’
grave was Nick’s announcement
that the present time is, of all times,
the time when the feelings of the
taxpayer deserve consideration. The
sentiments of a hard-shell Vic. Leg.


HEALTH AND HAPPINFSX
LIVE WELL, LIVE LONG, and LIVE HEALTHILY.
Strength, and* can'bteijen ‘ hey ® h °“ ld avoitl <,isaster whi ° h may end in Death. New Vigor, new Life, new
uses of Electricity and Medicine Pen i ” y ato|ltmg for a short period the Electro-Medioal Treatment or the judicious
ciricity and Med.o.ne, People are cured daily by this system who were otherwise classed as <> INCURABLE. "
REMARKS.
the fact that thTrl to , tl l me r demo r nstrated » as fading physiologists and pathologists in the scientific world,
ledcre of the eai,J/ man !i bealln S of gnevous health-destroying diseases lies in the possession of a perfect know-
tioner can P hen ° mena concerning them, and the accurate methods of treating them. Any practi-
practitioner cannot heal or cure a disease TTmwL +t b f ? r a com Pla int and treat it with that professional care embodied in set formula. But every
little benefit. Millions of people suffer from chronicler™ endeavol * r ’ un s u Poessfu]ly fail - Everywhere men and women try their doctors, receiving
the right sources. What the and n6Ver beCOme Cured of them - becaase do not appeal to
SPECIALIST, with his new -d obsolete forms i treating the
BY THOUSANDS OF UNIMPEACHABLE TESTIMONIALS
and WALLAOE INSTITUTE, in cases undertaken (and which they guarantee to cure) of nerve
singular success. Patients ,? , I lo? ?l °f Electro-Therapeutic agents, is a new system, qualified by
Electricity is Life, if juSfapp™ by meS “golAoß- T* ***
HYSTERIA, INSOMNIA PAT PTT ATTOlsr sctattca UKAIOR with reconstructive remedies, and such diseases as
LUMBAGO ABDOMINAL WEAKNTO pttS' w L ,?fSv„ BßA ™- FAG ’ EXHAUSTED VITAL FUNCTIONS, RHEUMATISM,
and permanently cur" WEAKNESS, PILES, ST. VITUS'DANCE, or CHRONIC or FUNCTIONAL NERVE DISORDERS, are surely
AN EXQUISITE
EULOGY.
-
MR. CHARLES KENNINGHAM,
the famous lyric composer and
chief operatic tenor of the
Royal English Comic Opera Company,
from the Savoy Theatre, London, who
has starred in every city of Australasia
as the idol of Australian axidiences by
reason of his excellent singing, writing to
the Specialists under date November
20th, declares :
“For years 1 suffered from
Insomnia. Your Electric “Belt, y
was recommended to me and I
consistently wore one, with the
result that I am now sleeping
reasonably and my general health
and appetite are much improved.
“ Yours truly,
“CHAIILES KENNINGHAM
Such a testimony from such an eminent
source proves the value and efficacy of
the only superior Electric “ Invigorator ”
sold in the States, the full particulars of
which are below appended. Be careful
when purchasing an Electric “ BELT ”
that you secure one certified by local
electricians.
Mr. CHARLES KENNINQHAM, the Famous Composer
A DISTINGUISHED
PATRON.
MR. PHILIP NEWBURY, the
famous English robust tenor, so
intimately known and so popu-
larly appreciated by all Australian lovers
of exquisitely superb vocalisation, was so
benefited by a course of the Electro-
Medical treatment that in a letter to the
SPECIALISTS he says:
“A feiv weeks’ course of your
Electro-Medical Treatment, during
which I wore one of your famous
Nerve - Restoring Electric *IN-
FIGOItATOMS,’ has benefited me
greatly. For years I suffered from
Uric Acid in the Blood, with Rheu-
matic tendencies, but, thanks to
your Electric * INVIGORATOR,’
I am now completely cured.
Yours faithfully,
±2.
Graceful as this eulogy is, it is none
the less sincere, expressed by one whose
attainments are generally beloved
throughout Australasia. It verifies the
fact that in the cure of nerve diseases,
electricity judiciously applied by a skilled
SPECIALIST is unequalled as an im-
mediate remedy.
If you suffer from Insomnia, Functional Heart Trouble, Epilepsy, Hysteria, Weakness, Kidney Dis-
order, Aching Back, Rheumatism, Uric Acid in Blood, Sciatica or Neuralgia, an Electric “ Invigorator,
with reconstructive remedies, will soon put you right. Electricity goes right to the Spot. lor many weak-
nesses peculiar to women the “ INVIGORATOR ” is an infallible cure.
All attestants mav he interviewed The SPECIALISTS’ treatment is sure and effective. Improvement is rapid and certain. .
You need not fear but that vou WILL RECOVER if you try a course of Electro-Medication. It acts at once on the nervous centres, animating the nerves, re-strengthening the muscular
conquer. It is the finest medium in the world to physical peace and domestic harmony.
PRICES.
The Prices of tbese wonderful curative “INVIGORATORS” are as follow:
Copper Plate, £1 ; Silver Plate, £1 10s; Solid Silver, £3 ; Solid Cold, £lO (2oz. 18ct. Cold).
The Specialists hold Certificates of Efficacy unpossessed by others, and give private tests to anyone who cares to call. Two leading Sydney electrici
1 assert they are “electrically perfect, and their currents are continuous as used for medical purposes.
These “ INVIGORATORS ” are the only Electric “ Belts ” sold in Australia which possess true non-conducting vulcanite insulation, without which
Electric “ Belt ” can give a continuous electric current useful for medical purposes. Any electrician will verify this fact.
The Specialists’ Fees : Advice & Medicine, ONE POUND only
CRED ENTIAL6.
England and , r t
Hospital, Melbourne, and British Imperial Army Medical Staff.
Sir DOMINIC CORRIGAN, Bart., Physician to the late Queen, speaking of the
Physician-in-Chief, says:—“l entertain a high opinion of Dr. Wallace in regard to his
professional qualifications.”
N
INE Di
Chief
plomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration of the Physician-in-
by the Medical Boards of New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia,
Amortea ter mihlic insnection at the Institute. Bate Homoeopathic
“ CLINICAL EXPERIENCES."
CONTAINING 550 pages of medical literature, 150 full and half-page medical ill ns'
tions, fully explains, in the chapter devoted to Electricity, the general laws governi
the application of electricity to the human frame. An exhaustive exposition of the syste.
employed in the doctrine of Electro-Medication is given, showing the benefits to be deri\
from a judicious use of the Electric Bath, Battery, or Belt. The uses of these r
individually explained. This valuable medical work is posted free to any address on rooc
7u ONE SHILLING IN STAMPS.
- FREEMAN * WALLACE
ELECTRO-MEDICAI
and SURGICAL INSTITUTt
ELIZABETH
HOWARD FREEMAN, Director.
Dr RICHARD WALLACE, M.D., L.R.C.P., E., L.F.P.8.,
and BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
E., L.M.
Medicines packed Free from Observation and sent to all parts of Australia.
Physician-in-Chief. Letters treated with Professional Secrecy and promptly replied to.


“ C. H. L. ” as to police protection :
The suggestion that the police should be provided with
electric lanterns is good. Pistols are now available in
Europe which emit a powerful light on the butt being
firmly gripped as if for firing; the light is projected
exactly in the direction of the barrel, and thus really
illuminates the target. It goes out again, when the grip
on the butt is somewhat relaxed. The pistol may,
therefore, be carried in the hand, illuminate a spot for an
instant, and as quickly leave everything in darkness
again.
The newly-enfranchised women voters of
N.S.W. should read The Bulletin’s “A Policy
for the Commonwealth,” by James Edmond.
Post free from Bulletin office for 7d.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK
A Handsome Cloth-bound Volume ot over 300 pages
The Best Collection of Short Stories and Literal y
Sketches yet produced in Australia. 1 rice, 4s. bd.;
postage, 6d.
Mount Cornish, which for many years had
the reputation of possessing the finest cattle in
Queensland, has now only 350 head left out of
40,000. This was the station whence “Starlight”
took the fats to Adelaide, as described (with
exaggerations) in “Robbery Under Arms.”
Suggested that, now an Australian flag
has been adopted, there should be legislation to
prevent its misuse. In America it is claimed
that “the Stars and Stripes ” is put to all sorts of
ill-uses, to keep flies off travelling monkeys in a
menagerie, as a belt for pugilists, and— worst of
all—a house of ill-fame in Manila is painted all
over with the ’Murkan National flag.
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
the famous remedy Forl
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sulhcienfc,
uid a Complete Cure is certain. ... _—, _
BEWARE OF - COUGHS!
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
3URED BY ONE BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
- “Orange, N.S.W.
•Mr. Hearne. —
“ Dear Sir,—l enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
if London, England, from which you will glean that
rour medicine has been a perfect God-send to a martyr to
•olds and bronchial asthma. Ido not wish any names to
le mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
•ortion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
and. You can see for yourself what an immense success
t was.—Yours faithfully,
Extract from letter alluded to above :
•‘You will be interested in hearing that I think the
bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
trrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
nuch interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
iff the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
rotn a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
upplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS* TORTURE.
IELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
"Dergholm, Victoria.
“Dear Sir, —i wish to add my testimony to the won-
ierful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
nonths, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
dvice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
’ours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
irst dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
m a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
nay depend upon my making known the efflcac3 - of your
ronderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“ Yours faithfullv,
“JAMES ASTBURY.”
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
learne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
ectly and rapidlv successful under circumstances which
ndoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
he Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, M.vers-street, Geelong, and
fty-nine other leading residents.
A TEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS-
"I used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and lb cured each of them in from one to three
doses.—P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.”
9
“Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. * only pave him four doses, and have some of
the medicine yet; but lam sending for another bottle in case I should want it.—D. M'DONALD, Trinkey, via
Quirindi, N.S.W.”
O
••Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.—A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney.”
O
* My wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and I am glad to inform yon that your Brochitis Cure has done us
both a wonderful deal of good, it having quickly cured us both. —R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford,
Victoria.”
O
“ I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me.—(Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria.”
0
•• I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria."
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone.—J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W.”
9
“My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses.—C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers,
Queen-street, Melbourne.”
•
“ I lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miraculous.—F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.”
“Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria."
"Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.—(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.”
•
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once
G. SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” •
“ Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle.—W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria.”
"I have tried lots of medicine, hut yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to evervhodv
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” • ' y ‘
“I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine
but I can truly say that I am astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of tnv brief trial -inmv p’
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.” - U
/ 9
“ Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas did not do
any good; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well —II HOOD
Brooklands, Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.
" plea . se ® e, l d *T' e half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.”
•
“ Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previouslv
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from you have milled
me through a long and dangerous illness.—HENßY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough Victoria” D d
•
. ‘‘The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects.-CHAS. WHYBROW Enoch 1 ,
Point, v\a Darlmgford, Victoria.'” f 4[,ocn 3
Gratitude and Appreciation
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
"The Scientific Australian Office,
“ 169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
"Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during’ the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
‘‘This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom.
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ac-
countant, Coliins-street, and the effect that it had was so
marked that he has ever since been continually recom-
mending it to others.
“ We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
"PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.”
Queensland Testimony-
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
" 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
"Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send us 36
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose our
cheque to cover amount of order.
“ We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
“ We are, faithfully yours,
• THOMASON, CHATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemists.”
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir, —Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“ I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUARRILL,
“Editor Geelong Advertiser."
“Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.”—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
offic6. No. 5, First Floor, Greer s Clin.inters, 522 George Street Svdnev Tel 3562
Small Size, 2s 6d ; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Adless ,oil' not obtainable Locally.
BRANCH DEPOT
THE
SMELTING a REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
Works I DfIPTO, LAKE ILLAWARRA (56 Miles from Sydney).
v —hit —
-1901, Limited.
Highest Price paid for Gold, Silver, Lead, and Copper Ores
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay. Cyanide, Slags, and Jewellers’ Sweep, etc.
For all Information regarding Rates, apply to the Manager, Head Office, Dapto:
° r ’ A ' E - RUI)I)ER & CO., 40 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Forwarding Agents.
BENGER’S FOOD is
not only highly nutritive,
but is most easily digested
and is so delicious'that it
is enjoyed by Infants, In-
valids, Convalescents and
the aged.
I
a
The London Medical Record
says :—“ It is retained when all
other foods are rejected."
The British Medical Journal
says“ Render's hood has by
its excc lence established a
reputai on of its own."
Benger’s Food is sold in tins
by Chemists, etc., everywhere.


The Bulletin doesn’t fully agree with
this letter, but passes it on account of its pro-
miscuous eloquence :—•
The only Seddon is blossoming out into airs and graces
in the speeches with which he rends the heavens in his
kingdom. His three-hour talks have now acquired the
look of the crazy-quilt, embellished with metaphor of the
large striped poster variety, and spotted apologue, and
purple parable, and star-spangled symbolism generally.
Some time ago he was struggling with the impression
that the State was a ship of some large untamed sort, and
that he was a fine rollicking old sea-dog roaring orders
to go slow, out of the port-hole, while the engineer was
down below sitting on the safety valve. Later on, with
a dishevelled whoop he announced that he was the
chauffeur of the snorting, spluttering, motor Maoriland,
and that he licked the Universe. It was only yesterday
that he made his famous pronouncement referring
to the rumors of his retirement, thai “ You have
Ruapehu and Tongariro. They are fixtures, and so am
!•” The spectacle of Tongariro in charge of a motor-car,
or of Ruapehu at the wheel of the ship of state, is full of
the most gladsome possibilities. And as Seddon has just
floated a new loan of £“1,250,000, it would appear that he
does not know what the State is, or what he is himself,
except that he is in charge of something that is raging
along to somewhere with great velocity, and that he is
determined to raise more dust and storm and noise than
anything else in all history.
Whoop!
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par
eel, which will be followed by direct remittance
is solicited.
EVERY WOMAN
is interested and should know
about the wonderful
Marvel Whirling Spray
The new FEMALE SYRI
injection and Suction. The best,
safest and most convenient.
It Cleanses Instantly.
if your druggist cannot
supply the MARVEL,
accept no other, but write us for
illustrated Book, sent free
sealed. It gives price by mail,
particmars and directions invalu-
uie to ladies. Hmtorsed by Physicians.
j Times Building, N. Y.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS-
THE MARVEL CO. OF AUSTRALIA,
CAMDEN BUILDING,
418 George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
lady specialist in attendance.
Postal Address, Box 623, G.P.0., Sydney.
Write for Booklet. Seut free, sealed.
the pianola
w
ft.
Vi rTkmi
What
It
Means
To
You.
If you are the owner of a piano which is seldom or never used little
benefit is derived from it by either you or your family. By the purchase
of a Pianola every member of your family can play the piano, although he
01 she may never have played one note in their life.
The striking of the notes of the selection, in proper time and place is
no concern of the player. This is correctly done by the Pianola. P
. r i Phe i jlaye , r S T ly i task IS , decide ho ' v slow or how fast the notes shall
be played, or how loud or soft he wants them to sound.
Q , llt i tle levers to ira P art the player’s wishes to the piano.
Should the selection not be familiar, a very simple set of markings is given
111 the 7 lnch unwinds in front of the player, directing the proper
movement of the levers. F
If you will write us, asking for Catalogue B, we will mail you one
free, explaining more fully the Pianola. J
The price of the Pianola is £6O prompt cash, or £65 on moderate
monthly payments.
HENRY M. BIRGE & CO.
SOLE ACSNTS FOR AUSTRALASIA.
SYDNEY : 323 George St.
MELBOURNE: 185-187 Collins St.
A NEW BROWNIE KODAK
For Pictures 2| x 3£ Inches.
Limited,
And of all Photographic Dealers.
The No. 2
BROWNIE
KODAK. .
Ppiee 10/ only
LOADED AND UNLOADED IN DAYLIGHT.
Send for Illustrated and Descriptive
Leaflet and mention this paper-
-284 COLLINS STREET,
... MELBOURNE.
pelman’s System.
IDemory Traininy
Develops and improves the Memory, making- a poor
memory good and a good one better. It is no mere
theory, but a sound and practical system, based upon
well-known psychological principles. Its value is testified
to by the leading newspapers of the world, and by the
the*globe hundreds ot Btudenta residing in all parts of
What the Pelman System
will do for you.
It will enable you—
T 0 figures, to remembe. dates
TVDT^?pa EMBER NAMES - TO REMEMBER AD-
TO DEMEMEER verbal instruo-
TIONS. ,T° remember speeches, to remem-
DETAILS. to learn LAN-
w^^ S- -r T 0 PASS EXAMS - TO SPEAK WITHOUT
MISTAKES - TO REMEMBER
6£™ r o NTMENTa TO REMEMBER ENGAGE-
Mils .NTS.
It will Assist You—
TO THINK RAPIDLY. TO REASON LOGICALLY.
It will Ensure Your Success in Everything.
THE COURSE OF LESSONS can now be obtained direct
from Melbourne.
TTMnKTH,« AN^ ORY PAMPHLET and copies of TES-
MON lALS will be sent, post free, on application to the
Secretary, BOX 402, G.P.0., MELBOURNE.
Head Office: 4 Bloomsbury-street, London
Long Drink
INTSE
-RUITJ
0
§
0
(JURE
Line
Fruit
Juice
Sole Consignees—
Z EVANS SONS,
~LESDHER A WEBB,
Limited.
London A Liverpool.
Agents:
Elliott Bros., Ltd.; J. Connell & Co., Sydney.
D. Cohen & Co., Newcastle.
SKEETO.
Rub “Skeeto” on the skin and Mosquitos
won’t come near you.
TESTIMONIAL.
“The Camp, Jerusalem Bay.
“ Cowan Creek,
“ Mr. A. J. Webster, 2/2/’O3.
“ Dear Sir,—l have much pleasure in testifying’ to the
merits of your valuable remedy ‘ Skeeto,’ which we used
in our camp on the Hawkesbury. There was quite a
plague of mosquitos and sand-flies, but on applying your
preparation we were at once perfectly free from them,
and we must all express our golden opinions in favor of
the efficacy of ‘ Skeeto.’ I shall always recommend it to
my friends.—Yours truly, C. E. EGLESE.”
PRICE, 1/- per bottle; post, 1/4.
Agents for Queensland—HOEFNUNG & CO., Ltd •
CHAS. S. V. MILLINGEN & CO.
Sole Manufacturer—
ALEX. J. WEBSTER, 177 Pitt Street, Sydney
A Distinct Advance in Infant Feeding.
burt'S
m
N
’ c p ■ i;
Testimony, OlrrJ"**
□ & Hanburt 5
3'J3 <
‘JKllenbimis Foods.
The Allenburys Foods provide nourishment suited to the growing digestive powers
of the Infant, and constitute an altogether distinct advance on the mischievous expedient of trying
to make the child’s stomach accomodate itself to a food essentially unsuited to its digestive powers.
Farinaceous foods of all kinds are totally unfit for infants under five or six months of age, such foods
being a potent cause of digestive troubles, rickets, and many disorders arising from mal-nutrition.
The “AMenburys” Foods are especially valuable in hot
climates. They are in the form of powder and keep perfectly.
Pamphlet on
INFANT FEEDING” (48 pages) free, from
495 , Bourke Street, Melbourne.
ALLEN & HANBURYS, Ltd., London, Eng.
MILK FOOD No. 1.
From birth to three months.
MILK FOOD No. 2.
From three to six months.
MALTED FOOD No. 3.
From six months and upwards.
JAYNE’S EXPECTORANT
CURES THE. WORSTCOUGHS.
A Men’s Refuge.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There is an ancient church somewhere near
Dawes Point, Sydney, which in its old age has
p-own mundane and takes in washing! The
laundry hangs on ropes over the floor which has
ourious interlacing of chalk marks, forming
oblongs, as if someone had been trying to play a
complicated game of hopscotch. At night each
oubicle contains a Domain loafer reposing on the
hard but sanitary floor, with a blanket (washed
and dried every day) thrown over him. This is
the Men’s Refuge, price nothing, with a shower
bath (hot in winter, cold in summer) thrown in.
All occupations except one are represented in this
edifice when the hour for closing sounds. There are
broken-down doctors, morphia-ruined journalists
(every wrecked toff has a tendency to put himself
down as inkslinger), but no clergyman has crept
back to the bosom of Mother Church in this
fashion. The cubicles, which are chalked out
anew every morning after the daily cleaning, are
liberal as regards length, and so arranged that, if
Long Jim’s feet go over the boundary mark, they
rest in the chalked-off passage-way, and not on
the weary head of Short Bill, in the next apart-
ment. The elbows of Bill and Jim may some-
times be rather adjacent, and two morphia-eaters
in adjoining apartments find life a weariness for
fear No. 1 may sneak No. 2’s morphia,
or, worse evil, that No. 2 may fail to
sneak No. l’s. Otherwise, it is stated that there
is never any trouble when these 230 odd men pre-
pare to enjoy the church’s hospitality together.
What Woman’s Shelter can say as much ?
Every day the floor is cleaned and sprayed, and
the blankets washed, while each week the walls
are whitewashed up to seven feet. Three or four
of the men attend to this work and are rewarded
with lodgings in the choir and their meals at a
restaurant. Lodgers who show any rebellious
spirit are put to sleep round the altar to imbibe
the extra sanctity they so much require. The
manager complains that men in fair employment
come in and enjoy those bare but sanitary boards
for nothing, but concludes very wisely that pro-
bably these are preferable to the threepence a
night “lodgings for respectable men, ” where the
blankets look as if washed in coffee and hung up
the chimney to dry.
Mattresses are not provided in the Men’s
Refuge. “ Mattresses would need to be burnt and
replaced occasionally, and we can’t afford it, ” says
the manager, who is evidently unaware how often
in fairly decent houses the mattress is handed
down from generation to generation as an heirloom
of the deepest dye. Woman is a primitive
animal; she knows things must be washed some-
times, but she hates to waste a valuable, diseased
mattress, or the ancient typhoid-smitten cushion
on which her grandfather sat, by burning them.
Be washing, it has been proposed that besides
the present opportunities for cleanliness, the men
shall be given a place to wash their clothes. Some-
how or other, to do this always strikes people as a
more sinful waste of public money than to give a
free meal, yet from the hardest, coldest stand-
point that the severest utilitarian can advance, I
the Washhouse Reform is the best. A break-
fasted man is a comfort only to himself, but a
washed man is a benefit to the community at
large. He leaves no disease germs on the park
seats on which he reposes; he is a patriot in his
simple way, and his brother, who washes his socks
in the drippings of street fountains, is a hero. We
have free meals in Sydney and free lodgings.
When will we have free baths and washhouses as
well?
CONSTANCE CLYDE.


No. F5419—18c.
Gold Diamond and
Sapphire Ring, 12.
No. F 2876. —Pretty Glass-lined She
Butter Dish, with Knife, 13s 6d.
No. SO. -163. Gold and t ine Opal a«d Pearl Be
Brooch, £2 10s.
No. F693l.—Exquisite Diamond and Ruby
Brooch, £l3 10s.
No. F 419.—Novel
Charm, 9ct. Gold,
Mouse in a Hat, 8s 6d
No. F 7393. —Iftr*. Gold
Rope and Anchor
Oharm, 8s 6d.
No. G 1395.— Solid Silver Serviette
Ring, 4s 6d.
15c. Gold and Fine
Pearl Star Pendant,
£4los; others up to £lO
9ct. Gold Fashionable
Photo. Pendant, 75.6 d ;
larger, Bs. Cd, 11s 64
With Pearls, 27s 6d.
No. F 3198. —Neat, Plain Onyx and
Gold Mourning Brooch, 13s 6d.
No. F 5328. —ISc. Gold
Diamond & Sapphire
Ring, £5 10s.
m
KIIIE CUMU
s.w
taßiMMa
No. Fs9os.—Gentleman’s Embossed Solid Silver Visiting
Card Case, 16s 6d.
d
QUALITY FOR LESS MONEY.’ and keeping your custom,
carrying on a business. It’s our way o the right prices than any
We admit we are in a better P° sltl °" J aB through following the policy
other firm in Australasia, but remem er c tnre to Eight. There is a reason at
mentioned above that we have grown from on MONEY is the reason for
the back of everything, and BETTER QUALITY FOR LESS .MON* and catalogues
our growth and popularity. Orders by post have careful attention,
and information are gladly sent to enquirers. - _ -
No. E 7302. Pearl,
Turquoise and 9c.
Gold Heart Pen-
dant, 17s 6d.
No. 215.—Fine
Pearl and Sapphire
Heart, 9c. Gold,
16a 6d.
No. F 7392. —15c-
Gold Filigree
Ornamented
Bean Charm,
lOs 6d.
No. F 7420 —Soli J
Gold Perfect
Model Pipe
Charm,
8s 6d.
No. F 4454. —Fine
Quality Silver-plated
Centrepiece, 20in.
high, with Stag Or-
naments and
Engraved Glass Dish
and Vase, £3 15s.
No. G 1399.
-Solid Silver Queen Anne Salt Cellars
Spoons, in Morocco Case, 52s 6d.
This shows the new Pearl Necklet made from real solid Mother of
Pearl and coated by a secret process to imitate the real
pearls. The imitation is practically perfect, and only an expert
can tell the difference. Prices, £4, £4 10s, £4 15s, £5.
No. F 3738. —Neat Leather Purse, with Handsome
Silver Mounts and Lock, 13s 6d.
No. F9933.—Child’s Cup,
Silver Plated and En-
graved in case, 14s 6d.
No. 386.—Mother of Pearl Silver Plated and Engraved Butter Knife, 3s 6d.
Gl396.—Gadioon Edge Solid Silver
Serviette Ring, 11s Cdi
No. FB2lo.—Fine Leather and Solid
Silver Blotting Book, 255. '
0-0
No. F976.—Fine Pearl Set, 15c. Gold 2 Bar
Brooch, 37s 6d.
Illustrated Catalogue
POST FREE.
No. 163.—18 c. Gold
Diamond and Ruby
Ring, £3 10s; larger
T
HERE ARE SEVERAL ....
TALKING MACHINES
. . BUT THERE IS ONLY ONE . .
WHICH IS MADE BY
The Gramophone m Typewriter [td.
This is a “JUNIOR iTONARCH ” GRAMOPHONE,
Price £6 10s., and it is unsurpassed by any
Talking Machine at any Price.
Other Styles, £3 to £l4 10s.
T is well to remember this when discussing the artistic merit of sound reproducing contrivances. There is little
difficulty in reproducing a sound. There is, however, a gigantic difficulty in reproducing good music, and the actual
voices of famous singers. We would ask you to remember that THE GRAMOPHONE made by The Gramophone
and Typewriter Ltd. does this. How do we do it? Why, because we have unlimited capital at our back, and because
we do not hesitate to obtain the services of the finest and most celebrated artistes of the day to sing for us. The better the
artiste the better the song. The public are the best judges in the world of tne intrinsic value of an article. We are selling
FIVE MILLION RECORDS
per annum and why ? Because our records aie leal leproductions of these singers. Our catalogue includes records made
by Carusa, Blanton, Benaud, David Bispham, Ben Davies, Andrew Black, Bichard Green, Joseph O’Mara, Mesdames Calve,
Suzanne Adams, Iviibv Lunn, Lsthei 1 allisei, leicival Allen, Connie Ldiss, and Marie Tempest. Also Dan Leno, George
Bobey, Louis Bradfield, and Maurice Farkoa, besides hundreds of others.
Australian Agencies-VICTORIA: A. P. Sykes, 227 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Represented all over
World.
w?s T trat TI t S a TR m LIA : w'TT S ' B ' Hunt * Co > 94 Grenfell Street - Adelaide.
WESTRALIA: Messrs. Nicholson & Co.. Perth.
We^ heiluer ' Benjamin, & Anderson, 71 Collins Street, Hobart.
aUEENSLAND: Messrs. He.n 'o.ff Eros., 210 Queen Street, Brisbane.
WHOLESALE DEPOT FOR AUSTRALASIA-
AGENTS IN EVERY TOWN.
The Gramophone and Typewriter Ltd., 163 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.


w
r c
V
W
1
“NATURES
PLEASANT
LAXATIVE.”
m
m
OF
MONEYS. LIVER ANO BOWELS
mmmMm
THE ORIGINAL
AND
GENUINE;
n
TA
California Syrup of Figs is the one True Natural Laxative. It acts
gently, pleasantly and beneficially on the Kidneys, Liver, and Bowels,
and permanently overcomes Habitual Constipation.
Words of Advices
Ask for CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS, and see that
the package bears the welbknown Name and Trade IVlark
of the California Fig Syrup Co., the Manufacturers of the
only Original and Genuine. Imitations are numerous, but
as you value your health you cannot risk taking a substL
tute. California Syrup of Figs is sold in Australia in two
sizes at 1/3 and 1/11. Worthless substitutes are often
offered at less as an inducement.
Of all Chemists and Stores.
California Fig Syrup Company, 32 Snow Hill, London, E.C.
Australia : 7 Street, Sydney.
i
Rhymes with
jf|V„. V«hv , v
/ ' n .... ‘ / '-.
t'"Y' iSIMV.,,, V 7 .7 ■«
. '■* rill# HA: •l (A
1
> / \ c. .
/
>
\
A'
. »\
•-4>-
and so does
PEARS
The Artist-Soul.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There is sorrow and affliction
In this life for great and small,
But the grief that lives in fiction
Is the saddest grief of all.
In a chamber, small and squalid,
Sat a man with features bland,
And a massive head and solid,
And a beer-jug at his band.
On his brow no lines were graven,
Save by sorrows found in books ;
Cheeks, and lips, and chin unshaven
Showed his carelessness of looks.
As he sat and smoked there, slowly
Down his cheeks the tears did roll—
He was not art artist wholly,
But he had the Artist Soul.
He could not his feelings render
Plain and clear, in verse or prose,
But he had a heart as tender
As the dewdrop on a rose.
Ne’er was grief so prehistoric
That he could not bring it near,
Even sorrows allegoric
Had his tribute of a tear.
For poor Tiglath-Pileser
(Who is dead) full sad was lie ;
O’er assassinated Caesar
He could weep like Antony.
He was reading Sims’s story—
Sims could then a story tell—
Of how Billy went to Glory
With his little sister Nell;
And that sad, glad, pinchbeck paean
His so-tender heart distressed,
And, beneath his shirt Crimean,
Shook with sobs his hairy chest.
And “Oh God,” he said, “to think that
Things like this should ever be ! ”
And he swore—and took a drink —that
They condemned Society.
Down the passage slowly creeping
With their little bare brown feet—
For they thought he might be sleeping—
Came his children from the street.
Walls of brick could scarcely smother
What was in the kitchen said,
Where a weary wife and mother
Wished to God that she was dead.
For she watched the children skipping
Lightly with their shoeless feet,
As they ate the bread-and-dripping
Which was all they had to eat.
It was she the house was keeping,
Working with a courage rare,
While her wearied spouse was weeping
Over woes that never were.
There is sorrow and affliction
In this life for great and small ;
But the grief that lives in fiction
Is the saddest grief of all.
Let the moral not mi: c irrv :
Maidens, while your heart is whole,
Make a vow to never marry
One who has the Artist Soul.
N.s.w.
CREEVE ROE.
The Problem of the Foundling.
WAITARA HOME, N.S.W.
Australia patterns her family habits on her finan-
cial methods—not enough babies coming in, too
many babies recklessly wasted. Whilst the great
need of the country is population, the native
birth-rate is low, and of the babies who are born
many, very many, die needlessly. The death-rate,
among legitimate children even, is far too high ;
but that is an evil Which can only be remedied by a
long process of social education. The death-rate
among illegitimates is monstrously high ; and that
is a scandal which community-effort may remedy
to some extent almost at once. The child who is
“of no father,” as the law puts it, hasareason-
able claim, on the grounds of humanity, that the
State should become its father ; in Australia it
has a still greater claim on the grounds of ex-
pediency, for the Commonwealth sorely lacks
children.
* » » *
The problem of rearing the illegitimate is pos-
sible of solution, but not easy. It differs from
that of rearing the normal child in two respects:
The illegitimate is often of a lower order of
vitality, and the illegitimate’s male parent almost
always does not want the child to live, while the
female parent, in a very large percentage of cases,
is anxious for its death.
• • * *
The problem of the Foundling is not altogether
the problem of the Illegitimate. There are many
legitimate children who become foundlings, be-
cause of drunken parents, or of the death or great
poverty of their natural guardians. But the
bulk of the infants handed over to baby-farmers,
consigned to institutions, abandoned in the streets,
or born in the destitute asylums, arc such as have
“no father” in the eyes of the law. So the
words “foundling’ and “illegitimate ’ have come
almost to express the same meaning to the statis-
tician—that of a class of unfortunate infants
which includes a few who are 1 gitimately born,
and which excludes a few who, though illegiti-
mate, are tenderly cared for by their parents. Of
this class the death rate is high in every land.
In Switzerland it is 55 per cent, higher than
the deaths of legitimate home-reared children ; in
France twice as high; in Italy 50 per cent, higher;
in Germany, where the infantile death rate
is 13’3 per cent, among legitimate children,
among foundlings it is 45‘2. Sydney statistics
on the subject were recently collated at the
instance of Dr. Maekellar, M.L.C., and show
very unfavorably, even as compared with the high
death-rates of other lands. Three N.S. W. infants
f the 1898 ' 1902 showed the following
death-rates: Ashfield Home, 38'91 per cent. ;
Waitara Home, 83’31; Benevolent Asylum, 78 23
foundlings, and 58‘46 for children born in the
institution,
* • n i
These figures, appalling in their exposure of the
waste of infant life, drew specially unfavorable
attention to Waitara, a R.C. institution near
Sydney, managed by a nursing sisterhood. A
bulletin . representative, accordingly, visited
that institution to make a minute inquiry
into its system and methods and to see if
m any direction reform were possible. It
may be stated frankly, at the outset, that the
Waitara figures are very misleading if they imply
a wholesale condemnation of the institution.
I here are several causes which operate to make
tins conclusion honestly inevitable. Waitara is
practically the only place which is really a found-
ling s home, hospital and hospice. It will take
finy “case”—even of an infant who is palpably
dying regardless of the effect on its mortality
figures. Ihe reason for this is probably partly
religious : the conductors prefer to take in a
moribund child, baptise it as a Christian, and let
it have its inevitable end in peace than to refuse
it admission. An institution with an eye on its
statistics would refuse clearly hopeless cases.
• • • •
Waitara is conducted practically on the plan of
um an d Russian Foundling Asylums;
children are taken in without muon question,
without any guarantee of support, without any
regard for their condition. The child who has
obviously but an hour to live can end its days
there if brought to its door. Naturally deaths are
frequent. A complete investigation of the work-
ing of the place revealed only one palpable point
of criticism—the lack of an effective sterilising
plant; and that want the sisters propose to
remedy if a trial, now progressing, of modern
sterilisers gives good results. The Home is in a
healthy spot, 600 feet above sea-level; it is well
constructed to give the infants the maximum of
fresh air ; the medical staff is an excellent one—
including most of the well-known children’s
doctors as visitors, and Dr. Grieve as, practically,
a resident physician. No expense seems to be
spared in regard to drugs, to stimulants, or to
foods (some of the infants are fed on the most ex-
pensive of the patent foods). The nursing seems
to be sympathetic and careful. Undoubtedly, the
chief cause of mortality is the type of case ad-
mitted.
• * • •
Note some of the poor little atoms in the wards
—a week or two old, as their days count —but old
and haggard, and decrepit, with the heavy tale of
their sorrows. They had known but starvation
and despair, and hatred, before they were born,
and came to the light only to see more clearly the
horror of living, and so they make haste
to die, driving away from them with stubborn
energy all that offers to reinforce life. Dying?
Yes, dying with grim determination. You can
see it on their little, infinitely old faces, wizened
and puckered. They could not, would not respond
to any effort at salvation —of wine, or drug, or
nourishing food. Such cases a Foundling Asylum
will always have—until the millenium marches
nearer. Whilst children are spawned in vicious-
ness and crime and despair, whilst they come to
birth in spite of the murderous efforts of their
parents, and live but to be loathed, they must
die —no matter what is done for them.
• « * •
At Waitara now, a larger ward is being erected
for the accommodation of infants whose mothers
are willing to rear them. Undoubtedly the child
whose mother is prepared to nourish it has a better
chance of life than one fed on artificial foods.
Still, with reasonably healthy children, cow-milk,
with some such additions as barley-water and
milk-sugar, properly sterilised, is a quite adequate
food. Hundreds, thousands of infants grow to
robust childhood under such treatment. And the
problem of the foundling will not be solved by
offering its mother a shelter too ; that will be effi-
cacious enough in the case of the better type of
illegitimate (who would have the best chance of
living, anyhow); but the vicious mother, who
leaves her child in a paddock, or the careless
mother, who sends it to a baby-farmer, will not
enter an institutiofi for nine months for the sake
of its rearing. Make all possible provision for the
mothers who are willing to come, and it will still
be found that the majority of foundlings must be
reared artificially.
Waitara is on the right lines inasmuch as it
consents to take every infant offered that it has
room for. With more scientific sterilisation of
food it may reduce its death rate. But that rate
will always be high, until the example of this
institution in keeping its doors open to all cases
is imitated and extended. The preventible deaths
are mostly those of illegitimate children whose
mothers have first entrusted them to baby-
farmers, or whose mothers have killed their chance
of life by early ignorance and neglect. If it
were widely known that the child, whom its mother
could not, for reason of poverty, rear, might be
sent to a Foundling Home before being reduced
to a dying state by neglect or cruelty, an enormous
wasteof child life would be avoided. That is the
best line on which to proceed. And the Govern-
ment might help the work by giving to every
licensed and well-managed Foundling Home a
bonus of £1 for every month of life passed in the
institution by every child that reaches the age of
two years in a healthy state. That would be pay
ing up to £24 for the germ of a citizen, and would
be°getting citizens cheaply in a country which so
much needs population.
English railway union summarises the
position as defined by the Taff Vale decision :
What tub Men May Not Do.
Il is illegal for us to ask
persons not to trade with,
or work for, certain firms.
It is illegal for us to strike
to make men join a union.
It is illegal for us to ask
a person not to supply
materials to, or handle the
materials of, certain em-
ployers during a dispute.
It is illegal, during a dis-
pute, to peacefully persuade
a man not to take the. side
of an employer by taking
another man's place.
It is illegal to publish and
use lists of objectionable
persons with a view to assist-
ing trade union objects.
It is illegal to watch or
picket a shop during a
dispute with a view to
quietly preventing men’s
piajes being taken.
What tub Masters May Do
Employers can, and do,
ask each other not to trade
with or employ certain
workmen or deal with cer-
tain unions.
Employers may, and do,
lock out men to make them
leave a union or discharge
them for joining: one.
Employers may, and do,
request each other not to
supply employment or en-
gage certain men concerned
in a dispute.
Employers may, and do,
persuade and entice persons
to help them, and often, by
threats of dismissal, force
some to take others’ places
in a dispute.
Employers use lists of
trade unionists they object
to, and by communicating
with each other persecute
men, and keep them out of
work.
Employers may', and do,
send their agents and ad-
vertisements anywhere to
secure men, and offer bribes
and inducements to those
who will serve their pur-
pose.


A COMMON ERROR.
It’s a common error to plaster the back, to rub with liniment the rheumatic
joints. And then to wonder why relief does not come.
The aching back, the rheumatic joints, come from sick kidneys.
Plasters and liniments WON’T cure sick kidneys.
You’ve got to reach the kidneys from the inside. You’ve got to make them
well. Well kidneys keep the blood rich and pure. Leave no excuse for
backache and rheumatic pains.
B&chch Kidney Fills
Cure every ill of the Kidneys and Bladder.
Believe the aching back and cure it.
They strengthen the kidneys and help them to perform that most important
of all functions—the filtering of the blood.
Doan s Backache Kidney Pills cure dangerous urinary disorders.
Not a symptom in the Kidney calender they do not reach, down to the
borderland of Diabetes, Dropsy and Bright’s disease.
They are endorsed by Sydney people. Your own friends and neighbors have
used them, and testify to their merits. You couldn’t have more positive
proof than this Sydney proof. 1
make well kidneys.
FROM BALMAIN. j
M’«. W right, ti Red Lion-street, Balmain, this
nicy, says: “ Four or five years ago I used Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills for cold in the kidneys. I
was subject to that trouble at the time, every cold
would fly to the kidneys. In fact, when troubled,
the pain in the back would be frightful. It
seemed to affect my whole system. A short
course of these pills cured me. I have had no
cold in the kidneys since, as the pills seemed to
fortify these organs against changes in the
weather, and such conditions, which bring out
that troublesome ailment. I made a statement to
this effect three years ago. lam pleased to con-
firm it. I’ve recommended these pills to many
who suffer with the kidneys.”
I FROM ABERCROMBIE ST. |
Mrs. Burraston, 93 Abercrombie-street, Svdnev savs •
Armidale I made a statement that Doan’s Backache Y % ag ° m .
kidney complaint, which had afflicted me for 20 years I hailed ™ e ? £
since I made that statement-but very little lam ti tln use '\. tlus T remedy
well, the medicine having worked a Dermanent to -- e H you that lam still
before I got these pills. * IhadfriglKpdns 1 , Wa ? bad
these pains were always bad I could nnt *Aii 1 e ," ma ,. °f ni y back, in fact,
in my bed without crying out, it was so bad I scarcefv Iw'T’ n" d Could not turn
most favorable occasions. I suffered with headaches Ld Pt a •*\ l’ exce P tn ffl on the
to wear spectacles. My secreEs weredKored knd WRS S ° dim 1 had
At the time I got Doan’s Pills lll.ad b^col^Cless^^"" ta,n 1 ed . a K™ty deposit,
and the effects when 1 used the medicine were a most welcome* osin - g these troubles,
dose gave me slight relief, and the first boll!!! ' o ™ 6 surprise. The fourth
after I was free of all pain and headaches' le “ Sed e, . lw Ty. Not long
and I slept splendidly every night. In fact I ourcd° nS .' vere Perfectly natural
has proved. They are grand pills for the kidneys.” ’ aud cured to sta y» as time
I FROM hunter s~
Mrs. M. Mullins, 49 Hunter-street, this City,
says:—“For about three years I suffered with
Kidney Derangement. The worst symptom was
a constant Backache, which became more painful
whenever I stooped much. I tried many remedies
for this complaint, and the results were anything
but beneficial, but Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
permanently cured me. When I say ‘cured’ I
mean that it is over twelve months since I used
these pills, and Pve had no return of the old pain,
i have advised many people to use Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills, and some have obtained very
good results from their use.”
Get what you ask for
Get GOANS
“eix IUI.
will give you what you call for
• r> *„ _ n _ aj i_ _
a - un * acce P c something »just as good.” All Chernies ■
Some may endeavour to substitute an article they make more ° K.l
.x boxes or will posted on receipt of price by FcX-McCW.a “efctt %dZ
SURE YOTT n-rim ’ J J
T ~ -xxvivaouo tviujM Hi a GIGGW, ana
nsist on getting the genuine, and save money and
in On cf..j J
9d. per box (six
Price, 2s.
misery
SURE
YOU
GET
DOA]\T’S.
The Threepenny Bar.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The dreams of our youth-time are shattered—we
know at last what we are,
Standing homeless and loveless and tattered to
our drinks in the threepenny bar.
The schemes of our teens are all broken, our
prospects have gone all agee ;
We line now to smoke and to soak in this haven
of threepenny glee.
We have lapsed from the precepts of fashion —we
are reft of incentive and star,
Save the cheap rings that sparkle and flash on the
girl in the threepenny bar !
We had planned to be kings, and are cashless;
we had vowed to be great, and are naught;
We are drifting down-river all splashless, with
tatters and weariness fraught.
We are old and are damned and are drunken; we
are customers now of the ‘ ‘ threp. ; ”
We have left the saloons where, with spunk in our
young veins, we once used to step.
We are passed by the new breed of smart men, as
we passed in the years that lie far,
Ere we ceased to be strivers and mart men, or
had sunk to the threepenny bar.
We have lost the last rag of ambition, we are
drinking the lees and the dregs
Who were men long ago of position and pinched
all the ballet-girls’ legs !
Now we nevet hold converse with woman, save
such as the damsel in here;
We are sinking to levels inhuman through the
current of rivers of beer !
We are outcast and banished for ever—only one
door is always ajar—
It leads to that grave of endeavor—the pint and
the threepenny bar!
The schemes of our youth-time have withered, the
flower is dead in our hearts ;
Where we spoke once with wit we have blithered,
steering on by the devil’s own charts !
We are mindless and brainless and bloodless, we
are derelict craft on the shoal;
We are laved by a tide that is floodless, sinking
down in the sands of our goal!
The dreams of our youth-time are shattered—and
we know at long last what we are,
Standing bleary and bearded and battered to our
drinks in the threepenny bar.
w.A.
GRANT HERVEY.
A porter’s story of an Anglican divine ;
“I humped his ‘port.’ up and stowed him safe
aboard. Then he ’ands me tuppence. I spies a
news-kid, and I bought tuppence worth of the red-
hottest rags he had, and told the kid to take them
up to the parson chap and call out to ’im—
‘ Mister, ’ere’s yer ’Awk an’ yer Dead Cat.’ He
reported me, but I got out of it. ‘ Never thought
you gave me tuppence for a tip,’ sez I—‘thought
yer wanted funny papers.’ ”
Cupid and Our Servant Man.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ike Green is still working for us. He is the
same tall, thin, knock-kneed chap with big sleepy
eyes and a prominent “Adam’s apple ; ” as daft as
ever, and just as shy and gawky before the girls
as he was when he first came, and that was a year
ago to-night. I’ll never forget it. We had such
a nice girl staying with us at the time —Lily
Howard, an only child of an old friend of father’s.
I didn’t tell Ike she was here lest he should get
too shy and not have pluck enough to come in to
tea. He’s a decent widow neighbor’s child, and I
wanted to treat him like one of the family, but
felt fit to sink through the floor when he came
into tea that evening without saying ay or nay to
anybody, and when I said “Good evening, Ike,
how’s all at home ? ” he didn’t answer, but made
a noise like an animal.
He was a picture, I can tell you, in his big straw
hat tied under his chin, and his crook-heeled boots
laced with binder twine, and not fellows either,
and his toes out in ’em, and a stringy-bark belt.
He’d loaned his leather belt to Mrs. Jones for a
breeching-strap. He was chewing a big lump of
guin, and his wild, long hair seemed as if it never
saw a comb. Father was awfully ashamed of him,
too, for he said to me that night after he went to
bed : “ Lily must think that was an ourang-outang
we had to tea this evening, and not a man at all.”
I had to introduce him to Lily, but he
didn’t return the salute, only looked wild and
scared and hung down his head. His teeth may
have been stuck together with the gum, for he
did seem in a bad way. I whispered to Lily when
he wasn’t looking, to say little things to him from
time to time just to give him courage, and she
did. And, if you’ll believe it, before the week
was out, Ike was deeply in love with Lily, and
tried in his helpless little way to court her. He’d
dip his spoon in his tea and lay it on her hand,
and say in a hoarse whisper : “ I want to try if
you’ll make a good devil. ” And he’d watch her
with his mouth open, and seem to go in a trance.
Father would have to nudge him to bring him to;
and he’d bring home a handful of geebungs or
five-corners when he’d be coming home from
work, or a lump of gum or something, and hold it
in his big, hot hand till he could muster
courage to give it to her. Maybe he’d say “open
your mouth and shut your eyes.” I tutored her
up to be kind to him, and not to let him see her
laugh at his queer, gawky doings and sayings.
She pitied him, and did as I bid her.
One night, Lily was playing Ike euchre, and
euchreing him, too, and I was watching for a
beetle in a log on the fire. I saw him go into a
hole, and was on the look-out to rescue him when
he showed. Father stooped under the table to
pick up a card he dropped—Lily says it was the
“joker ” that he was trying to hide in his sleeve.
When Ike saw father stooping, and me intent on
my beetle, he got up close to Lily and stuttered
as if he was bursting to say something; then
father’s head popped up and scared him so that
he could only jerk out in his wild, frightened way,
“Let’s have a yarn,” and made a rush for the
door, muttering something about ‘ ‘ goin’ to roost ”
and trod on the cat and father’s toes as he went.
Father called him rude names and made a fierce
kick at him, and, missing the mark, nearly over-
balanced.
Well, that very night Syd. Hall came over to
ask us all to a little dance at their place on the
following night. He asked Ike neigh-
bors all try to encourage Ike; they know hes
too shy for anything and a shmgle short, and p y
him for his widowed mother’s sake. So we went.
Ike, Lily and myself, and left father to mind the
house. It’s only half a mile across the paddocks
to Hall’s, so we travelled per boot. Twas a°vely
moonlight night. The moon must have ma.de Ike
game, for he squeezed in between me and Inly and
for the want of something to say, he said he
“smelled abear,” and began sniffing loudly with his
nose to the wind. I nudged him, for I saw Lily
was nearly convulsed ; but he only popped round
to the other side, and began to tell Lily, in a fine
squeaky lisp, about an awful pretty that be
had read in a song-book long ago called bating
Locusts.” That was a big story for him. Me
didn’t read it, because he couldn t, as he was .a
dunce at school, and hardly mastered even his
letters, or his pot-hooks, but he had heard father
reading “The Lotus Eaters” to Lily, and mis-
took the name. It pained me to hear him utter
such an untruth, so I reached over and jabbed
him with a pin. It silenced him for a time, but
he broke out again as we were crossing the creek.
I jumped it, and Lily was about to follow suit,
when Ike caught her by the two ears and made a
string of little kissing sounds, and said, in
kiss you now,” but he didn’t suit the
action to the word, for she called him
a disgusting idiot, and broke away and scram bled
across the creek, Ike after her in full cry. Me
jumped on to the moon’s reflection in the water,
thinking it was a big white stone, and landed m
water up to his waist. He did look a sheepish
creature when he came out; his pepper-and-salt
suit showed the wet awful. I wanted him to go
home, but he wouldn’t hear of it. “ I’ll soon dry,
he said. I lost patience with him, and told him
he could tell the company himself what happened,
as I wouldn’t bother any more about him. But
didn’t Lily and I feel like two fools as we came
in, with Ike like a drowned rat slouching after us,
looking so woebegone you’d think we had been
ill-using him. We were greeted with laughter,
and Ike was pushed and jostled about. He wouldn t
tell what happened, only just looked as if he was
waiting for the floor to open up and swallow him.
They soon laughed themselves out, and the young
people fell to dancing and enjoying themselves in
their own way, and Ike slunk off to a corner to
hide and dry.
We old people sat and looked on, talking of
the drought and the bad times and the little
harmless gossip of the neighborhood. Lily was
enjoying herself. Everybody seemed to admire
her and vie with each other in being kind and
attentive. Ike got jealous; I could see him
glaring out of his corner, but he daren’t show out.
By and by, Lily and the nicest young fellow in the
room sang a duet; their two voices went so well
together that we hushed our talk and listened and
clapped them and asked for another. They bowed
and smiled, and were about to begin when Ike
came shuffling out of his corner with his two big,
sleepy eyes fired up, and looking as if something
awful ailed him. When he got in front of Lily he
stopped, and, pointing his finger in her face, said,
in awful, hollow, warning tones: “You’ll go to
hell, my lady. There’s where all women go.
Hell’s full of ’em, an’ the lid is bustin’ up. It
takes all the Devil’s time keepin’ ’em poked down.
And you’re a big flirt—that’s what you are!
and you’ll get no more five-corners or gum of mine,
and I’ll put my hand up and tell you to your face
that I’ll never marry a woman.”
That speech took all the strength out of him,
and he tottered to the nearest chair, and made as
if to sit down, but didn’t take straight aim and
went wide of the mark, and fell with a crash.
Ike works harder than ever now, and when a
girl-friend visits our house he eats his meals in the
open air.
N.S.W.
ANNA KENNEDY.
Advt. of an enterprising person up
Mannahill way ?
.—-, Butcher, Baker and Blacksmith. Re-
freshments at all hours. Horses and traps on hire.
General carrying- and forwarding attended to with
despatch. Chaff for sale. Reliable information about
North-Eastern mine*.
A Norfolk Island anomaly the Common-
wealth must look to as soon as it takes full
possession, is the State aid at present given there
to the Anglican church. When State aid was
abolished in N.S.W. the clergymen then receiving
salaries from the public purse were adopted as
pensioners, and some £4OOO or £5OOO a year is still
paid to the survivors. Probably with a view to
getting on a similar pension-list, clerics of other
churches in Norfolk Island are putting in claims
for a share of the State subsidy, at present
restricted to the Church of England. The Com-
monwealth should therefore lose no time in
annulling the subsidy. It certainly should
decline to acknowledge any claim on pension by
clerics who “qualify ” at the last minute.
The effort of barrister Mackey, M.L.A ,
to get Vic. Parliament to pass a Bill limiting the
expenses of candidates at elections to £lOO in
metropolitan, and £l5O in country constituencies,
has no hope of success with the House of 48 Rich
Landlords. Most of the patriarchs up there owe
their political existence to their lavish distribution
of election expenses. One very fat and ignorant
Money-tank is said to have spent over £4OOO when
he first wooed the suffrages of an inland province.
In those days there used to be contests ; now there
are not, because even the most affluent Vic-
torians are not prepared to pay thousands for
the privilege of stopping the march of demo-
cratic progress. The present Fat Landlords know
they have a good thing on, and they are not going
to let barrister Mackey spoil it.
The complaints of the importing crowd
when its bogus invoice is found out, and it is
“harshly” hauled before the courts, indirectly
recall many things. One of them is the Stevenson
(Melbourne) case of long ago. Stevenson was one
of the kings of the softgoods trade in Flinders-
lane, and a prophet in the Ereetrade temples.
The tariff interfered seriously with the Calico
Jimmies of the Lane. Stevenson had in bis
employ a man named Blank ; he got the sack or
he sacked himself—anyhow when he left he
trudged along to Elinders-lane West, entered the
back door of the Customs House, and had
an interview with Collector Guthrie. The
result was a raid on the Stevenson ware-
house, but the collector and his forces found the
warehouse barred and admission refused. A siege
was the result; long ladders were obtained and
attempts made to enter by the upper windows, but
the escaladers were repulsed with heavy loss. It
was a comical sight to‘see the podgy Guthrie on a
40ft. ladder leading on his forlorn hope. The
charge brought against the firm was that two sets
of invoices were forwarded to Melbourne, one to
the firm for trade purposes, and the other to be
used at the customs-house. After a picturesque
siege the case fizzled out.


Reduced to a Shadow
Could Hardly Walk. Doctors Said Slow Recovery. Disappointed
Doctors and Myself try Getting Well Quickly,
Mr. Wm. B Mackie, of Dunedin, New
Zealand, sends us his photograph and
“Not long.ago I was run over by a
wagon and severely injured. For weeks
1 was confined to my bed. I was reduced
S ° Weak 1 eould hardly
walk. The doctors told me it would be a
ong time before I could regain my health.
I f .® t; I . o ? uld , not wait , so procured a
bottle of Ayers Sarsaparilla. You can-
not imagine how quickly my health and
strength began to return. The first day
i felt an improvement. In a week I had
a better appetite, and was much stronger.
And only a few bottles wrought a most
marvelous change in me. I like your
medicine especially because it seems to
give just the aid nature sometimes
needs.”
“The World’s Createst Family Medicine.”
If you have been sick and are not recovering rapidly, just try a bottle of
yer s Sarsaparilla. It is tlift sfmnnrocf t
A , c ... " iowvoimg rapicuy, just try a bottle of
Ayer s Sarsaparilla It is the strongest tonic you can buy, and it aids nature
WonderfuHy. The better way is to take the Sarsaparilla before you get really
IU. Take it when you first begin to feel poorly. It will cure you quickly
then and save you much suffering and large expense. Yet even when you are
Sick, you cannot find a better medicine.
There are many so-called Sarsaparillas. Be sure you get Ayer’s, the oldest,
strongest, and best Sarsaparilla. Don’t experiment with imitations.
AYER’S 3 arsaparilla
Gives Strength to the Weak, Courage to the Depressed
flyer’s Pills cure constipation, biliousness, sick-headache, coated tongue.
Prepared by DR. J. C. AVER & CO.. Lowell, Mass., IT. S. A
On Our Selection, written by A. H. Davis
( Steele Rudd ”) and published by Tub
Bulletin Co., has earned the title of “the
jolliest book ever printed in Australia.”
Xhere is laughter on every page; yet the
book remains grimly true to the facts. A*
a picture of life on an Australian selection
it has never been surpassed. Since it wac
published, little more than two years agfo
upwards of 12,000 copies have been sold at
comparatively high price of 6s.—making
an Australian publishing record. The reason of the sale i/not far to'sTek": thf
people who ha\e bought the book know they have got value for their monev •
and they recommend it to others. The price is comparatively high because the book is ovn™,-™ *
, '}'• "" »™“. strongly bound in cloth in gU Myl, “ter“a,. Zrotf S™
Fisoh,r ’"“ lvin "‘ , • *■»»
tralian workmen. If it were produced by cheaper labour
in England, it would cost less, and could be sold at a
cheaper rate. The publishers prefer to employ Australian
labor only. When you buy On Our Selection you pay
a little mare than you pay for an English book ; but
you get 100 times the Australian value. “Steele Rudd’s”
book has gone all over Australia, and wherever it has
gone it has become the treasure of a household, often
the delight of a township. People never leave off
reading it until it is thumbed to rags •, and then they
buy another copy. The characters of “Our Selection”—
Okl Dad,” “Joe,” '“Dave.,” “Sarah,” and the rest—
have become famous throughout the country ; and their imitation by weaker writers Droves the force
of their grip on the public mind. Any bookseller will sell you the book orifvoSsendaDoTtJ
by d retu°rn mail? h P direct to The office, it will be forwarded to an d y address
I
1
.
I
The bad germs causing
. V
the bad smells of soap
factories are bad for the
skin. VINOLIA SOAP is
sweet, pure and emollient.
IF YOU HAVE
something good to tell, there is no need to delude the unwary
into reading an apparently interesting story, which proves
to be a prglude to an advertisement. The startling story
and the “thrilling” testimonial do not add to the merit of
the article advertised. If you are troubled with
BAD DIGESTION, IMPURE BLOOD, LANGUOR,
INACTIVE LIVER, SICK-HEADACHE,
or other such ailments which arise from a Disordered
Stomach imperfectly doing its work, you need not
experiment with the many medicines so put
before you—take
BEECHAM’S
PILLS,
and you have a reliable remedy, proved by
thousands of sufferers to be unequalled for
dispelling Disorders of the Stomach and Liver.
It is not necessary to bring Beecham’s Pills
before your notice surreptitiously, as they are
openly recommended by those who have found
that Beecham’s Pills will do all that is
claimed for them, hence they have the largest
sale of any Patent Medicine in the World.
Sold Everywhere in Boxes, price Is, (56 pills) and 2s, 9d, (168 pills).
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
Corner George & Market Sts., SYDNEY
The most comfortable and up-to-date House in town; and, the most'centrally situated,
is naturally the most desirable place for Visitors to stay at.
N.B. — Visitors oply pay for wl?at tljcy actually fjav/c.
TERMS*—The Convenient and Modern System of paying Tor a
room on arrival, and Meals as they are had.
Apartments : BEDROOM, f single, 3s. per day ; Double, 6s. per day.
SINGLE ROOn, with Full Board, 6s. per day, £2 2s. per week.
engage booms AT ROBERTS’ HOTEL, SYDNEY.
NOTE.—Send to Roberts’ Wine and Spirit Store, Market St., for Price List.
«mwn It is an Eye-Opener.
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the East
THE BROWN=SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
M.D., C.M., L.R.C.P.E., L.R.C.S.E.,
L.F.P.S.G., L.M., etc.,
Registered by the Medical Boards of Great
Britain, Victoria, New South Wales,
etc.,
The Eminent Specialist, whose unparalleled success in ts*e Treatment of Blood and Nerve
Diseases has earned for him a reputation unequalled by any oimtnt Specialist in Australia, may be consulted
daily, personally or by letter, at “ ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 Elfzabeth-st., Sydney. Old and Obsolete
Methods discarded. DR. MARTIN’S latest discovery ha 6 proved absolutely effective in all cases of Blood
Disease, Nerve Affections, Paralysis, Loss of Energy, Lung, Heart, Skin, and all
Chronic Diseases of Men and Women. His Consulting Rooms are replete with all the
latest and most scientific improvements in Electric Appliances, etc. Country Patients treated by
correspondence at their own homes. Advice and Msdicine, One Pound. All Sufferers
should write for a copy of Dr. Martin’s Latest Medical Work, entitled, “Mind Over Matter; or, How to
Secure a New Lease of Life without Drugs, Medicines, or Quack Nostrums.” This work should find a place
in every household, as it contains a futtand explicit account of the Most Wonderful Treatment of the Present
Age. It has been the means of Curing Thousands who followed out the instructions contained
therein. This Marvellous Treatment Cleanses and Rejuvenates the Whole System, and is the Cheapest
Treatment in Existence, as nothing but the Book is required.
Price, 55.; by post, ss. 6d.
CONSULTING HOURS: lO to 2 and 7 to 9 Daily.
‘•ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.


Asbestos
for Boilers.
Experiments have proved the great economy
effected by covering Steam Pipes and Boilers,
Asbestos Boiler Covering saves, among other
things, 25 per cent, in fuel.
PACKED WET, ready for use, in 3cwt, casks,
75., Bs., 9s. cwt.
PACKED DRY, in Bags, each lewfc., 12a., 145.,
16s. cwt.
PERDRIAU & CO.
270 GEORGE STREET
(Between Hunter and Bond Streets).
BARE ■
BOOKS
FRENCH,
ENGLISH,
GERMAN.
2/«
Largest Catalogue, with
Specimen Photo. Apply
Box 116
PARIS .
LADIES
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
COxNUF.RNING YOURSELVES.
Address—L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
60
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES,
W, G, ZEULIDieXIDG-IE & co. 3
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK,
(Sole Australasian Representatives)
32 & 34 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
©
For all Services kept In Stock-
Send for Catalogue.
BENNIE, TEARE & CO •I Representatives.
\V
HI
A
<4
Stocks at Sydney, Melbourne, Perth, Coolgardie.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Have for Sale and to arrive
74 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE : 435 Bourke Street.
PUMPING MACHINERY of every description, Woodworking Machinery, English and American Engines, Boilers,
Injectors, Reducing Valves, Steam Gauges, Steam Traps, Laundry Machinery, Painters’ and Bakers’
Machinery, Engineers’ Machine Tools, Shafting, Plummer Blocks, Pulleys, Hangers, Couplings, Collars,
Lubricating Oil, Brunton Pocket Transits, Shedd’s Electrical Fans, Hoisting Engines and Boilers.
PARKE & LACY COMPANY LIMITED
Consulting Engineers on all matters relating to mining, hydraulic, and general engineering
propositions. Manufacturers and importers of mining machinery, and steam engines and boilers
of all kinds. Mines furnished with complete plants—Milling, Concentrating, Cyaniding,
Chlorinating, &c. Pumping outfits designed and supplied with all plans necessary for erection,
capacity guaranteed. All classes of pumps kept in stock and ready for immediate delivery;
together with boilers, pipes, and other items of equipment. Correspondence invited from
pastoralists and others requiring plant for irrigating purposes. Brickworks designed and brick-
making machinery of the most modern and approved pattern supplied to order. Quotations
given for complete installation of any kind of plant whatsoever. Iron and woodworking tools
and all kinds of engineers’ fittings and supplies kept in stock. Agents for Ingersoll rock drills
and air compressors, Knowles pumps, Gates rockbreakers, etc., etc., etc.
ADDRESSES :
60 Clarence St.,
Sydney
533 Collins St,
Melbourne
21 & 23 Fremont St.,
San Francisco
Bushman
Harry Morant:
His ’Ventures
and Verges.
and Buccaneer
By FRANK RENAR.
Price 1 1
Post
Free.
EDWARDS, DUNLOP & CO.
SYDNEY.^
faajgl
'i&u.. v '’'
Size, s{" x 31" x s*.
igT We are Direct Importers
ANP HAVE’ FOR SALE—
Snow Dupiex Pumps
(all sizes for all purposes),
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling
and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shaft-
ing, Hangers, Bearings, Collars, etc.
Engineers' Tools and Fittings, Valves,
Cocks, Gauges, etc., Cast, Tool and
Mining Steel, Wire Ropes and ail Requi-
sites for Contractors, Engineers, Saw
Mills and Mining Proprietors.
R. L. Scrytton &Co. Ltd,
97 Clarence-st., Sydney.
A GO-AHEAD FIRM
PATESON & COBCROFT, 231
Sussex Street,
SYDNEY.
•V'
Auctioneers, Commission
and Produce Merchants.
and Live Stock AgentSi
Goods forwarded and received from this or any State. Agents for celebrated Corn Cob Bacon.
AUCTIONS ANYWHERE.
DRI N “ -Ml—r
GARDNER’S SPA WATER
From our Springs at Helidon. OWEN GARDNER & SONS, Brisbane (Head Office) &at Helidon.
N. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd.,
71 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Manufacturers of RACKAROCK
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦
Manufacturers and Sole Proprietors of the new
Patent Explosive Compound,
RENDROCK
NERVOUSNESS.
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
* Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS of SELF
CURE, will forward the same, free of
Charge, to anyone interested.
Address: A. MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Trewhella Bros.
patent
LOG AMO STUMP JACKS.
IJ
If you have Stumps, Roots, Stones, or Logs to clear, or
threshers or Machinery to move, try these Jacks. They
are used by thousands throughout* Australasia, and the
sales are rapidly increasing, which proves their value.
iou can obtain them from the ironmonger with whom
you deal, or I will supply you direct.
The Melbourne and Sydney Prices are—
Lift, Tons Price
Double Purchase Jack 4 65-
ii n 6 75-
Si "gle II „ n 40-
With AUTOMATIC LOWERINC CEAR, 5/- extra
Full Information and Trade Discounts from
W. TREWHELLA, Trentham, Victoria,
ob H. HINDS, 17 Loftus St., Sydney.
