

McEWAN’S ALE. GAELIC WHISKY. IRROY’S CHAMPAGNE.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best*
Cadbury's Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
ES. <3-. WATKINS <SZ> 00.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE. _
THE
SOLE AGENTS:
The Perfect Motor Vehicle. Driven by Steam.
Climbs any hill. No Noise. No Smell. No Vibration.
Manufactured by the jCocomobile' Co. of America.
In Stock and to Arrive. Send for further particulars to
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO „ 9 85 Pitt Street, Sydney, M. S.W.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG.
X
WONDERFUL VALUE—A packet of Seven different
articles, comprising Yankee Rubber Baby, can be carried
in vest pocket and blown oift to life size (causes roars of
laughter), Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
Coin and Card Tricks), the Wizard Fish (gives the defini-
tion of your character—very superior for parlor enter-
tainments), the Vest Pocket Tubular Microscope (very
useful for examining small objects), the Cinematograph
(or book of moving pictures), the great Yankee Bicjcle
Puzzle (very ingenious), and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Disappearing Coin Trick (instruc-
tions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australia (Free) on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Hay market.
X
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
710 George-st., Sydney.
“ HERVEY’S RACKAROCK ”
17 Years’ Unb oken Record as a Standard Australian Erposive. Cor CLARENCE & KING STS., SYDNEY
Estbd. 1831.
WHISKY.
HOBART.
[jadleg’s Orient fiotel.
DUNEDIN, N-Z.
CITY HOTEL
(First Gradh).
J. A. TURNER - - Proprietor.
SYDNEY—
Royal, April, 1903,
CHAMPION CUP
and
SIX FIRST PRIZES.
MELBOURNE—
August, 1902, Grand
Championship of
Australasia.
jIDELAIDE —Champion
Cup & 8 First Prizes.
NOIIS3OIO
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
USE
SPOONER’S
V
A/
cc;
ut
$!5
r?!!T
o
o*
0. O
m
&
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
; mess Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
old by all Storekeepers,
Hoot Shops, Saddlera, etc.
Mining and Dredging Plants. Engines, Boilers, &c.
Fowler Traction Engines.
The Clyde Engineering
fOY ITO
W • • * mm • •
Desiccating Plants.
Hopper Waggons, &c.
m
PROOF
One yJ®
Head Office:
10 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY
!M.S,W. Carriage & Saddlery SVlamif. Company,
193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
When in town, pay us a visit,. Bo you want a
SULKY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5 ; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7 ;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia. £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buekboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and made
to Order! HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
->ent. more for your requirements.
OUK SI'ECIAIj No. 2
£8 18/6
Delivered at any Wharf «r
X.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Men 1 Why Remain Bald ?
D2OT \vMT
F2RTHIS
I am never tired of asking
you this question because I
know you needn’t remain bald
any longer
VTUdVD
Hair
Tonic
is the remedy, and it’s a
remedy that will produce a
new growth of hair so long
as there is the slightest down
on the head.
AH Chemists =. = 2s. 6d. per bottle.
W. OLIVER RICHARDS, Sole Proprietor, and
Inventor, City Bank Chambers, 164 Pitt-street.
Sydney, N.S.W.
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300
pages; price, 4s. 6d.; postage, 6d.
The Bulletin
Vo! 24.—N0. 1211.]
[Saturday, May 2, 1903.
Registered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, for Trpemission by Post as a Newsnans*


Book trade Advertisement
THE LATEST BOOKS AT
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Tvnan, The Red Red Rose, 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Ward (Mrs. H.), Lady Rose’s Daughter, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d
Augustus Osesar (Heroes of the Nations), ss, p. 7d.
Cambridge, Thirty Years in Australia, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Bell, Wee Macgregor, la 3d, postage 3d.
Crockett (S.R.), The Banner of Blue, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. Cd.
Haggard (Rider), The Pearl Maiden, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d. ’
Barwick, Pocket Remembrancer, Is 6d, p. 3d.
Write to us for any Book or Magazine yon Want.
We are always pleased to answer Inquiries.
71 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doors South of King; St.) &at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane & London
sianrnr lQHiNawna s.NOsanH
Contain no Cocaine o r
other Poisonous Drug•
For COUGHS,
COLDS,
LOSS OF VOICE,
BRONCHITIS,
and all Affections of
the Throat and Lungs.
pocSs»*
£0 LU^
The Great Antiseptic
Remedy for the Cure
of INFLUENZA and
PREVENTION of CON=
SUfIPTION.
Invaluable for Singers
and Public Speakers.
Sole Manufacturer
SYDNEY DEPOT: 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE
Sold by all Chemists, tins, 1/6. /
G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Australia .
Agents in all the Australian States and New j Jealand
Melbourne and West Australia
South Australia .. .. FAULDING & CO.
Launceston FAIKTHOENE & CO.
FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO. ,
-,ia | so^
Hobart..
New Zealand..
.. A. P. MILLABJ ...
.. SHARLAND & U 0„
THE RED PAGE.
SWAN-SONG OF A DYING POET.
Well-tasting dishes
I always ate:
In well-lined dresses
I warmly sate.
Seven years and seventy.
These are my days :
The Buddha unending
1 therefore praise.
A. DEQYD, from the Japaness.
KIPLING BY CABLE
We have seen the professor at the breakfast-
table, we have now to see the poet in the telegraph office-
..We see in imagination Mr. Kipling sitting at the far
end of the South African cable engaged at his task,
printing his letters very clearly lest the operator should
make a mistake. “ Cap. here in a large and sunlit land
comma where no wrong bites the bone comma cap. I will
lay mj' hand in mj r neighbour’s hand comma and together
we w'ill atone cap. for the set folly of the red breach and
the black waste of it all semicolon cap. giving and taking
counsel each over the cattle-kraal full stop..
A'The Settler” as a piece of poetry is one more un-
happy instance of the decadence of a fine quality.
There is, however, some grain of comfort in the
thought that possibly the most melancholj' of all Mr.
Kipling’s most recent phases—w-hat can only be de-
scribed as “bloody”—is for the time being over. The
shattered limb, the lyddite shell, the rifle range, and the
Mauser pistol are all toys that have been laid aside ; and
instead of them Mr. Kipling has got a nice new Peace-toy
with little green trees made to stand upright, and a prac-
ticable well, and a bright new plough, and a field of grow-
ing corn, and two nice red spotted bullocks to draw the
plough. His delight in these new toys is supreme.. .
It is not so long since the cable poet was blessing very
different things from ploughs, in those naughty days
when “ there was blood on his head of my kind, or blood
on my head of his kin.” But that is all over now, and
we have cleared the table, and are going to have a new
game with the spottj' bullocks and the plough.- B.O.E.,
in The Daily Mail.
MORALITY AND MOMMY
The distinction made by human societies
between good and evil has never gone beyond a gross
empiricism. It has been settled in quite a practical
spirit, simply by way of convenience. We do not bother
about it in the case of a crystal or a tree. We practise a
moral indifference in regard to animals. We practise it
in regard to savages. That permits us to exterminate
them without remorse—what you call “ colonial policy.”
Nor does one see religious people exactinga high standard
of morality from their god. In the existing state of
society, thej r would not willingly admit that he was lust-
ful and compromised himself with women ; but they
approve of him being vindictive and cruel.
Morality is a mutual agreement to keep whatever
one has—land, houses, furniture, wives, and our
lives. It does not imply any particular effort of
character or intelligence in those who submit themselves
to it. It is ferocious, instinctive. But written law follows
it closely, and fairly agrees with it. Thus we see that
men of noble heart or of distinguished genius have
almost all been accused of impiety, and, like Socrates,
have been doomed by the justice of their country. And
you can say that a man who has not been condemned at
least to prison does only moderate honour to his native
land...
You remember a reflection of Auguste Comte’s :
“ Humanity is composed of the dead and the living. The
dead are much the more numerous. By their multitude,
and by the greatness of the work they have accomplished,
they are the more powerful. It is thej r who rule : we
obey them. Our masters lie beneath these stones : there
is the legislator who has made the law' that I live
under to-day, the architect who has built my house,
the poet who has created the illusions that trouble us
still, the orator who has persuaded us before we were
born. Here are all the artisans of our knowledge, true
or false ; of our wisdom and our folly. They lie there,
the inflexible rulers whom none disobej's. They have
strength, continuity, permanence. .What is a single
generation of the living in comparison with the innumer-
able generations of the dead ? What is our will of a daj'
before their will of a thousand centuries?. .Revolt against
them, how can we? We have not even time to disobej'
them 1 ’’—Anatole Frame, in La Revwe de Paris.
The Heart of Japan.
A BOOK by Clarence Ludlow Brownell,
entitled The Heart of Japan, and published by
Methuen at 2s. 6 d., gives of that charming
country some most charming glimpses. Of
the material side of Japan Basil Chamberlain
is the best interpreter : of spiritual Lafcadio Hearne
has written with loving sympathy; but this new
collection of sketches captures our fancy with
gaiety and humour. The writer is surely American, with
an American’s love of “ seeing things ’’ and an American's
brisk, picturesque style. Once more we are impressed
with the utter difference between European and Asiatic
modes of thought. Two civilisations, advancing on
diverging lines, have built up brains loaded with instincts
and prepossessions that cannot be transferred from one
to the other. The Japanese are sometimes said to have
assimilated European ideals. But they have merely
super-posed them upon their own. Assimilation is a
physical impossibility.
THE INVERTED LANGUAGE
Many things in Japan seem to us inverted ; but
the language most of all—perhaps. “The honorific” is
comparatively easy to understand. “In Japanese all
one’s own things are mean and vile, while the other
fellow’s are honourable, august, divine.” If I wanted
anything from ray mate (says Brownell), when we were
trying to think in Japanese, I would talk like this : “ To-
morrow will your augustness condescend to remind
decayed me to buy some honourable tea?” etc. And
here are examples of Japanese translated by Cham-
berlain. The first line is Japanese ; the second is a literal,
and the third a free English version.
O ki no doku Sama.
Honourable poison-of-the-spirit Air.
I am sorry for j our sake.
Go burei moshi-agemashita.
August rudeness (I) said-lifted.
I am very rude to you.
Kiite itadakite gozaimasu
Hearing- wishing-to-put-on-the head am
I wish you would he so kind as to ask.
O shiete itadakitai
Teaching wish-to-put-on-the-head
I wish you would be so kind as to show me how.
And to talk Japanese is easy, comparatively. If you
wish to read and write, you have to learn sets of syllables
instead of letters. There are two sets, and six ways of
writing the one more generally used. Then there are
some four thousand ideographs to commit to memory,
each written in several ways, and each with several mean-
ings according to context. When you have mastered
these, you can read a Japanese newspaper with some
intelligence.
JAPANESE JOURNALISM
Japanese newspapers are under a censor ; but
the rules of the censorship are not published. It is only
by guessing and by bitter experience that an editor can
tell what to avoid.
When a paper ventures too far, and the censor is called
upon to write the order of suspension, he is brief but
polite. He puts the honorifies “O” or “Go” before
the nouns and verbs. Prefixed to the n t oun “ 0” means
honourable, to a verb it means honourably; similarly “Go”
means august, augustlj'. So the order when it arrives
will read somewhat as follows :—
“ Deign honourably to cease honourably publishing
august paper. Honourable editor, honourable publisher,
honourable chief printer, deign honourably to enter
august jail.”
The honourable editor and his honourable co-workers
bow low before the messenger of the censor, acknowledg-
ing the honour of the august notification, and then
accompany him to the honourable jail, chatting the
meanwhile of the weather, or of the flower shows, or of
the effects of the floods on the rice crops. Centuries of
breeding under Japanese etiquette have rendered it im-
possible for them to show annoyance. They do not know
how.
Some years ago the Japanese journalist invented the
dummy or “prison editor,” as he was known in the
Oriental sanctum. This functionary had an easy time.
He had nothing to do on the paper, never wrote a line,
but when those who did write said anything that the
censor judged might mean something, and the paper was
suspended, the prison editor stepped forward, bowed low,
and said, “ What augustly must be, probably augustly
must he.” Then he trotted off to prison. This scheme
worked well for a long time, but after a while the censor
demanded that the principal three men connected with
the paper should go to the “honourable jail.” Three
dummies were more than any paper could afford to main-
tain, and so there are no proxies now.
The Japanese reporter makes about as much money as
the Japanese policeman—that is, about twelve shillings a
month. In Tokio some of them make more, and in the
smaller towns they make as little as eight shillings a
month, but twelve shillings is a fair average. They are
not sent out on regular assignments as a rule, but are
given a roving commissson. The editor tells them to get
news, real news if there is any, but to get news ; and they
never return empty-handed.
CAUCASIAN REVENGES
It is only fair that English should puzzle the
Jap as much as Japanese puzzles the Englishman. Since
Government has adopted English fashions, the little
brown men have followed obediently. They eagerly
study English ; they learn to dress like Europeans ; and
in the treaty ports the tradesmen put up English signs.
Like these—
The Tas are restful and for sharpen the Minds
above a tea-house. Another :—
The Genuinely bier buy the health for drink.
And a third—
Of smokes our tobacco is preesure to our Tongue and
give the Healthiness to Hers and Hes 1 Also All
People by It.
Mr. Pinecape, who dealt in coals, took the public into
his confidence and confessed the secret of his success.
Beneath his name and address are these two lines—
Honest, Indistorious make the Oont
inual Prosperity.
Yet Brownell gives examples to show that, while
Chinese merchants are exceptionally honest, Japanese
are such rogues that it is hardly possible to do business
with them on credit.
THE JAPANESE ACTOR
I believe (says Brownell) that there are no better
equipped actors in the world to-day than those found on
the Japanese boards. Many of the plays would be
intelligible to an audience that did not know a word of
Japanese. Danjuro, whose real name is Horikoshi Shu,
and Kiugoro the great comedian, speak a world language
and will make you laugh or cry at will. It is a pity they
cannot be prevailed upon to make a foreign tour. They
would draw well.
Their versatility is marvellous. Thej- play comedy,
tragedy, and farce, in either male or female parts, with
equal facility and happiness. They were born to the
stage, as were their parents and grandparents before them
for ten generations, and have taken parts from the time
thej- were of sufficient size to be seen by the spectators.
With such inheritance and such training it would be
strange if they did not excel.
In spite of all this excellence, however, it is only re-
cently the theatre has been in good repute in the
Mikado’s Empire. The records of the census-taker show
the position of the actors under the old regime. This
official counted them, “ip piki, ni hiki, sam biki,” etc.,
when reckoning the number of men in a theatre. That
seems harmless enough until explained that, in counting
in Japanese, “ ichi, ni, san, shi, go, roku,” etc. (one, two,
three, four, five, six), certain auxiliaries to the numerals
are used, according to the kind of things that are being
counted. For instance, human beings are “mei” or
“nin,” and are usually counted “ichi nin, ni nin, san
nin,” etc. Flat things, such as sheets of paper, are
“mai’’—“ichi mai, ni mai,” etc.; houses are “ken” —
“ik ken, ni ken, san ken,” etc. ; boats are “so”—“is so,
ni so, san zo,” etc. ; and living creatures, except human
beings and birds, are “hiki”—“ip piki, ni hiki, sam biki,
shi hiki,” etc. Actors, therefore, came under the general
classification of beasts.
LET US BE MODERN!
When Japan started the revolution that is to
put her on the level of’European thought and action, she
wanted everything at once and as quickly as possible.
One order to the London agent of the Board of Public
Works read as follows :
Urgent. Send to Tokio at once as follows :
1 Professor of Electrical Science.
1 Do. Mining.
2 Blast Furnaces.
And in due course the London agent forwarded an
invoice declaring that he had sent out for Yokohama,
Japan, by steamer Maru, four items as per order, to wit—
1 Professor of Electrical Science.
1 Do. Mining.
2 Blast Furnaces.
It was hard for the Japanese to drink milk, however.
But the medical man prevailed. Foreigners drank
milk, therefore the natives would. Officials set the
example nobly. Every morning at eleven o’clock the
milkman called at the various Government bureaus and
made his ostentatious rounds. Not an official escaped.
Each one received his proper portion of the potent
potion, ajid drank it—a liqueur-glassful. At the “ Kaita-
kushi Jo Gakko,” or Girls’ School, belonging to the
Colonisation Bureau in Sappuro, on the northern island
of Yezo, the young women early learned to wonder at
the ways of foreigners. The mistress of the dormitories
made each drink a mixture of egg and claret, like'the
American claret-flip, every night before retiring. The
girls did not like it, but “ no flip no futon” was the order,
and up so far north as Sappuro futon (the quilted beds of
Japan) are desirable.
A BOOK OF POETRY
We cannot pretend to quote all the interesting
things in Brownell’s book. The whole of it is uncom-
monly interesting, and bookfellows should not miss it.
There is space only for brief reference to a book of verses
to hand, Japanese Poems, adapted from the German of
Karl Florenz by A. Lloyd, and published by T.
Hasegawa, Tokio. From this book is quoted the
verse heading this page. But Japanese poetry, when
it has passed through the translator’s mill, holds
little or nothing of interest. Moral reflections and
descriptions of nature are its staple. There is just one
modern piece, a description of the great earthquake of
1855, that stands out from the mass of Florenz’s repre-
sentative collection. In the original it must have been
forcibly dramatic. But we still find Aston’s Japanese
Literature the best handbook available.
LITTLE CONTRIBUTORS
J.A.C. : “ It was not Jerrold, but Arcedeckne,
who made the historic remark to Thackeray about the
piano."
Fax : Out of 12,000 people gathered at Melb.
Exhibition-building when the (now) Prince of Wales
spoke a short printed speech and read a telegram re the
opening of the Commonwealth Parliament, fully 6,000
could distinctly hear him. It was a full, manly voice ;
the elocution excellent. The thin, penetrating, nasal
accents of Lord Hopetoun had served to emphasise the
superiority of the Duke’s speaking powers. He differed
from the average trained speaker in being more musi-
cal. From my point of hearing—about ten yards
distant—I judged him to have a good bari-
tone voice for singing purposes. And his English
sounded absolutely free from German accent or gut-
turals. More : I asked Detective Christie, the man who
“shadowed” the Duke around Australia, whether he bad
detected any foreign accent in conversation. “Not
the least suspicion of it,” said Christie. “ I am always
being asked the same question. 1 dined at the Duke’s
table many times, and I’ve talked with him on the
quarter-deck for two hours at a stretch. You would n’t
think there had ever been a German in his pedigree.”
Now as to King Edward’s alleged habit of saying “ de
man” or “ my tear father.” I heard him speak at odd
times in the early eighties. On a railway platform ; at
Drury Lane Theatre ; and on the lawn at Goodwood race-
course. If there was any strong suggestion of German
parentage in his accents, I did n’c notice it. Nor did I
ever hear of it until I came to Australia and found that
Eng. papers of notorious mendacity were accepted as
fountains of truth.
[Then ears differ. These ears heard the Duke of York
speak twice in Australia ; King Edward twice in England.
If both did not say “Dank you!” then these ears are
German too. The Duke of York’s German accent at C.
Parliament opening was noted by an independent Bulle-
tin observer at the time. And what then ? No blame
is imputed : no criticism is made : the fact was stated
merely. And, though it is quite, unimportant, we shall
be pleased to hear from Eng. authorities.]
David : How a bookfellow can carry “ gold and
notes ” as a general thing passes my comprehension. My
pockets contain to-day : Coat —outside top, handkerchief.
Outside, side indifferent, pipe and tobacco, occasionally
a book or newspaper. Ticket pocket, coppers and three-
penny bits. Inside breast, fountain pen, pencil and
letter book (5f" x 3|"), which again contains visiting
and business cards, stamps, two obsolete tram tickets, an
electric tram ticket bearing the number of the year I was
born, two Tatts.’tickets (blank), a valueless cheque, an
I O U, scrip for 25 shares in a mine that is to make my
fortune, a black su&de glove redolent of memories, three
midget photographs, a MS. copy of verses, a map of the
harbour, several notes of ideas, souvenirs of events and
addresses of men whose names I have forgotten. That
pocket is pretty full, as a rule, but it can hold more if I
don’t button my coat. Vest —three pockets. Top, note book
(4"xlJ") and spectacles, frequently a short pencil. Watch
pocket, watch. Other pocket, match box and knife (if I
have n’t left it at home, got it in my jacket pocket, or
lost it). Left trouser pocket, keys and a large hole (as
the keys are chained to my suspender button the hole
does n’t count). Right pocket, money, mostly silver. In
the summer, when I wear a soft shirt, there’s a pocket in
it—there is also a pocket in my pyjamas, but Oh yes,
I’ve got a wife who wears a pocket in some of her skirts.
I inspected one last night. Contents—two draper’s re-
ceipts, a handkerchief 9" square, a broken button-hook, a
recipe for making she came in before I found out
what, and I had some difficulty in explaining that it was
purely in the interests of science that I was “ running the
rule over her." “ Ignotus ” wears his vest pockets empty
—I don’t. I usually work with my coat off—he probably
wears his all the time.
W.P.D. alleges that Chase never rode a bicycle
mile in 69.4 secs., and says Oantenet (hope he’s spelt
right) holds the world’s record at lm. 16 l-5secs. ; —
Augbres the automobile record at 46secs. [This is a
judgment for meddling with what doesn’t belong to us.]
R. A.K. : In Cassell’s Magazine for March,
1899, appears “ The Professional Lover, a complete story
from the French of Charles Foley ; by Dora Moore.” In
The Australasian Stage Annual for 1902 appears “With
This Ring; a slightly true story, specially written for
The A.S.A. by Bernard Espinasse.” I would like Bernard
to explain why his “original” story has precisely the
same plot as Foley’s—the account of a birthday party
where a backward lover is tricked into offering the lady a
packet which, when opened, is found to contain an
engagement ring—exposing him to the congratulations of
the company and preventing him from “ backing out.”
J.O. : I wish to table the case of the uneducated
against the classical poets. I state the case of the man
of average intelligence and education now and again the
Red page runs riot over Bacon coKper milton or some
other old fossil that the majority of people don’t under-
stand in fact to be a great poet you want to write so that
people won’t understand you. There must have been
harsh libel laws in those old times so that the poets had
to cover up there tracks.
A chap that had been mates with me for years served
me a dirty trick. I’m a hatter now. I would have trusted
him with my wife if I had one. He returned from town
with a book by one poe. This poe at first I thought he
was a new writer but I find he is a very old hand also
he’s mad. He is about the barmiest chap I’ve struck in
print or out of it. How ever he got into print licks me
but praps the poor fellow had it bad and his friends
thought by publishing his ravins it might cure him. One
of his yarns where a friend of his steps down into the
wine vaults to get a nip of some fancy brand and he bricks
him up with it. Well in my opinion it served him right to
trust himself with a looney bloke at a late hour of night.
The reason why these poets are great is because it gives
some doo-da a chance to let people know he’s been to
college and took a degree or something worse, and whose
brown paper collar stick up that far under his chin that
when he wants to expectorate he has to stand up to spit.
What the good of apoet if somebody else has to explain him ?
And thatremindsme The Bulletin once took a mean advan-
tage of me it prased up a fellow named waiter whitman and
me in my blind faith bought a copy. Walterif some body
had left him sixty or seventy millions would have done a
lot of good and he w'ould not have wanted people to send
him suggestions either. His own great heart would have
told him. But waiter as a poet is something awful. He
cant rhyme enough to keep himself warm the only time
he rhymes is when he flukes it and that is pretty rare. I
tried hard to understand waiter because I could see he
was a good fellow. I used to read on and not understand
now and then a ray of light would break through and
then it was gone. Then I would pub him by and think
and the only thought that would come to me was that
waiter was a good fellow.
One day a traveller asked me if I had any books to
swop. His a yankee at the court of king arthur. I
swopped him waiter. He looked at it suspiciously and
asked if it was any good. I told him waiter was alright.
That evening he returned and abused me something
awful—call that a book yer might as well have lent me
the blanky bible. I took waiter back again and I was
ashamed. I packed him about for two years or more
brought him in out of the drought on to the tableland
then down the coast range on to the coast and I never
understood him. Then I gave him decent burial by a old
gum and scratched on the bark poor waiter.
(Several held over.)
THE FUN OF THINGS.
SPECTACILS : “ Have you noticed that this poor Book of
ours has got thinner since his second edition Her
he been ill?”
PAPER-KNIFE : “ Rather! The fashionable complaint
They ’ve removed his appendix!"
NOTES AND
Last week we scandalised Mummy. This week
“Mummy is become merchandise,” as Tom Browne
declares ; “ and Pharaoh is sold for” a bob in Old Tim/,
(The Commercial Publishing Co. of Sydney). Old Time,
is designed as a serial publication for printing and re
printing illustrated narratives of N.S.W. early davt
This is a cheap and nasty Number One. The letternreaa
and pictures have considerable interest; but interest
stifles in the odour of unusually blatant advertise
merit. Not content with inserting advts in the
body of the booklet, the publishers have even in
terpolated them in the midst of consecutive readinv
matter. The account of early N.S.W. Governors is
mixed with stables, funerals, and confectionery
Reminiscences of old-time bankers are brought up to
date by displayed advertisements of their everyday
banks. Insurance managers with a fond eye on the'past
have a very modern eye to the lengthy notices setting
forth the claims of their institutions upon possible “ new
business.” The whole publication leaves the impression
of an advertising circular baited with old bones. ’
Sonne Verses , by Frank Wilmot (The Microbe
Press, Melb., 6 d.) were not worth the pains of printing.
The Origin and Ethics of Land Owning, a pam-
phlet by George Black (The Worker ; Sydney) collates
authorities against private property in land" and generally
Tne writer foreshadows an era when “universality of
idea’’in agreement with his views “will induce com-
munity of interest ” in wealth. The writer is jolly san-
guine. However, we have asked McGowen, leader of
N.S.W. Labour party, to review the item when he can
spare time from his building investment at North
Sydney.
Some “women of N.S. Wales” have collected
£3OO to present N.S. W. Gallery with a portrait of Queen
Alexandra, to be painted by Longstaff. L. could have
no finer subject. If he will paint the woman he sees,
without conventional flattery of the Queen, the work
should make him famous.
Said Arthur Lynch, in prison, to an Australian
visitor : “ My idea of happiness is to lie under gum-trees
and look out to sea, with a whip in my hand,—and, when
I want something to do, just to flick the air.”
Glad tidings of moderately-great joy 1 A first
dividend of £1 per recitation has been declared on account
of eighty recitations in The Bulletin Reciter ; and writers
represented are requested to forward their present
addresses to the Accountant, Bulletin Office. It was
hoped that The Bulletin Sttry Book also would be on the
div.-paying list; but the expense of producing that book
was comparatively much heavier, and the profit in
hand at present has not seemed worth sharing. Perhaps
by the end of the year—«
Louise Mack, writing from London, says: “lam
getting-on splendidly—have more work than I can do.
Black and White is printing my dialogue-series, ‘The
Conversations of Clarissa ’; and in the autumn will be
published my new book, A Love-Story from the Bush."
The Walkley-Jones dispute has entangled
Clement Scott. Bourchier referred unpleasantly to
Clement in The Pall Mall Gazette, and Clement has
issued a libel-writ against the paper. Brander Matthews,
the Amer. writer and play-writer, is telling a story
apropos of the dramatic critic’s obligations. When
Matthews was a critic, he received from an Amer.
dramatist a ticket of admission to a certain play. He
accepted it and went to the theatre. At the end of the
first act, the curtain went down amid the blank silence
of the whole audience except himself, who, conscious of
the courtesy shown him, applauded to the best of his
ability. At the end of the second act the audience
hissed, while he maintained a stoical and compassionate
silence. At the end of the third act, he went ouk
bought a ticket, and came back to hiss with the rest.
Smith, Elder and Co. announce The New Nation,
a sketch of the present conditions of the life and of the
economic and political outlook in the Australian Com-
monwealth, by Percy F. Rowland. The title is attrac-
tive,—and it headed a Bulletin article three years ago.
Vic. Surveyors’ Board sheds light on the quality
of some Aust. University teaching. The secretary told
Melb. University Commission that local University
graduates—so-called bachelors and masters of _ civil
engineering—had to be examined afresh before admission
to the ranks of practical surveyors. “ They usually
failed in computation and seemed unable to solve prac-
tical questions.”
At a solemn commemoration of the fiftieth
anniversary of the death of three citizens of Ferrara, shot
in 1853 by the Austrians, a member of the Italian Ministry
quoted Swinburne’s verses glorifying the Italian revolu-
tion. “Italy will always owe to Swinburne a debt of
gratitude,” he said. So would the Transvaal,, if only
Britain had been Austria.
Dr. Macfadyen, of the Jenner Institute, has
found that by crushing the cells of the typhoid bacillus
the intracellular juices can be obtained apart from the
organism, and that these juices are highly toxic. By in-
jecting them in small and repeated doses into a living
animal its blood serum is rendered powerfully antitoxic
and bactericidal. Animals dosed with the protective
serum and subsequently treated with lethal doses oi
typhoid bacteria were immune from typhoid fever, f ur-
ther, animals dosed with typhoid bacteria, and treatea
with the serum after half the time required to ki
them had elapsed, recovered health. The way
seems open for a generalisation that serums ro
from any bacterial juices will be prophylactic against
living bacteria. We see from Sydney Alfred Hospi a
report that the typhoid death-rate last year was s p
cent, in 88 cases. The Hospital has 500 rules ! Main-
tenance of pauper patients cost 3s. 6d. per day. But n
much out of the £7955 expended on salaries was pam w
the medical staff we cannot see, for the balance-sne
gallantly lumps all wages and salaries together.
(Continued on The Other Red Page.)


WINGHCOMBE, CARSON, and CO., Limited,
WOOL BROKERS AND PRODUCE SALESMEN
SYDNE Y.
FUR SKINS!
Kangaroo, Wallaby, Rabbit, Opossum.
SEJJ T~> TO— ,
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
c=*-^y--r^-r%.-r-rrTi-^c-
y MOST SUCCESSFUL SALESHEN. *
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Stores: PYRMOMT.
Sole Commission 3 Per Cent, to the Grrower
011 Large and Small Accounts iAlilce.
S. FREEMAN ✓ SONS L!«!™
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO'S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
Hg_AD office,: WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
»
Q
8
:
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS
[MAGNESIA!
NEITHER CRACK
NOR BURN.
s e
OQOS
w
Cfi O
£BO6
m
CBB
6807
mm
SHILLING BRIAR PIPES
QUALITY NOT BETTER
IN A GUINEA PIPE. . .
QUARANTEE.— ShouId any of our Celebrated CAN’T-B-BEAT Briar Pipes Crack or Bara a
New One will be Exchanged for it immediately on Application.
Sold by all Tobacconists. By Post, Is. 2d.
Quality not better in a Guinea Pipe
TOBACCO
Dark and
Bright
N
is
fiClf IL
S» If.
is
m
RICHMOND,VA.
IS THE BEST.
Price, ss* lb., Post Free, all States.
A Perfect Pipe Tobacco.
HAVING secured the Sole Agency for the
above brand of AMERICAN TOBACCO, we
have very much pleasure in recommending
same to our Clients and the Smoking Public.
“SOLID SHOT” TOBACCO, Splendid Aroma,
does not bite the tongue. With the ordinary
smoker this Tobacco is in great demand.
Save “Solid Shot” Tobacco Tags.
For Each 100 you will receive from the
Agents, free, one only C. 8.8. Briar
Pipe and Pocket Knife.
Sole Agent for C. 8.8. Briar Pipes.
Send for Whole sale Price Lists.
Arkansas” Mixture
A Blend of the very highest grade Tobaccos.
Packed in |lb. Tins, 7s. 6d. lb.
Sample |lb. Tins, 25., post free.
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney, n.s.w.
IT is the forerunner of many troubles that are
to come later, Kidney Troubles, Rheuma-
tism, Lumbago, Constipation, General De-
bility, and other Chronic Ailments would very
often have been avoided if the backache had
been cured before it got bad. Hundreds pay no
attention to this pain until the mischief is done
and they find themselves too late with a remedy.
Dr. McLaughlins
Is a certain cure for this trouble. It warms
and invigorates the parts. It builds new nerve
cells and tissues. It puts new life into the
entire system. It cures in the Night. Try It.
EYERY day we are curing men with these
ailments. Many men have failed to be
cured by drugs, because they don’t go to
the spot. Electricity is the only sure and cer-
tain remedy, because it replaces what has been
lost, it imparts new vigor to the weakened
tissues, invigorates the circulation, and cleanses
the blood.
Electric Belt
It is the modern cure for men, and with free
electric suspensory will cure any weakness that
exists in your body. We’ve cured over 100*000
men like you, and we can cure you.
We are the only Electric Belt Specialists in Australia who manufacture our own appliances and hold patent rights
to Electric body Belts. Other belts are made generally by manufacturing jewellers, who in nine cases out of ten have no
knowledge of even the first principle of electricity.
As a matter of fact, we are the Specialists who really sell Electric Belts. Don’t accept any drug auxiliaries at any
price. We insist that we can cure you without drugs. READ THESE GRATEFUL LETTERS
Sciatica.
Invercargill, N.Z.
c/o J. A. Mitchell & Co., Auctioneers.
Dear Sirs,—Yours duly to hand. I would have written sooner,
but wanted to give the belt a fair test before doing so. I did not
feel much benefit from it for a considerable time, but I have much
pleasure in saying to you that this last month or six weeks I have
very little, or, I may say, no pain in comparison to the way I
used to suffer. There are several others here slightly troubled
with sciatica, and I have been trying to persuade them to gee one
of your belts. Yours respectfully,
a. b. mcintosh.
Weak Back and Nervousness.
Wesleyvale, N.-W. Coast, Tasmania.
Dear Sirs,—lt is with much pleasure that I write these feW
lines to let you know that I am progressing grandly. The
Belt is acting well, the pains in my shoulders and back are quite
gone, and the waste that had been going on in my system for
some time past has entirely stopped.
My back is much stronger, and the pains across the buttock
have almost disappeared. I can sleep at night without the
horrible dreams that I had a short time back, and my general
health is much better.
Faithfully yours, ROBERT PIPER.
Prom the West.
Tiib Dr. McLaughlin Co.
Ealgoorlie, W.A.
Replying to your enquiry after my health, I am just debating
leaving the Belt off. There has been a wonderful improvement in
my condition, and I am improved in every way. If I can help
your cause yoil have my support. JAMES HUGHES.
Bank of England Gold Mine,
Ealgoorlie, W.A., 7/5/1903
Dear Sir,—l am pleased to inform you that my father is a great
deal better from wearing your Belt. I may state that his pains
have all but left him, and he can rest well at night. Thanking
you for your letter, I remain, yours faithfully,
JANET MCQUEEN.
FREE.
If you want to get well you must use Electricity. Write or call for our FREE BOOK, expounding its uses
and results accomplished by it. It gives full information, and costs nothing. Our Book is beautifully illustrated,
and shows practical methods of applying Electricity in all kinds of chronic ailments, showing exactly how the
location of the trouble is reached. It explains how we can cure NERVE complaints, WEAK BACK, KIDNEY
and BLADDER TROUBLE, SCIATICA, RHEUMATISM, LUMBAGO and any derangements of the stomach. We will make you a
WRITTEN DI AGNOSIS FREE, or if you can call we shall be glad to give you a free test and free advice. NEVER PAY anyone to
diagnose your ailment. We will explain our methods, and show you exactly how to use Electricity in your particular trouble. If we can't do
you good, we will be candid and say so. Call or write at once. Hours, 9 a.m. to 8 p.m.
DUTY PAID ON ALL BELTS.
NO DRUGS USED.
The Or. (lic[aughlin Co.,
100 W. MARKET ST., SYDNEY
Melbourne Office—l67E Swanston street.


SMOKE
The Unrivalled
World Renownec
BRIAR
PIPES
LARGEST DEPOT:
231 Clarence St,
SYDNEY.
A NEW BROWNIE KODAK
® For Pictures x3i Inches.
(J 3
C. -J
cm
rK
TS
PDAK Limited,
And of all Photographic Dealers.
The No. 2
BROWNIE
KODAK. .
Ptfiee 10 /SS only.
LOADED AND UNLOADED IN DAYLIGHT.
Send for Illustrated and Descriptive
Leaflet and mention this paper.
284 COLLINS STREET,
... MELBOURNE.
TUR
KISH LEAF
OBACCO
IK'
&
CIGARETTES.
TOSACCO.
SmDking Mixture, Mild, Medium and Full.
CIGARETTES.
HAND MADE
FREE FROM DUST
“MY DARLING, 1 ’
“ ASTORIA,"
“QUO VADIS,”
“ WA3.DORF,”
No 999,
No. 555.
Manufactured by the ARDaTH TOBACCO CO.,
LONDON.
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300 pages ; price, 4s. 6d. ; postage, 6d.
DOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, 50 engravings, 3/6 ;
posted, i/-. Howto Mesmerise, 1/-; Magic
Up-to-Datk, 1/3 ; Metal Working, solder-
ing, brazing, 1/6; Camille, 1/3 ; How to
Play Billiards, 1/3; How to Vamp, 1,3;
Piano Tuning and Repairing, 1/6 ; Modern
Etiquette, 1/-; Card Games, 1/-; Great
Book of Wonders, Secrets and Mysteries,
1/-: Poultry Keeping, 1/- ; Horse and
Cattle Doctor, 1/- ; Parlor Magic, 1/- ;
Dream Book, 1/- ; Every Man His Own
Builder, 1 6 ; Carpentry, 1/6 ; Lightning
Calculator, 1/2 ; Australian Doctor, 1/6 ;
Letter Writer, 1/3 ; Speeches and Toasts,
1/3 ; Kelly Gang of Bushrangers, 1/3 ;
Book of Dialogues, 1/-; Enquirer’s Oracle,
3000 subjects, 1/6; Self Instructor, 1/3 ;
How to Dance, 1/3 ; Art op Boxing, 1/3 ;
Art of Wrestling, 1/3; Moll Flanders,
1/6 ; Tailoring for Amateurs, 1/3 ; Ven-
triloquism, 1/- ; Comic Reciter, 150 gems,
13 ; Irish Comic Reciter, 1/3; Little
Folks’ Reciter, 1/3; Nigger Stump
Speeches, 1/3 ; New Tricks with Cards,
1/3; That Rascal Gustave, 1/3 ; Plain
Home Talk, 7/6 ; Sappho (genuine), 1/6 ;
Fortune Telling Cards, directions, 1/6 ;
Advice to Women, 13; Midwives’ Hand-
book, 92 practical illustrations (better than
Aristotle), 3/- ; Palmistry, chart and guide,
6d. ; Clog Dancing, 1-. Above prices in-
clude postage to any address. Stamps or
Postal Notes of any State will do. Free
Catalogues—Plays, Conjuring: Apparatus,
Racy Novels, Useful Books, Private Books
for the Married, etc.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK AND MAGIC
ARCADE, -
201 Bourke-st., Melbourne.
n
a
AERTEX CELLULAR FABRIC
is the ideal form of body covering, possessing all the neces-
sary hygienic qualities, and being also most comfortable and*
of attractive appearance, and for those reasons is recom-
mended by the Medical Faculty wherever introduced. ,
Aertex Cellular Underwear is a. Sure Preventative against Chills
Cellular Neglige Shirts.
Soft fronts of plain or pleated
Cellular Cloth; wrists, French
Print, Linen, or Cellular. Recom-
mended for Golf, Cycling, &c.
White body, 7s 6d; colored, 8s 9d
Cellular Day Shirts.
Silk neckbands and soft wrists.
White and Self Colors, 4s to 7s 6d
Fancy Designs, 7s 6d to 9s 6d.
&
mm
m
Cellular Dress Shirt.
Fitted best Belfast Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 0.8. or 0.F., one stud.
Cellular Cotton Body—
-6s 6d to 8s 6d
Cellular Lisle Body-
-93 6d and 10s 6d
Cellular Short-Front Shirt
for every-day wear.
Open behind, 2in. linen wrists—
-6s 6d, 6s 6d.
Open front or behind, square
cuffs — 6s 6d c s 6d
1
AERTEX
Cellular Combinations.
High or Low Necks.
s. d
White Cotton, trimmed
Lace 5 6
White Cotton, trimmed
Embroidery .. ..76
White Cotton, trimmed
Lace 9 6
White Lisle, trimmed Em-
broidery 10 6
AERTEX
Cellular Nightdresses.
White Cotton, trimmed
Embroidery .. -. 9 0
White Lisle, trimmed Em-
broidery 2) 0
White Lisle, prettily
trimmed, fine Torchon.. 19 6
Aertex Cellular Chemises. Bs. ' White Lisle, heavily trimmed
Real Torchon, 14s 6d and 16s 6d.
Aertex Cellular Slip-Bodices. Jig £ e S%xt£! Bizes
White Lisle, trimmed Torchon, 6s 6d and 8s 6d.
Gend for Illustrated Price List—Post Free.
DAVID BRAHAM & GO.,
73 & 75 King-St., Sydney.
Sole Agents.
Cellular Tennis Shirt,
With Collar and Pocket. Themost
comfortable for all out-door sports
of all kinds. A great variety of
patterns stocked.
Plain Colors, 4s. 6d. to 7s. 6d.
Fancy Designs, 7s. Cd. to 11s. 6d.
Sett
m
m
m
T. «*-
A Piece of
Aertex Cellular Fabric.
Fabrics by the yard or piece—ln
Cottons, Bd. to Is. 9d. ; Lisle
Thread, Is. 3d. to 2s. ; Silk and
Cotton Mixture, 3s. 6d.; Merinos
and Wools., 3s. 3d. to 4s. 9d. ; Silk
and Merino Mixture, 4s. 6d.
Send for Full Price List.
Aertex Cellular Corsets.
Fitted real Greenland Whalebone.
s. d.
Cl Ecru 13in. deep .. .. 15 6
C 2 ~ long waist, 14£in deep 16 6
M White Cotton, 14in., nar-
row spoon busk .. .. 21 0
G White Cotton, 14iin., with
Elastic Supporter .. 24 6
F Ecru, Riding or Cycling. • 12 6
V Cycling-, Boned French
Horn, Elastic Hips .. 15 0
D 1 same shape as Cl, Watch-
spring Steels .. ..86
BrVJ
n:
There’s SECURITY in
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
> FURRED TONGUE.
)
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price.
They TOUGH the
Be
LIVER .
Sure they are I&ARTEiR -'5
9
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania).
IMPORTANT NOTICE
The Tasmanian Government having 1 imposed a *** of One Penny
on every Five Shilling Ticket issued by Tattersall’a on and after lift
January, 1903, clients will please forward Id. extra for oaoh 6a.
ticket applied for, or 4d. for every SI, and ao on.
NOW OPEN
ADELAIDE CUP-
Morphettville, S.A., May 13 ..-25,000 at 5/1
PRINCE OF WALES STAKES—
Randwick, N.S.W,, June 3 ...80,000 at 5/1
GRAND NATIONAL HURDLE RACE, Flemington, Vic., July 4, 100,000 at 5/1.
Subscribers will please note that GEORGE ADAMS (“TATTERSALL”) STILL
CONTINUES his business in HOBART, under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN
GOVERNMENT, and that clients can send their subscriptions by letter to any friend or
acquaintance in HOBART, who will there have no difficulty in delivering the application and
securing the despatch of tickets and results direct to clients.
Money can also be paid through any Bank in Australasia, to the credit of GEORGE
ADAMS, Commercial Bank of Tasmania, Hobart. Clients when so doing will please request
Bank to advise GEORGE ADAMS of amount, with their name and full address.
Small Parcels addressed to me can be forwarded to Hobart through any PARCEL
DELIVER if CO. doing business with Tasmania.


It’s an easy job for tbe barber to
part the hair on a head like this.
It’s just as easy to prevent baldness
if you only do the right thing.
Baldness is almost always a sure
sign of neglect; it is the story of neg-
lected dandruff.
Dandruff is untidy, unnecessary, and
unhealthy.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
cures dandruff and prevents baldness.
sTou save your hair and you are spared
the annoyance of untidy clothing.
It also stops falling of the hair, and
makes the hair grow thick and long.
Do not be deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Make sure that you get the genuine
Ayer's Hair Vigor.
Prepared by Dr J C Ayer & Co., Lowell. Maas., U.S.A.
W. H.Wigzell.
FRINGES: Best Natural Curly
Hair, 3/6, 5 6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each.
TAILS and PLAITS : 20in. long,
5/6 ; extra thick, 7/6; 24in., 10/6;
extra thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings worked up,
2/6 per oz. Don’t be misled.
Our Plaits and Tails are twice as
thick as sold elsewhere at the
same price. Send color of Hair.
Only one address : 110 WILLIAM-
ST.j cor. of Palmer St. SYDNEY.
Cable trams will stop at door. All work guaranteed.
Illustrated Catalogue post free. Prompt attention given
to country orders. Wigs made on shortest notice. All
Hairwork sent to the other States free of duty. Transfor-
mations, entire covering for the head, 30/- each.
FLUID
OIL
CRUDE FLUID
POWDER
EMBROCATION
80APS
DIBINFECTORS
INHALERS
FUMICATORB
ffi
AMI
lISINFEGTtNS
FLUID.
II-
COLORLESS
FRAGRANT
NON-
POISONOUS
DOES NOT
STAIN
KILLS ALL
DISEASE
GERMS
OXYCENATEB
THE AIR.
Sulphur Candles - \
Formic Fumigators /
KINGZETT’S
PATENTS.
" HOW TO DISINFECT ” Book Free.
The “SANITAS” CO.,
Bethnal Green, LONDON, E:
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when every
other remedy has failed. English Prices, 4/6 and 11/-.
Thousands of Testimonials. Of all Chemists, Stores, etc.
Wholesale Agents :
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist
25 High-street, Belfast, Ireland.
Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Produotr.
Qapillarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 108. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
The Remit.
CRAIG &. AITKEN. N.S.W. Barber’s Supply
House, 680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDrt-ET.
Tito representative book of Australian humor
STEELE RUDD’S
"On Our Selection.'’
-<filNG7V>
TyiHJI
IRISH
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
IRISH MOSS
MOSS
CURES WHILE
SLEEPING.
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.
WAUIR.
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 109,
H. Hilb'er,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
£2T Send for a
Catalogue.
Went Shaft Sulkies.
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE tC
buyers of Light Vehicles.
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, i3o Sussex St., Sydney
Straight Shaft 3-Spring Sulkier, £8 10s.
Sarven Sulky Wheels Tyred, £2 4s 6d pair.
Discount to Wholesale Buyers. Send for Catalogue.
21/-
21/
MOST MARVELLOUS VALUE
A SOLID SILYER KEYLESS
Hunting Watch.
Heavy Case, Sound Movement,
Perfect Timekeeper
GUARANTEED FOR TWO YEARS.
21/-
Posted Duty Free to any part of Australia.
Send for my New Illustrated Catalogue.
QUEENSLAND LEADING JEWELLER
H. F. SMITH,
Queen Street, Brisbane
and at IPBWICH and TOOWOOMBA.
WINCHESTER
MODEL
I 902 SINGLE - SHOT
Rif LE
'J'HE name “ Winchester ” on this
rifle is a guarantee in itself of its
quality. The Model 1902 is a hammerless take-
down, and can be taken apart easily and quickly.
It is made with an 18-inch round barrel, fitted with open
front and peep rear sights/ It shoots .22 Short and .22 Long
Rim-Fire cartridges, and Bullet Breech caps. Some makes of
.22 Caliber rifles are a few pence cheaper, but they are a great
deal cheaper in quality than they are in price. We don’t
try to see how cheap we can make this rifle but how good.'
FOR SALE BY ALL IRONMONGERS
WE WINCHESTER GOODS.
M‘LEAN BROS. & RIGG, Ltd
ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
JTTV
HOd HIVH
aooo
•SIStJIHHQ TIT
Holland's Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to 'he Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. ' Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
SS~ For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MIAKING HAlft
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price; 55.; postage,9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATUR ALINE.
S - For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d.; postage; 9d. extra.
Wabhingtos H. So at & Co..
Pitt-3treet, Sydney.
CONSULT HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
«?old bv all Chemists, and by WATKINS & MAOKAY, Chemists, Queen,Street, Brisbane; Mr. GORDON, 92 George
° J Street, Rockhampton, Queensland, and
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
,
Our ALES and STOUT ;
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
.... - ■ * ' ,
TO DiiIJPY COMPEITITIOIff.
, i
WINES I 7“ ** “°* * SPIRITS.
MAJSTJFACTULI'IKS OF MIMFUAL WATE US, CORDIALS, Sw.
Kent £ rewery, SYDNEY, i
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Omar at the Shanty.
I think that Noses never wax so red
As where the Northern Beers their fragrance
shed ;
That one fell Drop of potent Northern dew
Hath power to stir the Bones of Northern dead.
Oh ! many a Potion-blender have I spied
And marked him con his wondrous “ Brewers
Guide,”
And noted then the Liquor that he drew
And how the Drinkers drank and fought and lied;
And how the House was festive Night and Day,
And how the Moon herself was waxen gay,
And how in curious Spirals men would walk
And hug the savory Gutter where they lay;
And how they gave the Mob their varied views,
Or painted Things in wild and lurid hues,
And told of many a Foeman they had slain
What time their Arms were mighty with the
Booze.
Some for the Sodas of this World—and some
Pine for the lips of Lemonade to come ;
Ah, take the Beer and let the Rubbish go,
Nor heed the voice of him who flouteth Rum !
They say the casual Copper watch doth keep
For them who, Jamshyd-like, have drunken deep,
But neither Fear of Jail nor Copper’s Club
May break in Northern land a Boozer’s sleep.
Yea —Tanglefoot hath laid them on the Sod,
And little care they now for Beak or God,
Till Pawning brings the Trap who leads them
Home
And Day reveals th’ accursed Walls of Quod.
Q.
P.L.
My Busliland Home.
Oh, I long for a breath of the old mountain breeze,
All laden with incense of flower and of leaf ;
And I sigh for the voices of murmuring trees
That laughed with my laughter, and sighed
with my grief.
There were ripples of song in the purl of the
creek
That wound through a tangle of blossoming
vine;
There was gold on the hills where each glittering
peak,
Thro’ dawn mists of silver, rose, flushed and a-
shine.
There were diamonds too, where the tussock-grass
waved—
A tremulous sea, silver-crested with dew ;
And the pearls from the pool, where the water-
fowl laved,
Flashed sprays of white gems from their wings
as they flew.
And the charm of the voices that woke with the
dawn
In a clamorous chorus of melody sweet!
And the glint of the gold in the murmuring corn,
When the springy turf flashed ’neath the gallop-
ing feet !
And at dusk when the shadows, with garments of
gray,
Stole soft in the tracks of the vanishing light,
The wind crooned a dirge for her lover, the Day,
And the silent stars rode in the van of the Night.
N.S.W.
A. CAR. B.
“So-Lonff!”
THE SONG OF LONELY WOMEN.
With a laugh they ride to the West away : “ So-
long ! ” from the road they call;
But the echoes ring there night and day, and the
bush-girls hear them fall.
“ So-long ! ” they cry as they take the track for
sheds at the back of Bourke;
But the notes resound for the hearts in black at
the dawn and the twilight murk.
“ So-long ! So-long ! ’Tis a sad heart-song that
rings in the bush-girl’s ear,
When the boys ride out with a farewell shout that
rings all the lonely year.
With a kiss they mount at the slip-rail gate,
with a good-bye squeeze they go ;
With a smile they ride for the Fields of Fate
where the golden apples grow !
“So-long, old girl; be back next year !”—but the
“ next year ” turns to three,
And still each lone bush-heart can hear “So-long”
ring endlessly !
Farewell! Farewell! Oh, they ring love’s knell
when they sing that two-word song !
Good-bye ! Good-bye ! Oh, no eyes are dry when
the boys call out “ So-long ! ”
“ So-long 1” —each day is an ason dark, and the
nights seem never to end
When the girls gaze out at the stringy-bark and
the tracks that twist and trend !
They wait and wait, and they guess and guess,
“ where Jack and Tom are now ’ —
There are eyes oft wet and hands that press at
dawn to the breast and brow !
“So-long! So-long!”—how the echoes throng,
and the hearts are sad and sore
For the arms they knew when they came to woo
in the old bush nights of yore !
W. A.
GRANT HERVEY.
Sample of Tommy Bent’s poetry dished
up by himself for the edification of members
during the discussion in Vic. Parliament on the
conference of the two Houses :
We took him home and put him to bed,
And told his wife and daughter
To give him next morning a couple of red
Herrings and soda water.


QWING TO INCREASED DEMAND FOR THE
HIGHEST CLASS OF SCOTCH WHISKY
THE PROPRIETORS ARE NOW PLACING ON THIS MARKET THEIR
“EXTRA SPECIAL” QUALITY
FOUR BED CROWN WHISKY,
OLD AND MELLOW,
the i&me as supplied under ROYAL WARRANT, and sold largely in Great Britain.
♦
IN BULK AND BOTTLE. From all Hotels and Spirit Merchant x.
Wholesale Agent, NORMAN SHELLEY, YORI STREET, SYDNEY,
Dyspeptic Emesis
A LONG PERIOD OF SUFFERING.
A Permanent Cure in Newtown.
The Case of Mrs. C. WALKED
(For the “ Independent ”j
A subject necessarily inviting to all, and
the discussion of which has of late years
employed many able pens, was recently
touched upon by Mrs. Gertrude Walker, of
No. 17 George-street, Newtown, when chat-
ting with our special representative.
“It is in reference to the most effective
means of gettiug rid of one’s personal
enemies that I wish to speak to you,” said
Mrs Walker, “and I think that I am
entitled to speak on the subject because my
liver was out of order for a long time and
my sufferings were extraordinary. lam
twelve 3 T ears older since my troubles begin
with an attack of neuralgia, which I
endured for three months without abate-
ment. The terrific pains lodged in the back
of my head at first, then they affected my
gums, which became very sore, making it
impossible to properly masticate my food,
and tlfen the tortures shot up to my eyes.
Later on there was not a part of my head
which escaped the maddening agonies of
neuralgia, and often I thought they would
drive me out of my mind.”
“ I expect you got but very little sleep ? ”
enquired the write*’.
“ Sleep was deeded me altogether,” re-
sponded Mrs. Walker. “Cften I have paced
the floor for hours when everybody else has
been fast asleep, and when morning came I
was not fit for anything. My nerves were
all of a shake, nervousness having such a
hold upon me that I was afraid of my own
shadow, and when a knock came to the door
it caused me to tremble so violently that I
could scarcely move. I was afraid at every
turn, an idea being in my mind continually
that somebody was standing behind me,
though when I looked round there was
nobody, and I could only reproach myself
for my folly. Still, I could not help feeling
timid, and to be so every moment of the day
had the effect of making me fretful and
despondent. I lost flesh till I became as
thin as a skeleton, for which I blame my
poor appetite and the trouble I had in keep-
ing my food down. My stomach was in a
dreadfully weak condition, a fact which
accounted for the frequent fits of vomiting
I had, for it was all the same in effect what
kind of food I took—it would not stay
down. Many a time I thonght I was going
to be suffocated by the sense of oppression
in my chest, for when it was at its worst I
had to gasp for breath in a most alarming
way. ’f could not make out what was
wrong a little distance below my neck.
There seemed to be something pricking me
there—a very tantalising sensation—although
at other times the pain was as great as if I
had strained myself. I cannot imagine
anything more vile than the taste which was
in my piouth, and to make it more un-
pleasant still there was a eoating on my
tongue which made me feel quite sick. On
arising from bed I was distressed by the aches
running through my legs and across my
loins, for they set at defiance any attempt I
might make to do any light work about the
house, although at the best of times I was
so easily overpowered by exhaustion that I
had to let matters take their own course.”
“ Did you obtain advice from any
source ? ”
“ I should rather think so. A doctor
from Sydney was doing his best for me, yet
I cannot say there was anything satisfactory
resulting from his treatment. lam sure his
medicines did not benefit me, because my
internal troubles multiplied week by week.
If I walked a few yards I was brought to a
standstill by an attack of giddiness, and on
many sccasions when I walked a little
distance in the garden a mysterious sensa-
tion come over me which made it appear
that the further I walked the further the
fence seemed to be away. And then my
heart gave rise to serious reflections. The
slightestexcitementorexerbion always caused
it to flutter and throb, but even when I was
sitting still it used to suddenly start pal-
pitating with such vengeance that its
beatings could be heard quite distinctly.
The sharp pains which ran through my heart
from time to time also lent color to the idea
that it was diseased in some way or other, and
as the physic I was taking did not alleviate
my sufferings in the least, it appeared
certain that I was going to be an invalid
for life. With my yellow skin and my
features distorted by the physicial agony
and the anxiety of mind I was enduring, I
looked as if my days were almost numbered,
but now, thank Heaven, there is a great
difference in my appearance, and although
I am over thirty years of age, I feel as young
and active as a girl of sixteen.”
“Can you account for such a wonderful
transformation.”
“ Easily Clements Tonic did it, and only
for an old friend who told me about that
medicine I might still be suffering, or per-
haps be dead, as nothing else could cure me.
Several days passed before I felt any better
by taking Clements Tonic, and I was
beginning to think that it was no benefactor
of mine, but I kept on with it and then I
commenced to feel revived. The neuralgic
pains, I noticed, were dying away, and then
they suddenly stopped; but although this
was a great relief, I was more concerned
about my internal organs, and I was in a
state of painful suspense as to whether
Clements Tonic was equal to the occasion.
Sure enough it was. I became regular in
all my habits, freed from the unpleasant
taste in my mouth, my tongue was cleansed,
and I had an appetite to enjoy my food.
The wind which used to arise from my
stomach did not form now, and I never had
the least inclination to vomit my food. I
thought this was a remarkably satisfactory
test of the merits of Clements Tonic,
and when my first purchase was exhausted
I got more, as I meant to get quite well
whilst I had the chance. From that time
onwards I gained strength by leaps and
bounds. As regularly as I lay down to rest,
I had calm and refreshing sleep, and I
did appreciate it after passing so many
wretched nights not long before. The
freedom with which I could draw my breath
was evidence that my digestive organs were
being benefited by the use of Clements
Tonic, and as my heart had resumed its
normal pulsation, without ever paining me
either, I knew that it was not diseased, but
that my anxious fears had been induced by
the bad state of my liver. For my nervous
system there was nothing I had taken which
could approach Clements Tonic for general
excellence, as my nerves were left without
a tremor and I could walk anywhere in the
dark without any fear. By adhering
to the use of Clements Tonic for some weeks
I became as healthy as I have ever been, and
for several years my constitution has beqn
perfectly sound. If these admisssons will
assist people similarly afflicted, you may
publish them in any way you please.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
1, Gertrude Walker, of 17 George-street.
Newtown, in the State of New South Wales,
Commonwealth of Australia, do solemnly and sin
ct-rely declare that 1 have carefully read the annexed
document, consisting of five folios, and consecutively
numbered from one to five, and that it contains and
is a true and faithful account of my illness and cure
by Clements Tonic, and also contains my full per-
mission to publish in any way my statements—
which I give voluntarily, without receiving any
payment; and 1 make this solemn declaration
conscientiously believing the same to be true, and
bv virtue of the provisions of the Oaths Act, lyou.
FREDERICK JONES, J.P.
Subscribed and deolared at Newtown this i
teenth day of February, one thousand nine hu
and two, before, me
Shook 11
Edition.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER:
Harry Moranb
His ’Ventures,
and Verses.
Price 1/1
Post
Frtt.
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Sydney
Y B y FRANK RENAR. Y
FOR. THE BUSH WORKER
r am-Bu/c
A SOOTHING BALM and EMBROCATION. Will be found
a CERTAIN CURE for Cuts, Burns, Boils, Barcoo,
Eczema, Sprains, Ringworm, Sore Feet, Piles all
forms of Skin Disease or Muscular Affections, eto.
From all Chemists, 1/6 per Tin. A FREE SAMPLE will
be sent you. Address the
ZAM-BUK CO., 39 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Enclose Penny Stamp for postage, and mention this paper.
TO MEC.BOURNE VISITORS.
WIM POLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
Henry Skinner,
Olarendon-st., South Melbourne,
'telephone if* lAM>
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets amt
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
“ They come as a boon and a blessing to men.
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen."
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
3VERY PEN made bv Maeniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
separately examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS. -»g
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.,
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAM
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUI.—COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST—SU FPEK.
DEBILITATED
WEAK, NERVOUS SUFFERER. Let us send you a
v> trial course of our CONCENTRATED BOTANIC
REMEDIES FREE OF CHARGE. You will be more
than pleased with the result, and you will show your
appreciation of our valuable treatment by persevering
in its use for a few weeks until you are PERMANENTLY
CURED. Address—
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
DRUNK'""'”
CURED
Absolutely Conquered In 20 Days.
Bg"See my proposition to the Government,
November Bth, 1901, wherein I agree to
accept 100 Test Cases, and prove that my
Vegetable Cure for Alcoholism is a positive
and reliable remedy Home treatment
within the reach of all. No restrictions, no
hypodermic injections. Full particulars free,
W. LANGSTON, M.R.c.s.. En e ..
129 Collins-st., Melbourne.
RUPTURE
CURED
without
operation or pain.
llirow
no detention from work, or depend-
ence upon Trusses. The only
humane treatment. Hundreds
cured. Write to-day for illustrated
Treatise No. io. Address:
SURGEON LANGSTON,
M.R.C.a., ENfi.,
129 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
RESCUED from DfyNK
By a new discovery, odorless
and tasteless, which any lady
can give in tea, coffee or food.
It dues its work so silently and
surely that while the devoted
wife, sister or daughter looks on
the drunkard is reclaimed even
against his will and without his
knowledge or co-operation.
Miss Edith WILLIAMS, who
cured her father after years of
misery, wretchedness and almost
unbearable suffering, says:—“ I
Shall be so glad if you publish my
experience, for it will reach
many others and let th m know
about the wonderful EUCRA SY.
„ -t — . . , I will do all I can to help any
suffering sister who will write me.’* Send name and
address to THE
Eucrasy Co., 62 Huntcr-st, Sydney,
and they will send you Booklet and particulars FREE.
The Australian Sailorman’s Book—
E. J. BRADY’S
“Cite Slays of many Waters.”
A rattling collection of Sea Chanties. Price
ss. Sd. post free from The Bulletin office.
LARGEST SALE OP ANY DENTIPRi CE .
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
Tooth Powder.
A unique and efficacious preparation r
cieansmg the teeth and strengthening the gurns"
F. C. CALVERT k Co., Manchester, Eng,
A
cn\#*s
MORRIS'S
IMPERIAL
ft EYE
°IHTMEHT
O V \
*1
y«^
*
TOOTH-ACHE
CURED INSTANTLY BY
BUNTER’S
Prevents Decay, Saves
Extraction, Sleepless Nights
Prevented.
Neuralgic Head aohes&all Nerve
Pains removed by BUNTER'S
NERVINE. Of all Stores.
NERVINE
“As a apeciflo for Tooth ache it has no equal, I hays
naed It aucceaafully for years."—Prof, W. Wilson, M.D,
The BEST FAMILY MEDICINE
KAYE’S WORSDELL’S PILLS
Are a certain Cure for Indigestion, Biliousness, Head ache,
Dyspepsia, Constipation, Liver and Kidney Complaints, tu.
Of all S tores.
Rupture
Free Cure.
Wonderful Home Treatment That Cures
Without Pain or Loss of Time.
Dr. W. S. Bice (Dept. 268), 8 & 9, Stonecuttet
•Street, London, E.C., has invented a method that
cures rupture without pain, danger, operation, or
an hour’s loss of time from the day’s work. T«
avoid all questions of doubt, he sends free to ever
MR. JOHN "WESLEY.
sufferer a free trial of his method, and there can be
no earthly reason why anyone, rich or poor, should
not avail themselves of this generous offer. As an
instance of this remarkable method, the cure ol
Mr. John Wesley, Castle Lachlan, Inverary. Argyle,
is a welcome intelligence. Mr. Wesley is a well
preserved and highly respected gentleman, 72 years
of age. After a short use of the Rice method the
rupture healed entirely. To-day he’s sound as
a bell. If you know anyone ruptured you should
■tell them of this wonderful method, which Will
be sent for trial free of all costs.
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
BELTS and
AEELIA N CES
a trial of 30 days betort
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all >E“ -
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give »
written guarantee wit
each Electric Belt that i
will permanently cure you. If it does not, w ®
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean ex /
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTICE.-Before purchasing, we prefer that you
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), ’
illustrations of different appliances for BOlii o -
also Testimony which will convince the most seep
Address;
German Electric Appliance Agency
Ki.i7arw.th Street,
ALL CHEMISTS
%
FOR
Anemia,
Poverty of Blood
and Weakness
from Whatever Cause.
TABLETS
AT
R E R BOX


WE SPECIALISE in but one direction, i.e., the
EQUIPMENT OF OFFICES
on an UP-TO-DATE SYSTEM.
No Business can
succeed without
METHOD.
This METHOD
we supply.
WABASH
EXPANSION
Business
Systems.
Letter Files.
Document Files
Card Index
Systems
For Khh
Businesses.
Write for
Catalogue.
r
WOOLLEY, BERGIN & CO.,
269 George St., Sydney.
Sole Agents, Australasia.
AN EDUCATION
IS PROVIDED by the American
School of Correspondence,
at Armour Institute of Tech-
nology, Chicago, who conduct
Engineering Tuition by corres-
pondence, and aim to extend, at small cost, a valuable
technical education to the great wage-earning classes
everywhere. The courses are especially practical,
and are adapted to the needs of working people who
are willing and anxious to advance. Electrical,
Steam, Mechanical, Civil and Sanitary Engineering!
Drawing, Mathematics, Architecture, ami TextiTe
Manufacturing, Mining. Catalogue “ B,” describing
Courses, Methods and Terms, sent on request to
R. N. FERGUSON, Electrical Engineer (Manager
Australia), P.O. Box 629, Sydney, N.S.W.
Reader, why not he able to use the
moat mysterious and powerful force ot
nature? By my method you can learn
to Hypnotize in a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home. You can per-
form all the many marvellous feats
that are possible to the Hypnotist.
Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
conquer pain ; win reluctant affection,
[gratify your ambitions, and produce
[amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I have
just issued in book form a mammoth
I illustrated LESSON or Key to
Hypnotism, which fully explains
the mysteries and secrets
lof the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistlo engravings, and is the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the xind
ever published. For a short
time I will send this magnifi-
cent work FREE, sealed on
receipt of 6d. (stamps) to cover
postage. Order to-day and learn
to Hypnotize. It is ac» ance of
a life*time. Address—
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
vW:
MEN
If
you
are
; suffering from
1 exhaustion, Vari-
cocele, Wasting,
Weakness, enclose 6 stamps (postage and
packing), and I will send a trial bottle of my
REMEDY, FREE.
IT COSTS YOU NOTHING
to try my Life Syrup Remedies, which
give back strength of body and brain, renewed
vigor, and development of the vital organs;
not a free prescription dodge, but a trial of
my wonderful remedy free for the asking.
Professor H. READ,
165 Collins street, Melbourne.
jEM®
VEGETABLE
THE ROAD
TO HEALTH IS
PAVED WITH
GOOD
DIGESTION.
Charcoal
Speedily cures Acidity, Flatulence, Heartburn,
Impure Breath, Indigestion, Diarrhoea, <fec. It
destroys all disease germs, and,absorbing all impuri-
ties in the stomach and bowels,gives a healthy tone
to the whole system. Wards off all attacks of Typhoid
and other Fevers. Prevents many an illness.
BRAGG'S PURE CHARCOAL POWDER in
Bottles; LOZENGES and BISCUITS in Tins
(pleasant to take). Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
Having had complaints of the injury done by other
preparations,please see that each Bottle orTin bears
the Trade Mark ‘J.L.B., in monogram,'on the wrapper.
OF INTEREST to MEN
TvEAR SIR,—I have been cured of weakness and De-
bilitv by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to
Mr. ROBERT E. PARKHURST,
v. Pitt street, Sydney.
PHOTOS
Models from Life, Beautiful Stereo-
scopies, etc. List with 100 Minia-
ture and 3 Cabinet size photos.,
5a., P. 0.0. or stamps.
S. RECKNACEL NACHF, Munich, 1 Brieffach, Cermany
THE BALLET GIRL
s,
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Frse, 1s
The Life, Adventures
and Confesssions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Freoj is.
lend stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties.
Madame Panza,
BOX 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
ITCHING HUMOURS
SPEEDY CURE TREATMENT
FOR EVERY HUMOUR.
Bathe the affected parts with hot water and CUTICURA
SOAP, to cleanse the skin and scalp of crusts and scales, and
soften the thickened cuticle. Dry, without hard rubbing, and
apply CUTICURA OINTMENT freely to allay itching, irritation,
and inflammation, and soothe and heal, and lastly take CUTI-
CURA RESOLVENT PILLS, to cool and cleanse the blood.
This pure, sweet, and wholesome treatment affords instant
relief, permits rest and sleep, and points to a speedy, perman-
ent, and economical cure of the most torturing, disfiguring,
itching, burning, and scaly skin, scalp, and blood humours,
eczemas, rashes, and irritations, from infancy to age, with
loss of hair, when all else fails.
MILLIONS USE CUTICURA SOAP
Assisted by Cuticura Ointment, for preserving, purifying, and beautify-
ing the skin, for cleansing the scalp of crusts, scales, ami dandruff, and the
stopping of falling hair, for softening, whitening, and soothing red, rough,
and sore hands, for baby rashes, itchings, and chafings, and for all the pur-
poses of the toilet, bath, and nursery. Millions of Women use Cuticura
Soap in the form of baths for annoying irritations, inflammations, and
excoriations, for too free or offensive perspiration, in the form of washes
for ulcerative weaknesses, and for many sanative, antiseptic purposes which
readily suggest themselves to women, especially mothers,
CUTICURA RESOLVENT PULS, CHOCOLATE COATED,
Are a new, tasteless, odourless, economical substitute for the celebrated liquid CUTICURA
Resolvent, as well as for all other blood purifiers and humour cures. Put up in screw-
cap pocket vials containing 60 doses. Cuticura Pills are alterative, antiseptic, toric,
and digestive, and beyond question the purest, sweetest, most successful and economical
blood and skin purifiers, humour cures, and tonic-digestives, yet compounded.
Cuticuba Remedies are sold throughout the world. Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co., Sydney. British
Depot: 27-28, Charterhouse Sq , London. Trench Depot: 4 Rue de la Paiz, Paris. Potter Dkuo and Chxm.
Cobp., Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A.
ARE YOU WEAK ?
Low-spirited, Tired of Life, Have you utterly
failed in your efforts to regain Health?
Go to the Fountain Head
And consult Old Surgeon Langston, who will Cure
you. Forty years’ practice as a Specialist is sufficient
Guarantee of the doctor’s ability.
AVOID unskilled pretenders, flaming advertisements and specious
cure-alls.
Vigor and Strength
for all who
desire it.
OLD SURGEON LANGSTON,
Member Royal College of Surgeons, England, located in Melbourne
since 1886, has so perfected his method of treatment that it can
almost be said there are no hopeless or incurable cases.
Be the equal of your fellow man.
If you are a sufferer from any nervous, chronic Blood or Skin diseases, or interested in the subject of
Neurasthenia and associated evils, write at once for book of information, blank forms, etc., and have the
old doctor diagnose your case.
Soelt tlie Truth, it coats Nothing!
All communications strictly confidential. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, 129 Collins Street, Melbourne.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
KMBRACTRd
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.’*
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 30 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1902 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy ; is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d.
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is.
The Art oe Wrestlino, post Is. Hoyle’s Games, post 2/6
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), Is 3d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miners' Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, Is posted. Camille, Is 3d.
Secret History of tiie Court of England, 1 6 post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history), Is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle's Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevassk’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted. Sappho, Is.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want.
The Wife’s Handbook, Is 2d posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post.
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus. Leather bound, my price, 15s post paid
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic,
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance. Is 3d.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s posted.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music comple e Is 6d.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d posted.
Send for my Illustrated Big: Book
Catalogue- post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney.
ASTHMA and BRONCHITIS CURED
By using CASE’S ASTHMA CURE, made from the Queensland Asthma
Plant. Relieves instantly, eventually Cures. 4s. 6d. large bottle;
Posted to any State, ss.
J. W. CASE, Chemist, 140 Wickham-st., Brisbane.
Please mention Bulletin when writing 1 .
ftew/w
USES
Insecticide
Kills.
ALE,
INSECTS
::
A r.
°f
AfrofJ^
A
Ask
fOH
Kruses
] V
BLAIR’S
GOUT $ RHEUMATIC
The Great English Remedy for
GOUT, RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO & NEURALGIA.
The acute pain is quickly relieved and cured In a
few days by this celebrated Medicine.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, and sold at Is. ljd. and 2s. 9d.
per box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
‘•'irou'vhnut the Australian Colonies.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
For Asthmatic people who suffer from
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault’s Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest.
GRIM AULT Sc Co., Paris. Sold by all Chemists.
EVERY WOMAN
SSI
&
it)
is interested and should know
about the wonderful
Marvel Whirling Spray
The new FEMALE SYRINIiE
Injection and Suction. The best,
safest and most convenient.
_Jt Cleanses Instantly.
If your druggist cannot
supply the MARVEL,
accept no other, but write us for
Illustrated Book, sent free
sealed. It gives price by mail,
particulars and directions invalu-
able to ladies. ' Endorsed by Pbyatclnns.
v v Times Building, N. Y.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS—
THE MARVEL CO. OF AUSTRALIA,
CAMDEN BUILDING,
418 George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
LADY SPECIALIST IN ATTENDANCE.
Postal Address, Box 623, G.P.0., Sydney.
Write for Booklet. Sent free, sealed.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
RX CORO’s
tssex* G£ of ye-
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled and
unprecedented success throughout the World.
Dr. Rieord’s Essence of Life restores Health and Strength
to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s. or four quantities in one for 368. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope
Agents for Australasia— PEßßY & 00., 47 Queen St.,
Melbourne ; Wholesale Agents for New South Wales —
F. H. Faulding & Co., 16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
I Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.


Hennessy’s
Old Battle Axe
Brand
Is Known
and
Appreciated
all the
World
Over.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdestre & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sot.d in two sizes, 9d. <fc Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdestre & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
A Distinct Advance in Infant Feeding.
n 6c Hanbnn
LT^S
-' -ij
Allenburgs Foods.
The “Allenburys” Foods provide nourishment suited to the growing digestive powers
of the Infant, and constitute an altogether distinct advance on the mischievous expedient of trying
to make the child’s stomach accomodate itself to a food essentially unsuited to its digestive powers.
Farinaceous foods of all kinds are totally unfit for infants under five or six months of age, such foods
being a potent cause of digestive troubles, rickets, and many disorders arising from mal-nutrition.
The “ Allenburys ” Foods are especially valuable in hot
climates. They are In the form of powder and keep perfectly.
Pamphlet on “ INFANT FEEDING ” (48 pages) free , from
495, Bourke Street , Melbourne.
ALLEN & HANBURYS, Ltd., London, Eng.
MILK FOOD No. 1.
From birth to three months.
MILK FOOD No. 2.
From three to six months.
MALTED FOOD No. 3.
From six months and upwards.
IP
a
52
w
a
S\
~S
Q
rv,
— >
L -pfe'v -
There are men in this world who are almost successful, almost religious, almost well, almost
happy. But a miss is as good as a mile. A recruit who is 5 feet 9 inches in height, when the
Standard is 5 feet 10 inches, is rejected just as surely as if he were only 4 feet in height. It is of
little avail how valiant, and how strong, and how experienced, and how willing to fight he may be.
He is not up to the standard required, and so he is rejected.
If you run and jump 7 feet after a ferry boat leaving the dock, and the ferry boat is 7! feet
away, you fall into the water just as surely and get just as wet as a little child who only jumps
one foot, and you sink just as deep, for you both go to the bottom.
“ Almost ” is a dangerous word. It is so alluring, but is really so deceptive. What you want
is a certainty. You want to be assured. You want definite information. You want —not “almost,”
but absolutely—the best, YOU want a Ruberoid Roof.
Fremantle, W.A.
J. M. Ferguson, Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A,
A. W. Sandford & Co.,
AGENTS: —
Melbourne, Vic.
Brooks, Robinson & Co.
Launceston, Tas.
Hedeey Button.
Wellington, N.Z.
Jambs W. Jack.
E. RICH & CO., Limited, B™':


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Voi,. 24.— N0. 1211.
SATURDAY, MAY 2, 1903.
PbR» 6dc
RIVAL SAINTS—ST. GEORGE AND ST. JOSEPH.
G. H. Reid in a new role. (Melbourne political gossip says that G. H. Reid
hopes to find Premier Barton definitely committed to Imperialism so that he may
woo the Labor Party on an Australian nationalist programme as regards a
preferential tariff and the navy.)
N.S.W. Opposition Leader Joseph Carruthers has issued his manifesto. It
says that he is Joseph and that he will abolish all political sin. That’s all
it says.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
** A itsft'ftliit for th. 9 A iistrnl
Printed and Published by William MACLEOD, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co.. Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS AFTER
Ist NOVEMBER , 1902
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ••• ••• 7? n
Half-yearly ... ••• a 7 n
Quarterly
KW'JCK
r„ MwUm direct to Tun Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six' Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year. _
Chernies, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J
ARCHIRALn.
Special Notice.
The contents of tins pager are copyright by the
publishers. The right, to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number, is hereby expiessly
reserved by the publishers.
The liditor will carefully read and, where practicable,
aeknowlcdqr in the “ Correspondence" column
butions submitted, whether in the form of Pohtwal,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales Ske^J ies
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, SOOO words, are *P**~
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters or Newspaper
clippings. A U communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and, stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
. > To A hi a fairs in Jthtclc and ITh.itC.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line 0/ wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and a laptedfor direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
mil be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
-i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a'suggestion only. The conditions. «»<fer
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS. . .
Copies of The Bitllf/tin can be obtained in London ,
after the arrival o'each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludjate Circus.
South Africa — Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown;
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal ; Solomon
and Wilson, 33 Hout St., Capetown; Solomon and
Wilson, Commissioners Street, Johannesburg ; Granger
Bros,, Johannesburg ; Isaacs and Co., Durban ; Argus
Printing Co., Rhodesia; Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia-
Ceylon .—Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver.- Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
B C
Hong Kong. -Brewer and. Co., 33 Queens Road, Hong
Kong.
jfftT 3 shzZZeZz7i.
SATURDAY, MAY 2, 1903.
The Case for Private Enterprise.
A conspicuous feature of the attempted Tory
reaction in N.S.AV. (and, indeed, in all Australia)
is the daily newspaper concert to sing the praises
of “Private Enterprise,” and to chant a mournful
wail over the decay of the community through
the “selfishness and ignorance of the Labor
party.” This is most of all noticeable in N.S.W.,
where the Sydney Telegraph heads the chorus
and gives to its readers daily a brew of reactionary
misrepresentation, which bears clear traces of
Melbourne Argus and Brisbane Courier, as well
as local influences, A very few months ago the
same D.T. had nothing too good to say of the
Labor party, and whatever views it had as to the
immorality of State interference in private enter-
prise it kept carefully concealed. Whilst Mr. G. H.
Reid w r as in power and the Labor party was
supporting him and encouraging him to substitute
public control for private enterprise, and whilst
Mr. Bill Lyne held office by the aid of the
Labor party, with a more accentuated policy in
the same direction, the Daily Xelegraph dis-
seinbled its opinion of that party. But then
things began to happen. The Daily lelegraph
all that while had had a greedy privy paw of its
own in the State Treasury. Though a remarkably
profitable Private Enterprise, it had been “leaning
up against the State, 55 had been steadily refrain-
ing from “going out into the bracing open air
of free competition,” had been taking advantage,
of a heavy protective postal tariff against inter-
state competition, and had been drawing a big
subsidy in the shape of free railway carriage as
well. When this was stopped, largely at the
instance of a member of the Labor party, the
Telegraph turned, with an embittered heart
and a hand on which the Treasury door had been
slammed, to view public help to Private Enter-
prise in quite a new light. It thus has a reason
for special bitterness against the Labor party ;
but, probably, in any case it would now' be crying
out'that the Labor party is ruining the country.
Hard times are coming—not so much because of
the drought, djtfTdiecause the borrowing boom is
bursting and London is reluctant to lend more
money, partly owing to doubts about the security,
partly owing to the fact that London has not too
much to lend to anyone just now. A scapegoat
to bear the sins of all the politicians is w'anted, and
the daily newspapers consider that the Labor
party is the best scapegoat. They all think so
and preach so, but the Daily Telegraph, with its
mind soured by the loss of its subsidy, thinks so
with special fervor.
, * » *
Tt was the Telegraph—with its own little grie-
vance lurking in the background—which presented
to its readers last week a remarkable collection of
opinions on Private Enterprise. There were
opinions from gentlemen w'ho know nothing,
from gentlemen in their dotage, and from gentle-
men who know something but who were not going
to let that interfere with telling a good lie. All
voiced the one cry—that the Labor party was
ruining the country by discouraging Private
Enterprise, and all showed either a pathetic
imbecility or an extraordinary belief in the
gullibility of the public. The occasion for
collecting their opinions was, appropriately
enough, given to the Telegraph by a speech
from Premier Philp, of Queensland, glorify-
ing Private Enterprise— Philp, whose Govern-
ment in Queensland has so conspicuously identified
Private Enterprise with public robbery. Since
the Telegraph (with its desire for Tory reaction
and with its private grievance in the background)
probably took care to interview the people who
could make out the best case for its side, the three
columns printed by it on April 23 may be fairly
taken to represent the complete case for “ Private
Enterprise.” , • •
Summarised, the opinions of the dozen or so
gentlemen whose tangled views make up that
case are: That the Labor party is ruining the
country by its opposition to Private Enterprise ;
that Private Enterprise—the upgrowth of sturdy,
self-reliant industries free from State help
and State interference—is the only hope of
the. country’s revival; that employment is
now diminishing; that the investment of private
capital is diminishing; and that the money
in the banks is diminishing. These three last
statements (which are only the first two in more
detail) may, without tracing them directly to the
particular mental incapable or deliberate falsifier
who uttered them, be summarily dealt with in a
word ; they are simply lies. In N.S.W. more
workmen are now employed by Private Enter-
prise than ever before. Private employment
in manufactures (which are comparatively
free from drought influences) is increasing at
a greater comparative rate than ever before.
Capitalists are investing their money in N.S.W.
industries ( industries , as distinguished from land-
jobbing companies and bogus banks and concerns
that discount each other’s bills, and the other
useless and noxious growths of the boom days)
at a far greater rate than they did when there was
no Labor party. The banks have as much money
as before, if not a little more. The most
casual reference to Coghlan’s statistics will prove
this. Taking the year 1893 (as a time when the
Labor party had been in existence some two years,
and was, presumably, making its influence felt) to
compare with 1902, these facts show out for
N.S.W.:
1893. 1902.
Persons employed in factories .. 42,057 .. 66,135
And this comparison is of value :
1893. 1901.
Savings Bank Deposits .. .. £6,535,758 £11,808,710
Gentlemen, who are said to be prominent bankers
and merchants, are presumably able to read and
understand plain figures like these, and The
Bulletin is driven to the unfortunate conclusion
that an absolutely reckless disregard of the truth
frequently marks the Tory capitalist.
• • • •
Considering the various champions of Private
Enterprise in detail there is none more pathetic
than ex-Premier Dibbs. He tells the Telegraph
that he “goes with Mr. Philp all the way in his
plea for Private Enterprise and his condemnation
of State interference. Yet Mr. Dibbs is now
manager of the Savings Bank, a private institu-
tion which was helped over a great crisis by State
interference, in the shape of a guarantee,
that interference being supplied by George
Dibbs himself in his then capacity as Premier.
The institution out of which George Dibbs
makes his living still leans up against that
guarantee and shows no signs of casting it off
as an unclean thing and an unjustifiable inter-
ference with Private Enterprise. And when Mr.
Dibbs was Premier he helped all the banks over a
crisis by State interference, giving the guarantee
of the State to their note issue. In both these
matters he acted rightly, and it was only because
he was a firm, honest, capable financial adminis-
trator that he saw the right course and was able
to take it. Private Enterprise had at that crisis
brought the State to the brink of ruin ; had in-
flicted a blow at its credit which is still felt, and
will be felt for another generation. And George
Dibbs stood in the path, as the country was being
dragged into bankruptcy by Private Enterprise,
and saved it by State interference. To hear
George Dibbs now dodder about the evils of
State interference, causes sorrow rather than
anger—sorrow that so strong and capable a man
can’t always remain young and vigorous. But
there are no mixed feelings with regard to the
brassy impudence of Burns, Philp and Co,, who,
through their Sydney representative, contributed
this to the discussion :
With ali the artificial and experimental legislation now
in vogue, with Factory Acts, Labor Arbitration Courts,
and many other disabilities, no sane man could he
induced to embark in any new industry, and perforce
employ workmen, who could harass him and force him
to lose his money and his time, and crush out any enter-
prise he might naturally possess. One of the most dis-
heartening influences we have in Australia is the utter
selfishness of the so-called Labor legislators, who legis-
late for the hour only, and who are sowing the seed
which must eventually 7 lead to ruin and disaster if per-
severed in.
Apart from the falsehoods in this {e.g., “that no
sane man,” etc. —it is not possible to believe that
all the people who are now rushing to establish
new industries in N.S.W. are insane), anything
in praise of Private Enterprise from Burns, Philp
and Co. merits a scoff. There is no organisation
in Australia which has leaned up against the
Government to a greater extent—for shipping
subsidies, for black labor aid, for sugar loans and
meat works advances. It has been the sturdy
beggar of Queensland (where the sort of Private
Enterprise which resolves itself into getting the
State to take the risk of loss, whilst the private
individual takes all the profit, especially flourishes)
and has filled in its moments of leisure by tapping
the N.S.W. Government on various pretexts. No
sane Treasurer would leave a spoon lying about
where that hungry infant was.
» » • •
The impudent ignorance, or worse, of the con-
tributors to the great Private Enterprise pajan
comes out strongly also in the statement of
Larke, Canadian Commissioner, “ that the
Government of Canada does not undertake as
much work as those of Australia.” The Blue
Nose gentleman, if he had had an atom of candor,
would have stated that in Canada, of all places in
the world, Private Enterprise confesses itself a
dismal failure and relies on State inter-
ference and State aid for its support. The
Canadian Government interferes to help the
railways with land and money grants, to help the
farming interest, to help immigration and almost
every big industry. By its bonus system it has
only recently built up a great iron enterprise.
Speaking generally, nothing large or important
has been successful in Canada without Govern-
ment interference and assistance. In the
United States, too, land-grants for railways,
bonuses and prohibitive tariffs for industries,
enormous subsidies and State-enforced monopolies
for shipping companies, show how much Private
Enterprise is indebted to State interference for its
success. Despite which, the Telegraph allows a
Yankee person to bounce in with his little story
that all Government meddling with industry is
disastrous. But the sublime height of shocking
ignorance is reached when one <7. S. Brunton is
allowed to instance the Maffra sugar works
(Victoria) and the Queensland, sugar mills as
instances where Government interference lias
wrecked Private Enterprise. The Maffra sugar
works were founded by Private Enterprise, bled
the State Treasury for all that was possible, and
when a limit was put to their beggings and borrow-
ings they failed. The Queensland sugar milling
industry under Private Enterprise was a ghastly
failure until the State interfered with special
legislation and generous loans, when it began to
flourish, just as the Queensland meat industry
began to flourish when State interference gave it
a stimulus.
• * * •
A little apart from the main issue, but inextri-
cably woven with it in the Telegraph’s exhibition
of bumptious ignorance and shameless falsehood,
was a condemnation of the Labor party as a
“ Communist party.” A certain O. C. Beale
was especially strong on this point. A nodding
acquaintance with the elementary principles of
political economy would teach him that there is
notiiing communistic in the Labor party platform
though it is in a measure State-socialistic. Com-
munism is an essential part of the Christian reli-
gion, but it is never put into practice in any
Christian country, and the Labor party makes no
suggestion in that direction.
• • * *
Summed up, the case for Private Enterprise, as
put forward by its chosen champions, amounts
to this: A large amount of senile ignorance;
a large amount of simple falsehood ; . and
the citing, as instances of successful Private
Enterprise, of undertakings which have re-
ceived generous aid from the State and nave
flourished in consequence of that aid. Private
Enterprise likes the State to interfere when it is
threatened with disaster ; it rejoices as it collects
huge subsidies from the State Treasury ; it resents
State interference only when a Government
enforces on it some conditions of decent wage-
paying and hours of labor in the treatment of its
employees. State interference to protect capital
from loss, to add to the profits of capital, is a holy
and blessed thing. But State interference to
come to the rescue of tl»e destitute old soldier of
industry, crippled and maimed in the battle of
life, is a thing accursed; and State interference
between the capitalist (who, perhaps, relies on
the State for his profits) and the workman whose
bones he wishes to grind in the sweating mill,
is abominable. The State may help those
who have no exigent need of help, but a
lying slander and a curse on its head if it dares
to give a hand to the weak and the oppressed.
“Private Enterprise,” as it is advocated in its
newspapers and by its capitalist, captains in
Australia, is indeed an ignoble thing, pitiful in
its ignorance, shameless in its mendacity, dis-
gusting in its mendicancy and its greed. It is as
a sturdy, sinewy beggar —with one hand, half
demanding, half enforcing alms ; with the other,
striving to push away the widow, the orphan, and
the aged poor.
Double-banking the Bill of Sale.
Just when the Premiers of Australia are on the
verge of apoplexy with rage, shock and grief at
the aspersions cast on this country’s credit, they
have themselves combined to devise a gross politi-
cal fraud which isn’t calculated to improve public
opinion concerning us. The fact that Federal
Treasurer Turner has put an honest and emphatic
foot down on the proposed fraud makes things
better, but not so very much better; there still
remains the fact that the fraud has been pro-
posed ; that it has been cordially endorsed
by the State Premiers—the representatives of
about two hundred millions of accumulated
public debt ; and that it shows the sort of
characters to whom all that money has been
entrusted. The device was a curious and
unobtrusive one. The Commonwealth Govern-
ment has taken over from the State Govern-
ments about £12,000,000 or £14,000,000 worth
of property buildings, telegraphs and sun-
dries. This property was almost wholly con-
structed out of loans ; it is practically mortgaged'
to Bull and others for its full value. Possibly,
allowing for depreciation, it is mortgaged for
more than its value. The States have no interest
in it whatsoever, except as agents for the real
owners Cohen and Co., mostly of London.
Therefore the honest and obvious course is for the
Commonwealth to take over the buildings, &c.,
and an amount of State debt corresponding to
their value, and let the thing remain at that.
• • * *
The State Premiers, however, view the matter
quite differently. They propose that the
Commonwealth Government shall take over
the State debts, which is, in itself, a highly
commendable idea, and one that can t be
carried out too soon. Also they propose that
the Commonwealth Government shall pay sepa-
rately for the State assets taken over, either with
per cent, bonds (the States can sell these and
have a great drunk on the proceeds) or with cash
raised by the sale of these bonds in the open mar-
ket (the States can have a corresponding drunk on
the cash). This will give the States £12,000,000 or
£l4 000,000 with which to have a fine, large series
of orgies. It will add £12,000,000 or £14,000,000 to
the aggregate Australian debt without there being
one pennyworth more in the way of reproductive
assets to show for it. It will put two mortgages
on the same security, each equal to the full value
of the security, and thereby bring Australia down
to the level of the petty swindler who borrows
£lOO from Cohen on his furniture, and then,
without Cohen’s permission, fraudulently mort-
gages the same goods for £lOO to Moses. The
post-office worth £lOOO would, under this sys-
tem, have £2OOO liability upon it—first, the
£ 1000 which the State borrowed to build it,
and second, the £lOOO which the Commonwealth
borrowed to buy it off the State. And the con-
ference of State Premiers had the unspeakable
gall to propose that the Commonwealth should
take the responsibility of both liabilities. It was
seriously suggested that the Australian Govern-
ment should take over the State debts, and pay
for the assets which partially represent these debts
as well; that it should take over the post office
which is—or was—worth £lOOO, and should under-
take, by assuming the State debt, to pay the £lOOO
which was borrowed to build that post office, and
should pay £lOOO cash for the post office as well.
Under this policy the Australian Government
would have £14,000,000 more to find interest on ;
and the States would have £14,000,000 more
loan money to use as revenue; and the public
creditor would have £14,000,000 less security for
his debt, or £14,000,000 more of his debt wouldn’t
be represented by visible security. It is only
in a country where politicians, in matters of
public finance, have become rotten to. the core,
that such a proposal could be entertained. All
the empty unprofitable wrath of B. It. Wise and
others, at the people who basely cast reflections on
Australia’s credit, is of no avail, while the Ministry
to which B. R. Wise belongs, and the other
equally disreputable State Ministries, insist on
dragging Australia’s good name in the gutter, by
devising schemes like this for mortgaging one
piano to two Jews.
• • * •
Yet strangely enough this proposed political
dodge has friends in quite a number of
influential quarters. Richard Teece, of the
A.M.P. Society, apparently approves of it, and
Bruce Smith, M.H.R., is almost violent on the
subject. This is his view of the matter, given
with the promptness of a cock-robin stating his
opinions over a freshly turned-up worm :
My own opinion is that the properties should be paid
tor out of Commonwealth moneys; and that money
should be borrowed on loan by the Commonwealth for
the purpose. Whether a loan should be actually floated
now, or whether negotiable bonds of the Commonwealth
should he handed to the States is, a matter that should
depend upon the opportunities for floating a loan for the
purpose.
Some fear has been expressed that if the purchase
money for the properties is handed over to the States
they will spend it, either by disposing of the cash itself
or by disposing of the bonds or debentures; but I do not
think the Commonwealth has any right to meddle with
that aspect of the subject. The Commonwealth has no
paternal jurisdiction over the States, under the Consti-
tution ; and the States Parliaments should be trusted to
guard their own. If any Parliament—as, for instance,
that of New South Wales—should allow the Government
of the day to spend the purchase money, instead of
making a partial and corresponding reduction of its
national debt, then the State in question deserves to lose
it all for electing such a Parliament, and tolerating such
a Government.
The point which never seems to soak into the
Smith order of intelligence is that while the people
of Australia are the States, they also are the
Commonwealth, and it is just as much the duty of
the Government of all Australia to prevent its
Seople being swindled as it is the duty of the
rovernments of parts of Australia. The Aus-
tralian Government in this matter has been
asked to perpetrate a fraud on its own people to
oblige the subordinate State Governments—to
help to load its own people with £12,000,000 or
£14,000,000 of needless debt —and to actively
assist at mortgaging to asecond Jew the piano that
is already mortgaged to the first Jew. The Aus-
tralian Government has an equal voice with the
States in deciding how the price of State properties
taken over is to be paid ; and the theory that it
can do nothing but helplessly acquiesce when
the State Premiers propose that it should
swindle its own people to oblige them won’t hold
water or any other fluid. It is a good thing for
Australia’s credit and fair name that Treasurer
Turner has declared flatly against the un-
principled juggle that has been suggested. But
the fact that the representatives of the State
Governments to which Bull has lent nearly
£200,000,000 should propose such a thing is cal-
culated to make that already agitated lender feel
even worse than he feels already.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
B. R. Wise’s Defence.
N.S.W. Attorney-General Wise, who knows
an immense deal about law, and, ® finance,
public is aware, next to nothing a mter .
has returned to Australia and h RS <’ _ tll< jiess
viewer how shocked he is at the g ipf, e
aspersions cast on this country s ere* • t
story told by B. R. Wise is, unfortunately,
The “Great Nation” Craze.
The S.M. Herald is howling at Australia to
awake, and arise, and pull herself together, and
gird up her loins, and buck up, and become a
great nation without delay. The way to do this
is—according to the S.M.H.—absurdly clear and
simple. Australia must first give up her “exclu
sionist policy,” and throw open her gates to all
comers—or nearly all. Population will then flow
in like a tidal wave and—there you are:
If education count for aught,
A schoolboy should despise
This old barbaric mode of thought
Which counts as greatness—Size.
When Attica her glory won,
She was—and did not weep
No bigger than a Queensland run ;
But she grew more than sheep.
She did not boast about the mass
Of folk of all degrees—
But she could raise a Phidias,
Plato, and Socrates.
When Israel was a little folk
Beneath the Eastern sky,
Her Poets and her Prophets spoke
The words that cannot die.
The Great Republic of the West
Counts millions ; is there one
Amongst her Bravest and her Best
Like old George Washington?
Yet he came ambling on the scene
When there were really far
Less people in the States Thirteen
Than in Australia are.
What makes a State ? Old W illiam J ones
Has said it. Listen then
’Tis not the sum of men she owns
It is the kind of men.
Let be ; our time has not come yet,
Though we already boast
A large and stately Public Debt
That will compare with most.
A Nation, we may be assured
However smart and bright,
Will not grow up like Jonah’s gourd
To full size in a night.
Nor sum nor size will make us great,
Bulk need not carry Brain ;
Not oft the Big Electorate
A Big Man can obtain.
Meantime, what are we waiting for?
If each doe > what he can
A common Cow Flat councillor,
Or Five Dock alderman,
May be—if he will, as his own,
The cause of Progress boost
As great as Edward on his Throne,
Or Roosevelt on his Roost.
CREEVE ROE.


much more convincing than the other stories we
have heard, but, for what it is worth, it reads
thus:—
It was difficult not to be carried away by indignation
at the baseness and malignity of some of the
charges against Australia, but i' refrained from any
controversy of a personal character, and preferred rather
to deal with the larger questions which critics raised.
For instance, in dealing with our finances I purposely
avoided mere questions of accounts and tried rather to
point out that the true basis of a nation’s credit is the
character of its people, and that in all essential respects
of honesty and readiness and ability to make sacrifices in
order to redeem their obligations, the Australian
people stood second to none; so that so long as
we and our Governments continued the same, we would
no more repudiate our obligations than as a people we
would lie or steal. I also pointed out that the amount
of our indebtedness was most unfairly stated, and that
for any purpose of comparison with the indebtedness of
other countries account must be taken of sums which
elsewhere are spent upon public works by private
persons but which in Australia are spent upon similar
works by the Government.
“The true basis of a nation’s credit is the
character of its people.” That is a true but very
stereotyped statement, and after it is made things
are no “forrarder.” What is the character, in
financial matters, of the Australian people? B.
R. Wise baldly states that it is Al, and that this
country’s yearning to pay its way is something
tremendous, and that its people would no more
fail to meet their obligations than they would lie
(which they do occasionally) or steal (which some-
times happens). The Bulletin states that it
doesn’t know how the national financial character
will turn out when the pinch comes, but if the
bulk proves anything like the sample, and if the
future is anything like the present, and if the
frantic and ruinous Government to which B. R.
Wise belongs is any criterion, it will turn out
very badly.. If Australia is so anxious to pay all
its liabilities; why should it not demonstrate the fact
by doing a little in that way now ? Why should not
N.S.W. lead the way, and why should not the
Government to which B. R. Wise belongs set an
example? The finances of N.S.W. under the
Government to which B. R. Wise belongs are one
long lie, steal and failure to pay the State’s just
obligations. Every year the Government tacitly lies
by implying that from £500,000 to £900,000 worth
of works are “ permanent and reproductive” when
they are not, and it knows they are not; yet it
charges them to loans as permanent and repro-
ductive. Almost every year, by adding a new
deficit to the accumulated liabilities, the State,
especially under the guidance of the Government
to which B. R. Wise belongs, fails to redeem its
obligations. Every year the State, especially
under the guidance of the Government to which
B. R. Wise belongs, shows its alleged readiness to
make sacrifices to keep its credit good by refusing
to pay enough taxes to cover its outgoings. One
main reason why the world begins to suspect that,
the day foreign loans cease to be obtainable,
Australia will be within measurable distance of
default, is the gross and shameful lack of political
principle shown by the Government to which
B. R. Wise belongs. When, after charging about
£BOO,OOO a year of ordinary, everyday, unproduc-
tive expenditure to loans, and thereby relieving
the revenue to the extent of that huge political
swindle, it won’t take the trouble to make the
rest of the accounts even look square and respec-
table, the outside world is apt to size up the
Government to which B. R. Wise belongs as one
which is likely to repudiate, when foreign loans
give out, rather,_than face the struggle to pay
up. It think! this simply on the ground
that the Governmtent which won’t face a small
trouble isn’t likely to be any more good in a large
one, and that the Government which doesn’t care
enough for the State’s credit to keep it clean when
the task is comparatively easy isn’t likely to be
much good at it when the task is difficult. It is
all very good for B. R. Wise to be carried away
with indignation at the charges made against
Australia’s credit; his wrath is nothing to the
indignation of people who really understand
finance, that the Government to which he belongs
should have made these charges inevitable. The
real basis of our credit is the character of the
the people ! Well, what is the character of a
people which has in 22£ years had 16 deficits, even
after using about £9,000,000 of loan money for
revenue purposes, and which refuses even now to
realise that there is anything seriously wrong?
The Australians may be, politically, as honest as
B. R. Wise says they are, but in N.S.W. at least
the Government to which B. R. Wise belongs is
doing its best to teach them to be as dishonest as
their worst enemy says they are. Judged by its
record up to date, the Government to which
B. R. Wise belongs looks more like a Government
that is likely to repudiate when the supply of
loans stops than most other Governments.
♦
Day Labor.
N.S.W. “Reform” party, led by Carruthers,
breaks out now, though not yet frankly, against
the day labor system. From its very nature, it is
alleged, day labor cannot be best. But if the
“Reformers” believe that, and want to be fair
all round, why does this crowd not make the con-
tract system general ? If the contract system
must always be the best, why not let out the
police work, the Post Office, and the Lands
Department ? The law work might also be put
out in the same way ; likewise the collection of
taxes of all kinds. The “Reform” crowd pro-
duces a ‘ ‘ well-known citizen ” who points out
that—
A contractor who may be the lowest tenderer for one
job may be 50 per cent, the highest tenderer for another
job. What is the inference? One man may see a means
of carrying out work more economically than another
man ; one tenderer may propose to carry out work with
the pick and shovel, another with the plough, another
with the scoop, and somebody else may have a still
further improved manner of carrying it out, so that the
lowest tenderer, although perhaps only half that of the
highest, will be able to carry out the work, paying full
wages, and still make a substantial profit for himself.
J ust so. The State as a tax-collector, employing
men by the day or the year, has no resource. A
private person, with a contract to do the job,
would suit his methods to the tax-ovver —he
would sit on one’s doorstep, another he would
waylay in his pub., he would know everybody’s
pay day, he might even try a little force
as they do where the job is still done
by this “ essentially-best system.” And, after
“shouting” for everybody who paid up
promptly, he would “still make a substantial
profit for himself.” The collection of taxes having
thus been successfully performed by contract,
tenders might next be called for the supply of a
Parliamentary Opposition. At present Car-
rutiikrs and the rest are paid by the day, and
from its very nature, it is alleged, that system
cannot be best. Likewise there is a large scope
for the application of this “ essentially-best ” con-
tract system in connection with the Governors
and the Judges. One Governor “may see a
means of carrying out the work more economically
than another man ”■— he may, for instance, make
the ball sandwiches of corned beef instead of
chicken, and thus, while still doing the work,
and paying the aides-de-camp the Trades Hall
standard rate for aides-de-camp, he may “make
a substantial profit for himself.” Wherefore that
job ought also to be done by contract. All these
things, however, are never mentioned. Even the
people who swear loudest about day labor stop
suddenly less than half-way along, and are not
game to apply their cure to anybody who wears a
starched shirt— their faith in it doesn’t carry
them that far.
♦
Tlia River Foolishness.
After appointing a commission of experts to go
deeply into the whole question of the use of the
Murray waters, the State Premiers, who are not
experts, have thrown the other people’s recom-
mendations into a corner, and have agreed to
something altogether different, so far as they can
agree to anything without the sanction of Parlia-
ment. A choice has to be made between naviga-
tion and irrigation, because there isn’t enough wet
for both purposes ; and as railways are more or
less of a substitute for navigation, while nothing
can be provided that is anything of a substitute at
all for irrigation, the obviously proper thing is to
preserve and use for irrigation the little water
that there is. It would be a good thing to have a
navigable river, of course ; but it is no use having
a navigable river through a desert. Yet if we
insist upon having a navigable river (that is, if
we insist upon navigation to the mouth having
first call on the water), nobody in his senses will
venture upon a.big irrigation scheme, and so there
won’t be anything for the navigable river to carry
worth speaking of. Practically on these lines the
expert commission decided that S.A. (which
wants navigation to the mouth maintained)
could not reasonably claim a flow of more
than 70,000 cubic feet of water per minute,
in the four “ dry ” months of the year—the months
at the end of summer, and before the winter rains
come down. Even that was a pretty large con-
cession to make to a State which doesn’t provide
any of the water itself. The Premiers, however,
for no earthly reason of which the public are
aware, except that S. Australia’s Attorney-
General, J. H. Gordon, who was at the confer-
ence, has a winning way with him, have jumped
up the amount conceded to that State to 150,000
cubic ft. ; which means that, at the very time
when water will be needed most for irrigation, it
must be turned down, to flow into the Southern
Ocean. Nobody, knowing that the waterless
period at the end of summer may destroy all the
work that has been done during fair years, will
embark in irrigation experiments on these terms ;
so South Australia will have its river, but there
won’t be anything more for it to carry than the
few barge-loads of wool and sheepskins which it
carries to-day.
- —-♦
The N.S.W. Reform Party.
In four newspaper columns Joseph Carrtjthers
on Monday announced the N.S.W. Liberal and
Reform Party platform, and took up all that
space to say : “ I am Joseph, trust me and all
will be well.” With the exception of a proposal
to reduce the strength of the Assembly from 125
to 84 members there is not one definite assurance
in the whole windy document. It is all the smug
statement of Joseph that he is all right and that
the fleshpots of Egypt should be given to him, for
he will re-establish Responsible Government in its
integrity and restore the public credit. That occu-
pies one column of space. The next column states
thathe will re-establish thepublic credit and restore
Responsible Government, and that he is Joseph.
Two more columns say the same thing again—
especially that he is Joseph. There is not a word
about taxation, not a word about borrowing, nor
about spending loan money on non-productive
works. What points of public policy are touched
upon receive a gingerly yes-no treatment. The
Upper House may be reformed, but that question
must not be raised now. Local Government is
necessary, but it must not be after any method
hitherto proposed. A new system (details not
given) is hinted at, by which, apparently, the
country districts are to pay for their own
roads and bridges, but are not to be in any
way taxed to do so. Economy in the public
service is needed, but there is no suggestion of
reduction in public service salaries, or other form
of retrenchment. The manifesto is the weak and
weary document of a man who wobbles unsteadily
towards the distant vista of office, ready to take
any road so long as it is the sure one—a man who
wanted a portfolio in the See Government, but
was persuaded by evil advisers that if he waited a
little while he could have all the portfolios at his
disposal, and who has waited a long, long while,
and is now very hungry, and almost desperate.
The Joseph platform once more suggests
the sorrowful lack in N.S.W. State politics
of any party to which an intelligent elector
can give his vote at the next general election.
The See Government—the reckless, ruinous, ridi-
culous See Government, like a bull raging
through a pawnshop—is impossible. The Joseph
Opposition—smug, sleek, sly, with no alternative
policy, and no excuse for existing but office hunger
—is a shade more hopeless and repulsive. The
Labor party seems to be drifting daily more and
more into the position of being a mere parasite of
the Owe’Sullivan, a foolish little bull-calf follow-
ing the Government wherever it goes—mostly
into the pawnshop. Yet its opportunity is there.
If the Labor party chose to do so, it could probably
capture the government of the country at next
elections. The country is sick of Premier See ;
and it is more than sick of the anxious-to-be
Premier Carruthers and his windy denuncia-
tions of the Government he was so anxious to
join. Any new party promising something sane
and reasonable would, with proper advocacy, be
given a chance by the electors. Were the Labor
party to re-shape its policy and platform a little,
shake itself from off the Owe Government, and
come before the electors with an honest progres-
sive policy, it would almost certainly win power.
It has prospered in the past on its eagerness for
reforms, such as old age pensions, factories and
shop Acts, and industrial arbitration (which were
needed most of all by the city workers), and has
secured most of those reforms. But it allows its
progress to halt. What is called for now in the first
place is a reform policy designed for the Man
with the Hoe—a programme designed to end the
scandal which sends the settler out to the water-
less west whilst the rich coastal and central dis-
trict areas are monopolised by great landlords —
many of them absentees. What is further neces-
sary is a financial reform policy—a suggestion
as to how to carry on without borrowing which
must soon cease. A party with its wits about it
would strike out a rough balance-sheet for the
benefit of the electors: The ordinary services
of the country should cost so much—put us in
power and we will see that they cost no more;
the maintenance and extension of public works
must cost so much—if we are in power we will find
the money; the revenue is so much, we propose
to increase it to so much by such and such mean*,
and stop borrowing altogether. Our new taxes will
be a progressive land-tax, heavy taxes on absentees,
and what increases in the death duties and the
income-tax are necessarv. With such a platform
as that—a definite, straight proposal for extricating
the country out of its present state of wild con-
fusion, any party with a reasonably honest repu-
tation should gain the confidence of the electors.
It is not too late for the Labor party to move now.
Both the other parties have their announced plat-
forms. The See policy is to have a good time
or bust ; the Carruthers policy is to get into
office or bust. It is left to the Labor party to
propose something with no suggestion of bust.
:
The "Primary Producer."
Sydney Telegraph, reporting that a few Aus-
tralians have gone to Canada, hangs thereupon a
comparison of Australian and Canadian progress,
and, looking at the matter cross-eyed, proceeds to
tell why. It is represented that Australia has
‘‘levied upon the new-comer from the moment he
seeks to make a home in the land,” whereas in
Canada newcomers are offered ‘ 1 free or very cheap
land . . . without any fear that they will be
called upon to pay higher taxation than at pre-
sent in order to ensure the national solvency.”
Even the D.T. sees that " the essential primary
producer ” in Australia has been so much
of a failure that he must be excused some-
how ; and this is the excuse ill-treatment
by the State. The best that can be said for
this is that it is as good a lie as the average
excuse. So far from ‘‘the primary producer”
being harshly treated in Australia, he has been
coddled as no other set of persons has been. He
has had land offered to him at low prices and on
ridiculously easy terms, and when he hasn’t been
able to pay the instalments the instalments
have been remitted. In hundreds of cases he
agreed to pay a price which the State subse-
quently reduced bodily by two-thirds. When he
has agreed to pay a certain rent for a term
and disaster has come, the State has had the
rent cut down by as much as 50 or 60 per cent.,
although it has been wretchedly hard-up itself at
the time. Even when the State has well known
that the “primary producer” has ill-used the
land, and that that has been a chief cause of his
failure, it has still coddled him and forgiven him
half the rent; and when he hasn’t paid the other
half it has not thought of turning him off. Parlia-
ments have made liberal land laws ; and then land
boards have been appointed, one of whose chief
businesses has been to find excuses for men
who have not complied with even the easy
conditions imposed by those laws. And on top
of it all the State in Australia has built railways
for the convenience and profit of the “primary
producers” on a scale which no other country in
the world has approached. At the request of
half-a-hundred settlers and men who have talked
vaguely of becoming settlers, it has run lines into
the desert places and has carried “primary pro-
ducers’ ” traffic at a price which hasn’t paid inte-
rest on outlay, let alone working expenses. This
has amounted, in a multitude of instances, to a
heavy State bonus on every pound of the “primary
producers’ ” product. On 16 N.S.W. branch
lines alone, built to serve the “primary pro-
ducer,” there is at present an annual call for a
State subsidy of £250,000. Also, the State has
built roads and bridges and culverts for him
instead of making him build them for himself; and
by largely subsidising his local agricultural shows it
has devised another plan of paying him for grow-
ing things. In its almost insane prodigality Aus-
tralia has, in various ways, incurred a debt of over
£215,000,000, very largely to make things good
and easy for “ the primary producer,” while all
Canada has only a debt of £87,000,000; and now
the Telegraph has the gall to allude to that fact
as proof that “the primary producer” has been
badly treated by Australia ! It certainly is the
fact that, in spite of the coddling, the “primary
producer ’’ has been to some extent a failure; but
that doesn’t call for still more coddling.
♦
Touching 1 the Treatment of Tigers.
The Vic. Chief Commissioner of Police professes
to find fault with the State for “feeding and
pampering human tigers such as Shaw” (the
alleged Sydney murderer, who killed a constable
in Melbourne a while ago) and then “letting
them go free again to prey upon the public,”
The system ought to be reformed, says the Chief
Com. M ‘Cutcheon, M.L.A., who also spoke at
the unveiling of a monument to the murdered
Melbourne constable, thinks “it is ridiculous that
criminals should be kept in comfortable quarters
and fed well, whilst the honest poor of the city
almost starve in hovels.” Condemnation of the
gaol system comes more easily to these loud-
tongued reformers than any practical suggestions
for its improvement. Granting that Shaw afore-
said was found to be a human tiger after his
release from prison, how was the State
to become assured beforehand of his unfitness
to be given his liberty ? And if it is right to keep
suspected tigers in captivity all their days, and
wrong to give them wholesome food and comfort-
able quarters, what sort of food and quarters
would Chief Com. O’Callaghan and M'Cutchkon,
M.L.A., appoint for such criminals. All things
considered, the bitter cry of the boss policeman
is unintelligent and unbusinesslike. The Foorce
doesn’t want habitual criminals to disappear
from public life. It wants them to be let
loose frequently in order that they may pro-
vide “clues,” “clever arrests,” newspaper puffs
and promotions for the active and intelli-
gent officers who run them in on suspicion
in the first place and justify the suspicion
afterwards—as often as not. Of course, it
is disquieting to know that any one of the
“ habituals ” at large may prove himself a
murderous suicidal Shaw in the event of an
attempt to capture him, but the police can’t fairly
expect to have everything their own way. And it
is absurd to complain that the State makes prison
too comfortable. A “tiger ” who has had experi-
ence of all the alleged luxuries of gaol life should
be thereby deterred from the foolishness of killing
a policeman when he gets his liberty, seeing that
the wages of murder is death. There are no more
comfortable quarters and “pampering” for the
criminal who has been satisfactorily hanged.
+
A Person called “ Pull-Up.”
A curious letter signed “ Full-Up ” appeared in
a Sydney paper the other day. It read as
follows:
I am an employer. I confess it with shame. I have
been starting a new industry in a tentative way with a
very fair amount of sucoess. Before putting in machinery,
as Mr. Jambs Watson says in to-day’s Telegraph, ** I put
on my thinking cap ” and considered the inwardness of
our performing legislators. I was then paying £27 per
week in wages, and expecting to pay more. As a result
of “ thinking ” I now pay £l5 per week, and in a short
time I shall have wound up my business (unless indeed
our Labor pundits fall with a sharp thud at the coming
elections), and be moving to some free country where
industry, money, and brains are at a premium.
This is only one of the long series of letters about
the destruction of the country’s industries through
" socialistic legislation ” which appear nowadays,
and The Bulletin grows curious. It is curious
to know where the imaginary industries are, and
what they are. It would like to know what
deadbeat writes these letters, and how much beer
he gets for them ; or what junior clerk puts them
together, and whether his boss pays him extra for
them; or which reporter concocts them. For its
own part, it doesn’t believe there is any such per-
son as “Full-Up,” or any such industry as
“Full-Up ” describes ; it believes the £27 a week
is a lie, and the £l5 a week a falsehood;
and it considers that the whole story is a fraud
and imposture concocted by some silly Tory poli-
tician, landlord, importer, commisssion agent, or
some such trash. It holds this opinion because
Coghlan’s official statistics show that the manu-
facturing industries of N.S.W., though still
miserably small compared to what they should
be, are growing faster, both in the number of
factories and in the number of hands employed,
than they ever did before. And when it sees this
result, and also sees every few days the letter of
the person who is apparently ashamed to give his
name, stating that the industry which is ashamed
to give its address is closing up on account of
“socialistic legislation,” it is difficult to come to
any other conclusion than that the “Full-Up”
tribe is a sham from beginning to end.
»
A correspondent writes re the registry office
swindle, fraud, lie and steal:—
Wanted a man recently, so I coasted along Castlereagh-
street, Sydney, and one or two other streets where the
fin of the registry office shark is generally visible above
the surface, till I saw a likely looking one standing with
an expectant air outside a registry office. I called him
aside, and finding him suitable, explained that I had
hired him outside to save him from the rapacity of the
registry fiend who would otherwise have claimed'his first
week’s wage. The poor devil thanked me, and explained
that the greasy iniquity inside owed him 7s. 6d. already.
He had paid this sum a week previously for the address
of an employer who, on the arrival of the billet-seeker,
denied ever having given the registry office authority to
interfere with his affairs in any way. I urged him to go
in and demand his 7s. 6d. while I waited. A few minutes
later there erupted from the office a small angry man
who attacked me with great fury, and declared that I
had made myself liable to as much as years’ imprison-
ment under an imaginary Act of Parliament, which he
invented on the spot, for hiring without his sanction a
man who was registered with him. I couldn’t think of
any Act of Parliament with which to smite him in reply,
but I fell on him with many adjectives and an umbrella
and drove him off the field. The Sydney registry-office
keeper habitually advertises fictitious positions and
charges the score or so of applicants who call about each
one a fee of Is. or 2s. 6d. for registration before giving
any details whatsoever. He can easily find a con-
federate, to whom he can send the dupes, and the other
thief tells them on arrival that he is just suited. The
advt. costs sixpence, and seldom brings in less than 15s.
No special law is required to deal with these callous
ruffians. The statute about obtaining money under false
pretences is quite sufficient—if it were only used.
A letter from Mr. Arthur MacArthur in the
Sydney press on theN.S.W. Royal Agricultural
Society has more than a local application. Mr.
MacArthur points out that the R.A.S. was
established (with a big State grant and subsidy)
to establish relations with similar societies in
other lands, to investigate diseases of stock and
plants, to offer premiums for skilful agriculture
and the manufacture of agricultural implements,
to encourage irrigation, to promote the discovery
and introduction of new cereals, grasses, stock,
&c., to investigate methods of manuring, to pub-
lish herd and stud books, and so on' -That’s the
work it is paid to do. The work it actually does
is to promote annually a Cheap-Jack show—a
combination of uproarious drinking dens, penny
gaffs, shoddy shops, racing and jumping contests,
with some flavor of real agricultural show. The
R. A.S. undoubtedly holdsitsarea of parkland and
draws its huge annual subsidy from the Treasury
on false pretences, and no man should be quicker
to appreciate the fact than Mr. John See,
president of the Society, and Premier of New
South Wales. But though the R.A.S. is a
conspicuous object among the band of sturdy and
worthless beggars who infest the Treasury of
every Australian State in search of a subsidy,
it is by no manner of means the only one.
There are hundreds of others—so-called agricul-
tural societies, choral unions, old-cat local poor
relief societies, schools of the art of reading
Marie Gorelli and Hall Caine. And there
will be no adequate financial reform until the
hose is turned on all of them, and a dripping
and dejected band of daylight robbers is taught
that the day has passed when a Balmain choral
society or a royal agricultural variety entertain-
ment society can cadge from the State Treasury.
♦
Melb. Argus correspondence on the question why
men don’t go to church, or do go to church, drew
at least one calm, worldly epistle from a parson.
Canon Tucker reduced it to a practical question.
Assuming that the result of closing all churches
would be unsatisfactory— i.e. , disastrous from
his point of view—the Canon asks “is it not then
the duty, apart from the pleasure, of every man
who calls himself Christian and loves his country
to deny himself in order to help maintain by his
manly and consistent example the practice on
such high and universal authority founded;?”
When a clergyman comes down from his pulpit
and refers to the practice of church attendance as
a pill all exemplary citizens should swallow, just
to show they have no animosity, he disarms a lot
of criticism. The question as to whether a weekly
dose of Divine Worship may indirectly benefit the
soul by shaking up the liver is one that seems worth
considering ,But it is not usual for a practitioner
in the cure of souls to put his doctrine in this
frankly medicinal form, and admit that the aver-
age citizen achieves an act of self-denial by swal-
lowing it. Worship, hitherto, has been submitted
by the cocksure churches as the only alternative to
Damnation (with a big D), so the ungodly pro-
tested against the Damnation theory by letting
Worship slide. They were always being told
about the comforts of religion, but they saw no
evidence of comfort in the faces of the snufflesome.
Now Canon Tucker cheerfully invites sinners to
drop into the tabernacle, not for repentance, but
in order to assist in averting a possible public
calamity. He suggests that it is advisable to keep
a roof over the parson’s head. Maybe he is right.
Anyway, there is no real danger in going to
church if you don’t join the choir or become
associated with the Sunday-school.
*
The situation in the Victorian railways becomes
even worse as time goes on. Bent’s latest order
is that the sweated service is to furnish a further
£22,000 to balance matters for this year: this
though on the last Estimates there appeared an
item of £46,000 to recoup the department for
carrying the farmers’ wheat (not seed wheat for
drought sufferers) at less than a payable rate.
On top of this the blundering ex-boomer issued a
notice that “increased rates of pay allowed men
filling higher positions will cease after 31st
March, ’O3. Men called on to fill such positions
must do so at their ordinary rates of pay.” The
railway slaves have submitted to percentage
reductions, to working Six (and sometimes seven)
days a week for five days’ pay, and to the wholly
immoral and unjustifiable Stoppage of increments.
But they protested strongly against this last
injustice, that of being expected to do an engine-
driver’s work for a cleaner’s wage—for that is
what the swindle amounts to. Bent, how-
ever, opened his mouth and bellowed, and


The equitable life assurance society
FINANCIAL STATEMENT
FOR YEAR ENDED 31st DECEMBER, 1902.
ASSURANCE IN FORCE
INCREASE IN ASSURANCE IN FORCE ..
*266,597,775
£19,915,124
ASSETS
INCREASE IN ASSETS
*73,855,783
£4,889,176
SURPLUS •• *15,418,151
INCREASE IN SURPLUS .. . . . .. £620,434
THE NEW BUSINESS EXCEEDED THAT OF 1901 BY ... £6,665,178
Looal Directors have power to Issue Policies, Pay Claims, etc.
Sir WILLIAM M'MILLAN, K.C.M.G., Chairman; Hon. C. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.O.
F. NORTON MANNING, Esq., M. D.
C. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia.
F. C. COWLEY, Sec/etary. ALEX. JOBSON, Actuary for Australasia. DAVID FELL, Auditor.
8. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, F-S.S., Manager for N.S.W. arid Queensland.
Patriotism Exalteth a Nation.
* * * f *
This may not be quite orthodox, but it is nevertheless true. It is also a fact that '
patriotism is sadly lacking in its people. Parochialism and selfishness are rarn P?J l v,l' AT :c
where—in Parliament and People. Instead of AUSTRALIAN MANUFACTURED GW •
of equal merit to the Foreign-made Article being preferred, they are only taken if OH LA •
The very men who cry the loudest, “ AUSTRALIA FOR THE AUSTRALIANS ! ~ even ~
the extent of keeping out the English Hatters—are those who, from pure prejud the
for the Foreign-made Article in preference to the Australian production. This is no
spirit that prevails in America, and which has made it the greatest country on the ra
the earth. There nothing is good unless it is “ ’Murkan,” and so it must be here if
to become a Nation. The Rosewarne Packing Co., Limited, have lately added to the
branches of their canning business the manufacture of Totted Ham and other
two and four-dunce tins. The packages are neatly got up, the contents are AT L
EQUAL TO, AND THE PRICE IS LOWER THAN, THE IMPORTED ARTICLE.
patriotic enough to give them a trial, and you will find that they are REALLY u
They may be had from all the Principal Storekeepers and Grocers.
that settled the matter. Meanwhile, the steady
dropping to pieces of the whole show goes on
apace. The railway revenue is falling weekly
while the country cries aloud for trucks from one
end to the other. If.the harvest prospects con-
tinue as bright as they are at present, next season
will probably see the Department utterly help-
less, broken down, disorganised, and hardly able
to shift passengers, let alone freight. Then Bent
will, no doubt, point to the incapacity of the new
Commissioner as the cause of the trouble, and
■say r “Look what I did! There was no break-
down under me.” How long Victoria will suffer
Bent to ruin its property Heaven only knows.
Bent and the drought seem to be a heavenly
visitation ; perhaps a day of humiliation and
prayer would have a salutary effect.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Lyceum. ............... “A Woman of Pleasure."
Criterion...- .......... “ Sweet Lavender.”
Royal “ Dick Whittington.”
Tivoli... .... Rickards’Co.
Palace “Are You a Mason?”
Belmore Park Fitzgerald Bros.’Circus.
Town Ha 11............ Hambourg Concerts.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s.. “ Midsummer Night’s Dream."
Her Majesty's. “Toreador.”
Theatre Royal “ The Prodigal Daughter.”
Bijou “On and Off.”
Opera House Rudinoff.
Town Hall Edward Llojrd.
»
Tenor Lloyd’s reception by Sydney
audiences ought to be a warning to prophecy-
mongers to leave misfortune-telling strictly to the
professionals—to those who do it by palmistry,
cards, stars, and tea-cups, and then take their
fourteen days and ignore the option. Whilst
Lloyd was en route to this Commonwealth local
authorities prophesied, muttering “ He’ll be
150 degrees of frost. True, when he retired from
the contest he knew the rules of the game,
but now he is past his prime. Besides, we have
had a surfeit of singers, and the public won’t
carry another note.” Well, Edward Lloyd, fresh
and vigorous after seven years of holy hush and
contentment on his model farm near Tunbridge
Wells, floated in to find a packed house the first
night, a more tightly packed one the second
(when it rained buckets), and on the third night a
crowd which couldn’t flap its elbows without
injuring its ribs or bursting the walls. Lloyd’s
singing of the “Holy City”—it was written
specially for him—gave his hearers a capital view
of the lifting up of the pearly gates. Everyone felt
his (or her) heart beating out Hosannas, and saw
through the gates angels loafin’ round the Throne.
Basso Peterkin and contralto Emily Foxcroft are
next in order of favor, and the little Canadian,
Jean Newman, looks pretty and dresses well.
Girlish ’cellist May Mukle pleases the public and
captures encores, but the public which wouldn’t
patronise Gerardy to the extent of the price of a
pair of spats need not pretend that it knows any-
thing abo'Ot ’cello playing.
* * * *
At Sydney Royal the tail of Whittington’s
cat continues to be jammed nightly to the amuse-
ment of hordes of sweet young things in book-
muslin evening dresses, who go to the theatre
? repared to laugh at everything and anything.
t is this determination of the kids of all sizes
and both sexes to laugh loudly, because the
advertisement says the show is a feast of fun,
that gives pantomime such wonderful staying
power: if the public brought the same mind to
bear on pantomime that it brings to criticise other
plays, the days of that dreary branch of stage art
would be numbered. But an audience that would
hiss a variety artist for serving up last year’s joke
will yell hilariously at a 1000-year old chestnut in
the ancient Xmas-time spectacle—the spectacle,
by tlie way, which is now unfairly breaking out
at other seasons besides Xmas. The why of this
extraordinary forbearance has never been fully
ascertained.
* * * *
“ Are You a Mason 1 ” at Sydney Palace,
continues to attract large audiences—of husbands
and males liable to become such, who wish to pick
up points as to how to come home at dawn with a
ruined hat in one hand and a perfectly satisfactory
explanation in the other ; also by wives and ladies
who intend to be wives, anxious to learn how to
circumvent the base deceit hereinbefore alluded
to. The farce has won a popularity—due, proba-
bly, more to good acting than to its own merits,
which are not startlingly original—quite unusual
in Sydney.
* * m *
At Sydney Lyceum, Ada Guildford’s trou-
blous career of pleasure is still on view, and every
view increases the wonder that any lady should
take her pleasure so sorrowfully. Her enthusiasm
for having a giddy time lands her in difficulties
from which she can only be extricated by dangling
by a rope from a balloon and taking a trip through
the clouds with her feet trailing among Wragge s
disturbances. The stage heroine, as exemplified
by Anderson’s leading lady, is getting not only
stronger - minded, but stronger - limbed. Ada
hangs manfully on to the balloon till it gets
among the clouds, then down again to sea-level,
a fact which shows the possession of great muscle,
especially as the villain is all the time pounding
on her hands with an umbrella or something. The
scene where a large ship goes down without help-
ing the plot at all is still a most impressive affair,
and its irrelevancy doesn’t matter. Nothing
matters much in melodrama so long as the fire and
balloon and the battle and the lunatic and the blue
giraffe are there.
* * * *
“Charley’s Aunt,”at Sydney Criterion, is
drawing good houses, and the Brazilian lady no
doubt could draw them longer, but the manage-
ment has decided to stage “ Sweet Lavender” on
Saturday. Consequently, Frank Thornton will
be seen in a black shawl, and curls, and a dread-
ful cap for only a few weeks longer, and his
mental anguish at being cast among a drawing-
room full of ladies who may forget themselves and
tell after dinner stories will also cease to be. The
last, or second last, time “ Sweet Lavender ” was
played in Sydney, Lavender, through a misunder-
standing with the management, entered with a
red head and a stern expression which presumably >
won’t be repeated. &
* * * * 5j
Fitzgeralds’ Circus adds a few new items
to its bill, among which is a bright stair-
case act by La Belle Rose, and novel acrobatic
violin performances by the Walhallas. An
educated giraffe takes a prominent position among
the beast performers now, and Pagel goes in as
usual to lift an astonished and insulted lion in his
arms and show his teeth to that half of the
audience that pays most. The other and cheaper
half of the crowd sees the beast’s tail. £
«*» * * f
Mark Hambourg and Boris of the same
surname open a concert season at Sydney Town
Hall on Saturday, and will further perform on
Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday.
** * *
Sydney Tivoli has had better audiences
since the* revival of the “ first part ” : the corner
men have so far made the return to old-time
* ‘ minstrelsy ” a very satisfactory event. Edward
Ford, facial comedian, is an attractive new turn,
and Miss Fanny Powers contributes some fresh
imitations of vaudeville artists who sing through
the nose. Perhaps all variety, singers do that;
perhaps it is the fault of Miss Powers’ nose. Last
nights of Hill and Sylvainy are announced, and as
a new attraction for the coming week the Boisett
Co. of pantomimists and comedians is heralded
with much loud advertisement.
m* * *
At Melb. Bijou the giddy, red-haired
matron who impersonates Vanity’s victim in a
hay-loft will flop against George Willoughby’s
bosom for the last time on Friday. Also her aged
husband will abandon his pursuit of Roxy Barton
on the same evening, and the complications which
reduce the audience to the verge of hysteria (see
advt.) will be suspended for the present. “Mis-
takes Will Happen ” is a swifter 3-act frivolity
than it was at first, but three weeks is a long time
to keep Melbourne verging upon the same hysteria,
so Willoughby and Geach are about to change the
bill. Next Saturday (May 2nd) they introduce
“ On and Off,” late of Sydney, and the girl with
the automatic wink has got her eyelid in active
training for that coming event.
** « *
Wirth’s Circus, likewise the menagerie,
will make for a warmer clime after Friday,
leaving the bones of the bucking horse buried
somewhere in the vicinity of the scene of its final
buck. Anew “outlaw” steed has been engaged
for the Brisbane season. The one that strove for
liberty in Melbourne bucked not wisely but too
well at the matinee last Saturday, and died of a
merciful bullet, resulting from a fractured spine.
A typical Australian crowd accepted this exciting
calamity in a philosophical spirit. It was the
concluding item of the programme, and as
the crowd sauntered from the tent several
people remarked in a casual way that the rider
who fell with the horse had all the best of the
luck. He was not hurt and didn’t need to be shot
by a policeman. The Circus is committing sundry
novelties this final week. On Monday night a pan-
tomime constructed for tent purposes was brought
into action—if no unforeseen circumstances
chanced to prevent. And to-night (Thursday)
two Hindu wrestlers will catch-as-catch-can for
a purse provided by the management. One of the
dusky rivals is Butta Singh, a hitherto invincible
Hindu, and the sanguine individual who hopes
to lay Butta low is named Gunga Braha. The
contest is expected to prove a soft thing for
Butta.
The Opera House seems to have found a
strong attraction in Rudinoff, the lightning-
sketcher, whistler, and entertainer at large.
Rudinoff is not startling, but he is versatile, and
the fact that he speaks eight languages seems to
make itself felt, although he merely talks English
with a mixed foreign accent during his long
sojourn on the Rickards stage. Moreover his
legs look lovely in silk stockings, and his shirt frills
set off his smiles to advantage. The sort of man one
associates with a fancy name such as Rudinoff.
G. W. Hunter and Gracie Emmett are leaving the
Opera House this week ; other people _ will be
turned on in place of those vanished tourists.
* 4K * #
At the Royal all is going well with the
G.N. Steeplechase up to time of writing, and the
Prodigal Daughter’s aged father clears off his
mortgage every evening by means of a desperate
investment on the favorite. The grand old sport
appears to be awfully insolvent before the race,
but the unsuspicious Ikeys book his wagers for an
enormous amount, so they are bound to lose what-
ever happens. Ikey is a sorely victimised person
in melodrama, for he never knows that his prin-
cipal customer is betting on the never. In this
case the sin of the unfinancial plunger would find
him out, and bring his grey hairs m sorrow to a
defaulter’s grave, if there was no Walter Baker
ready to meet the emergency. When a very thin
jockey gets prevented from riding the “dead
bird ” he hands his jacket over to Baker, and that
opportune hero wins the race, carrying fully 3st.
overweight. Under these circumstances any
ordinary attempt to tamper with the scales would
be useless, because Baker can draw the right
weight plus a lump of lead.
** * «
Robert Courtneidge will make one or two
appearances at Melb. Princess’s in the comedy
“ On ’Change ” if he hasn’t started returning to
England before “Midsummer Night’s Dream ” is
taken off. The present arrangement is to stage
“ On ’Change ” for a night or two previous to the
next Shakspearian production—“ As You Like
It.” Jn tjiat case Courtneidge will pop up again
as the cranky old Scotch professor who makes
wild, visionary speculations in stocks and shares—
a part hp scored in at the Princess’s ten years ago.
“ On ’Change” was originally a Brough-Boucicault
show, Brough playing the professor. The Firm’s
subsequent production of it served to introduce
Courtneidge—the burlesque actor —as a matter-of-
fact comedian with a native Scotch accent.
** * #
Six nights revival of “Paul Jones,” at
Her Majesty’s, started last Saturday, and ere the
present issue of the Bulletin has lost its bloom,
the buccaneer in question will quit the bill. This
revival brings a new Insect into play, otherwise
the cast is what it was last December, when
Florence Young made her first pleasing
ance in the name part. On Saturday the
Williamson Opera 00. is to try the “ Toreador ”
for one week, and “My Lady Molly ” follows.
“ Molly ” is the latest production of Sidney J ones,
who made the music for “A Gaiety Girl” and
“ The Geisha,” and it claims to be more of an
opera than any previous work by the same
eminently tuneful Jones.
*« « *
Edward Lloyd, having been a growing
success in Melbourne three weeks ago, is about to
return there to pick up his local popularity again
before it becomes cold and forgotten. The fame
of Edward Lloyd seemed to be hot enough in
Melbourne when he came to the last concert of
the first series, so the four farewell concerts
should produce audiences worthy of his great
reputation. Saturday, May 2, the sth, the 7th,
and again Saturday, 9th, are the dates fixed.
## * *
Also there will be a matinee concert at
Melb. Town Hall next Saturday to introduce
Ernest Toy, the Australian violinist from Europe,
as an artist who deserves to be a prophet in his
own country. Miss Davis, Miss Maud Read, and
Edward Scharf, will support the gifted Ernest,
whose other name is, unfortunately, Toy.
m* * *
At the Adelaide Royal, “The Messenger
Boy ” has taken liberties with the Pyramids for
nearly a fortnight, and the season is being filled
up with revivals of “San Toy,” and “The
Runaway Girl.” Olive Lenton, being dropped
into the cast, shows herself capable with
both voice and feet. Musgrove’s Opera co.
is to follow. At the Tivoli, Wallace Brown-
low has written and played a kind of modernised
“ Mrs. Caudle ” sketch, in which his wife
made her first appearance on any stage. She
proves to have a pretty talent for light comedy,
while W.B. himself is funny as * higgling
journalist who has to discuss the “Is
Edmund Barton a fit and proper person to guide
the destinies of this great Commonwealth, or
should he get work?” John Coleman has also
developed a wife, who actually did the scarecrow
dance for him when the house clamored for it at
a matinee (Johnnie himself being too ill at the
time to give the exhausting performance); and at
night they both did it together! Inaudi has
passed on to other continents, and the Brownlows
go to Maoriland, where Manager Marcus also
betakes himself. Spry and Monti and the ever-
opular Winton fill the vacant places.
*# * *
“X.” sends along a reminiscence :
George Willoughby, discoursing of the “ inventive and
resourceful ” actor, who teaches the author how to im-
prove his plays, is presumably speaking of the plays that
have six doors to one sitting-room and are mostly peopled
with lunatic characters. Old Dion Boucicault, a play-
wright addicted to successful impersonations of his own
stage Irishmen, was very scornful on the subject of the
“fat-headed ‘star’ actor,” and his inability to under-
stand the meaning of his part. Author Broadhurst
seemingly consented to let Willoughby alter his farce,
“ The Wrong Mr. Wright,” so the actor gives himself
credit for genius as an editor because the piece was a
success. Perhaps another actor could have made a bigger
success of the farce in the original form. Anyway,
Willoughby’s notion that “an actress who’d begin the
honeymoon by throwing the crockery about could never
hope to enlist the sympathies of her audience,” is an
amazingly funny answer to a question re Sarah Bernhardt.
The tempestuous Sarah has been breaking crockery
all her life. Her path is strewn with wreckage.
Willoughby has heard of the awful stampede of William-
son and Garner and all their employees from Melbourne
Princess’s on the historic occasion when the curtain was
dropped 10 minutes too soon upon Sarah’s death-scene.
The mistake was promptly remedied, of course n,
curtain rose again and Sarah resumed her agonies ww
they had been interrupted. But within those relmin,
10 minutes all persons in authority, or otherwise-lS 1
prompter, stage hands, call-boy, evervbodv-flert S
the wrath to come. The actors, as many of them as had
not already left the theatre, locked themselves in theh
dressing-rooms and pretended to be dead. And wl
the “ woman with a truly feminine soul and a beamif„!
conception of harmony ” (vide Willoughby) was left K
wreak her vengeance on the scenery and roar i l
solitude. Meanwhile, Williamson was thrusting w/
crowns through the trap-door in the roof of a ha, ! ''
cab, exhorting the driver to beat the record. n
Eked out by music, scenic arts and dresses,
Bill Shakspeare’s play proceeds at the Princess’s.
Fair Helena pursues her one desire
O’er hill and dale, through painted bush and brier,
Wringing her hands, bewailing her ill-luck
Till things are altered by the elfin Puck,
And two young men, unconscious of the joke,
Dispute the right to be her fancy bloke,
Whilst Hermia, to whom they’d tendered troth,
Upbraids the other cat for snaring both.
King Oberon, who sways the fairy throng,
And treats his subjects sometimes to a song,
Continues to get cross, as erst he did,
Because Titania’s struck upon a kid
(A Hindu infant semi-naked alien—
A Little Bourke-st. anti-White Australian),
And dooms the Queen, asleep on floral bed,
To love a weaver with a donkey’s head,
From which delusion T’ania duly wakes,
And all is peace. Green newts and spotted snakes,
That dart and crawl beneath the fronded fern,
Are charmed away by Mendelssohn’s Nocturne,
And Shakspeare’s ghost looks down from distant
star
To breathe approval on the orchestra.
But William’s spirit feels a pang of grief
Whene’er the bounds of “farcical relief”
Are overstepped. It must be gall for Willy
To find his scenes of humor going silly.
And yet the Bard —himself an actor once—
Knowing the public to be but a dunce,
Forgives some clap-trap mummeries of Bottom
And says “’Tis biz., ’tis pity ’tis. He’s got ’em.”
The Wild Cat Column.
Some of the financial proposals of the Stnta
Premiers at the Sydney Conference recall the storv of ft!
desperate dipsomaniac who pawned his mother's thru,
payment false-teeth in order to continue his lone- rtr. T
The Premiers find that Bull-Cohen, upon whose 8laUo?r
have hitherto relied for their financial thread
to abolish the slate so far as they are concerned •
still tormented by the old disease, they hit uDonffi.
magnificent idea of inviting the Commonweath
to pawn over again the post-offices and custom*
houses which they have themselves pawned already’
and to hand over to them the proceeds of the
new pawning transaction. Having taken over tw
customs, posts, and military depts. it was necessary tm
the Commonwealth to take over the buildings which ua
been used by the States for carrying on those depts
Also, as those buildings had been, in almost every case
built with borrowed money, it is likewise the Droned
thing that the Commonwealth should, in some way take
over the State debt represented by those premises ’ The
States have so much less assets ; and, even on the ground
of doing the fair thing towards Bull-Cohen, who has lent
the money, the States ought to be relieved also of so much
liability. That is to say, the liability and the assets
should go together. If the Commonwealth undertook
to pay interest on the cost of the works taken over the
case would, for the present at any,rate, be met fairly
well; though later on, when it has had time to look
round, the Commonwealth ought to formally undertake
the repayment of the principal, as well as to keep the
interest going. But the Premiers don’t want the thing
put on any such basis as that; wherefore they ask not
for the Commonwealth to take over the liability along
with the assets, but for a payment in cash or the
equivalent of cash. If they undertook to use the cash
to pay off the money that was borrowed on the
property which they transfer, there would be little or
nothing to say against the proposal. But they mention
no such simple and honest intention ; and if they had the
intention it is reasonable to assume that they would
mention it. Everything, in fact, points the one way-
that, having raised one lot of money on these assets, they
now want to surreptitiously raise a second lot on the
same assets. Which is quite in keeping with John See's
dictum (for political use only) that the prosperity of a
business man is always known by the frequency of his
visits to the pawn-shop.
The matter affects the ordinary citizen this
way. Already as a citizen of the State he is paying
interest on the money borrowed to build the post
office, customs, and other premises. If this remarkable
proposal of the Premiers were carried into effect, it
would then mean that, as a citizen of the Commonwealth,
he would also have to pay interest on a second lot of
money borrowed on the same premises. Out in the West
they tell of a very accomplished cattle-thief who, first of
all, sold a cow to a man, then stole the cow back again,
killed it, and sold the same cow to the same man as beef.
Even out there they thought that was carrying private
enterprise a bit too far, and the man who paid twice over
got a lot of sympathy.
• • • •
The Conference of State Premiers, which re-
cently met in Sydney, decided, among other things, that
the Commonwealth should take over the Stale debts.
On that point, and so far as they went, the State
Premiers were certainly in the right. But when Aus-
tralian Treasurer Turner, who also wants to take over
the State debts, asked the Premiers for a full statement
in order that he might draw up a scheme, he had to
write over and over again, and wait for many weeks
before these uncouth and grumpy individuals would even
reply. And though the State Premiers want their debts
taken over they absolutely refuse to state what they
would agree upon as a fair and reasonable basis of con-
solidation. The great trouble is to draft a scheme which
five out of the six State Premiers won’t repudiate with
scorn. It is a pity, when the six were together, they
didn’t indicate what sort of arrangement would suit all
of them.
* • • •
The Bank of Australasia completed still an-
other highly profitable half-year on Oct. 13,1902
Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. off. serves.
Oct., 1895 £41,169 5 p.c. = £40,000 £811,654
April, 1896 40,568 5 „ „ 40,000 812,222
Oct., 1896 40,400 5 „ „ 40,000 - 812,622
April, 1897 45,375 6 „ „ 40,000 817,997
Oct., 1897 40,279 5 „ „ 40,000 818,276
April, 1898 48,546 6 „ „ 48,000 £lO,OOO 808,822
Oct., 1898 54,148 6 „ „ 48,000 5,000 809,970
April, 1899 66,312 7 „ „ 66,000 810,282
Oct., 1899 119,871 8 „ „ 64,000 20,000 846,153
79 „ „ 72.0001
April, 1900 148,4224 Bonus V 20,000 887,575
l (staff) 15,000 J
Oct., 1900 151,466 10 p.c. = 80,000 20,000 939,041
April, 1901 145,119 10 „ „ 80,000 35,000 969,160
Oct., 1901 140,077 10 „ „ 80,000 20,000 1,009,237
April, 1902 144,468 11 „ „ 88,000 16,000 1,049,705
fll 88 000
Oct., 1902 152,0854 Bonus ’ > 14,000 1,084,648
L (staff) 16,142 J
The profits represent £ll 9s. 7d. per cent, per annuni on
the shareholders’ funds at the commencement of the half
year, which is the best since the sensational 1900 period.
Figures from that time have been
Oct., 1900 ..£l2 3 7 p.c. April, 1902 ..£ll 1 |>P-&
April, 1901 ..11 8 7 „ Oct., 1912.. 11 97 „
Oct., 1901 .. 10 18 1 „
Comparing the last half-year with its predecessor these
results are arrived at:—
April, 1902. Oct., 1902. Increase.
Profit .. .. £144,468 £152,085 £7,6 h
Note Circulation .. 499,024 503,187 4,163
Decrease.
Bills and other lia- „„„
bilities .. .. 2,361,479 2,292,796 68,683
Deposits .. .. 14,597,068 14,313,893 -83,1 f
Advances and other 001
Assets .. .. 15,290,262 14,904,981 385,281
Increase.
Government Securi- ...
ties held .. .. 1,342,490 1,363,124 20,634
Visible Liquid Se- oaaQ *
curities .. .. 4,535,262 4,621,958
If “loans at call and at short notice”J are j nc * u e
among the liquid assets, the total was £5,874,368 on •
13 against £6,058,262 on April 14; but in the foregoing
table these loans have been included with the
advances. It can', anyhow, be safely put this way.
the Australasia’s specie, bullion, and cash balances
its British, India, and colonial securities represent ir p
cent, of the bank’s total liabilities to the public,
the loans at call and short notice included as 1
assets, the latter represent nearly 35 percent. h „,
liabilities to the public. But, though the pro


TRAMWAYS FOR MINES.
STOCK' S in SYDNEY and MELBOURNE include—Steel Rails, Bridge Rails
Steel Side and End Tip Trucks, Portable Tramway, Portable and Permanent
Switches, Ball-bearing Turntables, Axle Boxes, Wheels and Axles, Jim Crows,
Dog Spikes, etc., etc. IND E N TS. —LOCOMOTIVES from 10 to 400 h.p.,
including Compound Locos, and every description of Light Railway Material.
CENTRAL MINING &. TRAMWAY APPLIANCES
Prop. Ltd., 40 Hunter St., SYDNEY. A. E. LEPLA3TRIER, Manager,
Representing Orbnstein and Koppel, Ltd., London, Berlin and Paris.
Branches—Melbourne, Brisbane, Cairns and Zeehan (Tasmania).
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, of Melbourne, reports
that there has been a great improvement in the general
outlook of the engineering business since the new year
started, and that his pipe making works in Melbourne
and Perth are working full-handed. Amongst the orders
now being executed at Footscray works is one for 7 miles
10 chains of 18in. diameter light steel spiral-riveted pipes
for the Victorian water supply ; and at Perth works a
contract is in progress for over 6 miles of 10|in. diameter
spiral-riveted pipes, flanged joints, for the Greenbushes
Tin-Mining Syndicate. About two miles of these pipes
are to stand a test pressure of 8001 b. to the square inch.*
* • * »
A. Kozminsky, 106 Queen-sfc., Melbourne,
having returned from England, is now prepared to
purchase paying mines, and mining properties (not
merely surface shows), situated in any part of
Australasia requiring further capital for development and
machinery. Only genuine and legitimate ventures,
capable of bearing the strictest examinations will be
entertained.*
• • * •
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develop, with option ot
purchase “big prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address : “ Option,”
Melbourne *
*' • * *
H. Brandon Skertchly, geologist, mining engi-
neer and assayer, is prepared to furnish scientific reports
and plans to British and Australian investors. Assays
undertaken, and enquiries re mining properties, promptly
attended to. For fuller information apply to H, Brandon
Skertchly, 7 Central Chambers, Queen-st., Brisbane.*
• • * *
Assayers throughout Australia will be interested
to hear that Ernest de Beer of Salisbury Building’s
Melbourne, has taken unto himself a partner—Mr. H. B.
Silberberg. The arrival of the new partner, who brings
7 years Kalgoorlie experience into the business, means
that the firm of De Beer, Silberberg and Co., will be in a
position to stock all sorts of laboratory requisites and
assayers’ sundries. At the present time they can supply
from stock plumbago and other crucibles, plumbago
finely ground, microscopes and scientific instruments,
chemical apparata, including full lines of jena and other
glassware. Royal Berlin porcelains, and so forth. In a
few months there will be nothing that De Beer, Silber-
berg and Co. cannot supply from stock. Test orders are
confidently invited. Special attention is called to
Morgan’s Battersea “ F ” shape plumbago, and salamander
crucibles, also extra special consideration is claimed for
the gasoline furnaces, which are rapidly growing in
popularity. Messrs De Beer, Silberberg and Co., are
direct agents for Schott and |Genossen’s compound, and
the famous “ Durax ” gauge glasses, which, by the way,
have lately been adopted by the Victorian Railways and
the Melbourne Tramway Co.*
• • * *
It is not generally known that in the treatment
of ore as much ol the valuable minerals is often lost in
the tailings as ia saved by the appliances. This is due
in most instances to the inefficient machines used and
the difficulty in saving the fines and slimes. The best
machine to treat the latter classes are Luhrig Vanners.
These machines are in successful daily use in the principal
gold, galena, copper and tin mines in Australia and
Tasmania, proving their superiority over other so-called
slime machines. Messrs W. & J. Lempriere, 506 Little
Collins-street, Melbourne, are the general agents, and full
particulars can be obtained from Diem.*
Scottish Critic, October, 1902, writes re the
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited “ The
Company was established in 1873 and the management
has always been characterised by abundant enterprise,
tempered with the prudence which can alone make
energy valuable in a life assurance company.”*
I* • * ,+
The field of concentration after stamps or
amalgamation is an old and recognised one, yet this
treatment is now improved upon in Certain instances by
concentrating direct from the stamps. It is found that
gold heavy enough to sink through the film of water
moving rapidly down the copper plate, is heavy enough
to b« successfully settled upon the deck of the Wilftey
table, and thus concentrated. With certain refractory ores,
a common practice is now to stamp and amalgamate on
plates and to pass the tailings over Wilfley tables,
extracting the troublesome sulphides -and then re-treat-
ing the tailings by pan amalgamation, cyanide or any
of the special lixiviation processes that may be demanded
by the peculiar characteristics of the ore. Illustrated
catalogues with valuable notes on ore dressing can be
obtained from the Sole Manufacturers in Australia of the
Wilfley Concentrating Table, the Austral Otis Company,
South Melbourne.*
• * * *
Associated (W. A.) has been having a thorough
overhaul, on behalf of continental holders, by Pierre
Ledoux, who last visited the property in May, 1900, after
the sensational collapse of the returns. Following his
visit metallurgist Dunstan and his assistant, Cummipg,
have resigned. Ledoux managed to get down the Oroya,
and also managed to see a plan of that mine’s under-
ground workings, on the strength of which he has started
a third bore hole from the 1050 ft. level of the Associated.
This bore is going down more vertically than its prede-
cessors, and, it is hoped, will locate the continuation of
'the rich Brown Hill-Oroya chute. It is probably also as a
result of Ledoux’s visit that the detailed working costs of
the mine are given. These tot up to 61s. lid. a ton, and, as
the ore is worth fully 80s., there is an apparent profit of
nearly £1 a ton. Milling costs as much as 265. 3d., to
which has to be added 2s. lOd. for the treatment of
slimes and tailings. Even then work has been ineffective.
The introduction of the new furnaces should, however,
oelp to reduce these costs.
INSIST ON GETTINGS!?
SAND
Su
y r
&
M
GreenMahco,Carvers
. oVi 4 s MADRAS*- '•
roac? and^roreteepe%Eyeryuifjer«,
been so large and the position in several respects much
improved, the figures also indicate a contraction of busi-
ness—not very large, but still distinctly appreciable.
Sydney Telegraph arrives at the astound-
ing conclusion that the Commonwealth Government
should not take over the State debts unless the States
agree to restrict future borrowings. If they won’t agree
to restrict their future borrowings, the Telegraph reckons
“ the Commonwealth had better wash its hands of the
State debts altogether." As it is tolerably certain that
the States won’t, for the present at least, consent to
restrict their borrowings, this would simply mean aban-
doning all hope of debt consolidation. The Bulletin’s
idea is that the Commonwealth should take over the
Stats debts whether the States agree to restrict their
further borrowings or not, and tax the States (in other
words, its own subjects—the people of Australia) to pay
off these debts. When the old debt— i.e., the debt now
existing—is paid off, the States will probably have built
up a new debt—a very considerable one. Therefore, the
Commonwealth should go on taxing the States to pay off
the new debt by buying up the State securities, and con-
stituting itself the creditor of the States. In other words,
if the States won’t pay their debts, the Commonwealth
should do it by taxing the States. To wait till the States
agree to reform their borrowing habits before the
Commonwealth Government starts to do anything to-
wards setting things straight is to wait till doomsday, or
thereabouts; it is almost certainly to wait till the ex-
travagance of the subordinate State Governments has
made Australia—the Commonwealth’s Australia—or some
parts of it, bankrupt, and to propose that the Common-
wealth Government shall look quietly on while its own
country is made bankrupt is the worst possible folly.
The Commonwealth Government can’t “ wash its hands”
of the matter any more than it can wash off its own
identity.
• * • *
The Mutual Life Association of Austra-
lasia (Sydney) continues to earn still more confidence :
Added
Total Written to
Income. Claims. Expenses. off. Funds.
1893 .. £199,287 £87,951 £40,958 £15,630 £54,748
1894 .. 195,228 103,525 40,698 4,491 46,514
1895 .. 195,364 107,747 38,114 10,721 38,782
1896 .. 197,722 97,286 41,912 10,530 47,994
1897 .. 208,576 102,635 41,676 9,832 54,433
1898.. 216,197 100,088 42,502 6,196 67,411
1899.. 233,525 83,348 44,117 4,301 101,759
1900 .. 244,076 111,442 50,183 4,202 78,249
1901 .. 268,334 112,552 53,571 6,130 96,081
1902.. 287,399 123,926 56,026 2,200 105,247
Total Addition to Funds in 10 years .. £691,218
The Mutual Life’s income thus increased more than in any
other year, with one exception, during the past decade ;
while the expense rate was the lowest in the same
period, also with one exception. Further, the amount
added to the funds is the largest on record.
The directors of the Mutual Life report that
“ reduction of expenses by £1 6s. per cent, is evidence of
economic administration.” They might have been more
explicit on this point with advantage, for they evidently
don’t mean that there has been this reduction compared
with the previous year, as Sydney Daily Telegraph, for
example, has assumed. Nevertheless, the year’s reduc-
tion has been very substantial—at a time, too, when
reductions haven’t been the rule. Comparative figures
show up in this way :
EXPENSE RATE TO TOTAL INCOME.
1893 .. £2O 11 0 per cent. 1898 .. £l9 13 2 per cent.
1894 .. 20 16 11 „ 1899 .. 18 17 10 „
1895 .. 19 10 2 „ 1900 .. 20 11 2 „
1896 .. 21 311 „ 1901 .. 19 19 3 „
1897 .. 19 19 7 „ 1902 .. 19 9 10 „
So, taking the past decade, the mean expense rate during
the first quinquennial period was £2O Bs. 4d., and during
the second £l9 14s. 3d. Read in conjunction with the
large increase in new business, this reduction of 14s. Id.
per cent, certainly is good evidence of economical
administration. It isn’t the Association’s fault that in
the concluding analysis the results are less satisfactory :
INTEREST EARNED PER CENT. ON MEAN FUNDS.
1893 .. .. £5 7 7 1898 .. .. £4 14 11
1894 .. .. 53 10 1899 .. .. 4 10 0
1895 .. .. 5 0 2 1900 .. .. 4 9 0
1896 .. .. 4 18 2 1901 .. .. 489
1897 .. .. 4 18 7 1902 .. .. 474
This, it will be seen, is the poorest return in the 10 years.
A comparison of the assets shows that the movement is
due to a considerable increase in municipal debentures
and in cash on deposit and current account (the latter
item has gone from £BB9O to £41,962 in the 12 months),
while loans on mortgages have increased hardly at all.
The directors scent possibly troublous times, and are
prudently lying low for a while. In those circumstances
a reduced rate of interest is rather to be welcomed than
otherwise. In that connection, however, a little more in-
formation might with advantage be given regarding the
public securities—whether they are taken in at par, at
cost, or how.
* * • *
The Victorian Treasurer now reckons that he
will close the financial year with a deficit of £316,000.
This will make ten deficits in 14 consecutive years. Of
the four surpluses, George Turner was responsible for 2£,
his last one being £382,000 ; in fact, taking his whole
term of office, though he started in the worst period of
depression, his revenue was some £250,000 ahead of his
expenditure. But Victoria hasn’t another Turner.
• * * *
The Federal Building, Land and Investment
Society (Brisbane) looked 12 months ago as though it
were going to pay its way in its next year ; but it has
suffered a relapse in one respect, and is still down with
the old complaint:—
Forfeited
Outgoings. Total Capital Total
Loss on Loss on Loss, carried to Re-
Business. Property. Reserves, serves.
Mar., 1895 ..£2141 £715 £2,856
Mar., 1896 .. 2154 58,482 60,636 £68,272
Mar., 1897 .. 1450 604 2,054
Mar., 1898 .. 1289 1,520 2,809 250
Mar., 1899 .. 1431 867 2,298 366
Mar., 1900 .. 897 540 1,437 456 £14,453
Mar., 1901 .. 649 163 802 1,830 15,481
Mar., 1902 .. 196 665 761 484 15,204
Mar., 1903 .. 256 59 315 62 14,951
The foregoing table isn’t complete, but it is as complete
as the society’s remarkable book-keeping in the past
will allow it to be. The arithmetic nowadays is of the
ordinary variety, and the statement of the position is
reasonably intelligible, as far as it goes, though it ought
to go further. The loss on business has been heavier
than in 1901-2, principally because of the excessive
amount of the interest bill. Excluding “ sundry credi-
tors, £4923,” who presumably aren’t charging interest (or
if they are charging interest they ought not to be bunched
and presented in that way), the society owes to outsiders
(depositors and bank), £38,395. Its interest bill for the year
just ended was £2167; so that it paid £5 12s. lOd. per cent,
per annum. Even including the whole of the “sundry
creditors,” it was a fraction of a penny over 5 percent.
Twelve months ago the directors felt hurt because The
Bulletin said they were paying £5 7s per cent, on
£39,448, and explained that they really owed £44,058,
wherefore the interest was equal to only £4 16s per cent.
Even, however, assuming that the ordinary
sundry creditor charges it interest, the rate would now
be over 4s. per cent, worse than it was 12 months ago. On
the other hand, the net interest and commission earned,
after deducting cost of repairs and rates and insurance
premiums, still fell a trifle short of 3 per cent, on the
nominal value of the assets. To raise money at 5 per
cent, and invest it at under 3 per cent, net isn’t
profitable, and if the concern wants to get on a
fair footing, there still appears to be only one feasible
way of doing it—the shareholder must pay up and wipe
off some of these expensive liabilities. Of course there
is the alternative of waiting for something to turn up—
but it is so seldom that anything turns up.
* * • •
Westralia, which talks a good deal about its
wealth and its surplus, is floating a 4 per cent, loan of
£600,000 for four years. Pretty nearly all the States are
borrowing now for two, three, four, or five years, in the
glad hope that things will be better by then.
Australia, about four years hence, will have the
usual batch of long-dated loans to renew ; also the pre-
sent batch of short-dated loans ; likewise it will presum-
ably want to float the usual batch of new loans. And if,
four years hence, times are as bad as they are now, or
worse than they are now 111
• • • •
The Colonial Bank of Australasia, Ltd.
(Melb.), has, so far as profits go, done just a shade less
well than in the half-year that went before. Dating
from the time when the institution had its cleaning-up,
things have gone as follows :
Dividends on Added R
Profits. Preference to Re- '
Shares. serves. Berves -
March, 1899..£5601 3 p.c. =£4561 £lO4O £lO4O
Sept., 1899.. 7078 3„ „ 4561 2517 3557
£3OOO of Forfeited Capital added to Reserves 6617
March, 1900.. 11,472 4p.c.= 6081 5391 12,008
Sept., 1900.. 12,019 4 „ , 6081 6938 17,946
March, 1901.. 13,718 5 „ „ 7601 6117 24,063
Sept., 1901.. 15,069 6 „ „ 7601 7468 31,531
Dividends on
all Shares.
March, 1902..17,173 6 p.c. =10,942 6231 37,762
Sept., 1902..16,264 5 „ ~10,961 6303 43,065
March, 1903. .16,223 5 „ ~10,961 5262 48,327
At the commencement of the half-year the shareholders’
funds stood at £481,489 (capital £438,424 and reserves
£43,065) ; and the profits represent £6 14s. 9d. per cent,
per annum on that amount. This compares with recent
figures as follows :
Sept., 1900 £5 11 7 p.c. Mar., 1902 £7 6 6 p.c.
Mar., 1901 6 5 0 „ Sept., 1902 616 10 „
Sept., 1901 612 7 „ Mar., 1903 614 9 „
The Colonial has no branches outside Victoria, and has
made no advances against N.S.W. or Q. station proper-
ties, so it has escaped the effects—the direct effects, any-
way—of the drought in those parts. But for that
circumstance it could not present such a satisfactory
front.
Comparing the position six months ago with
the present, the principal items show up in this way :
Sept., 1902. Mar., 1903. Increase.
Reserves ... .. £43,065 £48,327 - £5,262
Decrease.
Profits ... 16,264 16,223 41
Increase.
Note Circulation.. 107,815 122,455 14,640
Cash and Liquid •
Securities .. 477,860 638,584 160,724
Bills in Circulation 40,592 54,577 13,985
Deposits .. .. 2,206,631 2,299,969 93,338
Advances .. .. 2,095,920 2,066,828 29,092 ’
Six months ago a remarkable series of decreases was
noted ; here, on the other hand, is a remarkable series of
increases. For some years the Colonial was busy building
up a doubtful reputation for working on a very slight
cash basis ; but the policy seems to be changing—wisely,
too, in these days when, before long, pretty well anything
may happen in a financial way. The new policy may
mean somewhat smaller profits, but it is a great deal
safer. Six months ago the reserve of cash and liquid
securities (including bills and remittances in transitu)
represented less than 20 per cent, of the bank’s indebted-
ness to the public ; at the end of the half-year the corres-
ponding amounts represented 26 per cent, of the liabilities
to the public. Included in the reserves are now £35,094
worth of Victorian Government stock and municipal de-
bentures against £12,273 held six months previously.
With the recent substantial and steady addition to the
reserves, and with the cautious policy indicated in the
foregoing figures, and without the incubus of a connec-
tion in the droughty parts, the Colonial looks like
growing into a bank of very considerable dimensions.
• * * *
For the nine months to 31st March, 1902, the
revenue from Victorian railways has dropped £174,000
and from N.S.W. railways £290,000, as compared with
the corresponding period of last vear.
• » • •
The National Bank of Australasia, Ltd.
(Melb.)
Dividends. Total
Profits. o° rd ’ Pref ’ £ ddedto Re-
-3 p.c. 5 p.c. Reserves, serves
Mar., 1896 £10,523 £7644 £2879 £12,437
Sept., 1896 11,706 7644 4062 16,499
Mar., 1897 14,711 7644 7067 23,566
Sept., 1897 18,275 7644 10,631 34,197
Mar., 1898 15,471 7644 7827 42,024
Forfeited Capital added to Reserves 45,456 87,480
Sept., 1898 17,602 7644 9958 97,438
Mar., 1899 12,323 7644 4679 102,117
Sept., 1899 19,245 7644 11,601 113,718
Mar., 1900 22,152 7644 14,508 128,226
Forfeited Capital added to Reserves 4977 133,203
£68,000 written off Reserves 65,203
Sept., 1900 27,065 £17,887 7644 1534 66,737
Mar., 1901 28,448 17,887 7644 2917 69,654
3£ p.c.
Sept., 1901 32,050 20,868 7644 3538 73,192
Mar., 1902 34,394 20,868 7644 5882 79,074
Sept., 1902 35,038 20,868 7644 6526 85,600
Mar., 1903 34,660 20,868 7644 6148 91,748
The business hasn’t been quite as profitable as for the
previous six months; still, in view of the bank’s large
connections in the droughty north of Victoria, the result
is fairly satisfactory, or even rather more than that. No
doubt this is due to the fact that it has been able to do a
profitable business in S. Aus., and that, outside Sydney
and Broken Hill, it has no branches in either N.S.W.
or Queensland. The profits have been equal to £4 7s. 7d.
per cent, per annum on the shareholders’ funds at the
commencement of the half-year (capital £1,498,220, and
reserves £85,600); this compares with some recent
results as follows:
Mar., 1900 £2 17 0 p.c. Mar., 1902 £4 7 7 p.c.
Sept., 1900 3 9 8 „ Sept., 1902 4 810 „
Mar., 1901 312 8 „ Mar., 1903 4 7 7 „
Sept., 1901 4 1 9 „
And the £2 17s. with which the list opens was the best
since 1894 ; so that, though the rate is still low, the pro-
gress during the last four years has been eminently satis-
factory. Yet, in view of the turn which is now shown, ib
is plainer than ever that there should have been no in-
crease in 1901 in the dividend on ordinary shares. The
other main features of the business, along with a com-
parison of the position as ib was 12 months back, are
shown hereunder :
March, March,
1902. 1903. Decrease.
Cash and Liquid Se-
curities .. .. £3,132,162 £2,855,566 £276,596
Private Deposits .. 5,873,361 5,755,487 117,874
Note Circulation .. 325,914 313,281 12,633
Bank Premises .. 451,784 449,826 1,958
Other Real Estate .. 395,370 337,837 57,533
Bills in Circulation.. 1,365,091 1,183,897 181,194
Profits .. .. 34,394 34,660 266
Public Securities (in-
cluded in Liquid
Securities above).. 385,692 421,737 36,045
Advances .. .. 5,696,308 5,765,649 69,341
This rather remarkable run of decreases supports the view
expressed above with regard to the dividend. The cash
and liquid securities have been considerably diminished
during the past term ; nevertheless they still represent
36 per cent, of the liabilities to the public, which is a
larger percentage chan a good many banks carry.
• • * *
At Broken Hill, where the drought hasn’t
broken up yet—where, in fact, the drought never is more
than slightly damaged—a start has been made in a tired
way to construct a supplementary water supply. In the
interests of a syndicate, the strings were tugged, at first
gently and in the end viciously, to have the Yanco site
taken over; but the Umberumberka scheme was finally
adopted. And, on the whole, if the money can be
got to finish it, it will be best. Out there, the
rain falls usually in small patches; and, as the
Yanco catchment and the catchment of the present
reservoir join, the rain-patch that missed one would
almost certainly miss the other. Uinberumberka, on the
other hand, is in another direction ; so that a thunder-
storm will have to dodge hard to miss both. The new
scheme, even if it is completed (and it isn’t safe just now
to “go blind” on the completion of any scheme which
depends on the Owe’Waddell for funds), will not interfere
to any great extent with the B.H. Water Co., the idea
being to let the co. have the job of supplying the mines,
the new concern restricting its operations to the town.
Up to now the mines have provided the co. with three-
fourths of its revenue.
• • * •
The Mutual Life Insurance Co. of New
York has issued its home report for 1902. Amounts are
therein stated in U.S. currency ; in the following, they
are converted to sterling at the rate of 4.87 dol. to £l.
Some particulars as to sources of income, usually con-
tained in the sterling report, are also for the present
missing: ...
Total Added to
Income. Claims. Expenses. Outgoings. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
1895 9,978,939 4,748,815 2,135,762 6,884,577 3,094,362
1896 10,421,359 5,262,203 2,107,705 7,369,908 3,051,451
1897 11,312,833 5,316,642 2,063,053 7,379,695 3,933,138
1898 12,116,267 5,071,029 2,157,406 7,228,435 4,887,832
1899 12,932,673 5,540,220 2,535,825 8,076,045 4,856,628
1900 13,018,126 5,404,560 2,674,923 8,079,483 -4,938,643
1901 14,267,844 5,968,433 2,830,329 8,798,762 5,469,082
1902 15,052,366 5,977,343 3,088,429 9,065,772 5,986,594
The year’s claims have been unusually light in proportion
to premium income, but, as with many other insurance
institutions, the expenses for the year were high, though
the increase was not so much as in some other cases. The
company’s funds, when it put up the shutters on Dec. 31,
1902, and went home for a well-earned 24 hours’ holiday,
amounted to £78,528,271.
The 1902 expense rate of the Mutual Life of
New York, as said just now, is rather higher than it has
been lately. The rate for a few years past has been
Expenses Compared with Total Incomb.
1895 .. £2l 8 1 per cent. 1899 .. £l9 12 2 per cent.
1896 .. 20 4 6 „ 1900 .. 20 10 11 „
1897 .. 18 4 9 „ 1901 .. 19 16 9 „
1898 .. 17 16 1 „ 1902 .. 20 10 4 „
On the year’s operations the expense rate of the three
mammoth American insurance concerns doing business in
Australia compares like this:
Compared with
Expenses p.c. 1901.
Increase.
£ s. d. £ s. d.
Equitable .. .. 18 1 5 „ 0 19 9
Mutual of New York .. 20 10 4 ... 0 13 7
New York Life .. .. 20 12 10 .. 1 15 0
At present the interest earnings of the Mutual
of New York cannot be distinguished from other earnings
apart from premiums. All earnings except premiums
were equal to £4 9s. Bd. per cent, of the average amount
of funds for the year. This figure, which includes profit
on investments as well as interest, is rather seriously
below the corresponding item of last year. The list of
assets seems to be as substantial as usual, though any
further remarks under this head, along with some possi-
ble further remarks regarding the rate of interest earned,
are held over until the laggard balance-sheet, expressed
in English money, comes along.
• • • •
J.M.M. (M.L.): But why not send it to your
own excellent Otago School of Mines?. ..D.LeP. (S’Africa):
Official statistics don’t, as a rule, distinguish between
gold won by battery and by cyanide ; but the Vic. Mines
Department specially reported for 1901 that, since the
Govt, had purchased the cyanide patent for the State,
£6200 had been derived from the 2£ per cent, royalty in
18 months. In 1901, 43,5690 z. was, in all, won ; but the
details cover only 41,9900 z., derived from 482,279 tons,
or at the rnte of near!'’ 2dwt. per ton.
• • • *
“Hermit” writes: —“The Golden Victory,
near Canowindra (N.S.W.), opens up well. For 16 years
a local man, Kirkland, hunted for the reef ; he was just
on it when his farm called him home. A couple of Gipps-
land prospectors, Balmer and Davis, then came along, hit
upon the reef, and in a few weeks four men and a bucket
took up 200 tons of ore. Only 170 tons were crushed,
at the Blue Jacket battery ; the yield was 2Joz., with
lldwts. lOgrs. in tailings, besides concentrates. A
former small crushing gave nearly 6oz. to the ton.
Kirkland has now an interest in the show for which he
looked so long, and is manager. A shaft is down 70ft.
The reef is easily worked, and expenses should be low.”
* * * *
“BobR.”: At Junee Reefs (N.S.W.) “another
reef has been struck, bearing good gold.” For 30 years
reefs have been struck in that vicinity ; a few have turned
out well, many have absorbed more gold than was good
for them, and none have proved permanent. Writer’s
opinion is that rich “ pockets” may be discovered, but
none will be worthy of a rush. Probably this field will
for a time mean fair wages for a few fossickers—nothing
more.
• * • •
The light rains which have fallen in western
N.S.W. missed Broken Hill again ; anyway, not enough
fell there to do any good. Only once before has the water
supply been lower ; that was during the famine of 2£
years ago. The outlook is extremely serious. Usually
after a spring in the price of metals Broken Hill hums ;
but there has been no hum this time.
• • • *
Cobar Gold Mines (N.S W.) return for Feb.
was £9290. General, development and capital expenses
totalled £5044, thus showing a clear profit of £4246. The
Jan. return was £9151. March yield was probably well
up to this average, but the current month will show a
considerable falling off, owing to the stoppage of crush-
ing, through an accident to the machinery. Co. ought
soon to be in a position to declare a dividend, which has
been threatened for many years past.
• • • • i
Mount Boppy gold mine, near Cobar (N.S.W.),
in February, crushed 2350 tons for 26090 z. Mine said to
be looking better than ever, improvement in value being
recorded from the deeper workings in all directions. This ;
is quite an exception in New South Wales gold mines. ’
A new manager has arrived on the mine. A co. has been
formed in Cobar to prospect and develop a large area of j
ground to the south of Mount Boppy co.’s holding, j
Prospects so far disclosed are very encouraging. Co. starts \
with a fair credit balance, which is to be applied solely ;
to proving the value of the property, with a view|
to sale on the formation of a larger co. Cobar is to be \
congratulated on this departure from its old-fashioned j
ways. To prove the mine first and provide machinery!
afterwards is a new principle at Cobar.
• • * * I
Extensive alterations are being made to Cobar-j
Chesney concentrating plant to increase its efficiency.
Manager Woolcock is confident that he will show profit-
able results. Should he succeed he will rank as a top-
notcher in his profession. Writer has serious doubts
about any low-grade copper mine, which is minus a com-
plete smelting and refining plant, being made to pay.
Profits’may be made, but they don’t go into the pockets
of mine shareholders—middlemen and smelters absorb
the lot.
• * * *
Occidental (Cobar, N.S.W.) was on the point of
being closed down last week for want of water, when
there was a welcome rainfall. The present supply is
equal to several months’ work, and an occasional div of
3d. may be looked for.
• * • * I,
Rumored that experts’ reports on the Grea* ;
Cobar and allied properties confirm all the representation"
that were made, and that the deal is practically com
pleted. The only thing to defer the transfer is the long
pending law-suit instituted by a minority of dissatisfied
shareholders. Whether they are in the right or the
wrong need not be discussed, but it is monstrous that
there should be such intolerable delay in determining the
simple question at issue. The sale of these properties
will be a most important event in the history of N.S.W.i
mining. It will give an impetus to the industry in the)
Cobar district quite beyond local expect#tions. It is
quite safe to say that it will not be long before 10 men!
will be employed where one is now kept at work. Cobar!
will assert itself as one of the leading mining fields of;
Australia. Cannot something be done to stir the slug-f .
gard of Law into reasonable activity when such large
questions are involved ? .
• Crowl Creek (Shuttleton, N.S.W.) shares have
been in steady demand of late, but there are very few on)!
the market. Mine opening up splendidly. The sulphide
lode at 270 ft. has been driven on for about 130 ft, and isL
continuing at both ends, the whole of the stuff as broken ,
assaying between 10 and 16 per cent. It seems assured
now that this lens of ore is as long in the sulphide zone as
it was in the upper workings. A winze has been started
below this level, which is down 30ft. in massive
sulphide, reputed to be of " splendid quality.” This
winze is to be continued to 100 ft., when levels will be
driven with a view to determine the dip and course of the
lode in settled country. When these points have been
decided a main shaft will be started in proper position to
command the lode to a considarable depth. 00. is push-
ing ahead with preparatory work for the erection of
smelters, and has been fortunate in discovering a big de-
posit of first-class fire-clay within about six miles of the
mine. There is now sufficient ore broken and proved, to
keep the proposed plant running for some years. It
may suit the owners of the mine not to popularise it at
present, but should they have any desire in that direc-
tion, it would be well for them to publish a plain unvar-
nished statement of the financial position, and explain
how co. stands in relation to the original vendors.
* * * *
A syndicate has been formed in Sydney to take
over a 12 months’ working option on three leases
immediately adjoining the Crowl Creek mine
to the south. The promoters had no difficulty
in floating it privately in the course of a few days. The
syndicate will be known as the Shuttleton Mines. The
promoters rely not only on position—which is excellent as
the Crowl Creek deep workings are within 450 ft. °f the
boundary— but also prospects revealed in two of the
blocks. More than half the shares were applied
for by men identified with the field. Some of the
local men are sanguine enough to believe that
long before the term of option expires the syndicate will
have accumulated sufficient money from the sale of ore
to form the larger company provided for in the agree-
ment with the leaseholders. The latter have taken up
a large number of the syndicate shares, and are content
to accept a paid-up interest in a company which may be
formed as the sole consideration for the transfer of the
leases—which looks like confidence.
(Continued, on page SO.)


\
v ;
David Jones & Co.
“ORIENT” BOOTS.
Srocial Purchase of American-
made Boots, Black or Brown
Vici Kid,
Pbice
21/=
By Post
22/-
George & Barrack Sts
TRAOfc MARK
A CAHERA IS A CAMERA
BUT THERE IS A DIFFERENCE
WHICH IS APPRECIATED BY THOSE WHO USE THEM.
©
TOM
Harrington’s Cameras
have been in use throughout Aus-
tralasia for about fifteen years
and the demand for them to-day
is greater than ever it has been,
because we are experts and know
all about Cameras.
A perusal of our NEW ILLUS-
TRATED CATALOGUE will
convince you that we carry the
largest and most up-to-date stock,
also that the value and price is
right.
While in Town call and examine our FINE STOCK OF CAMERAS FOR BEGINNERS,
AMATEURS, PROFESSIONALS and EXPERTS, ranging from 7s. 6d.,125. 6d., 155., 215.,
255., 305., 355., 405., 505., 605., 705., 80s., 905., 100 s. to £5O.
Copy of New Illustrated Catalogue sent to any address POST FREE.
HARRINGTON & CO., Ltd.,
PHOTOGRAPHIC
MERCHANTS,
66 King St., Sydney, & 93 Queen St., Brisbane.
AGENTS IN ALL PRINCIPAL TOWNS.
SOCIETY
[?]oo[?]
B[?]
Speaking at a Rechabite banquet last week
two members of the Vic. Assembly referred in
feeling terms to the awful insobriety which
appertains to the Bar of the House —not the Bar
where newspaper publishers are called to
apologise, but the Bar within the meaning of the
Licensing Act. Anstey, M.L.A., referred to it as
an accursed thing, established for the ruin of men.
Brother Hickford, M.L.A., said that “ members
who had entered Parliament as total abstainers
came out total wrecks.” The case seems to call
for a new temperance hymn :
AN APPRECIABLE
DIFFERENCE.
FIRST HEBE : "Yes! Mr.
Montmorency Melvarlios
is the only gentleman in
the company who is not
married."
SECOND HEBE: “I don't know so much about that.
At all events he is the only one who is not
divorced."
A dentist: “ Procrastination is the thief
of teeth.”
Cootamundra, on the Sydney-Melbourne
main line, is having hard luck. It was drowned
out the other day to begin with, and it had hardly
got itself baled out when a tornado, accompanied
by a “ fire-ball ” the size of George Reid’s stomach,
tore along the main street and wrecked two hotels
—one of them so badly that a boarder found 60
bricks falling on him while he was in bed. And
the incident has suggested a nice point in insur-
ance law. If the wind wrecked the building no
claims are valid ; if the fire-ball was responsible
the insurance oo.s must pay.
* * * *
The police haven’t been able to get any-
body punished for robbing the White Cliffs
(N.S.W.) mail of two or three thousand pounds
worth of opal 18 months ago. They laid low for
months till the opal, or what was alleged to be
the opal, got into circulation ; then they made
three arrests—one of the man who, they said,
“ put up the job”; the second of the man who, it
was alleged, had got rid of the stuff; the. third of
the alleged, go-between. The case against the
third was withdrawn in the expectation that he
would give the show away; the second was
acquitted, off hand ; and the other one —the one
whom the police presented in the first place as the
principal in the business —has just been discharged
after a long run. So the mystery isn’t at an end,
and the Far West, which hasn’t too much to talk
about, is still mercifully left one subject besides
the drought.
• * » •
There was a novel demonstration lately at
Kookynie, outside Kalgoorlie (Westralia). A de-
termined strike against the prevailing price of beer
has been declared there; and, in order to prove
that they hadn't been blacklegging and still
meant business, between 30 and 40 men “ pro-
ceshed,” each with a new Savings Bank pass-book
held in front of him. But the worm gnaws, and
the money is coming out of the Savings Bank
pretty soon to start a co-operative beerery.
« • * *
A curious case occurred at a city police
station, t’other day, when a woman carrying a
baby gave herself into custody and asked to be
reprimanded or otherwise severely dealt with for
being intoxicated. She seems to have wakened
up in the middle of the night, noticed her dis-
graceful condition, and betaken lierself with great
presence of mind to the protection of the con-
stabulary. A staggered magistrate with no sense
of humor dismissed the case. A man who was
equal to the occasion would have told the woman
who gave herself into custody to go home and
whack herself hard, or confine herself in the house
for seven days, or fine herself ss. and reprove
herself in strong terms for her misconduct.
* * * •
“F.”: One is never very favorably im-
pressed by the man who shows his robust radical-
ism by refusing
to drink the
health of the
King. He is,
as regards poli-
tics, much in the
same position as
the man who
wants to show
his freedom from
religious chains
by spelling God
with a small g.
Rudeness rarely
shows honest
conviction. The
man who goes
out of his way to
declare “ I am a
Republican ”
this year is too
often the
1L C. M. G. of
next year ; and
he who ostenta-
tiously sits down
to the toast of
the King is more
likely than not
advertising “See
what a dangerous
Radical I am—
will no zealous
0 o n servative
come and buy
ir.e over.” Not so many years ago, Judas
Chamberlain let it be known that he couldn’t
shake the hand of the then Prince of Wales—not
without a severe struggle, anyway. And now he
would shake a whole continent.
* • * •
A spirit of humor seems growing among
newly-made widows, judging by the obituary
notices they insert. There were three “In
Memoriam ” notices of dead husbands the other
day in the one paper. The first had a nice little
poem, the opening line of which was—
Call not the dear departed back.
Later remarks proved that the lady’s motives for
desiring no immediate resurrection of hubby were
purely altruistic. Still it was open to misinter-
pretation. Lower down, the bereaved Mrs.
Brown gave expression to her resignation on the
decease of Brown —
Thy will be done.
The familiar “The Lord gave and the Lord hath
taken away,” with a consequent benediction for
the Lord, supplied the third instance.
SUBTLE.
HUSBAND : “ There was a perfectly lovely woman
in the theatre to-night, my dear. I couldn't
keep my eyes off her.”
WIFE: “ Indeed! How kind of you to tell me.”
HUSBAND: “ Keep calm, my love, keep calm—it
was yourself.”
Meetings convened in Sydney at Easter
time: A.N.A. Conference, Premiers’ Conference,
Timber Industries Association, Country Progress
Associations’ Conference, Pas-
toral Societies’ Annual Con-
ference, 1.0.0. F. Annual Con-
ference. These conferences of
country persons, who want an
excuse for seeing Sydney at
show time,and the 1.0.Q.P.Q.T.
people who don’t bother about
excuses, mostly occupy their
sittings by admiring each other
and applying to the Government
for a trip in the yacht Victoria.
In between times they ask the
Government for a subsidy.
• • •
Dear Bulletin. —Be that
Melbourne lady who suddenly
lost her memory and all sense
of her identity, and was much
distressed thereat—how on earth
did she know she had any
identity? It is reported that
she walked up and down, and
in and out, and roundabout,
saying excitedly, “ Who am I ?”
How did she know she was any-
body ? This loss of identity
business puzzles me. I have read various yarns
about some man or other who forgot who he was,
yet he seemed to invariably remember that he
was some person or other.—L.W.
* * * *
Melbourne Argus advt.:
TXTANTED, Office Boy ; one with a red head pre-
’ ’ ferred. Apply letter, Tin Tack, Argus.
This is almost equal to the advt. for “ Elderly
office boy without encumbrance.”
* * • •
“ Petramos ” : I manage to make a holiday
trip to Smelbourne every year and get hold of the
latest in slang. Last year “boshter” (as in “a
real bosh ter” —a real beauty, a dazzler) was the
prevailing expression. This year “ bonzali ” holds
sway. It has precisely the same meaning.
Imagine a future slang dictionary—“ Boshter
[obsolete), a bonzali.”
A small urchin picked
up by the Melbourne
police, a few days since,
stated, in reply to the
usual questions put to
lost infants, that he had
t brother at the Uni-
versity. His own un-
kempfc appearance
scarcely seemed to cor-
roborate the assertion, so
the matter was pressed
“What part of the Uni'.
-ersity?” he was asked.
“The Medical School,”
glibly replied the kid.
The police looked at
one another. Then it
occurred to a constable
that the relative might
be a sweeper-out, or
something of the sort.
“ What does he do
there ? ” he demanded.
“Oh! he doesn’t do
nuffin,” responded the
youngster, “he’s in a
• * *
“Petramos” :
Judging by the extraor-
dinary punishments in-
vented by the profesh.,
the life of the irritable
type of schoolmaster must
be durance vile. Was ac-
quainted with a country school
teacher with a habit of “slap-
ping the tongues” of offending
youngsters of the girl persuasion.
The slapping consisted of making
the culprit stick out her tongue to
its full extent, whilst the chastiser
struck it with the flat side of a ruler.
That master was eventually dis-
missed for fixing a rope round a boy’s neck and
making sundry other preparations for a hanging
ceremony.
* * • •
“Leno” (whose letter had 4d. to pay on
it) writes of a Westralian diversion :
I put in a few days among the “ Jarrah-jerkers,” alias
the timber hewers and sawyers and other savages in the
jarrah forests of Westralia, and was invited to a concert
and ball. It was held in the local schoolroom, which was
built of jarrah, and the audience sat round on jarrah
planks roughly nailed to jarrah blocks; the performers
sang from a jarrah stage (about 6ft. square) in a
wooden style. The admission was 10s. a double ticket.
The ball, however, was the great attraction. Some score
of wives and half as many maidens represented the fair
sex. The wives had mostly brought their babies, and,
whilst dancing, deposited them on the schoolmaster’s bed
in his one room adjoining. I counted eight babies there
whilst one dance was going on. The schoolroom had a
dancing space of about 20ft. x 20ft., and in this 30 to 40
couples surged wildly to and fro, the noise of over 70
blucher-clad feet almost drowning the solitary fiddle. A
pleasant diversion was caused by one of the dancers, who
had got “elevated" too soon and had been packed off
home to bed, turning up on the scene clad only in his
shirt.
• • • *
The Riverina is promised an exciting
nuptial settlement law-suit, in which some of
the Tyson money will be involved. The Tyson
money flows to lawyers as naturally as water
flows downhill.
CYCLONE SEASON.
HOSPITABLE NEIGHBOR: "Coming in for a rest
an’ a cup of tea?”
IN PASSING: “ Not to-day — we’re in a hurry an'
can’t stop !”
An incident of the Vic. Easter camp.
The reveille had sounded, and the Mounted Rifles
were late. One officer, with anguished bawhngs
and a liberal application of spur, was trying to
get some headway on, but for some reason or
other his horse refused to go forward. After
some minutes of tinted language and stained-glass
phrases, another officer happened along, and
casually informed the lunatic on the horse that
his orderly had omitted to undo the heel-ropes.
It was a much-subdued officer who sneaked into
his place in the lines a few minutes later.
The private bar of Parliament 1
Its uses are accurst;
It tempts the legislative gent
To cultivate a thirst;
It lures him from his task below,
His senses it ensnares,
It lays high aspirations low,
That little bar upstairs.
Alas! Alas 1
That little bar upstairs.
A sober new-chum M.L.A.
Is greeted with a wink ;
Old sheep who long have gone astray
Induce the lamb to drink,
And he, at first as chaste as ice,
Pours whisky down his neck,
Until at last, poor slave of vice !
He dies a soddened wreck.
Alas ! Alas 1
He dies a soddened wreck.
Remove the evil, cut it out—
This canker in the State,
Compel the fevered lips to shout
“A glass of water, straight! ”
Shut up the bar and peace serene
Shall fill the House at night
When ev’ry wreck that might have been
Becomes a Rechabite.
Oh, joy 1 O, joy !
Becomes a Rechabite.
FATE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
O Thou, who knowest whence we came, and can
Endow a moment with the mood of Man,
When my wan moment like a dream is gone,
Destroy or take me then where I began.
If it be in that moment I have err’d
A thousand times, remember I’m a word
That Thou hast spoken, and its echoes have
All from Thine own intensity occurr’d.
I am no other than what Thou hast made,
Apprenticed to Thy purpose, like a trade,
I now not why ; and if I care or no,
’Tis to Thy purpose, too, how I am paid 1
R. CRAWFORD.


Wild’s, in the Sydney Arcade, is the most
fashionable gentlemen’s hairdressing saloon in
Sydney. Every attention possible is paid to the
customers by six expert hairdressers. Address.—
30 Sydney Arcade, entrance from George-streeb
or King street, Sydney.*
SILVER STAR STARCH
- • tp ' •;
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
$s S.
af> .OUSNESS UVER
01 -*• and Troubles.
“ Melb.”: I heard Rev. Professor
Sugden, of Queen’s College, give a
novel up-to-date turn to the
Good Samaritan in his preach-
ing. He put it that a poor
fellow started to walk
from Melbourne to
Footscray, and was
set upon by the
North Melbourne
push, which left
nim in the state
of the man in
the parable.
A clergyman
passed, but
went over
on the
other side.
Then cam<
anot h e 1
clergyman,
who said
“ Poor
man!” but
also went
over on
the other
side. Last-
ly came a
Chinaman
with his
truck. He
put the suf-
ferer on that
vehicle, took
him to the
nearest pub., and
deposited half-a-sovereign
with the landlord for his board.
••- * •
Ail instructive maintenance case cropped
up at a Melbourne suburban court last week.
The fair complainant stated she was already
twice a widow, when she had the misfortune to
be beguiled by the advertisement of a widower,
aged 60. He wanted to meet an elderly lady of
means, so she met him and compared him favor-
ably, in her memory, with her two dead husbands,
whilst he vowed he loved her better than lie had
loved either of his three deceased wives, though
he had adored them all. So they got married as
soon as possible, and the bridegroom borrowed
37s 6d from the bride to give to the officiating
priest. Then he took her home to his store,
which was so dirty that she had to spend £3 15s
in getting it cleaned Also, she had to clean her
husband free of cost, because he was dirty, she
says. Presently the old man grew mad over her
hearth ss refusal to give him all her money. He
had married her solely for her little bib of
property (as he told the Bench last week), and
when she denied him his cash dues he told her he
had thrown himself away upon the wrong widow.
There was another widow who wanted him badly.
The old man’s alleged prospects of future great-
ness (he claims to be heir presumptive to the
Earl of Allendale) seem to have dazzled the
other suitress he spoke of, but anyhow it is quite
clear that on his bare merits as a somewhat grimy
citizen of 65 he could find lots of widows willing
to come along and lawfully wash him.
* • • •
In spite of the patronage of certain highly-
placed ladies, the Maoriland movement to co-
operate with the “League of Loyal Women” in
South Africa, in putting vegetables over the dust
of the Maorilanders who died while burning the
Boer farms, is a sorry failure. Beyond a few dozy
speeches, principally by mayors, on the achieve-
ments of the youths who died for their country
“in that far-off land ” no interest whatever
appears to be manifested in the movement. No-
body cares now for the foolish stalwarts who
perished in the cause of colored labor.
MILITARY ITEM.
“Good gracious , what are you doing? That?s not
playing at soldiers.”
“ Oh, but we're pretending we’re the Grenadeir
Guards !”
A Royal Australian Artilleryman, who left
a wife and nine children, was killed in the scrub
beyond Randwick, last week, by the upsetting of
a dray. A R.A.A. man with a wife and nine
children on soldier’s pay ! Which recalls an inter-
view which a N.S.W. Commandant had some
years ago with a full private in the R.A.A. The
man had a wife and three or four children, all
being “on the strength of the regiment.” The
Commandant was retrenching, and the full pri-
vate’s name and family and the amount drawn
monthly —about £12 —came in front of him. The
general sent for the private, and having eyed him
over, bluntly said: “Blanlcy, blanky, I can get
three good men for what you and your family
cost. Take a month’s pay and, damn ye, get
out! ”
* * • *
Why are Judges so addicted to “emotion”?
A few days ago Justice Williams (Vic.) threw a
chaffing remark about a “Jew’s harp” at ex-
Attorney-General Isaacs. Isaacs took no notice,
but next day Williams explained, in a broken
voice, that he hadn’t meant the joke as any reflec-
tion on Isaacs’ religion. Nobody supposed he
had, but who, except a judge or an ex-actor,
would feel called upon to have a break in his
voice over a small thing like that ?
GHOSTLY COMFORTER.
MEDIUM (in a hollow voice, to widow desirous of
communicating with late lamented): “ Before
’oldin’ communion with the spirit world, it's
necessary to be redooced to a medium state.”
HEAVYWELIGHT WIDOW: “ Phwat —would yez have
me starve meself when it was always poor
Murphy’s constant cry to me, 'Bridget, have
anither chop?’”
The sinful foolishness of the White Aus-
tralia doctrine has been explained to the complete
satisfaction of Wodonga (Vic.) Shire Council by
Rev. Bickford. The gentle shepherd in question
appears to have been exploring North Queensland
on behalf of the Victorian and Tasmanian Metho-
dists, who love the far-off nigger either as a
brother in the Loard when he is converted, or as
a brother in urgent need of conversion to the
Loard. Starting off with the conviction that
niggers are good things to have in the Common-
wealth for missionary purposes, Rev. Bickford
soon convinced himself of the utter “impossi-
bility” of substituting white labor for colored
labor in the sugar-caneries. It can’t be done—in
a Rev. Bickford way of speaking. The white
man contracts tick disease. The cane cuts his
hands and damages his body. It would cut
his head off if he were to use it as a saw for that
suicidal purpose. Moreover the white man can’t
live within the tropic of Capricorn. He does
actually live and work there, but only because
he’s obstinate. If he were a respectable Metho-
dist and an anti-White Australian he wouldn’t do
it. Although it was the middle of winter when
Rev. Bickford and his Christian friends visited
Townsville, “ none of them could sleep in the
town, and had to repair to a mountain several
miles away to get rest.” Which proves conclu-
sively that the warmest parts of Australia were
never made for unctuous tourists. The oil which
exudes from the extra good man when he is hot
unfits him for climates where the man of muscle
rather than grease can flourish.
• * • •
“ C.A.R.0.” on a matter of modesty :
This is purely a yelp of disgust, it is meant for nothing
more, and it is at the expense of the women bathers who
frequent the morning breakers at Manly. Many of the
bathers dispense with anything over their gowns, both
to and from their bath ; and the sight of dripping figures
in shrunken skin-tight suits, making their way home-
wards, is too common to shake the nerves. Have seen
girls and fellows talking together at the top of some of
the streets with about as much clothing between them
as would keep a decent-sized dog shivering. It is need-
less to say the girls had good figures. One morning a
woman had the bliss of creating a little sensation—she
sauntered down to the water in a white muslin gown ! It
was very pretty, but as soon as it was wet! From a
distance that gown did the disappearing trick, and men
swam tirelessly past her. She was eventually remon-
strated with by a few Philistines, and left the beach in re-
luctant disgust. One lady became well known by divest-
ing herself of her wet and tight garments with the summer
house for background, and her dressing gown, into which
she somehow manoeuvred, held between her and the
men’s bathing ground. Side views were permitted. One
morning some girls removed her clothes to t’other side of
the shed, but she trotted them back again, remarking
she “ liked the sun."
* « * *
Parson C. E. Curtis, a right-thinking
preacher, got up in his pulpit, t’other Sunday
night, and gave the inhabitants of the unclean
town of Tamworth a piece of his mind re the pre-
sent typhoid outbreak in the town —and Tamworth
certainly wants a large, violent piece of some-
body’s mind. Its alleged river is a great open
cesspit nowadays, banked on either side by evil-
looking refuse drained and deposited from the
town. The time when Tamworth smells like the
bottomless pit in its worst state is when the
streets are being watered with the fluid from this
melancholy stream. The town has been incorpo-
rated for 27 years, and the local alderman’s idea
of drainage still consists mainly of “ chucking ”
things into the river. The slow-going Aus-
tralian river doesn’t lend itself to that kind of
treatment. It doesn’t hurry away with the garb-
age, but deposits it gently on its sandbanks and
its mudflats and its bars, and leaves it there in the
sun, and comes back again in a few days to see
how it is getting on. Tamworth, as the result of
this sore of thing, has got typhoid badly. It is
difficult to see what else it could expect to get.
• » # *
It was with reason Justice Walker, of
N.S.W., spoke resentfully the other day about
a common legal practice. A divorce cb-re-
spondent declining to pay costs may be
gaoled for six months, but if at the end of
that term he sequestrates his estate he may
be released. On April 20 such a co-respondent
was released by the sheriff; on April 22 a belated
application for his release turned up before Justice
Walker, who did well to be cantankerous at having
his time wasted and his horsehair wig turned into
a mockery by his being asked to order that the
thing which had already occurred should happen.
The “ barmaid ” question seems to be
almost as awkward a rock to run up against as the
Sunday banana. There’s a large and holy section
of the community which professes an abhorrence
for both, and by persistent effort scares up an
occasional agitation against them as sinful. But
the ultimate result is always the same —barmaid
and banana emerge in their old position of proud
security. Magistrate Isaacs from the Sydney
Bench the other day remarked, or was reported to
have remarked —
Barmaids are a curse to our social life. lam sure a girl
cannot engage in such a profession and come out of it
with a clean mind and clean hands.
Which libel had been in print but one day when
Magistrate Isaacs thought fit to withdraw and
apologise, with the explanation that what he
really did say, or meant to say, was—
The employment of young and inexperienced girls as
barmaids, such as the accused appears to be, is a curse to
our social life. It would be a hard matter, in my opinion,
for such to pass through such an ordeal with clean hands
and pure mind.
Which is a little less absolute, and brings Mr.
Isaacs nearer to the more moderate of the holy
section, who would allow any lady over 70 to
become a barmaid. Yet it is wholly illogical, for
if there are to be barmaids, there must be a time
when they are “inexperienced,” if not young.
The only way to become an experienced barmaid
is by being a barmaid. But it was the only hole
in the fence, and Magistrate Isaacs gob through
it with all possible grace and velocity.
• * • •
The habit that Anglican Bishops in Aus-
tralia have of capturing as an alias the name of
their see (on the absurd pretence that they’re
lords over the territories in which they bishop
at small salaries) works out humorously some-
times. Charlie Bathurst and Willie Melbourne
look right enough, but a recent begging letter to
the Sydney press was signed
GEORGE H. NORTH QUEENSLAND.
Later on, one may expect “Thomas D. Gulf of
Carpentaria,” or “ James G. British New
Guinea.” And what’s the matter with “John K.
Cannibal Islands ” ?
* • • •
Anew use for a J.P.-ship. A N.S.W.
country “mimber” received, t’other day, a re-
quest from a constituent to appoint Mr. So-and-So
a J.P., “ because he was going
to get married soon.” Here is a
possibility for the hard-up country
legislator. Instead of sending
along silver butter-dishes to his
constituents about to hitch-up, ha
can get the prospective bride-
groom “appinted” a J.P.
“ H.P.” re “no encum-
brance ”: —
The employers of labor are not alone
in barring children. Landlords in tak-
ing tenants generally give the pre-
ference to those fortunate (?) enough
to have no olive branches. I wanted
a house the other day. The landlord
had other applicants. I knew this,
and approached him cautiously. His
first question was : “ Have you
any children ?” "Yes.” “Ah ! how many?" *'Four."
“ Hum !—what are their ages?’’ "Ten, eight, four, and
one.” “Oh! What sort of children are they ?” “The
best in the world.” “Yes; well, I’ll 6ee you again.
Good day.” He did not see me again. Next day I
passed the house I was after. A newly-married couple
was moving in. They got the house for Is. a week less
than 1 was asked. One consolation is, they will have to
pay more later on—probably.
• • • •
The female stowaway gets a much better
time than the male ditto. That handsome woman
of about 35, who was found on the Orontes at
Adelaide, was comfortably lodged and boarded at
the cost of the Orient Co. and returned by their
next finer to Melbourne. This sort of thing is all
very good while the woman stowaway is new. But
she may cease to be new, and then things may be
different—very different. The man who finds
her very ill and exhausted among the cargo will
simply take her by the waistband and carry her
up, like a collapsed carpet-bag, for presentation
to the captain, and he will speak severely to her,
finally telling her that she may lie insensible in the
till she begins to feel better, and then
the steward will give her some salt horse and let
her work her passage to the next port, where she
will be given in custody with the utmost rigor of
the law.
* * * *
When the big double murder was com-
mitted in the Mackay lock-up yard, a few weeks
ago, by a Kanaka, two white men were in the
lock up under committal on a charge of cattle
stealing. Against these two men the evidence
was not particularly strong, yet they were both
kept in close confinement (which was probably
fortunate for them, under the circs.). The Kanaka,
on the other hand, who was under committal upon
a capital charge, and against whom the evidence
was of the strongest (lie had confessed to the
crime), was allowed to remain in the yard
at his own sweet will and tomahawk his fellow,
prisoners in a wholesale fashion. The lie abcut
the gentleness of the Kanaka was, in this case,
responsible for two deaths.
Somebody have been making nasty
remarks about the warlike spirit of Ikey Mo.
lately. The Jewish Hekald resents these base
insinuations, and proudly cites some striking
instances calculated to knock them into ole clo’ !
“ There is,” it sajrs, “ a good deal of Jewish fight-
ing material running to seed among certain of the
less known of the Hebraic clans in the remote
districts of North-western Africa. Few, probably,
are cognisant of the fact that a large number of
the so-called Riff Pirates, the last and worst, per-
haps, of the old corsair-men ofthe Barbary Coast,
are really Jews, in whom the old fighting lust
of the Hebrews has taken this unusual mode
of manifesting itself.” These are the gentle-
men who have been making things so un-
pleasant for the Spanish garrison in Melilla
lately—by way of wiping out the old Jewish score
against Spain, perhaps. They are picturesque
ruffians, but sadly in need of education. Another
interesting item from the hook-nosed contem-
porary: “Curious is it to note that one of the
first commodores of the newly-constituted Ameri-
can navy after the finish of the struggle with
Great Britain was a Jew, Mordecai Manuel Noah.
He was probably the only commander of a war
vessel the Jewish race ever produced.” The
position was, most likely, given him on the
strength of his last name. The other Noah was a
good deep-sea sailor, and the oldest of admirals.
* * * •
The female housebreaker of Melbourne is
apparently going to be a permanent institution;
lately two more of her were captured in one night.
One of them showed great energy and fought
several rounds with two ladies who attempted to
detain her. In the end she not only got away,
but took the plunder with her ; but she was pre-
sently overtaken by a policeman. This new form
of competition is a serious matter for the male
housebreaker, for the amount of valuable, un-
guarded, portable property is always limited, and
the more people that are after it the less each of
these people is likely to get.
• * • •
One scorching day last summer, the 14sfc.
wife of a provincial magnate was introduced to
Governor Clarke’s wife. “It’s a fair hog of a
day,” cheerfully remarked the perspiring lady.
“ Do ye sweat much, Lady Clarke? ”
POWERFUL ACTORS.
THE LITTLE 'UN : “ Look at me, the most power-
ful actor in Australia. I fill the theatres
wherever I go.”
THE BIG 'UN : “Not more powerful than I, sir”
THE LITTLE 'UN : “ Perhaps not. You empty
them.”
The British aristocracy furnishes a very
steady supply of utterly squalid scandals. But
even it will nob easily beat the record of the
divorced Countess Russell, who married a coach-
man named Brown under the impression that that
plebeian impostor was a son of the Emperor of
Austria. Small romantic nurse-girls and such-like
do fall into traps of the sort, but the ex countess
would be naturally supposed to know the ear-
marks of emperors and other small deer better
than that. Brown, the coachman, doesn’t seem
even to have builb up a plausible tale by assuming
the style of a real prince whose dignity could hear
looking up in a book of reference. He called him-
self Jobson, Prince of Greece, or the Jook
d’Moses, or something about equally uncon-
vincing.
* • • *
A section of the N.S.W. licensing law
authorises a fine of £2O on any publican who
doesn’t produce his license when called upon by
the police or Other proper authority. And, as a
rule, he can’t it, because the brewer, who holds
a mortgage ovifer his body, pub., and soul, has the
document. Therefore (as a remedy for the “ tied-
house ”)'the brewer might be fined £2O every time
the license isn’t forthcoming.
THE PROUP PATIENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Tompkins has appendicitis,
Same as Kings and Gov’norsget ;
Tompkins in the fashion quite is,
Envied by his social set.
Tompkins’ state of exaltation
Poet’s fancy cannot paint;
Only men of rank and station
Suffer from this New Complaint.
Tompkins has appendicitis;
O, what joy to hear the pain t
Uncontrolled his wife’s delight is—
Tompkins has not lived in vain!
Tenderly his hand she seizes—
“ When you’re stronger, dear old pet,
You must catch some more diseases,
Same as Kings and Gov’nors get.”
E.F.


Eff* the Matter of Dress attention to Detail Indicates Breeding.
EVERY LADY KNOWS mTT * m
KLEINERTS HOOKON
istheonly Q orrect nose Supporter
To wear with the NEW FORM COR3ET
Sold only at the Best Shops.
Women ! why be thin and undeveloped ?
Lact&, the wonderful skin-food, plumps the flesh
where thin and undeveloped, gives a beautiful
roundness to face, neck, bust, and arms. A
quick, sure and safe home treatment. Jars
7s. 6d., post Bs. 2d. Thousands of women using it
daily, all of whom testify to the wonderful results
from its use. Write for pamphlet to H. Westall
Guest, Yice-regal chemist, 229 Bourke-street,
Melbourne.*
f/
PS?
9
&
*
'is
V
rw wtw
WT
W
WT
n
W
WT
w
WT
w
v.
WT
WT
WT
W
[W
A SMART BLOUSE
Made of best French flannel, tucked and
strapped in the latest styles.
ALL each
OUR PRICES SPEAK IN TONES OF
TRUE ECONOMY,
Write to us for any of your WINTER
WANTS. We can please you always.
W. T. WATERS & CO. LTD.
“ The Leaders of Fashion,"
King & George Sts., SYDNEY.
Dress Fabrics
Are Stocked by the
Leading Drapers.
™maVkTHE varnished boa
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, April 28, 1903.
My Dear Arini.—
Have you ever detected and arrested the funny
little fancies that scurry through your sensorium
whilst you are manicuring your nails or doing
your hair ? At such occupations you may become
intensely absorbed with a score of idle fancies
which, registered, would make interesting reading
—perhaps!
A week ago, whilst I was getting my claws into
good mousing condition, I caught myself thinking
how nice it would be to live away out from the
noise and dust of this, the noisiest city in the
world (except Glasgow, I am told), on a farm with
fine shade trees and fish-ponds; a farm where the
calves never grow to be cows and the goslings
never turn into great flat-footed geese, but always
retain their golden down and sweet, squeaky
notes. To feel a calf’s horns budding is an intel-
lectual intoxication, I meditated (and the calf does
love to have them scratched with a clothes peg—
the peggy end).
Then there floated before my introspective eyes
a Tasmanian memory of a group of giant
tamarisks. Through their foliage, light against
the opal sky as asparagus fern, shone a half-faced
moon; yet it Was not night. Between their
stems a blue panel of sea. Without a ghost of
a connecting link I was next thinking of the
horde of flying foxes in Federal Government
House garden on the night of the Tennysons’
ball. Drought has driven them to the coast in
great numbers this year. They rustled to
and fro in the foliage, quarrelled, and tried
to spoil the waltz music with their unhappy
noises. From that to the women at the ball —a
section of the women—the Woman of 50. She
has been, this season, prominent at the race-
meetings, the balls, the civic reception at the
Town Hall, at the afternoon teas and first nights.
She was, collectively, beautifully dressed, her
decollette gown showing her fine polished
shoulders, exquisitely corseted and coiffured, and
she kept her eyes swivelling and her lips smiling,
and she talked, talked, always—to the man at
her side. Rarely was the man middle-aged, or
old. And he gave no sign of wishing to wander
to others 30 years younger.
A recent mag. article on the fifty-year-olds is
illustrated with portraits of Lady R. Churchill,
Mrs. Burton Harrison, Adelina Patti, and Bern-
hardt (these last two are about 60), Brown-Potter,
and Langtry, as representing the brilliant women
of 50 or more who are at the very zenith of their
powers, with “ripe beauty,” “ripe views,” “dis-
ciplined intellects,” and who stand for a great
deal jn their particular worlds. Contrasted with
these; portraits are others showing women of 50
half-a-century ago, a maiden aunt of former days,
and a girl of 16, 50 years ago. They look a sad
group. No doubt they spent their lives trying
to please this or that man, and the writer says
“there are few objects to whom a man behaves
so indifferently as the woman who breaks her
neck trying to please him.” The writer argues
that modern women are 20 or t5O years
younger than their grandmothers of the same
age because they have decided not to grow old,
it being a matter more psychological than physical
till a certain bourne is reached, beyond which is
collapse. Portraits of the smart 50-year-olds,
who make the very debutantes jealous in our
Commonwealth society, would form a fetching
gallery.
L.-Mayor T. Hughes has “struck” on indis-
criminate mayoral receptions of visitors. One of
the aldermen desired to welcome pianist Mark
Hambourg as a distinguished visitor, and was
quite ruffled When the Mayor declined, and referred
to “ his mistakes of the past” in this direction.
He has everyone’s approval for striking against
the use of the mayoral reception as a means of
advertisement, but everyone regrets that he has
struck at a man of music instead of a man of 100
horse-power legs. Sandow and cyclist Taylor
were received as distinguished visitors—there is
almost something Cardinal Moranish in the blun-
der of shutting down on Hambourg. Why didn’t
Mr. Hughes have the sense to wait for the next
muscle man before taking up a firm stand ?
Mr. and Mrs. B. R. Wise returned to Sydney
last Friday, and left next day for their house at
Port Hacking, accompanied by Mrs. Fitzwilliam-
Curtis (Miss Fattorini). Mrs. Wise isn’t changed
by a day or a pound (avoirdupois), but she is
weary of the blown wet face of the sea, and feels
salted like a herring She spent much of her
time with her son at Harrow, where she also
skated. It was 20 years since she had on a pair
of skates. It was a beautiful winter in England,
clear and bracing. What a new thing to hear an
English winter get a good character! At
Marseilles, Mrs. Wise met Madame Blanc,
the wife of a former Sydney manager of the
Messageries Maritimes, and found her quite
up to date regarding Australian affairs through
reading our papers. Asked about her stay at
Madresfield Court with the Beauchamps, Mrs.
Wise had something to say as to the charm and
attainments of the bride, and much to marvel at
in Lord B.’s continued interest in Australia—in
its painters, writers and singers. He also asked
after scores of Sydneysiders by name.
Mrs. Wise returns a member of the Ladies’
Empire Club (the Forrest dame is also a member),
but she didn’t club heavily, and knows nothing
of the uniform which the body is said to affect.
Someone, who was possibly giving me toasted
cheese in a trap, described an Empire Club uni-
form of paralysing brilliancy. After getting the
salt out of her system, and the albatrosses and
porpoises out of her dreams, Mrs. Wise will come
back to town and start house-hunting.
Mr. S. W. Childs, an American construction
engineer with something of the fortunes of the
Republic in his personality, who has fixed up the
electric tramways in Kalgoorlie (W.A.), Was a
few days in Sydney before leaving for a run
through M.L. His destination is China. The
Kalgoorloons parted with him most unwillingly,
but nope to pay him a call in a body and borrow
tram-fares when he’s wearing the yellow jacket
and peacock’s feather in the Forbidden City.
Those who heard tenor Lloyd in his prime say
to those who hear him to-day, “Ah ! you should
have heard him before he retired, ’’ etc. Had he
come out in the summer of his voice, instead of its
autumn, he could not have got a more spon-
taneous appreciation. His singing of “ Come
into the Garden, Maud ! ” last Saturday night
made the audience look and behave in such fashion
as might cause a Master in Lunacy to take action.
Lloyd, junior, who accompanies his father, is a
blond, bland young man, who owns up to being a
farmer. He looks more like an aide-de-camp, and
you can’t imagine him hoeing turnips, except in a
comic opera furrow.
“The King dined with Captain and Lady
Sarah Wilson at their house in Grosvenor-square
on Monday evening.” Think well on that, look
at it in a proper spirit, and the world will recede
and disappear, leaving the announcement blazing
across the universe, just as Heine saw the name of
his favorite girl. What may happen to the son
of a good Riverina sheep-owner when he marries
a duke’s daughter !
At the recent Investiture. Mrs. Fitzrudder-
Jones in a surprised tone to a gentleman wearing
an order: “Is that you, Mr. R. ? ” “ Certainly ! ”
was the reply. “Well, lam glad to see you, Mr.
R.; will you please send me another dozen of
that nice hock you sent me before ? ” “ De-
lighted,” said the gentleman ; “do you mean that
at Is. 9d. per bottle ? ”
A muster of maimed, halt and convalescent
infants, ranging in age from three to six years,
from the Children’s Hospital, with nurses in
charge, filled the front chairs of the stalls at a
matinee of “Dick Whittington” last Saturday.
They were Mrs. J. C. Williamson’s guests.
Dick’s “ Cat,” the doll’s apron worn by the big
Martha Mixit (the man-cook) and the Buttercup
and Daisy ballet engrossed them to forgetfulness
of their plaster-of-Paris-encased limbs, and even
of their hostess’s milk chocolate. A granny of
four-and-a-half had so strong a sense of decorum
that she protested loudly (to the orchestra)
against the ballet “ showing its ‘ panties ’ when it
went ring-a-ring-a-rosy.”
Marie Narelle’s success in Dublin and London
will be an encouragement to the tribe of Aus-
tralian singers whose eyes are turned Smokeward.
Marie says she got an offer of £25 per week from
the Empire, but is doing so well at concert work
that it was declined. Her Irish ballads have
made Miss Narelle’s chief success.
A compliment to Longstaff is the proposed
issue of the portrait of Marjory Williamson as a
Xmas supplement to the Graphic. By the way,
Longstaff will now probably get on with his
portrait of the Queen, ordered for National
Gallery by some Sydney women. Last week
L.-Mayoress Mrs. T. Hughes presided at the final
meeting of the portrait fund, and cabled £302
some odd shillings and pennies to the painter;
so the fund was a trifle over-subscribed.
On May 7th a concert, organised by Miss Mary
Robinson, will be given in the Victoria Hall,
Manly. Among the voices to be lifted up in song,
and the other sounds, are those of Maud Dal-
rymple, Beatrice English, Albert Grau, and W.
A. Robyns.
The landscape photograph which took the
world’s amateur championship at the Royal Photo-
graphic Salon two years ago has only recently
got its medal and ribbon. In the interim it has
won over £lOO in prize money at English and
American exhibitions. Picture is in rich red
brown tones. It was photographed close to
Jamberoo township, Trees, sloping ground, and
cattle going to drink at a water hole. The
amateur ’grapher, Philip Caro, stood for the best
part of a day waiting for Strawberry and White-
foot and Lightfoot to pose gracefully into the
Jamberoo setting.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“Our old friend, Wally, grows amusingly
patronising towards his old employer. In a
private letter, he is reported by the Argus as
writing: ‘ Poor Lord Linlithgow is, I fear, very
ill. He has now gone to Bavaria to try a new
doctor, but I confess (forsooth, he does) that I
don’t like the accounts I have received (ahem !)
at all.’ This from the obsequious-nosed Hopetoun
secretary of old ! The ‘ better-not ’ attitude is
for ever gone. The above letter-tone is one of
pure good-chappie concern.
“ The life of a Bohemian in Melbourne is not
all beer and skittles. It has its ups and its downs.
One of the fraternity, whose fine moustache and
massive proportions are well-known to frequenters
of the Block, has, or had, a comfortably furnished
suite of rooms at the top of a tall building, 79
steps up. The other Saturday he went out, lock-
ing the door behind him, and leaving his little
spirit-stove burning, ready to make a fragrant
oup of tea, or rather two cups, all set out on the
table with bachelor-like neatness. During his
absence, two men were observed to come up like
wolves on the fold, and proceed to hand things
through the window. Chairs, carpet, table,
spirit-stove, cups, and many accessories followed
one another swiftly on to the landing, ; while
these dread, silent men breathed never a
word. Soon after their departure from the now
bare room, the unsuspecting tenant came toiling
up the 79 steps. He was attended by one of his
Block visions. He had invited her to lunch a
deux, and, as he gaily unlocked the door, he mur-
mured, ‘Now, we shan’t be long.’ Then came
the shock.
“The well-advertised wedding of Miss Mary
Clarke and Captain Robert Lindsay attracted a
record attendance to the Anglican Cathedral and
caused nigh a deadlock in the traffic. The defunct
Rupertswood Battery was revived to parade for
the event. Down the aisle their aggressive spurs
clanked feebly, and there was no excuse in their
knock-kneed numbers to warrant the resurrection.
Newspapers spoke of a cheer at their appearance,
or the bride’s arrival—one or t’other. There was
a cheer—the result of a one-eyed tramp being
saved from violent contact with a spirited horse.
“ The bridegroom boasted the sylphic waist of
the up-to-date English ‘Johnny’—a very de-
cidedly attenuated one which would do wonders
as a corset advertisement. He is a fair sample of
the English brass-button dandy who waits upon
vioe-regals.
“ The white chiffons and scarlet mountings of
the bridesmaids provided the sight of the day,
for, whereas brides look all alike at a distance,
three pairs of bridesmaids in three degrees of
height crowned in scarlet blossoms are a novelty.
Miss Vera Clarke and Miss Le Souef (of the Zoo
Director’s family) carried their basket hats and
their straight scarlet sticks with an air of com-
mand to suit their inches. The second pair—
Misses Ivy Clarke and Erica Hughes—substituted
a show of chocolate hose and shoes for the long
chiffon trains of the advance guard. Haughty
young Misses these. The smallest two held the
great train, and were mostly lost to sight.
“ The feature of the Clarke bride’s wedding
toilette was the costly English Honiton lace,
woven for the present Princess of Wales (then
Princess May Teck), when she was booked to
marry the late Duke of Clarence. The bride-
groom-elect died, and the bridal-lace, sold by
auction, was bought by the late Baronet W.
Clarke. 111-omened lace, seems to me ! Another
uncanny thing about that ex-royal lace is that its
pattern is May-blossoms. Weddings and the
month of May, or anything belonging to that
month, are best apart. The crush of marriages
in April is not only owing to the fact that Lent is
over, but that ‘ unlucky ’ May is to come.
“ Dowager Lady Janet was dressed up to the
occasion, which means much. Her dove-grey
outfit, her sprightly figure, her inky and luxurious
coiffure made her impressive. Mrs. Cruickshank,
in gorgeous floral ribbon and lace-striped gown,
and Mrs. Charlie Ryan (whose dress-mounting
was of costly fur, with interposing lace fans) were
the two smartest dames in the family pews.
“ Surpliced greybeards rushed in where mem-
bers of the Force feared to tread to keep the aisles
clear of curious females. The most energetic was
that city magnate and veteran of authority—
F. R. Godfrey. He dashed across the corns of
the most important guests (the more important
the guest the greater the corn) in his determined
efforts to clear first one side aisle and then
another. A hoary member of the local Upper
House, in his desire to see the show, mounted the
pulpit, and his bald pate gleamed upon the pro-
ceedings like the pale benediction of a bladder of
lard in a small-goods shop.
“The one inglorious incident of the wedding
was the going-off. Word arrived at ‘ Cliveden ’
that a great rally of gaspers were lining the
Spencer-street station, so the newly-married pair
arranged to go on board at North Melbourne.
Arrived at the station of call, news was conveyed
that the train was late, and would not be in for
35 minutes, though an urgent message had been
sent to Bent to come and roar behind it. The
Jehu was bidden to take a few turns in the near
roads. He did, and the English bridegroom had
a view of Swamp-road and the prairie across
which the odors of the bone-mills blow. Truly a
sweet spot! When, at length, the train turned
up, only a few factory hands and railway gangers
were about, and these did not concern themselves
about the long, lean stranger in the skin-tight
suit, or about the Grey Lady.
“Governors and aides showered stationery
effects on the ‘ Cliveden ’ bride. Bachelors mostly
gave books and glove-stretchers. There must
have been quite a dozen copies of Tennyson, an
exquisite edition presented by the Gov.-General
heading the list. Archbishop Carr sent his com-
pliments and silverware to the bride in his suave
way, although he had sternly refused to sanction
a fair member of his flock acting as Miss Clarke’s
bride-help in ‘ the other Cathedral.’
“On the day of the Clarke wedding Judge
Madden and his liege lady opened the Chrysan-
themum Show in the Town Hall. They were
upholstered to match in two shades of grey. Her
pale-grey cloth (smooth, not hairy) was banded
with darker tones of same shade; his delicate grey
binding had deeper facings, and a color-splash in
the shape of a red tie. On the platform, the
Waxellency palavered pleasantly, as usual, excus-
ing Gov. Clarke’s absence by surmising that that
nice, clean little Person (just arrived from Sydney)
was ‘in his bath at this very minute.’
“Director Tate of the Education Department
is dubbed by some critics a wild enthusiast, and
an aesthetic humbug. But one tangible effect of
the Tate curriculum appeared the other day in
the commendable form of cut flowers, exhibited
by State schools pupils at the Chrysanthemum
Show, displaying the gardening skill of the
youngsters. Much tender care had been bestowed
on the blooms. Most of the exhibitors, I hear,
were boys. Now the male cottage-gardener
seldom turns the hose on the mate of his home,
or strikes her with the trowel, or punctures her
cheek with the rake. The training of boys in
flower ways is morally and physically beneficial.
Therein let Director Tate be applauded.
“ Another marriage of the week was of Mel-
bourne’s ’cellist, Herr Hattenbach, and Dr. Hef-
fernan’s daughter Eileen. They are twin-souls in
’cello duetting and musical rhapsodies.
“ The Italian mail brings news that Randolph
Bedford is showing his loyalty on a bed of sick-
ness. The letter runs—
‘ I went down to Florence expressly to see Randolph
Bedford. Found him ill, very, with appendicitis. But its
worst stage was mastered, and old habits prevailed—the
tongue or the pen went at express speed. Age cannot
wither or sickness stale his gusty confidence.
“ Lady Silverlocks had an idea of planning a
golf links on some of the ‘ Stonington ’ property.
She has often swung a cleek on an English course.
But a croquet green was set while she deliberated
about t’other. There she beats all opponents.
The Clarkes hear constant rumors of a change of
residence —and, being obliging and pleasant per-
sons, are ready to move for’ard according to public
desire, should the will of Parliament be so bent.
“I joined the Panama hat procession one cold
damp day this week to have a look at the
Aquarium and Annette Kellermann for my
self. It wasn’t diving-time, and the diving’
lady was curled up in a corner of the gallery
reading a book. There were some minutes to
spare, and we plunged into talk. She likes
the dip well enough, but ‘I don’t like them
crowding up,’ she grimaced with a jerk of the
head towards the Panama hats in the distance—
‘but they don’t know me, in this get up. They
often stand about after the performance watching
I stroll lazily out of the passage, pass them and
leave them looking for Annette the Diver ! ’ She
laughs, stretches herself, but keeps a thumb in
the book. ‘l’m a beggar for reading. And
I feel the cold here before I get in the water
The sea is soft, yielding, warm—so different. There
are two ponds—come and I’ll point out my pet fish
This fish pond’s my favorites, I confess I don’t
like the “gummy” (a species of shark) so the
man takes him out before I come on the scene
People wonder how I can plunge in among ali
these fish. But how much cleaner than the dirty
women in some of the sea baths? I’ve rubbed
shoulders with some rare old human dust-heaps
down at the seaside. They put fresh water in
here every day ; besides, I never swallow a drop.’
A bell is rung. Pa Kellermann shouts out the order
of the dips, and the plump, complacent girl, with
the fine brown eyes and the soft mouth, and the
drawl, saunters off to disrobe.
“Then into the show-case of fish shoots the
brown figure of the diver. She swims round-
scattering eels, bream, pike, porcupine to the four
corners of the case. Round and round her beauti-
ful body moves—swiftly, rhythmically, the brown
limbs taking sure, graceful side-strokes. A fine
performance. Tricks follow —plate-gathering, a
marine meal, and other popular items. Then a
detour is made to the open pond, where the diving
of the day comes off. The wet girl in her brief
leopard-striped gown runs along a passage, past
some stragglers, skips inside the rails, and gains
the spring-board. There, standing, till the
tarradiddle concerning length and breadth of
the pond, difficulties of compressed water,
and other tedious details is done, Annette poses
like a well-modelled figure in bronze. The legs
are fine, the feet neat, the toes prettier than
the fingers. She stands at tension, then shoots
out into the water. Fancy strokes—a variety-
exhibit those smooth limbs at different angles, in
enticing curves. There’s an assortment of dives,
too, which prove Annette something of an acro-
bat. A honey-pot double spring is the greatest
novelty in this line. But the physical charm of
the girl comes before even her skill. The Panamas
admit that.
“ ‘Midsummer Night’s Dream’ fairies 'are not
indoor, dressed-up, dolly frauds. Not a sprite
but stands for either a flower-fay or an insect-
midget. Shakspeare evidently thought of ‘fairies’
as the souls of grass-stems and dew-drops. Note
the four he mentions: Pease-blossom, Mustard-
Seed, Cobweb and Moth Titania, as seen on the
Princess stage, suggests a"*white-and-gold butter-
fly. All her attendant fays are gentle, little
gauzy midgets, ‘wee bits of blossom,’or lilliput
insects. The most formidable is a purple thistle,
who stands guard over ‘ the bank where the wild
thyme blows,’ but flees at the first glimpse of in-
truding Oberon. The latter (Miss Rignold) is
tall, ‘ slim as a willow-wand, dark-haired and
pensive.’ The get-up calls to mind a glorified
green dragon-fly; and Oberon’s elves are greeny-
gold and sheeny, like lizards. Oberon, singing
‘ I know a bank,’ in a soft contralto, sounds like a
‘ shepherd boy piping as though he should never
be old, ’ while Isabel Webster’s ‘ Over Hill, Over
Dale’ blends equally well with the glamorous
atmosphere.
“The Melb. Shakspeare Society celebrated
last week the birthday of the great William, who
conveniently economised dates by dying on the
anniversary of his birth. Chief-Justice Madden
—who brightened visibly on being again called
‘Your Excellency’—said a few words with cus-
tomary fluency, recalling old days when he had
Elayed truant and scaled school-fences to see
hakspeare played. (Incredulous applause.) He
deplored the tendency of the present day, which
cared for nothing so much as light music, no plot,
plenty of high-kicking, and good legs. (Blushes
by society.) Finally, he hoped romantically for
the establishment of a theatrical temple for
William alone.
“Malcolm M'Eaoharn has brought back a
miniature Noah’s Ark of furred and feathered
pets from Japan to swell the menagerie already
marking ‘ Goatlands ’ (suitable name that) as an
abode of much live interest.
“ Miss Watts-Phillips, the grotesque dame of
the marigold wig in ‘ Mistakes will Happen,’ is as
merry a soul off the boards as on. Her uneven
features bear the stamp of character—lots of it—
and form a prop for the lady’s line of good humor.
And her smile ! The average tape-measured
grin is small, trivial, mean, stupid beside that
extensive break-up of face.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


EUMATICS.
Rheumatism is caused by acid in the blood. Det hold of that great medical truth.
Liniments can never cure what is rooted in the blood. A blood disease like Rheumatism must be cured
through the blood. Surely that is sound science—and common sense as well.
That is why Rheumatism yields like magic to Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. They actually make new blood.
This new blood conquers the painful poison, sweeps out the aching acid, soothes the nerves, loosens the
muscles, and banishes Rheumatics for ever.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills actually have cured the very worst cases of Neuralgia, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and Backache—and they can do the same for you. Suffer no more—get a box to-day.
Arms and Leg's Almost Paralysed.— “ l have suffered from chronic rheumatism for 13 years," says
Mrs. W. Warran, Fitzmaurice-street, Wagga Wagga. “My legs and arms were almost paralysed. Often I was too weak
to leave my bed. For weeks together the terrible, gnawing, burning pains robbed me of all sleep. My nerves were
affected, and 1 was a thin, weak, miserable wreck. Then I tried Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. After several boxes I began
to improve. My general health picked up, and the pains gradually melted away as Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills drove the
rheumatic poison from my blood. To-day lam bright and happy, and keep all the books in my husband’s business.’’
Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney. Price, 2s. 9d.
BEWARE OF PINK PILLS SOLD LOOSE OR IN GLASS BOTTLES.
box; six boxes, 15s. 3d.
SUBSTITUTES ARE USELESS.
Dr. Williams Pink Pills for pale people
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Pa Brunker, whom many people think
should be leader of the N.S.W. Opposition vice
Cocky Carruthers, entered his 72nd year on Tues-
day.
Speaker Holder, the cadaverous, whose
business is politics and who finds his recreation in
preaching, will end his 53rd year on Wednesday,
May 13.
Passed out in Bendigo Hospital lately, as
an old-age pensioner, J. K. Scott, who in the old
plunging days was reckoned to be worth on paper
something like a million.
Newtown (Sydney) police-court supplied a
novel assault case recently, when a wife was
charged with “spitting in her husband’s ear”!
It cost her £1 15s. lOd.
Ebenezer Ward, a vanished S.A. politician,
has commenced canvassing his long-promised book
of reminiscences. Adelaide papers have been
constantly mentioning that book for the past three
years.
After all, death was most likely very kind
to the distinguished old diplomat and Empire-
slave, Dufferin ; for had he lived he must almost
certainly have stood now alongside Whitaker
Wright.
The Premiers who attended the late
conference in Sydney all spoke of the press as
their natural enemy. Yet three of them are
direotly concerned in the running of newspapers,
and the others are occasional leader writers.
ONE LADY TO ANOTHER.
“ I was never more insulted in all my life, and,
if it 'adn't been for soilin’ my ’ands I'd a
stoushed ’er in the jaw !”
Yes-No Reid in the Australian Common-
wealth had a prototype in the English Common-
wealth. John Morley, in criticising one of the
most abject crawlers of the Cromwellian period,
says: “Savillewas no edifying character, but a
politician who would fain say both Yes and No.”
A relic of the old military days of N.S.W.
was buried in Balmain cemetery one day last
week. Mr. John Taylor Finlay was a color-
sergeant in the 12th Regiment (Colonel Bloom-
field) which flourished and flogged and generally
held forth in Victoria Barracks in the long ago.
John O’Connell, the out-west (N.S.W.)
pioneer who went to bed one night lately with
unimpaired vision and woke to find himself blind,
only survived the shock a few weeks. He was a
straight-goer, known on many tracks, and owned
in his time a few among the best of the back-
country horses.
Melbourne Bishop Clarke at a recent
meeting :
Friends in England told me that I would soon be back
begging for money. “ Never,” I exclaimed, “if it comes
to that, I resign.”
They are beginning to know the Australian bishop
and his ways in England.
Mrs. Charles Bright asserted from the
Unitarian Church platform that her husband gave
up an assured income of £1250 per annum to take
the freethought platform. She added : “His
friends said he was mad.” Mrs. Bright, by the
way, has expressed her intention of continuing
the work in the Hyde Park church.
A late issue of San Francisco Call gives a
three-column interview and photo, of that very
dreary personage, Macdonald Paterson, who mis-
represents Brisbane in the House of Reps. The
Call has a strangely erroneous idea that the
M‘Pat is the wit of the House ; also that he twice
refused the Premiership of Queensland.
A live Sultan is coming to Australia—
—probably the first of them to wander this far.
Ibrahim is his name, and he comes from Johore,
in the Malay Peninsula. Also he is a K.C.M.G.
—all the same as John See and Alec. Peacock.
Just before he left (he is now dawdling in India)
he went out before breakfast and shot a tiger 9ft.
long.
Died in S.A., a week or two ago, one
John Barrow, who claimed to have taught Judge
Boucaut how to drive bullocks. Rather an in-
teresting bit of news, as Boucaut, being a modest,
unassuming individual, did not boast his know-
ledge and never drove bullocks in Rundle-street,
and so people didn’t know that he could drive ’em
—if he wanted to.
The “ spooks ” at Melbourne have resur-
rected Julian Thomas (“The Vagabond ”), whose
alleged spirit, at a recent seance, promised to
supply copy to any journalist who would attend
and take shorthand notes. Unfortunately, when
the spook of Tennyson is called up it can t pro-
duce verse, and Bacon’s spook is ignorant of prose,
and the„ghost of Columbus knows nothing of navi-
gation. Worst of all, a Sydney medium who
used to call up anybody at a minute’s notice, once
roused the spirit of Spinola, and found that
but confused Italian soldier under the impression
that he had fought at Waterloo. The writing
ghost also knows only the same language as the
medium, and her.
Dr. James Pryoe Phillips, who died in
Adelaide on April 21 at the age of 82, had lived
next to the Adelaide Club, on the North Terrace,
ever since the beginning of the recollection of the
middle-aged men of the city. He got his diploma
in London in 1843. He and Dr. Wylde (still
living at the Semaphore) were in St. Bartholo-
mew’s Hospital as fellow students in 1840, and
three years later Dr. Phillips left for S.A., whither
Dr. Wylde followed him in 1853.
The Dowager Lady Cook, Tennessee
Claflin, whose writings on sex subjects used to be
sent in deluges over the arid newspaper back-
country of Australia, has been cast in £5OO
damages, in London, for slandering the lurky
person whom she employed to watch her husband
(Baronet Cook), when he was still alive, to see
that he didn’t carry on with some other lady. The
British aristocracy seems of late to have been
almost unanimous in “ carrying on.”
A correspondent to Sydney News tells a
humorous story of the Owe’Sullivan. He was
invited out to a picnic, and part of the proceed-
ings was a schnapper fishing party. The Owe
found the sea unsympathetic, and it insisted on a
loan of his dinner. The sea-sick personage there-
upon, it is alleged, commanded the boat s skipper
to return, and threatened him with the loss of his
certificate if he didn’t obey. And the skipper
took no notice, and the Owe had to suffer for a
while. On returning to land he recovered, and
apologised for any wild remarks made whilst
indisposed.
The little weekly Scrapdish, issued from
the Sydney D.T. office, published the other day
what it called a “character sketch” of Car-
ruthers. This was evidently intended as eulogy,
but reads like malignant irony. Extract:
Bacon said that his province was mankind. The pro-
vince of Carruthers covered every nook and corner, every
road, every lane, every park, every public and semi-
public building in his electorate. As the day for depu-
tations recurred, Carruthers, with the three other mem-
bers in tow, and with a line of mayors, aldermen, members
of school boards, respected townsmen, filled the passages,
blocked the entrances, awed the officials in every depart-
ment. When the Colonial Secretary had been attacked
and a reluctant promise had been wrung from him for a
new park half-a-dozen yards from a couple of other
parks, the deputation fell into irregular order and laid
siege to the Postmaster-General until he had promised a
tower to a post-office, or a telephone to a developing
suburb.
And this determined mendicant, this local-pump
politician, this blustering beggar, this political
footpad with a petition in one hand and a club in
the other, this shameless solicitor of Government
favors for his constituents, is held up as the
heaven-sent statesman who will pull New South
Wales out of the slough of despond and set her up
better than new ! His worst enemy could not
have penned a more damning indictment of Car-
ruthers as a mere legislator, leaving statesmanship
aside as being absurdly irrelevant.
No writer sticks up for the poor husbands
who are victims of genius—like worthy drysalter
John Tayloy, who had to yield to John Stuart
Mill; Bardi, who married Dante’s Beatrice ;
Imhoff, who made way for Warren Hastings ;
Ruskin, with the conquering Millais ; Roland,
whose intellectual Madame was captured by
Buzot; Caux, ousted by Nicolini. Bub
genius, like the champion pie-biter, has a
hand like a whale’s ear, and when it is
wafted towards a pie, that is genius’s pie,
you understand.
Humphrey Oxenham, who is again bound
England wards, made his first rise by carrying
an enormous pumpkin on his head from Duke’s
Hotel, Bathurst, to the Melbourne Hotel, Kelso, a
distance of about two miles, for a £lO wager. One
condition of the wager was that the weight-carrier
should not put a hand near the pumpkin from
start to finish. H.O. won easily, and he has been
winning easily ever since.
“F.” writes:— ‘
Apropos Professor Halford recently mentioned in
Bulletin. Another reminiscence which the octogenarian
can give is that in connection with the execution of
Christopher Harrison for the murder of his partner,
Marsh, at the Public Works Office, Melbourne, in Feb.,
1864. They were contractors. Marsh delayed certain
payments, and Harrison considered his reputation ruined
and shot his partner. Great exertions were made to save
him from the noose, and they would have succeeded but
that Woods and Carver were to be executed the same
morning for the attempted robbery under arms (and
shooting) at the E.S. and A. Bank, Fitzroy. Premier
James M‘Oulloch argued that the bank robbers had
killed no one, yet they must hang, therefore Harrison
should hang also. Halford and many other medicoes
believed Harrison insane. By some means the brain of
Harrison was taken away after the post mortem examina-
tion and submitted to a caucus of medical men—Halford,
demonstrator—in a room over the shop of George Robert-
son, bookseller, in Collins-street This little arrangement
leaked out, and M'Culloch sent the sheriff, Claude Farie,
to demand the brain. When Farie arrived he found a
number of doctors handling portions of the brain “ like so
many oysters." The sheriff demanded the portions of
the deceased as being the “Government’s brains,” and
they were handed over, wrapped in paper. Farie placed
them in his coat-tail pocket (he wore the old-fashioned
claw-hammer coat) and walked up Collins-street towards
the Treasury buildings with from 4 to 19 dogs—the num-
ber varied as old dogs got tired and dropped out and new
dogs joined in—straggling at his heels and nosing his
pocket;. To this day it isn’t certain whether that pro-
cession annexed the gruesome relic or not.
William Pemberton, a Newton (N.S. W.)
patriarch, discourses eloquently about Premier
Parkes when the latter was farm-laboring for
Jamison on the Nepean. Parkes was, ac-
cording to Pemberton, pugnacious at that
period, and more than once settled a sheep-
shearing difference in primitive style. He
was then aged about 25 years, and was
reputed a hefty fighter among hisclass.
According to London advices,
Mrs. Mayorick, sentenced to death
in August, 1889, for poisoning her
husband, and afterwards ordered to
be imprisoned for life, will be liber-
ated m July, 1904. There was al-
ways a prejudice in England against
hanging a pretty woman, and much
was made of the medical evidence
that the quantity of arsenic found in
the deceased’s body was not nearly
sufficient to cause death, and that its
presence might be explained by his
habit of taking arsenical tonics.
This is the sort of twaddle the
English people get about Australia.
Home Chat (22/11/’O2) says: “Lady
Tennyson, the wife of the Governor-
General of Australia, has spent many
Christmases in Australia, her hus-
band having been Governor of South
Australia before he became the
official head of the federated States.
Her position has by no means been an
easy one. Society in South Australia,
for instance, is very'different to what is
meant by the same thing in England.
On one occasion when up country she
kissed the child of a working man."
One prominent N.S.W. Labor mem-
ber, like all his county-men, loves a good
fight, but considers that, in his position as
an M.P. and a J.P., he should discounten-
ance any breach of the peace. The other
day, in a mining distriot, pay-morning had
been celebrated by a huge drunk and then a
scrimmage between two miners, who,
stripped to the waist, were punishing the
air severely, and occasionally knocking small
splinters off one another. The member was
on the spot at the time with another M.P.,
“ organising.” “Aw reckon we oort to stop
this,” he said, climbing up a fence to get a
better view. “Eh, wull hit, lad, wull hit,
grand—as a J.P., not to speak of a legisla-
tor —oh ! get in, lads, get in ; doan’t be
a-sawing of the air !’’ And so on to the end.
King Edward’s performances are always
excellently stage-managed. The Kaiser would
give something to know how the dove was made
to hover over the royal yacht in the Mediter-
ranean last week. Was a string tied to its leg ?
Old Capt. Randall, the first man to take a
steamer up the Murray—he antedated Capt.
Cadell by some weeks—still lives at Gumeracha,
which he represented for six years in the S.A.
Parliament. He completed his 69th year on
May 1.
PASTOR BEVAN.
Passed away, at Timaru (M.L.), a 40
years resident in Captain J. H. Sutter, aged 84.
Prior to the gold discoveries, he traded to the
West Indies and Singapore ; was connected with
the China tea trade, and afterwards engaged in
the Arctic seal and whale biz. He was one of the
first to take a steamer into the Arctic ice. For
seven years Sutter represented Geraldine in the
M.L. House of Reps.
A FAMILY WEAKNESS.
“You seem very fond of cats, Miss Chivvy."
“ Yes, we both adore animals, only my sister pre-
fers puppies .”
A well-known Adelaide business man was
angling at Port Elliot, and the fish were biting
freely. He had landed a dozen and was half-way
through the second dozen when a boatful of gay
and giddy girls came round the bend and pulled
in his direction. Full of devilment, and despite
his remonstrances re frightening the fish, the girls
stopped the boat on his fishing ground. He
coaxed, argued and finally stormed at them, but
they refused to move and began to pass derisive
remarks about his side whiskers. In desperation
he took off his coat, then his vest, the ladies
watching him with interest. Then off came his
shirt and still the females moved not. At length,
minus all save trousers, he shouted, “Women, are
you going ? ” A chorus of laughter and cries of
“ No.” Then that business man, his courage
giving out, put on his clothes again, and after
making some severe remarks quitted the premises.
Concerning a peer, writes a Bulletin cor-
respondent :
Apropos the Norfolk Island peer, a peculiar incident
happened in Sydney. The original registers of births,
marriages, and deaths in N.S. Wales up to 1856 are not in
existence as far as can be discovered. An old gentleman,
named H. Kerrison James, who was connected with the
diocesan registry, had certified copies, made by himself,
therefore his private property. Young Pery was sent to
Norfolk Island under Colonel Anderson, and married
there. A son was born in 1840, who in time came- to be
Earl of Limerick. When he wished to take his seat in
the House of Lords he was blocked, as-he could not pro-
duce a certificate of birth. The Earl wrote to Colonel
Bloomfield, in Tasmania, to obtain the certificate regard-
less of cost. After much hunting the Colonel found- that
Norfolk Island was a part of N.S.W. in 1840, and sought
in Sydney what he wanted. He learned all about Mr.
James, and peremptorily demanded the birth certificate.
James replied that he could have a copy for 20 guineas.
The Colonel blustered, and James, not wishing tbkecp
Pery-Limerick out of his inheritance—and a poor peerage
it is—sent the copy to his agents in London, and wrote
to the Earl that the copy was with his lawyers, and he
could obtain it on payment of fees. The Earl, on receipt,
at once sent his solicitor to James’ agent, when the fol-
lowing occurred : “ You have a certified copy of the Earl
of Limerick’s birth ? ” “We have.” “ Will you show it to
us?” “Yes, here it is, duly endorsed by Mr. James, ‘ The
enclosed is a true and faithful copy of the birth certificate
of the Earl of Limerick at Norfolk Island, a dependency of
New South Wales, in 1840. (Signed) H. Kerrison James,
Registrar.’ ” The Earl’s solicitor took a pencil and copied
this. He made an affidavit that he had seen the certifi-
cate of birth in the handwriting of the Registrar, and the
Earl took his seat next day without paying Mr. Jathes a
red cent. The N.S.W. Parliament afterwards passed an
Act under which James’ registers were and
became the property of the State.


Don’t shout”
" 1 hear you. I can hear now
, as well as anybody.
••• How >' Oh some-
thing new—The Wilson.'
Common-sense Ear-
Drum. Kve a pair in mv
ears now. you can't see them
they're invisible. 1 wouldn't
y know I had them in myself,
only that I hear all right.”
.The Wilson Ear-Drum is
really a substitute for the
.working parts of the
natural ear Has no
wire Invisible, easy to ad
just, comfortable Totally
different from any other de-
vice Descriptive pamphlet sent upon request
CriAintttS, 22»-23l Collins. St., Help.
FACILE PR lIMC EPS
SEMPER IDEM.
BUCHANAN
WHISKY.
MR. J. SPENCER NOLAN, R.D.S.,
DENTAL. SURGEON, 43 Oxford-st., Sydney
(between Mark Foy’s and Riley-st.). HIGH-CLASS
DENTISTRY at lowest prices. Guaranteed absolutely painless extractions by latest American system —a great
success. Beautiful and perfect-fitting atmospheric suction sets of American teeth, giving the wearer ease,
comfort and natural appearance. Coraline gum plates, without springs or wires. Elastic Gum Coraline is the
most recent, up-to-date plate for mounting teeth. All wrinkles and hollow cheeks disappear. It is so natural
that it defies detection. For comfort, strength and lightness it surpasses everything previously introduced.
Coraline is perfectly tasteless, and remains wholesome and pure. Badly fitting plates remodelled on this new
system. Up-to-date gold crowns. Call and see specimens of latest methods. Upper and lower sets from £1
Single teeth from ss. Teeth filled, scaled and bleached. Country visitors fitted in one day if required.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resch’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors.— In the case of ethnological and
natural history items, etc., always give date and
place of experience ; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific
value.
ENTERPRISE.
SUCCESSFUL SQUATTER (now M.P.): “Look here!
I can’t find billets for the whole country.
Why don’t you do like me —work for yourself
and make your way in the world? ”
OUT-OF-WORK CONSTITUENT : “ Well, you see, Mr.
times have changed. The cattle are all
branded now !”
“ Cicada ” : The so-called Cape gooseberry
(Physalis peruviana) is not a gooseberry, and
does not come from the Cape. It belongs to the
same natural order as the tomato, and is a native
of tropical America. It was originally described
from Peru, whence it was introduced into Aus-
tralia many years ago. Through the agency of
fruit-eating birds it was carried into virgin scrubs
far ahead of all settlement, and is now widely
scattered all over the country.
Dear Bulletin.—“ B.” says : “ May not
be generally known that the common black-and-
white magpie is excellent eating, many preferring
it to the bronzewing pigeon, which it somewhat
resembles. ’’ I say : May be not generally known
that the common black-and-white magpie is pro-
tected by law from the attacks of ignorant new
•hums and callous brutes; and rightly so, for
“ maggie ” not only does much practical good in
the destruction of insects, &c., but her unique
warble is a source of continual delight. Let “B.”
lift his head from his feeding-trough and listen to
it, and then ask a friend to kick him. If “B.”
will give his name and address, the writer will
have much pleasure in drawing the attention of
the local police to his habits as implied in his par.
—H.P.
• * * •
“ Bobrid ” : A final word to “A.8.T.”
See no reason yet to alter my opinion re “squat-
ting-color ” theory about rabbits. I write about
what I know, not what 1 think I know. The
bush, as I know it, is grey; it may have other
colors, but a lot depends on the whisky you
drink ! According to “ A.B.T. ’s” theory, a blue
rabbit should “squat” under a “blue”-gum—
which isn’t blue either ; and green rabbits should
be the Spring variety, gradually growing grey as
the grass dries off! What next? Have been
hunting rabbits with dogs, with guns, with traps,
with poisons, with everything which fools have
invented to knock out bunny, and never saw a
rabbit yet perform the antics described by
“A.8.T.,” when he had a straight run to his
burrow. When his retreat is cut off, bunny has
to resort to strategy to get home, but his color
doesn’t worry him then ! He hasn’t time to think
about it. Again, rabbits don’t go too far away
from home in daylight, neither do they feed in
daylight.
• • * •
“ Wiljar ” : Concerning the inhospitable
cookie (“ Deeby,” 8., 11/4/’O3). In Victoria, the
further down you get the worse you’ll find him.
Whereas in the Mallee a man “can’t go wrong”
for a feed (though it may only be damper and
bunny), he must be satisfied with a smell among
the well-to-do wheat-growers south of the Divid-
ing Range. The cold-stare response of the Gipps-
land farmer, when asked for a meal, has become
proverbial. Was talking to a St. Arnaud ox-
owner who, when in the Western district recently,
called on nearly fifty agriculturists same day to
fet grass for his bulls at a reasonable charge.
aid he started out early in the morning, and
didn’t taste a bite till he got back to camp —about
11 p.m. “Caught 20 per cent, of ’em red-handed,”
he said, “and got asked inside; but they seemed
to think a blanky man was all legs and brisket,
with no belly at all 1 ”
“ T. 8.” : The callousness of the bush-born
Australian to animal suffering is, to some extent,
explainable, if not excusable.
Nature in Australia is a harsh
stepmother to the flocks and
herds foisted upon her,
and, as custom begets
toleration, the callous-
ness of the bushman
is akin to the indif-
erence of the hospi-
tal nurse. In the
vicinity of bush
townships are to bo
found plough-horses
working with shoul-
ders raw and fester-
ing from top to point, the
sores in some cases even
forming pockets partially
overgrown with skin. In
most cases these sores
are due to ill-fitting or
worn-outcollars. Many
bushmen, when they
find a collar does not
fit, simply cut it in-
stead of lengthening
or shortening the draft
of the harness; and I
have seen collarsafterbeing
_ cut padded with chaff-bags
literally saturated with blood.
But of this the police see nothing, because when
•>ne of these unfortunate animals is driven into
the bush town a good broad pad is
worn under the collar and a sharp
look-out is kept for the traps.
• • •
“PetramoB” from an up-country
S.A. town:—
An artist here, everlastingly on the hunt for the realis-
tic, got an idea into his brain to paint a picture entitled
“ Delirium Tremens,” and sauntered forth into the local
street to find a model. During the quest, the idea
became surrounded with many drinks, but, despite this,
the artist managed to drag in and tie to a bedpost in his
“ studio ” a magnificent specimen of the spent-cheque-
seer-of-visions. The more the artist sketched the more
visions the model saw, till at last it became even too
much for the artist, who began to nerve himself up. And
so the sketching and nerving up continued till counter-
lunch time ; then till past dinner-time ; and it was not
till late in the afternoon that a friend dropped in and
found artist and model fighting for the possession of an
imaginary centipide, and each declaring that the other
was trying to steal his jim-jam. (This seems to me to
settle the long-vexed question whether, when two men
are equally drunk, they can see the same jim-jam or
fantod.) The picture lay face downwards on the floor.
It represented something that looked like a blue Governor
with horns, opening a new gridiron in Sheol.
• • • *
“ David Harum ” : Re yarn of the newly
made J.P. (8., 11/4/’O3) who provided a man with
the wherewithal to get drunk, so that he might
have a case. I knew a country J.P. who did the
same, but the man, whilst intoxicated, got braw-
ling in “The White-Eyed Dragon,” floored the
landlord, smashed sundry bottles of good booze
and a window or two, resisted arrest, put a police-
man’s eyes in mourning, and behaved badly in
quod. As luck would have it, the Commissioner
of Police happened to pass through the town at
the time, and turned up at the court-house. The
long list of charges was read, and the prisoner
pleaded guilty. “ Give it to him hot,” whispered
the Commissioner ; “gaol without option.”
“TJm!” grunted the J.P. ; “ he’s got a wife and
family. A fine would do him more good.”
“Well, make it pretty heavy, then.” “£5 and
costs,” said the J.P., with an inward sigh, and
left the court, reckoning how dearly he had paid
for his dignity. The perfectly new J.P., when
he feels he must sentence something, had better
take a chair out into the bush, and there sit in
state and solemnly order the native bear to be
imprisoned for six months, and fine the “go-
hanna ” 10s. 6d.
IN THE DRY WEST.
Sketch outside a pub.
‘ ‘ Riverina ”: A few peculiarities of various
horses:—Knew an old bush racehorse which was
travelled round the Riverina as a “take-down.”
He was a hard-looking old case, with whips of
pace, and his owner made matches and money
easily. But the old nag had his little peculiari-
ties. He would finish like a coward unless his
rider leaned forward and cooeed madly in his ear.
Once he heard the cooee he stretched out to it in
a manner that made onlookers suddenly grow
sober. Doesn’t this suggest the rattling night
ride from pub. to hut with enough on board the
rider to make him view the world as a grand old
institution ? Another old bushman told me his
uncertain-looking nag could be caught only by
approaching him on the offside and waving a hat.
Have an idea this gentleman was only “pulling
my leg ” as regards the hat; but about the offside
he may have been speaking truly. Own a pony
myself which I always approach from offside.
Can’t s catch him then.
• • • *
Just before the western Q. heavy rains
arrived a “willie-wagtail,” “shepherds’ friend,”
“Australian nightingale,” or whatever other alias
the vivacious little black and white bird is known
by, built its nest in the rain-gauge glass at a
station homestead. Then the owner said
gloomily : “That settles it! I had some hopes
left for rain, but they’re gone now. That dashed
fowl knows the rain-gauge won’t be wanted this
year.” And saying this he packed his bag,
mounted the bones disguised in horse-hide, and
left for the south. Yet three days later the rain
came down so suddenly that the wagtail barely
escaped out of the gauge with its life. “ Signs of
rain” are mostly failures. “Signs of drought”
seem to be mostly ditto.
• • * •
“ Old Harry ” was describing a bad “ re-
oovery ” :—“ I wuz goin’ past the lagoon, an’
list’nin’ ter the frogs, an’ some little ’uns sings
out, ‘ Knee-deep, knee-deep ! ’ So I walks in.
By-an’-by I gets out up ter me neck ; the little
’uns keepin’ on ‘ Knee-deep ’ all the time. Then
a big feller says, solemn
like, ‘Go home, go
home’; so I turns round
an’ starts back. But
just as I wuz gettin*
out uv ther water, the
little chaps calls out
again— * Knee-deep 1 ’
‘You be hanged!’ I
sez ; “Only fer yer
father I would have
bin drownded.’ ”
• * •
The shearers at
Bunnamagoo had lined
up for dinner, and the
cook slapped a mys-
terious - looking com-
pound before them.
After sniffing and eye-
ing it suspiciously, one
of them said, “What’s
that blanky kagmag ? ”
“ That’s stoo,” said the
cook, “and anybody
that sez it ain’t stoo
can come outside! ” “I
say it ain’t! ” chipped
in the burly “ringer,” and forth-
with accepted the invitation. Pre-
sently he re-entered, looking as
though he’d been tram-carred and
then drawn through a slaughter-house
at killing time, and remarked: “Bv
h—l, it’s Btoo, boys; it’s stoo all
right.”
“Tonbur” : Struck a tent recently in
N.Q. and found a man gesticulating violently to
what I thought was another man, but which
proved to be a dummy rigged in coat, trousers
and hat. The semi-lunatic explained that the
effigy represented Bob Philp, and that that was
the usual way he aired his eloquence. Living
alone, off the main track, this man never saw a
white, save when he went to the station for
rations.
• * • •
Notice in a Queensland paper :
I hereby give you notice pursuant to the 6th ffm. 4
No., &c., &c., that, unless a certain Bull-dog, or mongrel
thereof, belonging to you be licensed and muzzled within
a week hereof, such proceedings will be taken as are re-
quired by said Acts. —Yours, J. Jenkins.
“ Bull-dog or mongrel thereof ” ought to lead to
bloodshed. The average man’s most sensitive
point is his dog.
* * » 9
After waiting months for rain, a Corop
(Vic.) cockie had five acres of sown ground
washed away, seed, subsoil, and all, by a passing
storm, a sort of thing hitherto unheard of in the
locality. Everything seems to come in a heap,
when it does come, in Australia.
Dear Bulletin, —“Matchbox” (B. 17/4/’O3)
to get off his squib of “ humor,” has, perforce, to
be inaccurate. “ Why ! that sand was distributed
over the Wycheproof farmers’ land by the wind,”
says “Matchbox,” with mirth. Really! If h e
will look up the mirth-provoking par again he will
see it stated that, “in those parts where the storms
had distributed the sand thinly over the land, the
soil had retained moisture in so remarkable a
degree as to embolden the cookies to try some sand
distribution on their own account.” Why don’t
men read with their brains ? Also, in these days
of horse or steam power for everything, no up-to-
date cockie would think of a “No. 4 shovel ” as a
means of distribution, and from the fact that such
a method was the only one which suggested itself
to the mind of “Matchbox” it would seem
that he has been dead for some time, say, half a
century. Had “ Matchbox ” ever seen a few
fertilising undertakings in the U.S.A. and Canada
he would see nothing wildly humorous in the idea
of a Vic. cockie fertilising his insignificant 100 or
500-acre kitchen-garden patch even with manure.
—Vul. (writer of the par).
ON THE HOB.
NEW CHUM : “ Will this horse— aw—stand fire."
GROOM: “Stand fire! Why, blime, he was foaled
in a kitchen!"
“ Riverina ” : There are people who say
the bush youngster is totally devoid of humor.
Let such people listen: My mate and I pulled up
at a selector’s place one day and were just pur-
chasing a few pounds of meat (the missus was
serving us) when a kiddy, aged about eleven,
came rushing round the corner yelling joyfully,
“Billy! Billy! come ’ere quick! the old mans
just tumbled down the well head bloomin
fust!” And Billy (also seeing the humorous side)
enthusiastically went.
0 * * *
Another curse of the thoughtless. The briar
plant was imported into the Glen Innes (N.9.W.)
district by a shepherd in 1864. Now, according
to the local Examines, thousands of acres are
covered with briar —in some cases so dense as to
defy the approach of man or beast. Shepherds
coming from briar-infested areas should be washed
and shaved by some public official.
MANANA
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The thriftless, lazy Portuguese has only one answer
to all remonstrance—“ Manana ” (To-morrow).
The land of Manana is virgin and new,
And it waits for the hand of a master ;
Its prairies are boundless, its people are few,
Yet they ceaselessly wail of disaster ;
For the land of Manana it breedeth a host
Of dawdlers, who languidly lean on a post,
And who always give in till they give up the ghost
To the tune of their anthem—“ Manana I ”
The land of Manana it liveth on loans,
And its battle-cry ever is—“ Borrow ! ”
The usurer picketh the flesh from its bones,
And bids it beware of the morrow ;
Each wight in that land is a weariful loon
Who has just as much “ go” as the Man in the Moon,
And who standeth in pawn from his hat to his shoon,
As he warbles for ever “ Manana 1 ”
The land of Manana is yearning for men,
For men who will battle defiant,
To level the mountain and dry the broad fen
And laugh the brave laugh of the giant;
For never a State in the ages ago
Was reft from the desert, the flood, or the foe,
Or won a fair name as a nation, I trow,
When its people were wailing “ Manana ! ”
The land of Manana is not very far,
You can hear its high bells in the steeple,
Its rulers are prating of “ Trust in our star,”
While the mortgages smother its people.
Its founders were tireless and gritty and bold,
Their hands were of iron—their hearts were of gold,
But the sons they begat were but feeble of mould—
Just hark how they prattle—“ Manana !”
The land of Manana hath lost the old seed
That ferried from Dublin and Dover ;
It needs a fresh strain of the bitter, big breed
That swept the high seas as a rover ;
It pines for a race that is sturdy of thew,
For a race that has faith in its energies true,
And it pines to get rid of a spiritless crew
Who murmur for ever—“ Manana ! ”
P. LUFTIG.
THE BUSH M.O.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Twas at the pub at Boggy Pools
The Bhearers gave a ball;
And Bill the Ringer wrote the rules,
And stuck them on the wall.
Of ladies there were only three
(Not counting squint-eyed Nance),
But “ buck ” sets are no novelty
At any shearers’ dance.
The fairest damsel in the throng
Was new from Sydney town ;
Her skirt was short, her fringe was long,
Her hair was golden brown.
The Ringer ran her good points o’er
And marked her for his prey ;
He ambled down the ant-bed floor
In quite the city way.
With courtly grace he bowed his head
(A gallant man was he),
And to the city maid he said,
“ Miss ! wot price you an’ me?"
The maid, with icy dignity,
Remarked she’d not been used
To “ blokes wot chatted her when she
Had not been interjooced.”
Outpoured the shearer’s language red,
Outpoured his language blue ;
No words could paint the things he said
That city maid unto.
And when she’d heard right to the end
His cursings wild and crude,
She gently murmured to her friend,
“ Oh, Liza, ain’t he rude ! ”


TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best restores the natural color. Lock'
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Largo
bottles Is. everywhere.
A Drink! A Tonic! A Medicine!
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Call for WOLFE’S Schnapps and make sure that
you take nothing else.
DRYSDALE’S ANTIBILIOUS PILLS
for biliousness, indigestion, headache, loss of appetite,
giddiness, &c., are prescribed by physicians of the highest
standing, who acknowledge their thorough efficiency in
all cases. 1/1 per box, post paid. F. J. Titnbury,
chemist, Petrie’s Bight, Brisbane.*
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to tlreir advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance
is solicited
THE MOST
EXQUISITE
Of refined work in Gem Mounting we turn out
every day from our Hunter-st. workshops.
We have been doing it for years, and understand
it thoroughly.
Fine Tracery in Gems. No design too refined for us.
What an immense saving, too, to buyers to save
all intermediate profits. y
Then we buy Diamonds by thousands at a time.
Pearls we have direct from the Fisheries, in large
parcels. Opal we get in the rough, and so save
all along the line. No wonder we do not feel
the depression, but show increased returns.
Exquisite Pearls, 15ct.
settings, in Morocco
Case, 78/-.
Twice the size illustrated.
London Prices
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
Fairfax & Roberts, /
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney, 23 HUNTER-ST.
Fine Gold, set with Choice
Pearls, with Diamond
Centre, £5/10/-
AN EXPONENT OF LUNACY.
FATHER MURPHY : “ But I can't get you into the
Hospital for the Insane, my man; you're not
mentally afflicted."
THE CHRONIC SWAGGIE : “ But, yer see, sir, if yer
reverence was to lend me a bell-topper the
police ’ud be bound to run me in for bein'
insane an' wanderin’ at large. I leant a spell,
somehow."
“Ne’er-do-Weel”: “ D. 8.” (Bulletin
21/3/’O3) writes re sufferings of horses out back
through flies—he says nothing of the sufferings of
humans. I have had nearly 20 years’ experience
in the Queensland bush, and have noticed that
flies become troublesome after rain and a flush of
grass; why, goodness only knows. We had fair
rains in December last and immediately were
afflicted with a fly pest, to which the famous
plague in Egypt could only have been a circum-
stance. When it commenced a decent night’s
sleep was out of the question—intense heat and
mosquitoes ensured wakefulness during the first
part of the night, and with dawn came the flies,
driving the unfortunate sufferer into a dark room.
They were everywhere in myriads, and the only
hope of escape was a dark room. Eating became
a task, only to be undertaken when forced by
absolute necessity, and then the greatest skill and
sleight of hand had to be exercised to avoid swal-
lowing a few hundred flies with every mouthful of
food. Every dish on the table was kept constantly
covered—removal of the covers resulted in the
immediate conversion of the gravy into fly hash.
Once I stupidly asked for soup, but before I could
raise a mouthful to my lips, flies were struggling
in it as if sprinkled from a castor. I passed, but
retained tiie plate near me to act as a trap. I
was not long over my meal, and before leaving
counted the flies in that soup—ll 7 ! Had the visi-
tation caused only vexation and annoyance it
would have been bad enough, but the bush was
strewn with cattle, sheep and horses in various
stages of decomposition, and the flies, when tired
of battening on these remains, rested on living
humans —on the face whenever possible, in the
corners of the eye for choice. Result, blight for
nine out of every ten. Poor little children suffered
horribly, some were permanently injured ; adults
suffered to a somewhat slighter extent. Also,
food and drink were contaminated by what is now
known to be the best common carrier of bacteria ;
result, epidemics of typhoid, dysentery, &c. I
never wish to put in such another two months as
I did in January and February, 1903, on the
Balonne. “D. 8.” draws a comparatively mild
picture of the sufferings of horses—cattle do not
seem to suffer to the same extent. The leather fly
veil is good, no doubt, but Balonneites went one
better. They sewed bagging completely round
the heads of their working horses over the eyes—
you can see the idea in your picture of the horse
by “ Hard Riding” out of “Poverty.” The
bagging did not blind the horses, as might be
Upposed. They could see through the covering,
and horses thus hideously but usefully adorned
were both ridden and driven on the Balonne.
Flies could not get through, and horses when
turned out were able to feed. Basil fly veils were
used by men whose work in the bush rendered a
mosquito net bag an impossibility. Whatever
hardships were put on the Israelites, I consider
Moses was altogether too rough on the Egyptians,
• • • •
“ Scutum ” :
The sunburnt side of a tree or a weed is a good guide
to the approximate north in open forest or plain country.
But in such places as the Oomboyne, Don Dorrigo and
Richmond brushes the sun never penetrates sufficiently
to have any effect on the trunks of the trees, and the
ground is covered with “ vegetation rank and rotten,”
which never “ feels the cheering ray.” There you have
to trust to cedar-tracks and luck. A few years ago our
surveying-party included a cook who professed to be able
to find his way anywhere by instinct. We were working
in the dense brush at the head of Camden Haven River.
One morning cook accompanied us to work, and about
4 p.m., in the thickest part of the brush, he said, “ Well,
boys, I’m goin’back to get tea ready.” “ Where’s the
camp from here, Peter?” he was asked. “ Straight in a
line with my finger,” said he, pointing to a scaly beech
Bft. through, and off he went. We were in bunk that
night when Peter reached the camp. His “ language ”
woke us. When chaffed about it afterwards he growled :
“ Well, I found the camp in the dark, didn’t I? What
more d’ye want?” But somehow he didn’t seem too
proud of his achievement.”
“ 0.P.” : Concerning the bush spieler
Amongst the peculiar
animals that Australia is
evolving the bush spieler
is one of the most in-
teresting. He frequent*
outpost towns and cen-
tres of sheep-raising dis-
tricts, seeking how many
large - hatted, shy - eyed
bushmen he may finan-
cially devour in a small,
mean way as they come
in periodically to water.
He usually runs about
five to the pub, but, like
the wallaby on the scrub-
lease, his full numbers
are not evident, except
at the watering places at
dusk. His appearance
in the tailor-made suit
and cheap jewellery is
much after the style of
his city brother with
the affluent uncle in Fiji
—even to the one large
wrinkle across the back
of the neck, made by
an incessant dropping of
the head to avoid the
disrespectful glances of
passers-by. Most of him
have “ done ” the bush
at some time or other,
and have come back fully
determined to “do” the
bushman instead. He
is to be found at various
stages of professional
progress, but is almost
invariably of the one
branch of the “ strong-
weakling ” division of
Australians. Loose - jointed,
active, muscular, but weak of
heart, lungs, and kidneys,
feeble-jawed, and with a Oham-
berlain nose, slightly bulby near
the point. He is invariably a bache-
lor and a strict individualist. His
subjects or objects of contempt are—Public subjects,
family life, religion, work, police, moleskins, and dull
conversation about sheep. He often owns a lOth-rate
racehorse or a “johnnycake” book, with which he
takes down the public. The police do their best
to make him earn his living, and often drive him to
a little shearing or droving. But he is brief, half-hearted
and unreliable at the business, and usually escapes the
painful thing by going on circuit to shows and race-
meetings, whereat his three-cornered eye may avail him
much. His methods are still of the old order—“ pogue-
diving,” “ nob-ringing,” and double-banking lone-hand
simpletons in play. I don’t know whether he has any
line of logic to justify him, but his hatred of the police is
evident enough, and his one unprintable epithet for the
common person who works and steals not is always to be
heard where two of him are congregated together. Bad
breeding, bad rearing, the abominably coarse, poorhouse,
lag system still in vogue at stations, and the dull, un-
profitable monotony of bush-life in general, are the main
things that are evolving him. Breed and environment
turn him on the world lazy and vicious. The prospects
of the bush frighten him; and, knowing no trade where-
with to earn a living in a township, he decides to let
others earn it for him, and, 10, he falls. This is a double-
barrelled argument in favor of improvement in bush-
workers’ accommodation and extension of the technical
education system.
• * • «
“Land Crab”: Have seen “poowong”-
worms 7fb. long, and from an uprooted tree I
have collected dozens over sft. Have seen two
ducks get hold of a huge poowong, one at each
end, and after swallowing a few feet each, get
hopeless of reaching the middle, and gjive it up
by running backwards —to begin again. This
worm lays a cigar-shaped egg, 2 to 3in. long,
with a tough skin, and containing milky stuff
and a young worm about 6in. long. This is no
M'Cooey, but hard fact.
MDLLE. SILVAINY, the graceful “trick
cyclist ,” at Sydney Tivoli.
Photo, by Bushnell, San Francisco.
“ Polstan ” : Re large mouse families (B ,
4/4/’03); mice often share one nest among several,
and the crowd that “T.H.’’ happened across
would very likely be owned by about ten mothers.
Cannot explain the reason of the amalgamation,
unless it is to save trouble in the cooking and
washing up.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will betaken »f
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under •
taken in any case n contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted, whether sent by post or handed in ; and in
no case will MS. be returned unless stamps (of any
State) accompany.
G.H.W. : “ Mates ” is too small a tragedy
The Shadow : “Two Sea-scapes” is pretty well written,
but we get acres more than we can use of the brown,
autumnal, heart-broken, disappointed, soul-wail variety
of literature... .W.A.S. : “ Wayside Inn ” only funny in
a mechanical, beery way. ..B. Allan : A pretty cat story
—but even for a remarkable cat and three kittens we can
hardly spare so much space.. ..Jaranabe (or Yaranabe) ;
Truly you are a serious-minded “ cuss.” Did you ever
recognise a joke in your life ?....J. T. Selkirk : None
utterly bad ; none good enough. Mechanically accurate,
and pretty in a way.... Kate Addison: “Phantom”
hardly gets there... .A.M.B.R. : “Last Moments” only
suited for religious publication... .John R. : Nothing
new in article about our “ natural wealth.” Uloola :
“ Bung Bung ” has gone bung right enough E.M.O. :
Very indifferent work.. ..Coog. : It bristles with lin-
guistic blunders. Strange that so many will attempt
literature before they have acquired the ordinary use of
the language.... Werner : Rejected after some hesitation.
With more simplicity of style you should do good work....
G.B. : “Calves” poor Blister: Matters of no im-
portance The Hack: Only two good verses (Nos. 1
and 3) out of six. The others very inferior..... .Vi:
“ Pioneer’s Reward ” a pathetic soul-wail, but not good
enough verse....C. Burt: The idea that everything can
be put right in one wild whoop by issuing paper money
is childish ignorance. A State note issue can’t be un-
limited. It can’t be based on the “ latent value of the
land,” for if a man is leaving this country he wants gold
for his notes —not a hunk of desert. And the principal
source of wealth in Canada and the U.S. isn’t paper, but
hard work and common sense, though the paper currency
is a valuable idea. Canada, by reason of its very heavy
Protective tariff (about four times as heavy as ours), pays
away less than half as much for imports as we do, and
manufactures more than twice as much. And these
manufactures supply work for the people, while the Aus-
tralian imports, and borrows, and holds unemployed
meetings Rec Panes: Feel like printing “Song.”
....M.S. : “Cross Roads” very incoherent, rambling
yarn about woman who was fond of dress.....
W.D. : In “Margaret” rhyme is secured at a
fearful sacrifice of common sense... .H.T.A. : Npt a
hope in the collection.. ..E.B.W. : Not worth a quarter
the space. You spread yourself too much P.SIO. :
Dialect requires distinct writing, and your scribble is
lamentable Gerald B. : Verses smooth and pretty, but
they utterly lack distinction and originality. We should
hardly advise you to persevere... .Lunette : You simply
bristle with grammatical blunders Honor Bright:
“Worm” declined Roy: Just yearn for a nice rain-
poem, but yours not good enough Simple : But we are
rather inclined to favor the little sheets which make a
living for some ; why should the “ great daily ” monopo-
lise everything in the city.... B.L.C. (Delhi): Mistakes of
Indian papers re Australia of insufficient interest....
W.T. : Mick can be found in Joe Miller’s book of dull
jokes (Ist edition) Snake Charmer: Verses about the
loves of Mr. and Mrs. Boa-Constrictor off our beat
C.R.E. : Interest not strong enough Mary B. :
Overburdened with entirely unnecessary characters;
otherwise not bad Bill W : “Put in next issue.”
No, William—nor in any other issue! Mariana:
Heart-rending metre and ruinous rhymes Tarantula:
Prosy in places, and too long in any case Ver:
Couldn’t do anything with it.... Samarang : The metre
is disreputable, and the rhymes positively unholy
W.W.T. : Spirited in style, but too erratic and self-
contradictory Weevil: Don't remember it.. ..Sol G.
Certainly, if accepted.. ..I.M. de L. : A bit unintellig-
ible....l.G.P. : The lovers’ difficulty. Theme is so
common that it needs novel treatment. You don’t get
off the beaten track.. ..Scotty W : Thanks for specimen.
Not very uncommon.. ..0. Chester: Rather hackneyed
in subject and conventional in treatment......
Kaola : Has a good swing, but otherwise
amounts to nothing Tokio: Silly little squeak....
E. J. : Metre of “ Cataract ’’ goes all to shreds towards
end....G.W.W. (Broad Arrow): Sydney, 487,900; Mel-
bourne, 494,129 Crow-Eater: Decline to have that
crow eaten on these premises... .H.E. : “Study” and
“ Honours” both good ideas, but carelessly slung toge-
ther. Metre is anyhow Kate A. : Verse may do. Prose
sketch gracefully imagined, but quite out of our line....
R.J.M. (S.A.): Not enough in it Koolka : Too grue-
some and malodorous... .Chow : The sham-greenhorn
card-player has been too often used Dia Monde :
Hardly well enough done for B Soda-B. : Wildly
dishevelled verses about nothing in particular... .T.8.G.:
A dreary diatribe.... P.O. : “ Anchorite ” pretty in a way
but what it is about heaven only knows.. ..Mousque-
taire : Nearly good enough, but not quite up... Tony :
“ Trout ” too small an item... .C.H.B. : “ Depths ” not an
artistic lie... .Novice : Doesn’t throw much new light on
the ways of the dust-storm... .T.C.L. : “Last Stick”
might have passed if you had stuck to the comedy ele-
ment.... Q. Rix : You sadly lack skill at present....
Marjorie : Nicely written, but very feeble of interest....
Jan W. : It had no chance whatever with us at all events.
J.M. (M.L.): A morass of words, with a dry
spot here and there... Buxton: Mechanical verse....
Jason : “Dogsbodv” is a nautical term of opprobrium
for a badly-made duff.”.. ..Spinifex : “ Blackguard ”
fairly well written, but has too much preliminary and too
little point.... Pierani : Both fall a little short of the
mark... .Nina P. : Moderately well done, but the “ situa-
tion ”is desperately hackneyed Bon : “ Acushla ” very-
thin and conventional... .Syd. A. S. : Not very bad, for a
beginner Norman: Howls in short metre about
“despair” are no good unless you tell why you are
despairing.... Frank : Prettily worded, but quite out of
our line.... E. West: A good idea, rather feebly treated.
Trenton : Mere mawkish sentimentality Quod:
Scutari has the accent on the first syllable, and
Salonika on the third Ben F. : Too long and ponder-
ous Rosie : No point about that A.H.T. : Printed
as an awful example :
..T.D. (Melbourne): Were charged 6d. because your
packet was “closed against inspection.”.. . .L.M.D. : Paid
3d. because your packet was also “ closed against inspec-
tion.” J.G. (and others): Will you please remember
(if you have anything to remember with) that the carry-
ing powers of a penny stamp are not unlimited... .Pearl
and Plain : There was 2d. to pay on your letter for defi-
ARTHUR CRIPPS (the footballer-boxer) ivho
defeated “Soldier ” Thompson at the National
Sporting Club, Sydney, on Tuesday night last,
and thereby won the Middleweight Champion-
ship of Australasia,
Photo, by Brand, Sydney.
cient postage J. Jamieson (Brighton): Twopence fine
for deficient postage on your letter Leno (Bunbury,
W.A.): Letter hardly worth the 4d. fine for insufficient
stamps F. Radeliffe ; Paid ‘2d. on your letter. This
sort of thing makes us sour... .Frank L. (Melbourne) :
Kindly and we)l-mear.t letter with 2d. to pay for short
postage H. Sharp (Melbourne): Paid 2d. owing to a
d d deficiency of stamps on your letter Frank :
Were charged 2d. for short postage on your “ Soliloquy,”
which makes us feel tired J.K.V. : A heavy, useless
article with not nearly enough stamps on the enve-
lope; this sort of thing makes us feel exhausted.. .
Abba : Why on earth don’t you marry the girl and cure
yourself of your passion ? Three love-songs a week
indicate a bad case.. ..Kodak : You could probably place
it elsewhere. Thb B. can’t consistently turn to
turbid Kiplingese, on one side or the other
Walbourne : “Charley’s Aunt” had the longest run on
record thus far, whereas “ Wait On ” —well, what and
where was “ Wait On ? ” Its unfamiliar name suggests
that somebody’s leg is being pulled....A. J. Gordon:
Huge batch of verse received. Will require time to
examine... .Rita S. : “Dad” may have a show, but
“ Tryst ” is not nearly up to the mark W.F.B. : Pity,
after writing so laboriously about the “deficit in Aus-
tralian currency,” you didn’t once mention what the
deficit wa5....N.8. : “Beauty” is a very plain potm —
plain as our c00k... .Rita : “ Hopes” contains two verses,
and in metre the two aren’t even on speaking terms....
Waiheathen (or something like that) : If “ Carnegie came
along and paid all the debts of the Commonwealth ”
(which he couldn’t do, nor anything like it), he would
perhaps do more harm than good. Much better
learn to rely on ourselves and pay our own debts....
Alf. D. : The discussion perhaps would be “ interesting,”
but it’s the sort of discussion we would rather avoid.. ..
G.A.A. : The Bulletin will gladly publish a National
Song when someone sends one worth printing.... San
Remo: Far too diffuse... . R.H.W. : It doesn’t matter;
it’s only a few miles away.... T. W. : But there’s not so
very much exaggeration in the clipping you send....
Saptic : Womanhood Suffrage Act was reserved for the
remote British King’s assent because it amended the
State Constitution. That was the only special procedure
necessary General : “Horseman Jack” a fine idea,
but treatment not adequate.... Hugo : A statistician
who places South Australia and Canada among Tory
nations is wasted outside of the N.S.W. Freetrade party.
....Unsuitable: —Cosme, T.H.8., Ixion, F.W., W., J.P.C.,
A.H.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
W.R. : Two drunken Flossies and a Joseph not suffi-
ciently well drawn: John Gow : Figure of condemned
killed it.... J. Le B. : Nothing funny in back view of
barber A. J. Sloan: One accepted... .Notrom : Re-
turned with enthusiasm.. ..Oswald P.: Not up.. ..N.L.S. :
The only part of your picture that isn’t wooden is the
leg of the table W.J.D. : Picture not suitable for B.
Offer it as a design for a stained-glass window for the
Cold Tea Oats’ meeting-r00m... .T.B. : You call yourself
an artist and send in that. Go to! J.B. : Ship not
sufficiently battered. Be thorough H.S. : Don’t care
for belligerent ’roo Plymouth Sound : Interesting to
know how you would propose to illustrate that G. H. :
No room for mere puns T.P.C. (Carlton): Too smudgy
to reproduce and joke no good O.K. : “Cricket
Notes” jokes are too English comic-papery... .H.G.: A
hopeless batch... .Unsuitable : W.J.D.
THE GENTS UPON THE ROAD.
Now, all ye chaps as ’as ne’er been
Out a-humpin’ of yer ‘ bluey’ on the track,
Just yer ’old yer bloomin’ throttle
And a pace or two take back
When yer meets a ‘ gent upon the road.’
’Cause yer sport a ’at that’s shiny
And a shirt chock full of glue and patent starch,
Don’t yer reckon as you’ll never
Be a-found upon the march
With the ‘ gents who live upon the road.’
Yer can go to balls an’ parties
With a damsel that ’ud light a bloomin’ pipe,
And go kitterin’ round the ballroom
In amongst ther ‘ city tripe,’
But be ’spectful to the ‘ gents upon the road.’


AN ATTEMPT UPON THE AUSTRALIAN TREASURY.
THE STATE PREMIERS PROPOSE THAT THE AUSTRALIAN GOVERNMENT SHALL FLOAT A LOAN TO PAY FOR STATE PROPERTIES TAKEN OVER (PROPERTIES BUILT WITH LOAN MONEY) SO THAT A POST OFFICE WORTH £1000
SHALL HAVE £2000 OF MORTGAGES ON IT—THE £1000 WHICH THE STATE BORROWED TO BUILD IT, AND THE £1000 WHICH THE COMMONWEALTH BORROWED TO BUY IT. TREASURER TURNER REFUSES TO ENTERTAIN THE IDEA.


„ ISfe SWe School (>s«•
%c 1o %>e
flcl/ed 'fw % K '
“tfje 10015 of c\il
edacA'tio^
m
(Of/
U /
htk,
* * fa'
for 5 c^ ol >)
.will “te
ayffer w/X'
Veil »ny y otJ W 7^
" No. sir j • «..
" c*i y° M ri, 77^' c r
“ No. Sir' ? ..
• you Spell 7
'No -Sir , ?;• - . : , >: r
■ ca*i wo^j>4)>er
V IV
\s°
xdu{di\orj
-f* dd 2>l> M
dorje WII7
) W
GOVERNMENT OFFICER
7 h* entire Co<vmunity should 1 7e dele rained
"to Havc tje between labour
&s eacs y sf'A l nA s —/\ge
"time is Quite irjof>j>orturie tor \yt~
U in re betwetn
Ctyfal Ssl&bcur ibid
°f Co p e^v T e +^
W W*'-
117 -'to 'll*
\sxi
‘A^"S
il/e L^^ oWt i € o * re
it]
wljo,
sjaf. | BS^i
Ific fabb'f I
jli | l|L i jr|>*
I | i " ]
M»P'WINTER. REALITV^
Hen^
l'tjjc £>|>ress
<sn & -fo
f*(o rjeed for me.
sfe jeitlecl ~
VICTORIAN ITEMS,


Key,
£3 los.
Keyless,
£5.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUSHMEN AND MINERS.
ROTHERHAM SPECIAL MADE ENGLISH
LEVERS, Eull Cap, Hand Extra
Jewelled Works, Perfect Timekeeper, with Pure
Silver Cases, Dust and Water Tight. £3 10s.
Extra Quality, with Chronometer Balance,
£4 10s, £5, £5 10s, £6, £7, £8 ;
Solid Gold, £lO, £l5, £2O.
A written certificate for 3,4, and 5 years.
Try one ; you will not regret it.
FREETRADB
PRICES.
NO
ADVANCE.
/
%
LUX
>
X.OK9OM
(abic sxdxmx
X
A. SAUNDERS.
Strong, Reliable LEVERS, “ The Challenge,” 15s.
The unrivalled Lever, in Black or Nickel, 20s; perfect
timekeeper. The London Lever, new f-plate model,
25s ; in Solid Silver, £2 2s; in Double Case, £2 10s, £3.
Rotherham LEVERS, £3lob, £4, £5, £6, £7, £B. Gold
WATCHES, £4 4s. £5 ss, £6 6s, £7 10s. £lO, £L2 10s,
£l5, £2O. Mind, we guarantee you the utmost satis-
faction, “ otherwise we will exchange watch for you.”
Send for Illustrated book of particulars, post free.
20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Unrivalled non-magnet LEVER.
Perfeci Timekeeper, Screw Cases,
dust and water tight, 20s.
A written Guarantee given with
each Watch.
Black or
Nickel,
30s.
Silver,
£5.
nutt‘V'
•Hit*
5-H*
“ FLY-BACK CHRONOMETERS.”
These we have at Every Price and Style. In Solid
Nickel or Black, 30s ; Extra Quality, £2, £2 10s ;
Split Seconds, £3 LOs. Pure Solid Silver, £5, £6, £7,
£B, and £lO ; Solid Gold, £l5, £2O, £25, and £3O.
A written certificate for 2,3, 4,5, and 6 years.
TRY ONE.
Solid
Silver,
£2 10s-
Gold
Cases,
•£4 4s.
WALTHAM LEVERS.
We are Special Direct Agents
Pure Solid Silver Hunting Cases,'Extra
Quality Movements
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, and £5 •
Gold Patent Cases, Walthams £44!
Solid Gold, £7 10s, £lO, £l2los, £l5 £2O ’
and £25. ’ ’
ittm
imin
teSi
0
m
*****
r*n
Solid Gold CHAIN (Single or Double), £2 10s,
£3, £3 Ids, £4, £4 10s, £5. 15ct. Solid Gold, £5 10s,
£6, £6 10s, £7, £B, £lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d,
15s, 20s. Send for Price Illustrated Book.
15ct. Gold Bar and Scroll BROOCH, Pearls and
Red Stones, 85s. Quite New.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Motto Registered Gold “ Dinna Forget ”
BROOCH and Amethysts, 9ct. Gold, 17s 6d;
15et. Gold, 30s ; 18ct. Gold, 355.
VJ
15ct. Gold, Extra Strong, with First-class
Opal, £2 5s ; similar, 355, £2, and £2 10s.
15ct. Gold, Diamond and 2 Rubies, 22s 6d.
2-Bar Gold Scroll Pearl Set BROOCH, 20s
Hall marked.
A. SAUNDERS.
(Registered) Gold Secret Name BROOCH
*tfet. Gold, Diamonds, £2 10s, £3, £4.
Any Name or Motto i'ree.
Six Different Patterns, Similar.
15ct. Gold 2-Bar Ivy Leaf, Set with Red,
"White, and Blue Stones, 22s 6d.
A. BAUNDERB.
15et. Gold Ivy and Pearl Gold BROOCH, 255;
9ct. Gold, smaller, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Newest Solid Gold Name BROOCH, 7s 6d ;
with Raised Floweis each side (Any Name),
15ct. Gold, 15s. Latest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. 2-Bar Pure Diamond, Double Cut, £2.
9ot. Gold Square or half-round BRACELET,
3 Red or Blue Stones, £2.
Very Neat and Cheap.
St.
Ladies’ Curb Gold
Chain, Snap Padlock,
255, 30s, 355, £2 ss,
£3 ; 15ct., £2 10s, £3,
£4, £4 10s, £5, £6,
£7 10s, £B, £9, £lO.
10s extra for Key
Padlock.
All with Safety Chain.
A. SAUNDERS.
Nicely Chased Gold BRACELET, 255. Very Neat and Pretty.
Sword and Sheath PAPER CUTTER, 6in. long.
Most Useful Present, 4s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Wishbone and Arrow, with Red
Stone, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Wish Bone and Forget-Me-Not, 15s.
pm.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Raised Flowers, 5s 6d.
Larger, Gs Gd and 7 s 6d.
W&m?
* J
<sm
G'>m
»r
(jm
A. SAUNHLRS.
Gold Mizpah BROOCH, 2 Heart?, 10s ;
larger, 12s 6d. A Hice Brood}.
Gold “ Good Luck ” BROOCH, 10s 6d ;
15ct. Gold, 21s.
11
12
14
A. SAUNDERS’
FREETRABE PRICES.
10. Round LINK, 9ct. Gold, £2, £2loa,
£3 ; 15ct., £4, £5.
11. Rope Pattern, 9ct. Gold, £2, £2los,
£3 ; loct., £4, £5.
12. Cui b Pattern, 9ct. Gold, £2, £2los,
£3; 15ct., £4, £5,
13. —Rope and Ball, 9ct. Gold, £2, £2los,
£3, 15ct., £4, £5.
14. —Cuib and Link, £3, £4, £5, £6.
15. —Chain andßondell, £4 to £7 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Latest Style, loot. Gold Pearl Set Buckle '2-Bar
BROOCH, 3‘2.j 6d. English Hall Marked.
mi
A. SAUNDERS.
English Hall Marked 15cfc. Gold Ruby and
Pearls, Scroll and Fancy Sides, £2.
18ct.
Solid |
Gold, £lO
Extra
Strong,
£l2los
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Solid Gold Keylass WALTHAM
LEVER, Eull Jewelled Works. Patent
Action, New Model £lO, £l2 10s.
You Can’t get a Better Watch.
14ct. Solid Gold, £8 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Dinna Forget,
10s 6d.
Our own Registered
Design,
A. SAUNDERS.
CHARM.
New Gold Bell,
k
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Solid Silver Hunting
Keyless WATCH,
Full Jewelled, 255, 80s, £2,
£2 10s.
Price to quality of works.
Guaranteed 2,8, 4 years.
15ct. Gold
Turquoise
Forge t-
ine-Not
and
Pearl
Scroll,
20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold BROOCH, 3-Bar Diamond, 12a 6d.
Very Neat.
A. SAUNDERS.
fcST ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
Silver Hunting Keyless, 2Cs, 30s, £2,
£2 10s, £3.
Solid Gold Keyless, £2, £3, £4, £5 ;
Superior Quality, £6, £7, £B, £lO.
ALL GUARANTEED.
Floral
PIN,
Pearl and
Tur-
quoise,
255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Black Keyless WATCU,
(.rood Timekeeper, 15s ;
Extra Quality, 20s.
Guaranteed.
15s.
20s.
Post Card Gold
CHARM, 10s.
Any Name Fiee.
Silver, gilt, 5s 6d.
Gold Boot
CHARM, 5s Od.
Latest Style.
Solid
Gold,
£6 10s.
Silver,
£2 10s.
m
MW
■fu
A. SAUNDERS.
LADIES’ WALTHAM SOLID
GOLD KEYLESS,
f-movement, Chronometer Balance,
Jewelled, Perfect Timekeeper,
Extra Strong Cases.
Gill Size, £6 10s ; Small Size, £o 10s.
Pure Solid Silver, same works,
£2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Pearl and
Turquoise Floral and
Ribbon BROOCH, £2 10s.
London’s Newest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Pearl and
Turquoise Heart
BROOCH, £2 2s.
The Latest Style.
A. SAUNDEiIS.
15ct. Solid Gold Opal LINKS,
with Initial, £2 10a.
Extra Strong.
A. SAUNDERS.
Beautifully Chased, 9ot. Gold,
large size LINKS, 22s 6cLJ
Plain, 21s, or with
nicely Chased, 22s 6d.
15ct. Gold, £2 ;
Silver, 4s 6d. .
A. SAUNDERS.
(Registered).
Gold LINES, 20s;
15ct. Gold, 82s 6d ;
Silver and Gold, 10s ;
all Silver, ss.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold LINKS,
very pretty, 12s 6d.
Large Size, 15s and 20s.
Silver, 2s 6d and 4s 6d.
MIZPAH GOLD
CHARM, 4a.
A. SAUNDERS’
Watches,
Clocks,
Jewellery,
AND
Silverplate
FREETRADE
PRICES.
SAVE 25 PER CENT.
TO 50 PER CENT.
Showrooms :
815 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Solid Gold, 5 pure
Diamonds, £l2 10s ;
Smaller, £5, £6, £7,
£7 10s, to £3O.
18ct. Solid Gold,
5 Pure Diamonds, £5.
Diamond and
Sapphire or Ruby,
£3 10s ;
larger, £4 10s, £5.
A. SALNDIRS.
18ct. Gold,
3 Sapphires, Rubies,
or Opals, 4 Diamonds,
£3, £3 10s, £4, *
A. SAUNDERS.
Opal Band RINGS,
9ct. Solid Gold, 17s 6d;
15ct. Gold, 30s ;
18ct. Gold, £2.
•8!
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Buttercup Single
Stone Diamond
RING,
£3, £4, £5.
A. SAUNDEBS.
18ct. Gold.
3 Pure Diamonds,
2 Opal Hearts, £4 10s.
Latest Style,
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Solid Gold Buckle,
17s 6d; 15ct. Gold. 30s ;
18ct. Gold, £2.
Solid Gold, Turquoise
and Pearl, 20s.
Newest Style.
m
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Solid Gold, 3 pure
Double-out Diamonds,
£5, 3. Diamond and
2 Rubies or Sapphires,
£3.
18ct. Solid Gold Diamond
Band, £2, JE'2 10s, £3;
15c t. Gold, 30s.
18ct. Gold Buckle
KING, Diamond, and
2 Rubies or Sapphires,
£2 Ks.
With Name, Band RINGS,
9ct. isolid Gold, 12s6d, los;
loot. Gold, 20s, 25s ;
18ct. Gold, 255, 30s, 355, £2.
GENT.'S RING.
Solid Gold, Amethyst, 25sf
Isct, Gold, £2;
18ct., £2 10s.
Hand-made wJsddin^RlNGS.and '
9ct-. • Solid Gold, 5s 6di 7s Gd, 10s each ; 15ct. Gold, .
extra heavy, ‘2ss; IBct. Gold.,
extra heavy, 30s, 355, 40s. Send for Card.
A. SAUNDERS.
JEA/VELLER AND SILVERSMITH,
815 AND 817 GEORG E-STREET,
NEARLY OPPOSITE
RAILWAY STATION,
SYDNEY


Debility Ended.
Permanently and fob Good.
“Your Bile Beans have proved a valuable
remedy in my household,” says Mrs. E. J. Rumus,
of 1 Arundle-street, Forest Lodge, Sydney. “I
was sometimes troubled with debility, especially
during the hot weather, and when I feel done up
with a tired, listless feeling, I take a bean or two,
with beneficial results. As a gentle purgative
they are all that can be desired, and leave no evil
after-effects whatever. I can safely say Bile
Beans are unequalled for poor appetite, sleepless-
ness, and that out-of-sorts feeling so prevalent at
the present season.” Bile Beans have now a
world wide reputation for curing biliousness, head-
ache, indigestion, constipation, piles, debility,
female weaknesses, nervousness, bad blood, pimples
and all skin eruptions, bad breath, anaemia, loss
of appetite, sleeplessness, lumbago, rheumatism,
and, in fact, all ailments that owe their origin to
defective bile flow, assimilation, digestion, etc.
Bile Beans are obtainable from all medicine
vendors, price Is. l|d. or 2s. 9d. large box,
(contains three times the quantity of the Is.
size. )*
Few men have a better knowledge of the
working of the Lands Acts than has Land
Agent W. N. Willis, of 21 Bligh-street. Pay-
ment by results is not only reasonable but also
novel.*
Old England’s Navy rules the sea,
No matter where her ships may be;
Her flag will fly in every clime,
Foremost, till the end of time.
Her hardy sailor loves to roam
Upon the wave he calls his home,
While from the cold he is secure,
Taking Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
cases in six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
only Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
Of Chemists, or from PARIS MEDICINE CO., 28, Shoe-
lane, London, England.*
THE cotonut BERK OF RUSTHRCRSII Ltd.
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦«
THE TWENTIETH REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS OF THE COLONIAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
To be Presented to the Shareholders at the Twentieth Ordinary General Meeting, held at
the Bank, 126 Elizabcth-street, Melb., at noon, on Thursday, 30th April, 1903.
IRIEIPOIRT.
The Directors beg to submit to the shareholders their Twentieth Report, with a Balance-sheet and Statement of
Profit and Loss for the half-year ended 31st March, 1903, duly audited.
After providing for Expenses of Management, Interest accrued on Deposits, Rebate on Bills Current, Tax on
Note Circulation, Income Tax, and making provision for Bad and Doubtful Debts,
the net profit amounted to £16,222 15 1
Brought forward from 30th September, 1902 .. 3,064 18 8
£19,287 13 9
Which the Directors propose to apportion as follows
Dividend at the rate of 6 per cent, per annum on Preference Shares £7,601 2 0
(Free of Income Tax.)
Dividend at the rate of 5 per cent, per annum on the Ordinary Shares 8,360 3 0
(Free of Income Tax.)
To Reserve Fund 6,000 0 0
Balance carried forward 3,326 8 9
£19,287 13 9
Provision has been made out of the profits for the payment of Income Tax, under recent State legislation. The
assessment has not yet been made, but the amount which the Bank will have to pay will probably come to
about £l,OOO.
The Dividend will be Payable at the Head Office on and after the Ist proximo, and at the Branches on receipt
of advice.
The TWENTIETH ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING of Shareholders will be held at the Head Office of the
Company, 126 Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, on Thursday, the 30th day of April, 1903, at noon.
By order of the Board.
Melbourne, 21st April, 1903. SELBY PAXTON, General Manager.
BALANCE-SHEET OF THE COLONIAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED,
Dr.
FOR THE HALF-YEAR ENDING 31st MARCH, 1903.
Cr.
To Capital Paid-up, viz.
31,184 preference
shares paid in cash to
£9 15s
77,278 ordinary shares
paid in cash to £llss.
per share, £135,236
10s.; less calls due and
in arrear, £B3O 10s. ..
£304,044 0 0
134,406 0 0
„ Reserve fund (used in the business of
the Bank)
„ Profit and loss
„ Notes in circulation
~ Bills in circulation
~ Balances due to other banks
To Government Deposits—
Not bearing interest,
£34,467155. 5d.; bear-
ing interest, £303,177
6s. 9d
To Other Deposits—
Rebate and interest
accrued—Not bearing
interest, £872,352
17s. lid. ; bearing
interest, £1,089,970
18s. 8d 1,962,323 16 7
£438,450 0 0
45,000 0
14,287 13
122,455 0
64,576 15
302 13
337,645 2 2
Contingent liabilities, as per contra ..
2,299,968 18 9
46,026 18 10
£3,021,067 19 7
By coin, bullion, and
cash at bankers
„ Victoria Government
inscribed stock,
„ Metropolitan Board
of Works, and munici-
pal debentures, at
cost, £36,679 11s. 7d.;
less amount written
£406,612 16 4
By real estate, consisting of—
Bank premises at cost to new bank ..
Other real estate at valuation
~ Bills discounted and other advances,
exclusive of provision for bad or
doubtful debts
„ Shares in other companies at valuation
~ Chattel property at valuation..
~ Liabilities of customers and others in
respect of contingent liabilities, as per
contra
£638,583 12 5
193,253 10 1
57,967 7 4
2,066,827 17 11
14,095 2 6
4,313 10 6
46,026 18 10
£3,021,067 19 7
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To current expenses (including salaries,
rent, repairs, stationer}’, &c.) .. .. £23,300 19 3
„ Bank note tax 1,142 8 10
~ Transfer to reserve fund .. .. 5,000 0 0
~ Balance 14,287 13 9
£43,731 1 10
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
To balance
£45,000 0 0
£45,000 0 0
By balance brought forward .. .. £40,000 0 ®
~ Transfer from profit and loss .. .. 5,000 0 0
£45,000 0 0
The Customary Auditors’ Report and the Directors’ Statement to comply -with
the Companies Act 1896 appear in the Official Report.
FOR BABY
AND REST FOR
«
■£.
FISHER & CO/S
Jl INFANTS’
TEETHING
POWDERS
(Registered Trade Mark)
MATRICARIA
An Invaluable Remedy.
For Children Cutting their Teeth, and
the various slight Derangements incident
to Infancy. It ensures Easy Teething,
Promotes Digestion, Stops Sickness,
Flatulency and Pain. Prevents Convul-
sions, and establishes the Constitution.
CONTAINS NO OPIUM OR ANY
INJURIOUS INGREDIENT.
In Boxes, Is ; Three Boxes for 2s 6d ;
Postage, extra, Id.
Prepared Solely by
FISHER & CO.,
Homoeopathic Chemists,
337 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
DON’T LET BABY CRY!
r?v
U
m
\\
s*^
r'/
For over 20 Years . , ,
FISHER’S
Infants’ Teething
Powders
Have Been a Boon and Blessing to
Children.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“J.A.C.”: “ Eko ” (8., 18/4/’O3) thinks that
the payment to a pawnbroker of 100 per cent, per annum
“ isn’t so shocking as it looks.” It appears tome to be
just as shocking as it looks. Passing over some of
“ Eko’s ” remarkable arithmetical problems, if one has to
pay 3d. per diem on a parcel worth 55., deposited in a
railway luggage-office, that isn’t interest but a ridicu-
lously exorbitant storage fee, and one exorbitant charge
doesn’t justify another. I have paid half-a-crown to get
a dog, worth less than 65., put out of his misery, but
that didn’t necessarily represent 60 per cent, per day
(18,250 per cent, per annum) on the dog. I may inform
“ Eko ” that some pawnbrokers are not satisfied with 100
per cent. ; I have frequently known 4s. per annum to be
charged on a loan of 3s. Further, many establishments
advertise that they charge only 6d. per month in the £—
roughly, 30 per cent.—enough, in all conscience—and
then unblushingly charge the same amount for 10s., thus
doubling the rate. If “ Eko ” likes to reckon up how
many thousand per cent, some hard-working women,
who, from sheer necessity, pawn a skirt from Friday
till Saturday, have to pay, the result might sur-
prise him. The fact that many pawnbrokers don’t get
rich has no bearing on the case. If there were a suf-
ficiently great superfluity of pawnbrokers, they wouldn't
get rich even if the rates were put up to 10,000 per cent.,
simply because the 10,000 per cent, might not happen
often enough. A great deal depends on the frequency of
things. If a man picks up Is. and spends half-a-minute
in doing it, for that half-minute his income is at the rate
of £15,024 per annum, even if he only works eight hours
a day and knocks off on Sundays. Yet I have known
men who didn’t get rich even at that princely rate.
There was too much competition in the business.
• • • •
Dear Bulletin, —“J.F.D.’s” assertion (8.,
11/4/’O3) that there is skill in playing “ two-up ”
is unadulterated bosh. The back country is the
home of the “ two-up ” school and the “ two-uppers.”
Every possible means and way of getting home on
the other fellow is tried and practised by the
bush-spielers during idle time between shearing. They’re
driven to, if possible, acquire skill, not for the mere
love of it, but out of grim necessity, because “nobs,”
“ greys,” and “pigeon-hole kips” and other take-down
paraphernalia are now so well-known as to be almost
entirely played out. “ It’s this cursed Education Act
that does it," once said a well-known out-back spieler.
Have known scores of men trying hard to learn the art of
regulating the spin of the coin for months ; but in vain.
Were it possible at all, these flercely-earnest individuals
would accomplish it. Practising in a room would be
more hopeless than ever. ‘ ‘ Two-up ”is mainly an open-
air game, and there are no ceilings to be guided
by, and the eye alwayt gauges the amount of muscular
strength required for certain actions. Besides, wind and
air-currents would upset the indoor rehearsal. Likewise
“J.F.D.,” in same Bulletin, conveys nothing new or
startling when relating the story of the cards and his
neighbor’s grind-stone. To extract the jacks or any re-
quired cards out of a pack and grind down the edges of
the rest is as old as “The Wrinkler’s’’ great grandfather’s
dog jlie grind-stone of every large shearing shed out-
back could sing that song. If there should be others in
Innocent Sydney besides “ J.F.D.’s ” guileless shopkeeper
who do not know what the thing is done for let them be
enlightened by a bushie. Cards extracted from a pack
during the grinding-process naturally remain a trifle
wider than the rest. In consequence their edges slightly
protrude when the pack is squared on one side. They are
thus easily located and extracted when “stacking” is
necessary to acquire your opponent’s boodle. The
cleverest loaded-dice-men, card-sharpers, two-up spielers,
coin-ringers, “endless-strand” and “ belt-trick’’-men,
thimble-and-pea-gents., and others of that ilk, are met
in the large shearing-sheds out-back where schools are
high and flourishing. It’s a common fallacy to think that
the clever division lives only in the cities. Bush-spielers
have whispered to writer that their easiest prey are the
“ think-they’re-clever-city-fellows.” “J.F.D.” and his
Druitt-street “ heading-’em ” genius, I imagine, would be
fine fat pigeons to pluck at a big Yanko, Dunlop or
Bowen ©owns’ gafflng-sch<M»l.—“ 6 x 8.”
* • • •
A metropolitan softgooda firm held an exami-
nation for of “walker” in its establish-
ment retentljC jChere were between 40 and 50 candidates
—all of them dressed faultlessly. The examination was
conducted in the firm’s board-room, and consisted of tests
in a multitude of movements and brief speeches. Among
the preliminary tests were walking the full length of the
room, bowing to imaginary persons, saying, with a smile
and gentle wave of the band, “ This way, madam,” and
placing chairs for invisible visitors. There were tests in
smiles, in modulations of the voice, in arching the eye-
brows and casting down the eyes. Most candidates
passed in these exercises, and were then confronted
with what were called “specialties.” In these customers
of all grades of temper were imagined, and the candidate
was expected to prove his resourcefulness in most trying
and peculiar positions. And such is the beginning of a
great man of the William M'Millan and Robert Reid
class!
* * • »
Vic. shire official, who combines the clerical
duties of a cabbage-growing shire on the fringe of the
metropolis, with those of poundkeeper, struck a sheaf of
troubles t’other day. In a bad fit of retrenchment the
local council decided to cease taking the Government
Gazette, as a little-read, useless organ. Directly after
this decision two horses were impounded, for trespass,
* nd j? 10 ordinar y course of affairs the secretary-cum-
poundkeeper posted the usual impounding advertisement
to the Government Printer for insertion, as required by
law. But, since the municipal fossils had discontinued
taking the Govt, organ, the day for receiving lost horse
advertisements had been altered ; consequently the
poundkeeper’s notice did not appear till a week later than
intended, and the sale of the two horses which followed
was illegal for lack of sufficient published notice. About
this time the owner of the lost animals—two valuable
polo ponies—traced them, and also traced the illegal sale.
Then there was trouble. It took a £5O bonus to persuade
the buyers to return the horses, and the council sorrow-
fully paid this, though whether it can be legally taken
out of the rates or not hasn’t been ascertained yet. Per-
haps that will mean more trouble. Anyhow the Govern-
ment Gazette has been ordered again.
• * • •
Some suggestive monuments of the boom still
adorn Melbourne suburbs, especially those that Bent
wants to encourage by giving free railway passes to house-
builders. Two such are Blackburn and Glen Iris. Black-
burn mostlycomprises a pub., a smithy, and a crescent.
Latter consists of a dozen gorgeous, two-storey brick
mansions, each in a half-acre allotment. Glen Iris pos-
sesses neither pub. nor smithy, but boasts a gaswork,
and, on a hill beyond, a squad of mansions as before.
These tenements are, and have been for the last 10 or 12
years, occupied by a poverty-stricken, skimping, scraping,
contriving race. The unfortunates bought their places
in the joyous boom days—on the instalment plan—and,
having paid a portion, were loth to relinquish when the
spree collapsed. They are now mostly getting their titles
—just as the mansions show signs of senile decay—and
they have paid from £lOOO to £2OOO for properties that
are to-day worth barely £5OO. Wherefore they look upon
the new “free pass” builder as a jump-up—almost a
pauper.
* • • •
Religion up-to-date : The Scientific American,
of Feb. 21st., in its list of “ Recently Patented Inven-
tions,” includes the following : “ Chaplet and Shrine of
the Holy Rosary.— T. Sault, New Haven, Conn. The
purpose of the inventor is to here provide a new and im-
proved chaplet and shrine of the holy rosary designed for
devotional purposes, and arranged to enable a person to
successively display pictures of a religious character one
at a time and in proper order, according to the designated
devotional exercise.”
* « • »
“ Scotty the Wrinkler” to “J.F.D.”: You’re
at it again, are you? And “ you know a man and have
seen him practise for hours,” &c. Well, whether lam
flush or not is no matter. I’ll stake £5 down with any
appointee of The Bulletin [The Bulletin hereby ap-
points Rev. Dill-Macky], to be made £lO on naming of
date and hour of trial, that “ J.F.1).” does not produce
the man he mentions, to go within an inch of a 10ft.
ceiling 19 times out of 20 — i.e., without touching. I’ll be
generous: I’ll make it 18. And if “ J.F.D.” lays odds
I’ll make it 15 and 2 inches. I shall come to Sydney,
even risking my life at the corner of Druitt-street, any
day, from one to three months from now; and, as the
apparatus can’t lie, my camera or “ J.F.D.’s ” will record
the shots. And the eight times running, heading or
tailing, is a palpable lie, just as “ Temora Tommy’s ” was,
unless (always an “if ”) the Druitt-street man is an idiot,
or of independent means. I bet he hasn’t decent boots,
and I state that he is a fool to show his hand, just as
Ginger used to show his game at billiards. Your rabbit-
ing man never came that tenner to clear 640 acres by a
bag of pollard and two bobs’-worth of poison. But if
“ J.F.D.” wants to make a quid or two, I’ll pay his and
Druitt Cornerman’s fare and board up here if they’ll let
me edit them, and I’ll make £5O out of them as a show —
i.e., if they can do their trick, and if they will recoup
me should they fail.
UNEMPLOYED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The early bird, awak’ning ere the dawn has lit the blue,
Awaits the tardy urchin who conveys the paper round ;
Then, hustling through his humble meal, he scans the
column through
Which specifies where work, or something similar, may
be found.
His patched and saggy seediness is roused from its
despair
By cautious brush and artful fake and titivated sham ;
And tattered crease-worn ref’rences are gathered up with
care
To share the handy pocket with the mid-day bread and
jam.
The morning sheet is pencil-ticked in likely-looking spots,
Increasing hesitation as to which he’ll tackle first;
For memory is counting o’er the many painful lots
Of pilgrimages made so oft with unsuccess accurst.
Selecting one to start with, off he rushes straight to where
A hungry crowd dejected swells increasingly anon ;
And residents adjacent gaze and spitefully declare
There’s certainly a murder or an auction going on.
A weary string along the kerb, a throng around the door—
Their number is adjacent unto fifty-six or so
Assorted types of manhood, with additions more and
more,
Like flies in steamy weather when the meat begins to go.
Some plunge in tangled arguments on hazy politics,
Old mutilated maxims are with new confusion fraught;
They know where all the pegs are loose—know all the
little tricks,
And what some legislators did, and didn’t do, and ought.
He takes his turn in single file, which gradually brings
Him to the sanctum where the boss awaits the interview—
The boss who asks in accents full of wrath—and other
things—
If this procession’s got an end, and when that end is due.
The brief examination ; how he struggles to impress
The fact that he is all he represents himself to be ;
The same old dead finale—“ Yes, well leave me your
address,
And if you suit I’ll let you know.” Alas, it’s all U.P. 1
But time is on the wing—both wings ; so off he strides
and hunts
For other jobs ; while thinking what a chance he might
expect
If he could only spread himself round everywhere at once,
Like something in a riddle that he can’t quite recollect.
Then out beyond and back again, down here and over
there,
To find in each successive visit disappointment more—
Some lucky wretch installed. Until he’s painfully aware
The widely-scattered crumbs have all been swallowed
hours before.
With appetite developed that he’d rather do Without
He homeward crawls; while ghostly hopes in sympathy
still cling :
To-morrow may be kinder—yes, well that is just about
The daily summing-up of life. What will to-morrow
bring ?
J. DORGAN.


To Cure Dog Ailments.
E minent V eterinary Surgeons
and Dog Fanciers (see Book
on bottle) strongly recommend
Condy’S Fluid as a Certain Cure
forDistemper.Mange, Eczema,
Bites and Wounds in Dogs.
Insist on having “Condy’S Fluid.”
All substitutes are inferior.
Condy’S Fluid is sold everywhere
by all Chemists and Stores.
GO TO HBLL-
IGOLANI) for Pretty Stamps, but
if yea v&nt real good a temps, sand to
Fred. Nagei).
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought Price-Lists gratis.
AUSTRALIAN STAMPS
Sought, Sold & Exchanged.
Gibbons’ Philatelic Albums
and all requirements. Price lists gratis.
J. H. SMYTH & CO.,
88 KING ST., SYDNEY.
SPECTACLES
—FOR—
DEFECTIVE
VISION, to
COUNTRY READERS
who cannot visit us
personally, we send,
Post Free to any ad-
dress, with full in-
structions and Price List, our marvellously-accurate
and popular SELF SIGHT-MEASURING PATENT.
By its use you can Test y ur own sight and de-
termine for yourself the style and quality of the
glasses you may need. Write for it to—
H. A. BARRACLOUGH, Optician,
385 George-s.t., Sydney (opposite Strand Arcade).
Hotel
Australia
RATES:
12s. 6d. per Day,
and upwards.
This beautiful hotel is fireproof from tower to
basement.
For cuisine, comfort, style, appointments, and
perfection of attendance, The Australia is the
first hotel of the Southern Hemisphere.
It is Sydney’s great summer hotel, being
situated on a lofty site, and catching every
breeze. Visitors to The Australia sleep in a cool,
pure atmosphere.
J. URE SMITH (Late of Hermes’), Manager,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Imagine the Premier of all Australia
addressing the Commonwealth from such a hole as
Dungog, and a hole with such a name !
The British War Office is doing something
for its returned soldiers. It has formally decided
that it will not supply the address of any one of
them to his creditors !
Some grave charges of want of accuracy
are being made against the Victorian census; and
in one department at least the figures are to be
submitted to a fresh investigation.
The S. Aus. Labor party is building a
“threepenny election fund.” That is good. But
to build a really national and comprehensive plat-
form would be better. The funds would come
then.
After all, the idea of filling the Jew-
hannesburg mines with Chinese labor has not been
dropped. An agent is in China at this moment
fathering information as to the possible supply of
luddhists and Confucians.
John Norton, M.P., has been regretting
in his electorate that N.S.W. Parliament “ had
deteriorated since the introduction of payment of
members.” Under the circumstances, the state-
ment seemed to carry its own proof.
ONE OF THE SIGHTS OF SYDNEY.
Seating Accommodation (?) at Public Library.
The Tory reaction in N.S.W. ! Things
that the daily press now hirt at : Repeal of the
Old Age Pensions Act and the minimum wage
regulation ; disfranchisement of the civil service ;
and settlement of Chinese on irrigation areas.
Though Charters Towers (N.Q.) suffers
from a severe outbreak of typhoid fever, some
of its numerous muddle men oppose the taking
of a Referendum to decide whether the filthy and
insanitary cesspits shall be abolished. Proputty
sees a little extra cost looming up when improve-
ment is suggested.
Cabled that the Canadian surplus for last
year is between £2,000,000 and £3,000,000.
Wanted—a leading article apiece from the
Sydney Telegraph and S.M. Herald as to how
it is that Canada and Maoriland, the two highest
tariffed States of the British empire, are also the
most flourishing of all British possessions.
On the Victorian railways nowadays,
cleaners often work as firemen, firemen as drivers,
porters as guards, repairers as gangers, and so on,
but without getting the pay attached to the
higher position. If, however, a fireman is put
temporarily on at cleaning, within three seconds
of his being made a cleaner his pay is put down
from that of a fireman to that of a cleaner. But
this rule doesn’t apply all round. Bent, for
instance, is an M.L.A. temporarily put on to be
a Minister, but he doesn’t draw the pay of a mere
M.L.A. —not much.
The polling for Musgrave (Q.), a typical
Bquatting electorate, where a vacancy lately oc-
curred through the death of Lands Minister
O’Connell, looks as if the Continuous Ministry
were losing ground. In 1893, the Government
majority was 342; in ’96, it had a walk-over; in
’99, its majority was 250; in 1902, 209; in 1903,
only 29.
“ Bobrid ” writes :
The Australian Government must take over the old-age
pension business. T’other day met an aged man who
arrived in Victoria 53 years ago. Ten years ago he came
to N.S.W. with £3OOO to invest in land. The drought
left him without a cent. Too old to work, he cannot now
claim a pension in N.S.W., because he hasn’t been 25
years in N.S.W., and because he has been 10 years in
N.S.W., he cannot get assistance from a State where
he lived over 40 years !
Up North it is better and cheaper to be a
colored alien (when you are murderously inclined)
than to be a common white baker leaving your
employer without due notice. At Cairns, N.Q.,
a riotous Japanese, who had split a white man’s
head open in a row and was a notorious brawler,
fot fined £5 and costs. In Brisbane, same week, a
aker, who left his employer at 24 hours’ notice,
had to pay £7 or go to gaol.
The “knowing” aspirant for a portfolio
“in the next Ministry” in N.S.W. now takes
care that the daily papers shall interview him
when there is a “ political crisis.” The half-dozen
or so men who are privileged by the reporters to
talk at large on the sins of the Government on
such occasions become naturally known to the
public as the leading men of the Opposition, and
are just as naturally sent for when a Ministry is
being formed.
At the half-yearly meeting of the Per-
petual Trustees’ Association, held the other day
in Melbourne, old Bill Zeal almost wept at the
alleged way the income-tax was “ driving money
out of the country.” Query: Does the British
income-tax, which is heavier than any income-tax
in Australia, drive money out of Britain ? If not,
why doesn’t it ? Is Britain burst ? If it isn’t,
why isn’t it ? Will these poor, whining persons
kindly explain T
“ San ”
on the
population
question—
if there is
one:
It is of no
use to discuss
the problem
of the restric-
tion of popu-
lation while
economic
c o n d i t i ons
remain as
they are. The
worker (who
is, of course,
by far the
most prolific
source of
population)
knows that
if he brings
up a large
famil/, each
member of
that family
can be used,
in youth, to
compete with
him, and re-
du c e his
value in the
labor market.
It is also use-
less to take
the high
ground with
him that
every child is
a valuable
asset to the
State; it
might be so
under a bet-
ter social ar-
rangement,
but at pre-
sent every
child is, up
to a certain
age, a dead
weight on his
s h o u 1 d e rs,
and after-
wards an
active indus-
trial enemy.
What wonder
then that the
working man
is beginning
to have smaller families. It has long been an axiom
of political economists that the law of supply and
demand is the only one governing the labor market.
Well, the working man says he is going to regulate the
supply. There are, no doubt, grave reasons against such
regulation, but immediate self-interest appeals strongly
to everyone, and to the worker it looks like a matter of
self-preservation.
It is expected in S.A. that there will be a
considerable inrush of tenders for the construction
of the Ninety-Million-Aore-Steal private railway
to Port Darwin. The Bulletin has some doubts,
but if there is an inrush of tenders it will probably
be followed by a violent rush of the tenderers to
get out again when they find that the promise of
ten years’ exemption from taxes is a mere confi-
dence trick, seeing that the State of S.A., which
makes the promise, has no power whatever to bind
the Commonwealth Parliament not to levy taxes
on the syndicate.
Federal Treasurer George Turner, giving
the “ straight griffin ” to the State Governments :
We are not going on to the London market to raise
£10,000,000 or £12,000,000 to hand over to the States, and
are certainly not going to hand over Commonwealth
bonds for works which were practically constructed out
of loan money. If we gave the States bonds, there is
nothing in the world to prevent any needy Treasurer,
instead of going on to the London market and borrowing
for new works, simply putting our Commonwealth stock
on the market and selling it. So far as the Common-
wealth Government is concerned, payment by either
cash or bonds is absolutely out of the question. I would
not agree to it under any circumstances.
BENT AND THE BIVALVE.
Vic. railway employees refuse to separate from
Melb. Trades’ Hall at the dictation of T. Bent.
TOMMY BENT: “Out you come!"
THE WINKLE: “Not if I can help it. I’m not
eager to be eaten.”
The National Ass. of S.A. will make a
great effort to shift Senator McGregor at next
elections. McGregor would have gone down to
Tasmania to help in the State elections but that
he has been unwell. His blindness rendered it
necessary for him to be constantly in his place in
the Senate during the last long session, for he
cannot read the debates, and the trying ordeal
told considerably on his strength.
The publicans who supplied the late Tommy
Moore, of Ramsay’s Bush, with the liquor which,
allegedly, led to a gruesome murder, explain that
they are not amenable in this matter to the local
liquor laws. The prohibition as to the selling of
liquor in N.S. Wales to aborigines applies only
to natives of N.S. Wales. Tommj was a Queens-
land aborigine, and, if sober, could demand
whisky, same as any “ white pfeller.”
Dry Dog Reid, in his recent speech at
Deniliquin, urged that the Immigration laws
should not be enforced against people from
England for fear we might aggravate a country
that we want to borrow money from. We are
Setting down pretty low in the matter of servility.
ome day, when Bull will lend us no more, and
we are trying to get loans in Paris, Dill-Macky
will have to turn Roman Catholic in order to
pacify our new creditor.
As the result of another controversy as to
N.S.W. Labor party secret caucus, Arthur
Griffith discovers that the difference between the
Labor party and the Carruthers party method is
this: —
On any important point the L.P. holds a secret caucus
and after discussion instructs its leader how to act.
In the same circumstances Mr. Oarruthers decides how
he is going to act and then holds a secret caucus of his
party to affirm or reject his idea. If they reject it, pre-
sumably he abandons it.
Forecast ot the Federal election results by
a man who thinks he knows:—Westralia, things
will be about as they are; the Labor party may
win another seat. Tasmania, ditto. South Aus-
tralia, the Government may lose one seat. Vic-
toria, the Government will hold its own ;
the Labor party should win two seats. N.S.W.,
the Government may lose two seats to the Oppo-
sition. Queensland, the Labor party will pro-
bably win two extra seats and the Government
one extra.
The Tasmanian Government has been
‘ ‘ approached ” by an American syndicate which
says in a shadowy way that it is willing to invest
from £loo,oooto £500,000 in the island “on con-
dition of receiving from 500,000 acres to 1,000,000
acres of land.” For really first-class cheek this
reads like a record. The present writer would do
as much as that. He would undertake to invest
(for his own profit) £lO,OOO in Sydney on condition
of receiving the General Post Office —land, build-
ings and all.
The tendency of the affluent Australian
Tory to lean abjectly on the State was curiously
illustrated the other day. In the old, settled
Pennant Hills district, near Sydney, where the
fruit-growers range from comfortable to really
well off, flying foxes are troublesome, so these
fine, solid landowners decided to ask the Govern-
ment for cartridges to shoot them with. The
“backbone of the country” will soon be asking
for a State subsidy to enable it to stamp on its
own caterpillar.
N.S.W. Cabinet seems to be taking its
usual cowardly, shuffling, yes-no attitude over the
Wyalong sectarian row. There was something
very like a riot at Wyalong through the fostering
of militant sectarianism, and a score or so of the
actual offenders (alleged) were arre&ted and fined
ss. each with costs. Now the O’See Ministry has
suspended collection of the fines whilst it considers
the question of remitting the costs ; and it pro-
bably will remit those costs. Thus there will be
a sop to all parties. The Protestant sectaries
will be grateful for a prosecution of the other
fellow without any attempt at sheeting home to
them their share of the trouble ; and the “ other
fellow ” —when the State pays the costs —will be
oomforted with the thought that he had his fun
cheap, anyhow.
The Maoriland Cold Tea crowd
is apparently going to fall in. The
trouble arises over a number of
Local Option polls which were de
clared void by reason of informality'
lhe law makes no provision for
holding a second Local Option poll
if the regular one is declared void
It says that no new licences shall be
granted till the people have decided
at the poll, either for reduction
abolition, or for leaving things as
they are ; and when the poll is de
dared void the people don’t decide
any of these things—therefore no
licences can be granted. The law
also says that if none of the three
proposals—reduction, abolition or
the leaving of things as they ar’e-is
carried by the requisite majority the
existing licences shall remain’and
when the poll is declared void none of
these propositions gets the requisite
majority, so all the existing licenses
must be granted again. Being faced
by these two irreconcilable proposi-
tions, the Crown Law officers decide
that licences remain as they are till
next poll three years hence, and un-
less this decision is reversed Beer
wins, with Cold Tea a bad second.
Australian politicians occasion-
ally say hard things of each other
but they seldom reach the height of a
recent orator in the Hungarian Par-
liament when he called the Premier “a
hangman, a murderer, and a bloodhound.”
Where are the stalwarts who used to grace
the Australian military before the Boer raiding ’
At the Vic. encampments it was remarked that
quite a different stamp of “men” were now
presenting themselves for training. Taken all
round, a weedier lot of striplings had never been
seen except at a cadets’ camp. Some of the more
solid class fell in the war; others learnt the arts
of stealing and loafing; the remainder, presum-
ably, are disgusted with the sort of thing they
met with “ out there,” by oourtesy called War.
A Maoriland correspondent :
On the eve of the last Maoriland general election it was
announced in certain newspapers that Cardinal Moran
had declared, while in Ireland, that Premier Seddon had
shown the Irish leaders how to solve the land problem
and that instead of disloyal attacks on the Empire they
should copy the vast wisdom of King Dick. Now
when the British Government proposes to tax the
people of Ireland in order to buy off one set of land
monopolists in order to create another, Maoriland is told
through the leading columns of certain Seddonian news-
papers that Bun Tuck’s advice has had the desired
effect—in other words Seddon has shown the Irish how to
deal with the land problem. Seddon has posed as many
things. Now he poses as the regenerator of Ireland
among the rest.
Another week finds the Victorian Govern-
ment still wondering what to do next as regards
the railway workers. It ordered them to sever
their connection with the Trades Hall, and did it
so forcibly that it must take some notice of their
refusal. To sack them all is impossible, and to
make a general cut in wages by way of punish-
ment would be a declaration of war against trades-
unionism in general, and that would be a very
large order. The Irvine Ministry has several times
been sorry it spoke, or, rather, it has been sorry
that Bent spoke. This time it is so sorry that it
wishes Bent were dead.
Melb. Argus brays loudly for “discip-
line” in the Railway Department, and refuses to
print letters from disgusted railway employees,
on the plea that, in voicing their grievances, the
employees are infringing a regulation forbidding
them to seek redress in any other way than
through their superior officers. But the same
paper prints columns of letters from teachers bur-
lesquing the Director’s new programme, and
makes these letters the basis for a leading article,
in which it expresses its deep sympathy with a
small minority of unprogressive cranks, who are
also infringing the regulation.
It doesn’t look pretty for a State Treasurer
to be branded as a spreader of slander, and that is
what has happened to Raven Shiels, of Victoria.
He stated in the House lately that various old age
pensioners at Smythesdale spent their pensions in
drink, and in a violent attack of just indignation
he cut off the supply and ordered their claims to
be re-heard. The result was that in every case
the Ballarat P.M. confirmed the pensions, it being
shown that all the tanglefoot the old folks got was
a very occasional beer shouted by a friend. But
for “privilege” these old people would have a
good libel action against the Raven.
Mr. Spruce Myth seems to think that
women will swallow any amount of ponderous
inanity. Slab from a recent lecture of his:
Women must learn to disconnect the heart from the
head in creating ' enforcing legal rights and liabilities
by Act of Pari! nt. The heart and the emotions were
designed for higher and nobler work, and ought not to
be dragged into the political mire.
There is surely nothing more important in civic
life than the exercise of the franchise, and why
should the “high” and “noble” capacities be
kept out of that work? And why should Mr.
Spruce Myth refer to the field out of which he
gets his living as the “political mire?”


—From Us, to v™«
THE CALLAGHAN
COLLARETTE SHOE.
POST FREE
DUTY FREE
FOR
13/6
All over the States
except W.A.
'f
-
. *
The price of our Collarette
Shoe is 12/11 ; or, post and
duty paid, 13/6 per pair. You
can take your ohoice of pointed,
medium, or broad toes, or of lace or
button. The prices are all the same.
There’s economy in this shoe. You will
be more than, satisfied when you have
een and worn it.
“Messrs. CALLAGHAN & SON,
Dear Sirs, —Please send me as soon possible one pair of evening shoes, size 7, and
one pair of walking shoes same size, fairly strong and rather broad at the toes. I am wearing
a light tan pair of your shoes. They seem to be everlasting—l can’t wear them
out. J. McK.”
Shoes Exchanged or money re-funded.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 ceorce st., Sydney.
HYDATIDS.
VITADATIO
AGAIN VICTORIOUS.
Neston Cottage,
Verdon-street,
Williamstown,
29/4/* 02.
Mr. S. A. PALMER,
Dear Sir,—
I have very great pleasure in testifying to the value of
VITADATIO as a cure for Hydatids. I was taken very
ill towards the end of 1899, and found it necessary to call
in a doctor. He, after carefully examining me, stated
that I had Hydatids, gave me medicines to take which did
me no good, and at last I was informed that I would have
to undergo an operation before I could be cured. This. I
was determined not .to do, and decided to immediately
commence a course of VITADATIO. I commenced it in
January, 1900, and I was then in a very weak and low
state, and I am very pleased to say that after taking it
regularly for three months I was completely cured. I
have not taken any VITADATIO or other medicine since
April of the same year. I hope that others by reading
this testimonial may profit by it, and I would say to those
who take it that after taking eight bottles I felt much
worse than I had done for some time and was advised to
discontinue its use and again call in a doctor, but I am
thankful that I continued with the VITADATIO, and
found after the eighth bottle, each one I took made me
feel much better, until at last I was completely cured.
You may make use of this letter if you wish.
Yours truly,
CATHERINE F. SMITH.
Witness—
WM D. MORGAN,
132, Osborne-street, Williamstown.
CHAS. G. CARTER,
Speight-street, Newport.
A. OSMOND,
18, Nelson Road, Newport.
For farther particulars ,
s. A: PALMER,
184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The price of medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
A CURIOUS MISTAKE.
DESPITE the advanced teachings of The
Bulletin, many of its readers are like the
old woman who only listened to one side of an
argument, because she could make up her mind
easier. Now don’t be like the old woman, and
make the curious mistake of thinking that,
because Queensland is smaller than the Southern
she cannot compete successfully with
them; B.ut b o f°re making up your mind, write
to CHARGES Gilbert, the leading Cash Tailor,
Brisbane, for patterns of New Winter Suitings
(including a special line of soft twill finish pure
ludigfi Blue Serge at 50s.—the suit to measure,
carriage paid) and Self - Measurement Forms.
Then compare the values. You will think
differently.
If you are not wise, be pompous ; if you
are not witty, be malicious; if you are not learned,
be tedious; if you are not well-informed, be dog-
matic—most people will never know the difference.
“T. 8.” : They say the Scotch have no
sense of humor, yet the other day I heard an old
Scotch woman upbraiding her daughter for her
illegitimacy.
To the Members of
THE AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
T ADIES AND GENTLEMEN, —As one of the retiring
-*•* Directors of the Society, and being eligible for re
election, I respectfully offer myself accordingly. My
life’s history is bound up with the A.M.P. Society, and
my experience, I think, justifies me in soliciting the
hearty co-operation of members to insure my return at
the forthcoming election.
BENJAMIN SHORT.
To the Members of
THE AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
T ADIES AND GENTLEMEN, —I take this opportunity
of thanking you for the confidence you have hitherto
placed in me as one of your Directors, and beg to
announce that I am again a Candidate for the honor of a
seat on the Board.—Your faithful servant,
J. T. WALKER.
Sydney,
23rd April, 1903.
Do You
Wear a
Truss?
Denver's Elastic Truss,
IT IS THE VERY BEST.
No Discomfort to Wearer. Suits any Rupture.
PRICES: 17/6 Single ; 25/- Double
Send Measure and P. 0. Order.
DENYER BROS* 281 °fL RO^
SYDNEY
Opp. Hunter St.
AND AT MELBOURNE.
THE DEAF HEAR
TVEAF persons need no longer despair. Out of the
■*'' mass of failures has come a genuine success.
Head noises can be cured and the deaf made to
hear so effectively that they wonder if they really
were deaf. Particulars of a startling discovery,
based upon the science of Metallic Galvanic Elec-
tricity, that will assist all persons suffering from
deafness, fully described.
sending your name and address to
* THE L. R. VERNON CO., 60-64
HUNTER-ST., SYDNEY, you will receive a full
description of this remarkable method, which will
enable you to restore your hearing at a very slight
expense. The description is posted to you free,
and you will be delighted to learn how easily you
can obtain relief. It will pay you to write to-day.
Don’t neglect to do so.
Missing Friends.
_u
DOUGALL, JOHN, late of Wallan, Victoria
(or anyone knowing his address) is re-
quested to communicate with HOLDSWORTH’S
NEXT-OF-KIN AGENCV, Melbourne.
What shrunk your woollens ?
Why did holes wear so soon ?
You used common soap.
SUNLIGHT
SOHP
REDUCES
EXPENSE
GUARANTEED THE HIGHEST QUALITY
TOBACCO
DARKandLIGNTPLUG
ALSO
CU TIN 2 OZ. AND 4oz.TIN S
w
WB5
tr
CORSETS
The Recognised Standard
High-Class Corsets
♦♦♦♦♦♦»<
LATEST SPECIALTY
STRAIGHT FRONT
NOUVELLE FORM
Obtainable from Leading
Drapers Everywhere.
Avoid Inferior Imitations, and see that
each pair bears the Manufacturer’s “Trade
Mark ” on band inside, as above.
.Noble Wilson, who died at Ballarat re-
cently, aged 72 years, went to the Statued City in
1854, and remained there until his death. He was
many things, including photographer, journalist,
land and estate agent and founder of the Ballarat
Trustees, Executors and Agency Co., of which he
was managing director at his death. He never
boasted of having been in the Eureka Stockade
trouble, December, 1854, but he was a full private
in that disturbance.
King O’Malley is posing under his huge
advertisement-hat as the champion of poor dear
alleged Senator Reid. That pompous softgoods-
man, as K.O’M. pictures him, is “held legally
responsible for the technical blundering of his
employees, but nevertheless is known to be in-
ca,pable of doing anything which could in the
slightest degree reflect upon his honor.” King
O’Malley gazes in admiration at the martyr Reid,
who, “ starting as a boy, poor and friendless, has
successfully climbed the highest peak of the com-
mercial mountain. This is sufficient to account
for the envy, hatred and malice of some who
strive to blacken his character while not fit to
blacken his boots.” Looks as though O’Malley
had bought his big hat in Reid’s shop at a great
reduction. This yearning to blast the character
of Robert Reid’s untried junior clerk, as a mis-
creant who habitually did large swindles for his
boss’s profit without his boss’s knowledge, is a des-
picable kicking of an obscure person who is
possibly an orphan.
It has been discovered by the lawyers,
who are always making useless or obnoxious dis-
coveries like that, that the N.S. W. Early Closing
Act may be made null and void because, though
it orders a man to close his shop at a certain hour,
it doesn’t order him not to re-open it immediately.
Now, a somewhat similar hole has been found in
the Vic. Factories Act; it orders that waiters
may not be worked more than so many hours per
week, but doesn’t mention waitresses, and a court
in the partially-dead town of Geelong has decided
that, therefore, waitresses are not protected. Yet
the iaw against stealing a horse ropes in the man
who steals a mare right enough.
S.A. State Treasurer Butler made a most
disastrous remark the other day :
Probably (said Mr. Butler), no one knew better, than
Mr. Edmund Barton that it would have been simply im-
possible for the States to have paid for public works out
of revenue.
There are two ways of paying for public works
out of revenue—by building them out of revenue,
or by building them with loans and afterwards
paying off the loans out of revenue. S.A. Trea-
surer Butler says that both things are im-
possible. Does Treasurer Butler think he is
doing any good to Australia by stating that it
can’t pay its debts? Also, how far does he
reckon this sort of language is separated from a
declaration of bankruptcy ?


Banking, Public Companies, Sea.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
3XT.S.-OT.
fflontdepietefl/<|.Co.,[td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
174. CASTLEREAGH ST., *7^
' ' SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager,
-THF,^
Colonial Mutual Life
assurance society limited,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt street. Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. 0. J. RobKW*
C.M.0., M.L.C.; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,595,870.
Policies issued 88,299- assuring £26,826,380.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,767,115.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses —equitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
fhe Bank of ||orth Queensland
LIM ri’Kll.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director-JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J P CANNY. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700.00°
Capital Paid-up ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share- _ n nnn
holders ... 250 900 £350.000
fhe
Royal Bank of Queensland
J LIMITED.
tAPITAIj PAID-UP .. .. •• •• •• £456,927
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 176,239
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 58,0uu
£691,166
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World .
Queensland Smelting Qompy.
** (LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
•DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
-D Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, the Branch
Office, 54 Market-street. Melbourne, or IRWIN HINDS,
Branch Manager, 6 Spring-street, Sydney.
T H ,
,E SAVINGS BANK
HAS MONEY TO LEND in VICTORIA
it 41 per cent., in sums of £5OO to £15,000, on Town
Properties : and £2OOO to £25,000 on BROAD ACRES
70R FIVE YEARS, with option of paying off part
lalf-yearlv.
FARMERS’ CREDIT FONCIER.
L,oans from £5O to £2OOO at 4£ per cent, for 31J years.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-GeneraL
29 Market-street, Melbourne.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Direotors-Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Hon. John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Coyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farquuaß. J. J.ALLEN, Gene^ralManager^or^traha
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2.000,000
Amoun tof Capital payable by Shareholders &00JHX)
Total Capital
£2,500,000
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) l6 9
Directorsi F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager
our No. 56 ACETYLENE CAS Catalogue
s the MOST COMPLETE
and COMPREHENSIVE
ever issued.
Tells all about the Best
ACETYLENE CAS GENER-
ATORS, LAMPS, and
everything in connection
with ACETYLENE.
Nearly 400 of our
Reliable Automatic
Acetylene Gas
Generators
in daily use.
Large Slocks of the
Best
Carbide
of Calcium
Quotations on application.
James MARTIN & CO.,
161 Clarence Street,
Nr. King-st.,Sydney.
Shipping.
]\r. ID. T«.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin-screw steamer.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
Interstate First Class Return Tickets are now available
for Return by the Steamers of the P. and 0., Orient
Pacific, or M.M. Co.’s.
TO SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. STETTIN, 13th MAY.
And Regularly Every 6 Weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent-
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agenls.
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
TN€ »B€RP€€N LIN€.
Natal, Capetown , Plymouth, and
London.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
SOPHOCLES
SALAMIS
ABERDEEN
H. A. Schleman .. Noon, May 22
A. Douglas, R.N.R. Noon, June 12
Noon, July S
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. £55 .. £6 Os to £2O ,os.
Cape and Natal .. £3l 10s .. £l3 13s to £l/
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £l2O.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
Huddart, parker & Co’s [ine
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORI'S.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Kates.
Oceanic Steamship Company,
A. andL A. LIKTB.
TWO Gr Ft A. 3NT ID EXCURSION'S.
YOSEMITE VALLEY and CALIFORNIA BIG TREES,
UP IN THE HEART OF THE SIERRA NEVADA MOUNTAINS.
Travellers of note who have visited Switzerland say Yosemite surpasses even the grandeur of the Alps.
£72 (including everything).
HOTEL DEL MONTE (monterey).
ALL-THE YEAR-ROUND HEALTH AND PLEASURE RESORT.
£65 (including everything).
Through Passengers to London and American centres may participate
in these excursions.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., flanaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up ..
Reserve Fund _
Reserve Liability
£1,000,000 0 0
1,010,000 0 0
1,000,000 0 0
£3,010,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
G. J. Cohen, Esq Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Eater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. R. Jones, M.L.C. Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. F. T. Humphery, M.L.O.
Auditors:
W. L. Docker, Esq. James O. Fairfax, Esq.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager : T. B. Gade.i,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. _J.
Soutar, Accountant; \V. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane
Directors: Sir J. A. Youl, K.C.M.G; F. H.
Dangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq. ; Hon. H S
Littleton. Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
CO. (Limited).
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500,000.
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks . •
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Rates Very Low.
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. HILDA.
rpHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
i- Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. Oity,
J-hour by tram. Billiards, eto.
k/or&lu,Let /lights-
///eatthy Jnfants
TRY
£TAe
ftcfuse a//f/n/faf/ons
Satisfying, Strengthening Soothing for Infants
Agreeable. Digestible. Nourishing
AGff/rs fop syd/vfy.
SAYFFS ALLPOftr & POTTFft
RIDGES FOOD MILLS. LONDON. E*c
At Dawn and Dusk:
By V. J. Daley. In handsome cloth,
with portrait. Price 55.; postage, 4d.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
hv'ea.-st 10.
The Most Popular Steamer on
the Pacific .
NEXT SAILINGS AKE—
JUNE 15. JULY 13. AUGUST 10.
Grand Excursion to Canada.
Finest ever offered in Austra-
lia. A 63-day trip for £6O
including all expenses on
steamer, railway and hotels.
UNION STEAM BHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
Unrivalled Position in LONDON
(England),
The Langham Hotel
PORTLAND PLACE
And REGENT STREET, LONDON, W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality.
ilodern Appointments. Moderate Tariff.
“The Challenge”
Latest Scientific
Punching Machine.
♦
A new World’s Record of 12251b5. was established on
the above machine at the Royal Agricultural Society’s
Show, Sydney, 1903, by Mr. T. W. Aulsebrook, of Messrs.
Aulsebrook and Sons, Ltd., the previous World’s Record,
held by Mr. Robert Fitzsimmons, champion pugilist,
being 10851bs.
The “Challenge” is an Automatic Penny-in-the-Slot
Machine, and is especially suitable for Hotels, Billiard
and Refreshment Rooms, Tobacconist Shops, etc.
It is a'great attraction to any place, a first class money-
maker, never gets out of order, and requires no attention
whatever.
All other kinds of Automatic Slot Machines kept in
Stock. Illustrated Catalogue posted on application.
J. LANDES,
108 PITT ST., SYDNEY,
Sole Agent for Australasia.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK :
By Sixty Bulletin writers. Cloth, 300 pages ;
price, 4s. 6d. ; postage, 6d.
SOLE DISTRIBUTING AGENTS
EDWARDS, DUNLOP & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane
Snipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOK MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
POUT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Porta
S.S. Cintra,
Friday, May 1
(Transhipping at Melbourne)
S.S. Wollowra,
Saturday, May 9
(Without Transhipment).
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Porta North to Oalrna
S.B. Warrego, Sat., May 2
S.S. Ointra, Sat., May 9.
S.S. Gabo, Fri!, May 15.
Best and Cheapest ltoute to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YU ILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
P AND Q COMPANY’S
ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B ~tcTT/7
Ditto Ditto Return, £6O to £ll5
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by Orient-Pacific, Messageries
Mari times and N.D.L. Steamers having room.
A. GORDON WESCHE,
63 Pitt-street. Acting Agent.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARII.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract withtha
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE.
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PUltr
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Custom*
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
State Ports are available for return by P. and 0.,
Orient Pacific and N.D.L. steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Office*
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
L. BRICARD, Acting Principal Agent.
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. . BY TIIB . .
“E. AND n.” LINE.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
♦Does not call at Port Darwin,
EVERY CONVENIENCE FOR A TROPICAL VOYAGE.
The Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans.
Th rough bookings at special rates to Europe via Canada,
U.S. America, or the Trans-Siberian Railway,
For handbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.,
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-st., Sydney.
DR. J. COLUS BROWNE’S
CNLOROPyNE
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DLARRHtEA,
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
IHE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1896, says:
If J were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to he
most generally useful, to the exclusion of al
others, I should say Chlorodyne. 1 n® ver , tra 1 ™
without it, and its general applicability to
relief of a large number oL simple aihneuts o
its best recommendation.
ORNAMENTAL hair.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. Eiigitsh
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Han•
write for any Information. Country Orders
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers &. Wig makers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing * •
ycsr" Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to
any Part of Australasia.
CRAIG & AITKB^.
N.S.VV. Barber’s Supply House,
6RO-682 George Street, Sydney-
GENTS.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOli
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address. —L.D.1., 300 Collins St., Melbourn


Weals.
Men WOMEN
Can obtain strength and vigor
by the use of DR. PIERCE’S
ELECTRIC BELT A Won-
derful Restorative. The most
Scientific Electrical Appliance
ever made. Drugs do not cure.
Mention This Belt does. Send stamp (any sort)
this for “Booklet No, 2.” Write to-day:
p*per. - Pierce Electric Co., 206 Post St
San Francisco,U.S. A.. W. H. Soul & Co, Agts. Sydney
FREE
BY POST, A MEDICAL
TREATISE by that justly-
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST,
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they maj CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.
S,
Missing Friends.
IF MR, DAVID LUMGAIR, only son of the
late ROBERT LUMGAIR, Manufacturer,
Arbroath, Scotland, is still living, and will
apply to MESSRS. BLAKE AND RIGGALL,
Solicitors, 120 William Street, Melbourne, he
will hear of something to his advantage, or if
anyone can give evidence of his death they will
receive a reward on applying to the said
MESSRS. BLAKE AND RIGGALL. It is
believed that MR. DAVID LUMGAIR may
have adopted and used the surname of his
Mother, and have passed as MR. DAVID
CRICHTON.
The Bulletin Reciter:
• *
By Eighty (80) Bulletin Bards. With Illustrations by “ Hop,” N. Lindsay,
a: J. Fischer, F. Leist, D. H. Souter. and H. McCrae. In handsome doth,
decorated. Price, 5a.; postage, 4d*
Solo DiUMn, AgmU- HUGE Sa , POSTAGE «.
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
THE
‘PLUM’
TH«
‘PLUM’
(GENTLEMEN.—This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow £ ro ’i n ?; . '.
like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact k
edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of year*, can test y t
tbeir merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7a. Olt
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
/Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case,2la.
prick jingle Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30a.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the World.
frW Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
WITH GREENER BOLT AS DRAWN, THE “WARATAH,"
i 60-
WITHOUT GREENER BOLT, THE “WONGA,”
SO/-
BAR LOCKS.
..V
mm
Left Barrel Full Choke
Right Barrel Cylinder Bore.
For accurate and close shooting this gun cannot uo surpassed, made of Best
Materials, and equal in finish and workmanship to guns of three times the
price. Barrels are Browned Twist, carrying a high polish. BAR LOCKS, Treble
Bolt, half-pistol hand. Hammers are well down out of the line of sight. Vulcanite
heel-plate on best selected polished walnut stock. We will supply one or fifty of
have only one price. Send your P. 0.0. with orders to—
t'SiSs, Manager. Sydney Small Arms Co.
these guns to anybody. We
57 p O. Chambers,
Pitt-st., Sydney.
The Owl Cut-Rate Drug Co.
Manufacturing and
Dispensing Chemists.
We have special remedies for the correct and effective treatment of Nerve and Blood Diseases. Testi-
monials from all sources proving their efficacy. Write for Printed Price Lists ; they will be mailed free.
NOTICE.-Our ELECTRIC BELT, price 10s., usual price £l, is infallible in the cure of WEAKNESS and
STOMACH DISORDERS. Electricity re-invigorates the vital nerve sections, governing the processes
of digestion and nutrition. It effects a sure cure. DR. CLARKSOJPS RE -IN VI CORA J OR, _ a
VITALISING, NERVE, BRAIN, MUSCLE, and BLOOD STIMULANT. We still offer £lOO for
any case we cannot cure. Price, 7s. 6d. per bottle. Three bottles, £l. Post Free to a par s o
Australia.
Pyramid Pile Cure.— A certain remedy.
Fincham’s Face Bleach.— Clears the skin from Spots, Redness, Roughness, Freckles, Tan,
Sunburn. &c. Invaluable for use in the country.
Finch _,m’s Infallible Worm Powders.— Specially suitable for children. A certain cure for
worms. .
Fincham’s Celebrated Pectoral “Cough I Cure,”—lnvaluable for children. A Reliable
Remedy for Croup, Asthma, Whooping Cough, and all Throat and Lung Affections.
Fincham’s ‘‘Gout and Rheumatic Cure.”--Takes certain effectin cases of Acute Lumbago,
Sciatica, Lame Back, Headache, Shoulder and Muscular Pains.
Dr. Hughes’ “Fits Epilep.”—A certain remedy for Epilepsy and Fits in all forms.
Dr. Wilson’s “ Neuralgia Mixture.” —One Dose Relieves, One Bottle Cures the most
agonising Face Neuralgia.
Fincham’s “ Capiline.”—A Nursery Hair-Wash for Children’s Heads. Unsurpassed. One Bottle
Sufficient.
All these Invaluable Remedies will be posted to any Australian address, secure
from breakage, on application to —
Note the Address : THE OWL CUT-RATE DRUG CO.,
C. P. FINCHAM, Pharmaceutical Chemist. 227 ELIZABETH ST., Opp. Hyde Park, SYDNEY.
SORE
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT t
FOR SORE AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYFLASHES-
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLED.
IN EVER FAILG.
Ask your Chemist fop the Little Book:
‘HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES
CURED
s
mm
m n ma
From our Springs at Helidon. OWEN GARDNER & SONS, Brisbane (Head office) &at Helidon.
£lO BICYCLES £lO
From the FACTORY to the RIDER.
THE “EARL" SPECIAL 1903 MODEI
Westwood Steel Rims and Dunlop Principle Tyres.
Complete with Lamp and Bell.
Freight prepaid to nearest seaport town outside N.S.W. Trainage prei aid to any town i
N.S.W. Reduction of ]os. per machine where three ordered at once. Less .£1 per machii
where six ordered at once.
J. F. MCDERMOTT & CO., 30 Pitt-st., Sydney
Sole Factory Agents. Telephone 2671.
SICK MADE WELL
WEAK MADE STRONG.
Marvellous Elixir of Life Discovered
by Famous Doctor-Scientist That
Cures Every Known Ailment.
Wonderful Cures are Effected Thai
Seem Like Miracles Performed —
The Secret of Long Life of
Olden Times Revived.
The Remedy is Free to All Who Send
Name and Address.
After years of patient study, and delving Into
the dusty records of the past, as well as following
modern experiments in the realms of medical
science, Dr. James W. Kidd, 4K6 First National
Bank - building, Fort Wayne. Ind., U. S. A.,
DR. JAMES WILLIAM KIDD.
makes the startling announcement that he
has surely discovered the elixir of life. That
he is able with the aid of a mysterious com-
pound, known only to him self, produced as a
result of the years he has spent in searching
for this precious life-giving boon, to cure any
and every disease that is known to the human
body. There is no doubt of the doctor’s earnest-
ness in making his claim and the remark-
able cures that he is daily effecting seems to
bear him out very strongly. His theory which
he advances is one of reason and based on
sound experience in a medical practice of many
years. It costs nothing to try his remarkable
“Elixir of Life,” as he calls it, for he sends
it free, to anyone who is a sufferer, in sufficient
quantities to convince of its ability to cure, so
there is absolutely no risk to run. Some of
the cures cited are very remarkable, and but
for reliable witnesses would hardly be credited.
The lame have thrown away crutches and
walked about after two or three trials of the
remedy. The sick, given up by home doctors,
have been restored to their families and friends
in perfect health. Rheumatism, neuralgia,
stomach, heart, liver, kidney, blood and skin
diseases and bladder troubles disappear as
by magic. Headaches, backaches, nervousness,
fevers, consumption, coughs, colds, asthma,
catarrh, bronchitis and all affections of the
throat, lungs or any vital organs are easily
overcome in a space of time that is simply
marvellous.
Partial paralysis, locomotor ataxia, dropsy,
gout, scrofula and piles are quickly and per-
manently removed. It purifies the entire
system, blood and tissues, restores normal
nerve power, circulation and a state of perfect
health is produced at once. To the doctor all
systems are alike and equally affected by this
great “Elixir of Life.” Send for the remedy
to-day. It is free to every sufferer. State what
you want to be cured of and the sure remedy
for it will be sent you free by return mail.
Remember, a letter to America requires 2jd.
postage. IWrite your name very plain, and be
sure to give your full address, so there can bo
no mistake in delivery.
Free for Asking.
WRITE to us and we will forward you our scientific
book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like maeic, and you will be filled with energy,
strength and ambition once more. Posted free. Write
to G. Specific, Elizabeth Street, North Melbourne.
Too Stout
I was for years ; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to lOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending 3tamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street* Sydney
Sending, mention this paper.
w
VTI
WE SHIP ON APPROVAL
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles. Fully warranted.
Latest
Models'
£2.10 t0£5.5.0
Dunlop Tyres, Steel or Wood Rims,
Free Wheels, Mud Guards and Brakes.
CARRIAGE PAID
To any Port in Australasia.
TYRES, ACCESSORIES,
Sporting Goods and Sewing
Machines Half Usual Prices.
Write for Catalogue and Special Offer
Using 2jd. Stamp. Address Dept 3€6D
Mead Cycle Co.
Chicago.
U.S.A.
JAYNE’S EXPECTORANT
CURES THE: WOO.STCOUGHS.
The Inky Way.
Some reporters are absolutely devoid of humor. For
instance, the Age (Melb.) recently sent a man to “ do ” a i
mining catastrophe, and he sent down his copy with the
final head line :
ODOR OF DECOMPOSING BODIES.
[FROM OUR OWN REPORTER.]
• • * •
Maoriland has developed something new in boycotting.
From the Taihape Post : “ In consequence of the ungen-
tlemanly conduct of Mr. S , exhibited at a social, in
abusing the editor of the Post, when entrusted with the
privilege of responding to the toast of ‘ The Press,’ we
have decided that in future this paper will not publish a
report of any function or meeting which Mr. S is con-
sidered good enough to attend."
• • • •
The Bulletin known now why John Norton is going to
the West. Into his hands has evidently fallen what is
labelled “ a journal of bright, chatty literature,” and he
wants to see the man who runs it. The Bulletin gets
only three pages of it ; but even in that small space are
packed the following bright, pleasant, chatty remarks
regarding a Perth citizen:—“Ratty . . . destructive mon-
ster . . . unscrupulous . . . impudent, absurd . . . self-
adulator . . . vicious . . . wave of infamy . . . syco-
phantic, fawning, political imbecile . . . silly little
bantam . . . your cut out of the blood-money was one
hundred . . . dodger . . . poltroon . . . liar . . . whited
sepulchre . . . impudent sausage . . . apoplectic swine.”
Then the purveyor of this bright, chatty literature
remembers his own “ too generous nature,” and passes on
to make a few benevolent remarks about a certain
“ Fenian cat ” mayor.
* • * *
Something like a record mixing up of things is this
from a Gisborne (M.L.) newspaper, which ran together a
cablegram about Hector Macdonald and one about how
Edward VII's moke, Ambush, didn’t win the Grand
National through falling at the last fence, and produced
these results :—
“London, March 28.
“ The Daily News declares that there is a feeling in
Edinburgh that the Crofter soldier (General Macdonald)
had* been huuted down by a big, systematic society
attack, and that in the ‘ Grand National Ambush ’ he fell
at the last fence, when badly ‘ winded.’ The King
witnessed the race.”
Then the Gisborne editor spoke with grave severity after
this fashion :—
“ It was a well-known fact that General Macdonald
cared not for the silliness of so-called society, and he had
a wholesale contempt for that class which faw'ns on a
name, and it is quite possible that this contempt did lead
him into trouble. But it cannot for a moment be believed
that an ambush was deliberately laid for the purpose of
luring him to destruction. The statement that the King
was an onlooker, too, stamps the tale as absurd, for what-
ever may be the faults of the King they do not run in the
direction of seeing his best officers sacrificed at the behest
of fashion’s favorites.”
• • • *
Philip Wirth, the circus-man, tells of how he experi-
enced a great shock of joy in a little, one-horse Argentine
town when a touring Britishah produced a red-covered
journal and said, “ Like to read The Bulletin ? Beastly
clevah Austwalian papah.” In all the larger towns of
South America it is easy to get The Bulletin.—Advt.
* • • •
It is by a mere accidental shuffle of cards that the
editorship of S.M. Herald goes to a layman. The Rev.
Arthur Galton, now a polemical rector in Windermere,
England, then a secessionist from the house of Duff, had
the chair under offer during a weak health interval in
the career of Rev. Curnow. Gurnow revived and Galton
departed. By the way, Curnow was entitled to a pension
under the Act which abolished State aid to religion, but
the pension is paid contingent on the cleric sticking to
his church duties. If he did not accept a pension from
the Herald, some lawyers hold that parson Curnow
could go back on the clerical pension fund.
Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Not genuine without the signature.
Be sure you get Martin’s. Sole proprietor, W.
Martin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
England.*
Stated that an exalted naval officer of the
Australian squadron stopped, with a frown, on
encountering a blue-jaclcet squirming abjectly on
the deck with both hands clasped over his solar
plexus. “Damme! what’s the matter?” he de-
manded. “I do-o-n’t like to say, sir,” faltered
the boy of the bulldog breed. “ What’s that ? ’
roared the officer; “answer me at once. What
are you making those grimaces for?” Between
his groans the sailor replied, “Something the
matter with mybowels, sir.” “Bowels! bowels!”
cried the exalted one, indignantly. “ Bowels are
for the officers. Yours are guts 1 ”
THE FORLORN AUTHOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I met a long, gaunt, shiv’ring being ;
So deep his woe, my heart’s core bled ;
His feet’s en_..sements’ base had fled,
Nor did his batter’d hat his head
Prevent the weeping cloud from seeing.
When sympathy on’s plight had touched,
“ I am an author, sir,” he said,
And aching were his eyes of lead ;
He heavily sigh’d and stayed his tread,
Then spake, and at his vitals clutched—
“ Sweet youth was mine, and exultation
That did unto my brain a seat
Among immortals give 1 yet meat
Years past I’ve lack’d : all journals greet
My screed, but pay—on publication 1"
N.B.W.
VOLOAN.


A Groundless fear.
A Woman Afraid of Herself.
Walking along a country road in the dark,
one often imagines that every tree or post is
some human being bent on mischief. Sometimes
one is afraid to even look back, so fixed has the
idea become that someone is stealthily following
them with intent to do harm. The darkness of
the night and loneliness of the way is accountable
for such a state. But what can be imagined of a
woman who, during all the day, was afraid of
even the noise made by her own footsteps?
Nervous, irritable, and depressed ; afraid to move,
fearing to see even those nearest and dearest to
her. Such was once the condition of Mrs. Lillie
Johnston, of 142 Crown-street, Sydney, before
she was restored to perfect health by Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills. "‘My nerves were entirely
run down,” she says, “and everything I wished
to do seemed a trouble. In neither my home or
surroundings could I take an interest. Indiges-
tion first brought on my illness. From this
rapidly followed loss of appetite, accompanied by
frequent sick headaches. The slightest exertion
completely prostrated me. I became low spirited,
depressed and irritable, and my life was indeed a
burden. At seeing the most harmless things I
would start with fear, and oft I would be put into
a complete tremble for nothing at all. I attended
a hospital but their treatment was of no avail. A
friend suggested I should try Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills. Before I had taken many my condi-
tion began to improve marvellously. With their
continued use I became completely cured._ I am
now a happy woman in the brightest spirits and
the best health. My work is a pleasure to me,
and I am only too pleased to testify to all the
wonderful good Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
have done me.” Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
are a perfect blood purifier, and a positive cure for
biliousness, indigestion, constipation, headaches,
sallow complexion, liver and kidney troubles,
piles, pimples and blotches, and for female
ailments. Put up in amber bottles and the full
name blown thereon.*
The Ailments that arise from chills,
As coughs and colds and other ills,
In Winter months are prevalent most,
Caused by wet, cold winds, and frost
A Mother’s troubles then begin ;
The children cough, grow pale and thin,
The Thoughtful parent should procure
A bottle of Woods’ Great Peppermint Cuke.
COLLECTIVE INVESTIGATION.-The ex-
perience of millions of people in all quarters of the
habitable globe during the last quarter of a century
has confirmed the value of Hunyadi Janos as the
best and safest natural aperient. Invaluable to
diners-out.*
ARTELLS
THREE STAR
BRANDY
RESCH’S SELECT STOCK ALE ... LAGER
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives. BREWER? and OFFICES: DOWLING ST., EEDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
How long is this farce of closing the betting-
shops going to continue? The proprietors now simply
stand outside and carry on their business as before. The
punter suffers, of course, for he has a difficulty in seeing
lists of scratchings, and the average "Mo" has no
unworthy scruples about laying “dead ’uns."
• • • •
There is a curious trouble over the distribution
of the lOOsovs. set aside for the breeder of the winner of
the Onkaparinga Steeple, S.A. Mr. Wm. Crozier, to
whom the lucre was popularly supposed to belong, won't
claim it, and says it should go to JR. Barr Smith|; while
O. G. M'Mahon, who originally picked out The Drummer
as a promising animal, says his idea is that A. H. Pegler
was the breeder.
• • • •
At Charters Towers’ bicycle sports on Good
Friday, Yellerman got home again in the William
Goat Race, beating Baden Powell and a select field.
A bumping race brought four goats down. Yellerman, a
veritable Carbine among the racing goats of the north, is
trained privately, and is always backed with great confi-
dence by the stable. On one occasion a well-known
bookmaker was persuaded to open a book on the goat
race. ** What price Stinker ? ” said small boy with
cigarette. _ “ Four to one." “ Right—four half-crowns."
“ What price Stinker ? ” “ Four to one.” “ Right ; four
bob to one me.” Clerk kept busy booking bets against
Stinker, finishing up with the owner, who languidly took
the odds to half a quid. Nothing else was backed, and
when Stinker baa-a-ed in on his own, bookie’s feelings
got the better of him. “Only one dashed g-g-goat in
this race besides Stinker," he stuttered —“and that’s
nu I Even the dashed b-boys t-t-ake me down."
• • • •
Long succession of M.L. turfite G. G. Stead’s
appropriations of O. J.O. Champagne Stakes was broken
by Treadmill’s win, t’other day, and same owner (Geo.
Clifford) “ got home ” with Windwhistle and Quarryman
same day. For 10 years previously C.J.C. Champagne
Stakes had been closed on by Mr. Stead, who has won
it 13 times altogether.
• * • *
Development last week of Newcastle race-
course scale-manipulation scheme was discovery, a
few days later, of a similar swindle on Wallsend
racecourse. Floor of weighing-room there had been
laid little more than two weeks previously. Method was
exactly the same as at Newcastle excepting that a 21£lb.
bag of shot took the place of the lead. Sensation was
intensified, Saturday, by the arrest and charging on sus-
picion of trainer and owner (Kingsley) and Rider (Moran)
of nag Gentleman Jim, who won the Pace Welter at
Newcastle, Monday week. Prior case to that at Moore-
field occurred at Brisbane, not at Warwick Farm, as
previously stated.
• • • •
Winner (Airloch) of City Tattersall’s Youthful
Stakes at Randwick, Saturday, beat a field of 16, and
started 8 and 10 to 1. Why she wasn’t a hot favorite is a
mystery, for her load (8.3) was much lighter than thatwhich
she easily carried through at Moorefield a month or so
since.
* • • •
Announced that imported Lacrosse threw a
fine colt foal to English sire Martagon at Motto Farm
(Newcastle) t’other day. This youngster is of the bluest
of blue blood. Lacrosse is a beautifully formed mare, by
Derby winner Ladas from St. Simon-Luoy Cross. Mar-
tagon is full brother in blood to the greatest nag
(Ormonde) the world has known, and is by Bend ’Or from
Tiger Lily—full sister to Lady Agnes, the dam of
Ormonde.
* ■ • * •
“It’s an ill wind,” &c. Insurance money paid
through destruction of its grandstand by fire put
Murrumbidgee Race Club very much in funds; it
squared up with the bank and still has £4OO of the
amount left.
* • • •
City Tatt.'s meeting at Randwick wasn’t a
success from any point of view, owing to rain falling in
the morning and threatening till after the programme
opened. Seventy-two of 130 entrants failed to turn up.
Four of the five races listed were soft for the winners,
and a good percentage of those most fancied by the
public were palpably not over eager to win. Outsider
Ambulance secured the big thing (Tatt.’s Handicap)
easily, with equally long-priced Silver Forest second, and
favorite Naphro third. Only one first choice got home,
and he, Tatterdemalion (by Lochiel out of Tatters, and
consequently fully related to Old Clo, a good performer
here and in England), started heavily backed for Club
Welter, and fairly romped away from his field, leaving
them at the finish as if they were standing.
• * • •
“Le Chasse”: Freedom’s fall in the Steeple-
chase at Randwick (N.S.W.) was due to his shying at the
yelling crowd sitting on the rail near the jump. Some
years ago I lost a good stake, and went near to parting
with my life also in the Mudgee Town Plate through a
fool-headed woman suddenly opening a flaming red
gingham right under my horse’s nose as we led into the
home turn. That part of the course should be kept
perfectly clear, and anyone found trespassing there
jugged for attempted manslaughter.
• • • ■
J. Barden, W. H. Smith and A. Richardson
each rode three winners at the V.R.O. Autumn meeting.
N.S.W. is well supplied with jockeys just now.
* * * •
Seahorse, the handsome Maorilander that was
expected to do great things in England, has won a
maiden hurdle race.
* • * •
In a Reefton (M.L.) hurdle race five started.
Two fell, one breaking its neck ; then the first and second
horses were disqualified on technicalities, and as the
third could not weigh in, it was declared no race.
* * * •
Tote investments at South Australia’s popular
Onkaparinga meeting:—lB99, £24,577 ; 1900, £22,705 ;
1901, £22,062; 1902, £22,417; 1903, £21,228. Which
completely knocks out the ancient superstition that,
once the tote was established, the poison would creep
and crawl through the whole State until in a few years
it would spend its last copper and pawn its last hymn-
book to bet on the accursed machine. In S. Aus. there
practically isn’t any agitation against the tote now.
• * * •
Old C. Hutchins, who steered the Assyrian to
victory in the Melbourne Cup 23 years ago, in a terrific
storm, thereby upsetting the pot of many a punter, has
taken to riding ponies at Melb. suburban unregistered
meetings. A short time ago he effected a coup on Sweet
Agra, a rank outsider, winning the “Newmarket”
Handicap by a head.
• • • •
“ Dagonet ” Sims says an association has been
formed in England with large capital to operate on the
turf by the Marconi system.
* * • •
“Bias ” : Was much amused at the big family
picnic Victorian representative bowling team made of
their recent visit to Sydney—they brought along ladies
and children representing three generations, and all
swarmed to dinners, picnics, drives and the like, and at
the entertaining N.S.W. Bowling Association’s and clubs’
expense. Victorian bowling teams have made it a prac-
tice for years. Strange to say, N.S.W. bowlers never
“get back” by swamping Victoria similarly when it is
their turn to visit.
• • • •
George Giffen, who as far back as 26 years ago
was at the head of the S. Aus. Cricket Association batting
list, finishes up this season with third place; also, barring
only Travers, he took the greatest number of wickets.
Seven times in the past 26 years he has headed the Asso-
ciation batting list, and he has been at the head of the
bowling list as often, though not in the same seasons.
• • • •
J. Noel, who has been in S. Australian senior
cricket almost as long as George Giffen, has probably
seen his last active season. This year he has gone back
six times without scoring, and he hasn’t been able to
get any wickets either.
The recent visit of (absent) Lord Hawke's team
to Maoriland was a huge boodle-raking advt. The differ"
ent members of the team —and particularly Captain
Warner—unearthed a “ born ” cricketer in almost every
village, and the undisguised hint was thrown out that the
gifted one, with coaching, would develop into a world
paralyser. Thus, as a sequel, Maoriland is threatened
with a plethora of professional coaches to teach all and
sundry the .intricacies of the game. Also the team
boasted of a few would-be journalists, and the sport-loving
book-worm will be afflicted with a dozen books entitled
“ Cricket in Australasia."
* • • •
Whilst in Australia the Association and League
football threatens this season to absorb publio interest,
in Maoriland it is the opposite. In the latter place the
Association game is falling very flat and leading players
are joining the ranks of the Rugbyites. The inter-
state fixtures have a deal to do with that; for while,
on the one band, there’s always a trip to Australia every
few years sticking out for a really good Rugbyite, the
Association player must still show his prowess to his own
countrymen. In N.S.W. the newly-introduced Australian
game is knocking lumps off the Rugby crowd in the
matter of management, and the proposal to have a num-
ber of paid “ field umpires ’’ should ensure for the Aus-
tralian game that pith which has always been lacking in
the opposition branch of the sport.
• * • •
The proposal of Maoriland Rugby Union to send
a team of 25 to Britain next year is strenuously opposed
by Rowland Hill, the sec. to the English Rugby Union.
Hill suggests a smaller team, and at least five matches in
a fortnight. A purely English tour is estimated to yield
£2OOO for the Maorilanders, but, if the tour were ex-
tended to Scotland, Ireland and Wales, more would
probably accrue. M.L. is chswing the matter over.
• • • •
In Christchurch (M.L.) a club has been formed
to play Victorian Association football; the Rugbyites go
down in shoali to see what kind of an animal it is, and to
pass disparaging remarks, and proffer kind atttentions
with the feeding bottle.
• • • •
Maoriland is in the throes of Prohibition. It
is everywhere—and Otago Rugby Union has caught the
infection so badly that “no hotel advertisements, or
advertisements relating to the sale of alcoholic liquor”
shall henceforth appear in the “Annual” published by
the Union.
* • • •
“ Uppercut ” on the solar plexus : It is a spot
which should be barred in prize-fighting on account of
its sacred associations. Holy Writ is eloquent on the
“ bowels of mercy, compassion," etc., and the yearning
thereof. The ancient anatomists called it the S.P.
because they regarded it as the sun of the body. African
savages regard it as the vital spot; the Chinese declare
that it is the seat of the soul. The chief M’Tse said to
Stanley before his particular Nosey Bob started the day’s
work that the killing hurt his belly, and later on he in-
formed the Buccaneer of the Congo that the same part
of his anatomy was torn with sorrow at the death of his
favorite wife. M’Tse was right. It is the place where
the good things of life are appreciated, and the centre of
emotion, and in the Fat Man’s anatomy takes equal place
with the “ bullion.”
* * * •
Result of fight between Cripps and soldier
Thompson for 11.4 (middleweight) supremacy of the con-
tinent, at Sydney National Sporting Club last week, was
a big set-back for most people. Betting ruled sto 2 and
2 to 1 on Thompson, the then holder of the title, but,
though gritty and forceful from end to end, he never
looked a likely winner, except in the sixth round. Both
were equally aggressive. Thompson led the right often,
and each time with his left swinging low —leaving himself
open enough for a cart to back in ; but Cripps seemed
content to step out of distance without taking advantage
of the opportunity. Truth is, he didn’t know enough.
While Thompson’s right rarely landed, Cripps’ was sel-
dom unsuccessful. Jolts occasionally staggered the
soldier, and crosses floored him twice. Only grit of the
finest brand brought him to the perpendicular again.
Almost total absence of anything indicating that either
had been punished much was remarkable, and was prob-
ably due to the extra big gloves used. Thompson hadn’t
a mark, while Cripps bled a little from the lower teeth.
Though ’twas a tough, exciting struggle—fast and fierce
every movement—Cripps finished the 20th round a good
winner. He is a cool and undemonstrative fighter, and
this husbanding of his powers accounts for every demand
finding him equal to it.
* • « *
“Pug”: Because Cripps whipped Thompson
he shouldn’t be rated a wonder—he has a lot to learn yet,
and, by appearances, will, if a tutor worthy the name can
be found. Still, tutors are as scarce as high-class fighters
nowadays. Boxing as taught by Larry Foley and Peter
Jackson is as much a lost art in Australia as it is in
England. Thompson’s reputation was mainly built on
his defeat of “ Snowy” Sturgeon, who never beat a first-
class man at any period of his career, and had a long
spell of good time before meeting Thompson. Latter, just
before tackling Sturgeon, fought old Bill Jennings (fat
and slow through being laid aside for years)—when half-
a-dozen times it looked soft for the ancient, had he just
a little strength left to make the most of advantages ;
and Jennings in his prime was never anything to rave
about.
• • » •
Success of latest middleweight champion pug
Oripp3 has been remarkable. In Bananaland, where
pug material isn’t near the quality N.S.W. boasts, he won
an amateur tourney. Sydney men who faced Cripps till
that fight last week with Thompson weren’t first
flighters by long chalks ; his toughest go was with ball
puncher McCarthy when both, Mac particularly, were
badly pummelled and the match declared a draw. Betting
in Cripps’ fights has been mostly on t’other man ; latest
saw odds 5 to 2 on soldier Thompson whose friends
summed it up a good thing for him. Cripps is 23 years
old, muscular, strong and at the top of good health ; he
fights as if it were an ordinary everyday thing and can
take heaps of thumping without showing that it troubles
him. Cripps was prominent as a footballer in Brisbane
and is so in Sydney now. Probable that the new
champion will take on “ Snowy ” Sturgeon and after-
wards, perhaps, heavyweights Scanlan, Doherty, Felix
and even McCall—provided he keeps on winning.
• * • •
Big novice bantam tourney at Sydney Golden
Gate Club induced 64 entrants, and extended over eight
nights, concluding Saturday. Poundage limit, 8.4, was
strictly adhered to. Winner, Martin—a 16-year-old boy
—gave weight to 63 fellow competitors (he scaled little
more than 6.10, fully clothed), and scored through sheer
downright cleverness ; his showing promises well. It is
remindful, to an extent, of ex-waterman pug Johns and
Tim Hegarty—among the cleverest at the bruising game
Australia owns just now.
• • • •
’Murkan bruiser Jim Scanlan and heavyweight
champion Billy M’Call will meet a third time at Sydney
National 5.0., Tuesday next week, for £450 (purse and
stake) and premiership of the continent. There’ll be a
heap of betting on the struggle, with M’Call, of course,
the favorite, but many think the Yankee will turn the
tables this time, and their view finds much support in
the masterly way Scanlan polished off giant woodchopper
Heckenberg a month or so since. Scanlan’s preparation
has been on lines calculated to fit him for M’Call’s force-
ful rushes; he has had daily “rough ups” with the
soldier Thompson brothers and some thewy and brawny
Australian artillerymen. M’Call has prepared as usual,
and is reported fit as ever. It ought to be a fight that
will cause D.T. Sunday-school reporter to faint right
away.
• * • •
Probable M.L. and N.S.W. amateur champion
boxers will contest Australasian supremacy in Sydney
about October, by which time premiers of each country
will be defined in local competitions. Jack Fitzsimmons
(nephew of famous Bob) will be M.L.’s stand-by in heavy-
weight class, and it is anticipated that he’ll give the best
man N.S.W. owns a severe shaking. Fitzsimmons affects
the Yankee crouch now favored by many professionals, and
relies considerably on his remarkable capacity for taking
punishment. M.L. Boxing Association, formed a year or
so since, is making big strides and has thriving branches
in most of the State’s centres. Same body has declared
war against the professional pug. owing to his question-
able methods in the past, and has him shut out from
appearing in any portion of the land. By and bye the
Maoriland B.A. will handle the pro. as well as the
amateur.
• • • *
Ancient head of billiard table makers, Alcock
and Co., was 50 years in Australia last week. He arrived
in Melbourne, April, 1853, and began as a cabinet-maker
and timber merchant. Old man Alcock was responsible
for the coming to Australia of old man Roberts in 1864,
and, later, other crack ’Ome billiardists —including Cook,
Mannock, Dawson, and Roberts, jun.
• • • •
Prevailing impression that greyhounds lose
much weight during a course, especially if it be a trying
one, wasn’t altogether borne out at Kensington C.O. last
week, when dogs were weighed for the first time in Aus-
tralia. Two rounds of Puppy Stakes were decided,
Monday, and every youngster bar two weighed the same
on each occasion. One of the exceptions was ljlbs.
lighter, and t’other 3£lbs. heavier the second time ; latter
was beaten, but nobody apparently evinced the slightest
curiosity regarding his big accumulation of weight during
the spell. Second day of the meet saw some of the dogs
a pound or so heavier, while others were that much
lighter, but the majority carried what they began with.
Winners of the three stakes never varied much. Narrow
Escape weighed 491bs. in the first round, 491bs. in the first
ties, 48flbs. in the second ties, 48£lbs. in the third ties, and
491bs. in the deciding course. Gold Bar scaled 591bs. in
the first round, 59£lbs. in the first ties, 59Jlbs. in the second
ties, 59£lbs. in the third ties, and 58flbs. in the deciding
course. What Odds weighed 611bs. in the first round,
621bs. in the first ties, 61ilbs. in the second ties, 611bs. in
the third ties, and 60jlbs. in the deciding course.
* • • •
Just-created Kensington Coursing Club, at its
opening meet last week, showed how the thing should be
done, and promises to make the game as popular as 'tis
possible to be. Among many acceptable innovations was
Yankee idea of weighing contending hounds. Ikeys
operating were better class than those mostly seen at
coursing meetings because of restrictions and increased
fees exacted, consequently more money was available and
owners could back their dogs to win fairly substantial
amounts. Coin added to each stake, and fact that usual
10 per cent, deduction would not be made from sweeps,
served as additional inducement to enter, with the result
that every event overfilled considerably. Winner(Narrow
Escape) of puppy event is a beauty, exceptionally fast,
and a close worker who, all going well, will gather some
of the season’s big plums. N.E. hails from Victoria, and
comes of an old Australian strain—Young Heyfield by
Heyfield, brother to Hedley. Another Victorian crack
(Gold Bar) won the Opening Stakes like a champion ; he
is a second season dog and only figured in a course once
before—at Moonee Valley back end of last season. Gold
Bar is by Goldsmith from Song Bird. Last year’s
Waterloo Cup winner (Master Licorice) was run out in
the initial round, and so were whilom forefronters Lamp-
lighter and The Hermit.
• • • •
“ J.F.D.”: Amusing to read of pigeon slaugh-
tering records at match between Comte de Neiva and
G.R. MTntosh at N.S.W. Gun Club. Both shooters shot
46 out of 60 birds—a few of the missing eight fell dead
out of bounds. The day was stifling; the birds, packed in
crates from the night before, could not rise, and the
shooters covered them in every instance before they made
an attempt to get wing—in fact, a smart Rocks pushite
could make records as good with blue metal. I have
seen trained pigeons shot at—birds that had been swished
through a dummy trap before being sent to execution,
and 40 per cent, escaped our best shots. Present pigeon
shooting rests on quickness to pull on the right trap and
fire before the bird gets properly to wing. A good second
barrel kill when the bird is properly going shows more
skill.
• » * •
A Parisian sporting paper prints this :—“ Fly
killing is the favorite sport of Australians, and even the
Frenchmen who reside in that country take to it after
seeing a few matches. Teams are chosen, and each
player is allotted a certain space in which to kill the
insects. The man who has the biggest bag at the end of
an afternoon wins a substantial money prize. The record
up to the present is 149 flies in the hour. Seven have
fallen at one swoop.” That scribe’s ignorance of the Aus-
tralian fly is pathetic. When The Bulletin staff and the
staff of Dill Macky’s organ had their last match on Fenian
Hill, many of the contestants killed two barrow-loads of
flies, and the record was a truckful. Any new-chum
jackeroo, when sitting down to Irish stew on green grass
in Queensland, can stiffen 149 flies at one swoop. He
often swallows that many in his breakfast.
• • • •
There’s trickery in all branches of sport! This
time the “toney” amusement of golf is affected, and
players under N.S.W. club rules on their own links have
shown such superiority over visitors, that the desirability
of providing some means of lessening the effect of the
local knowledge, and adopting a new method of scoring
in such matches, is strongly recommended. Hitherto, it
has been mostly the rule for visiting golfers to meet
with almost annihilation, and, in consequence, the
pastime threatens to fall very flat.
* • • *
Definitely announced that saintly colored cyclist,
Taylor, will visit Australia again next year in search of
boodle.
• • • *
Major Taylor told an Adelaide interviewer,
when leaving by the French mail-steamer, that his
earnings in Australia had been greatly exaggerated, and
only came to £lOOO profit after travelling expenses were
paid. The dusky one and his wife paid a visit of
sympathy to Walne, still laid up in a private hospital,
and they finally faded out of Australia without any
cheering or other formalities from the local Wheelmen—
at which the Major expressed pained surprise.
• * • «
“B.B.”: The desire of the cycle crank to hang
a series of record-scalps to his belt furnishes faster and
more furious riding each season. But a few years since,
the performance of 30 miles in an hour by J. Michael was
regarded as a wonderful achievement; now, the world’s
fastest paced hour ride stands to the credit of French
bikist Contenet (48 miles 781yds.). The fastest paced
mile, without artificial shields, is also his in 1.16 l-ssec.;
but the actual fastest, with fitted shields to help by suc-
tion to drag him along, belongs to Yankee flier Charles
Murphy, who, behind a train, did the mile in 57 4-ssec.
Still, marvellous as such pedalling has been, the work of
the motor-racing fiend is a good deal swifter and
though the mile record has been lowered time after time’
Henri Fournier, far the most skilful autoist in the
world, expects this season to cover a mile in half-a
minute IHe may succeed—and there may be a funeral.
Big amount of money for cycling in Australia
is shown in the squaring-up of the season’s accounts
Don Walker has scooped £7BB 10s. (34 firsts, 13 seconds
and 9 thirds), Yankee visitor Hopper got £766, Major
Taylor (19 firsts and 2 seconds) £560, Aunger (4 firsts i n .
eluding Austral, 3 seconds and 4 thirds) £549, and’ R
Morgan (15 firsts, 16 seconds and 11 thirds) £364. Then
come hauls from £224 down. Bike season this year lasted
eight months.
• • El’’ •
Maoriland still takes an interest in axeman-
ship : 7000 people rolled up in the one-horse, wet, windy
city of Invercargill, where the streets are two’ chains
wide, and the wind howls around all the corners at once
at Easter, to see T. Pettit, of Tasmania, the “ world’s
champion," win the single handed sawing, worth £l5
and a gold medal.
That frantic person Yic. Railways Minister
Bent announces that, though the tender of the
Government railway workshops for the building
of 20 locomotives is the lowest, yet unless
the men employed at the workshops leave
the Trades Hall, as he has ordered them to do
and thereby save his personal vanity from being
damaged, he will deliberately waste the public
money by giving the work at a higher price to
private workshops. Another of Bent’s frightful
breakings-out of spite and cantankerousness is
unsympathetically reported after the following
fashion even in the strongly Tory Sydney Tele-
graph :
Since Judge Molesworth recently, in the Insolvency
Court, expressed sympathy with railway employees who
SOUGHT THE PROTECTION OF THE COURT AGAINST THEIR
creditors, the Minister has decided to issue an order to
provide that on and after the 14th May no uncertificated
insolvent shall be permitted to continue in the employ of
the department.
Molesworth merely said that he regarded the rail-
way man with a large family, who nad his pay cut
down from 48s. to 40s. a week, and who went
broke for a small amount after having sickness in
the household, as more deserving of sympathy
than the man who went broke for a large sum by
reason of share-gambling. And even these gentle
remarks seem to have roused the fury of Bent,
and made him wade in to show the railway men
that any kindly remarks made to them will only
increase the wrath of the bulgy official persecutor


New High-Grade Sports Goods.^>
We never had on show such a splendid assortment of SPORTS GOODS for every Game as we
now offer. These have been selected by experts in each Sport, and are offered at ... .
VERY MODERATE PRICES.
We desire to call special attention to NICHOLL’S SPECIAL GOLF CLUBS. Diamond-
face and Non-rustable Clubs. Metal-face Wood Clubs for Haskell Balls. Also, socket and Bead
Spliced Wood Clubs. Nicholl’s Special and Haskell Golf Balls.
Secretaries of Clubs, gentlemen amateurs, and others are invited to write to us for full lists and
prices. Special concessions to clubs. All our goods are guaranteed.
CANADA CYCLE & HOTOR CO., Ltd.,
Sports Depot: 357 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Branches in Every State.
Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER
YOU GET THE BEST VALUE FOR YOUR MONEY WHEN YOU
BUY A
REMINGTON
Double-Barrel .
Hammerless Gun
Thoroughly Guaranteed.
Kept n stock by the Largest Gun Stores in Melbourne and Sydney.
Remington Arms Company,
Head Office: 315 BROADWAY, NEW YORK, U.S A.
REMINGTON GUNS, £5 io s . to £l5
REMINGTON RIFLES, 23/6 post free
McLEAN BROS. & RICO, Ltd., 107 Elizabeth-St., Melbourne.
•EVERYBODY DELIGHTED WITH OUR NEW 1903 MODELS..
Hundreds from the country have called to see our latest
RED BIRD BICYCLE,
and all have been surprised at the perfection of finish and construction shown in our
New Models. W*~ Call and see them. We still have a few left.
GOOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 King-st., Sydney.
A NIB,
A BOTTLE OP INK,
A SHEET OF PAPER anfl
A PEN CARBON BOOK
makes a complete outfit with
which any
MAN,
WOMAN OR
CHILD
can write a letter, and at the same
time make an exact copy without
leaving the slightest sign of copy-
ing on the original.
Ys
K
//
It keeps a duplicate of bill* you lend out, of orders, receipts, bank checks. It leaves no vague
uncertain mark, but a tracing that is often clearer than the original.
From its testimony there can be no appeal. It will save any house or family much money by ite
indisputable record.
There is no man or woman, professional or not, who would not at some time or other find
THE PEN CARBON LETTER BOOK
A True and Valued Friend.
For fullest particulars, price, etc., write to the iole
Agents Tor Australasia. I E. RICH & CO* LTD., BYDNEY BRISBANE
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developesa lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Ex-member Walsh, of Tamworfch (N. S. W.),
attributes his insolvency to neglecting his business
for politics. He is far from being the first poli-
tician who has come to grief that way. Yet there
are men who do well out of politics. Alexander
Stuart was dead-broke when he entered political
life, and left £60,000 at his death, after being in
Parliament exactly 10 years.
Martin’s Apiol and steel pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia. Not genuine
without the signature. Be sure you get Martin’s.
Sole proprietor, W. Martin, pharmaceutical
chemist, Southampton, England.*
Gov.-Gen. Tennyson (or his secretary),
writing to some little parish council of a little
island off the little island of Britain, remarks
with grandiose stupidity—
His Excellency begs to thank the Parish Council of
Freshwater cordially for their, kind congratulations and
good wishes. He is proud to fill this high and important
office, because the Australians are loyal to the backbone,
and because the work of Governor-General is full of
absorbing interest and grave responsibility. Lord Tenny-
son feels sure that the Federation of Australia is the
prelude of the larger Federation of Great Britain and her
great self-governing colonies.
The backbone, when you come to think of it, is
very near the surface, unless “loyalty” begins at
the other side—the stomach.
Mr. S. B. SHARP, Bonaparte, lowa, January
1!), 1899, writes:
“ My wife became very hoarse, and ENTTRELY LOST
HER VOICE. For two months 1 tried all the doctors in
the neighborhood, but they did her no good. ONE
BOTTLE OF JAYNE’S EXPECTORANT CURED HER.’’*
the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
- ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is "Ellis’ King: Street Coffee Palace,’’
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor—GEO. W. ELLIS.
By Special
Appointment.
G. H. SMITH and SON,
TROPICAL HELMET
with special air -space,
in white drill, <kc. and
in all colors in felt.
10/6 and 12/6
Eat and Cap Manufacturers
and Importers,
302 Ceorge-st. Sydney
ombrero Soft Felt Hats,
. All Shades and Sizes.
Boft Felt Hombergrs.
In all Sizes and Colors.
Straw Hats. Stetson Hats.
Polo Caps, Military and Naval
Caps, Livery Hats, Clerical Silk
Hats, Etc., Mads to Order
SHARPSHOOTINg
For Sport and War.
By W. W. GREENER.
HITS THE MARK I
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, 1/- nett.;
Posted, 1/2.
The beet 1/- worth ever Published,
IF you wish to get good work and value
you should purchase W. W. GREENER’S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to—
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
(Greener’s Representative).
HAND-IN-HAND
for EIGHTY YEARS
Williams'
Barbers' Bar*
WILLIAMS' Traveller's Shaving Stick.
You may worry thru a face
scrape on most “Any Old
Soap.” To enjoy the Luxury
of a Perfect Shave you must
use Williams’.
If you doubt it, send a penny
stamp for Williams’ Changing
Face Puzzle. Tells you why.
J. B. WILLIAMS CO., Glas-
tonbury, Conn., U.S.A. Also
232 Clarence Street, Sydney.
!
POcg
Rod
poo
Po
poo
POo
0009
OPO
oo
oQ?o
Oo
PO
Po
60
So
°o
002
oo
OP
OPQ
OP.
OO
Vulcanised
dllU!lMiilV;lj|'
For Comfort &■
Durability.
Guaranteed for 12 Honihs.
Beware of Imitations.
LTBE DUNLOP PNEUMATIC TYRE CO. of A.isl Ltrt„ |
Melbourße^ydoey^deUW^Pfaf^DruOari^ari^ThHMrtitirch^N^J
Trade
MAE*
Just Issued . . .
Our beautifully illustrated Booklet,
“ All About Dunlop Tyres for 1903.”
Replete with information and plates giving full informa-
tion re the management and repair of cycle tyres. Gratis
on application. Send your name and address at once.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Australia, Ltd.,
ISO Clarence Street, Bydney;
And at -
108 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
28 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
117 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
154 Barrack Street, Perth.
I*2B Lichfield Street, Christchurch, N.Z.
Sydney Telegraph evidently thinks that
the stench of the Robert Reid and Co. case is a
bygone odor, as it starts to publish sub-leaders on
the “ Customs Administration.” The yell now is
that the Minister should not bring into court
“respectable traders” for mistakes where ob-
viously no fraud is intended. The D.T. doesn’t
quote any case where the Minister has brought
such a case into court, but it does mention a case
where a prosecution, commenced by a subordinate
officer, was withdrawn at Kingston’s command
because it was plain that the offence was a mere
error. This trick of howling to a man to clo what
he is already doing may be skilful journalism, but
it’s darned dishonest.
“Lazarus ” : Regular meals are the death
of us—when we get ’em. Look at the healthy
animals, fossicking. Eat when you’re hungry;
but don’t drink when you’re thirsty.
“ The kangaroo has the head of a rabbit,
the body of a deer, and a tail like a bed-post.”—
Sydney Smith.
The vessels used in the communion service
on important occasions in St. Philip’s Church,
Sydney, are for the rest of the time deposited for
safe keeping in a Sydney bank. They are a gift
from George III.
Adelaide bookseller, A. T. Hodgson, who
recently joined the alleged majority, was the
third member of the bookselling firm, Slater,
Williams and Hodgson, which flourished in Mel-
bourne, with branches in other parts of Victoria)
in the 50’s. The only surviving member of that
long extinct co-partnery is tenor singer Williams,
a young-looking man of 70 odd years, whose voice
grows flutier every day.
Breakers ahead ! the cold and rain
Will soon be with us once again ;
Soon Winter’s breath will freeze the air,
For coughs and colds we must prepare,
Complaints that cause so much distress,
Yet everyone will soon confess
That the remedy, good and pure,
Is some Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
A medical paper :—
The New Mexico Territorial Board of Health may be
congratulated on having found a use for patent medicine
literature. In a recently issued circular on the preven-
tion of consumption, among other things, the board
advises that “ every person so affected should spit into
some receptacle, and should see that the sputum is soon
destroyed by fire. About the house there is no better
way than to spit between the leaves of patent medicine
almanacs —to be had freely at all drug stores—and after
half-a-dozen or more spittings burn the book.”
Victoria still wants money in order to
avert a general land-tax, so Bent’s bellow grows
louder and Treasurer Shiels’ harassed look gets
more intense every day. The serious state of
things brought the Raven and the Minister for
Breakdowns into consultation t’other day, and
Bent now states that there will be no supplemen-
tary estimates for his department this year; also,
he has sent out instructions to the railway officials
to submit reports showing how the railway em-
ployees may be squeezed of another .£22,000.
Seeing that they have already been squeezed as
dry as a sucked orange; seeing, also, that the Vic.
engine now takes a rest of an hour or so every
couple of miles (when it isn’t so bad that it has
to take to its bed altogether), such a state being
due to want of proper care and nourishment, it is
difficult to see where that extra £22,000 is to come
from ; but Bent says it has to be got somehow.
Bent’s own screw has not been reduced yet.
Squatter E. H. Kater, who died in a Syd-
ney private hospital in MArch last, leaves £45*000
odd. He was a careful, quiet, easy-tempered old
soul, and knew every yard of the Macquarie
River. Unlike his brother, the M.L.C., he took
no interest in politics. Grass, or as he used to
call it “feed, was his great subject, and dis-
coursing about it and blood stock occupied all Ins
spare time.
The warm rains which have fallen through-
out the Commonwealth promise showers of
prosperity later. The two essentials to the salva-
tion of Australia are a good season and the wise
administration of D.C.L. Whisky. For the
wisdom born of D.C.L. is necessary to the proper
management of prosperity when it arrives,- also
that sound liquor hastens the arrival by inspiring
human effort to profitable enterprise. D.C.L.,
The Whisky of the Wise.*
“ Shaker ” : In two towns which I fre-
quently decorate with my presence—Charters’
Towers and Townsville —I know at least half-a-
dozen persons \\ ' (, in as many months, have lost
part of one or more fingers through the collapse
of deck-chairs. The chair slides. The sitter
involuntarily clutches the arms to prevent himself
falling. Then the chair shuts up like a knife, and
does the rest. Why people will take a razor out
on the verandah and sit on it after this fashion I
don’t know.
The only living grandson (in Australia, at
least) of John Batman—John Batman Weire, now
chief of the Vic. Old Age Pensions sub-depart-
ment—favors Melb. Herald with a few particu-
lars of his progenitor’s family. Old man Batman,
who, himself, died at 35, bequeathed the habit of
dying young to most of his children. His only
son was drowned at the Yarra
Queen’s Bridge now stands—at the age of nine.
Of the seven daughters four died ere reaching their
early thirties. The eldest married a Mr. Fennell,
an early-day squatter grazing where Studley Park
now is; they returned to county Tipperary in ’67
and nothing more is known of them. Others of
the girls espoused Daniel Bunce, a curator of
Geelong Botanical Gardens ; Wm. Weire, town
clerk of Geelong; William and John Collyer, but
all are gone now. Nothing remains to recall
Victoria’s founder and his works save his monu-
ment in Melb. general cemetery. Even the hill
in West Melbourne named after him was razed a
few years back, and Melbourne doesn’t put up
statues to those old pioneers,


' Jff *0
v £&. o
• L-
<7
V
5^
)ltm
////
►»>♦ M »3
® * C # *<>
“MY
CRI hey .
fRED!
“ Healthy and Honest.”
GUINEA GOLDS are healthy and honest Cigarettes. It is not the color or design of the packet, nor the thickness of paper round the
Tobacco which make them healthy and honest. It is pure, fresh Tobacco and good workmanship that does it.
BRITISH-AMERICAN TOBACCO CO., LTD, (OGDEN BRANCH), 45 York Street, Sydney.
FREE TRIAL
for 90 Days.-
Not a penny down. Simply drop me a postal card,
with your name and address, and I will forward you at
once one of my latest Improved High-Grade Electric
Belts. You can use it for three months, then pay me if
cured, and the price w:ll be only half what others ask for
their inferior belts. If not cured, you can return the Belt to me, at my expense, and
YOUR WORD WILL DECIDE. I ain willing to trust you entirely, knowing that I
have the Best and Most Perfect Belt used in Australia to-day, and nine men in ten
always pay when cured.
1
Shi
I WILL TRUST YOU.
This modern Belt is the most perfect and complete ever invented. It will cure all
cases of Rheumatism, Varicocele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back, Kidney, Liver and
Stomach Complaints, Nervousness, and all Weaknesses of Men and Women.
FREE
A beautiful, illustrated Medical Book, which should be read by all weak men. This
will be sent Free, sealed in plain wrapper, all charges prepaid. It is free, and can be had
for the asking.
, Don’t neglect this splendid opportunity to regain your health. We will make a
written diagnosis of your case Free. Write To-day.
The Dr. J. fl. Austin Electric Co. ( De p*- M >
49 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
r
' HERR RASSMUSSEN
•will guarantee to cure Nervous Weak-
ness, Blood Diseases, Piles, Rheuma-
tism, Corpulency, Liver and Kidney
Troubles. He will send his Book Free.
All correspondence will bp. held
confidential.
WEAK, NERVOU
WHY SUFF
WHEN you can be quickly and permanently cured bv taking Harr Hassmussen’s AI. VALINE Vitality Pills which have cured so many
thousand sufferers from DEBILITY, POOR MEMORY, WEAK SPINE, DESPONDENCY, and all which robs Manhood of that which
is dearest to it Vital Strength. Herr Rassmussen will guarantee this remedy to cure every case, no matter of how long standing, and he will
. give his skilled advice personally to all patrons of his remedies FREE OF CHARGE, either in his offices or by post. So don’t despair, but
communicate with him without delay, no matter where you live. Treatment l:y Post a Speciality, Pamphlet sent Free.
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS. Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d., posted.
Blood and Skin Diseases
Blood Disorders, Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, Stone in the Bladder, and Blood
Impurities guaranteed to be removed and permanently cured by
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d. posted.
Anaemic Women
suffering from Wasting Diseases, Pale, Lifeless, and otherwise affected, should at once communicate with HERR
R His lifelong experience is at their service, and his
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS will cure them. Boxes, 6s; Courses, 235. 6d.
LIVER and KIDNEY TROUBLES cured at once by the ALFALINE LIVER and KIDNEY PILLS, Boxes Is.
His RHEUMATIC PILLS are World-famed, and his PILE POWDERS never fail ; 6s. per box each.
The ALFALINE REMEDIES can only beobtained from . . .
Herr Rassmussen’ s Head Office-
547 George St., Sydney,
AND HIS BRANCHES AS FOLLOW-
BRISBANE: 309 Queen St.
MELBOURNE = 150 Bourke St.
ADELAIDE: 15 Pulteney St.
NZ.: 91 Lambton Quay, Wellington.
W.A., PERTH: 481 Hay St.
KALGOORELE ■ 111 Hannan St.
...»
FEEMANTLE: 117 High St
BOOLDEK CITY: Piesse St.
A curious series of happenings : Tommy
the Nut, hawking tomatoes, stole a bracelet out
of a bedroom window. He planted it in the
grounds of the same mansion, to be called for.
The gardener found it, but said nothing. The
very next day Tommy got six months, as a vaga-
bond. His brother, Jack the Sailor, was coming
out of gaol in two days. Tommy begged that an
old Bible, in his effects, might be given to Jack.
The detectives consented, but impounded the
Bible, and found that, by pin-pricks in the Book
of Genesis, information was given where the
bracelet was planted. The detectives went to
find it, merely explaining, in the mysterious way
of the force, that they were searching for stolen
property, and the alarmed gardener, seeing them
at work, put the bracelet back. As it happened,
it hadn’t been missed. After a while the dis-
gusted police, covered with earth, explained
things to the owner of the mansion, and learned
that no bracelet had been lost, and that they had
been wantonly damaging his grounds. They were
shoo’d off the premises as suspicious characters.
Went back disgusted, and made things as un-
pleasant as possible for Tommy during his six
months. When he came out, he also went by
night and dug a large hole in the grounds. Then
a large dog came and chewed him. He got over
the wall hurriedly, and found nearly a dozen
police waiting for him. This time he got 12
months.
When they have completed the last short
section of the Brisbane-Rockhampton railway,
now in progress, it will be possible for any crank
who likes to try it to have a straight-away Aus-
tralian rail ride of 3295 miles. He will begin at
Oodnadstta (S.A.) and wind up at Longreach
(Q.); or if he starts at the other end he will
spend just as much money and get just as
satisfaction.
It is pleasant to reflect that almost every-
body’s funeral gives pleasure to somebody.
Old John Keats on parsons :
I begin to hate parsons ; they did not make me love
them that day, when I saw them in their proper colors.
A parson is a lamb in a drawing-room and a lion in a
vestry. The notions ol society will not permit a parson
to give way to his temper in any shape, so he festers in
himself; his features get a peculiar diabolical, self-
sufficient, iron, stupid expression. He is continually
acting—his mind is against every man, and every man’s
mind is against him. Parsons will always keep up their
character, but, as it is said there are some animals the
ancients knew which we do not, let us hope our posterity
will miss the black badger with tri-cornered hat. Who
knows but some reviewer of Buffon or Pliny may put an
account of the parson in the appendix ; no one will then
believe it any more than we believe in the phoenix.
A well-known Melbourne sporting judge
and two or three cronies, hurrying Gippsland way
to be in time for the opening of the quail shooting,
were all travelling second (smoking) to enable
them to keep their dogs in the compartment with
them. At Dandenong a seedy-looking customer
got into the carriage, nodded all around, dis-
coursed learnedly on the sporting capabilities of
the different breeds of dogs, and joined in an
animated conversation on the folly of the postpone-
ment of the quail season. After leaving Paken-
ham he became thoughtful, and on nearing Drouin
casually remarked to the man of law and his
friends, “Well, mates, you’ll oblige me very much
by shunting a bit. My ticket only took me as far as
Pakenham, so I reckon I’ll get under this ’ere
seat!” Which he did. The judge? Well, he
didn’t squeal, but tacitly joined in the conspiracy
to defraud the revenue. On a holiday one can’t
be severely judicial towards a man who knows the
good points of a dog—of your dog, in fact.


HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wound! that Discharge or otherwise. perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and awollen that when you
pres! your finger on the inflamed part it leave! the impres-
•ion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there majr be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation t but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don't say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not how being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRABBHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLB,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
flouseraaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
Ac. Price, in Great Britain, 1/Hd. per box. Prepared bv
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents i KLLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for theregistered trade mark of the Grasshopper on ■
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright.
DO YOU GET THE
RIGHT RESULTS?
I
Edith
Annie
Emily
W
A
L
T
K
E
Mom Street, Evandale, St. Peter’s,
Adelaide, October 10th, 1902.
Dear Sirs: My little daughter suf-
fered from measles and bronchitis at
the same time, and became so much reduced
in strength that we had very grave fears for
her safety. The doctor attending her said
we could not do better than give her Seott’s
Emulsion, and we have been very thankful
to him for the advice that led to our trying
your preparation. From the first the result
was remarkable ; she gained flesh and strength
rapidly and was soon restored to her usual
good health. Faithfully yours,
(Signed) Mrs. R. Wai/TKJC.
Messrs. Soott & Bowne, Ltd.,
483 Kent Street, Sydney.
DO YOU GET THE RIGHT
RESULTS when your ohild suffers from
measles and bronchitis, or from either ? If
you do not, you are not doing credit to your
judgment, because there is an aid in cases of
measles of very greatest importance, as all
medical men know; this aid is Scott’s
Emulsion. In the above letter one who has seen
the cure performed has just proved to you
how to get the right results, and that, na-
turally, is all that you want to know; the name
of the remedy is
SCOTT’S EMULSION. y»
not concern yourself with anything fur-
ther. If measles or bronchitis attack any
member of your family you have an admirable
safeguard against the wrong results in Scott’s
Emulsion. It has cured measles and bron-
chitis in every known land; it will do so in
Australia. You have one precaution only to
take; and that is to see that on the wrapper of
the bottle there is a picture of a man carrying
a big cod-fish ; if that cod-fish is not there,
you are not getting what we promise you a
cure ! You can obtain a sample of Scott’s
Emulsion and the choicest children’s booklet
of the year, 11 A Bunch of Roses, beautifully
printed in colors, by sending sd. to Scott and
Bowne, Ltd., 483 Kent-street, Sydney, and
mentioning this paper. All chemists sell
Scott’s Emulsion.
AFTER DINNER
w
W thirty drops of Seigel’s Syrup ensure complete di-
¥ restion, and prevent the pain and torpor consequent on
f Indigestion. Seigel’s Syrup builds health on good digestion
for ’tis not what you eat, but only that which you digest
nourishes your body and sustains your life.
“For several years,"
says Miss Ethel Williams,
of 9, Wemyss St., Sydney,
N.S.W., “ my life was rendered miserable by indigestion ana
general debility. I could not sleep at night and was often
afflicted with severe sick headaches and bilious r.ttacks.
An old friend recommended Mother Seigel's Syrup.
Within a week I discovered it was doing me substan-
tial good. Eight bottles completed my cure.”
AIDS DIGESTION.
PAIN in the BACK. GOUT.
EIGHTEEN YEAR S SUFFERING.
WHAT WAS THE CAUSE?
Mr. J. Gleeson, of Bromham Place, North Richmond, Vic., flays— “ Twenty years ago I began to
suffer from a terrible pain in the back. I consulted several of the most eminent doctors in Melbourne.
One doctor said I had lumbago, and gave me liniment to rub on it, but it did me no good. I went to
another doctor, who, after examining my urine, said that the tissues of my kidneys were destroyed, and
that he could give me but a fortnight to live. You can tell the state of alarm into which I was thrown
by this verdict. I immediately consulted another doctor, and he, to my relief, pronounced my
trouble to be muscular rheumatism. He treated me, but his treatment did me no good. For eighteen
years I was under first one doctor and then another, and faithfully carried out all the instructions they
gave me and the treatment they prescribed, but still I obtained no relief from the excruciating pain.
About two years ago I was in despair, and in my desperation I determined to give up consulting
doctors and to take Warner’s Safe Cure, as I had heard and read of many similar cases to my own
being cured by it. After taking the first dose I got relief from the pain. In two days the pain and
ache from which I had suffered for eighteen years had entirely disappeared. I continued to take the
medicine for some little time, and can sincerely declare that it has absolutely cured me, as I have not
had a return of the pain for two years. I used also to suffer a great deal from attacks of gout, but
since taking Warner’s Safe Cure I have not been troubled in this way either.”
IT WAS URIC ACID POISONING.
Uric acid was retained in the blood instead of being expelled fro® the eyetem in a natural manner.
It was one of the many signs by which Nature indicates
KIDNEY DISEASE.
When the kidneys are working perfectly uric acid and other urinary poisons, manufactured in the
body by the continuous decay of the tissues, are naturally removed. The moment, however, that
there is any interference with the action of the kidneys, these poisons accumulate in the system, and
we feel the effect by suffering from Rheumatism, Gout, Lumbago, Sciatica, Backache,
Anaemia, Bright’s Disease, Dropsy, Gravel, Stone, Bladder Troubles, Indigestion,
Torpid Liver. These are some of the many forms in which kidney disease manifests itself. Nine-
tenths of the pains and illnesses to which the human race is subject can be avoided if care is taken
that the kidneys and liver are in a condition to do their work efficiently. The reason that
Warner’s Safe Cure
cures all the disorders mentioned is simply that it possesses the remarkable property of being able to
restore to health and activity the
KIDNEYS & LIVER.
All urinary and biliary poisons are then duly expelled from the system. The food eaten nourishes
the blood and robust health is established.
If you have any reason to suspect that your kidneys are nob healthily performing their duty,
place some urine, passed the first thing in the morning, in a covered glass and let it stand for twenty-
four hours. If it is then milky, or shows a sediment like brick-dust, or if particles float about in it,
the kidneys are deranged. No time should then be lost in commencing to take Warner’s Safe Cure.
Neglected kidney disorders will result in Bright’s Disease, Diabetes, or some less serious but more
painful manifestation.
A Treatise containing full particulars and accounts of many remarkable cures effected by
Warner’s Safe Cure will be sent free, on application to the Australasian Branch, H. H. Warner and
Co., Limited, Melbourne.
ROB ROY pens
Hinks, Wells & Co. beg to draw attention to this new series of
turned up pointed and other pens, made of the same material, by the
same tools by the same process and at the same works, as the well
known series of Wavcrley Pens, which Hinks, Wells & Co. have for
30 years and upwards (prior to September 1901), manufactured for
and supplied to the pi-oprietors thereof.
ns
Sold by *ll
Btationers In 18
varieties In '
6d., la. & gross bo»l.
INKS,
WELLS & CO., Birmingham, England.
u
On Onr Selection.” By “ Steele Rudd
Price, 6a., Postage Bd., from Th* Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
99
The unselfishness of the rich is evinced in
the freedom with which they confer the dignity
of labor upon the poor.
Told of the deceased Frank Lockwood,
Q.C.: Being about to defend a villainous-visaged
ruffian in the Criminal Court, the lawyer examined
his hopeless-looking brief, and then went over to
his client and advised him to plead guilty and
profit by the known olemency of the presiding
Judge. Looking him up and down, prisoner spat
contemptuously, leaned over the rails, and replied,
“You fuzzy-headed 1 Wot d’you
s’pose I pay you for? For me to do the work as
you can’t do? Go back to your seat and do what
you’re paid for.” F.L. went back, and secured
his client’s acquittal.
A Melb. sassiety dame, returning by train
from a suburban fete the other day, fussily
descanted on the function, but was greatly per-
turbed at the presence of numerous R.C. priests.
“ One couldn’t move for them, you know, dear.
It’s so unpleasant having to meet those Romans
wherever one goes,’’ and so on for the whole
journey. Up in the corner was an old Irishwoman
who gave every indication of an outburst, but she
reserved herself until she left the train at South
Yarra. Then she poked a savage Hibernian phiz
through the carnage window and exclaimed “ to
Hell with the lot of ye. You won’t find so many
Romans there, anyhow.” And she marched up
the platform with a delicious sense of having
broken up the sassiety religious discussion with
one well-moulded phrase.
The Miners’ Slow Poison.
In Charters Towers, in Bendigo, and in Westralia,
in S’Africa and in England, the indefinite, but
deadly, something which everywhere gets to be
known aa miners’ disease, is insisting on public
notice. It isn’t certain whether the disease is
worse than it was, because it isn’t certain how bad
it used to be; but it is known, beyond all doubt,
that it is desperately fatal and general to-day.
Most likely it really is worse than it was ; at any
rate, there are several reasons why it should be.
Modern hauling and pumping and blasting ap-
pliances have made deep sinking possible; and
deep sinking means, too often, bad ventilation.
The machine drill has also probably helped —the
machine drill which makes a steady output of
fine dust far exceeding that of the old,
slow hand-drill. Working in the hot air
2000 ft. or 3000 ft. from surface, the miner who
breathes this drill dust, and the dust that follows
the heavy charge, and the powder smoke, has
lungs already, probably, none too sound. For
mining is hereditary, and the man whose father
breathed dust most of his life (and probably died
of it) is generally handicapped to start with, and
the more or less vitiated air which he breathes all
his working hours (and too often all his sleep-
ing hours into the bargain) puts him still further
back in the race. The quantity of drill and other
dust which he can swallow without injury is
therefore less even than most men can do with.
Presumably how much he can swallow, and how
long he can go on swallowing it, depend upon a
hundred things ; and, just as the conditions vary,
■o the prevalence and virulence of the disease vary.
Always, however, in greater or less degree,
it is present on every field. It is at its
worst perhaps in S’Africa. Figures which
have been compiled there are, indeed, so
startling that they seem incredible. Careful
inquiry has, however, shown that in some mines
the average life of the miner is only two years !
Of a party of lusty young Australian miners who
went to Johannesburg in 1894, it was lately re-
ported that the last had just died. Australian
experiences are less tragic than that, yet they are
tragic enough. The vital statistics of Eaglehawk,
a portion of the Bendigo (Vic.) goldfield, were
lately analysed, and it was found that one out of
every three of the adult deaths for 1902 was due
to lung disease (that is to say, miners’ disease),
that every one of the male victims had been a
miner, and that the male victims outnumbered the
female by 13 to 1. There is no obvious reason
why Eaglehawk should be worse off than other
raining communities; on the contrary, it is
highly probable that an analysis of the figures
for other fields would make more gruesome
reading. And still hardly anything is being
done. Worse still, comparatively few people
seem to have any clear idea that anything
requires to be done. They know that some-
times a big slice of a mine falls in and
orushes the life out of a miner—now and then
out of half-a-dozen miners; and they applaud (as
they should) the true grit of the mates who go
to the rescue, and they pass laws and pay in-
spectors to see that it doesn’t happen again.
But of the victim of miners’ disease there is no
word in the papers. Usually he has been too
long sick to have left his widow the half-crown
which would buy a mention even in the “ Births,
Marriages, and Deaths” column. And yet, even
under favorable conditions, on every deep-sink-
ing mining field it can safely be said that
three times more men die the cruel,
wasting death of the phthisical patient than
the mercifully-rapid death which generally
comes to the victim of accident. Even the miner
himself only half-realises the truth. “ Poor Btll,
he’s gone ! ’’ he says, when, after a last struggle,
his mate has to “chuck it ” early in a “shift.”
He has seen it coming for months—the whitening
face, the gasp (and at every gasp another mouth-
ful of dust to hurry on the work), the cough and
the spitting, and the weakness; nevertheless,
more often than not, he looks upon it as all in the
day’s work, as all part of the game, and as some-
thing against which it is no use kicking. The
miner’s wife, with the woman’s instinct, is a little
wiser. Not that she thinks much of improving
the miner’s condition either; but to her own sons
she says nearly always, “Don’t you be a miner,
lad.” And of course the lad nearly always
disregards the advice —what else can he do,
where else can he turn ? So the task of
doing anything substantial to mend matters is
shockingly hard. Yet, in the face, of sucli
figures as those quoted, it is a task that cannot be
shirked. Three lots of people must be awakened.
First, the miners themselves—the whole body of
them. They must be got to believe that it isn't
all in the day’s work that they should be poisoned
any more than that they should be smothered or
mangled. Then the owners. If they can’t be
moved to, in all cases, provide good ventilation
and sanitation from motives of humanity, they
may be persuaded to do it on the solid ground
that it’s bad business not to do it. And, finally,
there’s the big, ordinary public—the crowd that
votes—which must be got to say that, if things
don’t improve, the mines that are death-holes
must be closed ; and if they say that as though
they mean it, things won’t be long before they do
improve.
One of Euclid’s lost axioms: “Things
which believe in the same things believe in one
another. ”
Since molasses came into notice as a cure
for cancer, it has been used for many and varied
purposes, and its possibilities appear to have a
wide range. It has at latest been taken up by Bill
Sykes as an effective agent for breaking and
entering. Poured into a paper bag, it is hurled at
a window, and the smashing is accomplished
quickly and noiselessly. The Lilydale (Vic.) rail-
way station office was burglariously entered by
this means a few days ago.
“W.8.M.”: The Immorality Act has
been so strictly enforced in money-grabbing and
syndicate-sharping Capetown (imprisonment for
the “ladies” and the cat for the bludgers) that
the evicted femininity of Capetown is camping
out at Ramps Bay, one of the very few seaside
resorts of Desolation Land. A township of tents
now nestles between the jagged shore and the
frowning and precipitous “Twelve Apostles.”
Here the rouged and powdered refugees riot and
revel to the roaring of the breakers on the
roughest bit of coast in creation. But no men
except the butcher, baker, carrier, and messenger
are allowed to approach nearer than telescope-
distance of the canvas settlement, and there are
policemen on the watch for the would-be tres-
passer. The “Ladies” have a lease of the pro-
perty, and any laxity of tenure means summary
ejectment, not to mention prosecutions under the
Immorality Law. The discovery of one Daniel
in the den of darlings would be sufficient to send
every refugee in the settlement to gaol for three
or more months. Of course they are waiting for
the Immorality war to finish. Meanwhile, they
tempt in vain the Twelve Statuesque Apostles.


Town hall, Melbourne.
MAY 2,5, 7, and 9.
MR. EDWARD LLOYD’S
LAST FOUR CONCERTS IN AUSTRALIA, PRIOR TO
HIS RETURN TO EUROPE :
SATURDAY MAY 2
TUESDAY MAY 6
THURSDAY MAY 7
SATURDAY MAY 9
Box-Plans at Allan’s. J3P“PRICES —Reserved Seats,
7s 6d ; Unreserved, 6s, and Half-a-Orown.
JH E MUTOSCOPE.
WONDERFUL LIVING PICTURES
now on view at
KING STREET ARCADE CORNER,
and
74 OXFORD STREET.
Real Life Portrayed with a Vividness and Realism
Never Before Witnessed.
ADMISSION FREE.
OWN HALL, SYDNEY.
THE MUSICAL EVENT OF THE YEAR,
Commencing: SATURDAY NEXT, MAY 2nd.
MARK HAMBOUR6.
PRICES— 6s., 35., and 2s.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor and Manager— Mr. Harrt Richards.
SATURDAY NIGHT.
NEW FIRST PART-LAWN TENNIS.
0 BOISETTE COMPANY Q
Splendid Success of SEELEY and WEST, RODDA PERRY
and H. C. BUCKLEY.
£&• PRACTICALLY A NEW COMPANY. ■©&
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee .. .. Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Last Matinee—SATURDAY, MAY 2, at 2 o’clock.
LAST NIGHTS
of J. C. WILLIAMSON and Mr. GEO. MUSGROVE’S
DICK WHITTINGTON
AND HIS WONDERFUL OAT.
An Entertainment of Unexampled
Brilliancy.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
Prices as Usual.
THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA.
(INCORPORATED BY ROYAL CHARTER, 1835.)
PAID-UP CAPITAL .. .. .. £1,600,000
RESERVE FUND .. .. .. .. 1,070,000
(£500,000 invested in Consols at 90, the remainder being used in the
business of the Bank.)
RESERVE LIABILITY OF PROPRIETORS UNDER THE CHARTER .. .. 1,600,000
£4,270,000
SIXTY-NINTH ANNUAL REPORT of the DIRECTORS of THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, with the
Accounts for the Half-year to i3th October, 1902, Presented to the Proprietors at the Annual
General Meeting, Held on Thursday, 26th March, 1903, at One O’clock.
REPORT.
rPHE Directors submit to the proprietors the Balance-sheet as at 13th October last, with the profit account for the
half-year to that date. After providing for rebate on bills current, for British and colonial rates and taxes
and for all bad and doubtful debts, the net profit for the half year, including some recoveries from old account*''
amounted to £152,084175. Bd. ’
To this sum must be added £14,705 2s. lOd. brought forward from the previous half-year, making a total of
£166,790 os. 6d. out of which the Directors have declared a Dividend for the half-year at the rate of 11 per cent per
annum, or £2 4s. per share, free from income-tax. ' y
The dividend will absorb £BB,OOO, and.the Directors have further appropriated £35,000 to the reserve fund
£14,000 in reduction of the cost of bank premises, and £15,141155. sd. to the bonus paid to the staff, as announced
at the general meeting held in October last. There will then remain £14,648 ss. Id. to be carried forward to next
account.
The Dividend will be payable, in London and in the colonies, on the 27th inst.
ALBAN GIBBS, Chairman
4 Threadneedle-street, London, 16th March, 1903.
PROFIT ACCOUNT, from APRIL 14, 1902, to OCTOBER 13, 1902.
Undivided profit, April 14, 1902
Less —Dividend, October, 1902
£102,705
88,000
2 10
0 0
Profit for the half-year to October 13, 1902, after deducting rebate on bills current at
balance date (£8,479 17s. 7d.), and making provision for all bad and doubtful debts £293,774 3 4
Less
i.—Charges of Management— ■
Colonial —
Salaries and allowances to the colonial staff, including the super-
intendent’s department, and 157 branches and agencies .. .. £84,815 12 6
General expenses, including rent, repairs, stationery, travel-
ling, &c .. .. 22,392 19 8
London—
Salaries .. 8,824 7 5
- General expenses .. .. .. 3,00117 6
£14,705 2 10
ll.—Rates and Taxes—
Colonial
London
Total amount of unappropriated profit
from which deduct —
For transfer to reserve fund
For reduction in cost of bank premises
For bonus to staff, paid June 10,1902
£118,534 16 11
..£12,753 8 7
.. 10,401 0 2
23,154 8 9
141,689 5 8
152,084 17 8
..£166,790 0 6
£35,000 0 0
14,000 0 0
15,141 15 5
64,141 15 5
Leaving available for dividend
..£102,648 5 1
Dr.
BALANCE-SHEET, OCTOBER 13, 1902.
Cr.
LIABILITIES.
Circulation .. .. £503,187 0 0
Deposits 14,313,892 12 4
Bills payable, and other liabilities .. 2,292,796 011
£17,109,875 13 3
Capital £1,600,000 0 0
Reserve fund .. .. 1,070,000 0 0
(Of which £500,000 is
invested in 2f percent.
Consols at 90, the re-
mainder being used in
the business of the
bank.)
Profit account—Undi-
vided balance .. .. 102,648 5 1
2,772,648 5 1
£19,882,523 18 4
ASSETS.
Specie, bullion, and cash balances ..£3,258,834 18 4
Loans at call and at short notice .. .. 1,252,410 0 0
British Government securities .. .. 1'021,339 18 5
India and colonial Government securities 341,784 4 7
Bills receivable, advances on securities,
and other assets ’l3 552 571 7 9
Bank premises in Australia, New Zealand, ’ ’
and London .. .. 355,583 9 3
£19,882,523 18 4
F. H. BLOGG, Accountant.
R. W. JEANS, Manager.
We have examined the cash and securities in London, and the London books, and have verified the transfers
from the several branches in the colonies, and we beg to report that, in our opinion, the foregoing is a full and fair
balance-sheet of the Bank, and that it exhibits a true and correct view of the state of the Bank’s affairs as ehown bv
the books. 3
London, ISth March, 1903. WELTON, JONES AND CO., Auditors.
CITIZENS’ LIF
Assurance
Co., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE. Citizens Buildings, Y.oore and Castlereagh Streets, Sydney.
FUNDS £1,000,000.
HAS MONEY TO LEND on security of Freehold City or Suburban Properties, good
Dairy Farms, Agricultural and Grazing Lands (Freehold or C.L. or C.P.), or Government
Stock of any of the Australian States or New Zealand at lowest current rates of Interest.
Loans can be arranged for a fixed term, or repayable by instalments, without notice or
payment of any fine.
amusements.
DALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY
■ Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. 0. WILLIAMSON
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon .7,
the World-Famed Farcical Comedy, ’ 4t 1
ARE YOU A MASON 9
Interpreted by Mr. Williamson’s NEW f’OMPnv
COMPANY. MJ£DT
headed by the Famous English Comedian
MR. GEORGE CIDOENS ’
Box Plan at Paling’s. Prices M n)|ml
QRITERION THE AT RE, BYD Nev ;
Under the Direction of Mr. FRANK THORNTON
Representative » ~
*•»* a'r.te
FRANK THORNTON COMEDY SEASON.
LAST NIGHTS OF
5 A.ITJJ-T.
From Brazil where the nuts come from. *
ON SATURDAY (MAY 2) WILL BE PRESENTED TH
WORLD-FAMOUS COMEDY, BY A. W PTNFpo
SWEET LAVENDER.
Box Plan at Elvy’s.
* p s - > 3s. 2s. and Is. Early doors (from 7to
7.30, Is. extra. Ordinary Doors, 7.30. Overture a
Carnages, 10.30. Children under 7 not admitted. ’
IYCEU M THE A T RE, SYD NEy
Sole Lessee and Manager .. Mr. Wm. Anderson. '
SPLENDID SUCCESS Achieved by
William Anderson’s Famous Dramatic Organisation
in the largest great Adelphi Success,
A Woman of Pleasure,
Prices—3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Box Plan open at Elvv’s Muni-
Warehouse, George Street.
CITZGERALD BROS,’
1 HUGE MOVING CIRCUS CARAVAN,
JBELIVEORE FATMr
ANOTHER GIGANTIC TRIUMPH. First Change of
Programme at once a Terrific Success. All the Bi"
Features Retained. Oheers, Applause, and Merriment. ’
THE CHANCE OF PROGRAMME.
Mdlle. RHODESIA, Mdlle. LA BELLE ROSE, BENATO
LITTLE SELIG, THE MARROTOS, Mdlle. ONRa’
ERIC and REANO, THE FLYING METEORS’
GILLENO, MANZONI’S DOGS, PAGEL THE
STRONG MAN, THE CYCLE WHIZZ, and heaps of
other Arenic Novelties.
A Splendid Band, led by Herr Yon Der Mehden.
OPEN-AIR FREE CONCERT AT 7 p.m.
POPULAR PRICES - - 4s, 3s, 2s and la
Matinees Wednesdays and Saturdays at S o’clock.
Box Plan at Paling’s. 10F”Leave all Trams at Hay-street.
Ask the conductor for the Circus, and he will direct you
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
EVERY EVENING, AND THIRD WEEK OF
Mr. George Musgrove’s New English Company in
Shakespeare’s Delightful Comedy,
A MIDSUMMER NIGHT’S DREAM.
USUAL PRICES.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
■HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Lessee .. .. .. Mr. Bland Holt
Business Manager ~ C. Simonsens.
EVERY EVENING, AND THIRD WEEK OF
Bland Holt Dramatic Co. in the Great Sporting
Drama,
THE PRODIGAL DAUGHTER.
Prices—3s, 2s fid, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan's.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. Tallis. Treas., E. J. Tait.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF PAUL JONES.
MAY 2nd—First time in Australia. Mr. J.C. Williamson’S
Comic Opera Co. in Mr. Sidney Jones’ Latest Success—
MY LADY MOLLY
with an exceptionally strong cast.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Allan’s.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
“ The Home of Laughter.”
Management of Willoughby and Geach.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of MISTAKES WILL HAPPEK.
SATURDAY NEXT (MAY 2nd), .
Trst Time in Melbourne of the Clever French Farce—
ON AND OFF.
SriART, BRIGHT AND ENTERTAINING,
'rices as Usual. Box Plan at Glen s.
3PERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. H. Rickards.
SATURDAY NIGHT-
SPLENDID SUCCESS OF M. RUDINOFF.
The Greatest Entertainment in the world,
irst Appearance of HILL and SYLVAINY.
VESUVIO CONCERT CO.
ronounced Success of WILL WHITBURN, ERNEST
ITTS, JACK HARRISON, WALKER & MAY, JAis.
PIE, MILLIE HERBERTE, LINGARD SISTERS, and
PRACTICALLY A NEW COMPANY.
mirth
r r\n t
S CIRCUS AND MENAGERIE.
LOCATION—WIRTH’S GROUNDS, PRINCE’S
BRIDGE, MELBOURNE.
THE REIGNING SUCCESS,
rnowledged by Press and Public to be the Greatest
Organisation ever got together in the colonies.
IND ROMAN HIPPODROME and WILD WEST SHOW,
and Many Other Novelties.
IE MYSTERIOUS BROTHERS HOWARD)
he Theme of Conversation. The Wonders of the Age.
The Wild Animal Acts Never Before Equalled.
E WHOLE SHOW A GIGANTIC TRIUMPH.
IN PREPARATION—GRAND PANTOMIME
9 CINDERELLA- •
Prices—4s., 35., 2s. and Is. Box Plan at Glen’s.
TINEES, WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
L. Petersen, Agent. E. Erskine Scott, Represent _j
Under Vice-Regal
Patronage
And by
Special Appointment
Mrs. William Green and Miss Green
Professors of Ballroom Dancing, Deportment, Oja 06
Carriage, Etiquette and Callsthenlo Exercises.. .{
The Latest Society Skirt Dances. Classes arrang,
private residences. Colleges and Convents att
Classes in all suburbs. Prospectus
11 Ellerslle,” 100 HicholBon-Bt.,Fitzroy__
ENGINEMAN'S MASTER XEY.-All subj« c^‘
relating to Examinations for Certificates . .
petency in all the States. 365 Pages, 106 IHu _
6s. 6d. posted, by L. F. K. SCHNABEL, Consume
Engineer, 443 Bourke-street, Melbourne. Also
Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney.
Brown Hill Extended (W.A.), as here predicted,
shows an enormous falling off in production in March
compared with February, the deficiency being 3000 oz.
The rich patch between the 300 and 200 ft. is almost
worked out. One or two more crushings are left, but of
poorer stuff. The ss. dividend declared may very likely
prove to be the first and last, after eight years of weary
waiting. Total collapse seems inevitable. The eastern
lode, about which there has been so much futile talk,
is never likely to produce any returns, not to mention
divs. It has proved worthless in the Brown Hill as well
as in the Extended, and yet the directors of the Oroya
East, on the south, are sinking their main shaft to 400 ft.
with the view of developing its continuation.
• • • a
Queen Margaret (W.A.) has completed the pur-
chase of the South Gippsland, at Vosperton, as the
holders refused point blank to grant any extension of
option. The decision was arrived a£ after the clean up
of the third parcel, which returned 381 oz. from 150 tons.
As there are some 5000 tons of tailings, estimated to yield
a profit of £2OOO, besides all the reserves of ore between
the 380 and 180 ft. levels, theco. should at least get back
the purchase money (£3500), Ten head of stamps are
to be removed from the Bulong property to increase the
mill power to 20 head. After the few patches still stand-
ing in the Bulong property are worked out the leases will
be abandoned.
• • • •
Queen Margaret Central (W.A.), which, in-
cluding all equipment, was bought for £2OO by a party of
miners, may yet produce a lot of gold. Very rich patches
have been found on the leases north and south, and there
is no reason why the ground should be a blank. The
property has been opened to 400 ft., but, for unknown
reasons, no stoping was done. The new owners thus
start with 400 ft. of backs, and have arranged with the
Queen Margaret to haul and treat their ore. This is one
of the many Adelaide-owned cos. which, from first to last,
has apparently been worked mainly for market purposes.
• • * »
South Kalgurli (W.A.) loses Manager Isles,
who must be glad to quit such a thankless billet.
The treatment plants which have been installed here
have been a severe handicap,' but Isles probably
didn’t select them. The mine itself is one of the
patchiest on the belt, the daily assays in the same face
varying from dwts. to ozs. in every yard driven. Who-
ever Isles’ successor is he will have a big contract to
make the mine pay. Hamilton, in his special report,
suggests an expenditure of £15,000 to get the equipment
in order and put the mine on a payable basis.
* • * •
Ivanhoe (W.A.) is now opening up the Boulder
lode at the 500 ft. It it 7£ft. wide, and worth 23dwt. per
ton. It outcrops in the Great Boulder, and gradually
underlays into the south-east corner of the Ivanhoe, and,
at the 300 ft. level, shows a length of 220 ft. before passing
into the Great Boulder on the .north and the Horseshoe
on the south.
» • * *
W.A. April divs. : Perseverance, 10s.; Kal-
gurli, 2s. 6d. ; Ida H., ss. ; Horseshoe, 6s. ; Brown Hill
Extended, ss. ; Peak Hill, Is. : White Feather Main Reef,
6d. ; and Great Fingall (deferred No. 6), 6s.
• • • a
Latest London news with regard to the pro-
posed Mt. Lyell-North Lyell amalgamation is that the
North Lyell directors refuse the offer submitted, and
negotiations are, for the time “off.” But, unless the
people interested are imbecile, there must be amalgama-
tion—the Lyell’s pyritic ore and the North’s silicious ore
together forth a natural smelting mixture, while to
attempt to handle either separately means high costs
and low recoveries.
• * • *
Ravenswood (Q.) moves again. Grand Junc-
tions, paid-ups in which stood at about 75., bottomed at
190 ft. on 18in. of stone, believed to be the rich Sunset
lode, and reported to be heavily mineralised stone, assay-
ing as high as lloz. Anyway, shares jumped within the
week to buyers 265. for paids. Junctions were at the
outset thought so little of by Ravenswood holders that
they sold out paids long ago in the vicinity of Is., and
the mine is now principally Towers owned. As a result
of the strike, the Irish Girl, a £25,000 property near the
Junction, was floated off with a rattle in 24 hours, and
there is a material boom in all alleged Sunset reef pro-
perties. Ravenswood stone, though terribly refractory,
is rich, the trouble in most cases being to get enough
of it.
At Poverty Point.
“E.F.”: If the Chicago newspapers are not overstating
the case when they say that “Maud M’Carthy draws a
larger tone than any woman who has ever played here ”
it seems safe to predict a mighty celebrity for the Sydney
girl. When she visited Australia some 4£ years ago,
there was a certain thinness of tone in the beautiful
music she produced, as though she hadn’t quite outgrown
the infant-phenomenon handling of a bow. Otherwise
Maud was a most impressive violinist. Heard herplay to
a few people and hundreds of empty seats in a Town Hall
(Melb.) and thought her a saintly musical genius. She
made one feel pure and holy for twenty consecutive
minutes. Any first-class artist can get the audience
interested in Aerself or Aimself. Only the greatest per-
formers can make their audiences believe in fAemselves.
The dispute between a big Melb. daily and one of the
theatre proprietaries has ended in a climb down by the
latter .The strife originated through a well-known
pressman being refused admission on a first night, some-
body else having the paper’s seats, and the ordinary press
list having been set aside without notice. When the
theatre management refused apologies, it found the
supply of puff-paragraphs very much curtailed, and after
reading once or twice a week that its show was merely
“still running,” whilst the casual and despised leg-
demonstrations in little halls down Bourke-street were
described in terms of adulation, it hastened to assure
everybody concerned that the whole business was only
“a little misunderstanding with the doorkeeper,” or
something. This is equivalent to the politician’s excuse
that he was misreported.
Willoughby and Geach last week received a pathetic
letter from a Melbourne dramatic authoress, who has
long waited for the chance to achieve celebrity. The
lady, recognising that local talent must offer itself at an
alarming sacrifice in the first instance, proposed to let
W. and G. purchase her new and original four-act comedy
for 10s. 6d. cash' >Vlso, she will grant them her full per-
mission to make *4iat alterations they please in the plot
and dialogue of her work. For a modest half-guinea the
management can secure the manuscript and all rights
appertaining thereto.
At Wangaratta (Vic.) Show once a boxing amazon
offered to put on the gloves with anyone. The acceptor
was to put down half-a-crown, which was to be returned
with a sovereign if he succeeded in landing one blow on
the lady. A man put on the gloves, the Is. admission
charge was carefully collected from a pretty large audi-
ence, and the pair faced each other on the platform. But
before they could do anymore a massive stranger stepped
on the platform and bashed the male competitor right
across the tent, saying : “ You coward ; would you hit a
woman ? ” He skulked out. The crowd applauded and
thought hard. The gallant remained and helped to count
the takings.
Died at Secunderabad, India, on 12th March, of enteric
fever, Florrie West Devine; the niece of old J. P. West,
the well-known character actor, who occasionally plays
Deacon Skinner when not otherwise employed. She was
aged 23, and had been on the stage longer than her years
might suggest, having started in very small girl parts.
Thos. Holding, the Demetrius in “A Midsummer
Night’s Dream,” is not recognisable as the same Holding
who played Dicey (beastly polite fellow, Dicey) in “ A
Message from Mars” a couple of years ago. Holding
went back to England at the end of Hawtrey’s first
Melbourne season, and he has seemingly learned a little
about acting since then. Moreover, he hag had his hair
cut.
This advt. shows how Church and Stage amalgamate
nowadays:—
OS. PETER and PAUL’S, South Melbourne.
Easter Sunday.
High Mass at 11 o’clock.
The ROYAL COMIC OPERA QUARTET,
Messrs.. Fitzgerald, Balfour, Stafford, and Fred. England,
Will sing at the Offertoire Gounod’s “ O Salutaris.”
The song-and-dance man from the Tivoli will get there
yet.
Anderson, lately come to Sydney Lyceum, announces
his repertoire of plays. Here are six :
“ A Woman of Pleasure.”
“ The Shadow of Night.”
“ Worst Woman in London.”
“ Saturday Night in London.”
“ The Painted Woman.”
“The Night Birds of London."
Mostly women and London.
Many good yarns are spun in the reminiscences of the
late Augustus Hare—but not nearly enough to justify
the infliction of six volumes on the public. One relates
to Hare’s great uncle, Lord Ravensworth. When that
unrighteous nobleman was walking one day in Portman-
square he met a nurse with a singularly handsome child.
He stopped her, and said : “ Pray, forgive me for stopping
you, but I can’t help asking whose is that remarkably
fine child ? ” “ Your own, my lord ! ” said the girl. And
that reply so flabbergasted the noble lord that he gasped
out: “ And—and—does my lady know about this child
also?” After all, it’s an unwise mother who knows too
much about her husband’s children.
YOUNG DEAD-HEAD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Young Dead-Head, lounging at the play,
Views all things w.ith a scornful eye ;
And should his neighbor’s mood be gay
He checks it with a weary sigh.
A heroine in mimic tears
Incites him to aggressive sneers,
He snarls at kll he sees and hears—
Young Dead-Head.
An opera which charms the town
Gives him no thrill of common joy ;
To smile, the same as Smith or Brown,
Would ill become the learnhd boy.
All shows displease him, more or less ;
It is his custom to profess
Contempt for any big success—
Young Dead-Head.
The sweetest songster cannot touch
The place allotted to his heart;
No mummer’s force can knock him much,
Though mummer play a striking part.
His verdict, all the time, is “ Rot!
The same old tricks, the same old plot I"
He knows it all, he knows a lot—
Young Dead-Head.
Blow, blow and blast, thou wintry wind f
Blow chilly on the showman’s chest;
No blowing can be so unkind
As that of pressman unimpressed,
Who finds all entertainments poor,
Flat, stale—in fact, an awful bore—
Because his name is “ on the door ”
Young Dead-Head.


LET THERE be LIGHT
;
ssa^J
PROFESSOR LOEB’S
STARTLING DISCOVERIES.
Calcium Salts Cure Nerve Diseases.
His Electro-Medical Methods Endorsed by
The Freeman and Wallace Institute.
One of the most brilliant investigators in the fields of human
disease to-day is PROFESSOR JACQUES LOEB, the eminent
pathological scientist of America. An inspiring article con-
tributed to the University of Chicago, as the result of ex'
haustive experiments he had made concerning the treatment and
cure of NERVOUS DISEASES by certain forms of medical
treatment: i.e., Calcium and Electricity, is of interest. The
Professor’s discoveries are invaluable in this scientific age as
affording proof that nerve ailments which result from DE-
PLETED NERVE POWER can be cured when their cause is
removed. The Professor, after explaining his methods of pro-
fessional tests in cases of NERVOUS TWITCHINGS and
CONTRACTIONS
which may he placed in the same family as EPILEPSY,
PARALYSIS, HEMIPLEGIA, PARAPHLEGIA, LOCOMOTOR ATAXIA, SPINAL DERANGE.
MENT, INSOMNIA, HEART DISORDERS, LOSS OF VITAL POWER, HYSTERIA, etc., favors
the use of allopathic remedies, as ardently as he has at different times advised the use of Electricity. He
sums up his experiments by suggesting the internal use of calcium salts where there was proved a deficiency
of calcium ions in the blood, the muscles being subject to nervous twitchings and derangements, from
which thousands of persons suffer. When the blood, however, contained the usual natural quantity of
calcium ions, the nerves acted in a normal manner. Reflecting on his experiments upon these
diseases, the Professor says :
“In view of the fact that this far no explanation has been found for pathological nervous phenomena of this kind, it
becomes of some importance to see whether or not in certain of these diseases the relative amount of calcium ions in the blood
is diminished, li t is should be the case, THE ADMINISTRATION OF CALCIUM WOULD BE THE CURE FOR
THESE DISEASES, which thus far have been beyond medical contro M
All men know that they must go to the Fountain Head of Scientific Research to be
curedTrom disease which has attacked their vital organs. It has been proved that electric
applications, when applied judiciously, strengthens* the nerve-life of the body, which is depleted
through exhaustive causes. THE PROFESSOR’S ELECTRO-MEDICAL METHODS
have been adopted and actively expounded b>’ the medical staff of The FREEMAN and
WALLACE INSTITUTE in Australia. We have used Electricity in our Medical Practice
for over a quarter of a century, and have reaped for our reward numberless testimonials of great
cures. In conjunction with Professor Loeb we have proved that electric applications will not
cope with SLUGGISH or DISEASED ORGANS, and that it must be associated with sound
medical treatment to rank as a reliable curative agency. Our patients may rest assured that in
grave nerve or organic diseases they can confidently adopt our treatment, by which we cure
many so-called “ incurable ” diseases where others have signally failed. The treatment of
Nerve Disorders by Professor Loeb’s system of Calcium and Electricity has been adopted by our
medical staff, who have long prescribed calcium as a restorative in nerve diseases. Any sufferer
may at once benefit from this remarkable discovery. Here are a few testimonials from patients
who have been cured by this system.
Uric Acid in Blood Removed.
Mr. PHILIP NEWBURY, the great English
tenor, famous throughout Australia, who is now
starring in leading musical centres of London,
writes :
“ For years I have suffered from uric
acid in the blood. Thanks to the wonder-
ful efficacy of your Electric ‘ INVIGOR-
ATOR,’ I am now completely cured.
Bad Kidney Pains Cured.
The HONORABLE DANIEL O’CONNOR, M.P.,
ex-Minister of the Crown, a most active asso-
ciate in the political history of New South Wales,
testifies in an emphatic manner :
“I have worn one of your famous Elec-
tric ‘INVIGORATOR’ Belts. It has
benefited me much. I suffered from acute
kidney pains, which have now, I am happy
to say, entirely left me.”
Health and Vigor Restored.
MR. J. T. ROWE, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
Gawler, South Australia, recently wrote to us
for one of our Electric “ BELTS.” Here are ex-
tracts from his letter, dated March 23,1903 :
“Herewith please find £1 for which
please forward one Electric Belt as adver-
tised. . . . Some time since I procured
one of your Belts for a patient and he
states it has given him great satisfaction.”
Health Greatly Improved.
INSPECTOR F. FOWLER, a highly esteemed
officer of the Sydney Police Force, occupying a
position of great responsibility as Chief of the
Burwood Division of Police, says :
“Since wearing your ‘Belt’ my health
has greatly improved. I have so much
benefited that I recommended it to my
friends.”
NOTE! Specialists’ Fees: Advice & Medicine, £1 only
These are but a few instances. We have cured numberless men from
fearful maladies, and from such grave diseases as DYSPEPSIA,
INDIGESTION, GOUT, NEURALGIA, SCIATICA, BLOOD COMPLAINTS,
BLADDER and LIVER TROUBLES. We have thousands of testimonials to this
effect. Our Electric “IN VIGOR ATOR,” when worn nightly round the waist for a
few hours, saturates the vital nerve centres with a healthy natural energy. LACK
OF NERVE FORCE is at the root of the above diseases. Electricity restores
nerve-power, and the current, assisted by strong reconstructive remedies, soon effects
a radical cure. Only in a few instances has it been proved that the electric current
administered individually has benefited the patient, and where such benefit has been
proved, the nerve-system was but slightly impaired. No amount of Electricity alone
will renew an old kidney, or create the necessary tissue essential to perfect
health.
REMEMBER ! —We do not ask any exorbitant fee. Our Electric
“ INVIGORATOR,” guaranteed by Sydney electricians, constructed on
scientific principles,
IS SOLD FOR ONE POUND ONLY.
We allow £8 in return for our £lO Electric “ INVIGORATOR ” Belt, which contains
2oz. 18ct. gold. Duty on all Belts is paid throughout the States. There is no
Functional Nerve, Stomach, or Kidney Disease which this treatment will not
alleviate and cure. We call attention to the fact that our “ INVIGORATOR ”
Belts are locally manufactured, and bear the highest awards from such high
electrical authorities as Mr. A. C. Webb, M.1.E.E., late President Institute of
Electrical Engineers, Sydney, and Mr. Albert Libby, whose certificate may here
be read :
Great Works.
Our Great Medical Work, “CLINICAL EXPERIENCES,” 150
Medical Plates, 550 pages instructive letterpress on General Diseases,
a compilation from the pens of the Medical Staff of the Institute,
will be posted free on application for ONE SHILLING IN STAMPS,
A Genuine Health Adviser and Family Guide. A chapter of 30
pages on Electricity fully explains how so many wonderful cures
are made by its use. Chapters on Plague, Fevers, Sunstroke,
Snake-bite, Poisobs and Antidotes, Treatment of Invalids, &c.,
make it invaluable to country homes. ONE SHILLING is the only
charge.
Diplomas.
When under treatment you are under the care of the Physician-
in-Chief to the Institute, Dr. Richard Wallace, M.D., L.R.C.P., E.,
L.F.P.S., E., L.M., who is registered by various Medical Boards of
Australia, England and America. He is a Specialist in NERVE and
BLOOD DISEASES of international reputation and unquestionable
skill. Sir Dominic Corrigan, Baronet, Physician to the late Queen,
eulogises him thus . . . “I entertain a high opinion of Dr. Wallace
in respect to his professional qualifications.’'
ME. ALBERT LIBBY, representing Allis Chambers Co., the
largest electrical firm in America, who supervised with others the
formation of the present great electric car system in Sydney, after
testing our “ INVIGORATOR” Belt says :
“I have made several tests of your Electric ‘Belt,’
and find it gives a steady current of good strength.
Erom other Belts I have not obtained the same results.
You have one of the most perfect Electric ‘ Belts’ on the
market to-day.
(Signed) "ALBERT N. LIBBY.”
Letters are treated with Professional Care, and replied to punctually. Medicines are forwarded to all parts of Australia, packed secure from breakage in transit.
FREEMAN & WALLACE
ELECTRO-MEDICAL » NO
SURGICAL INSTITUTE
ELIZABETH and BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
HOWARD FREEMAN, Director.
Dr. RICHARD WAL'-ACE, M.D., L.R.C.P., E., L.F.P.S., E., L.M , Physician-in-Chie
Medicines packed Free From Observation and sent to all parts oF Australia.
Letters treated with Professional Secrecy and promptly attended to.


Russia still continues the system—common
to medseval Europe but abolished now in all truly
civilised countries — of allowing religious persons
—priests and monks of the Greek church — exemp-
tion from the general law; they are punishable
only by their spiritual heads. The natural result
is that the criminal classes flock to the monasteries,
where they can pursue, without any real check, a
life of vicious indulgence. Such incidents as that
reported by cable the other day (of two young
English girls being kidnapped and taken to a
monastery to be subjected to outrage) are com-
mon enough in all but the nationality of the
victims, which has brought this particular case
under the notice of the world.
Canon Scott - Holland thus speaks of
“Merrie England”: “A country-side withering
into waste and desolation as if suddenly struck
with some blight; an increasing residuum of the
unemployable in the morass which is forming in
great cities; a population developing in over-
crowded streets and houses, anaemic, stunted, cut
off from the winds of nature and all visible mani-
festation of the workings of God —this is the
problem which confronts us. Nothing but some
great misfortune, the shock of unsuccessful war, or
a vast trade depression with starvation and misery,
will ever shake us from the kind of enchanted
sleeping walk in which we are at present en-
gaged.”
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle . *
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold city or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the seourlty of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New Zealand
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per
cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fne.
Directors—' Thomas Littlejohn, Esq’., Chairman; The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.0., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin Short
Esq. ; Senator J. T. Walker; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.O. ; F. E. Winchcombe, Esq., M.p!
General Manasrer and Actuary— Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
earns
9,
Cure
THE FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs ” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
uid a Complete Cure is certain.
IBEXATATFiJiI OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULIL
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
DURED BY ONE BOTTLE OE HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
HIE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
«■ Orange, N.S.W.
•Mr. Hearne. —
“ Bear Sir,—l enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
tf London, England, from which you will glean that
jour medicine has been a perfect God-send to a martyr to
folds and bronchial asthma. Ido not wish any names to
>e mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
'ort.ion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
and. You can see for yourself what an immense success
t was.—Yours faithfully,
Extract from letter alluded to above :
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Sronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
irrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
nuch interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
iff the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
roin a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
upplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS’ TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“Dergholm, Victoria.
“Dear Sir, —l wish to add my testimony to the won-
lerful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
nonths, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
dvice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
•ours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
Irst dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
m a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
nay depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
tonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“ Yours faithfully,
“JAMES ASTBURY.”
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
learne’s Bronchitis Cure, and w'e certify that it was per-
eetly and rapidlv successful under circumstances w hich
ndoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
he Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
fty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS-
*'I used yonr Bronchitis Cure for three of my fatuity, and it cured each of them in from one to three
doses.—P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.”
9
"Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick, i only gave him four doses, and have some of
the medicine yet; but I am sending for another bottle in case I should want it. —D. M'DONALD, Trinkey, via
Quirindi, N.S.W.”
O
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine. —A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney.”
9
* My wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and I am glad to inform you that your Brochitis Cure has done us
both a wonderful deal of good, it having quickly cured us both. —R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford,
Victoria.”
9
"I have used on" h"! 1 ’" of yonr Bronchitis Bure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me.—(Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria.”
©
“ I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria.*
©
" I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone.—J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W.”
•
“My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses.—C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers,
Queen-street, Melbourne.”
©
“ I lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miraculous.—F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.”
“Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria."
“Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.—(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.”
•
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once.—
G. SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” •
“Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle.—W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria.”
“I have tried lots of medicine, but vours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to everybody.—S.
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” •
“ I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine,
hut I can truly say that I am astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of my brief trial. —JOHN C.
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.”
•
“ Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
me any good ; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well.—H. HOOD,
Brooklands, Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.”
e
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.”
e
“ Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from you have Dulled
me through a lontr and dangerous illness.—HENßY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria.”
•
“The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects.—OHAS. WHYBROW Enoch’s
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.”
Gratitude and Appreciation
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
“ The Scientific Australian Office,
“ 169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
" Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during- the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“ This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom-
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ac-
countant, Oollins-street, and the effect that it had was so
marked that he has ever since been continually recom-
mending it to others.
“ VVe are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Ilearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO."
Queensland Testimony-
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
“ 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send us 38
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose our
cheque to cover amount of order.
“ We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
“We are, faithfully yours,
* THOMASON, CHATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemists."
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir, —Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“ I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUARRILL,
“Editor Geelong Advertiser.”
“Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.”—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
branch depot office i No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
THE
SMELTING & REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
Works: DAPTO, LAKE ILLAWARRA (56 Miles from Sydney). 1901, Limited.
Highest Price paid for Gold, Silver, Lead, and Copper Ores,
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay. Cyanide, SlagS, and Je Weller S* Sweep,_gtC.
For all Information regarding Rates, apply to f.Ue Manager, Head Office, Dafto;
or, A. E. RUDDER & CO., 40 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Forwarding Agents.
BENGER’S FOOD is
not only highly nutritive,
but is most easily digested
and is so delicious that it
is enjoyed by Infants, In-
valids, Convalescents and
the aged.
I
£
The London Medical Record
says : —“ It is retained when all
other foods are rejected.”
The British Medical Journal
says:—“ Benger’s Food has by
its excellence established a
reputation of its own.”
Benger’s Food is sold in tins
by Chemists, etc., everywhere.


THE PIANOLA
m
$ A
0 <S> £>
A £>
2- <1
&
f
0 o
d 3 <A)
<e> *>
Will
play
any
Piano
and
any
kind
of
Music.
We are mailing free, to anyone who will ask us,
a booklet called “ Music in the Home.”
It will be of interest to every person who loves
music. It will be of particular interest to the many
thousand owners of pianos whose instruments remain
unused for months at a time, and become practically
nothing more than articles of furniture.
The price of the Pianola is £6O prompt cash, or
£65 on moderate monthly payments.
HENRY M. BIRGE & CO.,
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA.
SYDNEY : 323 George St.
MELBOURNE: 185-187 Collins St.
4 4
HARLENE
The Great Hair
Producer and Restorer.
FOR
THE
THE FINEST DRESSING. SPECIALLY PREPARED AND DELICATELY PERFUMED.
A LUXURY AND A NECESSITY TO EVERY MODERN TOILET.
“ HARLENE ” produces Luxuriant Hair. Prevents it Falling Off and
Turning Grey. Unequalled for Promoting the Growth of the Beard and
Moustache. The World-Renowned Remedy for Baldness. For preserving.
Strengthening, and Rendering the Hair Beautifully Soft; for Removing
Scurf, Dandruff, &c. ; also for Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Colour.
ROYAL TESTIMONY.
“Monsieur Philosophow is commanded
by
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN OF
GREECE
to forward cheque for the six bottles
of ‘ Harlene ’ duly received.”
H.I.H. THE GRAND DUGHESS OF
MECKLENBURG-SCHWERIN
“ Requests large bottle ‘ Harlene ’ for
the Hair sent at once.”
H.R.H. PRINCESS MARIE OF CREECE
writes: “Messrs. Edwards’ Prepara-
tion, ‘Harlene’ for the Hair, has given
entire satisfaction. H.R.H. wishes
six more bottles of ‘ Harlene ’ sent as
soon as possible.”
H.I.H. THE GRAND DUCHESS CEORCE
OF RUSSIA
writes: “ Please send at once six
bottles of ‘ Harlene,’ the same as
formerly sent H.I.H. when still
Princess Marie of Greece.”
I/-, 2/6, and (3 times 2/6 size) 4/6 per Bottle, from Chemists and Stores all over the World
EDWARDS’ “HARLENE” CO.
95 & 93, HIGH HOLBGRN, LONDON-
i C
I
#
W&-.
Mrs. LANGTRY, tfje cfjarming JJctress c
writes: “Previous to my using HARLENE, my hair had become
brittle and was falling off. I have used your prepara-
tion daily for 18 months, and my hair is quite restored.
I cannot recommend Harlene too hiehlv.”
Sailor Bill Gets His Hand Read.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
A palmist came—an’ lots of folk rushed off to
know their fate;
An’ every flat-foot Biddy got a squatter for a
mate. |
“I’ll have a hand,” thinks I, “in this;” and goes
and states me case :
“You’ll find,” I sez, “me lines not cast in any
pleasant place;
I’ve lost me friends—l’ve lost me hope, me happi-
ness an’ ease:
What have I got to part with next?” She sez,
“Five shill in’s, please.”
So I squares her with five bob, and she gets upon
the job,
An’ grabs me ’and —the one that got the anchor
on the wrist.
Wrist —on the wrist —yes, she gets me by the
fist;
She reads it up —she reads it down —she reads it
on the twist;
She reads it fore and aft, an’ she sez, “It’s done
some graft; ”
An’ she looks at every line and lump from finger-
tip to wrist.
Then she sez : “ From indications that I see it’s
very plain
That you’ve been a hardy sailor, and you’ve
ploughed the raging main.
An’ some harrowing experiences you’ve often had
ashore. ”
(“I’ve been had for all me gilt,” I sez, “some
twenty times, or more.”)
“You come from famous London town —you
haven’t any chicks.”
“Excuse me, mum, but in me time, I’ve been
accused of six.”
“You’re in poverty to-day. For you’ve chucked
your chance away.
You spend your money foolishly.” “By Jove,”
I sez, “ I do.
Do—yes, I do ; every bloomin’ cheque I blue.
I liquor up the lads around; I shout for Lord
knows who.
An’ I’m quick to help him if a blessed bloke is
stiff;
But when I let him chew my lug—it always
proves a ‘ do. ’ ”
Sez she: “You’re kind an’ honest—keen and
candid—hard to drive ;
You’ll love the booze —you’ll love the girls as long
as you’re alive;
You’d fight the great Fitzsimmons—for it’s all the
same to you.”
"Well, now,” I sez, “it’s strange, but every
word of that is true.”
“I have me trances, too,” she sez, “an’ if you’re
satisfied,
Ten bob will turn your future up an’ let you look
inside.”
Then I planks down half a quid ; an’what d’ye
think she did ?
She sits back in the big arm chair an’ simply shuts
her eyes.
Eyes—shut her eyes, while I looked in blank
surprise;
An’ when she gives a groan, I thought: “ Suppose
the beggar dies.”
An’ then I hears a snore : “ What, ain’t there any
more?
Is this the lot for four half-crowns? Well, dash
my bloomin’ eyes ! ”
Then she carried on in such a style I really
thought her sick;
Her nose a-twitching all the while, like a monkey
on a stick.
She looked so very comical I really thought I
grinned—
“ Is it rheumatiz,” I sez, “ brought on by this ’ere
cold south wind ? ”
But she never sez a blessed word—just lies there
straight and stiff.
I lights a match beneath her nose—but she didn’t
even sniff.
So off I starts for aid; when she sez “Don’t be
afraid;
It’s me sperrit overcomes the flesh —me sperrit’s
far too strong.”
“Strong?” sez I. “Strong? Have you patronised
it long ? ”
“But you don’t understand,” she sez; “you’ve
got me meanin’ wrong.
It’s me soul, so pure and bright, that soars clean
out of sight,
And sails amongst the things unseen.” “Be
Jove,” I says, “ that’s strong.”
“ Now,” she sez, “ I’ve had me vision an’ it’s very
clear to me
That a fortune’s coming to you—an’ ’twill come
across the sea.
Then you’ll wed with youth and beauty—though
you’re past your manhood’s prime :
She’ll break your heart with bitter blows—an’
love you all the time.”
“Ah, well,” I sez, “love’s bitter-sweet, and often
love’s unkind;
An’ if an old Plan weds a girl, he should be deaf
and blind.
But tell me this,” sez I; “Is it long before I die?
What! Twelve months after marriage ? Then
I’ll never have a bride.
For what use is a bride to a man that’s gone and
died,
So, missus, if you don’t object we’ll let that
wedding slide.
Why, an open grave I’d see betwixt me bride an’
me.
When the line of life has parted, what’s the good
of any bride ?”
N.s.w.
CECIL POOLE.


Should you require a Ring, no matter whether It
be an Engagement, Drees, Wedding, Keeper, or
Signet Ring, this is the place where you can see a
boundless Stock of all the best at reasonable prioes.
Our London House being situated In the heart of
the Diamond Market (Hatton Garden) means low
prioes to us and you on Diamond Rings.
18c. Gold Keepers, 21s,
255, 30s, 40s, 45a.
RINGS OF BEAUTY
Diamond Half-Hoop En-
gagement Rings, £5 6s
to £4O.
18c.Gold Weddingßings
21/,26/,30/,36/,40/, 50/.60/
RADIANT OPALS....
Sparkling with red, blue and green flames of color,
ever changing as the wearer moves about, fascina*
ting Stones truly. We have a range of patterns
that, will delight you. Prices Moderate Always.
No. 11.—9 c. Gold, £1 6s.
No. 8.—15 c. Gold, £2 10s
No. 2.—16 c. Gold, £2 10s.
No. 14.—Lily of the
Valley, £5 15s.
No. 6.—15 c. Gold, £2 12a 6d.
No. 1.—15 c. Gold, £1 12a 6d.
No. 10.—9 c. Gold, 14a 6d.
No. 6.—16 c. Gold, £1 17s 6d.
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE .
POST FREE. .
8
Captivating Styles
in BROOCHES . .
Fashioned daintily and set with the choices*
of Pearls in strong settings of 15ct. Gold.
The designs are such as you won’t see
elsewhere, and we think you will admit
they are very dainty.—
No. F 4543. —£4 10s.
No. F 4851. —£3 15s.
No. F 593. —£5 10s.
No. F 4541. —£3 15s.
No. F 2253. —£2 153
No. 544.—£2 7s 6d.
No. F 4545. —£4 15s.
No. E9414,—£2.
No. F4551.— £3 15b.
No. F4842.—£2 17s 6d
9c. Gold Swallow, Harp or Crescent Centre
10s 6d.
Illustrated Catalogue
Post Free*
No. F1945.—£2 2s.
4 J
No. 555.—£4 4s.
Sii.*
y&s
No. F4544.—£5 ss.
T
HERE ARE SEVERAL ♦ ♦ . ♦
TALKING MACHINES
. . BUT THERE IS ONLY ONE . .
CUMONIIE
WHICH IS MADE BY
The Gramophone In Typewriter [td.
This is a “JUNIOR fIONARCH ” GRAMOPHONE,
Price £6 10s., and it is unsurpassed by any
Talking Machine at any Price.
Other Styles, £3 to £l4 10s.
Bead what ADELINA PATTI says
To The Gramophone Co.,
City Road, London.
Gentlemen,
Craig-Y-Nos Castle,
Ystradgynlais, R. S.O
Breconshire,
South Wales
I have much pleasure in stating that I have heard your
Monarch Gramophone, and that I consider it a very remarkable instru-
ment of its kind, and quite the most perfect that I have ever heard.
It reproduces the human voice to such a fine point, that in listening
to the records of Caruso, Plancon, etc., it seemed to me as if those
artists were actually singing in my saloons. I have never heard
anything to equal it.
Australian Agencies—VlCTOßlA: A. P. Sykes, 227 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Represented all over
World.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA : Messrs. S. B. Hunt & Co., 94 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
WESTRALIA: Messrs. Nicholson & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA: Messrs. Wertheimer, Benjamin, & Anderson, 71 Collins Street, Hobart.
QUEENSLAND: Messrs. Heindorff Bros., 210 Queen Street, Brisbane.
WHOLESALE DEPOT FOR AUSTRALASIA—
AGENTS IN EVERY TOWN.
The Gramophone and Typewriter Ltd., 163 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.


W
V
mr
\i
r rs
S
f
NATURES
PLEASANT
laxative:
m
i
OF
KIDNEYS, LIVER ANO BOWELS.
THE ORIGINAL
AND
GENUINE;
M*
K
of
u
California Syrup of Figs is the one True Natural Laxative. It acts
gently, pleasantly and beneficially on the Kidneys, Liver, and Bowels,
and permanently overcomes Habitual Constipation.
Words of Advice:
Ask for CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS, and see that
the package bears the welLknown Name and Trade Mark
of the California Fig Syrup Co., the Manufacturers of the
only Original and Genuine. Imitations are numerous, but
as you value your health you cannot risk taking a substi'
tute. California Syrup of Figs is sold in Australia in two
sizes at 1/3 and 1/11. Worthless substitutes are often
offered at less as an inducement.
Of all Chemists and Stores.
California Fig Syrup Company, 32 Snow Hill, London, E.C.
Australia : 7 Barrack Street, Sydney.
3
\3L
&
W\'\
V///,
iV^.
i
a
>
$
and so does
A Bush School.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It has often been remarked that the backblock
settler, when driven to seek a living in other
fields, can take up his rolled blanket and billy,
and start straight off on the pad, as if to the
nature born. Yet there is nothing to wonder at.
He began his training for the wallaby when he
started going to school; and, for anyone destined
in after life to follow the precarious existence of
the swagmau, there is no better institution than
the far-off, lone little building that stands like a
signal-box on Gum Ridge, or in the bend of
Wattle Creek. It is anything from two to six
miles from M‘Gee’s selection or Duggan’s farm ;
and Bill and Jim, with the tucker-bag containing
their lunch, and their boots—if they have any—
slung over their shoulders, their pants rolled up to
their thighs to escape the wet grass, start off at
daylight on a winter’s morning, and even then, at
times, have to sprint to get there before “school
goes in.” Their track is a winding streak, which
their own hardened feet have trodden through the
long grass, over hills and over gullies, round
swamps and through scrubs. In the rainy seasons
they wade through miles of mud and water, and
the grass-shoots prick like needles; in dry times
the caked black soil is hard and rough as a cobble-
bed.
Far on their way, they see the sun rise redly
above the fog-banks, and know if they are late or
early by certain trees, or particular points on the
road; they compare his progress thence with their
own, telling the time to a minute. They discuss
the intricate and skilfully-woven webs of bush
spiders, glistening from a thousand grass-spires,
examining the spiders’ work and methods; they
hunt for birds and eggs, climb after ’possums and
bears, criticise butterflies and grasshoppers;
everything living, whether bird, animal, insect or
plant, comes under the keen scrutiny of inquisitive
eyes. That track is part of the bush school.
In summer-time their load is supplemented with
a water-bag ; for as often as not there is no tank
or other means of obtaining water at school. The
shaded part of the establishment would remind
one of a soft-drinks shanty, or a curiosity-shop.
Thirty or forty bottles, of all sizes, shapes and
colors, stand in a row on the ground, while twenty
dinner-bags—covered with flies —hang on nails
above them. The scholars eat their lunch under
trees, a hunk of bread and beef in one hand and
the bottle in the other.
In the afternoon, during the short days, the
bush scholar has sometimes to run part of the way
to get home in time to chase the cows round the
paddock, to cut weed for the pigs, and put the
ducks in. After tea he husks the corn till 11
o’clock. On Saturday he carries water and wood,
and on Sunday he has a holiday 7 —following dad
round the swamps, carrying the game and
ammunition-bag- Poor Bill is always carrying
something.
Some of the youngsters, who live beyond walk-
ing distance, ride to school on horseback. Two
and three straddle the one moke, boys and girls
alike, and they bump along like a package on a
trotting camel. On the way home they give their
mates a lift, and the poor old pony is covered from
tail to neck. Sometimes the moke remonstrates,
and kicking up vigorously, deposits his load of
assorted boy and girl in a huddled heap on the
roadside. I knew a boy who, one evening, took
several of his mates on board, and then sent his
mount at a log to show them how he could ride.
Two deserted backwards at the take-off, and the
others all landed on top of boy Green on the other
side. The old horse kicked up again with delight,
and galloped home. ■ Green never attempted to
show off after that.
Those not compelled to hurry from school duties
to home duties have gay times on the road. It is
the time that little differences are settled at the
turn-off tracks, when coats are “ peeled,” and fists
perform unscientifically under the gum trees. All
manner of games are played on the way, from
“tippeny-catcher” to “kiss-in-the ring” (girl
kissing girl not allowed); wild flowersare gathered,
and forest yams dug up with sticks ; they probe
the hollow logs for native cats, and bathe in the
lagoon ; there is racing and hunting on foot and
kangarooing and dingo chasing on horseback. It
is all “experience,” all part of the bush school —
the main part, probably ; many of the scholars
can subtract a bandicoot from a log with greater
ease than they can bring pounds of corn to
bushels.
It was at Phegan’s Academy that I learnt to
make pot-hooks and hangers. It was a private
institution, maintained by several farmers, whose
corn-weights Phegan had to reckon up every
threshing and divide into bushels, and make the
bushels into £ s.d. ; and woe be to Phegan if he
erred to the extent of a “tray-bit.” The school fee
was a shilling a week, mostly paid in corn,
potatoes, pumpkins, eggs, and farm sundries;
und the class-room was in a barn between the
corn-straddles. There was probably more whack-
ing done there than in any other school in crea-
tion. The scholars couldn’t sit still for weevils
and ants; and when the farmer was threshing or
husking, Phegan, who was a bit deaf, couldn’t
hear the class reading, and the class couldn’t hear
Phegan dictating. Then the fowls and pigs
would come in, and now and again the cart-horse
made a tour of inspection. Occasionally the
brindle cow and the spotted steer offended, and
the class scrambled up on to the corn. It was the
duty of Bolem, the black boy, to hunt out all
wandering stock ; but Bolem wasn’t always equal
to the occasion, so the dog had to be sooled on.
When the intruders were driven out, the big boys
re-adjusted the furniture, gathered up the ink-
pots and pieces of slate—and we got on with the
pot-hangers.
Phegan had other troubles to contend with.
Some of the scholars were big enough to be mar-
ried, and they resented Phegan’s idea, of .moral
suasion by occasionally “plugging him in the
eye.” Phegan’s uninjured optic would then scin-
tillate on the smallest boy in the class, and that
boy daren’t scratch or wriggle for a week, though
a horde of weevils were torturing him. I was
one of the small boys, though old enough to
emulate the big boys in kissing the girls (I
always loved girls—got sentimental at a very
tender age); but it was over the letter R that I
got my first drubbing.
“ Say ar-r-r-ah,” said Phegan, one day.
“Ar-r-r-ah,” said I, imitating as nearly as I
could the peculiar quaver of Phegan.
“Don’t say —“ar-r-r-ah ! ” cried he. "oay
ar-r-r-ah!”
That beat me completely. I could hear no differ-
ence between one ar-r-r-ah and another ar-r-r-ah.
Still, 1 had another go at it, giving it a more
determined quiver—“ Ar-r-r-ah!” "'The sound
might have been compounded of tne burr of a
distant bull and the whirr of a crosscut saw.
Phegan turned purple. “Not ar-r-r-ah, blast
ve ! Say ar-r-r-ah ! ”
He meant me to give it the English pronunci-
ation, and probably had no idea that he himself
was rolling it. I didn’t “tumble” even then. I
screwed myself up, and shaking my head to giva
it the supposed necessary amount of quiver, I
rolled out ar-r-r-r-r-r-ah till I was red in the face.
Then I got it hot—on hands, arms, back and
shoulders.
“By me sowl, I’ll learun ye to spake English,
yer chatterin’ gorilla,” he cried as he flung me
back on the seat. “Now say ar-r-r-r-ah ! ”
A boy behind me whispered “Ar.” In an in-
stant I saw where the mistake was, and jumped
to my feet. “Ar! ’’ I almost shrieked.
“Arrah!” said Phegan, “I thought I could
knock it into ye, be gob ! ”
Phegan was a stern disciplinarian, and the
punishment meted out to delinquents at times
took a form which induces me to believe he must
have heard of Mr. Wackford Squeers. “You
sthop in, Charlie Pickles,” he would say, “an’
rub the shoots off av four dishes o’ spuds. They’re
in the skillion. That will learn ye ter count up
yer sums maybe.” Charlie would measure off four
dishes of spuds, and pick the shoots off the top of
the heap. “Phil Nolan,”said Phegan, addressing
another boy, “yer copy-book’s absolutely filthy.
Sthop in an’ husk 200 cobs o’ corn, ye dirty hog.”
One day as school was going out Mrs. Phegan
entered with a complaint that the water-butt was
empty. “ Halt! ” cried Phegan instantly. He
went along the line till he came to a short, chubby
lump of a youth with red hair and brown legs.
“I cot ye copyin’ terday, Jack Thompson. It
escaped me mimory till this minute,” said Phegan
sententiously. “Copyin’ is stealin’, Thompson,
an’ stealin’ is wan av the black sins. Sin must
be punished ter give honesty a chance av a sthand.
So go you now with Mrs. Phegan an’ carry 10
buckets av water from the river before ye ate yer
dinner. Left, right, march ! . . Halt ! . . Right-
about-face ! . . Sthand at ease ! . . Dismiss !
an’ (sotto voce) to the divil wid ye ! ”
About once a month Phegan had a spree, and
on the Monday following it was usual to find him
very ill. He would give us our lessons, and
then go to sleep. One day Reardon, the
senior pupil, got the clothes-line and leg-roped
him to a post. Threshing had been going on the
previous week, and there was a heap of corn-flour,
sieved out of weevily corn, in the skillion. We
were smothering one another with this when
Phegan woke. With a snort he scrambled to his
feet, and grasping a hoe-handle, sprang at an
inoffensive little boy who was looking on. The
leash wasn’t long enough, however ; and Phegan
landed on his stomach with a tremendous grunt.
For a moment he lay there, spread out like a frog
on a hot shovel. Then he upended very slowly,
glaring at us with murder in his bleared eyes.
“Fall in!” he roared. We fell in. “Atten-
tion!” We attentioned. “Now then, ye bog-
throtters ; spake the truth, mind ye, or be the
howly shmoke, I’ll be the death av wan av ye !
Is it a dirty cow ye take me for?” He shook his
tethered leg. “Who leg-roped me?” His eyes
wandered along the lines, while he brandished the
hoe-handle.
Silent and rigid stood the line, and Phegan spat
out some of the dust he had gathered up.
“Spake,” he roared, “or be the Power above
me, I’ll knock ye down, the whole row av ye ! ”
The hoe-handle was lifted threateningly. “ D’yer
hear? Who leg-roped me ? ”
Reardon’s hand suddenly shot up. W e antici-
pated a fight.
“Please, sir, it was Bolem ! ”
The instant the name was uttered the black boy
broke from the ranks and took to his heels.
“ Afther him, all av ye ! ” roared Phegan, making
a dart forward himself; but the rope jerked him
back, and the school floor left an abrasion on his
nose. “Catch him, ye divila !” he gasped, “or
I’ll murder ye.”
We spent the remainder of the school-time
chasing Bolem through the corn and sampling
melons. Bolem escaped.
Phegan didn’t reign long after that. He drank
more than ever, and got the sack. Then they
installed an eccentric old bachelor named Bowker.
He wasn’t a bad sort, and would light his pipe,
and sit in front of us for hours spinning yarns.
He taught us a lot about tramps and squatters
and the way to catch fish, but he couldn’t reckon
up corn. We got along very well with him till
the farmers heard of a little peculiarity he had of
making love to the big girls. They called on him
one day, and the subsequent proceedings were so
sultry that Bowker jumped into the river and
swam for new fields.
He hasn’t come back for his things yet.
EDWARD S. SORENSON.
“L.W.”: Sydney Daily Telegraph is
breaking out in strange places : First of all it
went straight out for the Old Age Pensioners
then it fell tooth and nail on the Professional
Bruiser; and now it has spread itself on the
Professional Beggar in such a manner as to cause
the individual who takes his opinions ready made
from the newspapers to look upon the existence of
misery in the city as an impossibility, and every
destitute person who wails for assistance as an
ingenious impostor who is engaged in a lucrative
business. This writer has heard much of the
blind mendicant who has bought houses and
property out of the proceeds of playing a musical
box in the street; and the street singer who wails
dolorously in the hot dusty gutter by day and
lives in Oriental luxury in Woolloomooloo by
night is a well known myth. Then there is the
man who calls round at offices trying to sell trans
parent tape for sticking torn pages together and
talks sympathetically of his little ones, and who is
understood to be a gay individual with a harem
of six, all maintained out of his earnings in the
sympathy business. The wealthy blind musician
I knew personally, and the family lived in squalid
misery. The street-singer I accosted one night
and got her to give me her address for investiga-
tion purposes, and the poor creature was very
badly fixed, indeed. The transparent tape man
is an elusive individual, and as he is always
changing in height, size and complexion I have
come to the conclusion that he’s a transitory
person who takes to it while out of work. Any-
how, from careful personal investigation, this
writer is absolutely sure there is no fortune in
professional mendicancy in this country. There
was one long individual, with a skull cap and a
pointed beard, who used to whine round the streets
in a state of hideous uncleanliness, and stand to
windward of his intended victim, and keep there
till bought off. I think he’s in gaol now—any-
how I haven’t smelt him round any of the corners
for a month or two.


r*.
4<k
-A
“ Kidney Trouble Affects the Back First.”
ACHING BACKS.
When the hack aches—when it is lame or weak —when it is easily tired—the
Kidneys are giving you plain warning—and it is a serious warning, for kidney disease
is the most dangerous of all diseases.
But it is NOT the back which aches, it is the Kidneys aching beneath, and
backache is their cry for help.
loan’s Backache Kidney Fills
Used by the Quakers for 70 years.
Cure all Kidney 11ls —cure urinary trouble—and all dangerous disorders of the
Kidneys and the Bladder.
They act on the Kidneys and Bladder only.
They do that one thing only and they do that one thing well.
Bead the testimony of your neighbors.
ULTIMO PROOF.
Mr. W. Carroll, an ex-railway guard, 749 Harris-street,
Ultimo, says;—“l strained myself in pushing some
heavy trucks, and soon noticed the effects in the small of
my back. For three solid months I was unable to do any
work. I was laid up. I had a very lame back and a
dull pain through the loins and kidneys, and the secre-
tions became unnatural and irregular. My physician
advised Turkish baths. I took a course and received
some small benefit, but not enough to enable me to work
properly. I procured some of Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills at Newman’s Pharmacy in King-street, and used
them. I obtained wonderful relief, so much so that lam
now able to. do heavy work as of old in a thorough
manner. I might mention that it is a year ago since I
took any of these pills, and I have not been troubled with
my back or kidneys since, which firmly convinces me
that Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are a true kidney
remedy, and I never fail to recommend them among my
friends.
WATSON’S BAY PROOF,
Mr. Jas. Fotheringham, Watson’s Bay, late 6th Im-
perial Bushmen, writes: “Whilst in South Africa with
the 6th Imperial Bushmen, through constant exposure to
all sorts of weather, sleeping in wet clothes, &c., I got a
very severe attack of lumbago. I was so bad that I could
not get up off the ground—let alone mount my horse.
Two military doctors had ago at me. One blistered my
back until all the skin was off, and the other gave me
medicine ; but neither of them did me any good. For-
tunately, a comrade came along with a box of Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills, and before I had finished the
box I was as right as ever I was in my life. Since then,
I always keep a box of the pills handy, in case of the
lumbago returning, but, so far, I am glad to say, I have
had no necessity to take them. You may make what-
ever use you like of this, as I consider Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills a boon to humanity.”
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are for Sale by all Chemists and Stores at 2s. 9d. per box (six
boxes, 15s. 3d.), or will be posted on receipt of price by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-st., Sydney.
BUT BE SURE THEY ARE DUAN’S.
“ Don't be discouraged. They cure our neighbors;
they will cure you.”
Autumn.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
O sweet, sad season, why should all your wonder
bring
The meditative stillness of your mellowed eves,
Only a vain suggestion of the vanished Spring,
Like a pale ghost that mars and mocks the
ripened sheaves
And lifts a loud lament amid the falling leaves ?
O thou for whom each leaf an altar burns,
Thou dark divinity of southern gypsies bred,
O wherefore is it that my fancy ever turns,
As to a time when she no longer shall be dead,
Toward thy blue-eyed, brown-haired sister sylph
instead ?
O dear, dead season, that preparest earth for Pan,
The god who seeks for summer-service love with
fear,
By what device of magic, lightening Autumn’s
ban
Do I again the gay or pensive piping hear
Attuned to Strephon’s mood, yet ever sweet and
clear ?
Have not the trees put on their raiment of red
gold
Matching the Sibylline mood of the mist-veiled
skies?
Does not the watcher by the wine-press oft be-
hold,
With afternoon’s mild sun-shafts falling on his
eyes,
The blue smoke from a thousand smouldering fires
arise ?
In this fair, sun-flushed valley by the fairer sea
The keen breeze ever like an eager clarion blows,
The wakened Ocean in uncoiled immensity
Along the shrinking shore-line like a serpent goes,
And backward proudly his coiled crest of salt
foam throws.
All the long afternoon the land low laughed, with
love
At large caresses of the sea by beach and bay,
Beneath the blue sky brooding like a mighty
dove;
The waters sang a frWilingslied of joy all day,
Woven of billow-crash and cadences of spray.
Yet purple vales, dream-dusked and twilight-
charmed, attend
The rising of the harvest-moon, and seem
Splashed with the splendor of the vintage’s rich
end,
And sunlit emerald and turquoise gleam
Turn to the smouldering opal of an Autumn
dream.
For this is Austral Autumn with her mask of
Spring
By day, and heart of Summer in the slumbrous
eves,
Whose morning laughter holds an undertone of
tears —
Season that like a fallen empress proudly grieves,
Shrouded in darling dreams dethroned, and rebel
fears,
Starlike in gloom where none finds heart to sing,
Dull-burning through the veils of evening.
N.S.W.
GEO. C. WHITNEY.
The Strad.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was a narrow Sydney street, in a poor and not
necessarily respectable neighborhood. The Poet
dwelt in that street, not because he preferred
squalor and noise to wide avenues and engardened
mansions, but for the cogent reason that the rents
there were much cheaper. It had been a busy
morning with the Poet, busy because of a
bailiff whose dark, shadowy image flashed up con-
tinually in his mental cinemetograph and ob-
scured the painted pictures of his Muse. Wearily
the Poet leaned back in his ricketty chair. Just
then a barrel-organ broke into uncouth harmony
below his window and raucously stilled the imme-
diate uproar of the street. It was ridiculous, but
the rasping strains of the hurdy-gurdy threw the
man of song into a reverie. It seemed to him that
he was sitting, as he sat one day, by the side of a
Polish gipsy, whose sole possession, save the rags
that fluttered between him and nakedness, was a
genuine Strad.—his wife, children, home and
country, from which not even the treasures of a
Rajah could persuade him to part. From this
fountain of music the gipsy drew constant streams
of harmonies.
All human emotions, all earthly passions, sor-
rows and pleasures were contained in the belly of
this wonderful Strad.; in its neck it carried the
choruses of the celestial choirs; and below the
bridge were concentrated the tragic groans of the
damned.
When the musician was in waggish humor he
would let loose Earth, Heaven and Hell together,
and then, to those who listened, the laughter and
sobs of mortals, the hosannas of angels and the
shrieks of devils pained, pleasured and affrighted
at the same moment. Without doubt, some
wizard of the Past had imprisoned a Poet’s
soul in the Strad. The necromancer was dead,
but the spell endured for ever.
One day the Polish gipsy played upon the soul
of the Poet in the Strad a music story of the
gipsy life to the courtesy Poet in the flesh.
John Keats wrote in flowers; the Strad. spoke
in melodies. In such melodies the musician crys-
tallised the history of the world’s wanderers, and
for the first time the Poet understood the great
instinct of unrest, and knew why Bohemia is the
happiest country of them all.
As the strains of the magical violin rose and
fell he saw Macedonian minstrels marching ahead
of Alexander’s army, chanting to a golden lyre
praises of the beauties of Babylon and the plunder
of the Pharaohs. He heard laurelled bards in-
toning the prowess of Roman arms beside the
legions’ camp fires. He saw the moon glinting
on the lance heads of wandering medieval knights
whose horses’ hoofs kept time to valiant rounde-
lays carolled by amorous minnesingers. He heard
the guitars of Arabian warriors pleading beneath
the miradors of Moorish maidens. He heard the
rovers roaring down the Spanish Main, the
chanteys of East India sailorman bringing up the
company’s anchors, the shouts of diggers, the
laugh of cow-boys, the calls of Australian stock-
men, the cries of African hunters; and through
this queer medley rang all the while the words of
a song. . . . unwritten words of strange, familiar
meaning, but to hold which in the hollow of his
pen the Poet would have foregone the world.
As the tones of the Strad' deepened and more
familiar fell the tune he saw the Southern Cross
silvered through darkened pines; heard the she-
oaks telling wild stories to a great southern moon ;
saw long reeds by far lagoons bowing to the sun
as it climbed over rugged hills ; caught an echo of
surf on Eastern beaches, and from plain, hill,
gully and riverside saw a thousand beckoning
arms and heard a thousand voices calling.
The strains of the Strad. softened.
The musician no longer played upon its strings,
but upon the heart strings of the imprisoned
Poet, even as playeth the angel Israfel in Para-
dise.
As he hearkened, the Poet understood why
Anthony perished for Cleopatra, why Paris lost
all to gain Helen, and why there are only two
things in the world and neither one of them is
new.
The long-drawn notes were caresses, the short
ones kisses.
The love-songs of all the world were being sung
by a chorus of women’s voices, and although each
song was in a different tongue, the Poet readily
understood them all. Keeping time to the
melodies were a score of sweet instruimncs,
Spanish guitars, lutes, banjos, harps, mandolins,
Japanese cymbals. Through a rosy haze of
vision, Nautch girls in Indian gauzes swayed volup-
tuously ; island women, with wild, natural move-
ments of rounded brown limbs, danced their
inviting native dances; the sing-song girls of the
further East chanted monotonously; black eyes
flashed electric fires from under black lashes ; blue
eyes melted in amorous tears ; brown eyes yearned
trustfully; eyes of grey confessed boldly their
burning passions; and moon eyes stared languidly,
disdainfully, but in soft complaisance withal.
As gently as the butterfly hovers over the
flower, so hovered the musician’s bow over the
strings of his enchanted instrument. Babbling
fountains began to dripple down the hillsides.
Earth laughed and Ocean echoed her. The
nymphs were singing in the streams, and the mer-
maids whispered love-legends in their deep sea
caverns.
The Poet saw his own country —the Lady Aus-
tralia, fertile, glorious—spreading westward in
the sunshine.
He saw her girdled by tropical seas, arcaded by
azure skies. Amethyst and hyacinth, emerald
and topaz, she glittered in her glory.
Bound by purple mountains, crowned by amber
plains ; her hand on empire, and her feet upon
the clouds, Art her sceptre, and Beauty her foot-
stool. He heard the clear voices on the ranges,
the voices of women and men, the Voice of
Nature, the harmony of birds, the eloquence of
flowers ; and his Soul said to him—“ Romance is
not dead. Neither is chivalry forgotten. The
red Dawn still rides in her chariot of roses, and
the Sunset still sleeps on his couch of gold ; the dew
yet glistens, and, after rain, springs the freshness
of the earth ; honey hath not lost its sweetness,
nor wine its flavor. Romance is not dead, but
sleeping. She dreams among the foliage of this
Southern Land. The ways of the older world are
grown narrowed to her feet, but here, in Nature’s
unhorizoned dominions, she reigns Eternal Queen.
The thirsty Spirit of Adventure,” continued the
Voice “which, as old as human longing, is ever
new, doth not drink at street fountains nor halt
upon the trodden ways of men, but in the saddle
and on the sea, on boundless highways; un-
surveyed, by tracks untravelled, by farthest camp-
fires, through forests virgin and plains primeval,
in the open where skies arch nobly, by the un-
polluted source of waters, by the grey sentinel
hills, in the Outer Land, in the Distant Land, in
the Land of Over-There, will ye find her.*’
The dream-music died in smiling promises.
The hurdy-gurdy had shut up with a soul-
destroying screech, like the squeal of a minor
devil suddenly cast on the red hot bars of an upper
octave.
As the Poet was collecting his strayed wits the
Italian proprietor of the machine looked up and
perceived him. Mechanically he took off his hat
and held it out to receive his largesse.
The Poet felt vainly in his pockets for a coin,
and shook his head.
The Italian adjusted the strap of the organ and
moved off, followed by a small juvenile audience
of extreme personal uncleanliness.
And once more arose the sordid noises of the
poor but not necessarily respectable neighborhood.
E. J. BRADY.
An ex-Labor member makes this com-
plaint :
When I sat in Parliament my electorate colleague was
McThousand, the wealthy merchant, who resided in a
mansion at the top of my street. Constituents who
called showed discrimination in approaching us. They
(the constituents) were mostly ’orny-’anded persons.
When they visited me they would leave open my front
gate, ignore the mat, bang at the door, and say—“ Tell
Bill I want to see him.” If Bill (myself) was engaged, or
out, they would mutter, perhaps curse, and walk off,
leaving the gate open, and go and talk about me being
no good, and “ was never there when he was wanted.” A
call at McThousand’s place was a different matter. They
didn’t ask for “ Sam,” though Samuel McThousand was
his full name. They closed the gate, wiped their feet
carefully on the great man’s palatial mat, and when told
he was too busy, said respectfully that they would call
again. Then they left, closing the gate again, and went
and spoke with extra disrespect of “ Bill ” (which was
me).
“F.C.” on a new kind of girl :
Was riding on a Melb. tram-dummy, t’other day, when
the usual smart young Know-all, from Kyabram or
thereabouts, stepped off suddenly, as he hau watched
others do, and promptly struck the blocks with his ear,
thereby acquiring a gravel-rash that he’ll take back to
Rodney with him. He was assisted to the footpath while
the conductor—having, for his bosses’ protection, to get
names of witnesses and make a report—assured him
strenuously he was the worst sort of an idiot and prayed
him to get back to the hush quicker than immediately.
Half-a-mile further on a young woman sitting near me
rose quickly while the tram was negotiating a curve at a
12-mile gait, grasped the upright and swung herself out.
The gripman shouted and jammed his brakes hard on, I
made a grab at her skirts, but missed, and the girl-
stepped easily off and walked away, smiling demurely.
It took ten minutes’ pushing to get the car off the curve,
while an inspector fumed and swore. This official told
me there were, as far as he knew, but two gins in Mel-
bourne who had acquired the knack of gettingoff adummy
at full speed—and he hoped there would never be more.
“ The old hands know them, but the new men foresee a
catastrophe, and either cause one by grabbing the girl
when she’s half off or else upset everything as this man
did. Girls who jump off going trams are a pesky
nuisance.” I advised him to go after the damsel and tell
her so, but he said he thought I could find him something
better to do. So we went and found it.


We All Use It
Keep Medicine on Hand. Don’t Wait till Sickness Comes.
Treat the Disease Early and Cure Promptly. Keep Well.
Mr. Wm. Allen, Police Constable of North Carlton, Victoria, sends a photo-
graph of his family and says:
“For many years we have never been without Ayer’s Sarsaparilla in the
house. When any of us are feeling poorly, just a few doses will make us all
right. My wife says it is a grand medicine for children, especially when they
are growing fast. She finds it of great benefit, herself, when she gets tired
and worn out from overwork. The same
medicine cured me once of a severe
liver complaint, pain through the kid-
neys, and impure blood.”
MS*
e*
m
V
/'I
Mr. Allen should certainly be proud of family. And he shows good
judgment in keeping Ayer's Sarsaparilla always in the house. He knows it
gives bright eyes to the children, makes them have a clear and smooth skin,
brings good color to the cheeks and lips, and gives them the hearty appetite so
necessary to a substantial growth and development.
Don’t make the mistake of experimenting with some other Sarsaparilla.
All other Sarsaparillas are sold because they are said to be like Ayer’s.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
The Greatest Family Medicine the World Has Ever Known
WORTH * GUINEA A
t
CURE
! Bilious and Nervous Disorders,
Constipation, Indigestion, Sick-
Heacfache, Dyspepsia, and all
Stomachic Troubles.
I Arouse Sluggish and Torpid Livers.
II Purify the Blood, Remove Scurvy*
improve the Complexion, Regu-
late the System.
It is surprising how they do it, bat they
do—they get there —there ie no Mistake
about it. They hare a way of going straight
to business that gives satisfaetioa, and
that is the Main thing. If Beeeham’s Pills
did not giro satisfaetoen, no amewnt of
forcing would induee the publie to swallow
them. It is because they hare heea found
to carry oat the requirement* of aa ex-
pectant aad suffering humanity, going
straight as an arrow to the seat ef the mis-
chief, that Beecham’s Pills can el aim such
an enormous sale after a trial of 07 years.
The Sale exceeds 6,000,000 Boxes Annually.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
In Boxes, Price 1/1* (56 Pills) and 2/9 (168 Pills).
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the East
THE BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
M.D., C.M., L.R.C.P.E., 1».R.C.5.E.,
L.F.P.S.G., L.M., etc.,
Registered by the Medical Boards of Great
Britain, Victoria, New South Wales,
etc.,
The Eminent Specialist, whose unparalleled success in the Treatment of Blood and Nerve
Diseases has earned for him a reputation unequalled by any other Specialist in Australia, may be consulted
daily, personally or by letter, at “ELMLEV HOUSE,” 151 El izabeth-st., Sydney. Old and Obsolete
Methods discarded. DR. MARTIN’S latest treatment has proved absolutely effective in all cases of Blood
Disease, Nerve Affections, Paralysis, Loss of Energy, Lung, Heart, Skin, and all
Chronic Diseases of Men and Women. His Consulting Rooms are replete with all the
latest and most scientific improvements in Electric Appliances, etc. Country Patients
treated by Correspondence at their own homes. Advice and Medicine, One
Pound. All Sufferers should write for a copy of Dr. Martin’s Latest Medical Work,
THE ‘ KNOX-MERCER’ TREATMENT IN DISEASE.” This work should find a place in every
household, as it contains a full and explicit account of the Most Wonderful Treatment of the Present
A<je. It has been the means of Curing Thousands who fo lowed out the instructions contained
therein. This Marvellous Treatment Cleanses and Rejuvenates the Whole System, and is the Cheapest
Treatment in Existence, as nothing but the Book is required.
Price, 55.; by post, ss. 6d.
CONSULTING HOURS: 10 to 2 and 7 to 9 Daily.
“ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
COMMENTS
Tenor Lloyd, who sings agreeably without being
in the least marvellous, tells a Telegraph (Sydney) inter-
viewer that usually he smokes a couple of cigars and two
or three pipes daily, and never found tobacco hurt his
voice. R. S. Smythe will go to his grave (next century,
we hope) explaining how it is the other narcotic that tar-
nishes silvery tenors.
Said Prof. Harper, principal of St. Andrew’s
(Presbyterian) College, Sydney, recently “An in-
errant Bible is regarded as non-existent, for it is admitted
by everyone that the science of the Scriptures in no way
stands above the crude science of uninspired men at the
time they were written. Now we are being told that its
history is no more absolutely accurate than its science.
. . . We cannot now settle revelation by quoting texts.
. . . Thought and study and prayer will be needed, and
before the new authority comes to be established as the
old one was, almost all the text-books for Bible teaching
will have to be re-written.” (Make your son a religious
publisher!) But why rewrite? The average believer
merely wants “ authority ”; he is not concerned with
truth. Give him something to lean on—any painted lath
that his hereditary instinct of superstition can take
for iron—and a fico for your truth ! Truth is a nasty,
disturbing thing with sharp edges, and the edges are apt
to cut. “ Believers ” want nice, smooth lies and lullabies,
unctuous verbiage and the Kiss of Peace.
J. A. Andrews, dying slowly of consumption in
a Melb. hospital—with benevolent Anarchy still un-
realised, alas !—hopes to see his little verses collected
and published before the cheerful end. Melb. Tocsin has
the volume in hand—just a little remembrance, a little
token of the Attempt, a little record of a hope that life
was not ail in vain.
Some of Hector Macdonalds “poetry” is
printed, and very sensible “poetry” it is—good enough
to be read 'in general orders anywhere. The deceased
(and be careful of the spelling) warrior is said by Sydney
Truth to have published a book of verses: the quoted
sample states the whole duty of marksmanship—
A Dutchman’s baby toddles with a gun
And roams unheeded ’neath the dazzling sun,
Till instinct tells the distance to a yard,
And arm and eye in action are but one.
The rhymes are admirably solid : the idea no less. When
we take Moses striking the rock as a symbol of the Bard,
we shall certainly label the rock Scotch granite.
At last advices the “New Australia” colony at
Cosme, Paraguay, numbered 93 meatless people. And
Don Lane is back to his deluded disciples.
John Norton has been menaced and doomed
in a type-written circular from an English defender of
Dowie who calls himself “ The Holy One,” and emits this
terrible caption—
The Lying Amalekite condemned to death.
Adair, Duah, O Nipo, Biassico Millenium (P.D. 11/3/’O3).
“ Biassico Millenium " is distinctly fine ; but “ the
Recorder of the Army of the LORD ” ought to spell up
to the dignity of his exalted position. We shall never
have complete faith in a millennium arriving with only
one n. Two n’s ! though we die for them.
Pope Leo has lost his last tooth. And he has
prepared his tombin white marble, carven emblematically.
“ Here ” (reads the epitaph translated) “is Leo XIII,
Sovereign Pontiff. He is dust.” Atheistic simplicity.
Marie Hall, a new Eng. violinist, is welcomed
with superlatives.
Professor Cattell, in The Popular Science
Monthly, tells how he found the world’s most eminent
thousand men. He took six biographical dictionaries —
two English,
two French,
one German,
and one Ameri-
c a n and
found in each
the 2000 men
who were al-
lowed the
longest arti-
cles. This gave
him some 6000 names. Then he
selected the men who appeared
in the lists of 4 at least three dic-
tionaries—some 1600 ; and from
these selected the thousand who
were allowed the gTeatest aver-
age space. Thus he obtained
not only the thousand men esteemed mcfct eminent, hut
also their order of eminence. According to his list the
ten most eminent men are Napoleon, Shakespear,
Mohammed, Voltaire, Bacon, Aristotle, Goethe, Caesar,
Luther, Plato—two Greeks, two Frenchmen, two Ger-
mans, two Englishmen, one Roman, one Arab, and no
Australian. “There is no doubt but that Napoleon is
the most eminent man who has lived.” And theannexed
diagram shows, proportionately, how the Eminent
Thousand are divided amongst the nations. The shaded
parts represent the most eminent five hundred, and the
heavily shaded parts the most eminent of all.
Peter Stiens, the Russian doctor who hopes to
make the blind see, bases his invention on the fact that
sight is essentially mental and not physical. The eyes
are only an instrument for receiving images which the
optic nerve conveys to the perception-centre in the brain.
Some of the lower animals have no eyes, but perceive
light with their whole bodies. Stiens gathers an image
on a screen, instead of on the retina, and conveys it to
the brain bv an electric current. He points out that the
process called cataphoresis, which some Sydney dentists
have adopted, is an analogous use of electricity. When
you ask for cataphoresis, the dentists fill your hollow
tooth with anaesthetics such as cocaine, connect a bat-
tery, and the electricity (theoretically, always ; practi-
cally, sometimes) carries the cocaine into the nerve. So
Stiens says he can send an image to the visual centres of
the brain ; and definite proof is wanted.
Consider those bedizened tom-fools posturing
and grimacing before Gov.-General Tennyson—tom-fool
Barton, tom-fool Reid, tom fool Dibbs and the rest :
what a spectacle for sane Democracy ! Is n’t it time sen-
sible men set their faces against mock courts and mil-
liner’s dummies, quasi-savages strutting an inch taller
with a rag of ribbon or a red feather? “Sensible men
do”——then why the mummery? Passementerie—frills
and trimmings—Victor Hugo calls it ; and “tout passe,
tout ment, tout n’est que passementerie,” comments a
French wit. They all use it—nose-ringed African in his
gala paint and plumed Australian horseman in his war-
paint. From frizzed Papuan to bewigged judge, from
catamaran to Cardinal Moran, there is one gaudy step.
Pitiful forked radishes ! burning incense to private vanity,
or bent on bamboozling the mob. Time the farce ended.
We hope the next generation will breed a race of poli-
ticians, lawyers, soldiers, clerics, content to rest their
claim to esteem on the truth of themselves, not upon the
lie of gew-gaws and trappings. Since America has
manxed the cat, surely Australia can.
The fact that three Gray Horses (!) stimulated
by the plaudits of three thousand Fair Girls (?) broke the
high-jump record of 6ft. sin. at Sydney “agricultural"
show, reminds us that W. H. Ogilvie’s verse-charm has
been admitted by excellent judges over the water. He
seems to be a favourite with Macmillan’s Maga., and his
work has appeared also in The Century , Temple Bar,
English Illustrated, Chambers’s, The Spectator, and
other journals. The Spectator of Feb. 28 has a charac-
teristic piece titled “ March Winds,” with this pretty
stanza—
But the winds of March that are yonder’,gliding ;
Ah ! these are the dearest winds that blow !
Mothers they seem to me, stooping, guiding
Little child-snoivdrops out of the snow.
The Playgoer, noticing Lond. performance of
The Light that Failed—
Torpenhow brings back Maisie. Her love for Dick
has now swamped every other consideration, and she
begs him to take her. But in a splendid scene the
blind man refuses the sacrifice, until at last she takes
down her hair, sobs that she is the little girl of old
times and cannot live without him, and the curtain
falls on Dick taking her into his arms.
“ She takes down her hair ! ” Detrahe et impera ! For
Not ten yoke of oxen
Have the power to draw us
Like a woman’s hair,
steals Longfellow from Howell. It is woman’s antepen-
ultimate take-down, and weak man usually falls before
bodice and smock. Why? Ask Beauty that draws us, or
ask Antiquity that created us : hair-roots are the pro-
foundest roots of sex. “Only a woman’s hair,” wrote
Swift on the slip of paper that contained a lock of
“ Stella’s.” “ Only a woman’s hair 1 ”
Longmans’ Notes on Books supplies some
definitions : —lmpression.—A number of copies printed at
any one time. When a book is reprinted without change
it should be called a new impression to distinguish it
from an edition, as defined below. Edition.—An im-
pression in which the matter has undergone some change,
or for which the type has been reset. Re-isscje.—A re-
publication at a different price, or in a different form, of
part of an impression which has already been placed on
the market.
Instead of buying current trash at 2s. 6d. or
3s. (id. and more, bush bookfellows are recommended to
spend their money on the sixpenny series. See what von
can get for sixpence nowadays ! Huxley’s Lectures and
Essays ; Olodd’s Pioneers of Evolution ; Laing’s Modern
Science and Modern Thought; Arnold’s Literature and
Dogma; Haeckel’s Riddle of the Universe; Spencers
Education; Grant Allen’s Evolution of the Idea if
God— all first-rate books. In fiction, several of Charles
Reade’s; several of Wilkie Collins’s; some (f
“ Ouida’s ”; most of Hawley Smart’s ; three or four cf
Meredith’s; Jacobs’s Skipper’s Wooing ;■ Bram Stoker's
vampire story, Bracula ; Le Fanu’s Uncle Silas;
Bart Kennedy’s A Sailor Tramp ; and many others.
Ten shillings or £\ spent on the books and authois
named, with a limitation of “Ouida” and Smart,
will bring the best value ever offered to book-buyers.
Quote the books and authors, and don’t permit substi-
tution. And make the bookseller get them ; don’t throw
away your money on the higher-priced books which he
presses on your attention, because he earns more profit
upon them. (Our Advertiser interjects remonstrance, so
we commend Our Advertiser.)
A.G.S.


GOODS
Waterproof Coats
Jrtntolaer Boots
Groloshes
It’s easier to buy a Waterproof Coat or Goloshes than to
pay a doctor’s bill through getting wet.’
We make a speciality of and have opened all
thp newest Waterpro »f Wearables for th.e season.
All are High-grade and Moderately Priced.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE AND PRICE LIST
FREE ON APPLICATION.
PERDRBAU & CO.
RUBBER riERCHANTS,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK:
Price 4s 6d, postage 6d.
CURIOUS
BOOMS
PHOTOS.
The Best Address for
English, French,
German
Books and Photos.
Apply—
-116 BOX, PARIS.
2/- for Catal. and Miniat
Apply 116 BOX, PARIS.
LADIES
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
.CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address L..D.L, SCO Collins St., Melbourne
TEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W_ c. ZEIjIDIE&IIDa-lE] & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
Cormtry Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
SIMPSON BROTHERS
(Sole Australasian Representatives)
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARA.
• *
as
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
For all Services kept in Stock.
Send for Catalogue.
BENNIE, TEARE & CO., Representatives.
A
%
Stocks at Sydney, Melbourne, Perth, Coolgardie.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
74 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
t MELBOURNE : 435 Bourke Street.
Have for Sale a id to arrive
PUMPING MACHINERY of every description, Woodworking Machinery, English and American Engines, Boilers,
Injectors, Reducing Valves, Steam Gauges, Steam Traps, Laundry Machinery, Painters’ and Bakers'
Machinery, Engineers’ Machine Tools, Snaking, Plummer Blocks, Pulleys, Hangers, Couplings, Collars,
Lubricating Oil, Erunton Pocket Transits, Shedd's Electrical Fans, Hoisting Engines and Boilers.
F /m
--80
LIMITED,
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS,
Manufacturers and importers of
MINING MACHINERY, STEAM ENGINES & BOILERS.
I3XT STOCK
Knowles Steam Pumps, Ingersoll Rock Drills and Air Compressors,
Nagle Horizontal and Vertical Engines and Boilers, Pennsylvania Return
Tubular Boilers, Buffalo Blowers and Exhaust Fans, Morris Dredging
Pumps, Bullock Diamond Drills, Dodge Rock Breakers, Roger Rolls,
Dates Rock Breakers, Challenge Ore Feeders, Huntington Quartz
Mills, Wood and Iron Working, and Laundry Machinery, and Mine and
Mill Supplies.
60 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
And at San Francisco and London.
Bushman
Harry Morant:
His ’Ventures
and Verses.
By FRANK RENAR.
Price 1/1
Post
Free .
¥
EDWARDS, DUNLOP & CO.,
SYDNEY._^
Size, s|" x x 5".
We are Direct Importers
AND HAVE FOR SALE-
Snow Duplex Pumps
(all sizes for all purposes),
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling
and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shaft-
ing, Hangers, Bearings, Collars, etc.
Engineers' Tools and Fittings, Valves,
Cocks, Gauges, etc., Cast, Tool and
Mining Steel, Wire Ropes and all Requi-
sites for Contractors, Engineers, Saw
Mills and Mining Proprietors.
R. L. Scrutton &Co. Ltd,
97 Clarence-st., Sydney.
OV3HV-CO V
PATESON & COBCROFT, 231
Sussex Street,
SYDNEY.
Auctioneers, Commission and Live Stock Agents,
and Produce Merchants.
Goods forwarded and received from this or any State. Agents for celebrated Corn Cob Bacon.
AUCTIONS ANYWHERE.
THE “PANKLAST
The simplest
and most effec-
tive method for
dry crushing on
a small scale.
Invaluable to
Prospectors.
MB.de of Best
Hardened Steel.
ter:-
“ I regard it as
the best hand pul-
veriser which I have
ever seen.”
E. A. ASHCROFT,
Assayer,
Broken Hill Pty. Co.
No. 2 Power
Machine
will crush 2
to 3cwt. ore
per hour.
Full Particulars on application to
N. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd Sole Agents,
71 SYDNEY.
NERYOUSNESS.
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at Inst dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS of SELF
CURE, will forward the same, free oi
charge, to anyone interested.
Address! A. MINER, G.P.O., SYDNEY.
Trewhella Bros;
PATENT
LOG AND STUMP JACKS.
If you have Stumps, Roots, Stones, or Lowfo clear^ o
Threshers or Machinery to move, tr J', a, n d the
are used by thousands throug'houc Australaaa, a
sales are rapidly increasing, which w hom
You can obtain them from the ironmonger
you deal, or I will supply you direct.
Thu Melbourne and Sydney Prices are-
LIFT, TOSS
Price
/
Lift, tons
3ouble Purchase Jack 4 65
6 75 ;
Jingle „ » 5 2 ; xt f a 0 ’
With AUTOMATIC LOWERING CfcAR, 5/-extra.
Awarded Special Prize atR.A. Show, Sydney, 1903.
Full Information and Trade Discounts££
Prewhella Bros., Trenthatn, Va°toru>,
OR H. HINDS, 17 Loftus St., Sydney.
