

McEWAN’S
GAELIC WHISKY.
BEAVER STOUT.
The Bulletin
Vol. 24.—N0. 1225.]
[Thursday, August 6, 1903.
Registered at the Genera! Post Offioe, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Kent street, Sydney,
Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
107
Contractors’
t
INSIDE BEARINGS.
Kuice No. 106 for*Fast Wheels..
aue- past round and aqnare
« rivetied:
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° 8 s pm* w, SYDNEY.
Sals Agents for Samuel Osborn & 0o„ Sheffield, makers of Muehet’a Titanic Borer Steel for Miners’ Drills, Bessemer Steel, Cast i Steel, Moshets
Soif-H&rdonfng- Tool Steel, Mining:, Well-Boring:, Sprung:, and Tyro Steel, Steel Castings of all Descriptions, Steel Truck A:
INDENTS EXECUTED. SPECIFICATIONS SUPPLIED FOR ALL KINDS OF MACHINERY.
.STEEL CASTINGS, HAMMERS, EILES
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
WONDERFUL VALUE—A packet of Seven different
articles, comprising: Yankee Rubber Baby, can be carried
in vest pocket and blown out to life size (causes roars of
laughter), Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
Coin and Card Tricks), the Wizard Fish (gives the defini-
tion of your character —very superior for parlor enter-
tainments), 'the Vest Pocket Tubular Microscope (very
useful for examining small objects), the Cinematograph
(or book of moving pictures), the great Yankee Bicycle
Puzzle (very ingenious), and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Disappearing Coin Trick (instruc-
tions enclosed). Thik splendid packet posted to any
address in Australia (Free) on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P.O. , Haymarkefc.
X NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
710 Qeorge-st., Sydney.
“HERVEY’S RACKAROOK”
17 Years’ Unbroken Record as a Standard Australian Explosive. Cor^LABENCE^&JCINC^STS^SYDNEV^
THORNE’S
Estbd. 1831. WHISKY.
HOBART.
jjadiey’s Orient fiotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED,
J, C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St, Sydney
SUCH IS LIFE
SUCH IS LIFE
SUCH IS LIFE
Now Ready .
A new book in Ths
Btolbtin Library.
A story of Biverina’s
early days.
In handsome cloth,
decorated: price,
4s. 6d.
Send postal note or
stamps to
The Bulletin office,
and the book will be
posted to any address
immediately on pub-
lication.
TOM COLLINS
TOM COLLINS
TOM COLLINS
E333
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by that justly-
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST,
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CURB
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
Debility, and' their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St
S IT ZDHsTIEEi'Sr..
Stfrﬁﬁ-NER’S
2:3. \
‘
—__——-—U'
‘ ispoonan‘s:
©V§ .:‘\ £4?
l"‘ jJ‘M-‘:L.:‘ Cori-.-
‘kftv Lumen Boats
! CUZEU. M05 IE
. ’1‘
¢ ‘ Ont-0» ... M m
‘ “h“ """I w- |.'l .‘Ml-JK
“7" t ""“11'. man. £51217.
'9‘ '::‘l-Q Dual -»—«q
"1 La-rtfgzs-i—"Juw
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning: and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and la
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
< Em, Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
Milling and Dredging Plants. Engines, Boilers, *c.
Fowler Traction Engines.
Desiccating Plants.
Hopper Waggons, &c.
ASTHMA amp BRONCHITIS CURED
By using CASE’S ASTHMA CURE, made from the Queensland Asthma
Plant. Relieves instantly, eventually Cures. 4s. 6d. large bottle;
Posted to any State, ss.
J. W. CASE, Chemist, 140 Wickham-st., Brisbane.
Please mention Bulletin when writing.
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manuf. Company,
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY ? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 percent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5 ; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7 ;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia. £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buclcboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’. Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and made
to Order' HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE. —Do not be
misled by any firms whc say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
'ent. more for your requirements.
193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
OUR SPECIAL So. 9
£8 18/6
Battrered at any Wharf « r
Bf.S.W’. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
A PUNCHER
FOR SCEPTICS g
'
The following report by
two of Sydney’s leading
Accountants ought to con-
vince the greatest sceptic
, that
CAPILLA
HAIR TONIC
MUST have some merit
in it to command this big
increase in its sales:—
Yaralla Chambers,
109 Pitt St., Sydney.
16th, June, 1903.
We hereby certify that we have ex-
amined the books of The Capilla Pro-
prietary, and find therefrom that,
comparing- the period March to May,
1908, with that of 1902, the sales of
RICHARDS’ CAPILLA HAIR TONIC
show the large increase of oyer 48 per
cent., which means that the demand
has increased one-half—in other words,
for every 94 bottles sold last year 140
are now being sold.
(Signed) W. ROBERTSON, F.S.I.A.
(Signed) W. E. JOHNSON, A.S.I.A.
CAPILLA is obtainable at all Chemists throughout
the Commonwealth and New Zealand at 2s. 6d. a
bottle, posted for 3s. 3d. ; full course, 17s, 2d.
W. OLIVER RICHARDS,
SOLE PROPRIETOR AND INVENTOR,
164 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
letm £?tory Book:
3y Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300
price, 4s. 6d.
&Lq
cu
m
V
Writes Dr. Andrew Wilson, F.R.C.S.E., author of “ Health Notes,” London.


THE RED PAGE.
A Psalm of Life and Death .
11.
Surely before pale gleaimngs from the Dove
Eternal fell upon the elder place
Uf floods, beyond our fleeting time and space,
M3 r kingdom is ; and there in silent love
1 walk with quiet face.
There can I make my home, perchance for aye,
.cor in our sorrow and our festival
a j time ; yea. we are masons all,
And dealing with pure spirit do our day
.Before the judgment fall.
There nothing loud can enter; and the lands
Are hushed beneath a grave and mellow light;
And winds blow soft, forgetful of their might,
V oiceful of rest; and slow the hourly sands
.Lapse from reluctant height.
Faint, wistful, few, the things stored there have
braved
The chancings of the heart: there leaves unfold
J3y bronze and marble, by an abbey old,
And perfect words of human wisdom graved
In melancholy gold.
Mournful and fated man goes to his end
By vale and mound—so dreamed the ancient
Greek
Brooding upon the dark —torn by the beak
Of vulture, yet with soul that will not bend,
Lamenting, but not weak.
O deep the stillness of the quiet heart,
Purged by these solemn passions, set on high,
Antique in strength, and not unloth to die
So faith be kept, and asking but to part
With human tear and sigh.
Immortal forms of sun, and wind,*tnd dew,
Of purer spring and finer vintage flame,
Move in these legends, giving death and fame
And seats to heroes in the tranquil blue,
And calling each by name.
Neighboured with this deep life a forest land
Yields breath and murmur full of ancient days
To him, the forester, within the ways
Of man’s din; heart, with claims from that huge
band
Of kin in distant Mays.
O brother tree, redeem us yet again,
Remember old salvations, save us now
From dust and noise, O bathe the aching brow
In thy green quiet, let us lose our pain
Beneath thy long low bough.
Yea, let thy spell, thy spell of forest peace,
Be on our spirit: altars we will raise
Of unhewn stones, to mark the sunny days
With stealing shadow ; nor will ever cease
To hymn thee with our praise.
O let us sleep upon thy summer grass
With sweetest summer buds in leafy tent,
Or rushy ark with branches gnarly bent
For rafters-—sweet it were to dream and pass
The hours in fair content!
The gently chiding brook shall be our bell
In heart of greenest woodlands, far and deep ;
And we will dream in pauses of our sleep
Of fallen leaves afloat where waters well
And into streamlets weep.
The long sweet day is over: leaves are dead
And falling through the melancholy air
Of late and waning Autumn ; brown and bare
Are all thy branches in the golden-red
Of sunset faint and rare . . .
Looking like crag from swarded mountain side,
Or ancient cromlech, see my abbey loom :
Time’s golden stains are lost in silver gloom
Save where above the creeping twilight tide
Lingers a rosy bloom.
So old the stones they seem once more to be
Unlaboured, lost in moss, and flower, and blade,
And Nature s own ; but still though man may fade
And pass away, where he has bent the knee
An absence he has made.
Lost in this world of crumbling stone I love
To trace its sheafy pillars to the height
Where molten rubies kindle, or the light,
Yellow like autumn leaves, sleeps far above
A dimly glorious night.
The shadows gather as we softly go
On hearts unmindful now of love and hate,
And pore on emblems of their mouldered state,
Sepulchral—tears for beauty lying low
With all too brief a date !
Here on a marble leafage laid in gold
Unfaded, sleep in bronze the ancient brave,
From their dear land or from the alien wave
Returning home to earth in silent cold
Of uninvaded grave.
On this waste tomb I love to read the verge
Of Alianor reposing, jadis Reyne
De Augleterre, with blazon and rich stain
Armorial of old Castile, and dirge
Arid tears forlorn and vain.
Sorrow resigned and deep hangs over all
These regions of cave-darkness, vast and drear,
Worm-eaten crumbling holds of very fear
And dungeon light remote, dim, tragical
With life’s untimely bier.
So read the labels: ‘ ‘ killed in flower of age ”;
Bringing a breath of brine and smoke from far;
And crimson, golden glories crown their star,
Rich, puissant, superb ; with graven page—
Memorials of war.
But well I know the splendour of their day,
Embattled ancientry, is closing fast
To silence and forgetfulness : the past
Is for the slayers ; but the future’s way
With life and hope is vast.
The faces that shall look down from my wall
Are meditative, full of still repose,
And eloquent of conquest over foes
Within the soul, and brotherhood to all
Who feel for mortal woes.
And those that loiter in niy abhey aisles
Bv sun or taper-light shall never rake
In old oblivion and them awake
To glory, but their dues of tears and smiles
Shall to Love’s altar take ...
O mystery of love ! the happy time
As sweet with youth as is the spring-time flower,
And sweeter than the buds of summer bower,
Is in the very word ; beneath the lime
I dream the lated hour.
Her cheek pure rose, her eyes like violets
A-brirn with dew, her hair blown wild and free,
Remembering, my dead love comes to me,
Unsullied in the golden sun that sets
Behind our trysting tree.
How sad and sweet the smile; how faint the tone;
How beautiful the lips that breathe again
Of love and laughter, fragrant as this rain
Of scented blossom ; ah, that now alone
I seek my rest in pain !
When yon departed to return no more,
Save as from sleepy shades of twilight tomb,
A shade yourself, though very dear with bloom
Of love and death, I knelt without your door,
Then went into your room.
Your face was changed beneath Death’s awful
hand;
Haughty and pure it was like those of old
The Greek cut in his marble —yea, as cold ;
But as I gazed we were in love’s sweet land
Of immemorial gold.
That woodland day when first I told my love,
I said—you must remember yet; the stream
We drank from pure and bright as morning beam ;
The hazel nuts I shook from boughs above
Our heads; the quiet dream ;
The shy, sweet parting in the scented dusk;
Touch of the lips and brief embrace and sigh
For curfew bell from village church tower nigh,
Reminding us that Time leaves but the husk,
And even lovers die.
With your still face before me deeper grew
My passioning : I thought of those old plays
V\ here when Love cannot dream of love’s decays,
oteps in grim, envious Death —and saddest rue
Is all of Spring’s fond days ;
Of lips that rolled in dust because a queen
Had stooped and lost her way all for a kiss ;
Of those great hearts who in the moment’s bliss
Went proudly earthward, evermore unseen,
And lost in rude abyss.
O shadow of my love, go with me now,
Revisit all our walks where as we stray
For all unvalued kindness I will pay
With bitter tears ! Ah, pale the cheek, the brow—
The debt must be for aye !
Thou art returning to the unpathed deep ;
Thy look is on me ; O the yearning sting
Of that last look of farewell ! See, I bring
These blood-red tears from broken heart: I weep
Thee, and thy beauty’s spring.
In vain—my love can never come again ;
Then I must to her whither she has fled,
Explore the sullen regions of the dead, '
Wrest their dim secrets, learn in doubt and pain
The way that she did tread.
And, O my love, the day when we shall spring
From the pure cold of death to silent air
Of faintest, freshest sweetness, everywhere
To bathe in light unorbed on angel wing
With spirits debonair !
J.H.
Recently Published.
In The Story of Notation C. F. A Williams
gives an interesting summary of the development of
methods of visualising musical sounds. There are
numerous illustrations. “ The representation of musical
sounds in writing, called musical notation or simply
notation, from nota , a mark or sign, is a thin" so
commonplace, so universal, and apparently so simple
that we are apt to overlook the fact that our stave with
its variously shaped ‘ notes’ and all that goes to convey
a composer’s thoughts to the world, are the outcome of
centuries of experiments and gradual improvements.”
The development of “measured music” from plain-
song took some three centuries to accomplish “The
new notation and music were objected to by the Church
A hull was issued at Avignon about 1322 to suppress the
innovations under severe penalties. ‘ Some disciples of
the new school,’ it was said, ‘ while they apply them-
selves to measured times, introduce new notes prefer
their own to the ancient chant; the Church music is
sung in semibreves and minims, and is killed with little
notes They intersect the melodies with hoquets, slide
about in discant, and sometimes even load and crowd
the chants with triplet, and common motets.’ ”
' *
Horace Lorimer’s Amer. Letters from a Self-
Made Merchant to his Son deserve a good deal of the
vogue they have gained. The book phrases briskly the
shrewd, vulgar wisdom for which America has had a re-
putation since Benjamin Franklin, and which has not
essentially changed in 150 years. Indeed, Lorimer may
be said to play a modern fantasia on Poor llichard’s
Almanac. “ If you would be wealthy, think of saving as
well as getting The eye of a master will do more
work than both his hands’’—“Not to oversee
workmen is to leave them your purse open”
“Experience keeps a dear school, but fools will
learn in no other Pride that dines on
vanity, sups on contempt”—and so on : these are pre-
cisely the staple of the successful pork-packer’s advice
dressed and diluted. He adds a pithy commentary •— ’
“Ibelieve women weren’t cut out for business—at
least for the pork-packing business. I’ve had dealings
with a good many of them, first and last, and it’s been
my experience that when they’ve got a weak case they
&>Q(i their sex to it nnd win, <md that when they *ve £rot sl
strong case they subtract their sex from it and deal with
you harder than a man.”
There is nothing in this talk that two can live cheaper
than one. A good wife doubles a man’s expenses and
doubles his happiness, and that’s a pretty good invest-
ment if a fellow’s got the money to invest."
“Of course, clothes don’t make the man, but they
make all of him except his hands and face during business
hours, and that’s a pretty considerable area of the
human animal.”
“ While you are at it, there’s nothing like picking out
a good-looking wife, because even the handsomest
woman looks homely sometimes, and so you get a little
variety ; but a homely one can only look worse than
usual. Beauty’s only skin-deep, but that’s deep enough
to satisfy any reasonable man.”
“The easiest way in the world to make enemies is to
hire friends.”
“Remember that when you’re in the right you can
afford to keep your temper, and when you’re in the
wrong you can’t afford to lose it.”
“ Whenever any one offers to let you in on the ground
floor it’s a pretty safe rule to take the elevator to the
roof garden.”
“ Give most men a good listener and most women
enough note-paper and they ’ll tell all they know.”
“There are two things you never want to pay any
attention to—abuse and flattery. The first can’t harm
you, and the second can’t help you. Some men are like
yellow dogs—when you’re. coming toward them they’ll
jump up and try’ to lick your hands ; and when you ’re
walking away from them they’ll sneak up behind and
snap at your heels.”
That is the way Lorimer has built.
My Relations with Carlyle , the pamphlet left by
Froude for his posthumous'vindication, is interesting.
The reference to Carlyles alleged constitutional inca-
pacity for marriage is more clearly put. “Carlyle did
not know when he married what h s constitution was.
The morning after his wedding-day he tore to pieces the
flower-garden at Comely Hank in a fit of ungovernable
fury. The London life was a protracted tragedy.” Mrs.
Carlyle was jealous of Lady Ashburton. “Carlyle had
sat at the feet of the fine lady adoring and worshipping,
had made himself the plaything of her caprices, had
made Lady Ashburton the object of the same idolatrous
homage which he had once paid to herself.. . There are
in existence, or there were, masses of extravagant letters
of Carlyle’s to the great lady as ecstatic as Don Quixote’s
to Dulcinea.” “On the lady’s side.. . there was nothing
else but the imperious mistress, to whom Carlyle was a
passing amusement.”
Fronde’s story brings conviction of his good faith. Of
his good judgment one is less sure. He tried to shield
Carlyle rather than to blame him ; but he was too inti-
mate with C. and too sympathetic with Mrs. C. to be the
ideal biographer. The alleged garbling of MS. is probably
explained sufficiently by the illegible character of
Carlyles memoranda. It is clear that Froude was, if
anything, a too-devoted friend. Sir James Stephen, his
Co-executor, sided entirely with him. Carlyle “ did not
use you well,” writes Stephen to Froude. “He threw
upon you the responsibility of a decision which he ought
to have taken himself in a plain, umnistakeable way. . .
In order to present to the world a true picture of him as
he really was, you, well knowing what you were about,
stepped into a pillory in which you were charged with
treachery, violation of confidence, and every imaginable
base motive, when you were in fact guilty of no other
fault _ than that of practising Mr Carlyle’s great
doctrine that men ought to tell the truth.” Generally,
says Stephen of Froude in his life-relationship with
Carlyle, “ the most affectionate son could not have acted
better to a venerated father.”
Stephen’s opinion is final. Mrs. Alexander Carlyle,
to whom Froude voluntarily gave above jfilOOO—nearlv the
whole of the profits made on the MS. Reminiscences
bequeathed to him by Carlyle—appears in the light of
Stephen’s statement as a mean and greedy woman.
j — r —-
The French duel is fair game for English
“ humourists and a descriptive article in June Idler
is unusually piquant. It is alleged that Parisians of
savoir faire carry two card-cases. One contains cards
printed with a false name and address. When the
offending or offended party seems not to be worthy of
one’s steel, one pulls out this second card-case.
“Monsieur, behold my card I." one says, without tha
slightest risk.
“ And mine, monsieur !” replies the other.
Now, if the second card contains a false name and
address, each party can claim to his friends that the
other party feared to meet him ; and no harm is done.
Note—it is highly improper to foist the card of a friend
or acquaintance on the irate stranger.
A friend of mine tells me that this manoanvre has saved
his life fi fl y times at least. I saw it save him once—no,
twice. This youth, of mild and pleasing manners, has
the great misfortune—in a place like Paris—to he cross-
eyed. They look outward. So in caf6s, theatres and
restaurants, ladies think that he is making sheep’s eyes
at them. On this occasion there were two very pretty
ones, to his right and his left, and each accompanied. I
saw them flush up and begin to squirm and pout. My
cross-eyed friend observed it too. He moved his unluckv
head about and talked with me intently. All in vaiD.
The offended ladies whispered to their'escorts, and in
less time than three minutes they ro9e and struck
attitudes,
“ Messieurs, it is an error— ” I began.
My cross-eyed friend, however, gently waved me to sit
down and keep silence.
“If you refuse explanations, messieurs,” he said, “I
am at your orders. Here is my card ’’—giving one to each.
“Thanks!” accepting one from each. “I shall expect
to hear from you ! ”
With this he let me pay the drinks, and we walked off,
mild y and worthily, possessed of the respect and admira-
tion of our table-neighbours.
“ Now you’ve got two duels upon your hands !” I said
when we got out.
“No,” he replied, with a wide smile, “not I. Two
other men, perhaps, who wanted to fight duels with me
last week may get into a controversy with these two of
to-night. But I will not be in it.”
“How?”
“ I keep the cards of those who challenged me to-day
to give to those who challenge me to-morrow. Sol let
them fight it out among themselves.”
With this he packed away the two cards he had just
received, and we began to speak of other things.
In 1897, according to an Eng. estimate, Austra-
lasia imported from Great Britain £424,000 worth of books
and magazines ;in 1901, worth. Canada took
only £?67,000 in 1901 : because it is more convenient to
deal with the U.S.A., and because the Canadian Copy-
right Act strengthens the hands of the local author,
printer, and publisher.
MV.non IN DA
.1 udging by the verses in another column, our
absent poet is getting closer to the Ideal of his quest—he
is “ burning,” as the children say at forfeits. Apparently
he has put himself imaginatively in the place of his
heroine, in order to utter the patsion he attributes to
her. There will be a mail from the Solomon Islands
next week, and we must hope for good tidings. To-
day’s record appears to have been composed at the New
Hebrides.
Pictures can still bring money in England. On
Mav 23, ninety lots from the Vai'le collection and others
were sold at Christie’s for i?105,8i5—about A1170 per lot.
Four of Boucher’s panels were sold for 22,300gs. Diana
Reposing , by the same pain ter, measuring about 3ft. by 2ft.
6in., brought SOOOgs, Other prices were Rossetti’s Veronica
Veronese, 330ogs. ; Giorgio Cornaro, by Titian, 4500gs.;
Venus and Mart, 'by Veronese, 6000gs.; a Reynolds por-
trait for 2ipi)gs., and a Raeburn for 2600gs. On May 21
another Raeburn portrait, Sir John Sinclair, fetched
14,000gs. (Friends of local potterers had better keep this
paragraph from their sight, in case of bitter reflections.)
Another picture sold on May 21 was Gains-
borough’s portrait of Elizabeth Foster, Duchess of Devon-
shire, second wife of William, fifth Duke of Devonshire.
The price was 900gs. Printed that “ the Duchess gare
the portrait to a Mr. Foster, with instructions that he
was not to part with it during his lifetime. Foster left
for Australia in 1850, and some years after his death John
Foster, his son, brought it to England. For convenience
in moving, it was cut out from its frame and rolled up,
and thus it remained for many years. In 1808 John
Foster returned to Sydney, and, having by this time some
idea of the great value of the painting, he kept the canvas
roll in a long box, labelled ‘ Fishing rods.’ In spite ol
these precautions, the picture was stolen from Foster’s
sitting-room at his Sydney residence, and was only
recovered by great good fortune, as it had been deposited
in a shipping office by the thief, who meditated bringing
his booty to England. After the commotion caused by
the theft of Messrs. Agnew’s ‘ Duchess,’ Mr. Poster
brought the picture to London, and in England it has
since remained.”
The Lamp, a monthly literary maga., published
by Scribner’s, New York, prints this under heading “ The
Literary Querist” in its June number: — “751.—( 1) I
have heard that the largest book store in the world is in
Melbourne, Australia. Is this true?” “(1) We believe
it is true. The proprietor’s name is Cole, and he is said
to have a million volumes in stock. Not more than half
a dozen of the world’s greatest libraries exceed this,
though, of course, the book store has many copies of one
book.”
CORRESPONDENTS
J.S. : Glad to print threnody : your handling
of the subject is marvellous, even ideal'!
WHISTLER.
James Abbott McNeill Whistler, the eminent artist, died
20th July, 1903, aged 69.
Voices breathe upon the air
(Whistler’s dead)
Silence silence everywhere
' (Whistler’s dead)
No more quip, or jest, or scorn,
Epigram is left unsaid,
Lo ! the world is poorer grown : —
(Whistler’s dead.)
n.
Art is long and life is Short
Whistler’s dead!
Sure of hand as great in thought
Whistler’s dead 11
“ Harmonies of white and gold ”
“ Symphonies in green and red ”
Affinities with masters old
’Whistler’s dead 1!!
hi.
Let us bow our heads and mourn
f .Whistler’s dead -
Great, where many great are born
t Whistler’s dead
Steals the shadow up the wall
Where the mighty dead is laid
Silent conies the Great “ Nocturne”
f Whistler's dead.
IT.
Etchings that with Rembrandt’s vie
Whistler’s dead
“ Sarasate,” with dreamy eye,
Whistler’s dead
“ Colour notes ” that charm the eye,—
“ Girl in white,” with golden head—
“ Mother’s portrait —-Butterfly-
Whistler’s DEAD.
O’H. : Good ouly if scientifically worked out
and better set forth S.T.S. : Interest too slight and
local... .H.P. : No interest at all... .0.: Does it matter?
P.C.C. : Not smart enough... .Nemo : Regret no
space for further discussion.
RECEIVED
The Planet, Yol. 1, No. 1 (Sydney, published
by A. Edward; 10 pp. dy. folio, with “art supple-
ment’’; Id.) [Might be either an inferior “society
journal ” or a tolerable advertising circular ; very badiy
printed.]
The Story of Notation, by C. F. Abdy Williams
(Walter Scott; 8vo., cl., 281 pp., 3s. 6d. nett).
Studies in the Psychology of Sex, third series, by
Havelock Ellis (Philadelphia, F. A. Davis Co., 8vo.,
cl., 270 pp. ;? 10s. 6d.).
Caliban’s Guide to Letters, by H. Belloc (Duck-
worth ; 193 pp. 12tno., sd. ; Is. lid. net).
The Forest Flora of New South Wales, Part IV, by
J. H. Maiden (N.S.W. Gdyt. Printer ; pp. 75-1C6, with
four plates, folio, sd. ; Is.) [Deals with N.S.W. blue or
flooded gum— eucalyptus seligna ; brown or she pine—
potioearpus elata ; broad-leaved tea-tree— melaleuca
leucadendron ; quandong— fusanus acuminatus. An
especially good number. The notes on cajeput oil and
.. sandalwood oil are valuable commercially and other-
wise.]
On Choosing a Piano, by Algernon Rose (Walter
Scott; 12mo., cl., 144pp. ; Is.). [A pleasant budget of
hints and gossip, that scarcely touches the practical
difficulty.]
The Dear Australian Commonwealth, etc. Anom
(Crescent Printery, Adelaide ; 8vo., sd., 36 pp., 6d.)
[Worthless.]
Sketched from Life, by M. Moore-Bentley (Pub-
lished by the author, Sydney ; 12mo., sd., 217pp. ; la)
[“A political lampoon” by the Australian Corelli,
curious and entertaining.]
A Guide to the Botanical Gardens, Sydney, by
J. PI. Maiden, Director, and staff. (N.S.W. Govt.
Printer ; 8vo., sd., 108pp. with map ; 6 d.) [Designed to
help visitors and students ; but badly planned and dull.
The body of the book should have been a light and
interesting description : botanical names should have
been confined to the index. The duplication of
numbers on the reference-plan is confusing.]
Old Times, an illustrated history of the early
days, No. III. (The Commercial Publishing Co. of
Sydney ; 4to., bds., pp. 149-236 ; 2s. 6<L) [A good num-
ber. The topics include early railways, early news-
papers, the early history of N.S.W. medical practice
and of N.S.W. telegraphic department; and there are
many illustrations. This publication is commended
to readers and collectors. There is a cheaper edition
at Is. 6 d.\"
A.G.S.
SONG OF BRUNELYS.
My lover is coming to-night !
0 ecstasy ! 0 bliss for me !
And someone has told the breeze, for it lingers
Soothing with delicate, tremulous fingers
So gently, so caressingly,
My throbbing heart, my poor hot head.
And the stars have a mellower, softer light,
Shining, “ Poor little human, we know what we know;
But be happy, since you will have it so...”
Ah, the stars have no lover, their youth is dead !
My lover will bring for betrothal a basket
And offer it to me, for I must not ask it,
With armlets and cuscus and teeth. . .
0 girls ! are you ready to beckon the boat on ?
Have you gathered dt-accenas and coleus and croton ?
Are you sure it’s becoming, my wreath ?
You fire-fiy sprites, hang out your lights
To deck his path to me !
You demons who dwell in the great conch shell,
Tell my lover I love him well,
Welcome my victor joyously !
My ear is close to the pulse of things,
And I hear the flutter of angels’ wings ;
He is my lover, I am his,
And the world is so beautiful!
BRUNELYS.
Book trade Advertisement.
~
THE LATEST BOOKS BY THIS WEEK’S HAIL
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Mnnn <G W.), The Bishop’s English, 2s 6d, postage 4d.
Printers’Pie : Souvenir of Printers Corporation, 1903,35,
‘ 4(t preachers’ & Teachers’ Vade Mecum, 2s 6d, p. 4d.
.i' h Microscopical Examination of Food, 12s 6d, p. Sd
Rmlei The Wav of all Flesi ,2s6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Lovely’Woman,'by the Author of The Unspeakable Scot,
2s Od & 3s fid, p. 6d.
TiMwli? n V? O^ *"he Honey Bee, 3s, postage 6d.
Hill (Sir J.), Points of a Racehorse, 255, p. is 4d
Baines, Beginners’ Manual of Submarine Cable 9s n Sri
Magenms, Rye Symptoms as Aids to Diagnosis, 28 6d p 4d
M Chesney (Dora Greenwell), London Roses, 6s, o 6d
Warner, Cricket Across the Seas, 3s 6d p. 6d.
Ethel, by the Author of Wee ilacgreegor, is 3d, p. 2d
71"cASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doors South of King St.) & at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane & London
For
tlx©
. . THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
• :
A. The Larynx, or organ o!
voice.
B. The Trachea or windpipe.
C- The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
IJ, A lobe of one of the lung
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG
and
Invaluable to
bINGER
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered),
. . Contain iVO cocaine or other poisonous drug . . °
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, n Tins, Is 6d ; from the Proprietor, G. HUDSON Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland— post
free on receipt of stamps. Sydney Depot: 5 and 1 QUEEN’S PLACE, and FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO.,
Melbourne, Agents.


H
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, and CO., Limited,
WOOL BROKERS AND PRODUCE SALESMEN
S YDNE -ST.
FUR SKINS!
Kangaroo, Wallaby, Rabbit, Opossum.
sektd xo ...
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., uo.
SYDNEY,
THE MOST SUCCESSFUL SALESfIEN.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Wool Stores—PYRMQNT.
Head Office and Produce Store—ll Phillip St.
Sole Wool=Selling Commission
to the Growers—
11 Per Cent
SYDNEY.
Trust Account.
Regular Sales of Wool & Produce.
Prompt Returns.
A GO-AHEAD FIRM
PATESON & COBCROFT,
231 Sussex Street,
SYDNEY.
I l * Auctioneers, Commission and Live Stock Agents,
% and Produce Merchants.
Goods forwarded and receiveu from this or any State. Agents for celebrated Corn Cob Bacon.
AUCTIONS ANYWHERE.
THE LEADING HOUSE for SPORTING GOODS and TOBACCO.
AV
Leola.
C%3l2*t
135.0
Santiago.
SINGLE BOX AT WHOLESALE PRICE.
GOODS EXCHANGED or MONEY RETURNED.
-'d,
niiP^
&
N? MANILA
No. 1 Manila.
WUND
OTWSCHILDS
El Mundo.
GUARANTEE.-EVERV CIGAR SOUND
AND IN PERFECT CONDITION.
Post Free Post Free
N.S.VV. oth. States
ROMA QUEENS ..
LA PAROLA, Reliable Smoke ..
lIIOH LIFE MENDOZAS ..
NIMROD REINA VICTORIA ..
LA SPECIAL, from Choicest Leaf
“ LEOLA,” Borneo, Mild Smoking
‘ ‘ EL RIVAL,” Borneo, Full Flavor
HEAVY WEIGHTS (P. de Mendoza) 100
Per 100.
Post Free Post Free
N.S.W. oth. States
In box. s. d. s. d.
“PERLA” BOUQUET 50 18 9 19 2'l
“EL MUNDO” (Rothschilds) .. .. 25 21 0 21 8
“MENDOZA” (Rothschilds) .. .. 25 25 B 26 2
“ PERLA ” (Rothschilds) 25 25 3 ' 26 2
“MINERVA” No. 1 MANILA .. .. 100 15 6 16 2 f
“ WINDSOR LADY” (Manila Regalia) .. 50 19 0 19 8 I
“ PERLA MINERVA,” Manila, Fine Qual. 25 25 0 25 8
FLOE DE NAVES (Havana Reina) .. 100 29 0 29 8 J
HENRY OLAY (Havana Conchas, extra) 50 35 0 36 0 box
Per 100.
REVOLUTION ”
§1 THE TOBACCO TRADE.
“ RED SEAL” TOBACCO
AT MILLION PRICES
TO SUIT THE TIMES.
<s ßed Seal”
Dark Plug- i
Strong & Medium /
3/-
per lb.
Post Free
“Red Seal”
Bright Cut
2oz. Packets
4/3
per lb.
Post Free
£1
Red Seal”
Bright Plug )
Mild Smoking /
8 6
per lb.
Po3t Tree
“Red Seal”
Bright Cut \
4oz. Patent Tins /
4/3
per lb.
Post Free
“RED SEAL” is a REAL GOOD Smoking Tobacco, guaranteed BEST VALUE in the States.
We RECOnnEND Smokers to give “RED SEAL” Tobacco a TDIA ' -
Mick, yimmons, Haymarket, Sydney.
I. Hollis
& Son’s
N?n
“THE RELIABLE.”
Price £6 12a. 6d.
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 gauge, top lever, bar action, real twist or steel
barrels, Greener cross-bolt, left choke, rebounding locks snap fore-end,
chambered for 2fin. cartridges. Guaranteed for all Smokeless Powder.
Mick Simmons, Haymarket, Sydney.
ţ
To all who want to regain their
health, who want to have their
strength restored to them, we offer
oneof our Illustrated Books.
They describe the treatment by
Electricity of all kinds of Chronic
cases, going carefully into detail ;
and illustrations show how the
current is directed to all parts of
the body. We send the book post
paid to any address. It thoroughly
explains to you the value of our
Belt, and shows you a few of the
very grateful people we have cured.
We will send one, closely sealed, to
anyone who wishes it. If you are not as well as
you ought to be, send for one to-day. Why suffer
when you have a speedy cure for your trouble 1
Grateful Testimony.
Mr. E. McDonagh, of Cook’s River Road, St.
Peters, after 9 years suffering, writes:
Gentlemen,—l have great pleasure in stating- that after being a
complete invalid for nine years—not able to dress myself—it is mar-
vellous to think I could have received so much benefit from the f)r.
McLaughlin High-Grade Electric Belt in one month. Previous to
using it, for four years I could not walk five paces without the aid
ot two sticks. Now I can walk a considerable distance with one.
lam completely free from the pain in my hack, and can partly
dress myself, and the pains in my bones are greatly eased.
Mr. Wm. Oglesby, of Kegworth-street, Leichhardt, who
suffered from chronic sciatica and lumbago, says:
I have had quite a number of callers who came to inquire how I fared under vour
treatment. As you remember, I could hardly walk on account of my sciatica when I
nrsc cam 6 to yon.
newman e of 1 me thB ' treatrnenfc usin = 3’°ur hi £ h grade Belt and No Drugs has made a
My appearance under your methods have convinced everyone in my neighbourhood
for I can now give young fellows odds and beat them out. ° our ooa >
a di ? eren °e f rom having to work on my knees, or not at all, as doctors had
told me I was incurable. lu
You may request anyone to write or call for personal verification of all I say.
McLaughlin Co.,
100 - Market-street, Sydney.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 167 E. SWANSTON STREET.
LET us give you back your Health and Vigor, without which
there can be no happiness, no joy, no peace, and, as a conse-
quence, life becomes a misery. How many men are there at
the present time in this great country who are living a miserable
existence, and go on from day to day getting worse, and never think
that their trouble will become chronic ; whereas if they came to us
we could, within the space of a month or two, change the whole
aspect of their lives, make them feel that life is a pleasure. Yes—
Or. PlcOaagblin’s Electric Belt
will give you back that Health and Strength which every one of you
desire. No man could ask for more ! No man would expect more
than that. A great many have been seeking it for years by the
=14 . 7
’. ," _—’ 5"”
"ii 1 ./ “Va , ' :
1 W” a
1 : <-- (0/ a A’-
‘=’ ”/1?! u 5/ ‘ » ‘
/,'/,% “Ti“.nx-‘q. \éﬁ‘PyHﬁs ‘ “
I "T'-'- :nu.e‘Ri-i;1....232..:‘i“‘i:~§$,w \ 'I
at: .; ‘ , few” ‘ ‘ '
‘4’;— z" ‘ v
LET US
aid of Drugs without getting any benefit;
they have' read of our Wonderful Belt, sent
for it, and to-day they cannot thank us suffi-
ciently, for we have cured them. Proof we have
of these Marvellous Cures, and, anyone desiring
it, we can send them sufficient evidence of the
great good our Belts have done.
MEN ! LET US APPEAL TO YOU !
Do not go on wasting your lives ; come to us and we promise you we will give you relief from
your trouble, whether your complaint be
Rheumatism, Nervousness, Liver, Kidney and Bladder
Troubles, Lumbago, Sciatica, Indigestion
and other ailments, our Belts will give you almost instant relief.
“ Electricity is Life,” and, as applied by our Belts, it sends a soothing current of
e "E YOU
Vital Nerve Force
throughout the
entire system.
After wearing it
a few days you
begin to feel your
Strength and
Vitality returning.
To the man whose strength and vitality is failing through business and other
worries, it gives back his Nerve Power after a few days’ use. Do not Delay
Men! Write to-day, or call and we will make you a FREE DIAGNOSIS
of your ailment. We absolutely charge you nothing, but we wish to prove to you
that our Belt is all that we claim it to be. AiVe will be glad to explain every
detail of our treatment to you.
CAUTION.—Beware of advertisements purporting to offer Electric Belts
“Free.” Write to us for full particulars. If anyone has wasted money on these
frauds write us and we will see that the money is refunded.
STRENGTH


ť
SMOKE
The Unrivalled
World Renownec
BRIAR
PIPES
LARGEST DEPOT:
231 Clarence St,
SYDNEY.
ITINN EF 0 RES
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician's
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
dinnefords]
MAGNESIA,
MAGNES'IA
DRINK —■—W
GARDNER’S SPA WATER
From our Springs at Helidon. OWEN GARDNER & SONS, Brisbane (Head Office) &at Helidon.
THE
* PLUM’
THE
THE
‘PLUM’
/7J.ENTLEMEN. —This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, ring
hke a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easv shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7a 6<L
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
Price Sinylc Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 2ls.
r ' \ Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part op the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
KNORR’S
Ready
ftfflade
Dried-
PEA SIUP
It is . .
Known
as the
Best..
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
® MARRIAGE GUIDE, 50 engravings, 3/6 I
posted, 4/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/-; Magic
Up-To-Date, 1/3 ; Metal Working, solder-
ing, brazing, 1/6; Camille, 1/3 ; How TO
Play Billiards, 1/3; How to Vamp, 1/3;
Piano Toning and Repairing, 1/6 ; Modern
Etiquette, 1/-; Card Games, 1/-; Great
Book oe Wonders, Secrets and Mysteries,
1/-: 'Poultry Keeping, 1/-; Horse and
Cattle Doctor, 1/-; Parlor Magic, 1/. ;
Dream Book, 1/- ; Every Man His Own
Builder, 1/6 ; Carpentry, 1/6 ; Lightning
Calculator, 1/2 ; Australian Doctor., 1/6 ;
Letter Writer, 1/3 ; Speeches and Toasts,
1/3 ; Kelly Gang of Bushrangers, 1/3 ;
Book of Dialogues, 1/-; Enquirer’s Oracle,
3000 subjects, 1/6 ; Self Instructor, 1/3 ;
a?
How to Dance, 1/3 ; Art ok Boxing, 1/3 ;
Art of Wrestling, 1/3; Moll Flanders,
1/6; Tailoring for Amateurs, 1/3; Ven-
triloquism, 1/- ; Comic Reciter, 150 Rems,
13 ; Irish Comic Reciter, 1/3; Little
Folks’ Reciter, 1/3; Nigger Stump
Speeches, 1/3; New Tricks with Cards,
1/3; That Rascal Gustave, 1/3 ; Plain
Home Talk, 7/6 ; Sappho (genuine), 1/6;
Fortune Telling Cards, directions, 1/6 ;
Advice to Women, 1/3; Midwives’ Hand-
book, 92 practical illustrations (better than
Aristotle), 3/-; Palmistry, chart and guide,
6d. ; Clog Dancing, 1/-. Above prices in-
clude postage to any address. Stamps or
Postal Notes of any State will do. Free
Catalogues—Plays, Conjuring Apparatus,
Racy Novels, Useful Books, Private Books
for the Married, etc.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK AND
ARCADE, -
M ? QI ® 201 Bourke-st.. Melbourne,
a
If o «EM.N(7fb^Aßfis*
>o
HAMMERLESS DOUBLE BARREL SHOT-GUNS
Are made at all prices to suit every parse Each Gan Guaranteed.
ASK YOUR DEALER TO QUOTE YOU PRICE.
REMINGTON ARMS CO., lUON, NEW YORK, U.S.A.
mil
m.
mm
m\
i i
1
WITH GREENER BOLT AS DRAWN, THE “ WARATAH,”
60-
WITIIOUT GREENER BOLT, THE “WONGA,”
50/-
BAR LOCKS.
Left Barrel Fall Choke
Right Barrel Cylinder Bore.
For accurate and close shooting this gun cannot oe surpassed, made of Best
Materials and equal in finish and workmanship to guns of three times the
nrtce Barrels are Browned Twist, carrying a high polish. BAR LOCKS, Treble
Rolt 'half-pistol hand. Hammers are well down out of the line of sight. Vulcanite . _ n .
heel-plate on best selected polished walnut stock. Carriage paid to any Railway Station in N.S.W. i. 0.8. to
any other State. Send your P. 0.0. with orders to—
T. TOMBLESON, Manager.
Sydney Small Arms Co,
57 P.O. Chambers,
Pitt-st., Sydney.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL *900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
]n Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
•X'O iru-iHi-V COMPETITION.
WINES n ' Kest “ onlv ’’ SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
t
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
\ FURRED TONGUE.
I
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
There’s SECURITY in
ARTER’S
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
They TOUCH
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price.
the
Be Sure they are
TATTE RS ALL’
S
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania).
IMPORTANT NOTICE
The Tasmanian Government having imposed a tax
on every Five Shilling Ticket issued by Tattersall’s on
January, 1903, clients will please forward Id. extra
ticket applied for, or 4d. for every JBI, and so on.
of One Penny
and after Ist
for each ss.
NOW OPEN
METROPOLITAN STAKES, Itandwick, N.S.W., September 14, 50,000 at 5/1.
DEMONSTRATION H’CP, Warwick Farm, N.S. W., Oct. 5, 50,000 at 5/1.
CAULFIELD CUP, Caulfield, Vic., Oct. 17, 100,000 at 5/1.
MELBOURNE CUP, Flemington, Vic., Nov. 3, 100,000 at 10/2.
MELBOURNE CUP, Flemington, Vic., Nov. 3, 100,000 at 5/1
MELBOU&NE CUP (Special), Flemington, Vic., November 3 (Drawn
rning of Race
!_#.osciibers will please note that GEORGE ADAMS (“TATTERSALL ”) STILL
CONTINUES his business in HOBART, under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN
GOVERNMENT, and that clients can send their subscriptions by letter to any friend or
acquaintance in HOBART, who will there have no difficulty in delivering the application and
securing the despatch of tickets and results direct to clients.
Money can also be paid through any Bank in Australasia, to the credit of GEORGE
ADAMS, Commercial Bank of Tasmania, Hobart. Clients when so doing will please request
Bank to advise GEORGE ADAMS of amount, with their name and full address.
Small Parcels addressed to me can be forwarded to Hobart through any PARCEL
DELIVER Y CO. doing business with Tasmania.


Cockroaches!
BUFFON’S
COCKROACH . . .
EXTERMINATOR
Clears houses of these pests very quickly.
Has been used for many years with
great success.
To be obtained of all Chemists.
BOSISTO’S
“Parrot Brand”
Eucalyptus Oil
For Rheumatism, Sprains, Bruises,
Wounds, Coughs, Colds and
Sore Throats.
CAUTION,—Ask for Bosisto’s
PARROT BRAND,
and Beware of Imitations.
IS
W. H.Wigzell.
FRINGES: Best Natural Curly
Hair, 3/6, 5/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each.
TAILS and PLAITS : 20in. long,
5/6 ; extra thick, 7/6; 24in., 10/6;
extra thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings worked up,
2/6 per oz. Don’t be misled.
Our Plaits and Tails are twice as
thick as sold elsewhere at the
same price. Send color of Hair.
Only one address: 110 WILLIAM-
ST.; cor. of Palmer St. SYDNEY.
3%,:
,wf‘é
51/1,?!"
91,514 7’39""
;‘”’. .'?§:
617?, ‘J. M x»)
" g) QM:
£3, 7"{5/
W
Notice.—NO Branch Businesses. All work guaranteed,
illustrated Catalogue post free. Prompt attention given
to country orders. Wigs made on shortest notice. All
Hair work sent to the other States free of duty. Transfor-
mations, entire covering for the head, 30/- each.
I
FLUID
OIL
CRUDE FLUID
POWDER
EMBROCATION
BDAPB
DISINFECTORS
INHALERS
FUMIQATORS
lISINFECTIN6
FLUID.
COLORLESS
FRAGRANT
NON-
POISONOUS
DOES NOT
STAIN
KILLS ALL
DISEASE
GERMS
OXYGENATES
THE AIR.
Sulphur Candles - \
Formic Fumigators /
KINGZETT’S
PATENTS.
"HOW TO DISINFECT ” Book Free.
The “SANITAS ” CO., Ltd.,
Bethnal Green, LONDON, E*
r; ’ "5
r z
‘ ~; 5
SANDOW’S
> ■
Trade Mark
f
Ym
CLOSED. OPEN.
SPRING GRIP DUMB-BELL
Ladles and Gentlemen,
I fear there has been some misunderstanding as
regards the method of using my
PHYSICAL CULTURE APPLIANCES.
In the first instance, my SPRING GRIP DUMB
BELL should be used according to the Charts accom-
panying it. This gives an all-round and symmetrical
development of every muscle of the body, rendering
them firm and strong, and my DEVELOPER, or
OBESITY REDUCER, should be used afterwards,
in conjunction with the Grip Dumb-bells.
Yours faithfully, EUGEN SANDOW.
S. HOFFNUNG & CO. (1902) Ltd., Wholesale Agents.
Obtainable from all Sports Depots, Ironmongers and
Storekeepers throughout Australia.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every eomfort and convenience at —
MRS- TOBINS.
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to S Beaconsfield Parade
ST. HILDA.
TItB Largest and Best-Appointed Bearding-hause in
ftre Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
fihar"es mueb lower than licensed hotels. City, 1-heur
by tram* Billiards, etc.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Camille.
I am sitting in her chamber, and the delicate
perfume
From her hair and person wafted, sweetly per-
meates the room.
And I gaze upon her features, and she lovelier
seems to me
Than proud Cleopatra sighing in the arms of
Antony.
Then think of how the tricks of Fate, that work
us woe and weal,
Place me here within the chamber of the beautiful
Camille.
And I know if I had met her ere our lives had
ruined been
I’d have loved her to Perdition —she is fairer than
a queen !
Very many lovers has she, but they do not love
her long:
Never one of all shall linger with her till Life’s
evensong.
For her sweetness and her beauties when all these
have passed away,
None shall know, and none shall care, who knew
her in her former day.
Sweet it is when Life grows dreary and is drawing
to a close—
Sweet it is to have another who the same dark
journey goes:
One who loved us in our glory, one who loved us
in our woe,
Hand in hand thro’Life to pass; and so unto the
grave to go.
But old age will never crown her, for she lives
this life too fast;
’Tis to her a burning fever, and it burns too fierce
to last.
Still, when Life’s grim game is over, and her sins
are sinned, she must
Just like to the purest maiden, only crumble into
dust!
And who knows of the Hereafter ? Men have only
blindly guessed:
And her being when it ends, shall end in nothing,
like the rest.
Thus, within her chamber sitting, were the
thoughts that came to me ;
But I banished the intruders when she kissed me
passionately ;
And she said, complaining, pouting with red lips
so beautiful:
“ All the time I’ve known you, darling, you have
never been so dull!”
S.A.
W. M‘DONALD.
The City of Sunset.
In a region faint and far
Over sapphire sea and bar, .
In a realm that lies between
Day’s unrest and nights serene—
There a mighty wizard dwells
Weaving wondrous magic spells.
At the waving of his wand,
In that shoreless dim beyond
You may see a city rise
Canopied by sunset skies,
Turret, tower, and battlement
In a maze of color blent.
High o’er keep and bastion
Float the banners of the sun ;
Moorish mosque and minaret
In a dream of azure set;
Fairer all than things which be
Seen in dream of fantasy.
And o’er gleaming roof and dome
Sun-waves break in crimson foam,
Surging ever upward, higher,
Over flashing fane and spire,
Decked with guerdon of the sea
Where all wondrous gem-stones be.
When through archway wide and vast
Day with all his hosts has passed,
On their cloud-ships sailing far
Over sea and under star,
Where the old immortal Gods
Nightly hold their high synods,
Then from off his high watch-tower
Swift descends the Wizard Hour,
And the leaguer’d hosts of Night,
All in shroud of sable dight,
Rise and gather to the fray
Like the ravens o’er their prey.
Shadowy, impalpable
As the fogs o’er fer.s that dwell,
Scaling keep and crumbling wall,
Wide beneath their banners’ pall:
Fallen fane and yielding tower—
Built and unbuilt in an hour !
TAS.
ALMA S.
Foreboding.
I dreamed I saw a figure, bowed, pass heedless
thro’ a careless throng
Of happy faces, youthful, bright, whose merry
laugh and joyous song
He chorused with a sigh.
For those he loved rejoiced no more, had changed
with years, or crossed the surge,
And stranger faces mocked his gaze with songs
that knelled like wailing dirge—
I dreamt that man was I.
The friends, I dreamed, that decked the fields of
Life like flowers in glowing May,
Had withered and a stranger bloom their loved
places filled to-day—
Filled—aye—but could not hold.
Alone — hopes shattered, lave,* a dream, past
buried with glad years long fled,
I wandered through a stranger world, unknown,
uncared for, worse than dead—
I dreamed that I was old.
vie.
J. McCLELLAND.
BQNNINGTON’S
CARRAGEEN
o«
IRISH MOSS
FOR
LUNGS
VOICE
THROAT
-CSRCe AND
SMALL BOTTLES
HMftU&V.
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 10s-
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.>
SYDNEY.
£3T Send for a
Catalogue.
v53" :‘
gags?)
\. 'H -V
'22»
(dent Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE t«
buyers of Light Vehicles.
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, i3o Sussex St., Sydney
Straight Shaft 3-Spring Sulkies, £Blos.
Sarven Sulky Wheels Tyred, £2 4s 6d pair.
Discount to Wholesale Buyers. Send for Catalogue.
/
H. F. SMITH
BRISBANE
s
YOUWANL^
A Good Timekeeper
at a Reasonable Price.
HERE IT IS ! ■
A Solid Silver Keyless
Hunting Watch
Warranted 2 Years.
Posted Free to any part of
Australasia—
-21/-
Send fw my NewCatalogue—FßEE
H. F. SMITH,
Queensland Leading Jeweller, QUEEN ST.» BRISBANE*
IPSWICH and TOOWOOMBA.
WINCHESTER
MODEL 1902 SINGLE-SHOT RIFLE
THE name “ Winchester ” on this
rifle is a guarantee in itself of its
quality. The Model 1902 is a hammerless take-
down, and can be taken apart easily and quickly.
It is made with an 18-inch round barrel, fitted with open
front and peep rear sights. It shoots .22 Short and .22 Long
Rim-Fire cartridges, and Bullet Breech caps. Some makes of
.22 Caliber rifles are a few pence cheaper, but they are a great
deal cheaper in quality than they are in price. We don’t
try to see how cheap we can make this rifle but how good.
FOR SALE BY ALL IRONMONGERS
Before purchasing WINCHESTER GOODS
Send for our Rifle Catalogue* Post Free.
PERRY BROS.
HARDWARE MERCHANTS,
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
CITIZENS’ LIFE
Assurance
Co., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Citizens’ Buildings, Moore and Castlereagh Streets, Sydney.
FUNDS £1,000,000.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
on security of Freehold City or Suburban Properties,
good Dairy Farms, Agricultural and Grazing Lands
(Freehold or C.P. and C.L.)or Government Stock of
any of the Australian States or New Zealand, at Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
LOANS ARRANGED for a -fixed term, or made repayable by instalments,
without notice or payment of any fine*
HARRISON, JONES $ DEVLIN,
Wool Brokers,
Fat Stock Salesmen,
Stock Station Agents.
Our Charge for selling
Wool of the New Clip
is reduced to
2
Per
Cent-
Being a Consolidated Charge
includes Commission, Insurance
while in Store, Weighing, Cata-
loguing, <fee., &c.
Auction Sales held on all advertised dates of Hides, Sheepskins, Tallow,
Marsupial Skins, and all Station Produce.
Stores and Offices: Circular Quay, Sydney.


Low, Languid, and Dispirited.
The Vagaries of a Torpid Liver.
A Useful Lesson for Sufferers*
The Case of tyr. J. DECNAN.
(FOR THE “ REDFKRN TIMES.”)
Among the most important missions of
inquiry placed on record was that recently
made by our reporter to the home of Mr.
John Degnan, Garden-street, North Botany.
This is due as much to the magnitude of his
discoveries as to the interest of the incident
he elicited on inquiring.
“ Will you favour me with a complete
outline of the vicissitudes you successfully
combated ? ”
“ Right willingly,” answered Mr. Deg-
littlli as he offered the pressman a seat. Five
yeat's went by from the time my illness
started till it was finally conquered, and if
I did not have a bad time it was a caution.
Bear in mind, it was all through the torpid
state of my liver, and, believe me, I got
into such a very wretched condition that I
did not care whether I lived or not. Before
I was really aware w’hat disaster was be-
falling me I used to feel as though I had no
life in me, and was always low-spirited and
sleepy. There was only one thing that I
was fit for, and that was to lie down, but
when I did so 1 could not sleep, my mind
being actively engaged in going through a
multitude of unhappy thoughts which
seemed to be born of the melancholy condi-
tion I was in. What caused me considerable
uneasiness of mind was that my appetite
became poorer every day, and still more
anxietj' was engendered by the knowledge
that what food I did eat was of no benefit
to me, my ability to digest any kind of
eatables having vanished. In this way it
transpired that my strength wasted away
till it was often compulsory for me to knock
off work, although my employment at that
time was not of a heavy description.”
' *‘How did you feel after your meals ? ”
“Just as if I had swallowed so much
lead. Something like a heavy ball seemed
to form in my stomach, the pains arising
from which were simply horrible, aud from
ths stomach the heavy sensations travelled
up to my chest, thereby giving me extra-
ordinary difficulty in breathing. My head
ached to a degree which proved almost dis-
tracting, for I could not settle down to
read or do anything, and there was even a
swollen feeling in my eyes to annoy me.
Owing to a pricking sensation under my
shoulder-blades I used to think I had
caught a cold, but experience lias taught
me that that was a deranged liver symptom,
while another one, although more torment-
ing in its persistency, was a nasty aching
pain across the loins, w hich I felt very dis-
tinctly wheu .lioving about. The bitter
taste in my mouth was enough to turn any
man off his food, and the dirty coating on
my tongue used to make me feel sick. At
times, when exhausted naturo claimed a
few hours’rest, I fell asleep, but there was
no comfort in doing so, as the ugly dreams
I had simply beggar description. The flesh
gradually fell away from my frame till my
bones were quite visible, and my prospects
were anything but rosy, especially as my
head had long since been troublesome.
Without any ostensible reason it used to
start beating violently against my ribs, the j
sound it made being quite loud enough to
be beard several yards away. It seemed
more than likely that my heartwas diseased,
particularly so as those fits of palpitation
were usually accompanied by feelings of
faintness. The worry of mind and pain of
body at last succeeded in wearing out my
patience, for it took but little to make me
irritable and excited, after which I sank
into the old gloomy groove of misery till
something else occurred to upset me. Ner-
vousness was not the least of my ailments,
as my nerves twitched involuntarily when-
ever anything happened to disturb me, and
in spite of the medicines I had taken, they
still trembled at the least provocation.”
“ Where did you get your medicine from,
Mr. Degnan ?”
“ I refer to the medicines which my
i doctors prescribed for me, but which I
might as well have left untouched for all the
good they were. I was lways paying
money away to doctors, and never got any
value back for it; but now if I should
have the ill-luck to fall into bad health
again I would go straight for Clements
Tonic, as I know it to be the bist medicine
ever brought within the reach of suffering
humanity.”
“ That being your opinion, why did you
not take some earlier than you did ? ” -
“ Recause I had been suffering five years
before I was told about Clements Tonic,
and another reason was because I had de-
cided against taking any more medicine, as
I thought it was useless. But a relative
came upon the scene and told me how
Clements Tonic had cured his complaints,
which were like mine in nearly every detail;
so I promised to try it, and when I did so
it was the best day’s work I ever did, for
Clements Tonic piloted me to health. I
used to dread the very idea of taking any
food, but when I had been on Clements
Tonic a few days it was quite different, as I
was always the first to sit down to meals
and the last one to finish eating, and before
a week was over there was a great reduc-
tion in the severity of my pains in the
stomach. My food did not ferment and
turn to wind as in former years, but it
digested quite readily, and of course I got
the benefit of its nourishment. The weary
feelings which had darkened my days were
wafted away by the invigorating qualities
of Clements Tonic, which likewise buckled
together my shattered nerves and male
them firm and true. The greatest surprise
I ever got in my life was when I discovered
what a splendid medicine Clements Tonic
was for promoting healthful sleep, and I
say ‘healthful’ advisedly, for there was no
languidness or depression on awaking, such
as is experienced after taking sleeping
draughts or other such means for producing
slumber. The anxious misgivings which I
had borne in silence when my heart was
given to palpitating were not long in being
dispelled, for Clements Tonic made that
organ beat with the regularity of a clock,
and I can make the same statement in
regard to my internal functions generally,
for I never suffered from constipation after
taking a few bottles of Clements Tonic,
which relieved my chest pains and head-
aches very easily. It was pleasant to get
up and notice that my tongue was clean and
that the bitter taste had left my mouth,
but what was still more to be appreciated
was the fact that every ache and pain had
deserted my body, which was regaining its
weight from day to day.”
“ Are you sure about the completeness of
your cure ? ”
“lam quite positive that Clements Tonic
made a new man of me by giving me better
hoalth and more strength than I ever had
before. Not long ago I was helping to cut a
road through the mountains, about ten miles
from Nowra, and I found that I could do
the heaviest manual labour going without
being unduly fatigued, and, as Clements
Tonic gave me the health to do it, you can
publish my story in any way you want.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
i, John Dionan, ol Garden-street, North Botany,
in the State of New South Wales, Commonwealth
of Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare
that I have carefully read the annexed document,
consisting of five folios, and consecutively numbered
from one to five, and that it contains and is a
true and faithful account of my illness and cure
by Clements Tonic; and also contains my full per-
mission to publish in any wav my statements—
which I give voluntarily, without receiving any
payment; and I make this solemn declaration con-
scientiously believing the same to be true, and by
virtue of the provisions of the Oaths Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Darlinghurst this twenty-
eighth day of February, one thousand nine hundred
and two, before me,
THOMAS MOORE. J.P.
S. FREEMAN + SONS LIMITED
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES!
BATHO'S BAKING POWDER.
I FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
l ; EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
| VI. TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
SmAD office; WYNYARP SQUARE, SYDNEY.
SECOND
Edition.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER
Harry Mor ant
His ’Ventures
and Verses.
Price 1/1
Post
Free.
Y By FRANK RENAR.
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Sydney
FOR THE StrSH WOftKEE
BuAr
am
A SOOTHING BALM and EMBROCATION. Will be found
a CERTAIN CURE for Cuts, Burns, Boils, Barcoo,
Eczema, Sprains, Ringworm, Sore Feet, Piles all
forms of Skin Disease or Muscular Affections, etc.
From all Chemists, 1/6 per Tin. A FREE SAMPLE will
be sent you. Address the
ZAM-BUK CO., 39 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Enolose Penny Stamp for postage, and mention this paper.
OTXCJGS TO MELBOURNE VISITORS
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne.
Z ekphoM No. 10hS.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
Study Evenings
More know led go AT HOME. Wore Pay
Courses offered by mall:
mechanical. Marine. Civil.
Electrical. Sanitary,
Stationary. Locomotive.
Telegraphy. Architecture.
Sheet Metal Work.
Mcch. Ss Perspective Draw’g
American School
AT
Armour Inst.of Technology
Chicago, 111.
H Write for Handbook.
160 VICKERY'S CHAHBERS,
BOX 629, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Mr. Andrew Carnegie says: “ The secret of
American industrial success is emphatically the
application of brains and knowledge to work, even
in the smallest detail; and the influence of the
Correspondence Technical School in furthering
America’3 advantages in this regard deserves
universal recognition.” *
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
2?* e y ? ome . as a boon and a blessing 1 to men f
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen.**
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEN made b,v Macniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
separately examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
B**“ BEWARE OF IMITATIONS, trb
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.,
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAM!.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL-COMFORTING
COCO A
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
DEBILITATED
W EAK > NERVOUS SUFFERER. Let us send you a
’’ trial course of our CONCENTRATED BOTANIC
REMEDIES FREE OF CHARGE. You will be more
than pleased with the result, and you will show your
appreciation of our valuable treatment by persevering
in its use for a few weeks until you are PERMANENTLY
CURED. Address—
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
DRUNK
ENNESS
,CURED
Absolutely Conquered in 20 Days.
my proposition to the Government,
November Bth, 1901, wherein I agree to
accept 100 Test Cases,, and prove that my
Vegetable Cure for Alcoholism is a positive
and reliable remedy Home treatment
within the reach of all. No restrictions, no
hypodermic injections. Full particulars free,
W. LANGSTON, M.R.c.s.. En*.
129 Collins-st., Melbourne.
RUPTURE
CURED
without opera-
418 a
my mum
tion or pain, no detention from work,
or dependence upon Trusses. The
only humane treatment. Hundreds
cured. Write to-day for illustrated
Treatise No. 10. Address:
SURCEON LANGSTON,
M.R.C.S., ENQ.,
129 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
JAYNE'S EXPECTORANT
CURES THE WORST COUGHS.
ALL CHEMISTS
pP™M
Anemia,
Poverty of Blood
and Weakness
from Whatever Cause.V^*
TABLETS
Tat 3/q' per box/
Refreshing and Agreeable.
CALVERTS
CARBOLIC
TOILET SOAP.
A pleasant Antiseptic Soap (containing 10%
pure Carbolic Acid). Should be used regularly
to improve the skin and complexion and prevent
infection.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
£for£lu,Let fUakU
4C
TRY
&/U}
jfej£
Refuse a//
Saljsfyiui, StrcDgfhcH^.Sfflo^n^forlhfanffe
AG£fl/rS FOR SYD/fRK
SAYfRS ALLPQRF <sc POTTER
RIDGE'S FOOD MILLS.LONDON. Emc.
TOOTH-AGHE
CURED INSTANTLY BY
BUNTER’S
Prevents Decay, Saves
Extraction, Sleepless Kljhtr
Prevented.
N euralgic Head ache! & all Nerve
Paina removed by BUNTER'S
KERVINE. Of all Stores.
NERVINE
“As a Bpeclfio for Tooth ache it has no equal. I haver
naed it successfully for years."—Prof. W. Wilson, MJ>.
The BEST FAMILY MEDICINE
KAYE’S
WORSDELL’S
PILLS
Are a certain Cure lor Indigestion, Biliousness, Head ache,
Dyspepsia, Constipation, Liver and Kidney Complaints, Ac,
Of all Stores.
30 Days’ Trial.
.-V • V
Wi
m
d
We grant every purchase!
of our
ELECTRIC
KELTS and
AKKLIANCES
a trial of SO days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ ELEC-
TRIC ERA." Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore th»
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Eleotria
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be'
felt by the wearer through,
all the weak part.
Remember, we glv#_#
written guarantee with,
each Electric Belt that ib
will permanently cure you. It it does not, we wilt
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing,'we prefer that you sand
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free),
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH ofcXlS*
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical
Address
German Electric Appliance Agency
Elizabeth Stbeet, SYDNEY..
WEBSTER’S »
CARBOLIC
DENTIFRICE
HAS MANY FINE POINTS.
FOR QUALITY, FLAVOR AND PRICE
HAS NO EQUAL.
Sold all over Australia.
LARGE TINS, 6d.
INSIST ON GETTING IT.
Free for Asking.
WRITE to us and we will forward you our scientific
book, which will show you how to cure disease an
become healthy, strong- and vigorous—the envy of you*
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking, and you w
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body
vanish like magic, and you will be filled with.sWP'''
strength and ambition once more. Posted flte- " n
to G. Sraeiris, Elizabeth Street, North Melbourne.


P| AIR’Q
GOUT $ RHEUMATIC
FILLS.
The Great English Remedy tor
GOUT, RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO & NEURALGIA.
Thu acute pain is quickly relloved and cured in a
fow days by tills eelobrated Medicine.
Those Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of iliot during their uso, and are certain
fo prevent tiro disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout & Co., 220,
Strand, London, and sold at Is. lsd. and 2s. Od.
per box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
Hypnotism
F _ .
:35.
Reader, why not ho able to oie the
moat mysterious and powerful force of
nature? By my method you can learn
to Hypnotize in a few houre time, with-
out leaving your home. You can per-
form all the many marvellous feats
that are possible to the Hypnotist.
Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
conquer pain; win reluctant affection,
gratify your ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about It. I have
just issued In book form a mammoth
illustrated LESBON or Key to
hypnotism, which fully explains
the mysteries and secrets
of the Art It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is the moat elaborate
and expensive thing of the kind
ever published. For a abort
time I wl.l send thia magitill-
con t work FREE, sealed on
receipt of 6d. (stamps) to cover
postage. Order to-day and learn
to Hypnotise. It Is aol ance of i
a Ilfo-time. Address— 1
rW,
I
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
ţ
If
you
are
suffering from
exhaustion, Vari-
cocele, Wasting,
Weakness, enclose 6 stamps (postage and
packing), and I will send a trial bottle of my
REMEDY, FREE.
IT COSTS YOU NOTHING
to try my Life Syrup Remedies, which
give back strength of body and brain, renewed
vigor, and development of the vital organs;
not a free prescription dodge, but a trial of
my wonderful remedy free for the asking.
Professor h. read,
165 Collins street, Melbourne.
RRACC'SM
Charcoal
THE ROAD
TO HEALTH IS
PAVED WITH
GOOD
DIGESTION.
Speedily our eg Acidity, Flatulence, Heartburn,
Impure Breath, Indigestion, Diarrhoea, &o. It
destroys all disease germs, and,absorbing all impuri-
ties in the stomach and bowels,gives a healthy tone
to the whole system. Wards oft all attacks of Typhoid
and other “Fevers. Prevents many an illness.
BRAGG’S PURE CHARCOAL POWDER in
Bottles; LOZENGES and BISCUITS in Tins
(pleasant to take). Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
Having had complaints of the injury done by other
preparations,please 860 each Bottle or Tin bears
tno Trade Mark 'J.L.B., in monogram,'on the wrapper.
OF INTEREST to MEN
T\EAll SIR, —I have been cured of weakness and De-
AJ bilitv by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to
Mr. ROBERT E. PARKHURSI,
N. PiH street, Sydney.
THE BALLET GIRL
‘
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Frse, is
The Life, Adventures
and Conltssaions ot a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, is.
l end stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties,
Madame Panza,
BOX 913, C.P.0., BYDNEY.
Too Stout
I was for years; b}’ chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to lOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Sending, mention this paper.
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when every
other remedy has failed. English Prices, 4/6 and 11/-.
Thousands of Testimonials. Of all Chemists, Stores, etc.
Wholesale Agents:
SAYEIIS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist
25 High-street, Belfast, Ireland.
BAD COMPLEXIONS
Dry Thhrand Falling Hair and Red
Rough Hands Prevented by
GUTICURA SOAP
MILLIONS use Cuticura Soap, assisted by Cuticura Ointment,
for preserving, purifying, and beautifying the skin, for cleans-
ing the scalp of crusts, scales, and dandruff, and the stopping
of falling hair, for softening, whitening, and soothing red,
rough, and sore hands, for baby rashes, itchings, and chafings, in the
form of baths for annoying irritations and inflammations, or too free
or offensive perspiration, in the form of washes, for ulcerative weak-
nesses, and for many sanative, antiseptic, cleansing purposes which
readily suggest themselves to women, especially mothers, and for all
the purposes of the toilet, bath, and nursery. Cotioora Soap com-
bines delicate emollient properties derived from Cuticura Ointment,
the great skin cure, with the purest of cleansing ingredients and
the most refreshing of flower odours. No other medicated soap is to
be compared with it for preserving, purifying, and beautifying the
skin, scalp, hair, and hands. No other foreign or domestic toilet soap,
however expensive, is to be compared with it for all the purposes of
the toilet, bath, and nursery. Thus it combines in One Soap at One
Price, the best skin and complexion soap, and the best toilet and
baby soap in the world.
COMPLETE EXTERNAL AND INTERNAL TREATMENT FOR EVERY HUMOUR,
Consisting of Cuticura. Soap, to cleanse tho skin of crusts and scales, and soften the
thickened cuticle; Cuticura Ointment, to Instantly allay Itching, lnflammntlon, and
irritation, and soothe and heal; and Cuticura Resolvent Pills, to cool and cleanse tho
blood. A Single Set Is often sulllelent to cure torturing, disfiguring humours, eczemas,
rashes, and Irritations, with loss of hair, when all else falls. Sold throughout the world.
Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co., Sydney. British Depot: 27-28, Charterhouse Sq.,
London. French Depot: 5 Rue de la Palx, Paris. Potter DRUG AND Chem Corp.,
Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A.
PIITIPIIDA DC cm UIT PUT DIM C (Chocolate Coated) are a new, tasteless,
uU I IbUnA nIIoULV Lll I IILLu odourless, economical substitute for the cele-
brated liquid Cuticura Resolvent, as well as for all other blood purifiers and humour
cures. Put up in screw-cap pocket vials, containing 60 doses. Cuticura Pills are
alterative, antiseptic, tonic, and digestive, and beyond question the purest, sweetest,
most successful and economical blood and skin purifiers, humour oures, and tonlo-
dlgestlves, yet compounded.
‘V "j.-.
.‘ R 13.1 .1 ‘
" ~ J L;
A-x‘ ‘1‘”; 0—1’
-I 1r" «I
k
.' ‘\ "
M
1
ARE YOU WEAK ?
Low-spirited, Tired of Llfo, Have you utterly
failed in your efforts to regain Health?
Go to the Fountain Head
and consult OLD SURGEON LANGSTON, memberof the Royal
College of Surgeons, Eng., who will cure you. Forty years’
practice as a Specialist is sufficient guarantee of the doctor’s
ability. I do not seek to demonstrate a theory. I have no time for that,
for I am accomplishing facts. I am curing thousands who have
pvenupall hope of life. I am bringing joy and happiness
into hr jdreds of homes. If you suffer from kidney and liver disease,
lung, f gimach or heart trouble, consumption, debility, insomnia, blood
poison .Varicocele, headaches, backache, nervousness, or any disease
or weakness of the vital organs, come to me and I will cure you
and make you well. The people whom I have snatched from the very
jaws of death and have lifted up and given strength and health aro
living witnesses of the everlasting power of my treatment. It
matters not how long you have been afflicted; it matters not how
hopeless or helpless you may be ; it matters not what doctors have
said or what remedies have failed to cure you ; it matters not whether
you have faith.
e- I WILL CURE YOU.
A NEW TREATMENT AND GUARANTEED CURE FOR VARICOCELE WITHOUT OPERATION.
Be the Equal of Your Fellow Man.
If you are a sufferer from any nervous, chronic Blood or Skin diseases, or interested in the subject of
Neurasthenia and associated evils, write at once for book of information, blank forms, eta. and have the
old doctor diagnose your case.
All communications strictly confidential. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, 129 Collins Street, Melbourne
Established in Melbourne 1886.
A
f \A ‘
t
..
3‘ ._
a ‘
' 1:: ' ' ‘V
. “:3 '- ‘
{2:7 j . ‘ '
" :34“ "
. _ _. ‘ .
‘ , j: 4
I y ’
‘ U,‘ ‘ , .2
I 5‘ l I
‘
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
BHBRACDM
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.’ 1
By D*. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plata. 86 Cbromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1902 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy ; “edDOBt.
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d * 0a po u
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards ilhis.
Is ! nosh Is Sri Abiotati « i_a.v _ A - D8 » 111U9 *
is ; post is 3d. Ari stotl b - (co ni pi e t e)" 3s ted!
- free Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d.
Beauty’s Secrets, post „. .„ AIUA MOS
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is.
The Art op Wrestling, post Is. Hoyle’s Games nost s/fl
Love and Parentage, 8d posted. Sa ’ P oBl^B
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress etc 1 laid nosh.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or H™ to
One s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor Is.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d
Mahomet’s toRTUNE Telling Book op Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d
How to Dance, new work, Is posted. Camille, Is 3d.
Secret History op the Court op England, 1 6 Dost free
Art op Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is Odposted!
Lover’s Letter Writer, is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history) is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle's Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted
Up-To-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jag. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevassb’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Sono Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d.
O. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted. Sappho, Is.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want.
Tub Wife’s Handbook, Is 2d posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post.
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 ptgea,
1600 illus. Leather bound, my price, 15s post paid
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic,
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is 3d.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s posted.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music comple e Is 6d-
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon's Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d posted.
Send for my Illustrated Big- Book
Catalogue- post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney.
SORE
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT <
FOR SORB AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYELASHES'
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLEa •
!NI EVER RAILS.
Ask your Chemist fop the little Book:
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES ”
CURED
A NOVEL PRESENT.
(")N rnoeipl of P. 0.0, or M.O. for 6/- we will forward to
any address in Australia one of our Handsome
9ct. Gold-filled Round Wire Brooches, with
either Bell, Heart, Anchor or Cross Pendant, guaranteed
the same quality as brooeh; and without pendant, 3/6.
In 16ct. Q.P. Twisted Wire, 8/6 ; without pendant. 6/6.
Illustrated Catalogues sent Free. All letters carefully
addressed to R. 81 MS, Gold Wire King, Cole’s
Book Arcade, Melbourne, Vic.
£1 *
73¢ .
9
1,. ‘Qv'.
.1 (“‘3
ru -
"f V
L
14 ACTS WKR A CHARM.”
JONES’
Rheumaticuro
Th« great South African Remedy
NEVER FAILS TO CURB
Gout, Rheumatism,
Rheumatic Gout, Lumbago,
Sciatica and Neuralgia.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
28. 9d. PICU. BOTTLE
SOLE PROPRIETORS—
THE RHEUMATICURO CO. t
Cape Town,
and 29 Niagara Lane, Melbourne
EVERY WOMAN
ť
is interested and should know
about the wonderful
Marvel Whirling Spray
The new FEMALE SYRINGE
Injection and Suction. The best,
safest and most convenient.
It Cleanses Instantly.
If your druggist cannot
supply the MARVEL,
accept no other, but write us for
Illustrated Book, sent free
sealed. It gives price by mail,
particulars and directions invalu-
able to ladles. indorsed by Physicians.
Times Building, N. Y.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS-
THE MARVEL CO. OF AUSTRALIA,
CAMDEN BUILDING,
418 George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
LADY SPECIALIST IN ATTENDANCE
Postal Address, Box 623, G.P.0., Sydney.
Write lor Booklet. Sent free, sealed.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by using
RX CORO’S
y.l F £ ‘,
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS, DEBILITY,
VARICOCELE, etc.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life affords relief and permanently
cures all who suffer from wasting and withering of the
nervous tissues; restores Energy, Strength and
Vitality to the most weak and shattered constitutions
(no matter from what cause) and regenerates all the
important elements of the human frame.
Price 12a., or four quantities in one, 365. Freight extra.
Is. and Is. 6d. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope.
Agents Jor Australasia —PERRY & CO., 47 Queen St.,
Melbourne; iY.N.iK.-'Fauldlng & Co., 10 O’Connell
St., Sydney ; Newcastle, Adelaide and Perth.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout, Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER'S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingi>kstkk & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy*
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in rwo sizes, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstre <Se Tkuman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
References’ throughout Great Britain and Celonltu
ASTHMA
taken from the System.
Nothing remains irhich can
produce an attack. Yon can
eat, sleep and stand exposure without slightest return of
symptoms. Cured to stay cured, by elimination and re-
construction. Appetite improved; bl< od enriched; nerve*
strengthened; whole system built up; life made enioyable.
Reliefs, or change of climate no longer needed. We have
treated over 52,000 Asthma and Hay Fever patients. E**
tablished 1883. Explar atory BOOK 32c post FREE.
Address: Dr. P. HAROLD HAYES’ASTHMATIC INSTITUTE#
Buffalo, N. Y., D. S. A.
ASTHMACURE
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Fop Asthmatic people who suffer from
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grlmault's Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest.
OItIMAPLT Jfc Co., Parle, Bold by allChsmlrts.
ET NGINE MAN’S MASTER KEY -All subject*
mm relating to Examinations for Certificates of Com-
petency in all the States. SCS Pages, 106 Illustrations :
6d. posted, by L. F. R. SCHNABEL, Consulting
Engineer, 143 Bourke-etrect, Melbourne. Also COLE’S,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney.


NNNNNSSY’S‘
BRANDY.
Beware of
Cheap
Grain Spirits
Flavored
and
Colored
to
Imitate
Cognac
Brandy.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
WOOLLEN UNDERWEAR
...0F...
VERTEX CELLULAR
FABRIC
to the healthiest, most comfortable to even
the tenderest skin, and most hygienic of all
materials for Winter.
It Is, in its construction, a copy of Nature, and
acts as a supplementary skin, regulating the heat of
the body, and allowing the exuded vapours and
deleterious gases to dissipate without hindrance.
It is economical, most easily washed, and does
not felt up or thicken as a result of that operation.
Stocked in Under-garments of every kind for
Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s wear. Special garments
made to order. Fabric by the yard.
Call or write for full Illustrated Price List—post
free.
PAVIP BRAHAM « CO.,
73 & 75 King St., Sydney.
Sole Agents for the Cellular Clothing Co. in N.S.W.
TWO POINTS OF MUCH IMPORTANCE.
JOknburgs Foods.
The great success attending the use of the “Allenburys” Milk Foods is in a great measure
due to the two following important facts
(i) Their similarity in composition to human milk ; the constituents being in (2) The readiness with which they can oe digested and assimilated by
the same relative proportions. _ _ the infant,both foods being as easy of assimilation as maternal milk.
Mixed with water according to the directions a humanized milk is provided. and much more so than ordinary modified or diluted cow’s milk.
The “ Allenburys ” Foods are especially valuable in hot climates They are in the
form Of powder and keep perfectly. Pamphlet on "INFANT FEEDING ” (48 pages) free,
from 495. Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Allen & H anburys, Ltd., (Sourt, Lombard St, Jbondon.
MILK FOOD No. 1.
From birth to three months.
MILK FOOD No. 2.
From three to six months.
MALTED FOOD No. 3.
From six months and upwards.
Aren’t Tou Disappointed
with everything ? The present Government and the last twelve months’ legislation, the long drought
and the subsequent loss, the new railway station, and the very real hard times we are having ? Even
at play we find our best football team not quite good enough.
Smoke Cameo Cigarettes
No good in worrying. “ Cameos ” know no change—they can always be depended on to Soothe and Satisfy.
✓
IfS
mm
mm
m
g->
mm9
.sz’ .- ‘ ., ,_,.:%
3M: .‘.-‘,..._M'--«>.'.‘ ‘ { V > "59
V ‘ . . 52:. n; , 6:11“ a”? w
. ﬁﬁg\¢.i§éf‘x
Melbourne,Vic.
Adelaide S.A.
FremanHe W.A.
Wellington N.Z.
Launceston las.
E new a. co Lm
s


The Bulletin
Registered at tho General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
VOL. 24,—N0, 1225.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 6, 1903.
Prior 6d.
BRIGHTENING THE FINANCIAL SITUATION.
"Treasurer Turner’s budget is merely a good book-keeping statement. It is a great disappointment to me.”—G. H. REIT in the House of representatives.
THE INVERTED OBJECT : “YOUR FINANCIAL STATEMENT IS A GOOD PLODDING MECHANICAL AFFAIR. YOU KNOW, BUT THERE’S
NO BRIGHTNESS IN IT. THIS IS THE WAY I WOULD DO IT.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
23 4 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 0
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have Tub Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary communications to be addressea to the Editor.
Special Notice.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number, is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, 8000 words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in lllacJc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa — Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown ;
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal; Solomon
and Wilson, 22 flout St., Capetown; Solomon and
Wilson, Commissioners Street, Johannesburg ; Granger
Bros,, Johannesburg ; Isaacs and Co., Durban; Argus
Printing Co., Ehodesia; Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
Ceylon.— Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver
B.C.
Hons Kong.— Brewer and Co., 22 Queens Road, Hv'g
Kong.
Shanghai.— Brewer and Co.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 6, 1903.
Our Great Loss—as Shown in the
Arbitration Bill.
The loss of Kingston’s voice in the Federal
Cabinet had been scarcely announced to the Aus-
tralian people before they were made to feel how
serious that loss was. The various members of
the Australian Government had, from the begin-
ning, an almost equal chance of showing their
worth. The portfolios were nearly all of about
equal importance; there was no great, over-
shadowing position. In that equal competition
Kingston came easily first; indeed, with the
exception of George Turner, there was ho one
else “in the race.” William Lyne, carrying the
traditions of hisN.S.W. career into the Federal
sphere, promptly earned a reputation for seeking
support by small, squalid concessions, and figures
now as the politician who has most conspicu-
ously failed to rise to the Federal ideal. John
Forrest, in another way, has earned an equally
poor opinion ; his ideas are still of the Crown
Colony and convict-prison order. Postmaster
General Drake has been, on the whole, colorless ;
a worthy enough Minister, not rising to any very
marked extent above the State traditions of such an
office, but still doing good, respectable work. R. E.
O'Connor and Alfred Deakin have proved well
fitted for their positions ; the former in particular
lias shown himself a very master of politics, and
the latter has, in the piloting of the Judicature
Bill, relieved, with a gleam of true courage, a
dangerous tendency to over-suavity. Premier
Barton has been, almost in every respect, dis-
appointing, undecided, inert, feeble. George
Turner, without a very ample opportunity—the
Federation not being in the financial bog which
in Victoria gave his strong ability and splendid
honesty their scope—has added something to his
already great reputation; if he had been con-
fronted with the species of difficulty he loves he
would have added more. But Charles Kingston
has made a new reputation.
* * * *
The Customs portfolio entrusted to him was
not in itself the most promising from the stand-
point of public note. Foreign Affairs and
Home Affairs really gave better opportunities.
But Kingston made it the portfolio of the
Cabinet and himself the commanding personality.
And this without any tricks of vulgar advertise-
ment or any attempt to steal marches on his col-
leagues, but simply by showing in his every
speech that he was honestly Australian and
honestly Radical, that he neither made conces-
sions to Imperial favor nor to plutocratic influ- •
ences. It was made plain that, whoever else was
timorous to do right or inclined to bargain with
wrong, Kingston was firm for the people’s cause
all the time. He thus came to be looked upon as
the backbone of the Ministry’s democracy.
That that estimate was correct is now shown.
As soon as he retired, the difference in the
feeling of the Cabinet was made apparent. The
Industrial Arbitration Bill, asdrafted by Kingston,
provided for a court of justice to try any industrial
cause affecting the Commonwealth which the
Constitution allowed it to judge. He made no
pxemption in favor of English shipowners trading
on our coasts; for he had no fear of Joseph
Chamberlain. He made uq exception in favor
of State Governments; for lie had no fear of
Irvine or Philp or Bent. The Industrial Arbi-
tration Bill, as brought forward now by Alfred
Deakin, specially exempts seamen and State em-
ployees and employees of any public authority
constituted under the Commonwealth or State
(such as a Harbor Trust, a Water Board, or a
Municipal Council) from its jurisdiction. It has
been so emasculated in deference to Chamberlain
and Irvine, that it is hardly an Industrial Arbi-
tration Bill at all. A N.S.W. measure of the
same character, specifically excluding from its
benefits all miners and all shearers, would be
omewhat analogous.
* * * *
. As to the exemption of seamen from the measure,
it is not yet possible to judge clearly. Deakin
seems to fear that to include seamen in the Bill
would cause it to be reserved for the Royal assent
and thereby give rise to delay ; and there is a more
or less distinct understanding that in some other
way the protection, due to the Australian sailor
and shipowner, will be conferred. If the Attorney-
General is sincere in his belief, an easy way out of
the difficulty presents itself—to bring down at the
same time as the main Arbitration Bill a short
one-clause Bill extending all its benefits to sailors.
If this second Bill is reserved for the Royal
assent, no delay will be caused to the main
measure. The exclusion of State employees from
the scope of the measure is a much more serious
matter, for it is a deliberate decision, in a matter
of policy, to pander to the anti-Federal “State-
rights ” cranks, and to the Bent-Irvine incen-
diaries in Victoria, and, in deference to their
notions, _ to make the whole scheme of Federal
arbitration practically a nullity.
• * * *
It is to settle possible disputes between State
Governments and their employees that a Federal
Arbitration Act is most urgently needed. No
other disputes are as dangerous to the peace of
the Commonwealth, no other could be so disas-
trous to its interests and its revenues. A railway
strike, such as that recently brought to a lame
conclusion in Victoria, would, if persisted in for
any length of time, paralyse inter-State trade and
disorganise the whole mail service of the Common-
wealth, besides causing unimaginable public and
private loss. The Victorian men, after being
goaded into a strike which was, on their part,
absolutely justifiable, were bamboozled into a
surrender which was a complete sacrifice of their
interests. Developments might easily have been
otherwise. The men might have stood out with
as much resolution as they went out, and a situa-
tion would then have been created in which
even the laziest Australian Premier imagin-
able would have found himself forced to inter-
ference. _ In a future trouble of that sort
—and, given a corrupt press, and men of
the Bent-Irvine stamp, future troubles are
always possible—the course of events might lead
to bitter happenings. The Commonwealth—
consisting of States, three of which have already
affirmed that industrial peace must be kept as
well as civil peace, and the power taken from any
brutal ruffian of an employer or criminally feather-
headed agitator to stop industries and bring about
misery and starvation and loss of capital—being
itself about to affirm the same sensible prin-
ciple, puts itself in a position worthy only
of the contemptible Yes-No Reid when
it says that as regards industrial differences
in private employment it will substitute
justice for violence, but as regards State employ-
ment it will allow the old anarchical conditions to
continue. The State employer may be a brutal
bully and a sweating, swindling tyrant; the State
employee may be a hot-headed fool or a cold-
blooded conspirator to “corner” his country at a
crisis—without interference. It is an utterly
absurd and illogical position, and all the wreaths
of oratory that Alfred Deakin may weave
around it cannot conceal its folly and its wicked-
ness. Victorian experience has shown that a
Government may act towards its employees as a
brutal Degree, and, practically disfranchising
them, bar any hope of a State remedy.
N.S.W. experience has shown—at Fitzroy
Dock, for instance—that workmen may rob
the State in various ways with official con-
currence, and it is quite easy to imagine
that, if deprived of wrongful privileges, they
or others might, with a strike-threat, squeeze
the Government into renewing them. The States
are the largest employers of labor in the Com-
monwealth ; their employees have the working of
the most vitally necessary public services. A
system of arbitration is thus most of all needed
to prevent the possibility of their striking. The
N.S.W. Legislature admits that principle. The
Australian Parliament can only omit it by con-
fessing itself craven.
# * *
It does not make the position any better
that the Australian Government has avowedly
taken its present paralytic attitude in response to
a threat from Irvine. No other State politician
hinted at a protest against Kingston’s Bill. It is
the man who, if the Australian Government had
done its duty, would by now have been branded
as a law-breaker and an enemy of the Constitu-
tion, the man who most of all fears the intruding
arm of Justice in the relations between him and
the State servants so unhappy as to be in his
power, to whom Alfred Deakin bows down in
grovelling submission. A State Government, if it
intends to be fair and reasonable in the treatment
of its employees, can have no more reason to
fear a court of industrial justice than a fair
private employer. It is only an administration
which has the wish to wrong that fears justice.
Irvine’s desire to settle any disputes he may pro-
mote with Victorian State employees by Bent
bluster, by newspaper lying, and by callous
tyranny, is the worst of all reasons which an Aus-
tralian Minister could advance for refusing to
apply the same rules of free and fair trial of
industrial disputes to State as to private
employers. It is a poor sort of justice which
trembles before the powerful and resolves to limit
its decisions to the weak. The Australian Govern-
ment should not be at the beck and call of any
State. To its justice a State should be in
exactly the same position as a private litigant,
and entitled to as much consideration—no more
and no less.. That is really the main principle of
the Australian Constitution, and any concession
made by the. Australian Government to a State as
against a citizen is contrary to the spirit of that
Constitution. To exercise complete control over
aiT matters of Australian interest—without refer-
ence to the views of the State Governments, and
with reference only to the will of the Aus-
tralian people; to hold even the scales of
justice, in all matters on which it has
authority, between State and State, and State and
individual; that is the lofty purpose of the Com-
monwealth deed of government. That purpose
Alfred Deakin departs from at the dictation of
a small subordinate potentate. A railway strike
in South Australia might wreck the Broken Hill
field and the Barrier people would be left helpless
to protest. A Victorian railway strike might cut
the Commonwealth in two and give it over to
armed disorder. The stoppage by an industrial
dispute of the water and sewerage services in one
of the great cities might bring a disastrous epi-
demictothewholecontinent. Againstsuch dangers
common-sense demands protection, and the Aus-
tralian Constitution—designed to impose and
maintain equal law throughout the Common-
wealth in all matters of national importance—
authorises the granting of protection. On
the other side are Irvine and Bent. The
Australian Ministry prefers to listen to them.
At their orders it deprives an immense
body of citizens of the rights, which the
Constitution professes to grant to all Aus-
tralians, and it makes of the Commonwealth’s
dignity a cloth for Irvine’s hands and a mat for
Bent’s feet. Truly Kingston’s voice is no longer
in the counsels of the country.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
N.S.W.’s Influx of Population.
The fashion in which a section of the Australian
press invents a great national calamity when a
great national calamity is required to uphold its
particular views or to grind its particular axe,
is so magnificent in its impudence as almost
to command admiration. The daily press
travels on the popular ignorance and on the
fact that 99 per cent, of the people never think
much nor investigate at all for themselves, but
take for granted the thing they have read some-
where, if only they have read it somewhere with
sufficient frequency and heard it somewhere
with sufficient loudness. Lately, it occurred
to the Sydney Foreign Importers' press that it
would be a good thing to invent a great and
disastrous exodus of population from New South
Wales, as the natural and inevitable result of
Federation and of even the small measure of
Protection that the State now enjoys, and to show
that no such disaster was ever heard of in the
good old days of Separatism and Shoddy. So it
just invented the exodus (there was a real enough
outflow of people as regards some States, but it
was necessary to invent one for N.S.W. to show
the grief that fell on the land as soon as
M‘Millan’s calico was discouraged). Straight-
way there appeared announcements—so confident
and circumstantial that they took in even intelli-
gent people—about the general and unanimous
streaking away of N.S.W.’s population to better
lands where the blare and curse of State Socialism
and Protection were not. The Sydney Telegraph
struck the top note with the following announce-
ment, which only a very unscrupulous rag or a
miserably mismanaged and misconducted one
could be guilty of:
Never before in the history of New South Wales has
the emigration exceeded the influx of people.
That is the imaginary fact, mentioned to lend
weight to the imaginary calamity that was men-
tioned to show how disastrous it was to dis-
courage M‘Millan’s imported calico. Yet the
real facts as regards past years are accessible
to everybody who cares to consult Coghlan’s
official statistics, and Coghlan’s works are cheap
enough to be within the reach of most citizens :
N.S.W.’s N.S.W.’s
Loss by Excess Gain by Excess
of Departures. of Arrivals.
1893 1560 ..
1894 .. 919
1895 840 ..
1898 8967 ..
1897 173 ..
1898 .. 1789
1899 390
1900 1518 ..
1901 6744 ..
1902 .. 4561
1903 (£ year to June).. . . 3170
A great deal might be said about the possible
share that the loan disease has in causing the pre-
sent influx of population into N.S.W., but it isn’t
the cause, only the fact itself, that is at present
under consideration. The fact is that in six out
of the last nine years of the parochial system
N.S.W. lost population ; that in four out of the
six years which constituted the Reid Importers’
tariff period N.S.W. was regarded as a good place
to get out of; and that it was only with the advent
of Federation and at least partial Protection that
the flight was stayed. And the Sydney Tele-
graph joyfully invents an exodus —allegedly the
first on the State’s record—just when the exodus
which had been going on for years under the
Telegraph’s pet policy had been stopped; and
the Evening Noose has a frantic leading article
about the flight and sets it down to “socialistic
legislation ”; and Chambers of Commerce and
Buch-like buzzing aggregations have wept bitterly
about the imaginary calamity which they set down
to the Labor party, and have utterly destroyed each
other’s shirt-fronts with their tears. And all the
time, so far as N.S.W. is concerned, it was all a
lie —just a common tin lie at two a penny, with a
reduction on taking a quantity.
♦
The Chamber of Horrors.
The President of the Sydney Chamber of
Horrors, or Commerce, or something, recency
addressed that august body on what should be
done in order that New South Wales might be
saved. His great central idea was unique in its
imbecility; the Chamber of Horrors person
reckons that what is wanted is Assisted Immi-
gration. Just at present New South Wales
fails badly to find work for the people it has got
already, and the Chamber of Horrors proposes to
repair this by bringing in more people —heaps
more people, and these in the mam poor people
who must promptly find work in a workless land,
or else starve. As a general thing, thousands of
persons are leaving New South Wales annually be-
cause they are glad to get away; the only thing
that prevents a loss of population is the influx of
persons who are still more glad to get away from
some other place. If N.S.W. were made a
place worth living in, a lot of the people who
are going away would remain, and a lot more
people would come, and the State would have all
the immigration it wants. It is merely a question
of having the work to offer the people and they
will do the rest; but the Chamber of Horrors idea
is, apparently, that we should get the people, and
never mind about providing the work—that we
should buy population with loan money, and then
find it relief work at stonebreaking or something
of the sort when it arrives. This sort of imbecility
gives one a low opinion of the Chamber of
Horrors. The work problem is the only one to be
solved ; once that is done the other problems will
solve themselves. Seeing that the bottom has
been persistently falling, for ten years or more,
out of the great “ natural ” industry of rearing the
foreign sheep amid unsuitable surroundings, and
that the great “natural” industry of rearing the
foreign wheat plant on an arid soil isn’t going well,
and that the mineral industry is fading somewhat,
the only line in which there is much prospect of em-
ployment for a great influx of population, or even
for the population we have, is in manufactures.
And we can’t manufacture a great deal more than
we do without importing a great deal less; and
that involves dealing a deadly blow at the para-
sitical old importers of the Chamber of Horrors.
They live on imports; it is because N.S.W. im-
ports so ridiculous an amount that there is so much
commerce in N.S.W. And because it imports
so much it manufactures little. Because it manu-
factures little its people are largely out of work,
and living on relief jobs propped up by loans,
and it is with the wages they receive out of these
loans that they buy the imported goods;
therefore, the importing business, to a great
extent, rests on loans. And because there is so
little genuine work there is but little increase of
population. The Chamber of Commerce, or
whatever it calls itself, can do a little to repair
the evil if it likes —it can go and hang itself. But
it shouldn’t pretend to seek for means to alleviate
the trouble. It is itself the outward sign and
symbol of the system that causes the trouble ; it
is the emblem of the rottenness that has overtaken
the State ; it lives on the country’s sufferings and
misfortunes, like a parasite growing on dead men’s
bones.. If N.S.W. will throw all its weight, as
the principal member of the Commonwealth, in
favor of getting such a heavy tariff (a tariff such
as Australia has never yet possessed) that the
State’s imports from outside the Commonwealth
will be diminished one-half, then there will be
nearly £9,000,000 worth more goods to be manufac-
tured annually in N.S.W. alone; there will be that
amount more employment and more wages, and
that amount more inducement for immigrants.
Incidently, also, a good many members of the
Chamber of Horrors will probably go to the
Benevolent Asylum, but that can’t be helped.
The essential beginnings of reform consist in
doing great damage to that august institution.
The Absurdity of Being' Partially
Honest.
Queensland Labor party has been advised by one
of its. prominent State members to “sink the
fiscal issue at the forthcoming Federal elections,”
and make the question at the polls a straight one
of “ Labor v. anti-Labor.” The Bulletin sin-
cerely hopes that the Queensland workers, who
constitute one of the strongest squadrons of Aus-
tralian Radicalism, will follow no such foolish
advice. It would be akin to the old, old
folly of seeking the Kingdom of Heaven
by self-mutilation. The Labor parties in
Australia, beginning with a somewhat nar-
row programme, and a more or less worthy
class purpose, have, in some cases consciously,
in others unconsciously, developed towards being
sound democratic organisations. In different
States the development has progressed to different
stages. In none is it complete, but taking
them in the aggregate, the various bodies which
make up the Australian Labor party represent
what is most hopeful in Australian democracy. It
is the party of a White Australia, of Federal
economy without Federal Kyabramming, of a
national outlook in methods of defence and of pro-
gressive industrial legislation. But it still lacks a
definite financial programme. In the matter of
the tariff it was divided, when by being united it
might have put the Australian Government in the
position of being able to found an old-age-pensions
scheme and the Australian worker of having more
avenues of employment open to him before he is
qualified for a pension. Now, just when the
resignation of Kingston from the Cabinet
gives an unequalled opportunity to the Labor
part}' to attract to itself a man of the
type of Ballanch, who could lend to it
the administrative experience which it as
yet lacks, just when the possibility of a
Kingston-Watson Ministry is not at all remote,
the Queensland workers are asked to adopt an
attitude which would make their contribution to
the Labor party practically useless, for no party
which hasn’t a financial policy can make a
Government, or be of much assistance in making
one. The Labor party will be a traitor to
itself and unjust to the Commonwealth if
it shackles itself with conditions which bar
it from undertaking the government of the
country. Let it be as positive and as progressive
on the financial question as on other matters,
The Naval Tribute.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The lands of Earth are far and wide,
Tho men of Earth are black and pied,
And white and brown and various-eyed
And filled with greed unholy;
But most can raise a kind of gun
And fight awhile before they run,
But We —we take th’ immortal bun
For mortals meek and lowly.
We may not fight—we only groan,
We are a worm that weeps alone;
Oh, blame us not because we own
No sturdy race of yeomen ;
We’ll send along to Ikey Mo —
Who’ll send along to Bunt and Co.—
“ Collect your vessels, John, and go
To save them from their foemen ! ”
Let not your righteous anger burn,
Oh, do not spit on us and spurn—
We are a thing that will not turn
Or otherwise torment you ;
Suppose you smite our dexter cheek
We turn the left in manner meek,
We are the folk that eat the leek—
Oh, will not that content you ?
When we were full of sap and young,
Our Jingo journals always sung, *
With throat of brass and leather lung,
“ Oh ! Trust unto your Mother, dear;
You do not need to build a ship;
She’ll smite your foes upon the hip,
She hath a noble upper lip,
She is above all other dear.”
And so, while other peoples fought,
And kicked as healthy peoples ought,
We learnt the lesson we were taught,
And ran a race reptilian ;
And when they spoke of danger near
We cried, “ Look out! our mother dear
Has guns and boats and British beer
And Tommies by the million !”
We may not fight—we only groan—
, We are a worm that weeps alone;
Oh, blame us not because we own
No sturdy race of yeomen;
We’ll send along to Ikey Mo —
Who’ll send along to Bull and Co.—
“ Collect your vessels, John, and go
To save ’em from their foemen ! ”
PHILANDER FLAM.


declaring for a White Australia, a white-wage
Australia, and a debt-free Australia, and the next
elections will put it on the threshold of power. It
cannot sink the fiscal question unless it proposes
to be all its life a wobblesome hanger-on of other
parties. It must take the responsibility of saying
how it will raise, as well as how it will spend,
revenue. It must, if it wishes to enforce a
minimum wage, factories legislation, and fair
hours of labor, also decide to take such steps as
will effectively protect the manufacturers, forced
to grant those conditions, against rivals
who are not. It must also declare for a
release of the land from its bondage to the foreign
money-lender, since the reckless pledging of the
country’s assets to the Hebrews of afar land is
not only an economic evil in the present but in-
volves a grave danger that political bondage
will follow on financial slavery. In short, the
Australian Labor party must be a party of
stringent Protection and of Financial Honesty.
If it attempts to shirk a decision on those two
points it must either be content to always take
its meals in the kitchen, as a menial party not fit
to be in the dining-room; or it must frankly join
in with the Dry Dog crowd and seek power as a
party which can swindle and fake and lie,
and let things slide just as well as any
body of old - established politicians. There
are no possibilities in a Reform Party which
sinks the fiscal issue. A wrong decision on that
fiscal issue will bar it from attempting almost all
genuine reforms, and the fiscal issue is the vital
matter on which reform is needed. There is no
sort of use in a bank teller going into the lofty
virtue line of business with a declaration of strict
honesty on all points except the mishandling of
his bank’s funds, and on that point keeping an
“open mind.” There is no use in a Treasurer
having all the virtues except a knowledge of
finance; or a Government having every good
quality and no money.
4
The Flames of Smithfield.
The Bulletin receives from “G.N.” another
wild letter on the above subject:
A few reasons why the sectarian cry, from a Protestant
point of view, is not at present an unnatural one :
(1) On the most valuable sites in every town of any size
in N.S.W. you see, flaunting their heads above all
others, magnificent buildings devoted solely to Roman
Catholicism—convents, training colleges for priests, or
schools, where the principal thing taught is how to
become a R.C.
(2) N.S.W. statistics as to the spread of R.C.-ism may
turn out quite differently to Australasian ones.
(3) It is the most intolerant religion in the world, and
divides families, friends, and communities as no other
denomination does ; even innocent little children attend-
ing the convent schools soon learn to look askance at
Protestant children. An intolerant religion having
ascendancy in a country is worse than civil war. No
country has ever prospered under such conditions.
(4) Roman Catholics accept help and donations towards
the furtherance of their objects from other denomina-
tions, but never assist in return.
(5) Protestants have not forgotten a certain reign dur-
ing which R.C.-ism dominated England, and, naturally
do not want to run any risks.
(6) Banish the R.C. religion, and all others might meet
on some common ground ; while the ages last the Roman
Catholics will not budge an inch.
(7) It is the realising (as they are beginning to do) of
the magnificent organisation of this church that never
slumbers nor sleeps, its vast resources and its innumer-
able ramifications, and having in view several of the
imperious demands made lately by its head in N.S.W.,
that has made the matter an important one—even from a
strictly temporal point of view—to every Protestant.
I am not an Orangeman, and never will be, but (desiring
the welfare of my adopted country) for the reasons given
above, my vote goes every time to a Protestant or none
at all.
The reply, especially as the subject is a rather
weary one, may be compressed into very few
words:
(1) The Roman Catholics don’t hold “ the most valuable
sites in every town of any size ” in N.S.W. Take the 100
most valuable sites in Sydney (value estimated by selling
price per foot), and Catholic institutions probably don’t
occupy one of them The two most valuable church sites
in Sydney are held by Anglicans.
(2) In 1871 Roman Catholics numbered 293 out of every
1000 persons in N.S.W. In 1900 they numbered only 260
out of every 1000. Therefore, the yarn that old Tory
Simon Fraser and his species should be elected to Parlia-
ment on account of the “ alarming spread of Romanism "
is an attempt to get office under false pretences.
(3) As to intolerance, the Greek Church is the great
“ Christian ” persecutor nowadays. “The most intolerant
religion in the world ” is often rather hard to define.
(4) The story of Queen Mart’s reign in England is
pretty old now. Since then, there has been the Anglican
domination in England when Dissenters were branded
on the forehead, and their noses slit, and their ears
cut off ; also the Presbyterian domination in Scotland
when the “cashielaws” were still in vogue (described as
an iron receptacle in which the feet and legs of the
prisoner were confined, and a fire built round them); like-
wise the dreadful years of torture and other horrors
during the Anglican persecutions in Scotland. It was
only under the Protestant regime that torture was
legalised in Ireland, and the scalping of Catholics with
the pitch cap was practised till not much over 100 years
ago. Since then most religions have become civilised,
by compulsion of the civil power. The flames
of Smithfield are as extinct in Catholic as in Pro-
testant countries (except that people are occasionally
burned in the United States), and Dill Macky is no more
likely’ to go back to the ways of his evil and horrible an-
cestors thanany body else is. Even Bishop Smith isn’t likely
to thumbscrew any Presbyterian nowadays, and the
flogging of Baptists by the English Church is adjourned.
(5) The political question has nothing to do with religion.
It is simply this : A handful of disastrous Tories, whose
political supremacy would set back democratic progress
for many years, and who have no hope on
their political merits, are trying to get into power by
babbling about the burning of Protestants over 300 years
ago. And they' represent churches whose record of
bloodshed, tyranny, persecution, torture and intolerance
is about as bad as anyone could ask for. The 28 years’
persecution carried but by the Anglican Church in
Scotland broke all records of Catholicism in that country
anyhow. The moral is that the churches, when they get
control of the State, are all pretty much alike, and the
politician who travels on any religious ticket—Roman
Catholic, Anglican, Presbyterian or any other—should be
avoided as if he were a sepent. He generally is a
serpent.
4
Australia’s Nobbled Sou—Once More.
Premier Barton’s explanation to Joseph Cham-
berlain that the Australian Postal Act does not
prevent Australian mails being sent by nigger-
manned ships —that though no postal contract can
be made with nigger-labor companies, yet the
mails can be sent without contract at so much per
pound—is put in such a way as to be extremely
disquieting. Barton, shuddering before the
basilisk eye of Chamberlain, assures him that he
has taken special advice from the law officers of
the Crown, and that there is nothing in the Postal
Act to prevent the Commonwealth paying mail
Spundage to a vessel “manned by Japanese.” And
larton says this in such a way as to give the
impression that his real message is: “It is all
right, old man; the Act will be a dead letter.”
Tne Postal Act, as passed by Parliament, vetoed
the payment of mail subsidy by the Australian
Government to any vessel not employing white
labor exclusively. But it did not precisely say
that the Government should not pay poundage to
colored labor vessels for the carriage of mails.
Perhaps it did not contemplate the possibility of
an Administration taking the police-court attor-
ney point that, whilst barred from paying a
colored-labor employer for maxi carnage by means
of a subsidy, it was free to pay him just as much
by means of a poundage rate—that, in short, it
could pay him 205., but must on no account pay
him a pound. Perhaps (which is the more likely)
it considered it a fair thing to allow in
special cases an occasional Australian mail to be
carried with Australian money by a colored or
partly colored crew It is a common thing, and a
wise enough thing usually, to give, an Adminis-
tration some permissive power in regard to
details, trusting to it to carry out as far as pos-
sible the spirit of an Act. But if Premier
Barton —as he seems to hint to J. Chamberlain
—intends to make the anti-colored-seaman clause
of the Postal Act practically inoperative, it will
be a serious question whether he is fit to be left
in charge of any permissive legislation—or,
indeed, of any legislation at all.
The Judiciary Bill.
There are several good reasons why the Senate
should make an effort to get the Federal Judiciary
Bill back to something like the shape in which it
was brought down to the House of Reps In the
first place there is the reason, which was not suf-
ficient for the House of Reps., but which may
have more strength with the Senate, that Aus-
tralia needs a strong dignified judiciary and can’t
make any sort of pretence of being in the business
of nation-making seriously unless it has the first
essential of good government—an incorruptible
Supreme Court with adequate powers, adequate
membership and adequate pay. Other reasons, of
the several, are less worthy, or perhaps not worthy
at all, since a member of the Australian Parliament
ought to be an Australian first and last, and not a
Tasmanian or a Victorian; but they may be
mentioned just as reasons which will influence to
the good some weaker vessels, and. which may
lead some Senators to do the best thing from the
worst motives. The Senator of a “small” State
ought to be particularly anxious to see a strong
judiciary, for the small States have been called
upon to trust a good deal of what they value to
the Federation. The fact that what they value is
a worthless thing intrinsically,. and that they
would be far better off and happier if they forgot
all about the tinsel dignities of their “State
independence” and merged themselves abso-
lutely into the Commonwealth, hasn’t any-
thing to do with this argument. The fact
is that the small States do value their
State existence from absurdly sentimental
motives which they will grow out of
one day ; and the only bulwark it has is the Con-
stitution, and. the Constitution without a strong
High Court is a very poor bulwark. The law is
in itself no protection if it has not a policeman
and a court to punish offenders ; and a Constitu-
tion will only prove as strong as the Judiciary
entrusted with its administration. If there is
any danger of a big strong State over-riding a
weak little State (The Bulletin doesn’t at all
believe that there is, but still the possibility may
exist), then a strong High Court, which is so well
paid that it can afford to be incorruptible, is the
best protection against such a danger. It is also
the best protection against Irvine and Philp and
Robert Reid and all the various sins against Aus-
tralia which they typify; and that’s really why
The Bulletin is so anxious to see it established,
but if that issue doesn’t appeal to the Senate
others may. The High Court is to be the inter-
preter of the Constitution. If one State should
seek to take advantage of another by a false read-
ing of some dubious clause in the Constitution,
the High Court is the only authority that can
intervene. It is supposed to be strong enough to
sit down hard on the Federal Government itself
if that body exceeds its powers. It is supposed
to belong to no State but to do equal justice to
all (if Tasmania ever thinks itself wronged by
Victoria, and finds its case, for want of- a High
Court, brought before a Victorian Judge acting
in a temporary Federal capacity, it will under-
stand the importance of this point). It is to be a
body with such extraordinary powers that it re-
quires for its Judges the strongest, wisest, and
most incorruptible men in Australia —and such
men can’t be got without adequate payment.
There are many institutions which may be jerry-
built and yet no serious harm arise, but the High
Court is certainly not one of them.
*
The Low-down Australian of the Daily
Press.
It would be difficult to over-estimate the damage
done to the Australian people by its bitterly
unpatriotic daily press. The press preaches,
almost without exception, and almost without
ceasing, the doctrines of dependence and servility
and inept helplessness ; represents the Australian
as a poor creature incapable of any intelligent
organised effort, fit only to do the harsh, menial
work of some higher race, and to live on- the
money he can borrow by pledging his soul to
Cohen. Sydney Evening News had a charac-
teristic picture sermon on this text the'other
day a cartoon suggesting that if an
Australian navy were created it would neces-
sarily be run on Owe’Sullivan lines, without
discipline and without efficiency, and would go out
to meet the enemy with its Admiral horn-piping
with an Irish sailor, and its crew at cards and
whisky. The lesson sought to be impressed was
that the Australian is such a low-down-in-the-
animal-scale creature that he must necessarily rely
on the better type of the Englishman to defend
his coasts —that if he were to attempt naval defence
on his own the effort would certainly be a-farce
culminating in a disaster. It is because such a
very large section of the Australian press holds and
promulgates these views—all the Freetrade papers
and some of the allegedly Protectionist ones-;that
the Australian is, to some extent, falling away
from his old standards of sturdiness and courage.
The persistent preaching of lying pessimism has
some effect, as the people don’t fully recognise
yet that their freetrade daily papers after all
represent only the draper spirit of the community,
that they live on the drapers’ advertisements, thjtt
their gods are the wholesale ragmen of Flinders-
lane and Clarence-street, and that their ideas on
national matters are the ideas of the shop-walker.
If it were a fact that the average Australian is
such a miserable creature that he hasn’t the enter-
prise to till his own land, and carry on his own
manufactures, and defend his own home, and pay;
his way out of his own revenue, the call would be;
clear to every man unfortunate enough • to
live among such a mob to pack his trunk
and seek some land with a destiny aiid
a prospect of national existence. But emphati-
cally it is not a fact. It is a misapprehension of
the cowardly draper’s soul, a wrong conclusion of
the man with the cheating.yard-wand (which is
the sceptre of the Freetrade newspaper world).
Australia, as was shown in the past, before the
days of the borrowing disease and the centralising
disease and the importers’ newspaper disease,
showed spirit enough and promise enough of
greatness. It has been handicapped seriously by
the piling up of a huge debt—as part of the in-
terest on whioh the country is expected to sacri-
fice to some extent its national ideals; and by the
helpless, hopeless maunderings of draper news-
papers and K.C.M.G. politicians. Probably
Australia will not be able to make any real pro-
gress on the path to nationhood until the habit of
mortgaging everything is cured, and the growth
of manufactures makes the nation self-supporting
and self-contained, and the process of de-central-
isation kills the political power of the drapery
organs. But all these things are possible. The
Australian Government has borrowed nothing as
yet; Australia has actually one Government
that has existed a year or two without
floating a loan. The Australian tariff —in-
adequate though it is—is doing something to
stimulate manufactures. The Australian Par-
liament is more free from the domination of the
cheating yard-wand press than any legislative
body has been on this continent for a quarter-of-a-
century. Further, the early records of Australia
forbid the idea that we are doomed to become a
people of shop-walkers and poor-spirited agri-
cultural serfs. It was not for that end that the
goldfields attracted to these shores, undefiled by
any traditions of human slavery, some of the
freest and most enterprising spirits of Europe and
America. Australia can be a nation, and will be,
in spite of its newspapers.
* :
Xyabram has Suspicions.
Last January Victorian Premier Irvine made
some severe remarks about the locked-up land in
the Western district, and said that, unless the
squatters broke up their big estates, something
might happen to them. A little later Minister
Taverner was reported by the Argus as saying
that a measure somewhat on the lines of the Maori-
land Compulsory Land Purchase scheme might
be necessary to secure the breaking up of the said
estates. It really looks as if there were something
in these remarks, and the Argus of July 22nd
announced that “ A feeling exists . . . that there
is a great deal behind the recent statements of the
Premier . . . that 1 water should be brought to
the waterless, and the land to the landless men.’”
“ Politicians declare,’’ concludes the Argus, “that
they would not be surprised to find the Govern-
ment proposing a compulsory land purchase law.”
Kyabram and Co. are beginning to be suspicious
of Irvine, and to recall that it is not so long ago
since he was a declared single-taxer. If the
frozen leader of the Government goes to the
country with a clear-cut policy of breaking up the
big estates, a lot of his past misdeeds will be for-
given him. The locking up of the land in
great neglected areas is a huge dead-weight
on the chest of Victorian agriculture. No
one knows this better than Minister Taverner,
who is trying to coax selectors _ on to
poor, miserable, scrub-covered, vermin-infested
land in the back of Gippsland and in the_ Otway
forests. Even for this awful land, where it takes
three generations of selectors to clear the scrub
and timber, and where it is an axiom that the first
selector retires ruined or dies of broken heart,
there are hundreds of applicants. And all the
while there are scores of magnificent estates, scat-
tered all over the State, which are ideally situated
and composed of excellent land, but which are
looked up in the hands of wealthy squatters and
not used to one-tenth their capacity. These vast
estates support half-a-dozen boundary riders, etc.,
now, while they are capable of providing for hun-
dreds of prosperous families. In the single county
of Hampden, for example, there are about 40 huge
estates, ranging up to 50,000 acres in area, nob
counting properties that are only fit for sheep-
farming. While this enormous expanse of valuable
land is lying practically idle, farmers are pouring
out of the State to Maoriland, Tasmania, South
Africa, Canada—anywhere, in the search for
farms. They are being crowded out—crowded
out of a country where the most fertile
counties have about five persons to the square
mile. There are actually fertile and well-watered
counties where the population decreased largely
between the last two censuses—man being elbowed
out to make room for sheep. If Irvine attacks
this land question in dead earnest, Victoria may
yet see the spectacle of the democratic vote keep-
ing him in office, and Kyabram raving in the
distance.
- 4
Another specimen of the short-skirted damsel
with the long tongue and the improper story
transpired at Flemington (Melb.) Police Court,
the other day. Her simple little tale of violent
assault was complete in all details, even to some'
very visible bruises and scratches on her cheeks,
and was so convincing that the police immediately
arrested the accused—her employer—who was'
just about to sail for India with horses, and locked
him up. The chief reason why she fell in was
that accused was rich enough to employ a clever
lawyer who speedily knocked the lady’s fairy-tale'
out in one round. The doctor who attended her
swore that there were no bruises, scratches or
abrasions on her body, but that there were deep'
and apparently self-inflicted scratches on each
side of her face; that, though the neck-band of
her under-garment was torn, that of the dres3 she'
was wearing at the time of the assault was intact
that there were no signs of recent assault, and that
the plaintiff was a girl whose loose character was of:
longstanding. In cross-examination shefirst denied,,
then admitted, that she had been intimate with,
other men—she realty couldn’t tell how many ; also
that she had been paid for her indiscretions —they
were at least professional. Then the case collapsed,
and accused left the court to catch his boat if he'
could, and make up for the time and money lost.
The girl also left the court—that sort of girl'
always does. She had committed gross perjury ;;
and she had laid a trap—stupid, perhaps, but
none the less malicious —to ruin her employer
or to blackmail him. But the Law has a regard
for the evil-minded girl-perjurer and never dreams
of prosecuting her. The bench and the alleged
Crown are both in the conspiracy to annul the law
as regards oneof the worst and most prevalent crimes i
in the community. The Crown doesn’t prosecute
the Judge before whom the perjury took place'
doesn’t commit the perjurer. Yet Australian.
Judges are much-given to complaining about then
prevalence of perjury. How can it be otherwise'’
than prevalent when such Judges exist ?
♦
“ J.F.” writes :
You could strike matches on the faces of the congrega-
tion of crusted old white-labor-haters that gathered 1 ,
under the ajgis of the Royal Geographical Society in.
Melbourne the other day to whine again at the “ White.
Australia” sentiment. H. Gyles Turner presided,
whilst J. A. Panton made fine large statements about
the immense area of land in Australia that is suitable for
cotton growing “if the Government would so amend,
their policy as to enable ‘ suitable labor ’ to be
imported to develop the industry.” Other talkers
as well as Panton harped continually on the
“suitable labor" foolishness; and manifestly knew
so little about the details of cotton culture, that it
was plainly evident they had only seized cotton as a peg
whereon to hang their whines for cheap labor. Mr. Le ;
Soeuf tickled them immensely with some information
that somebody else had given him, to the effect that
somebody up at Gairns was growing cotton, from which
he expected to reap £264 6s. sd. per acre per annum.
At mention of this “expected” result, the Tory crusts
could bp heard rattling as they came together in hurried!
communion. Then they assured one another that a yield
of £264 an acre was not sufficient to enable a man to pay
white laborers £1 a week, “ and a sufficiency of ‘ suitable
labor ’ was imperative.” Finally some M’sL.O. fatuously
remarked that they had “great hopes that the ‘note
struck’ at this meeting will lead to,” etc. And in all
this fuss not one dreary wretch in the crowd attempted
to explain why not a soul of those present had attempted
to grow cotton, or showed the least interest in cotton,
during all the years and years in which niggers were
freely admitted. It is over 40 years since the N.S.W
Government offered land gratis to intending cotton-
growers, and they didn’t turn up. Nobody cares for
cotton, except as something to make a row about in the
interests of black labor.
♦
Very shortly 8,000,000 acres of leases in the
Victorian Mallee expire, and Lands Minister
Taverner is making haste, or is going shortly to
begin to make as much haste as so slow a man is
capable of, to cut them up for settlement. The
Mallee is Victoria’s drought-land and great agri-
cultural tragedy. It has about two decent
seasons in seven years. So far it has ruined and
broken the heart of nearly every settler who went
that way. But the Chirnsides and the Clarkes
and the Manifolds and the rest who own the
great fertile area of south-western Victoria must
not be disturbed. So the Mallee is the only place
available. There have been a few showers there
of late, and there is a temporary scurf of green
over the Mallee, and a flicker of hair on the skull
of Victoria’s great North-Western horror, so
Taverner will doubtless find victims enough.
Therefore, he is going to make haste—gradual
haste, after the manner of a tortoise with an
appointment to keep —and cut up this flattened
Slieol for the promotion of settlement. The pro-
motion of settlement is a great idea.
+
A LETTER from Yarra’s smellful shore
A really choice suggestion was sent to Melbourne Agk
lately by a “ Farmer”—a sturdy, self-reliant toiler in our
great natural industries. He hailed from Traralgon,
where the farmers mostly plant store-bullocks, poddy
calves, and other vegetables in the long grass, and sit
down to wait till the season comes to reap “ fats.” What
he wanted was that the Government should straightaway
borrow £2,500,000—n0 less—to make roads all over the
country, from the farmer’s back-door to the nearest rail-
way station. “Farmer’s” scheme was simplicity itself.
The Government was to borrow 2j millions, and instead
of giving the present municipal subsidy of £lOO,OOO was
to use the subsidy to pay the interest on the loan ; also
the shires were to form a sinking fund of 1| per cent.
What was to happen to the shires that didn’t form such a
fund—if anything—he didn’t say ; probably they would
repeat the Irrigation Trust dodge and pass the debt on
to the State. Seeing: that most of the shires refuse to
pay anything like reasonable taxes and keep their existing
roads in repair by means of the present subsidy, these
“ permanent and reproductive works ” would probably go
to ruin altogether if the subsidy was suddenly withdrawn ;
“Farmer” didn’t say what was to happen then. But the
most beautiful thing is the “ Farmer's ” calm assumption
that the municipal subsidy is to continue for ever and
ever ; that the city toiler—who mostly dies worth about
a week’s wages —is to pay taxes for ever to build the far-
mer’s roads and the roads of the rich country landowner.
I begin to wonder that the Victorian farmer doesn’t
demand from the Government an assured, settled income,
free of taxes, to him, his heirs and assigns for ever.
From Tasmania:
After all the blow and bluster of. new Tasmanian
Government, the great scheme of Parliamentary reform
is to make the two Houses sit together in the same
chamber; but the Upper House is still to be elected on
the old franchise, and the Houses are to vote separately.
The benefit promised is the saving of £4OOO in printing
and salaries in the distant future, and a reduction
of eight members in the two Houses. The Ministry hopes
that the antiques which make Tasmania's Upper House
hideous will have their Conservative feelings democratised
by sitting in the same room as the Lower House members.
Isn’t that a great idea ? Experience points all the other
way; that the “aristocratic" influence will destroy the
democratic sympathies of the “lower order ’ member,
and Heaven knows he has so few of them in Tasmania
that he can’t spare any. It took Attorney-General
Nicholls four columns of Launceston Examiner to ex-
plain the beauties of the scheme. He challenged and
defied criticism; he omitted everything which might
•offend the susceptibilities of the Gods of Things-as-They-
Are ; but he omitted to face the real issue that the whole
plan is a sham and put-off. Ministry cries : “ Wait till
Parliament meets and we ll show you what we’re going
to do.” But meanwhile the electors are getting im-
patient ; and if the alleged strong Ministry deals with
Ueform as it did with the smallpox, Teddy Mulcaiiy will
find his island wishing it hadn’t fired him out with quite
so loud a bang.
In its half-yearly report, lately issued, the Vic-
torian Miners’ Association describes the condi-
tions under which some of the deep ground is
worked —the ground below 3000 ft. At one Ben-
digo mine, visited by the officers of the union, a
pool of water is kept near the shaft at 3175 ft. for
the miners to cool-off in. The men were working
in a level driven 403 ft.; in this hell the tempera-
ture varied from 95 to 98 degrees, and the alleged
atmosphere was charged with dust (made by the
boring machines) and ’fracteur fumes. Says the
report: —
We could scarcely breathe, and our sensations were
horrible. The poor fellows working there were quite
resigned to their fate, and simply remarked, “ Well, you
knew, somebody has to do it.”
And yet, a couple of hundred feet up the same
shaft, where there was a connection with another
deep mine, the ventilation was good ; there was,
in fact, air going to waste. But it costs money to
make connections between shafts at these depths,
and miners are cheap —horribly cheap at Bendigo.
•So the connections go unmade, and men work
under conditions beside which those of a Queens-
land canefield are pleasant and, beyond all com-
parison, more healthy. And Victoria talks proudly
•of its great natural industry of gold-mining, a.nd
the marvellous enterprise of the deep-sinking
•companies and mine-owners.
«
One encounters truth even in the witness : box,
•and a soldier may write sensibly on a political
•question. In proof, Lieut.-Col. A. W. Pollock
in Macmillan’s Magazine on Imperial Defence :
If the British Empire were to fall to-morrow, the sub-
jugation of, ifor example, Australia would not necessarily
That Great Britain, shorn of her colonies, would
sink to the level of Holland is clear, but that her colonies
in general wtmld become the spoil of the victor is by no
means a foregone conclusion.. The conquest of Australia
would be a,colossal enterprise, beside which our recent
•expedition tq South Africa would sink into insignificance.
. Thus—even if we were justified in adopting such a tone
I —threats to cast off Australia as the penalty of failing to
•embrace the entire doctrine of “one navy, one sea,”
Would, if carried out or anticipated, result in certain
mischief to the Mother Country, but in only moderate
risks to her discarded daughter. In such circumstances,
quite apart from all considerations of good taste and
brotherhood, it seems better for us to accept any avail-
able compromise than to insist vainly upon the full
pound of flesh.
“ YARRUM”:In framing a Licensing Bill, there
is one thing that should certainly be attended to.
Men should have to go for the liquor they con-
sume ; and not have it carted out to wherever two
•or three are gathered together, for recreation.
Last week I attended a horse-race—only one race,
mind, with two starters—apd there was a pub-
lican’s booth on the ground. Last I remember is,
seeing about a dozen drunken sleeper-getters,
mounted on all manner of mokes, finishing with
the horse that wasn’t the favorite, but which
carried their bit. The favorite had been driven
, right off the course, and there was a hurrah fight
the affair. The booth was cleaned right out.


w °ke on the Sabbath morn, I was
!?! e J ° n the middle of a .dirty road, and a
w* er v Ud -s.uffOT was spread over my
1 e T are to have the race over again next
SSfoSSh? 1 q qppose old Bun S will be licensed to
Some men would have the hide to
ask for licenses tp sell whisky at a dog-fight: and
_ey would get them, too, nowadays. If Mr
WIII °?> ly look after this promiscuous
licensing for me, I in prepared to let him do what
he hkes with the rest df his Bill. nat
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK '
He?, MaJbsty’B... .. “Rip Van Winkle."
r Y pp„ M Midsummer Night’s Dream.*’
“ Greed of Gold."
Palaor ION “Shadows of a Great City.”
Tlvou ----- Rickards’Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR OOMING WEEK.
w^Tvr 888 " 7 “ Daughter of the Regiment."
Her Majesty s “ The Runaway Girl ”.
ThEAtREROYAL.., “ Going the Pace."
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Go.
-♦ —
i , Maybe, when August Ist (last Saturday)
was waning ;to midnight, and the lustrous and
illustrious audience that had watched out the in-
auguration programme at the resurrected Her
Majesty s was departing to its carriage and auto-i
mob’le, J. C. Williamson said unto himself,
-ly® bj® this date in wine upon a rose-leaf
scroll Maybe, instead of quoting the Persian
poet (and being used to success), he merely
yawned and asked if the £7OO odd proceeds of the
night was safely Ghubbed. Sixteen months ago,
on a Palm Sunday, during the first week of “ Ben
Hur, the old theatre was burned to the ground.'
Last Saturday night the new theatre, shining as
the_ new Jerusalem, opened its doors for the first,
performance, and raised its curtain upon a
oapanese tragedy. A Jewish play closed an epoch,
a Jappish play began another. “ Madame But-
,a^ of Japan,” is a perfect instaiice
ot the truth about distance lending enchantment.
If its central figure and environment had been of,
London or Sydney it would be a sordid story,:
worn threadbare in the oft-telling. In its alien
setting it takes on a poetic grace, a quaint pathos;
an idyllic charm that give it a very far aloofness!
from our Philistia But the philosophy at thd
back of the play is very near and very real, and its
lesson is that it is not well to contract a time-
limited marriage with an alien lady of color. The
sweeter and more virtuous she is the more it is
not welL-for her ; nor for you if a humane heart
if ?S e P ossess ions. The story : BiefltenaMij
B. x. Pinkerton, a U.S.A. naval officer, marries
a Japanese orphan maiden, Cho-Oho San, Butter-
fly in translation, who, as the daughter of an
officer, is a lady of quality. He marries lief 1
jus foh a lil’while,” then; after some months,’
rejoins his ship and sails away, promising'to re-
turn “ when the robins nest again.” The play
ppejis in a typical Japanese home, with a view of
a floWerJaden, sun-lit garden; a cherry-tree
massed with pink blossoms sheds its petals 6n to'
the balcony. Cho-Cho-San and her maid, Sukiki,
and a two-year child of whose advent Pinkerton
knows nothing, form the household, and both
women are in a charming state of excitement, for
tfiey have discovered a robin beginning to nest.'
Presently gunfire is heard, and they know the
baby s father is in port on his war-ship. They
make preparations to receive him; the child is
placed on a cushion, given a U.S.A. flag,
and told to wave “like hell,” “foh that
iss what Le’ten’t B F. Pink’ton use’ to
say.” The two women bring out lamps; and
put the room into a flowery disorder. Bios,
soma are strewn everywhere, and the floor is
deluged with cherry petals. It is an exquisite
way of welcoming the old man, so much more
refined than our “feed the brute.” However)
the sailor does, not come, although Butterfly
stands watching and waiting and longing at the
window the whole night long whilst maid and
ohild slumber. On the morrow Butterfly’s heart-
break is complete when she learns from Pinker-
ton’s friend, the" U.S.A. ’Consul, that her
marriage is not binding, and that Pinkerton’s
American wife, whom he has recently married
has joined him’ in the port. ’
* * * *
Butterfly all along has a most eligible
suitor in the person of a young Jap. gentleman,
a citizen of New York, who dresses as if he were
paying a chronic visit to White House, and who
appeals “to this statesman of integrity” (meaning
the Consul) to back his suit. But the deserted
wife rejects him, and when the American
wife comes in with offers to adopt the
child the gentle Butterfly entreats her to
come again on the morrow. Then with her
father’s sword, on which is inscribed “to die with
honor when one can no longer live with honor,’’
she kills herself, dying just as her sailor lover
bursts into the room. In her role as Madame
Butterfly, Ethel Mollison, in an orange kirnona
embroidered with lotus flowers, plays the delight-
ful Jap girl as well as any delightful native-born
might live it ©Her broken English, of which not
a word is unintelligible, her salaams, fan-play and
little staccato trot, her obeisance before her
shrined god, her tea-making, and her innocent
recital to the hard-eyed young Consul, of Pinker-
ton s “ lof-makin’ ” —all these are as seemly to her
as wings to the pretty fly that explains her name.
Susie Vaughan’s Sukiki is a tender bit of Jap serv-
ing-damselism. Harry Plimmer might mix some
sympathy with the officialism of his portrayal of
the Consul. Philip Lytton, as Pinkerton, the
remorseful, tune-limited husband, makes his
entrance as if he were going to stop a row in the
gun-room or chain up a cannon.
* * * *
But, after all, the chief interest of that
first night lay in the re-appearance of Mr.
Williamson himself. As Kerry, an old butler in
the service of an Irish family, he had his audience
alternately in laughter and tears. His make-up,
with legs and'arms akimbo, his brogue, his humor
and pathos, and the sudden alternations of his
V® lGe f rom deep tpnes to piping, whistling notes
old age, proved him still tne master of his art.
Cousin Joe,” in which Mr. Williamson appeared
as a wide-mouthed, smiling English yokel, made
the audience rock with laughter. In both little
plays, Rose Musgrove filled her roles with
such merry or tearful excellence as the parts
demanded;
** * *
.The writer had fully intended to begin
opening of the “Midsummer
T’M" ® 8 Cream ” season at Sydney Royal with
Marry something orother in the trueShakspear-
ean manner. Somehow, though, no suitable open-
ing showed itself. Nelertheless, it was a brilliant
occurrence. Only the weather might have been
better; the night “put one in remembrance of a
' Inside, however, a bright audience
filled every part—a bright audience streaked with
a lew clerical coats and countenances. The acting
was_ from good to better; the effects and musio
varied from excellent to tremendous.
* • • •
Marry (that remark is now disposed of)
—Marry, then, what would Shakspeare have said
ol it 1 When he created, Bottom and the rest of
that company of players he most likely wasn’t
thinking of Athens at all. Just as Musgrove, if
h f u^ rote come( Jy,,might show up the magnificence
productions by portraying the shifts to
which the poor players who “do” the shearing-
sheds out in the mulga country are put, so
Shakspeare, part owner of “the Gloabe on the
Banckside, was willing to show the superiority of
his own methods by picturing those of the poor
players of his own time or of a time not so very
remote. Yet the chances are that the hungry
backblooks battlers, who try to knock a living out
of ‘East Lynne” and “Ealsely Accused,” do
almost as well in the way of stage accessories,
at any rate, as Shakspeare did when he appeared'
m 8 °wn roofless Globe. Still, the patron of the
txlobe had this advantage over the modern Man
from Cracked Mountain—the Globe man was at
least getting something worth listening to even if
there was nothing to look at, and the other man'
rarely gets either. The modern manager (in the
city, of course) knows so many mechanical and'
other tricks that the matter is not of supreme im-
portance ; so, as likely as not, if Shakspeare, with
his keen eye to business, were still in the play-
writing line, he would decide that it was
labor lost to sweat out his best stuff. Certainly
he would alter his style. The limitations of
mechanical stagecraft as he knew it compelled
him to adopt devices which are no longer necessary.
Moreover, his audiences, aware of those limitations,
were content with suggestions. They were not
used to stage realism, and did not think of de-
mandmg it. And that is really the difficulty in
connection with the staging of Shakspeare. The
modern playgoer demands realism, and Shaks-
peare invented situations and actions with which
even modern stagecraft cannot cope. Personally
he didn’t try to cope with them at all. He
belonged to an age when you could stage Jonah
and the whale, the public imagining the whale.
But modern stagecraft is progressing fast—-how
fast one does not realise until one witnesses such
a triumph as George Musgrove’s production. In
the Dream ”we get tolerably close to the
realism we demand. True, Puck doesn’t yet give
the impression that he could “ put a girdle round
the earth in 40 minutes.” Twenty years hence
we may smile good-humoredly when we remember
that Dorothy Marsden didn’t really fly. But, for
all that, this represents marvellous mechanical
and (in a measure) artistic progress—these magni-
ficent stage pictures by Hawes Craven, the elec-
tric lighting, the invisible wires on which the
fairies swing down from space, and all the rest of
that sort.
* • • •
The “book” is followed closely. Tastes
have changed in 300 years, and though we stand
plays with grosser plots than Shakspeare ven-
tiired on, a few of his expressions have had to go.
For the rest, the “cuts” are mostly to save time
—the extra time, perhaps, that is consumed by
the farcical business and by the slow dawning of
day in the forest—an incomparable piece of stage
management—at the end of the third act. As to
that farcical business, it was said just now that
when Shakspeare conceived Nick Bottom and his
company he probably was not thinking of Athens
at all. A very similar license is taken in this
presentation. Shakspeare brought the travesty
up to 1600 or thereabouts; W. H. Denny and the
others bring it up to 1900 or thereabouts. When
Denny sticks to Shakspeare his work is tho-
rough ; when he gives us Denny it is, at
any rate, most enjoyable fooling. The humans
are, on the whole, more satisfactory than the
fairies. Miss Maude Milton’s rendering of the
love-sick Helena is extremely fine, and an almost
equal success is gained by Miss Cynthia Brooke
as Henma—she of the more shrewish tongue.
Apart from their acting, their performance is an
elocutionary treat. The fairy king (Miss Dora
Rignold) and queen (Miss Nora Kerin) are charm-
ing to look upon, and charming to listen to in
song; but, unhappily, it seems that the “upper
circles ’ in fairyland have developed the quite
human frailty of calling an herb an “ahrb,” and
here “ he-ah-h-h.” Miss Marsden is a highly suc-
cessful Puck, with a merry laugh, a good voice
and sprightly limbs; and Mr. Croker-King’s brief
(especially in the first act), as the angry old
father of Hermia, is exceedingly well done. There
are others—but there will be time to talk of them
later on.
*** * «
In another part of this issue appears a
portrait of Miss Florence Menk-Meyer, an Aus-
tralian pianist of note, who returns to her native
land to have another temporary smell of the
wattle and a look at the kangaroo of her infancy,
and, incidentally, to play a short season, com-
mencing at Sydney Centenary Hall on the 15th.
Miss Menk-Meyer has been absent from Australia
for some years, and during that time she has
gathered a bookful of enthusiastic notices in every
language of any account that is spoken in Europe,
and has made a pleasant and favorable dazzle in
all the capitals of that scrappy little continent
which stioks out like a collection of legs and
wings from the western side of Asia.
** * *
“Madame Sans Gene,” the Napoleonic
play with its suggestions of the fierce spirit of
French Republicanism, surviving even in the days
of the Imperial harlequinading to which Napoleon
descended in his decadence, is full of life and
color and humor. When presented before in
Sydney by the Broughs it suffered rather from
over-refined and tame treatment; .as staged by
the Frawley Co. at Sydney Palace last Saturday it
was more. rugged, in some respects more
effective, in others rathe* too much remini-
scent of the cowboy spirit. The Napoleonic
eagles scream occasionally in the lingo of Texas.
Miss Van Buren, in the title-part, is the most
successful of the east. Her rendering of the
thankless r6le of Mrs. Bonham in “Arizona”
suggested that the lady kept the stage on the
strength of her figure and her face only. But
“Sans Gene” shows that she has art. Both in
the hoydenish scenes of humor and the more
serious situations, Miss Van Buren plays with
skill and force. Frawley’s Napoleon is tuned to a
far too melodramatic key. Admitted that the
period of the play is that of the Empire—when a
great revolutionary and a marvellous soldier
had sunk to the position of an Emperor,
to the mental condition in whioh the,
symbols and trappings of magnificence are
of mote importance than the realities of power—
the Frawley make-up and reading of the charac-
ter must still, be regarded as faulty. The actor
almost rants in places. Mr. Reynolds makes of
Lefebvre a notable figure, and two others stand-
ing out from the ruck are Mr. Shaw as Fouche,
and Mr. Amory as Savary. Of 16 or so other
characters all are played evenly, and the piece
throughout moves briskly and well. A farcical
comedy “ In Paradise’’—adapted from the French
—is promised for next Saturday.
At Sydney Lyceum J. H. Nunn continues
to lead the gallant Gordons up the canvas heights
of Dargai and the Silvenis to tie themselves into a
Ladder of Life and rescue Miss Guildford from
the steam hammer. Next Saturday night “The
Greed of Gold ” will be revived—the play in which
Willard is (or used to be) struck dumb early in
the evening, with the result that he finds great
difficulty in convincing the world that he didn’t
commit murder or some other trifle.
** * *
The frantic play founded on the vulture
freak will finish its course at the Criterion on Fri-
day, and next night Charles Holloway will stage
one of the most popular of melodramas, “ The
Shadows of a Great City.” The fact that Hollo-
way has to borrow it from J. C. Williamson is
circumstantial evidence that this stage-story of.
New York life is ahead of the ordinary shocker
if it wasn’t, J.C.W. wouldn’t own it. So far
Holloway has mounted his productions excellently,
and he will have plenty of scope for jthat branch
of effort here.
** * *
At Sydney Tivoli, W. C. Fields has now
ousted Rudinoff from the star place. Fields is a
comic juggler—with a good deal of the skill of Cin-
que valli, though with none of his panther-strength.
He is best. in the comedy part of his business, but
some of his balancing is up to the standard of
Salerno, if not of Cinquevalli. Rudinoff has
changed his programme slightly again ; has even
introduced some new jokes. But he would be
well advised to drop his lightning sketches of
Sydney Harbor scenes ; they are not at all con-
vincing in color or in outline.
*# * *
“ The Serenade,” having failed to strike
Melbourne very hard, will quit the Princess’s on
Friday this week. It seems bad luck for the
management when a handsome and melodious
opera bOuffe misses the mark because it isn’t
funny, considering that the same defect in weaker
musical shows is often received with roars of
merriment. But perhaps iir these other cases the
people merely don’t know what they are
laughing at, whereas in “The Serenade” case
they have a keen perception of what they are not
laughing at. People, as a rule, can see
no joke in the labored frivolities of Madame
olapoffski, or the insincere friskiness of
Miss May Beatty, who appears to be out of
health and spirits. To enjoy this performance
one must take the opera seriously, and cast a for-
giving eye upon the bouffe. Saturday will bring
another opera of a somewhat different sort, only
more so. Donizetti’s “LaFille du Regiment” is
to be revived, with Madame Slapoffski and
Lempriere Pringle in the very principal parts,
and a good deal of chorus scattered around. The
Musgroveian advt. describes “La Fille” as a
conuc opera, making no allowance for the fact
that Donizetti died nearly 60 years ago. It was
co .mic enough then, no doubt. Next Saturday, it
will have ilie charm of an antique romantic grand
musical comedy in two acts, and the revelation
begins at 8.
& # *
At Melb. Her Majesty’s they are repeating
“The Messenger Boy” for a second week ; so
that child of uncertain age is still getting pursued
from London to the Paris Exhibition (via Brindisi
and Cairo) by the full strength of the company.
Opinions are divided as to whether the co. chases
the boy, or vice versd, but the first statement holds
good m default of coherent evidence to the con-
trary. Little Miss Olive Lenton plays the part
which Miss Musgrove filled on the first night, and
does it very well in an amateurish way ; also the
character of the Messenger Boy’s mother has
passed from the care of Miss Rose Hamilton into
the keeping of Miss Aggie Kelton. Present
scribe entertains a dim suspicion that Miss Kelton
fills the bill as a low-comedy mother, but this
is her first reappearance in Melbourne since a
way-back period, and, r ‘ like the odor of brine
from the ocean comes the thought of other
years” when she was a dashing, up-to-date
impersonation of Love’s Young Dream in “Doro-
thy ” and “ Princess Ida,” and subsequently a
delectable Chopinette in “Paul Jones.” All
things considered, it is consoling to hear Hooker
Pasha’s private secretary refer to Tommy Bang’s
mother as “rather tasty.” Next Saturday a
revival of “ The Runaway Girl ” comes along and
lasts three nights, after which “San Toy’’and
“ The French Maid.”
m* * *
At Melbourne Royal, the new Blandolt
pradrama (Bulletin word, signifying drama com-
posed mainly of prad, like a beef sausage) gives
every promise of being a remunerative circus for
weeks to come. It satisfies the sesthetic few who
want fairly brisk dialogue with their spectacular
shocks, whilst it delights the vast demonstrative
majority that wants nothing more intellectual
than ’orses, and stoushes and bona-fide vittles
on the. table when the needy hero comes to
dine with the low comedian. The vittles scene
in the pradrama aforesaid is a huge success,
although it makes no variation from twenty
previous banquets of the kind, except in the
startling fact that a Jew money-lender arrives
with, a ppcket full of fried fish, which he presents
to Baker as a tribute of esteem for that
poor, busted Gentile. This inhuman act of
Nathanio generosity seems to have no ulterior
motive whatever. The affluent usurer casts
his fish upon the waters without a chance of
getting it back after many days. He has no
interest in the plot of the play because his
assistance is not required. Owing to the pre-
valence of horse there is hardly enough plot to go
round among four people, and the dramatic duties
of clever Miss Brightie Smith are confined to a
cab yard, where she hops around on a game leg,
rejoicing in the prospect of a “scrap” between
hero Baker and a brother cab-driver.
*# # *
At the Opera House, a well-appointed
French lady is giving the prettiest bird show this
country has yet seen. Once upon a time, a charm-
ing Queen of the Feathered Tribe, or some such
potentate, appeared at the old Opera House with
a number of hungry pigeons, and made a good
impression, but the pigeon lady was a small
dramatic item compared with Madame Marzella,
the latest Rickards engagement. Madame’s
performing birds are mostly cockatoos, white
or. gaudy, supported by a ruminative
fair of black crows and a gifted eagle.
n the absence of the eagle, whose “turn’’was
not yet ready for production, the cockatoos and
crows evoked special enthusiasm on Saturday
night, and the entertainment, which is strong in
decorative fittings and limelight effects, went
straight to the audience’s Australian heart.
Madame Marzella adds a lot of importance to the
Rickards’ programme. Frederick Hallen and
Miss Fuller, with the assistance of a silent third
person, are still giving a crudely humorous comedy
on the lines of the Drew comedies, and Dan
Crawley has changed some of his chants. >’
** * *
“ O. Kapple,” about a disappointing aris-
ocrat:
A most awful public entertainment was Count Vav de
Vaya’s lecture, entitled “ How I came to Australia,”
given at Melbourne Town Hall. His Nibs didn’t provide
all the agonies of that entertainment. He was preceded
by musical items, including two organ solos, for which
the organ, perhaps, deserves more blame than the man
who unkindly consented to perform upon it. Between
two dismal periods of organ came three lady vocalists and
two Misses Pinschof. The first songstress was a smart
and pretty girl with a tuneful little soprano—hardly a
full-sized drawing-room voice ; just a satisfactory parlor
voice. She sang two numbers (bracketed), and evidently
enjoyed her long stay on the platform. The other singers
were not decorative items, but the sorrowful-looking one
who sang a long aria from Weber’s “ Frieschutz ” had a
fairly large voice, foggy, yet sweet; also her vocalism
was artistic. The third lady seemed rather too
grown-up for her skittish Christian name of “ Lovie,”
and when she was uttering two Brahms songs(bracketed)
the name of Moanie or Groanie would have fitted her
much better. Then the two Misses Pinschof ! One at a
time they come forward as though Papa had bought the
Town Hall, and hired the vice-regal presence for the
occasion. Each Miss Pinschof starting to play the piano
adjusted herself leisurely on the music stool and went
through a series of “ side ” exercises. The elder Miss
Pinschof, after striking a note severely wdth her forefinger,
would pause such a long time that her next note came as a
surprise. The arrogant self-sufficiency of these damsels !
The musical portion of the show (prices 35., 2s. and Is.)
was followed by Mayor Gillott’s introduction of Mon-
signor the Count, and the Major cut his introduction
very long. He had taken the precaution to assume his
robe, of office—a heavy winter garment trimmed with fur;
and whilst the unfortunate Town Hall listeners were
doing the usual perish Mayor Gillott maundered on. He
had nothing to say, but he said it repeatedly. His few
remarks stammered round and round the point until they
grew too dizzy to stammer further. Then Count Vay
de Vaya began his “ lecture.” A handsome-faced
count in a red cassock with elbow-sleeves, blue
and white silk band, and a gold chain round
the neck,. and numerous jewelled decorations glitter-
ing on his chest. A cross of crystals, or diamonds,
looked very pretty. An ornamental Count in all respects,
but otherwise an out-and-out fraud as an entertainer.
His foreign accent made him unintelligibly to people at
the back of the hall, whilst those who could understand
what he was saying marvelled at the feebleness of his
discourse. One doesn’t expect too much from, titled
entertainers. I had sampled the stage work of the Earls
of Yarmouth and Shaftesbury in days of yore, and was
prepared to think charitably of the Vatican Count, but
after hearing him lecture I look back with gratitude at
the comparatively brilliant performances of the other
exalted amateurs. Count V. de V.’s red robe and glitter-
ing cross protected him from any open demonstration of
discontent, nevertheless a large percentage of the audi-
ence retired noisily from the premises long before the
infliction was ended.
** # *
“ O.K. ” writes :
Richard Strauss, of whom it is claimed, by some people,
that he has “gone one better” than Wagner in the
attempt to achieve musical representation of Still life, is
a more difficult composer for an orchestra to deal with.
Marshall Hall’s first struggle with Strauss’s “ Death and
Transfiguration " took place at Melbourne Town Hall, the
other Saturday, and if it is possible for a conductor to
reveal great descriptive power in that “ tone-poem,” the
enthusiastic M.H. must be said to have failed in his read,
ing of it. There were 75 instrumentalists at work unde r
The equitable life assurance society
FINANCIAL
STATEMENT
FOR YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER, 1902.
ASSURANCE IN FORCE
INCREASE IN ASSURANCE IN FORCE ..
ASSETS
INCREASE IN ASSETS
SURPLUS
INCREASE IN SURPLUS .. ..
THE NEW BUSINESS EXCEEDED THAT OF 1901 by ...
Looal Directors have powe- to Issue Policies, Pay Claims, etc.
< i> Sir WILLIAM M'MILLAN, K.C.M.G., Chairman; Hon. C. R. MACRELLAR MB MT, n
F. NORTON MANNING, Esq., M. D. ' '* M-UU -
C. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia.
P. C.- COWLEY, Secretary ALEX. JOBSONr'-Aetuary for Australasia. DAVID FELL, Auditor.
8. W. D’ARCY IRVINS, F. 5.5., Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland.
*265.597,775
£19,915,124'
*73,855,783
' £4,889,175
*15*418,151
£620,434
£6,665,178
RABBITS!
ARE THEY TO BE
A PROFIT OR PEST?
It rests entirely with our settlers whether it shall cost them and the State a large amount
continue the war which has been waged against “ bunny ” for years past','
whether they will take the trouble to turn him into an asset which will bring a steady
revenue to the country and provide employment for THOUSANDS of its people. The
Kosewarne Packing Company, Ltd., is now receiving rabbits at its works in Young,
JXarandera and Sydney. The highest market price is given in return for freshly-killed
rabbits free of any commission or charges. r , , ~ v
For further particulars, address —
THE ROSEWARNE PACKING COMPANY, Limited,
HEAD OFFICE— NARANDERA
70 PITT ST., SYDNEY or YOUNG.


his direction, but the music for the most part hardly
suggested the meaning of the poem printed on the pro-
gramme. The same orchestra had given a comparatively
lucid statement of the “ Tannhauser ” Overture. But
•* Tannhauser ” offers the instruments fair chances of rea-
listic effect, as far as inarticulate sounds can go in pictur-
esque narrative and spiritual suggestion. Strauss Spoem
lias no light variety or movement in it. The orchestra
i> asked to portray a noble-minded man dying in a garret
with one tallow candle to light his agonies.- At first he
is asleep, and then the music is supposed to show a
melancholy smile flitting o’er his pallid features. He
recovers consciousness to agonise a while, after which he
dreams of how he grew from a happy child into the ill-
paid poet who is now about to be a dismal subject for a
pauper funeral. In due course the lonely dreamer ex-
pires. The poverty-stricken, ill-ventilated garret has a,
corpse for a tenant. Up to that point the orchestras
task is dull and colorless. Then the late unlamented
body releases the soul, and it soars upward to “ heavenly
plains,” where its desire is fulfilled ; and then, of course,
the orchestra grows impressive—but only in an orthodox
way. Strauss’s Heaven shows no novelty of imagination
to compensate the audience for his dull pretence of de-
picting a sordid scene of silence by a suitable arrange-
ment of sounds. ■
* df 4ff #
At Adelaide Tivoli, the Boissetts have
bashed each other with bricks and with eatables
of various kinds to the apparent satisfaction of
large audiences ; but they show a regrettable
American tendency to end up with. an explosion
and some red fire. (By a grim coincidence, the
very day they opened in their bricklayer sketch,
the fun of which largely consists in falling off
ladders, a mason fell off his ladder in an Adelaide
church and was killed among the pews.) The
Boissetts now appear in a new sketch, wherein
they wear evening dress instead of moleskins;
but they bash each other just as before. By
the way, the small humorist of the Go. does not
look nearly as much like Johnny Briggs in a
tail-coat as he did in a corduroy. The Royal has
been empty for a few nights, the bard and the
fairies having moved on. To the great regret of
Adelaide, Nora Kerin of the Ada Ferrar voice,
and Cynthia Brooke of the Lillah M’Carthy voice,
and Bucklaw of the tired voice, and the Croker-
King who plays two dukes, and all the rest of
them, are-gone. The takings for the season are
officially stated to be the best ever known, except
for Sara Bernhardt, who charged increased prices,
and so doesn’t fairly compare. George Lauri and
the Comic Opera Co., with a quiok-ohange season
of four old plays, are imminent.
The Wild Cat Column.
“The Right Hon. the Treasurer has merely given
us a good book-keeper’s view of the state of the finances.
I am bound to express my profound disappointment
with it.”— George Reid, in the Reps.
Australian Treasurer Turner’s.. Budget is a
model of straightforwardness. The only charge that
even G. H. Reid could make in connection with it was
that Turner had stuck hard and fast to his figures—
which amounts to about the best testimonial a Treasurer
ever got from the leader opposite. The totals are :
1901-2 1902-3 1903-4
(actual). (actual). (estimated).
Revenue .. .. £11,296,985 £12,105,878 £11,566,185
Expenditure .. 3,932,745 3,901,759 4,320,449
Surplus (to he re-
turned to the
States) ~ .. 7,364,240 8,204,119 7,245,730
Figures for the States separately are
Revenue. Expenditure.
1903 1904 1903 1904 '
(actual), (estimate), (actual), (estimate).
N.S.W. .. £4,391,000 £4,052,296 £1,343,086 £1,483,445
Victoria .. 3,126,892 3,044,605 1,018,685 1,100,561
Queensland.. 1,563,895 1,477,783 652,953 692,141
S. Australia.. 946,930 952,507 367,475 414,690
Westralia .. 1,621,811 1,571,459 365,278 447,138
Tasmania .. 455,344 467,535 164,282 182,468
The total actual expenditure for 1902-3 was £3,901,759, or
£350,147 less than had been estimated ; the estimated ex-
penditure now goes up by £418,690—a large sum, yet
only £68,543 more than had been estimated for 1902-3.
The Treasurer expects that the post office will cost
£2,525,758, as against £2,406,193, an increase of £119,565 ;
the elections (charged to the vote for Parliament) are re-
spons ble for an extra £45,000 ; the High Court is down
for £4500. No provision, however, seems to have been
made for the Arbitration Court. Last year an absolute
saving of £78,145 was made in the Defence department as
compared with the previous year of blood-drunkenness ;
a further saving is promised here this year of over
£60,000. This, however, is independent of the naval
tribute.
As to the three departments that were taken
over by the Commonwealth, the expenditure in the last
year that they were under State control was, as nearly as
can be estimated, £3,067,000; for the current year it is
estimated at £3,152,000, or £85,000 more. The largest
increase has been in N.S.W. That there has been any
increase at all, under the almost drastic economy of
Federal control, is due to the fact that the revenue is
now charged with much of what was formerly charged to
loans, while on the eve of Federation several of the
States allowed their stores of ammunition to run down
almost to nothing: also they rushed up the classification
of some of their servants in the departments to be trans-
ferred, and left the Commonwealth to pay the bill. As
to the position of the States during the year just com-
menced, the position is that they will, it is estimated,
receive £958,393 less than they received last year. The
amount is made up in this way :
N.S.W. will receive £2,568,851 or £479,063'!
Victoria ~ ~ 1,944,044 or 164,163 .3
Queensland „ ~ 785,642 or 125,300 - .
S.A. „ » 537,811 or 41,650 1 o'?
Westralia „ „ 1,124,321 or 132,212 (So
Tasmania „ ~ 285,067 or 15,995
— <D
All States „ „ £7,245,730 or £958,383 ~
The N.S.W. railway accounts for the year to
June 30 are gloomy reading. A comparison covering a
few years :
Amount
Gross Working left to cover Expenses to
Earnings. Expenses. Interest. Revenue.
1897.. £3,014,742 £1,601,218 £1,413,524 53T p.c.
1898.. 3,026,748 1,614,605 1,412,143 533 „
1899.. 3,145,273 1,690,442 1,454,831 637 „
1900.. 3,163,572 1,769,520 1,394,052 55‘9 „
1901.. 3,573,779 2,043,201 1,530,578 57’2 „
1902.. 3,668,686 2,267,369 1,401,317 61’8 „
1903.. 3,314,893 2,266,299 1,048,594 68’4 „
Six years ago 47 per cent, of the gross earnings was
available to pay interest ; for last year less than 32 per
cent, was available for that purpose. The balance, of
course, had to be made up out of either taxation, or
loans, or land sales. As far as net earnings are con-
cerned, the N.S.W. lines have gone back about 13 years,
to the position of 1890 or 1891.
* * * *
The Metropolitan Gas Co. (Melbourne): —
New Works
Charged to
Profits Dividends Revenue Reserves
Dec., 1899 £519,683
June, 1900 £47,129 8 p.c. =£34,288 532,524
Dec., 1900 58,727 8 „ 34,288 £1,442 555,521
June, 1901 53,955 9 „ 38,574 9,758 561,144
Dec., 1901 56,872 9 „ 38,574 10,725 568,717
June, 1902 60,212 9 „ 38,574 11,643 568,712
Dec., 1902 50,454 9 „ 38,574 5,172 575,420
£5665 written off Meter Renewal Reserve , 569,755
June, 1903 46,776 9 „ 38,574 7,573 670,384
In view of the heavy debenture burden which the co.
carries (£848,000 of debentures have been issued), and of
the fact that these debentures begin to fall due in 1908,
the increase of dividend did not look justified when
it took place, and it looks even less justified now that the
profits are so much less. After payments have been
made out of revenue for new works, there remains this
year only £629 to add to reserves; while the reserves
have been drawn upon to the extent of £5665 for the
renewal of meters, leaving a net reduction of reserves
amounting to £5036. The reserves now consist of pre-
mium on shares, £466,536 ; reserve fund, £87,292 (£50,000
of which is represented by debentures, probably the co’s.
own); meter renewal fund, £11,836 ; and undivided
profit, £4720.
* • * *
Stranger : A (at 215.) paid last 7$ per cent. The
return at the price is about £7 3s. per cent. B (at 605.)
pays 3£. The return would be £5 17s. O (at 355.)
pays 6 per cent. ; return, £8 11s. 6d. D (965.) carries 3
per cent ; on entire capital and reserves last half-year
profit was £3 2s. sd. per cent, per annum, and its pros-
pects generally are improving. Of A B and O, B is
probably the soundest, and O the most uncertain.
• * * *
The Denton Mills Hat Factory Co. (Mel-
bourne
Profits. Dividends. ™ en to Re*
June. serves.
1894 .. £2927 10 p.c. = £2330 £597 £6330
1895 .. 2976 10 „ „ 2330 £4558 1418
1896 .. 3074 10 „ „ 2330 744 216?
1897.. 3367 10 „ „ 2330 1823 1376
1898.. 3628 10 „ „ 2330 1,298 2674
1899.. 3166 10 „ „ 2445 711 3385
New Share Premiums 31 3416
1900.. 3114 10 „ „ 2450 664 4080
1901 .. 2857 10 „ „ 2450 407 4487
1902.. 2955 10 „ „ 2450 505 4992
1903.. 3268 10 „ „ 2584 1046 4630
To wipe off a mortgage and re-model the factory building
the balance of the authorised capital is being called up ;
at 30th June £2162 (of a total of £6700) remained unpaid.
The paid capital will be £30,000 when the operation is
complete. The whole of the reserves are used in the
business, which, with all calls paid, will have none too
much capital at command.
'* 41 * *
‘ ‘ El Esceptico ” : Have nothing to do with it.
It may struggle on for a long time by paying the sums
due to old members out of subscriptions received from
new ones, but it is bankrupt all the same. Why not take
an endowment policy in the Maoriland Government Life
Department? It is solid enough.^
The Perpetual Trustees, Executors, and
Agency Co. op Tasmania (Hobart)
Dividends Added
Profits, and Divi- Written to Re- Re-
dend Tax. off. serves, serves.
June, 1897.. £849 6 p.c. = £315 £34 £3BOO
Dec., 1897.. 465 6 „ „ 315 150 3950
June, 1898.. 421 6 „ „ 315 106 4056
Dec., 1898.. 421 6 „„ 315 106 4162
June, 1899.. 365 6 „ „ 315 50 4212
Dec., 1899... 346 6 „ „ 315 31 4243
June, 1900.. 380 6 „ „ 315 65 4308
Dec., 1900.. 358 6 „ „ 315 43 4311
June, 1901.. 454 6 „ „ 815 139 4490
Dec., 1901.. 1404 8 „ „ 420 984 5474
June, 1902.. 703 8 „ „ 420 £255 28 6502
Dec., 1902.. 677 8 „„ 420 257 5759
June, 1903.. 796 8 „ „ 420 713 5422
This sudden and severe writing-down looks a little
alarming ; still it cannot go on very long—with the
present reduction the property account will stand at
only £3OOO. The co. furnishes a little more information
than usual regarding its investments ; £5OOO, it tran-
spires, is in inscribed stock, and £4094 is out on mort-
gage. Earnings on capital alone (£10,000) are equal to
very nearly 16 per cent, per annum, as against 13J per
cent, in the previous half-year ; on combined capital and
reserves at the commencement of the half-year earnings
equalled £lO 2s. per cent., as against £8 14s. Bd. in the
preceding half.,
• • * *
Tamwobth Gas and Coke Co. (Tamwortb,
N.S.W.)
Added
Written to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
Dec., 1901.. £1574
June, 1902.. £692 10 p.c. =£soo £192 1766
Deo., 1902.. 699 10 „ „ 500 199 1965
June, 1903.. 623 10 „ „ 600 £lOO 23 1988
The co., with a present capital of £lO,OOO, proposes a
fresh issue to allow of an extension of operations.
Most of the reserves shown above are already in plant,
and the balance is used otherwise in the business.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Government is fooling in an extra-
ordinary fashion with the question of Broken Hill water
supply. Apparently more with the object of keeping
local people quiet than for any other reason, a rabbit-
brained scheme has been put in hand at Umberumberka
Creek without the sanction of either Parliament or Public
Works Committee. The Owe’Sullivan’s brilliant idea is
to build a dam at this place, and a tramway to connect
the dam with the Adelaide-Broken Hill railway, sq that,
when the company’s reservoir runs dry, water may be
carted to Broken Hill in trucks. When there is any
water in the company’s reservoir, of course, nothing
will be drawn from Owe’Sullivan’s wild-cat dam,
and it will be earning nothing, though it will be
costing the country from £3OOO to £3500 a year in inte-
rest and upkeep. If the company’s reservoir doesn’t
fail for another ten years (up to now it hadn’t failed for
15 years), then Owe’Sullivan’s wild-cat will cost £35,000
before it has a chance to do anything. Even then the
water will have to be carted in trucks 20 or 30 miles ;
and, though that might be some sort of a makeshift so
far as a domestic supply is concerned, if the Owe’Sullivan
reckons upon trucking water 25 miles at a rate cheap
enough to allow the concentrating mills and other
works to use it, then he is a painfully ignorant
Owe’Sullivan. Meantime, in spite of an outlay
of £45,000, Broken Hill will not, as an ordinary
thing, have any more water, or any cheaper water, or
any purer water. All it will have for the £45,000 will •
be a dam out in the wilderness, 25 miles or thereabouts,
and the memory of a Minister for Works who had an idea
that the proper way to supply a dry city with water is to
cart it 25 miles in buckets. Moreover, as before
stated,’ Owe’Sullivan has ■ put this ridiculous scheme
in hand without a shred of Parliamentary authority, in
spite of the fact that it is estimated to cost £45,000, and
in cheerful defiance of the law which says that every pro-
posed work estimated to cost £20,000 or more shall be
referred to the Public Works Committee.
• • • • •
Probably the Umberumberka Creek ought to be
dammed ; that, anyhow, is one possible scheriie. But it
is no use making a dam and leaving it there ; it must be.
connected with the town and the mines, not by a futile
tramway, but by a rising main. In that case the Govern-
ment would have to supply the town, and get power to
levy a water-rate; as for the supply of the mines, it
would have to compete with the present company for
that. The other scheme involves taking over the whole
of the present company’s works, and extending the catch-
ment area. Which of the two it is wiser to carry out
depends wholly upon the price that the co. is prepared to
accept. The matter is one for the careful inquiry of the
Works Committee. The company ought to be invited to
say what is its rock-bottom price "; then the Works Com-
mittee should go ahead and decide - between the two
schemes. What the Owe’Sullivan is doing now is simply
prejudicing that simple and effective settlement of the
trouble, because the more money that is spent at Umber-
umberka,- even though it be without authority, the less
inclined will, the Works Committee be to consider the
other scheme on its merits. The apology for a scheme
which Owe’Sullivan has putin hand, without having this
inquiry made, certainly involves a less Outlay than either
of the others ; but in nine years out of ten it will be of no
more benefit to Broken Hill and its mines than astatue of
Owe’Sullivan on the South Head would be, and in the
10th year the benefits will probably be too small to be
worth bothering about.
* * * *
The North Coast Steam Navigation Co.
(Sydney):
Income Outgoings
Unexplained
Busi- Addi- Written Total
ness tions to off Re-
Profits Reserves Dividend Reserves serves
June, 1899 £28,818
Dec., 1899 £5600 £1,601 Bp.c. = £5250 25,769
June, 1900 5581 663 8 „ 5250 26,763
Dec., 1900 5518 736 8 „ 5250 - 27,767
June, 1901 5445 40 8 „ 5250 28,002
Dec., 1901 5480 8 „ 5250 £BO 28,152
June, 1902 5507 13,097 8 „ 5250 41,506
Dec., 1902 3988 2,894 8 „ 5250 -- 43,138
June, 1903 2583 6 „ 3938 190 41,593
The reserves consist of insurance fund, £33,260, and a
“fund for the equalisation of dividends” (practically
undivided profits), £8333. From the former £l9O has
been taken during the half-year ; and the dividend
has reduced the latter by £1355. The co. has lost,
one of its steamers, the Oakland, but.has added two
others to its fleet; and its ship property is valued
at £137,261, as against £133,879 six months ago.
This property is covered by insurance to the extent of
£66,250, or, approximately, half the full value. The
serious reduction of profits has-been mainly due to the
recent drought on the North Coast ; but as drought is,
comparatively speaking, a stranger in those parts, what-
ever change occurs in the co.’s business ought to be for
the better.
• • * •
“ P.” writes : “ The art union which was started
some time back with such a flourish of trumpets to raise
funds for the relief of the Mount Kembla sufferers seems
to have panned out badly. ‘ Advertised value of prizes
was £3050. The drawing took place in March last, when
it was announced that the receipts from the sale of
tickets was about £2391, and expenses of advertising,
printing, postage, salaries, etc., about £1620. Alleged,
that the expenses, including cost of four motor cars, will
practically absorb the whole of the proceeds. At all
events, so far, no money has been handed over to the
Mount Kembla Relief Fund.
• * *
The Commercial Building and Investment
Co. (Sydney):
Loss on
Loss on Property Total Reserves.
Business. Sales. Loss.
June, 1896 .. £lBl5
Deficit.
„ 1897 .. £3145 £3145 1330
„ 1898 .. 4037 4037 5367
„ 1899 .. 1485 £l6OB 2993 8360
„ 1900 .. 933 983 9293
„ 1901 .. 186 186 9479
„ 1902 .. 45 45 9524
Profits.
ii 1903 mm 708 — — 8816
The position, though still poor enough', is steadily
improving. In-the 12 months ended June, 1901, the gross
return on the paper value of the co.’s investments was
£3 17s. lOd. per cent. ; to June, 1902, £4 os. 7d per cent.;
in the past year, £4 ss. 2d. per cent. After working
expenses are paid the return is, however, only £2 12s. 9d.
per cent, (it was £2 7s. 2d. per cent, in the previous
term); and this is not large enough to give a fair margin
of profit after paying interest on the disproportionate
amount of borrowed money. The position is that the co.
is working on about £293,000, of which £145,000 is its own
and £148,000 is borrowed. But while the whole £293,000
returns only £2 12s. 9d. net, the £148,000 costs about
£4 7s. 6d. The improvement in the business is hopeful,
but daylight still looks a long way off. A good deal of
the improvement this year 13 due to the reduction of
expenses ; but even if there were no expenses at all—no
salaries, no taxes, no repairs, no anything—it would still
be impossible to pay even 4 per cent.
*** . *
The City op Newcastle Gas and Coke Co.
(Newcastle, N.S.W.):—
Added to Re-
Profits. Dividends. Reserves! serves.
Dec., 1900 .... r- _ £42,9(1
June, 1901.. ..£3137 15 p.c. = £lBB5 £1252 44,1'3
Dec., 1901 .. .. 2494 15 „ „ 1885 609 44 7(2
June, 1902 .. .. 2660 15 „ „ 1885 ’775' 45 537
Dec., 1902 .. .. 3499 15 „ „ 2180 1319- 4e!8(6
June, 1903 .. .. 2778 15 ~ „ 2574 204 47,0(0
The paid capital is now £35,639, against £25,126 a year
ago. During the half-year an unusually heavy draft
(£579) has been made on the meter fund, which to some
extent accounts for the reduced profits. Of the reserves
£16,656 is in N.S.W. stoeks : the balance is used in the
business.
♦** ■ m
The S.M. Herald is vigorous and venomous on
one point only—it loathes that great and magnificently
successful example of State enterprise, the Maoriland
Government Life Insurance Department; and, when it
gets on that subject, the old, dead paper shins out of its
grave in real earnest, and takes its tombstone and its
coffin under its arm, and goes forth like a raging lion.
Last week it published a bitter curse on the Maoriland
Department for having so much of its money invested in
safe Government securities, and tells of some alleged
person at Wellington who, as a consequence, is surren-
dering his policies in disgust and “ leaving the colony.”
The Herald actually said that this individual is leaving
Maoriland because the Maoriland Government Insur-
ance Department has invested a lot of money in
3 per cent. State securities. And yet when the Herald .
come 3 across a privately managed office at its own
door, where the whole income for a recent year didn’t
cover working expenses, and though it has, in its own
city, a life office whose funds are mostly represented by
the funds added, on pap'qr, to the alleged value of its
building, these things don’t worry it to any extent worth
mentioning. The only life assurance Office -which rouses'
the Herald to fury is the one that charges the lowest
premiums, gives large bonuses, shows the lowest expense
rate, save one, among Australasian life offices, and the
solvency of which has been consistently free from all
breath of suspicion. But that office represents the de-
tested policy of State Enterprise, which is anathema.
Sydney Fekbies, Ltd. (Sydney)
Added
Profits. Dividends. to Re- Re-
serves.' serves.
June, 1900 £4701 7 per cent. =£4200 £5Ol £5Ol
Dec., 1900 5089 7 „ „ 4200 889 1390
June, 1901 5377 7 „ ~4200 1177 2567
Dec., 1901 5268 7 ~ „ 4200 1068 3635
t June, 1902 6742 7 ~ ~ 4200 1542 5177
■ Dec., 1902 8040 8 „ „ 5453 2587 7764
, June, 1903 7464 8 ~ „ 5600 1864 9628
The reserves consist of reserve for special repairs and
new steamers £7500, insurance fund £l5OO, and' the
balance is undivided profit. The additions to the reserves
have been about 2_J per cent, per annum on the average
paid-up capital since the formation of the present 1 co.
This, in common with the progress generally,' is satis-
factory. „
* * .. » S. , *
The City op Goulburn Gas and Coke Co.
(Goulburn, (N.S.W.)
Profits. Dividends. se^v'es.
June, 1901.. _ £5927
Dec., 1901.. £BO2 15 per cent. = £750 £52 5979
June, 1902.. 762 15 „ „ 750 12 5991
Dec., 1902.. 942 15 „ 760 192 6183
June, 1903.. 938 15 „ ~ 750 188 6371
The reserves are wholly used in the business, which
appears to be of a steady and flourishing character.
* * » *
The Broken Hill mines are getting along
somehow—working when they can, and knocking off
when they can’t. There isn’t enough water available to
keep them all going; so some of them take turn and
turn about. Every few days the papers announce that
some mine or other has “resumed work”; this simply
means that it is up to that particular mine to breast the
bar and get a drink, while some other mine falls back
into idleness. Only the B.H. Prop, is working much as
usual; of the others the British keeps going best. No
rain has fallen there—-there.was a .temporary dampness in
the air and that was all.
• • * •
The Policy Holder, July, 1902, writes
“ The last report of the Colonial Mutual shows that this
important institution is maintaining its hold upon the
assuring public.”*
* * • •
Messrs. Gillespie Bros, and Co., of the Anchor
Roller Flour Mills, Sydney, have placed an order with
The Austral Otis Engineering Company, of South
Melbourne, for the construction of a modern semi tandem
horizontally coupled triple expansion surface condensing
engine. The engine will be capable of indicating 450
horse-power ; the cylinders being 12", 19" and 30" diam. ’
respectively, with a stroke of 48 inches, and will be fitted ;
with specially designed inlet and exhaust steam valves on ■
the Sultzer principle. This engine will form another
excellent example of modern high class engine construc-
tion. to the credit of the builders, who have already
attained a well deserved reputation throughout the
Commonwealth for design and construction of this class
of work.
• • * *
_A. Kozminsky, 106 Queen-st., Melbourne,
having returned from England, is now prepared to
purchase paying mines, and mining properties (not
merely surface shows), situated in any part of
Australasia requiring further capital for development and
machinery. Only genuine and legitimate ventures,
capable of bearing the strictest examinations will be
entertained.*
* * • *
With a constant sensibility of l/3000th. grain,
assayers will welcome the “Galopin” Assay Balance
(price, with weights, £21.) “It is all you claim for it,”
writes a customer to de Beer, Silberberg and Co., of
Gasoline furnace.fame, Bourke-street, Melbourne.*
• • * *
H. Brandon Skertobly, geologist, raining engi-
neer and assayer, is prepared to furnish scientific reports
and plans to British and Australian investors. Assays
undertaken, and inquiries re mining properties, promptly
attended to. For fuller information apply to H. Brandon
Skertchly, Norman Chambers, Creek-street, Brisbane.*
• • * *
George Morrison, Stock and Share broker
(member Brisbane Stock Exchange), 377 Queen-street
opposite Stock Exchange, Brisbane. Agents all parts of
the World. Correspondence invited.* r
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
•.- * • •
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, of Melbourne, reports
that there has been a great improvement in the general
outlook of the engineering business since the new year
Started, and that his pipe making works in Melbourne
and Perth are working full-handed. Amongst the orders
now being executed at Footscray works is one for 7 miles
10 chains of 18in. diameter light steel spiral-riveted pipes
for the Victorian water supply ; and at Perth works a
contract is in progress for over 6 miles of lOJin. diameter
spiral-riveted pipes, flanged joints, for the Greenbushes
Tin-Mining Syndicate. About two miles of these pipes
are to stand a test pressure of 8001 b. to the square inch.*
• * * *
To empty old abandoned shafts, or to cope with
inrushes of water at a minimum cost, may be effected by
the use of the Vertical Plunger Sinking Pumps, manufac-
tured by The A. S. Cameron Steam Pump Works of'New
York ; and represented by Messrs. W. & J. Lempriere, of
Melbourne, who hold stocks of these and various other
sizes and styles of steam or air pumps. These pumps are
distinct from any other make of so-called “Cameron’
Pump. They work automatically, and have no dead
centre, neither have they springs nor outside valve gear
to become deranged. They occupy less space in a shaft
than any other Sinking Pump of same capacity.*
• * » *
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime and
all Mining and Assay Chemicals and Apparatus, Micro-
scopes and accessories can be obtained of Feltpn, Grim-
wade and Co., Melbourne. 4th edition, enlarged (red
cover) of illustrated catalogue of all mining requisites
now ready. Free on application on receipt of 4d.
postage.*
• • * *
Hedley Hawkins, sharebroker, Queen-street, .
Brisbane (member, Brisbane Stock Exchange), has agents
every important mining centre and cities of Common-
wealth. Correspondence invited.*
* * » *
After six or seven years’battling with adverse 1
elements, Mount David (N.S.W.) has at last got into
smooth financial water. Co. has now a credit balance of
over £lOOO, clear of all liabilities, and, according to news-
paper reports, there is sufficient payable stone in sight to
keep the battery running for nine months. How sorely
tempted the directors must be to declare a dividend—
even though it be only 3d. per lt is only in this
way that the few patient shareholders will ever get any-
thing out of the concern. The sharp market obstinately
refuses to be guided by, favorable pars., and the value of
shares remains stationary. Mount David is one of the
worst things N.S.W. speculators have experienced in
recent years; certainly it ranks next to Turon River
Dredging Co.
(Continued on page 30.)
Poor Turner, on his office stool,
Insists that one and two make three ;
I laugh at such a stupid rule,
And scorn such drab monotony.
(I sometimes make the answer four,
And sometimes just a trifle more.)
Dull Turner, on his office stool,
Says one from two leaves always one.
Such nonsense let us ridicule,
Let’s make it more—it’s better fun.
(Or if you’d rather have it less
That can be managed, too, I guess.)
Grey Turner, on his office stool,
Says three times two are surely six.
That’s good enough perhaps for school,
But not for Dry-Dog politics.
(The answer’s either five or eight—
’Twould take too long to calculate.)
Drab Turner sits upon his stool,
And puts his figures through the mill;
I travel as the fakir who’ll
Make figures answer at his will.
(Heigh, Presto 1 Surpluses are here 1
I make a pass—they disappear 1)
I pity Turner on his stool,
He has no soul, poor honest chap ;
While I—I am the merry Fool
Who travels with the'bells and cap.
(Oh yes I Oh yes ! roll up, walk in—
Our Moral Show will now begin.)
S.H.P.
MW
$
SUN
BRAND
nIC HE.ST
QUALITY
SOLD
EVERYWHERE
Jam ‘5‘ _ I:
§ “'. —$__.:"‘.r
i ‘R‘u‘g'ﬁb
" v *‘-":""-""_ 5 ‘
TRAMWAYS FOR MINES.
ECONOMY IN HAULAGE. —Horse urtd dray is cheaper than a wheelbarrow, but an
up-to-date Tramway, with suitable rolling stock for manual, horse or loco, traction,
is still more economical and expeditious. Large Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane
stocks of Steel Kails, Mining Tip-trucks, Portable Tramway, Switches, Turntables, &c.
INDENTS.— Dog-spikes to Compound Locomotives— i.e., EVERYTHING.
S&t Our CATALOGUE is yours for the asking. 1§&
CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY APPLIANCES
Prop. Ltd. , 40 Hunter St., SYDNEY. A. E. VEPLA3TRIER, Manager,
Representing Orenstein and Koppel, Ltd., London, Berlin and Paris.
Branches—Melbourne, Brisbane, Cairns and Zeehan (Tasmania),
•oda.
By Special Appointment to His Majesty the King.


Society
• * ♦ *
In a certain State a public official has
been suspended, on account of an ingenious
arrangement of mirrors in his office which reflected
the stockings Of girl clerks going up and down the
adjacent stair. Whether he was suspended on
moral grounds, or because the reflection of the
stockings made him neglect his work, hasn’t
transpired yet.
The obituary column in the daily paper is
now a recognised training ground for poets. In
the Age of a few weeks back a tribute to the lost
one concluded as follows :
And while I hope his spirit rests in peace,
I know my love for him shall never cease ;
Endeared to me by his kind, loving ways,
No word of mine is too good in his praise.
(All rights reserved.)
Actions for infringement of obituary verse copy-
right are looming in the distance.
• * * *
A burglar with a sense of courtesy has
turned up at Auckland (M.L.). Mr. L. D.
Nathan, merchant, whose house had been broken
into, advertised next day, asking for the return
of a bunch of keys which had been taken along
with the booty. In response he received the keys
and a number of small articles which the burglar
found of no use, together with the following note:
Sir.—Am exceedingly sorry to have created such dis-
order, but ’tis fated thus. U will find keys and sundries
in hedge near main gate. .. . Entered 12 p.m. Exit
I p.m. — I remain, sir, William Sykes, a small actor in this
drama of life, though not, I must say, a favorite with the
audience.
A Redfern (Sydney) poet displays in his
hairdresser’s window a “poem”on the execution
of Grand and Jones, Printed copies are one penny
each. The opening verse:
On the I7fch of July nineteen hundred and three,
Digby Grand and Jones met their death by Nosey Bob’s
dexterity
He greased the rope and tried it, and tied it round their
craw
And sent them off to Kingdom Come to justify the law.
The barber considers the effusion splendid, and
makes vigorous efforts to push sales.
• * * *
“John Carew ” writes :
Re the agitation for the release of Ethel Herringe : She
was a young woman of rapid susceptibilities. While
wearing mourning for a dead cohentingenter, she
accepted the clandestine attentions of a live cohentin-
genter, in whose public-house she was a domestic.
Without any apparent conventional reason she sprang a
marriage ceremony, accompanied by a holy man of the
wrong sort, on him, in the dead of night, at the point of a
revolver. When he declined to acquiesce in the unusual
arrangement, Ethel perforated him with three bullets.
Although, as a medico observed, “ he had the constitu-
tion of a horse,” the victim died in three days. Many a
horse would have died in less time than that. Ethel,
favored by the pleading of George Reid and the summing
up of the most sympathetic Judge on circuit, got a
verdict of manslaughter, and a sentence of two and
a half years. The subsequent Grenfell petition for her
immediate release was coolly received in Oowra, general
opinion being that the dead man hardly had a fair Show.
Even the tardy infant failed to evoke enthusiasm, babies
having acquired a knack of being born in such alarmingly
undesirable places that the circumstance it devoid of
novelty.
• * * •
’ The howl that goes up, whenever a de-
frauding importer is fined, about “men of
acknowledged probity and reputation being
turned into criminals by a nefarious Act ” makes
the man in the street tired. If the reputation of
the average importer was to meet his true
character in the street they wouldn’t recognise
one another.
* * » *
Remark overheard at a R.C. meeting last
week: “Well, Father , we ought to be a
happy family to-night, seein’ that our Pope is in
Heaven and our King is in Oireland.”
* * * *
Hiphen: The Bulletin asks (18/7/’O3)
“Have we no soul above beer?” —this apropos
of the Tocsin publishing a sketch of the Eight
Hours memorial at Melbourne
Trades Hall with an advertise-
ment for beer writ across its
base. But that is not even
a circumstance! Last
Saturday I saw floating
in the breeze above a
St. Kilda pub, opposite
the football ground, the
flag of old England, that
has braved a thousand
fights on sea and land—
the flag on which Kruger
tried to wipe his whis-
kers, and failed; with
the same familiar legend
in big white letters across
it, “Drink Ale”!
My blood boiled, and I
would have pulled down
the flag, and cast the
pub into Hobson’s Bay,
and dealt severely with
that disloyal pub-monger
—only I had paid my
tram-fare, and besides I
know he is a large size in
publicans. Also, I still
owed him for the last
beer, and it didn’t seem
any of my business, and
ray religious principles
forbid the use of violence
to an erring brother—es-
pecially a violent brother.
* a
“David”: At the
N. S. W. Public School
Teaohers’ Conference I
noticed that the prevailing
type among the school
ma’ams was a long upper lip.
Among the female sex the normal
to long upper lip predominates; the remainder are
short and shorter. Why should not the female
school teacher show the same variety. Do the
short-lipped ones lack the teacher’s ability, or do
their lips grow with their salaries, or are the short
lips married young ?
• * • *
"PUT NOT A PERIOD TO PLEASURE!”
DAUGHTER: “ I’ve been engaged, to him nearly
two years; don’t you think it’s time I married
him?"
DADDY: "Oh, I don’t know; if you really care
for the fellow let him be happy as long as
you can.”
A Salvarmy man has been writing for the
War Howl a description of his voyage to Eng-
land. An interesting extract re Port Said—that
Sodom and Gomorrah of Egypt :
The deck of the vessel is changed into a kind of busi
ness street. Passengers gather round the salesmen ready
to make bargains. . , . jNorisitthe least interesting to
watch the sleight-of-hand men go through their tricks.
They are atjle men in this particular line. Live chickens
are made to do all kinds of amazing things. One chick
becomes (wo before one’s eyes ; and we gaze in wonder-
ment. The chick then lays an egg ; then out of its
mouth comes a gold ring. The next move is—we see it
no more.... Like the flight of a spirit, it is gone. The col-
lection box is passed round, and before fresh groups of
admirers the tricks are repeated. Oh, that t hese men
were under the influence of the Christian faith !
That is the only bit of snuffle in the whole narra-
tive. The sight of tho collection box being passed
round evidently woke the Salvationist from a
trance, and he promptly snuffled. There isn’t a
word about any desire to gather in the hard-work-
ing and probably honest Arab coal-lumpers, but
the desire to convert the man who could make one
chicken into two and get valuable jewellery out
of a fowl was overwhelming.
* * * *
As repulsive a “ charitable ” institution as
there is in Australia is the Old Man’s Depot, at
Mt. Eliza, outside Perth. It reeks with
memories and suggestions of lagdom.
The building itself, or most of it, was
built for convicts by convicts; only
lately the bars were removed from the
windows and the heavy bolts stripped
from the doors. But, though the bolts
and bars have gone, the old atmosphere
is there —it couldn’t be anything but a
prison. Of the 300 or so inmates, more
than 50 per cent, are “expirees,” and
most of them are men who didn’t make
an effort to shake off'old associations
and habits. Their principal recreation
is talking of early exploits, real and
imaginary; and when the stock of
home-made lies runs out, the few who
oan read rejoice the rest with extracts
from the goriest of Deadwood Dick
yarns. Inside the premises a contiuual
warfare is carried on with vermin, and
the vermin more than hold their own ;
for pretty well every time that one of
the old hands breaks away, and stays
out for a week or two—and it often
happens—the army is replenished. The
old ramshackle building has to serve as
a hospital, too ; among others, there are
cases of cancer there. Altogether, the
depot fairly well represents the last
dregs of Swan River convictism. Per-
haps the worst feature of the whole
business is that, compelled to mix with
the sinful old ancients, are a few who
deserve better surroundings to die in.
* * * *
“D. Harum” ; Woman is slowly
discovering that she is not such a timid
soft little thing as she has in the past
imagined herself to be. Igo home from
the city _ (Adelaide) by a special horse-
car, which stops neither to pick up
passengers nor to drop them, every day at 1 o’clock.
We always have on board three lady clerks who
do the “ drop off,” and very often the “jump on.”
We business men look forward with pleasure to
either performance. There was a fourth lady
clerk once, but she got tangled up in her skirts
one day, fell, and barked her knee-cap. She hasn’t
ridden on the “ special ” since.
* • » *
The deceptive music-case again. From
Melbourne paper :
T OST, on Saturday afternoon, in train, between
Toorak and Elsternwick, Music Case, containing
goloshes.
Melbourne has got a name as a musical city princi-
pally through carrying its sausages and goloshes
in a music-case.
Clermont (Q.) lately developed
a lunatio who possessed a mania for
climbing trees. When arrested by the
police he owned a sum of £6 3s.
lid., of which £2 12s. was deducted
by the authorities for doctor’s fees,
travelling expenses, rations, and wear
and tear of tree. The time will yet
come in Queensland when the drunk
will be turned upside down and
shaken, and all property that falls out
of him will go to reduce Cribb’s deficit.
“Trevvy” : Re Salvarmy par in Bul-
letin (27/6/’O3). At “night of prayer” once
in Broken Hill one soldier seemed unable
to attain the hallelujah stage of perfect
bliss that characterises the “saved.” He
appeared unable to remember any great
sin he had committed. At lastj with a
great effort, he gave his experience,
and stated that his wife, who had
five children, was not his wife—he had
never married her. He said he felt
better after he had told them. But
when he went home and told the lady,
she gave her experience, and her elo-
quence was so glowing that the neigh-
bors threatened to send for the police.
There is no encouragement nowadays
for a man to confess his sins. I believe,
by the way, that this individual was
legally married, but the most successful
Salvarmy man is the one who confesses
huge iniquities done in his unregenerate
days, and for a man with a bald imagina-
tion who can’t think of many sins it is a
difficult position.
* * * *
In Pahiatua (M.L.) there has been
formed a Bald-Headed Club, an anti-
labor, or more strictly an employers’,
organisation. The avowed object of
its members is to get their hair cut at
reduced rates on the ground that they
have less than the average amount of hair
to cut.
The people who study astronomy, in the
Government House Domain, Melbourne, had a bad
time of it the other week. The Field Engineers,
who have their depot on the Yarra bank, invited
all their best girls and relations to inspect their
war apparatus, and exhibited among other things
the wonderful powers of the searchlight. The
stream of light was switched from point to point
with great rapidity, and as the operator directed
its rays on the most likely spots many an inter-
esting hug was interrupted. Visitors who followed
the searchlight saw other men’s wives and other
women’s husbands flying in great disorder and
endeavoring to establish an alibi behind trees.
But for the neglect of the engineers, who forgot to
send a force round to cut off the retreat, there
would have been many interesting identifications.
The tale of a mean street is generally told
in a police-court. As an instance two rather
draggled people named Tidy wandered into a
Melbourne court last week to get morally dis-
entangled. They had been married two months,
and the lady complained of being left without
nourishment. The lady had been married three
times before, but it was the gentleman’s first
attempt. She said there was no furniture and
that he brought the horse into the house. He
said that she had first proposed to him, that she
drank, and that she struck him in the eye with
•beep’s entrails. A distracted bench told them to
go back and squall at each other for another
month, and then, if things were no better, to
bring up their untidy wrangle for further con-
sideration.
AN AUTUMN DAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The glory of God in the morning is over it all—
The blue of the sky, and the pile of the fleecy white
cloud,
From the sentinel mountains, so beautiful, stately, and
tall,
To the song of the magpie, now trilling and calling aloud.
The glory of God in the morning is over it all
Ere the dew is yet dry, and the emerald slopes are a-blaze
With a million white gems, when the orchard leaves
flutter and fall,
And the Earth is at peace in the Autumn’s soft, wonder-
ful days.
From the haze of the ranges, the stretch of the far forest
trees,
The murmuring sound of the river’s soft echoing fall.
The Earth is at peace in the laugh of the soft, sighing
breeze—
The glory of God in the morning is over it all.
vio.
KATHLEEN WALKER
NEMESIS (FOR THE BULLETIN)
y\ CtC**vS% vvittj ft]e
Ari -WHEN I OIL AND P/\SS AwAf Af/jmZ?''
AND AU- TrtiJ IAS y
l°
I A
W WHiert HE.
W FLCSH WiluliXt- »||
✓ SHAt>t - We^,T (fw^™ ,
"fo ‘ S E- 6 - l S.i
If Sought iT
Ado FooHP-^J\M|||j|f'-T^^^^O
j A
WO<L_Wi-fH -ItSJE oR » FAA«ArtT -
ANp AT[>lE^aWfoL.THOuqHf)^
“ALL MEN ARE FREE!"
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ All men are free and equal born
Before the Law 1 ” So runs the worn
And specious, lying, parrot-cry . . .
All men are tree —to starve or sigh ;
But few to feed on Egypt’s corn 1
There toils the sweated slave, forlorn ;
There weeps the babe, with hunger torn—
Dear God ! Forgive us for the lie:
“ All men are free 1 ”
That man’s a player, this a pawn ;
One’s born to fustian, one to lawn.
Were they born free ? Were you ? Was I ?
No ; not when born, but when they die
And stifle up the churchyard’s yawn,
All men are free 1
N.B.W.
S. ELLIOTT NAPIER.
YES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
What If her lips answered “No 1"
Did nought in your heart make you guess
That the blush and the sparkle and glow—
That all of the woman meant “Yes ” ?
There in the sweep of her form,
Fool, saw you not, vision-dulled,
The yield of the tree to the storm,
The rose leaning out to be culled 7
“ No ’’ was the answer you heard ;
“ Yes ’’ was the light in her eyes ;
“ No ” was her meaningless word ;
“ Yes ’’ was her pulsing and sighs.
Fresh as turned earth and as good,
Red as the vine from the press,
Was the warmth of the rich womanhood,
O dullard, that said to you “ Yes 1 "
N.S.W,
RODERIC QUINE.
STAYED AND SOBER
3^JggJ9»*LnnS
•wobibii h»Tn made of Uto yean to the
?*"! U » hl °°w*U wfll
to toe that the boor-glass valet la
&T 1 u “ **** H«a--
|n dll imroridnT vjdlki of He
®*r lister now is slrtnuous,
mixing in Itie SOcidl sW?
TBs Hit who raises as Ik te>-
j-Rif tehan unties to flfrj '* cr ! , 1 >,
soon Ite »x, stvffwf Mew,
hedri >; Fohlics-
STs energies v*l) Fun lo h6^l
David Jones & Co.’s
celebrated “ORIENT TO fIEASURE”
SAC SUITS
In Tweed
or Serge
Send for
Patterns and
Sell-
Measurement
Forms ...
TO MEASURE
63s
Delivered Free to any Railway Station or Seaport in the States.
George and Barrack Sts., Sydney.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resch’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.


The great snaffling habit seems to be worse
with the Yankees than even with the British.
While. President Roosevelt was blustering about
the massacre of Jews in Russia his own Grand
Jury was bringing to light in the Southern States
a system of wholesale negro slavery with flogging,
torture and sundries, which system the same
august body declared to be “ worse than anything
in Siberia.” Wherever the white race comes in
contact for any great length of time with the
black or the yellow, the white is demoralised.
The white man either becomes a weakling or a
tyrannical brute; very often he becomes both.
Probably the yellow and black men also degener-
ate, but that’s their affair. The point Australia
has to note in regard to its own colored labor
Broblem is that in the Southern States of the
r .S.A. white men of the same origin and blood
as ourselves have been reduced to a frightful state
of moral irresponsibility. They have become
white savages, armed with the weapons and
appliances of civilisation, using the courts of
justice to perpetuate slavery, and given to the
public burning-alive of the weaker race. Roosevelt,
by the way, might also remember that there has
never yet been any contradiction of the statement,
made openly and without shame in the American
papers, that M-Kinley’s assassin was tortured to
make him answer interrogations, and that this
was done with Roosevelt’s knowledge. Even the
Czar never had an accusation like that levelled at
him.
* * * **
An old Sydney home, Cleveland House,
has become the property of the Good Samaritan
Sisters, and will in future be used as a Refuge. The
old house was a wonderful structure, the cellars
being a marvel of strength, with bolts and bars
strong enough to stand a siege or keep in check
the most violent “assigned servant” the “system”
ever produced. Captain Johnstone (of Annan-
dale) took up his residence there once with his
bride. For some years the Government rented
the house as a labor bureau.
**y • •
Pressure of opinion from a few railway
servants, and lack of any opinion at all from the
great majority, have caused the Executive Com-
mittee to drop the scheme of perpetuating the
memory of late N.S.W. Chief Commissioner Eddy
by the erection of an orphanage open to children
of railway officials. The policy of the State has
declared against dragging up children herded
together in an institution, and the supporters of
the boarding-out system, led by Hollis, M.L.A ,
and Dr. Mackellar, M.L.C., succeeded in anni-
hilating the project at the eleventh hour. The
£2500 granted by the Government is to be
returned, and the orphans now on hand are to be
boarded out while the committee gets its second
wind.
* * * *
Judges, both of the Supreme and District
Court, should keep themselves up to date in the
matter of prison discipline. A couple of Judges
admitted, the other day, that they knew nothing
about the inside of prisons. In allotting a term
of imprisonment the Judge should take into
account the varying penalties imposed by the
prison authorities. Nearly every year there are
changes in prison management. “Solitary” is
increased or lessened, dietary scale raised or
lowered, and so on. The average Judge has a
general idea that he is sentencing a man to be
confined for a certain period, but whether he is to
be confined in a drawing-room or a cellar he
doesn’t know in the least. Nor, possibly, does it
dawn on, him that ten years’ confinement with
skilly isn’t the same as ten years with turkey.
i** • *
A wail from the Australian Churchman
(“low-church” Anglican):
What with these vain shows of altars and candles and
crucifixes, and of banners of mythical meaning and
tawdry crosses which are followed by our “learned”
clergy and “ intellectual ” laymen, is it any wonder that
poverty is. creeping over our church ?
Well, the church says that poverty is a blessed
state, but the poverty which arises through
“blewing”all the money on flags and rags isn’t
blessed—nor is it dignified.
• • • ft •
In N.S.W. a good cook would laugh at the
remuneration offered to a nurse. Witness the
rates of pay given in the Government depart-
ment. At Coast Hospital the head nurse gets
£BO a year, the senior up to iB6O, the probationer
down to £25. The hospital cook gets £66 a year.
In the Lunacy Department, asylum attendants
get from £l6O to £93, servants £l4O to £67, nurses
from £9O to £63. In the Charities Department
the attendants get from £135 to £96, nurses from
£9O to £65. The chief training schools for nurses
are always striving to raise the standard required
for a certificate, and the course gets more exacting
and expensive each year. The nursing profession
might reasonably expect the State to set a better
example in the way of salaries.
* * * *
Ballarat Chinamen are busy sending back
their old derelict relatives to the Flowery Land.
Questioned as to why, a Chow said, “Him travel
cheaper than bones.” Corpse railway freights are
four times those of live-passenger rates, and
corpse shipping freights are almost prohibitive.
“ K.K.” : Live in the suburbs. Can’t leave
a spade about without running great risk of losing
it. Have to stay at home when the rest of family
is away or will return to a garden that has been
prospected. Seems as though the rogues keep the
honest folk in gaol.
UP THE MOUNTAINS
LADY TOURIST (rapturously) : " What a lowly spas this is?"
LOCAL TRAP PROPBIETOR : “Tain't what it used to be, Miss. afore that other cover got running
against me."
Bent, the mad mollah of the Irvine
Government, was not longfin quenching his thirst
for big headlines in the papers after being
shunted from the railways to the Public Works
office. He hadn’t been quit of his old depart-
ment a week before he got off a few silly “ideas,”
chief of which is the pulling down of Melb. gaol
and the conversion of the land into business
building sites. Thomas regards the gaol as merely
a “drunks club,” his alleged inquiries having been
insufficient to inform him that the drunk is not
stored there, anyway, but kept at the city or
suburban lockup during his few hours’ incarcera-
tion. Melbourne gaol is for the “ short-timer ”of
various degrees, and as that half-and-half sort of
criminal has to be accommodated somewhere,
Thomas Bent’s plan is presumably to erect
another gaol somewhere else, which would be even
more costly than the present institution by reason
of the fact that prisoners would have to be con-
veyed there in daily “ Maria’’-loads instead of
being just walked into the gaol from the
court next door. Also, if Bent is under the
impression that the present gaol site would
sell at all readily, he must be dreaming one of his
ancient boom dreams. It is right away from the
commercial centre, and nobody happens to be
putting up new business premises anywhere in
Melbourne just now, the reign of Bent and Irvine
having stagnated things worse than ever. As a
sample of Bent’s vigorous public works policy,
this and his other undigested “ideas” about take
the bun for crass stupidity.
• • • •
Either the craze for medallions of cele-
brities is about played out, or Melbourne people
took very little stock in the late Pope Leo. The
medallion merchants hastened to put photographic
buttons on the market as soon as Leo’s early
demise was predicted, and there were fully a
dozen men selling them on the day the gold-and-
white flag was half-masted at St. Patrick’s.
Initial price asked was a shilling, but within an
hour the vendors recognised that they were not
likely to clear much money at that figure, and
they came down to sixpence. A couple of days
sufficed to bring the papal souvenir down to the
modest “thrum,” but even that reduction brought
few buyers, and the day after the Cathedral
requiem Leo’s countenance was going at a penny
a time.
* * * *
Mr Monty Arnold, who for 13 years has
drawn from N.S.W. a public pension of £192 17s.
per annum, presided at a meeting of the Stockton
Coal Company last week. He said that the co.
during the last five years had paid away in wages
alone £202,176, during which time the shareholders
who found the capital to employ “King Work-
ing Man’’ had received only £9006. “The
remedy ” said Mr. Arnold “lay with the share-
holders who should return men to Parliament who
would see that the mine owners received some
little consideration. As matters now stand the
men can do exactly as they please, but if matters
are allowed to go on as they are now, there will be
not only nothing for the owners but ere long there
will be nothing left for the men either.” In other
words, according to Monty Arnold, it is owing to
socialistic legislation* that the Stockton people
have a bad mine. But Mr. Arnold should speak
more respectfully of people who have taxed them-
selves for 13 years to pay his pension.
* * • •
A Charters Towers (Q.) paper, in seeking
to enforce its lofty contention that “it should be
one of the recognised principles of State that men
in high positions should at least be sober when
carrying out their duties ” :
Queensland is notoriously the drunken man’s Paradise,
In this State men in the very highest positions show
themselves in public places in a condition of drink for
which, if they were any other men, they would be promptly
arrested. How they blunder through the duties entrusted
to them is little short of marvellous. And how State
authorities close their eyes to delinquencies of the sort is
scarcely understandable—probably it is because the State
authorities are very often in a similar condition of “ Oh,
be careful,” and the pot dare not call the kettle black.
Queensland has been in that state for many year;'.
The historic drunks of a certain Acting-Governor',
and his struggles to find the right place to sign
official documents, and his rage when he saw il x e
documents simultaneously, and the liquor he spilt
over important public papers, and the waylaige
matters of State, when he had done with them,
smelt like a bar-rtotn full of curses and the smoke
of twopenny cigars, are joyful memories in Biis-
bane. There are many other strange and whis-
kified memories up there, but that one stands up
like a tower.
Again—this time from Wangaratta (Vic.)
—comes the story of the unaccountable boy who
saw two other boys drowning and didn’t mention
the fact. They were three small brothers. One
was drowned, another hung on to a sapling with
only his head out of the water for an hour and
a-half till rescued by a passer-by; and the third
brother went home to dinner, leaving them there
and saying nothing. If the silence of the Australian
boy at & football match was anything like this
other silence of his, football would be a better
game than it is.
* * * *
S.M. Herald (20/7/’03):
Inverell, Sunday.
A new organ has been installed at the Presbyterian
Church at a cost of over £2OO.
The walls of the new brick R.O. church are almost
completed.
The Wesleyans have accepted Mr. G. Nott’s tender of
£2858 for the erection of a new church. 1
The Herald’s Inverell correspondent is a liberal-
minded man who gives all the churches a show—
but what tinpot news to chronicle 1
BLIGHTED.
TOMMY: " Ah, Micky, that
woman’s changed the whole
course o’ my life !”
“J.F.D.”: I wish Dr. Ross, or some
other able Parliamentary jackass, would introduce
a Bill which would compel umbrella manufacturers
to build ginghams minus the score of project-
ing rib points. A woman pulls her umbrella be-
hind her, not over her, and the points catch in
any loose pieces of catchable skin a man may have
in his possession. The woman unhooks with a
frown at the man’s stupidity, shakes off the bit of
his ear clinging to the umbrella, and goes on her
way until some other fool of a man is hooked.
But occasionally one hen’s umbrella catches
another hen, and great is the joy thereof.
Whafc a whiff of the unchanging atmos-
phere of the Vatican comes in that quaint cable
message which tells how the news was given to
the world that the first two ballots for the election
of a Pope had failed. At four minutes past 10
the Cardinals met in the Sistine Chapel. At
11.15 dense white smoke issued from the chimney
connected with the stove where the voting papers
were burned, this being due to the addition of
damp straw. It indicated that the first ballot had
been resultless. In the afternoon another ballot,
and this ended in smoke, too; so, and only so,
the world knew there wasn’t a Pope yet. There
are not many doors shut against the reporter
nowadays; but the press has still to stand outside
the Vatican and read what it can out of the
ohimney-top.
* *- * *
Nobody of repute can die in this world
without some sentimentalist heaping bathos on
the event with a shovel. A few days after the
death of the Pope, the cable sent along the tear-
ful yarn that, prior to the dead Pontiff being
placed in his coffin, his faithful followers, the
Noble Guard of the Vatican, individually kissed
the poor dead feet. The news sounded nasty but
humble, and the world, in a general way, let it pass
without much comment. Then a few days later
came the further intelligence that the Noble
Guard declined to watch any longer beside the
Pontiff’s remains because of their decomposed
state. That sounded nasty and proud, and spoiled
the effect of what had gone before. There was a
lack of stage-management in letting the sordid
complaint of the Noble Guard get into print, and
the Guard itself showed a crude and shocking
tendency to publicity. It ought to have breathed
its trouble secretly into the ear of a Cardinal and
got the sordid details fixed up without taking a
whole globeful of heretics into its confidence.
* • • *
Melbourne Board of Shirks lately spent
two whole afternoons discussing the virtues and
the misdemeanors of a high-collared clerk, at £9O
a year. He was a very dilatory young man, it
seemed, and had been reprimanded for being late
in the morning no less than 28 times. Even then
his superiors didn’t robustly fire him out, but
merely suggested that he send in his resignation ;
and his masterly inactivity so appealed to the
gradual Board that it only let him go by a small
majority after much wrangling. And so much
time had been spent in struggling with the
question of the small clerk who was late 28 times
that the question of the pipe combine, and the
exorbitant price it charges for pipes, had to be
hung up indefinitely.
*•* f *
Among Hebrews who “ stick to their
religion” civil divorce is not recognised unless it
is confirmed by a religious divorce from the Beth
Din of the Synagogue. This religious divorce is
named, with sweet and swift appropriateness,
“Get.” There is not much trouble in getting it
on grounds that warrant a civil divorce, but
heavy fees have to be paid to the Beth Din.
Then the un-coupled can “get” in peace.
• • * «
Discoveries in the world of chemistry and
of physics, now crowding forward, seem to indicate
the need of a very con-
siderable audit of es-
tablished ideas in the
near future, when a
lot of supposed ‘ ‘ facts ”
will have to be “written
off.” Radium is a huge
puzzle. It is a metal
which is radio-active —
emitting rays having
heat and convertible
into light ra.vs —with-
out any outside stimu-
lus, and, seemingly,
without any loss of bulk
or change of character.
It is claimed for it, in
short, that it is Per-
petual Motion which
is, according to all es-
tablished ideas, impossi-
ble. The search for low
temperatures isexciting.
Liquid air is now com-
' ' monplace, and Professor
Dewar is working steadily
towards the “absolute
zero.” At that point, it is
surmised, all chemical and
molecular forces will cease to
act, and atoms be at rest for
the first time since Life began.
It is questioned as to whether
matter, deprived thus of all
energy, will be matter in any
sense, even to the extent of
occupying any space.
* * *
N.S. W. Education Act
provides that clergymen of
any recognised denomination
(and you can be a recognised
denomination in N.S. W. about
as easily as you can be an
actor) shall be permitted to
attend the State schools and
explain the inwardness of
Jonah and the whale to
such children as belong to
their denomination for an
. hour each day.... The clergy
carefully avoid taking
advantage of the facili-
ties offered. Their totrl
visits to the schools only average eight per year.
There are about 240 school days in the year, and
in only one of 30 does a parson or priest of any
sort attend to give “spiritual comfort” to the
youngsters. The painful absence of any material
for a collection (a school-boy has even a better use
for his buttons) improbably the reason of this.
NIGHT SONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I wander abroad over hills and passes,
Drinking the cool of the coming night;
Softly treading the waving grasses
And hollows deep in the fading light.
Eyes still fixed on the lessening far-light,
’Neath haggard limbs of the gum-trees tall;
Onward still in the gathering star-light,
Shining jewels in Night’s dark pall.
Clear is the track through the deep fern hollow,
The Cross shines bright in a cloudless sky ;
While overheard, as I onward follow,
Harshly laughing, the mopokes fly.
The night wind weeps in the hills and passes;
Her trailing robes of an ebon hue
Brush in her track the sleeping grasses,
Bending low ’neath the weight of dew.
A faint sweet scent in the air still lingers—
The spicy breath of the flowers of day ;
A withered gum-tree with ghostly fingers
Stands like a spectre to bar the way.
Onward still in the darkness tender,
Treading the hills and the hollows deep,
High overhead the pale moon slender
Keeps her watch on the world asleep.
VIO.
K.A.H.
Wild’s, in tlie Sydney Arcade, is the most
fashionable gentlemen’s hairdressing saloon in
Sydney. Every attention possible is paid to the
customers by six expert hairdressers. Address -
30 Sydney Arcade, entrance from Georgd-stroot
or King street, Sydney.*
THE
BEST
IN
THE
WORLD
at |O uSNE s s
...n A l,l '-
r and Troubles.


A WOMAN’S LETTER.
My.D.a* Aram.— S7d " er> Aosust *■ lm
Lord Richard Neville and Mr. Robertson
Clarh, representing the Gov.-General and the
btate hx., attended ceremonies at St. Mary’s
Cathedral in honor of the late Pontiff Leo XIII.
and, as they were in uniform and had a “good
place near the catafalque, under the collective
eye of some 200 priests, they couldn’t very well
slip out to see if the weather were going to clear
i U P‘, k° w they and the Lord Mayor and the
horde of Consuls who were present will pray
that the next Pope will not die in their life
time ? The ceremonies began at 10 o’clock and
ended at close upon two. Some eight or ten'
women fainted. No flowers were used, and deco-
rations consisted of a few miles of mourning sashes
draped from column tocolumn. Chopin’s Funeral
March, played by the orchestra, and Cherubini’s
famous Requiem,” sung by a choir of 100 voices,
were the musical features of the High Mass, and
the Head March from “Saul’’played the 5000-
strong congregation out of the cathedral, after
Archbishop Kelly had preached a panegyric on
trie departed Pope. Will the day come, I wonder,
when the death of an illustrious person of good
habits will be celebrated with joyful musicand cere-
monies. Death, according to accepted notions,
means promotion, and we should publicly rejoice
in the deceased’s good fortune. At present, the
passing hence is invested with such terrifying
ceremonies, that it is no wonder one is afraid to
die.
Sydney suburbs, those within 10 or 15 minutes
tram ride from the city, are full of boarding-
houses, and many of these boarding-houses are
nearly full of women—old women, middled-aged
women, and spinsters no lcjnger young—any-
how, women who have not to earn their living
and on whose hands time hangs as heavily as an
anchor. These are always ready for a free show,
and generally get there before the doors are
opened. A Mayoress’s reception at a Town Hall
is a joy to them, and so is such a ceremonial as
the Pontificial Requiem. Probably they like
ecclesiastical functions better than Mayoral. How-
ever they departed from their usual rule and got
up to breakfast (the woman who lives in a board-
ing-house and is not compelled by business to get
up mostly breakfasts in bed) and were at the
church doors by 9.30. Consul for Spain Freehill,
who was one of those in charge, reminded me of
Bishop Hatto in his mouse-tower, so beset was he
by Suburbia’s boarding-housers wanting good
coigns.
On no less an authority than B. R. Wise the
panegyric by Archbishop Kelly on late Leo XIII.
was “one of the most scholarly and reverential
addresses ever heard in Australia.”
The opening of the new Her Majesty’s theatre
'Y a ® as brilliant as the burning down of the
•i u ' i * wo G ‘ overno * s > bemedalled and be-
ribboneu. with Lady Tennyson wearing a white
brocade coat, and Lady Rawson in amber evening
gown, were jn the manager’s bqx, and every now
and then Robertson Clark or Lord Nevill would
come into the picture from the. background. Mrs.
J. C. Williamson in black crepe-de-chine em-
broidered with black butterflies, and Mrs. William
Pitt (wife of the architect of the theatre) in white
mousseline desoie roped with pearls, were also boxed.
And most everyoneof whom everyonehas heard for
reasons of riches, or fine clothes, or good looks or
good positions in Society (or close to a till with-
out a cash register) was in the 2000 audience. In
the front row of the stalls with Mr. Jack Dailey’s
party was his sister-in-law, Mrs. W. B. Dailey
just returned to Australia. Mrs. W.B. is the one
blonde in the confessedly brunette family of
Fattorini. Her gowning and American coiffure
brought her much under opera-glasses. Mrs. Lach-
lan Beaton wore an ermine cape over her crepe-de-
chine gown. Alfred Dampier, who was in the
stalls, got flattering reference in Mr. Williamson’s
opening speech. Occupants of the four seats
which brought £4B; on the auction day came in for
considerable scrutiny. The buyer, Mr. J. P.
Smith, and three superbly-dressed ladies ' were in
tftem. He looks a modest, unobtrusive, quite-
young man, slight and dark. A late member of
the House cf Commons, now in Sydney, tells of
hearing Sir Michael Hicks-Beach read (some
three years ago) his budget statement, and
with grim humor in an aside to the House
congratulate lmnself upon the handsome sum
which came to the State through the death of
an American gentleman named Smith ” This
man lived frugally at a London club. His heir
was the young man who bought the first seats sold
for opening night of the new theatre.
The house was full of party groups. The Bar-
tons (mother and daughter), the Coleman Burkes
the Burdekins, and Miss Irene Marks helped to
keep the crowd from looking dowdy. Mrs Nor-
man Menzies, with white lilac behind her ears
was there. Miss Nellie Stewart’s six seats were
given to friends, for Nellie herself was at the first
night of the “Midsummer Dream,” robed in black
frona head to heel and waving an immense black
ostrich-feather fan.
There were some humorous incidents at the
the new Her Majesty’s seats, Sydney
for the opening night. When the auctioneer
didn t know abidder, he made the money safe by
requesting him or her to “come round and
settle.” About one in thirty had got this in-
vitation when Mrs. Menzi’es (Dorothy Yane)
made a'bid and gave her name. “ Will you please
come round and settle ? ” said the auctioneer, who
didn’t know the lady and thus argued himself un-
known in the theatrical world. Afterwards Mr.
T. A. Dibbs, manager of the Commercial Bank,
was a successful bidder: “Name, please ? ” “Mr.
T. A. Dibbs.” “Name, please?—l can’t hear!”
‘ Mr. T. A. Dibbs ! ” “ Oh, I wish you people
would speak distinctly. Stand up and let us see
who you are.’’ Mr. T. A. Dibbs stood up in all
his Roman-nosed majesty, and the auctioneer
apologised profusely.
J. C. Williamson’s six months old infant was
chronicled by a Melbourne paper amongst the list
of guests at official opening of the new Her
Majesty’s Theatre (Sydney) last week: “Miss
Aimee Williamson ” was in her nurse’s arms, but
the designation sounded very grown up. What a
new terror will be added to modern life if it
becomesafashion to chronicle baby’s appearance in
public. Why, ever so many mothers would then
come, to all daylight functions at least, accom-
panied by a nurse carrying an animated bundle of
lace and ribbon and yards of embroidered skirt.
It has been a Williamson week. The actor-
manager, the inauguration programme at his new
theatre, and the presentation to him by his com-
bined companies, have filled the public ear and
eye. The presentation was a silver punch bowl
and two Corinthian column silver lamps. Last
look as if they ought to burn before some Grecian
marble god. Ethel Mollison read the address,
which had a big waratah in silver on its vellum
cover, and there was considerable cheering for the
house of Williamson, root and branch. Then all
present assumed their best expressions and faced
the flashlight.
Sultan of Johore and aide-de-camp Dawd were,
through the collision of their vessel Argus with the
Mildura, driven back to land and the Australia
Hotel. They remain in Sydney for another week.
Captain Dawd is very proud of himself as a Bene-
dict, and confesses to liking Melbourne next to
his own native pied (no pun) a terre “because he
found a wife there.” He married a fair Australian
girl a beauty of the footlights—about a fortnight
a £h- The aide is much smaller and a couple of
shades darker than his Sultanic majesty.
Lady Macleay, whose death occurred at Sydney
last week, was a daughter of the late Deas-Thom-
son and a granddaughter of Governor Bourke.
Another death of the week was that of Mr. James
Ewan, a large station owner and chairman of the
City Bank. He was a brother-in-law to Dry Dog
Reid.
An unusual amount of pocket-picking went on
at the Maoriland football match. Some years
ago Mr. Byron Moore, the V.R.C. secre-
tary, showed me a photograph of the Mel-
bourne Cup—taken close upon the psychological
instant when the horses were nearing the post. It
showed a back view of the intent orowd pressed
against the lawn palings and the camera had
‘caught’’ two pickpockets, red-handed so tospeak.
One had his hand in a man’s coat-pocket, theother,
in a crouching position, was evidently operating on
the watch andchainofamanwhostood with his field
glasses to his eyes. Curiously enough a policeman
showed out quite close to one of the pickers, but
he was standing on tip-toe with all his senses con-
centrated on the horses.
When I quoted from “A Chelsea Menage”
National Review) a fortnight ago I did not
know the writer; Mrs. E. T. Cook, had died a
few weeks earlier. That article was the last thing
she wrote. Her “Bride’s Book,” divided under
the heads of Romantic, Idyllic and Domestic, is a
most piquantly written set of essays in which wis-
dom and knowledge lurk among clever persiflage
and good* humored raillery. “ Should Wives have
Professions?” and “The Year of Honey” are
especially attractive chapters. In the Times’
notice of Mrs. Cook’s death it is mentioned that
all the Baird girls “ married men of note.” Mrs.
Cook s husband was editor of the Westminster
Gazette. A brilliant Balliol scholar married
another of the tribe. Miss Dorothy Baird, the
creator of Trilby and original of the well-known
pictures “Wedded’’and “Solitude,” became the
wife of young actor Irving; and yet another mar-
ried our B. R. Wise.
The ex-Crown Princess of Saxony, who caused
so much trouble lately by eloping with
a tutor person, is being treated fairly well. She
has been allowed to keep the infant daughter born
after her flight and is living in a chateau in
j ranee. Her other children are allowed to visit
her on occasions, which is better than being
bricked-up alive. e
Is there any law to protect the birds that build
and breed in the Sydney Botanic Gardens ? Ap-
parently , any small boy who pleases may destroy
nests and steal eggs with impunity. Fdr days I
watched two tomtits building in a fir tree, until
the nest was nearing completion. Then, one day.
I found that the nest had been torn from the tree
and was lying broken on the ground. It was
s.ieer wanton mischief, for no eggs would be found
so early. Last Spring, I saw three blue-wrens’
nests destroyed in the same way. To many
visitors to the Gardens the birds are just as great
\ Pleasure as the flowers and trees, and they
shou.d be protected against young savages.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:
“The returned bride, Mrs. Clifton Browne.
PnnlfioM easy sask5 ask lr o, shinin & at Saturday’s
Cau.held meeting. She wore grey and J a
Gainsborough sweep of hat, with the Browne
presentation plumes, that had somewhat of an old-
fashioned grace. None of the pouched blouse,
rolling-hip characteristics about this picturesque
young person. The grey tone, the close fit of
the frock, the subdued effects, spoke of a period
before this season of hustle and snap. The
daughter of Rolf Boldrewood— another Browne.
wiiL 19 w ay i~‘ U u t 1 ? 0 bu H’ S eye of P 3 P ular taste
with a black and blue toilette, a dashing hat, and
the breeziest talk heard on the terrace. This is
the daughter who cons over Papa Boldrewood’s
MSb. very often types it, and adds the dots and
asterisks. The tall dame of Rep. W. Knox
sported the latest London favorite—black silk
canvas made rather voluminously with many
tributaries of lace to the sleeves. A wonderfully-
patterned lace it was. 3
“To the silver top-pieces ol the Yice-regal
Clarkes there was added, at the Caulfield meeting
tho silver beaver of Big John Forrest, for it was
this plump politician’s turn to enjoy one of the
N °'A£ en^ ith their Exes. Generally
the Huttons and the Maddens get a lift to that
Ft a 'vvl<f5 1 hI 0 TT UCe ' , 0n Saturday, in their absence,
it was the Forrests and the Grices. Lady Silver-
Ifjfl however,.always makes a point of descending
in Ghe set ’ Va S distnbutln ff ,ler smiles on all
R 'i! wnt h r»' bear^ ed ? e v crefcary Fit zP a trick of the
It .away Department has recently embarked two
charming daughters on the Sooial tide. Neat
craft they are, as trim and pretty as any about.
Both are of brief stature, a shade dolly, but with
chic face 3 and wonderful thatches of red gold hair.
We had another red gold lassie in the swim, a
while ago, but she shied at the notice she
attracted, and now mingles among the numerous
bronze-haired—the hue which goes green in strong
sunlight. 6
“It is reported from a private source to one of
the papers that Lord Hopetoun has improved in
health, and is, in fact, ‘as strong as a horse again.*
The person who made use of the horse simile in
the case of the lean, yellow Marquis can have no
idea of the fitness of things, or he must have seen
a very strange horse somewhere.
“Rupert Clarke is back in his old haunts.
Unce more the cobwebs will be swept out of
Rupertswood’ and the dust from the theatre-
boxes, now that the sportiye baronet shakes things
up again. He returned with an extra crease down
his pants and a fashion in soft pink shirts—a
becoming pink. Champagne-color in gloves is
also a sartorial item worth noting. If Victoria’s
one lordlingette is not to set us the fashion in
male gloves and ties and waistcoats, of what sort
of use is he at all, at all ?
V Concerning a certain distinguished visitor.
It is softly whispered that all that glitters is not
gold, home stiff-necked Society hosts have been
running thmr eyes over the genealogical trees of
the blue-blooded in vam. No light is thrown on
e /^ ll^- ll l queStlon -- Further > it is ascertained
that the high powers m these parts have made
no deep obeisance to him, and that the spree given
by a leading personage, and announced to be in
the visitor s honor, was one of the ordinary social-
ofhcial ones, and the stranger got there by virtue
official 7 ° f being a ,louse ‘g uest °f an important
“Fewofficial swells were accompanied by their
wives at the Papal Requiem chant and a number
of the reserved pews gaped tantalisingly at the
unseated. General Maria Gordon’s wife made
one of the handsomest figures in the monotonous
garbs of woe. The Gavan-Duffys had Miss
Ti j S und ? r , their wing, and all the swagger
R.O. dames (there are not many) led along their
Protestant allies to be impressed. But strangers
put in a tedious time, the hour and a half of
Gregorian Chant being keyed to a sing-song dirge,
iheone bold glaring bit of color was contributed
by Herr Pmschof, whose Austrian scarlet and gilt
trappings broke up the long line of sooty clothes.
“ Marshall Hall is probably the most exacting
conductor whoever waved a baton in Australia
Curing the present year the tall ‘ Prof.’ is officiat-
ing over the Melbourne Liedertafel in August
biede s absence, and he is so determined not to
allow any performance until the society has
thoroughly mastered its work that its concert
programme has been quite disarranged. Mozart’s
Requiem Mass has been in rehearsal for six
months past. Two minor musical lights schooled
the Liedertafel at the earlier rehearsals, after a
dozen of which the time was considered ripe for
Marshall Hall to come along and put on the
finishing touches. The first time he heard the
Requiem, he started pulling his hair out by the
roots and distributing strands of it among the
astonished amateurs, what time he informed them
that they were singing, like k lot of ‘bottle-oh’
men, and desecrating the memory of Mozart.
Since then the Liedertafel people have grafted
like Trojans for four months, but they have
started wondering whether they will ever have
nother concert.
• 7, Th P exodus of blood and bone from Victoria
in the form of the stalwart sons of the State has
raised a problem for the women. There stretches
out on all sides the long, sad- line of surplus
females, and there trail off on every outgoing
steamer s. track the most desirable males. What
are our girls going to do? The most sensible if
somewhat undignified, course would be to pack’up
a wardrobe instanter, and, with kit on shoulder
to follow the brutes to their newer fields.
“ Emily Soldene’s high spirits and veteran
imaginative turn found an outlet in a column or
two of Travel Talk in a recent M.A.P. In the
course of the exuberant Soldene canter occurred
this naive pearl: ‘ Met Max O’Rell once more.
How we tramps do run against each other 1 ’ We
tramps!
A very handsome Melbourne girl was married
very quietly, the other day, to a planter hailing
from the South beas. This is still another instance
of a meeting on tour, and a marriage at the end
ot it. Girls, get aboard a lugger and the swain is
yours.
, ‘‘J he , Austrian Monsignor who divides his
holiday between masses in the convents and
Stonington or Goathlands’ junkets threatens
to wnt e a book about ‘ The very charming peo-pel
I have met on my trav-ells.’
“ Why do so many who get treated in private
hospitals give their illness as a sprained ankle ?
Mrs. Evelyn Gough, of Melbourne, now pro-
poses to seek election for a seat in the Senate.
The lady is fully qualified for the position as far
as self-confidence goes. She is holding meetings
to test the public feeling in Melbourne.
“The Melbourne Commonwealth Charity Fete
—got up by the very naicest to help the hospitals—
passed its auditel balance-sheet the other day
St totalled £lB9B Os. 10d„ and expenses
in the £l' l o ° r Gharlty & ot -£214 ss. 10d.— 2s. 3d.
The latest Social freak is an engagement
party, by which the joy of the eligible gathered
to the fold is made manifest. No chance after
that of the young man’s escape.
“There is joy in Art circles at the return of
Bernard Hall to his Art Gallery directorship. He
took a trip Europe-wards when his health was
poor, owing to grief at the loss of his charming
V. • Abroad he set zealously to work, and
friends have been apprised from time to time of
the fruit of his inquiring into the training systems
current at all the. best English Art schools.
Bernard Hall is a stimulative guide to students at
the Gallery. It is a pity that the slie-students
cannot bring their work up to the standard of the
less sentimental males. The average she-novice
f D ii «is a slow, mediocre, unillumined drudge,
full of good intentions and bad performances.
-4. w? ne °^ ,e Melbourne social leaders is in it
with the virile dame of Big John Forrest. The
other night she took charge of a charitv hop, and
ran the affair in a way that has no preceJent in
dancing records. The Westralian dame doesn’t
bully and she doesn t boss, but ‘she gets right
there, as they sing in the ‘Messenger Boy.’by
taking many things for granted, by a little
coercion, a lot of chaff, and a large amount of
good-natured confidence.
“The florists were making a display of wattle
week, what time the chiffon houses
> into Spring shows. What stood out in one
busy establishment was the spot craze. Veilings,
laces, nets, muslins, voiles, foulards —all showed
small dots. The so-called Irish linens are to have
a vogue, and so is lettuce-green. The cool color
appears even in the sprouting season’s gamps.
That is the climax of the craze, for not even the
most exquisite and perfectly-done complexion—
one guaranteed quite weather-proof—can risk the
sunlight that streams through a sharp green
parachute.
“Melbourne’s Mayoress publicly placed her
sympathy on the side of the complaining she by
appearing at a swagger Town Hall evening, the
other night, garbed in a warm wintry out-door
dress buttoned to the line of the ear-ring. And
the Mayor followed suit enveloped in Polar furs.
Lady Silverlocks, bare-necked and satin-clad,
drew a feather boa closely round her throat and
hooked over her cloak, but even then seemed to
feel the cold currents of air swishing aoout her
ears. The girl who knows a thing or two now,
when going to the Town Hall in winter, wears a
warm costume and a long, nice cloak to cover it
completely.
“ A former singing favorite, who now sits high
and dry in the past, is making a list of the names
of all debuting on the Melbourne platform this
year and noting hoiv many times each renews her
debut. The lady has a certain bitterness of soul
caused by a fickle, vacillating public through
many years of concert vicissitudes. Legions of
vocalists storm the city halls, many reappear time
after time as novices, and few succeed in holding
the fort for longer than a brief day. So the faded
singer, whose glory tracks are all covered up by
the imprint of multitudinous new-comers’ feet,
smiles with acid satisfaction as she notes the
trumpeted arrivals and the muffled platform exits
of the vocal army. 1
. “ Bridge is turning some of our smartest worqen
into hawlc-like card-sharpers, and sending not a
few to the dogs—or, rather, to the Jews, ‘Some
months ago, when the story leaked out of a dame
of a fashionable quarter south of the Yarra raising
a loan from one of the tribe of Benjamin on her
household effects, on account of Bridge losses, the
rumor was discredited. But since then various
other stories have been afloat, and some gain
credence. The Bridge gamble goes on in some
drawing-rooms till the small hours of the morning.
Then there is a settling of accounts, a recording
of debts, and play is resumed probably the next
night.
“‘Man never is but always to be blest.’ A
Melbourne girl, who, in the parental home, had to
turn up her sleeves every day of her life, was fond of
saying 1 give me servants and I will never grumble
again.’ She married, and went with her husband
to a station where she had control of a married
couple, housemaid and Chinese gardfener. For a
week life went smoothly. Then the housemaid
confided to her that the married couple were
* thirsty ’ souls. Young Madam lectured them
and left the kitchen. Presently, a blood-curdling
dm was heard, The housemaid rushed in
pale as death, shrieked that the couple were
murdering the Chink, on suspicion of tale-
telling, and fell at Missus’s feet in a fit.
The harried matron tore to the kitchen, where
Ah Sam was making noise enough for 20 Boxers,
while his assailants threatened him with an axe.
When that row was over the boss happened home,
and ‘sacked’ the couple. A few days, and the
housemaid again rushed in and went into fits at
the bedside of her grass-widowed mistress. This
tinie Ah Sam was the trouble. Pleased with
Trixie’s defence of him against the married
couple, he had started to give her ‘plesents,’ and,
as she explained to her surprised hearer between
her yells, when a Chinaman starts to give pre-
sents to a white woman, next thing he does is to
claim her as a bride, and, when refused, he ‘ takes
the chopper to her ! ’
Unaccompanied singing is becoming the
vogue. At a St. Kilda corroboree the other
day, a local amateur whistled her symphony and
gleed solus. At the crowded Orpheus Concert on
Thursday, a feminine quartet tootled minus
instrumental help, to the apparent joy of a
friendly audience.
quite imposing person appears as
• v 0 in P°^ e suburbs; it is a disquiet-
ing change. Society nowadays makes no bones
about the matter of trafficking with a second-
hand clothes dealer, and it demands a certain
price on every tag and won’t budge from the
quotation. As long as the dealer was female or
suitably aged and mildewed, the ‘ ole clo ’ selling
was a vigilant and unblushful performance. But
with a handsome, comic-opera baritone of a dealer
m Toorak’s little back room, the business takes on
another complexion. The sparky dame and the
fiarer enjoy the situation, but arguing the point
as to the price of discarded stockings—and all the
of it with a picturesque young male comes
difficult to some.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.
VI omen ! why be thin and undeveloped ?
Lact6, the wonderful skin-food, plumps the flesh
where thin and undeveloped, gives a beautiful
round ness to face, neck, bust, and arms. A
quick, sure and safe home treatment. Jars
75..6d., post Bs. 2d. Thousands of women using it
daily, all of whom testify to the wonderful results
from its use. Write for pamphlet to H. Westall
' l °* chemist, 229 liourke-street,
-*>*- ■‘-e
❖
0
&
ES
cor*®®
c°
t» fev
VO
S*
❖
❖
TO
WTYV WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
A Reliable Glove
which you can depend upon to give
you satisfaction—hard to get we
know, but just try a sample pair of
The Reya! Kid Clave
to be obtained in every color, and
every pair carries a guarantee.
Prick i g*
O PAIR.
w. T. WATERS & CO. LTD.
"The Leaders of Fashion,”
King & George Sts., SYDNEY.
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW
| FACILE PRIIMCEPsT~j
| SEMPER IDEM. - j
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
6'*
TRADE
Dress labriss
Are Stocked bv the }
Leading Drapers.
mawTHE varnished board ’


PERSONAL ITEMS.
The death of Pope Leo leaves Archbishop
Murphy, of Hobart, with the longest record as
prelate in the R.C. world.
Kingston’s health is such as to cause great
anxiety to his friends, more particularly as he will
never spare himself, no matter how ill he may be.
It is the musical Miss Saumarez Smith,
author of many hymns and plaintive songs, who
married the Primate’s chaplain in London. Her
husband, the Rev. Griffiths, takes a position
there.
Mr. “Bill” Lyne, Minister for Home
Affairs, is now in his sixtieth year. Twenty-
three years of his life he has spent in Parliament,
and it is difficult to see that Parliament is any the
better for it.
Acting C.J. Stephen, of N.S.W., retires
to England when C.J. Darley returns. The
Acting C.J. is nearing 75. He became Associate
to his father at 17 ; and has been thus a court
fixture for nearly 60 years.
Sydney Evening News firmly resents
Brother-in-law Henniker Heaton’s title of “ mem-
ber for Australia.” It asks in its leading columns
who gave him the title, and why ? Why not offer
a half-crown prize for the best answer ?
The oldest minister in Adelaide is Rev.
F. W. Cox (Congregationalist), who, although 87
years of age, still walks sturdily about the city and
every morning, directly after dawn, goes for a
“constitutional” trudge several miles in length.
The murdered Queen of Servia was a
woman to the end. The last thing she did before
the butchers broke in was to write a message to
her dressmaker telling her that she hadn’t a thing
to wear, and must have the new gown she had
ordered by Sunday.
Old identities gone over during the week :
P. L. C. Shepherd, M.L.C., native, aged 72
years; James Ewan, philanthropist, aged 60
years; Francis Mooney, 82 years; John Hawks-
ford, aged 75, in business in Pitt-street, Sydney,
for half a century ; C. A. Scrivener, aged 72 ; R.
T. Barnes, of Balmain, an old salt, 85 years ; Mrs.
Ellen Blacket Goodman, relict of a former Under-
secretary ; George Russell, of the late firm of
P. N. Russell and Co., aged 83; Robert Shank-
land, aged 71, formerly of Thompson and Giles.
'I'IIE PARADISE OF THE PARSONS.
“Blsnop elm-kc (Melh.) would like to inhroduoe Into
the state the Sunday Suhool idem held In Luncushite
where the pupils attend until they are well on in
middle life."
BISHOP CLARKE (introducing Lamcrulcwtf tyke) :
“ This is what I want to mks- of you. my
man.”
J. C. L. Fitzpatrick, M.L.A., begins to
take a high place among N.S.W. Assembly bores.
He has put about sixty queries to Ministers
already this session, and has not yet evoked
any useful information or elicited a fact which
was not already known to the crows.
Melbourne charities are seemingly in luck
through the will of the late George Thomson, of
Challicum Station. Testator, who died three
years ago, left a life-interest in his property to his
widow and two sons, the charities to get the re-
version, and already the sons and widow are
deceased.
Archdeacon Tyrrell, resigning from Mait-
land (N.S.W.), has been presented, on the verge
of 8t>, with a new dinner service. Most men of
that age want new stomachs. The Archdeacon is
a nephew of the Bishop Tyrrell who cultivated
flocks and herds, and bequeathed much wealth to
the Newcastle diocese.
Recently deceased Donald McNicol, aged
91, the oldest pastoralist of Camperdown (Vic.),
arrived in Victoria in ’39, and subsequently
resided at Camperdown for 63 years. Brother
Duncan lived to be 93, and brother Peter 85. The
habit of remaining a dreadfully long time in one
place was rooted in the family.
William Wasteneys, Maoriland’s lawyer-
baronet, has gone bankrupt in London. Waste-
neys is one of those baronets whose names, in
books that deal with titles and ornaments, are
printed in small type, accompanied by an explan-
ation that the person in question claims the title,
but that there is no general enthusiasm on the
subject.
Abraham’s progeny are in the ascendant
in Adelaide. The Mayor (Cohen), the President
of the Chamber of Commerce (Jacobs), and
the President of the Chamber of Manufactures
(Lawrence) are all Hebrews, while Cohen and
Scherk moved and seconded the address in reply
to the Governor’s speech in the Assembly the
other day.
Governor Rawson’s gift of a Challenge Cup
to N.S.W. cricketers has roused fully a score of
other sports to place their “fine old English
games ” under the vice-regal eye. “ I’m waiting, ”
said a functionary of the establishment, lately,
“for a letter from the secretary of the Cock-
fighters’ Club ; and, by the way, is there no Dog-
fighters’ Club? ”
Miss C. H. Spence, who for just over 50
years has been the best known woman in the
political and literary life of South Australia, is
seriously ill. Forty-nine years ago she published
her first Australian story ; but for many years
past she hasn’t touched fiction—the little time
she could spare from works of philanthropy she
has given up to advocating her amiable pet hobby,
“effective” voting. The recent death of her
brother, J.B., chairman of the State Bank, and
her companion for 75 years (Miss Spence cheer-
fully owns to 78), was a stunning blow.
Professor Harper,
Sydney University’s Pres-
byterian ciack, was a Vic-
torian civil servant for
years. He quitted that for
journalism. He left jour-
nalism for the post of school-
master. He gave up that
for the clerical line, and
now expounds theology.
As he is still vigorous, he
may yet give up theology
for medicine, or engineer-
ing, or the banana trade.
Leo XIII. will prob-
ably be made an offiN"'
saint—some day. It wi!
300 years before even a j r ■
liminary inquiry can t •
made into his claims to ran
with tit. Joan of Arc, who
has only just passed the
ordeal. The Catholic
Church moves with geologic
slowness. That is one
source of its power. A
Church that waits 300
years before beginning to look into a small
matter shows a calm, stolid, overwhelming con-
fidence that it will be still on deck 300 years
hence, when the small, new, crude, unpainted,
hustling, perspiring, lath-and-plaster sects are all
gone, and its confidence overwhelms people.
Ex-Premier George Republican Dibbs
should write his reminiscences. He entertained
a company the other evening with word-pictures
of his twelve months in the debtors’ prison at
Darlinghurst. He kept a record of his visitors,
totalling something like 4000. Then, as now, he
was a favorite with ladies, and his cell was kept
well decorated with flowers. He had a lathe, as
he has now, and among other things turned out a
presentation cup for Henry Parkes, which duly
went to theßankruptcy Court assignee.
The statue just unveiled in front of Ade-
laide University to Thomas Elder, who died six
years ago, has taken long to complete. Elder
gave £lOO,OOO to the University, £25,000 to the
Art Gallery close by, £36,000 to various charities,
and £25,000 for a special fund for building work-
men’s homes. The statue is the work of A.
Drury, R.A. Of the three panels surrounding
the pedestal, the most generally interesting is one
showing a string of camels in the desert, to recall
the fact that Elder, at his own cost, equipped the
Warburton, Gosse, Giles, and Lindsay expe-
ditions. He was a noted yachtsman and breeder
of racehorses.
John Carrufch, aged 30, born blind, re-
covered his sight, about two months
back, in the Glasgow Ophthalmic
Infirmary, through an operation by
Dr. Ramsay. This is the first case of
the kind on record outside the Scrip-
ture. Carruth’s experiences of the
new world, to him, are, of course,
intensely interesting. He picks up
the nature of things quicker than
scientists would anticipate, but he
was exceptionally intelligent as a blind
man. He felt as if he could touch
the clouds, and was overwhelmed with
the loveliness of everything. He
had formed no idea of what water
was like, to look at.
“Larry” Harnett, N.S.W’s
beautifully-frilled Sergeant-at-Arms,
is now 61, and looks in the forties. The
general opinion in the ladies’ gallery is that
he should be Premier.
An old identity died at Eudunda (S.A.)
last week in the person of “ Dr.” Thomas, a
nomadic healer, who had the reputation of having
been an army surgeon in the Crimean war. He was
85 years old, and had made the round of country
towns right through the State for over 30 years.
Rumor said that he once killed a man in a duel,
and so had to flee from civilisation.
The lighthouse-keeper at Cape Wil-
loughby, Kangaroo Island (S.A.), died after a
short and sharp illness on June 28. He had
become so attached to his lonely life that his last
request was that he should be buried on the
island. Despite hard times the Jenkins Govern-
ment complied with this desire, and sent an
undertaker thirty miles to bury the body.
J. L. Nanson, leader of the Westralian
Opposition, has resigned that thankless job,
partly because the Morning Herald, of which he
is editor, eats up too much of his time, partly
because he has got far ahead of most of his dull
crowd on half-a-dozen leading questions. Nanson’s
personal policy includes the abolition of the Leg.
Council, State control (to a great extent) of the
liquor business, a graduated tax on the unim-
proved value of land, and, pretty generally, the
adoption in other respects of the Maoriland land
laws. The Westralian Opposition is largely made
up of country members of the old type—the type
that shudders when a land tax is mentioned—and
Nanson concluded at last that the leadership of a
party carrying all that dead weight was no job
for him.
“ WHERE WILL HE GO?"-ANXIETY AMOUNTING
TO TERROR.
The late P. L. C. Shepherd, M.L.C., was
a Sydney native, born at Shepherd’s Paddock,
which was a nursery on the Newtown Road
opposite the University. In the seventies the
nursery was cut up and built upon, the unearned
increment being productive of much wealth. Mr.
Shepherd at one time had a seat in the Assembly
for the Nepean. He camped in the Upper House
for 16 years.
Andrew O’Keefe, the Victorian contractor
who built the Outer Harbor railway, Adelaide, has
been taking a look at the country along the proposed
transcontinental railway route. The 90,000,000-
acre land-grab has attracted him. Even now he
is a big landowner, what with the Yamma station,
in the Riverina, and a deal of property in
Seddonland; so, if he happens to get the
90,000,000 acres, Pierpont Morgan, perhaps, will
shake hands with him.
J. A. Andrews, who died of phthisis in
Melbourne Hospital last week, was, perhaps, the
most philosophical of the men whose agitation has
brought the Labor movement in Australia to
its present pitch. Andrews had no sym-
pathy with any spasmodic law-breaking,
and one of the most ignorantly cruel things
that the N.S.W. Dibbs Government did
was to gaol him on a technical charge on the
ground that his teachings were dangerous.
Andrews was a deep thinker, a good if somewhat
too solid writer, and had an indomitable energy
for propaganda work. At one time he cut out a
full set of wooden types to print his pamphlets on
Anarchy.
The officer whom the Victorian Treasury,
in view of the falling due of the five million loan,
has sent to London to talk
to Cohen and Co., pawn-
brokers, about the great na-
tural resources ofthe country
is T. W. Gaggin.
The name suits
the job, any-
how, even if
the man
doesn’t.
THE WORK AUSTRALIA HELPED
IN S' AFRICA.
One of Bent’s blacklegs—an ex-cohen-
tingenter, of course—was heard from the other
day as defendant in a maintenance case in a
Melbourne Court. Though still earning Bent’s
“princely wage’’ he had persistently left his
wife and child to starve. He was loyal to the
Hempire and extra-loyal to his Government, but
his loyalty stopped short at his own home.
Farm-burner, blackleg, wife-deserter —what a
record!
W. J. Maxwell, sculptor, Edwardstown
(S.A.), is dead, aged 61. Arrived in Melbourne
in ’75, and. four years later went to Adelaide.
Amongst his principal works are the statue of St.
Patrick, and altar and font, St. Mary’s Cathedral,
Sydney; and a statue of Burns for Adelaide.
After finishing a statue of Industry for the Ade-
laide Savings’ Bank, he undertook a commission
for the M'Douall Stuart statue, but this had not
been commenced at the time of his death.
Died at a considerable but uncertain age,
Benjamin Leopold Farjeon, novelist. The books
of reference seem to preserve a strange silence
about Farjeon’s .birth-date, but he put in a little
time in Australia and then went to Maoriland,
where he helped to start the Otago Daily Times
in ’6l. For many years he resided in England
laboriously turning out third or fourth-rate litera-
ture, so, though he has been claimed as belonging
to this part of the world, his connection with it
was very temporary at best. *,
“Lieutenant-Colonel” Reay, whose chief
merit as a journalist is that he doesn’t drinkj has
been made a trustee of the Melbourne Art
Gallery and Public Library. Whereupon he
publishes in the ’Erald a complete list of the
trustees. These twenty-five gentlemen are pre-
sumably the most cultured of marvellous
Melbourne, and the most competent to select
books and pictures for its marvellous citizens.
Among the art critics appears the name of
Thomas Bent. The idea of Bent selecting a
bright red and green work of art at the top
of his voice, and complaining because there
wasn’t more than Jib. of paint on the whole
dashed thing, is humorous.
A comparatively rich Melbourne citizen,
Edwin Hall, of Orient House, Glenroy, has died,
leaving £19,877. His will bequeathes ,£250 to
each of his children, ten shillings a week to his
wife, and £2 a week to another woman for the
maintenance of herself and a family of six “as
long as she shall remain unmarried or shelter any
man to be boss over my children.” If that last
clause of the ungrammatical testator’s will is read
literally, it certainly seems to state that the other
woman must keep a strange man in the house to
whack the deceased’s illegitimate family, or else
lose her annuity. The Bulletin didn’t'know the
deceased, but it would swear that he was strongly
against the engine-drivers in the recent strike,
and heartily approved of Bent. •
Captain Voss, of the tiny craft Tillikum,
has found M.L. a happy hunting-ground for
exhibition purposes, and
now carts the boat over-
land for show in country
townships. His world-
circling madness has
prompted one Felix Tan-
ner to announce a similar
attempt in a barrel-
shaped cockleshell, 12ft.
long, with a 7ft. 6in.
beam, carrying only one
stick for a jib and main-
sail. Tanner is an eccen-
tric genius, who once
followed the 40 days’
fasting trade, invented a
flying machine which
never fled owing to lack
of funds, and designed a
gruesome hanging ap-
paratus for stage pur-
poses, which strung
a man up all right,
but didn’t break his
neck. Latterly, this
whimsical inventor
has been working at
Taranaki wharf,
counting seagulls for
the Harbor Board,
or something. '
Kingston, though
a lawyer, and a sound
one, has never cared for
lawyer politicians, and the
surprise is that he agreed so
long with the many lawyers of
the Australian Ministry. When
running S.A. he was sometimes the
only lawyer on his side of the House.
He has frequently said that he carri >d re-
forms because he kept away from political law-
yers.
Just outside Hobart a crank has set up
business as a hermit, but he doesn’t encourage
worshippers. He is busy on an alleged scheme for
for the transmutation of metals. Vandemonia
says that this is about the maddest new delusion
it ever heard of. V.D.L. being a backward place,
this delusion looks quite fresh there.
ERYSIPELAS.
“Four years ago that unsightly disease, Erysipelas, attacked me,” writes Miss Ellen Musto,
34 Flora street, Erskineville, Sydney. “My face swelled greatly and my cheeks and neck became
tender and inflamed. Then I lost my appetite. Indeed, my stomach was so upset that it threw
up almost everything I ate. I continually spat blood, too, and this naturally alarmed me. The
swollen flesh pained me terribly—the slightest pressure caused me agony. Although able to leave
my bed, I was too weak and exhausted to be of any use. At last I had to go to the Glebe
Hospital, but the treatment there did little good. I was told to have my teeth extracted but I
would not consent. I was in terrible pain when my mother persuaded me to try Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills for Pale People. Some were bought for me from Mr. Limon, chemist, of the Glebe.
In ten days I was a lot better. Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills purified my blood wonderfully. Then
they made rich, red blood for me and increased my appetite. They soothed the inflammation and
made the swelling go down. Soon I was able to retain my food, the blood-spitting stopped and I
was strong and well again. Two boxes of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills completely cured me. Now
my skin is perfectly clear and fresh and my personal appearance has improved wonderfully. I
cannot recommend Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills too highly for diseases of the skin and blood.”
By their direct action on the blood and nerves, Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills cure all blood and
nerve disorders, such as Anaemia, Debility, Rheumatism, Lumbago, Sciatica, Backache, Kidney
and Liver Troubles, Dyspepsia, Nervous Prostration, St. Vitus’ Dance, Hysteria, and the
> Mr" )
SP
o s
- s
2)’6p>
C3tf\ X;
?N
r/
Miss ELLEN fILSTO
(Cured by Dr. Williams’ Pick Pills.)
after effects of Pneumonia, Influenza, etc. Prom retailers and the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney.
2s. 9d. ; six boxes, 15s. 3d., post free. The genuine are always in boxes—never in bottles.
T— w. PW


Aboriginalities.
To Contributors.-- In the case of ethnological and
natural history items, etc., alivays give date and
place of experience ;or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations ivill have scientific
value.
Camel-records are coming. T. Byers, a
back - country
storekeeper, Aus-
tralian, rode about
ICO miles, from
Broken Hill to
White Cliffs, in
two days. A
riding camel, of
course not the
usual heavy-limb-
ed sort, that lum-
bers along under
a quarter of a ton
or more.
IN SEARCH OF FAME.
LITTLE JIM (in a stage whisper) : “I say, Joe,
let’s flatten ’im out, and get our names writ
in ther papers.”
In the little town of Cooktown (N. Q.) the
majority of the general stores are owned by
Chinamen, not to mention numerous little shops
that sell groceries only. The Chinese also own
every fruit shop in the town and all vegetables
and fish are hawked round in baskets by the pig-
tailed race. The chief laundry is run by a Manila
man and one of the jewellers is of a glossy black
hue. The only thing a white man can keep to
himself in Cooktown are the pubs, very near two
dozen of them. Most of them employ Chinese or
colored cooks.
“ Scotty the Wrinkler ” on rain problems :
I wrote to Mr. S. M’Caughey a couple of years ago
(like a gentleman, he answers letters) and to the Worse-
ship-fool Mayor of Broken Hill (who does not reply to
whalers) before the M'Carthy climax, re not rain-making,
which is rot, but rain-encouraging. My theory is that
you cannot inakz rain, but if the rain-clouds are'low and
passing as waste to the hills and coast, you may—only
may—nobble them.
The American attempt was not altogether a failure,
but the aluminium shells were worth £lO each. The
kites only go up in strong winds unfavorable to the delay
of the “cumulus” (cirrus and stratus are not much
good as rain-bearers). The Stiger Vortex is humbug. I
want concussion among, not below, the vapor, and like
the others, the initial cost is too much tor practice
without certainty. But my plan is cheap and has reason
on its face. Do you remember little tissue-paper balloons
which would carry a squib or cracker up to the housetops
by lighting a piece of tow or cotton on the cross-wires at
t ie bottom ?
Do you also remember Montgolfier being “ hoist with
his own petard ”? If a lOst. man can be elevated 500 ft.
by hot air, why cannot a pound of dynamite be sent up
a mile? And the whole cost of a balloon of varnished
paper would not be a crown. With a time fuse any one
co;dd, in two or three tries, estimate the length, and the
calculation of the lifting power is simply that the bulk
varies as the cube of the diameter.
When, day after day, we see the storm sweep by to
expend itself where it is not wanted and pray for rain, we
are like the boy who cried for the Moon. Now, I give my
brain-work in the matter for nix, but expect the system
to be named after me; say, “ Scotty’s Rain Trap's,” or
the “ Wrinkler’s Rain-Jammer." Virtue, notoriety, kudos,
fun and silver are their own reward.
Of course, my power would not be a plug of tow.
Methylated spirit burned as a “ uniformly accelerating
force ” (that’s dynamics) would probably do.
Anyhow, “ Ex nihilo nihil fit,” and I’d only shoot when
the game was there. We had 20 to 30 suitable days last
year and the year before and no rain. After my statue
a< a benefactor has been raised on the banks of the
'Bidgee we’ll sing with Horace.
(Here folfow some aboriginal Roman expressions.)
• • * •
“ Periwinkle ” : Know an enthusiast in
the honey line—Lawrence is his brand— who
resides at Georgetown (Tas.). He has a great
local reputation as an apiarist and bee-charmer.
He knows every one of his insects, and, when out
walking, can pick up and handle any of his bees
with impunity, but woe betide the slightest
familiarity on the part of a stranger. In fact,
however well he knows the pollen-hunters of the
family apiary, they appear to know him just as
well, and will buzz after him all the way home.
He sells bees, and has been known to recognise
“ prodigals ” that had returned to the parental
hive from their rightful owners’ apiaries—months
after. Ihe mutual understanding that exists
between the Georgetown bee-charmer and his
hobby is beautiful to behold, even at robbing
time ! Coming nearer home, I was interested—
financially and otherwise—in the hive of bee-
burglars who caused such a sensation in Melbourne
some years ago by breaking into a Prahran jam-fac-
tory and making off with a quantity of cochineal-
colored saccharine matter. It was ultimately
traced to the raiders’ den, transformed into crimson
honey. Few insects are more intelligent, toil
harder, and serve betterasanobject lesson generally
to the human tribe. Their communal system is
excellent; their horological capabilities are deve-
loped early—in fact, the average worker can tell
the thyme right from swarmhood ! To the bees
belongs the honor of having discovered the “thumb
imprint ” for identifying criminals, for it is notice-
able that when a strange bee visits an apiary, a
special bee officer is soon on his tracks, exami-
ning his imprints on the wax, and if he is
not registered as a member of the hive, he is led
to the door and given the ‘‘ to quit ” pass-buzz !
Once made a trustful bee awfully tipsy on the
dregs of a hot toddy glass that had cooled. Bee
sipped the nectar till half-seas over, and then the
fun commenced—no human ever looked so piti-
fully ludicrous. Then I put him on the hive
stand. Laboriously, in zigzag fashion, he crawled
to the opening, where he was instantly taken in
hand by a couple of sturdy drones. A few
m jments later a glimpse through the glass slide
at the back showed him sleeping in a cell! He
hadn’t been able to get bail.
* * * *
“ Ses ” writes :
The statement (B. 2/7/’O3) that Casino (N.S.W.) is sur-
rounded on three sides by big stations, that come right
up to the municipal boundary, is hardly correct. On the
northern side of the river, selections, farms, &c., extend
for many miles beyond the town boundarv, north and
west; a narrow strip of Tomki run touches Irvington
(three miles below Casino), on the east, and it is hemmed
by farms and selections right down to the homestead.
This run (thanks to the late Mrs. Clarke Irving) has given
up almost the whole of its river frontage—something like
IOJ miles at one time—to farmers. Towards Lismore, the
first station is Bentley (a small place across Norton’s Gap),
the boundary of which is six miles out; up the river
(N.W.), the first is Runnymede, boundary eight or nine
nnies, a big area of which has been cut up into farms, and
the balance will probably be served likewise ; Kyogle
township has been built quite recently a few miles above
it, and that is completely surrounded by small holdings.
A mile of South Casino boundary was touched, eight
years ago (it may not be now), by'one paddock of AVoo-
roowoolgen run ; but, for miles along the river, that
station’s frontage has been cut into small farms and sold.
As to the Grafton-Lismore railway passing for 30 miles
through one holding, Wooroowoolgen is doubtless meant.
But that once vast run only touches the line at long
intervals. Deep Creek, one of its most important sub-
stations, is hemmed in by selectors, whose land touches
the boundary of the small horse-paddock. Camira, Bun-
gawalbyn (towards Coraki), and Gordon Brook (Clarence)
runs are also thickly studded with small settlements.
* • • •
“J.P.”: Going to White Cliffs, I saw a
pack-horse bike—the first I have seen. The biker
had a huge swag strapped on, over, under, and
round his second jigger, which was attached to the
riding bike by a curious outrigger contrivance. I
really expect that a time will come when the wool
will be hiked in from the far-out station on huge
pack bikes, with a live bikist on each side.
“ W.” : A backblocker arrived at Eden
the other day, wearing snake skins round his hat
for pugaree, and boots made out of tanned goanna
skins, laced with strips of wallaby
hide. He was a patriot.
NO ADVANCED AUSTBALIAN.
CYNIC (aged 11): " Gerrout, youse kids is too
strong! I never gave the women a second
thought till I was seven.”
A letter from Sheol, by “ Vigilans ” :
The other day I arrived at Eucla (W.A.), which I
frequent periodically, and found things in an uproar.
Eucla is a repeating station situated in the Great
Australian Bight. The district is large, and the white
population sparse, niggers predominating. The operators
are not a happy family, and adopt a kind of “ I-won’t-
play-in-your-yard ” policy’. White women being few,
lubras are much in evidence. A steamer arrives here
quarterly from Albany ; there is also a coach running
monthly from Fowler’s Bay (S.A.). The chief industries
are hunting the nimble kangaroo and cutting sandal-
wood, and a man, 60 miles away, tries to raise sheep,
but owing to dogs, rabbits, and the scarcity of
grass this is not a paying industry. When the
steamer arrives from Albany, many of the kangaroo
shootists, sandalwood getters, biacks, and what
not, assemble at two humpies two miles from the settle-
ment, and pandemonium reigns supreme for five or six
days, in fact as long as the snakejuice lasts, when they
return to their respective camps, until the arrival of the
next boat. When I visited Eucla things w'ere very lively
indeed ; liquor was being consumed by the gallon';
whites, yellows, brindles, and blacks lay about in all
directions. No licensed house is found here—which is a
pity
ONE WHAT?
“ We, most of us, like to have one at least.”
Quite true , my dear. One is necessary to save the Woman echo Won't from
being mistaken for the Woman who Can’t !”
“Jimmie Pannikin”: A Tibooburra
blackfellow, who lately returned with his boss
from Adelaide, was asked what he thought of the
saintly city. He had not seen a capital before.
Said he, “ Dis Tib’burra too much blurry dirty
country. Dat vulla Adelaide like clean white
tchirt, my wud.”
“ W.J.A.’s ” enthusiasm :
Let me strike the lyre concerning the bush-musician.
I was staying at the Oxford Hotel, Bourke, when an
itinerant individual arrived, per foot, from goodness
knows where, and played the piano daily for his “tucker.”
His favorite piece was a military march, which I had
never heard be-
fore or since.
He would strike
up—the treble
loud the bass
scarcely audible.
One could dis-
tinctly hear a
military band-
pipes shrieking
and drums beat-
ing behind
came the tramp
of feet. -.Almost
i mperceptibly
the treble would
die away, the
bass becoming
correspondingly
louder. The
band had
marched past,
its sound was
gradually dying
away in the
distance, and
rhe battalions of
infantry were
coining nearer
and nearer. By-
and-bye, they
would reach us.
The bass was
then strenuous
—one could hear
the tramping of
feet and the
jingle of accou-
trements. The
diminution of
sound was 60
gradual that it
lequired no
stretch of imagi-
nation to realise
that an armed
battalion was
steadily march-
ing by. I could
see them! Dusty
they were, but
with feces brown
and, stern!
Whilst they were
passing, and ere
the last gun had
lumbered up, an-
other inspiriting
band was heard
in the distance,
coming towards
us. Uncon-
sciously we
would forget the
men and guns,
and with
strained ears
listen. They
were coming-
corn i n g—com-
ing ; one could
be almost
tempted to go to the door and look expectantly
along the road. As they came, we would suddenly
discover that the tramping men had got quite a
distance away— nothing but a faint tramp, tramp,
tramp, and an occasional rumble, could be heard. How
we would pick up our feet as the inspiriting music
became gradually louder. It always gave us a priok-
ing sensation. He stayed with us a couple of months,
and then, picking up his bluey, he disappeared over the
horizon towards the setting sun and Madagascar.
THE ANCIENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
O father of all hoary-headed chestnuts
Who minglest with our midday meal a million
Of aged quips and worn-out repartees,
Think you that jokes, like wine, improve with keeping?
00, rub the cobwebs from your puns decrepit
Nor dream that we, though we applaud from pity
(11 e laugh but at the mere idea of laughing),
Have never heard your musty old traditions
W hich in the graveyard of forgetfulness
•Should long ago have laid their weary bones.
Mark how he crams his gullet with provision
And swamps it with the dregs from out the billy,
Drains off his pannikin, and, gulping quickly,
Wedges some battered patriarchal jest in
Betwixt the crannies of our conversation.
“See here,” he cries, “hark now, and clo3e attend me !
I have,’ he says, “ the most amusing story—
Ila, ha ! By Jove, you know it’s really funny !"
(lie never notes the air of jaded boredom,
The weary r , harassed look that seizes on us,
I he mutual sign of fellowship in suffering
That passes round among us.)
“ Ila, ha ! You know—ha, ha 1 I die with laughing I
Ila, Ha ! Ahem. Well, once I knew a fellow—
(You 11 laugh all right; just wait, the point is coming)—
W ho asked his boss to give him half-a-day off
To go to see his grandad’s funeral ..."
And so ad infinitum.
Eve, in Eden,
Said once to Adam, “ Husband, such a story 1
I heard it from the jackass just this morning ;
So funny ; and so new , dear; are you listening?”
And Adam leaned his back against a tree and
Bent his tired ears a half-yard further forward
The while she brightly babbled the ancestral
And white-haired, wrinkled, senile pleonasm
That {vide Darwin) came down from the monkeys—
A long-inherited family possession.
One day, when William lumbered in his mirth,
A lady came to beg our thrippences
To help along the Deaf and Dumb Asylum.
Then rose in bitter wrath our meanest member :
“ The deaf,” he howded aloud, “ the. deaf I envy I
But here, behold, take all of it —a sixpence
I give to the encouragement of dumbness !" ~ ,
When wild amaze at the unwonted offering
Had scattered, and our dazed wits were restored,
We turned upon our ancient bore in fear
Lest he might have dropped dead in sudden shame.
He calmly added, “ Well, as I was saying .. 1”
PAN.
THE OLD J.P.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
See him walk up the street, with his nose in the air,
None so pompous, so proud or so haughty as he,
When he dons his tall hat and carries his gamp
He thinks he’s a duke, does the old J.P.
He sits on the Bench with a marvellous frown,
Though the case is as simple as simple can be,
And, though he can’t read, yet he puts on his specs
When he serves out the law, does the old J.P.
Watch his eye how it glares on the poor old drunk,
“ This time is the third you were brought before me,
I’ll fine you a week, or a pound in the gaol 1 ”
Then he goes and gets tight, does the old J.P.
N.s.w.
A. BORIG.
To Play your Piano
The Pianola will aid you*
Would you believe there are nearly one
hundred thousand pianos lying idle in
Australia ?
Did it ever occur to you how very little
your piano is being used ?
Do you know the Pianola will enable
you to play your piano at once, although
you may never have played one note in
your life ?
If you will write us we will mail you
free a catalogue explaining how. Ask for
Catalogue “B.”
The price of the Pianola is £6O prompt
cash, or £65 on moderate monthly pay-
ments.
J*
HENRY M. BIRCE & CO.,
Sole Agents for Australasia,
SYDNEY : 323 Csorge St.,
MELBOURNE: 183-187 Collins St.
MR. J. SPENCER NOLAN. R.D.S DENTAL SURGEON, 43 Oxford-st., Sydney
DENTISTRY at lowest nricps * VV (between Mark Poy’s and Riley-st.). HIGH-CLASS
success. Beautiful and P perfe’ct fittim^a^m^l? l^ 6 y pa . lnless extractions by latest American system—a great
comfort and natuniraDneamnf'e 1 nn?->i a in t^T,?^ en i C (- SUCtI^ r i. se ! is ot AmeHcan teeth, giving the wearer ease,
most recent. up-to-dateplate for mounting w . lt^? ut springs or wires. Elastic Gum Coraline is the
that it defies detection. P p 0 r comfort ii'h^ eS -? nd hollow cheeks disappear. It is so natural
Coraline is perfectly tasteless and rpnl.in? and lightness it surpasses everything previously introduced,
system. Up-to date gold crowns and ?,“’?■ Badl - V fitfcin f? Plates remodelled on this new
Single teeth from ss. Teeth filled scaled and n° f lft J iesfc ™.® thods - Upper and lower sets from £llB.
uea ’ scaled and bleached. Country visitors fitted in one day if required.
DAVID STOKER & SONS
’ «n Three Oolore-BLACK, red and BLUE
Registered
Trade
Mark.
TATTOO 0|l.
Ib the Only Absolutely
SAFE Wco1 "
wnrt Marking
The Perfect Sheep-Marker. - SHEEP BRANDING OIL
_by ALL MERCHANTS and STOREKEEPERS.


“ J.B.N. ” : I can well un-
derstand how annoying “Jig-
gers ” (Bulletin, June 20) must
find the awful zeal of the trades-
people he has come in contact
with. But perhaps he wouldn’t
have remarked on it had he ever
been served by the tradespeople
of Cooktown. Here you go into
a shop and ask to see a certain
article. They go and bring out
one, mostly a very poor speci-
men too, and you ask if that is
the only one they have, “No,
we have more,” and with much
reluctance they bring out one
more. In another shop you
knock for a quarter of an hour,
and then the missus, a meek-
looking, worried woman, appears
with a broom and a plate and a
dish-cloth in her hands, and tells
you that “Pa” has just gone
to the pub at the corner to have
a drink. In a bookseller’s shop
you inquire for a certain book.
He hasn’t got it, and he makes
no effort to sell you anything
else. They have a habit in Cook
town, when you ask to see an
article, of inquiring first whether
you want to buy it. Unless
you are quite sure that you want
to buy it they regard the weari-
ness of lifting it down as best
avoided. If it is an article that
weighs over 71b. they always
prefer to describe it to you.
If it is somewhere where you
can walk to it conveniently
of course the position is different. But they hate
lifting things.
* * • *
“ Periwinkle ”: Strikes me rather forcibly
on a tender spot that the inherent vandalism of
the Australian youth often gets encouragement
at the seat of learning! Bulletin “par-fixers”
have written glowingly on the object-lessons
pupils have to undergo in the way of maps, cow-
sketches, etc., etc. This week an ancient spinster
at the local school gave an object lesson to the
infant class, the subject being the bee. The
youngsters could understand all about the insect’s
honey-gathering propensities, and the sting of its
business end—but they couldn’t remember how
many legs and wings the “ flower-kisser ” had.
Soothe spectacled old vandal told each pupil to
bring a bee to school next day. Consequence—
forty little to_w-headed ruffians were chasing over
the countryside, mangling, maiming, and killing
every honey-hunter they came across. Result —
40 bees at school next day, mostly minus a wing,
or leg; about 150 damaged insects missing from
the hive-roll-call, and an object lesson in refined
brutality. _ Would to goodness it was legal to
dissect this old maid !
* * * *
During the Maori trouble in M.L. years
ago a party of sappers had been working for days
towards a fortified pah. When they had got
about half-way a native appeared with flag of
truce. “ What do you propose ? ” asked the captain
in charge. Next moment there was a half-fainting
officer sitting on tho ground.’ The native's pro-
posal was that, as the British were too slow and
incapable, the Maoris were willing to come out
and undermine their own pah for the enemy at ss. a
day.
A DAUGHTER OE THE COMMONWEALTH.
Sample of the natural products of Westralia.
Photo, by T. Humphrey & Co. , Melbourne.
Sydney Kidman, the budding “cattle
, ~ , * , . .
king of Australia, wlio lately got back to
Adelaide after a round drive through Western
N.S.W. and Queensland, the Northern Territory,
and S.A., reckons it will take 10 years of from
good to fair seasons for the country to recover its
drought losses in cattle ; so far as he can see, the
country will never carry the old number of sheep
again, even with the good to fair seasons thrown
in. One bank, he says, has five stations out there
with less than 100 head of cattle left on them, all
A BROKEN PRINCIPLE.
FIRST DOMAIN DOSSER: "Did yer 'ear they buried poor ole
Bill, the stowaway, at sea? ”
SECOND DITTO: "’Struth! yaas. An’ note 'dll be bein’ washed
about for goodness only knows 'ow many years. It
would kill him right off if he teas alive.”
“K.K. Barbara Sutherland’s remon-
strance with Bulletin artists for invariably
depicting busbies as the wearers of short trousers
and long beards seems to show that the bush has
not given up the follies of fashion from convic-
tion. Long trousers in the country are as ridicu-
lous as long skirts anywhere. But a woman
everywhere must show either her feet or her
vanity.
* * * *
“Tika”: Weasels threaten to become a
curse in M.L. Can’t understand why no idiot has
yet introduced snakes to keep down the rats, or
tigers and leopards to provide shooting for tourists
in the extreme north. If there had been no devil
in the Garden of Eden I believe Adam would
have imported a pair and turned them loose to
breed. We badly need an Undesirable Animals
Bill.
* * * •
“ Deeby ” : Amongst the curiosities of
bush-waggon nomenclature I once came across
“ The Black Bird ” painted bright green ! Also
“The shamrock so green” illustrated by a sprig
of the sorrel in gold leaf ! Just imagine a yellow
shamrock ! Yet this carrier was no Orangeman,
but a pugnacious Tipperary person, who would
resent any aspersion cast on his national vegetable
with his fists and both feet.
* * » »
In spite of the “ general rains ” and
“complete break-up of the drought” which the
Sydney papers have been reporting during July,
a full third of N.S.W. had under an inch, and
that mostly in ineffective splutters of a point or
two at a time.
The most free-and-easy gaol
on record was the Thursday Is-
land establishment under
“ Jimmy ” Simpson’s regime.
“Prisoners” could roam where
they liked during the day, but,
according to a notice on the
gaol-door, any of them not in
by six o’clock would be locked
out. Only one defaulter was
known, and what part of his
carcase the ’gator couldn’t digest
was picked up on the beach
some days later. Long Monty
Dunn, of artistic fame, put in
a few months as warder there.
He would occasionally take out
a prisoner with him for an
evening’s spree. One night
Dunn’s companion could not
get him to come home, so he
went himself. Jimmy (inside):
“ Who’s that knocking ? ” Pri-
soner : “No. 15.” “Where’s
the warder?” “Down at the
pub.—can’t get him home.”
Jimmy (severely): “Go after
him again, and don’t dare to
come back without him.”
* * * *
“D.H.R.” : At Walgett,
a few days ago, the police pro-
ceeded against one James Taylor
for having an incorrect travel-
ling-stock permit in his posses-
sion. Defendant was in charge
of 15 horses travelling from
Bourke to Narrabri, and when
he arrived at Walgett he had
16 head. Evidence proved that
the man had privately purchased
a horse en route, and had had
no opportunity of getting the
document alteied. The receipt
for the animal was produced ;
but the Bench found the charge
proved and fined the drover 10s.
What a magnificent row there would have been if
Kingston had prosecuted an importer on so paltry
charge as that!
Every man knows a good use to which
some other man may put his money.
The director of Adelaide Zoo has made
the important announcement that one of the
married zebras is in an interesting condition. If
the little event comes off all right the foal will be
the first of its species born within the limits of
the Commonwealth.
A Drink! A Tonic! A Medicine!
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Call for WOLFE’S Schnapps and make sure that
you take nothing else.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
Ro notice (except of a hostile character) will betaken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Kame and
address must appear on MS. Ko liability is under-
taken in any case re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted, whether sent by post or handed in ; and in
no case will MS. be returned unless stamps (of any
State) accompany.
Horace M.: Thanks muchly Ignis : But it’s
easy to get a reputation for being a prophet when people
go out of their way to fulfil what you prophesy. There
are several Cardinals whose election as Pope would justify
the Malachy “ prophecy”; and it is more than reasonable
to suppose that a man with an ambition to be Pope shapes
his course so that he will fulfil the Malachy conditions—
Splash ; Pars too trifling so far ; we pay for all accepted
matter A.M.G. : Specific cases of medical sweating on
the part of the A.N.A we’re willing to expose, but don’t
feel inclined to throw bricks at the doctors they engage.
Poor devils, they can’t help being sweated M.: The
rich elderly lady who swops young bridegrooms on the
eve of marriage, generally is sorry afterwards ; also she is
generally sorry if she doesn’t. We wouldn’t take the re-
sponsibility of printing gossip in a particular case on the
strength of an anonymous letter... .11. E. : Too 5ma11....
W.A.P. : Had hopes of “ Jonah,” but somehow they didn’t
comeoff K.S. : “Last Year” hardly good enough. “La
Danseuse ’’ spoiled by the irregularity of the metre
Una S. : “ Love’s Laggard ” hardly good enough for print,
but not far 0ff.... J. Liddle : Send along either sketch or
suggestion in writing Nimbus: No luck Ruru :
Some good items ; also some indecent art suggestions....
W. 8.: None up to the mark Rei Panes : Accepted....
Tahune Linah : Will print “ S. Flat.” Spark : “ Hero’s
Girl” declined.. ..John W. : “Child of Love” not very
good verse and terribly hard to read J.F.D. : “ De-
generacy of Bull ” strikes this drawback : we don’t know
for certain whether Bull generally is growing smaller or
whether the army is becoming more and more the refuge
of merely the scum of the population R.N.O. :
“ Voices of Night ” too long and very bare of fresh ideas.
....Matchbox: “Barracker” starts well, but the just
severity of your remarks fades towards the end....
J.0.M.: Female jury skit too long and too 1005 e... .Bluey :
Jokes not original and versification too original Pros-
pector : You’ve got your scenery badly mixed—moon-
light, zephyr, amaranths, madrigal, anemones, hyacinths
—and the lyre bird 1 Any truthful lyre bird will tell you
that he has never seen an amaranth, anemone or hya-
cinth F.S.S. : (I)N.S.W. Arbitration Act has already
prevented two strikes in the coal trade. (2) A worker
going on strike in defiance of the Act is liable to indi-
vidual punishment Cosmos: Nine libels in one par.,
to be taken on your sole authority 1 We would soon
lose our bit of the Cosmos if we published that sort of
thing M.E.F. : M'Carthy is a busted subject now
Subscriber: “ Speak Kindly ”is a good title for your
poem ; acting on the advice, we say nothing as to its
merits E.A.P. : It’s a public duty to break any
“chain letter” that happens your way.. .Will I:
You had better get a more truthful set of friends....
Owl-light: Your dog has some humor; if only he were
a more consistent dog we would let him bark. Somehow
all the dogs that come over our way seem to be of the
Yes-no breed P.C.O : Your dog is too long drawn
out Roma: Still another dog! And it can’t take a
prize either.. ..Hawkesbury : '‘Lost” doesn’t appeal to
us....Monyah : Some pars, may pass.... Jim Crow: A
weak hand as yet.. ..Vivian P : Not up A.E.E. : No
use whatever T.M.M. : And that most venerable
American joke has just happened at Trangie, has it?
S.T. : Feel like printing “At Eve’’....Blow Fish: You
should develop into something of a writer if you practise,
and take care to put sufficient stamps on your letters, so
that they won’t cost us 4d. ...Mallam: Not much in
them Bee Mol: Moderately good lines on a very
hackneyed subject T.M.H. : One old; one suspected of
being old; and one so bad that it is suspected of being
new....A.0.: When a contribution is returned it is
seldom answered in Correspondence. If everything was
answered Correspondence would fill three columns
J. : As you admire private railway ownership so much
read that splendid book, Norris’s “ Octopus.” It will do
you good Mac-pherson : We publish jokes occasionally,
but we don’t publish the hammer and chisel with them —
and your name is Macpherson E.H.H. : “Life’s Way”
rather a cloudy affair E.W. : “ Wattle ” declined with
force.... Here’s Luck: Don’t strike any new patch....
D. : “Moonlighters” doesn’t gallop, doesn’t even
amble.. ..Wilga : Small joke, great space.. ..Doxo : Cer-
tainly, provided that they are in some sense celebrities :
ome of your pars, promising.. ..E.J.M. : Not up....
Alpha: No, thanks—not any more stuff like that
E. M‘C. : “In a Big Hospital” not effectively enough
handled.. ..Brownie : Sorry can’t commend it, even for
a first attempt M. Lome : Too much made of such a
trifle Kodak: “Johnnie’s Lament” very flat and
feeble.. ..Kerani : Rather well-written, but the striking-
it-rich-too-late device is very common in mining yarns....
Med : Don’t think anybody would print it—too amateur-
ishly awkward... .Os warth : The idea might have pros-
pered in stronger literary hands.. ..H.E.R. : Couldn’t
use any of them. Impressionistic work requires a finer
touch than you have so far displayed Rita S. :
Prose sketch promising, but too loose-jointed and discur-
sive. Verse rather far-fetched and feeble.... Paul Mell :
Humor too mechanical Razor-Back : Rather flat and
flabby J.G.M. : We pay for all pars, printed. Send
your bill to Bulletin accountant with pars, cut
out, or else with date and page of each par
H : No, the objection is that the Barton Government is
not conspiring to “squelch the State Governments.” It
ought to be but it isn’t... ,F.W.M. : .'2l verses of “ Ode to
the Federal Capital,” largely shouts of “ Tu mut!
Tumwf /” C.M. : Spent much valuable time trying to
decide whether it was fourth or sixth rate S.M.:
Something faintly approaching verse:
Nappin stones is hard,
There ain’t no price per yard
Nappin stones.
Metal at every blow
A new chum’s got no shew
Nappin stones
I reap as I’ve sown,
My soul is not my own
Nappin stones.
....Industry: The amount of loan money spent during
Reid’s term of office was about £7,000,000. If the
Ministry always came in exactly at the end of the
financial year when the accounts are made up it would
be possible to give the figures more accurately. This is
not including revenue deficiencies. The revenue showed
up thus : June, 1895, surplus £19,494 ; June, 1896, deficit
£607,523; June, 1897, deficit £207,367; June, 1898,
surplus £5473 ; June, 1899, surplus £10,676 ; net result a
deficit over the whole Reid period of £779,247. This
is not taking account of two broken periods of a few
months each in ’94 and ’99 The Runner: Not much
good.. ..J.L. (Sydney): Horrible idea B. : Sorry, but
never under any circumstances will we print a set of verses
with " hi-diddle-diddle” or “hi-tiddly-i-tum”in them
The Shadow : Has no central idea, and ends feebly... .11.
Gibson : They run upon somewhat conventional lines, but
the style is easy and rather effective.. .Owl-Light: Would
have to be re-written.... Octopus : Too vague and erratic.
....M.H. : Feel rather like publishing Only Me: It
doesn’t matter much. The propaganda of R.C.s, Salva-
tionists, and all the militant creeds counts for very little
in Australia. It is always bumping up against the three
dead walls of Horse, Football, and Blank Indifference....
L. : Good verse, but “ Phrvne ” is an unpleasant sub-
ject, and “Mimes” a woefuljy untrue picture of the bat-
tered actor’s old age.... King o’ the Kauri: No new or
bright ideas in them.. ..Milo : Below par.... Step: The
trouble about “ M'Ginty ” is that, though the verses pro
fess that he was a man of gigantic intellect and cleaned
out the town, it only appears that he won £1 and a drink.
Unsuitable: Melita, Carey J., C.D.W., The Horseshoe,
Swaggie, Rutherglen, Nad'a, Waif, M.A.8., M.0.M., P.G.,
A. A.N.D.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS-
0.E.8. : This lot too mechanical... .Peg. : All too crude
for use Leo: “ Lazy Dan ” picture neither funny nor
human. Other better, but not sufficiently better...
Shirlow : Neither up.... A.W. :It is not “ encouraging.”
B. : Trinity Church rejected with regret Wollon-
gong : Your sketch in green and pink and grey defies all
the efforts of our black-and-white artists to interpret....
M. (S.A.) : Shows a good deal of promise, but not up
to the mark.... Unsuitable : E.C.F., Kit. 0.. R.M., W.V.,
Zealandia.
Paragraph from S.M. Herald of last
Friday:
The twenty-year-old son of a farmer at Horbling, Lin-
colnshire, has just accomplished the remarkable feat cJ
clipping 100 sheep in a day. He was engaged about 17
hours from start to finish.
Fancy going all the way to England to borrow the
“remarkable” story of someone who shore 100
sheep in a day, and bringing the narrative all the
way out to this land of Billjim ! Does the Herald
know a sheep when it sees one ?
“P.T.F.” writes :
Some people have hard luck. This happened t’other
day in the rain. He was unemployed and “ broke,” and
had been foodless for 24 hours. Then he “ put it on ” a
friendly person for a “ sprat,” and got it. Clutching the
heaven-born coin firmly in his hand, he made an excited
bee-line for the nearest cheap food-shop, a glorious vision
of roast beef and spuds going before him. Crossing Pitt-
street he cleverly dodged a tram with fully 2J inches to
spare, but the effort caused his hand to relax. Now that
“sprat” had the whole Commonwealth to drop in, and
it was surely the quintessence of hard luck that it should
drop on the tram-rail. I thought him a pathetic figure
as he stood there amid the rain and the traffic ruefully
regarding a flattened-out piece of metal, and the vanish-
ing vision of a dinner that might have been.
But where was the pathos when a sympathetic
person like “P.T.F.” was there to give him
another sixpence ?
THE EXTREME PENALTY.
MRS. O'RORKE: "I'll tell you what, Mrs.
O'Grady, hangin's too good for 'im. E'
ought ter be stoushed."
Letter received by a respectable N.S.W.
citizen, who wants to know if there are lunatics
about: —
Dere Mr. , I heerd you was out stroking with my
Melia Anne on Saterday night, having met her at the
raleway station just before the male train left the station,
and her been under the age of consent, having been born
on the 14th of August, wich makes her 16 on the 14th of
August, coming 1903, for wich I mean to make you sit up
for. Taking a young girl out to the cemetery, wich ain’t
a fit place for Melia Anne, who was born a twin at 2
o’clock in the morning on the date, the other poor little
girl been dead, and Saturday night been a dark night
and Melia Anne been under the age of consent, my poor
dead husband what ain’t cold in the grave if he was alive,
having died through having eat too much poisoned sar-
dines, for wich the docter wich was a quack couldn’t cure
him, he having been pretty good with his hands having
one time beat Dick Davis, wich was the best man at
Bullocky’s Bend, he would make you sit up, and Dick
Davis what we called Nosey Dick because he had wort on
his nose, wich my ole man called a beauty spot, it having
made Dick wild, if he had hadent eat too much of the
poisoned tin-fish, wich having no dinner on that date it
made him hungry, and he died quite peaceful! and happy
while the quack pumped him with a stumick thing they
call a pump, and he having said me ole man was full of
beer, wich was a lie, the sardines having poisoned him at
12 o’clock at night on New Year’s morning, he was buried
at the Bend, and Dick Davis went to the funeral as best
man, leastways he helped to carry the coffin, wich was
heavy, my poor dead husband having been 14 stone
in his socks, if he didn’t have eat the fish he would smash
your ugely jore for having taken Melia Ann out on Sater-
day night, wich was a nice night for a young girl under
the age of consent, wich is 21, to be stroled about at the
cemetery, wich no young girl should be took to, and me
a poor lone widow wich had the twins on the 14th of
August, at 2 o’clock in the morning, aint going to have
my poor little girl what is too young to go out taken out
walking by a counter jumper like you, what aint fit to
take no decent girl to the cemetery, wich you did. I will
take proceedings against you, and if Dick Davis comes
over here, for wich I mean Melia Ann to marry when she
is over the age of consent, he will make you sit up. lam
your obedient servant, .
We make
Brooches.
Every new design
that isf ashionable in
Society in London
we make in Sydney.
Choice Pearls and Turquoise, 27s 6d.
WHY NOT ?
We save buyers 27} per cent. duty. We have the Artists here.
We have the jewels in large quantities.
We secure that exquisite finish that is the characteristic of good
jewellery.
Direct from the Factory to the Wearer.
Diamonds, Ruby, Sapphire and
Pearl Brooch, £5 ss.
NO INTERMEDIATE PROFITS.
Our Prices NEVER Exceed London Prices,
LmJ on Prices
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter St,


The j&sUw&y ployee Strike Act forfeited
the leg.d rights of the strikers to com-
pensation, and left the matter entirely in the
hands of the Government, and the Premier
has prepared a scheme to levy on strikers’
*> c m per. patio as according to the measure of
tl. A* .iniquity.
A here s that State Government house
'f c - ’ “S £IOOO a yoar for rent;
Anruher £2,000 a year for ‘ upkeep.' Whv
ran t we utilise part of the Government
house on St. Kiltfa-road. 11l see if wo
can t yet hold of a portion of it, and save
some money on the deal.' —Bent inter-
viewed.
lavnri.—“Since I've got him trussed up 60 |
nicely, I’d be a fool not to go through
him
T o mm ytheTacUcss^sU ; t a OnaJe t
SES-Sarr*
* ° t
THE OLD MAN OF THE WOOD.
Tho Melbourne ratepayer is continually
falling foul o|‘ him, and abusing him for
his bad management of tho board, and the
Old Man can never make out why any ✓
body should fool hurt about it
of *f
s!?.*£
, § a?
* $ z
If#
& § &
*ll r
&8 * 8
/>&• -f
*■
& /
6 S' <>
. lb©
roan mu authority Jones, of
<• T»*“ o l ,cu, °" n “-f.
\ *** £s*&** **
b authority journo
'jtss^fssfiiess^
ca vc on '? ot '
V»C. =—V\i cant!(
ca\V lf>is < ’cro,v/ : oW
no* | sec IKe ck tuse
Jj & sGte ddTsliU ajjj
In file Flinders-lane warehouses a great
deal of toasting to a moro just and liberal
administrator in the future was done dur-
ing the afternoon. . Whoever may bo ap-
pointed to the office, they can never again
have an administrator of the Kingston
temperament to deal with." --Argus.
SUBMITTING A SAMPLE.
Aegus.—“He has all the noces<ary dis-
qualificatioo6--*is blind, deaf, dumb,
lame, and lazy. Couldn t you adopt
him as a living example for vour new
Commissioner of Customs?*
FEDERAL AND OTHER ITEMS.


Re that Sydney harbor col-
lision (Argus -Mildura) the
Sultan of Johore was or. the
Argus and reports that he
.*• was surprised at the way
the terrified Lascars were be-
having, and called to them to
act calmly.”
The sort of bull-dog boy
Chamberlain wishes us to
encourage 1 .. : --- ;
She saw a Man sitting at the:
receipt of Customs, and she
said, “Follow me!”, and he:
t arose and followed her. (Ser'-p-:
Jure slightly altered
„A£ > ' S
v® VP^
Of® 0,
, t e^t
/*.?***
°'
if
is
,i$S
M
/at
if 0
fHff
Mt
f? Ce h'fJ i
NC* \w\; 4
r °Uj>; J ** r>> fyj/l ?**M
£' ,o ut a*** 0 * I ca OL/r >and * i> 0 M
*•*£?.** c ./**&
ŧ
I It is said that a crow :
Scan recognise a gun in >
| a man’s hand before :
|he gets into range. — ;
| Natural History item.
2® kurry ”
| A FORLORN HOPE.
Afii. Kkid ; *< There was not one
•State Government in the six
which would not turn out the
present Federal Government
jf it could.''
Mr. Barre Johnston, of Sydney Chamber of Horrors, is an advocate
[of State-aided immigration.
i “ It’s no use talking, madam ; the only thing that will save this country
is assisted immigration to increase competition.”
IN SYDNEY AND ELSEWHERE.


A. SAUNDERS, SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER.
A. SAUNDERS.
High Grade Ladies’ Solid Silver LEVEES,
Full Jewelled, J-plate,
£2 10s, £&, £3 10s, £4, and £4 10s.
In Solid Gold, £5 10s, £6 10s, £7 10s, £8 10s,
10 guineas, £l2 10s, £l5, and £2O.
Guaranteed 8,4, 5, and 6 years.
A. SAUNDEES,
Three-bar Gold Buckle BROOCH, 20s.
A. SAUNDEES.
Two-bar Floral, with Diamond, Blue, or Bed
Stone, BROOCH, 22s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Twist Bar, with Bow and Heart, Gold BROOCH,
6s 6d ; with Amethyst Heart, 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDURS.
Carved Gold BROOCH, with Opal Centre, 20s.
t
Ladies’ Curb CHAIIO
Gold Snap Padlock, 255,
80s, 86s, £2 6s, £8 ; 15ct.,
£2los, £3, £4, £4 10s, £5,
£6, £7 10s, £B, £lO.
10s extra
for
Key Padlock.
All With Safety Chain.
Diamond BRACELET, 18 carat Gold, Three Pure Double-out Diamonds,
with Safety Chain, £8 j Diamond and Two Rubies, £4.
Peace-offering Bird Dub BROOCHES, with Enamelled Olive Leaf,
17s 6d ] 15 oarat Gold, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Very Pretty Gold BRACELET, Diamond, Red, or Bine Stones,
£2 10s ; 15ct. Gold, £4, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
Bamboo Gold BRACELETS. All the Styles, Prices according
to width. 255, 80s, £2, £2 10s, £3, £8 10s j 15ct. Gold,
£3, £4, £5, £6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Band Name BRACELET, in Three Sizes, 255, 80s, as
above, and 40s wider j 15ct Gold, £3, £3los, £4.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Two Heart Amethyst and Love Knot
BROOCH, 20s.
BUS
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Two Bar Pure Diamond, Double Cut,
BROOCH, £2 ; with Ruby, 853 j
A. SAUNDERS,
Solid Gold Diamond Cut Amethyst
BROOCH, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Large Size Three Bar Amethyst BROOCH,
255; 15 Carat Gold, Amethyst, 455.
A. SAUNDERB.
Solid Gold Pearl Set Twin Love Birds,
BROOCH, Red Stone Centre, 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
loot. Gold Two Bar Opal and Fonr Diamond
BROOCH, £2 10s. Very Effective.
Sil-
ver,
£2.
A. SAUNDERS.
AT.T. ARTICLES POST FREE.
■Watch Repairs Guaranteed. Silver Hunting Keyless,
25s 80s, £2, £2 10s, £3. Solid Gold Keyless, £2, £3, £4,
’ £5 ; Superior Quality, £6, £7, £B, £lO.
ALL GUARANTEED.
FULL SIZE
A. SAUNDERS.
Three Bar Solid Gold Pearl and Red Stone Scr.oll
BROOCH, 21s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Battleaxe and Shield BROOCH, Very Neat and
Effective, Pearl Set with Gem, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS. _ „
Gold Mounted Tusk BROOCH. Cham and Bell.
15s Sd. Very Effeotive.
Gold
£4,
£3los.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUSHMEN AND MINERS’
SPECIAL MADE ENGLISH
LEVERS, Full Cj.p, Hand Finished, Extra
Jewelled Works, Perfect Timekeeper, with
Pure Silver Cases, Dust and Water Tight £3
10s.
Extra Quality, with Chronometer Balance
£4 10s, £5, £5 10s, £6, £7, £8 :
Solid Gold, £lO, £l5, £2O.
A written certificate for 3,4, and 5 years.
Try one ; yon will not regret it.
Keyless
JBs*
Free-
trade
Prices.
A. SAUNDERS.
Strong Reliable WATERBURY WATCHES.
Long Wind, 8s 6d ;
New Short Wind, 10s ;
New Model. G., 13s 6d ;
Extra Quality, |-plate, 18s 6d and £l.
Silver, 85s ;
Gold, £2 15s.
The reputation of these Watches is a sufficient
guarantee of the reliability.
No
Ad-
vance.
20s,
20s,
A. SAUNDERS.
Unrivalled non-magnet LEVER.
Perfect Timekeeper, Screw Cas.s,
dust and water tight, 20a.
Solid Silver, 35s ; Double Case, £2.
A Written Guarantee Given with Each
Watch.
Black or
Nickel,
£3 10s,
“ FLY BACK CHRONOMETERS. ’
Fly-back only. In Solid Nickel or Black,
Extra duality, £2, £2 10s ; same as above, £3 10s ;
Split Seconds, £3 10s. Pure Solid Silver, as above,
£5, £6, £7, £B, and £lO ; Solid Gold, £l5, £2O, £25,
and £3O.
A written certificate for 2,3, 4,5, and 6 years.
TRY ONE.
Silver,
£5.
Solid
Silver, 1
.£2los
Gold
Cased,
£A 4s-
A. SAUNDERS.
WALTHAM LEVERS.
We are Direct Buyers.
Pure Solid Silver Hunting Cases, Extra
Quality Movements,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4. and £5 ;
Gold Patent Cases, Walthams, £4 4s, £5 5s
Solid Gold, £l los, £lO, £l2 10s,
£l5, £2O, and £25.
8,4, 5, and 6 Years’ Guarantee.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Goal BAND
17s 6d ;
Three Opals, ‘22s 6d ;
15ct. Gold. 30s ;
Three Opals, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ot. Gold Pure Double
Cut Diamond,
£2 10s, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold, Three Red
or Blue Stones,
.Double Cut, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Band RINGS.
9ct. Solid Gold, 12s 6d,
15s ; 15ot. Gold,
20s, 255; 18ct. Gold 255,
30s, 355, £2.
Any name free.
A. SATJNOERS.
18ct. Gold, Pure Double
Cut Diamonds and
Rubies or Sapphires,
£3 10s £4, £4 10a ;
Five Diamonds, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Solid Gold,'Pure
Double Cut Diamond,
Puie Rubies
or Sapphire, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold, Two Hearts,
Diamond and Ruby,
35s ;
Two Diamonds, £2 ss.
Latest Style.
Gold Mizpah
CHARM,
4a 6d.
Pearl Cluster
Heart, 15s 6d ;
•with. Four
Diamond, Ruby,
or Sapphire, 255.
15ct. Gold Heart,
Double Cut
Diamond. 30s, 40s;
Buby or Sapphire,
255.
.a.
Gold Envelope
CHAKM, 12s 6d ;
name free, -with slip
inside, 15s 6d.
Good Friendship
Gold CHAKM,
10s 6d ; with Erin-
Go-Bragb, 10s 6d.
Gold Amethyst and
Pearl Heart
CHAKM. 10s 6d ;
larger, 15s and 20s.
Gent.’s Solid Gold Front STUDS, 3s 6d, 5s 6d, 7s 6d each,
A. SAUNDERS.
Hand-Made WEDDING RINGS and KEEPERS,
9ct. Sjlid Gold, as 6d, 7 s 6d, 10s 6,d each ;
15ct. Gold, 15s ; Extra Heavy, 25s ; 18ct. Gold, 20s ;
Extra Heavy, 30s, 355, 40s.
Quality of Gold and Finish First Class.
A. SAUNDERS.
Signet Plain RING, 9ct. Golc
20s, 255; loot. Gold, 30s, 3os ;
18ct. Gold, £2, £2 10s.
Hand-Hade Solid Gold MUFP3,
9ct. Bolid Gold, £3, £3 10s, £4 ;
15ct. Gold, £4 10s, £5, £6, £6 10s,
to £lO. Price According to
Thickness and Quality of Gold.
Photo Pendants
New Gold Photo. CHAftMS,
9 ot. 10s 6d, 15s, 20s ;
loot., 15s 6d, 255, 30s, 40s.
Gent.’s 9ct. Solid Gold Amethyst
RING, 25s ;
15ct. Solid Gold, £2, £2 10s,
9ct. Solid Gold Opal LINKS,
30s ; 15ct. Gold, £2 10b,
Extra Strong.
9ct. Gold Heart LINKS, 12s
6d ; loot. Gold, 255.
Beautifully Chased 9ot. Gold
Large Size Sleeve LINKS,
22s 6d; Plain, 21s; or with
initials nicely chased, 22s 6d ;
15ct. Gold £2;
Silver, 4s 6d.
18ct. Gold Buckle, Diamond
and Two Rubies or
Sapphires, £2 10s ;
Three Diamonds, £4.
A. BAUNDEBS.
Two Diamond Sparks
and Red Stone,
ISct. Gold, 80s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold,
Four Diamonds,
with Three Rubies,
Bapphires, or Opals,
£Blos, £4 10s, £5, £O.
Price to Size of
Diamonds.
1801. Solid Gold
Two Hearts,
Opals, Three Pure
Double Cut
Diamonds, £4los.
Band RINGS,
with Name,
9ct. Solid Gold,
12s 6d, 15s;
15ot. Gold, 20s, 25s ;
18ot. Gold, 255, 80s,
355, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Half Hoop,
Fire Double Cut
Diamonds, RING, £5;
Larger Diamonds,
£6, £7los, £B, £lO,
£U>, £2O.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold, Pearls and
Turquoise, 15s;
Other Styles, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18et. Solid Gold,
Diamond and Two
Rubies or Sapphires,
£2los :
Three Diamonds, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Double
Buckle, 17s 6d;
15ct. Gold, 30s;
18ct. Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS,
JEWELLER AND SILVERSMITH
815 AND 817 GEORGE-STREET
/(NEARLY OPPOBITE\
U AIL way station;?
SYDNEY.


Business, Robbery, etc.
~ 0W J le sturdy, self-reliant producing interests
<lo bleed the State ! There comes along now the balance-
sheet of a “ pastoral and agricultural show,” held 200
miles or so away from any agriculture or the possibility
of it. The year’s gross receipts from “takings at the
gate, etc.,” were £46, while the “ Govt, grant ” was £l6O.
0 Bay >. , fche local public had a picnic that cost
£196. They paid £46 of the bill themselves : the outside
fool-public paid the balance
MISS FLORENCE MENK-MEYER, PIANISTE.
David Harum : “J.F.D.’s” par. on eggs
and a restaurant (Bulletin 23/5/’O3) is reminiscent of an
experience of mine in an Adelaide hasn-house. Saw on
the board outside, “Ham and egg, 6d.,” so went in,
ordered, received, and ate same, which was “one slice of
am and three heggs,” a; the curling-pinned waitress
classified them. Put a shilling on the counter as I went
out and waited for the change. “That’s right, sir,” said
the woman with the booky’s bag. “’Am and heggs you
had, that’s a bob.” “But out in the front, ma’am, it’s
lum and eggs, 6d.” “ Ah, yes, ’am and hegg, 6d.; but ’am
and heggs is Is. See, you ’ad ’am an’ heggs. Hegg ~ is
plural.”
“ Wiljar”: In my part of the Mallee there is a
storekeeper who, by reason of his never-rush-’em policy,
is considered exceptionally “ white.” He is reputed to
have over £BO,OOO on his books, and to-day is down so low
that the “ stock ” (exclusively for “ good marks ”) is kept
mostly under the counter. He made the mistake, in the
first place (about 12 years ago), of advancing as much as
£l5O in a lump sum to men whose only security was 610
acres of (leasehold) unimproved jungle, and the cocky,
instead of wiping off' the debt—there were a few
moderately-good seasons about that time—in most cases
increased it. If it hadn’t been for that blunder (made
through a blind faith in the Mallee) there wouldn’t be a
parish or two already mortgaged to him, some of the
blocks in which, if sold at the impossible figure of 20s. an
acre, wouldn’t clear him. The Mallee isn’t worth selling
up just now, but next year, if Russell’s forecast holds
water, most of three counties will be under the hammer.
* * * #
The Arbitration Court learned something about
the joys of mining at Broken Hill. One man had been
poisoned by lead dust, several times he had been partially
suffocated by fracteur fumes, and once by charcoal fumes
(from the smouldering fire underground), and he had
developed a lung trouble through the violent changes of
temperature. Explaining the last trouble, he mentioned
that, whereas the temperature in his stope (working
place) averaged 91 degrees, it averaged 70 degrees just
outside—in the place to which he and his mates had to
retreat when shots were fired.
* * » *
An Adelaide sharebroker found himself some-
what in a fix the other day. His office boy, after reading
some hundreds of penny-horribles, cleared out from
home, with (after paying his fare to Melbourne) just
2s. 9d. in coppers and small change in his trouser
pocket. The sharebroker didn’t worry much about the
affair till he came to operate on certain scrip, and found
that, with the intention of gaining more votes at the
meetings of a certain mining co.,he had bought 5000 shares
and put 1000 in the name of each of the clerks in the office,
and had neglected to get them to sign the usual transfer
on the back of the scrip. Without the runaway boy he
could not touch the 1000 shares in the latter’s name.
The boy, being written re the affair, refused to come
back and sign till some practical persuasion had been
tried.
* * * *
Barrier Miner (Broken Hill) advt.: “Wanted
Known, that Jack Kelly's Wood and Water Business
will be carried on by Harry Kelly, who trusts that the
workers will rally round and help him to support J.K.’s
wife and family by buying their wood and water from
him while J.K. is in gaol for assaulting a policeman.'
• * •
“Archaic” upon instinctive knowledge and
the things that happen in the house-agency business :
“ In my callow youth got a billet in a house-agent’s office.
When the boss was away I had to interview the clients.
The men panned out all right, but the women emphati-
cally resented any intrusion into their private affairs. I
learned to trust to my instincts. One morning a lady in
deep mourning, with a Madonna face, a low voice, and a
good bit of cambric handkerchief, called. She mentioned
incidentally that she was a costumifere. I took to her
instinctively— and she took the villa. Two evenings later
a wild-eyed man roused up the boss (who lived two ter-
races up the street) and commanded him to follow him.
Boss recognised him as Brown, next-door tenant to the
villa, and, scenting epi-
sode, complied. Sounds
of music and waltzing
greeted them as Brown
dragged the boss up a nar-
row passage where a thin
gleam of light proceeded
from an aperture in a dis-
arranged blind. Boss, peep-
ing, discovered six whirl-
ing couples, most of the
men in pyjamas; the
women—well, they hadn’t
that much. ‘ Dancing
long ? ’ whispered the boss,
with his eye glued to the
chink. ‘Good bit,’ said
the wild-eyed man—‘was
watchin’ ’em about an
hour before I came round.’
At early dawn the police
visited the Madonna-like
lady.”
* * *
There was nearly a
riot in a Sydney suburban
street, the other night,
when a crowd of indignant
residents held up two of a
money-lender’s Dailiffs and
threatened to do them
serious bodily injury. This
is the present aspect of
the Sydney shark industry.
A sum of money is ad-
vanced on the household
furniture, over which a
bill of sale is taken. At
first the instalments are
collected regularly, but,
when the loan is nearly
paid off, the collector
never appears on the
horizon, and unless the
borrower takes the money
to the office, a pound or
two soon becomes overdue
Then some evening, when
everybody is out, the
bailiffs break in and re-
move the furniture. Magis-
trate Payten has declared
that this procedure is
quite legal, on the grounds
that the goods are the
money-lender’s, and he is
quite justified in breaking in to get them if the
people are not there to give them to him when he
wants them. All the same, one would like to know what
would happen to Magistrate Payten if, finding himself
without money between midnight and 1 a.m., he broke
into the bank where he had money on deposit and helped
himself, on the ground that there was no bank oflicial to
give it to him when he wanted it. A magistrate that
keeps law like that about his clothes is a danger to the
community. The breaking-in idea has this great advan-
tage for the money-lender, that it enables him to get the
furniture when there is no householder present to tender
payment of the amount due and thus, possibly, spoil the
shark s legal position.
A great industry m Germany is the manufacture
of potato spirit for lighting and for power purposes. It
makes one of the cheapest illuminants and fuels. The
Commonwealth can grow spuds as well as any place on
earth, and might acclimatise this industry.
* * * a
. problem of the household cleaning is begin-
ning to be solved. Latest achievement is the vacuum
nf/nf/V svvee P s . oufc rooms, &c., by simply sucking up
the dust into a receiver by air suction. You run a rubber
brush attached to a hose (which is connected with an air-
exbaust chamber) over carpets and floors, and the dust
rushes to a proper receptacle without fuss or trouble.
* * * *
Card in a Sydney suburban back street shon-
windowfresh Buter and egs Daly, ho maid jams
potates and Unyuns, goods Dilverd this sub Berb.” ’
AN INVESTMENT.
M'NAB (who hat just “borrowed” his fifth cigar this week): “ How would you
advise me to invest that thousand I have falling in?”
M‘DONNELL : “ Well, frankly, old man, Ed buy some tobacco."
The steamer Rotomahana, at present running
between Wellington and Lyttelton (M.L.), is a notable
vessel in inter-State shipping. Built for the Union Co.
by _ Denny Bros, in 1878, she has practically been
racing all her 25 years’ life. She and her sister
ship, on their first arrival in Australian waters, were
severely criticised by skippers of the old school as being
too narrow and sharp-stemmed—“coffin-ships,” they
were called. But they proved their speediness, and the
Rotomahana flies the company’s greyhound at her main
to this day. The only vessel that has beaten her is the
Mararoa, and on that occasion the margin was so small
that the Rotomahana still holds the dog. She is fitted
with a single screw, and performs her ferry duties at a
15J knot gait—for compound engines something to boast
of.
* * • •
The Australian public is gradually getting the
opportunity of knowing, through the brewing journals,
what its beer is made of. This struck the eye in a paper
of that class the other day (in its queries column) :
Dividend. —“We are thinking of introducing a raw-
grain system of brewing into our brewery, on account of
the saving of expense. Would a beer brewed from an
admixture of rice taste ‘ thin ’ and ‘ watery,’ or would it
bear comparison with other beers not so prepared ? ”
(There are many ways of using raw grain, and raw
grain may be either received by the brewery in an unpre-
pared or in a raw state. Both these kinds of grain have
been used for many years past in England, America, and
Germany, and, as a general rule, the beer so produced,
while being more profitable, bears comparison with any
other beer on the market. Roughly speaking, beer can
be produced with raw grain some 30 per cent, cheaper
than with malt and sugar only.)
The Temperance people, if they knew their business,
would circulate a few hundred thousand copies of one of
the brewing journals, with its disquieting instructions
how to top off and sweeten swill with chemicals, and pass
it as beer, and how to fake spirits with essences, and
manufacture wines without grapes.
* * • *
The Victorian association of authorised news-
agents is cuddling to its very select bosom what promises
to become (if it is not already so) a damnable monopoly.
To be a member of this narrow set is to have a greatly
enhanced value placed upon your “rag’’-stand as against
the independent trader who merely wants to live and let
live. The latter can only retail on suffrance papers
bought from the authorised shop. The wealthy dailies
have perforce to recognise the monopoly, and dare not
supply traders eager to buy and sell—on a cash basis-
outside the newsagents’ring ! In some Victorian coun-
try towns there are several stationers, all men of
reputable credit and standing ; yet, when a customer
requires an Age or an Argus, he has to wait till the shop-
keeper’s lad runs down to the “ recognised ” rival’s shop
for the paper at retail price. No wonder newsagencies
are advertised as worth £2500, £2OOO, £l5OO, £1250, £lOOO,
£9OO, £BOO, down the gamut, when in the “ authorised”
monopolistic ring. The tentacles of this trade octopus are
actually extending to the sale of State school requisites,
which are more often than not only procurable first-hand
at an authorised depot through red tapeworm acquies-
cence. So solid is the monopoly of the association that,
in a town of over 3000 inhabitants, only one man is allowed
to deal in the Melbourne papers, and, as the main street
is about a mile long, it is often a Sabbath day’s journey
to his shop.
* • * •
A Yankee book agent lately waited upon the
head partner of a big Sydney firm, and, after introducing
himself, requested permission “to feel the pulse of the
Australian public through such a great channel as Messrs.
Blank and C 0.,” in other words, to canvass the employees
for orders for his book. Blank refused, and the canvasser
canvassed the building without permission, but only-
secured one order. He returned to the head partner and
expressed himself thusly : “ I’ve tried your gol darned
pulse for the past three hours, and I guess it’s that tar-
nation feeble that if you don’t employ live men y-our one-
horse firm will simply peter out from business anaemia.”
Then he was violently dragged through the doorway by
the porter and three assistants, who had never. heard
their tin god thus addressed before.
• * ♦ *
“X. 0.”: Touching the registry office swindle.
One Australian labor (!) agent used to (may still, for
all I know) run an extensive business apart from his labor
office, but under another name. His terms were 2s. 6d.
for registration, and half first week’s wages when work
was found for a victim. His second business employed
many hands, and he would send men to his manager,
who would put them on, deduct their half week’s screw,
and turn them adrift again on some pretext or other after
a week or so. The registry office, I believe, was a mere side-
show- or after-thought, started to provide cheap labor for
the factory, and it represented a cut of about 25 per cent,
in wages.
* * * *
J-F.D. ’ : I stopped a sorrowful-looking man
yesterday who was peddling plaster-of-paris models—
first-class ones—of the Eiffel Tower, colored pieces of
glass let in to represent windows. He informed me that
the mode) took two and a half hours to finish off, and it
was a day ’s work to sell two of them, sale price being two
ii! each ! Then I knew I had come across somebody
I had long looked for. This was evidently the bloated
and pampered manufacturer mentioned in the Svdnev
Telegrami. j j
“Petra-
mos ” on a fly:
Nineteen
months ago a
fly died sud-
denly on the
gas-jet in my
study. MyMary
Jane is just the
usu a 1 Mary
Jane, so that
fly stuck in the
same position,
viz., iiead down
and feet in the
air, for a solid
year and seven
months. I made
a study of it
during that
time. Fly suc-
cumbed Nov.
20th, 1901; right
whig disappear-
e I August 5,
i 902 ; left wing
Nov. Ist, same
year; fly disap-
peared June
22nd, 1903, but
I couldn’t say
whether it just
fell to pieces or
Mary Jane hap-
pened to shatter
it with a duster.
Knowing Mary
Jane, I surmise
it dropped of its
own accord.
* *
“• L algi ”
from Ade-
laide ;
The calmness
of some people !
Was travelling
home by the last
tram the other
n.glit. It was
beastly wet,
and m< st of the
passengers were
dozing amiably,
when the o 1 d
horse vehicle
came to a sud-
den stop, and
a woman’s voice
accosted the
driver.
“ Do you pass
M ’s on the
G —-road?” it
said.
“ Yes,” firom
the driver.
Sleepy passen-
gers opened
their eyes in an
annoyed manner, then closed them resolutely.
“ Will you take them a message for me ? went on the
calm voice.
“Yes."
“My name is G . I want you to tell them my
husband has poisoned himself and he’s dead. Will you
tell them this?”
“Yes.”
“ Thank you very much.”
There was a sudden rush to our side of the ear.
Sleepy passengers were very much awake i now, and
peering out the window in a gloating, penny-dreadful
way. But seeing nothing but a woman walking away
through the rain and mud they turned back disap-
pointedly, and were still discussing the tragedy when I
left.
A writer in Melb. Tocsin suggests; sensibly
that the Australian Parliament is the only body
in the Commonwealth which should be dignified
with the title of “ Parliament,” leaving jthe State
legislatures with the titles of “ assemblies ” and
"councils.”
The Ai.ments that rise from chills,
As coughs and colds and other ills,
In Winter months are prevalent most,
Caused by wet, cold winds, and frost.
A Mother’s troubles then begin ;
The children cough, grow pale and thin :
The thoughtful parent should procure
A bottle of Woods’ Great Peppermint Cube.*
The British Government proposes to so
largely increase the National Debt sinking fund
that it will suffice to wholly extinguish the present
British debt in 50 years. The British Govern-
ment has many valuable assets to set against its
debt—its posts, telegraphs, Crown lands and
interest in the Suez Canal, for instance, yield over
£4, 000,000 a year net; but the fact that part of
the debt is represented by permanent and re-
productive works doesn’t strike the Britisher as a
reason for not paying the debt.
The way of the transgressor has been
made very hard in the case of Hugh Watt, for-
merly well-known in Australia—the man to whom
Kingston offered personal violence when he made
an offer which C.C.K. interpreted as a bribe.
Watt went astray with Lady Violet Beauchamp,
who wrote (among other things) that she would
only be happy when he was “ quite away from
that creature ’’—meaning his wife ; she unkindly
added that his lawful possessor was “ a real devil
and criminal in human form.” He somehow
allowed this letter to get into his wife’s hands ! On
it (and other evidence) she divorced him. Then she
lent it to Lady Violet’s husband, who divorced her,
recovering £lO,OOO damages against Watt. Then
Mrs. Watt started afresh, and on the “libel ” con-
tained in the words above quoted got a £5OOO
verdict against Lady Violet. This was reduced
on appeal to £l5OO, the Court remarking candidly
that it was practically an action for the loss of a
husband, and that Watt was “no great loss.”
Perhaps a man who could leave a letter of that
kind lying around deserved all that happened to
him. The obvious moral for a lady is that, not
even When most confidential, should she put on
paper all that she really thinks about the other
cat, especially if she believes that cat is a devil.
THE SLATTERN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Commonwealth owes, reckoning its public debts
alone, something like £200,000,000 to foreign creditors.”—
Plain English, July 9.
The Little Boy at Manly asked Australia what she owed
Unto the Hebrew men that run the pawnshops down the
road.
The slattern raised her uncombed head (she sat upon the
floor),
“ Perhaps two hundred millions; or, maybe, a trifle
more.
“ Excluding private loans that is,” the slattern further
said;
The Little Boy at Manly asked how much they totalled.
“Not much,” she mused, “five millions here, p’raps
ten or twenty there.”
To her dull eye the millions blew like rubbish in the air.
The Little Boy from Manly looked around her house and
said:
“ Where’s all the splendid furnituVe you had when you
were wed?”
The slattern dropped her novelette upon the floor and
yawned—
“ Some’s burnt for firewood, mister, and the rest is lost
or pawned."
lie said: “ Where are the boy and girl you had last time
I called—
I do not see their cradles here—have they been pawn-
wards hauled?"
She drooped her head, the slattern thing—“ The birth,
rate’s failin’ low,
I don’t know why ; the papers say there are no children
now.”
The Little Boy from Manly cursed the slattern to her
face,
He kicked her tawdry novelette across the streets of
space,
And then he sadly turned away to think the matter
o’er,
And left behind an uncombed wench a-borrowing on the
floor.
GRANT HERVEY.
Hotel
Australia
RAXES:
12s. 6d. per Day,
and upwards.
This beautiful hotel is fireproof from tower to
basement.
For cuisine, comf >rt, style, appointments, and
perfection of attendance, The Australia is the
lirst hotel of the Sou.hern Hemisphere.
It is situated on the healthiest site in the city.
Visitors sleep in a pure atmosphere.
J. URE SMITH (Late of Menzies’), Manager,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
A COOKY’S SONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now this is the song of the cocky chap
By the storekeepers understood
They live through the times of the dreadful drought
On the credit of seasons good !
A long, long credit their credit may be,
But ’tis reckoned os good, I trow 1
For they only wait for the rains to come,
Then they’ll settle the debts they owe 1
Oh ! the hope that eternally springs for man
Is the thing which they live upon—
Like the poor, it is never away from them,
For they’d die if that hope were gone!
And though it is true that the drought is sure,
Yet the rain, it is certain, too !
And they trust, till it comes with its blessfed boon,
That their credit ’ll carry ’em through !
ULOOLA.
SALES DAILY INCREASING.
A. E. Lawrence, the well-known chemist,
Oxford-street, Paddington, writes:—“The sales
on Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy are increasing
daily.” Reports of the same character are being
made all the time. The people want Chamber-
lains Cough Remedy, because they know it is
good, and does not contain any narcotics.*
BEAUTIFUL EVES & LASHES-
(VI ORRIS’S^
‘imperial."
'V«I
'Jj?
imperial
* *
©intment
Adds lustre, strengthens vision,
restores lashes. No toilet table
complete without it. Pots 2/-
chemists & stores. Post 2/2 from Proprietary, Melb!


POLITICAL
POINTS
Wanted, Bullock Driver with literary turn
to write articles on Kingston. Apply Argus
Office.
Premier Barton nearly lost his temper
when asked if it was true that Robert Reid was to
succeed Kingston as Minister of Customs.
Melbourne Trades Hall has had Irvine’s
infamous Strike Suppression Bill framed and
hung. There was a lot of competition for the
privilege of hanging it.
Judging by some of the men who are
running the sectarian ticket with a view to the
Federal elections, it seems that religion is now
the last refuge of scoundrels. ''
It turns out that the recent feelers with
regard to land-grant railways in the nor’-
west of Westralia were due to “certain sug-
gestions” made by the boss Westralian syndi-
cator, A. E. Morgans, once the State’s Premier
for a minute or two.
What Australia helped to conquer South
Africa for. An offer has been received at
Johannesburg from Hong Kong to supply
200,000 Chinese laborers for the Transvaal mines,
and Governor Milner has asked for 10,000 Indian
coolies for railway work.
Sydney Field is unkindly recalling to
public memory the fact that Carrutliers, who is
now so indignant at the See stone-breaking for
unemployed, was responsible, as a member of the
Reid Ministry in 1895-6, for the useless scrub-
cutting and sand-sliifting jobs provided for the
Bame unemployed. The curseof N.S.W. politics is
that every party which has been in power has be-
haved with sinful extravagance, and the only
party which has never been in charge—the Labor
party —hasn’t sense enough to declare itself an
anti-extravagance organisation.
GAUGING HIS INTELLECT.
"Do you know what time it is?” “ I haven’t the least idea.”
“I know that; but still I thought you might know what o’clock it was.”
The all-pervading terror of Cohen ! A
daily, paper writer, complaining of the want of
gallantry Australians show in leaving women to
stand while men sit in Sydney trams, says that
such conduct unfavorably impresses the British
visitor and cannot but have a bad effect op the loan
market.
Thomas Bent lately had prepared this list
of matters he has to deal with as Vic. Minister
for Works : —Local Government, railway con-
struction, electric light, ports and harbors,
fisheries, width of tyres, Commonwealth and
State buildings, river snagging, and pounds.
Come to think it over, Bent would make an ideal
pound-keeper.
Recent questions asked by Dr. Ross in
N.S.W. Assembly (1) Does the Government
propose to subsidise cat shows, which “may be
of some use in helping citizens to keep down the
mice and rats.” (2) How many dogs died in
Sydney last year ? Dr. Ross’ insatiable thirst for
knowledge will yet lead him to ask for statistics
as to the average number of cockroaches to the
square mile.
Tasmania is planning-out a scheme to
celebrate its centenary by doing (apparently) as
many childish tilings as possible on as many
public holidays as the most enthusiastic of the
idiots can get Propsting to proclaim. On a spot
where Lieutenant Bowen officially landed, away
out at the back of everywhere in a remote
suburb, a monument is to be erected. Here and
elsewhere there will be much swizzle and a bun-
struggle or two. Considerable money will be
wasted, and as there are a thousand national
works in urgent request that waste will be
very characteristically Vandemonian.
The Senate should very closely scrutinise
the agreement between the Commonwealth and
the Eastern Extension Cable Co. before giving its
assent. The E.E.C. Co. —as shown by the way it
fooled N.S.W.—has extra-smart officials, and its
agreements have a habit of proving more strin-
gent in practice than they seem in draft. The
Commonwealth is in the position, practically, of
having to make some agreement to get rid of the
incubus of the old State contracts ; but it should
be very wary as to every line of what it signs.
The hysterical Argus in announcing the
effect produced by Kingston’s resignation :
A general feeling of joyful relief swept through the
city. In the Flinders-lane warehouses the principals
practically made a half-holiday of the afternoon, recog-
nising that the tension to which commercial men have
been subjected ever since Mr. Kingston took charge of
the Customs department had ended. No firm had been
safe from a police-court prosecution under his reign.
Reads as if the criminals of Melbourne were
rejoicing over the reported disbandment of the
detective force.
Perry, N.S.W. Minister for Instruction,
said the other day that he is “a loyal supporter
of free, secular and compulsory education.” Yet
the system he bosses charges children 3d a week,
authorises and invites clergyman of all the creeds
to expound their doctrines in the schools, and so
laxly conducts its compulsory regulations that
about 20 per cent, of the State’s children avoid
attendance. Perry’s opinions may be free, secular
and compulsory, but the department he runs is
threepenny, religious and straggling.
M.L. Premier Seddon, on Chinese labor
in the Rand :
If this sort of thing had been foreseen, no contingents
would have gone from here to South Africa.
But it was foreseen—by the people whom
Seddon metaphorically “bonnetted” when he
was in the delirium of Mafficking fever. Sed-
don’s repentance is too late. The time to try
a person is before, not after, you have hanged
him ; otherwise you are always liable to find out
after the event that his accuser was the really
guilty party.
Alleged Senator Reid, of Victoria, does
not intend to make a fight for his seat at the
forthcoming election. It is practically certain
that he wouldn’t get the seat if he did
fight for it. His connection with the Irvine
Government would damn him in any contest
where there was no property vote to back him,
and his adventures with the Customs, his illegal
grabbing of a senatorial job, and the blank, dead
wall of mental dullness he has displayed in his
unlawful capacity as a bogus Federal member are
all so much additional cast iron around the neck
of his chance.
Nanson, who resigned the leadership of
the Westralian Opposition because he grew tired
of trying to keep a depressing crowd of Tories in
active motion, has moved a resolution, the general
effect of which is that, if Westralia had known its
little contingent to South Africa was fighting for
Chinese labor, it would have seen the Empire
hanged first. That matter, however, is one that
the Australian Parliament should take up. The
voice of all Australia should tell Chamberlain
that if it had known, it would have seen the
Empire hanged first.
The proposed new standing orders, which
are intended to relieve the congestion of business
and check the dreary wash of eloquence in N.S.W.
Assembly, promise well in some respects, but in
others they look like a grievous waste of oppor-
tunity. Three urgent reforms have been lost
sight of—the abolition of the Addres j-in-Reply ;
prohibition of all debate on motions of censure,
save only the speech of the man who proposes the
motion and of the Minister who replies; and a
new system whereby answers to questions will
simply be printed—not read out to the House.
The London Times’ New York correspon-
dent, G. W. Smalley, says that lynchings are
now so common in the United States that the
newspapers only trouble to record them when
they contain features of an unusual or sensational
character ; the fried nigger is only reported if
he is fried something extra. So rampant indeed
has the horror become, the same authority alleges,
that influential pressure is being brought to bear
on the Federal and State authorities to put a stop
to the barbarities. Surely the Russian and
Spanish Governments haven’t been shocked into
action by American cruelty !
WHAT’S BURIED CAN BE DUG UP AGAIN.
“And if there’s to lea big Maritime strike—that’s
where I can come in.”
Treasurer Turner having announced how
much money he will be able to repay to the States
this financial year, the State Treasurers have risen
almost unanimously to say that Turner is over
cautious, and has under-estimated the revenue,
and that there is no need to practise economy or
or tax the big Queensland or Victorian landholder,
for things are sure to pan out somehow better
than is expected.
Queensland Government talks of taking a
referendum on the subject of Bible-reading in
State schools. If the Referendum is taken at the
State Election this move may catch the religious
vote to some extent. When the referendum is
over, the soured and defeated sectarians will realise
that they asked for bread, and were tendered a
brick ; but they may vote for Philp and co. before
they discover that it is a brick.
Clause 3 should utterly damn Dcakm’s
Arbitration Bill. It reads :
This Act shall not apply to the Public Service of the
Commonwealth or of a State, or of any public authority
constituted under the Commonwealth or a State.
The politician who professes to think that it is a
good thing to substitute justice for violence in the
arbitrament of industrial disputes where private
employers are concerned, but not where the larger
body of workers under the Governments, the
various State boards and trusts, and the municipal
councils is affected, should harness up with Yes-
No Reid.
Britain, under its muddle-through-some-
how Government, is making a nice mess of the
little war in Somaliland. A despatch dated June
16 said :
The Abyssinians are dissatisfied with the lack of co-
operation on the part of General Manning. The Abys-
sinians moved to Gerlogubi, at the express desire of
General Manning, who, however, is now unable to assist
them.
Chamberlain has brought Britain down to the
point at which it must nod only have nigger allies,
but lie rebuked by them for military inefficiency.
Yet Australia is asked by Barton to accept Cham-
berlain as an unerring guide in Imperial matters !
If blundering “Janny” Leahy, Queens-
land’s ignorant Railway Minister, had ordinary
self-respect he would promptly resign. The other
day apropos' of nothing at all, but simply to
“ nark ” the other side, he produced and read to
the Assembly a list of labor-union secretaries who
•had been prosecuted for various offences. Every
part of the House cried “Shame,” and a day or
two afterwards, on Cowley’s suggestion, it was
decided to drop Leahy’s cowardly and venomous
contribution out of the official report. But
Leah v doesn’t seem to realise that that decision
reflectsbn him at all-—which, of course, is all the
worse for Leahy.
Affleck’s Leprosy Bill has had good luck in
N.S.W. Assembly and will probably fare as well
in the Council. The Bill provides that persons
affected with leprosy, or suspected of being
affected with it, shall be removed to the Govern-
ment lazarette. The Public Health Board re-
ported against the Bill, but the Government stood
to “ Wully.” The existing Act enables the Board
to declare a private house a lazarette, but this
humane arrangement is now to be done away with.
Leprosy experts and alleged experts differ so
much that it is difficult to form an opinion as to
whether the Health Board or Affleck, M.L. A., is
in the right. N.S.W.’s experience is that Affleck,
M.L.A., is generally wrong, but then the Board
is generally wrong also.
Looks as though Bully Bent may at any
moment be blown from his jiosition in the Irvine
Government by a storm of public ridicule. The
roaring fat man says the absurdest things in the
most uncivil way, and the newspaper men have
seemingly got orders to present the plain
unvarnished Bent in his habit as he talks. His
so-called “strength ” lies in a foolish vulgarity of
utterance; his activity is senseless rampageous-
n'ess ; his expressed notions of needful reform are
contemptible in character. When he finds a case
where things should be smoothed down he talks
wildly of “shaking’em up,” and his balder dash
is reported under a cross-heading every time. The
wrath of Bent, the addle-pated aggressionist, has
ceased to be a tolerable joke.
The Commonwealth Arbitration Bill “ does
not provide for the inclusion of the employees of
State Governments, because the Federal Govern-
ment felt it could not dictate to the States how
they should appropriate their revenue.” A
strangely lank and attenuated excuse. The real
trouble is, that the Barton Cabinet is suffering
from an innate dislike to do anything unpleasant
to the people it meets at the club. It meets
Irvine and the awful Bent at the club, and rather
than do anything to irritate those objectionable
parties it is going to do a rank injustice to several
thousands of its own constituents, if it can. It
doesn’t meet those thousands at the club; but it
will meet them at the ballot box, and that innate
dislike to do anything nasty is going to prove the
ruin of Australia’s Nobbled Son.
Stated by English papers that the
Servian assassinations have not disturbed
the Courts of Europe, socially, in the least.
Any other royal death would have thrown
the public engagements of every surviving
monarch into some sort of disorder. But
the Obrenovitehes were not “in society,
so far as royal families were concerned.
The Swedish king has, to some extent,
become acquainted with his fellow-poten-
tates, though he is the great-great-grandson
of a police court lawyer, but the descen-
dants of the Pig-Dealer were never properly
introduced.
Like his blacklegs, Premier Irvine—
he of the famous backbone —has fulfilled his
usefulness. Even the Victorian Tammany
—the National Citizens’ Reform League—
has been speaking of him in anything but
an encouraging way lately.
Order will never be obtained in
Parliament until offensive interruptions are
suppressed, and the best way to suppress
them is by money fines. If Speaker
M‘Court or Chairman Cann were empowered to
say to an offensive interrupter, “ Two pounds,
please, and vacate your seat till paid,” decorum
would be practically assured. The present sys-
tem of withdrawing and apologising not only fails
but makes debate ridiculous.
As a sample of the art of putting things,
the cable that during last year New York labor
unions blackmailed employers to the extent of
£400,000, takes the oalce: When the representa-
tives of capital inform a hundred thousand workers
that their wages are reduced by sixpence per day
no cable idiot rushes to explain that Fatman has
extorted £780,000 blackmail from the workers. It
is euphoniously spoken of as a “ decline in tha
wages rate.”
Trial Bay (N.S. W.) prison, a “permanent;
and reproductive ” public work, constructed some
years, back at a cost of £lOO,OOO loan money, has
been finally closed up as a gaol. Also, the three-
parts finished breakwater, a costly and difficult
attempt to construct (out of loans; it has been
washed away once, and repaired also out of loans)
a harbor for the prison, will probably be aban-
doned likewise. The Public Works Department
is scratching its head to find a use for the estab-
lishment. This makes two abandoned gaols
on N.S.W.’s hands. The other —the £50,000
loan-money Cooma gaol—has never had a single
prisoner inside its walls.
On July 29, 40 years ago, N.S.W.
abolished State aid to religion. At the com*
mencement of the settlement the C.E. was the
only sect aided. In time aid was extended to the
R.C. Governor Bourlce insisted on all-round fair
play, and extended aid to Presbyterians and
Wesleyans. In 1862 all aid was abolished, but the
Bill did not take effect till the middle of 1863.
The Act arranged for pensions to all preachers in
office while they remained in office and within the-
State. The first year’s pensions came to £32,372.
They have dwindled down to under £4OOO. Alto-
gether, taxpayers have paid to parsonical pen-
sioners over £750,500.
That Heaven-inspired reformer, Yic. Pro*
mier Irvine, has lately brought over a Mr.
Smith from S.A. to set things straight in
Taverner’s Lands Office. Smith is vaguely under-
stood to be some sort of underling in the S.A.
Department, and he spent just a week in Mel-
bourne bossing Taverner’s subordinates about,
and repeating the suggestions which have been
made ad nauseam in the Yic. Lands Office itself.
Smith’s main qualification for his reform job is the
fact that S.A. does about a seventh of the land
business carried out in the course of a year in the-
Iceberg State. It is “upto ” some member when
the Vic. Assembly meets to ask Irvine why Smith,
left home.
RESIGNATION OF KINGSTON.
LITTLE BOY FROM MANLY: “Fatty, what art
you crying for?” IMPORTER : “Joy."
A letter from Tasmania :
The Propsting Government doesn’t roost so high on th*'
tree of popularity as it did. It has shown an indisposi*
tion to meet Parliament—in itself sufficient to excit*
suspicion. It has manifested a puerile timidity in one of
two emergencies, and in several matters it has shown*
disastrous disposition to play the fool. Parliament
meets, unduly late, some time in August; and some time
later the fate of the new team will he decided. It is very
rarely that a perfectly new Government goes and hides
itself behind a stump in this protracted manner and looks
so anxious to avoid even making a beginning with it*
programme. If it sticks on a big absentee-tax, fight*
through its Early-Closing Act, and otherwise lives up to
itshustings promises, the Propsting Ministry will probably
win through, but unfortunately a large section of its sup-
porters think it was elected solely to take off necessary
taxes. What will happen next nobody pretends to know.
The Lewis Administration went out bag and baggage, and
the present germ of Opposition is as sick and hopeless a*-
an incurable cat.
WE WILL GIVE CASH TO YOU
for any old Gold Watches, Breast Pins,
Chains, Rings, Lockets, Brooches, Diamonds,
Pearls, Sapphires or Rubies ; in short, any old
Gold Jewellery or Precious Stones, whether
broken or not. We will send you a liberal
money order the same day the goods are re-
ceived. If our offer is not acceptable your
articles will be returned immediately.
Pack your articles in cotton wadding or tissue
paper, iifsmall box, write our name and address
) plainly on package, and send by registered post,
■ 'aijd we hold ourselves responsible. We refer you
to the London Bank of Australia, Ltd., Broken Hill,
SHAW & CO.i Jewellers,
(Also at London.) BROKEN HILL.
N.B.— We sell 15ct. Gent's Gold Alberts (double or
single) at 75 - per ounce- Cheapest in Australia.
(F‘Zﬂ'ﬁf' '
.<.'; :‘-:\;.'I>.I
57%"91- '
; #7;»F1§ _3’. .
tax; j '1:
‘ ' ‘- 52/ ‘
-&-J;2_
GtO TO ECE!X.X,-i
IUOLANIi for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hagci),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 E3izabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
AUSTRALIAN STAMPS
,3. I “‘1’ ‘.g 4'."
i . ‘2':
‘ ‘<;Z‘§<°‘f_is
:1ng ”13,5.
Bought, Sold & Exchanged.
Gibbons’ Philatelic Albums
and all requirements. Price lists gratis.
J. K. SMYTH & CO.,
88 KING ST., SYDNEY
5>
“Don’t shout
" I hear you. I can hear now
as well as anybody.
'“How > * Ob some-
thingnew—The Wilson.
Common-sense Ear- - v
Drum. I've a pair in my
ears now. you can't see them \
- —they're invisible. 1 wouldn't
x know I bad them in myself:
oniy that I hear alt right.”
The Wilson Ear-Dram ts
really 3 substitute for the
parts of the
natural ear. Has no
wire. Invisible, easy to ad
just, comfortable ‘ Totally
different from any other de-
-1 vice Descriptive pamphlet sent upon request
'»>. CU Aturgy 229-331 Collins. St., Help.
ţ
ť
SPECTACLES
H
—FOR—
DEFECTIVE
VISION, to
COUNTRY READERS
who cannot visit us
personally, we send,
Post Free to any ad-
dress, with full in-
structions and Price J.ist. our marvellously-accurate
and popular SELF SIQHT-MEASJ.-ING PATENT.
By its use you can Test y ur own sight and de-
termine for yourself the style and quality of the
glasses you may need. Write for it to-
ll. A. BARRACLOUGH, Optician,
355 C orge-st., Sydney (opposite Strand Arcade).


THE CALLAGHAN
A Perfect
Fit can be
relied on.
■a—
■ •
Ivy
■ ■" ■■
H bH iste p ||
.
I. M
■ d
d ■ rnmkQ.
I:.
BOOT
FOR
MEN
POST
AND
DUTY
FREE
EXCEPT
TO W.A.
Gentlemen ordering from the
country can quite easily get new
and stylish Boots BY POST; they
can get all the advantages in value
that keen city competition affords ;
they can, by following the instructions we
give below, get an accurate, comfortable fit.
1. State size of Boot worn, and, if necessary,
send an old one as a check.
2. Place the foot upon a piece of paper and,
firmly pressing it down, draw a pencil line
closely round it for shape of tread.
3. State if your foot is narrow, medium, or broad, as we
have different widths in every size of boot.
4. State whether brOad, medium, or narrow toes required.
Men’s Finest Calf LACE, medium wide welts,
appearance, 22/6 a pair.
POST AND
DUTY FREE,
23/6
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 ceorge st., Sydney.
VITADATIO
CURES ECZEMA.
Remuera, Auckland, N.Z.,
November 2nd, 1902.
Mr. S. A. PALMER,
Dear Sir, —Having suffered from Eczema for two years
without any relief from any of the many cures tried, I
was completely cured after taking three large bottles of
your VITADATIO two and a half years ago.
Yours gratefully,
Mrs. A. CAMERON.
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER,
Head Office: Clarendon Street N, %
South Melbourne.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The price of medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
MESSRS. ELLIOTT BROS., O’Connell-street, Sj'dney,
Sole Agents N.S.W.
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
Brisbane Exhibition Visitors.
4
MY SUBJECT is clothing. If this has any
interest for you, call on me when in Bris-
bane; I’ll satisfy you that my Cash Values for
anything in Men’s wear and Juvenile Clothing
are at least as good as any, and better than most,
whilst our salesmen will be found civil and
obliging.
My Speciality is a first-class suit to measure at
505., Satisfaction guaranteed, or your money back.
I shall be pleased to send patterns and Self-
Measurement forms anywhere at any time, and
guarantees fit. If you are not satisfied let me
know, and I will willingly return your money if
you want it. I mean to please you. CHARLES
GILBERT, Queen Street (near bridge),
BRISBANE (Only).
HOTEL DANIELL
(Late iriPERIAL),
Corner of GEORGE & ADELAIDE STS.,
BRISBANE
IT’S UNSIGHTLY
THE ELECTRICON
restores lost hearing.
1 New Scientific Discovery, worn for two or three hours
1 y, anyone can wear it. Book that tells all Posted Free.;
L. R. Vernon Coy., 60-64 Hunter Bt., Sydney
The Rev. J. W. Grove, speaking in the
Lydiard-st., Ballarat (Vic.) Methodist Church:
“ There’s a good deal of talk about men not going
to church, but that’s not the real trouble. What’s
wanted is more of the man in the men who do
attend. ”
“ PUBLIC PRONOUNCE EXCELLENT.”
This is what J. Travers, Rydal, N.S.W., writes
of Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy. He also
reports a constantly increasing sale. The secret
of the success of Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy is
that it will do all the Manufacturers claim for it,
and also that it contains NO OPIUM, which
makes it a valuable adjunct to all household
medicine chests. Sold by all dealers at Is. 6d.*
“ War E.” : Minister Crick’s latest (N.S.,
Wales) Land Bill proposes to allow homestead
selectors the privilege of converting their holdings
into conditional purchases. This proposal is
advocated on the ground that the “penniless”
selector who takes up a H.S. is debarred from
raising money on it; the holding, being merely
leased from the Government, is not negotiable
property. Therefore, declare the advocates of the
CLP. system, the penniless selector cannot develop
his holding—by putting a hopeless mortgage on
it. So it is proposed that the penniless selector
shall pay, perhaps, £5OO to the State so as to get
a title t 9 his land, that he may borrow, perhaps,
£3OO on it and thus be £2OO more penniless than
he was before. The idea of a penniless selector
being greatly oppressed because he isn’t allowed
to pay a large sum of money and acquire the free-
hold of an estate is doubtless a great hardship.
Mount Garnet Railway & Freehold
Mines—NO LIABILITY.
Issue of 165,000 Shares of 10s., paid to ss. each.
SHAREHOLDERS in the Mount Garnet
Freehold Copper and Silver Mining
Co. Ltd are reminded that they must apply by
the 14th AUGUST if they desire their proportion
of shares in the new “No Liability ” Company.
Any “SURPLUS SHARES” will be available
for allotment to any persons who apply by the
14th August and pay Sixpence (6d.) per share.
Queenslanders may apply to Cobrie & Co.,
.Brisbane.
THOS. ROLLASON, Secretary,
47 Queen Street, Melbourne.
m
Truss
Comfort
Is only assured when trusses
are properly fitted. We sell
the finest trusses made and
have expert fitters pn the
premises.
Elastic Trusses—Single, 155.; Double, 20s
DENYER BROTHERS,
Medical Supply Depot , Surgical Instrument and
„ Truss Makers,
281 George Street (opp. Ilunter-st.), Sydney.
And at Melbourne ' *
The tendency to potter miserably over
Bill’s dirt-money seems incurable in N.S.W.
The other day the time of the Assembly was
taken up with eleven questions about one laborer
at Fitzroy Dock, and a day or two later two more
questions were asked—one of them being whether
the Government would hire, at some expense, a
competent outside engineer to inspect the laborer
in question. N.S.W. Assembly makes one radi-
cal mistake; it is a Parliament, but it is under
the delusion that it is a rouseabout, light porter
and office boy. Is there any other Parliament in
the world where the Premier would gravely report
that 2491 dead dogs had been fished out of the
harbor in six months ? f
Premier Barton occasionally makes a show
of dignity. Having decided to extend the Van-
couver mail service for two years at an additional
subsidy, he didn’t officially notify either N.S.W.
or Queensland Government, so Premier Philp
cheekily wrote that the additional expense should
not have been incurred without consulting him !
Whereat Premier Barton:
Mr. Philp seems to think that the business of the
t ederal Government and Parliament should be carried on
subject to the veto of each of the State Governments.
However desirous I am of preserving the most friendly
relations with the State Governments—and I am desirous
of doing this—l cannot Carry matters to the length of
substituting their opinions for those of the Parliament to
which I am responsible.
Professor W. A. Dixon, F.1.C., F.C.S.,
Public Analyst of Sydney, testifies to the
purity of Sunlight Soap, and reports that
it contains no adulteration whatever.
SUNLIGHT
SoHP
REDUCES
EXPENSE
TYPEWRITERS
Nun; ‘ :11‘31
‘QE‘E'? 7' ' 5 .-~ 1"“
w- ":\\2’ ,_
\ * , ‘g“[|w\\‘.\“1‘ 2F. f
..A a" . ' ‘
mgr» "M" .7; _
‘,e:';~~°.9-xg, 713$ ‘ ' g? ‘2. L
.. .‘ ., .:.'[d~...;.s; 1:353.” ‘ /‘
"$335042"~,'-:'|.‘"" 'L dhr'qi' ‘7 3, .'
1~951%;gzgg3»,¢1;.{£.; ha. ‘X'é‘iz-
A431"-~'¢‘ra;a;ma:3':.-';4ujzi‘..-:‘ v >4
\ ‘ Nwo‘“) ,
77w“. '=. 3:95» .A
\V‘TE‘E‘;“ \ 1‘" P" ‘ “‘97-"
‘ \Vtéf‘X-‘zb‘x‘wr' :.‘,
\,\' A
3 of the World’s Best
New flodel No. 10, adopted by Depts. of
External and Home Affairs.
THE No. 5 DENSMORE.
Fastest machine in the world. Used and endorsed
by Messrs. Dalgety & Co., Sydney.
THE NEW CENTURY.
Velvet touch—as supplied to Governor-General and
Governors of N.B. Wales and Victoria.
UNITED TYPEWRITER AND SUPPLIES CO.,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE and PERTH.
BRISBANE— Webster & Co. ADELAIDE—N. York Import. Co. LAUNCESTON— HedIey Button.
HARDY BROTHERS,
VW-BwaT Jewellers
Necklets and Pendants
in Great Variety, in the Latest
London and Parisian Designs.
Prices range from £5 to £5OO.
Write for Illustrated Price Lists.
Goods forwarded without delay to all parts of Australia.
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY;
118 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
" I?" a
r h
a; 1"|\\ ‘
7 :_.
:/--?:® ”a, I”. 777;»
,9 ﬁgﬁdﬂvﬂpma 96
via: ‘ .e- a: '97:
mm a e: /&m-", ‘
5. :5 c‘ c
r ‘ . .1 .
~ rt. ,6?) c
9 é”
P, (”1.5! _
“'3'
,3
- .
XM
I
* . .
CORSETS
!♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦<
The Recognised Standard
Ugh-Class Corsets
- LATEST SPECIALTY
STRAIGHT FRONT
NOUWELLE FORM
Obtainable from Leading
Drapers Everywhere.
Avoid Inferior Imitations, and see that
each pair bears the Manufacturer’s “Trade
Mark ” on band inside, as above.


Banking, Public Companies, fte.
Upon - all - Classes - of
WE
&
&
a
VB
3W.5,-W.
(Hont deplete D.^l.Co.,[td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
174. CASTBEREAGH ST., 74.
* * SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
-TIM!-
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with*
out Mutual Liability.
Offices ' - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Borns, Chairman; Hon. O. J. Robirts
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruch Smith, Esq., M.H.R.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,706,830.
Policies issued 91,305—assuring £27,614,218.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,981,398.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office:
#l9 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE'
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
The Bank of |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... ... ••• *700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250.000 ... £350,000
The
Royal Bank of Queensland
* T T 7lf T'W • IP Tk W
LIMITED.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £457,354
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 175,997
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 60,000
£693,351
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Queensland Smelting Qompy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
■DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
-L> Conner Ores. Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, the Branch
Office, 54 Market-street. Melbourne, or IRWIN HINDS,
Branch Manager, 6 Spring-street, Sydney.
rH E SAVINGS BANK
HAS MONEY TO LEND in VICTORIA
b 41 per cent., in sums of £5OO to £15,000, on Town
roperties; and £2OOO to £25,000 011 BROAD ACRES
OR FIVE YEARS, with option of paying off part
ilf-yearly.
FARMERS’ CREDIT FONCIER.
oans from £5O to £2OOO at 4£ per cent, for 31i years.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
29 Market-street, Melbourne.
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
C.orpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Oo.), Hon. John See, Lfc.-Col. Borns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide: L. A. Jessop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Olyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlane; Brisbane, K. Wilson; Perth, A. W.
Farouiiar. J. J.ALLEN, General Manager for Australia
W 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amoun tof Capital payable by Shareholders 600,000
Total Capital
£2,500,000
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY' COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) ... ... • £10,491 16 9
Directors : F. It. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., 0.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Griqe, Esq.;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M L C.
JAMES BORItOWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manages
EPILEPSY
THENCH’B
REMEDY
Immediate
Relief.
IS
Permanent
Cure.
Valuable
Pamphlet
Posted Free
CURABLE
THE UNION M’F’G & AGENCY CO.,
359-361 Collins St., Melbourne.
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
I Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St. , Melbourne
A Policy for the Commonwealth:
A Handy Manual of Politics. By James
Edmond. Price, 6d. ; pest free from The
Bulletin Office, 7d.
Shipping.
HXT. D. L.
(NORD-DFIUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Four-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin-screw steamer.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO SINGAPORE,
Via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. TANGLIN. 16th SEPTEMBER.
And Regularly Every 6 Weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
THC AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY BERVICE.
NINEVEH
MORAVIAN
AUSTRALASIAN
N. Allan ..
A. Simpson
T. F. Spalding
Noon, Aug. 14
Noon, Sept. 4
Noon, Sept. 2>
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London u .. £55 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. £3l 10s .. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £l2O.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalgety and Company , Ltd.,
AGENTS.
ROOnS, BOARD and RESIDENCE. Flats— fur-
nished and unfurnished; Houses recommended by
MADAMES TOLLFREE and COMPTON. All personally
inspected and fullest details given. Residential and
Domestic Agents.
622 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Oceanic Steamship Company,
A. and. A. LIKTB,
TWO GR A.3XTD E X CXJRSXO3XTS.
YOSEMITE VALLEY and CALIFORNIA BIG TREES,
UP IN THE HEART OF THE SIERRA NEVADA MOUNTAINS.
Travellers of note who have visited Switzerland say Yosemite surpasses even the grandeur of the Alps.
£72 (including everything).
HOTEL DEL MONTE (monterey).
all-the-year-round health and pleasure resort.
£65 (including everything).
Through Passengers to London and American centres may participate in these excursions.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., Hanaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,026,000 0 0
Reserve Liability ... 1,000,000 0 0
£3,025,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
G. J. Cohen, Esq Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Eater, M.L.O Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. R. Jones, M.L.C. Hon. H. Moses, M.L.O.
Hon. F. T. Humphery, M.L.C.
Auditors:
W. L. Docker, Esq. James O. Fairfax, Esq.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager : T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector ; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Bircliin - Lane
Directors: Sir J. A. Youl, K.C.M.G; F. H.
Dangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq. ; Hon. H S
Littleton. Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughouo the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
THE
lIIIITCn insurance
UR I I EU CO. (Limited).
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500,000,
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks. .
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &e. Bents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Rates Very Low.
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager.
64
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W_ C. IBIIIIDIE&IIDGKE] & GO.,
DYERS & GLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
“Til Try It:
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Qapillarine
Posted (under cover
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, 108.6 d.
SOLE AGENTS.
1
XhtHeauU.
CRAIG & AITKEIM. N.S •W. Barber’s Supply
House. 680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
FOREIGN STAMPS
F ST‘ CE :-
'—" - ‘ .0- c
'3'“- ‘3.
EgV/w I;
E v 49-11’2' 3
F EL C,
pHEAP SETS.—4O Japan, Is 6d ;
'~ y 47 Spain, Is 6d; 6 British
Guiana, 6d ; 8 Egypt, 6d ; 16 Heli-
goland, Is; 11 Canada, 6d : 15
Boumania,6d,6 United States War-
ships, 3d ; 8 Java, 6d ; 5 Costa
Rica, 4d ; 6 Guatemala, 6d ; 12
Indian Telegraphs, 6d ; 20 Brazil,
Is ; 12 Cuba, 9d ; 11 Portugal, 6d.
New Catalogue of Stamps, &c., Gratis. Stamps purchased.
CHARLES DONNE, 346 Little Collins st., Melbourne.
Irrigation in Queensland
AND OTHER AUSTRALIAN STATES.
By PERCY C. SMITH, C. E.
SPOSTED 5/6.
WATSON, 1-tRCUSUN & Co.. BRISBANE.
AMD ALL BOOKSELLER*.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
The Cheapest Route
to London.
Moana,
10th August.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
Unrivalled Position in LONDON
(England),
TheLanghamHotel
PLACE^
And REGENT STREET, LONDON, W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality.
ilodern Appointments. Moderate Tariff.
“The Challenge”
Latest Scientific
Punching Machine.
A new World’s Record of 12251b5. was established on
the above machine at the Royal Agricultural Society’s
Show, Sydney, 1903, by Mr. T. YV. Aulsebrook, of Messrs.
Aulsebrook and Sons, Ltd., the previous World’s Record,
held by Mr. Robert Fitzsimmons, champion pugilist,
being 10851bs.
The “Challenge” is an Automatic Penny-in-the-Slot
Machine, and is especially suitable for Hotels, Billiard
and Refreshment Rooms, Tobacconist Shops, etc.
It is a great attraction to any place, a first class money-
maker, never gets out of order, and requires no attention
whatever.
All other kinds of Automatic Slot Machines kept in
Stock. Illustrated Catalogue posted on application.
J. LANDES,
108 PITT ST., SYDNEY,
Sole A(/ent for Australasia.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK :
By Sixty Bulletin writers. Cloth, *OO pages ;
price, 4s. fid. From all Booksellers, or the
Publishers, Tws Boulton Newsipper ©o., Ltd.,
214 Seerge Street. Sydney, Australia.
Sblpplng,
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian f
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORT'S
ESPERANCE BA?
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhippingat Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Allinga,
Friday, August 7.
S.S. Marloo,
Saturday, August 16
(Without Transhipment).
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oalrna
S.S. Gabo, August 8.
-S.S. Allinga, August 14.
S.S. Rookton, August 28.
Best and Cheapest Itoute to Qoldflelda.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. 8. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
D AND Q
r ‘
COMPANY’S
ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
PASSAGE MONEY T >"LONDON—Single, £38 to JfcJ/7
Ditto Ditto Return,£06 to £115
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by Orient-Pacilic, Messageries
Mari times and N.D.L. Steamers having room.
63 Pitt-street.
A. GORDON WESCIIE,
Acting Agent.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PABH.
Steamers of 6500 tons, un,ler Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MISLBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUE£, and POUT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows:
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including'table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company Ollices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney,
L. BRIOARD, Acting Principal Agent.
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. BY THE . .
“E. and A.” LINE.
Touching at Queensland Porta and Port Darwin.
Steamer. :Tns [ Commander. Leave Sydney
♦AUSTRALIAN .. 0000 W. Q. McArthur.. September 2
EMPIRE .. 1500 P. T. Helms ..September
♦EASTERN .. 3600 Winthrop Ellis ..October
AUSTRALIAN .. 3000 W. G. McArthur.. November
♦Does not call at Port Darwin.
EVERY CONVENIENCE FOR A TROPICAL VOYAGE.
The Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans. . _ .
Through bookings at special rates to Europe via Canada,
U.S. America, or the Trans-Siberian Railway.
For handbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-st., Sydney.
§ §5 c 8 |
DR. J. DOLUS BROWNE'S
fHLOROPyNE.
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyna.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BfiOH OHITIS,
DLAKEHCEA, *>•. *»“•
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
IHB ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS at
Sept. 28, 1896, says;
“If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to
most generally useful, to the exclusion of
others, r should say Chlobodyne. I never tra
without it, and its general applicability to tb
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation."
S.&ST
LADIES 1
HAIR
DRESSERS
CRAIG &
AITKEN.
Tel, 1198.
THE most charming and stylish
Transformations and semi-
Transformations you ever
saw from 21/- each. Switches of
hair from 5/6. Your own Comb-
ings made up into Switches at
2/6 per oz. Specific Lotion, an
unfailing remedy for, falling hair
and eradicating dandruff, 3/6 per
bottle.
Supply stores wholesale, human
hair merchants, assistants en-
gaged and sent anywhere.
Mail orders reeeive special
attention.
Price Lists on application.
620-652 GF.ORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
At Ba-wn and Busk:
By Y. J. ©ALEY. Ih hands«H* clotn,
with portrait. Frico 6s.


When the Super. Cracks a Joke.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Poets of the backblocks mostly paint the bushman
in their rhyme
A melancholy, dismal sort of clown,
Who frets, and broods, and worries ’neath a gum-
tree most the time,
When he isn’t on a roaring spree in town.
And I rather think the poets dip in truth their
rhyming pen
When branding him a “ pessimistic bloke ”;
Yet I wonder did they ever hear the roar of
laughter when
The super, of the station cracks a joke?
Oh, they fairly shake the rafter
Of the woolshed with their laughter
When the super, cracks a joke—
When he’s pleased to crack a thousand-year-
old joke!
And the same bards sing of bushmen as a sad and
dreamy crew,
Who care not for the life in lighter vein,
And who dearly love the sadness, and the solemn
silence, too,
Of the lonely bush and sun-grilled western plain.
And I really think these ballads are the songs of
truthful men,
Who do not wrap their Billjim in a cloak ;
Yet I don’t believe they’ve listened to their soul-
ful dreamers when
The super, of the station cracks a joke.
Oh, they leave off sadly dreaming,
And they rend the air with screaming,
When the super, cracks a joke—
Thinks it fit to crack an idiotic joke !
And these poets also tell us in a melancholy strain
How the bushman scorns the very thought of jest ;
While comedy or mirthfulness would cause him
bitter pain,
And he only acts in tragedy Out West.
And I freely will acknowledge nought is more
depressing than
The mopoke’s dirge and curlew’s dismal croak,
Yet I fancy that these minstrels never saw their
Hamlets when
The super, of the station cracks a joke.
Oh, they ring the tragic curtain
Down at once, you may be certain,
When the super, cracks a joke—
Cracks some stale and shallow pantomimic
joke!
Bushmen, spite their dreamy sadness, then we
hear the poets say,
Answer loyally their Union Battle-Cry,
And nobly stand together in the fight for better
pay,
And to hoist the Flag of Freedom up on high !
And I grant amongst the shearers are, indeed,
some gallant men,
Who bravely try to break the tyrant’s yoke—
Yet I swear these bards have never heard their
western heroes when
The super, of the station cracks a joke.
Oh, they shake the woolshed rafter
With their joy and with their laughter
When the super, cracks a joke—
Some old forgotten mummy of a joke.
Well, we’ve, too, been up the country—my old
mate, Bill Mayne and I,
And have felt the thing the poets rhyme about,
And have heard the plaintive curlew, and the
Union battle-cry
When the leaders called the Western shearers out.
But we’ve left it, for we couldn’t keep a job like
other men,
And were mostly humping swag, and stony-
broke,
Simply just because we, somehow, couldn’t burst
out laughing when
The super, of the station cracked a joke.
Oh, you have to grin and bear it,
And grin loud, so they can hear it,
When the super, at the station cracks a joke—
Some old Egyptian tombstone of a joke.
Q-
6x8.
COLLECTIVE INVESTIGATION.-The ex-
perience of millions of people in all quarters of the
habitable globe during the last quarter of a
century has confirmed the value of Hunyadi Janos
as the best and safest natural aperient. Invalu-
able to diners-out.*
The Bulletin, having attended an
address by Mr. H. F. Wyatt, Envoy of the
British Navy League, on Imperial Naval Defence,
came away with somewhat this impression of his
speech:—
When the mighty fleets of Palestine ranged over the
confines of Atlantis and brought the terror of the sea-
power to the conscience of the perfidious Aztecs, then it
was that the germ of the British navy was born. Since
then it has fructified in manliness, it has weltered in the
blood of foes, it has stormed the dizzy Himalayan heights
of grandeur, and its nodding plumes have waved over all
the battle-grounds of the world. What the old oak
walls of England have not done no mortal eye can
imagine—no mortal mind can hear at the top of its voice.
What they have done is writ in imperishable brass on the
Forehead of Time in clear and lustrous characters ; their
oars have beaten every sea ; their smoke has painted
every sky with the deep-graved lessons of British
might; their sails have brought to every nook of the
earth a flaunting defiance and a white-winged message of
hope and reliance and gin. The British navy—to which
you are asked to subscribe the small and absurdly in-
adequate sum of £200,000 a year, a sum which, in propor-
tion to the merits of the cause, is but as a grain of sand
to the bulk of the star Sirius—is the heir of all the ages
anl the hope of all posterity ; it is the sure refuge for
Fr -edom wherever menaced ; the screaming of its fog-
whistle is a clarion note against oppression, a strident
declaration of British infallibility, and as sweet a music
as ever an angel hanging down from heaven piped from
his golden lyre, affirming, as he did so, that the Bible and
the Navy were the secrets of England’s greatness. You
will now put your little £200,000 on the plate whilst the
choir sings the Bulldog Treed.
Breakers ahead ! the cold and rain
Will soon be with us once again ;
Soon Winter’s breath will freeze the air,
For coughs and colds we must prepare,
Complaints that cause so much distress.
Yet evoryofie will soon confess
That the remedy, good and pure,
Is some Woods’ Great Peppermint Cube.*
Blackwatfcle Bay, whose awful stench
keeps three or four members of Parliament con-
stantly rapping .at Ministerial doors, washes a
portion of historic old Sydney. Dr. Bowman, an
early surgeon, received the ground running round
Glebe Point as a reward for services, and worked
the estate by convict labor. Some of the wildest
scenes about Sydney occurred there. Byndhurst
Hall, the Bowman mansion, was purchased by
Archbishop Polding and turned into a boys’
college. Archbishop Vaughan afterwards sold it.
Even now one may come upon hooks and bars
and old convict-branded blocks of stone, telling
that the estate was once “ well-worked.”
W. N. Willis, M.L.A., as a land agent
needs no black-tracker to guide him through the
devious paths of the Land Acts. He fights all
his cases, and the harder the task the better he
like it, and wins all the time. 21 Bligh-street.*
The latest authority to veto the germ-
infested Word, usually handed to witnesses in
courts, is the leading doctor of Charters Towers
(N. Q.), who declined to guarantee his own veracity
till a clean and healthy Scripture was procured.
The next Australian medical conference should
deal with this matter; also with communion cup
infection, waste paper for wrapping food, second-
hand clothes and furniture dealing, and other aids
to the dissemination of disease.
BEST-BEST-BEST.
T. J. Ramsey, Eden Stores, Eden, N.S.W.,
writes:—“Of all the medicines that we sell,
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy is the best; not
only the best seller, but gives the best satisfaction
to the people.” Why experiment when you can
go to any reliable store and obtain a bottle of
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy for Is. 6d.*
A
i'TrJ-
-1
N
////
i
WM
jjg
Yimm
lijrAKHi WV< -Mm.
\\t\y
mm
Xffsk'
t>iv.4?r
wfiafajopue • \
WMjfron this paper
II
i«§OLUWS ST
lIS2MEILBOURNE.
2h.p. to 10O(t<pu
KING- MARINE OIL EBMGINES.
Launches built 20ft. to 80ft. overall.
“’4*1h:ﬁlihﬁﬁiiﬁu‘guumung; s.i.‘1MEWWWWWW 5NWt!\ﬁuﬁl‘é‘WWWWWWW?3:».1‘W1W
WINNIE
Noiseless Underwater « .
Exhaust.
Perfect Gas Generator:
Double Cylinder.
Automatic Oil Feed.
Simple Electric Ignition
with Dynamo.
J. OF*.
Telephone 2671.
WITH THE KIHG EHCINE —ONE LEVER CONTROLS THE WHOLE.
MoDSRMOTT & OOMPAWY,
30 PITT STREET, SYDKTEY.
t
™ e CENTURY THERMAL BATH CABINET
is equal to A DOCTOR IN EVERY HOME*
THOUSANDS GLADLY TESTIFY TO THIS FACT!
Hot-air and Vapour Baths administered by this Cabinet are
a speedy cure for RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA, BRONCHITIS,
GOUT, LIVER and KIDNEY TROUBLES, INFLUENZA,
COLDS, FEVERS—in fact, there is no disease which can resist
the power of heat as applied by this Cabinet. 300,000 now
being used in Great Britain weekly.
PRICES, delivered, 30/- to 84/-.
Write to-day for descriptive Booklet—FßEE.
i Century Thermal Bath Cabinet Co. Ltd. (Dbpt. 8)
i (Sole Agents Wanted for Sydney.)
ALEX. TROUP, Manager,
Royal Arcade, Elizabeth-st. Entrance, MELBOURNE.
James Martin & Co.
161 CLARENCE ST.
Near King St.
SYDNEY
x 1y .-
y, s
I .
ﬁ'rzwj f ‘
:1“ .403". ‘ I'lﬂﬁtk ,
”11.. M; ' 5““ 9M
\.:‘o'=.' ‘___ - .N- ,r‘v‘Sé?‘
WE ARE PREPARED TO
ILLUMINATE ANY PLACE,
ANY TIME, ANYWHERE, with
ACETYLENE GAS.
Martin’s Reliable Automatic
Acetylene Gas Generator.
lALL SIZES, from 5 to 1000 LIGHTS.
OVER 500 IN DAILY USE. Send for our “ No. 56
Acetylene Gas Catalogue.”
CARBIDE OF CALCIUH at the BEST PRICES.
When you want MOTIVE POWER it will
pay you to investigate the merits of
MIARTIKT'S
Nonpariel Oil Engine
BURNS ORDINARY KEROSENE.
FULL SPEED AT A MOMENT’S NOTICE.
Strong-, Safe, Cheap, Economical.
ALL SIZES, both HORIZONTAL and PORTABLE.
&3T Send for Illustrated Descriptive Circular ,
GOOD HAIR
FOR
All Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss, Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
gW For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HATR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
g3T For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
■A.X, iT ■ l
&
4*
t
0/2
Washington H. Souu & Co..
Pitt-street, Sidney.
CONSULT HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by WATKINS & MACKAY, Chemists, Queen Street, Brisbane • Mr fiOßtimf oo
Street, Rockhampton, Queensland, and Ueor P°
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE
THE 48th
0-Hour pemonstration
and flrt Union
(Under sanction of
the Attorney-General)
Monday, sth Oct., 1903.
* 1 “
Prizes value £1250.
First Prize, value £5OO ; Second Prize, value £100;
Third Prize, value £5O ; and 150 other valuable Prizes
The Prize Drawing is open to the public and the
press, and every purchaser of a ticket has an equal
chance whether present or not.
Last year a number of applications for tickets were
received too late for participation in the drawing;
and their moneys had to be returned. People from a
distance should apply early and avoid this disap-
pointment.
Tickets to be obtained from
A. McDougall, Secretary,
Trades Hall, Sydney,
or from Local Agents everywhere.
The First Prize (a Golden Emu valued at 500 sovs.)
was last year won by Mrs. Swadling, of Edden-street,
Leichhardt, Sydney.
Buy your Tickets Early.
Only One Shilling.
SICK MADE WELL
WEAK MADE STRONG.
Marvellous Elixir of Life Discovered
by Famous Doctor-Scientist That
Cures Every Known Ailment.
Wonderful Cures are Effected That
Seem Like Miracles Performed —
The Secret of Long Life of
Olden Times Revived.
The Remedy Is Free to Jill Who Send
Name and Address.
After years of patient study, and delving into
the dusty records of the past, aswellasfollo'ving
modern experiments in the realms of medical'
science, Dr. James W. Kidd, 4SO First National
Bank-building, Fort Wayne, Ind., U. S.A.,
w
DB. JAMES WILLIAM KIDD.
makes the startling announcement that ha
has surely discovered the elixir of life. That
ho is able with the aid of a mysterious com-
pound, known only to himself, produced as a
result of the years he has spent in searching
for this precious life-giving boon, to euro any
and every disease that is known to the human
body. There is no doubt of the doctor’s earnest-
ness in making his claim and the remark-
able cures rhab he is daily effecting seems to
bea;: him out very strongly. His theory which
he advances is ono of reason and based on
sound experience in a medical practiea of many
years. It co -ts nothing to try his remarkable
“Elixir of Life,” as ho calls it, for ho sends
it free, to anyone who is a sufferer, in sufficient
quantities to convince of its ability to cure, so
there is absolutely no risk to run. Some of
the cures cited aro very remarkable, and but
for reliable witnesses would hardly be credited.
The lame have thrown away crutches and
walked about after two or three trials of tho
remedy. The sick, given up by home doctors,
have been restored to their families and friends
in perfect health. Bheumatism, neuralgia,
stomach, heart, liver, kidney, blood and skin
diseases and bladder troubles disappear as
by magic. Hea.laches, backaches, nervousness,
fevers, consumption, coughs* colds, asthma,
catarrh, bronchitis and all affections of tho
throat, lungs or any vital organs aro easily
overcome in a space of time that is simply
marvellous.
Partial paralysis, locomotor ataxia, dropsy,
gout, scrofula and piles aro quickly and per-
manently removed. It purifies the entire
system, blood and tissues, restores normal
nerve power, circulation and a state of perfect
health is produced at once. To the doctor all
systems are alike and equally affected by this
great “Elixir of Life.” Send for the remedy
to-day. It is free to every sufferer. State what
you want to be cured of and the sure remedy
for it will be sent you free by return mail.
Bemember, a letter to America requires 2sd.
postage. Write your name very plain, and be
sure to give your full address, so there can be
no mistake in delivery.
The representative book of Australian humor
STEELE RUDD’S
“ On Our Selection.”


SPORTING NOTIONS.
Marmont’s popular victory, at Caulfield, last
Saturday, gives him the distinction of being the first
horse to win the two G.N. Hurdle Baces, a distinction
which Colonel Shilinski last year missed by a head, when
Itawdon beat him for the V.B.C. event. On paper,
Shilinski still looks the better of the two champions, see-
ing that he carried 111 b. more than Marmont’s burden
round the long course at Caulfield, and subsequently
won the Steeplechase with 13.2 on his back. It remains
for Marmont to make a name as a ’.chaser, nnd, even
if he should beat Shilinski’s record over the bidr
sticks, he will have to do better than that,
before he can. rank beside Bedleap, the daddy of them
all. In the meantime, the six consecutive wins of Mr.
M'Arthur’s brilliant jumper have persuaded his jubilant
followers that they never saw his equal. ■ Before he
Started for the V.B.C. Grand National a month ago,
carrying a comfortable 9.1, Marmont was said to have two
stone in hand. Now it is said that three stone more
than his handicap would not have stopped him. If he
goes for the Hurdle race next Saturday, and wins it,
backers of “ form ” will shout loud enough to burst a
rain-cloud, for a cut-and-come-again Marmont happens to
them only once in many years.
* * * V •
Such consistency of success in obstacle racing
draws attention to the absolutely rotten state of the
governments which pretend to guard the morals of flat-
racing in Australia. Marmont starts a hot favorite, the
field is large as a rule, Ikey Mo would arrange a defeat
of the good thing by foul means if he could, but Marmont
wins every time. Hurdle and steeple racing don’t offer
easy opportunities for “ interference.” The men who
risk their lives in a game where accidents must
happen are bound by considerations of mutual interest
to deal fairly with one another until the last obstacle has
been cleared. By that time the best horse is rarely in
danger of being jockeyed out of his rights. And so a
red-hot favorite wins hurdle races where he would be in-
terfered with and prevented from winning if the hurdles
were out of the way. A good jumper has a fair chance
of beating a big field of horses even when the “books”
stand to lose heavily by his victory. A hot pot for the Mel-
bourne Cup, or any other big handicap run on a circular
course, has not a fair chance. Among 20 flat race jockeys
there is always one young ruffian, or two, or more, bent
on “ dealing it out” to the favorite should an opening
for foul play offer itself. And until racing is strictly
policed— i.e., stewarded—this form of Turf rascality will
continue to flourish.
* * * *
“ Tout” : Know of a man who started backing
Marmont in the first of his successive lepping triumphs.
He collected £8 over the initial win at Caulfield, the odds
to a sovereign. Winnings were played up at Williams-
town, odds being sto 2. This made his capital £2B and
it all went on Marmont for the V.B.C. Grand National at
threes which swelled the money in hand to £ll2. In the
Doutta Galla Hurdles the punter took £l5O to £lOO and
£lB to £l2, thus increasing the accumulation of wealth to
£2BO. Haven’t heard how he fared over Marmont’s
V.A.T.O. G.N. Hurdles Saturday, but his mind was fully
made up to throw the lot in again, and for the last time.
* 4* * *
V.A.T.C. G.N. ’Chase, coming Saturday, looks
almost as good for Freedom as did Hurdles for Marmont
last Saturday. In recent V.B.C. G.N. Steeple he was
there all the time, making the pace and jumping with
cat-like ease and grace. Being asked to win from end to
end looked a more than severe task, but the nag’s
stamina and lepping capabilities probably justified it,
especially as the field included a few speedier ones. It
was Freedom’s forcing that brought about the shattering
of all prior time feats ; and the previous fastest belonged
to him. Unless there is a Grafnell in the Caulfield event,
and with ordinary luck, Freedom should be first past the
post. ,
Pace set by Examiner and Rawdon made
V.A.T.C. Grand National Hurdles, Saturday, very fast.
Time (6.57) was within Jsec. of fastest— Bealgar’s,
five years ago. Had Marmont been slightly pushed near
the end, new figures would surely have resulted.
* * * ♦
Hitherto unreliable T.M.S. turned up at
Bosehill on Monday after a long spell, showing bigger
and heavier than ever, and, backed from tens down to
fives, beat a particularly warm field —if they were all
“on it.” Said that nag belongs to the gentleman whose
initials T.M.S. are, and who, according to the card, will
henceforth be known to Turfdom as “ Mr. Marvel."
* * * *
Restrictions placed upon “ Tatt.’s ” don’t
seem to weight him much ; already three £25,000 on Ade-
laide Grand National Hurdles have been drawn, and a
fourth is said to be filling fast.
* * * *
Prominence of 13. T’other day, at the Hutt
(M.L.), a backer put his coin on because there were 13
letters in the nag’S name (Shrapnel Shell), 13 in the
names of his sire and dam (Son-of-a-Gun—Dudu), 13 in
the name of the race (the “Parliamentary” Handicap)
and 13 lined up at the start.
* * * •
The English Jockey Club has certainly improved
—at last—on the Australian starting-gate innovation by
giving the starter authority to signal a “No-go” and
recall the gees if their machine-made start proves a
failure. Australia still sticks to the original rule that the
first uplifting of the gate must be final, and thus the
purpose of a wise invention is defeated-in some cases.
At Flemington or Bandwick it sometimes "happens that
the gate-start is a worse start than was usually permitted
under the bygone rule of the flag, when a specially un-
happy despatch was immediately cancelled by the
starter’s “ Come back.” And it looks as though the
lifting-gat&is likely to be replaced for good by a barrier
which works on the principle of railway gates. Why not ?
At the pressure of an electric button the gates fly open
quick as lightning and the start is signalled.
4c * ♦ , *
“Ne’er-do-Weel”: Re nomenclature —.
Wakawhahai and Popocatapetl—in B. 16/7/’O3. Was it
not Lord Bandolph Ghurchill who owned L’Abbesse de
Jouarre sometime in the 80’s? What a fearful-hash the
bookies used to make of the name 1 I can hear them now
laying “ Abscess on the Jore ! ”
* * * *
The enterprising; youth of Adelaide, emulating
their elders, run “■ books ” on the races, and doubles of
7s. 6d. to a penny are common. The police recently con-
fiscated a notebook in which a lad of about 14 had
recorded a most complete series of transactions at these
odds. • ,
• • • *
The winning instinct in some horses is very
strong. A hurdler lost his jockey half way through at
the last Wellington (M.L.) meeting, but plodded on, ran
into a handy position in the. last half-mile, and in the
final pinch timed his run to' a nicety, and just got home.
* * * »
The well-groomed amateur jock who travels to
every race meeting, and who iS labelled “Mr.” in press
reports when he gets a mount, is being brought up with
a round turn in M.L.', and-not before it was time. Some
of him have been sailing under false colors for years, and
pros, have used highly decorative language on the sub-
ject, and asked the authorities to inquire into the bona
fides of a number of the gentry. The conference has
now decided that no weight allowance shall be made
amateurs when riding against pros., and a new rule
dealing with the whole question is to be drafted. The
gentleman rider, as a rule, is a most amusing circum-
stance, but there are many in M.L. who can more than
hold their own anywhere.
4r » * * *
During M.L. trotting season just closed 32
meetings were held, and £18,378 given away in prize
money. Tote investments reached £159,147.
J 4c ' * * *
Crack M.L. jock C. Jenkins rode 85 winners
during last season—a record for the State.
* * ♦ *
At Boulder (W.A.) races t’other day three
brothers (An win) were up on first, second, and third nags
in big event, and same thing occurred in last race of
programme. Has this a parallel ?
D. J. Price, owner of the champion M.L.
trotter Bibbonwood, writes from ’Frisco that the famous
training track at Pleasanton is from five to seven seconds
faster than that of the Metropolitan Club (Christchurch),
where Bibbonwood put up a record of 2min. 6sec. for a
mile. He reckons that Bibbonwood would cut out half-
a-mile at Pleasanton in lmin. easily. Price was endeavor-
ing to arrange a match with Clipper (2min. 6sec.), any
distance, any number of heats, for any amount, contest
to come off in M.L. next season, and there’s a probability
of the challenge being taken up. If not, Bibbonwood will
be shipped to’Murka, where his sanguine owner reckons
he’ll beat anything in his class. Apropos: There is a
likelihood of the speedy Almont being brought over from
Melbourne to meet Bibbonwood shortly, and the tussle
should be a memorable one.
* * * *
The Adelaide Racing Club shows in its annual
account a profit Of £5BO for the year, and has £2625 in the
bank. It gave £7625 in stakes for seven days’ racing, and
made a profit on all of them, totalling £2038, (The profit
was really greater than that, but this club debits a pro-
portion of wages and salaries to the meetings.) Gate
money and sundries brought in £7075, and totalisator
commission £5424, the latter item, which has in some
years been as large as the former, showing some falling-
off this time. The A.B.C. has 451 tWo-guinea members,
and pays the City Corporation £BOO a year for the use of
a strip of the Park Lands to race On. The S.A. Jockey
Club has 258 three-guinea members, and an overdraft of
nearly £5OOO, but then it owns its own course of 162 acres,
with all improvements. It raced seven days, giving £7890
in stakes, and collecting £5448 from the tote and £6719
otherwise. The profit on the race meetings was £2016,
and on the whole year’s transactions about £7OO. The
S. A. J.C. administers a Disabled Jockeys’ Fund, which relies
principally on the “ fractions” from the tote. The fund
has £T6OO out at interest and is still growing. It took in
£285 last year, and only distributed £l5O cautiously
among 19 deserving cases, so it is apparently making
ready for a time when all the jockeys in S.A. shall be
smashed up and need assistance simultaneously.
* * * *
Pilgrim’s Progress-Bright Eyes 4yr.-old mare
Bright Beauty, when properly labelled for anything
during coming Spring, will be worth something better
than an ordinal investment. Since beginning of year
her successes have been Caulfield Trial Handicap, Wood-
cliff Handicap (lm. 3f.) 6.7 Up, and V.B.C. Farewell
Handicap (lm.) with 7.1.
» » * *
New Turf year opened Saturday. Imported
Isonomy nag Pilgrim’s Progress tops the list of success-
ful sires insofar as prize money Is concerned, his total
being £12,661; but Lochiel’s get, with £12,016 to their
credit, won 158 J races as against Isonomy’s progeny’s 49,
though it took 56 of them to do it, while only 17 suc-
ceeded for Pilgrim’s Progress. Noteworthy that for 7
years Lochiel has been first in number of winners and
races appropriated. Past 6 years have seen horses got
by Lodhiel accumulate 820 events.
* * * »
The Admiral—The Frau eolt, Van Tromp,
whose prospects in Maribyrnorig Plate owner Lynch con-
siders particularly rosy, certainly looks the thing.
“ Booky ” Sol Green bought Van Tromp at recent
yearling sales for 150g5., and soon after passed the_nag on
to Lynch for a similar sum. Evident!}' this Solomon
hasn’t quite the wisdom attributed to his Biblical name-
sake despite that he has been more than ordinarily suc-
cessful n the Ikey Mo business.
» * * *
Grafton’s position among winning sires is worth
referring to. Though only 8 years old, with none of his
stock over four years, 34 of last season’s winners were
sired by him, and they gathered 65 races, worth £10,367,
placing Grafton fourth on the list. There was heaps of
variety in these successes, which ranged from country
sprints to V.B.C. Grand National.
* » » *
The “great fight” which the Maoriland anti-
gamblers threatened to put up in the-House of Beps.
when the Tote Abolition Bill came on was merely a
small-boy sham-fight after all. It was a sudden-death
debate, the friends of the machine saying nothing, and
the Bill was cast out by 34 to 14. The proposal to take a
referendum of the people on the subject will meet a
similar fate.
* * * *
Corizann, who followed up her runaway win of
three weeks earlier by scooping Tattersall’s Club Handi-
cap (ljm.), in Adelaide, recently, is the only one of
Thomas Elder’s importation Nautilus’s get that has shown
any form at all. Bace-goers generally voted her a squib,
but they’re forming different opinions now. Said
Corizann’s lessee (an Adelaide storekeeper) has done par-
ticularly well through the mare’s successes.
* * • *
M.L. statistics for year just closed place Step-
niak ahead of all other winning sires with £8095, followed
by Hotchkiss (£6780), and St. Leger (dead) £6515. Biggest
winning owner is Mr. G. C. Stead—he gathered £7145 as
the outcome of his nags’ successes. Mr. George Clifford
ranks second with £4420, and Mr. J. Mark third (£3730).
* * * *
A. Spence: “Off-side Mao’s” par. on M.L.
Bugby team (Bulletin 9/7/’O3) is merely a bundle of mis-
takes wrapped up in bizarre phraseology, and his lament
over the absence of the rib-smashing, neck-cracking
element has brought a violent blush over these little
islands. Maoriland has never made a study of what “ Off-
side Mac” terms “sanguinary” football, and the history
of that branch of sport, as far as it has gone in this State,
can fortunately be told in a few sentences. In the
nineties there was a North Island player who plied
the knife for some meat-freezing concern, and—
such is the all-conquering grip of environment-
made an attempt to introduce “shop” on to
the football field. After a year or two of purely
local practice he led a team south as far as Invercargill, and
then, taking the island from the reverse end, played his
way home again,, leaving a wake of blood behind him.
Of course, all the teams met were taken on the hop, went
on to play football, got down to rushes, &c., and, for the
most part, didn’t know any more until they awoke in the
dressing-room with the doctor standing over them. For
this the man who had mistaken the football field for his
ordinary place of business claimed great credit. - On two
occasions, by the way, a surviving player from the beaten
side assaulted the hero when the game was over. [But if
this is the whole history of gory Maoriland-football,
whence comes all the present bloodshed ?—Ed. 8.l
* * * *
A new football experience happened at Echuea
(Vic.) police court the other day, when three prominent
members of the Echuca football team were arrested before
an important match, charged with having no lawful
means of support. When before the court the defending
lawyer stigmatised the arrest as a partisan move on the
part of the supporters of the Echuca East’s team, which
is leading for the Northern premiership. Various
citizens who took an interest in the pursuit of
the globeful of wind offered to employ the accused
forthwith, and in the end the magistrate said-the evi-
dence was insufficient. A large number of footballers,
and persons who didn’t play themselves but looked on
and howled, watched the proceedings with interest.
* * * *
“B.” : Feeling in N.S.W. ran very high against
the court-martialled M.L. footballer for rough play
recently, but in the cases of rough play the shriekers
overlooked the fact that in each instance the same
N.S.W. player was participant in the trouble. The M.L.
style of forward play in big matches differs so greatly from
N.S.W. play that it seems brutal; still, followers of club
football in Sydney have seen more spiteful play in com-
petition games—notably Eastern Suburbs v. Newtown,
when the pass-word was “ Play them at their own game ”
—the “ own game ” signifying roughness. The game is
football with the visiting M.L. team, and they play it for
all it’s worth.
* * » •
Gloriously fine weather favored Vic.-S.A. foot-
ball struggle on Adelaide Oval, Saturday, and 10,000
looked on. Match wasn’t stirring at any stage, for in
first half visitors fairly spread-over home team and scored
everything. Wheat Staters couldn’t get moving at all.
Victorians shaped with heaps of dash, and literally went
through the enemy by dint of fine combination, brilliant
marking, sure long and short kicking, rapid passing and
marked activity generally, which contrasted strongly
with opposing team’s fumbling, lifeless play and decided
lack of confidence. Only once (in the third quarter) did
S. A. side make a show,‘then the effort was so brilliant
and well kept up that Vic. was in trouble till the
end ; but ’twas too late. Visitors won 9 goals 6 behinds
to 5 goals 12 behinds.
* * * *
Who says Rugby isn’t popular in Sydney ? On
Saturday, when grade competitions were resumed, after
four weeks of Q.-N.S.W. and M.L.-N.S.W. roughs, nearly
7000 watched the play in pouring rain at Sydney Agricul-
tural Society’s Ground, and upwards of 3000 more at
Wentworth Park, while something above 1000 were at
’Varsity Oval. Under the conditions only in a few caSes
were matches interesting, but this made no difference to
the onlookers —’twas football.
* * * *
Last week, prior to going Brisbanewards, M.L.
footballers roihped over Sydney 15, at ’Varsity Oval,
Winning by 33 to 3. At half-time, Sydney had the better
of things (3 to nil), mainly through playing with the
wind, but this advantage was with the Maorilanders in
the next half, and they did as they liked, despite spunky
efforts of Oxenham, Ogard, Manning, and Johnston.
Though home side was deplorably' weak ; the visitors
Outplayed themselves. Their passing rushes were
triumphs of combination and a source of much delight to
the 15,000 spectators,
» * * *
Q.-M.L. match, Brisbane, Saturday, attracted
12,000 spectators. Visitors averaged 12.13, and home
combination 11.9. Though M.L. notched 6 to nil in first
half, Q. played up well, and game was far more even than
score indicates. Wallace, M‘Gregor, Wood, Asher, and
Kiernan did great work for M.L. —Wallace’s long punts
into touch were a rare treat. Full-back Bedwood, three-
quarters N. Colton and M‘Lean, and Gralton (behind the
scrum) operated effectively and at times brilliantly' for
Q., while best work in the pack was done by O’Connor,
Nicholson, Anderson, and Bichards. M.L. forwards
showed better than on any previous occasion this tour,
but backs hardly rose to first Sydney match form. Game
ended 17 to nil in visiting team’s favor. Gate was £460.
* * * *
Carlton-Geelong football contest (a match in
Victorian premiership) at Sydney Cricket Ground Mon-
day, speedy and versatile, was infinitely ahead of Fitzroy-
Oollingwood display. Last 15min. were intensely exciting.
Carltons pulled up materially and looked more than
possible winners just when success seemed assured for the
others. In the end Geelong won 55 points to 45, other-
wise 8 goals 7 behinds to 6 goals 9 behinds. The excellent
play has gone far to popularise Australian rules in
Sydney. There were 5000 onlookers.
* * * * %
The Sydney “cop” wakes up occasionally.
The humble poker-machine, with its mad thirst for three-
penny pieces, adorned many hotel counters for months
past with a “ For Sale ” ticket tied round its villainous
body. As a sale never took place. Flossie bringing the
other Hebes to look at any fool who asked the price, the
law decided the machine was still working in the interests
of the publican, and fined a few of the machine owners a
few weeks back. Pitting a “For Sale” ticket on the
machine shows the publican’s opinion of the law’s intelli-
gence, and a publican ought to know. After the fining
process the machines were put under the Counter for a
day or two, but they are now in full blast again.
» * * *
That very latest insanity, the walking-match, is
still going strong in Australia generally, and is breaking
out in more unexpected places every day. The abso-
lutely last crowd of idicts to contract the disease are the
Adelaide barmaids and waitresses ! A gathering of these
angels got together the Sunday before last and toddled
away with great earnestness, many squeals, and much
perspiration. Accounts don t say whether or not the
lady competitors had gone into severe training for the
event, but the affair was so great a success all through
that another event of a like nature was set down to take
place in the Sturt district on a convenient Sunday.
Unluckily for the sport, however, the pious local W.C.T. U.
has “ risen ” up in horror, and, at the annual convention
then sitting, decided todeputationise Adelaide’s Mayor to
put a stop to the sinful proceedings at once. But Ade-
laide’s Mayor Cohen isn’t very likely to see anything
specially sinful in walking on Sunday.
* * * •
In all the talk about wise selections for the
forthcoming English Eleven there has been no reference
to the most important question of sobriety, and the next
important question of pluck in the individual cases.
Maclaren’s team, also the two previous teams captained
by Stoddart, inciuded four or five untrustworthy mem,
who drank too much, smoked too much, and slept' too
little. One boozer pleaded in excuse for himself that
there was “ nothing for a fellow to do, except knock
around,” by which he presumably meant to say that in
England he had some sort of a home during part of the
week, but in Australia he was a grass widow on the
everlasting loose. Another foolish pro. boasted that he
was none the worse for drinking whisky until 3 a.m.,
because he could sweat it out of him in the next day’s
play. In these cases the unreliables had good nerves and
bad habits, whereas the trouble with two or three of the
others was over-anxiety to do their best in the field when
they hadn’t made special endeavors to put their nerves
right. If the Warner team is to be composed of chaps
who travel with a strong thirst, or a faint heart, or both,
then it will fail miserably, like Maclaren’s skiting crowd,
* * * *
Poidevin followed up his cabled 172 (not out)
against Lancashire with 67 and 64 against Gloucester.
London Express says he is “ bang in the first flight of
batsmen.” He will be back home in Sydney in time to
play next season. It was Poidevin who made the big
best score against Maclaren’s last team in Australia—lsl
(not out), and he would have played in the first Test but
for an injury to his hand.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Rowing Association can lay claim
to having the most “ tony ” set of office-bearers possible
to squeeze, together—from the State Governor to —well,
the politician ; yet it never seems to go very much ahead,
and the balance in hand is but a “fiver.” There’s too
much “ haw ” about it; and the real aim of the Bowing
Association seems to be the gathering together of a few
of the very naicest people. As a result the interest of the
“ working” portion of the members in the doings of the
Association has sunk a:good deal, and threatens to sink
deeper during the coming season.
• » * *
Inter-State table tennis tourney, running at
N.S.W. Sports Club all last week, proved easy for home
team with 1293 points to Queenslanders’ 1088. Surprises
were thick all through. N.S.W. rep., W. A. Gregg,
secured Australian supremacy, defeating A. B. Jones
and Horace Elliott 16 to 9 each in conclusive bouts.
Yet only two or three nights before Elliott had
accounted for Gregg easily when contesting honor of
runner-up in N.S.W. premiership, which A. B. Jones won
previous Saturday, squelching both Gregg and Elliott.
Mixed doubles supremacy of N.S.W. went to Miss
Ivy Jones and S. L. Jones, while Gentlemen’s Doubles
championship was appropriated by brothers Horace and
H. K. Elliott. Though table tennis has experienced a big
drop in popularity since last winter, play shown this year
excels that of last season. Probably the game won’t be
heard of 12 months hence outside of a few homes.
* * » *
The Summer Nights Amusement Committee —
which, in conjunction with the N.S.W. League of
Wheelmen, controlled the importation of Major
Taylor and the Sydney Thousand bike-race—evi-
dently means business this season. Three meetings
are proposed (November, January, March), at which
£2500 will go in prize money—the huge Sydney Thousand
race making a hole in that sum. At present there’s an
agent on the Continent endeavoring to induce a few of
the best riders to make the trip ; but better control than
that which characterised last season’s fixtures will be
required to make the venture a success. Yet the fixtures
cover a length of time too far distant to reckon on—
as at present the governing body of the N.S.W. League
of Wheelmen threatens to suicide.
* * * *
Entries (194) for Dunlop road-race, Warrnam-
bool to Melbourne (165 m.), top world’s record for similar
class of bike event. M.L. handicap test over 112 m. to
find a rep. for the tussle saw J. Arnst, second man home,
do best time—7h. 20m. —and behind him were fore-
fronters Balston and Calder, who both shaped pro-
minently in last year’s “ Warrnambool,’’ which makes
Arnst look a sure top-noteher. Up to moment of writing
W.A., Tas., and N.S.W. tests have not been held.
At last! World's two miles running record in
W. 6. George’s name has been knocked out. When
(19 years ago) W.G.G. put his 9.17 2-5 up all the world
wondered ; subsequently he covered the distance oil grass
in 9.30 2-s—another record ; and ’twas said that had
George laid himself out for it Lang’s professional figures
(9.11 J) would have been wiped out. ; that George did beat
both Lang’s 2nt. and his own mile (4.12 jsec.) in practice
was then an open secret. In the fulness of time English
amateur champion Alfred Shrubb has, by getting over the
journey in 9.11, topped all bests—amateur or professional.
* * » *
On the occasion of Andrews-Truscott fight at
Sydney National S.O. last week the club was in the pain-
ful position of having to refuse money. The fact of thfir
being “recognised top-notchers of different city centres
was the cause of the crush. Betting was all Andrews’
way (6 to 4 and, later, 2 to 1 on) and he did much the
better with a clean straight left that troubled Truscott
considerably, though neither had much respect for
t’other’s blows —they carried too little power. It was
mostly a scuffling, scrambling ’rastle, exciting always
because of its vigor and determination. Both made
the pace severe front the juipp and sustained it; they
were nearly as strong at the end as at the opening. Bar-
ring the 18th and 19th rounds wherein Truscott probably
held his own, it was all Andews’ fight, but the referee’s
verdict was a draw, and the great bulk of the crowd
cheered the decision. The public doesn’t know how
points are scored : as long as it sees two men making
matters “ willing,” and each doing his best, it is satisfied.
* * * »
Old-time, bare-knuckle fighter, Chris. Dunn,
whose list of successes in and about Sydney tots up
nearly 200, is almost at his tether’s end, and will be bene-
fited at Sydney Gaiety on '1 hursday night, this week.
He had a stirring scrap with Bill Lancaster at P.vrmont
one Sunday morning in the long ago, which lasted 35
rounds. A most stubbornly-contested and interesting
bruise, which ended in Dunn’s favor mainly through
superior condition. Police were strangely absent from
the neighborhood, but immediately after the sponge
went up they swarmed, but there was no one to arrest.
* * * *
Belmore (Sydney) Coursing Club ran a 04 dog
stake for the coin pooled and £5O added by Sydney
publicans. Conditions allowed only dogs that had never
won three courses in any stake to compete, which equal-
ised things so that last six dogs left in didn’t include one
that had been backed at card call prior to opening round,
and 20 to 1 was obtainable about ultimate winner (Miss
Licorice) evening before the final. Usual peculiar things,
but no official notice taken of them ; and yet coursing
people are wondering why the public is not interested.
Bathing Towel (the outsider in each instance) put Yabba,
one of the two first favorites, out in the second round,
and next day went within half-a-point, of treating the
other (Atalanta) similarly.
• * * *
Curtain-raiser at Sydney National S.C., Satur-
day night, was hottest fight seen for a long time, and
certainly the most torrid “preliminary” that club has
ever put on. Bight through, little Maorilander Gray and
Sydney’s tough morsel, Jim O'Neill, flew at each other as
though worked by springs. Both showed exceptional
capacity and unusually good bodily fix. Excitement
of the great onlooking crowd was intense after first
few blows, and remained so while, first, Gray dropped
O’Neill, and then O’Neill shook the Maorilander from
neck to heel. Gray came again like a wild cat.
O’-Neill’s remarkable grit and stamina alone enabled him
to live to stretch the enemy out in the fifth round and
win decisively in the sixth. O’Neill’s classic mug was a
picture—a convincing testimony of the potency of the
blows of the vanquished.
* * *
English billiardist Stevenson recently met
N.S.W. amateur champion J. B. Belfield, and conceded
him 500 in 1000. They were together at 744, and, ere the
finish, Stevenson got in a 238 run, ultimately winning 115
to the good. Best breaks were : Stevenson, 79, 39, 69,
114, 23, 65, 24, 50,85,238,79, 73, and 19 (unfinished);
Belfield, 20, 35, 37, 31, 20, 25, 35, 25 , 20, 22, and 28.
Belfield fell considerably short of his best form, otherwise,
the game might have gone to him.
**. * *
Stevenson-Gray billiard match (former conced-
ing 1200 in 5000) in Brisbane ended Saturday night, with
Stevenson best by 14 points.
* • * *
One of billiardist Stevenson’s best: Red hard
up against cushion, immediately behind spot, player in
hand. Bed must be potted in right hand bottom corner
pocket. Stevenson gets it from top right hand cushion,
but can’t make anything like a “cert” of the shot,
though he’ll wager ’tis done once in 12 attempts.
• • •
Now Ready. Such is Life ! by Tom Collins.
A real Australian bush yarn ; 4s. 6d.
Don’t Listen
to what people say when they would discourage
your hope of exchanging weakness and sickness
for perfect health. But rather listen to the testi
I
mony of thousands wh
bear- witness to the
great healing properties
of Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills. All disorders
arising from a diseased
condition of the stom-
ach, liver and kidneys,
that prevent the proper
assimilation of the food
which should nourish
the body are positively
and permanently cured
by the use of Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills. As
a simple unit of the
many who write testify-
ing to the great benefit
derived from taking Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root
Pills, we have pleasure
in quoting from Mr. W.
Y. Warren, 118 Princes-
street, Church Hill,
Sydney. “Some years
ago I suffered most
acutely from Rheumat-
ism and pains in the
back, which I attributed
to kidney trouble. I
tried all sorts of reme-
dies and cures, consulted doctors, but to no avail.
Hearing from a friend that Indian Hoot Pills had
a most beneficial effect on him (he suffering from
practically the same complaint) he advised me to
try them ; I did so, and I am glad to say that not
only did they give me intense relief, after the first
two or three bottles, but I may say that I am, to
all intents and purposes, cured. lam never with-
out what I consider one of the most wonderful
remedies of the century, and can confidently
recommend them to anyone who is suffering from
a similar trouble. I may say that after the suffer-
ing I endured I am at the present moment quite
free from any kind of pain, which I'attribute
solely to Indian Root Pills.” Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills are a positive and permanent cure for
biliousness, constipation, and all stomach, liver
and kidney ailments.
ACCEPT NO SUBSTITUTES. *
RESCH’S SELECT STOCK ALE ». LAGER
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives. BREWERY and OFFICES: DOWLING- ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.


TENNIS AND GOLF.
are in full swing just now, and so is FOOTBALL and CYCLING. Please nofee
we keep full stocks of
HIGHEST GRADE SPORTS GOODS
FOR EVERY GAME.
Our prices are very low, as you will find if you ask us to quote, and we guarantee
the quality df everything we sell. Write for what you require, or call and
examine our stocks.
CANADA CYCLE & HOTOR CO., Ltd.,
Branches in Every State. 357 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LADIES AND GENTLEMEN
who take a rational view of Cycling and desire positive comfort,
comparative speed and superlative bike, should call and examine
> our new model
RED BIRD BICYCLE
RED BIRD BICYCLE
It is superbly bpilt, and will give you every
possible satisfaction as a Roadster.
Branches in every State.
OOOI.D BICYCLE CO., LTD., 64 King St., Sydney.
WOMEN cube DRUNKARDS
The Remedy can be given in Tea, Coffee, or
Food, thus Secretly Curing the Patient
without his Knowledge.
'PHIS CURE FOR DRUNKENNESS has shed a
radiance into thousands of hitherto desolate fire-
sides. It does its work so silently and surely that,
while the devoted wife, sister, or daughter looks on,
the drunkard is reclaimed even against his will.
BTTORA.SY SAFE AND SURE.
Mrs. J. HATTON, who cured her husband with
EUORASY, now writes us that she has also cured a
near and dear relative, and makes a most earnest ap-
peal to all other women to save the drunkard. We will
post free books and testimonials from hundreds who
have been cured, and everything needed to aid you
in saving those dear to you from a life of ultimate
poverty and disgrace. Write or call at once, and
address— THE EUCRASY COY.,
62 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY
A NIB,
A BOTTLE OF INK,
A SHEET OF PAPER and
A PEN CARBON BOOK
makes a complete outfit with
which any
MAN,
WOMAN OR
CHILD
can write a letter, and at the same
time make an exact copy without
leaving the slightest sign of copy-
ing on the original.
/s
/V.
keep3 , a duplicate of bills you send out, of orders, receipts, bank checks. It leaves no va<ma'
uncertain mark, but a tracing that is often clearer than the original. ®
indisputable'record.' 110 ther6 °“ be n ° appeal, 16 will save any house or famil y muoh money by its.
There is no man or woman, professional or not, who would not at some time or other find
THE PEN CARBON LETTER BOOK
For fullest particulars, price, etc., write to the sole A TfUe and Valued Friend ‘
Agents for Australasia s E. RICH & CO. LTD., SYDNEY BRIBBANE
The premises of the United Typewriter and
Supplies 00., Pitt-st., Sydney, are full of beautiful writing
machines, but for absolute perfection the latest model of
the ever high-class Yost is easily first. It is the machine
that never gets out of order, and the only one that, while
it prints at all, must print in perfect alignment. The
Sultan of Johore bought one last week, and the U. T. and
Co., being a good American business firm, no doubt
carefully collected the cash before it handed the machine
to a potentate who can’t be sued in the local courts.*
SNnRPSMOOTINg
ţ
For Sport and War.
By W. W. GREENER.
HITS THE MARK I
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, 1/- nett. :
Posted, 1/2.
The best 1/- worth ever Published,
■ P you wish to get good work and value
■ you should purchase W. V 7. GREENE.I’S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFL'JS,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to—
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
(Greener’s Representative'.
3??“
HAND-IN-HAND
forEICHTYYEARS
Williams'
Barbers' Bar*
WILLIAMS* iraveller’s Shaving; Stick*
You may worry thru a face
scrape on most “Anv Old
Soap.” To enjoy the Luxury
of a Perfect Shave you must
use Williams’.
If youdoubt it, send a penny
stamp for Williams’ Changing
Face Puzzle. Tells you why,
J. B. WILLIAMS CO., Glas-
tonbury; Conn., U.S.A. Also
232 Clarence Street, Sydney.
5
"1" ”3H
1." (:5: 1.1% .‘
L‘s f, ,
the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
\ ONE COFFEE PALACE-TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “Ellis’ King Street Coffee Palace,”
situated at 50 KING near the General Post
Office. Proprietor—GEO. W. ELLIS.
Dill-Mackyism at its Sydney annnal
demonstration was able to attract to its plat-
form these members of Parliament: Law,
Affleck, Mackenzie, Coleman,' M‘Coy, Hurley,
and Jessep. The little list admirably illustrates
the fact that it is only the politician having abso
lutely nothing else to rely upon who hitches him-
self to the noisome sectarian car. Of the seven
the majority are absolutely unknown to the
public. The average man, asked if there were a
N.S.W. M.P. named Coleman, or M‘Coy, or
Mackenzie, would promptly answer “No.” Those
of the seven who can boast a little notoriety
have won it in derision only.
NEURALGIA.
V
FISHER’S
PHOSPHERINE
Absolutely cures all NEURALGIC
PAlNS—however severe—in the
Face and Head.
Removes all SCIATICA and RHEUMATISH.
ALL CHEMISTS, 1/- ; FOUR TIMES THE QUANTITY
2/6—POST FREE TO THE COUNTRY.
Take no Substitute—Nothing but
Fisher’s Phospherine*
The Best Medicine Ever Made.
Fisher & Co., 337 George St.,
Nearly Opposite
General Post Office,
Sydney.
Missing Friends.
TF this should meet the eye of anyone knowing
the whereabouts of WILLIAM HENRY
CHARLEY, who left Oreston, Plymouth, Eng.,
for South Africa, 15th July, 1875, now supposed'
to be in West Australia, communicate with his ;
Mrs. EMILY BOWDEN,
1 Cromartie Road,
Laira Bridge, Plymouth,
ENGLAND.
Order from Bulletin Office, or any bookseller,
Such is Life ! Just published ; 4s. 6d.
Oue New Selection, by “Steeleßudd,” will
be ready in November. Even more humorous
than his first book, with more pictures. Price 6s.
Canada offers another remarkable example
of the level-headedness which invades a country
consequent upon its adoption of D.O.L. Whisky
as a national beverage. Every brainy Canadian
drinks D.C.L. as a matter of course. With the
result that for the past seven years Canada has
not added a penny to its public debt. D.C.L.
spells wisdom to the individual and wealth to the
nation.*
When a proprietary article gets to the stage of
having-jokes made on its name by music hall artists its
reputation is established. That is what has happened to
the “ Apollinaris ” Natural Mineral water. At London
Criterion the haughty stage dook commanded the varlet
at the farm at which he was staying to bring him a
whisky and polly in lieu of breakfast. “ Please, yer
grace, there’s no whisky in the house, and the girl’s
name is not Polly.” This splendid water, for which
Messrs. Orme, Keigwin and Co. are N.S.W. agents, is
naturally so effervescent that there is no need for arti-
ficial aeration. By means of an ingenious patent stopper
the bottle can be recorked and the freshness and effer-
vescence maintained for several days.*
Senator Higgs has begun a good fight in
the Senate against the naval tribute by a series of
questions calling attention to the fact that
Premier Barton, before leaving for England to
succumb to the Chamberlain mesmerism, was
distinctly pledged not to commit the Common-
wealth to any act or policy. And yet he came back
leaving with Chamberlain a P.N. for £2, 000,000 en-
dorsed by him on behalf of the Commonwealth.
Senator Higgs suggests that the proposed tribute
should be referred to the electors of Australia
before the agreement is ratified. It is a matter on
which the people have not yet been allowed to
express any opinion.
Premier Barton, opposing the amendment
substituting leasing for alienating of land in
Papua, wound up with a specious promise .-
He was only desirous that a decisive step should not be
taken, and if the amendment was not pressed he would
allow no alienation to take place before the fullest infor-
mation had been obtained from those in the best position
to judge.
M‘Millan backed this promise up, and said it was
entirely satisfactory. But what does it amount
to? Barton believes in land sales. Barton will
see that the “fullest information” is the kind
that encourages land sales. Barton will decide
that -‘those in the best position to judge” are
those who approve of land sales. And, anyhow,
Barton doesn’t promise to stop land sales even if
the “fullest information” is hostile to them.
Meanwhile, land sales are to be legalised.
Recently a very aggressive merchant (one
of the gentlemen who objected to being “herded
with common drunks” under the Customs ad-
ministration) made very loud and objectionable
charges against the State Taxation Department,
which charges were resented in vigorous and out-
spoken language in an official minute. In conse-
quence, one of the violent old importer’s friends
has given notice of the following motion in what
Kingston used to describe as “the Lethal
Chamber ”:—
That, in the opinion of this Council, it is desirable
that reports from officers of Government Departments
for presentation to Parliament, or for publication by
Ministers of the Crown, for the information of the public,
should be marked by that dignity of tone and courtesy
of expression appropriate to any official statement made
by the Minister himself.
The one valuable fact that appears in the
assault-and-battery story of King O’Malley and
the angry carpenter is Premier Barton’s prescrip-
tion for a congested liver. On the night when
the carpenter addressed him with a tomahawk,
King O’Malley had spoken to Barton about hts
liver, and the Premier recommended a strong dose
of hot milk and water as a certain cure. The dis-
tinguished banqueteer spoke from experience.
Life is not all beer and skittles for Australias
Nobbled Son ; there are intervals of hot milk and
water.
Kingston’s secession from the Ministry of
Australia’s Nobbled Son opens up some possibili-
ties. He must necessarily be, in fact if not in
name, the leader of the Labor party in the House
of Representatives. The Labor party must,
sooner or later, realise the necessity for widening
its basis, so as to become an all-round Democratic
party; a platform which isn’t wide enough to take
in a man like Kingston when he is available is too
narrow for practical purposes. And if Kingston
becomes attached to the party, the last semb’ance
of any policy of sinking the fiscal issue must dis-
appear. Kingston is too downright a man to
sink anything. If the Labor party will get a
wider basis, and an uncompromising financial
policy, there is before it a chance to form the
next Australian Government, with the best states-
man in Australia for leader.
Australia helped to subchowgate as well
as subjewgate the Transvaal.
As anticipated, the Education vote in
Philpland is to be further hacked into during pre-
sent session. Thus Brisbane Figabo, usually
“inspired ”: —
A Royal Commission is expected to be asked for this
session, to inquire into the working of the Department of
Public Instruction with a view to its thorough recon-
struction. The immediate reduction in the amount of
the vote, now standing at £310,000 per annum, will also be
dealt with, and all persons who are in a position to pay
for the education of their children will probably' be
reached by the collection of a weekly charge.
Late Chief-Justice Lilley was prime author of
the admirable Q. Education Act. It is enough
to make the old warrior turn in his grave to see
his democratic measure torn up by Cribbs and
Philps and other unimportant monosyllables of
their calibre.
A Melbourne pressman propounds this
view :
Me the Kingston surprise, this may be noted for future
verification. The surprise was only for the public, there
was a fairly good understanding inside. The Federal
elections are now casting their shadows before, and when
they come they will be minus Barton. His haven is a
High Court Judgeship. It has been fully recognised by
the leading men of the Cabinet that going to the elections
this time on the same basis as three years ago wouldn’t
by any means be good enough. There has to be a recon*
struction, and upon Barton’s retirement the succession
goes to Deakin. He, however, was the first to acknow-
ledge the stronger position of a Government led by
Kingston, whose present withdrawal paves the way for
the subsequent move. Just before the elections, and
with Barton out of the way, Deakin will advise the
Governor to send for Kingston, who, with a free hand to
form a new Cabinet, will be able to get rid of at least
three members of the present team who are regarded as
weaklings ; and with a strong Protectionist Government,
having also the solid support of the Labor party, can go
to the country in proper form to deal with the man of
the eye-glass.
The Bulletin doesn’t bet on this forecast, but it
hopes that it may be true —hopes in a hopeless
sort of way though ; for why should this thing be
expected of Deakin ?
sT
We
Rerubber
worn out Wringer Rollers-
and guarantee to return
same with little delay.
Housewive
Should
Note ——
that* we are r\ow re rubbering!
worn out Wringer Rollers - at the following Prices
10*@>4 / ca 11*1%@4 / 6ea IZVJ&<»S-g
To these Pnces must be added carriage
both ways- Or if you prefer it we will forward
you Rubber tube -6 instructions for fitting
same yourself without loss of time-at
the above Prices.
THE DUNLOP PNEUMATIC TYRE (0. Of AID LTD..
108 flinders 5t Nelb 150 Clarence st.bydr\ey. 117Grenfell st,
Adelaide bt Brisbane 154 Barrack stPerth l7BLichfield stC|j
* -
Good
Rollers
make washing day easier.
Our Rollers ARE
Good.
N*S.W* Depot—
-150 Clarence Street,
Sydney,


B*F
m
\
WM,
Z,
z
I
w.
W>
yzm /
%
w
m
K
K
J -uxmd&i tafudk become cf i&dt fiacnet ofa
Qgd&tiS ‘guinea, pr> 77
HEALTHY AND HONEST.
GUINEA GOLDS are healthy and honest Cigarettes. It is not the color or design of the packet, nor the thickness of the paper
round the Tobacco, which makes them healthy and honest. It is pure, fresh Tobacco and good workmanship that does it.
BRITISH-AMERICAN TOBACCO CO., LTD, (OGDEN BRANCH), 45 York Street, Sydney.
“P” writes :
The re-modelling of the loco, branch of the Victorian
railways has been talked about vigorously since the
late strike. New by-laws have now been issued showing
how this is to be done. Hitherto the enginemen’s hours
have been nine daily. They are now eight. This alleged
eight looks all right—on paper. But no time will be
allowed for getting engine ready before or putting it away
after the trip. Three-quarters of an hour before and the
Same after have hitherto been allowed for this work (it
was increased from half an hour some years ago), and
often the men have had to be on duty from one to one
and a half hours before starting to get some of the
engines ready especially since the policy of
neglecting repairs and cleaning has been the
rule in the department. The three-quarter hour
allowed to put the engine away is also often exceeded—
notably in large sheds where several engines are waiting
their turn for coal, water, etc. Thus the new day’s
work, though nominally 8 hours, is really 9j ! Further
for “ standing under steam” only half time is allowed,
unless the day is made up without it. Then no time is
allowed. Hence if Jack Smith, driver, and Tom Brown,
fireman, are sent on a train to a place where they have to
wait 5 or 6 hours before returning they (though responsible
for their engine the whole time) are only paid at half
rates; or, if the journey is a long one, and they make
their day while actually running the train, they are paid
nothing at all! The possibility of Smith and Brown
leaving their engine go to pot, and the engine getting
short of water and blowing up, or the gauge glasses break-
ing ; or somebody coming along and starting the derelict
off on its own; or many other contingencies of an alarming
and humorous character—all these are worth reflecting
upon. Also S. and 8., not being paid to get their engine
ready, and nobody else being paid to do it, they are
likely to go out with their engine partly oiled, or the
piston gland nuts unchecked, or big end set screws
Blacked back, or pins out of the link motions, or a sheaf
loose on the crank axle, or any one or more of dozens of
other things may be out of gear—any one of which would
be fatal to the progress of the train. When on top of all
this “ remodelling” of the loco, branch the recently ap-
pointed blacklegs are trusted out to drive engines the
position will become more interesting than ever.
Sydney clairvoyants are up to date in
political matters. One recently pleased a client
by prophesying that he would be in a few
years Prime Minister of the Commonwealth.
The client, who is secretary of a debating club,
has already started to live up to his future.
“E.F.” : What I like about that address
presented to the Chermsides by the State-school
children of Irvinebank (N.Q.) is the religious
sentiment of the concluding lines—“We wish you
both all health and happiness now and hereafter.”
Everybody hugs the hope of enjoying a healthful,
jolly Hereafter, but you never hear the future
state spoken of in that way by the parsons. With
them it is either damnation or regeneration. The
idea of a cheerful three-meals-a-day Eternity is
never suggested, not even to vice-regal sinners.
GOSFORD NEWS.
J. M. Moroney, the well-known storekeeper at
Gosford, N.S.W., expresses himself most clearly
when he says—“l like to recommend Chamber-
lain’s Cough Remedy to my trade, because it
pleases all who take it. It possesses remarkable
curative properties. I have a good sale on it.”
All dealers say the same thing, and sell it for
Is. 6d.*
NERVOUSNESS.
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
covered a SIMPLB MEANS of SELF
CURB, will forward the same, free of
Charge, to anyone interested.
Address! A. MINER. G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
PAY WHEN CURED
’Z \‘ , i)
S? f". ~/’
I M.
3? . -
We want everybody suffering from Rheumatism,
Lumbago, Dyspepsia, Varicocele, Nervousness, Weak Back,
Liver, Kidney or Stomach Troubles, or from any weaknesses
of vital organs, to try our Latest Improved High Grade
Belt, Free.
5,000 FREE !
We have just completed our Medical Treatise, “Electro
Neuro Therapy,” a copy of which we will send free, prepaid,
to all writing us. It is invaluable to every weak man and
woman. It is fully illustrated, and can be had for the asking.
A post card will do. Write for it to-day.
No Cure, No Pay.
We will cure you free if you will let us, and if we fail it
will cost you nothing. You can have our latest Improved
Belt on Trial Free. One does for eight persons. If you need
treatment write to us, and we will send you this splendid new
Belt. Free on trial. We want every weak man and woman
to write us to-day. Delay no longer, as we can cure you free.
The Dr. J. I*l. Austin Electric Co.
4) ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC,
(Dept.
M
,1 :3 ' ,. 53‘;
‘ ., ‘ ’
V:.;-..ngl,.:. ’
.1 9%?”
z 3:
"? ~ ?%
‘ mg”; C":
, w
I
3w . V
'\ w . a}!
HERR RASSMUSSEN
will guarantee to cure Nervous Weak-
ness, Blood Diseases, Piles, Rheuma-
tism, Corpulency, Liver and Kidney
Troubles. He will send his Book Free.
All correspondence will be held
confidential.
BRISBANE : 309 Queen St.
MELBOURNE: 150 Bourke St.
WEAK, NERVOUS MEN, WHY SUFFER
WHEN you can be quickly and permanently cured by taking Herr Rassniussen’s ALFALINE Vitality Pills which have cured so many
thousand sufferers from DEBILITY, POOR MEMORY, WEAK SPINE, DESPONDENCY, and all which robs Manhood of that which
is dearest to it —Vital Strength. Herr Rassmussen will guarantee this remedy to cure every case, _ no matter of how long standing, and he will
give his skilled advice personally to all patrons of his remedies FREE OF CHARGE, either in his offices or by post. So don’t despair, but
communicate with him without delay, no matter where you live. Treatment by Post a Speciality. Pamphlet sent Free.
ALP ALINE VITALITY PILLS. Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d., posted.
Blood and Skin Diseases
Blood Disorders, Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, Stone in the Bladder, and Blood
Impurities guaranteed to be removed and permanently cured by
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS. Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d. posted.
Anaemic Women
suffering from Wasting Diseases, Pale, Lifeless, and otherwise affected, should at once cohimunicate with
R AySMIJSSEN. His lifelong experience is at their service, and his
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS will cure them. Boxes, 6s; Courses, 235. 6d.
LIVER and KIDNEY TROUBLES cured at once by the ALFALINE LIVER and KIDNEY PILLS, Boxes Is.
His RHEUMATIC PILLS are World-famed, and his PILE POWDERS never fail ; 6s. per box
The ALE ALINE REMEDIES can only beobtained from . .
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office
547 George St., Sydney,
AND HIS BRANCHES AS FOLLOW-
ADELAIDE: 15 Pulteney St.
N Z.: 91 Lambton Quay, Wellington.
W.A., PERTH: 481 Hay St.
KALGOORUE •• 111 Hannan St.
FREMANTLE: 117 High St-
BOULDER CITY: Piesse St.


About a cold country :
The rush of the English emigrants to the land in
Canada isn’t the unmixed blessing it seems to be when
viewed from a distance. A dejected band of would-be
landlords returned to Liverpool lately after trekking
across three-parts of the Dominion and considering its
national resources from all points. The dismal aspect of
things in general, the awful north-west climate, and the
unutterably inferior quality of the land offered drove
them back. England is a good deal worried over the
episode. The British islands are mostly uncultivated, and
great stretches are now marked on the map as unin-
habited, but there seems to be no hope of bringing the
land into cultivation again without Protection, and with-
out dispossessing the big landlords and replacing them by
a peasant proprietary. The latter idea is too horrible
to be thought of in a country which worships its old no-
bility, so the British agricultural population must go. The
essential idea is to prevent it going, out of the Empire.
Australia is remote and barren ; South Africa is barren
and cursed with every insect plague vinder heaven ;
India and most other British territories are overflowing
with niggers. If the pallid snow-wastes of North
Western Canada won’t attract the people, then the
British agriculturist is likely either to leave the Empire
for good, or else stay in Britain and furnish a horrible
and dangerous object lesson on the evils of landlordism
and Freetrade. The Times, in a struggle to earn its
bacon and codfish honorably, has spoken severely to these
returned immigrants, and assured them that they weren’t
so cold as they imagined, but no good appears to have
resulted. They knew exactly how cold they were, and
all the eloquence the Times can use beside its comfortable
office stove doesn’t alter the case.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wound* that Diicharge or otherwise. perhap* *ur-
rounded with inflammation and awollen that when you
pres* your finger on the inflamed part it leave* the impre*-
*ion v If *o, under the «kin you have poison that delle* all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death release*
you. Perhaps your knee* are swollen, the Joint* being
ulcerated; the same with the ankle*, round which the skin
may be ducoloured, or there may be wound* i the disea**
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended variou* hospital* and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopele**, or
advised to *ubmit to amputation j but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t *ay perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reasoD for not how being cured,
bend at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which arc a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Leg*.
Housemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncle*, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Ab*ce*ie*, Sore Throat, BrOnchiti*,
I aassvMj,, UJUIIO/ . 1 Ul OUBItI m auvuu
look for th*rcgi»tered trade mark of the Grauhopper on I
green label on each box. (llegd. copyright)*
WHICH WAY
DO YOU LOOK?
63 Reynolds Street, Balmain,
Sydney, September 16th, 1902.
Dear Sirs : My two boys caught cold,
which was followed with whooping-
cough and the much-dreaded pneumonia.
Both were very seriously ill; and one of them,
we seriously thought, could not be saved.
However, on giving Scott’s Emulsion regu-
larly and persistently, we reached the
intensely gratifying result that both were
cured and thoroughly restored to good health
and strength.—Faithfully yours,
(Signed) Mrs. Jessie E. Hart.
Messrs. Scott & Bowne, Ltd.,
483 Kent Street, Sydney.
WHICH WAY DO YOU LOOK
when wanting a remedy for the trouble that is
distressing your home ? Naturally, you look
straight to the point, and only need, in case
you do not know, to get a proper hint. In all
cases of disease, where the lungs or throat are
concerned, go straight to the point and get the
right remedy, Scott’s Emulsion. One who has
seen the cure performed has just told you so.
We need not occupy your attention with re-
marks on the diseases of the throat and lungs
common to this climate; what is really of
value to you to know is the name of the remedy.
That name is
SCOTT'S EMULSION, It will act for
you in those dreaded illnesses in a very mar-
vellous manner; from the start, working
steadily, surely, and patiently, until the cure
is obtained. It'has thwarted attacks of those
dreaded diseases all over the civilised globe.
It is doing so daily in Australia. Yon have
one precaution only to take; and that is, to
see that on the wrapper of the bottle th re is
a picture of a man carrying a big cod-fish; if
that cod-fish is not there you are not getting
what we promise you—a cure! You can
obtain a sample of Scott’s Emulsion, and the
choicest children’s booklet of the year, “A
Bunch of Roses,” beautifully printed in
colors, by sending sd. to Scott and Bowne,
Ltd., 483 Kent-street, Sydney, and mention-
ing this paper. All chemists sell Soott’s
Emulsion.
Clarence
H
'2
T
The Holy Red Herring—Again.
The Protestant flag must flj’ on every election hustings,
both in Federal and State politics. Those who were not
for them were against them. There must be no blending
of colors—orange with the green. Orange color was good
enough to stand by itself. Though he was in public life,
he cared not whether a Laborite or a Protectionist was
to be returned, but he must be a Protestant.— Wiles,
M.H.R.
The Protestant Defence Association would bring about
a revolution at the next general election. (Cheers.) He
believed the female vote would elevate the morals of the
State. The Roman Catholic vote at the next election
would be a tremendous one, and every Protestant woman
who failed to use her franchise would be giving a vote to
Roman Catholicism. He implored them, therefore, to
come out as true women and do their duty.— Parson
Dill-Mackt.
Last 12th of July the Orange coterie made
a more than usually violent demonstration, and
announced that its flag must fly something extra
this year with a view to the forthcoming elections.
It stated, on no visible evidence except its own
word (which is certainly not good enough), that a
vast effort (not at present visible) is being organ-
ised by the Homan Catholics to capture the
Federal Legislature for some purpose not speci-
fied, and it urged all Protestants to resist this
alleged effort to the uttermost. In view of the
facts that in Australia Homan Catholics only
number about one-fifth of the population, that
even if every Catholic voted and only one-
half the Protestants did so the latter would still
have a majority of two to one, that the Catholic
vote was not strong enough to secure for the
local head of the church even tenth place on the
list of N.S. W. members at the Federal Conven-
tion, and that the alleged boss R.C. schemer
and conspirator has gone away to Italy, leaving
the Federal election to take care of itself—
in view of all these facts, the evidence
looks none too good, but that may pass. The
Orange crowd says, at all events, that a special
R.O. effort is being made, and that it is necessary
to elect good howling Orangemen—men like
Francis Abigail and Wilks and old Tory Simon
Fraser, and draper Law, of Balmain—-in order
to make the country safe and prevent the Lord
tottering on His throne. And there have been
such violent hysterics over this matter that the
calm, sordid, business-like aspect of the case is in
danger of being lost. The bray of the wild ass of
incoherence has hitherto drowned everything else
and made it quite impossible to obtain particulars.
* * * *
This paper, therefore, asks the Dill-Wilks
crowd, and the Abigail elan, and the other people
who believe politics to be “ more popery than
fiscal” to simmer down and come to facts and
dates, and to say exactly what will happen if they
are returned to power in the Federal Parliament,
and what will happen if they are not. If Aus-
tralia takes the advice of Wilks and drops all
questions of its own material prosperity, and
leaves out of consideration tariffs, the promotion
of local industries, black labor problems, defence,
debt consolidation, graduated land-tax, absentee-
tax, land settlement, old age pensions, transcon-
tinental railways, etc., and returns men solely
because they are good Orangemen like Francis
Abigail— what are these extraordinarily good men
going to do ? What will happen even in a religious
sense that wouldn’t happen otherwise? In a
political sense it seems fairly probable that things
will go to the dogs, for these extraordinarily good
men are to be elected without giving any guarantee
that they will look after the people’s material
interests in any way, and are to travel into
politics on their Protestantism only; but there
ought to be religious compensations. In short,
what is Protestantism, as distinct from Wilks
and Simon Fraser, going to get out of it ? It
isn’t worth while electing a Parliament solely for
its Protestantism if Protestantism is to gain
nothing visible or definite.
» * » *
The first question that calls for consideration
is this : Supposing it were possible (which it
isn’t) for theßoman Catholic element, representing
one-fifth of the people, to get any large control of
the Australian. Parliament, what do Dill-Maoky
and co. allege is the object in getting that control,
and what particular or startling thing will happen?
This is an important question, and so far, despite
all the foggy shrieks about the intense resolve of
the .Catholics to make themselves felt at the
coming election, there isn’t a word of information
about what harm, if any, will follow on their
success. The second question, of course, is : What
will happen if that violently Orange Legislature
that Dill-Wilks demands is returned ? Does it
propose to disfranchise all Catholics ? Or to debar
them from sitting in Parliament ? Or to shut them
out of the Ministry ? Or to eject them from the
Civil Service ? Or to fire them out of the country ?
Does it propose to endow Protestant churches and
Protestant schools, and to subsidise Protestant
bishops ? Does it propose to do anything in parti-
cular—anything that, say, R. E. O’Connor might
not do just as well? If it doesn’t, then the public is
to get no fun for its money; it is to sacrifice every-
thing else for the joy of electing Orange fanatics
and get no profit, entertainment, dog-fight or
circus, whatsoever; it is to neglect all its
material needs and political ideals to howl for
Protestantism and get no extra Protestantism in
return for its howl. On that basis the Dill-
Macky and Wilks business is a confidence game,
a political and religious three-card trick, a very
disreputable kind of “ two-up ” business, a bunco-
steering job, and something akin to the passing of
bad money in a churchy sort of way.
* * » *
Of course the 12th of July mob can always take
refuge in hazy generalities. It can say that it
wants to get control of the Australian Parlia-
ment, not that it may do anything especially Pro-
testant, but that it may prevent the other crowd
doing something rabidly Catholic. Unfortunately
it is quite as difficult to persuade the Dill-Wilks
crowd to say what it is going to prevent the other
crowd doing, as to extract from it any information
as to what it is going to do itself. It doesn’t profess
to say that anybody aims at disfranchising Pro-
testants ; at expelling them from the Parliament
or the Ministry or the Civil Service ; or at
charging Cardinal Moran to the consolidated
revenue. N.S. W. has a partly Catholic Ministry
and it has the Fitzroy Dock scandal. It had a
wholly or almost wholly Protestant Ministry some
years ago and it had the Hornsby lands scandal.
The two Ministries scattered the loan money in
about equal degree. But N.S.W. didn’t get a
penn’orth of religious joy or satisfaction or practi-
cal conflagration out of either of them ; for all the
help they were in an official capacity to their faiths,
O’Sullivan might as well have been a Mohamme-
dan, and Abigail a Buddhist. There is very
little pleasure in rallying round the faith when
the faith is just in the same position whether it is
rallied round or not. The joy of battle is a thing
anybody can understand ; but the joy of waving a •
gun on an uninhabited island, and declaring that
one will fight to the last when there is nobody to
fight with, only appeals to a very humble order of
intellect.
* * * *
What the Dill-Wilks gang hopes to get out
of the deal is obvious enough. It asks for office,
Ministerial and Parliamentary salary—for all the
loaves and fishes that are going. The axe it
is grinding is a very visible axe indeed. In
return it promises vaguely to avert a crisis or
something like that, but it doesn’t produce the
crisis, and it doesn’t say what it is or how it is
going to be averted. If Parson Dill-Macky has
a crisis in his pocket he certainly ought to bring it
out. The public wants to know exactly what the
Bill crowd, if it gets into authority, is going to
do to the Catholics, or exaotly what it is going to
prevent the Catholios doing to other people. The
public seeks something more definite than mere
mental flappings about “ Romish supremacy; ” it
is anxious to find out what Romish supremacy the
country is threatened with if Wilks and foolish
old Simon Fraser are not elected. If the Catholic
clan is supposed to have too much power, it wants
to know exactly how much power that clan
has; how much it should have; how much
it possesses over and above its fair share;
and how that obnoxious surplus is going to be
reduced. It wants to know, for instance, whether
R. B. O’Connor will be simply deprived of his
Ministerial position because of his religion, or if
he will also be expelled from Parliament; and if
it isn’t proposed that any of these things should
happen, then it wants to know what it is proposed
shall happen. There is no visible use electing
Wilks, Simon Fraser and Co. on the cry of
keeping Catholics out of power and then leaving
an eminent and influential Catholic in power.
Also there is no use electing Wilks, Simon Fraser
and co. on the wail about Catholics in the Civil
Service unless Wilks and old Simon, if they
get into authority, will either discharge Catholics
from the service on account of their creed, or else
establish some kind of religious test to prevent
more Catholics getting in. And they don’t
promise anything; they don’t even guarantee to
throw a brick through the window of St. Mary’s
Cathedral, nor to burn the Cardinal’s palace that
roosts on the bleak hillside at Manly, nor to sup-
press the Mass, nor to abolish convents, nor to
close up Catholic schools and orphanages, nor to
prohibit the teaching of the Holy Roman creed,
nor to sool a dog on to a priest—in fact, they don’t
guarantee, if the people put them into political
power, to give Protestantism any kind of a lift
whatever. Apparently the only change will be
that the public finances and other public affairs
will be entrusted to Wilks and co.
Thk particular feature of Kingston’s Federal
Patents Bill that stamps him as a genuine,
practical Australian patriot, is contained in
clause 83, which enacts that the patentee or his
representatives must, within five years after the
issue of the patent, manufacture or work his
patent, in Australia, in such manner that any
person desiring to use the patented article may
obtain it in Australia at a reasonable prioe. And
no article manufactured under patent may be
imported by the patentee into Australia after
four years from the granting of the patent. If
the patentee hasn’t, by the specified date, got his
own Australian factory going, he may.be com-
pelled to grant licences for the manufacture of the
article in Australia. This is, to a great extent, a
copy of the German law ; but it might reasonably
go further, and declare that if the manufacture of
the patented article is not commenced in Australia
by a certain date the patent shall become abso-
lutely null and void. The principle that no man
has a right, even if he possesses 1000 patents, to
retard the growth of Australian manufactures
can’t be laid down too emphatically. _ His patent
granted by Australia gives him the right to be the
sole manufacturer in Australia, and to charge
pretty well what he darned well likes in Aus-
tralia, for the clause about a “ reasonable price ”
is very vague and non-committal ; and that is
quite sufficient. Any evasion of these liberal
provisions should result in plain forfeiture. Yet
Kingston’s Bill is a large move in the right
direction, and is sure to rouse the wrath of the
importer class, whose feelings, when any mention
is made of Australian manufacturers, are too deep
for words.
A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
cases in six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
only Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
Of Chemists, or from PARIS MEDICINE CO., 28, Shoe-
lane, London, England.*
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance
is solicited.
A man gets a painful shock when told for
the first time that he is “still in the prime of
life.”
Old England’s Navy rules the sea,
No matter where her ships may be;
Her flag will fly in every clime,
Foremost, till the end of time.
Her hardy sailor loves to roam
Upon the wave he calls his home,
While from the cold he is secure,
Taking Woods' Great Peppermint Cure. #
Mr. E. A. PIERPOINT, Springville, lowa,
writes:
“My wife had an attack of ASTHMA. One bottle.of
Jayne’s Expectorant eradicated the disease.’’*
NO NEED TO DESPAIR
You may have been suffering for years from R h eum at ism,
Gout, Neuralgia, Persistent Headache, Lum-
bago, Sciatica, Backache, Anaemia, Blood
Disorders, Gravei, Stone, Bladder Troubles,
or some other of the many ills, pains and symptoms of
URIC ACID POISONING,
but, if you will consent to assist Nature, you can yet be cured. The source of all such troubles is
defective action of the kidneys. When the kidneys are healthily performing their functions none of
these disorders can exist, any more than a pebble in a shoe can hurt your foot after the pebble is
removed. The kidneys filter from the blood of a healthy person about three pints of water every day.
In this water are dissolved about an ounce of urea, ten or twelve grains in weight of uric acid, and
other animal and mineral matter, varying from a third of an ounce to nearly an ounce. If the
kidneys, from any cause, are unable to do their work properly, then some of this solid matter remains
in the system and becomes actively poisonous. Minute crystals of uric acid form in the blood and are
deposited in the joints and tissues of the body, causing the acute pain experienced when we have
Rheumatism, Gout, Lumbago, Neuralgia, Sciatica, &c. Sometimes the uric acid crystals
aggregate together in the kidneys and form Gravel and Stones, and cause Kidney Colic and
Irritation and Inflammation of the Bladder. In fact, nearly all the aches and pains to which
the human body is subject are uric in their origin. It will be easily realised, therefore, how important
it is that we should
WATCH THE KIDNEYS,
and make sure that they are properly doing their work of removing these urinary poisbns from the
system, as it necessarily follows that the absence of the poisons means absence of the pains they cause
The secret of the suceess which has attended the treatment of uric ailments by
Warner’s Safe Cure
is that the medicine aots in a scientific manner. It is a specific cure for all diseases of the
KIDNEYS AND LIVER.
So intimate is the relation,between the functions of the kidneys and those of the liver that it is
necessary, in order to cure of either of those organs, to employ an agent which possesses*
an equally curative action on estch. In'other words, when the kidneys are sick, the liver is sick also,
and the contrary is likewise true. Warner’s Safe Cure is the only known remedy which possesses the
remarkable property of being of equal efficacy in cases of diseases of the kidneys and diseases of the
liver. By establishing a healthy and vigorous action of both the kidneys and the liver. Warner’s
Safe Cure cures not only all diseases due to uric poisoning, but Indigestion, Eil ousness,
Jaundice, Sick Headache, Anaemia, and Debility, which are all caused by the liver failing to
deal efficiently with the biliary waste products of the used-up tissues in the body.
Mrs. A. J. L. Barnett, Brighton Road, Glenelg, S.A., says:—“l suffered greatly from mv kid-
neys and liver, and after consulting several doctors and getting no relief I had given up all hope of
recovery when I heard of Warner’s Safe Cure. After taking one bottle I was much relieved, and
after taking four bottles, I am pleased to say, was entirely cured.”
The commonest first symptom of kidney disease is Fain in the back. A surer test is to place
some urine, passed the first thing in the morning, in a covered glass and let it stand until next
morning. If it is then cloudy or there is a brick-dust like sediment or if particles float about in it,
then the kidneys are not healthy and Warner’s Safe Cure should be taken immediately or Brights’
Disease or some serious illness will result.
A treatise containing full particulars relating to Warner’s Safe Cure, and the diseases it cures,
together with many accounts of remarkable recoveries, will be sent free on application by H. Hi
Warner and Co., Limited, Australasian Branch, Melbourne.


Broken Hill Warden’s Court has two “jump-
ing ” cases before it at the present time. One concerns
the old Mayflower Extended mine, owned by one of the
Barrier’s identities, William Blunt, for the past 17 years.
The mine, worked almost singlehanded the whole time,
has yielded a lot of good ore, and is believed to hold a
good deal more. The alleged jumpers have hurt their
own case in the public mind by pegging out the claim
while guests of the old man, to whom the mine is the
only thing on earth worth living for.
* * * •
By the number of metallurgists and practical
mining men to be seen in Sydney of late one would
assume that there was quite a boom or that some-
thing of the sort was looming. Such is not the case,
however. All these men are mixed up in an im-
portant law-suit which is proceeding. Some dissatis-
fied shareholders in the Lake George United Mines
have instituted a suit against the principal pro-
moters of the co. for the recovery of money paid for
shares. They allege that the prospectus misrepresented
the property and that the promoters knew from the out-
set that it was worthless. The case is to be tried in Lon-
don, and the most eminent counsel of the day are
engaged. Evidence is being taken in Australia on com-
and quite an array of Sydney and Melbourne
lawyers is employed. The evidence and “ exhibits” will
be bulky enough to necessitate the chartering of a special
steamship to convey them to Bull’s island. Bulletin
expresses no opinion on the merits of the case ; but does
not hesitate to say that it is more than a pity that one
quarter of the money now being spent in law was nob
made available to prospect the mine at deeper levels to
determine whether or not there is a richer zone below
present Workings. As an ore body the Captain’s Flat lode
is without rival in N.S.W. for width and length, and were
it found to be one per cent, richer in copper the mine
would become one of the first in the State.
* * * *
At the Lloyd copper mine, Burraga (N.S.W.),
Manager Corbould is applying the new broom with
- much vigor. The proportion of officials and bosses to
actual workers is being considerably reduced and all-
round retrenchment made. But Mr. Corbould can’t sack
the concentrating mill, and this is the incubus which is
going to turn the scale against the hopes of shareholders.
This mine affords a striking example of the fallacy of the
assumption that modern men and methods necessarily
mean success where old-fashioned systems would mean
failure. The late Lewis Lloyd’s methods of working the
mine were primitive in the extreme, but they were so
successful that it did not give the practical Welshman
much concern when copper went as low as £4O per ton.
The co. has spent about £lOO,OOO ; it has had the benefit
of copper at an average of nearly £6O, yet it has never
got within coo-ee of paying. Had Mr. Lloyd lived and
retained possession of the mine the chances are that he
would have made profits almost equal to the profitless
capital expenditure of the co. Mine is as good as ever it
was, and the one hope for the co. is for the London
directors to cease their meddlesome harassing policy
and give the new man reasonable time to demonstrate
what can be done with the show.
* * * *
The full text of the will of the late James
Dick, the Glasgow man who made an immense fortune
out of Balata belting, has been recently published. It
discloses many magnificent benefactions to public insti-
tutions and to old servants. Among the latter is Mr.
David Manwell, the manager of the Mitchell’s Creek
mine (N.S.W.), who has the right to purchase the mine
for £42,000 within such time and on such conditions as
the trustees may decide, Lucky Manwell! The newly-
erected plant must have cost close on £30,000, and the
mine must be returning a profit of at least £lO,OOO a year.
How this news must gladden the heart of “Tommy"
Dalveen, an ex-partner in the mine !
* * * / *
Cobar Chesney chairman announced at recent
meeting that 80,000 out of 180,000 shares in the co. had
been forfeited for non-payment of calls. What a satire it
is on the alleged speculative: spirit of Australians—Vic-
torians in particular—when men will sacrifice their
interest in a mine of such great probabilities rather than
pay a 3d. call 1 In magnitude of proved lode and in
average value of ore Chesney is one of the big mines of
Australia. Some day, either by design or by accident,
the right-method of treatment will be hit upon, and
then the men who have dropped out for 3d. will
be tumbling over each other to get in again at £l.
Several fair “ rises” have already been made out of deals '
in Chesney forfeited shares, and one of these days some
knowing people will gather in a big “ pot.” There is al-
ways thechance of some enterprising outsider making a
fair offer for the mine. This will be something more than
a chance—almost a certainty—should the big Cobar deal
eventuate, and of this those in the know profess to have
no doubt- Capital of co. to be increased by 2s. 6d. per
share. Manager Woolcock asserts that the concentrating
plant is the most complete of its class in Australia,-but he
cannot work it three shifts owing to inability to get com-
petent men to look after it.
* • • •
Doyle and Fynne.y, Kanowna (W.A.), have
treated another 12 tons for 1430 z. This makes the total
for 18 months 27640 z. from 141 tons.' For some time the
outlook was gloomy, but recently very rich stone was
again struck, and some very high returns may be looked
for.
* * * *
White Feather Main Reefs (W.A.) is looking
rather dicky in the bottom level. The main reef at 750 ft.
is very poor, and, if the east reef doesn’t come to the
rescue, the returns will get a nasty set back. The
opening up of the east reef is being eagerly pushed ahead
to try and avert a collapse. Mine under Nat. Harper’s
management has had a pretty successful career, having
paid £58,000 in divs., the last in April. Current profits
range from £lOOO to £llOO monthly, so there is not much
margin for any decline in the grade of ore. All other
mines on the same line of reef have been utter failures.
The White Feather Reward, of which great things were
predicted, is no good at 500 ft., to which depth the new
main shaft was carried ; and, after stoping out. a narrow
chute of pay ore and spending the balance of available
cash, the co. must again collapse. Possibly it may be
reconstructed, though the mine does not justify it.
* * * *
At the Atlas, Kalpini(W.A.), in breaking down
stone for the mill, it is found that the ore at the bottom,
or 300 ft. level, is very poor, and it will be quite impossible
to maintain an output of 1000 tons monthly of lOdwt. ore.
Any serious decline would render the proposition a drain
on John Bull’s pockets. The July return will be all right,
but, after that, anything. The mine is splendidly
equipped for economical working, but machinery can’t
make gold, as many mine managers have found in-the
land of sand and sorrow. Manager Irvine, who has,
unfortunately, like many other practical men, had no
luck off the fields, has resigned, as the prospect 6f
running a mine without cash is not enticing.
* * * *
Golden Pole, Davyhurst (W.A.), will start
crushing with its 10-head mill early in August, and should
yield very high returns judging from trial parcels. Owing
to the promising outlook the £1 shares have been split,
and co. now consists of 200,000 shares of 2s. each. Profits.,
should amount to at least £5OOO monthly, and regular 6d. .
divs. be distributed every month. The £1 shares have
changed hands at £8 to £9, so the split shares will come
on-the market in the neighborhood of a sovereign. There
has. hitherto been no free market in the scrip, which is
all held locally, but, once returns begin, this will pro-
bably be altered. The mine has been developing for the .
past four years ; a large tonnage of high-grade ore
has been revealed, and the ore going underfoot in the
lowest workings is the richest in the mine. Returns
are expected to run up to 2000 oz. a month.
v - * * * *
Associated (W.A.) is pushing on hard with the
erection of its second half-dozen Merton furnaces, the
first half-dozen having ajready got to work. In spite of
making alterations in the treatment plant, the output of
6000 oz. monthly is maintained, and it is expected that it
will be raised to 8000 oz. from September. The mine is
opening up splendidly in the lower levels, and the ore
reserves are now so large that a long period of prosperity
and divs. may be looked for. Besides its present ore
reserves, the co. has the chance of cutting the continua-
tion of the Oroya chute in its lower levels. Regarding
this chute, if it maintained its dip, it should enter the
leases at a depth of 900 ft., but it can’t be found. Oroya
has still 250 ft. to drive to its southern boundary, and
when this drive is complete, the mystery will be solved, y
* * * *
Murchison Associated, Day Dawn (W.A.), has
just been reconstructed for the sixth time in eight years,
its capital being increased from 300,000 shares of 6s. each
to 400,000 of similar value. Go. owns a property named
the Rubicon, about a mile north of the Great Fingall
Consols, and once owned by that co., and is generally
admitted to be working the same reef. At least the color
and character of the quartz and the country rock are
identical. The reef is very large, and rather low-grade,
just as the Great Fingall reef was in the oxidised zone,
and that is the only zone really tested so far. Possibly,
as in the case of the Great Fingall, opera-bouffe mining
will, some day, give way to real development; and, when
the day arrives, the mine may make a name for itself.
* * * *
Vosperton (W.A.), an absolute wild-cat, has
reconstructed for the second time, with a capital of
£120,000 in 10s. shares, with a 2s. assessment. First-class
headgear and a 10-head mill were erected some three
years ago, and photos of these were displayed at the
co.’s meeting to gladden the hearts of shareholders and
induce them to put their hands in their pockets. Mine
never produced any gold, and it is very doubtful if it ever
will. Such alleged gold mines merely serve to damage
the reputation of a country, and should be squelched.
* * * «
Great Boulder Perseverance (W.A.) continues
to develop splendidly, and everything on the mine
runs smoothly. The eighth level, at 1100 ft., is being
opened up with the usual satisfactory results. The
L.Y. Consols has been proving the southern end of the
Perseverance property, and, as rich ore has been found
in both lodes at deeper levels close to the boundary, the
Perseverance’s prospects look very rosy. For some
occult reason, the usual quarterly div. of Is. 3d. a share,
or £87,500, due in July, is not to be paid till the middle
of August. Manager Nichols has been inspecting the
South Kalgurli, prior to re-starting operations, and has
strongly eulogised late manager Isles’ work, and condoled
with the latter over the scarcity of gold. As Nichols has
had a ghastly experience with the Great Boulder South
and Boulder Bonanza, his sympathy for Isles is readily
explained.
* * * .
North Kalgurli (W.A.) is pushing ahead with
the erection of its new 10-head mill and cyanide plant,
and should have a trial run by the end of August.
Management estimates that the ore reserves amount to
30,000 tons of 15dwt. stone, but that seems a pretty tall
order. There are in all 11 levels driven, and, in most,
the ore is very patchy and difficult to estimate. Once
stoping commences the true size of the lodes will be seen,
and it may be found, as in the case of its neighbor (the
Hainault), that the lodes bulge to enormous proportions
in places, and greatly increase the reserves. The co. is
now practically without funds, and the future of the
mine depends entirely on mill returns.
* » * *
W.A. mining cos. distributed .£205,560' in divi-
dends during July Great Fingal Consols, £62,500;
Associated, £50,000; Ivanhoe, £50,000; Kalgoorlie,
£15,000 ; Westralia Mt. Morgans, £15,000; Ida H., £5400 ;
Princess Royal, £4OOO ; Queensland Menzies, £3300 ; and
Lancefield, £360. For the expired seven months of the
year the total is £1,121,170, against £821,028 for same
period of last year. August dividends already announced
amount to £185,500 Golden Horseshoe, £90,000 ; Perse-
verance, £87,500 ; Princess Royal, £4OOO : and W.F. Main
Reefs; £4OOO.
* * * *
Associated Northern (W.A.) management has
practically abandoned hope of finding the ore alleged to
have been cut by the drill at 912 ft. last Nov. The official
report said the lode was 12ft. 6in. wide, of which 6in. was
worth 60z., Bft. lldwt., and 4ft. 21dwt. How such a
large body of ore, if it ever existed, could abso-
lutely vanish is mysterious. Yet crosscutting, driving
and rising have failed to locate it, even down to
950 ft. The diamond drill was also said to have cut Bto
10ft. of ore worth soz. per ton at 70ft. west of the shaft at
a depth of 1100 ft. Further drilling is now being dope to
see if any such body of ore can bp located. Boring is also
being prosecuted on the Iron Monarch and MedindieHill,
and, although a large body of pay ore was said to have !
been found at 300 ft. on the former, people are now i veryi®
sceptical. Chairman Landau’s resignation, and the ’drop*,
in the price of the shares, since Capt. Rodda’s death, of
about 405., equivalent to £700,000, shake the confidence'
of the most confiding.
* * * *
W.A. Government, rhas practically agreed to
reduce cost of “scheme 1 ’ water from 6s. to ss. per 1000
gallons to Kalgoorlie mines on condition that the cos.
discard salt water, or .water from any other source.
Mines guarantee “to take 500,000 gallons daily at the
price.
* *■ * * ,
Sons of Gwalia, Leonora (W.A.), looks as if it
had a long period of prosperity before it. Six levels are
now being operated—Nos. 7 to 12—and an average of
nearly 800 ft. of development is being done monthly, of
which one-fourth is driving levels. At No. 7 level pay ore
is being won nearly 300 ft. south of where the lode pinched,
in the upper levels, and about 700 ft. south of the shaft.
At No. 8 level nearly 900 ft. of ore has been opened up, of
which about one-third is north of the shaft. This is the
only level in which the lode has been followed to the
north. Bevels 9to 12 are all being driven south, and in
each the lode runs from Bft. to 10ft. wide, and can safely
be valued at 15dwt., and shows much higher assays in
places. Although nearly 8000 tons of ore is being treated!
monthly, the reserves are increasing at practically the
same rate, and are now two years ahead of the mill.
Working costs.have been greatly reduced. The co. looks
good for about 4s. a year in divs.
* * * *
Briseis tin shares have slightly improved ins
value of late consequent on the assurance given by Mr.
Lindsay Olarke that he is confident that he can remove
the overburden expeditiously and economically. ,The
same confidence has been expressed by other managers.
If the co. changes managers often enough and can put up
money enough, the overburden will be removed in time,
and this having been done, the next thing will be to
recover the tin. There will be a greater disillusionising
in this respect than there has been over the removal of
the overburden. Anyhow, the powers that be must have
a poor opinion of the show when to maintain a semblance
of interest in it they have to resort to the doubtful policy
of changing managers annually. . .
* ♦ * *
Queen Centrals (Charters Towers) have within a,
month slumped from 28s. (paids) to about 19s. This is due
to shaft not having so far bottomed on the rich Victoria
lode worked in the adjoining Queen Cross. It is now
thought that some formation passed through at about
930 ft. is the Victoria ; but the shaft (at time of writing
about 1000 ft. deep) is to be continued another 100 ft. in
the hope of cutting the Brilliant reef, supposed to exist
in the Central ground at about that depth. This done,
the formation above, if the Victoria reef is not met with
in the me£htiMhj'' J \Mli , %e' driven upon. Present appear-
ances of the Cross make the Central’s chances look
healthy, and it is a curious fact that in the Towers it is
the exception rather than the rule for a straight shaft to-
bottom off stone. The Brilliant owes its career as a
dividend payer: to-.a few feet of driving on an apparently
worthless vein, while the Queen Cross’s position is due to
a cross-cut into the Queen Cross footwall.
* * * *
The flag was hoisted at the Inglewood (Vic.)
Great Columbian mine on the 23rd ult. in honor of the
co.’s first dividend. It is 12 years since a registered co.
in the Inglewood district (the Maxwell’s Extended) paid a
dividend. The directors travelled up to Geo. Lansell’s-
house, at Bendigo, to formally declare the div., the old
battler having stuck to the co. for years.
\ m: ‘1 i311
‘11 ‘ $1111 :1“ 1 A 11
:2 v 7" "ﬁ-J "‘ 1"“ ‘~
4~ AK ‘
9 “~.
.9 'E
3 '5
~ 9
# _swumk. '5.
_o 1‘: " «a .
I (““11 13 1 m ‘
"/11 $9111 1‘ V"
x 1 *«MW‘ ’
1 1111111 1 M 111:1 ‘ 1 .
‘1‘“ 1 1‘1‘11111‘1 “1'11"1‘111‘1‘ ‘
1 “113111“ J 11111 1
\ ‘ ‘1 | 1 r
This illustration
is one of London’s
latest styles of
pendants. It is a
solid gold bow and
chains, photo,
pendant to hold
two photos. It is
a novel and most
attractive produc-
tion and is sure to
be popular. The
prices of the
pendant are 255.,
275. 6d., and 305.,
post free, and is
one of many thou-
ands on view at the
spacious show-
rooms of Mr. A.
Saunders, the well-
known jeweller,
809, 811, 813, 815,
817 George-street,
opposite railway station, Sydney.
At Poverty Point.
Sydney musical public will learn with regret that their
veteran basso, Tom Rainford, now in his 73rd year, has
been stricken with paralysis. The plucky old fellow was
in harness until recently.
Tom Buckley, the popular Australian Irish comedian of
yore, tells how Nellie Stewart came to him as a young
damsel to finish her juvenile education in Irish jig danc
ing and side-drum playing. “And didn’t she just work 1”
says Buckley. The girls who are pretending to be artists
nowadays don’t understand the meaning of the word
“ work ” as Nellie Stewart understood it.
Melba’s re-appearance in London after her Australian
tour seems to have impressed many people with evi-
dence of her “ further advance as an actress.” Before
that masterful woman’s voice is fairly on the wane she
will probably be accepted as the finest of operatic trage-
diennes in two or three of her favorite characters. It she
couldn’t sing a note, Melba would be good' enough to
head an ordinary dramatic company in “ Camille.”
Olive Lenton, the youngest of the young members of
Williamson’s Musical Comedy Co., is a daughter of the
late Lance Lenton, actor and journalist.
“Wongim”: Watching the public at the Mutoscopes
came to the conclusion that the machines labelled “ High
Kicking,” “Peeping Tom,” “Maiden’s Midnight Romp,"
&c., would soon break down through overwork, whilst
those entitled “ Riding with Kitchener,” “ Coronation
Scenes,” &c., will probably die of starvation. As I pos-
sessed a penny at the time, had a look at one of the first-
mentioned, and was shocked. When I have another
penny am going to get shocked again.
Speaking of the death of comedian Charles Lauri from
consumption, M.A.P. says that the nature of Lauri’s work
fostered, if it did not really engender, the disease from
which he died. His animal mimicry necessitated his
wearing a furry skin, into which he was tightly laced.
Wrapped in this almost air-proof leather garment, Lauri
was in the habit of cavorting for hours in the heat of
the footlights, performing acrobatic and muscular feats ;
so that, when he cast off the outer animal at the close of
his turn, he was habitually bathed in a violent perspira-
tion. M.A.P. sums up Lauri, in fact, as a man who died
through pretending to be a beast.
Some of the late Davison Symmons’ smartest work was
done impromptu. At the close of the Gaiety Co.’s season
in Melbourne, seven or eight years ago, he wrote some
encore verses for Louis Bradfield to the song “She
Wanted Something to Play With.” Bradfield sang them
to a packed house on the last night, and was roared at
for more. He went back to sing the last verse again, and
as he did so bumped into Symmons, who was standing in
the wings. “I suppose you couldn’t grind out another
verse while I’m at this?” said Bradfield hurriedly. Sym-
mons grabbed an old envelope, and when Bradfield came
back he had a new verse ready. The house was still
howling for more. Bradfield went on to the stage holding
the envelope in his ever-present top-hat and sang the new
verse, which gained almost as much applause as all the
rest of the song put together.
“Nani”: The bills and advertisements re opening of
the new Her Majesty’s announce that the manager,
J.0.W., will appear in Buokstone’s farce of “ Cousin Joe.”
Buckstone never wrote any farce of that name. The title
of the piece is the “ Rough Diamond,” and Cousin Joe is
merely one of the characters in it. This changing of the
name of a play in order to give prominence to an actor
appearing in it is the reverse of artistic, and is only
another instance of the feverish anxiety many actor-
managers have to pose as the Great High Cockalorum
of the concern. Fancy an actor changing the name of
“Othello” to that of “ Iago” simply because he happened
to be playing that part.
Now that the theatre-hat has practically ceased to
exist, thanks to the diplomacy of Australian managers,
: JtJtdYfeminine. fiend, not to be outdone, has invented a
itfeir style of hairdressing that is equally effective.
: SeyCral coils of hair-—natural or borrowed —crown the
head like ,a miniature pyramid flattened at the top,
and with sides extended the diameter Of a huge soup-
plate so as to frustrate apg attempt to look round them.
Two of these soup-platSV'canYiot out a six-act drama
easily. Why the average'wdftan delights to obstruct the
view of those in the rear, when she would indignantly
“say things” if a male creature wore his belltopper in
front of her, is more than the average downtrodden male
can fathom.
“ Hamlet ” : A certain English actress, imported by
one of our leading managers, is malting herself disliked
allround. She treats the “small parts” and walking
ladies as if they were mere cattle, and openly throws in-
sulting remarks at them. In a certain Australian capital,
t’other day, some ladies from the localConservatoHiim of
Music, specially engaged to sing in one production, came
down the stairs to the stage. Going up the stairs, $as the
imported star, and as the local ladies apptostonetl she
drew to one side, saying to her companion, “ Let Its wait
till the rabble has passed.” The rabble hasn’t quite , de-
cided whether to cowhide the speaker or to publish her
father’s occupation, which was honest but humble, and
not at all commensurate with the daughter’s frills.
A well-trained elephant is to a big circus what a
hammer is to a carpenter. Wirth Bros, have an
elephantess, Ghuni Sah by name, who, in addition to
being a big show item, is woman of all work, housemaid,
porter, and washer-up to the show. At country towns
Ghuni Sah draws the menagerie, a dozen cages at a
time, from train to playingground. She pulls up the poles,
raises the canvas, takes along a string of two or three
heavily-loaded lorries, and exl racts troublesome stakes.
On several occasions during the recent Queensland tour,
when shunting engines were not available, Ghuni Sah
managed all the shunting herself.
Ready on Ist. August. The Bulletin’s new
book, “ Such is Life !” by Tom Collins. 4s. 6d.
“New South Wales carries the bundle
every time,” the vacuous Bill Wilks shouted at
Treasurer Turner in the middle of the Budget
speech ; and Turner noticed him just enough to
say that the statement wasn’t true. As a matter
of fact, apart from the special Westralian
tariff, the average customs collections for
1903-4 are estimated at £2 ss. sd. per head
throughout the Commonwealth ; but in N.S.W.
the collections will, it is estimated, amount to
only £2 3s. lOd. Bunching the three years 1901 to
1904 the figures are—for the whole Common-
wealth, £6l9s. ; for N.S.W. alone, £6 14s. 4|d.
As to total receipts, the position is just the same;
for the three years N.S.W. has averaged 3615 per
cer.t. of the Commonwealth’s population, but nas
either contributed, or (as for the current year)
is expected to contribute, only 35"3 per cent, of
the Commonwealth’s revenue. No wonder a
man who makes such stupid, mischievous state-
ments as Will Bilks made in this case wants the
public to forget what a. political fool he is, and
keep its eye glued on the fact that he is solid on
the Yellow Pup question.
The pretty Sydney suburb of Bondi owns
a park, and the dirty municipal council of
Waverley keeps a tip there. Some miserably
unreliable person seems to have decided that so
long as the tip was covered it was quite healthy,
so a thin disguise of sand was put on top
of the festering mound, which is (or was)
balanced on the side of a hill. The late heavy
rains, of course, washed off most of the disguise,
and also washed a great part of the tip downhill
<on to the adjacent cow-grass and into a stream
that cows drink out of, and Bondi has now about
half an acre of naked stench and typhoid on its
hands. We are a primitive people.
Bishop Webber has at last dropped ex-
hausted in his 17-year-long chase after enough
■coin to build a cathedral at Brisbane —his death
is reported this week. He was a man who
had to be begging for something and promoting
something. If it hadn’t happened that he was
born in a holy atmosphere, and was subsequently
headed into the clerical rut, he would most likely
have developed into another Tattersall and run a
monster tote; or lie might have gone ahead of a
circus, and enthused about the splendor of the tent
and the intelligence of the performing goat. As
a preacher he was not gifted, but in carrying
round the hat he was almost without rival.
When at last such a fall of rain came over
'Sydney water supply catchment area as to ensure
a full reservoir, the supply canal promptly
developed a huge leak, and out of 135 million gal-
lons a day available 50 millions are running to
waste. Wor. e still, the absolute collapse of the
canal is threatened. Apparently it didn’t occur
to the Water Supply Board to put the supply
canal in order during the drought. But the Board
has at its head not an engineer, but a superan-
nuated politician and house-agent pitchforked
into the position by Reid on account of his politi-
cal services and in spite of his,notorious ignorance.
The Jenkins Iscariot Government of S.A.
last Saturday forenoon announced that the hours
of railway workers were to be increased from eight
to daily. The same afternoon it fled in great
disorder and put the hours back (temporarily) to
the old figure. But increased hours or increased
charges or reduced Wages, or probably all three,
are coming right enough. Through the constant
charging of repairs and renewals to loans, the
annual interest burden on each mile of line and on
each ton of goods carried always tends to increase,
and something (besides Jenkins) must happen to
counterbalance it*
Amusements.
The new her majesty’s theatre.
i Sole lessee & Manager, Mr. J. C; WILLIAMSON.
Evenings, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON’S
Return to the Stage for 8 Nights Only.
MADAME BUTTERFLY
(First Time in Australia).
KERRY. COUSIN JOE.
SATURDAY NEXT, AUGUST 8, RIP VAN WINKLE.
Box Plan at Paling’s, ,SW PRICES AS USUAL.
QRITERI ON THE ATR E, SY D N EY.
Under the Direction of Mr. CHARLES HOLLOWAY.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
CHARLES HOLLOWAY’S
DRAMATIC COMPANY
in the Highly Sensational and Fascinating Love Story
BECAUSE I LOVE YO3J.
SATURDAY NEXT, AUGUST 8 (For Positively Six
Nights Only), THE SHADOWS OF A CREAT CITY.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Paling’s.
-|- HEA T R E ROYAL, SYDN E Y.
Under the Sole Direction of MB. GEORGE MUSCROVE.
EVERY EVENING, EVERY EVENING,
Mr. GEORGE MUSGROVE’S,
: Shakespeaiian Company
in Shakespeare’s Delightful Comedy,
A MIDSUMMER NIGHT’S DREAM.
Prices as Usual. Plan Nicholson’s.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Director .. Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
FIFTH WEEK AND CONTINUED SUCCESS,
MR. DANIEL FRAWLEY
and his Company of American Players in
MADAME SANS GENE, (last nights.)
SATURDAY, AUGUST 8, First Time in Australia of the
Enormously Successful Farcical Comedy, IN PARADISE.
IN PREPARATION—First Australian Production of
Brother officers.
Box Plan at Paling’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
) YCEUM
■“ Lessee
THEATRE, SYDNEY.
.. Mr. George Musgrove.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
THE LADDER OF LIFE,
OR, GORDONS TO THE FRONT.
Interpreted by WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS
DRAMATIC ORGANISATION.
SATURDAY NIGHT, AUGUST 8, CR2ED OF COLD.
Prices—3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Box Plan open at Elvy’s Music
Warehouse, George Street.
the MUTOSCOPE.
WONDERFUL LIVING PICTURES.
KING STREET ARCADE
«»d 400 GEORGE STREET.
Always on View. Admission FREE.
I V O L I THEATRE, S YD N £ !
Sole Proprietor and Manager—Mu. Harry Hick vans
NEW FIRST PART-LAWN TENNIS.
Great Enthusiasm aroused by
W. C. FIELDS,
America’s Eccentric Juggler.
Greater than ever and more Popular, RUDINOFF.
Miss MAUD PERMAN, THE TWO COLLIERS,
Miss ELLA WELLINGTON, Miss MAGGIE FRASER,
Mr. HUGH HUXHAM, Mr. FRED. RIVENHALL, Mr.
SAM WILSON, Mr. GEO. SCOTT, Mr. GEO. WALLACE,
Mr. GUS FRANKS, and all our Great Co^
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. 11. Rickards.
FREDERICK \ nnfl / MOLLY
HALLEN / and I FUILEB
DAN CRAWLEY,
London’s Quaint Comedian.
WILL WHITBURN, CONNIE HAMILTON, LILIAN
BISHOP, MOLLY BENTLEY, ERNEST SULLI\AN,
FRANK YORKE, FLORRIE RANG! R, KELSO
HENDERSON.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee .. .. Mr. George Musgr.ve.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of THE SERZNAOE.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 8,
FINAL and FAREWELL PERFORMANCES of
Mr. Musgrove’s Grand Comic Opera Co. in Donizettis
Famous Comic Opera,
La Fille Du Regiment
(The Daughter of the Regiment).
SUAL PRICES.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
rHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
.Lessee .. .. .. .. Mr. Bland Hole.
Business Manager .. .. C. Simonsens.
EVERY EVENING,
land Holt’s Famous Dramatic Company in the Sensa-
tional, Domestic & Equestrian Melodrama,
GOING THE PACE,
By Arthur Shirley, and Ben Landeek.
rices—3s. 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d ail'd. Is. Box Plan at .VUnjs-
JER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
■ Under the Direction of Mr. J. 0. \Y ilmamsuS.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of TKE MESSENCER BOY.
ATURDAY NEXT, AUGUST 8, LAST 9 NIGHTS m
Melbourne of Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON S
lOW FAMOUS MUSICAL COMEDY CO.
—in—
HE RUNAWAY GIRL (for 3 Nights), SAN TOY (for 3
Nights), THE FRENCH MAID (for 3 Nights).
Under Vice-Regal
Patronage
r3 ’.__ 1
. \ . " a
$164!}:
And by
Special Appointment
rs. William Green and Miss Green
Bsoi aof Ballroom Can ing, Deportment, Crase u
arriage, Etiquette and Cal.s h:nic Exercieea.
latest Society Skirt Dances. Classes arranged
rate residences. Colleges and Convents alien
Classes in all suburbs. Prospectus—
Ellerslic,” 100 l\licholBon-st.,Fit*roj.


“ Via ” : Re hat-pins and hair-pins (“ Pol-
stan,” B. 20/6/’03): At short range a hat-pin is as
dangerous as a bayonet. Witness the case up
north a while back on a crowded “moonlight
excursion down the river” boat, when an irate
female resented some jostling by prodding a
couple of inches of hat-pin into the arm of a by-
stander-result 1100. l poisoning and death. The
wielder of the weapon was never discovered.
Also, did you ever pick up an innocent hair-pin in
tram or ’bus and offer it to its owner ? I did, once ,
but the lady who dropped it scowled as if I had
offered her a corset or a venomous reptile.
“I hope there is distinction of ranks
below, and that the gentlemen will get the best
seats —next the fire.” —Crebillon.
Examination “ howlers ” quoted in Lon-
don Pilot
Who was the English commander in the late battles in
the Soudan?—Cardinal Wolsey.
Explain the phrase “The well of English undefiled”
Cawnpore.
Who wrote “ Oceania ” ?—A Fraud.
Who said “So much the worse for the cow ?—Philip
of Spain.
Probably Philip did say something like that when
“ great Eliza ” declined his offer.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849. For pjf e Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or Now Zealand.
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST,
Oar new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per
cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any f ne.
Directors — Thomas Littlejohn, Esq.,Chairman; The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin Short,
Esq. ; Senator J. T. Walker ; James Borns, Esq.; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C. ;F. E. Winciicombe, Esq., M.P.
General Manager and Actuary— Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Hearne’s Bronchitis Core.
THE FA-3M:OXJS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs ” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEWARE OF COUG-BCB !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
"Orange, N.B.W.
Mr. Hearne.—
“Dear Sir,—l enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
of London, Emrland, from which you will glean that
your medicine has been a perfect Go’d-send to a martyr to
colds and bronchial asthma. Ido not wish any names to
be mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
land. You can see for yourself what an immense sucoess
it was.—Yours faithfully, —.”
Extract from letter alluded to above :
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
arrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
much interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
off the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
from a chemist who.is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
supplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS' TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“ Dergholm, Victoria.
"Dear Sir,—i wish to add my testimony to the won-
derful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
months, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
I was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
advice, and tried other 1 remedies,’ without avail. I tried
yours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
first dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
am a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
may depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
wonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“ Yours faithfully,
“JAMES ASTBURY."
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
ty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS-
"I used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
doses.—P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.”
•
‘‘Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only cave him four doses, nnd hnve some of
the medicine yet; but lam sending for another bottle in case I should want it.—l). M'UONALI), Trinkey, via
Quirindi, N.S.W.”
•
" Your Bronchitis Cure to a wonderful medicine.—A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Rennv-st., Paddington, Sydney.”
“ My wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and I am glad to inform you that your Brooliilis Cure has done us
both a wonderful deal of good.it having quickly cured us both.—R.' BASdETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford,
Victoria.”
O
“ I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me.—(Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria.”
•
“ I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria.”
e
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone.—J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W.”
e
“My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses.—C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers,
Queen-street, Melbourne.”
e
“ I lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miraculous.—F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W."
“Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria.”
“Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.—(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.”
©
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at onoe.—
G. SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” O
“Your medioine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle. —W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria.”
O
“I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to evervbody.—S.
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” ®
“ I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine,
but I can truly say that I am astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of rav brief trial.—JOHN C.
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.”
“ Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
me any good; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well.—H. HOOD,
Brookl; nds, Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.”
•
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.”
“ Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from you have pulled
me through a long and dangerous illness.—HENßY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria.”
•
“The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effeots.— CHAS. WHYBUOW, Enoch’s
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.”
Gratitude and Appreciation
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
“The Scientific Australian Office,
“169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
“Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom-
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ac-
countant, Oollins-street, and the effeet that it had was so
marked that he has ever since been continually recom-
mending it to others.
“ We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.”
Queensland Testimony-
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
“69Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send us 36
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose our
cheque to cover amount of order.
“ We often hear your Bronehitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
“ We are, faithfully yours,
• THOMASON, CHATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemists.”
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir, —Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“ I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUARRILL,
“Editor Geelong Advertiser."
“Upon looking through our books we are struok with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.’’—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARME, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
branch depot, office : No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
THE
SMELTING & REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
Works: DAPTO, LAKE ILLAWARRA (so Miles from Sydney). 1901, Limited.
"*■ —*♦' "V —'♦* ——-** ——♦- ——V »• — —>- .
Highest Price paid for Gold, Silver, Lead, and Copper Ores,
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay* Cyanide, Slags, and Jewellers’ Sweep, etc.
J?or all Information regarding Rates, apply to the Manager, Head Office, Dapto;
or, A. E. RUDDER & CO., 40 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Forwarding Agents.
BENGER’S FOOD is
not only highly nutritive,
but is most easily digested
and is so delicious that it
is enjoyed by Infants, In-
valids, Convalescents and
the aged.
1
&
The London Medical Record
says “It is retained when all
Other foods are rejected.”
The British Medical Journal
says“ Benger’s Food has by
its excellence established a
reputation of its own.”
Benger’s Food is sold in tins
by Chemists, etc., everywhere.


Western *«* Australia.
,i£
■ ' -■ ■ ■ ■' ■' .
LAND GIVEN AWAY!
• . r • • ' .• • • • r • ' ' -
FREE RAILWAY PASSES !
{ ■ - • • ■ ‘ r •’ ' : , ■ • * • ■ ; v (
188 ACRES FREE 160
Splendid Soil, Grand Climate, Abundant and Certain Rainfall, Good Harvests,
AND
Best Market in the World for Stock, Fruit, and Gerials.
Imports are still enormous, the Lorial Supply of Produce falling far short of the
demand, thus the Farmer finds a ready market for his produce, and good prices
are obtained. ; r
WEST AUSTRALIAN WHEAT secured the FIRST PRIZE at the
PARIS EXPOSITION, 1899.
Available Land is still plentiful in close proximity to the Railways, and in
Districts where the Annual Rainfall averages from 18 to 30 inches.
Mixed Farming may be carried on in almost any portion of the South-West
Division of the State. TIMBER is plentiful. Fruit Trees and Vines grow
luxuriantly. CLEARING on the whole is easy and cheap.
RAILWAY PASSES are granted to intending Selectors on application to Head
Office, Perth, or the Land Agents on the Goldfields. Full particulars on application.
Schools and Agricultural Halls in almost every centre.
160 acres is granted Free to the head of a family, or any male over 18 years
of age. Free Selection. SURVEYS PAID BY THE STATE. Improvements
required are reduced to a minimum. In addition 1000 acres may be selected under
Residence Conditions within 20 miles;, 1000 acres under Non-Residence, and 1000
acres by direct purchase. In most cases the Purchase Money is TEN SHILLINGS
per acre, extending over TWENTY YEARS.
The Agricultural Bank Loans Sums of from £5O to £lOOO at 5 per cent,
interest per annum. Repayable in from 25 to 30 years on security of fenced
holdings.
GRAZING LEASES may be selected adjoining the Holding of the Applicant.
Area, from 300 to 4000 acres. Purchase Money, 3s. 9d. to 10s. per acre, extending
over THIRTY YEARS.
PASTORAL LEASES—-Magnificent Pastoral Country still available. A
Parcel of Wbol from this State recently topped the Prices obtained at the London
Wool Sales.
FUTURE PROSPERITY is assured by the continued solid development of
the Goldfields and INCREASED OUTPUT.
JARRAH is unequalled as proof against WHITE ANTS and TEREDO.
Excellent for Fencing and Improvements. Railway Facilities through all Agricul-
tural Lands. Write for information to any of the Government LAND AGENTS
at Kalgooi’lie, Coolgardie, Menzies, Cue, and in all the Agricultural Centres, or to
the Head Office, Perth. PLANS AND PUBLICATIONS FREE on application.
LAND GUIDES available to drive Selectors out and show them the land.
THEIR SERVICES ARE PAID FOR BY THE STATE.
All information Gratis. No Droughts.
• f 5 . _ . .... }
The following Estates have been repurchased by the Crown, and will shortly be available for closer settlement
The Gull Estate, on the Williams River,
and the Stirling Estate, near Bunbury.
OTHER ESTATES ARE BEING INSPECTED WITH A VIEW TO PURCHASE BY GOVERNMENT.
iso i\.GRSS
FREE
Conditions of Land Selection in Western Australia under The Land Act, 1898.
Section No. of Act and Claes
of Holding.
Maximum area
Minimum area
Ordinary price per acre
Time over which purchase
may extend
Minimum time in which Title
may be obtained
Annual payment per acre
Sec. 55. — Condi-
tional Purchase with
Residence within or
without an Agricul-
tural Area.
1000 acres
100 acres
10s.
20 years
6 years
6d.
Value of improvements en-
forced
Time allowed for making im-
provements
Period of residence
Time in which fencing of ex
ternul boundaries is to be
performed
10s. per acre.
Sec 56.—Conditional
Purchase without
Residence.
1000 acres
100 acres
10s.
20 years
5 years
6d.
20s. per acre
10 years
6 months in each of
the first 5 years
One-tenth within 2
years ; the whole
within 5 years
Sec. 57.—Conditional
Purchase by direct
payment.
In agricultural area
1000 acres
Outside, 1000 acres
Sec. 60. —Conditional Pur-
chase. Lands for Orchards,
Vineyards, and Gardens.
60 acres
100 acres
10*.
12 months
10 years
One-tenth within 2
years; the whole
within 5 years
At any time, if pur-
chase money is paid
and conditions ful-
filled
5s. per acre
6 acres
20s.
3 years
At any time, if purchase
money is paid and con-
ditions fulfilled
7 years
3 years
Lessee must pay half cost of survey in ten half-yearly instalments.
One-tenth of area planted as
a Vineyard, Orchard, or
cultivated as a bond fide
Vegetable Garden
3 years
3 pears
* Sec. 68.—Conditional
Purchase Grazing
lands.
3000 acres 2nd class
5000 acres 3rd class
1000 acres
6s. 3d 2nd class
3s. 9d. 3rd class
30 years
5 years
2Jd. 2nd class
ljd. 3rd class
Any amount equal to
full purchase mon ey
15 years
6 months of 1st year ; 9
months of next 4
years
One-tenth within 2
years ; the whole
within 5 years
t Sec. 70.—Conditional Purchase.
Poison Lands.
10,000 acres
300 acres
Is.
30 yea: 8
Any time the whole of the pur-
chase money is paid, the con-
ditions fulfilled, and the land
has been safe to depasture
stock for 2 years
One-thirtieth of Is.
Eradication of the Poison
30 years
One-tenth within 2 years; the
whole within 5 years
Lessee must pay the whole cost of survey in ten half-yearly instalments.
Sec. 74.—Free Home-
stead Farms.
160 acres
12 months
i cleared and cropped
7 years
6 months each of first
5 years
i within 5 years; the
whole within 7 years
ISO ACRES FREE
Department oj Lands and Surveys ,
HERBT. FARMER,


During the 13 years between 1888 and
1901 the British seamen employed in British ships
decreased by 7583, while foreign seamen increased
by 12,184. The boy of the bulldog breed grows
more and more foreign—he is mostly called Hans
Bulldog nowadays.
“S.": It is time some action was taken
to centralise the Federal offices in Melbourne. At
present they are scattered all over the city in
little suites of rooms, and no one ever seems to
know where to go. The reporter “ doing the de-
partments” walks something short of 20,000 miles
a week when he can’t afford tram tickets. If the
offices were concentrated in one of the numerous
big buildings the result would be a considerable
saving in rents, boots and profanity.
Every chance he gets now, Tom Price, the
whole-hearted leader of the little Labor party in
S.A., preaches the good doctrine that the work-
men of that State could do a lot to make their
lives easier if they would club together to do some
of the work which, so far, the professional capi-
talist has always done. The idea makes most
headway among what S.A. knows as “the
blockers ’’ —the men who have made homes on the
working-men’s blocks. These people have already
shaken off one incubus —the man who calls for the
rent every week—and they like it so well that they
are willing to make a present sacrifice in order to
finally shake off another incubus or two. The
Richmond men have lately clubbed together to
put up a meeting-hall of their own ; and they are
using this place to hatch other schemes for pro-
viding one another with cows, and sewing-
machines, and other things.
The proposal that residence in Victoria
should count towards qualifying for a pension in
N.S.W., and vice versa, is again mooted in
Sydney ; but it gets no further advanced. The
representations made by the N.S.W. Government
on this subject over 12 months ago didn’t even
evoke a reply from Iceberg and co. All they
have done is to cut down the Victorian pensions
rate, with a further threatened reduction. So
that if ever the reciprocity is brought about,
residence in Victoria to a citizen domiciled in
Sydney will qualify towards a 10s. pension, while
a N.S.W. man living in Melbourne will get about
4s. or whatever the Irvine-Bent screw can
bring it down to. The Federal Old Age Pension
Law can’t arrive too soon.
VIEW OF HOMESTEAD, NEWCASTLE, WEST AUSTRALIA.
See advt. page 32.]
The Freetrade party in U.S.A., which,
true to the traditions of the cult, is essentially a
Jingo, nigger-oppressing, low-wage, capitalism-
favoring crowd, wishes to run Grover Cleveland
as its candidate next election, but that American
George Reid is not on. There’s not the ghost of
a chance of deposing the Republican high-wage,
high- tariff party in America these elections.
Dr. Creed recently complained to N.S.W.
Upper House that in Sydney
in one large building within the city were stored close
together, in very large quantities, naphtha, benzine,
kerosene, residual oil, carbide of calcium, and baled hay,
and in another naphtha, kapok, and carbide of calcium.
Whereupon he was informed that there was no
law
which in any way prevented such dangerous storage of
explosives and highly inflammable substances, but a Bill
would doubtless be introduced as soon as the course of
public business would admit.
This is interesting and combustible news, and the
remedy seems very far off. The municipal
authorities take no action, and Parliament is so
bogged by the eloquence of house-agents and
Dhoto. men that it can’t do much.
Max Hirsch, the copper joss of Victorian
Freetraders, has been chosen to battle for the
Wimmera seat in the House of Representatives.
Max, who has one of the most wonderful
collections of imaginary statistics on earth, is an
excitable little German who dances like a fury on
hot bricks when he gets going, and should be a
very interesting circus.
A letter from Emmaville (N.S.W.) :
Left here a few days ago ten men for somewhere in
West Africa, right on the Equator. Asked one of the men
why he went, and he said would go anywhere his passage
was paid to, so as to get out of this country. The men did
not know exactly where they were going, and didn’t seem
to care. They were to get £5 per week and an allowance
for tucker, and if they stayed a year their passage-money
would not be deducted. They had to go to Teneriffe and
tranship there. Six of the men are married and have
families. Some of them were over 50, nearer to 60.
Somebody said long ago that a country that lives by
exporting its raw material will, in the end, have to
export its men. And we have got there long ago. A
man said to me the other day that the reason he never
married was that he did not want to produce either
slaves or food for powder. Truly a great country ! lam
credibly informed that these men had no proper
agreement, and leave here on the responsibility of one
man—a storekeeper. There is another lot of young men
to go when the rainy season is over.
“ Observer ” writes :
Your par. re J. W. Kirwan’s probable re-entry into the
Federal House on the Labor ticket is without foundation.
Labor people on the goldfields are full of his servile Reid- 1
worshipping. He is to be opposed ; probably by Mr. C.
Frazer, the secretary of the T. and L. Council, who is a
Protectionist, and does not bow the knee to the Dry Dog.
Headaches Bispelled.
Bilb Beans a Perfect Remedy.
“ I have found your Bile Beans are an excellent
remedy for a disordered liver,” says Mrs. S. A.
Masters, of 18 Jarrett-street, Leichhardt, Sydney.
“ At times I have been so bad with indigestion
that I did not know what to eat. My appetite
was considerably impaired, and my sleep was
disturbed, and, in consequence, felt completely
done-up during the day, and suffered agony with
SICK AND NERVOUS HEADACHES.
Having read a case wherein Bile Beans had cured
a fellow-sufferer I decided to give them a trial,
and can now say from my own experience that
Bile Beans are a perfect remedy for sick headache,
loss of appetite, sleeplessness, and those innumer-
symptoms of a sick liver.” Bile Beans have now
a world wide reputation for curing biliousness,
headache, indigestion, constipation, piles, debility,
female weaknesses, nervousness, bad blood,
pimples and all skin eruptions, bad breath,
amemia, loss of appetite, sleeplessness, lumbago,
rheumatism, and, in fact, all ailments that owe
their origin to defective bile flow, assimilation
and digestion. Bile Beans are obtainable from all
medicine vendors, price Is. lid. or 2s. 9d. large
box (contains three times the quantity of the
Is. size.)*
- TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere,
Some Vic. figures : In 1901 arrivals to the
State exceeded departures by 7315. In 1902
departures exceeded arrivals by 5735. For the
first six months of 1903 departures exceeded
arrivals by 5854. The advantage of having a cool,
calm, strong equity lawyer at the head of affairs !
Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Not genuine without the signature.
Be sure you get Martin’s. Sole proprietor, W.
Martin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
England.*
Our Latest Styles of.
GRAMOPHONES
ARE FITTED WITH THE
NEW PATENT “SOUND ARM.
99
IT APPEALS TO YOU
HERE
W-M
V '
i
/
i
>^-X
Y
*
\
I
I
/
PURER,
LOUDER and
SWEETER.
One of the many advantages which this attach-
ment possesses is the ease with which
the horn can be turned in any direction.
FRIGES
“ Monarch,” single-spring machine, 22in. Brass Horn, and “ Concert
Sound Box,” fitted with new “ Sound Arm ” £1
“ Double=Spring nonarch,” 22in. Brass Horn and “ Concert
Sound Box,” fitted with new “Sound Arm” ... ... £l4
“ Triple=Spring Monarch,” 22in. Brass Horn and “Concert
Sound Box,” fitted with new “Sound Arm” ... ... £l6
Other Styles, 30s to £3O. All “ Monarch ” styles play 7in. or lOin. records.
15 O
15 O
5 O
Agents all over the World,
«
RECORDS
IN ALL LANGUAGES.
Send for Catalogues and
Price Lists.
Australasian Agents
Victoria—
A, P. Sykes, 227 Little Collins Street,
1 Melbourne.
South Australia—
Messrs. S. B. Hunt & Co.,
94 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
Queensland
Messrs. Heindorff Bros.,
210 Queen Street, Brisbane.
West Australia—
Messrs. Nicholson & Co.,
Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand—
Messrs. H. Gentles & Co.,
9 Strand Arcade, Auckland.
Tasmania—
Messrs. Wertheimer & Benjamin,
71 Collins Street, Hobart.
GRAMOPHONE & TYPEWRITER, ltd.
163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
KEMP’S PATENT SHEEP BRANDING LIQUID
Is now being used by hundreds of woolgrowers, amongst them some of the largest squatters in Australia.
IT WILL DO EVERYTHING THAT IS CLAIMED EOR IT.
It will stay on the sheep’s back as long as required. It will not injure the wool and can be scoured from it*
Manueactukeks and Sole Agents :
FECTOn GRIME * CO., fOEEiODROE.
BLACK, BED, and BLUE (in 8-gallon Cases):—
PRICE IN MELBOURNE 4/- P®r Gallon.
BYDNEY (E. Rich & Co., Ltd.) ~ -4/- »
BRISBANE (E. Rich * 80., Ltd.) . •« «. -4/- „
HOBART (Wm. Orosby & Co.) ... - • -4/- M •'
II
»l
91


VIEW OF AGRICULTURAL DISPLAY, NATIONAL SHOW, PERTH,
See advt. page 32.] WEST AUSTRALIA, MARCH, 1902.
War E. : Be “H.M.” and misfit rai-
ment on R.C. shepherds (B., 16/7/’03): Several of
the teaching “ orders ” buy up half-a-dozen misfit
suits for the use of the brethren. When a
“brother” has occasion to go to town, he is
handed out a suit by the “storekeeper,” and it
isn’t always a perfect fit.
This country’s progressiveness and up-to-
date Democracy seems to be but a vain thing and
a bubble, after all. Here is Russia—Russia !—
legalising trade unionism ; more, practically mak-
ing unionism compulsory, and inciting to co-opera-
tion in labor. And the Australian Tory is still
fighting for freedom of contract.
The returned farm-burner still writes to
the papers occasionally. The latest wail (in
Melbourne Age) is from an individual “No. 526 ”
who, it seems, went to the disturbance and
received full and sufficient pay for his services—
the pay agreed upon. Coming back he was taken
ill, and was carefully nursed in Melbourne hos-
pital— not in the gaol hospital, where so many
others have to go. Now he is well except for
noises in the ear, and his complaint is that his
country won’t pension him off for noises in the
ear, but that he has to work for a living. He
states the facts in print so that 'Victoria can rise
up indignantly and see that justice is done him.
“ Boree ” : Be the problem of “D.H.”
(Bulletin, 16/7/’03), there are at least three dis-
tinct stages in the courtship of ’Arry and ’Arriet
and their kind. “ Walkin’-out ” comes first
—the initial nibbling of the fish at the bait.
It is non-committal for both parties, and the
nibbler is then known, I believe, as “me
bloke.” Next comes “ D.H.’s •’ “goin’-with,”
also referred to as “ carryin’ ’er umbreller.” The
bloke is now “me boy,” and he may not “go
with ” any other girl; likewise at dances or picnics
he must be in single-hearted attendance. I don’t
know for certain how “ walkin’-out ” merges into
“ goin’-with,” but they are quite distinct. The
donah has the best of this second stage as she is
by no means so restricted, but has full power to
make her “boy ” jealous. Last stage is, of course,
the “engaged” one, and very few engagements
after the two preliminary canters fail to result in
marriage. The first two stages may last for years;
in fact, a well-conducted girl in service will
strongly resent being asked if she is engaged to a
man unless she has been “ goin’-wich ” him for a
considerable time, nor will she accept a ring from
him until the “ going ” has developed into an en-
gagement, and he is transformed from “ me boy ”
into “me young man.” * r\
“MY LORD."
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To a Moe swamp farmer who told him
that the only feasible drainage scheme for that
area was Professor Kernot’s untried one, Tom
Bent remarked, “My Lord, the Professor may be
clever, but he is no business man.”
“ Ho ! varlet undeservin’, go hence on flying heels
And bring me Bent and Irvine and Taverner and Shiels.
I fear me there is mischief ; the Country’s been ignored.*
The minion answered his chief, “It has indeed my
Lord.”
First came proud Irvine, wincing like fretted Arab steed,
But with a mien convincing the Farmer told his need :
“ Bring tillage where waste land is ; have swamps from
seas restored
And lakes where arid sand is." Quoth Irvine, “ Good,
my Lord,
“I’ll give to thee broad acres ; I'll give thee public
works—
This fair land owes its makers the handling of the perks.
A truce to silly scruple ! I’d wield a flaming sword
To treble and quadruple your treasury, my Lord.”
Then entered Shiels the Raven, a dismal sort of bird—
“ On this land thou hast ’graven thy melancholy word.
Now raise me loans and coffers from Moses far abroad ;
What though the City suffers?” Said Shiels, “What
odds, my Lord !
“ I’ll hie me now to Moses and get the wealth galore,
I’ll fly to where his nose is his coffers bending o’er.
The worker of the City, I’ll rob his little hoard,
Till not a blooming bit there’s left of all of it, my Lord."
“ Thou good and faithful Thomas,” the Farmer thus
hailed Bent;
“ What gifts have you to promise, and seal my soul’s
content ?”
“ I’ll give no gifts to you, sir,” fat Thomas fairly roared,
“Till Brighton has its due, sir, I’ll see yer damned, my
Lord.”
Then fell great avalanches, and there was no more sea;
“ You’ve blasted all our chances,” groaned Shiels. “ We’re
up a tree.”
Bent mocked him with a chuckle, “ Another point I’ve
scored,
You chaps may crawl and truckle, but I’ll own no over-
lord.”
T.D.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION. w
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
No. F7989.—9ct. Gold Leaf and Wiahbone
Brooch, lls 6d.
No. 6537.—501 id Silver Bean Shape
Match Box, 8s 6d.
No. FBl9o.—Oct. Gold Bamboo Bar, Leal
and Heart Brooch. 8s 6d.
/
No. 614.—The Nurses’ Wateh, Keyless,
Open Face, Engraved Silver Case, fine
Jewelled Lever Movement, Warranted
Reliable, 32s 6d.
We have looked long for a good
Nurses’ Watch, and at last we
believe we have scoured the
very one wanted.
No. 112.—Handsome 9ct. Gold and Fine
Amethyst Brooch, 18s Od.
Our Variety makes Suitable Selection Easy.
BUYING as we do for Eight Stores, each as Well-Stocked as our Sydney one, means that we
have advantages offered us such as no Jewellery business in Australia can claim. We have
our own warehouse in Hatton Garden, London, manned by Experts who see more goods
in 24 hours than most buyers see in I 2 months. You see thus that we can offer you the
very pick of the Home market at fascinatingly low prices. We don’t keep all the advant-
ages we get to ourselves—we pass them on to you. A most important point, and one we adhere
to is, we never sacrifice the quality for the sake of being able to quote a very low price for an
article. Quality is our first consideration. Remember this when you want anything in our line,
as quality must count with you as well as with us. Illustrated Catalogues Free on application.
No. BB34l.—Solid Silver and Pearl Book-marker, 3Jin., 4s; larger, 6s 6d.
No. F 7550. —9ct. Gold Bamboo Bar and
Leaf Brooch, 8s 6d.
No. FBlB6.—The Latest
Lace Pin, Emu or
Kangaroo, 7s 6d.
No. F773l.—Novel Style Salt
Cellar, with Spoon, Silver-plate.
4s 6d.
No. FB2ls—Cut-Glass and Solid
Silver Toilet Bottle, 5J inobea
high, 22s 6d.
No. E4933.—Fruit Dish of Pretty
China, 7 inches square, strong
Silver-plated Stand, 7s 6d.
No. F29s6—Silver-plated Fern
Pot, handsomely chased;
4in., 22s 6d ; 6Jin., 37s 6d.
No. 17065.—8cfe. Gold, two-bar Ornamented
Brooch, 11s 6d.
No, 0288.— Polished Engiish Oak and Nickel-mounted Double
Inkstand, £1 ss.
No. Fs9oB. —Solid Silver Bowl on Ebony Stand, 51 inches
high, 7£ inches wide, £lO 10s; in best Plate, 84s.
Illustrated Catalogue Post Free,
No. FssBB.—Case containing 2 Pearl and Silver-
plated Butter Forks, 14s 6d.
No. E 8759.-
-Best Quality Silver-plated Tile Centre
Teapot Stand, 10s 6d.
No. E6797.—9ct. Gold Brooch, set Sapphire, Ruby
and Diamond, 16s 6d.
No. F 4938. —Case of 2 Cut-Glass
Silver Mounted Knife Rests, 11/6.
No. FB7o4.—Remarkable
Value. Diamond, Ruby and
Sapphire Scarf Pin or Pin
and Stud, Fine Gold Settings,
£3 10s.
No. Es627.— Strong 9ct. Gold Twist Bracelet.
A Pretty Style, 32s 6d
412 GEORGE
e- T SYDNEY.
Castro’s Cast Sacrament
And Other Stories,
BY ALBERT DORRINGTON.
“ The Most Brilliant Short Stories Produced in
Australia .”
A CONSENSUS OF CRITICAL OPINION.
NEW SOUTH WALES.
• ‘ He has been everywhere and seen every-
thing, and he has to no ordinary extent the
power of presenting things as they seemed to
him —the gift of vivid and powerful narration.
.... Contains dramatic pictures which the
best of our artists in words might well envy.”—
■Sydney Mot ring Herald.
“The stories are often filled with incidents
'that startle the reader, and emotions whose very
strength makes him shiver. . . . Mr. Dorring-
ton’s warrant as a writer of short stories is that
t>f absolute genius.” —Sydney Daily Telegraph.
the Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
214 George Street, Stbsry, Australia.
DARKfOR AROMATIC
TOBACCO
FINEST SELECTED
AMERICAN LEAF.
HIGHEST QUALITY
MANUFACTURED.


At Last.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The sun rose like a Harper strong,
His gold harp in his hand,
The royal music of his song
Flowed over all the land.
In my brave youth on that great flood
In rapture I was borne;
The joy of life danced in my blood,
And merry was the morn.
Then I became aware of shapes,
Clear-eyed, and fair, and few,
That in a vineyard gathered grapes
Still gleaming with the dew.
That toil to me seemed poor and mean ;
Better, beneath blue skies,
To chase across the meadows green
The golden butterflies.
But while the earth was all a-flower,
And all the sky a-bloom,
A voice was calling hour by hour —
It was the Voice of Doom.
It called me to the Vineyard, too,
It called me all too soon ;
The earth was green, the sky was blue,
And fair the afternoon.
Below me where I sat, rose-crowned,
Beside the singing streams,
Grey Sloth lay like a toothless hound
Too old to hunt in dreams.
The Voice of the Eleventh Hour
Rang through the twilight grey.
I kicked the hound, and flung the flower—
The flower of Love away.
And unto the Great Vineyard then
The Shapes dishevelled streamed ;
Races, and clans, and tribes of men,
And crowns and mitres gleamed.
Beneath the falling night they sought
The Gate with its dim light;
Sinners, and saints, and poets fought—
It was a weird, wild fight.
The good God laughed, and said —“ ’Tis well!
The New Times now begin ;
This is my birthday, Gabriel—
• Let all these poor folk in.”
N.s.w,
VICTOR J. DALEY.
At a Tank in the West.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The long hot day’s tramp is over. The wind and
the sun are going down together, as I and my
companion, with swags swung crosswise over our
shoulders and billy cans in hand, sight the white
roof of a station homestead.
“Evening, boss,” says my mate; “any chance
of getting a bit of tucker to-night ? ”
Lately my mate# has quite given up going
through the formula of asking for work. The
boss eyes us both with a keen glance, and says to
my mate:
“If you can use an axe lean give you a jol
scrub-cutting for sheep.”
“Right, sir, what’s the wages?”
“One pound a week; so go into the kitchen
and get your supper, and I’ll drive you out in the
morning.”
My mate here gives me a meaning look, and
I feebly put in a word for myself. The boss,
however, after looking at my sun-blistered face
and hands, evidently sums me up for what I am,
and sharply tells me to come into the store for a
pint of flour. Just as I am turning ruefully away
he calls out:
“Here, young fellow, have you ever done any
bush work ? ”
“No, sir, except tramping about the bush with
my swag and begging for tucker,” I say, some-
what bitterly.
“Well, I’ll give you a job pumping at 15s. a
week.”
I haven’t the faintest idea what sort of a job
pumping means, but joyfully accept the offer.
Next morning I am taken down to a large exca-
vation called a tank, the water in which is rapidly
diminishing under the combined influences of the
blazing sun and the thirst of about 8000 sheep,
besides horses, cattle, birds, etc. As its sides
are getting very boggy a fence has been put
around it. A pump has been erected over a well
sunk at the side, while close by is about 100 yards
of iron troughing. My work is to keep this con-
stantly full of water. It takes me all I know to
do this at times, but the whole thing is very
interesting to my inexperience, and besides I now
get food without having to beg for it.
I arrive very early in the morning, just as the
faint dawn in the east begins to pale the sky.
I generally find a few emaciated rabbits, who, at
my- approach, struggle feebly away from the
brink of the water. Otherwise it is as still as
deatli, and the surface of the water unruffled by a
breath of wind. I take the handle of my pump
and begin, for a certain amount of water has
always been drunk by straggling stock during the
night.
As the dawn brightens red in the east the first
signs of life begin, generally by the screech of a
galah, and in a few minutes the air is alive with
them, uttering their discordant notes. There are
thousands of them. Also, there come whole
droves of blue and green parrots, crows, magpies,
and crested doves, besides many other birds.
Then the red sun shows up, streaming into a
cloudless brazen sky, and begins its day’s scorch.
Across the swamp may be seen some emus ap-
proaching, very shyly, for a drink, but the clank
of the water-lift keeps them for a time from
coming nearer. Then a couple of kangaroos hop
awkwardly, and with long pauses, up to the
water. Thirst makes all alike tame; but they
keep at the side opposite from me. The fence is
not very high, but the drought ’roos have not got
much spring in them, so they prefer to squeeze in
under the lower wire where the ground is a li:tle
unequal. They have a sort of suspicion of the
troughs. Now my real work begins as the sheep
:t re coming. They are generally led by some ancient
u ve. And what a row they make coming along. It
reminds me of the shouting voices of a large crowd
at a football match. I have to work my very
hardest to keep them going, and the sweat pours
off me like water. The air is thick with a hot,
pungent dust, and the sun so melting that I doubt
whether even a man from Hay or Boohgal could
stand it. This Australia seems to be one huge
By about 8 o’clock the sheep slacken, and as
they draw off they stroll towards the shade of
some box trees, and do not move all day until late
in the afternoon, except to now and then take a
lick at some lumps of the queerest-looking salt I
ever saw. Why th©y do this I don t know, for
they seem thirsty enough without it. I draw
under the shade of a box tree, light a small fire,
boil a quart pot, and have my breakfast sitting on
the ground until the ants make things too lively,
and then I go back to my pump and have a
smoke. .
I have now some leisure to watch life in the far
western desert. First the crack of a stockwhip
and a cloud of dust announce that something else
is coming to assuage that unquenchable thir.-t
which seems to lay hold of every living thing out
here. This turns out to be the working horsr s
driven by “ Billy-the-Boy.” These drink until
you would tbink that they must burst. I hen I
hear the rumble of wheels and the water-cart that
supplies the station is backed under my pump,
and the man sings out to me to fire away. As
soon as it is filled away it goes, old “ Bowler,” the
draught horse, digging his toes into the ground
with his heavy pull of about a ton of water. Next
come the miilcing cows—three in number—and
their calves, again driven by “Billy-the-Boy.”
These also seem to fill themselves right up with
water until it is a wonder that it does not run out
of their ears ; then they are taken to where the
mulga cutters are at work for the sheep, about
two miles off.
The water-cart comes down again for refilling,
this time its destination being the scrub-cutters’
camp, and they tell me that when the men see it
coming thoy rush it like sheep to fill their water-
bags. The heat now is so intense that even if
any animals want a drink they haven’t pluck enough
to go into the sun to get it, so until 5 o’clock I do
little but stand and endure. Then the sheep rush
me again and draw off towards the fallen scrub.
At last the sun disappears in the red, hazy, dusty
west; but I have yet another lot of visitors in the
shape of some half-wild station cattle and some
working bullocks stalking alone in nearly single
file to the water. Lastly comes an old shep-
herd who is looking after a mob of about
150 rams in an adjoining paddock. These have
their drink, and the shepherd puts them into a
little yard, close by, after loudly cursing his dog
for lying in the water instead of coming to help.
In the east, the red and solemn moon is now
rising, and, as I look in the opposite direction to
the south-west, I remember that I have been told
that there isn’t a drop of water for more than 80
miles that way—a somewhat uncanny thought.
The shepherd and I now go to the station. He
seems to be in a sullen, sour mood, and remarks
that, even if the ruddy grass ever did grow again
in the ruddy country, it would be little good now,
as only the oldest stock (and very ruddy few were
left) would know that it was grass. The rest
wouldn’t understand what it was, and would die
of hunger. As we approach the men’s quarters, I
hear the strains of a concertina coming from the
wood-heap outside. The cook is a white man,
and has kept something warm for the two late
comers. Later, I throw myself down on a
blanket, outside, on account of the heat within,
with a sheepskin for mattress, and, in spite of
mosquitos, am soon asleep.
N.s.w.
BILRY.
’Twixt Man and God.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Coffee was the most bigoted unbeliever I ever
met. No rabid religionist could “glorify God”
with more enthusiasm than Coffee displayed in
denying Him ; no evangelist could infuse greater
zeal into the work of preaching the Gospel than
Coffee threw into his gratuitous task of publishing
the mistakes of Moses, and betraying the errors
of the Apostles. The farmers and settlers for
miles around knew him as a rabid Atheist and an
untiring lay-preacher of the gospel of ungodliness.
Sinners are notorious believers, and several sinners
in the district had endeavored to convince Coffee
of the error of his ways with the biting logic of a
straight left, but Coffee was strong and fierce and
fought like the Devil whose cause he advocated,
and that line of argument was soon abandoned by
the champions of orthodoxy.
Coffee made several converts, but his most
active proselyte was Mrs. Coffee, a pale, timid,
hard-working little woman, who was never
betrayed into a display of feeling of any kind
until Tom got going on one of his favorite argu-
ments ; and then, flushed and excited, she backed
him up with half-hysterical ejaculations, such as
over-wrought women utter at revival meetings.
It was a Sunday afternoon ;■ two or three men
had chanced round, and Tom Coffee was tearing
the story of Noah’s Ark to pieces in the spirit of
this age of reason for their instruction and enter-
tainment, and Mrs. Coffee stood by, looking pale
and nervous, as she usually did while her husband
was smashing religions and abolishing gods, but
supporting him excitedly, as if anxious to please.
“Talk about puttin’ two of all the animals
inter the ark,” said Tom, “why, yer couldn’t do
it. You couldn’t put two of all the kinds of
insects an’ things into a ship the size what Noah
built, let alone the elephants an’ rhinoceroses, an’
whales, an’ sharks, an’ horses, an’ camels, an’ sea
cows, an’ what not.”
“Oh, it’s all rubbish—just rubbish ! ” said Mrs.
Coffee eagerly, with the air of a woman doing
desperate deeds.
“You couldn’t put’em in. I defy youse to do
it,” Tom continued, “Then what o’them there
mastodons, an’ mammoths, an’ magatheriums, an’
diprotodons, an’ dinosaurs, an’ dinocerases, an’
dinotheriums, an’ ichthyosauruses, an’ all the
other mighty reptiles an’ birds what’s now extinct
—what of them, I’d like to know ? ”
The men murmured among themselves. Coffee
was certainly very learned. The big words over-
whelmed them.
“Of course no one believes about Noah’s ark
now-a-days,” said Mrs. Coffee feverishly. “ It’s
all a lot o’ lies ! ” She looked anxiously at Tom
as if expecting a word of approval.
“Fact is,” said Coffee, “none o’ them Bible
yarns will bear the light o’ modern knowledge. It
shrivels ’em up. Religion is just ignorance writ
another way. The searchlight o’ science can’t find
a god anywhere.”
“ They’re dead ! ” cried Mrs. Coffee.
“They never lived,” said Tom.
“That’s true!” A red spot was burning in
Mrs. Coffee’s pale cheeks, her hands were
trembling painfully. “That’s true,” she re-
peated ; “ there never was any God ! ”
Tom continued his attack for over half-an-hour,
and his wife echoed his opinions with fiery zeal,
but at the end of that time Hine voted it dry
work and proposed a walk to the Travellers’ Best
and drinks round. The idea was popular, and the
men moved off. At the slip-panels Eastby re-
membered the whip he had left on the table in
Coffee’s kitchen and returned. As he approached
the house he was surprised to hear Mrs. Coffee’s
voice, intense with profound emotion, broken
with sobs, crying a pitiful appeal. At the door he
stopped, thunderstruck. The woman was on her
knees at the sofa, praying passionately, torn with
an agony of contrition.
Eastby took up his whip and stole quietly away.
E.D.
“J.F.D.”: There was a religious cere-
mony at Manly a few Sundays back, and crowds
journeyed down, a special time-table being
arranged to carry them. A follower of Dill
Macky explained it to me: “The Cardinal,” he
explained, “gets the show up, and 5000 extra
travel down ; at 6d. each that is £125 extra to the
ferry company. Now, I ask you how much the
Cardinal gets out of that ? ” I was cornered, but
a little Irishman, who had craned his neck to
listen, promptly made a line with the toe of his
boot and struck out viciously. Dill Macky’s
disciple was game, and the astonished crowd was
knocked about like ninepins. Two water police
managed to lasso them at last, and carried them
off in triumph, the v. ill Mackyite roaring out his
charge about the Cardinal being in league with
the ferry company. “ Gets up a procession down
there once a month,” he said ; “ I know him.
WITH AN
Allcockts
This painful trouble can be relieved and cured by using an
Allcock's Porous Plaster . Warm the plaster before applying—
if not relieved by bedtime, place a hot water bag against the
plaster on that shoulder.
REMEMBER.— These plasters are good for all pains and aches.
They have been in use 55 years, have been imitated more than any article
ever sold, and have made more cures than any other external remedy. They
are infinitely superior to any belladonna, capsicum or strengthening plaster.
Get the best— Allcock’s—The Plaster that Cares,
POROUS
PLASTER
■
m
m
-
i
m
as
i
M
m
m
m
m
w%
I
ms.
ill


Voices in the Mallee.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the world was full of tears,
Blackened love and coldest fears;
Where the earth lay hot and red,
There I flung me down and said :
“Blinding sand and mallee sere,
Must I live and die out here ?
Bitter Bush so bare and brown,
Oh, I weary for the town ! ”
Then a whisper faint and far
Swept the mournful grey belar,
Stirred the mottled leopard-wood
In the mallee solitude;
Breathed wind-voices strange and slow—
Came then answer sweet and low :
“ Sun and sand and glinting star,
Glimpse of moonlit pines afar,
“ Mallee roofs that stars peep through—
What could cities do for you ?
Cheeks of Bronze and Eyes of Brown ?
You would pine and die in town,
“Densest scrub and sky-bound plain,
Thundering hoof and flying mane,
Maddened horse and jay’s sweet call—
Are you weary of it all ?
“ Absent step and absent kiss,
Blame the grey Bush not for this ;
You have known her song and laughter,
And the woe that followed after.
“ Seen the shining skies a-spread,
Trees of gold and scrub bloom red,
Then—the gruesome eagle feast,
Withering bough and moaning beast.
“She has whispered secret things
Hidden from the hearts of kings,
Logic strange and learning fair ;
Would it profit you in there ?
“ You have drunk of bitter waters,
Framed to mourn are Earth’s frail daughters.
Cities could not ease this sorrow,
God will right all things to-morrow.
“Listen, Bush child, born and bred,
In the days when you are dead,
You will sleep where boughs droop down
Deeper, sounder than in town.
Leave the crowded street alone,
Let the grey Bush keep her own. ”
N.S.W.
MOULAMEIN.
Students of the population question should
be interested to learn of the action of a Melbourne
sassiety woman who, finding herself about to
become a patriot, burst into a wild rage ; and, in
the presence of a select assemblage of her female
acquaintances, cast into the drawing-room fire a
large quantity of useless articles “ warranted not
to fail.”
As Told by the Doctor.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The annual heat-wave had arrived at Gannon’s.
The meteorological report for the current week,
as recorded by the steward of Gannon’s club,
from observation of the thermometer in the
smoking-room taken daily at 3 p.m., had been as
follows:
Monday, January 18th, 112°.
Tuesday, January 19th, 114°.
Wednesday, January 20th, 117°.
At midnight of Wednesday, Dr. Maurice
O’Carroll, resident medical officer, and hospital
surgeon of the field, having mustered sufficient
energy to rise from the long cane-chair which he
had inhabited since eleven o’clock, made a careful
inspection of the hard-worked instrument and
reported a reading of ninety-eight. “And what
kapes us from a drink ? Is ut poverty or what,
Steward ? ”
“ Worst night for years,” grunted the Warden,
gently swirling his half-finished whisky and soda.
“Don’t know, though,” he added thoughtfully,
we had a snorter or two about this time a few
years ago. Remember the night poor Haydon of’
the bank shot himself ? ”
“ Wasn’t here,’’ said Sayer; “in Perth then,
wallovving among the flesh-pots. Queer business,
that of Haydon’s. What were the rights of it,
•Dews-• You knew him better than anyone.”
The doctor pulled at his pipe in gloomy silence
for some moments. _ “If you mean how did
Haydon come by his death,” he said at length,
it was from mishandling a Smith and Wesson
thirty-eight-bore revolver, which was loaded.
Death by Misadventure’ was the verdict of
twelve good men ami true—some of them sober.
I swore them in myself—l was coroner. If you
wish to know the primary cause of the accident,
twas the d d drunken carelessness of one
Maurice O’Carroll, M.R.C.S. Boys, I could have
stopped it with a word that night, and I left it
over till the morning, because three wasters in
this room wanted a fourth at poker. If I’d only
known !
Twas a beast of a night. I mind it
well. As hot as this, with the addition of a
wind straight into these windows from the
camel camp. You know what that’s like when
Mutta Singh’s string is in town, as it was just
then. I’d been out at the * Straight Dinkum ’
mine, mendin a chap that had rolled down the
underlay a matter of fifty yards or so. Hurted,
he was. He’s right now, barrin’ his left leg’s
short. I had an accident coming home. I was
driving the bay horse and Norah Creina tandem,
and we met a donkey team carting chaff for Cobb.
Norali’s used to camels, but donkeys got on her
nerves. Moreover, the jackass in the shafts
lifted his voice in song. Norah detached herself
from the cart and made a record home to the
stable. Then the big horse knocked up crossing
the saltpan, and ’twas late when I got in. I
drifted over here about eleven, for a drink.
There were half-a-dozen fellows sprawled about
the room, taking it in turns to curse the weather.
“Haydon was lying on the lounge, there in the
shadow. .At first I thought he was asleep. He’d
been having a bad time for months, had poor
Jack. Been scrip-gambling and done no good at
it. I was the only one here who knew that (and
I didn’t know how bad it was), but it was talked
of in Kalgoorlie and maybe in Perth by that time.
He said nothing to ine about trouble, for all we
were pals, but by signs and tokens I knew the
heart was eaten out of him with worry. There
was a girl waiting for him somewhere in Victoria.
He did be boring the soul out of me about her at
one time, when we were alone in the bank, or in
my humpy, smoking of a night, but latterly he’d
dropped mention of her.
“Five minutes after I came in a buggy drove
round to the back, and presently in comes Roscoe
of the All’s Well mine. Just back from Perth,
with three inches of red dust on him and a thirst
that would shame a camel. Full of reasons why
Limber didn’t beat Australian for the Cup, and
nothing else in the way of news to be got out of him
till he’d demonstrated them. You know Roscoe ?
Presently he catches sight of Haydon. ‘That
Jack Haydon over there?’ says he. ‘l’ve tidings
for you, Jack,’ he says. ‘ That old Presbyterian
Moderator of an Inspector of yours is in Kanowna
and ’ll be here Sunday’s coach.’
“Jack half sat up, then dropped back again.
‘What, old Gillies?’ says he. ‘ That same holy
man,’ says Roscoe, ‘lsn’t due till March,’ says
Jack. ‘ Due or not due, the beast’s coming,’ says
Roscoe; ‘ told me so night before last.’ ‘ D n
him ! ’ says Jack, softly.
“ Then Roscoe makes' for the bath-room to
sluice the dust off himself, and in a minute or two
Jack gets up, stretches himself, and says he has
letters to write and must go, which he did at
once. I mind he turned at the door as if he were
coming back and hesitated for a second. ‘ Good
night, all you fellows,’ he says. ‘Doc., half a
minute. 1 went out with him and he turned
into the office. ‘Doc.,’ says he, ‘I can’t sleep
these three nights, and I’m bad company for my-
self. Fix me up a bolus.’ ‘Bolus be d d,
says I—‘have a drink and another before you
turn in. ’Tis only the weather.’ ‘’Tis more than
the weather,’ he says, with a laugh I didn't like.
‘ls anything wrong, Jack ? ’ says I. ‘Tell me,
boy, I could help, maybe.’ ‘Nothing you can
help, old man, thanks all the same,’ he says—
‘let’s have the drink.’ We had it standing at the
bar, and he took a second-mate’s nip, which I
noticed, because it wasn’t like him. He wa3
never a big-nip man. Then he shook hands with
me and strolled off towards the bank.
“‘The boy’s in trouble,’ thinks I. ‘l’ll call
round in the morning and have it out with him,’
and I came back in here, where Roscoe, in his
pyjamas, had the floor again.
“ ‘ Does anyone hold Last Laps ? ’ says he. ‘ I
know a man has 500,’ says I. ‘The devil you do !
Who’s the man ? ’ ‘ Jack Haydon,’ says I; ‘ and
’tis sick at heart with paying calls he is.’ * He’ll
pay no more,’ says Roscoe. ‘They were selling
at three quid night before last. Expect it’s four
now.’
• l j^r> vas J umping" with joy for Jack’s sake, and
said I d go up to the bank and tell him at once,
but three of them were sitting down for an hour’s
Poker, and they bothered me to make a fourth.
Id been winning for several nights before, and
couldn’t refuse, but I told myself I’d take the
good news round to Jack first thing in the
morning.
, “The hour’s poker lasted till 2 o’clock, and
twas past 8 next morning when I woke. I was
at the bank before 9, and found young Hughes,
the teller, at his breakfast. ‘Where’s Haydon?’
says I. ‘Not up yet,’ he says; ‘heard him
moving about his room till all hours. Suppose
he’s tired.’ ‘l’ve news will waken him,’ says I,
and knocked at his door. No answer. Knocked
louder. Then tried the handle, and it was un-
locked. No one in the room—bed not been slept
in.
“ ‘That’s queer,’ says Hughes, looking scared.
11 heard him moving about up till about one, when
I fell asleep.’ I took a mental inventory. He
had a writing-table in the room and a big
letter lay on the blotting-pad. It was addressed :
‘John Gillies, Esq.’ My heart went into my
throat. The bank revolver lay on the dressing-
table. His gun stood in one corner and a Win-
chester in another. ‘ These all the fire-arms ?’ I
asked. ‘ No, ’ said Hughes, trembling like a leaf;
‘he’d a Smith and Wesson of his own ; kept it
here,’ pulling open the table drawer. ‘And it’s
gone, ’he moaned. ‘My God, it’s gone ! ’
“ There was a door on to the back verandah,
and just then I noticed it was ajar. ‘He went
out this way,’ I says. We both stepped out on to
the verandah and looked up the hill at the back.
A couple of crows rose up and hung cawing above
the salmon-gums. We looked into each other’s
white faces and started to run, without a word.
He was there.
“ We spent most of that day in the pursuit of
Crime, young Hughes and I. I closed on old
Gillies’s letter to begin with. It was a business-
like statement of the shortage, and enclosed the
Last Lap scrip. ‘lt might be worth something
some day, ’ wrote poor Jack. How I cursed my-
self ! However, cursing isn’t business. He’d en-
closed a blank signed transfer with the scrip, by
great good luck, and I thought Maurice O’Carroil
a good name to fill in. Then I sent a wire to
Kalgoorlie, and before night had sold the lot at
three-ten. By Saturday night I had enough of
the money to enable Hughes to straighten poor
Jack’s books to a penny. Old Gillies couldn’t find
a nail to hang a theory on.
“ The balance of the money we sent to Haydon’s
mother. I wrote a full account of the accident to
her, and also to the girl—God forgive me ! I had
answers from them both that broke my heart.
The jury ? That was easy. Sure, I was the
coroner.”
H.F.
“L.W.”: Just now the Sydney daily
press is much fogged as to why the Dagoes
control the fruit and fish industries. Well, it’s
simple enough. I had occasion to enter a fruit
shop between 10.50 and 11 p.m. recently. Next
morning I passed that shop at 5.30 a.m., no matter
why; and the same unfortunate Dago lad who
had sold me the tomatoes the night before was
polishing up the apples in the morning; and he is
visible at any hour of the day, too. The weary
Greek youth who brings you a fish breakfast at
9 a.m. will be found scrubbing and sweeping at
1.30 a.m. the following morning, having worked
right through without a break—and all for his
keep, his clothes, and about <£s a year pocket
money. _ Cheap labor, or rather plain blank
slavery, is the reason why the Dago has been able
to drive the Britisher out of the pear and prawn
trades. Apparently it is impossible to enforce
any law about hours and wages in the case, for
the small slave is so terrorised, or so influenced in
some way, that he will swear, if necessary, that
he only works eight hours a day and gets £3 a
week. In the end it may be necessary to enact
that no person under the age of 21 shall be
employed in the shop of any Dago whatever.
A COMMON ERROR.
It s a common error to plaster the back, to rub with liniment the rheumatic
joints. And then to wonder why relief does not come.
The aching back, the rheumatic joints, come from sick kidneys
Plasters and liniments WON’T cure sick kidneys.
You’ve got to reach the kidneys from the inside. You’ve got to make them
well. Well kidneys keep the blood rich and pure. Leave no excuse for
backache and rheumatic pains.
loan’s Sackache Kidney Fills
make well kidneys Cure every ill of the Kidneys and Bladder.
Jvelieve the aching back and cure it
They strengthen the kidneys and help them to perform that most important
ol all functions—the filtering of the blood. 1
Doan s Backache Kidney Pills cure dangerous urinary disorders.
f Calena T tho y d 0 not reach ’ d °™ to the
boideiland of Diabetes, Dropsy and Bright’s disease.
They are endorsed by Sydney people. Your own friends and neighbors have
ssfta si ks —* r "" i-r.
v-v
mm
fV r
i
ml
!
■ ’
*
rS§
AP
FROM MAIM LY.
Mr. W. Janies, Tobacconist, Manly,
states “ Five years ago I took a course
of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and
they removed pains from my back, and
strengthened my kidneys. I had been
suffering with this trouble a good while,
and it was the first medicine to do me
good. I’ve been quite free of the ail-
ment ever since I used Doan’s Pills five
years ago. I’ve never taken a pill or had
any treatment for the kidneys whatever
since then. It is solely Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills which cured me. Anybodv
who suffers with the kidneys should use
this remedy, which cured me five years
ago—to stay cured.”
I FROM erskmm eville. 1
««KSsswrir
SSL "m “(f j™ 1 ? «* betw/SvS,™ S
s::°x ss tTjJf^ l r“t s ps '— v&tisxsi
after ggS^r^^Aff 11 *? “ T *™!' I «*«« » improve*.* after , few dosej Soon
«.iia B “ k “ hls *»«* »». »" I «JL
j FROM WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
Mr. J. Bickell, 12 Chapel-streefc, Wool-
loomooloo, says : “ Being a sufferer from
Kidney trouble, Mrs. Mullins, 49 Hun-
ter-street, told me to use Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills. She told me that they
ha,d cured her of a similar trouble to
mine. I procured a box, and found that
much good resulted from taking them.
I used to have very bad pains across the
loins and down the thighs. At times I
could scarcely move. I always had
urinary weakness, which was very
annoying ; the secretions contained sedi-
ment. lam glad to speak up for Doan’s
Pills; they deserve it.” Mrs. Bickell,
when seen by our representative, states
her husband is still free of kidney
trouble, and attributes his cure solely to
the use of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.
Get what you ask for Opf Tin axpci >. . , .
for. Some may endeavor to substitute an article something ‘just as good.” All Chemists sell DOAN’S BACKACHE
posted on receipt of price by Foster-McClellan Co!, 76 Pitt Streetf Sydney InSlSt ° n geUing the S enuine and save money and misery.
KIDNEY PILLS, and will give you what you call
Price, 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes, 15s. 3d.), or will be
be sure you
G-lEST-
DOAN’S.


“Le Chasse” writes: The ancient ass who “ cut
off his nose to spite his face ” has a fine modern repre-
sentative in the Australian P.M.G., who shuts down on
Tattersall’s sweeps “in the interests of moiality.
Maoriland, 1901, the number of money orders issued
j in connection with Tatts. sweeps was 6 P
sentin*' a value of £62,184. Then came the postal ukase,
and next year the number dropped to 14,589, valued at
£15,628. But that loss fell on the Postal Department,
not on Tatt’s. at all, for agencies sprang up all over the
! country, and hundreds of customers sent along their
coin per medium of bank draft. The sweeps fill up as
quickly and as largely as ever, while the State Treasurer
sees a 'rapidly growing deficiency, and no other means of
raising funds except by tying up another swa B o
securities and asking Cohen and Co.* London, how
much they will advance on that ? *
“ Leash 55 1 Cannot see that Is,S."W\ Coursing
Association has anything “ go-ahead ” about it it is very
much the other way. Movement to discountenance
“shouting” originated with up-to-date Kensington Club,
as did only step (weighing of dogs) to defeat practices or
the crooked element now making itself so strongly
evident at different meetings. National Coursing Asso-
ciation has talked of “ regulating stimulants administered
to dogs” since its inception, but has only just
appointed a committee to make suggestions m the con-
nection. Meanwhile, dogs are “fired” and hocussea
under the very noses of officials only too ready to accept
any “ explanation.” Result, the game is drifting back to
the stage reached in Victoria and most other places where
the powers that be are similarly weak.
* * * *
What the tote is to M.L. trotting clubs, balance-
sheets (recently issued) of the three Christchurch bodies
abundantly demonstrate. Gross profits of - machine were
£9lo6—oniy £23 short of money given away.
* * *
Progeny of Musket horse Wonderland are doing
well in M.L. Recent winner (Jack O’Lanfe’rn) of Hawke’s
Bav and Napier Park ’Chases is one of his get. Wonder-
land is the survivor of twins thrown by imported Fairy-
land 19 years ago.
* * * *
.At time last mail left ’Orae, Rocksand had won
£11,250 this season and placed his sire Sainfoin easily top
of the list, hut Ard Patrick's recent couple of big-
successes must have made a difference in favor of St.
Florian.
Apropos the attitude of the M.L. Rugby Union
with respect to the English by-law which provides that
the referee alone has power to report a player who starts
out to slay an opponent. The Otago Union disqualified
a player for rough play on the report of some unauthor-
ised person. The player appealed, and the M.L. Union
ordered the Otago Union to remove the disqualification,
and intimated that if the Otago Union did not do it, and
do it quick, no Otago players would be included in the
team to visit Australia. The Otago Union removed the
disqualification accordingly. So far there is no mention
of the M.L. Union taking steps to get the English rule
amended. The anxiety of Otago to be represented as
much as possible in the M.L. team was shown by an extra-
ordinary incident One of the players selected to go
to Australia, struck another player on the last playing
day prior to his leaving to join the team. The referee
ordered him off the field, and reported him to the Otago
Union. The team in which the man was playing at once
left the field, and then Dunedin called on the Otago
Union in a body, and hinted that it would be lynched
if it disqualified him, and the agitated Union dis-
missed the charge, and looked severely at the re-
feree. He is an old representative player, and in his
various tours with Otago teams, has been thrice ordered
off the field for striking an opponent, and was suspended
for eighteen months on one of these occasions.
Association football is going ahead in Maori-
land. In Christchurch there has just been formed a
branch of the M.L. Association, so that all the cities are
equipped now. There is a feeling in Christchurch that
the time has come for something with less blood and
fractures.
* * * »
English papers are encouraging lively cricket
by printing side by side with each score the number of
minutes spent in making it. Lately, Jessop, Ranji,
Thomas (Gloucester), and Fane (Essex) hare shown up
best in this com Dari son.
* ' * * if*
“Ku-Klux”: Between South Yarra and Rich-
mond, close to the railway-line, is a small pocket-hand-
kerchief enclosure once known, I believe, as a pony race-
course. An old campaigner tells me this concerning it:
“ You talk about the crookedness of the ponies now, but
the game is nothing to what it was when the South Yarra
ponies ran on that course. I remember once the favorite
fell down, and the rest waited for him, and after the jock
had remounted he won. Another time the wrong horse
won, so the stewards declared it no race and it was run
over again, and again the favorite was beaten. So they
simply disqualified the first horse for interference—he
had Jed ah the way—and the favorite got the race. I
remember on one occasion a horse was finishing badly
and it looked as if the second one would overhaul him, so
his backers pulled up the winning-post bodily and ran to
meet him. He passed it first. You can call me a liar if
you like, but he got the race.”
* * * •
Last year, when a rumpus was made by the
goody goody members of the M.L. House of Reps, about
the racing conference meeting in the building, the
House gently smoothed their ruffled hair by forbidding
the practice. T’other day, however, the conference sar.
there as usual, and when an agitated Rep. asked the why
and wherefore in a very angry tone of voice he was told
that the turfy people weren’t intruding oft their dom'd"
but on that of the Legislative Council, whose Speaker had
granted them permission ; whereupon the pious section
of the House sat back and sighed wearily.
* * * *
What’s left of “Plugger’ 1 Bilmartin intends
leaving M.L. for Sydney shortly to train for the coming
season. Bill played his best trumps in the cycling game
long ago, and would at best now only figure as a track
curio in first-class company.
* * * *
Disqualification “during pleasure” may mean
very little or a big load in a waggon. Auckland (M.L )
R.O. committee decid d, before closing the season, to
state what it meant by the term when it passed
certain mokes and individuals out. Two owners, who
labored under the fond delusion that they were only
under a cloud temporarily, were passed out for life, and
in the remaining cases the penalty ranged frdm two years
to 12 months, to date from day of original disqualifica-
tion.
Martin’s Apiol and steel pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia. Not genuine
without the signature. Be sure you get Martin’s.
Sole proprietor, W. Martin, pharmaceutical
chemist, Southampton, England.*
AUSTRALIA'S-—*
SWEET SINSER.
Victor J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk,”
handsomely hound, makes a fine presentation
volume to friends abroad. Post free from Bul-
letin office, ss. 4d.
Works by Francis Adams:
(Publishers’ Remainders, offered as Second-Hand.)
Poetical Works, complete edition, printed
in Brisbane by Muir & Morcom. Paper
covers; 4to. Only a few copies remain.
Price, ss. ; postage, 4d.
Australian Essays, printed in Melbourne
by Wm. Inglis & Co. Paper covers, Bvo.
Only a few copies remain. Price, 2s. fid. ;
postage, 3d.
Songs op the Army of the Night, printed
in Sydney. Boards, Bvo. Only a few copies
remain. Price, 2s. 6d.; postage, 3d.
THE BULLETIN BOOKS.
Sole Distributing Agents :
Edwards, Dunlop <& Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
Special Wholesale Agents :
New South Wal« .. Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd.
Queensland .. .. Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd
Victoria .. .. .. George Robertson Proprietary.
Tasmania .. .. .. George Robertson Proprietary.
South Australia .. E. S. W igg & Son.
Westralia .. .. E. S. Wigo & Son.
Auckland and district Wildman, Ltell, & Arey.
Others to be appointed.
Sold bt All Leading Booksellers.
The Bulletin Newspaper Go., Ltd.,
SLA George-st., Sydney, Australia.
Real
Aust-
ralian
Bush
Yarn.
Get
it!
Such is Life, the new Australian book just published by The
Bulletin, is handsomely bound in cloth ; 300 pages, price
4s. 6 d. Originality is a characteristic of Such is Life ; and this
is attained, to begin with, in the simplicity of the scheme.
SUCH
Tom Collins can condense when he chooses—but that is not
always. However, as his antithesis to brevity is discursiveness,
rather than prolixity, he never drags. There is interest, if not
relevancy, in every sentence. The style is attractive—lucid,
IS
vigorous, half-scholarly, half-slangy, and occasionally graceful;
carrying the frank personality of the writer through every
paragraph.
Apart from the historical value of the book, as seizing and
LIFE!
fixing pictures of Riverina life necessarily transitory, the
portraiture deserves notice. Here the author is unconsciously
at home. Rarely is a character revealed by verbal description;
-each speaks for himself, and a clean-cut individuality, consistent
by
in its human inconsistency, is thrown on the page. Isocratic
rather than democratic in tone, these sketches present each
individual—squatter or sundowner —as a document of special
interest, yet bearing the common seal. Hence the silhouette
TOM
of any passer-by shows sharp and distinct as the finished por-
trait of a familiar.
Beyond all other Australian writers, Tom Collins is a roaster
of idiom. There is no confusion of patois, nor exaggeration of
COLLINS
grammatical solecism, in his dialogue. As in actual life, the
education of each speaker is denoted by his phraseology ; the
dialect of each European bespeaks his native locality ; and,
above all, the language of the most unbookish bushman never
degenerates into “coster.”
Pu blished by The 3u iatin. Price, 4s, 6d.
A SINGLE BOX OF
BeECHAM’S pills
AN cure and chase away more Ills
than you’re aware of.
To Remember to keep a box by you, and
To Remember to take a dose of the Pills
at the proper time Is the
m
TO
A B O OF HEALTH
——IUM», lIIWIWTMM—IB^
They Ensuke
A CLEAR HEAD,
PURE BLOOD,
A HEALTHY LIVER,
A SOUND STOfIACH,
I- V v -3
THEY 1
And th
KREFORB AS A
Natural Consequence
PREVENT AND CURE
NERVOUSNESS
INDIGESTION
BILIOUSNESS
CONSTIPATION
SIGK-I
ANEMIA
FLATULENCY
DEPRESSION
BACK-ACHE
GRAVEL
SKIN ERUPTIONS
INSOMNIA
tub GREATEST TREASURE in the BEDROOM is a box of
BEECHAM’S
PILLS.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
Comer George & Markat its., SYDNEY
The Best Luncheon in Town from ONE SHILLING, served from 12 sharp till 2.30;
Dinner from 5.30 to 7.30, same price.
The Most Convenient Place for Ladies and Gentlemen visiting the Theatres to dine at.
N.B. —Visitors oi)ly pay f»r wfeat tfecy actually feayc.
TERMS. —The Convenient and Modern System of" paying for a
room on arrival, and Meais as they are had.
Apartments: BEDROOM, Single, 3s. per day ; Double, 6s. per day.
ENGAGE ROOMS AT ROBERTS’ H©T€L, SyDN€y.
NOTE.—Send to ROBERTS’ WINE and SPIRIT STORE, MARKET ST., next GEORGE ST.,
tor REVISED PR’CE LIST. COUNTRY ORDERS PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO.
I
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the East
THE BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
lDR'aMA RiTI NJ
2YLD., C.M., L.R.C.P.E., L.8.C.5.E.,
L.E.P.S.G., L.M., etc.,
Registered by the Medical Boards of Great
Britain, Victoria, New South Wales,
The Eminent Specialist, whose unparalleled success in the Treatment of Blood and Nerve
Diseases has eained for him a rep Ration unequalled by any Other Specialist in Australia, may be consulted
daily, personally or by letter, at "E-MLEY HOUSE,” 151 El izataeth-st., Sydney. Old and Obsolete
Methods discarded. DR. MARTI M’S latest treatment has proved absolutely effective in all cases of Blood
Disease, Kerve Affections, Faralysis, Loss of Energy, Lung, Heart, Skin, and all
Chronic Diseases of Men and Women. His Consulting Rooms are replete with all the
latest and most scientific improvements in Electric Appliances, etc. Country Patients
treated by Correspondence their own homes. Advice and Medicine, One
Pound. All Sufferers should write for a copy of Dr. Martin’s Latest Medical Work,
“THE ‘ KNOX-MERCER’ TREATMENT IN DISEASE.” This work should find a place in every
household, as it contains a full and explicit account of the Most Wonderful Treatment of the Present
Age. It has been the means of Curing Thousands who folowed out the instructions contained
therein This Marvellous Treatment Cleanses and Rejuvenates the Whole System, and is the Cheapest
Treatment in Existence, as nothing but the Book is required.
Cheap Edition, Is. ; by post, Is. Gd.
“Press Extracts” posted free throughout Australia.
CONSULTING HOURS: 10 to 2 and 7 to 9 Daily.
"ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.


WATERPROOF COATS 17/6 to 50/-.
rubber boots 18/6 to 20/-.
Carriage Free
to any part of
N.S.W. if this
advertisement
s cut out and
sent with re-
mittance.
Made to wear—to
give satisfaction—to
look well to the end
of their f long service.
See our Stock.
PERDRIAU & CO.,
RUBBER MER. HANTS
-
; Only One A
270 QI
CURIOUS
BOOKS
PHOTOS.
The Best Address for
English, French,
German
Books and Photos.
Apply—
-116 BOX, PARIS.
2/- for Oatal. and Miniat.
r /A
WE SHIP ON APPROVAL
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles. Fully warranted.
10 t0£5.5.0
Dunlop Tyres, Steel or Wood Rims,
Free Wheels, Mud Guards and Brakes.
CARRIAGE PAID
To any-Port in Australasia.
TYRES, ACCESSORIES,
Sporting Goods and Sewing
Machines Half Usual Prices.
Write for Catalogue and Special Offer
Using 2jd. Stamp. Address Dept 346 D
Mead Cycle Co.
Ch j?£r
SIMPSON BROTHERS
32 & 34 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK.
Sole Australasian Representatives for
Boiler Feed
m~ SEND FOR CATALOGUES.
James Simpson 8t Co., Ltd , London and Newark.
Worthington Pump Company, Limited,
Warren Webster & Co. New jersey
Enquiries Invited for .......
Worthington Pumps
Webster Feed Water Heaters & Purifiers
Cincinnati Air Compressors
TA.MGYE3
- Stationary and Portable,
For SKearing, Wood & ChafF-Cutting,
Pumping, Electric Lighting, &c.''
Sole Representatives in Australia :
BENNIE, TEARE & CO.,
Mining & Engineering Furnishers,
Sydney, Melbourne, Perth, Coolgardie.
IRRIGATING PLANTS a Speciality.
■
CM
;
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE,
’s £ General Machinery Merchants.
Sole Agents in Australia for — Blake’s Steam Pumps, Dempster Moore & Co., Ltd., Engineers’ Machine
Tools, “Atlas Works” Engines and Boilers, Fay-Egans’ Woodworking Machinery, Empire Co.’S Eaundry Machinery.
n
F
mUi
k&hi
■y:-.
m
: ■
> X':
' . rijy y- n
•- ... • -
&
II
m
•:w
Sf
®BSBuSB*
■~3g
60 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
ALL KINDS OF
ENGINES & BOILERS
j^xriVEFs,
MINING MACHINERY
And APPLIANCES,
ENGINEERS’ TOOLS & FITTINGS,
WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY,
ETC., BTC.
1’
KEVIN“ Jilly}! .
[’.ﬁf-‘ﬁ‘r’armm
'Vt-iiﬁkéﬁ'ﬂ‘ $3.1m .
4:7?“ t/"jﬁ! my
45:: ,
T. M. GOODALL & CO., hay st., syphey
have ,N stock to arrive— portable. Traction, Vertical &Ho MzVntaUß oi ler s ,
Engineers and Mining Tools, Saw Mill Machinery, Pulleys, Belting, Etc.
Irrigation and Pumping Plants a Specialty. New and Second-Hand Machinery always available.
. "‘1'!
9 '..; 29%;
rfEB
fini
Size, SJ" x 3}" x 5".
HP We are Direct Importers
and have for, safe—
Snow. Duplex Pumps
(all sizes for all purposes),
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling
and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shaft =
mg, Hangers, Bearings, Collars, etc.
Engineers’ Tools and Fittings, Valves,
Cocks, Gauges, etc. Cast, Toot and
Mining Steel, Wire Ropes and all Requi*
sites for Contractors, Engineers, Saw
Mills and Mining Proprietors.
R- L. Scry tton & Co. Ltd,
97 Clarence-st., Sydney.
Deane Patent Sinking Pumps
Griton Pumps
Double Standard Gentrifugal Pumps
Carye Donkey Pumps
Pulsometer Pumps, with patent Grel, which
effect large saving in steam.
Manufactured by
PULSOMETER ENGINEERING GO.,
■' READING, ENGLAND.
Agents—
N GUTHRIDGE, LTD.,
71 Clarence Street, Sydney.
STOCKS KEPT,
35 YEARS PROVEN EFFICACY.
Take
\NStED
*6
OIA
IflJ*
CHEMIST?
Jg^OF&U.
TNioucNour Great Britain & me Colonies
'IIKUR CaTHARUCUM Plus Mh'^ww
■“: EOACULINE •
TRftNSPARtNT Cl MI NT fORBROKEN ASTICItS
V
