

ALE.
' >
mn
CHAMPAGNE,
The Bulletin
Yol 24.—N0. 1221.]
Kegisterel at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper-
[Thursday, July 9, 1903.
Mining
107 Kent Street, Sydney.
—FOR—
Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery,
and Contractors’ Plant,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY
Mining
Requisites
NEW AND SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
Send for
Prices and
Particulars.
Descriptive
Catalogues
on
Application.
Wost
Up-to-Date
Machines.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
WONDERFUL VALUE—A packet of Seven different
articles, comprising Yankee Rubber Baby, can be carried
in vest pocket and blown out to life size (causes roars of
laughter), Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
Coin and Card Tricks), the Wizard Fish (gives the defini-
tion of your character —very superior for parlor enter-
tainments), the Vest Pocket Tubular Microscope (very
useful for examining small objects), the Cinematograph
(or book of moving pictures), the great Yankee Bicycle
Puzzle (Very ingenious), ajid, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North's Disappearing Coin Trick (instruc-
tions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australia (Free) on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
XNEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
710 George-st., Sydney.
m
Sawing & Woodworking Machinery,
Vertical & Horizontal Band Mills,
uni n THE WORLD’S RECORD
“G Pr i3t ” Paris, 1900.
IS
& CO, N Pitt Strept, SYBHiV
“HERVEY’S RACKAROCK
99
17 Years’ Unbroken Record as a Standard Australian Exposive. Cor. CLARENCE & KING STS., SYDNEY
Estbd. 1831.
HOBART.
.
jadley’s Orient Jotel.
BY POST, A MEDICAL
TREATISE by that justly-
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN,- SPECIALIST,
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how-they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address —
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.
STDUEY.
Os
V
■hnJL/d
£<2stillsv J^PUi~
Writes Dr. Andrew Wilson, F.R.C.S.E., author of “Health Notes,” London.
»
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTI
IMG
every belt guaranteed.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
XTSB.
SPOONER’S
m
my
1
l SPOONER’S
* vV ?® *
,v •<**• *'»»'••■
Jtttftf LEATHER 800 Ti
[ . ’cu^osm.
■
Sot 1
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERBAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning: and Polishing
Boots aiid Shoes.
(In bottles) Bd. and la
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
> SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
d Dredging Plants. i
Fowler Traction Engines.
the Clyde Engineering
r^roa
Desiccating Plants.
Hopper Waggons, &o.
PROOF
£A/EY-^
USE
V *lO BLICH ST.
Office:
10 BLICH ST., SYDNEY
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £o ; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7 ;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia. £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and.everv description of vehicles in Stock and made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not' be
misled by any firms ivhc say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
"•ent. more for your requirements.
ery Manuf. Company,
A3NQAS <U43jp.au/
S6I o* £6l
• - ' -.V i 1 •<*■{.-
OUR SPKCIAT, No. *
>'.s.>v. Ksiibrays, Station
£lO 107-
Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300
pages; price, 4s. 6d.; postage, 6d.
Menl Why Remain Bald ?
D2NTWAIT
F2RTHIS
I am never tired of asking
you this question because I
know you needn’t remain bald
any longer. ......
Hair
Tonic
is the remedy, and it’s a
remedy that will produce a
new growth of hair so, lpng
as there is the slightest down
on the head.
AH Chemists - = is. 6d. per bottle.
W. OLIVER RICHARDS, Sole Proprietor, and
Inventor, City Bank Chambers, 164 Pitt-street
Sydney, N.S.W.


THE RED PAGE.
"SONGS” 111-SUNG.
In Songs Unsung, by Johannes Carl Andersen
(Christchurch: Whitcornbe and Tombs) there is a portrait
of the author, with his proper Smirk. There is a preface for
the author, by J. Macmillan Brown, an astounding per-
sonage who declares that “on almost every page that I
read, I recognised the fine music by nature wedded to
beauty of emotion or thought that marks the
work of a real poet.” “It is a somewhat ambitious
project to answer and revise the philosophy of
Wordsworth in a direct echo of his famous Ode
on ‘ Intimations of Immortality . It is. But, adds
the fatuous Brown, “ it seems to justify itself ; for the
thought is as philosophical as the model, without loss of
clearness, and the language is as limpid and musical,
while there is nothing of slavishness in the echo.” Then
you turn to page 82, and find these flat and curious
lines—
From darkness, thro’ a rosy atmosphere,
The little child floats to a Heaven here.
None other has he known ;
From no unsorrowful fair sky hasflovm :
Ere that areal hour was set
Wherein he should find f reedom from the prison
Of his Earth-mother, Love’s bright sun had risen
His Heaven to beget.
A chrysalis he lay, inert and numb,
Nor dreamt of joys and sorrows yet to come . ..
The remainder desert is rather more arid than this
patch. Further “direct echoes" come from Church,
A. H. Adams, Daley, Hebblethwaite, Kenna, S. Phillips,
J. Ingelow, Tennyson, and others. Here is Jean Ingelow,
for example, in the manner that Calverley parodied
(p. 79)-
Now is the hour of the morning’s prime,
Earth lies laughing and Heaven bends over;
Bees are a-hum in the fields of thyme,
Bees are a-drone in the fields of clover..
Silver hazes and cloud-wefts sever, —
And such morns break forever !
Echo has caught even the “forever”—good, faithful
Echo !
Thus Johannes Carl Andersen trickles on. From one
author he takes an idea, from another a trick of
metre, from another the turn of a phrase : his book
is a purgatory of dismal devices. He attempts “fixed
forms,” and breaks the rules he has not skill to keep.
Where he is original, you see him strutting on a school-
boy’s stilts to gather commonplaces. Perhaps half-a-
dozen times in 160 pages is there a gleam of verse that
possibly deserved newspaper publication—
There 's the moon rising
Up from the sea ;
Shadows disguising
River and lea
Hasten and flee:
0, there’s a paven
Ripple-traced road
Straight to the haven
Of Quiet’s abode . . .
Just once is there the light of Poetry—whence
shining ?
Two such there might not be:
Spring laughs on hill and lea,
My love has gone from me . . .
Quite likely, if Johannes Cari Andersen had had the
sense to wait ten years, he might have afccumulated
a volume of respectable minor verse. Conceit and
J. Macmillan Brown have undone him. His Songs are
distinctly Unsuruj. The preliminary Smirk casts a
baleful shadow over the whole' of his premature volume ;
and one closes it in remembering an American definition
of the Mugwump as “a person educated beyond his
intellect.”
♦
THE NEW NATION
The New Nation, by Percy F. Rowland—" a
sketch of the social, political, and economic conditions
and prospects of the Australian Commonwealth ” —is an
interesting book of no importance. The writer is a
.voting Englishman who spent seven years (1895-1902) in
the cities of E. Austra»ia and in Maori land. He was a
teacher in se'eral schools, and an occasional con-
tnbutor to newspapers. Of his impressions and
magazine articles he has made a book—badl.y, from
the technical point of view. Part was written in
1901, part in 1902, and there are postscripts of 1903. The
result is a discreditable patchwork. On many pages are
“notes” which should have been woven into the text:
there are notes even to the preface. When the author
found a publisher, he should have re-written the whole
book : a delay of a couple of months in publication would
have mattered little.
Rowland’s literacy quality is the quality of a light
essayist, and when he deals with social and constitutional
questions he merely skims the surface of his subject.
He probes Australia a little more deeply than “Max
O’Rell,” but he is not to be mentioned in comparison
with a student like W. P. Reeves. He has done his best
to be comprehensive and efficient; but his knowledge is
too slight, his mental calibre too small. He is not
thorough, and cannot be taken seriously. A book of
impressions, diverting and impermanent.
Yet the foreigner' who reads The New Nation may
obtain a fairly correct picture of Australia. The author
blunders frequently ; but his shallow sketch is not on the
whole unjust. He is sincere and open-minded ; he has
taken pains with his authorities ; and his large debts are
liberally acknowledged. Usually he writes agreeably,
and often well. If one does not stress words and
details, and regards the book as one would regard a
magazine article, it is possible to'say that in The New
Nation an Englishman will get a general notion of cur-
rent Australian life pleasantly enough, and possibly a
better notion than can be acquired from any other single
volume. An authoritative book on the plan of Rowland’s
is much to be desired.
Rowland opens with a sketch of early Austra-
lian history. Follow chapters on climate, scenery, poli-
tics, and culture. Much of the political commentary
needs revision—inevitably, perhaps, in view of frequent
legislative change. Though he warns us against
the common error of criticising the part for the
whole, Rowland nevertheless commits that error.
He is apt to quote authorities without refer-
ence to the time at which they wrote: Francis
Adams’s comments in 1892, for example, cannot always
be applied to the conditions of to day. Many generalisa-
tions, such as—“ The average lower middle-class English-
man has bad pictures on his walls ; the average lower
middle-class Australian has none strike one as
unsound. A general looseness, unsureness, characterises
the treatment of details.
The chapters on art, music, the drama, and literature
are not full or precise enough to be authoritative, and
faults abound: still, they will give foreigners a rough
idea of the facts, and Australians will find them interest-
ing and occasionally suggestive. It would have amused
Marcus Clarke to find his jesting prognostication of the
future Australian race taken seriously. “The case for
Separation ’’and “ The case for Imperialism ” are put with
some vigour, and without prejudice. “The Economic
Outlook,” “Education,” and “Australian National
Character” are other chapter-headings: the contents
are ordinary.
It is unnecessary to stress numerous small blunders of
phrase or style, fact or opinion, since the author doek not
possess the knowledge and capacity to deal adequately
with his subject. As a temporary and superficial survey,
the book is readable, unusually fair, and not in the main
misleading.
is “ Tom Oollins’s.” A substantial volume of some 300
pages, it is not to be picked up lightly, nor lightly flung
aside. There are many city-dwellers whom it will not
please. On the other hand, lam far mistaken if the Bush
does not account it classic.
On the Heels of De Wet and Words by cm Eye-
Witness (Blackwood ; 6d. each) are two of the best books
the African war has produced. The latter is the more
literary ; the former perhaps the more readable. In A
Bury her -Quixote (Blackwood ; 2s. 6cZ.) Douglas Blackburn
writes a story that exhibits the Boer character with rare
fidelity, as one may judge ; though his picture seems
partial. The high courage, the devoted patriotism of
many a Boer should be stressed no less than the cunning
or st midity of others. Blackburn’s satire is fine, and on
the whole unjust.
The files of The Empire and The Australasian
hold many early poems by Henry Kendall that are not
reprinted in the current edition of his works, and are
unknown to most of Kendall’s admirers. Some of these,
though imitative and immature, have both poetical
quality and the personal interest attaching to everything
that came from Kendal L’s pen. An example heads this
page. (Note stanza 10 : did Kendall’s quick eye pick
up Longfellow’s “ ships that pass in the night” long before
Beatrice Harraden made them notorious ?—Many people
have been hunting vainly through “The Theologian’s
Second Tale” for these same ships. “Elizabeth, PartlV,”
is omitted from several common editions of Longfellow.) I
The specimen volumes of the Yankee dictionary
now being dumped heavily upon this long-suffering
land show that it is unquestionably a fine work —for
Yankeelanders. In the atlas-volume, every State and
Territory of the U.S.A. gets a map to itself. Aus-
tralia also gets a map to itself—one whole map !
for a country about as big as all the U.S.A. put
together. The gall of the book-agent who can come
here and sell us fifty maps of his country bound
up with one of ours is as interesting as the
innocence of his patrons. At the instalment rate of 16s.
per month for a year and eight months, plus 10s. deposit,
the price of the cheapest edition of the dictionary, etc.,
is £l6 10s., or thirty-three shillings per volume for the
ten volumes I If this is the “'great reduction ” and un-
paralleled opportunity ” price, what in N’York was the
original price? 1 see the name of “ Sladen, Prof. Douglas,
author of Australian Lyrics,” in the list of “ editors of
departments and important contributors.” Is Sladen
“ Professor ” on the strength of a few lectures delivered at
Sydney University some fifteen years ago? Anyway, his
services would account for the blunders and the obsolete
quotations which mark The Century Dictionary’s treat-
ment of Australian words. Let us writhe.
The N.S.W. Public Library report, for 1902- has
just appeared: why should this lie delayed, for five
months ? Note that the attendance at the more im-
portant reference branch (178,961) decreased by 20,1161,
although swollen as far as possible by the inclusion of
readers of magazines. If Parliament has n’t pub'ic spirit
enough to provide a new building, the trustees should
try and wring a grant of .£''2ooo to remodel the old one.
A little expenditure of brains and cash in altering the
shelving and improving the ventilation would work
wonders. As compared with the Melb. public library
that of Sydney is inaccessible and odious—as well as
odorous. I go there with reluctance, and leave with
alacrity. Seeing that space is so scanty, the magazines
should be transferred to the newspaper-room at the
lending branch, to give students a chance.
There was a school-teachers’ conference at
Sydney last week, and Inspector Bridges made a sump-
tuary speech. He complained of female teachers who
wore (1) a green skirt with a scarlet bodice ; (2) barbaric
jewelry ; (3) a three-decker bat. He -was shocked at
male teachers who (1) shaved only on Sundays ; (2)
walked down the street with a pipe in the mouth.
“That’’--referring to the pipe—“ was not a proceed-
ing which would tend to raise the dignity of. the
teaching profession.” Nor to lower it; you can’t
formulate a rule. Having regard to the teacher’s
exemplary character, one cannot quarrel with Bridges;
yet the pipe and the bristles might be forgiven to
a good teacher. Highly-starched “dignity” is a poor
exchange for essential humanity, if we have to choose.
N.S.W. Education Dept, took last year £ Bl,OOO in primary
school fees-that-should-be-abolished; the E. report is
three or four months late. Nothing heard of increasing
teachers’ salaries ; the root of the matter. “ Systems ”
and “ reports ” will avail nothing till teachers ,are better
paid. i
Paris papers have been very gay about King
Edward’s visit; but one dare n’t translate them. A few
of the illustrateds got themselves suppressed in a spasm
of police zeal : they were really harmless enough.
Edward is a great favourite in Paris; and any little
protest was made against the grain, and purely because
he ruled over that big, brutal, gormandising Angle-
terre. When protest had been made for conscience’ sake,
the papers called him Henri Quatre—which is a great
compliment from a Frenchman. The pictures dealt with
his genial attributes. There was one picturing King
Ned in pyjamas, addressing his waiting-lord : “Nothing
official on the programme this evening, Tom : just
drop a dose of in my coffee 1 ” And when he went
away he was shown leaning out of the carriage-window
in a" regretful good-bye: “Ah! if I were only King of
France ! ”
One pretty little yarn described all the... ladies of
Paris discussing things. The question was: Who had
seen most of the king? Naturally, many celebrated
names were canvassed. First, there was Liane de Pougy.
But the king had merely sent this charming person an
invitation to his festival at Longchamps. Then... la
belle Otero. But she said it was nonsense ... “I saw him
long ago.” Manon Loti? But Marion is a republican : she
would not even let her photograph appear among those
which a high functionary had the delicacy to place-before
his royal highness. Emilienne Aleneon ran off the course,
and Jane Thylda
paid forfeit at the
last moment.
The sisters Car-
ette are much too
serious for a
Henri Quatre.
Ninette des Meslays
explained that she had been
away from Paris. Marthede
Kerrieux swore by her lovely
eyes that she was far too
good a Frenchwoman to
take part in such an un-
worthy corned}'. Marguer-
ite Taylor simply loathes
the English. Then ... who ?
None of them. But on
the night of the great
reception at the Embassy,
a close carriage... with
the prefect of police on
one seat... went as fast
as a pair of superb black
horses could draw it to
the address of a charm-
ing actress. Her name
shall not be divulged.
“Nous avonsparfoisdes
discretions exquises.
N’est-ce-pas, mesdames?”
A.G.B.
VUI BONOI
yg CLAMOUR by day and a whisper by night,
/m And the Summer comes, with the shining
/ M noons :
/ m With the ripple of leaves, and the passionate
light
Of the falling suns And the rising ‘moons.
And the ripple of leaves and the purple and red
Die for the grapes and the gleam of the Wheat;
And then you may pause with the splendours, or tread
On the yellow of Autumn with lingering feet.
You may halt with the face to a flying sea,
Or stand like a gloom in the gloom of things.
When the moon drops down and the desolate lea
Is troubled with thunder and desolate wings.
Rut alas for the grey of the wintering eves,
And the pondering storms and. the ruin of rains ;
And alas for the Spring like a flame in the leaves,
And the green of the rvoods and the gold of the lanes l
For, seeing all pathos is mixed with our past,
And knowing all sadness of storm a nd of surge
Is salt with our tears for the faith that was cast
Away like a weed o'er a bottomless verge,
I am lost for these tokens, and wearied of ways
Wedded with ways that are waning amain,
Like those that are filled with the trouble that slays ;
Having drunk of their life to the lees that are pain.
And yet I would write to you ! 1 who have turned
Away with a bitter disguise in the eyes,
And bitten the lips that have trembled and burned
Alone for you, darling, and breaking with sighs.
Because I have touched with my fingers a dress
That was Beauty’s; because that, the breath of thy mouth
Is sweetness that lingers ; because of each tress
Showered down on thy shoulders ; because of the drouth
That came of thy absence ; because of the lights
In the Passion that grew to a level With thee ;
Is it well that our lives have been filled 'with the nights
And the days which have made it a sorroio to he ?
Yea, thus I doing tasted all love with thy lips,
And having the warmth of thy hand in mine own,
Is it well that toe wander, like parallel ships,
With the silence betiveen us, aloof and alone l
With my face to the 'wall shall 1 sleep and forget
The shadoio, the sweet sense of slumber denies,
If even I marvel, at kindness, and fret,
And start while the tears are all ivet in mine eyes ?
Oh, darling of mine, standing herewith the Past,
Trampled under our feet in the bitterest ways,
Is this speech like a ghost that it keeps us aghast
On the track of the thorns and in alien days ?
When I know of you, love, how you break with our pain,
And sob for the sorrow of sorrowful dreams,
Like a stranger who stands in the wind and the rain
And watches and wails by impassable streams:
Like a stranger who droops on a brink and deplores,
With famishing hands and frost in the feet,
For the laughter alive on the opposite shores
With the fervour of fire and the wind of the wheat.
llbnry Kendall, in The Australasian, Oct. 13,1866.
THE WEST WIND
With ita green and branching gums and perfect
names the very cover of this booklet gives promise
of literary enjoyment. “Hubert Ohurch” itself sug-
gests the colour of the woods and the severely
graceful lines of some cloistral place ; while the title is
burdened with recollection of “the mighty harmonies”
and “ deep autumnal tone ”of Shelley’s Ode. From the
beauty without what may we hope of the song within ?
For it is song. The book is full of a gentle music : now
in the making ; now moving in melody. It is like that
of Prospero’s island:
Sounds, and sweet airs, that give delight and hurt not.
Shelley, Keats and Tennyson are the author’s poetic
forefathers, and he has not quite escaped the danger of
such an ancestry. He has lines which are merely a charm
of words. Nor are hi 4 epithets in all cases inevitable.
But now to the fine pleasure of praise...
Jt
It was a happy instinct that placed “If one rose
should creep ” in front of all the rest to tune the soul of
the reader to select music. The song is brief—rightly so—
and is the very poetry of regret. The rose bends over
the deep churchyard grass ; the angels move lightly ; and
the lover is yearning for the secret sweetness of the dear
dead woman asleep in the kindly earth.
But my heart shall wind
About thee in this secret place,
And gather all thy sweetness, Grace,
Into the chambers of the mind.
To be alone with the loved one, even in death, is sweet;
but to lie hidden in the living heart of love is almost
poignancy itself. In “Bearer to me'one heart,” the
poet’s lines have a kind of reserved music and light
like that which flows from the inmost shrine of old
enchantments.
Dearer to me one heart,
Where I would love to dwell,
Woven with magic spell
Into its inner part,
Sunk in its secresy
Like a star in the sea.
There is a parting without return; an absence that
makes bitter-sweet each true-love kiss ; and so it comes
that songs of farewell are eloquent to all.
But the flower of my soul’s content
Not the cloud , nor the sea.
With all their loveliness blent,
Can restore unto me ;
For the flower of my soul with its scent
Is with thee—with thee !
This is the very rapture of the melancholy of eternal
absence. It ith the loss of the loved one a light goes out
of the world and Nature loses part of iier power of con-
solation.
In the title of one piece, “ A Swallow in Maori-
land,” Mr. Church has a poem in brief. The pathos of
the memory of the old land is invisibly shed from the
swallow’s wings on to the green glooms of the new home.
And what a beautiful word is “ Maoriland ” 1 Listen 1
“ A Swallow in New Zealand.” The poetry is gone.
The new life of Spring has been ever a favourite theme
for poets. With the returning sun and the white and
blue skies the blood leaps and song flows. Mr. Ohurcb
has the early note—the note of NaSh—in “ Rosalind has
come to town!”: but why not “beechen brown”? In
Spring in Maoriland” he takes the heart with the first
lines and makes one wonder what it is that charges a
group of words —in themselves commonplace—with
instant poetry.
Thou wilt come with suddenness ,
Like a gull between the waves,
Or a snowdrop that doth press
Through the white shroud on the graves ;
Like a love too long withheld ,
That at last has over-welled.
The true light of morning in the woods gleams In the
song to Saint Hubert. The horn salutes the long rays of
the rising sun ; the trees shiver in the fresh breezes; and
the white vapour rises from the streams into the thin,
pure air.
I cannot close without mentioning Mr. Church’s tender
love for children. He notes with reverent care the
shadow of the mother’s lips on the little hand, the babble
from sleep’s fairyland, and the sorrow of early death.
Like voices when angels meet
Over children's graves.
je
What is patriotism? Without attempting a
definition, I may surely say that it includes a love for all
that makes for the highest welfare of our native land.
And poetry, the supreme power of every expression of
life, is her utmost triumph, beyond riches, or indeed any
material happiness, and the fame of arms. To that sym-
bolism of the soul specially known as poetry, men have
ever, in the end, yielded libation, festival, and honour.
Kings have owed their legends to the Muse, their gar-
lands, their names upon Time’s shield ; and deep in the
peoples’ hearts her sacred fires have burned in the cause
of liberty. So I can imagine »a patriot exclaiming: “I
feel the sweet influences of poetry in my soul ; I learn
that poets are counted the glory of their native lands,
that men erect memorials to them of bronze and marble
and make pilgrimages to their shrines ; I read that the
names of the greatest singers are sacred on men’s lips,
hardly to be mentioned without tears; and knowing all
this, I will love my country with a noble love for her
spiritual expression, cherishing even the humblest of her
makers.”
Yes, even to him but faintly inspired, his dued For
this is truth : the great poet is possible only as the head
of a hierarchy of many degrees. Here you have one who
sings in the sweetest manner imaginable of “ the simple
things of life and death ”
Upon the muted strings of Memory's pain.
J.H.
BOOKFELLOW'S MIXTURE
N.S.W. Art Society’s exhibition in September
will be a fortnight later than last year. There are signs
that Australia may have to adopt the Souyi American
proverb, Hasta maflana I —“ Make haste to-morrow!”
Barton and Wise stand as types of Australians, and
both are last-moment men, inclined to miss the brief and
the ’bus. Many Sydney painters, knowing quite well the
date of the exhibition, put off till June the picture that
should have been commenced in January. Then there’s
scurry, and a plea for postponement.
By the way, George Dean comes out of gaol in
eighteen months or so, and there will be a chance for a
great historical picture—the meeting of Dean and
Meagher, with Salomons in the background. The yarn
goes that if Meagher were re-admitted to the legal pro-
fession Salomons would leave it; but if Dean became a
member of Parliament surely Meagher would not resign ?
A seat ought really to be found for George. N.S.W.
Assembly is “ doing splendidly ” just now, and the elec-
tion of Dean would make it theoretically perfect.
N.S.W. Art Gallery was closed on the 20th ult.
“ out of respect jto the memory ” of the late Dr. Manning,
who was a trustee. What a reversal of common sense !
The Art Gallery exists as a source of public refinement,
and a reduction of its beneficent opportunities is the-last
thing Dr. Manning would have wished. An intelligent
board of trustees, desiring to show respect to one of
their number, would rather have opened the Gallery for
a day additional.
“Manners malcyth Manning” —the courteous
old gentleman might have taken for his motto. His
suavity was perfect : even his lunatics were sane enough
to love him. He told me onbe, between cigars, that
experience and experiment had convinced him that
there was nothing in the theory that the ebbs and crises
of insanity corresponded with the phases of the moon.
“ Certainly,” he said, “ you note excitement among
lunatics when the moon is full. But I attribute
that to the effect of light. The brilliant moon shines in
at the windows and prevents my patients from sleeping.
They are so unstable emotionally that a very small dis-
turbance of their daily rhythm makes them feverish and
boisterous. When X keep them in wards thoroughly
darkened the moon makes no difference.”
“ But lunacy is more marked at periods of high
electrical tension, and there are more epileptic fits when
the atmosphere is charged with electricity. Fora long
time I got Busseli, the Govt. Astronomer, to note days
Of electrical tension and mark the thunderstorms, while
I noted the days of unrest among my lunatic patients.
At the end of the month I would compare the lists: the
agreement was invariable.”
Dr. Manning thought epilepsy was much more
common in Australia than the statistics showed.
“Often, as I walk along the streets, I notice a man or
woman waver and stagger—perhaps touch a wall or rail-
ing for support. Petit mal! The subject may be quite
unconscious of It, or may feel a slight dizziness only ; but
there is the tendency, and in time of stress it comes to
light.”
I asked for a medical opinion on tobacco. “ It’s
good. I did n’t smoke till I was nearly thirty, when I
commenced to work and worry . . . and ever since. Ido
know one man—a brilliant fellow—who has never done
what we expected of him ; and I have sometimes thought
that may be due to his weakness for good cigars. Not
the price, I mean ; but the somnolence, the rosy dreams
that kept him in his easy chair when he should have
been up and doing. But take another cigar ! ”
Such is Life , the book by “ Tom Collins ” which
The Bulletin Newspaper Company will publish on Ist
August, is like no book that has yet been published on
this side of the line. It purports to be a story of bush
experience in the Riverina. dated some ‘2O years ago.
But it is much more than that. The author’s pictures of
people and charaeterare finished to a finger-nail. He adds
a commentary, half humourous, half philosophical, which
represents the essence of his life. The Bulletin used to
say that every man could write one book at least. This
Booit trade Advertisements.
NOW READY.
THE WEST WIND,
By Hubert Church.
No. V of The Bulletin Booklets of Verse.
Price, 2s. 6d.
From all Booksellers, or the Publishers,
The Bulletin Newspaper Company, Limited.
214 George Street, Sydney, Australia.
READY ON Ist AUGUST.
SUCH IS LIFE!
By Tom Collins.
A Story of the Riverina’s Early Days.
Price, 4s. 6d.
Orders now being received for despatch on publication.
The Bulletin Newspaper Company, Limited,
214 George Street, Sydney, Australia.
THE LATEST BOOKS «t_
Geo. Robertson & Go. Prop. Ltd.
McCarthy, British Political Leaders, 9s, postage 9d.
Titus Ulke, Copper Refining, 15s, p. 8d.
‘ Quilp N.,’ The Red West Road & Other Verses, Is 6d, p. 2d.
Metford, Haviland’s Chum, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. fid.
Kelman, Faith of It. L. Stevenson, 7s, postage 6d.
Robert Browning (English Men of Letters), 2s 6d, p. 4d.
Maxwell Gray, Four Leaved Glover, 2s fid & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Gallon (Torn), Lady of the Cameo, 2s 6d & 3s Od, p. 6d.
Send to us for ant/ Hook or Muyazine yon Want.
We are always pleased' 1o answer inquiries.
71 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doors South of King St.) & at Melbourne. Adelaide, Brisbane & London
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes.
For
COUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
and all
AFFECTIONS of the
THROAT and
LUNGS.
(REGISTERED).
V\OV.
to Luy
S.o^
vaH
IN TINS, Is. 6d.
The Great
Antiseptic Remedy
for the Cure of
INFLUENZA and
Prevention of
CONSUMPTION.
Invaluable for Singers
and Public Speakers.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, OR POST FREE FROM THE PROPRIETOR,
Gr. HUDSON, CHEMIST, IPSWICH, Q.
SYDNEY DEPOT : 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE ; and FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO., MELBOURNE, AGENTS.
They ease a Tired Throat* and are helpful in Indigestion and Dyspepsia.


WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, and CO., Limited,
WOOL BROKERS AND PRODUCE SALESMEN
STDNE Y.
FUR SKINS!
Kangaroo, Wallaby, Rabbit, Opossum.
sbisto to———*
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
am , SYDNEY,
THE MOST SUCCESSFUL SALESfIEN.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Stores: PYRMONT.
Seal© Commission 3 Per Cent, to till© Grower
on. Large and. Small Accounts Alike.
A GO-AHEAD FIRM
PATESON & COBCROFT
231 Sussex Street,
SYDNEY.
I l ' Auctioneers, Commission and Live Stock Agents,
\ and Produce MBrehawtu.
Goods forwarded and received from this or any State. Agents for celebrated Corn Cob Bacon.
AUCTIONS ANYWHERE.
THE LEADING HOUSE for SPORTING GOODS and TOBACCO.
(?<?o
Leola.
Santiago.
SINGLE BOX AT WHOLESALE PRICE.
GOODS EXCHANGED or MONEY RETURNED.
•V.
tJW-
A/?/MANILA
No. 1 Manila.
El MundO.
GUARANTEE.-EVERY CIGAR SOUND
AND IN PERFECT CONDITION.
Post Free Post Free
N.S.YV. oth.States
ROMA QUEENS
LA PAROL A, Reliable Smoke ..
HIGH LIFE MENDOZAS .. ..
NJMROD REI'NA VICTORIA ..
LA SPECIAL, from Choicest Leaf
“ LEOLA,” Borneo, Mild Smoking ’
‘ ‘ EL RIVAL,” Borneo, Full Flavor
HEAVY WEIGHTS (P. de Mendoza) 100
Per 100.
Post Free Post Free
N.S.W. oth. States
In box.
“ PERLA ” BOUQUET 50
“EL MUNDO” (Rothschilds) .. .. 26
“MENDOZA” (Rothsohikls) .. ..26
“ PERLA ” (Rothschilds) 25
“ MINERVA ” No. 1 MANILA .. .. 100
“WINDSOR LADY” (Manila Regalia) .. 60
“ PERLA MINERVA,” Manila, Fine Qual. 25
FLOIt DE NAVES (Havana Reina) .. 100
HENRY OLAY (Havana Oouchas, extra) 50
s. d.
18 9
21 0
25 8
25 8
15 0
19 0
25 0
29 0
35 0
s. d.
19 2\
21 8
26 2
26 2
16 2 '
19 8
25 8
29 8,
36 0 box
Per 100.
I. Hollis
& Son’s
“THE RELIABLE."
F rice £6 12s. 6d.
f'-*
■X,
X
•V--
M)
N?n
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 gauge, top lever, bar action, real twist or steel
barrels, Greener cross-bolt, left choke, rebounding locks snap fore-end,
chambered for cartridges. Guaranteed for all Smokeless Powder.
ABSOLUTELY THE BEST VALUE IN THE STATES.
GUARANTEED
PERFECTLY
ACCURATE>d
RELIABLE.
r'j s\i r\e” fl e
“
Rifle Aparf
22<§hor/' orlong.ft/n f/RE'Bo/fAcfion
Bound O/ued S/e e//a inch Barret, Wetßhf'Zfi />
fitted mthptainl/orJ/iding Bach Sights
(Guarren/SedforSOOYba). Po/isheana/nor
Otoch. Postage onff/fte.hdo ex/ta.
MICK SIMMONS,
Li&Yn<arker, Qrottey.
WITH PL AIM SIGHTS 13/e
SLIDING’ SIGHTS TO 3OOYOS 15/6
Cdrfftdgez Can Onfyße Oefive redby Railorßoa£
GIVE UP DRUGGING!
During over twenty years of constant application to the study and use of Electricity, we have proven positively
u nat if Electricity will cure a certain ailment, or combination of ailments, that Drugs are an unnecessary, and always an
exceedingly expensive, auxiliary. We treat Chronic cases, and it is the Chronic case that will not get well without an addition of
new nerve life. Your condition shows you—at least, your experience does—that Drugs won’t cure you. You need new Vigor, new
Steam Power in that human machine of yours. Don’t let anyone induce you to waste your money on Drugs. If you use Electricity
they are superfluous, and are always the expensive item. We have cured thousands and can cure you without them.
We know our business thoroughly, and when we tell you that your symptoms require Electrical aid and that we can cure you, depend
upon it our word is supreme. We never make statements which we cannot prove correct, nor promises which we cannot fulfil.
DR. McLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT
Guaranteed
in Every Case
Makes a sick man well and a weak man strong. It is simple, but grand. There is nothing so penetrating, nothing
so invigorating, nothing that will relieve weakness and pain a 3 speedily, so surely. It assists Nature by a general
reinforcement of the vital energy by infusing a mild, invigorating current of Electricity into the Nerves, and by
supplying the system with the very essence of Nerve Vigor and Nerve Strength. Electricity is the only rational and
certain cure for functional disorders. If your Back Aches, if you are Nervous, if you have Rheuma-
tism, Lumbago, Indigestion, Stomach or Kidney Troubles, Electricity, properly applied,
will cure you. There is no doubt about it. It cannot fail. It quickens the pulse, invigorates the blood,
puts new life into every nerve. We have spent over Twenty Years in the study and application of Electricity, and
the results have produced the marvellous invention with which we are curing thousands daily.
READ OUR
FREE BOOK.
On the receipt of a post-card or letter, we will
send you one of* our Beautifully Illustrated
Free Books, which will remove the cloud from your
future, which will show you how you can elevate your-
self, mentally and physically. They tell of nearly 25
years spent in the enthusiastic study of vital nerve force,
finding what it comes from and how to restore it when
it is lost. We all like to be at our best, and if you are
down we can pull you up.
Study our Method. Out of all our experience we
have built a method of infusing the system with vitalis-
ing electricity, which is the basis of functional and
organic vitality. Our Books tell what we know of this.
I
§5
We will send you one, sealed, free, if you will but writo for it. If you can call, we
will make you a Free Diagnosis and explain our method to you. Every manor
woman who is in poor health should either call upon us or write for advice and consul-
tation. \\ e make no charge, and we will tell you candidly if you can be cured or not.
Belts sent duty free to all parts. Hours : 9 a.m. to 8.30 p.m.
Write us for an Explanation of how
Belts are Sold “ FREE.”
SAVED HiS LIFE,
The Dr. M'Laughlin Co. ARMIDALE.
Sirs,—This is my statement as regards your High Grade Belt. I have worn the Belt for three
months, and I find it a blessing tome. I had suffered for years with indigestion, pains in the
head, tired and weary feeling in the legs always, but your Belt seems to put new life into me. I
think but for it I should not be on earth to-day. I was sinking fast, but, thanks to your wonder-
ful Belt, lam as fresh and as lively as ever. I hope you may be long spared to cure many more
as you have done for me.
I am, yours faithfully, JAMES HARDMAN.
LUMBAGO AND WEAK BACK.
Lucinda-street, Woolloongabba, BRISBANE.
Dear Sirs,—Just a few lines to let you know I am much better, and that I have had great
relief from your Electric Belt. I will be glad to recommend it to any of my friends. The pains
have left my back, and my nerves are a lot steadier. I now do my work with pleasure.
I remain, yours faithfully, Ei>. BENNETT.
FROn THE WEST.
The Dr. M'Baughiun Co. KALGOORDIE, W.A.
Replying to your inquiry after my health, I am just debating leaving the Belt off. There
has been a wonderful improvement in my condition ; in fact, I hardly know I was ever queer. If
I can help your cause, you have my support.
JAMES HUGHES.
Dear Sirs,—l am pleased to let you know that your Belt is doing me a lot of good. My back
is getting much stronger; I feel no pain whatever now.
A. VVRINGE, Upper Capel, via Donnybrook, W.A.
100 W. Market St., Sydney.
Melbourne Office -
167 E Swanston Street.


SMOKE
The Unrivalled
World Renownec
BRIAR
PIPES
LARGEST DEPOT:
231 Clarence St,
SYDNEY.
1 i
The Uniyersal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’®
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS:
MAGNESIA
r
DRINK.
GARDNER’S SPA WATER
Prom our Springs at Helidon. OWEN GARDNER & SONS, Brisbane (Head Office) &at Helidon.
THE
* PLUM’
iXliil!/
<s*~
j&flj
THE
‘PLUM’
p ENTLEMEN. —This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow groan l, ring
, like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easv shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 78. 6tL
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, Od oaks.
t, / Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather One, lIS.
BRICE yj n „-] e Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful cue, 33j.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part op the World.
|Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
|| Ask for..» ||
KNORR’S
Ready
Made
Dried-
It is . .
Known
as the
Best..
HOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
D MARRIAGE GUIDE, 50 engravings, 3/6 ;
posted, 4/-. How to Mesmerise, X/-; Maqic
Up-to-Date, 1/3 ; Metal Working, solder-
ing, brazing, 1/6 ; Camille, 1/3 ; How to
Play Billiards, 1/3; How to Vamp, 1/3;
Piano Tuning and Repairing, 1/6 ; Modern
Etiquette, 1/-; Card Games, 1/-; Great
Book of Wonders, Secrets and Mysteries,
1/-: Poultry Keeping, 1/- ; Horse and
Cattle Doctor, 1/-; Parlor Magic, 1/- ;
Dream Book, 1/-; Every Man His Own
Builder, 1/6 ; Carpentry, 1/6 ; Lightning
Calculator, 1/2 ; Australian Doctor, 1/6 ;
Letter Writer, 1/3 ; Speeches and Toasts,
1/3 ; Kelly Gang of Bushrangers, 1/3 ;
Book of Dialogues, 1/-; Enquirer’s Oracle,
j 3000 subjects, 1/6 ; Self Instructor, 1/3 ;
How TO Dance, 1/3 ; Art op Boxing, 1/3 ;
Art of Wrestling, 1/3 ; Moll Flanders,
1/6 ; Tailoring for Amateurs, 1/3 ; Ven-
triloquism, 1/- ; Comic Reciter, 150 gems,
1/3 ; Irish Comic Reciter, 1/3 ; Little
Folks’ Reciter, 1/3 ; Nigger Stump
Speeches, 1/3 ; New Tricks with Cards,
1/3 ; That Rascal Gustave, 1/3 ; Plain
Home Talk, 7/6; Sappho (genuine), 1/6 ;
Fortune Telling Cards, directions, 1/6 ;
Advice to Women, 1/3 ; Midwives’ Hand-
book, 92 practical illustrations (better than
Aristotle), 3/- ; Palmistry, chart and guide,
Cd. ; Clog Dancing, 1/-. Above prices in-
clude postage to any address. Stamps or
Postal Notes of any State will do. Free
Catalogues—-Plays, Conjuring Apparatus,
Racy Novels, Useful Books, Private Books
for the Married, etc.
will Andrade
BOOK AND MAGIC
ARCADE, - - -
201 Bourke-st, g Melbourne.
Wmsern&x
tMffnwM?'
7*S>
I
ssKwlvj^.-:«3.'
HR
i\ND//b!o! '
sieverythinc
Jjj||VUGHt
\ \
this paper
JSBioLLINS SI
fKigg^MELBOURNE.
King Marine Oil Engines.
2* to 500 H.P.
¥
1903 MODELS.
Estimates given for Fitting Cargo Boats, Tug Boats, Fishing Boats and Trawlers, Auxiliary
Power or Pleasure Boats. Vessels of all sizes built and fully equipped.
PUMPING PLANTS. REFRIGERATING PLANTS. COLD STORAGE for Pishing Boats.
Information and Prices furnished by—
j, f. McDermott & co„ 30 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Factory Agents for Australia and the South Seas.
SORE
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORE AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYELASHES-
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL. EYE TROUBLES.
1\) EVER FAILS.
Ask youp Chemist fop the Little Book t
‘HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES
CURED
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
FURRED TONGUE,
f INDIGESTION.
1 CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
There’s SECURITY in
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
They
TOUCH the LIVER
Be Sure they are
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price.
Carter's
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania).
IMPORTANT NOTICE
The Tasmania n Government having imposed a tax ofa* after
on every Five Shilling- Ticket issued by TattersaU s ana 5g
Januirv. 1903, clients will please forward Id. extia 101
iSet applied for, or 4d. for every £l, and so on.
ADELAIDE GRAND NATIONAL HURDLE, Victoria Park, S. , r % g/1
METROPOLITAN STAKES, Randwick, N.S.W., Se J ) * e “ b ( f 000 t ’ 5/1
CAULFIELD CUP, Caulfield, Vic., October 17, 100,0
MELBOURNE CUP, Fleming ton, Vie., November 3, 1 ,
Subscribers will please note tliat GEORGE ADAMS (
CONTINUES bis business in JIORAUT, under LICENSE
GOVERNMENT, and that clients can send their subscriptions
acquainlanee’in JIOJiA RT, who will there have no di .Hculty in de
securing the despatch of tickets and results direct to clients.
TATTERS ALL ”) STILL
from the TASMAN lAN
by letter to any friend or
Hearing the application and
Money can also be paid through any Bank in Australasia, to the credit of GEORGE
ARAMS, Commercial Bank of Tasmania, Hobart. Clients when so doing wdl please request
l t .m v ;. P GEORGE ADAMS of amount, with their name and full address.
V'le,! addressed to me cam be forwar. led to Hobart through any BARGEE
DELIVERY" CO. doing business with Tasmania.


Cockroaches!
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦
BUFFON’S
COCKROACH . . .
EXTERMINATOR
Clears houses of these pests very quickly.
Has been used for many years with
great success.
To be obtained of all Chemists.
BOSI STD’S
“Parrot Brand”
Eucalyptus Oil
For Rheumatism, Sprains, Bruises,
Wounds, Coughs, Colds and
Sore Throats.
CAUTION.—Ask for Bosisto’s
PARROT BRAND,
and Beware of Imitations.
W. H.Wigzell.
FRINGES: Best Natural Curly
Hair, 3/6, 5/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each.
TAILS and PLAITS : 20in. long,
5/6 ; extra thick, 7/6; 24in., 10/6;
extra thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings worked up,
2/6 per oz. Don’t be misled.
Our Plaits and Tails are twice as
thick as sold elsewhere at the
same price. Send color of Hair.
Only one address : 110 WILLIAM-
ST.; cor. of Palmer St. SYDNEY.
Noticb. —NO Branch Businesses. All work guaranteed.
Illustrated Catalogue post free. Prompt attention given
to country orders. Wigs made on shortest notice. All
Hairwork sent to the other States free of duty. Transfor-
mations, entire covering for the head, 30/- each.
A
FLUID
OIL
CRUDE FLUID
POWDER
EMBROCATION
SOAPS
DISINFECTORS
INHALERS
fumicators
NITj
bisinfectinc
FLUID.
I/-
COLORLESS
FRAGRANT
NON-
POISONOUS
DOES NOT
STAIN
KILLS ALL
DISEASE
CERMS
OXYGENATES
THE AIR.
Sulphur Candles - \
Formic Fumigators /
KINGZETT’S
PATENTS.
"HOW TO DISINFECT ” Book Free.
Th* “SANITAS” CO., Ltd.,
Bethnal Green, LONDON, E;
SANOOW’S
Trade Marie.
X
CLOSED.
OPE».
SPRING GRIP DUMB-BELL
Ladies and Gentlemen,
I fear there has been some misunderstanding as
regards the method of using my
PHYSICAL CULTURE APPLIAN 'ES.
In the first instance, my SPRING GRIP DUMB
BELL should be used according to the Charts accom-
panying it. This gives an all-round and symmetrical
development of every muscle of the body, rendering
them firm and strong, and my DEVELOPER, or
OBESITY REDUCER, should be used afterwards,
tn conjunction with the Grip Dumb-bells. . . .
Yours faithfully, EUGEN SAN DOW.
8. HOFFNUNG & CO. (1902) Ltd., Wholesale Agents.
Obtainable from all Sports Depots, Ironmongers and
. Storekeepers throughout Australia.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfiold Parade
ST. HILDA.
ipHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
■*- Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
i-heur by tram. Billiards, eto.
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Night Riders.
They ride through the silent scrub lands,
Like ghosts of the bush astray ;
They come from the southward, mounted,
And pass to the north away.
The stars in their brightness glower,
Bright points in a lustrous dome;
And the Cross and the moon sink lower,
While onward the dusk-men roam.
They wander o’er dark-wrapped plain lands
Like shadows of men long dead ;
All night on some quest they wander,
With stars and the moon o’erhead.
They flit past the lonely bushes
Like ghosts in the lonesome night;
On, on to the world’* dim edges
They ride through th* long, lone night.
They pass through the lonely marshes,
Where, wind-swayed, the tall reeds roll,
That sing with their mournful wailing
A dirge for a lost man’s soul.
They ride through the swampy reed-beds
When the gleaming stars are red,
And their horses’ feet crunch under
The bones of the lost men, dead.
They come from the east, slow riding,
And pass to the silent west,
Where the silver moon, low biding,
Throws shades on the grey earth’s breast.
Like spectres they move slow, onward,
With eyes on the plain’s far rim,
And the stars rise round them ever,
And a blue dome shuts them in.
All night in the silent stillness
They follow their lonely quest;
They ride from the south to northward,
They ride from the east to west.
They follow the wild scrub cattle,
Or creep on the clean-skin mob,
Till the moon’s last rays have faded
And the faint, pale star-points throb.
Then they leave the Cross on their shoulder
And ride to the Dawn away,
And the brave brigade of nightfolk
Give place to the men of day.
N.S.W.
DAVID H. RICHARDS.
The Lambs’ Express.
When the outback sheds are shearing,
And a thirst begins to goad,
There’s a free ride through the clearing,
With no limit to the load—
By the Lambs’ Express,
In your Sunday dress,
To the pub down the road.
Every week-end it is waiting
When you knock off at the shed,
And the driver starts relating
How they’re bound to paint things red ;
And he works you so
That you ’re bound to go
To the pub—to be bled.
They have bogus grass fed races;
Or they lure you with a .fight;
And they promise pretty faceS,
With a lively hop at night.
You would go for less
By the Lambs’ Express,
To the pub—to get tight.
When the shed’s cut out, and skiting
Is the order of the day,
You may recognise your writing
In the I 0 U’s to pay ;
And they round you up
' To release the pup
At the pub down the way.
There is cheering, yells, and laughter,
With ironic calls for tar ;
Merry jokes recalled long after
On some boundary fence afa.—
As you swing about
In the Lambs’ Turnout,
To the pub’s dazzling bar.
When your jamboree is over,
And your pocket’s feeling light,
They will book you for a rover,
As they run you cut of sight
By the Lambs’ Express,
With a quid, or less,
From the pub at night.
N.S.w.
EDWARD S. SORENSON.
To “Yanny.”
A thousand gamps I fear will be
In horror focused full on me,
When I shall sing—for sing I shall—
“ Yanny ” —my Aboriginal.
Just gathered from the pod, the pea
Is not more fresh or plump than she.
So quick, a cat or rubber ball
Can’t touch my Aboriginal.
A dusky “ Annie Laurie ” face
She owns, that glows with native grace ;
And “close up” broad as she is tali—
My little Aboriginal.
I cannot say that she’s as true
(She may be, though) as Sailor’s Sue,
Or Vere-de-Vere, or Ccster’s Gal.
But she Amy Aboriginal.
So gamps avaunt ! I’ve said my say.
It lies with you to damn my lay
And me, and that plump ebony gal,
“Yanny ” —my Aboriginal.
LAKE WAY, W.A.
D.B.G.
LOSS cf VOICE
Sore Threat? 1 *
Bronchitis
ln{CUeo£c»
3
Oureei wftti
IRISH MOSS
Large and Small Bottles.
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 lOs-
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
JBT Send for a
Catalogue.
Rent Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE fcc
buyers of Light Vehicles.
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, i3o Sussex St., Sydney
Straight Shaft 3-Spring Sulkies, £8!Os.
Sarven Sulky Wheels Tyred, £2 4s 6d pair.
Discount to Wholesale Buyers. Send for Catalogue.
21/-
\ M /
H.F. SMITH
BRISBANE
P=S(
21/-
YOU WANT-^>
A Good Timekeeper
at a Reasonable Price.
HERE IT IS!!
A Solid Silver Keyless
Hunting Watch
Warranted 2 Years.
Posted Free to any part of
Australasia —
21/-
Send for my New Catalogue—FßEE
H. F. SMITH,
Queensland Leading Jeweller, QUEEN ST*, BRISBANE*
IPSWICH and TOOWOOMBA.
mm\
.22 Caliber Cartridges
If you want to use .22 Caliber Rim Fire Cartridges that shoot
strongly and accurately, buy the time-tried Winchester make,
having the trade-mark “H ” on the head. They cost but a
few pence more a box than the cheap, unreliable kind, and
they are shillings better. Winchester .22 Caliber Cartridges
are furnished loaded with either black or smokeless powder, the
latter being loaded with the celebrated Winchester Grease-
less Bullets, which make them very clean to handle.
FOR SALE BY DEALERS EVERY WHERE.
GOOD HAIR FOR AL.L!
g
dl
~sr
All Chkmists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mat ure Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to 'he Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRt IT.
Thin, TRY IT. ' Price—-35., 45., 5;
If it is
Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
F or ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.'
HOLLAND’S NAT UR ALINE,
OS' For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, os. tid. ; postage, 9d. extra.
e
C/?
Washingtok H. Soul & Co..
Pitt-street, Sidney.
CONSULT HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
linirt ()V ail Chemists, and by WATKINS & MAOKAY, Chemists, queen Street, Brisbane; Mr. GORDON, 92 George
So ‘ s Street, Rockhampton, Queensland, and
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £.900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
I'O DEFY COIVXEEXITIORr.
WINES S!,e “ “r u o,d ' J SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS 0E MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, ko.
Kent Brewery, SYDIEY.


Eight Years’ Dyspepsia.
A LONG PERIOD OF SUFFERING.
A WELCOME FRIEND IN TIME OF NEED.
The Case of Mrs. S. BROWN.
(BY OUR REPORTER.)
If you are imbued with any desire to gain
an insight into the methods adopted by
people whose efforts are attended with suc-
cess, you cannot do better than read the
following narrative, which was related by
Mrs. Selina Brown, of No. 5 Little Edward-
street, Pyrmont.
“ One day,” said Mrs. "Brown, “ as I Tvas
talking to a young girl at the frontdoor, a
strange and overpowering sensation came
over me, which caused me to have a fit, and
I was taken indoors and put to bed, where
I was lying unconscious for three days. A
doctor was called in, but he said that he
could not account for the sudden turn I
had taken. He prescribed some medicine,
which did not have any beneficial ellect,
as three weeks later I took another fit in my
sleep, after which I was so feeble that I had
to keep to my bed for several days, and
again the doctor was brought to my bed-
side.”
“Previous to taking the fits were you in
good health ?” asked the reporter.
“ I was not at all well, as you may gather
from the fact that for eight years I suff red
from indigestion,” answered Mrs. Brown.
“ For a long time I seemed as if I had no
use in my body to work at all. I felt
languid and depressed in spirits, and did
not care whether I lived or died ; neither
could I sleep well. It was a perfect misery
for me to go to bed, as my mind was so un-
settled that I felt as if I wanted to walk
about all night. Just as Ith .ught I was
falling asleep I commenced to think about
some troublesome subject which generally
occupied my mind till morning, and when I
got up I was too exhausted to do anything,
and with a taste in my mouth that made
everything seem bitter. The only sleep I
got was always accompanied by dreadful
dreams, so that I never got any proper rest.
The sense of hunger was a stranger to me
entirely, but in spite of that I took a little
food occasionally, or else I should have
starved.”
“ Did the food do you any good ’ ’
“lam sure it did not do me much good,
if any, for I was continually getting weaker
and thinner, and the worst of it was that
eating always gave me such awful pains in
the stomach, where windy spasms made me
feel as if I wanted to tear my clothes off, no
matter how loose they were. A heaviness
in my chest also troubled me greatly, for as
each breath was drawn a smothering sensa-
tion came over me, and at the same time I
suffered acutely from pains under my
shoulder blades and about my back. Every-
thing possible seemed to go against me at
once, as I was often incapacitated from
going about the house owing to my feet
swelling arid my limbs aching, across the
loins especially Unless I was very careful
and slow in my movements I became so
giddy that I could not stand, while extreme
nervousness was another torture I wis
afraid to move in the dark lest something
would happen to me, and if anything gave
me the least excitement my nerves shook to
such an extent that the vibration of my
limbs was quite visible. Little did I think
that something even worse than these ail-
ments was in store for me, but my experi-
ence goes to show how a person’s constitu-
tion is gradually wrecked, and w hat fright-
ful results an likely to follow. After my
sudden seizures I was in a more hopeless
state than ever. My head pains were so
bad that I could not bear anybody to speak
to me, and any food that I took w'as always
vomited. 'The medicines and powders which
were given to me were of no avail, and at
length I crawded out of bed and went to
another doctor, who told me I ought to go
to a hospital. Having three young children
I did not like doing so, and instead of going
to a hospital I came home ”
“ Were you wise in going against the
doctor’s advice?”
11 It turned out to be the best thing I
could have possibly done, as a neighbour
shortly afterwards came in to see me for the
purpose of reading a cure performed by
Clements Tonic. When she had finished
the story she exclaimed : ‘ That is just hpw
you are. Why don’t you try it?’ I said,
‘I believe I will.’ When my husband
came home he thought I was, going
to the hospital, but I said, ‘1 m not
g ing. Bring me home a bottle of
Clements Tonic, and I will try it.’ On
my word of honor, I felt a slight im-
provement when I had drank only half a
bottle. Just imagine my delight after the
way I had been disappointed with albother
medicines, especially as I had long since
thought that 1 was doomed to die, because
I could not get relief. Hut Clements Tonic
soon eased the terrific pains in my head
(which extended right down my neck), and
when, in a few days, they were gone alto-
gether I could get about a little, for I also
felt more vigorous than I had been for a long
time. The first good night’s rest I had had
for many a month was obtained through the
comforting influences of Clements lonic, and
when this grand experience had. been re-
peated several nights in succession I felt
quite new, for I was happy in the belief
that I m ght yet recover m healtli. Bve'ry
tissue in my body seemed to be strengthened
by the wonderful medicine I was taking,
and for sharpening my appetite it was just
the thing. Before long I sat down to mv
meals like everybody else in the house, and
I could always take a fair share of whatever
was placed on the table. The neighbours
were intensely surprised to see me up and
about once more, as they had entertained
little hope of ever see ng me well aga n. I
had no trouble in keeping my food down,
and every day I found greater relief from
the symptoms of indigest on. The pa ns
finally left my stomach and shoulders, and
I could breathe Without gasping as I used
to, (or the oppression had disappeared from
my chest, and w tli returning strength my
limbs acquired freedom from all aches.
When I was takmg mv doctor’s medic nes 1
had no des re for an thing, but Clements
Tonic gave me a 1 glil-hearted inclination to
see everything. By its continued use I
forgot what nervousness was, as I knew no
fear, and my nerves were as steady as a
rock. T was never a stout woman, \etmy
diseases had dragged me down cons derahly,
but C ements Tonic was my sole medicine
till my lost weight was regained, and, re-
markable as it may seem, that is all I
required, for I was then quite cured of
everything. None of my former ailments
were left behind by Clements Tonic, and I
am only speaking the truth when I say that
my life was saved by tint medicine. If you
like you can publish my story in any way
you deem fit, as itmay alleviate the sufferings
of many more.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Semnx Brown, of 5 L’ttle Ed ward-street,
Pyrimnt, Sydney, in the State of New South Wales,
Commonwealth of Australia, do solemnly and
sincerely declare that I have carefully read the
annexed document, consisting of four foil is, and
consecutively numbered from one to four, and that
it contains and is a true an 1 faithful account of my
illness and cure by Clements Tonic; and also con-
tains my full permission to publish in any way
my statemmts —which 1 give voluntarily, with-
ou receivi >g any payment; and 1 m ike this solemn
decl vration conscientiously be.ieving the same to be
true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths
Aot, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Pyrmont, thi»
tenth day of March, one thousand nine hundred
and two, before me,
JOS. McDOUGALL, J.P.
S. FREEMAN * SOUS L l -^
Millers, Manu acturers, and Importers.
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR,
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
MAD office: WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK
CLOTH, 300 PAGES.
BY SIXTY BULLETIN WRITERS. PRICE, 4s. 6d.; POSTAGE 6d
Sole Distributing Agents—
Itdwards, Dunlop X’ Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
for THE BUBH WORKEB
am
-Bi/Ar
ffl P'r£!irrs E K o s:m
From nil Chemists, 1/6 per nn. i 1 1"
be sent you. Address the - vnll _ Y
ZAIVI-BUK CO., 39 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Enclose Penny Stamp for postage, and mention this paper.
N
OTICE TO VISITORS,,
WIM POLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE LAlUl't for
boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per \\ eek.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 10hS.
Mr Skinner has a verv extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Publio and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Partlea
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANOINQ FLOORS
ot various sizes supplied.
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
“ They come as a boon and a blessing to men,
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen.”
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEP made by Macniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
separate y examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS. “B®
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.,
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAM
IT'S UNSIGHTLY
THE ELECTRICON
RESTORES LOST HEARING.
A New Scientific Discovery, worn for two or three hoiire
daily, anyone can wear it. Book that tells all Posted Free.
L. R. Vernon C<-v . BT-R4. fi»Hney
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
DEBILITATED
WEAK, NERVOUS SUFFERER. Let us send you a
'' trial course of our CONCENTRATED BOTANIC
REMEDIES FREE OF CHARGE. You will he more
than pleased with the result, and you will show your
appreciation of our valuable treatment by persevering
in its use for a few weeks until you are PERMANENTLY
CURED. Address—
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
ENNESS
CURED
Absolutely Conquered in 20 Days.
my proposition to the Government,
November Bth, igoi, wherein I agree to
accept ioo Test Cases t and prove that my
Vegetable Cure for Aldoholism is a positive
and reliable remedy Home treatment
within the reach of all. No restrictions, no
hypodermic injections. Full particulars free,
W. LANGSTON, M R.c.s . Eng.,
129 Collins-st., Me bourne.
RUPTURE
CURED
without opera-
tion or pain, no detention from work,
or dependence upon Trusses. The
ONLY humane treatment. Hundreds
cured. Write to-day for illustrated
Treatise No. 10. Address:
SURGEON LANGSTON, m.r.c.s.. eng..
129 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
Ur. Langston’s Representative will visit
Newcastle, June 6th to 20th ; Bathurst,
June 23rd to 29th ; Orange, July Ist to 6th ;
Dubbo, July 7th to 13th.
Rescued from Drink
by a new discovery, odorless and tasteless, which any lady
can give in tea, coffee or food. It does its work so silently
and surely that while the devoted wife, sisteror daughter
looks on, the drunkard isreclaimed, even against his will
and without his knowledge and co-operation. Send name
and address to THE EUORASY CO., 62 HUNTER ST.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W., and they will send you booklet and
particulars free.
JAYNE’S EXPECTORANT
CURES THE WORSTCOUGH6’.
ALL CHEMISTS
%
AT 3/6 PER BOX
FOR
An/emia,
Poverty of Blood
* and Weakness
from Whatever Cause.
TABLETS
Always use at Bedtime
to prevent Mosquito bites,
CALVERTS
20 per cent.
Carbolic Soap.
A delightful soap for toilet purposes.
Most useful to prevent or cure insect bites
or stings, itch, piles, ringworm, etc.
F. C. CALYERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
iJ’orS.ui&L {lights '!
GCe a. I tliy Jnfhti ts
TRY
RIDGES
%'L FOOD
Refuse a//Zw/faf/ons
Satisfying. Strengthening Soothing for Infatits
Agreeable. Digestible. Nourishing
AGFVTS FOR SYD/VFY
SAYFPS ALLPOFT & POTFFR
RIDGE’S FOOD MILLS.LONDON. Enc.
TOOTH-ACHE
CURED INSTANTLY BY
BUNTER’S
Prevents Decay, Save!
Extraction, Sleepless Nightfl
Prevented.
Neuralgic Head-aches & all Nerve
Pains removed by BUNTER’S
NERVINE. Of all Stores.
NERVINE
'•Ab a specific for Tooth ache it has no equal. I h»T«
used it successfully for years." —Prof. W. Wilson, M.D,
The BEST FAMILY MEDICINE
KAYE’S WORSDELL’S PILLS
Are a certain Cure for Indigestion, Biliousness, Head ache,
Dyspepsia, Constipation, Liver and Kidney Complaints, &o,
Of all Stores.
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every purchase*
of our
ELECTRIO ■
BELTS and
AEELIANCES
a trial of 80 days before
payment, which U fully
explained in our “ ELEO-
TIUO ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Disease*
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. W e mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.— Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
ior our Electric Era and Price List (P°st free). giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address
German Electric Appliance Agency
Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
WEBSTER’S
CARBOLIC
TOOTH
POWDER
Large Tins, 6d.
All chemists.
Equal to any-
imported artide.
Cleans the teeth not merely by fric-
tion but antiseptically. It keeps them
bright, pure, healthy and strong.
If your chemist or storekeeper does not stock
it—take no other, but send 7d. in stamps direct
to us for a tin.
ALEXANDER J. WEBSTER,
SOLE PROPRIETOR * MANUFACTURER,
J77 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Free for Asking:.
WRITE to us and we will forward you our scientific
book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magic, and you will be filled with energy,
strength and ambition once more, l’osted free. Writ,
to G. Specific, Elizabeth Street, North Melbourne.


BLAIR’S
GOUT $ RHEUMATIC
FILLS.
The Great English Remedy for
GOUT, RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO & NEURALGIA.
The acute pain is quickly relieved and cured in a
Tew days by this celebrated Medicine.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, and sold at Is. ltd. and 2s. 9d.
per box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
AMERICAN SCHOOL OP CORRES-
PONDENCE, POST OFFICE BOX,
629, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Please send me Catalogue and par-
ticulars of the Technical Education
you give for the position, before which
I have marked X.
Name
Street and No,
City or Town
Free Book on
Magnetic Healing.
yr
Reader, why not he able to use the most mysterious
and powerful force of nature? By my method you can
learn to Hypnotise in a few hours’ time. You can per
form all the many marvellous feats that are possible to
the Hypnotist. Through Hypnotism you can cure dis-
ease, conquer pain, gratify your ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs 3 r ou nothing to find
out all about it. I have issued in book form a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or KEY to HYPNOTISM, which fully
explains the mysteries and secrets of the Art. It con-
tains beautiful and artistic engravings, and is the most
elaborate and extensive thing of the kind ever published.
For a short time I will send this magnificent book FREE,
on receipt of two stamps to cover postage. Order to-day
and learn to Hypnotise. It is a chance of a lifetime.
ADDRESS :
PROP. R. H BARRADEN,
89 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
MEN
If
you
are
suffering from
exhaustion, Vari-
cocele, Wasting,
Weakness, enclose 6 stamps (postage and
packing), and I will send a trial bottle of my
REMEDY, FREE.
IT COSTS YOU NOTHING
to try my Life Syrup Remedies, which
give back strength of body and brain, renewed
vigor, and development of the vital organs;
not a free prescription dodge, but a trial of
my wonderful remedy free for the asking.
Professor h. read,
165 Collins Street, Melbourne.
JrAtK’SHi
Charcoal
THE ROAD
TO HEALTH IS
PAVED WITH
GOOD
DIGESTION.
Speedily cures Acidity, Flatulence, Heartburn,
Impure Breath, Indigestion, ; Diarrhoea, <fcc. It
destroys all disease germs, and.absorbingall impuri.
ties in the stomach and bowels,gives a healthy tone
to the whole system. Wards oft all attacks of Typhoid
an other Fevers. Prevents many an illness.
BotthJ®? n7Pv?IS HAR C°* L POWDER in
Z , ENG „ E 3 and BISCUITS in Tins
llivZ hi „ tke) ; Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
3reDarl?inno n? lplaint3 the in i ur y done by other
preparations,please see that each Bottle or Tin bears
a "in monogram,* on the wrapper.
OF INTEREST to MEN
—I have been cured of weakness and De-
oincv by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
e pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
ao tins entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to
Mr. ROBERT E. PARKHURSI,
wv Pi ** street, Sydney.
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, 1s
The Life, Adventures
and Confesssions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
, , , Post Free, 13.
sampfo) Illustrated Luts of Books and Novelties,
Madame Panza,
BOX 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
[1
And Other Itching:, Burning:,
Scaly Eruptions with
Loss of Hair.
Speedy Cure Treatment.
Bathe the affected parts with Hot Water and Cuticura Soap, to
cleanse the surface of crusts and scales, and soften the thickened
cuticle. Dry, without hard rubbing, and apply Cuticura Ointment
freely, to allay itching, irritation, and inflammation, and soothe and
heal, and lastly take Cuticura Resolvent Pills, to cool and cleanse the
blood. A single set is often sufficient to cure the most torturing, dis-
figuring, itching, burning, scaly, pimply humours, eczemas, rashes»
irritations, and chafings, with loss of hair, when all else fails.
The agonizing itching and burning of the skin, as in eczema; the fright-
ful scaling, as in psoriasis; the loss of hair aud crusting of the-scalp, as in
scalledhead; the facial disfigurement, as in pimples and ringworm; the
awful suffering of infants and the anxiety of worn-out parents, as in milk
crust, tetter, and salt rheum, all demand a remedy of almost superhuman
virtues to successfully cope with them. Such are the Cuticura remedies,
the purest, sweetest, most speedy and economical curatives for the
scalp, and blood ever compounded. Mothers are their warmest friends.
Millionsof Women Use Cuticura Soap
Assisted by Cuticura Ointment for preserving, purifying, and beautify-
ing the skin, for cleansing the scalp of crusts, scales, and dandruff, and the
stopping of falling hair, for softening, whitening, and soothing red, rough,
and sore hands, for baby rashes and chafings, in the form of baths for
annoying irritations and inflammations of women, or too free or offensive
perspiration, in the form of washes for ulcerative weaknesses, and many
sanative, antiseptic purposes which readily suggest themselves, as well as 1
for all the purposes of the toilet, bath, and nursery.
(Chocolate Coated) are a new, tastelesß,
. A - odourless, economical substitute for the cele-
brated liquid CUTictTKA Resolvent, as well as for all other blood purifiers and humour
cures. Put up in screw-cap pocket vials, containing 60 doses.
CirricTTßA Remkptes are sold throughout the world. Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co., Sydney British
Depot: 27-28. Charterhouse Sq., London. French Depot: S Rue de la i'aix, Paris. Poitbb Dbdo and nnsu.
Coup., Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT PILLS
ARE YOU WEAK ?
Low-spirited, Tired of Life, Have you utterly
failed in your efforts to regain Health?
Go to the Fountain Head
and consult OLD SURGEON LANGSTON, member of the Roval
College of Surgeons, Eng., who will cure you. Forty years’
practice as a Specialist is sufficient guarantee of the doctor’s
ability. I do not seek to demonstrate a theory. I have no time for that,
for I am accomplishing facts. I am curing thousands who have
given up all hope of life. I am bringing joy and happiness
into hundreds of homes. If you suffer from kidney and liver disease,
lung, stomach or heart trouble, consumption, debility, insomnia, blood
poison, Varicocele, headaches, backache, nervousness, or any disease
or weakness of the vital organs, come to me and I will cure you
and make you well. The people whom I have snatched from the very
jaws of death and have lifted up and given strength and health are
living witnesses of the everlasting power of mv treatment. It
matters not how long you have been afflicted; it matters not how
hopeless or helpless you may be; it matters not what doctors have
said or what remedies have failed to cure you ; it matters not whether
you have faith.
m ;
I WILL CURB YOU.
A NEW TREATMENT AND GUARANTEED CURE FOR VARICOCELE WITHOUT OPERATION.
Be the Equal of Your Fellow Man.
If you are a sufferer from any nervous, chronic Blood or Skin diseases, or interested in the subject of
Neurasth nia and associated evils, write at once for book of information, blank forms, eto., and have the
old docior diagnose your case.
All communications strictly confidential. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, 129 Collins Street, Melbourne
Established in Melbourne 1886.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
KUBRAOma
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
6a i nd u ! '. 1 u Stl^ ns thafc oc cur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1902 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged
y.S""' I covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all cccasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy • Is fid post
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d l sc-
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Car ns m„.
Is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted'
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk Is ad
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is ’
The Art of Wrestling, post Is. Hoyle’s Gam'fs nnsf 9/r.
Love and Parentage, 8d iiosted. ’ posfc2/6
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc ) Is 3d Dost
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor Is
Aust. Miners’Guide (simple tests for minerals) 3s 6d
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, Is posted. Camilte Is 3d i
Secret History of the Court of England, 1 fi post free’ !
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, iO illus., Is 6d posted' 1
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history)' is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Ciiiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle's Free,masonry, 3s 9d posted
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free.’
How TO Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted
Ghevasse’s Advice to a Mother, Ss 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest sonas
Is 3d post free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted. Sappho Is.'
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis.
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want.
The Wife’s Handbook, Is 21 posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages
1600 illus. Leather bound, my price, 15s post paid’
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted. '
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is 3d.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s posted.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music comple e Is 6d.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d posted.
Send for my Illustrated Big- Book
Catalogue post free anywhere.
SIB ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney.
ASTHMA and BRONCHITIS CURED
Posted to any State, ss. 1
J. W. CASE, Chemist, 140 Wickham-st., Brisbane.
Please mention Bulletin when writing.
Powell’s Balsam
of Aniseed.
SAFE AND RELIABLE—
Gives Immediate Relief.
A
FOR 78 YEARS
THE POPULAR REMEDY FOR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza, and ail Lung Troubles.
It loosens the Phlegm immediately, and removes
tne tickling sensation in the Throat, which de*
prives so many of rest during the night. It also
Strengthens the Voice and Cures Hoarseness.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers,
But *e« the well-known Trade Mark—Lion, Net
and Mouse—is on each wrapper.
Prepared only by Thomas Powell, Ltd.,
L Blackfriars, London, S.E. A
EVERY WOMAN
ia Interested and should know
about the wonderful
Marvel Whirling: Spray
The new FEMALE SYRINGE
Injection and Suction. The best,
safest and most convenient.
It Cleanses Instantly.
I
as
If your druggist cannot
supply the MARVEL,
accept no other, but write us for
Illustrated Book, sent free
sealed. It gives price by mail,
particulars and directions invalu-
able to ladies. "> Endorsed by Physicians.
Times Building, N. Y.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS-
THE MARVEL GO. OF AUSTRALIA,
CAMDEN BUILDING,
418 George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
LADY SPECIALIST IN ATTENDANCE.
Postal Address, Box 623, G.P.0., Sydney.
Write for Booklet. Sent free, sealed.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by using
0 s RX CORO'S
P fc.
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS, DEBIUTV.
VARICOCELE, etc.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life affords relief and permanently
cures all who suffer from wasting- and withering- of the
nervous tissues; restores Energy, Strength and
Vitality to the most weak and shattered constitutions
(no matter from what cause) and regenerates all the
important elements of the human frame.
Price 128., or four quantities in one, 365. Freight extra,
Is. and Is. 6d. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope.
Agents for Australasia— PEßßV & CO., 47 Queen St.,
Melbourne; N.S.JT.— Faulding & Co., 16 O’Connell
St., Sydney ; Newcastle, Adelaide and Perth.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATEPNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared 1 y Poingdestke & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s nursery LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy*
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. <fe Is. 6d.
N.B. —Insist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdestrb & Tiiuman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
References' throughout Great Britain and Colonitt.
ASTHMA
taken from tha System.
Nothing: remains which can
produce an attack. You can
eat, sleep and stand exposure without slightest return of
symptoms. Cured to stay cured, by elimination and re-
construction. Appetite improved; blood enriched; nerves
strengthened; whole system built up; life made enjoyable.
Reliefs, or change of climate no longer needed. We have
treated over 52,000 Asthma and Hay Fever patients. Es-
tablished 1883. Explanatory BOOK 32c post FREE.
Address: Dr. P. Harold Hayes’ Asthmatic Institute,
Buffalo, N. Y., U. S. A.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARFTTFS
Fop Asthmatic people who suffer from
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault’s Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest.
QIHIHAVET 4c Co., Pari a. Sold by sljQUitP'iitt,


Beware of
Cheap
Grain Spirits
Flavored
and
Colored
to
Imitate
Cognac
Brandy.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
WOOLLEN UNDERWEAR
... OF ...
7ERTEX CELLULAR
FABRIC
is the healthiest, most comfortable to even
the tenderest skin, and most hygienic of all
materials for Winter.
It is, in its construction,- a copy of Nature, and
acts as a. supplementary skin, regulating the heat of
the body, and allowing the exuded vapours and
deleterious gases to dissipate without hindrance.
It is economical, most easily washed, and does
not felt up or thicken ts a result of that operation.
Stocked in Under-garments of every kind for
Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s wear. Special garments
made to order. Fabric by the yard.
Call or write for full Illustrated Price List—post
free.
PAVIP BRAHAM ft CO.,
73 & 75 King St., Sydney.
Sole Agents for the Cellular Clothing Co. In N.S.W.
sw
A Progressive Dietary suited to the Growing Digestive Powers•
The
*>
rnmmJSi
§
Young Infants thrive and sleep well, and are contented
and happy, being saved from the digestive troubles common to
those fed on farinaceous foods, condensed milk, or even cow’s milk.
Milk Food no. 1. Milk Food no. 2. Malted Food n 0.3.
-KromJ>irthtoU^eemo^
Pamphlet on Infant Feeding and Management free from
495, Bourke Street, Melbourne.
JoSlalaEN & HWNBU RVS lafcd.,
boNDON-
n
MS
every section of the civilised world may be found agents
foi Ruberoid, which is unequalled as an economical roofing.
■V . y.
a
* St
mm
I"***
: € i
.
■SM
*
Pfe
vIJ-ss
fc&K
a£
....
LIMITED.
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
AGENTS-
Brooks, Robinson & Co. Ltd.,
Melbourne, Vic.
A. W. Sandford & Co.,
Adelaide, S.A.
J. M. Ferguson Ltd.,
Fremantle, W.A..
James W. Jack,
Wellington, N.Z..
lledi.ky Button,
Launceston, Tas_
as
r-A
'h
I
KUBEROID


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. 24.—N0. 1221.
THURSDAY. JULY 9, 1003.
Priob 6n.
There was once a man almost
stark naked and possessing noth-
ing— except an abundance of
Freetrade literature. " ,
; Who said to himself—" I
‘must live somehow ! Be-
hold! I will open me a Cus-
toms House 1 ”
Which he did, and looked Out to sea,
and waited for Revenue —because he’d
read in the Freetrade press that if all.
the sugar consumed in Australia la9t
year had been imported we should have
had £357,000 import duty. _ -
But there was only the vacant sea line. No ships
arrived, laden with sugar or anything else—because he
hadn't bought any, nor had a red cent nor a farthingV
worth of credit to buy any.
Visitors came and
looked at him, and
said ; “ What are you
dohigV* And he said 5
"Waiting for Revenue."
And they went away
and smiled.
And there w£re only he and the vacant sea line.
He never did any work, but waited on there,
and got thinner and colder.. ,
Other visitors came and offered him
a sheet of - bark, and said : “ Why
don’t .you cover yourself? This ’ere
ain’t much, but it’s better than
” But he said :“No ! I’m a
Freetrader, and waiting fop Revenue,”
'■ He was invited to suck at the
sugar-canes that were growing
all around him outside, but he
said, “No Whit® Australian,
sugar for me! I want that
£357,000 import duty, and I
must import to get it.”
“Come —do be reasonable,]’
said the next lot. But he an-
swered : “ Reven—rev ”
He was .getting too weak now
to say the whole of it.
By tins time lie tad become quite celebrated’
and even the animals came to have 3 lo.dk afi
him.
I But at last interest died out, and \
no one took any more notice ; and
he just sat on there with the wind
blowing through him—and is sitting'
yet.
THE STORY OF THE MAN WHO LIVID ON HIS CUSTOMS HOUSE.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians.^
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ...' £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 0
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary communications to be addressea to the Editor.
Special Notice.
- The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number, is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the "Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, SOOO words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clip rings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that ice
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in ltlaelc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa — Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown ;
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal; Solomon
and Wilson, S 3 Hout St., Capetown; Solomon and
Wilson, Commissioners Street, Johannesburg ; Granger
Bros,, Johannesburg ; Isaacs and Co., Durban; Argus
Printing Co., Rhodesia; Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
Ceylon.— Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver
B.C.
Hono Kong.— Brewer and Co., S 3 Queens Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer a id Co.
fflter^htdZeZz/ri.
THURSDAY, JULY 9, 1903.
Industrial Arbitration.
Those people who credit the Labor party with a
Machiavellian degree of cunning will, perhaps,
see the finger of design in the fact that the Federal
Arbitration Act is promulgated just at the time
when the N.S.W. Arbitration Act has inflicted its
first definite injustice on a labor union. But to
believe that exacts too much credulousness. It is
nothing more than a remarkable and possibly use-
ful coincidence. There is no doubt at all that the
worst thing the “ sweating ” employer the
employer who, with the rack-renting landlord,
is the backbone of every Tory party—has to
fear is a comprehensive and fairly administered
Industrial Arbitration Act. But there will be
some temptation for him to be misled into the
opinion that an Arbitration Act is not such a bad
thing for him after all, in the fact that the
N.S.W. Act has been twisted to inflict a palpable
wrong on the strongest of the State’s unions. If
that temptation assists in removing Tory opposi-
tion to toe Federal Act, then the Workers’ Union
of N.S.W. may suffer under a present wrong with
some complacency. Out of evil will come good.
* * * *
The Australian Workers’ Union of N.S.W. has
need of some such consolation to enable it to
take any sort of content in the present
situation. Whilst other unions have been reaping
materia] advantages from the Act, whilst there has
been in many departments of industrial life a
peaceable betterment of conditions through the
decisions of the court, the A. W.U. has not only had
to do without halfpence, but to put up with some
severe kicks. This unhappy fate was due, to some
extent, to the blunders of the union itself. In the
first instance the A.W.U.—essentially a “ fight-
ing ” union in its constitution—failed to make the
necessary modifications in its character to fit it to
fall in with the new state of things under the
Arbitration Act. A policy which might be
necessary when industrial disputes had to be
decided by force, was unsuited for a time when
disputes came under the decision of law and
equity. The Union should have recognised this.
The Registrar of the Arbitration CourUshould also
have recognised it when the Union came for regis-
tration as an industrial union, and should have
refused such registration to a body which was
a militant trades-union and a political organisa-
tion combined, but not an “industrial union.”
But, with perfect good faith on both sides, the
Union applied for and was granted registration.
Then the pastoralists opposed to it, seeing the flaw
in the A. W.U. armor, promoted a rival combina-
tion—the Machine Shearers’ Union, the object of
which was, palpably, to prevent a fair decision
between the employers on the one side and
the union representing the great mass of
employees on the other, by obtruding a third
and a bogus party into the issue—a party which,
whilst professing to represent the employees,
was really pledged to play the game of the em-
ployers. This second union secured registration ;
and, since, at the time, the A. W.U. enforced rules
which could not be justly extended to all workers
in the pastoral industry, secured it rightly. The
A. W.U. attempted to have that registration can-
celled, but failed. The policy of the Arbitration
Act, it was admitted, was against the existence of
rival unions in the same trade, but the A.W.U.
had rules which made it impossible to order that
all pastoral workers should join its ranks. It was,
however, indicated that with the abolition of the
obnoxious rules from the A.W.U. code, that body
would be secured in the position of being the only
union of workers in the pastoral industry. The
union atonceset about amending its rules in accord-
ance with the directions of the Court. Meanwhile,
practically debarred from an appeal to the law in
its dispute with the pastoral employers, it em-
barked on its old methods of striking, and met
with a further legal rebuff. Prosecuted under the
“Taff Vale decision ” for the acts of some of its
members, it lost the case, though the Arbitration
Act was intended to relieve trades unions of any
liability at law other than under that Act, and, in
the opinion of the best lawyers of the State, did
so relieve them. However, Justice Walkkr
thought otherwise, and the case went against the
Union. Finally, the A.W.U., having amended
its rules in proper form, applied again to the
Arbitration Court for the elimination of the bogus
Machine Shearers’ Union from the roll of
unions, and was again refused by the Registrar,
whose decision seems to have been based on
quite insufficient grounds. To complete the
confusion, it has been held by the Arbitration
Court —mistakenly, in the opinion of most lawyers
—that this decision of the Registrar is final, and
not liable to review by the Court itself.
• • * •
Undoubtedly, the A.W.U. has been through-
out a good deal in fault. It kept to rules which
were improper and impossible. Confronted by a
very serious opposition employing the best of
legal talent, it neglected to make anything like
adequate provision for defence; and it entered
upon a strike which was illegal and foolish.
But, despite all this, there are incidents
of the legal campaign which the A.W.U.
can reasonably grumble at—the mistaken
decision that its funds were liable, in spite of the
Arbitration Act, to the Taff Vale decision; the
mistaken decision that the Registrar has final and
unappealable jurisdiction in regard to the cancel-
lation of a registration ; and the extraordinary
verdict of the Registrar that, after it had complied
with all the directions of the Court, the A.W.U.
was still to be denied the cancellation of the bogus
union’s registration. Two of these grievances
are to be remedied by legislation. The N.S.W.
Government will, during the coming session,
ask Parliament to pass an Act—declaratory of the
law rather than amending it—which will say
definitely that a trades-union registering under
the Arbitration Act shall be thereby free from all
civil liability as a union except such as it incurs
under that Act; and will also say that the Regis-
trar of the Arbitration Court has not final decision
in the matter of the cancellation of a registration.
With these points fixed, the position will be
better for the A.W.U.
* * * *
At this moment enter the Federal Arbitration
Bill, which will in time, no doubt, supersede to a
very large extent the State Arbitration Courts,
through the growth of the principle of Federalism
among unions of capitalists and workmen.
Already many individual unions are Federal in
the sense that they extend over more than one
State—the Workers’ Union and the Seamen’s
Union for examples—and there is no doubt that,
with the encouragement of a Federal Arbitration
law, many other unions will develop into inter-
state organisations and strive to establish equal
conditions of labor and remuneration in every
State. That will prove, under Federation and
inter-State freetrade, a necessary policy. It
will be found impossible, in very many
industries, to maintain a higher wage rate in
one State than in another. If in N.S.W. an
Arbitration Court compels a fair wage rate in
woollen mills and furniture shops, whilst other
States do not, those industries will eventually be
driven out of N.S.W. to the cheap-labor States.
This is being already shown in the tendency of
factories to desert Victoria for Tasmania, which
has no Factories Act and no Wages Boards. Mr.
Kingston’s Arbitration Bill, if passed and well
administered, will do much to correct that
tendency, though it will not do everything ; there
will still be needed an extension of Federal
arbitration, a Federal Factories Act, and other
Federal industrial legislation. However, this
Bill is a good first instalment.
* * * ♦
Following in most essential respects the lines
of the N.S.W. Act, the Federal Arbitration Bill
is a good and effective one. As in N.S.W., there
are heavy penalties for strikes and lock-outs;
victimising an employee because he is a member
of a union is an offence, alike with boycotting an
employer because he belongs to an employers’
organisation ; the Court may order a minimum rate
of wage in any industry, subject to the modification
that an employee not able to earn it can be
paid less; the Court may order that prefer-
ence of employment shall be given to unionists ;
it may refer disputes to a conciliation committee
of parties interested to strive to effect a settle-
ment ; and the Court’s decisions are not liable to
appeal. As to the range of the Court, that is to
a certain extent limited by the Constitution. As
Australian law at present stands, the Federal
Arbitration Court will only have jurisdiction in
disputes affecting more than one State; in the
near future it may have wider power. A some-
what ill-defined situation is met by the provision
in the Bill giving the Court power to judge “all
industrial disputes which are certified to the
Court by the Registrar as proper to be dealt with
by it in the public interest. ” The Registrar will,
of course, not “certify” any dispute that could
not properly come before the Court. If he did he
would be liable to prohibition by the Supreme
Court.
* * * *
Perhaps the- most marked point of difference
between the proposed Federal and the N.S.W.
law is that the former forbids the employment of
lawyers or “other paid agents not directly
interested by parties.” This clause has been
repeatedly asked for in N.S.W. by the Labor
party and as often refused. Though it lias a fine
democratic sound about it, thereare some doubts as
to whether in practice it will prove of any value.
A Judge on the Bench does not pretend to know
all the law; the theory is that to his own knowr
ledge is added the knowledge of skilled counsel on
either side, who direct his attention to different
aspects of the law which seem to favor their
clients, and out of the three, or more, minds
comes a just decision. In practice it sometimes
happens that even in this plurality of minds the
law is not properly elucidated, and another Bench
of Judges, with additional skilled counsel, has to
review the decision. Certainly, if there is a
skilled lawyer on one side and a poor lawyer or no
lawyer at all on the other, the chances are against
even-handed justice, for the Judge will have his
knowledge assisted on only one side of the case.
N.S.W. Arbitration Court records provide two
concrete examples of this. Justice Cohen, whose
skill is undoubted and whose honesty is unques-
tioned, decided once, contrary to the Coal Mines
Regulation Act, because, as he afterwards frankly
admitted, there was no counsel on the Labor side of
the dispute to call his attention to that
particular error. When skilled counsel was
employed by the union affected, the decision was
corrected. Probably if a front-rank counsel had
appeared for the A. W.U. when the decision was
given that there was no appeal from the Regis-
trar’s verdict in the matter of cancellation, that
verdict would never have been given. Prac-
tically the position is this: If it caij be effected
that no lawyers appear on either side, ho injustice
will be done, since the decisions of the Court are
to be “by equity and good conscience,” and not
technicalities ; and the Court will suffer only from
the inconvenience of having but one legal mind
(that of the presiding Judge) between it and a
mistaken decision as to its scope of power. But
can lawyers be effectively barred out ? What is
there to prevent a capitalists’ organisation or a
big trade-union employing a skilful lawyer as its
secretary, and putting him forward as its advo-
cate ? The experiment of excluding lawyers is at
least an interesting one ; if it fails, not much
harm need be done before an amendment is
made of the law. The N.S. W. practice is to dis-
courage employment of lawyers by refusing to
allow any costs for counsel, but it has failed to
discourage to any practical extent.
* * * *
The Federal Bill copies the N.S.W. Act almost
word for word in regard to the provisions for the
cancellation of registration. Since in this State a
misunderstanding has arisen in regard to that
branch of the Court’s jurisdiction, the Federal
measure might, with advantage, be amended to
make it absolutely clear that the power of cancel-
lation and of refusing cancellation rests ultimately
with the Court, and not with any employee of the
Court. Similarly, clause 102, which is practically
clause 7 (2a) of the N.S.W. Act, calls for some
change in view of the misinterpretation of the
latter. The Federal clause reads:
Nothing in this Act shall render any organisation
liable to be sued or its property liable to be taken
in execution by any process of law other than in pursu-
ance of this Act or in respect of obligations incurred in
the exercise of rights and powers conferred by this Act.
A different wording would make the intention
of the clause clearer, for instance :
Any organisation of workers registering under this Act,
and thereby making itself liable to penalties under this
Act, shall not be liable to be sued as a corporate body
for any action taken in connection with an industrial
dispute otherwise than under the provisions of this Act.
* * * *
But the Bill is, on the whole, an admirable one.
Where it has departed from the N. S. W. model it
has been in the direction of making the procedure
a trifle more cumbersome. With the N.S.W. ex-
perience, clauses 81 and 102 will probably be
amended, and then the measure will be all that
is needed to secure industrial peace in disputes
which spread from one State to another. But
it will never be thoroughly effective until the
whole work of industrial legislation is passed over
to the Australian Parliament and one law governs
industrial relations from Hobart to Port
Darwin. With inter-State Freetrade that is the
only possible way to permanent reform. At pre-
sent the sweater, if attacked in one State, can
remove to another, and the capitalist seeking to
establish a new industry under unfair labor con-
ditions can choose a site where no labor legisla-
tion applies, and it is impossible for another
State, where more humane conditions apply, to
shut out by a tariff his cheap-labor products.
Labor reform is inseparably bound up with the
progress of Federalism.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Fancy!
Just three days previous to the hanging of Sow
Too Low, the Kanaka who was known to have
committed three murders, and who acknowledged
to half-a-dozen others, Parson Fokdyce held forth
thus at Brisbane Congregational Jubilee :
Fancy shutting out of Australia a man because his
color happened to be a little darker than that of his
brother ! And then they talk about, the brotherhood of
man 1 It made him sick to hear this sort of thing. Did
they know a Japanese discovered the bacilli of influenza?
Did they know the Japanese knew more about leprosy
than any other nation ? Yet such men would have to
pay a poll-tax to enter Australia.
Just fancy all that 1 And fancy Pardon Fordyce
refusing to let his daughter or his sister marry a
Kanaka, and shuddering, as he probably would,
at the very idea of personally marrying a negress
—!-just because their skins are a little darker than
his own ! Fancy objecting to the Asiatic because
he has more leprosy than we have, and consequently
knows more about it ! Fancy the Christian
British Government deciding that the great bulk
of its subjects must be shut out from all self-
governing rights, and bossed by an autocracy as
absolute as that of the Czar, simply because they
are a little darker than we are—and the Church
not objecting ! Fancy sending missionaries to
the black man (our alleged equal) and calling him
a poor ignorant heathen —just as if he wasn’t as
good as ourselves ! Fancy objecting to having as
a brother and neighbor that humble and contrite
citizen, Sow Too Low ! It really seems ridicu-
lous, and this paper hastens to offer a compromise.
As soon as a dozen Australian clergyman of good
standing marry black women, as a practical
evidence that they really believe that there is
some kind of equality in the races, and the rest
of their black-coated, black-hatted brethren of
the cloth show their faith by still associating
with these twelve and their wives on equal terms,
and provided their Christian congregations show
their sincerity by not abandoning their churches
in disgust, The Bulletin will cease to regard the
nigger-loving parson as a wretched hypocrite in
this matter. On these terms, it will leave off
gibing. It ought to be no sacrifice for the church
to do this, seeing how wildly astonished it is at
the attitude of the Labor party on the colored
immigrant question. The Labor party objects to
the influx of black laborers because, in many occu-
pations, it has either got to work and, to a great
extent, live with them, or else do without work, and
it doesn’t like them in the same working party, or
as dwellers in the same hut, barrack, or whatever
the sleeping and abiding place is called. The
parson says this antipathy is unreasonable.
Therefore, let the parson show that he hasn’t got
it by taking a black or a brown wife to live
with him, or even a black or brown curate to
work with him and preach from the same pulpit
to the same white “flock.” Let his congregation
invite the Chinaman and the nigger to sit beside
them in their churches and beside their children in
their Sunday-schools, instead of setting up separate
churches and schools for them. Let the pastor
encourage the cheap nigger preacher whose com-
petition will cut down his salary, just as the cheap
nigger worker cut 3 down the white laborer s salary.
Let him hump the smallest scrap of the burden
himself, seeing that he says it isn’t a burden, but
a pleasure. And then the workers—the men who
have been there and understand —will perhaps
cease to utterly despise the parson. At present
they do utterly despise him—most of him, that is,
and regard him with the feelings mentioned in thu
23rd chapter of Matthew, verse 4.
+
Splitting 1 the Liberal Vote.
In various States the Laoor party has decided to
run three candidates for the three Senatorial seats
falling vacant at the end of the year. The policy
is a good one if it is well administered—but even
a good policy may turn out badly if injudiciously
applied. In Tasmania, for instance, the Labor
party should contest every seat if the alternative
lies in three Dobsons getting in ; there is no
electorate so hopeless as not to be worth fighting
for against a Dobson— a political Dobson, that
is. But there is always this point to be kept in
view—and perhaps it is a point which has not
been sufficiently emphasised" even by The
Bulletin : If the contest lies between three
would-be senators representing the M'Millan-
Robert Reid-Dobson-Spruce Myth import-
ing gang, throe representing the Government
and the policy of Kingston, Turner and
Deakin, and three Labor candidates, the Dobson
crowd will almost certainly win. The Labor
candidates and the Government candidates, rep-
resenting almost exactly the same brand of
Liberalism, will split the Liberal vote; the Tory
vote will go solid for the Spruce Myths and
Dobsons. A Labor candidate would attract
votes from Kingston, just because Kingston is
an enlightened Libera’.; he wouldn’t attract votes
from Spruce Myth, or Robert Reid, or old
Simon Fraser, for the man who would be in the
slightest danger of voting for Spruce Myth would
have nothing to do with Labor. Therefore it is to
be • hoped that the Labor unions’ decision
to run three candidates in each State isn’t
so cast-iron that it can’t be amended, should
circumstances call for amendment. The Govern-
ment can’t withdraw all its candidates and put
itself in the absurd position of having no party at
all of its own in the Senate. If it comes, in any
State, to a triangular fight between three sena-
torial candidates of the Dobson and Myth clan,
three representing the Kingston policy, and
three representing the Labor party —which has a
policy almost identical with Kingston’s but
which refuses to definitely belong to the King-
ston party, a compromise will be absolutely
necessary, else the Labor policy will simply
ensure the victory of the Dobson candidates and
give the Senate over to the most virulent kind of
Toryism. In a case like that the two parties
which represent Progress should agree to throw
overboard the three weakest candidates, whether
they are Laborites or Kingstonites—there should
be no hard and fast rule. The Labor party’s
decision to contest all the vacant seats should be
most distinctly a decision that is subject to
alteration.
4
Victoria’s Infamy.
A case that Magistrate Panton described as
“ most pitiable,” but which ought to make most
Victorians blush with shame for the administra-
tion of their Old Age Pensions Act, transpired,
not long since, at Melbourne City Court, when an
old man was sentenced to “ the rising of the
court ’’ for making a false declaration with a view
to getting a pension. The poor old wreck—he
was so feeble that he only climbed into the box
with difficulty, and lie was also paralysed in his
right hand—had sworn he was incapacitated from
working, and was granted Bs. a week. Before he
could draw a penny the Pensions administration
discovered that he had been breaking stones for
Beat's railways and had actually, with his one
hand,- earned 15s. in 11 days. This country’s
greatest orators were never more eloquent than
this battered toiler speaking to Panton:
“I am getting old, you see, arid I thought
by earning a little more there would be
no harm. I am heavily in debt to my landlady
and my grocer, and I wanted to clear them off
bifore I die. My right hand is useless, and it is
slow work with my left. I only broke five yards
in the last 11 days.” It is not, of course, the
sentence, but the effect of it, that constitutes the
scandal. He loses his pension. Any self-respect-
ing country —especially any country that was
given to blathering about the great deeds of its
old pioneers—would, instead of forcing this
sturdy, maimed old battler to beggary or suicide,
have increased his pension as a reward for his
sterling honesty and pluck, even if it had to
tax all the rich landlords in the country to
do so; but the villainous Kyabram Government
reckons no infamy beneath it. To its shameful
record of jobbery, lawlessness, repudiation, land-
grabbing, and customs-swindling, it now adds
another iniquity. The Bent-Irvine Government
has made the holding of an old age pension a
thing to be shunned ; instead of being a right of
which its possessor should be as proud as the
holderof theother—but oftenless deserved —sortof
pension, it has come to be a brand of pauperism,
only to be acquired at the loss of all self-respect.
Who shall say how many old poor—with a clearer
claim to their country’s gratitude than many a
pensioner drawing his hundreds a year—have
chosen to suffer in silence rather than face the in-
quisitorial questioning, the brutal rebuff, the
dragging wait, the open sneer of officialdom?
Truly, Victoria has sent in a dirty Government
to do its dirty work; and it is being done
thoroughly. And the Argus wants to know why
population fails to arrive, and why the men of the
State are getting away as fast as they can. Well,
it is partly because of the infamies, the petty
swindles, the mean, conscienceless dodges of the
unprincipled gang that calls itself a Reform
Government; the gang which robs the poor,
neglects the sick, and repudiates its agreements
with its own servants—to save the pockets of rich
landlords and affluent absentees.
Crick v. O’Connor.
The case of Crick v. O’Connor, heard recently in
the N.S.W. Courts, leaves a nasty taste in the
mouth. Dan O’Connor, out of business, out of
politics, out of nearly everything except words
and whiskers, wanted a seat in the House. He
had been a Freetrade Minister of a sort; but, as
they were the boots of a Protectionist that were
waiting to be filled, he reckoned that, the fiscal
issue having gone to the Federal Parliament, there
was nothing to prevent him following See. And
there wasn’t ; so far Daniel was right. But, then,
Daniel was hard up, and the seat would take some
getting; wherefore he had to get, not only the
Owe’See Ministry’s support, but also some of the
Owe-'See Ministry’s money. The business was
done through Crick. Daniel made a bill ;
Crick endorsed it. Crick, of course, had to pay.
That was early in 1900. Daniel continued to
support the Government until lately ; then, the
Government not looking so popular as it did, or
for some other reason, Dan left, and Demosthened
at Tamworth on Garland’s behalf. Crick then
publicly announced that Demosthenes would
have to pay up. A writ against him followed,
and Justice Pring ordered Dan to pay. For
three years, then, Dan O’Connor, M.L.A.,


was in the position of a man who,
having- signed a P.N., knew (assuming him to
have ordinary knowledge) that he was liable to
be fined £7O if he did anything of which Minister
Crick disapproved. Probably this wouldn’t
matter much to some men; but, on his own show-
ing, £7O is, or was, a matter of very great con-
sequence to Demosthenes O’Connor. Yet,
while he was in the position of being under a
personal bond of £7O to be of good political
behavior towards Crick, none raged more
vehemently than he against the bond which keeps
the Labor men together! Certainly O’Connor
eventually did kick; but, then, he says that, in
spite of the existence of the P.N., he did not be-
lieve that he would be called upon to pay. If
he had known that he was liable, it is
at least possible, if not probable, that he would
have postponed the kicking indefinitely. In that
case it would practically mean that Ministers, or
at any rate a Minister, had bought a vote for the
currency of Parliament at the dirt-cheap price of
.£7O. Political parties, of course, habitually do
buy seats. They put up the money to cover can-
didates’ expenses ; and seats are frequently lost
because they don’t put up enough—some other
party bids higher. But a new and far more
dangerous system is exposed here. This
money was not put up by a political
party; it was put up by men, or possibly by
one man alone, already in office, and in-
terested in remaining in office. A politician
accepting assistance on these terms would be
under an obligation not so much to maintain
certain political principles as to prolong the
Ministerial life of the man or the men who had
given him his seat. And, further, there was this
P.N., this bond—this ever-threatening fine of
what to a poor man is a very large sum, if he dared
to do what might seem to him to be his duty to
his constituents. If it were stated that a member
of the House was bribed with £7O to support a
Ministry, there would be a commotion. Yet, at
bottom, there is not much difference between
giving a bribe of .£7O and holding a
member’s P.N. for £7O, pressing for pay-
ment only when he doesn’t do what suits
the Ministry’s book. And it cannot be too
strongly insisted that bribery, in any form what-
ever, or anything in the shape of bribery, is the
bitterest enemy of democracy. With it demo-
cracy can afford to make no sort of terms what-
ever. A member’s vote represents the people’s
power; and when a member sells his vote,
or mortgages it in any shape or form,
he sells the people’s power and pockets the
proceeds. We have generally realised the
necessity for keeping the courts —that is, the
administration of the law—pure. It is doubtful
whether we have so fully realised the necessity
for keeping politics—that is, the manufacture of
the law—pure. We tolerate transactions in Par-
liament that we would not dream of tolerating on
the bench. And then we foolishly wonder how it
is that a. Parliament which is supposed to be
democratic i 3 so poor a reflection of the public
will.
»
The Canadian Note System.
The recent meeting of Chambers of Commerce at
Adelaide entered, almost as a matter of course,
its little stereotyped protest against the proposal
to adopt, the Canadian banking system in Austra-
lia. It is one of Australia’s misfortunes that its
Tory party goes on the simple, unreasoning policy
of assuming that everything which theLaborparty
approves of must be nefarious; it has got this
idea so badly that. if Labor made breathing a
prominent plank in its platform the Tory section
would probably try to leave that off immediately.
And in the present case the Tory crowd has got a
strangely stupid and incomprehensible idea that
the Canadian note system is a Labor idea—which
it isn’t; the great bulk of the Laborites probably
never heard of it, or, at least, never considered it.
The idea is based on these broad and simple and
incontrovertible propositions:
(1) Australia employs, in its currency, a larger pro-
portion of gold and a smaller proportion of paper money
than almost any other country on earth. Compared with
England, for instance, the proportion of gold to paper in
use is absurdly high.
(2) The Commonwealth has, as a regular thing, about
£20,000,000 of coin lying in its banks in addition to the
amount in circulation.
(3) The Commonwealth owes, reckoning its public
debts alone, something like £200,000,000 to foreign credi-
tors. Therefore this £20,000,000 of gold in its banks all
represents borrowed money.
(4) If one-half this amount (€10,000,000) could be re-
placed by paper, and the £10,000,000 thus set free applied
in reduction of the country’s foreign debt, the saving in
interest would be about £350,000 a year.
These are the incontrovertible features of the
case. As for the debateable features, the experi-
ence of England, Scotland, France, Germany, the
United States, Canada—in fact, of every rich and
solvent country on earth—shows that there is
absolutely no need for so enormous a proportion
of gold currency as compared with paper. The
experience of conservative Canada, which requires
its banks, to hold a large proportion of their cash
reserves in Government notes,' especially proves
that there is no need whatever to keep so huge a
proportion of gold in the banks. And the experi-
ence of common sense proves that it is a most
wasteful process to pay £350,000 a year interest
merely for the satisfaction of knowing that
£10,000,000 more gold than is really wanted is
lying out of sight in bank strong-rooms. The
frantic complaints of certain bank potentates, who
call this proposal “confiscation,” and similar silly
expressions, have no bearing on the case. If the
proposal is carried, it will mean simply that the
Federal Parliament, which is the people, decides
that the bank depositors, who are also the people
—the same people—will be content in future teat
a part of their deposits shall be held in State
paper money, in order that they may save part of
their interest bill. If the people so decide through
their own Parliament, as regards their own money,
no impertinent bank manager has a right to com-
plain. He doesn’t own the deposits, though he may
nave a mistaken idea that he does. His impressions
that the idea is “new ” and “ revolutionary ” and
“a Labor fad” are similar delusions. It isn’t
new; it comes from a most conservative British
possession ; and it has gained support here from
men of almost all classes, but not to any great
extent from the Labor party which, unhappily,
pays little attention to financial problems. Un-
fortunately, Australian banking is largely directed
by ancient and fossilised persons with little
experience outside Australia —and the taking of
deposits and lending of money on more or less
dubious securities don’t necessarily supply a wide
outlook into problems qf public finance. Un-
fortunately, also, when a man has taken deposits
for a long time, he always thinks that he knows
all about public finance, and sometimes he gets
other people to agree with him.
♦
The Raven's “Surplus.”
Victoria’s Bent-Irvine-Shiels Government
reckons it has closed the financial year with
an alleged surplus of £153,000. The matter isn’t
absolutely certain yet, for the accounts are not
fully adjusted, but it certainly appears that
Raven Shiels has an alleged surplus. Of course
as regards a real surplus the case is quite
different. Shiels annexed a large part of George
Turner’s sinking fund, the accumulation of past
years, and called it current revenue. He stole, in
a political way, a great part of the railway stores
and railway accident funds, also accumulations of
past years, and called them current revenue. _ He
postponed payment of certain heavy liabilities,
and called that money current revenue. But for
these things he would have had a deficit of
about £200,000, and these things are steals—
not finance. Then the Federal Government,
mainly through Turner’s economy and the care
with which Kingston collected the revenue from
swindling importers, was able to return to Victoria
£234,000 more than was expected, otherwise the
deficit would have been over half-a-million.
Shiels’s success doesn’t arise from any financial
capaoity on that dreary Raven’s part; Federal
Treasurer Turner supplied the capacity, and
Shiels himself only annexed the sinking funds —
a thing that Bill Sykes, burglar, could have done
quite as effectively if the crowbar held out.
Nevertheless the Bent-Shiels-Irvine Govern-
ment has done something, and its life hasn’t been
wholly barren of results. The railway deficit,
under its unutterably stupid management, has
increased rather than diminished. The public
funds have been squandered to carry the stock
of rich pastoralists free, or almost free. They
have been squandered again by a monstrous system
of granting ten-years free railway passes to rich
house-owners in the Melbourne suburbs. The
State Governor is as expensive as ever. The rich
property-owners of Melbourne are still exempt
from land-tax —a thing that hardly exists in any
other country in the world. But nearly £173,000
has been saved by swindling the railway men out
of one day’s pay a week, and £70,000 by robbing
the sick and aged poor of their old age pen-
sions. And the Irvine-Bent-Shiels Govern-
ment, realising that still more money will be
wanted next year (for the stolen sinking-fund
can’t be stolen over again), is already looking to the
future. It doesn’t propose to tax the rich and
pious landlords of Melbourne, but it is going to
rob the sick and aged poor some more. The old age
pensions are to be again cut down, and this time
there will be very little left of them—by making
what is now the lowest pension rate the highest
rate in future it is expected that the pension ex-
penditure will be reduced to £200,000 a year.
This line of conduct is so worthy of that Ministry
of callous time-servers that it isn’t likely to excite
any surprise. And, after all, it isn’t an unmixed
evil. Amid all this incapacity and degrading
meanness there is always one satisfaction; the
doings of the man who looks like a bloodless
death’s-head, and of the thick man who yells, and of
the long, wordy weakling with the silly epigram,
are constantly hastening the time when the Aus-
tralian Government will take over the old age
pension business and levy a heavy land-tax on
Victoria’s 48 Rich Landlords, and a special tax on
its absentees, and an extra special tax on the huge
estates of its Clarkes and Manifolds, to supply
the means.
♦
The Federal Judiciary.
The present position of the Judiciary Bill before
the Australian Parliament is that the Bench will
consist of the entirely inadequate number of three
Judges, who will be paid, as regards the Chief
Justice £3500 a year, as regards the puisne Judges
£3OOO a year, without any pension rights. This
compares with the N.S.W. rate of £3500 a year
for the Chief Justice and £2600 for each of six
puisne Judges with pension rights that, roughly,
equal one half of the salary, as a retiring allow-
ance. A Judge is generally at least middle-aged
before he secures a seat on the Bench, sometimes he
is inclined to be elderly, occasionally he is actually
old. In N.S.W. if a Judge, a day after being
appointed to the Supreme Court Bench, is stricken
down by illness, he is entitled to draw a pension
until the last days of his life. Nor need he lag on
the Bench after advancing age has destroyed his
inclination to work; the pension is also payable
on voluntary retirement after 15 years’ work. A
N.S.W. Judge’s pension rights thus represent a
full 50 per cent, increase on the fixed salary. To
a man of, say, 55, £3500 a year whilst he is able to
work, with an insurance of £l5OO a year for life in
case of accidental or natural disablement, is worth
quite £5OOO a year, and £2600 a year, under the
same pension conditions pro rata, is worth £3900.
The Commonwealth is therefore, so far, committed
to the policy of trying to get Judges at £3500 and
£3OOO a year when one State pays £5OOO and
£3900. Further, the Commonwealth makes its
chance of securing the best talent available the
poorer, because it is able to hold out no induce-
ment to its Chief Justice that he will be able
occasionally to occupy the highly lucrative and
socially very desirable position of acting-Governor.
Its chance of getting first-class judicial ability is,
on that comparison, a remarkably poor one. It
shows as still poorer when it is remembered that
in N.S.W., at the salaries now ruling, it is always
difficult, and sometimes impossible, to secure
the best man available for a seat on the Bench,
because the pay offered plus the honor and also
plus the disadvantages, doesn’t equal his earn-
ings at the Bar. The present Chief Justice was
only persuaded into accepting the position by an
appeal to his patriotism, and, responding to it, he
made a large monetary sacrifice. When the last
vacancy on the Supreme Court Bench was filled,
it is generally reported that all three of the men
who were considered the best fitted for the
position were unwilling to accept it, and that a
fourth choice had to be made in Mr. Pring. A
man earning £3500 at the Bar, or even something
less than that, is not, as a rule, willing to become
a puisne Judge at £2600 a year and pension rights.
He probably reckons on being able to earn a
higher income some day. He knows that as a
Judge he will have to submit to very many
social deprivations. He will have to drop,
perhaps, some of his chums. He certainly cannot
take a nice girl who is not closely related .to him
to the theatre and to supper. He must not stroll into
a public bar for a drink. His financial investments
must be conducted with a cautious eye on the
possibility of a conflict with his judicial position.
In short, the Supreme Court Judge who is con-
scientious has to be a being apart from his
fellow-men—a personage of frozen dignity in
whom a small fault shows as a great sin. For
these and other reasons N.S.W. finds it extremely
difficult to get good puisne Judges on conditions
equal to £3900 a year salary, and has sometimes to
appoint the second, or third, or fourth best man.
Inevitably the Federation, paying less than
N.S.W., will have to put up with the fifth or
sixth best man, unless the Senate intervenes and
insists on the salary conditions being liberalised—
or unless, of course, it selects its Judges exclusively
from Tasmania and S.A., where the Federal
wage compares better with local rates; in
these States it may get the second-best
men. Then the Commonwealth will have,
as guardian of. its constitution, a Bench made
up of men inferior in ability to those who plead
before them, and probably inferior in conscien-
tiousness to the members of the State benches, for,
though conscientiousness is not directly purchase-
able, it is almost certain that, when the range of
selection is narrowed down to inferior men,
there will be some loss in that respect. Ihe
Bulletin appeals to the Australian Parliament in
this momentous business transaction to shed the
narrow considerations of a false and injurious
economy, to cast aside those traditions of hob-nailed
radicalism which are begotten of ignorance and
prejudice; to flout that section of its membership
which still cherishes a secret hope _of Australia
relapsing into disunion ; and to consider again, in
the light of common-sense conclusions from proved
facts, the question of the High Court. Australia
wants to be judicially as well as financially in-
dependent. It wants a High Court which will
carry such weight and command such respect that
it will become, in time, the final Court of Appeal
in all matters. And no fifth-rate judiciary will
supply that want.
Journalistic Brigands.
"L.W.” whites
The Victorian railway strike and the abolition by the
See Ministry of the free carriage of newspapers in N.S. YV.,
are responsible for the sudden awakening of the people of
the two most populous States to the fact that the “ great
dailies” are venal and corrupt. In fact, that they have
ceased to be newspapers and have become mere hired liars
and prevaricators, who will resort to any degree of mis-
representation, go to any lengths to increase dividends or
to bolster up the class to which they belong.
During the strike in Victoria, it has been alleged and
not denied, that one paper printed in its country editions
that the town men were giving way and rushing to make
terms with the insufferable Bent and the lawless Irvine.
In the city editions, the country men were represented
as giving way ; the result was that panic fell on the strike
leaders, and they and their men were injured as unionists,
and as private individuals, for the rest of their lives, in
Victoria anyhow, by this scandalous misrepresentation
and false information.
During the same strike the Sydney dailies were only a
very little way behind their Victorian confreres in the
campaign of lies and misrepresentation and calumny ;
but it was when the See Government abolished the free
newspaper trains that the Sydney boss prevaricator, the
Oareygraph, rose to the zenith of its career as an in-
terested, shameless barracker. In fact, it ceased to be a
barracker and became a highwayman. When its bonus
was turned off at the tap, the Telegraph whined and
howled like a kicked cur that “ the light was being shut
out,” that private newspaper enterprise was being
crushed out by a revengeful Government by means of
excessive and penal railway charges, and so on.
This saturnalia of direct and deliberate falsehood
mixed with tricky misrepresentation has done good.
Everywhere one hears the same sentiment expressed :
that something needs to be done to make the daily papers
tell the truth ; or to at least punish them when they tell
malicious lies about large sections of the public to further
either their own interests or those of the gangs
with whom their proprietors are associated.
Under existing law, the paper that maligns John Smith
by publishing a statement that he was married on
Tuesday last, when, as a matter of fact, he was burying
his late wife, can be cast in heavy damages. Yet it
doesn’t do John Smith any real lasting harm, although it
may cause him annoyance and temporarily alienate
friends who would otherwise have called round to drink
the whisky of condolence.
And yet the same paper which may not cause John
Smith annoyance by speaking of him as a private indivi-
dual may grossly libel him as a member of a class or a
union. It can falsely hold him up to envy, hatred, and
contempt as one of a number of men who are trying, by
lawless and villainous methods, to rob the public, and, by
misrepresentation, it can bring John Smith to utter
disaster, reduce his wages, or deprive him of them
altogether, and cause him to suffer actual distress and
his children to go short of food ; but because it libelled
him along with a thousand others, a fool law allows the
paper, which is really one of a gang of conspirators, to go
scot free.
What is required is an extension of the existing libel
law by which any corporate body, Ministry or registered
organisation, can recover damages for misrepresentation.
If it is a crime to libel one man, it is infinitely more
criminal to libel a thousand. Had such a law been in
force, both the Argus and Age, and all the Sydney dailies,
might have been struck for thousands of pounds
damages for their treatment of the Victorian rail-
way strikers. Also, under such an Act, the Sydney
Daily Telegraph could not tell lies about the See Minis-
try in order to throw dust in the eyes of the public while
it got its greedy paw into the public’s pocket. When the
spieler takes down the unsophisticated yokel, town or
country, by false pretences, he goes to gaol, and there
is no reason why the journalistic inagsmen who are trying
to take down the N.S.W. public for several thousand per
annum just now should not also go to gaol.
In addition to making the newspaper proprietors liable
for the injustice inflicted and the harm done to corporate
bodies by misrepresentation, another Act is needed to
punish the paper which wilfully misleads the public by
spreading false news. Also, every paper should be
obviously and prominently divided into two parts : one
the newspaper, the news'disseminator; the other the
comment-paper, in which the publication would advocate
its views.
The effect of the second Act would be to prevent the
coloring of news, which is the partisan rag’s chief weapon
to-day. News is not published impartially; it is dis-
torted, colored, and very often large sections are sup-
pressed in order to bolster up the views of the journal, and
advance the interests of the crowd which the paper
supports.
Federal Judges—Here and Elsewhere.
In the discussions on the Australian Judiciary
Bill, there have been several comparisons with
the United States judiciary system—comparisons
quite meaningless without a special knowledge of
the circumstances. American Federal Court
salaries were fixed by the Constitution more than
100 years ago, at a time when money was worth
quite double its present purchasing power ; £2lOO
for the Chief Justice and £2OOO for Associate
Justices were then liberal salaries. Now they are
miserably poor, but they have never been increased
owing to the great difficulty in amending the Con-
stitution. The result is that Federal judgeships
are confined to men who have already made their
fortunes at the Bar, and to University professors
of law who are in comfortable circumstances. No
Judge dreams of living on his Federal Court
salary which, taking into account the much higher
present cost of existence in an exalted social posi-
tion in the United States, compared with Aus-
tralia, is really less than the same sum would
represent here. If Australia is prepared to confine
its Judgeships to men of fortune, poor salaries
will serve. But are those men to be found at
the Australian Bar in sufficient numbers to allow
of a reasonable range of choice? It would be a
bold man who would say “yes.” Those anti-
Federalists who cited the American example in
regard to the salaries of Judges forgot to say any-
thing about the same country’s system as to the
number of its Judges. The Federal Judges of the
United States number 134 ; of these the nine who
are reserved for the special work of the District of
Columbia (Australia has no Federal State as yet)
may be deducted, for -purposes of comparison,
leaving the number at 125. These 125 Federal
Judges are, of course, quite distinct from the State
Judges, and they are nob available as a court
of appeal from State court decisions. The two
judicial systems, the Federal and the State, are
absolutely dissociated ; the Federal cannot inter-
fere with the State, or the State with the Federal.
In Australia the High Court is empowered to act
as an alternative court of appeal to the British
Privy Council and to be an Appellate Court from
the State Supreme Courts in all matters. Yet the
Australian Parliament proposes that three Judges
shall do the work for 5,000,000 people which it
takes 125 Judges to do for 70,000,000 people
in a mucli more restricted sphere of usefulness.
That is a comparison which should be commended
to the anti-Federalists, if they wish examples
from America, for it points to the need of nine or
ten Australian Federal Judges—say five Supreme
Court Judges and four of lower grade, to exercise
primary jurisdiction in small Federal cases.
Switzerland, again, with a population much less
than Australia, and with less than the area of
Tasmania for its Judges to travel over, has 23
Federal Judges—l 4 of the first and 9 of the second
grade. In fact, all Federal examples point to the
miserable inadequacy of the proposed Australian
Court.
» ■
The session of the S.A. Parliament just com-
menced promises to be barren and desolate as a
far northern plain. There is not likely to be
even a no-confidence debate. The Conservative
Opposition doesn’t want anything done, and
Jenkins Iscariot and his three colleagues are
evidently quite willing to accept those terms apd
so remain in office undisturbed. As Opposition, •
leader Darling knows, Jenkins can do nothing
even better than he could do it himself; and,
besides, Darling is busy, so it pays him best to
hire Jenkins (at public expense) to do the nothing
that he wants done. Time will be filled in with -
two or three railway bills; and the necessary,
excuse for talking at large and (if it looks
advisable) talking in a large, free, progressive way,
will be provided by a Bill which will profess
to liberalise the Constitution. Jenkins’s present
proposal is to extend household suffrage to the
Legislative Council. At present, while a Crow-
eater can vote for a Senator because he is a man,
he can’t vote for a candidate for the poor little
local Legislative Council unless he possesses also
a £25 rental or £5O freehold qualification. Even
Irvine induced the Vic. House of 48 Rich Land-,
lords to accept a rental qualification £lO lower
than that; and, without feeling that he had sacri-
ficed too much to democracy, Darling might
surely let his poor Jenkins go as far as Irvine
was willing to go.
Says Sydney Telegraph :
The Wilcannia and Aberdeen also took away a numbej
of skilled artisans seeking a better labor market.
And what wonder ? To the iron, steel and brass
worker, the machinery worker, the cotton, woollen
and silk weaver and spinner—to almost every
artisan of skill N.S.W. says : “ There is nothing
here for you to do; M‘Millan imports these
things for us, and the Sydney Telegraph tells us
we should confine ourselves to the ‘ great natural
industries.’ You can apply at the Bureau for a
stone-breaking job if you like; or go out west and
pick wool off dead sheep ; or you can go on. the
land —for every bit of good land that the Govern-
ment offers there are about 200 applicants, and
the crop last year was two bushels to the acre.”
What wonder that they are leaving ?
Meagher, M.L.A., has a motion to lay before
N.S.W. Assembly which, though it might be im-
proved on, deserves the support of every sane and
sensible member of that body. It reads as
follows :
That, in the opinion of this House, it is desirable for
the consolidation of public credit that all moneys accru-
ing to the State from the Federal Government under the
Braddon clause should be placed in a sinking fund for the
reduction and redemption of loans.
The trouble in such a case, of course, is that in a
year or two, a dishonest Government and an
impecunious Treasurer would steal the sinking
fund just as Shiels has annexed Turner’s, and get
back into the old rut. Why not put the motion
this way;
That it is desirable to leave off borrowing and build
public works out of the money accruing to the State from
the Federal Government.
That when we have practised this course for a few
years, and learned the rudiments of self-reliance, a
further step should be taken by the establishment of a
sinking fund to pay off our old public debts; but the
first essential is to stop incurring new public debts.
New South Wales, by the way, has already a kind
of sinking fund—a comic opefa thing. It was
devised for the repayment of the deficit —the one
that has been hanging round for 17 years. The:
trouble is that the full payment to the fund is
seldom made, also that almost as regularly as
£150,000 of old deficit is paid off £200,000 of new
deficit is added on—sometimes more than that.
The N.S.W. “Reform League” has been gather-
ing itself together again at Sydney Town Hall,
with Stinson in the chair, and moving the same
old resolutions. Then some ancient political
has-beens and hide and skin merchants joined ti.e
League, and it was decided that great progress
was being made. In reality nobody pays any
more attention to the N.S.W. Reform League
now than if it were a stamp-collecting league, or
a Browning Society, or a tea-meeting. It is dead.
It was born dead. It attracts to itself estimable
men like H. S. Badgery, who held a portfolio for
24 days in a terribly dead Ministry 18 years ago.
A movement that doesn’t carry the country with
a rush, and which only attracts the venerable
landmarks of the State, has no show. It wants
young men; it wants enthusiasm and fight—not
tombstones and dust and old fogeyism; above all, it
wants a programme—not platitudinous blather
about “ good government ” and “ responsible
government ” and “ the constitution.” A party
that would say: “Put us in power and, come
what will, we won’t borrow another penny, except
for the renewal of old loans; we won’t have
deficits; and we will find £1,500,000 a year for
public works,” and said it convincingly, would get
a hearing. A party that said almost anything
definitely would get a hearing. But the land is
sick of platitudes, maundering and half-hearted •
ness,
4
After much discussion it is understood that the
N.S.W. Cabinet has somewhat altered its views
as to the method of taking the referendum on the
question of the reduction of the Assembly
membership. The ballot-paper will probably
start with the question : “Are you in favor of the
reduction of members?” Those who vote “No ”
will be assumed to favor the present Assembly
membership of 125. Possibly some of them would
favor an increased membership, but that question
is wisely left out. Then thoso who want a reduc-
tion will indicate how many members they think
is a fair thing, and an elaborate average will be
struck among those who want no reduction (they,
will be presumed to favor the present 125), those
who want 110,100, 90, 80, 70 and so on. Supposing
100,000 votes are recorded—2o,ooo against reduc-
tion, 30,000 for an Assembly of 100 members, 10,000
for 90 members, 10,000 for 80, 20,000 for 70, and
10,000 for 60 the result will be an average ver-
dict for an Assembly of 92. The result is bound
to be some kind of a reduction, and if
elector votes for what he really thinks to be a fair
thing, the average of public opinion will be very
evenly arrived at. On the other hand, if the man
who wants 80 members votes for 60 in order to
have a better chance of getting 80 by neutralising
the fellow who votes for 125, the result won’t be
quite so accurate. Still, the only objection, that
can be taken is that a vote upon the abolition of
the Legislative Council should have been in-
cluded. To give the electors a chance of express-
ing their views about the useful half of Parliament
and not about the useless one is a very poor joke.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Lyceum ~ “ In the Shadow of Night.”
Royal Mice and Men” and “Sweet
•■■■ Nell ” (Wednesday matinee).
Tivoli. ; Rickards’ Co.
Palace “Arizona.”
Criterion “ Two Little Vagabonds.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s....;. ....... “The Fortune Teller.”
Her Majesty’s.. ...... “ The Belle of New York.”
Theatre Royal... “ Breaking of the Drought."
Opera House Rickards’Vaudeville Co.
Town Hall Westminster Abbey Glee Party.
—♦
Cuyler Hastings is to finish his season at
Sydney Royal with two nights (Thursday and
Friday) of the “ Christian.” The Bulletin
admits to being interested in the “Christian.”
It is a mournful tale about the uselessness of
priests, parsons, churches, cathedrals, and all the
rest of the religious utensils as social reforming
influences. The. worldly canon who leaves things
alone does nothing to lighten the aggregate of
human woe. The Brotherhood of the Holy
Gethsemane, mooning and mouldering in its
cloisters, does nothing. The frantic priest,
throwing himself up against the Established
Older of Things like a cockroach bounding at
a battlement, does nothing either. The Bulletin
pins its faith more and more to legislation as a
means of reform after seeing dramas like
th§ “ Christian.” In a few favored countries, such
as Denmark, legislation has abolished extreme
poverty, and with that has gone, in a great
measure, the wooden, hungry, brutalising
ignorance which makes it useless for the John
Storms of this world to talk to the masses ; the
gin with wliich they try to drown their misery ;
the feeling of revolt which makes them bounce a
bripk on Father Storm’s head ; the dirt, the slums,
the barrow of prawns, the girl who goes wrong,
and the scarecrow who howls at the gate of the
Holy Gethsemane for shelter. It has even
abolished Canon Wealthy and Lord Robert Ure,
because, as the poor have more money, there is
less; left for those utterly obnoxious persons, and
they have to find work. And the church, for its
part, only talks about shadows and points up to
heaven in the morning, and points up to
heaven again at night, regardless of the fact that
what was up in the morning is down at night
owing to the revolution of the earth in the
interval.
**. * *
When John Storm has finished perishing
in his slum, Nellie Stewart comes to play a fare-
well season at the Royal, beginning on Saturday.
There will be a week of “ Mice and Men,” a week
of Haddon Chambers’ “ Dolores,” and a week of
a double bill —“ A Country Mouse ” and “ A Pan-
tomime Rehearsal.” Also, every Wednesday
there will be a matinee of “Sweet Nell of Old
Drury.” Then Our Nell goes to London. We
would sooner have lost Bent any day.
* * . * &
Miss Maggie Moore closes her Sydney
season at the Palace on Friday, and the energetic
lady should have a warm farewell from the public,
which owes her much and which may never have
a chance to owe her any more. “ Killarney,”
which is being, played this week, is the usual
Irish melodrama with the eviction, the landlord,
the;'noble English officer, the ignoble Irish
informer,'ahd the doodleflap about Ireland being
the brightest gem in the empire’s crown—the land
of absent snakes, also of saints, scholars, heroes,
and Dan O’Connor. It marked a serious degenera-
tion in Irish character when the down-trodden
peasant with the O put by his blunderbuss and
began to listen, with mouth agape, to the
praise of such drartlas as “ Killarney.” No en-
tirely self-respecting people would take pleasure
in the fact.that, the nation which was sitting on
its .qhest praised at the same time the color of its
noble eye-ami the curl of its hyaeinthine locks..
However,' pieces of the “Killarney” type do
take ; the colleen and the omadhaun flock to hear
of their own glories, and the Englishman attends
to shibtv what a beastly generous and unprejudiced
oerspn Be is—ready to forgive everybody to whom
he has done a wrong. Miss Moore’s company is
more, at home with “Killarney” than with
previous pieces. The eo. has a good collective
brogue, and the principal sings the incidental
Irish songs with fine feeling.
The land of the. wooden Ham and of the
Japhet in search of a titled great-grandfather is
becoming a big competitor for theatrical favor in
Australia, Soarcelv had there been removed from
the Sydney Royal the drama of the Yankee at the
Court of King Louis than an almost entirely
’Murkan co. prepared to enter the Palace and
provide St;#s-and-Stripes comedy. The cO., which
has just moved up from Melbourne, is said to boast
of much wit and beauty, and its opening play is
‘ ‘ Arizona ' - -of which, also, good things are said.
* -* *
When Charles Holloway went to the bin
in whieh every manager keeps the “ books ” of the
plays that have not wholly failed, he could hardly
have fished out a better for his purpose than
“Two Little Vagabonds,” with whieh he opened
at Sydney Criterion on Saturday. It is one of the
best samples of subdued melodrama in Hollo-
way’s, or anybody else’s, bin.- One or two
past productions of it are still remembered for
their merit; and the only fear was that Charles
Holloway did not have the power, at his disposal
to play up to the standard either of the piece or
o.f thpse past performances. For the “Two Little
Vagabonds ” presents some pretty considerable
difficiilties. In ordinary melodrama you are swept
away by the general shriekiness of the business;
here, in & more subdued atmosphere, a little
over-doing, a little ranting, will expose the
utter improbability of the whole thing, and you
will turn away with a “pish” of disgust or an
“ 000-ah ”of weariness. Holloway’s company
conforms pretty well to its atmosphere, and on
the whole the performance is a success. Miss
Beatrice Holloway and Miss Lashbrook are the
two vagabonds, the one without a cough and want-
ing to be a carpenter, and the other with a cough
and wanting to be a blacksmith. Miss Holloway
looks her part even better than she plays it; and
generally she plays it well. She falls distinctly
short only in that difficult scene in which she
recalls dim memories of her babyhood, and finally
realises that she is back in the old home
again. It is a bewitching little character
though, altogether—indeed a bewitching little
partnership. Miss Conroy is a satisfactory
Rose Thornton, the chubby waif’s mother;
Vivian Edwards (George Thornton) has one
of the heaviest parts he has yet played, and
succeeds very well in artistically smothering in
the first act the rankest of the improbabilities of
the plot which are put upon his shoulders. “The
Gaffer” (J. P. O’Neill) and “The Gaffer’s”
drunken wife (Miss Faning), the most repulsive
characters in the show, deserve also a word; and
so does the magnificent apparel of “ The Cough-
drop.” “ The Vagabonds ” will last till further
notice.
** * *
Though dark shadows of villainy continue
to hang around Sydney Lyceum, there are just
at present rather less dark stains of blood than
usual upon the stage. “In the Shadow of
Night,” produced on Saturday, is new to the
city—that is to say, as new as any conventional
melodrama ever is. Inman is still an injured
heir, unjustly accused, robbed of his inherit-
ance by H. O. Willard, who, by this time,
must have most infamously done Inman out
of at least £25,000,000. Willard, still the bad
man in fine clothes, hires the usual bad man in
poor clothes to kill Inman’s rich father, and
fastens the guilt on to Inman as usual, and then
tries to sneak Inman’s girl. (Thisis the 113th girl
of Inman’s he has tried to sneak.) Finally, mainly
through the usual ragged small boy whom nobody
notices, Willard’s villainy is exposed, and the cur-
tain falls as usual on Willard in the hands of the
police, on one side ; Bert Bailey (dragged in, on
this occasion with much violence, to make comedy)
playing pranks with his girl on the other side ;
and in the middle Inman with his girl, saying
“ Cleared-d-da at-t-ta last-t-ta.” (This is the
27,533 rd time Inman has been cleared.) The
chief unusualness of “In the Shadow of Night”
is that James Willard, who wrote the piece,
having neglected to supply a bad woman, Miss
Guildford has to be a heroine ; and though she is
an unusually good bad woman, she hasn’t the
sympathetic voice and the clinging manner re-
quired by the quite satisfactory melodramatic
heroine. Still, in spite of its usualness (and
even with the unusualness just mentioned
the bulk of it is quite usual), the piece
is far ahead of most of them in quality; its con-
struction is better, and though the alleged comedy
is often wearisome, its dialogue is much above the
average. On points the villains would win from
the virtuous ; G. P. Carey does especially well as
the coarse villain. Sterling Whyte is, as usual,
killed early in the show—he is the rich old man,
and it is necessary for the rich old man to leave
early. This paper, which had been to see Sherlock
Hastings, began to suspect on Saturday that
Whyte was going to turn out a fraud this time,
because a real country squire wouldn’t get off a
horse as Whyte does when he first turns up. For
the rest the consistent Inman is a satisfactory
hero, Lawrence Dunbar an impossible parson
(which isn’t Dunbar’s fault), and Gladys Hughes
a very successful small boy with a large part.
Miss Buckley has had parts that have suited her
much better. The scenery and effeots are as
imposing as usual; the explosion of a wharfside
petroleum store was acclaimed by a densely
packed house on Saturday as a perfect triumph.
** * #
Sydney Tivoli continues to flourish on the
attractiveness of Rudinoff, whose powers of enter-
tainment are only limited by the way in which he
overworks his jokes. Of course the little jokes
are not in any way essential; it is the whistling
and the art ability which attract chiefly. But
seeing that the little jokes are there they ought to
be changed occasionally in sympathy with the
rest of the programme. The ‘ ‘ first part ”at this
theatre is now kept up to a good standard of
brightness with frequent changes in the performers
and their items.
* »
Directed by Mr. Philip Lytton, “The
Players” played “The Guv’nor” at Sydney
Criterion on Friday night; but the performance,
though in spots most creditable, did not reach the
level arrived at. by the same co. in “The Magi-
strate” a week before. The first act dragged
drearily ; but there was some atoning brightness
after that. The largest of the honors lying
around was annexed by Mr. L. Dale, as the
country _ yokel, who, coming down to serve as
groom, is mistaken for somebody else, and is-
whisked into the Guv’nor’s house, and almost
into his family ; the others were shared by Mr.
W. J. Curtis, the deaf boat-builder; Mr. P.
Winchcombe, the Guv’nor; and Miss Corbett,
the Guv’nor’s wife.
*# * *
Mrs. Walter Baker, who is making her
way as a reciter, gave a recital and concert at
Sydney Centenary Hall last week before a good
audience—also a pleased audience. Mr. Hugh
Buckler, who has some vogue in London as a
dramatic entertainer, assisted Mrs. Baker. The
principal item of the programme was a scene
from the “ Lady of Lyons,” in which the Great
Smoke artist gave his high falutin’ lines in the
way that always thrills 17-year-old Gwendoline
and 22-year Guy to the very bottom of their senti-
mental hearts. Mrs. Baker was best in a funny,
frothy, little comedietta written around a ball-
room flirtation. Mr. Fred Pauley (who is a son
of the writer of “ Charley’s Aunt ”) took the part
of the male flirt —a perfectly idiotical young
officer.
** * *
At Melbourne Princess’s the revival of
“ Thirty Thieves,” for one week, shows an im-
provement on last year’s production of that weak-
minded tale. The performance is more crisp.
Edward Lauri seems to put new work into it, and
the Lord Mayor (Henry Hallam) is more in
harmony with the surrounding foolishness than
the person who originally filled his position. Also
Shirley has slightly changed for the better (which
was pretty certain to happen if he changed
at all) and Miss Stanton strikes one as
having a rather rounder figure and sweeter
voice and less effusiveness than of yore. But
when all due credit has been given to the
comedians, orchestra and fittings of “ The Thirty
Thieves ” the fact remains that it is a puerile
musical extravaganza, although the programme
calls it “sparking.” The situations are absurd,
not humorous, and the dialogue lies upon the
chest of memory like a lump of lead. The lyrics
are lighter than the talk, the dances are prefer-
able to the songs, the mounting of the piece
seems too good for it. Next Saturday the
satisfactory “Fortune Teller” comes along for a
six nights revival, and then a new opera—“ The
Serenade.”
*# * *
Her Majesty’s is closed for breathing-time
between the departure of “Arizona” and the
arrival of Williamson’s Musical Comedy Co.,
somewhat libelled in its earlier days by the title
No. 2 Opera Co. The company due at Her
Majestyis on Satuday (11th) will be partly new
and wholly interesting to Melbourne, and it will
open the campaign with “The Belle of New
York,” which musical comedy has not been tried
in Melbourne since the time when it was first in-
troduced by a company which came and went,
and was soon forgotten. The least forgotten of
that old crowd is Oscar Girard, who played
Ichabod Bronson, and died at Adelaide.
** # *
The Drought will Break for another
week or two at Melbourne Royal, and the innards
of numerous small boys from Little Bourke-street
will continue to rejoice in the meat-pie portion of
Bland Holt’s drama. Public opinion is divided
as to whether the Ist act, or the meat-pie scene,
or the mixed-bathing episode has most to do with
the prosperity of “The Drought.” Probably the
pies and the pathos at Paddy’s Market are the
principal factors in the success—especially the
pathos. It harrows the gallery’s feelings
when the bad young man in the beautiful
clothes finds his aged mother dispensing
ha’porths of korfee. There is another deeply
affecting moment when poor old mother gets
knocked down with a vegetable cart, and
her husband, the ex-squatter, curses their
luxurious offspring, who apparently keeps a
first-class harem on the proceeds of the family
ruin. And again there is more pathos when
the young man leaves his mother suffering from
the effects of the vegetable cart, and sees his pure
young sister pretending to suffer from the effects
of drink. This scene loses a little impressiveness
from the fact that Miss Ross, as the pure
young sister, starts her impersonation of
boozed innocence by waving her pocket
handkerchief. Familiarity has bred contempt
for Miss Ross’s favorite histrionic effect.
In joy or sorrow, health or sickness, the lady
never gets away from her handkerchief. It is in
evidence when she accepts an offer of marriage
from Baker, or rejects the base proposals of Nor-
man. She clutches it, handles it daintily, twists
it with both hands, rolls it into a ball, waves it
like a flag, or uses it as a duster. In fact, she
applies it to every purpose except the one for
which handkerchiefs were originally invented.
But there may come a time when Miss Ross will
blow her dear little nose and put the persistent
mouchoir out of sight.
*# * *
Hugh Ward’s determination to quit Aus-
tralia for England seems to have been rather
sudden, and not unconnected with his recent
change from Williamson’s Comic Opera Co. to the
Frawley Dramatic co. Anyway, the nimble Hugh
was to take a complimentary benefit at Her
Majesty’s (Melbourne) last Tuesday, “on the eve
of his departure for London,” and “Trial by
Jury,” with barrister Purves as the Judge, was
added to the “Arizona” bill in honor of the
occasion. Hugh Ward came to Australia with
Harry Conor and co., on Conor’s second visit,
just four years ago, and made a particular success
as an ancient buck—the Gayest Old Sport of them
all—in “A Stranger in New York,” before
Williamson engaged him for the opera co. He
was convincing in old men parts, on account of
his weak, foggy voice and rather indistinct enun-
ciation, and his make-up as a stereotyped, polite
ancient in frock-coat and belltopper, or the
Hogarthian dancing-master of “The Emerald
Isle” was always excellent. In “Robin Hood,”
too, he gave a clever sketch of a mediaeval
chappie, a young man of that time. But his want
of voice handicapped him, even for old men
characters. Though artistically natural and a
valuable feature in the picture, Ward lacked
force. A comedian must have a voice of striking
individuality before he can hit the public very
hard.
** # #
At Melbourne Opera House the Boissetts
have changed their pantomime and altered the
conditions under whieh they knock one another
about. “ The Bricklayers ”is not a very subtle
panto., but it has a humanly interesting plot
composed of working-men and sandwiches, with a
beer-shop in the background. Moreover, it con-
cludes with a bang, and this country approves of
any entertainment which ranges from assault and
battery to a loud explosion. W. C. Fields is still
driving the white ball off the top cushion
into his trousers pocket. Also Frank Yorke
has joined the co., and Florrie Ranger is there
once more, after a lapse of months and years.
The class of ditty Florrie has been singing all the
time will eventually soften her brain if she doesn’t
pause and reflect. There is no sadder stage spec-
tacle than a girl singing “hi-tiddly-hi-ty,” or
words to that effect.
The “ Westminster Abbey ’’ Glee Singers,
whose reputation for melody has preceded them
in Melbourne, are to give four concerts at the
Town Hall, commencing on Saturday (11th).
** * #
Frank Thornton has gone from the
Adelaide Royal, where his place has been taken
(too late for detailed notice) by the elaborate'
staging and picturesque effects of the “Mid-
summer Night.” Adelaide, according to its
frugal custom, has been saving up for the treat
to come, and Thornton suffered a little from this
cause, though the publio did rouse up
into something like enthusiasm and spend
a little of its savings when he engaged
Brenda Gibson to take her old part
in “ Sweet Lavender” for the closing nights.
Another reappearance meanwhile took place at the
Tivoli, where Harry Rickards himself put in one
evening on his way to England. Of Rickards’
new importations, Dan Crawley is a. typical
London comedian, of the clean type, and Lilian
Bishop is a tremendously hard worker. The De
Wynne brothers are perhaps the most popular
turn. They now appear in beautiful clothes, but
give some wonderful balancing and tumbling
which (as they are careful to explain), “is all done
by kindness and beer.” The Branscombe, or
“Westminster Abbey” concert-party, has crowded
the Town Hall four times on its way East. Percy
Coward, one of the adult singers, stayed in
Adelaide, .mysteriously blood-poisoned, while the
co. was awfiy in Perth. He now sings as well as
ever, but possesses one finger less than he had six
weeks ago.
*• # * *
Little Pete Hughes, so suggestive of the
“ much-travelled,” dropped into Hobart on June
22 with J. C. Williamson’s Musical Comedy
Company. Those who cross the strait sometimes,
and had seen “A Runaway Girl” at Her Majesty’s,
Melbourne, with Grace Palotta, Florence Young,
George Lauri and others, grumbled that a No. 2
co. should be sent on to the silver Derwent, but
the crowd thought the thing gorgeous. Lilian
Digges and Rose Musgrove are in the transi-
tion stage, and may arrive all right some
time or other, but they can’t just yet be
exchanged with impunity for Gracie and
Florrie—except to the aborigines. Anyhow,
the Girl ran away for three consecutive nights.
Then came the girl-boy, “San Toy,” and her-his
name wasßose, and the blooming performance was,
as it were, thornless. The season was to have been
six nights, but smallpox broke out on the Tamar,
and Pete Hughes and his people began to wonder
how the dickens they could get away to any-
where at all if they stayed any longer in the
Y-shaped island. So, on the fifth night, the show
was shut down, and the co. vaccinated, and Pete
fled to a north-east port and took ship with his
following for the Queen’s Wharf in the river
Yarra.
The Wild Cat Column.
The Australian Government is still understood
to be waiting for an elaboiate scheme from somebody in
London before it moves in (he matter of taking over the
State debts. It is a pity that, in this matter, the
Government hasn’t more reliance on itself and less on
the schemes of persons in London. As a matter of fact,
there is no present need of any scheme. Some day it
will be necessary to figure out the exact value of the
various State liabilities—to decide how much present
liability is represented by a Tasmanian 4 per cent, stock,
redeemable in 1912 (when it may or may not be possible
to renew it at 3 per cent.) as compared with a Victorian
per cent, stock, payable in 1914 (when it may be renew-
able at 3 per cent., or may strike a bad market, and have
to be renewed at per cent,). All these are things for the
future. The fact for the present is that, for another three
years, and for all time thereafter till Parliament other-
wise provides, the Commonwealth is bound to keep
separate accounts of the revenue of each State. There-
fore it can take over the State debts now, and charge
each State separately with its own share of the interest,
reduce the cost of management by putting all the busi-
ness under one control, renew loans falling due as a
uniform Federal stock at a uniform rate of inters st,
getting the benefit of the Federal credit in the renewal,
and still charging each State with its share of the
interest on the uniform Federal debt, and generally start
to bring order out of chaos. It can also establish a sink-
ing fund, and it may', if a favorable chance shows itself, do
a large conversion operation. It can set about all these
things now, but as to any' elaborate scheme for
arriving at the exact value of the liabilities, and
for complete consolidation, that isn’t wanted for
years—it may not be wanted for 20 years or 40 years,
according to how long Parliament retains the book-keep-
ing clauses. When the necessity arises the way will pro-
bably be found. And if it can’t be found immediately it
is Wanted, the Parliament has simply to maintain the
system of keeping separate account of the revenue
derived from each State till the solution of the problem
is found. Meanwhile much money w ould be saved, and
by the conversion of the State debts as they fell due into
a uniform Federal stock the problem would be constantly
made simpler. If the book-keeping clauses were retained
till all the debts were converted, which is the very worst
that could happen, then there would be no problem at
all.
* * * »
The result of the Victorian Savings Bank’s call
for £1,000,000 on debentures for 5J years, at 34 per cent.,
at a minimum of 98, was even less satisfactory than
was expected. The public subscribed for only £30,300;
the Savings Bank itself took up the balance. The
average price for the entire issue was brought down
to £9B Is. Bd. The money is to be used in connection
with the bank’s advances to settlers business. Under the
existing law, settlers get this money for 4J per cent.; but it
isjeveri more obviousthanitwasbefore tenderswere opened
that the bank can’t afford to go on doing the business at
the old rate. The next time that the bank borrows
it will almost certainly have to do it on a 4 per cent,
basis ; and as administration costs about 10s. per cent.,
it is doubtful whether contingencies will be fully covered
if the money is lent out at anything under 5 per cent.
The fact that money can’t be got for this purpose at
under 4 per cent., and the pretty evident disinclination
of the public to lend at all, make it more than ever the
duty of the Government to itself go into the business. Its
obviously honest course is to establish a Public Debt
sinking fund ; and apart from the fact that it can’t very
well do better work with a sinking fund than to put it to
the purposes of a State Bank, it certainly is not likely to
get a better return anywhere for the money.
* * * *
The Bulletin learns, on the best authority,
that David Syme, of Melbourne Age, has not, as re-
ported, bought the shares which the Manifolds held in
the Argus. One reason why he didn’t is that there were
never any Argus shares belonging to the Manifolds.
And this after five different Melbourne correspondents
wrote saying the purchase was a solid and positive fact!
The EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
FINANCIAL STATEMENT y.
FOR YEAR ENDED SIBT DECEMBER, 1902.
ASSURANCE IN FORCE .. >-J £265,597,775
INCREASE IN ASSURANCE IN FORCE .. .. - i f. £19,916,124
ASSETS .. .. *73,855,783
'< ' INCREASE IN ASSETS .. „ ... „ „ .. £4,889,176
SURPLUS ..
' INCREASE IN SURPLUS
£15,418,151
£620,434
THE NEW BUSINESS EXCEEDED THAT OF 1901 by...
£6,565,178
Local Direotors have power to Issue Policies, Pay Claims, etc.
Sir WILLIAM M'MILLAJf, K.C.M.G., Chairman; Hon. C. K. MAOKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.O.
F. NORTON MANNING, Esq., M.D.
C. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager For Australasia.
F. C. COWLEY, Secretary ALEX. JOBSON, Actuary for Australasia. DAVID FELL, Auditor.
S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, p.S.S., Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland.
Patriotism Exalteth a Nation.
This may not be quite orthodox, but it is nevertheless true. It is also a fact that In N.S.W.
patriotism is sadly lacking in its people. Parochialism and selfishness are rampant every-
where—in Parliament and People. Instead of AUSTRALIAN MANUFACTURED GOODS
of equal merit to the Foreign-made Article being preferred, they are only.taken if CHEAPER.
The very men who cry the loudest, “ AUSTRALIA FOR THE AUSTRALIANS ! ’’—even to
the extent of keeping out the English Hatters—are those who, frhm pure prejudice, call
for the Foreign-made Article in preference to the Australian production. This is not the
spirit that prevails in America, and which has made it the greatest country on the face of
the earth. There nothing is good unless it is “ ’Murkan,” and so it must be here if we are
to become a Nation. The Rosewarne Packing Co., Limited, have lately added to the other
branches of their canning business the manufacture of Potted Ham and other Meats, in
two and four-ounce tins. The packages are neatly got up, the contents are AT LEAST
EQUAL TO, AND THE PRICE IS LOWER THAN, THE IMPORTED ARTICLE. Be
patriotic enough to give them a trial, and you will find that they are REALLY GOOD.
They may be had from all the Principal Storekeepers and Grocers.


The report of the Manchester Unity Odd-
fellows (N.S.W.), for 1902, shows that this friendly
society has 21,726 members. The accounts are presented
in a. fairly satisfactory manner. The management
appears to be paying more attention than usual to the
employment of the funds, which generally is the weakest
feature in connection with this form of working-man
investment- While, however, the central governing
body has made good progress in this respect, the
individual lodges are still, in many cases, ex-
tremely wasteful. A rule, or whatever the thing is
called (these societies have a horror of calling a spade
a spade), has been therefore passed directing that,
when lodges borrow from the sick and funeral
fund to build halls, they must pay that fund at least 4
per cent. That is better than nothing ; but 6 per cent,
would be even better. Until, however, friendly societies
drop still further the savage’s craze for regalia and ban-
ners and other millinery they cannot give satisfactory
financial results. Here, for instance, is a lodge, the
Western Star (Sydney), with a total capital of £lO5O, £395
of which is “invested in lodge regalia, banners, and
furniture ” ; and then members are gravely told that they
are worth £ll ISs. 7fd. each ! As to the larger and more
centrally-controlled funds, the sick and funeral received
£46,627 during the year and paid out £38,518 ; surplus,
£BlO9. The management fund received £34,055 and paid
out £34,170; deficit, £ll5. The management fund’s average
credit balance was £32,141; the interest earnings on this
amounted to a wretched £ll3s. per cent. The sick and
funeral fund, on an average balance of £170,908, earned a
much more satisfactory £3 6s. 3d. per cent. On the
mean of the two funds together the return was £3 Is. per
cent. YVhen the Government Statist made his last inves-
tigation of the affairs of the State’s friendly societies he
reported that the sick and funeral fund in 1889 earned
£2 12s. 3d. and the management fund just over £2. All
funds returned £2 10s. 3d. The return for 1902 repre-
sents, therefore, in the bull?, a considerable improvement.
* * , , * *
In announcing his programme for the next
session of Parliament, Westralian Premier James “ re-
ferred with pride to the fact that the State had not
approached the London market for two years.” The
fact is that Westralia was cordially kicked off J. Bull's
premises; and now Premier James is a proud man
because he hasn’t gone there since. Oertainlv Australian
State Premiers have not much to be proud of these times,
but one would hardly expect them to be proud of a thing
like that. In May, 1896, before “Cinderella” had
wearied J. Bull with her attentions, she asked
for £750,000 at 3 per pent., and, giving earnest
of her strictly honorable intentions, provided for a 1 per
cent, sinking-fund. Bull let her have the money at £lOO
16s. Bd. “Cinderella” promptly came again ; she didn’t
know before that she had an uncle like that. This time
she opened her mouth a little wider—she wanted a
million. The rich uncle was a little surprised, but let
her have the money (at 3 per cent, again) at £93 Bs. lid.
—about £7 10s. poorer terms than the other. The nerjt
request, for a loan to go on with the goldfields’ water
scheme, he regarded more cheerfully; it was, he
reflected, really to put money in his own pockets.
Deceived by his attitude on this occasion, “Cinder-
ella” (though by this time they had begun to knock
off calling her Cinderella) came again. She asked
for another million, and got one of the surprises of her
life. Only £550,000 was offered. Hard-up, she pleaded
again in 1900, and got the money this time at £B§ 13s. 2d.
—about £ll worse terms than she had managed it two
years before. She would probably have stopped at that,
with a single exception the heaviest discount at which an
Australian loan was ever floated (Queensland holds the
absolute record), but she had commitments which com-
pelled a further appeal late in 1900 ; so she offered 3J per
cent, this time, and even then the net proceeds were only
£96 Bs. 3d. Yet, after this experience, Premier James is
proud because he hasn’t been there since ! How many
times would Premier James have to be kicked downstairs
before he would take the hint ?
* * * *
M.L. municipalities suffer from the common
disease. Auckland, which ought to be prosperous
enough to pay its way respectably, and ought to be
Scotch enough to want to do it, will owe £617,900 when
the authorised loans are raised. It has a special rate to
provide interest and sinking fund ; but as the rate is not
large enough for the purpose, the sinking fund is a
hollow fraud, and is largely provided by borrowing
more money. To make matters worse, the ordinary rate
is not large enough to. meet ordinary expenses. In the
face of this drift the local authorities are, as usual,
opposed to any rate increase, and talk of “drastic
retrenchment”—which generally means knocking off a
sanitary inspector or two, and doing other damage which
£lOO can’t cover through neglect to spend £5 on a coat of
paint or a patch of road-metal.
* * » *
S.A. Government had received £35,000 from
the estate of George Searfe, the hardware millionaire,
when the financial year closed on June 30, and hopes to
get considerably more later on. The trustees hurried up
the first payment so as to enable the Treasurer to close
his accounts with a surplus. That is about the only act
for the good of the community which was ever accom-
plished by George Scarfe’s money.
*.* * «
The Victorian railways, under Tommy Bent’s
management, show, for the financial year just closed, a
decrease in revenue of £325,000 as compared with 1902 ;
and the deficit will be the worst for some years.
The exact figures are not yet available ; but the
Age regretfully estimates the real deficit at over
£550,000, which, considering that Turner and Peacock
had brought down the annual shortage to about £160,000,
looks a fearful falling away. The moral is that bellowing
and rage are not necessarily statesmanship.
* * * *
“Peak Hill”: Latest American quotation for
ingot platinum is £3 19s. 6d. per oz. Pennsylvania Smelt-
ing and Refining Co. is a buyer. In Australia the Aus-
tralian Metal Co. (Melbourne and Broken Hill) will handle
the metal.. ..C.S.W. : Mica varies in value according to
size of sheet; 2in. x 4in. is worth from about Is. 3d. to
Is. 6d. per lb., while in plates 6 x 6in. it is worth about
_lls. per 1b,... .Bill P.S.: The net collections of land and
income-tax in N.S.W. in the last three years were
£1,438,246, and the expenditure of the department was
£106,451, so the average cost per £lOO was £7 Bs. To a
great extent the same people collect both taxes, and the
total cost cannot be accurately divided ; the collection of
land-tax is, however, much the more expensive. This
applies to all the States, The Government Statist says
he ‘ has not included in the ‘ Seven Colonies ’ a com-
parison of the cost of collecting taxation because the
taxes are on a different basis and a percentage comparison
might lead to misconception.”
* * * * *
The situation at Broken Hill remains almost
unchanged. Of all the mines, only one, the British,
is at work, and that irregularly. This employs less
than 400 of the available 5500 men. Other co’s., except
the B.H. Prop., are doing no ore-getting at all, and
of course no milling. They keep a few men employed
shaft-sinking, and securing weak places with timber, and
filling worked-out places with refuse rock. The B.H.
Prop, has so far been able to keep the furnaces at Pt.
Pirie going, mainly upon kiln-roasted slimes. The profits,
of course, from slimes are much less than from concen-
trates ; in fact, it is only within the last 15 months that
slimes have given any profit at all. With the.object of
improving both the smelting mixture and the output, the
comparatively small quantity of oxidised ores which
remain in the mine are to be drawn upon. The other
mines, having long since exhausted their oxidised ores,
which do not .require concentrating, have not even this
to fall back upon. It is costing the B.H. Prop. £6OO a
week to keep its mostly unemployed staff together. The
Australian Metal Co.’s and Sulphide Corporation’s
magnetic separation (zinc) works are still operating ; the
B.H. Prop.’s zinc-production experimental works, which
involve the use of water, are idle. Even the street steam-
motor trams are running only irregularly, as water cannot
be got for their boilers at less than 3s. per 100 gallons.
Meantime rain-fakir McCarthy continues to “ experi-
ment”; and if he experiments long enough it will, no
doubt, rain before he finishes.
* * * *
“Wanderer” from Mt. M‘Donald, western
N.S.W. : There is a prosperous showing here after a
period of dullness. Several old mines have been re
opened by prospectors, and show good returns. Little
Shamrock has a 3ft. reef carrying 181 m of over 2oz. stone ,
the other part carries over £oz. This is at 160fb. The
old Caledonian (Mathieson and Holmes) has at 60ft. a 4ft.
reef, but low grade. The Eastern has a wide reef, hut the
stone is not pavable at present; if the owners had a battery
it might be. The Eureka (Ferguson and party) gave loz.
per ton. from six tons. This seemingly is only a block
left behind by the co. which used to own the mine.
Grant’s Cross Beef, in a broken line of country, is a very
old claim ; reef varies from 2 feet to 18 inches ax 55 feet,
and last crushing gave 78oz. from 98 tons stone. There is
only one battery here, and the cost for 6 head is 4s. per
hour, which is very expensive, only six tons being put
through in 24 hours. Several small batteries are, how-
ever, to be erected shortly, and a cyanide plant is also
going up. There is talk of a Charters Towers co. opening
up the Eureka, but nothing definite is known.
* * * *
The Great Australian Quicksilver Co. has at
last reached the producing stage, over a ton of mercury
having been distilled in less than three weeks. The fur-
nace which has been erected will treat 80 tons of ore per
week at an expense for treatment of from 10s. to 12s. per
ton, or, say, including mining and other charges, £1; 80
tons of 1J per cent, ore will produce one ton of quicksilver
worth £2BO, so there will be the handsome profit of £2OO.
But the owners of the mine, which is situated at Yugilbar
on the Clarence Biver (N.S.W.), don’t talk of percentage
values in paltry decimal units; they have a stope
“ showing cinnabar from 11 to 12 inches wide ’’—why not
split the difference and say 11.5 inches —“assaying from
40 to 50 per cent.” At this rate there are many millions
in it. Forty per cent, of mercury equals £ll2 per ton of
ore, and 80 tons per week will represent a profit of nearly
£9OOO, or £450,000 a year. The “Great” Australian
Quicksilver Co. is too insignificant a title for such
magnificence. * * *
St. George, Lake Darlot (W.A.), has completed
its second crushing of 50 tons for 17500 z. Together with
the parcel treated in February, this mine has produced
30370 z. from 74 tons. This record would be very hard to
beat, but the leader is so small that only 12 to 13, tons of
stone is paddocked monthly.
* * * *
Paringa, Kalgoorlie (W.A.), has, for the past
three months, been cross-cutting east at 1300 ft., ana has
failed to find anything of value. The crosscut is now
nearing the boundary ; and another month, at the out-
side, should see the falsifying of all predictions as to
cutting the rich Brown Hill-Oroya chute. Shareholders
have been buoyed up with this phantom for years past,
and their pockets are likely to be exploited still further
to continue prosecuting a wild-goose chase. The Brown
Hill outcrop is quite 10 chains east of the Paringa boun-
dary, and the lode would require to have a very flat
underlay to reach Paringa ground at a depth of 1300 ft.
Co. has always been, and appears likely to remain, a wild
cat.
* * * *
Lake View and Boulder Junction (W. A.), which
for seven years has held 101 acres west of Brookman’s
Boulder, has got its main shaft down 1100 ft., and man-
agement advises sinking to 1600 ft. before testing the
country. At past rate of progression the suggested
testing will be made in the dim and distant future. The
chairman justified this programme on the ground' that
the adjacent mines, the Great Boulder and Central and
West Boulder, had located pay ore by diamond drill at
1335 ft. and 1530 ft. respectively. The bore in the Boulder
is fully 40 chains, and that in the Central 60 chains from
the junction boundary, and neither can have any
connection whatever with the present or future prospects
of the co. So far as known, there is no payable lode in
or near this co.’s property, and it is another wild cat.
* * * *
Goodenough, Menzies (W.A.), which Richard
Hamilton had under six months’ option last yevr
on account of Boulder No. 1, has been taken to
London for flotation. The owner, Fetherstonhaugh,
who apparently does not know his London, is quite san-
guine of planting his mine for £60,000. Mine has pro-
duced some very rich crushings both before and after
Hamilton’s option, but, though no man is infallible,
Hamilton’s opinion is held in such high esteem in
Bull mining circles that the chances of flotation are small.
* * • *
Eclipse, Kalgoorlie (W.A.), has now got its
cyanide plant in full swing, and arrangements for adding
the extra five head of stamps are being made. When
this installation is complete, the mine is expected to
turn out about 2000 oz. monthly. So far only three levels
are being operated, the deepest being 300 ft. Co., origi-
nally floated in 1895, took over seven years to discover
payable gold, and the discoverer was a despised tributor.
Seeing that the pay ore outcropped on the surface, it
seems more than strange that thousands of pounds were
spent without discovering it. Manager Haig has certainly
made things hum since the gold was pointed out—but
what was he doing before ?
* « • •
Golden Pole, Davyhurst (W.A.), will start its
10-head mill early in July, and should give a very good
account of itself. So far as proved down to 300 ft. it is
one of the richest mines in the State, the reef being
worth fully 3oz. for a width of 2ft. to 3ft. Co. is in 20,000
shares of £1 each, with 9s. 6d. paid. Battery is a second-
hand one, and it is hard to say what quantity of ore it
will treat monthly, but it should manage 600 tons, any-
how. In the past three years co. has had no less than
four managers, the latest being Mr. Fitzgerald, from the
Sons of Qwalia. Coming from such an economically-run
mine, he should know how to keep down costs. Co.
holds 48 acres adjoining the Waihi, on the west, and
doubtless, whenever regular returns commence, Waihi
scrip will be covered with reflected glory. It is as well
to point out that the reef on the Pole is running dead
parallel to the Waihi leaders, and that the success of one
property cannot enhance the value of the other.
* * • •
Hannan’s Star, Kalgoorlie (W.A.), which has
been developing during the last two years while its
milling plant was on hire to the other co.s, has resumed
milling on its own account. Five levels have been opened
up, and a fair supply of 13dwt. ore is in sight. The bot-
tom, or 675 ft., level is being pushed ahead to increase
reserves. Three years ago a diamond drill bore located
Morrison’s lode at 500 ft., of far better grade than any-
thing previously found in the mine. On the strength of
this, a new main shaft was sunk, but, in spite of a lot of
exploration, the rich ore indicated by the bore could not
be found. Becently manager Bawden patented an inven-
tion for testing the course of bore holes, and, on applying
it to the bore in question, found the drill deviated
materially from its supposed course. On the strength of
this survey, fresh exploration is being made in the direc-
tion the drill actually took.
* * * *
Associated Northern (W.A.) appears to have
some chance of success with its Iron Monarch syndicate.
The three bore holes put down have located an ore body
20 to 30ft. wide, of the value of about 18dwt., at
a depth of 300 ft. The tributors of the Boomerang,
the block adjoining the Iron Monarch on the north, have
just cleaned up 80 tons for 710 z., and previous large
parcels have been more than equal to this return. The
£17,500 capital of the syndicate should thoroughly test
the ground and probably add another producer to the
belt. No information can be gleaned from Manager
Boberts or Prof. Liveing re Iron Duke prospects. A
crosscut is to be put in at 950 ft. to try and locate the lode
cut by the drill at 912 ft. In the meantime Manager
Boberts is thoroughly sampling the mine reserves before
expressing an opinion. He is against shipping any more
ore to the smelters, and would prefer to await the erec-
tion of his own milling plant. Mr. Griffith, who not long
ago inspected the mine, appears quite satisfied that there
is still £2,000,000 to £3,000,000 worth of gold to be gouged
out, and has staked his reputation on this. The founda-
tions for the milling plant are being made, and no time
will be lost in pushing on the works when the machinery
comes to hand. 00. is still strong financially, having the
original £lOO,OOO working capital to the good, besides
350,000 paid-up shares in the Iron Monarch syndicate,
and the market has been valuing these at 3s. to 4s. apiece’
* * * *
Great Boulder Perseverance (W.A.) is again
under charge of Ralph NiGhols, who has been round the
world in the past seven months. During his absence the
mine has been well superintended by his understudy,
Flynn. Plats have been cut at 1100 ft., and, whenever
the crosscuts are fairly started, sinking will be resumed.
Each level of 200 ft. gives a yield of about 220,000 tons of
ore, or 20 months’ supply _at present rate of consumption.
Both lodes at 900 ft. are said to be quite up to the average.
Great Boulder Deep Levels (W.A.), an amalga-
mation of Great Boulder South and Boulder Bonanza,
has raised another £30,000, and intends finding the
southern dip of the ore chutes of the Boulder belt. The
work is under the supervision of Ralph Nichols, and, as
most of the money has been provided by Frank Gardner,
no one can cavil, although the outlook appears most
hopeless. The deepest shaft is 700 ft., and from this a
series of bore holes will, in the first instance, be put
down.
• * • *
W.A. mines during June, distributed divs.
totting up £168,660, the co.’s responsible being Great
Boulder, £87,500; Oroya-Brown Hill, £45,000 ; Sons of
Gwalia, £31,800 ; Princess Royal, £4OOO ; and Lancefield,
£360. The total divs. for the half-year read £915,610, as
against £583,418 for the same period of last year, Divs.
already announced for July amount to £137,500, as fol-
lows:—Great Fingall, £62,500; Associated £50,000;
Kalgoorlie, £15,000; Westralia Mt. Morgans, £15,000;
Princess Royal, £4000; and Lancefield, £360. it is safe
to predict that the total divs. for July will be in the
neighborhood of £300,000, and for the year will easily
reach £2,000,000.
• • • *
Chaffers, Kalgoorlie (W. A.), has now been eight
3'ears before the public, and has just had its first parcel
of 150 tons treated at the Main Reef mill. The result
was a 15dwt. average. After defraying cost of cartage
and treatment, not to mention mining, it is safe to say
that there is nothing left for unfortunate holders. Small
reserves of similar grade ore have been laid bare,
but not enough to warrant the purchase of a
treatment plant. Mine appears to be hopeless, and the
surface presents the appearance of a chessboard, it is so
much cut up by roads and railways. Even if sufficient
pay ore were forthcoming there is no room on the much
cut up 12 acre area for the erection of a treatment plant,
and the disposal of residues. The best policy for the
three co’s. to adopt would be for Chaffers, Main Reef and
Hannan’s Star to amalgamate. The first has no treatment
plant, the second’s plant is antiquated and played out,
and the last could probably treat all the ore the three
mines could produce.
* * » *
Island Eureka, Lake Austin (W.A.), has at last
got the cyanide plant promised exactly a year ago, but
there is still no sign of the extra 10-head mill, etc.,
promised at the same time. As the co. has had a breath-
ing spell of five months with no divs. and reduced
returns, it is quite up to it to liven things up a bit. Any-
how, the gaudy predictions and assertions of the directors
have been falsified • and, although the mine, like most
mines, is known to have a lot of reserves, their gold-bear-
ing value is quite another story.
• * * *
Hannan’s Reward, Mt. Charlotte (W.A?), seems
to be again nearing the rocks. Half the staff of work-
men have been discharged, as the return shows a falling-
off.
* * • *
Lake View Consols (W.A.) continues to make
good finds driving north, but, unfortunately, all these
developments are dose to the Perseverance boundary.
At 1125 ft. north of the shaft at the 1000 ft. level, and only
a few feet from the boundary, the Perseverance lode has
been encountered 2ft. wide and worth nearly 2oz. per ton.
Prospecting is being pushed ahead down to the 1400 ft.
level, but nothing verv important is announced.
• * • •
, Bendigo (Vic) profits since January Ist are the
best for the first half of any year since |lBB5.
At present the odds are slightly against the
1903 dividends coming up to the magnificent
total of 1882 (£333,472), although with the improvement
shown by mines which have formerly been unremunera-
tive, even this is possible. Operations of the six months
were also noteworthy for the fact that gold was obtained
in the New Chum Railway at a greater depth than in any
other mine in the world. In the shaft at 3855 ft. a slide
was cut coming in from the east. Both above and below
the slide there were threads of quartz in which colors of
gold were seen, while the strata continued highly
mineralised.
* * • •
Victorians are prone to pride themselves that
thej' have nothing to learn in connection with gold-
mining. Facts don’t justify the assumption. Give them
a free-milling ore and they certainly deal with it at
remarkably low cost, considering the antiquated style of
appliances generally in use ; but confront them with a
complex mineralised ore, and they are lost. Further,
they have not yet fully learnt the lesson that con-
tinuous success depends upon working systems
which keep development ahead of productive work,
arid upon financial administration which sets aside
portion of the plentitude of a fat year to make
up for the poverty of a lean one, although it
must be admitted that of late years there has been much
improvement in the latter respect. The Cassilis mine,
out Gippsland way, and the Glenfine South, near
Ballarat, are typical examples which may be cited in
support of these allegations. Cassilis is one of the big
mines of Eastern Victoria. The ore is refractory—from
a Victorian miner’s point of view—but not more so than
the average ore on many of the goldfields of N.S.W.
There is nothing so complex about it as to prevent its
successful and profitable treatment with proper
appliances. The mine has paid some dividends,
but if the directors understood their business,
the money would have been applied to improve-
ment and extension of plant and go-ahead devel-
opment work. Now it is proposed to sell the mine
to “an eminent firm of English mining engineers” on
most ridiculous terms for the present company. The
proposal which the directors intend to submit to share-
holders means one of two things: the directors have no
faith in the mine, or candidly confess their inability to
run it. In the tailings alone the co. has an asset worth
£20,000, according to assays. Why not have these
treated, and thus be beyond the necessity to seek
outside aid? The alluring prospect is held out
to shareholders that under the proposed scheme
they “would have the benefit of .any. market that
might exist in London for the scrip.” A veritable
mockery, delusion and snare. Another argument ad-
vanced in favor of the proposal is that “ the mine pre-
sents an opportunity of supplying British capitalists with
a better bargain than they have been enabled so far to
make in the State.” This borders on the farcical. Share-
holders are to be content with the consolation that the
cold-blooded, mercenary John Bull has made a good bar-
gain ! If the proposal be agreed to Victorians ought for
ever to silence.their blow-hard trumpet. Glenfine South
is reported to be in a “ pitiable plight." Three years ago
it was the glory and hope of Ballarat; to-day it is a thing
despised and rejected of men. With all the wealth it has
produced, mine is not proved below 400 feet, and at that
point it may be abandoned unless a sudden change takes
place- Three of the divs. which were paid in the days
when shares had to be boomed would have given ample
funds to test the ground to 10Q0 feet, but the nothing-to-
learn Ballaratites could not, or would not, look to the
future.
• • * «
Bendigo’s figures for past half-year look well in
print: 3 * - -
Gold 100,1260z5., divs. £130,394 ; calls £63,405. The
improvement shows out strikingly in a comparative table
for the first halves of eight years :
Gold, oz. Divs. Galls. Profits.
1896 .. 99,870 £90,575 £65,742 £24,833
1897 .. 115,893 71,449 83,628 Nil
1898 .. 117,839 105,945 73,708 32,237
1899 .. 112,478 107,426 67,066 40,360
1900 .. 108,584 65,815 57,797 8,018
1901 .. 86,404 60,068 63,514 Nil
1902 .. 87,323 76,363 , 67,006 9,357
1903 .. 100,126 . 130,394 63,405 66,989
Thus 1903 period has returned more than the four pre-
ceding corresponding periods. It is a mistake, however,
to assume that this represents greater prosperity for the
working classes. Writer has seen a letter in which
the condition of the workers, or rather non-workers, is
described in pitiable terms. It is said to be an everyday
occurrence for troops of haggard women, showing un-
mistakable signs of the pinch of poverty, to visit the
mines and implore the managers to find work for hus-
bands or boys. The fact is that the divs. go into the
pockets of the few, while calls have to be paid by the
many, and thus a statistical statement taken to indicate
all-round prosperity, may be entirely misleading. The
position would be better for the working classes if the
record showed an increase in calls proportionate to the
increase in diva.
. -f h ' er . e , was much disappointment in- Adelaide
SmTfh' H Cl ni eS w- 6n the r ?T ort of Joh " Warren on the
nJhfs k V" m,ne ( North Queensland) was pub-
The cautious captain didn’t see the mine through
the e t a , s , mana £ er Power, which didn't suit
lmfn. b Tf of many holders who were not anxious to hold
long It was freely asserted that Warren was altogether
to ° JPCSsunistm, and that he had considerably under-
the6^ 6 Va ‘ Ue °fu he ore ’ but events have shown that
u. ® |“', el ' se was jhe case. The once enthusiastic Potter
bas , ba , d to come down the ladder which fancy made him
he lhmJw topmost height. When work was started,
nLt" . they would ft et from 6to 8 per
found ’ th-if “''f hen the J u de , WaS °P ened UP they
found that it was much lower-grade ore, but
it was not lower m the sense of profit, as it was 36 feet
wide instead of 18 feet.” The last return was 21 tons of
black tin from 700 tons, or 3 per cent. ; reduced to metal-
lic tin this would be about 15 tons or a trifle Over 2 per
iw « '!•„ n u Uch lower-grade ” with a vengeance, but
?° tbe . r . Jf?* 11 has faith in the mine,” which implies a
it' Üb i‘ n hIS \ mi ? d as t 0 other people having confidence in
it. The regularity with which the average yield has been
lowering would appear to justify the opinion of those ot
_ little faith. Shares are quoted at between 14s. and
15s. ; except as a market gamble they w'ould he dear at
as many pence.
* * * * V
Stannary Hills tin mine (North Queensland),
according to the directors, has proved itself to. be of~
quite exceptional value.” It would require to be so to
relieve itself of the terribly heavy burden of debt with"
which it was loaded at the start, and which has been oon-
S UB ' J - on^e ' nerease ' By the time this debt is paid
off the mine may be worked out, or there may he such a
slump in the value of tin as to render furl her work un-
profitable. Stannary Hills is not the marvellous mine
that it is represented ; still it is a good one, and were it
financed on legitimate lines the chances are that it would
make a respectable showing. It is a shocking example of :
the pernicious system which seems to find special favor
with S. A. mininggamblers(they can’t be calledspeculators
in the right acceptation of the term), that of starting a
mine with little or no cash capital, and resorting to
debenture issues to raise the necessary funds. To the
uninitiated there may appear to be no difference between
raising money by reasonable subscription in the first in-
stance, to be follow'ed by calls as required, and borrowing
it on debentures. But insiders know that there is a
mighty distinction. The debenture business is purely a
game designed and played in the interests of market
manipulators ; of the wily wolf waxing fat on the blood
of the innocent lamb, “ no calls to pay ” being the snare
in which the latter is trapped. There is as much likelb'
hood of Stannary Hills paying divs. equal to the pre-
sent market value of shares as there is of certain
Adelaide men becoming conscience-smitten and ceasing
to be churchwardens or Sunday-school superintendents.
* * * *
To empty old abandoned shafts, or to cope wi th
inrushes of water at a minimum cost, may he effected by
the use of the Vertical Plunger Sinking Pumps,.manufac-
tured by The A. S. Cameron Steam Pump Works of New
York ; and represented by Messrs. W. & J. Lempriere, of
Melbourne, who hold stocks of these and various other
sizes and styles of steam or air pumps. These pumps are
distinct from any other make of so-called “Cameron ’
Pump. They work automatically, and have no dead
centre, neither have they springs nor outside valve gear
to become deranged. They occupy less space in a shaft
than any other Sinking Pump of same capacity.*,
»
Messrs. Gillespie Bros, and Co. of the Anchor
Boiler Flour Mills, Sydney, have placed an order with
The Austral Otis Engineering Company of South
Melbourne for the construction of a modern semi tandem
horizontally coupled triple expansion surface condensing
engine. .The engine will be capable of indicating 450
horse-power ; the cylinders being 12", 19" and 30" diam.
respectively, with a stroke of 48 inches, and will be fitted,
with specially, designed inlet and exhaust steam valves
on the Sultzer principle. This engine will form another
excellent example of modern high class engiue construc-
tion to the credit of the builders, who have already
attained a well deserved reputation throughput the
Commonwealth for design and construction of this class
of work.*
• * * * .... ,
Insurance Agents’ News, August, 1902,
writes “We congratulate the Directors of the Colonial
Mutual upon the highly gratifying results of last years’
operations, especially as these results have been achieved
during a period of exceptional depression and difficulty.”*
* * * *
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime and
all Mining and Assay Chemicals and Apparatus, Micro-
scopes and accessories can be obtained of Felton, Grim-
wade and Co., Melbourne. 4th edition, enlarged (red
cover) of illustrated catalogue of all mining requisites
now ready. Free on application on receipt of 4d.
postage.*
•.• * *
De Beer Silberberg and Co., invite inspection
of a new shipment of Gasoline Furnaces and Galopin
Assay Balances at 439 Bourke-street, Melbourne. All
assayers’ requisites and Up-to-date scientific materials in
stock. Correspondence invited.*
•**• ‘ * -
H. Brandon Skertchly, geologist, mining engi-
neer and assayer, is prepared to furnish scientific reports
and plans to British and Australian investors. Assays
undertaken, and inquiries re mining properties, promptly
attended to. For fuller information apply to H. Brandon
Skertchly, Norman Chambers, Creek-street, Brisbane.*
* * ♦ »
George Morrison, Stock and Share broker
(member Brisbane Stock Exchange), 37-7 Queen-street
opposite Stock Exchange, Brisbane. Agents all parts of;
the World. Correspondence invited.*
j * * * * '
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S. W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * ■ • * • y.jj;.
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, of Melbourne, reports
that there has been a great improvement in .the general
outlook of the engineering business since the new year,
started, and that his pipe making works in Melbourne
and Perth are working full-handed. Amongst the orders
now being executed at Footscray works is one for 7 miles
19 chains of 18in. diameter light steel spiral-riveted pipes
for the Victorian water supply; and at Perth works a
contract is in progress for over 6 miles of lOJin. diameter
spiral-riveted pipes, flanged joints, for the Greenbushes
Tin-Mining Syndicate. About two miles of these pipes
are to stand a test pressure of 8001 b. to the square inch.*
* * ... * .- * 'j .....
A. Kozminsky, 106 Queen-st., Melbourne,
having returned from England, is now prepared to
purchase paying mines, and mining properties (not
merely surface shows), situated in any part of
Australasia requiring further capital for development and
machinery. Only genuine and legitimate ventures,
capable of bearing the strictest examinations will be
entertained.* -
* * * *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develop, with option of
purchase “big prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties Offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “ Option,”
Melbourne *
* * * ,
Hedley Hawkins, sharebroker* Queen-street,
Brisbane (member, Brisbane Stock Exchange), has agents
every important mining centre and cities of Common-’
wealth. Correspondence invited,*
***# j i ?
Charters Towers (Q.) divs. for first half-year
total £206,602, being £25,000 ahead of first half of last
year ; but calls for 1903 were £40,000 in excess of the 1902
period. On present prospects there is a strong proba-
bility that the year’s divs. Will not be far short of
£500,000. The total is certain to be a record one, but it
may not be so in actual profits, as calls will continue
heavy to meet the extensive prospecting ami develop-
ment work in progress.
TRAMWAYS FOR MINES
ECONOMY IN HAULAGE.— Horse and dray is cheaper than a wheelbarrow but an
P p ' !!; date Tramway, with suitable robing stock for manual, horse or loco, traction
is still more economical and expeditious. Large Svdney, Melbourne and Rrishme
stocks Steel Rads. Mining Tip-trucks, Portable Tramway, Switches, Turntables, &c.
mutiiFo.—-Dog-spikes to Compound Locomotives— i.e. , EVERYTHING.
£9" Our CATALOGUE is yours for the asking, “g®
CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY APPLIANCES
Prop. Ltd., 40 Hunter Si. SYDNEY. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager,
„ t ' Representing Orbkstein and Koppbl, Ltd., London, Berlin and Pads
Branches—Melbourne, Brisbane, Cairns and Zeehan (Tasmania).
INSIST ON GETTING
AH Grocer/3 nd $ roreteepers tveryuif] eTe


Society
[?]
Chamberlain and the Colonial Office lately
decided that Maoriland Ministers should walk in
front of the Judges whenever they were all out
on a circus parade j and Chief Justice Stout says
he will resign rather than consent to such a thing,
as it would “ belittle the highest judicial tribunal
in the State.” Most times Justice, Stout would
have had sense enough to. get oyer the difficulty
by keeping away from circus parades, for then
nobody would know whether, if he had been
there, he would have trodden on Ministers’ heels,
or chased in ahead of them ; but just now the
M.L. Supreme Court is badly bruised in the place
where it keeps its dignity, the result of some
recent uncalled-for remarks by the Privy Council;
wherefore, no doubt, all this foolish trouble. Cer-
tainly the C.J. only talks of retiring “after
adequate provision is made for compensation ” ;
and if he can get a substantial pension after
barely five years’ service on the Bench, he probably
won’t be much out of pocket. Stout’s position is,
however, unlike that of most Chief Justices. He
climbed up to that height while still comparatively
young, so that, still under GO, he has a fair pro-
spect of several years’ lucrative bar-practice yet.
An old Sydneyite on the vicissitudes of a
house: —
The Burdekin mansion in Macquarie-street is not on the
site of John TawelPs church. The house 195, the pro-
perty of Mrs. Burdekin, is on the site. The mansion and
the chapel were contemporary. I have an illustration of
both; over the entrance door of the chapel were the
lines:—
“John TawbiiL
to
The Society of Friends.”
The Quakers repudiated Tawell, though he assumed
their garb, ana declined the gift. The building
had some willow trees in front, and in the Forties,
though known as the Baptist Chapel, was used by
Mr. Kemmis as a day-school. In the Fifties it wag
Tcnawn as the Tabernacle Chapel, and in 1866 as the Jew
Tabernacle. In 1868 it was styled the Synagogue. In
1870 it was known as The Tabernacle. In 1873 it again
became a Hebrew Synagogue. In 1875 another change to
The Tabernacle. Next year it was the Jewish Synagogue;
and in 1878 Sydney Burdekin wiped out the unstable old
place which, if left to itself, would probably have
belonged to a dozen other sects by this time.
* * * •
Judge Boucaut had a day out recently at
Adelaide criminal sittings. To an ancient person
of 64 who pleaded guilty to stealing Bs. worth of
combustible flannelette he awarded ten years’
hard labor. Certainly the venerable one, who
was very sick as well as very old, had 23 previous
convictions ; still he seems to have been mainly a
petty thief, drunk, and scallywag. A house-
breaker with a previous conviction was fallen
upon by his Honor with a sentence of 12 years.
Then a silly youth of 17, who had forged five
orders for the payment, in all, of less than .£3O,
was told by his Honor that he was liable to 32
years’ hard labor, but was let down with 18
months. Boucaut is 72 now, and the grim old
man seems to have resolved to have a general
clearing-up before he leaves.
* * * *
John Norton tells parson Fitchett: “If
Christ were to go into the country, cockies would
treat him as a common sundowner, and cockies’
wives would sool their dogs on him. : ’ And some-
thing more might happen; John Norton might
write an open letter to him, and the Melbourne
Employers Union would certainly denounce him
as an agitator, and the Congregational Jubilee
people would be angry with him for holding the
opinion that Parson Fordyce should associate
with his own beloved nigger.
* * * *
“C.P.”*: I am one of those unfortunates
who work at night and sleep in the morning.
Next door two families live in the same house.
Both kept dogs with shrill
soprano voices until they
mysteriously disappeared
one day. That cost me ss.
No. 1 tribe then went in
for a cockatoo, which
raised Cain till my
stipendiary tramp stole
it. That cost me ss.
Now No. 2 family
has got twins, and
the tramp says he
won’t kill them for
less than 7s. 6d. There
are lots of men situ-
ated just as I am,
and our case is a i
hard one. Bricks I
are featherbeds by
comparison.
INTERESTING PHENOMENON.
GEORGIE: “ I'm going to give my Japanese dolls
a bath.”
SISSIE: “You had better not. The paint to ill
come off them.”
GEORGIE : Well the paint never comes off Aunt
Minnie when she has a bath.”
“ Mark Lome ” moans a little :
Re the suppression of cleanliness (Bulletin, 6/6/’O3),
this is one of the unaccountable peculiarities of modern
morality. The poor nipper daren’t disport himself in the
sea unless he wears an uncomfortable and unnatural
covering' from “ neck to knee,” yet he can go with Pa
and Ma into a place of public amusement, registered by
Jaw, and see a man named Sandow, clad in an almost
invisible piece of leopard skin, standing on a pedestal so
that no part of his vast nakedness may be missed by Pa
and Ma, Sunday-school teacher, and Christianity in
general. Also, hoodlums can congregate at the street
corner, spit, use violent language, and leer at every
woman who passes ; yet the respectable citizen who seeks
a secluded spot far from the moral crowd, where he can
disport himself in the Lord’s damp, clean sea, is liable to
be tracked by the law’s representative and fined for his
decency. Perhaps in this kirk-stricken world it is a
crime to be decent.
OFF THE CHAIN.
MRS. SMITH (to the parson): “ Please, sir, d'ye
remember you married me to Jim Smith a
week ago come Tuesday?”
PARSON: “I do, I do, Mrs. Smith; and what is
the trouble now?"
MRS. S.: “ Well, sir, if yer please, I've just called
to tell ye the blaggard has escaped."
“D.”: How smallpox clings once it gets
a footing in a place is shown by the fact that the
first victim of the present Launceston (Tas.) out-
break (Duggan) was at work demolishing an old
building when he sickened for death. And the
ruin was in the thick of the plague-spot of 1887.
“Z.’' : A very able plea, signed “One of
Twelve,” in favor of the “large family,” pub-
lished by Sydney D.T., represents the happy
state of the household of a poor clergyman where
the children numbered 12 and had to do without
many things and were very jolly all the same—
mother, father and kiddies. It has been answered
by various people, who pointed out that they
haven’t had or weren’t going to have large
families, because they wouldn’t be happy under
such circumstances. After all, does not the
whole question hinge on Nature’s unerring plans
for the evolution of a higher type ? The people
who rejoice in large families—be., those who are
most self-denying and philoprogenitive and sturdy
and sociable —have them, and the people who are
rather more selfish, or luxurious, and less inclined
to sacrifice any of their ease for posterity—they
don’t have them. Thus the better types are
perpetuated and the less desirable types incline to
dwindle.
* * * *
Fact elicited by statistical returns that
when the Jew doesn’t marry a Jew he or she
mates with a Roman Catholic, is explainable by
the paradoxical attraction of the religion that goes
the whole hog to the faith that doesn’t go any hog
at all.
* * * *
Monday, June 29th, was the 38th anniver-
sary of one of the biggest blazes Sydney has ever
seen—the destruction of St. Mary’s Cathedral.
Nothing absolutely certain has ever been dis-
covered to fix the blame of starting the blaze on
anyone, but the general opinion is that some
careless or giddy altar-boy, while swinging an
incense machine about in the sanctuary, caused
some live coals to drop through a crack in the
flooring and they fell on something inflammable.
The 29th June being the Feast of SS. Peter and
Paul, a grand service had been held that night.
“Pefcramos”: The
Salvarmy plays the
devil with its followers
—particularly its very
young followers. A
school-teaching
friend told me re-
cently that he
asked a small boy :
“ What is that that
follows you wher-
ever you go?
Sometimes it is in
front of you, and
sometimes you
have only to cast
your eye around
and there it is be-
hind you.’' He ex-
pected an answer
of “Yourshadow,”
but the boy prompt-
ly answered “ The
devil.” The young-
ster attends Army
meetings, and holds
up the light at its
open-air perform-
ances.
* * *
“Ruru”:Once
heard at hospital the
wife of a local tea-
and - sugar - vendor
warning a dying
patient of wrath and judgment. The
usual platitudes were relieved only
by her concluding remark, “If you
are mercifully spared to lead a new
life, you won’t forget that little
account you owe Mr. , will
you ? ” At same institution a
young Salvarmy man, whilst
being probed (or some such
gentle operation) did not be-
have as peaceably as surgeon
considered essential. Latter,
holding up the prcbe or lan -et, or what-
ever it was, said : “ Salvation man ? ’ “Yes”
(proudly). “Blow bugle or trumpet, or some-
thing, don’t you?” “Bugler.’ “Well, you'll
be blowing a trumpet in Paradise if this slips. ’
The general desire to avoid Paradise had its
effect, and the patient took his oourage in both
hands and lay quiet.
• * * *
The stolid bucolic intellect ! The grown-
up daughter of a Wandin (Vic.) farmer, who had
been strange in her demeanor for some years,
wandered away from home last Christmas eve.
Nobody apparently took the trouble to look for
her; and apparently no one was surprised
when her remains were found suspended
from a tree in a gully barely a mile from her
father’s house, and but a quarter-mile from two
other houses. She had been hanging there six
months, and only the upper half of the body re-
mained.
* * * *
The welcoming of S.A.’s new Governor
was a very flat affair. On the plea of economy,
there was no military guard of honor, and
Le Hunte had to content himself with, six police-
men to escort him to his new residence. A
vigorous drunk has as large an escort as that
sometimes.
INCOMPETENCE.
Strikes me you're a professional at the game , eh?"
“ I used to think I were; but as this is all I've
got out of you, I reckon as ’ow I must be
only a blanky hamatoor .”
One of the Victorian ex-farm-burners 1 as
just resigned from the police force and thereby
caused the dropping of an inquiry over a case o'
alleged illegal arrest under circumstances of great
brutality. A whole multitude of the same crowd
have been put into the railway and tramway
services, and put out again for violence, cussing
incapacity or dishonesty. The farm-burner was a
noble individual afar off, but he seems very like
plain, ordinary scum at close quarters.
“REVENON A NOTRE HUTTON!"
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Major-General Sir Edward Hutton, G.O.CJ. Common-
wealth forces, arrived from Melbourne by the express
train this morning’.
The fact that the authorities here decline to accept the
resignations of two or three smart officers who have got
to loggerheads with the State Commandant suggests that
Major-General Hutton will try to square up things.
—Frequent Newspaper Par .
Said the G. 0.0. : “Dear me ! dear me !
; The thing is most unfortunate.
I draft a scheme, that’s a perfect dream.
To deal with men importunate ;
I take a stand that is bland and grand
(Of course the ‘grand’ predominates)]
Against each new, original view—
A thing my soul abominates.
“ I make a Staff, not more than half
As big as that of Bonaparte ;
And then I find remarks unkind—
Which make men go and moan apart.
I know, of course, our gallant Force
Is not, perhaps, so numerous
As that of France ; but I advance
This fact—it’s far more humorous.
“ I take a corps—and add a score
Of troops—which, does not matter much.
I say : “You’re made a Light Brigade,
So mind you do not scatter much;
You look O.K.—but, by-the-way,
Your leaders are incapable,
You need a man built on my plan
To make you quite ship-shapeable I
“ I shift O.C.’s just where I please,
From Perth right round to Sydney ;
I see that all good billets fall
To men of my own kidney.
Should others try, I make reply—
‘ No, thanks, I will not trouble you ;
You’ve brains and 'go ’; but, then, you know.
You’re not from N.S.W.!’
“ Though some complain, it’s all in vain—
For why should I be partial ?
As I always say in my haughty way—
•My choice is purely martial! ’
If they remonstrate I frown like Fate
And say—' Don’t talk to me, sir!
Do you know who I am ? I don’t give a damn—
lam the 6.0. C., sir !’
“ Yet, though I work like any Turk
To bring about beatitude
Throughout the ranks, I get no thanks—
Was ever such ingratitude ?
The public rails ; recruiting fails ;
The Minister reproves me,
And scorns advice I offered twice—
Ah ! that’s a thing that moves me 1
“ I have tc race from place to place
To quell incipient mutiny ;
I have to go both soft and slow
To dodge the papers’ scrutiny.
I would have shot the blessed lot,
If only the Creator
Had fashioned me as I ought to be—
An Absolute Dictator 1 ”
VIC.
O.C. CABOT.
GOLD AND SILVER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
By thy face’s witchery,
Eyes of blue and skin of rose,
By thy slender symmetry
And the grace that with thee goes,
Hearts of lovers thou shalt hold,
Maiden, while thy hair is gold.
And, though Time may buffet thee,
Tread Youth’s dower beneath his feet,
By thy spirit’s sanctity,
By thy gentle thoughts and sweet,
Thou shalt still be past compare
When the silver flecks thy hair.
vie.
LEONTINE SCOTT.
DAVID JONES & CO.’S
■. . MIDWINTER SALE .■ ■
'' • ' \S> • •
HENS HATS —„
Men’s Colored SJiaped Soft Felt Hats, Large Sizes only, 7\, 74,
Men’s Colored Terai Soft Felt Hats, Large Sizes, 7\, 7i ... .-
Black Pocket Shakespeare Soft Felt Hats, Sizes 6§, 6f
Men’s Colored (Cuba) Framed Soft Hats, all Sizes
Men’s Colored Nutria and Beaver Framed Soft Hats, all Sizes
4/=
41-
5/9
6/9
10 6
Gsoirge and Barrack Streets, Sydney.
CENTURA
RIGHT UP~TO=DATb
RIVALLING ALL OTHERS.
HAND CAMERA.
For Ordinary Daylight Loading Roll Films,
.and can also be used for Dry Plates.
Slips easily into the
Pocket.
Will take Portraits,
Groups, Views, and
Snapshots.
Fitted ivith all Latest
Improvements,
Yet Folds Compact and
Neat.
MODEL A.
As here shown, takes photos. x3i
inches. Perfect results.
Price £4 7s 6d.
Full Description of many other
Style Cameras from ss. up to £5O.
See our New Illustrated Catalogue,
over 300 pages, sent Post Free.
HARRINGTON & GO.
LTD.
66 King St.,
Sydney,
. .AND.,
93 Queen St.
Brisbane.
pM


That squalid Melbourne tragedy, over
which a butcher-boy stands charged with killing
his best girl’s illegitimate baby by leaving it in a
creek, and another butcher-youth is charged with
helping him to do it as a mere matter of friend-
ship, presents two strange features. One is the
blank inability of the second butcher-youth to
understand why he should be arrested. Even
after viewing the charge that is brought against
him, his loud complaints that he can’t see any-
thing in that to cause the police to run him in are
like the cry of a lone, unlettered, perplexed
aborigine asking what is the good of an alphabet.
The other point is the view taken by the girl’s
mother that her daughter was “too young to
marry.” She wasn’t too young to have a
casual baby, and the casual baby seems
to have been accepted in a philosophical
spirit, but she was too young to have an ordinary
baby. There is something sordidly aboriginal
about the whole business. It isn’t its wickedness
that strikes the eye so much as the casualness and
tiredness, the tendency to drift, the dull brown
resignation, the drought-stricken acceptance of
things as they come, the feeling that the baby
didn’t matter much and the marriage didn’t
matter anything. It is an ideal romance of a
mean street—the sort that is born of the sordid-
ness of the neglected highway and the untidy little
brick house with the stair opening out of the
living room, and the small backyard with the
broken palings and the dejected dog and the bald
hen. There are as bad or worse stories in streets
that aren’t mean, but it is only in the mean street
that this utter casualness is found. Let us
abolish mean streets!
* * ■* *
In an appreciation of the late Dr. Dang-
ham, the missionary, in S.M. Herald (30/6/’O3)
there appears a long account of an adventure
where an act of heroism was performed by Dr.
Langham’s companion. There was a suspicion
that the natives meant murder. The second
missionary, being ‘ ‘ alike cool and brave,
dropped his false tooth on his tongue and put out
the tongue with the tooth on the end,” sending
the natives into convulsions with fright. The
Herald mentions that it was night, but the
ordinary front tooth of a missionary, it seems, is
easily discernible and shines even in darkness.
The missionaries left, carrying the tooth, and
there seems to be no real evidence that any harm
was intended. There is something very weak and
skim-milky about the average tale of missionary
valor, though it appeals to the Sunday-school
kid and the spectacled young ladies who knit
slippers for the curate. This story of how a
reverend gentleman bravely put out his tongue at
the heathen in a strange land is rather calculated
to make the sinful laugh.
* * * *
Bishop Green, of Ballarat (Vic.), recently
expounded to his congregation about the palace
tragedy in Servia, and said it “ taught the abso-
lute necessity for unity in home life.” The small,
futile, grandmotherly comments of the Church !
If the average preacher had been present at the
deluge, he would have remarked that this showed
hbw essential it was not to forget your mackintosh,
and proved the importance of good drainage.
* * * *
The Maorilander can be pretty sudden
sometimes; also, the Maorilandress. A couple
from, say, Moaville had bought the furniture and
hired the parson; and, then, to complete the
fixings, they set out for Wanganui, with the
“ best man ”to help them. The bridegroom had
some sordid business to do at a town half way
along, so the “best man” and the bride were
sent ahead; and in that short while the two
found that they were affinities, and decided
that they ought to be married off-hand, So
when they reached Wanganui they streaked
for the nearest parsonage, and did it. A later
train brought a man who started out to look
for a bride, and wound up by looking for blood.
• * * •
A piece of genuine Sherlock Holmes
work promises to furnish the only clue to the
perpetrator of a recent Prahran (Melb.) burglary.
The sergeant who investigated the case picked
up on the shop floor a piece of a broken bone
button of a “ chessboard ” pattern. A week later
a smart ’tec, while scrutinising a man arrested on
another and similar charge, noticed that one of
his coat buttons—of the same chessboard pattern
—was broken. The piece picked up in the shop
fitted exactly. It is only the nude burglar who
leaves no trace, and he is generally arrested while
dressing in the street after the burglary.
A new development of Mary Jane. One
of her, at Christchurch (M.L.), con-
trived to picka quarrel with the
household while waiting for a keb
to take her “things” away, and
after a while, as her vehicle didn fc
appear, they dumped her chattels
into the alley way and gently led
the lady to the doorstep. then
the siren of the kitchen sued for
£lO damages for assault and
battery, breakage of a be-
loved gamp, and other pro-
perties ; also for the loss
of sundry articles of
jewellery. The family
contested the claim,
denied all knowledge
of breakages, and said
the only article she
left behind was an elderly-
looking tooth-brush. It trans-
pired that the sweet-looking
damsel had filled 16 situa-
tions with well-to-do fami-
lies in the city, had left
them all irnder exactly
similar circumstances, the
beloved umbrella figuring
every time; that she had
sent lawyers’ letters to the
crowd, and that the ma-
jority, disliking publicity,
had parted up. As the
enterprising lady refused
to produce her damaged
goods, the court
glared upon her
with an eye of
unbelief and dis-
missed the claim. But
she got her tooth-
brush.
* *
The frivolous female
can be built up cheaply
these times. “Kiss-curls,” for
a year or so past the trickiest part of many a,
dear thing’s get-up, are three a shilling. This
statement was sworn to in Sydney Divorce Courb
the other day.
* * * *
Scoff from Sydney Evening News (2/7/’O3)
re the Owe’Sullivan’s comments about people who
don’t get sufficient wages to marry on :
Mr. O’Sullivan evidently thinks that marriage is an
absolute necessity.
No, brother Nooze, it isn’t an absolute necessity j
it’s a habit decent people have got into for the
benefit of their children.
• * * *
During a recent Sunday morning the
aristocracy of Kangaroo Point, Brisbane, rushed
the pavement, with a partially-finished breakfast
clinging to its whiskers, to gaze upon the antics
of a lunatic who was pervading that pretentious
suburb, decked in a mutilated corn-sack and two
rusty dinner knives for trimming. The demented
one waved a handful of drumsticks in the air, and
said he was a loyal subject of the King of
Abyssinia. Later on he explained to a police-
man that his name was M‘Olusky, and that he
had burnt his clothes and eaten the ashes. So,
now, the uncharitable Leahy has him on the
country’s list, and is probably waiting for a dark
night so that he can sneak round to a pawn shop
and see if Solomon has a three-and-ninepenny
suit warranted to fit an idiot from Abyssinia.
* * * *
S.M. Herald advt. Another hard-up
swaddie:
T ADYSMITH Curiosity, old Boer Watch, prop.
invalid soldier wanting money, 10s. Carbine,
P. 0., Haym.
Possibly the Boer it was stolen from also wants
10s. badly. Where does he come in ?
* * * *
The folly of getting a sparg girl named
Jane when your wife’s name is Julia was illus-
trated twice over in Sydney Divorce Court the
other day ; only in one case it was the lady who
had got a husband named (say) Adolphus, while
her best boy’s name was (say) Bill. The man suc-
ceeded in keeping Julia and Jane on different
sides of his brain and his tongue until a heavier
lot of beer than usual tangled up his organs and
threw the fat in the fire; but the woman only
kept her secret for 48 hours, and then, in the third
night, shocked Adolphus by drowsily rebuking
him as Bill. Adolphus left before breakfast, and
the judge came to the conclusion that (as a cor-
roborative infant came along a very few months
later) Adolphus didn’t leave without cause.
Be the weary question of ecclesiastical
precedence. Properly the Commonwealth should
refuse to have anything to do with the matter, but
if it refuses, the free fights among the meek and
lowly would not only make an unseemly row, but
would lead to the breakage of Federal property
and the tearing of the clothes of clerics, so that
their semi-nude state would attract attention.
There are several ways out of the trouble, but
owing to the brawling character of the meek and
lowly, none seem quite satisfactory. Perhaps the
best idea would be to recognise every sect with
over 10,000 adherents as a church, to let each
church send a representative to every public
function, and to settle the order of precedence by
ballot for the first occasion, and then let it go in
rotation, the church which led the way to day
being the tail of the show to-morrow. One prob-
able good result would be that the representatives
would all stay away except the man whose turn it
was to head the procession, and much Federal
victuals would thereby be saved.
* * * *
There has been a wild rush of females
lately to the. Westralian goldfields, about the
only Australian place which has been able to
comfortably marry a wife during the past year or
two. The police census, lately completed, shows
that the petticoated population of Kalgoorlie,
Boulder, Hannan s and Kanowna has more than
doubled in two years—it has sprung from 6212 to
13,156. Seven years ago Westralia had 50 women
to every 100 men ; now it has 65.
THE CLAIMS OF CUSTOM.
TRAVELLER : "How much for lunch? ”
LANDLADY : “Well, I am in the habit of charging
eighteen fence.”
TTRAVELLER : “ Well, it’s a darned bad habit ;
here's a shilling. Good day.”
“ J.F.D.”: Re declining birth rate. Called
at a house in a back street lately and found four
youngsters in their crawling stage tied to the four
legs of the kitchen table. A pair of lusty infants
on the off side had towed the table over to the
wall, and the other two were struggling hard to
win back the lost ground. The mother said her
five other boys were pulling hand-carts with
bottles, rabbits, etc. She had trained them all by
yoking them to the table leg.
A CONUNDRUM.
MISTRESS: “ Who was that young man in the
kitchen last night, Mary?”
MARY : “ One of my brothers, ma’am.”
MISTRESS: “ Why, that must be eight brothers I
have seen.”
MARY: “ Yes, ma’am. Poor folks always do have
such large families. Don’t know why."
Sydney D.T. has a plentiful lack of humor
just now. From issue of July 3:
Mr. Frank Wilkinson, who represented the Daily
Telegraph in the South African war, was yesterday
afternoon presented with the medal with which he has
been decorated by the War Office. Major Oarey referred
to the valor displayed by Australian troops in the war.
Mr. Wilkinson, in replying, said that as the race was not
always to the swift, so decorations were not always to the
most deserving. Those who stayed at home, he said,
often rendered as good service to the Empire as those
who went to the front. (Cheers.) He mentioned,
amidst applause, the conspicuous services rendered by
Major Carey.
Of course he mentioned—and of course amidst
applause—“ Major ” Carey. But why on earth
should the Careygraph parade the fact ? These
little ailments are usually kept from the public
eye.
* * * *
The latest addition to the collection of
religious maniacs, Beast-of-Revelations people,
Mormons, visionaries, free-railway theorists, and
other cranks that man the Yarra Bank pulpits
Sunday afternoons, is a stout harmless-looking
old girl, dressed in a faded one-piece calico
costume, crossed by a long black highway of large
buttons that meander o’er hill and dale of her
portly figure. She is always on the one subject,
the “Social Evil,” and rambles along in a low,
soliloquising monotone a diatribe about doctors,
.young men, and the depravity of policemen. She
always has a crowd, mostly whiskerless young
hobbledehoys, whom she exhorts to warn their
daughters of the evils of “walking out.” She has
written a book on the subject of “walking out”
and offers same for sale at 6d.; but the writer did
not obtain a copy for numerous reasons, princi-
pally through lack of the coin.
* * * *
How is it people always talk of city life as
being necessarily unnatural ? It is no more un-
natural for men to crowd into clean, well-ordered
cities than for horses and cattle to run in mobs, and
bees to so shamefully overcrowd their hives. When
our monkey forefathers first left the tree-tops it was
pronounced a most unnatural step to take, Man
is gregarious, and bush solitude makes him loony.
All development is natural, but some may be
futile —destined to be arrested in that direction ;
while development in another direction becomes
the lasting order of things. City life may so pass
away, or it may become more healthful as sanitary
science advances and the race adjusts itself to new
conditions, and may lead to human achievements
hardly dreamt of now.
♦ « * »
It looks as though England will get ahead
of Australia in doing the decent thing to its
accused persons. Practically England is the only
European country which doesn’t give a man
professional assistance in defending himself, as a
rule ; "and Australia has followed England. The
Bar Council has, however, pegged away at the
matter, and a bill providing for an extension of
the Scotch system has got past its second reading
in the Commons. One part of the scheme is that
solicitors and counsel may be called upon to act
for prisoners without fee; and there is a good
deal to be said against that—it will probably
mean handing over prisoners for youngsters to
practise on.
• * * *
A Sydney man, on strolling into a public
auction-room, the other day, was horrified at
seeing, amongst the things for sale, his grand-
mother’s toinb-
stone. Name, age,
date, left no doubt
as to its identity,
and bis first idea
was that it bad
been stolen from
the graveyard.
So he rushed off
to bring his father
to stay the sale.
An excited parent
arrived, and, after
many inquiries,
the following facts
were elicited : At
the grandmother’s
death, the stone-
mason had made a
mistake in his in-
structions, and
carved her name
and epitaph on
the wrong stone.
Her mourning re-
latives refused to
take it, and in-
sisted on having
the one ordered.
Consequently the
mason was left with
a tombstone on
his hands. Shortly
after, he received
an order for a
monument from
a man in Fiji,
and, taking the
opportunity to
work off sur-
plus goods, this
particular stone
was sent along. The
man in Fiji had no use
for a tombstone with
somebody else’s epitaph
upon it, so indignantly
sent it back to Sydney, where, being unclaimed,
it lay in bond for a year or so, and finally reached
the auction-room amongst other lost, forgotten
and abandoned goods.
* * * *
The use of marriage : To give our descen-
dants ancestors. Almost every man thinks he is
good enough to be an ancestor.
A MISSING FRIEND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Advt. Missing Friends column, S.M.H., 22/6/’O3: —
" If this should meet the eye of Emma Jane Amanda
pye, who left her home at Dalton about a year ago, will
she please communicate with Messrs. Moriarty and
Bucknell, solicitors, Yass.”
O Emma Jane Amanda Pye,
If this should meet your roving eye
Pray hark you to Moriar-ty—
Solicitor at Yass 1
Rise up, rise up, O Emma Jane,
Seek Bucknell by the morning’s train,
Perchance, dear girl, you’ll thereby gain
Huge cofferfuls of “brass.”
O Emma Jane and-so-on Pye,
Pause not to reason whence or why—
Just simply rise and “ do a guy ”
Make tracks at once for Yass !
The lawyers there have need of you ;
Don’t pause to fasten blouse or shoe,
Pray drop the baby, leave the stew —
Don’t mind the fire or gas 1
O Emma Jane Amanda P3 r e,
Heed now the ’Erald’s bitter cry—
Maj be one Andrew Carneg-y
Is seeking you, my lass !
So, be you near or be you far,
Dear Emma Jane etcetera,
I beg you, haste per cab and car
To this forlorn solicitor
Who wails for you at Yass !
VIC.
GRANT HERVEY.
Wild’s, in the Sydney Arcade, is the most
fashionable gentlemen’s hairdressing saloon in
Sydney. Every attention possible is paid to the
customers by six expert hairdressers. Address.—
30 Avdeev. Arcade, entrance from (3eorgo-strec tj
or King str :et, Sydney.*
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Reach’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
THE
BEST
IN
THE
WORLD.
,iiriLi° oSNES
CU r pl>' and At Troubles.


A WOMAN’S LETTER.
~ _ Sydney, July 7,1903.
My Dear Arini,-
These are the bright winter nights when we get
all that is coining to us from the amateur actor.
In an over-sea State there used to be two rival
amateur dramatic clubs, self-styled, to disarm
criticism, the “Donkeys” and the “Goats”
respectively. They took themselves very seriously
until a day came when a gentleman who played
lead in the “Donkeys” married the “Goats’”
soubrette. Then, at the wedding breakfast, the
very young best man, M.P. for the district, lost his
carefully-prepared speech and, in the extempore
substitute, lost his head and began to talk about
“ art-loving centres, the glow of dramatic fires,
and the union of a Donkey and a Goat.” Papers
throughout the lanky island got hold of the inci-
dent and tore it to tatters, so the clubs died or
changed their names.
Perhaps it was to have “the first blow our-
selves” that the Muffs, a body of Sydney ama-
teurs, so labelled its combination. The Muffs
appeared last week in aid of the organ fund of a
North Sydney church. They played better than
-their name, and the play was “Harvest”—an
awful piece—in which the principal male ama-
teurs have to struggle with bounder creations
masquerading as gentlemen. A line spoken by
the virtuous, tearful heroine deserves quotation :
“ What have I done to you,” she asks of the
villain, who has insinuated that she has no mar-
riage lines, “ that you should seek to abase me in
the eyes of God and man?” One potsherd in-
fluencing the Potter’s opinion of another potsherd
is neat. Miss Lilian Bethell, as the deserted
wife, was as good as many a professional who gets
large notices; and Mr. Reginald Gray, as the
deserting husband, deserts her beautifully, returns
m artistic, penitence, and lifts his polished brain-
squeezer in Walter Baker’s best manner. Mr.
Stanley McKay, as the artist, Roy Marston,
painted his pictures, honored his mother, and
wooed his girl, according to the best stage tradi-
tions.
Mr. Joseph Chamberlain—imagine his cold grin
a 8 o^ e signature—“has informed the
N.S. W. Governor, through the Governor-General ”
(what a lot of filtering the glad tidings of a
monarch s condescension require before coming to
the common herd!) that King Ned graciously
allows the N.S.W. Art Society to call itself
“Royal.” That ought to console the artists for
the cruelty of Mr. Perry in refusing to hand over
the subsidy to get which the rival societies entered
into unholy matrimony. But, alas, I fear if won’t
make the pursuit of the pink stork and the greon
maiden and the blue sun any the more profitable.
Perhaps, though, as a Royal Society, the artists
will prove even sturdier beggars for subsidy than
heretofore. There’s nothing like the thought of
being “ Royal ” to give moral courage to mendi-
cancy.
Edwin Lemare, one of the world’s organists, of
the Carnegie Musio Hall at Pittsburg, U.S.A.,
took his seat at Sydney Town Hall organ last
Saturday night, and wrought brave music—
thunderous melodies, melodious singings. An
audience of 3000 or so listened as one mouse
to his Wagner, Bach, and Lemare, then
applauded . him like a clap of ordnance.
The organist-—a fair, nerVous-faeed, youngish
m . an— gets £2OO for his short engagement by the
City Council. Our own man, Arthur Mason,
goes for a holiday. At Saturday night’s per-
formance the Tennygpns and suite were in the
gallery, to which good eminence the press seats
had also been lifted.
Lemare’s recital was full of Wagnerian desola-
tion—funeral marches, angel choruses, and pieces
that typified rugged heights standing in solitary
grandeur, and anxious voices of shepherds calling
their merinoes in from the dingoes and other
Alpine wild beasts. As the recital was given on
the night of the Glorious Fourth, Mr. Lemare
might have accorded some more recognition to
the country where he gets his living than “The
Star Spangled Banner ” choked in a vortex of
variations.
The privately-circulated news that Miss Ethe
Mollison was returning alone to Sydney from
Maoriland, where her co. is playing, set going
a query “ WLo is the lucky man ?” She returns
to take part in no altar piece, but to play
Madarr.e Butterfly at the opening of Mr. J. <O.
Williamson’s new theatre on August Ist. On
that phoenix night J.C.W. himself will reappear
a s “IJerry,”. the old Irish butler who
polishes the silver and consoles his afflicted
Missus whose son is supposed to be drowned.
Miss Mollison’s place in the “Are You a Mason ?”
co. will be taken by Mrs. John Sandes.
. Cabled from London that ex-Governor of
N.S.W. Beauchamp is the father of a boy, and
that there is great rejoicing at Madresfield Court
in consequence. Returning pilgrims from England
report that Lady Beauchamp is quite as pious
and proper as her husband, and it maybe accur-
ately forecasted that that boy will have a saintly
bringing-up, and will have his hair neatly plas-
tered down, and will be dragged to Sunday
school regularly.
Very few persons knew that Brenda Gibson
was in Adelaide until she appeared in “ Sweet
Lavender” lately. When she went awav with
the Broughs, her husband, mother, and little girl
remained in Adelaide, but the first died of con-
sumption a few months ago.
Anf (Adelaide .cot-respondent writes that new
Governor Le Huiite made a bustling first appear-
ance in a rain-storm. In the afternoon he was
photographed with the Way family; then went
to Town Hall to be sworn in ; attended his first
Executive Council; next dashed off to a bazaar'
for a girls’ club—a legacy left to Adelaide by
Lady Victoria Buxton. His Ex. is clearly going
to be popular. He got a specially hearty cheer at ■
the Town Hall when he announced that his wife
would come out as soon as possible.
Someone has been “drawing” the manager of a
fashionable boot store on the subject of women’s
shoes and the sizes thereof ; with the resultant in-
formation that the average size is five ; but many
nicely-shaped feet wear sevens. He has two
women customers who take nines, and some who
wear ones. But seven is the largest size in
women’s footwear kept in stock. The smallest
feet the manager had ever seen supporting a
grown person were elevens, child’s size. “ Women
have much larger feet now than when I was a
young man,” the manager added, “ but then they
are'better d iveloped altogether; cycling, walking,
golfing and other exercises have made the differ-
ence. I notice an American writer says that
when a family starts to decay it shortens its jaw,
drops off at the heel, and dotes on small hands
and feet.”
Miss Nellie Hunter, eldest daughter of Mr.
John Hunter of Elizabeth Bay, Sydney, was mar-
ried last week to Mr. J. A. Henderson, a Mel-
bournian. Bride is R. C., but groom belongs to
some other sect, so the ceremony did not take
place before the High Altar but at one of the side
shrines. (Curious compromise !) At the wedding
breakfast one of the officiating priests, in replying
to, or proposing, something benedictory, referred
to bride’s heavily-gilt father as the “boot
king” and “socks emperor” (no, by the way,
he didn’t say “socks emperor”—he forgot that)
of Australia. Most of Sydney’s Somebodies
were present, and the display of presents sug-
gested the emptying of the local gold and silver-
smiths’ and jewellery shops. Bride’s gown was
ivory duchesse satin with an over-dress of beauti-
ful lace over ivory chiffon showered over with
silver paillettes. Here ended the “overs,” and
the orange blossom and diamond sprays and
hearts, and necklets began. The Hendersons will
home in Auckland (M.L.), where the bridegroom
has an appointment.
Principal society event of the month up to date
was the ball given last week by the leaders of the
American colony in Sydney in honor of Independ-
ence Day. . It was the colony’s first outbreak in
this direction. A newly-appointed, very live
young Vice-Consul asked in effect, “What is the
matter with the Eagle’s feet; why shouldn’t he
dance the two-step annually?” And others of
the colony answered him, saying : “There are no
corns on the Bird’s claws ! Henceforth let him
dance annually.”
For weeks before the dance nearly all young
oydney was practising the “ Two Step,” and the
graceful dance promises to have a permanent
place on programmes for the future. Twenty-five
Australian-Americansdivided amongst themselves
the expenses of the dance, and some 350 guests
were theirs at Paddington Town Hall. Consul
for U.S.A., Orlando Baker, does notdance, neither
does Mrs. Baker; so the vice-Consul, H. Llewellyn
Tj eS rr? *^ le vice-regal measure with
Lady Tennyson, and no cat ever avoided a terrier
as deftly as did he her ladyship’s abnormally long,
billowy tail of lace and chiffon frills. The head of
the Mutual Life of New York, Major Rennie,
danced with her State Ex. Lady Rawson, who
wore claret-colored velvet and Venetian point.
The papers speak of a Wesleyan parson who
boasted that he had “ undersold ” the disreputable
marriage-shops by offering a happy pair induce-
ments to get married free of charge. The bride*
groom-elect was in his shirt-sleeves, so the parson
gave him an old coat, whilst his wife conferred a
petticoat upon the bride. Then they gave the
new firm a marriage present of half-a-crown, and
told both partners to be a comfort to one another
till death did them part. But something was for-
gotten. The good parson should have added a
pound of tea to the endowment. What is married
life without a pound of tea?
, Due of the great natural industries of Australia
is being claimant to a huge fortune in Chancery—
generally a million, Chancery being supposed" to
be partial to growing fortunes of exactly that
figure, though sometimes the big pumpkin is
£5,000,000. There are not, so far as offioial
returns show, any big fortunes in and
the task of getting one out is therefore equal in
difficulty to coining moonshine and reaping
shadows. Yet quite a number of people make a
more or less comfortable living out of being
claimants to a million in Chancery—out of that
and the credulity of human nature.
Sydney society ought to be glad of a suggestion
for a new entertainment for the coming winter—
the transplantation from French soil, where it
flourishes exceedingly, of “ The Conference.” A
certain French nobleman of ancient lineage and
very blue b!oo 1 was conferencing in New York
last month to the great delight of the 400. A
correspondent of the Argonaut describes the
Conference as a typical French talk of the hour-
and-a-half afternoon sort. It is not a lecture or a
reading, but more like a spoken essay than any-
thing else, and may be on a person, or an epoch,
or an abstract subject. The Frenchman’s dis-
course was on Le Mystere. “Taken as a whole,
the discourse was thin and poetic ; full of a sort
of dilettante exquisiteness ; fragile and fine as a
cobweb.” And the speaker was a handsome,
elegant-looking man of conventional type, with a
romantic, Spanish hidalgo air.
I mention this fact in case Sydney Society
should adopt the conference and ask somebody
with a goat’s shave and an advance Australia
figure to discourse. Especially for an impersonal
subject a man with a romantic air should be
sought. Comte Peretti della Rocca, Sydney’s
vice-consul for France, must know something of
this form of entertainment, so he should be asked
to lead off. He would look the part, anyhow,
when conferencing on, say, “The Jonquilism of
Narcissus.” or “The Buried Gold of the Daffo-
dils.” For a somewhat more abstruse and
strenuous subject I would suggest Mr. Ambrose
Pratt. He might, under the glow of ruby-shaded
lamps, discourse on “Is Death Necessarily
Fatal?” Income-tax Commissioner Spiller con-
siders “ Pickles ” the most humorous word in our
language, so he might be asked to artistically
spread himself in a prose poem with pickle effects.
_“ Slie was always going to dances against my
will;” that is a common charge by husbands
against wives when the pair enter the Divorce
Court. “He was always jealous of me,” counters
the wife, “and saying that I tried to attract
other men’s attention.” The fortune-teller, too,
is a side issue in these rifts, and in five cases out of
ten either the wife or the husband is constitution-
ally idle. An exceptional worker must have been
the petitionerwhocouldnotagreewithher husband
in Sydney and so went to Coolgardie to open a
restaurant. Her husband turned up and spoilt
her schemes, she said ■ Then her travels extended
to London and America, including Dawson City
and Klondike, with a return to Sydney, then
flight back to Klondike, finally back to Sydney
again ; always working. Well, if home keeping
ways make homely wits, this lady’s wits ought to
be fairly pointed.
Adelaide newspaper folks must be kindly
disposed towards Mayor Cohen. For his recent
grand ball, 18 invitations are said to have reached
one newspaper office alone.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ There was a suggestion of snow-chill in Satur-
day's atmosphere, and the Flemington meeting
didn’t favor feminine race-goers. The vice-regal
Clarkes, the Huttons, and the Admiral, who re*
called pictures_ of the aquiline-featured, side-
whiskered Wellington, foregathered in the State
Governor’s box. A greatly reduced Prime Minis-
ter, in tow of Malcolm M'Eacharn, took a sober
strut up and down. _ Toby’s hat now slips to his
ears, in Dnnky Gillies fashion, and a trench
yawns between neck and collar.
“ Commissioner Tait did a July 4th call on
Stars and Stripes Consul Bray before going to
the Flemington meeting. He is very unlike that
advance portrait of a bearded Canadian in
Russian furs, with his full placid face and steady
steel eyes. Tait is a tall, normal man of the
forties. _ How the ‘arrived ’ Americans play
that placidity rdle for all it is worth ! Once the
hill of progress is climbed, there seems to be a
general effort to cover up the trouble and slip
tracks, and to gather the breath for a long,
tranquil, unemotional spell.
“ A Collins-street clothes designer cut a wonder-
ful dash at a recent race outing. Although the
sky was a weeping one she showed forth in a
defiant toilette of opaline blue crepe-de-chine with
drapings of cobweb lace and slight suggestions of
rose silk underwear. With this challenging outfit
went a delicate head covering. It was a happy
‘ ad. Womenkind, growling in unbecoming Polar
raiment up on the Stand, could not tire of
admiring this silken inspiration.
“On ‘ lndependence Day ’ (4th July), U.S.A.
Consul-General Bray ‘received’ at Menzies
Hotel. Mr. Bray, who is tall, dark, pleasing to
the eye, and a widower (isn’t it an interesting
mixture, girls?), welcomed callers so cordially
that the flattered gathering forgot it was merely
‘official,’ and felt quite at home. Previously
Victoria knew only two brands of ‘official’
welcome—-the passively tolerant (wherein the
host treats all alike to a perfunctory duty hand-
shake) and the actively offensive (known by the
hostess’ trick of towing each guest past while
shaking hands, as if afraid the intruder might
linger). The difference between British and
American greeting recalls Emerson on English-
men : ‘Britain is an island, and every one of
these islanders is an island himself.’ Elsewhere
he writes : ‘An introduction to a Briton partakes
of the nature of a Sacrament.’
“At the Bray reception a proud couple brought
their San Francisco baby to greet Uncle Sam’s
representative. The Consul made much of the
possible President and pinned a miniature Stars-
and-Stripes to his bib. Miss Van Buren, of the
Frawley co., came to the reception with, her
momma. Both ladies had on their best frocks,
and did their country credit.
, “ A young lady of some charm, as soon as she
was engaged, started lionising her fianc6, getting
her girl friends to rally up to worship him.
She went to tremendous trouble to see that all
womenkind liked the young man—a very con-
scientious medico. This moved an observant
matron to step in with a piece of heavy advice as
to the folly of throwing all this temptation to
ohange his choice in the young man’s way.
‘That’s all right,’ said the practical girl, ‘l’m
working up a practice for Fred. He’s a specialist
in women’s diseases.’
“Matrons are deserting the hunting field this
season. Miss Millicent Fairbairn, gem of the big
wool clan, and Miss Connie Power, daughter of
the redoubtable turfite, still keep to the horse.
They were well upon the hounds the other day.
When the Melbourne Club had a Tally-ho! and
mostly men predominated. Some of the merely
ornamental she-riders do a canter along the.
Alexandra avenue these crisp afternoons. It is
an ideal stretch of turf. Miss Mars Buckley
occasionally brings her splendid hack out, and the
daughter of a Collins-street Sawbones gallops at
times with her honey-colored tresses wildly flut-
tering in the wind.
“ A unique object in the Exhibition Museum is
a highly-wrought gilt Marie Antoinette casket,
bearing an elaborate inscription by £ £ Smith to
his dear wife (the present lady) ‘as a souvenir
of a joyful honeymoon visit ’ paid to Europe in
1882, or thereabouts. It is a simply pathetic cir-
cumstance, and seems to whisper confidently to all
young men that £ £ felt well. Write to him, en-
closing £l, and he, etc., etc.
“ At a very smart knot-tying the other day, the
stranger was immensely struck at the number of
tqddlers given star parts in the scene. The
youngest hope, boasted by one of the bride’s
family, was a shade too young to leave at large to
tend the bridal train, but its turn for show pur-
poses came later (at the reception), when papa
poised the pet on his shoulder, with a ‘Go thou
and do likewise ’ look. One of the many fashion-
able young mothers present, who has the right to
sport two medallions, declared that things had
been badly arranged, and she had lost a whole
season’s hunting ‘to do her duty’; but, ‘bless
you, a baby’s better than all the brushes and other
victories of the field. What do you think?’
There was a chorus of assent. All smart women
too!
“All the clever family of the late ex-Com-
missioner Greene of the Railways are now married
off. The two youngest girls were joined in the
bonds within the last fortnight—Mrs. Claude
Macdonald doing the honors for both sisters.
Miss Olive Greene, a slight, Titian-haired, fragile
beauty, married Mr Hylton M‘Kay, one of the
Albury MKays, at St. Peter’s, where High
Church sins are confessed and the East is faced at
service. Miss Dove Greene, a robust, high-
colored, cheerful blonde, faced the Eden chant in
company with Mr. Ben Lempriere, youngest of
the breezy brother sports, on Thursday.
The wonderful lace worn by the two smart
Greene sisters at their respective weddings
recently, was' the work of their late mother,
who was about applying the finishing stitches to
her long tedious task when death struck her down.
The shock was sb great—the family having been
summoned from a race meeting by the news—
that the two. girls were despatched on a trip
to England. They returned a short time ago to
their waiting grooms, and the interrupted engage-
ments were duly clinched. l
“The world of frill seems to be abandoning its
mystic nomenclature and dropping into a-homely
naming of things precious. There was an air of
Romantioism once in a list of woman’s apparel,
but now a more downright plainness abounds.
We have mealy cloths, hopsack, flake-tweed,
twine, string, pepper veils, tomato-red, bottle-
green. Chilblain-blue and nose-red threaten to
come.
“ Bishop Clarke has been hard at work lately
confirming the lambs of his flock. Nowadays the
young things don’t kneel all round the chancel
rails, while the Bishop steps round and lays his
hands on the young heads in pairs. These times
the Shepherd-in-Chief sits enthroned, and the
young ’uns march two by two and kneel before
him while he applies his hands. A nervous miss
laid her head on his knee t’other night, presum-
ably supposing that he affected the sitting
attitude for the convenience of her head rather
than to save his own legs.
“ The Working Men’s College annual break-up
had a melancholy moral. Retrenchment is bearing
its evil fruit. The foundry is already closed, and
had it not been for the generosity of Mr. Wilfred
Kernot, chief electrical teacher, who has loaned the
college his own private installation valued
at £6OO, the electrical school must have stopped
working also. What a creditable position for a
public institution on which we depend for our
support in the coming industrial struggle with
Germany and America ! The Governor was almost
the only notable who faced the doleful mfisic.
Irvine, who was down for an address, had at least
the grace to stay away.
“Danger ahead for the Lothario scone-eater 1
The news has just leaked out that a tea-room girl
is collecting reminiscences for future publication.
She is not Only trusting to her own experiences,
but is gathering those of others. The field is one
of great promise. A girl was chatting to me on
the subject the other day. ‘All romance is
knocked on the head here, believe me. Silenus—
a common type—disgusts one. The young blade,
ditto. Then you work up a fine scorn for the
roue, the man-about-town, the insidious flatterer.
The types are quite distinct. There’s another
sneak-type that almost amuses me. One day he
comes alone, looks round the room, marks a girl
and ogles her over his tea-cup till she responds or
snubs him. The next day he comes with a young
thing and pays her devouring attentions. The
third day he appears with a stout, florid
matron—his wife. His eyes never range beyond
her toque. He is staid, dutiful, circumspect—the
pattern spouse. What is so engrossing is the
growth of affairs. You see acquaintances; ripen.
At'first flirtation increases in frivolity over the
tea-cups. Then the amourette starts. That goes
on for a few days. Then the trysting pair are
clearly more than friends. The stages develop
here under our eyes. If you want to study
humanity awhile, hand the tray round.’
'm “ Dr. Tay Pay MMnerney has gone off to South
Africa to clasp - his pet brother,- Tim, once more
to his affectionate bosom.. Since the day when
Tay Pay marched, with brolly in bayonet style at
his shoulder, beside the contingenting Tim, and
bade a moist good-bye to the big strapping soldier
at the Pier, he has mourned for his little brother.
By the departure of Tay Pay, all the young
politicians and book-lovers of Melbourne will
lose a good and kindly host. The loss of the big
bachelor Sunday soirees that he conducted for
years leaves a blank on the masculine cards not
easily to be filled.
“ Monsignor Yay de Vaya talked the other day
of feeling rather ‘seedy’—so his English must be
full-grown. The Count’s father is alive and occu-
pying the Austrian Chancellorship. On Sunday,
when Monsignor was billed to celebrate Mass at
the Jesuits’ Ohurch in Hawthorn, a great crowd
gathered, and prayers were at a discount in the
general gape.
“No one seems to be prospering quite as well
as the dressmaker just now. The wonderful fancy-
machinings, pipings, tickings, pleatjpgs, that
came into,vogue two years ago, and that have
been popular ever since, were the excuse for higher
prices, as they entailed more Work and greater,
elaboration. But the newest machines kept pace
with the fashions and simplified things so that it
is now little more than dropping the material into;
the slot and having it worked out'automatically.
Still the prices remain tall, and while the counfry.
clients have famine seasons and the town pedplc
have slumps, and the price of a smart frock'is a.’
pinch which the whole family feels, the swagger T
dressmaker adds rings to her fingers, expensiye
bronze to her hair, and generally lives on the fat
of the land.
(Continued on page S 3 )
* *
s
AO®
*
$0
O©
SWIFT
COM PA
* Y
| SEMPER IDEM. (
I FACILE PR 11MC E PS. |
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
Women ! why be thin and undeveloped ?
Lact6, the wonderful skin-food, plumps the flesh
where thin and undeveloped, gives a beautiful
roundness to face, neck, bust, and arms. JA
quick, sure and safe home treatment. Jars
75.6 d., post Bs. 2d. Thousands of women using it
daily, all of whom testify to the wonderful results
from its use. Write for pamphlet to H. Westall:
Guest, Yice-regal chemist, 229 Bourke-street,.
Melbourne.* J • ;
WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW WTAV
A NEW LOT OF LACE COLLARS. WT
■yrrrp A Striking Demonstration of t.he Latest
i Developments in the Fashionable World. AVI
W . - .. t r.W.:
WT
Black Lase Applique Collars.
wr
w
WT
w
WT
w
WT
tit Round Shape, with pointed fronts, 1/lU
V Square Backs, with stole fronts, 3/6
Circular Collars, with points, 2/11
W Square Yoke Collars, 4 6
WT Rou.id Vandyke Collars, 3/11
W Square Back, pointed fronts, 2/11
\YT Large Cape Collars; 5/11
W „ s^ou ' f * v°u he an exception? Others
rTTrp Save Money Il3' doing their Siioiting Here ; so ” • -
vis- "'dl von after you have favored us with a WT
W Trial Order. W
WT w. T. WATERS & CO. LTD, WT
WT “ The Leaders of Fashion" \ -W,
W King & Qeorge Sts., SYDNEY,
WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW'WTW WTW
£L>
TRADE
Dress Fftßßies
Are Stocked by the
Leading Drapers.
maVkTHE varnished board
t'i


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Dr. J. S'. C. Eikington, on a holiday trip
from Indian plague work, is back in Australia.
An ex-Minister of a big Australian State
was lately enjoying the hospitality of his country
—in a benevolent institution.
Gordon, S.M., at the 1 Adelaide Police
Court, recently disposed of a “lady” with 194
previous police court appearances.
C. H. Westwood, the recently-deceased
Secretary of the Tas. Racing Club, was a native
of Rio Janeiro, where his father was British
Consul. Quite a number of South American-born
people seem to drift to Australia.
Announcement that George Dean, the
notorious, is nearly due for release will probably
come as a shock to most. Sentenced to 14 years’
gaol for perjury he has by good conduct earned
all possible remissions and will win freedom after
about ten years in gaol.
“Chasselas ” : Met an ex-colonel or major
or something of considerable war experience, the
other day, doing the dreary round of a life-
assurance canvasser. The soldier seems to be
a back number all over the States since old man
Kruger put his curse on him.
“ Cheetah ” : Re “ Sporting Notions ”
(B. 27/6/’O3) hinting about a match, under Billings-
gate rules, between Yoliva, Flapdoodle Dowie’s
minion, and Jonorton, let me say emphatically,
before any fortunes are lost over the “go,” that
the Yankee will win by a nose !
Mrs. Cecile Andersen, who was sentenced
to death in Aug., 1894, for the murder of a man
named Fraser, in the back-room of a Melbourne
public-house, and afterwards had her sentence
commuted to penal servitude for life, was released
from gaol on the last day of June.
If the Australian Government’s Naturalisa-
tion Bill passes, S. A. Premier Jenkins Iscariot will
have to get naturalised again. At present Jenkins
is a British subject in S.A. and a foreigner in all
the other States. Homburg, a leading member of
S.A. Opposition, is in the same boat.
There is still living in New Norcia (W.A.)
mission settlement the Westralian black who, 57
years ago, saved the life of the founder of the
settlement, the late Bishop Salvado, when he and
his associates were just perishing for want of
water, on theirfirstnorthern journey of exploration.
The ancient, who is now over 80, a cripple, and
nearly blind, has been privileged to loaf on the
mission ever since that far-back date when a lucky
chance threw him and the then young monk
together.
PUSHED FOR MONEY.—A SKETCH IN
HYDE PARK.
The Rev. G. J. Robinson, 8.A., the
patron and guardian of Amy Castries, who has just
fone home broken down in health, was formerly a
’resbyterian, and roused the family ire by going
over to Rome and becoming a priest. He belongs
to the diocese of Dublin and was only “ lent ” to
Melbourne.
Seddon was not the only vain man amongst
“Empire makers.” One of Rhodes’ glorifiers, in
a late biography, tells how he was induced to have
his tomb prepared in the Matoppo hills by reading
in the book of Job that “ the great ones of the
earth build solitary places for themselves.” (Our
italics; not Job’s.)
Portly King George of Tonga is proud of
his great tonnage; he weighs 26 stone with his
hair cut. The massive George is only a youth of
28 or so, and stands 6ft, 4in. He is supposed to
get through on £4oooa year, but he has the advan-
tage of having the free run of the Treasury, and
he does his own auditing.
Edward VII., in last list of honors, skips
Henniker Heaton. The only explanation Sydney
friends give is that Henniker, when canvassing
for the Town and Country Journal, once had
printed a likeness of King Ned, then Prince of
Wales, which made the potentate look like a
broken-down German saveloy merchant.
A British Judge valued the outraged
honor of a member of the British aristocracy, last
week, when he sentenced the groom who had
married the divorced Countess Russell under
the false pretence that he was an Austrian prince,
to"two days imprisonment, and then added the
further insult of releasing him almost immediately
after !
For expedition, Judge Backhouse is easily
first of the N.S.W. Judges in criminal court work.
He discourages irrelevancy, stops indirect evi-
dence, and pulls up the attorney who beats the
air with platitudes in the hope of hitting the jury
by accident. Although he observes brevity in
summing up, he does not miss any strong point—
for or against.
R. B. Stamp, the employers’ agent who
runs the Outtrim (Vic.) trouble on the capitalists’
side, was formerly a railway porter at Ararat.
Since he was picked up by B. J. Fink and lias
sported a silk hat, he has managed, at Outtrim, to
have 19 strikes in less than ten years. He is now
the white-haired boy of David Syme and William
M’Culloch, who own most of the Outtrim coal
shares.
B. R. Wise has had a feud
with the Sydney daily papers
these many years, and its origin
was this. Wise (who has incurred
the reproach of “insincerity'’
very largely through his awkward
habit of telling the truth—the
whole truth, not the political truth
—occasionally) was at a banquet
and had to propose ‘ the Press.”
The big magnates of the daily
papers were there, and Wise ar-
gued with pointed application
to them on the benefit of having
a corrupt press, because when
you recognised your press to
be corrupt you didn’t take
any notice of it.
The late “ Billy ” Swan-
son, M.L.0., of Maoriland,
had a namesake, the hard-
drinking son of an English
squire, who had been sent out
to Maoriland with a smail
monthly allowance, so that
his jim-jams might not bring
discredit on the family. When
William Swanson, of Auck-
land, was made M.L. C. in ’B5,
William Swanson, of the pub-
lic house, had an inspiration.
He sent the Gazette notice
to England as proof that he
had reformed and risen to poli-
tical eminence, and also regu-
larly forwarded Hansard with
“his” speeches. The extra
allowance which he obtained to
“support the dignity of bis posi-
tion ” kept him in an extra large supply of
beer for some years.
The N.S. W. Labor party ought to con-
sider the case of J. B. Nicholson. Nicholson,
who was one of the first Labor members, used to
be secretary of the Southern coal miners. When
he went to Sydney, as M.L. A., he wanted to
remain a member of the Miners’ Association,
paying |in on the honorary member scale, but
was told that there was no provision for honorary
members. As he couldn’t very well be a full
benefit member when he ceased to be a miner, he
dropped out altogether; and presently, when he
sought re-election, he found that he couldn’t be
the Labor candidate because he had ceased to
belong to the union. He ran, nevertheless, won,
and has won ever since; yet, though it is said he
is still willing and even anxious to join the party
he has never been admitted.
Hookey ” : There wets no one named
Walker at the funeral of the late Principal
N.S. W. Under-Secretary.
The three brothers Wal-
ker were almost stran-
gers to one another
although all three held
important _ Government
positions in the same
city, and during 20 years’
close acquaintance with
two of them I never once
.heard them speak of
their relations. Philip of
the Telegraphs and
Robert of the Free Pub-
lic Library married and
left families. At one
time Philip Walker had
a_ banking account run.
ning up to thousands, but
in a weak moment he
took to dabbling in the
Stock Exchange, built a
monster wool-store which
no one ever used, and
finally failed.
“ J.A.C.”: Re Maori-
land abstainer who got
drunk on ginger-wine
(Bul. 20/6/’O3). Many
alleged teetotal drinks
are infinitely worse in
effect than the simple
“she-oak” of the country.
I once knew, in Glas-
gow, a gentleman who,
having been on an extended “jag,” swore off.
One holiday, being in company with a “drouthy ”
lot, he stuck to his resolution to touch no “in-
toxicants.” But he drank 33 glasses of a dreadful
decoction called ginger cordial instead, with the
result that he was the drunkest man in the second
city of the Empire, fell on his new bell-topper and
smashed it out of all shape or form, and was
deadly sick for a month.
Present Waxcellency Madden was Justice
Minister in the first Cabinet which Bully Bent
encumbered, 23 years ago. Of their colleagues
the only Assembly-men who remain are Dunky
Gillies and John Gavan Duffy. Dunky’s Cabinet
history runs back 12 years beyond that—Charles
Sladen gave him his first lift; 'and after Sladen he
served under J. G. Francis, Kerferd, McCulloch,
and Service (twice).
RIGHT AND LEFT.
“The Socialistic party has. scored a big success in the
recent German elections.”— Cable.
“My army will remain the instrument to support, if
necessary, my policy. If the pen fails, then the keen edge
of the sword will support it."— KAISER BILL.
BARMY BILL : "Remember I have a divine right !”
GERMAN WORKER: "And I have a dirty left!”
Captain Randall, the man who put the
first steamboat on the Murray, and, as lately
mentioned, is still living in South Australia, had
never seen a steamer before he saw the one he
himself built for his trip. And he had never
before built or sailed any othersort of boat either.
The only part of the concern he knew anything at
all about was the engine—he had been driving
that in a flour mill.
From the Sydney daily press :
The Rev. N. M. Hennessy, who has been supplying the
pulpit of the Pitt-street Congregational Church for some
months past, and who recently received a call, notified
his acceptance iast night.
Having viewed the Promised Land and noticed the
size of its collections, a rev. gentleman is generally
able to decide quite certainly whether a call is
from the Lord or not. v
Colonel Vaughan, father of the late Car-
dinal, was twice married, and had 15 children.
Of the 12 children who survived, six sons became
priests and prelates, and four daughters entered
English and French convents. No one seems to
know whether the Vaughan girls were good-
looking or not. All the sons were handsome
men. In personal appearance Roger Bede, once
Archbishop of Sydney, was the most distinguished.
The “ Christian Catholic Church ” has
C. Friend Hawkins at its head in Adelaide, but
Andrew Dowie, brother of Elijah the Restorer,
does some of the little converting that is done
there. He is always ready to present gratis a copy
of “ Leaves of Healing ” to anyone who does or
doesn’t show any interest in his brother’s business.
Andrew’s family is not of Andrew’s faith, how-
ever. His wife, by the way, was bequeathed
£lOOO by the late Dr. Morgan Thomas.
Of the 111 Federal members of Parliament,
England is the birthplace of 20, Scotland 19, Vic-
toria 19, N.S. W. 16, Tas. ,10, S.A. 9, Ireland 8,
Queensland 3, Wales 2 ; and W.A, M.L., Canada,
Nova Scotia and Chili, 1 each. The solitary
Chilian (though of English parentage) is Labor-
leader Watson. For its size, Tasmania looms
large with 10 members, also it owns the father
and the infant of the Parliament in old man
Brad don and boy Keating. Average,age of Reps,
is 41; of Senators 51.
“ Old Mac.” : He J. Mai bon Thompson,
old Queensland politician, recently mentioned in
Bulletin : George Thorn, J. Way, and Horace
Tozer were all serving articles under Thompson
at Ipswich in 1861. Thorn (whose father was in
the first Q. Parliament) becapre Premier, Horace
Tozer became M.L. A., and is now Queensland’s
Agent-General; J. Way (nephew of C. J. Way,
S.A.) committed suicide over a love affair. Young
Chubb (now Judge Chubb) was at one period
serving under his late father in the same town,
and Real (now Judge Real) was a carpenter there-
abouts, and had a job as census collector in
Ipswich in 1861.
Pressman : Touching Is. S. W. Premier
See as a vocalist: I know he can sing, and has a
good operatic repertoire. Travelled with him up
North for a month, spending a good deal of time
ia buggies. Tom Ewing, M.L.A., was one of the
pirty. When he got into bush country, See
used to give selections from “Sonnanibula,”
“Lucia,” and so forth, and Ewing recite to the
kangaroo and the native bear such thrilling pieces
as “Jim Biudso.” If See is ever down on his
luck, I can recommend him as a good popular
tenor.
“ Adelaide ” writes :
An ex-M.P., of the “silver-tongued” order, has been
wandering about Adelaide for several weeks, on his
return from the West. Langdon Bonython and other
old friends have been very good to him, even when he
turned up in their pews at church and at. collection-time
applied for a half-sovereign loan. But by casual
acquaintances and cabmen his yarns of a steam yacht in
the offing, with imminent visits from the Duke-of Port-
land and others, and his total want of ready cash, were
received only coldly. The other day he fell out of a hotel
window and broke his leg—perhaps the luckiest thing he
could have done, for he is now enjoying rest and quiet in
the hospital.
John Creswell, he of the large feet and
the kind heart, is one of the very few busy meh
in Adelaide. In addition to being secretary to
the S.A. Cricketing Association and manager of
a big insurance co. and of the Adelaide Coursing
Club, secretary to the Adelaide Chamber of Com-
merce and to the two. big annual agricultural
shows, lie is secretary to a dozen or so mining
companies. Creswell is a mascotValmost every-
thing he touches flourishes exceedingly. One Of
the reasons of his success may be his rule—“ no
deadheads.” ■ - /«l : .
The Sultan of Johore is considered by an
interested nest of lawyers to have shown “ great
forbearance” towards the newspaper press of
Sydney and Melbourne. Libels, these lawyers
told him, were printed right and left. A Royalty
can prosecute the subject of another country in
its own courts, though, it seems, the people Of the
country can get no redress against him in their
own courts. The Sultan of Turkey had serious
thoughts once of prosecuting Gladstone in Eng-
land for calling him an assassin. The brown
gentleman with the golden teeth, however, had
more sense than to try that game before Aus-
tralian juries. . s
It is reported that Lord Lyttoh may suc-
ceed Lord Tennyson as Governor-General of the
Commonwealth. The first Lyttoh and the first
Tennyson had a severe literary squabble at one
time, the former calling the latter “ School-miss 1
Alfred” and other pretty names. Tennyson
retaliated with a scorching jingle, in which Ire-
alluded to Lytton as a “bandbox-man.” The
second Lytton, Governor-General of India, was a
most absent-minded man. Once, on leaving
home for a time, lie absent-mindedly kissed all
the maid servants standing in the ball to witness
his departure. On being told by his wife what he
had done, he simply expressed the hope that the
maids were pretty. If the present Lytton Ims
inherited the goo.l qualities of his predecessors,
lie should he an interesting man.
A COLD SWAP.
Inquiry (now being held) on the probability of
scarcity of cold storage accommodation in Mel-
bourne next summer.
Archdeacon Slattery didn’t long survive
his remarkable old guest of the Geelong It.C.
Orphanage, “Parson Rogers,” of the “System”
days of Tasmania. Rogers left the Anglican
Church and ’Verted to Rome. He then engaged
in all kinds of secular pursuits,'and became 't'lie
father of Foster Rogers, who for some years.re-
presented South Yarra in the Victorian Parlia-
ment. For the R.C.; papers lie wrote for (years,
over the name of “Peut-Etre.” But he got old
and poor, and had a fancy’fbr 'being independent
of his family. Arch leacon Slattery gave him a
room and a table at the Geelong Orphanage, and
there for years he lived with his books and the
children till he was carried off at the age of 100.
That happened only the other day, and now the
youthful Archdeacon (he was only 72) has followed
his guest.
INFLUENZA.
Influenza’s in the air ! Beware—it’s catching !
First a cold, then a fever—boring pains in head and eyes—aching
pains in limbs and back—sickness and weakness—loss of appetite—
disordered stomach—That’s influenza.
D* WILLIAMS 9
w^vink
ILLS
FOR
ALE
EOPLE
It taints the blood, pulls down the health, saps the energy, unnerves the nerves.
Still, Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People never fail to ward off and cure the dread effects of Influenza,
because they aerate and purify the blood—drive all poison out—fill parched-up veins with warm,
clear, healthy blood.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills have cured more cases of Influenza than all other medicines put together.
LAID UP WITH INFLUENZA. —“ Several Winters ago influenza attacked me,” says Serg. McNamara, George-
Street, Burwood. “ Boring pains came in my shoulders and limbs. I had heavy headaches, I lost my appetite, and was
miserably sick on the stomach. The pains in,my head were so bad that even the touch of the pillow made them worse.
I could only take soup and tea. Later on, another attack of influenza weakened me. Ordinary tonics did not strengthen
me, so I tried Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. They soon enriched my blood and toned up my nerves. They made quite a strong,
active man of me, although lam 67. Even since then my blood has been so pure that influenza has never returned.”
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are the greatest blood-builder and nerve-tonic in the world. They cure all blood and nerve diseases, such as rheumatism,
lumbago, sciatica, neuralgia, hysteria, St. Vitus’ dance and unsightly skin diseases. By increasing the blood supply, they strengthen lungs, heart and
chest, and banish pneumonia, bronchitis, pleurisy, and even consumption.
The Dr. Williams’Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney. Price, 2s. 9d. a box; six boxes, 15s. 3d.—post free.


Aboriginalities.
To Contributors. —ln the ease of ethnological and,
natural history items, etc., always give date and
place of experience ;or as nearly as possible. Thus
tnany interesting observations will have scientific
va [ ue _
THE FALLEN SINNER.
REV. ARISTIDES SMIT : “ Oh, brother, it grieves me to see you coming
out of a public-house.”
BROTHER EPHRAAIM : “Then you'll be pleased with Cassin—HE CAN'T!"
“ Kati-Kati ” chips ill :
r .
Re mo -quito that flew away with horse, as mentioned
bv “Meteor” in a recent issue of The Bulletin,
“ Meteor” would do me a service if he could re-catch the
brute. It is my mosquito—the smallest of a batch I
have just hatched out, and it got away through the
stable door being left open. Its parents are powerful
beasts, and are now employed bringing logs out of a
bush inaccessible to bullocks. One of the young family
was white, and I sold it, to some people who were work-
ing up a new religion, as an angel. They were very proud
of being the only sect in existence that had its own
angel on the premises, and when thej’ found out that it
was a mosquito they were quite annoyed.
* * * *
“ M IVI ”• Tn Wnirwa district last summer
iM.M. . 11l vvagga district xasc summer,
while egg-hunting iinder a shed, I killed a large
goanna with peculiar lumps in the region of the
stomach. Opened him and found three china
nest-eggs. No chance there for even a goanna’s
1
digestion .
-A mild Bonsation and a limited whiff of
the past pervaded Melbourne the other day when
a dilapidated bullock-dray and 10 dilapidated
bullocks traversed the city. They were carting a
boiler up to Dandenong Range raspberry country,
an d were attended by a couple of upstanding hul-
lockies. Ancient and respectable citizens who
had been acquainted with the real bullocky in
their younger days disapproved of the outfit.
They said the drivers weren’t genuine, and hadn’t
the fine old cataract of cuss language that belonged
to 50 years ago. There was a light in the rheumy
eye of more than one commercial magnate as the
show went by, and more than one showed an
obvious longing to cast his bell-topper to the
winds and say such things to those 10 bullocks as
Melbourne hasn’t heard this generation.
* * * *
At Waramja Basin (Vic.), for week ending
r =• , A / n •. r a.i~
13th June, work was done for days ; for the
following week, one dav. Since the work was
begun dea h ’ shave occurred, and this much-
vaunted job of the Iceberg Government is now
down for two months, to enable the con-
tractors to get new gear. Horses are useless for
hauling out of the quagmire, so winches and port-
able engines are to drag the filled scoops to the top
of the banks, horses to do the rest. All the stores
are closed, men at present being at Rushworth,
preparatory to clearing out. And this was
the much-advertised winter relief work of the
Deformed Government.
* * , *
<< Spin ». Mastering once on the “Desert ”
country, in C.Q., I came on a badly mauled snake.
not quifce dead . Cloge by was a big goanna
apparently newly deoeased, but with no marks of
violence about him. The ground showed evidence
Q f a goo( ] fight. Previous to that I had, like other
bushmen, believed the goanna to be proof against
snake-venom. Can any Bulletin reader testify ?
♦ * * •
A M.L. gold-mining camp yarn :
There came to the rail-
way station one day a
Chinaman endeavoring to
explain that his mate had
been injured. “ Welly
sick. No catehem doctor
here; take him Olay*
town,"and requeuing the
loan of an ambulance
stretcher to convey the
sufferer with greater ease
from over tha adjoining
range. This granted, the
following day saw the
Chow arrive a few seconds
before the departure of
the train. As usual, the
stretcher, with its oc-
cupant, was suspended in
the van, and his friend
was permitted to travel
therewith, two second-
class tickets having been
taken. On the way down,
M'Pherson, the guard,
bent to lift the towel
which covered the sick
man’s face, when he met
with vigorous protest.
“ Him welly bad. No
wantem wake. Him
sleep.” But Mac. pulled
the towel away, and dis-
covered a three-days-old
corpse being conveyed
to the nearest Joss-sancti-
fied resting place at
ordinary passenger fare
instead of the high corpse
rate. The living John
explained, with child-
like simplicity, “ Him
’live just now. Welly
bad. Die quick. Too
much jumpy-jumpy the
tlain.” At the terminus
the officials demanded
freight amounting to
some pounds, which the
Chow refused to pay.
“Him die in tlain. Me
no pay. He have ticket.”
The officials refused to
deliver up the corpse,
which didn’t worry the
other. “Me no money.
You keep him.” The
defunct Chinaman being
poor security to hold, and
the period during which
he could be held limited,
the “security” was
handed to the police,
who arranged with some
of the late Ah Fow’s
countrymen to pay the
corpse rate.
* •
The story of a
station cook:
. , Wl ?® n the °l d station-cook thrust a greasy newspaper
into the new book-keeper s hand, pointed to an obituary
notice and looked solemn, the b.k. put on a look of
sympathy, and said, “ Any relation ? ” “ Father 1 ” mut-
tered the cook. “Drowned at sea 1” “Hard luck ! ”
6 aid the book-keeper, and he comforted the cook’s soul
with whisky. A week later the cook came along with
another newspaper, giving the account of a river suicide,
arl d said it was his father I The book-keeper couldn’t
m ake it out, but again he moistened the cook and sent
him away with a special Scotch breath. Then the b.k.
sought out the manager, and learned that the cook was
an ex-shepherd who had gone “ ratty,” and always picked
o ut drownings in the newspapers and claimed the victim
as his father. After that, whenever the b.k. saw the cook
coming, he would say, “ Hard luck, cook I ” reach down
the firewater, and go on with his work. The cook’s
parent continued to drown regularly, and the tanglefoot
kept flowing until the two men had a dispute. Then
there was no communication until the cook could no
longer stand his mighty thirst, when he grabbed a news-
P a P? r and made for the store. But the book-keeper
motioned him off. “No use, cook,” he grunted;
<< whisky’s off. Better tell the old man to learn to swim.”
ON THE LAND.— THE DRESSING FOR DINNER
QUESTION.
A DEL A DELA: “ I tell you we've no money for clothes , Reginald — it's
only a bare living."
“B R.”: The man with the glib tongue,
who goes forth amongst the cookies soliciting
orders for famous fruit-bearing trees, will soon do
so in a shirt of mail and dog-proof pants! The
cocky is finding him out in many tricks. A couple
of years ago an alleged “ representative of a lead-
ing Melbourne nursery ” exploited one Riverina
district with marked success; the trees came to
hand all right—now there are several orchards of
wild cherry-trees ! And if a man hath an enemy,
send him round to get orders for cherry-trees and
the result should satisfy him.
The threat of Peter Schramke :
Peter and Lena Schramke were “ married
couple ”on a station. Peter was always right
—according to himself—and Lena always
wrong. One day the pair started to drive
to the township in a waggonette and as one
part of the track was faint and grass-grown,
Peter soon lost it. After some time Lena
asked Peter where was the track. “ Oh, der
drack vas all righd,” replied Peter, “ we gome
on him bresenlly.” Shortly after Peter saw
a single track coming in on the right : “ Dere
you are,” he said ; “ve vill soon be on de
road.” He kept on the fresh track till
another single track came in on the right.
This Peter proudly pointed out; but by the
time a couple more single tracks had come
in on the right the situation dawned on Lena.
“Peder,” she said, “you vas lost. You vos
go round and round and round like a durkey
mit von eye. You best let me get down and
I vill valk home.” “ All righd,” said Peter,
and Lena got down, but as Peter drove off
her face assumed a doubtful expression which
gradually gave place, as Peter continued on
his circle, to a smile which broadened as
Peter completed it. But, to her astonishment,
all Peter had to say was—“ Now, Lena —you
ged up midout some more fooling. If I
do avay dis time den I not come back for you
some more 1 ”
* * *
“Elmore” tells of a disappoint-
ment :
“ Dong, dong, d-o-n-g,” floated out from
Oasey’s half-open door, into the half asleep
autumn day, drifting up into the branches of
the sugar gums, startling the birds so that
they flew, affrighted, into the shimmering
sunlight. “ Dong, dong, dong,” rang back
the echoes, clear, bright, and vibrating.
Music ! Music that touched the inmost soul
of the listener. Music that Cleopatra might
have summoned her slaves with to give
greetings to Antony. I pictured a beautiful,
gold-mounted gong, struck with a velvet-
handled ivory mallet, held in a white hand
sparkling with jewels. “ Heavens 1 ” gasped
O'Brien, “ Casey must have struck a patch to go in for a
dinner gong. I’m going to have a look at it.” So we
went and looked, and the gong struck again as we
reached the door. It was Mrs. Casey hitting Casey’s
bald head vigorously with an old, fat-begrimed frying-
Ean. I didn’t inquire what the row was about; I was too
roken up.
* * * •
“ Lin ” : Was present once when a man
bet a teamster £1 that liis team of four good
horses, the pride of his heart, couldn’t pull an
empty waggon 100 yards off a stubble paddock,
with the hind and front wheels chained. Teamster
Elanked his pound and lost it. The more his
orses pulled, the deeper the wheels sank into the
ground.
At Howlong (N.S.W.) once
a squatter (a straight-laced
Methodist), his son, aged 22,
and some station hands were
drafting sheep, with the aid of a
fine collie. The young man made
a couple of blunders, and the
father said: “Do oblige me,
James, by obeying me literally.
When I say do a thing, don’t
stop to consider whether it’s
right or wrong; but simply do
it! ” They went on drafting,
and presently the dog trans-
gressed in some way. “Hang
the brute !” said the boss, angrily
“hunt him out of the yard. ’
This was done, and they went to
dinner. Upon their return the
boss exclaimed, “What’s become
of that blessed dog ?” “There
he is, father,” said the sqn,
pointing to the dead canine
dangling from a tree. “ You
said “Hang the brute!” and
I’ve literally obeyed your order.”
Tableau!
“ Eiddal ” about a man and a monkey :
A few years ago (long enough to put the police off the
scent, anyhow) went out to Green Flats 9th of November
sports. Found myself watching a man with a monkey
and a barrel, conducting a sort of shilling sweep with 10
cards, on which numbers were printed. Everybody who
paid his shilling got two tickets, about a foot long, with
five numbers on each. Then the conductor would give
the barrel a turn, and the monkey would open the door
and pick out a marble. The conductor would call a
number and pay the money to the holder thereof. I
stood by the barrel and took a chance, and won ! Got Bs.
—there was 10s. in the pool, but 2s. went to the con
ductor. Had another shot —won again ! Won two
chances out of three for over an hour, £4 16s. altogether.
Then I set off to see the “bike” events, marvelling at my
luck. Just as I was starting off home in the evening a
shabby individual called me out of the cab, and when
well out of earshot of others, asked me for £l. I couldn’t
understand the stranger till he explained he was the
monkey-and-barrel man, and that his buttoner, who
should have been there to do the winning, had got drunk
and disappeared. So he had appointed me buttoner
because I was the only man in the crowd whose honorable
countenance suggested a tendency to a fair division of
the spoil. When I left he had perforce to appoint
another buttoner, who had turned out badly ; when
asked to part £1 out of £4 winnings, he had basely hit
the monkey-barrel man on the “ jore.” I was so moved
that I gave him £2.
• • * *
“The Domainiac ” : Every woman may
be a widow at heart, but few' are brazen enough
to air it on a public clothes-line. Once knew a
coal-lumper’s “missus” who kept a reserve-hus-
band on the premises, and made no secret of it
either. Legitimate husband No. 1. expostulated
violently at first, but the wife of his bosom, sob-
bingly, pleaded: “Yer knows well, Billy dear,
that night-work on them there boats is dyngerous,
an’ that yer might come ’ome dead hany mornin ,
an’ what d’ye think me an’ the kids is ter do then
if I ain’t nobody ter fall back cn ? An’ ’ere s Ned
swearin’ ter give hup the booze an’ marry me as
soon as hanything ’appens ter yez. It’s thankful
yez oughter be.” This argument proved too
logical for Bill. [Note.— Knowing something of
the ways of the sort of Bill who lumps coal, we
do not believe this. —Ed. B.]
RUDINOFF, SKETCHED BY RUDINOFF.
“Barak”: Once saw a remarkable shot
in the Kelly country (Vic.). A hare was squatting
near the foot of a dead gum when my mate, 20yds.
away, fired at her with a ’303 rifle. The hare
jumped and fell quivering, and as we moved for
ward the bullet dropped almost at our feet.
Examination showed that it had struck a stone
alongside pussy, risen, passed through her head,
glanced up the tree, and ricoehetted from a slight
projection. So far, its course was traceable ; and
after that it presumably got from an overhead
limb the final turn that sent it back like a boom-
erang to starting-point.
JOY AND SORROW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Many a morning-1 went with Kate, down where the river’s
singing.
M xny a morning have we been late, cows to the milking
bringing.
Many a morning was Kate’s face red ; was it the wind or
kissing ?
Many a morning her father said Cherry or Bally’s
missing;
Many a morning we knew it well, Ch r .rry had lagged
behind ;
Many a morning, ah, shame to tell, Cherry took long to
find ;
Many a morning, oh, lips were sweet, fresh from her
snow-white pillow,
Many a morning our laggard feet stopped ’neath the
weeping willow.
Many a night do the curlews wail over the river flying.
Many a night, at a whitened rail, somebody lingers
sighing.
Many a night does the pigeon’s hoot sound through the
frosty air;
Many a night could a red rose-root tell how it’s watered
there.
Many a night does an owl fly by, many a plover shriek.
Many a night do the she-oaks sigh, down at the old blind
creek.
Many a night on a little stone, facing towards the west,
Many a night do I read alone, “ Katie, our child, at rest.”
VIC
ELMORE.
FATHER’S GOT A JOB
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Hi, Billy 1 ’ere, scoot off like ’ell
An’ take this bread home quick ;
Tell Mum y’ve got good news to tell—
Talk gently ’cos she’s sick.
Tell her t’ keep her pecker up,
She needn’t sigh nor sob,
Things are looking better now,
For father’s got a job. '
“ I met him now an’ heard him sing—
While graftin’ like a Turk ;
It makes him laugh like anything
To find himself at work.
I’m scootin’ round to order things;
Dad’s got a lovely cop
A-mixin’ sand an’ lime an’ rocks
To build a baker’s shop.
“ We’ll soon have milk for little Loo,
An’ pants for you an’ me ;
On Sun lay there’ll be pudding too,
A jolly blaze there’ll be.
The fire will make us merry as
The kettle on the hob ;
Things will hum, an’ no mistake,
Now father’s got a job.”
ALONE.
To Play your Piano
C
The Pianola will aid you*
Would you believe there are nearly one
hundred thousand pianos lying idle in
Australia ?
Did it ever occur to you how very little
your piano is being used ?
Do you know the Pianola will enable
you to play your piano at once, although
you may never have played one note in
your life ?
If you will write us we will mail you
free a catalogue explaining how. Ask for
Catalogue “B.”
The price of the Pianola is £6O prompt
cash, or £65 on moderate monthly pay-
ments.
«£*
HENRY M. BIRCE & CO.,
Sole Agents for Australasia,
BYDNEY: 323 Ceorge St.,
MEL3OURN2: 135-187 Collins SL
MR. J. SPENCER NOLAN, R.D.S.,
DENTAL SURGEON, 43 Oxford-st., Sydney
(between Mark Foy’s and Riley-st.). HIGH-CLASS
DENTISTRY at lowest prices. Guaranteed absolutely painless extractions by latest American system—a great
success. Beautiful and perfect-fitting atmospheric suction sets ot American teeth, giving the wearer ease,
comfort and natural appearance. Coraline gum plates, without springs or wires. Elastic Gum Coraline is the
most recent, up-to-date plate for mounting teeth. All wrinkles and hollow cheeks disappear. It is so natural
that it defies detection. For comfort, strength and lightness it surpasses everything previously introduced.
Coraline is perfectly tasteless, and remains wholesome and pure. Badly fitting plates remodelled on this new
system. Up-to-date gold crowns. Call and see specimens of latest methods. Upper and lower sets from £lls.
Single teeth from ss. Teeth filled, scaled and bleached. Country visitors fitted in one day if required.
DAVID STOB,ER & SONS’ ,n Three Colors—BLAtiK, RED and BLUE
Registered
Trade
Mare.
Is the Only Absolutely
SAFE
Woo'-
Marking or
The Perfect Sheep-Marker, SHEEP BRANDING OIL
Kept by ALL MERCHANTS and STOREKEEPERS.


Mungindi is situated on the N.W.
border of N.S.W. and is a “ dead finish.”
In the old days it bore a sinister reputa-
tion. Being a border town, all sorts of
refugees, escapees, horse-stealers, &c.,
put up there, and garrotting, mysterious
disappearances, and the like, were the
common order of things. But of late it
has grown quite respectable. When the
ping pong craze was on, a public meeting
was solemnly convened, and a table
tennis association formed, boasting its
president and officers from the leading
men of the town. The game was taken
up earnestly, whilst neighboring N.W.
towns struggled on in the semi-savagery
of tennis and billiards. Mungindi, how-
ever, returned temporarily to its old
thieving instincts. When it entertained
the Minister for Works, on his recent
tour, some person or persons unknown
took down the “Owe” for his Chester-
field and a pair of pyjamas !
• • •
Two women from Neverweb re-
cently paid a visit to Sydney. One was
a widow, eager to contract new ties : the
other a wife, eager to dissolve old ones.
Wishing to know their probable luck,
they sought out a seer down Redfern
way. On knocking at the door of the
frowsy, flea-bitten establishment, it was
opened by a broad, slatternly object,
who eyed them with unkempt disfavor.
“’Ow much worth do you want?” she
inquired; “a shillin’ fortune or ’arf-
crown ? ” They meekly referred her to
her own florid advertisement, in which
she undertook to reveal the past, present,
and future for a shilling. She looked
at them with the scorn of an empress. “Do
yer think I’m going to clean meself for a
shillin’ ? ” she said, as she slammed the door in
their faces.
* * * *
Champions of all sorts take to the beer-
pump. Australia’s champion hand and machine-
shearer, “ Jackie ” Howe, is the latest to enter
the business, and now appeals to the public of
Western Queensland with this unique advt.:
JACK HOWE’S BARCOO HOTEL, BLAOKALL.
A free nip to all boarders first thing in the morning.
Also first feed free to all bona fide travelling workers.
One table only. The rest will speak for itself.
How such wild extravagance can pay these times
is a puzzle. Years ago backblox-publicans never
used to charge for meals the man who was
knocking down his cheque; but times were good
then, and cheques as common as Bathurst burrs,
and as big as blankets !
* * * *
A Gulf man, when riding through one of
his paddocks, came upon a young beast lying
dead, and was passing it by when he noticed
something peculiar about its mouth. Dismount-
ing, he found that the tongue had been cut out
and the cheeks removed, the hide being carefully
replaced. Further investigation revealed that
the whole of the meat had been cut away from
the body, and the hide drawn neatly over the
frame and pinned underneath. Since then quite
a number of pastoralists in various parts of the
Gulf country have examined dead beasts, pre-
viously passed as ordinary deaths, and found that
the same brand of artist had been at work.
GEORGE COP PIN (too well known to require further
explanation).
Bill and Jim hated each other like work,
and lost no opportunity of showing it, so when
Bill’s dog sneaked up behind Jim one morning
and nipped his calf, Jim raged about until he
found Bill, lying under a tree with the dog along-
side. Jim told his story with much fervor, and
begged of Bill, if he was still conceited enough to
think himself a man, to get up and fight. Bill
listened calmly until Jim had finished. Then he
got up, kicked his dog, and spoke. “ That dorg,”
he announced, “he ain’t got no sense—l can’t
make ’im out. There’s plenty of ’ealthy, re-spect-
able animals ’bout wot ’e could bite, an’ nobody
’ud sly nothin’ to ’im. W’y ’e don’t chew them,
’stead o’ snappin’ at a scraggy, unwholesome brute
like you I don’t know ! ” Then Jim rushed in,
and the camp knocked off work to watch the fun.
MISS LINDA DE DENSE—a Tasmanienne who
promises to be something in the musical world.
Photo, by Elliott and Fry, London.
“ Jimpan ” : In western Milparinka (one
has to crawl under the sun here to get any further
west) 1 struck a great collection of semi-sarcastic,
dubiously - descriptive, lucidly - ludicrous nick*
names. Here be a few:
Tommy-without-a-shii't (white).
Jacky-emu-legs (black).
Sit-down-Billy (the local loafer, white-of course).
Three-foot-Charlie (white —ought to be a foot con-
stable).
Singlet-Sammy (white).
Ooncertina-Joe-Joe (an ugly black musician).
Harry J.P. (local magistrate).
Bow-legged Gus (black, could not stop a pig).
Dickie-fine-coats (a cold cuss).
Pooh-pooh-Jimmie (the local cynic).
Oockie-cockie (storekeeper).
• * * •
Westralian Lands Minister Hopkins is
talking horse-sense with regard to land settlement.
A goldfields deputation wanted him to “encour-
age settlement ” in those parts ; whereupon
Hopkins:—
Any attempt at land settlement in those arid regions
would mean ruination. Was not that what befel the
people who attempted to settle in the arid interiors of the
other States ?
• * * *
A Gympie (Q.) journal complains that the
horses in that town are taking to drink, and that
several well-known local nags are developing into
chronic hotel bummers. Pitiful—to see decent
horses sinking to the level of commercial
travellers.
“ D.M.M.” narrates a mining
incident:—
Working- some years ago in a NO.
gold mine I had for shift-mates a big
Irishman, named Dooley, and Heimer, a
little German. We were sinking a winze,
and had got down about 25ft. At crib-
tinle we had two holes to fire, and
Heimer snuffed the fuses. There was
but one report, but it seemed longer and
louder than usual, so we concluded that
both holes had gone. We had crib
(20min.), and I lowered the other two
down. Heimer had just cleared away
the loose stone and found a miss, when
suddenly I saw the fuse smoking at the
collar of the hole. I shouted out, he
gave the fuse a pull and it broke in the
hole. He made for the rope, and had it
in his hand when Dooley chipped in,
and his “chip” was unaccountable to
me for about 2sec., and then I under-
stood. Grabbing Heimer round the
waist, Mr. Dooley Lacked into the
corner of the winze and, thus fortified,
calmly awaited the end—of the German.
Whether the agony I saw cn his face in
the glare of the candle was mental or
the result of Dooley’s embrace, I had
little time to consider, when the hole
went and ended the suspense. I pulled
Dooley up and—thinking of what he
might some day do for me—bandaged
his battered hands. We buried what
was left of Heimer next day, and the
affair went out of my head till, meeting
his brother a while back, he told me
that Gott in Himmel had got even with
Dooley ; on a spree in Brisbane he had
choked himself trying to swallow a
Frankfurt sausage.
* * *
The age of enlightenment!
From a northern N.S. VV\ township
recently a farmer despatched a wire
to a Sydney firm ordering 100 bags
of potatoes, and later on in the day
he drove up in his dray to the tele-
graph office and inquired “ Have
the potatoes arrived yet ? ”
* * *
“Chasselas”: Re “C.8.J." on bees
(Bulletin 6/6/’O3). Noteworthy the number of
new swarms that settled in the forests of Southern
Vio. during the early summer last year. The
drought up north probably caused them to seek
new fields in search of food. Apropos of bees,
knew a man who grew sun-flowers for his bees,
and quarrelled with another farmer because he
grew no flowers, but let his bees trespass and
gather honey from his neighbor’s sun-flower patch.
You can’t shoot a trespassing bee with any cer-
tainty, and it is a difficult beast to impound, and
it isn’t certain that stealing per bee is recognised by
law, and a bee-proof fence is impossible—so what
on earth are you to do ?
A Drink! A Tonic f A Medicine!
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Call lor WOLFE’S Schnapps and m?ke sure that
you take nothing else.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
Ho notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under ■
taken in any case ra contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted, whether sent by post or handed in ; and in
no case will MS. be returned unless stamps (of any
State) accompany.
For tuna: Not at all like a picture of an Aus-
tralian winter W.M.: “ Recruit ” very bumpy verse.
....J.P. : Don’t care for “The Past.” T.D.D.: Very
crude verses....Moa : Sorry, but that song can’t be sung
in Bulletin this year... .F.W.M.: “ 20th Century Chris-
tianity ” better fitted for religious publication.... J.A.R. :
“ Dream Music” too girly-girly Barocco: “If Orpheus
Came to Melbourne ” takes four pages to say that the
musical public is a myth.. ..Gebung : Don’t care for
Blackleg Maorilander : “ On the Plains of Waterloo”
good stuff, but off Bulletin track ; others under con-
sideration.. ..Rex : “Scrub Champion” returned to
Melb. address, May 27th Ku Klux : “Mac’s Yarn ” re-
turned to E. Brighton P. 0., JuneS; “Madame Melba
Hotel ” will appear, abbreviated, in Abo. Paul Mell :
“Susannah’s” fate will be decided next week....O.L. :
No trace of “ Sinner”—your sinner—in office. ..Polstan :
“ Comments on Bush ” returned to Maryborough, June 3.
....C.A.: Don’t mind publishing one \ erse of your poem
on preferential trade:
We know ’tie right and proper
That a mother, who consumes,
Should purchase produce from her sons
In preference to Foreign coons.
....John C. (Canada): Hopelessly out of Bulletin’s line.
....Opal King: Nothing in yarn. We have no special
correspondent there—if that’s what you mean J.E.L.:
Fairly well written, but there’s not enough matter in it.
.. ..Bunyip : Too flimsy for print Newob : Sorry quite
unsuitable E.V.P. : Has hardly “go ” enough.. . .Billy
Bolton : Rather jerky and incoherent Kig: Rather
laborious humor Owl Light: Ruined by repetition
and circumlocution Vemo : Not worth print Bush-
man : “ Situation ” hackneyed and treatment feeble....
Dargill : Quite unusable in that form B.A.P. : Rather
smartly written, but characters hopelessly tangled up....
Rory: “We can have it for nothing.” Just what it’s
worth !... .Rabbit: You take too long to get to the point.
... .Max Wolport: Great lack of force and vividness....
Mulgaßill: Thanks.. Y. Bachgen : None of’em any good..
J.M.P.: Don’t care for “Nothing New.” S. : “Trous-
seau” hardly hits the mark R. Crawford: “God's
Rest’’ excellent. Sometimes wish we were God P.M.:
“Johore” didn’t arrive in time Cheetah: But why
quote the soured and nervous Max Hirsch and the
preternaturaily solemn and wooden Bruce Smith as
specimens of cheerfulness ? They represent Pomp and
Jumps respectively Wattle Blossom: Pointless yarn,
in dim pencil, written on both sides of the paper, and
cost us 2d. for insufficient postage... .Coogee : Most
hopeless Fa.v re : “Egoist” hardly up to mark....
Ed. : Verses well meant, but rocky. Might repair them
for the sake of some good lines. ...C.M. (Coonabarabran):
Some good verse might be made out of that joke, but
you haven’t done it.... Conrad G. : Not quite good
enough, yet not utterly bad Snooks : Your gospel in
a sentence : Things are as bad as they can be, and they’ll
soon be a darned sight worse... .Bushie : Declined with
some vigor A.W. : “ Too Many Irish ” is taken from a
recent Bulletin paragraph... ,J. : “Shade Tempera-
ture” hardly up to mark B.R.W. (Echuca) : Can’t
stand your wild cry in verse for a big loan to irrigate the
mallee. A graduated land-tax to irrigate with is what
you want Jas. H. : Can't do anything with stuff
written on both sides of the paper Swaddie : There
have been too many S’African sketches— of a sort ; and
yours is that sort M.O’D. : A badiy-steered story.
There was no need to run it on to the rocks of such a
catastrophe Noddy B. : Have no recollection of it,
and it doesn’t appear in Bulletin index for that year
Tod : It won’t seem so incredible if you consider
that, while three objects can be combined only in 6 ways,
six will make 720 combinations, and 10 over 3 millions....
T.O. : A “ doctor of divinity” degree may mean some-
thing or nothing; there are “universities” in America,
much patronised by clergymen, which sell “ the degree ”
fora fiver Quivis: All published items are paid for-,
provided writer sends in his bill to The Bulletin
accountant. Real name and address must be given.
1 hey will not be disclosed—only we must be able to find
the man who sends bogus news, malicious libels or stolen
verses.... Norwood : Having received seven different
accounts of the early history of Vaucluse we conclude to
let it slide Arthur D. : Not enough in it Eunella :
Story rather too naked in detail; other item interesting.
....P.P.F. : Rather crude and c1um5y....L.T.0.8. : No
time to decipher such scribble T. Heming : Lacks
dash and vigor Albacutya: One is too desul-
tory and inconsequent, and the other is incompre-
hensible.... Afama : Hasn’t weight or point enough....
Edna B. : Good idea, rather feebly handled
Sam T. : The Success sunk in Sydney Harbor (presum-
ably scuttled) was raised again, and was taken to
England. Can’t say where it is now' M.W. (S.A.) :
The lady’s age is stated, on good authority, to be 47
Domino : The descent of small fishes in heavy rain is
pretty well authenticated, though the phenomenon has
never been satisfactorily accounted for. Your verse is
hopelessly bad. ..Falder: “Lagtown” and “Progress
Night” are hardly up Gadfly : Intolerably wordy and
repetitive E. A. Lang : Lacks both skill and quality...
John S. : Returned. None of them up to publishing
mark....P.M. : “Storm-swept Sea” hardly up to your
usual quality. .Uloola : Will probably publish “ Heroine.”
Ed. : We don’t care to give circulation to such
slanders until the proof comes along N’lmporte : But
w’hat effigy is on the new stamp? A.G.H. (Hickey’s
Creek) : How do we buy poetry? Well, by the yard or
the pound or the oz. Anyway you please, so long as it is
poetry J H.O. : And you’ll only want to charge nine-
pence a line for your pupperell ? It’s worth lots more
than that. In fact, it is so valuable that you ought not
to part with a single line of it.... Merool (3) : Ibid is short
for Latin Ibidem, “in the same place,” and shows that
quote is from same author or work or page —J. F.D. : A
better plan is that proposed in The B. last week—restrict
the speeches on each side to one and go to a vote at once.
T.G. : All been said before more briefly M.S. :
Hackneyed.. A Victim : You ought to promptly sueforthe
money. Could you send us the correspondence to inspect?
. .Banool: Banal. .Rhaupo : Dungog has already had 10
lines of our valuable space ; that’ll serve for this century.
R.D. : Well, part of the reason why the Scotch don’t
feel so eager about “Home Rule" for themselves is that
they are doing very nicely now. On a population basis
they’re entitled to 10 per cent, of the places in the
British Cabinet—they actually have nearly 25 per cent,
of them.... Ernest: Glad to get black labor facts if put
brightly. Perhaps you had better drop poetising
F.J.N.: Not a bit; giving a bigger paper—that’s a 11....
Non-provincial: According to your argument, then,
there are more unemployed than employed in the
country? W.H.R. : Some skill, but w'e don’t
like parodies ..Civis : Spitting should be
absolutely prohibited on tram cars; the smoking-
cars might be provided with cuspidors. Tom
Noddy: Not enough in it for print.... .-.H. D.
Whitaker: Sorry the verses are of no use to us
Roma : See nothing in that chemist’s ease. Defendant
had been warned, and offended with his eyes open.
“O’Toole” too extravagant and one-sided P. Hanley :
Not quite up to the mark.. . .Gumsucker : Thanks, but
the beat of them are unprintable.... Galena: Good de-
scriptive Power, but too long and digressive... .Mars :
. nor “poetry,” but something be-
tween.. Moulamem: Show a good deal of skill but
more polish wanted yet. One accepted... Nulla • We’re
inclined to agree with the new regulation ; it does not do
the aborigines any good to give them facilities for coning
?.= 0 .-n e n ltleS ;' • • Pyr^B i If he doesn,t make that jokl
it s libellous to say that he does; if he does, he is an
objectionable hog and oughtn’t to be encouraged..
• ,Y our °<Je to the rain-drop referred to rain-fakir
M Oarthy.... W.F.0.: A little below the mark.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
W.J.D. : Jews too wonderful.... H. M. : Three dirty
boys are too utterly villainous of countenance... .T.D.
(Q.) : One will d 0.... Alf. W. : Not good enough, yet not
nearly so bad as some we get....T.G.: One will do as
suggestion.... R.M. (Waverley): Good enough, but we
have no use for a mere picture of a woman with a
nice figure Joe Anderson: Sketch pretty good,
but joke venerable—Frank G. (Dunedin): Have used
as suggestion. Picture just missed the mark A.VV. •
‘Spats” joke has little local application. Spats are
almost unknown here. Also, drawing stiff M’Gregor :
Will probably use 0ne....G.P. : Policeman’s terrace of
houses is a played-out joke. There is no money cn the
drunk now R.W. : “Drought Sign” excellent joke.
Handed to artist for re-drawing Recknell : Not quite
up.... James S. : None suitable.. ..W.C. : One was re-
tained because we thought it might suit; t’other was
returned because it didn’t suit. If you didn’t enclose
stamp for return, then you are (accidentally) a stamp
ahead.
“Such is Lire 1 ” by Tom Collins— a
tale of the Riverina’s early days—will be published
by The Bulletin on August Ist. 4s. Gd.
A recent N.S. W. registry-office advt.:
TI/TARRIED Couple, manage railway refreshment-
-Lyj - rooms, £lO4, meet gent. 2; references as to
capabilities and character.
The Railway Dept, pays special officers to control
and look after the railway refreshment-rooms.
Why, then, should any registry-office have any-
thing to do with engaging people and making big
commissions out of them ?
Decision of the N.S. W. Industrial Arbi-
tration Court Registrar that the pastoral employees
of the State are to be an exception to the general
rule, and are to have two unions—a genuine and
a bogus, employer-controlled one—to represent
their views, is an astounding one. The Arbitra-
tion Act is designed to secure industrial peace;
the Registrar’s decision turns it with an instru-
ment to promote industrial war. Since the
genuine shearers’ union will be prevented, by the
presence of the bogus one, from securing a legal
decision on any wage disagreement, it will be forced
into other action. There is said to be r.o
appeal from the Registrar’s decision. If that is
so, the obvious absurdity should be promptly
remedied. It is not reasonable to invest a civil
servant, occupying a subordinate position in the
Department of Justice, with a power which no
Supreme Court judge.possesses; it is unfair to
him and to the community.
FAMILY PRIDE.
SUSIE SMITH ( working-man's daughter): “ Gam,
yer ole man ’s a blackleg !”
DAUGHTER OF AN ALLEGED LOYALIST: “ Indeed
he's not , for he's got white legs , and wears
brown socks.”
All readers of The Bulletin know George
Coppin by name ; many of them know more facts
concerning his career, theatrical and otherwise,
than can be crowded into a short paragraph ; but
only a few people outside of Melbourne have seen
Coppin since the title of “Old” was conferred
upon him. So The Bulletin publishes herewith
an up-to-date portrait of that massive identity.
Born in England in 1819, George Coppin, actor,
and son of an actor, came to Australia in 1843,
and got his first engagement at Sydney. Two
years later he landed in Melbourne from Tas-
mania with a dramatic company, and prospered.
In ’54 he returned to England, a fairly wealthy
man, and played star engagements as “The
Australian Comedian,” but presently he was back
again in Melbourne, where he built and opened
the present Theatre Royal in 1872. At one time
or other George Coppin has been everything, from
a capital low comedian down to a Legislative
Councillor. He was a prosperbus hotelkeeper in
Adelaide before he became a needy gold digger at
Ballarat. He has been a bank director, a Knight
Templar, a speculator in lions and tigers, and a
chairman of many charitable associations. His
history is a considerable item in the political and
social history of Victoria for 60 years, and as an
actor and manager»Coppin has delivered farewell
speeches to three generations of theatre-goers.
His first retirement from the stage took place
half a century back. His last final appearance
(thus far) was made at Melbourne Princess’s tv. o
years ago. He played the part of Mr. Mould in
“Not Such a Fool as He Looks,” the occasion
being a charity matinee, and the impersonator of
Mr. Mould being 82£ years old when he under-
took the job. George Coppin, take him all in
all, is a wonderful man of the type that ages
early and long endures.
35 Years
Spent in making daily,
for one firm, one design
of Pearl Ornament is tire
record of one Pearl-setter
in London.
It would not do in Australia.
Our people call for New Designs
constantly.
Choice Pearls and Turquoise,
set in Fine Gold,
Choice Pearls and Opal or
Turquoise, set in Fine Gold,
£5/5/-
We cater to supply the demand. We make New Designs daily. We design them.
We set them in our workrooms. Wo sell them as low as in London.
London Prices
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter St.


w Federal Ministers had said that it
might be a good thing to take over the
states’ debts, but it should be coupled with
the condition that there should be a limi-
tation imposed on further borrowing
£Ower_of tlie states . ™
The only real
safeguard was in the perpetual watchful-
ness of the people over those responsible.”*
—Premier .-J£
“• He was not sure whether the product
tion of children came into the curriculum _
of an agricultural society, but the question g
of population had a very great deal to do %
with the future of agriculture in Vio-*
toria.”—Governor Clarke to Colac farmers.
Why not a new exhibit at agricultural
shows to encourage the propagation of a
rare species ? . •
Vic. “ Yes, sir, but Governments have a
nasty habit of inducing the people to
look the other way, and this kind of
watchfulness can’t be perpetual.”
0k
Lsttftyir
&ovjn MWl**livAr
'Aprct>enTdl'(
arce
THfc LAW DEFIED.
_ 'AN ILLEGAL TOT.\USATOR.
r
vAVsnl |o r Inis immovable
obalructfon Jd slop fadT g3me
/ in 'ticks .
Thanks to £606,754 worth of economies
effected by the Government, and a very
much larger return from Commonwealth
sources than was estimated, the State
Treasurer is blessed with a substantial
(surplus. The estimated saving from old-
iggC pensions is £lOO,OOO a year.
*TbeA9PBES 4jicl it's a -flesh
jaud bleed -bajjy, top. end,
iblood of the 8(ato oajglQyfis
_<thp old:age^pensipners.*‘
Swl trar
“ Sunday traffic in liquor should be
made a criminal offence to both seller and
buyer. This traffic was one of the greatest
hindrances to church attendances.” —Pro-
hibition Deputation to Irvine."
This is what it fines down to; Pewter
versus Plate competing for the “ tray
and the plate is always empty !
Swine Fever.
“ It is to be hoped that-prompt steps
will be at once taken by the authorities to
■stamp out the swine fever which has re-
cently appeared in Victoria. Argus.
One of the peculiar features of the fever,
according to a Bulletin diagnosis, is a
frenzied craving fgr glittering foreign
objects-
ROUND ABOUT MELBOURNE.


Drunk Party : “ I must- surely strike
that keyhole soon ! ”
“Kyabram is like a woman holding
the key to reform in a drunken hand.”—
Flash from Rep. £wing (N.S. W.). .
making the equity law
yer look small.
Barton (concerning the civil service
separate representation) ? “Re
would be sorry to take part in
?° 7 ? UC , h fiction as that, and
pL dol ! b r. Cd whether under the
C ° nst,tution wou)(? he
IBritish Workman (to undersold'
and starved-out Australian
ditto) : “ Wouldn’t you rather
be killed by me than by
a beastly German or a
Frenchman ?—Ain’t
yer got no
patriotism ? ” _
*u* '^^gjgg
6®a^sr*s??*s^
tea. 0/ “= <«•
WllW ‘ Xi *fzk
** "ijj j
1 "K , ■ *^|l§a§|
Kalb- **Ut-
iN.S.W. CENSURE DE-
BATE HAS FINISHED !
“ Now that I have had
eight nights’ solid cater-
wauling, it’s up to me to
go and catch something.”
Apropos of strained relations;
between the States and Federal
Parliaments at sundry points. I
Its the only weapon I have left!
the best of it.” 1
The Earl of Crawford writes to Cus-
toms Minister Kingston that he will
complain to the King of the interna-
tional discourtesy in making him pay
duty on Stores in his yacht Valhalla.
-wTel’h % Ki "S> «!.« King i r
»»» to tS, 1 *«■* °< t J dSf
invoices' l ’’ Vt ' Ver ““ "'J of his
Federal Judges are to get no pensions—
but, thank heaven, this resource is left
. to them.
THE CHURCH DIGNITARIES'
PRECEDENCE QUESTION. A
POSSIBLE SOLUTION.
Let ’em all go in a row. (N.B.
The stoutest dignitary is below for
engineering reasons only.)
FEDERAL AND OTHER MATTERS.


A. SAUNDERS, SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER.
A. SAUNDERS.
High Grade Ladies’ Solid Silver LEYERS,
Full Jewelled, f-plate,
£2 10.-. £3, £3 10s, £4, and £4los.
In Solid Gold, £5 10s, £6 10s, £7 10s, £8 10s,
10 guineas, £l2 10s, £l5, and £2O.
Guaranteed 3,4, 5, and 6 years.
ftfe
KSB3
A. SAUNDERS.
Three-bar Gold Buckle BROOCH, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Two-bar Floral, with Diamond, Blue, or Red
Stone, BROOCH, 22s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Twist Bar, with Bow and Heart, Gold BROOCH,
0s 6d ; with Amethyst Heart, 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDISRS.
Carved Gold BROOCH, with Opal Centre, 20s.
m
Ladies’ Curb CHAINi''
Gold Snap Padlock, 255,
80s, 85s, £2 ss, £3 ; 15ct.,
£2los, £3, £4, £4 10s, £5,
£6, £7 10s, £B, £lO.
10s extra
for
Key Padlock.
All With Safety Chain.
Diamond BRACELET, 15 carat Gold, Three Pure Double-cut Diamonds,
with Safety Chain, £5 j Diamond and Two Rubies, £4.
Peace-offering' Bird Dub BROOCHES, with Enamelled Olive Leaf,
17s 6d ; 15 carat Gold, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Very Pretty Gold BRACELET, Diamond, Red, or Bine Stones,
£2los; 15ct. Gold, £4, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
Bamboo Gold BRACELETS. All the Styles. Prices according
to width. 255, 80s, £2, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s ; 15ct. Gold,
£3, £4, £5, £6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Band Name BRACELET, in Three Sizes, 255, 80s, as
above, and 40a wider; 15ot Gold, £5, £3los, £4.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Two Heart Amethyst and Love Knot
BROOCH, 20s.
alig'ii
A. SAUNDERS.
loot. Two Bar Pure Diamond, Double Cut,
BROOCH, £2; with Ruby, 85s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Quid Diamond Cut Amethyst
BROOCH, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Large’ Si*e Three Bar Amethyst BROOCH,
25s ; 15 Carat Gold, Amethyst, 455.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Pearl Set Twin Love Birds,
BROOCH, Red Stone Centre, 17b 6<L
wag
A. SAUNDERS.
15ot. Gold Tsvo Bar Opal and Four Diamond
BROOCH, £2los. Very Effective.
Sil-
ver,
i>2. ,
A. SAUNDERS.
ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed Silver H untin| Keyiess,
25s 80s £2, £2los, £3. Solid Gold Keyless, £2, £3, £4,
' £ 5 Superior Unahty, £6, £7, £ts, £lO.
aT.T. GUARANTEED.
se
full size
A. SAUNDERS.
Three Bar Solid Gold Pearl and Red Stone Scroll
BROOCH, 21s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Battleaxe and Shield BROOCH, Very Neat and
Effective, Pearl Set with Gem, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS. .
Gold Mounted Tusk BROOCH, Cham and Bell,
15s 6d. Very Effective.
Gold
£4,
A. SAUNDERS.
BUSHMEN AND MINERS’
SPECIAL MADE ENGLISH
LEVERS, Full o_*,]>,0 _*,]>, Hand Finished. Extra
Jewelled Works, Perfect Timekeeper, with
Pure Silver Cases, Dust and Water Tight, £3
10s.
Extra Quality, with Chronometer Balance,
£4 10s, £5, £5 10s, £6, £7. £8 ;
Solid Gold, £lO. £l5, £2O.
A written certificate for 3,4, and 5 years.
Try one ; you will not regret it.
£3los.
Keyless,
£5.
A. SAUNDERS.
Strong Reliable WATERBURY WATCHES.
.Long Wind, 8s 6cl;
New Short Wind, 10s ;
New Model. G., 13s 6d ;
Extra duality, |-plate, 18s 6d and £l.
Silver, 35s ;
Gold, £2 15s.
The reputation of these Watches is a sufficient
guarantee of the reliability.
Free-
trade
Prices.
No
Ad-
vance.
A. (SAUNDERS.
Unrivalled non-magnet LEVER.
Perfect Timekeeper. Screw Cass,
dust and water tight, 20s.
Solid Silver, 35s ; Double Case, £2.
A Written Guarantee Given with Each
Watch.
20s.
20s.
Black or
Nickel,
£3 10s,
IVIVU"
fff
h=3
mi
“ FLY back; chro N O METERS. ’
Fly-back only. In Solid Niokel or Black,
Extra Quality, £2, £2 10s ; same as above, £3 10s ;
Split Seconds, £3 10s. Pure Solid Silver, as above,
£5, £6, £7, £B, and £lO ; Solid Gold, £l5, £2O, £25,
and £3O.
A written certificate for 2,3, 4,5, and 6 years.
TRY ONE.
Silver,
£5.
Solid
Silver J
£2 los
A. SAUNDERS.
WALTHAM LEVERS.
We are Direct Buyers.
Pure Solid Silver Hunting Cases, Extra
duality Movement!-,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, and £5 ;
Gold Patent Cases, Walthams, £4 4s, £5 5s
Solid Gold, £7 10s, £lO. £l2 10s,
£l5, £2O, and £25.
8,4, 5, and 6 Years’ Guarantee.
Gold
Cased,
M 4s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Goal BAN L>
17s 6d ;
Three Opals, '22s 6d ;
15ct. Gold. 30s ;
Xhiee Opals, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
lSet. Gold Pure Double
Cut Diamond,
£2 10s, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold, Time Red
or Blue .-tones,
Double Cut, 2os.
©Q .
A. SAUNDERS
Baud RINGS.
9ct. Solid Gold, l‘2s 6d,
15s ; 15et. Gold.
20s, 25s ; 18cl .Gold 255,
30s, Bus, £2
Anv name free
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, Pure Double
Cut Diamonds and
Rubies or Sapphiies,
£3 10s £4, £4 10s ;
Five Diamonds, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Solid Hold, Pure
Double Cut Diamond,
Puie Rubies
or Sapphire, £2.
A*. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold, Two Hearts,
Diamond and Ruby,
35s ;
Two Diamonds, £2 ss.
Datest Style.
Gold Mizpah
CHARM,
4s 6d.
Pearl Cluster
Heart. 15s 6d ;
rvilli Pour
Liamoud, Ruby,
or Sapphire, 255.
15ct. Gold Heart,
Double Cut
Diamond. 30s, 40s;
Ruby or Sanphire,
255.
Gold Envelope
CHARM, 12s 6d ;
name free, with slip
inside, 15s 6d.
Good Friendship
Gold CHAKM,
lOS'ea ; with Erin-
Go-Bragh, 10s 6d.
Gold Amethyst and
Pearl Heart
CHAKM. 10s 6d ;
larger, 15s and 20s.
Gent.’s Solid Gold Front STUDS, Ss 6d, 5s 6d, 7s 6d each.
SAUNDERS.
Hand-Ma.de WEDDING RINGS and KEEPERS,
9ct. Sjlid Gold, 5s 6d. 7s 6d, 30s (id each ;
15ct. Gold, 15s ; Extra Heavy, 25s ; 18ct. Gold, 20s ;
Extra Heavy, 80s, 355, 40s.
(Quality of Gold and Finish First Class.
A. SAUNDERS.
Signet Plain RING, 9ct. Gold,.
20s, 255; 15ct. Gold, 80s, 35s ;
ISct. Gold, £2, £2 10s.
Hand-Made Solid Gold MUPFS,
9ct. Solid Gold, £3, £3 10s, £4 ;
15ct. Gold, £4 10s, £5. £6, £6 10s,
to £lO. Price According’ to
Thickness and Quality of Gold.
Photo Pendants
New Gold Photo. CHARMS,
9 ot. 10s (id, 15s, 20s ;
15ct.,1556d, 2os, 30s, 40s.
Gent.’-s 9ctv Solid Gold Amethyst
RING. 25s ;
15ct. Solid Gold, £2, £2 10s.
9ct. Solid Gold Opal LINES,
30s ; 15ot. Gold, £2 10s,
Extra Strong.
9ct. Gold Heart LINKS, 12s
6d ; 15ct. Gold, 255.
Beautifully Chased 9ct. Gold
Large Size Sleeve LINKS,
22s 6d ; Plain, 21s; or with
initials nicely chased, 22s 6d ;
15ct. Gold £2;
Silver, 4s 6d.
18ct. Gold Buckle, Diamond
and Two Rubies or
Sapphires, £2 10s;
Three Diamonds, £4.
A. SAUNDERS.
Two Diamond Sparks
and'Red Stone,
15ct. Gold, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18et. Gold,
Four Diamonds,
with Three Rubies,
Sapphires, or Opals,
£3 10s, £4 10s, £5. £6.
Price to Size of
Diamonds.
£
1801. Solid Gold
Two Hearts,
Upals, Three Pure
Double Cut
Diamonds, £4los.
Band RINGS,
with Name,
9ct. Solid Gold,
12s 6d, 15s
15et. Gold, 20s, 25s ;
18ct. Gold, 255, 30s,
355, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Half Hoop,
Dive Double Cut
Diamonds, RING, £5;
Larger Diamonds,
£6, £7 10s. £B. £lO,
£lo, £2O.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold, Pearls and
Turquoise, 15s ;
Other Styles, 20s.
el i'a£j e
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Solid Gold,
Diamond and Two
Rubies or Sapphires,
£2 10s:
Three Diamonds, £3.
A. SAUNDERS,
act. Gold Double
Buckle, 17s 6d ;
15ct. Gold, 30s;
18ct. Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS,
JEWELLER AND SILVERSMITH
SIB AND 817 GEORGE^STREET
/(NEARLY OPPOSITEN
STATION/J
SYDNEY.


Business, Robbery, etc.
What a happy-go-lucky way some men have of
running a business ! A Toowoomba (Q.) draper confessed
a few weeks ago, in the Brisbane Supreme Court, that he
“ must have been insolvent for years without knowing
it.” He had not taken stock since 1899, and had only
done so when compelled by the necessity of filling in his
schedule for the Income Tax. Then he discovered his
real financial position. But for that Income Tax scheme
he might have gone on for ever—ignorant, happy, and
insolvent!
• * • •
Letter received by a Victorian bicycle agent,
who is still wondering what the writer was driving at:—
“ I send you bicycl his shoo backs whill too whash allthe-
gather pleas put new shoo in sid and seat not good to
him brak and brik him want nather ruber in the batem
one not one fidle no work machinn ner loose bag break to
allthegather pleas put all new and send me back quick
do not put all rmsal becous too much money spend for
train put everything new pupm ruber in the bag send
pasble soon good by Els I did send you one pound send
reseed.”
* * * *
“ White Pen ” : Re the Westralian Govern-
ment Savings Bank’s decision to admit Chinamen as
depositors and the identification regulations. I can
safely say there’ll be trouble over there. They will sign
any declaration (or mark it) you put before them, and
they will identify each other, or anybody else, wholesale.
Very few can write English, and very few can write their
own language ; therefore they start off with a mark.
In a few years they learn to write a name, “Ah Foo ” or
“ Badoo Singh,” and when they wish to withdraw, the
trouble commences. The bank knows them by a mark,
and they sign a name, and there is generally a devil’s
own row before they get their money. One alien,
who was slightly educated, swore the bank was
doing him out of his money, and he went out, caught a
policeman, and gave the whole office in charge in such
strong terms that finally he was walked off for using
language. Another annoyance is that it takes a dozen or
so to obtain one man’s money. They stand or sprawl
around (sitting on the floor for preference). I know of
one suburban bank that is cursed with them in this way,
and it smells like George Reid’s politics. One day 13
Hindus came to identify Hindu No. 14, who wanted to
close hisaccount. Teller asked, “ How will you have it? ”
There was no answer, so the teller passed over four large
notes, amounting to about £2OO. This startled old
Nasam Singh into action, and out of the row we heard,
“Me have much more—big heap like this,” and he held
his hands about a foot above the counter. “That’s all,”
shouted the teller. “Clear out! get away!” The 14
niggers -held a council, which blocked up the premises.
One of them knew the value of the notes, and explained
to Singh’s satisfaction. Then the 14 trod on all and
sundry and lined up in a row at the counter, suspending
all other business. Nasam Singh, having seen his money,
had decided to re-deposit it. Said he : “ That’s enough
my money. You take back, keep now. I not want;
come back some day! ” He left the money on the
counter, and was departing, but the teller reached the
door first with the office revolver, made Nasam Singh
take his £2OO, promised cordially to shoot the whole 14
if they ever returned, and cast his brown depositor down
the steps.
* * * •
Some old-time grants have been before the Com-
missioner of Titles for registration under the Real Pro-
perty Act, recently. In one list of twelve, published on
a recent Saturday, occur the names : John Palmer, Surry
Hills (the early Commissary) ; William Redfern, of Red-
fern (the young medico who came out for speaking his
mind too freely about the Mutiny at the Nore) ; Robert
Campbell the elder ; Canterbury (the first free merchant,
who came from Calcutta, and bought the site on the west
side of Circular Quay, where Campbell’s Wharf was);
William Balmain, of Balmain, an early colonial surgeon ;
Ambrose Hallen, the architect of the old Sydney Grammar
School ; Edward Deas Thomson, of Barham Hall, Clerk
of the Executive, and afterwards Colonial Secretary,
under the Imperial system ; and Thomas Rowley, captain
of the 102nd Regiment, who had granted him a large
slice of Newtown and the whole of Burwood.
* * * *
If present arrangements are completed there
will be a member for Jika in the next House of Reps.,
the outcome of the redistribution of seats. Jika was the
aboriginal name of the scrub country which is now
Collingwood ; at least, it was Jika Jika—the aboriginal
gentleman had lots of time, and so repeated most of his
good things. Jika Jika was Melbourne’s first recognised
suburb. The first sale of Melbourne city lands took
place at “ Port Phillip ” on June 1,183? ; some Williams-
town lots (less than a dozen) were put up the same
day. Another sale was announced for Nov. 1, same year,
Only Melbourne city lots were offered this time—it was
the day when Alderman Hodgson plunged, and paid the
ridiculous price of £9O for an acre at the corner of Queen
and Flinders streets. Then the sale of Jika Jika came—
in Sydney, February 13, 1838. It wasn’t any use offering
scrub in acres and half-acres, so they put it up in 25-acre
blocks or thereabouts. The first lot knocked down was
the corner section, Carlton Gardens and Victoria Parade ;
an old Sydney firm, Hughes and Hoskings, got it for £0
10s. an acre—they were the biggest buyers that day.
Other buyers included Thomas Walker, J. S. Ryrie, Arch.
Mossman, and Charles Nicholson, first Chancellor of
Sydney University. And now Jika Jika is to have a
Federal M P. all to itself.
* * * •
A Sydney man who once lent some iB6O to an
impecunious friend was recently surprised to get a letter
announcing the borrower’s decease, and enclosing deeds
of a piece of land in Gladstone (Q.), which the departed
requested him to take in discharge of his debt. He men-
tioned his stroke of luck lo a friendly solicitor. “ I’ll
tell you what,” announced the six-and-eightpenny son
of the devil ; “ you instruct me to instruct my Brisbane
agent to act for you, and we’ll dispose of the allotment
without any bother.” So he instructed his friend, who
instructed his agent, who instructed a Gladstone man.
The report was that the land was a vacant allotment just
within the town. It was mainly used as a rubbish heap,
and its value was set down, less accrued taxes since 1890
(a bill for which the agent begged to enclose)at £9. The
Gladstone man instructed the Brisbane man, and the
Brisbane man instructed the Sydney solicitor, and all
three instructed the legatee, that their bills for services
rendered came to over £29.
* * * •
A large quantity of “Irish” whisky, distilled
from potatoes and roots, is now being made in Germany.
“0.K.”: The life of the sewing machine can-
vasser is not happy. T’other day writer heard an enthusi-
astic barracker haranguing an oid maid on the excellence
of his particular article. After he had orated for about
two hours the mild-looking female told him that she had
just bought a machine—and banged the door. He stood
petrified tor a minute, and then energetically proceeded
to pull the front garden up by the roots. When the job
was completed he drove away with a smile.
IN TOPSYTURVYDOM.
“Despairing of obtaining employment, or possibly
with the object of drawing marked attention to their
helpless condition, a section of the unemployed this
morning Cook somewhat remarkable action. Hended by-
Mr. J. W. Fleming, their secretary, they marched up to
the Melbourne Gaol, and knocking loudly upon the great
door facing Vlotorla-street, demanded instant admis-
ion."—Melb. HERALD.
GEORDIE: “D’ye think yer cobber's got any
chanst,, Long ’Un?"
LONG 'UN: “ Buokley’s! He’ll be disoha rged.
That's a 'ard-arted bloke on the Bench to-
day. If old Blank was president Bill might
stand a chance of yellin' a cowple of months."
“ E. Durst ” : Something new came along this
week—the Chow commercial traveller. “ Him boss ? ”
I nodded. He sat himself squarely in the best seat in
the office, shuffled into comfort, then introduced himself :
“ Me tlavel firm, allee same other feller 1 ” Undid a
brown paper parcel and shoved its contents under the
boss’s nose. “ Wellee cheap, bag, fifteen pound.”
This was about £2 or £3 below anybody else. The
boss scented a bargain, and gulped down his rising
wrath. All the time the Chow fondled the bags (grey
sugars), running them through his fingers, blocking and
squaring samples ready to take sugar. “ Your manufac-
ture ? " asked the boss. “ No 1 me leplesent house, savee,
sell’um cheap. Wellee good article, low plice. Go on,
you tak’um ton lot easilee,” said the Chow encouragingly.
“You don’t manufacture and you don’t import; who are
you selling for ? ” inquired the boss. The Chow evaded
this question, but talked unceasingly of his wares.
“Don’t want any at present,” the boss said sharply.
“Good day!” “Tak’um small lot, me sell’um half ton
allee same plice ton. Ah do ! ” he coaxed. “ Go on ; me
sure you lik’um bag, so cheap too. Do tli small lot," he
said, with bland persuasiveness and a face fairly shining
with smiles. “You soon use. Why, you biggest glocer in
Sydney.” The boss liked flattery. “ Well I ’’ said the boss,
“ you tell me who you are acting for, and I’ll see.” “ You
buy ’um filst, me tell ’um you afterwards," was the
Chow’s answer. The boss didn’t like being beaten, and a
breeze coming through the open door stirred Chow about
the room. The odor got up the boss’s nostrils, and Chow
is his pet aversion. High words, the menacing rap, rap,
of the ruler on the table, then the Chow’s hurried steps
towards the door and his voice raised in protest: “ Me
business man, allee same you, wha’for you no civil.” And
the Heathen went without an order.
* * * *
“C.P.”: I have taken to buying firewood in
small quantities since the bad times set in, and for a
while was surprised at the few logs it took to make a
hundredweight. Questioned the woodman about it, but,
of course, he declared the measure wa3 good. Out of
curiosity I tested the next lot and found it went exactly
1001b. ! When I mentioned the fact to the carter he
said,“ Well, didn’t you order a hundredweight! Ho w much
do you w'ant ?” He swore solemnly on his Bible oath that
he had been selling 1001b. weight for a cwt. all his life,
and had never heard or dreamt anything to the contrary.
Of course, the boss expressed himself shocked at the
man’s ignorance, but I notice he’s still kept on, and I
fancy he sells the same old abbreviated cwt.
Editor Bulletin.— A recent contributor, who
writes about barbers and hairwash, is
evidently under the impression that
he was taken down. The Bulletin
contributor (hereinafter known
as the B.O.) joined myToilette
Club. He paid 2s. entrance-
fee ; for that he received
a shaving mug and
brush. When the mug
breaks or the brush
wears out, I’ll re-
place it without
further cost. He
pays Is. per week,
for which I give
him four shaves,
spray and oil,
and brush his
head four times
a week, cut his
hair wheneverhe
requires it, and
clean his boots
four times a
week. For Is.
6d. a week I
do all these
things six times
a week. Isn’t
it good value
for the money ?
The 8.0. was
asked if he
would care to
try a course of
treatment to
prevent what
little wool he
had going be-
fore as well as
behind, and
with the reck-
lessness of a
millionaire or
like Jenkins, of
Melbourne, he
said, “Do the
thing properly!"
He had the advan-
tage of my 20
years’ study and experience, and a bottle of expensive
hair-wash, a patent proprietary article—and he expected
it all for his boh a week. Had the B.C. been business-
like, and inquired how much I was going to charge him
for my experience, knowledge and hair-wash, he would
have been told, and could have gone on getting bald at
his leisures A man shouldn’t act like Jenkins and say,
“Put it ail on !” without enquiring what it is goim' to
cost.—Fair Play.
Speakmg of the Orient boat Austral being
broken up. in ISSO there was a sort of ship show in
London, and the newly-built Austral took first prize.
The Times in a leader referred to her as “ one of science’s
latest triumphs, a ship that could neither burn nor sink.”
It was two 3 ears afterwards that she canted and went
down in Sydney Harbor, and she has had indifferent luck
ever since.
“C.W.R.”: In Bulletin (13/6/’O3), “Petramos”
refers to the tyranny of brewing companies. The ease
he refers to is trivial, most tied houses having to do
exactly what the brewery demands. The matter that
wants elucidation is the way in which “mugs” are
inveigled into taking bankrupt houses—-houses that have
never paid, and never will. The modus operand! is as
follows : A tied house falls into the hands of the brewer,
who, pending the arrival of the harmless fool, puts a
manager in charge. A system of account-faking then
begins. The manager takes £6 a week, all told, and has
to pay out £5 rent, his own wages, upkeep of premises
and the cost of the liquors consumed. The house shows
a clear weekly loss of £6, at least. But the hotel cash-
book demonstrates that the average weekly takings are
£l6 and the net profit £3 or £4. It is simple. Until the
“ mug” comes along, the brewery cashes a cheque every
week and hands the money to the manager, who passes it
into the hotel account. It is a swindle, of course, but, as
the manager naturally takes his books with him when
leaving, the incomer only finds out the value of his
bargain from experience. When he draws the brewery’s
attention to the devastating decline in trade, he is
politely informed that he must be an extremely “ un-
popular ” man, that he lacks the necessary experience,
that he is unknown in the district, and that “ things are
now bad all round.” It is not alleged that all breweries
resort to such methods, but some certainly do. The
person who intends to purchase a pub. should make a
point of living on the premises at least a month as an
ordinary boarder before he speaks about business.
* « t «
Westralian timber people are anxiously await-
ing the report of a Parliamentary Commission, now
inquiring into the condition of Westralia’s pioneer
industry. This document will not be ready for weeks
yet, but there is a rumor abroad that it will recommend
an export duty, and hence all concerned are keenly
apprehensive. Some drastic remedy is certainly neces-
sary if the State is not, in a few years, to be destitute of
hardwood timber. The syndicates (now formed into a
combine) that have had the industry in their grip have
ravaged immense forests of jarrah and karri, and wasted
60 per cent, at their sawmills. Re-afforestation is an
unknown science in Groperland, so there is no question
of the necessity for taking a pull. What is badly wanted
is a thorough reformation of the timber regulations,
which are extravagantly absurd, and all In favor of the
wasteful shindykits.
* • • *
A dead cohentingenter is sometimes better
than a live one—to his friends. One specimen murdered
his own colonel in S’Africa, and there was an early-
morning hanging; and his canny relatives in Scotland
have just received the insurance money, from a very
reluctant insurance co. The humorous point is that the
policy (a fine old-fashioned English one) expressly barred
war-risks and suicide. But it didn’t say anything about
hanging, and the Judge thought that officer-murder was
not a feature properly incidental to war; he regarded it
as something outside the ordinary course of farm-burning,
&c. So the policy held good, and the man who died a
dog’s death enriched his relatives by not dying the death
of a soldier.
GOT THE FIRST SHOT IN
HHUBBY (who has arrived home first): “ Orrer he
shame 'self (hie) coinin' ’ome state. Drunk
’gen, I s'pose (hie) eh?"
“P.”: During a conversation with a “white-
worker,” the other day, I was informed that a certain
Melbourne drapery firm, one of the principals of which
was, before his decease, famed for his charity, paid her
2s. 6 cl. per dozen for making shirts, a very large per-
centage of which would -be “condemned,” Out never
returned. The firm was supposed to destroy them—
which idea seems to be absolutely bursting with proba-
bility. It never paid for them, anyhow. God bless the
charitable dead draper.
“ J.F.D.” : Was stuck up yesterday by a man
who was collecting enough money to purchase a pair of
green goggles prior to taking a stone-breaking position
under the Government. I paid twopence towards the
outfit, and in the course of a five minutes’ conversation
he admitted, after severe pressing, that he had been at
the goggle-collecting business over five weeks, during
which time he had averaged 25s. and 20 second-hand
pairs of spectacles weekly. He sold the spectacles to a
dealer in the line. I gave him a drink, and he waxed
confidential. “ Struck an old tart at Elizabeth Bay last
week,” he said ; “ I made her cry when I showed her my
sore eyes, made sore through some chips and dust. She
took off her own pair of winkers and told me to try them.
The frames were gold, so I said they were orlright.
‘ Take them,’she said, and I did —straight down to old
Ikey’s ; and he came 7s. for them. Yer can’t strike many
like that, but nearly all have got an old pair about, or
they contributes a trifle.”
THE SMUGGLER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In books we read, the smuggler bold,
The coast beneath his lee,
On starless nights in times of old
Went forth upon the sea.
And if the customs minions fell
Upon him in the dark,
He rose and gave these minions h—ll,
And cast them to the shark.
But now you find the contraband
Within an office door.
He eooketh with his strong right hand
His ledger on the shore.
No stormy winds his mainsail fill,
He does not cuss or drink ;
He smuggles with a lying bill
And with a pot of ink.
And up and down the Block you see
The Melbourne girl go by
In silks that glitter cheerily,
And joy is in her eye.
The clothes she wears are contraband,
A sale is on to-day ;
For Jobson’s faked an invoioe, and
His ship lies in the Bay.
J.O.
THE CLERK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Four inky desks do moulder here,
And some brown books upon a shelf;
Their hue is that of faded beer,
Their leaves are filled with tales of pelf.
The vagrant wind comes jovially,
With scent of gum-trees, to the door,
And whispers tales of flower and bee,
And blows Brown’s invoice on the floor.
Of cobwebs there are twenty-two,
And flies hang from them day by day;
The murky panes command a view
Of Jenkins’ place across the way.
And here we sit all day, and write
The noble language Shakspeare wrote,
The while a casual beam of light
Makes radiance upon Jones’s coat.
Our lank and cheerless office-boy,
A gnome that wears a brownish hat,
Here finds sometimes a feeble joy
In making blots upon the cat.
Five faded gamps stand in a row.
The safe is stolid by the wall,
Square, dull, pot-bellied, squat and slow.
The beetles in the inkpots fall.
The years go by like ghosts that bear
Big ledgers on a Dead Sea shore.
The years have letter-files for hair,
And leave ink footprints on the floor.
This is where Commerce hangeth out,
In groves of mortar and of bricks.
Here Trade lays its foundations stout—
The salary is one pound six.
N.S.W.
JAMES EDMOND.
RUBBISH SHOT HERE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The State of Victoria, under the low Federal tariff, in
1902 imported about .£300,000 worth of apparel, slops,
boots and shoes more than it did in ’99 under the com-
paratively high State tariff.
Compared with other young countries the Australasian
increase of population has been very trifling during the
In Canada and the United States manufacturing is in-
creasing enormously ; there is a good demand for skilled
and unskilled labor ; wages are high ; and the populations
are increasing rapidly.
During last harvest Canada had to import 5000 farm
laborers from Europe at 10s. a da3' and their keep.
The United States and Canadian tariffs are practically
prohibitive.— Gist of News Items. -
The Canuck and the Yankee build up high the tariff wall
So high it keeps the work inside ; there’s work for one
and all.
And brave hearts flock unto their shores from every land
on earth ;
And uncle and our cousin grow in wisdom, wealth, and
worth.
These people love their own home-land, and strive to
make it free ;
Unlike our creatures cringing to some Jew across the
sea ;
Our M'Billions and our Shoddy Smiths and Reids, with
dogs still dry,
All barracking for Shoddy whilst they wink the other
eye.
The ash-heap we call politics, there Dives reigns supreme ;
In Press and Mart and Parliament his servile trucklers
scheme,
And everywhere the voices of our antiquated drones
Chant: “ Let us shirk the taxes ; let us keep on cadging
loans.”
We build the bridge, we paint the fence, we fell the
forest tree,
We shovel mud, we shift the Sand, we shoot it in the sea,
Our silly stop-gap schemes result in heaps of wood and
stones ;
And to pay us for our efforts we just float a few more
loans.
ALONE.
Orders now received for “Such is Life ! ”
The Bulletin’s new book. By Tom Collins.
Ready Ist. August. 4s. 6d.
“Steele Rudd’s” famous book—“On
Our Selection !”—is going to make an Australian
publishing record. Last year’s edition is already
exhausted ; and the new edition, completing the
Twentieth Thousand, will be ready shortly. From
all booksellers, or The Bulletin. Price. 6s.
“J.F.D.”: Met a first-class incipient
reporter on a recent Sunday. This is his brief
history:—
A Sydney suburban church was fallen upon lately by
the Philistines, the mortgagees capturing and carting
away the organ, pews and pulpit—-in fact, the entire holy
caboodle. The clergyman, not aware of the misfortune,
journeyed up from Sydney by train, as usual, and was met
at the station by about 200 kids, each anxious to convey
the glad tidings. One boy, with all the elements of a
war correspondent in him, jumped on the footboard of
the train when he espied the parson’s head, and yelled
out, “Yer horgan’s gone; yer church is cleaned out.”
The.common herd of boys filied in the details, “They’ve
took the pews,” “And yer pulpit,” “And yer Sunday:
togs,” etc. The war-correspondent boy sprained his toe
in jumping off the footboard, but that didn’t prevent
him from telling each of the other boys that he was the
first who informed “ the cove.” The parson took the news
with stoical fortitude, and the tribe escorted him up
the street, yelling out from time to time some little
detail of the seizure which they had forgotten on the
platform. The war-correspondent boy ran alongside the
parson vainly striving to get an assent to his question.,
‘‘ Wasn’t it me who told you first; wasn’t it 1 ” Finally,
a bigger boy arrived, breathless and hatless. He asserted
that he roared out the news to the parson as the train
passed the railway gates fifty yards from the station.
The new claimant and the earlier claimant fought on the
spot, and the newcomer licked his rival, whose sprained
toe hindered his movements. I saw him waiting for the
parson to return ; I think he wanted him to sign a state-
ment testifying that he was the first to report the news.
The average sky-pilot, whose creed is
supposed to be one of Love and Charity, does not,
as a rule, love his fellow mariners on the sea of
life. For instance, consider this uncalled-for par.
in War Cry (6/6/’03):
Cloudy ammonia was taken in mistake by a master-
mariner in Melbourne. He died next day. Hard drink-
ing had probably impaired his vision.
We have just received from Messrs. Harrington
and Co., Ltd., Photographic Merchants, Sydney and
Brisbane, a copy of their new illustrated descriptive
catalogue ; a compact mass of information about every
conceivable article applicable to the photographer’s,
requirements, be he amateur or professional, or a seller
of photographic goods. Upwaids of SCO pages of closely
printed and illustrated matter are available by simply
writing for it, and any friend of photography who does
not request the firm to send him a copy will have to
admit himself, in the future, a loser by his negligence.
From this catalogue it is evident that Messrs. Harrington
and Co. are not only prepared to cater directly for the
amateur and the professional, but also on a wholesale
scale for merchants and dealers in photographic goods.*
The accompanying
illustration of a pin-
cushion, manufactured
by Mr. A. Saunders,
Sydney’s well-known
jeweller, is a unique
and decidedly pretty
pin - cushion in the
shape of a silver chair.
It is pure silver, beau-
tifully chased and em-
v^
bossed. This should command a ready sale at the
moderate price of 7s. fid. for all ladies of refined
taste and lovers of pretty and useful tilings for
their toilet table. Tin’s is one of the many designs
to be seen in the spacious show rooms, and
illustrated in the well prepared jewellery and
silver plate catalogue, which, by the way, is sent
post free to any part of the Commonwealth. A.
Saunders, Sydney’s leading jeweller and opticion,
BOfi, 811, 813, 815, 817 George street, opp. Railway
Station. *
A ship on fire ”is a fearful thing,
All helpless on the deep,
No vessel near her he!]) to bring,
Whilst flames about her leap.
A cough or cold is bad enough,
Though we can help procure.
And never fail to drive them off
With Woods’ Gheat Pei'pekmixt Cl ue.*


POLITICAL
POINTS
Hogue, M.L.A., wants to know when the
new Sydney railway station is to be finished.
Some men are always throwing up unpleasant
reminiscences.
Queensland State elections happen along
next year, and the “poll-tax” ceases from trou-
bling the month before the elections, just in time
to give. Philp’s popularity a lift.
Philp and co. propose passing a Bill this
Queensland session making it hard and tough for
gold-stealers. The banks stole an awful lot of
the people’s gold about ’93, and perhaps Philp
wants to prevent any repetition of that evil deed.
A short-hand, report of the negotiations
which led to the Vic. Government condoning the
offence,of an employers’ agent hunting for black-
legs, who -was travelling on an expired ticket,
would be interesting.
OVERHEARD IN A HASH-FACTORY.
“ ’E won’t be long, mum—e’s just dryin ’ ’ isself.”
Proposed Australian Defence Act provides
for compulsory military service by all male adults
in certain cases; but members of Parliament are
exempt. It is a relief to know that Jawbone
Neild won’t have to fight under any circumstances.
N.S.W. Government proposes a sensible
amendment of the Arbitration Law to allow of
petty cases in industrial arbitration to go to the
SBtty courts, with right of appeal to the Arbitration
ourt. Justice Cohen works as no other Judge
works, but is unable to keep up with the busi-
ness —mainly through a multitude of little cases
for damages for breaches of awards.
Senator J. C. Neild struggles earnestly to
have two paid Ministers in the Senate. Under a
new Government one Minister may be a Nocent
Waterspout, and to what purpose if no salary
attaches to the Spout?
Kirwan, M.H.R., the Freetrader from.
Westralia, has been denouncing the Australian
Ministry for “gallivanting” about addressing
meetings instead of attending to business. And
when it doesn’t “gallivant,” the Freetrade press
says it is “ afraid to face the people of Sydney.”
Outtrim (Vic.) coal strike has now lasted
nearly half-a-year. It was opened by an attempt
on the part of the mine-owners to drastically re-
duce wages, and has been marked all along by
their consistent refusal to refer the issues to in-
dependent arbitration.
The Government of N.S.W. is seriously
considering whether, if the Federal High Court
is constituted as at present proposed, it will allow
the judges of that court to be promoted to
vacancies on the N.S.W. Supreme Bench or will
class them with District Court judges and refuse
such promotions.
James Wright, whose name was published
in Melbourne Tocsin’s blackleg list, has issued a
writ against the paper for £lOOO damages.
Wright has apparently little save his honor
as a loyalist for assets. The paper that argues
with an impecunious litigant loses however the
verdict goes. The Tocsin’s appeal for money to
fight the battle is being responded to liberally by
democrats all over the State.
Vic. Journal op Agriculture, stopped
promptly by the Irvine crowd when its Reform
zeal was brand new, is to be again issued bi-
monthly. Considering that this costly and
elaborate rag is circulated free amongst only a
few farmers who are well able to pay for it, its
re-appearance as an item of State expenditure
wants inquiring into.
The new Tasmanian Government, sent in
to reduce expenses and generally reform Flyspeck
affairs, got an unwelcome shock over the
smallpox outbreak in Launceston. Last outbreak,
16 years ago, cost the Government some £8000;
this time it will probably mean £lO,OOO. And
£lO,OOO is a pretty sum in a small state like Tas-
mania.
From Sydney Telegraph leader of last
week:
The Commonwealth, however, cannot rightly be
accused of extravagance.
Well, why does the Telegraph bellow about
alleged Federal extravagance when there isn’t
any?
P.M.G. and Senator Drake is a cautious
man. Being asked if it was true, as alleged in an
English paper, that the battleship Commonwealth
was a present from Australia to Britain, Drake
only said that if any such battleship had been
presented, it had been done without the Govern-
ment’s knowledge.
The prospective retirement of Gov.-
General Tennyson afforded Australia’s Nobbled
Son one more chance to degenerate in public.
Being asked by Rep. Crouch if he would take up
the position that the Australian Government
should be consulted before a new appointment
was made. Barton had no hesitation in humbly
opining that he wouldn’t do anything so definite,
but would just drift.
In a recent speech, that irresponsible paid
agitator, Walpole, of the Melbourne Employers’
Union, used the old gag anent the aims of modern
socialism : '“They want to make everyone equal,
and share all wealth among the people, which is
unjust.” Strange that the Melbourne employers
did not choose a man whq wasn’t quite so shame-
fully and absurdly ignorant of his business.
When did any socialist propound the fool pro-
gramme that Walpole, the hired agitator, talks of?
Remark credited to Miss Rose Scott by
Sydney D.T. :
The States will sever from the Federation sure enough.
It may be after a civil war. The Commonwealth makes
for centralisation. All that was wanted was a Federal
system.
It may be a mis-report (Miss Scott has a repu-
tation for good sense and anti-Jingoism); if it
isn’t, the lady is urged to retire from public life
until she has learned better than that. Such non-
sense won’t help the cause of political woman.
The somewhat alarming spread of smallpox
in Tasmania has evidently occurred by reason of
a doctor’s failure to diagnose the disease. It
wasn’t discovered until a nurse and a patient had
died in the Launceston Hospital and discharged
patients from the same ward of the institution
had been a fortnight at large. Then one of the
aforesaid discharged patients returned to the
hospital as a small-pox case !
Sydney Telegraph came out last week
with a picture of a toothless old agricultural
pauper in a smock frock propping himself up on
two sticks, and talking to the squire about the
blessings of Freetrade. Poor old Gaffer Hodge,
who evidently hadn’t, after 50 years of the bless-
ings of Freetrade, been able to save the price of a
set of false teeth, was the saddest argument yet
discovered in behalf of the “cause.”
An aggravating feature of N.S. W.’s drawn-
out censure debate was the inordinate length of
the speeches of the small fry. Several speeches ran
to 2£ hours, and Eden George drivelled at the
tail-end of a spiritless debate for five hours. There
is a great cry for Crick’s 20 minutes limit Bill. A
member who oan’t say what he has to say in 20
minutes might be given a room to finish his speech
in, while the House went on with the next man.
The end of the N.S.W. censure debate,
after eight nights’ tattling, cat-chorus, and
Billingsgate, is this : John See remains in office
by the aid of the Labor party. Joe Carru-
thers tried his hardest to get into office, which he
could only have obtained and held by the aid of
the Labor party. And Moral Joe says that the
idea of getting or keeping office by the aid of the
Labor party is too horrible for words.
THE GOOD OLD TIMES.
“The British Admiralty proposes to erect a naval prison on Garden Island (Sydney
Harbor).” —News item.
A prison I—and probably the usual furnishings, a gallows and a triangle.
The shade of Governor Phillip will find it quite like old Sydney again.
“ The N.S.W. Labor party, with 24 solid
votes, is almost as strong as the Government, and,”
says the D.T., “it is on the cards that the Labor
corner may now claim that the portfolios should
be shared more equitably among the members who
are keeping the Government in power.”, All of
which is nonsense. In the first place, on the
D.T.’s own showing, the Labor party is npt half
as strong in numbers as the Government (24 to
49); in the second place, Labor members are
pledged not to accept office in any Ministry which
does not include a majority of Labor members.
The amendment by Poynton, M.H.R.,
that no person should be eligible for appointment
to the High Court Bench if he had, at any time
during the previous 12 months, been a member of
the Federal Parliament, was a mean, grudging
idea, and was wisely rejected. The silly tendency
to declare that nobody shall be appointed to be
anybody if he has been anything at all during the
previous 12 months is liable to end in a system by
which a man must spend 12 months doing nothing
in an underground cellar before he is qualified for
any public office.
Dan O'Connor at next election will pro-
bably find the walls placarded with this remark
of his (Sydney Telegraph report of the censure
debate): —
The apology offered for Mr. O’Sullivan was that he had
always been a friend of the working classes. (Hear,
hear.) Why it was'like submitting in defence of a crimi-
nal that he had always been associated with pickpockets.
Dan’s figure of speech will land him in what Pa
Brunker calls “ a deplorable mess.”
Jenkins Iscariot proposes one good thing,
anyway: He will ask S.A. Parliament to endow
one of the three suggested new railway lines, the
Pinnaroo, with upwards of 1,000,000 acres of
neighboring country—in other words the State
will build its own land grant railway. Even with
this concession, however, it is quite unjustifiable
to spend loan money on the Pinnaroo line, which
will only open v up tenth-rate country. After
the first-rate, second-rate and third-rate land has
been forced into good use the tenth-rate should be
opened up—out of revenue.
The statement in N.S.W. Assembly that a
member of the Government side had crossed over
to the Opposition because he was refused a billet
of £6OO a year, was met with the weak retort of a
challenge to the accusing member to come down
to the accused’s electorate and fight the matter
out at the poll. The empty boast of inviting an
opponent to go down to a country constituency,
where he would be an utter stranger, to fight a
man who is well known to everyone, on a side
issue in which the electors take praotically no
interest, is a common one in N.S.W. Parliament,
and it is a useless, impracticable, silly sort of
argument.
The Bulletin asks J. C. L. Fitzpatrick,
M. A., to remove from the business paper of the
N. Assembly a notice that, by its utter silli-
ness, has become an eyesore. It reads :
That, in the opinion of this House, the system at
present in vogue of treating as ordinary revenue moneys
received from the sale, by auction or otherwise, of the
public estate, is one that should be immediately discon-
tinued ; and this House urges that all future receipts
from this source should be set apart as the nucleus of a
fund from which to meet, as far as possible, the State’s
obligations in regard to interest on the National Debt.
The objections are: (1) That if the N.S.W. land
revenue is used to pay interest on the National
Debt it will still be used as ordinary revenue;
(2) it will be used just as it is now, and things will
be where they were ; (3) if you set aside £2,000,000
a year as the. nucleus of a fund with which to
meet a liability of nearly £3,000,000 a year, you
never have any fund, for there is no surplus to
accumulate; (4) the reform that consists in calling
a thing Bill that was formerly called William isn’t
worth wasting time over.
Be that Bulle-
letjn prophecy
(20/6/’03) to the
effect: that as the
British army is
about to be re-
armed with a new
rifle, Australia
would, doubtless,
be expected to-
kindly, relieve, the
Cold Country of as
many as possible
of the obsolete wea-
pons. John Forrest
stated in the Reps.,
t’other day, that
Australia had al-
ready 13,000 Lee-
Enfield and Lee-
Metford magazine
rifles, and t ha t
others were being
imported asrapidlv
as possible — 7000
Lee-Enfields were
already on their
way put, and others
would follow, as
soon, no doubt, as
the British author-
ities can replace
them at ’Ome with
the Lee - Enfield
modified ! Aus-
tralia has been
buying Britain’s
old iron at Bri-
tain’s own price for
a long time; but
surely there is a
time in life when
the poorest Tommy
or Johnny should
refuse to do with
pa’s cast-off clothes
any longer.
It’s hard work
fighting for the
Federal idea in
Australia n o w a-
days with an Aus-
tralian Premier who shows so little courage.
When a man of real backbone gets into power the
Federation will go ahead.
Sydney i Telegraph made a bad break
when Jawbone Neild persuaded it to believe that
the Federal Capital Sites Commission had pre-
pared a report plumping for the Carcoar-Garland
site. It published columns of descriptive articles,
pictures, photographs, interviews with local
inhabitants and other equally biassed deponents,
quite overlooking the fact that the Commission
has no power to make a recommendation, its
scope being limited to reporting on each site.
From an English paper, dated April 26 :
“A cablegram received yesterday from the Govern-
ment Bureau of Information and Immigration in
Victoria states —‘Farm labor
is very scarce; strong de-
mand for good men.’’’ If
the Bureau sent that cable-
gram it was presumably
looking ahead at the time.
Melbourne doesn’t hear the
melancholy plaint of the
farmers who can’t get suffi-
cient labor during winter
months. But it hears a good
deal about able-bodied
young men going out of
Victoria to look for farms.
HEDGING.
Prayers for the success of the rain-makers were
offered in the Broken Hill churches last
Sunday. Thus does the old-established rain-
maker hedge. He 'prays for rain, so if it
comes he can claim the credit. Also he prays
for the success of the fakir who comes to make
rain because the original prayer failed, and
if the fakir succeeds he can claim the fakir’s
credit also.
It’s the same old V.D.L. still. An English
mail, arriving at. Launcestpn some days after the
outbreak of smallpox in that town, was carefully
fumigated before being sent on to Hobart. But
all the trains were running (and are still) and
passengers travelled to and fro between the two-
cities uninterruptedly.
THE STATE SAVED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Since Mr.-Stinson,-.President, of the People’s Reform
League, has met Mr. Carruthers, the success of the
Reform movement is assured.”
The State is saved, the. Daily Press
Would have all men to know ;
Since Stinson bowed his haughtiness
And called on Dreary Joe.
Sad Stihson for the People’s League
Stirs up a teapot storm ;
Joe names his ill-conceived intrigue
As Liberal Reform.
But who in thunder Stinson is,
Or who believes in Joe,
Are things which, like his neighbor’s biz.,
The man of sense don’t know.
And what the world can’t understand
Is why, through fifty years,
They’ve lived as mean men in the land,
Plain Jacks amongst their peers.
Or, otherwise, in place of power
And opportunity,
Failed utterly to grasp their hour
And make big matters gee.
M.
WE WILL GIVE CASH TO YOU
for any old Gold Watches, Breast Pins,
Chains, Rings, Lockets, Brooches, Diamonds,
Pearls, Sappnires or Rubies; in short, any old
Gold Jewellery or Precious Stones, whether
broken or not. We will send you a liberal
money order the same day the goods are re-
ceived. If our offer is not acceptable your
articles ;w;ill be returned immediately.
Pack 'your articles in cotton wadding or tissue
paper, in small box, write our name and address
plainly hd package, and send by registered post,
and vye hold ourselves responsible. We refer you
to the : London Bank of Australia, Ltd., Broken Hill.
: SHAW & CO., Jewellers,
(Also at lew don.) BROKEN HILL.
N.B.- We sell 15ct. Gent’s Gold Alberts (double or
single) afj 75 - per ounce—Cheapest in Australia.
GrO TO TTTiT .TT
KJOLAND for Pretty Stamps, bat
if you want real good stamps, sand to
Fred. Hageo,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
AUSTRALIAN STAMPS
Bought, Sold & Exchanged.
Gibbons’ Philatelic Albums
and all requirements. Price lists gratis.
J. H. SMYTH & CO.,
88 KING ST., SYDNEY
SPECTACLES
—FOR—
DEFECTIVE
VISION, i.
COUNTRY READERS
who cannot visit us
personally, we send,
Post Free to any ad-
dress, with full in-
structions and Price List, our marvellously-accurate
and popular SELF SIGHT-MEASURING PATENT.
By its use you can Test y ur own sight and de-
termine for yourself the style and quality of the
glasses you may need. Write for it to —
H. A. BARRACLOUGH, Optician,
85 Oeorge-st., Bydney (opposite Strand Arcade).
“Don’t shout”
•' I hear you. I can hear now
as well as anybody.
"• How?’ Oh some-
thingnew— The Wilson.
Common-sense Ear-
Drum. I've a pair in my
ears now. you can't see them
they’re invisible. I wouldn’t
know I bad them in myself,
only that I hear all right."
The Wilson Ear-Drum ts
really a substitute for the
working parts ol the
natural ear. Has no
wire. Invisible, easy to ad
just, comfortable Totally
different from any other de-
vice Descriptive pamphlet sent upon request
CHAIHFKS. 229-231 Collins. &I-, Melß.
LV


FOR LADIES !
AN BOOT
Post Free
Duty Free
Exoept W.A.
■
m
m
"V
m
. .
m
m
m
NEATNESS
STYLE
COMFORT
LONG WEAR
We have sizes varying so
slightly that we know we can fit
your feet as accurately as you could
wish, and we shall be pleased if you
can call and see this Boot but if you
live too far away for that we can fill vour
order exactly through our Mail Order Depart-
ment, for this or any other Boot or Shoe from our
extensive and varied stocks.
15 11; Post Free and Duty Free, 16/6.
A thoroughly good reliable BUTTON BOOT, made of American glace-kid
with a dressy stylish patent leather toe-cap. Wear as well as comfort assured.
CALLAGHAN BOOTS or SAOES can be EXCHANGED If not correct
Your Money RETURNED if you are not satisfied.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 george st., Sydney.
VITADATIO
The Great Herbal Remedy
CURES
KIDNEY DISEASE, BLOOD POISONING
and GENERAL DEBILITY.
Maylands,
10th June, 1902.
Dear Sir,—l have much pleasure in testifying to the
great amount of good received by my mother in taking
VITADATIO. She suffered from Kidney troubles, which
I understand brought on Blood Poisoning,' resulting in a
large and painful' sore on one leg, besides General
Debility. In all, my mother took fifteen bottles of
VITADATIO. _ The sore is completely healed, and her
health is, very much improved. You have liberty
to quote my pi other's case as being genuine.
* Yours gratefully,
„ - S. KENT.
P.S.—Mrs. Kent is an aged lady. The sore was about
twice the size of one’s hand.
For further particulars, • - -
S. A. PALMER,
Head Office: Clarendon Street N, ,
South Melbourne.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The price of medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
MESSRS. ELLIOTT BROS., O’Connell-street, Sydney,
Sole Agents N.S.W.
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
ARTIFICIAL LIMBS .
4
We make Artificial
Limbs on our own
premises. We are Sole
Agents forthe celebrated
“Marks” Artificial
Limbs of every des-
cription.
If you have a friend who is in need of such
assistance, send us his or her name and address, and
we will forward a hook of particulars.
DENYER BROTHERS,
Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 George Street (opp. Hunter-st.), Sydney.
Also at Melbourne.
“Your Money Back
If You Want It.”
ALTHOUGH the reader of tins may be hundreds of
miles away, please believe we mean exactlv what
we say. We are Tailors and Outfitters with a reputation
nil DcbT nd per i n,t nobody t 0 say that CHARLES
UILBERT expects a customer to keep what doesn’t
Please him. On these lines we have built one of the
largest tailoring trades in the Commonwealth and if
you write for samples of New Winter Suiting's Grom
50s. Suit to Measure), self-measuring forms and
send us a trial order, your dealings with us will be
exactly on this footing. You thus stand to lose nothing
but we mean to gain your future business. 61
Queen Street, Brisbane (only).
Sudden Solomon of S. A. has given notice
of ,a Bill to remove the provision in the Constitu-
tion that the Federal capital must be at least 100
miles from* Sydney, and also the provision that
the Federal territory must consist of at least
100 square miles. The Sudden one may save
himsdf the trouble. The 100-mile limit certainly
won t be removed unless the whole clause nm.
viding that the capital must be in NS W is
removed also. And Australia is much more
likely to increase the area of the Federal caoital
territory to 50°° square miles than reduce the
present 100-mile minimum.
The electors of Kiama (N.S. W.) hit upon
a rather unusual method of choosing a Parlia-
mentary candidate recently. The local Liberal
and Reform League sent out an invitation to
Sydney s late mayor, James Graham, to a James
Waugh, and a Charles W. Craig to deliver
addresses to them for the purpose of allowing
v! iei m v^ e i e < r ctors ) to judge which of the three
TKp l ? b ® at , misre Present the district in Parliament
The candidates were set to gabble on “the leadmg
pohtical questions of the day.” The talkinjcom
petition seems to have been taken quite seriouslv
falHrom°a Udder j aU^h ' Vh “ « «
dangerous.
. The greatest danger from colds and influenza
is their tendency to result in pneumonia If
reasonable care is used, and Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy taken, al]. danger will be avoided It
will cure a cold or an attack of influenza in' less
time than other treatment. It alwavs curps
cures quickly. Is. 6d.« aiwa > s cures, and
What looks like the beginning of the end
of Bent arrived the other day in Victoria Rail
way Commissioner Tait hartng decided io dose
the non-paying Lubeck to Rupanyup line the
usual deputation came along to argue with Bent
Fait said : “ Send it to me” ;it was a tt!
management not of policy. Bent saw the depu-
tation and gave it his sympathy (generous maif'h
he would evidently have liked to override Tait’s
decision but wasn’t game to face the tremendous
row that mighc ensue. So he took his case to the
S-t which decided that Tait had full power
Tait then saw the deputation and gave it a
measly tn-weekly service. Next day lie closed
two more non-paying lines-Catkin
and Coburg to Somerton. All these lines were
built during the Gillies boom era Of course
there was the usual row, but so far Tait has sat
il
ii
la
If
hotel daniell
(Late mPERIAL),
Corner ol GEORGE & ADELAIDE STS.,
BRISBANE,
Dan O’Connor amused N.S. W. Assembly
by proudly declaring for half-an-hour that he was
the author of the _ Payment of Members'-Act,
while at the same time bemoaning the personnel
of those sitting around him, products of the
measure. Still Daniel does not despair, and in
his own language “looks forward to the time
when it will realise my highest expectations, and
when it will bear fruit, not haws, and when the
aroma of its sweetness will be acceptable ! ” And
even the “ Haws ’’ applauded,
The Judge on the bench, the lordly M.P.,
1 he man on the stage, whoever he be,
The lawyer so grave, the jolly Jack Tar,
Ihe stern-visaged soldier who’s been in the war,
1 he hard-working man, the knowing M.D.,
All happen on this one point to agree— 1 '
That for very bad colds the thing to procure
1s W. E. Wood’s Great Peppermint Cure,*
Minimum wage -in the Commonwealth,
and no minimum in most of the States, presents
the evils foreseen. The Commonwealth using
for purposes of economy, State machinery, finds'
that the States do not adopt a minimum, but vary
the Commonwealth tenders. Victorian Govern-
ment varied them the other day, and brought
down-the merited heavy foot of Home Minister
Hyne. The tricky device in some .States is to call
tor tenders without any mention of the minimum
wage ; the still more tricky device in others is to
oau for tenders with minimum and without. The
latter was the Irvine idea, and was palpably an
attemptto prove that the policy of the Common-
wealth Government, in insisting on a minimum
wage in all contracts, panders to Labor. The
Commonwealth Government does right to resent
dictation, direct or indirect, or Criticism, direct or
indirect, from any State.
TYPEWRITERS
For comfort, cleanliness and freedom from skin
disease the clothing worn next the skin should
be washed with a pure and well-made soap If
Sunlight Soap be used in the laundry your
pores absorb purity.
SUNLIGHT
Soap
REDUCES
EXPENSE
fOsr
i**
3 of the World’s Best
A
New riodel No. 10, adopted by Depts. of
External and Home Affairs.
THE No. 5 DENSMORE.
Fastest machine in the world. Used and ejidorsed
by Messrs. Dalgety & Co., Sydney.
THE NEW CENTURY.
Velvet touch as supplied to Governor-General and
Governors of N.S. Wales and Victoria.
UNITED
BRISBANE —Webster
TYPEWRITER AND SUPPLIES CO.,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE and PERTH.
Co. ADELAIDE— N. York Import. Co. LAUNCESTON-Hedley Button.
\t-
l&m
s
/A
m
atm
as
VJ
n±
PEARLS —.
We have a large assortment of
these fashionable gems.
Pearl Strings and Drop Necklets
in the latest designs from £lO to
£3OO.
Whole Pearl Ear Rings from £5
to £lOO per pair.
Goods forwarded to all parts
of Australia.
13 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY;
AND
118 Queen Street Brisbane.
The Recognised Standard
High-Class Corsets
LATEST SPECIALTY
STRAIGHT FRONT
NOUVELLE FORM
Obtainable from Leading
Drapers Everywhere.
Avoid Inferior Imitations, and see that •
eaeh pair bears the Mannfaotnrer’s “Trade I
IMark on band inside, as above. 1


Banking, Public Companies, See.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.—^—
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
$
BILES
DISCOUNTED.
nxr.s.-vtr.
(||ont depiete o.# I.Go M [td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
174. CASYLEItEAG-H ST., 74
1 SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
l-
5 Mutual Life
assurance society limited.
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. O. J. Robirts
C.M.G. M.L.C.; Brucb Smith, Esq., M.H.R.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miw.br.
Accumulated Funds, £2,706,830.
Policies issued 01.3 >s—assuring £2<,614,218.
Amounts paid to Policyholders £2,981 398
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses— equitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE"
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
The Bank of fjorth Queensland
LIMITED.
Svdney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director-JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J P Cannv. (Messrs. Burns, Ph.lp &Co Ltd.)
authorised capital - - q - *' 700,00
Capital Paia-up £100,009
E “i;oM. L “' iW .° ! Sb “ < ”' ISO TOO £350.000
I*; 0 Eoval Bank of Queensland
J LIMITED. w „ .
riPiTAI PAID-UP £456,927
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS 176 239
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 58,uuu
£691,166
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen Manasrer, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mner., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Corresponden s
Throughout the. IF orld.
Queensland Qmelting Qompq.
** (LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
TDUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
X> Coirper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. Fo? tariff, ap ly to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for' Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland the Stanch
Office, 54 Market-street. Melbourne, or IRWIN HIND©,
Branch Manager, 6 Spring-street, Sydney.
mmm H E SAVIN G S BANK
T HAS MONEY TO LEND in VICTORIA
at 41 per cent., in sums of £5OO to £15,000, on Town
Properties ; and £2OOO to £25,000 on BROAD ACRES
FOR FIVE YEARS, with option of paying off part
hal f J earIp ARMERS , CRED it FONCIER.
Loans from £5O to £2OOO at 4£ per cent, for 31£ years.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Tnsnpp.tor-General.
29 Market-street, Melbourne.
OCEAN
Aceident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
• Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
D Briebt & Co.), Hon. JOHN See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Phln & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide: L. A. Jessop Esq.
Managers : Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M‘Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, • •
Bank of New Zealand
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. ••
Amoun t of Capital payable by Shareholders
Total Capital -
2,000,000
500,000
£2,500,000
the trustees, executors
agency company limited,
412 Collins-et., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP ... ••• ••• £^ o > m 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s lg g
Directors F R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Sinith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Gnoe, Esq.;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, Mto.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Managei
JAMES MARTIN & CO
161 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY N.S.W.
n
48t~
>*• “flT?111
ACETYLENE GAS
n/f ARTIN’S Reliable AUTOfIATIC GENERATORS
M ar e in daily use throughout New South Wales, and
users everywhere speak of then, in the highest terms
Manufactured from the best Galvanised Steel. Light
home church, store, factory, or town with
Martins Acetylene Gas. Comprehensive Catalogues
and all other particulars can be obtained from us.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUH at the BEST PRICES.
Shipping.
1ST. D. Xju
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Four-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin-screw steamer.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
Interstate First Class Return Tickets are now available
for Return by the Steamers of the P. and O., Orient
Pacific, or M.M. Co.’s.
TO SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA.
MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. STETTIN. 5th AUGUST.
And Regularly Every 6 Weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities — Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent-
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
TH€ ABCRPCCN LIN€
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
DAMASCUS
NINEVEII
MORAVIAN
R. B. V. McKilliam
N. Allan ..
A. Simpson ..
Noon, July 24
Noon, Aug. 14
Noon, Sept. 4
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. £55 .. £l6 Os to £2O
Cape and Natal .. £3l 10s .. £l3 13s to £l7
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £l2O.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Os.
17s.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
Huddart, Parker & (Jo’s [ine
—TO —
MELBOURNE,
LAUNCESTON,
HOBAItT,
WEST AUBTHALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
Oceanic Steamship Company,
A. and A,
LIKTB.
TWO
C3-DFt A.KTD EXCURSIOKTI
YOSEMITE VALLEY and California BIG trees,
Tip tint THE HEART OF THE SIERRA NEVADA MOUNTAINS. ~. A 1
Travellers of note who have visited Switzerland say Yosemite surpasses even the grandeur of the ps.
£72 (including everything).
HOTEL DEL MONTE (monterey).
ALL-THE-YEAR-ROUND HEALTH AND PLEASURE RESORT.
£65 (including everything).
Through Passengers to London and American centres may participate in these excursions.
BURNS PHILP and CO., Ltd., flanaging Agents,
’ CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS,
SYDNEY.
deat
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free, g,
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
nervousness.
S.OSS of ENERGY and
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
*. Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at laet dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS of SELF
CURE, -will forward the same, free of
charge, to anyone interested.
Address: A. Ml^-GJ^SSUNH^
FOR NOVEL, CHEAP AND INTERESTING
PRESENTS
Toys, Puzzles, Games,
Musical Instruments,
Curiosities that cannot
be procured elsewhere
and GIFTS
SEND FOR OUR
Hundred Page Illustrated Catalogue,
We will post it FREE.
The Union fllfg. & Agency Co.
359 and 361 Collins Street, Melbourne.
64
TEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. C. 'FIT.TTBIDGE & CO-,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
i onntry Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
1 I’ll Try It.”
Tke Only Certain
Moustache Producer .
Qapillarine
Posted (under cover
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 108. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
&
The Result.
CRAIG & AITKEN. N.S.W. Barber’s Supply
House, 680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Too Stout
I was for years ; ’ by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to lOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Sending, mention this paper.
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when every
other remedy has failed. English Prices, 4/6 and 11/-.
Thousands of Testimonials. Of all Chemists, Stores, etc.
Wholesale Agents:
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist
25 High-street, Belfast, Ireland.
foreign stamps.
fligHMI
G3BEEM39I
pHEAP SETS.—4O Japan, Is 6d ;
47 Spain, Is 6d; 6 British
Guiana, 6d ; 8 Egypt, 6d ; 16 Heli-
goland, Is; 11 Canada, 6d : 15
Roumania, 6d, 6 United States War-
ships, 3d ; 8 Java, 6d ; 5 Costa
Rica, 4d ; 6 Guatemala, 6d; 12
Indian Telegraphs, 6d ; 20 Brazil,
Is ; 12 Cuba, 9d ; 11 Portugal, 6d.
New Catalogue of Stamps, &c., Gratis. Stamps purchased.
CHARLES DONNE, 346 Little Collins st., Melbourne.
A Policy for the Commonwealth:
A Handy Manual of Politics. By James
Edmond. Price, 6d.; post free from The
Bulletin Office, 7d.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
Aorangi, July 13. Moana, Aug. 10,
The Most Popular and the Fastest
Steamers on the Pacific •
Brand Excursion to Canada.
The Finest Scenery in the World,
and an Opportunity to see the
South Sea & Hawaiian Islands.
£6O FOR 63 DAYS, INCLUDING ALL EXPENSES
ON STEAMER, RAILWAY and at HOTELS.
Send for Illustrated Pamphlet, Furnished Free.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing: Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
Unrivalled Position in LONDON
(England),
The Langham Hotel
PORTLAND PLACE
And REGENT STREET, LONDON, W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality,
nodern Appointments. Moderate Tariff.
“The Challenge”
Latest Scientific
Punching Machine.
A new World’s Record of 12251b5. was established on
the above machine at the Royal Agricultural Society’s
Show, Sydney, 1903, by Mr. T. W. Aulsebrook, of Messrs.
Aulsebrook and Sons, Ltd., the previous World’s Record,
held by Mr. Robert Fitzsimmons, champion pugilist,
being 10851bs. . ■ .......
The “Challenge” is an Automatic Penny-in-the-Slot
Machine, and is especially suitable for Hotels, Billiard
and Refreshment Rooms, Tobacconist Shops, etc.
It is a great attraction to any place, a first class money-
maker, never gets out of order, and requires no attention
whatever. . „
All other kinds of Automatic Slot Machines kept in
Stock. Illustrated Catalogue posted on application.
J. LANDES,
108 PITT ST., SYDNEY,
Sole A'yent for Australasia.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK :
By Sixty Bulletin. writers. Cloth, 300 pages ;
price, Is. 6d. From all Booksellers, or the
Publishers, The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
211 George Street, Sydney, Australia.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Allinga,
Friday, July 10.
S.S. Marloo,
Saturday, July 18
(Without Transhipment).
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Porfcß North fco Oatma
. S.S. Gabo, July 11.
J-S.S. Allinga, July 17.
I S.S. Rockton, July 25.
Host and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tiokets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YU ILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
n AND rt COMPANY’S
r * ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and. LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B to £/7
Ditto Ditto Return, £66 to £tli
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by Orient-Pacific, Messageries
Mari times and N.D.L. Steamers having room.
A. GORDON WESOHE,
Acting Agent.
63 Pitt-street.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PART*.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Coni raet with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and LORE
n » riv Hints! TIT r.V ft a follows!
PASSED UKKo DOOKeu to Dum>;u», '".T
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77.
RETURN t TIOKETS B AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Unon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meat
the nasseneersfor London and give them every assistance
in landing andpassing their luggage through the Customs,
etc and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
State Ports are available lor return by P. and 0.,
Orient Pacific and N.D.L. steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen a oorner ’^^|^RDf^UngPrincipa^gent^
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. . BY THE . .
“E. and A.” LINE.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
' Steamer! Tns Commander.
Leave Sydney.
EAQTFRN .. 3600 Winthrop Ellis .. August 5
* AUSTRALIAN .. 3000 W. G. McArthur.. September 2
EMPIRE ..|«00P. T. Helms .. September 30
♦EASTERN ■ • '3600 Winthrop Ellis .. October 28
TROPICAL VOYAGE.
The Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fit Throu-h bookings F a a t n special rates to Europe via Canada,
U S. America, or the Trans-Siberian Railway.
Forhandbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. GO. LD.,
GIBBS. BBIGHT * 00,
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyna
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BKOfiOHITIS,
DIAKRHffiA, beara °“
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor —•
Pr.J. COLLIS BROWN€.
yHK ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS at
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“If I were asked which single medicine I should
orefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of al
“thers, I should say Chlorodyne I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
ORNAMENTAL HAIR. 1
ssaa s o< jssi
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers a. Wigmakers.
Send to vs for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressi— CJur.
jggf every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to
any Part of Australasia
CRA.IG- -'fe A-ITKEKT,
N.S.W. Barber’s Supply House, w
680-682 George Street, Sydney.
At Dawn and Dusk:
By V. J. Daley. In handsome cloth,
with portrait. Price ss.


In Adelaide, nowadays, when Jenkins
gets a judgment against Brown, he seldom take 3
out execution against the goods and chattels of
Brown, which are invariably subject to bill of
sale to Eckstein, but issues an unsatisfied judg-
ment summons. Everf alternate Thursday morn-
ing His Honor, in open court, holds a levee of
luckless or unscrupulous debtors. At this enter-
tainment few solicitors of standing appear, and
the table is crowded with brand-new solicitors,
articled clerks, office boys, and plaintiffs “on
their lonesome.” The clerk calls “Jenkins
against Brown ” 5 the bailiff, in his character of
tipstaff, repeats the cry, and then Brown steps
on to the grill to be tortured with “ How many
wives have you?” “When did you work last?”
“Were you at the races on Saturday?” and so
on, the vulture pecking at Brown’s liver until
the magistrate raps out: “ Two shillings a week,”
or “No order.” If Brown absents himself from
this trial by ordeal, the office boy will ask and
get an order that Brown be imprisoned for ten
days, for contempt of court. But, not infre-
quently, it is Mrs. Brown who is called to face
the music, and recently the writer saw Brown
step into the box in answer to the tipstaff’s
cry—“ Mrs. Brown, please answer to your
name,” The clerk : “ You’re not Mrs. Brown ?”
“No,” said the person in the box ; “ Mrs. Brown
is my wife.” “Why isn’t she here to-day?”
“Because she has no shoes to come in.” There
was quite a pause. Said the intended execu-
tioner : “ I don’t ask for an order, your honor.”
REFORM WITHOUT REVOLUTION.—
The great and particular merit of Hunyadi Janos
is that it relieves without discomfort; in other
words, it effects reform without revolution. This
is because it is the best and safest natural
aperient.*
The screeching sisterhood of dry cats and
the bounding brotherhood. of cold tea have been
making a special effort in the way of denouncing
the drink traffic and all and sundry connected
with it. The barmaid, as usual, has been an
especial butt, and the spectacled crowd with the
dark_ suspicions and the indigestion has been
abusing her with vigor and violence. To hear
Hebe condemned as the whole cause of the drink
evil makes the man in the street tired. As a
matter of fact she has little to answer for. The
Johnny who falls a slave to her charms is
mostly a very moderate drinker, and will linger
over his schnapps and soda for an hour while
carrying on a flirtation. The man who really
wants much drink would rather go to the bar
where men are employed. He does not care to
wait while Stella or Dolly or Doris has just one
more word with Algie, but wants the longest beer
in the very shortest time. The hardest and most
business-like knock to the theory that the barmaid
is a cause of excessive drinking is to be found in
the drink consumption records. In the United
States the swift cocktail is invariably dispensed
by a man, and the American, according to Mul-
hall, averages 265 gallons of alcohol annually for
every 100 people. The Australian is generally
served by a woman, and his average is 248 gallons
per 100 people annually. Possibly when the bar-
maid is abolished, and the Australian is no longer
diverted from his liquor by Dolly’s curl, he will
drink as much as the American does.
Martin’s Apiol and steel pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia. Not genuine
without the signature. Be sure you get Martin’s.
Sole proprietor, W. Martin, pharmaceutical
chemist, Southampton, England.*
The Corset Lady.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
REFORM .
S ON: “ Say, father, I’ve decided to give up drink-
ing and betting
FATHER: “And you'll start them, again to-
morrow, I suppose !”
S ON: “ Bet you drinks I don't , dad."
It is the Corset Lady,
And wonderful is she —
More beautiful than Nature
Makes any woman be.
You see her on the hoardings,
In every magazine;
Her bust is thirty-seven,
Her waist is seventeen.
Her large eyes look upon you
Without a trace of guile,
And on her little mouth is
l A Christian martyr smile.
O constant Corset Lady,
Whose type for aye endures,
The Venus of Medici
Had never shape like yours !
I walked in the dim twilight
Along a half-seen road,
There was no candle shining
In any near abode.
N.S.W.
But on a tall white hoarding—
The mdon shone out the while —
I saw the Corset Lady,
Smiling her tortured smile.
The dusk grew thick around me
(God save us all from harm !)
I felt a presence near me,
A hand upon my arm.
And straightway I was certain—
But how I cannot guess—
That there was close beside me
A female in distress.
“ And where would you be going ? ”
I said, in courteous way.
She answered —“Never ask me—
I dare not walk by day.
“ ’Tis only in the twilight
That I can walk at peace j
I could not walk in daytime
For fear of the police.
“I am the Corset Lady ! ”
Said I, “We shall not part.”
Said she —“ They have not left me
Any room for Heart.”
CREEVE ROE.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR,
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.
Rev. “ Bleeds ” Fitchebt on “ the Founda-
tions of Christian Optimism ” :
Let no question be asked as to the origin of Christi-
anity, the validity of its documents, the philosophical
truth or falsehood of its creed. Wherever it comes from
—be it truth or lie—it is a force at work in human life to-
day. It makes saints ;it inspires missionaries, &c.
The Rev. “ Bleeds,” who apparently has no very
fixed opinions about the truth of Christianity, and
implies that it doesn’t matter, would never make
much of a missionary. Only the man who
believes wholly, frantically and illogically,
amounts to anything great in that line. It is no
good saying to the heathen “Try our lie, and see
if you don’t like it better than your own lie” —
j ust as if it were a porous plaster. The successful
missionary is the man who yells with all the fury
of conviction that his is the only real porous plaster
in the universe.
NOT A DISEASE.
A cough is not a disease, but a symptom. It
indicates that the lungs and bronchial tubes are
inflamed. This inflammation often leads to
pneumonia. The surest way to ward off pneu-
monia is to use Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy on
the 'first appearance of the cough or cold. It
always cures, and cures quickly. Is. 6d.*
INSTANTAN COUS
BATH HEATERS,
For Gas, Kerosene, or Wood,
from 50s.
Large Stock of
ROOM WARMERS,
For Gas and Kerosene only.
Send for Catalogue.
BRANDT BROS.,
236 PITT ST., SYDNEY
A NOVEL PRESENT.
/~iN receipt of P. 0.0. or M.O. for 5/- we will forward to
any address in Australia one of our Handsome
9ct. Gold-filled Round Wire Brooches, with
either Bell, Heart, Anchor or Cross Pendant, guaranteed
the same quality as brooch ; and without pendant, 3/6.
In ISct. G.F. Twisted Wire, 8/6 ; without pendant. 6/6.
Illustrated Catalogues sent Free. All letters carefully
addressed to R. SIMS, Gold Wire King, Cole’s
Book Arcade, Melbourne, Vic.
The National Council of Women (Vic.)
has sent a letter to the Governor of Queensland
thanking him for his refusal to attend a pigeon-
shooting match. Lovely woman is a beautiful
self-deceiver where questions of cruelty are con-
cerned. Every delegate at that National Council
lias doubtless worn on her hat some portion of a
dear little dicky-bird that was killed to provide
“trimmings.” Muffs, boas, fur tippets, the
hairy linings and edgings of cloaks, all testify to
woman’s contempt for animal life. Birds, beasts
and vermin are ruthlessly slaughtered to furnish
the latest Paris fashions—for woman. The Jingo
woman of to-day, waving her handkerchief at the
boy who goes off to the war with the hope of
murdering somebody, is but an up-to-date edition
of the human tigress who turned her thumb down
at the fallen gladiator in the Roman arena. God
gives woman an easy flow of sympathetic tears
that she may easily wash sorrowful impressions
from her memory. She’s an estimable person,
but she doesn’t care a row of pins about the wel-
fare of pigeons except in the way of fattening
them for pie purposes. She only thinks she does.
With women and parsons self-delusion is second
nature.
Biliousness Banished.
Bile -Beans Stkongly Commended.
“For eighteen years,” says Mrs. J. S. Pawlson,
of Wolfram-street, Broken Hill, “ I suffered with
EXTREME BILIOUSNESS. The attacks were
so severe at times that I fell down in fainting fits.
I consulted several doctors, but their,prescriptions
only afforded temporary relief. About two years
ago I gave Bile Beans a trial. After a few ddses
I felt first-rate, and continuing the course, I was
completely cured, and have had no recurrence of
the fainting fits for twelve months, and the bilious-
ness has entirely left me.” Bile Beans have now
a world wide reputation for curing biliousness,
headache, indigestion, constipation, piles, debility,
female weaknesses, nervousness, bad blood,
pimples, and all skin eruptions, bad breath,
anaemia, loss of appetite, sleeplessness, lumbago,
rheumatism, in fact all ailments that owe their
origin to defective bile flow, assimilation and
digestion. Bile Beans are obtainable from all
melicine vendors, price Is. lid. or 2s. 9d. large
box, (contains three times tne quantity of the
Is. size.)*
CITIZENS’ LIFE
Assurance
Co., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Citizens’ Buildings, Moore and Castlereagh Streets, Sydney,
FUNDS £1 } OOO f OOO.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
on security of Freehold Oily or Suburban Properties,
pood Dairy Farms, Agricultural and Grazing Lands
(Freehold or C. P. and C.L.)or Government Stock of
any of the Australian States or New Zealand, at Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
LOANS ARRANGED -for a fixed term, or made repayable by instalments,
without notice or payment of any finer
WITH GREENER BOLT AS DRAWN, THE “ WARATAH,”
GO-
WITHOUT GREENER BOLT, THE “WONGA,”
507-
BAR LOOKS.
Left Barrel Full Choke
Right Barrel Cylinder Bore.
.-•'or accurate and close shooting this gun cannot ne surpassed, made of Best
Materials, and equal in finish and workmanship to guns of three times the
'i-ice. Barrels are Browned Twist, carrying a high polish. BAR LOCKS, Treble
• <n, half-pistol hand. Hammers are well down out of the line of sight. Vulcanite
heel-plate on best selected polished walnut stock. Carriage paid to any Railway Station in N.S.W. F. 0.8. to
any other State. Send your P. 0.0. with orders to —
T. TOMBLESON, Manager.
Sydney Small Arms Co.
67 P.O. Chambers,
Pitt-st., Sydney.
[This advfc. was erroneously illustrated in The Bulletin of July 2.]
Bush Gun
Rifle on the Remington Principle*
Shoots 22 long, 22 short, and No. 1 bullet cap. Well sighted and rifled.
Kills at 300 yards. 1 Os. , carriage paid, to any Railway Station in N. S. W.
12 bore, breach loader, Schneider action, single barrel. 10s., post free,
to any Railway Station in N.S.W.
Revolvers. 320 and 3'Bo bore, Bs. to 325. 6d.
SYD3XTEY
T. TOMBLESON, Manager.
SMA.LL ARMS CO.,
57 P.O. Chambers, PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Shooters obtain the most satisfactory results by using
NEW CLUB CARTRIDGES
■j lV I WX& vl » SrjTft'
warn
RIB
and U.M.C. AMMUNITION
ORDER
AND ACCEPT NO SUBSTITUTE.
Ml
S? CENTURY THERMAL BATH CABINET
u equal to A DOCTOR IN EVERY HOME.
THOUSANDS GLADLY TESTIFY TO THIS FACT!
Hot-air and Vapour Baths administered by this Cabinet are
a speedy cure for RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA, BRONCHITIS,
GOUT, LIVER and KIDNEY TROUBLES, INFLUENZA,
COLDS, FEVERS —in fact, there is no disease which can resist
the power of heat as applied by this Cabinet. 300,000 now
being used in Great Britain weekly.
PRICES, delivered, 30/- to 84/-.
Write to-day for descriptive Booklet—FßEE.
Century Thermal Bath Cabinet Co. Ltd. (Dbi’t. 8)
(Sole Agents Wanted ALEX. TROUP, Manager,
for Sydney.) Elizabeth St., fleibourne.
KEMP’S PATENT SHEEP BRANDING LIQUID
Is now being used by hundreds of woolgrowers, amongst them some of the largest squatters in Australia.
IT WILL DO EVERYTHING THAT IS CLAIMED EOR IT.
It will stay on the sheep’s hack as long as required. It will not injure the wool and can be scoured from it.
Manufacturers
BLACK , BED, and BLUE (in 8-f/allon Cases): —
PRICE IN MELBOURNE
~ SY N Y (E. Rich & Co., Ltd.)
„ B .iioBA >IE (E Rich & Co., Ltd.)
„ HOBART (Wm. Crosby & Co.)


SPORTING NOTIONS.
• The decline in the jumping portion of the race-
meetings in Sydney and suburbs has shaken up the
A.J..C,, and, as a result, a proposal has been launched
that, fluring six months of the racing year, each day’s
sport shall include a jumping event. The idea is to give
the matter a full trial ; then, if found wanting, the fault
will he at the door of the horse-owners, and not the
club. Judging, however, from the record of the past
six months, the compulsory placing of a jumping race on
the programme is a bad move—unless the inferior quality
of the N'.S.W. stock and the tempting prizes cause an
influx from the neighboring States. Then, when the
term is up and the inter-State gee-gees clear out, what
advantage Will be gained? In the past, hurdle-racing
and steeplechasing have been a disgrace to the sport in
N.S.W., and the spectacle of a dozen horses starting in a
race, and all "but one or two refusing to negotiate the
obstacles or falling in the attempt, isn’t inspiring. This
is a genuine trial of the illegitimate branch of the sport,
and, if it fails at the end of the allottedtime.it should
be wiped out altogether.
* * * *
- The Grand National Hurdle Race proved as
good a thing for the bottom-weight, Marmont, as it was
expected to be—if he could get the distance and avoid
accidents on the journey. There is surely something
wrong with a system of handicapping which results in 13
victories of under-lOst, horses within 23 years, whereas
i onjy two winners have carried more than 11.7. The big
stakes in jumping races are for the nags that have
done nothing in particular previous to the allotment
of the weights. Marmont was a notable case in
point, yet his win was generally popular because his
“form” subsequent to the making of the handicap
encouraged the public to back him, and he ran fully up to
his two recent displays. From end to end of the long run
Marmont was always among the first three. For a while
Westerly threatened to outpace him, but before they
reached the last hurdle the favorite took the lead again,,
and the race was won,. Probably Marmont, gay and
corky in his action, was the fittest animal on the job.
He showed no signs of distress after the race.
Westerly, the dark unknown from Maoriland,
who held the lead most of the time and finished third,
would, perhaps, have been all the better for a few more
gallops. On the other hand, perhaps he wouldn’t. The
dandy Horse of the crowd, Westerly, stands very high on
the leg, and jumps splendidly, but until he proves him-
self a genuine stayer a lot of people who Saw him on
Saturday Will fancy that the three mile course was rather
more than the “toil” cared for. Tne party behind
Westerly was confident qf bringing off a coup, and his
jockey’s instructions were to run away with the race.'
They reckoned without Marmont.
, a-, . r *
After Saturday’s showing, there is not much
encouragement to swear by the Miller’s stable for the
Grand National Steeple, although Colonel Shilinski,
Error, Emms, and The African are a strong lot on paper.
If it was not good enough to run Shilinski in the Hurdle
Race, where Rawdon cut so poor a figure, one may
assume that the champion is a bit “off.” Brokerage,
Freedom, and Orlando have chances, and Scobie’s stable
looks dangerous with Sir Harry and Wongleburnie. The
last-named mare was easily beaten by Grafnell.in the
Maiden Steeplechase last Saturday, but she meets the
Grafton hbrse on 271 b. better terms in the big event, and
must have a chance. The fancied one from Scobie’s will
•probably be Sir Harry, not the mare with the heathen
name. This scribe likes them both.
* * * *
? Grafnoll’s win of the Maiden Steeplechase, at)
Flemington, on Saturday, came as a surprise in N.S.W.
When “ Billy ", Frost had Grafnell at Moorefield, Sydney,
the big grey showed some of the best gallops ever done
on Moorefield, but he proved to the super-smart Kogarah
crowd one of the most expensive horses ever trained on
the course.
n: ■- * 1 - : * *
Mallard’s win of V.R.C. Myross Handicap,
.' Saturday, with the heaviest load (9.1) of all, was a good
performance that will bring his weights for Epsom,
Metrop., and Caulfield and Melbourne Cups up a few
. pounds... Even at that the burdens he is asked to hunip
are far from excessive. Mallard should be worth watching
closely.
U X’* '' I'*!.. ' ' * * *
x Jockey (N. Godby), up on Hawkesbury Handi-
"cap winner, Wyena (Saturday), is the lad who had his legs
badly crushed through Merton Steel falling in last Mel-
bourne Cup. Since recovery, a few weeks back, Godby
•'- atSo won at Newcaatle, Wallsend and Tamworth.
* * * *
Fairy States’ gathering in of Winter Handicap
at Flemington on Saturday gives a line on what might
be expected from Scobie’s stable during coming season,
for, though same owner (Rupert Clarke) has nominated
F.J.A., Free States, Sweet Nell, Miltiades, and United
States for different big plums, Fairy States’ name appears
in none of the more important races. That this fact is
due to no misconception of the horse’s capabilities was
abundantly demonstrated by the amount of money which
went on him.
* * * *
Once famous Hawkesbury winter meeting has
indeed fallen away. Saturday last a none too big attend-
ance (mostly visitors from Sydney) saw poor fields, poor
racing, and consequently poor betting, where once great
crowds, high-class horses and heavy speculation were the
rule. Pounds hinged on the outcome of the big handicap
as against thousands years ago, and though the winner in
times past was always heavily supported for the Metrop.,
Saturday’s appropriator (Wyena) still remained at outside
odds.
* • * »
Winner (Ramsay) of Hawkesbury Two-year-
old Stakes is by Light Artillery from Bernice,
and a promising good one ; he only cost present owner
(Earnshaw) 45 guineas at yearling sales.
* * * *
Conning over work of the three different handi-
cnppers^—Messrs. Daly (N.S.W.), Maitland (Caulfield) and
Menzies (V.R.C.) in connection with big Spring events
one finds much that is interesting. They all agree that
Emir should be first choice for the Derby, but in their
summing-up of his capabilities as compared with those of
others ; opposed to him there is some disparity ; forex-
ample, he is reckoned, 4lb. better than F. J.A. in Metrop.,
and 61b. in Caulfield and -101 b. in Melbourne Cups.
Sweet Nell gets 81b. from him in Metrop., and 111 b. in
Caulfield, and 131 b. in Melbourne Cups. There are several
other similar disagreements which demonstrate that
handicapping isn’t quite a science with even the most
skilful at it.’
* » * •
M.L. is as badly off apparently as N.S.W. in
the way of jumpers, for, though recent Hawke’s Bay
Steeple was worth 300sovs., only four nags ran.
. - * . * * *
The absurd way in which some handicappers
curry favor with owners and endeavor to get good accept-
ances for.big events by issuing “ flattering” handicaps is
sickening. N.Z. Cup adjustment show's two weighted at
over9st., three at over Bst., and 48 under that impost.
Result fs that a lot of fairly good neddies are bundled
together within a few pounds of much inferior goods
whose only chance lies in improving in the interim, or
for their opponents to'go cronk, or get struck by lightning
dpting the race.
Most Australians will scarcely credit the fact
that almost at their door is a racing club where gambling
isn’t tolerated. At King’s Island, midway between Tas-
mania and Victoria, such a state of, things exists—albeit,
almost every settler keeps a gee-gee of his owm. When
the pioneers began the contest in true Crusoe style, the
stakes were paid over mostly by “ exchange,” there being
no banks and very little ready cash on the Island (a state
of things maintained to the present time). Any man
known to “bet” was mulcted £5, taken out in kan-
garoo-skins ; and, with thoroughbreds and draught horses
each competing in their own class, the sport w'as genuine.
The Cup (and what country hasn’t got a “Cup”?) is
valued at £6 65., and if the average horse-owner gets
£2 2s. for an ordinary race it is considered good. If some
of these wild men heard the leather-lunged “ books” at
Flemington or Randwick calling the odds, the age of
civilisation would be questioned.
* • • *
At recent Ellerslie (M.L.) meeting an Irishman
had invested half-a-sovereign on his fancy for a certain
race. As the horses came thundering down the straight
he saw that his nag was hopelessly out of it. Rushing
out on to the course, he roared at the hapless jockey:
“ Good gracious ! phwat detained you, boy?” Then his
belated nag ran over him and terminated the incident.
* * * *
Thus “LeChasse” : Bulletin remarks (4/7/’O3)
on “ the common Australian custom of giving a horse his
head from end to end in a long race,’’ reminds me that
this was a favorite trick of Fred Archer’s when circum-
stances seemed favorable to making a “ Runaway Girl ”
act of the race. On one occasion he not only won, bub
gave his reasons for riding in that risky fashion.
There were only three horses in the flutter ; they were
just about equal in speed, were all weighted alike, and
the other riders were Osborne (“The Pusher”), and
Fordham (“The Kidder”). The meeting of the three
crack jockeys of that time lent great interest to the race,
of course, and the “ talent” was certain that the “go”
would be a slow one, as each of the riders would wait to
see what the other two were up to. That’s where the
smarties made the mistake, for the moment the flag fell
Archer let his mount have the whalebone and “ hooks,”
and sent him off at his best pace. The “Pusher” and
the “ Kidder” were as much astonished as the greatest
mugs at this unexpected act, but they took it easy, feel-
ing very sure that the “Pinman’s” mount would soon
crack up and “ come back to them.” As they saw no
signs of this they had to go after him, however, at their
best gait to make up the lost ground ; the result being
that as they neared the judge’s box the three horses
were “ all out.” They had raced each other to a stand-
still ; and Archer, having the lead, just managed to win
in a jog-trot.
* * * *
The Canterbury (M.L.) Anti-Gambling League
recently got on its hind legs and performed the customary
annual performance of belittling the totalisator and
screeching for the bookie. Hitherto, its roarings have
been scarcely heeded, but one howder’s statement, in
effect, that Premier Seddon is being gradually converted
to the abolition of the totalisator, gives a slight coloring
to the Anti-Gambling League’s desire. Still the gabblers
are very divided in ideas ; but the most hideous is
the theory that the totalisator encourages gambling.
From a legitimate point of view, ’tis true —insofar as it is
protected by Act of Parliament; but it doesn’t help along
the bookie to wreck (with the 6d. and 3d. betting) the
lives of the young whom the A. G. League is so anxious
to aid. That comes from the bookie. Then the State
and charities reap the harvest of a percentage which the
“books” never give. Altogether there isn’t much
chance of the parsons and bookies winning the day, and
Seddon—if he wishes to keep the opinion and support of
the racing'people—had better hang On to the totalisator
very firmly.
* * * *
The Australian naval squadron went to Mel-
bourne last week for the Grand National meeting at
Flemington. Formerly the flagship was only seen in
Hobson’s Bay at Oup-time, but the Commonwealth
defence scheme includes a cruise to the winter jumping
races.
* * * *
Kilt, who ran third to Wakeful and Abundance
in the Caulfield Stakes last year, has had bad luck in
getting disqualified for the Maiden Hurdle Race. The
speedy veteran began to draw ahead after clearing the
last hurdle, but the excited boy on his back drew him
right across the next horse, Examiner, and lost the race
on the foul. There have been times when the stewards
were not so ready to disqualify a foul-ridden winner, but
in this case it was the favorite that was in erfered with—
after he was beaten.
* * * *
Pure-bred Arab horses are getting to most parts
of Australia now from grim old Judge Boucaut’s stud in
the Adelaide Hills. One, said by the studmaster to be
the finest youngster which has ever left the farm, has
just gone to Queensland.
* * * *
The Theatre Royal (Melbourne) came out
strongly at the dog-show Bland Holt’s bull-dog, hero of'a
hundred dramas, won first prize ; Harford (who plavs an
inebriated swaddy in Paddy’s Market in “ The Drought ”)
won three firsts and two seconds with various dogs, and
another member of the co. came out victorious in cats.
* * * *
Said that the great speed of the racing motor-
car causes a kind of intoxication. JVJ. Hachet Souplet, at
the last meeting of the Socteta d’Hypnologie et de
Psychologie, Paris, spoke of the intoxicating effect of
rapid motor locomotion.. “ The mental and moral state of
the driver becomes abnormal. He grows vindictive,
furiously aggressive, and lets himself be carried away
by the angry impulse of the moment. The high rate of
speed works him up into the very same state of mind
which makes the habitual drinker of alcohol regardless of
consequences. Both abuse, swear, and use vile lan-
guage.” Dr. Berillon confirmed this. “ Motorists become
as mad under the effect of the onward rush of the motor-
car as the dancing dervishes or the Arabs in a fantasia.
A human life appears of no more account to a motorist
going at high speed than to the dervish warmed by a dance,
or the Arab in the intoxication of a fantasia.” Dr. Berillon
knows a motorist who ran over a peasant, and rushed on
after he did so as furiously as before. He returned home
in the state of depression that follows a long rush forward
at the pace of an express train, and never gave a thought
to his victim on the road until he read three days after
how he had killed him.
* • * *
Yachting in Port Jackson next season is to
receive a fillip by a series of races between A. E. Gollin’s
Sayonara, the crack Port Phillip boat, and fish-merchant
Chinnery’s Bona, the Sydney racing yacht; of five events
two or more are to be “ outside.” Though any friendly
contests between rival sportsmen of Melbourne and
Sydney always provoke interest, the result of these
matches will be no evidence - of superiority, yacht-
ing conditions on a small ocean, like Port Phillip
being quite different from those on the limited
waters of Port Jackson, with its short beat to Manly
against the stereotyped north-easter, and back again
before it, a proceeding which has to be repeated two or
three times to fill in the afternoon. Yacht-racing outside
the Heads is a flukey sort of sport, and as neither Mel-
bourne nor Sydney racing craft are intended to take to it
seriously, success in the ocean events is often a matter of
luck, determined by the state of wind and sea.
* * * *
Harry Dunn, ex-world’s champion wrestler,
who died, rather miserably, in his hut at Reefton (M.L.)
lately, had met the ’rastling reps, of more countries than
any other man of his day. After beating a dozen other
Americans, mostly on the mining fields (this was after
his early English victories—he was born in Cumberland)
he drew with Clarence Whistler, then the world’s
greatest. He won the M.L. championship belt from
Hudson. World’s five-style championship came to him
through his defeat of Cannon in Melbourne. Cannon
won at the first meeting ; six weeks later Dunn threw the
champion three times running. Next Duncan Ross
’Murkan champion, was beaten. (Donald Dinnie was
polished off meantime.) Then, in ’Murka again, “ the
German Strong Boy”; in Ireland, O’Brien, collar-and-
elbow champion; in Paris, Labouer, the French cham-
pion ; at Suez, the Soudanese champion; next the
Hindoo, Budda Singh, in Ceylon; afterwards, Lucifer, at
Sydney Lyceum. Last big thing he did was to throw
James Smith, the Maorilander, five times in five different
styles in 20 minutes—he had undertaken to do it inside
an hour. For a couple of years past he had to be content
to pick up odd prizes at Caledonian and other sports.
* * * *
Stevenson was taken down at the Vic. Softgoods
Club by an amateur, P. G. Gardiner, who was receiving
650 points in 1000—not a very favorable handicap for a
bona-fide amateur when the scratch man is a champion.
Stevenson’s weakness is his want of dash and decision at
the outset of a game. He doesn’t, as a rule, settle down
to his work immediately. Gardiner, a big, athletic
tailor, beat Stevenson at the outset hy scoring breaks of
39, 24 and 56 in his first three tries. Later on Stevenson
got going with 152, 156, 96 and 131, but the amateur
pegged away pluckily and got home when the little ’tin’s
total was 750 or less. It is one thing to give long odds to
the ordinary pallid player of_ “ a good game,” who dies
before the balls are broken, and another thing to deal
with a 15st. citizen who sets his jaw as though he had half
a mind to pick up the billiard-table with his teeth by way
of getting into form.
» * * *
When the rowing boOm collapsed a few years
ago, there were some good scullers on the Clarence River
(N.S.W.). The best-known of these was R. J. Brown, who
pulled several races on the Parramatta ; there were also
Gruer, Fischer, Donnelly, Philp and others. There has
lately been a revival of rowing on the Clarence, confined
so far to heavy boats and club skiffs, none of the scullers
having racing boats at present. Philp is heard of as
willing to row Tressider in watermen’s skiffs. Some
small local matches and regattas have recently taken
place, and on July 11 most of the above-named, and other
local men who fancy themselves, will meet in a race in
watermen’s boats at Palmer’s Island, for the champion-
ship of the Clarence and a prize of £l2. Brown will
compete but is considered too old now for heavy boats.
Philp or Fischer is the likely winner ; but there are young
novices with hopes. Though the prize is small the race
will be the most important rowed on the river for the past
six years.
* * * *
Sudden illness a few weeks ago of Tressider
abruptly ended negotiations for a match with Towns for
vvorld’s sculling supremacy. Reported now that Tres-
sider, though rapidly recovering, cannot possibly go into
training for at least a couple of months. Towns is said
to have written to a friend of the patient’s expressing
regret, and adding, “Let him know that he need not
worry about the match, as I don’t want to hurry him,
and he can take his time to get well.” This in face of
the fact that before lying up Tressider couldn’t hurry
Towns into as much as mentioning a possible date for
their match, though it might be several months away.
In fact, it looks as though Towns wouldn’t object if the
match never came off.
* * * *
Sydney League of Wheelmen trouble draws no
closer to a settlement —even though police-court proceed-
ings caused an agreement to be decided upon- as to an
arbiter. The old “council” still imagines itself the head
of the conglomeration ; whilst deposed secretary
Branagan leads a host under the title of an “ executive.”
The main cause of the disagreement is as much
alive as ever, and whilst the “executive” has given
sanction to the running of the disputed road race, the
“ council ” threatens all kind of trouble if it is held and
the majority of branches vote in its favor after a pro-
posed election comes off. Meanwhile, the public grows
disgusted, and the nonsensical squabbling is dragging
cycling into the gutter.
* * * *
Plugger Bilmartin, now in M.L., is almost a
physical wreck ; muscle fatigue, injured back muscles,
and a thoroughly run-down system are the main troubles.
But his medico has promised to put another 3st. on to
him, and if that is accomplished the veteran threatens to
race again. Bill has been riding his hobby to death.
* * * ‘ *
Second stage of Sydney Dunlop Shield inter-
club supremacy competition finished on Saturday over
SS2J miles of road. Newtown, Balmain, and Annaridale
clubs sent teams. Four of the five Newtown reps, passed
the judge locked arm in arm, and hi§ verdict was a dead
heat. Other Newtown man punctured. Win was very
easy from previous year’s premiers, Balmain. Lawson,
unapproachable 12 months before, could get no nearer
than 11th this time. Third heat next Saturday.
* » * *
Sydney Sports Ground begins to loom into
reality. The area has been well laid out, and a cycle
track, which, it is estimated, will be the envy of all
Aust. alia, is being constructed. The queerest part of
the track is that it is four laps and three-quarters of an
inch to a mile (rather accurate computation)—a shade
smaller than Sydney Cricket Ground, and, considering
that it will be asphalted at a cost of £5OO, and fitted
with latest improvements, something above the or-
dinary should be the result. A healthy outlook is the
fact that the whole of Sydney sporting bodies are repre-
sented in the trust, and if there’s any clashing in the
future it won t be the fault of the management.
The big featherweight bruise at Kalgoorlie,
22nd ult., was a gory thing. Sidney crack, Peter
Toohey, fought Westralian champion, Dave Miller, and
each scaled just over bantam limit (Bst.)—Toohey If and
Miller 3J lb. Toohey—spindle-shanked, but well built
above the waist—presented a peculiar spectacle; where
his weight was puzzled the audience. First few rounds
were the Westralian’s, but heavy thumps went both ways
and their effects showed plainly. The fourth round saw
Toohey assume complete mastery—his manner of shaping
(right hand and foot forward after the style of once
prominent Sydney amateur Searle) bewildered Miller,
who couldn’t get the hang of it at all, though he stood
up, grittily, until the police called a halt, and Toohey got
the verdict.
* * * *
Inter-State fight between crack Sydney welter,
Jack Blackmore, and Victorian champion lightweight,
Ed. Williams, at Sydney National S.C. last week, was
exciting from beginning to near the close of seventh
round. Williams (sft. llin. high) scaled 9.11, and stood
up lathy and long-reached, and looking less than his
■ years—l 9. Blackmore (10.2 J) appeared sturdy, strong-
limbed, and sun-tanned. First round saw usual effects
of Sydney man’s cleverness materially minimised through
Melbourne lad’s skilful foot-work and quick body-shift-
ing. Second round was fierce. Blackmore got going
early, and hustled and ’rastled Williams ad over
the ring, hurling him spitefully to the boards twice, with
the house hooting vigorously. More than once when
Williams started to rise froth a fall, Blackmore was at
him, all fire and fury, before l he could get half
erect- Towards the end of the third round it
looked Williams’ fight, and hoarse shouts of “ even
money ” that way could be heard ; but next meet-
ing showed Blackmore doing best, despite the other
man’s grit. Noticed that while the Sydney boxer never
lost a chance of sending one home in breaks from
clinches, when Williams tried the same thing Blackmore
appealed to the referee for a “ foul.” Excitement was
maintained till a left hook on the jaw spread-eagled
Williams over the allotted lOsecs.
* * .* * ■ *
“Offside Mac.”: Maoriland Rugby team to
tour New South Wales and Queensland is only a fair
football sample of Seddon’s country. The most notice-
able feature of the present' combination is the anti-
quity of many of its members. Otago “Jimmy ” Duncan
is now verging on forty years, and is so destitute of
hair that, when on the field, he wears a close-fitting,
funereal-like covering to hide his nakedness. He is also
a grandfather, but won’t admit it, and, though as skilful
a tactician as of yore, the old man’s brittle bones prevent
him from taking part in the hurly-burly. On the hard
fields of Australia, against big, dashing forwards, Duncan
will crumble, unless he can persuade his antagonists that
they are liable to be struck dead if they touch him. Other
fossils are Fanning, Udy, Stead, Given, Gallagher, and R.
M'Gregor—good footballers, but not sanguinary enough
to be successes in a Maoriland team. Nowadays a man can
never make his mark in the Rugby annals unless he cares
as little about his own neck as those of his opponents, and to
the writer’s mind this is the. Rugby virtue which is lacking
in the team of 1903. Wing-forwards have been selected,
but the team will be able to play also the three halves
or four three-quarter game. The wing-forward game
will probably soar over the Australian system of four
three-quarters—the leather will never reach the four
three-quarters from the scrum unless the half is pro-
tected. Maoriland backs will be brilliant in attack;
weak in defence as regards collaring. Canter-
bury M'Gregor, a nineteen year older, should prove
a prolific try getter, if he is not vvoodened out, and
valuable adjuncts are Asher, Stalker and Wood. Asher,
who was a protege of “Joe” Warbrick’s, is a chocolate
mass who reckons the limelight should alwa3 s be on him.
He will be a source of amusement to Sydney barrackers.
The two best front-rankers in the State, “Paddy”
McMinn, and Wingate, of Manawatu, have not been
selected, owing to the idiotic manner in which the Maori-
land Union chose its team, and as McMinn aud Wingate
are scientists in the art of hooking an inflated piece of
leather, the ignorance of the selectors can only be
denounced as criminal. Two biggest men in the combina-
tion are “ Tiny ” McMinn and L. Armstrong. Both hail
from the Wairarapa, and are each 6ft. 2in. in height, 13st.
121 b. in weight. McMinn is a spiral punt, and sometimes
he kicks a ball clean out of sight with his No. 12 boot.
The team, which is a collection of blacksmiths, boiler-
makers, carpenters and laborers, with a few quill drivers
to give it tone, was selected on the Y.M.G.A. lines,
otherwise it might have been stronger. It should win the
majority of its matches, and it should also be beaten
some.
(Continued on page $7.)
Occasionally the tyres should be removed (about
every 1000 miles) and given a bath of French chalk. It
is surprising the wonderful amount of buoyancy it im-
parts to a dead-running tyre. The chalk should not be
used too lavishly, however, lest it may work into hard
lumps, and stick to the fabric of the tyre. Just a thin
film of chalk is sufficient. And the best tvres are Dunlop
tyres.*
As a result of Irvine and co.’s vindictive policy
towards Labor and Labor Unions, the Ph'cenix
foundry, Ballarat, is to be closed down for want
of work. Mechanics are leaving the State in
hundreds weekly, and Ballarat is running a soup
kitchen for the wives and families of workers who
cannot get away. In the face of this, the Age
recently called the Government’s attention to the
absolute necessity of putting a large order for
locomotives on the American market, as it was
impossible to manufacture them locally in time
for next year’s harvest. While the starved railway
lines have been formonths crying for more engines
and rolling stock, the Government refused to start
building any more until it had finished cursing
the Labor men, and now that it has partly got
through its cursing, it is alleged that the contracts
will have to go abroad for the sake of extia speed
in manufacture—the cursing having taken up so
much time. So local foundries close, and tax-
fayers crowd every ship bound for other lands.
f Victoria doesn’t shift the present crowd of
incapables very soon, Shiels, the Raven v will
have a fine, picturesque ruin to cackle over.
♦ /
Afc a Sydney public meeting on Monday
night, convened
to consider the relation of Australia to the naval
defence of the Empire, and to hear an address from Mr.
H. F. Wyatt, special envoy from the Navy League in
England,
one of those present wished to move in favor of
an Australian navy. He was ruled out of order.
Evidently it wasn’t a public meeting, and
wasn’t held “to consider the relations,” &c., but
was just a little coterie to hear Mr. Wyatt dis-
play his shocking outbreak of eloquence. Mr.
Wyatt has an eruption of ruddy eloquence that
looks like a slaughter-house.
Into The Bulletin’s hands comes this
curious circular:
Mr. Daniel O’Connor, M.P. A preliminary meeting of
the friends of Mr. Daniel O’Connor will be held at the
Hotel Australia on Monday next, July 6th, for the pur-
pose of raising sufficient fuiflls to pay expenses in a
recent action, Crick v. O’Connor. Hon. J. H. Oarnithers,
M.P., Leader of the Opposition, will take the chair at
4 p.m. John Hurley, B. B. O’Conor, Hon. Secs.
Apparently the situation is this : Whilst Mr.
O’Connor supported the See Government one
member of it financed him—to an extent. Now
that he supports the Carruthers party, that party
proposes to give him a financial hand. Politics
a,re coming to a curious state in N.S.W. when
little transactions of this sort are aired in the light
of day. .f ?
Premier Irvine of Victoria professes that
he can’t believe the Australian Government’s
Conciliation and Arbitration Bill is intended to
apply to all unions of workers—even workers in.
the employ of State Governments ; the Bill seems
to imply that,, but Irvine thinks the idea is too
shocking a nightmare to be real. “It would,”
says Irvine, “strike a blow at the very root
of State Government.” Irvine will find the
nightmare real enough. It would strike a blow
at the very root of Federal Government—which
is vastly more important than the petty State
article—if the Commonwealth was debarred from
doing the same justice to one man as to another,
and drew injurious distinctions among its
subjects, to please any State politician, or
alderman, or churchwarden, or policeman,
or other functionary. It would also strike at
the root of Federal Government if it allowed its
subject Irvine, or its subject Bent, to claim ex-
emption from the law. The Federal Arbitration
Law is intended to remedy industrial disputes
and prevent strikes, and a general railway strike
needs preventing almost more than any other.
Irvine’s railway disputes aren’t his own exclusive
affair. They dislocate the commerce of all Aus-
tralia, and Australia has every right to mind its
own business by preventing them, as Irvine
doesn’t seem wise enough to do it.
Arnold White says in his “ Efficiency and
Empire” (speaking of the Colonial Office) t
The Order of St. Michael and St-. George is~ secretly
known (presumably by the Colonial Office clerks) by the
sobriquet of the Monkey and the Goat. *
The ; Monkey and the Goat! Who’d have thought
there was so much apt humor in the Colonial
Office ?
Are Tou Constipated?
More chronic disorders are traceable to con-
stipation than all the others combined. It is
like stuffing up the sewers of a great city. All
the impurities are forced back into the system,
causing an endless amount of suffering, weaken-
ing the stomach and preventing the proper diges-
tion and assimilation of food. Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills stand alone as the best remedy for
constipation. They get at the cause, cleansing
and purifying the entire system. They assist
nature in the discharge of all her functions. Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a positive and per-
manent cure for biliousness, indigestion, constipa-
tion, headaches, sallow complexion, liver and
kidney troubles, piles, pimples, boils and blotches,
and for female ailments. Packed in amber bottles
with the full name blown thereon.
ACCEPT NO SUBSTITUTES.*
The unsophisticated housekeeper has, of late,
been much interested in certain mysterious packages,
with a cartridge-like look about them, which hang from
the shelves of all up-to-date grocers. They are packages
of Knorr’s dried, ready-made pea soup. With one of
these little packages and a supply of hot water the busy
housewife can in a few minutes make sufficient pea soup
of first-class quality for a whole family, and save time,
trouble and expense *
RESCH’S SELECT STOCK ALE ». LAGER
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives. BREWERY and OFFICES: DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
M ■ —rTT-IVi m-ntr )-TmTTT


GOLF GOODS IN EXCELSIS.
We desire to draw attention to a SPECIAL LINE of . . .
NicholPs Special Socket Golf Clubs.
KS 5-52:
seasoned Persimmon wood. Every club is manufactured under the personal super-
Ib for t b Ber , nard and Grl i ,e f c t NichoHs, as well known for their skill as club-makers
as for their cleverness as Golf players.
These Clubs are recognised as the Longest Drivers in the World.
Sports Department
Branches in Every State.
CANADA CYCLE & fIOTOR CO., Ltd.,
357 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Specify U. M.C. Ammunition
And refuse to accept inferior brands as substitutes.
U.M.C. Cartridges
the CLEANEST and MOST
RELIABLE in the World.
FOR SALE BY ALL IRONMONGERS.
Union Metallic Cartridge Co.,
BRIDGEPORT,
CONN., U.S.A.
THAT LITTLE TRIP ?« ou are lookin £ forward to will be made much more pleasurable
dence Rre»Mr,wr a t u ou are nloun t' e( l ° n a wheel in which you have every confi-
ence. Breakdowns, miles from nowhere, are calculated to spoil your enjoyment. Be wise—buy a
RED BIRD BICYCLE.
models ' hw
Branchesjnevery State. 6Q01.D BICYCLE CO., 64 King St., Sydney.
A NIB,
A BOTTLE OF INK,
A SHEET OF PAPER and
A PEN CARBON BOOK
makes a complete outfit witb
which any
MAN,
WOMAN OR
CHILD
can write a letter, and at the satna
time make an exact copy without
leaving the slightest sign of copy-
ing on the original.
*
'A
%
S'
uncertain mad?, oft"en cleareVthaS’e ° heCk0 ' " leave ® “° va * u#
indisputoblerecord m ° ny ther<s Ca ° be n 0 appeal - Ik will save any house or family much money by its
There is no man or woman, professional or not, who would not at some time or other find
THE PEN CARBON LETTER BOOK
For fullest particulars, price, etc., write to the sole
A True and Valued Friend.
Agents Tor Australasia: £. RICH & CO. LTD., SYDNEY BRISBANE
One of the surprises of the N.S. W. censure
debate was the defection of Ferguson from the
government and Labor side. While the debate was
dragging along Ferguson’s case was dealt with
oy the t.L L. Executive, which decided that it
i i 1? P° we r to readmit him to the party, as
asked by the Broken Hill Labor men, he having
been elected in opposition to the “endorsed”
Labor candidate. Ferguson then went over to the
other side in a body.'
Pathetic letter from a Victorian railway
servant in Melbourne Age :
WouW you kindly grant me a space in your columns
0t the ? Ilnister of Railways when he intends to
pay the apprentices who entered the department in
6d° d*’ 901 ’ ° n I3 V 6d- per day ’ their lon 8 overdue
the P ri y lncrease - I «•» 19 years of age, and thinking
enterea Y th fc - WOul 2. be first-class paymasters, I
entered the service, with a small banking account, to
'® ar '‘ repa , l f ln 1 «; sh eep yards, &c. My banking account
soon tiwmdied to nothing, and on top of that we were
dow " t 0 fl ve days a week--7s. 6d. a week to live on-
and, as the regulations say, to come on duty in a tidv
and respectable dress. lam in debt to the extent of £5
le nder. I have been summoned four times,
takeS my blt ° f SCr6W t 0 Pay the orders of the
The Victorian railways take apprentices- with a
definite agreement as to increases of salary
provided the apprentice is of good conduct. The
Bent Ministry struck the great idea of reducing
the salary instead of increasing it, and this dirty
act of repudiation is one of the causes of Shiel’s
alleged surplus.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wound* that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your Anger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion V If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releasee
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the Joints being
ulcerated ; the same with thfj ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wountls ; the disease
If allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told youlr case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don't say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for-not how being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT'S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, CarbuncfesfPoisoned
Hands, Tumours. Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
*c. Price, in Great Britain, l/ljd. per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents : ELLIOT 1 BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for th‘.registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Kegd. copyright!. ,
AUSTRALIAN STATES
AND
OTHER
SM
CY
m
POSTED
S/S
FERCUSOH & Co . BRISBANE
' MAD AU BOOKSELLERS.
Fritz Neustaetel, Melbourne tea broker, recently
deceased, had a curious experience when Antoinetta
Link, the German prima donna, returned to Australia
ready to marry Fritz, and found that he had married
another stage celebrity whilst she was busy getting a
divorce from her husband in Germany. The great singer
threatened to shoot Fritz and he took a lengthy trip to
Maoriland. Poor Antoinetta Link died miserably in
New York.
SHfIRPSHOOTINg
For Sport and War.
By W. W. GREENER.
HITS THE MARK I
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, 1/. nett :
Posted, 1/2.
The best 1/- worth ever Published.
IF you wish to get good work and value
you should purchase W.W. GREENER’S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to—
C. W. BUCKLAND,
i 317 Collins Street, Melbourne,
(Greener’s Representative).
"OOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “Ellis’ King- Street Coffee Palace,” ~mg
Situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
. Proprietor—GEO. IF. ELLIS.
HAND-IN-HAND
forEIGHTYYEARS
Williams'
Barbers' Bar*
WILLIAMS' Traveller's Shaving Stick.
You may worry thru a face
scrape on most “Anv Old
isoap.’ To enjoy the Luxury
° f a Jr- e n- fect Shaye > ou must
use-Williams’.
If oudoubt it, send a penny
stamp for Williams’ Changing
Face Puzzle. Tells you why
J. B. WILLIAMS CO., Glas-
U.S.A. Also
232 Clarence Street, Sydney.
At Poverty Point.
An “eminent author-actor-manager,” in bidding fare-
to f gathering of friends prior to his departure for
,>Lif P ’ T atey let - himse]f go: “We find history repeating
trZt lam a^aln ot ! the eve of departing for Europe.”
History repeating itself. Napoleon could not have
a h ts he sJ key ’ What a lot of People think they
are history when they are only Smith.
Walter Kirby, the girly little tenor whom Melba is
going to get fixed up ”in England, has cabled the glad
tidings that two well-known teachers heard him sing and
were greatly pleased. As though they were likely to blow
cold on the performance of a possible pupil ! Kirby, how-
ever, seems to have gone to another master, which indi-
cates that the more fashionable professors didn’t offer the
young man a large reduction on usual prices for the privi-
lege of finishing his education.
Among other novelties which a big theatrical manage-
ment is trying to introduce into Australia is the London
rate of remuneration for ballet and chorus. Dancing
girls who recently sought employment, and expected
from 30s. to £2 a week, were astonished with offers of
halt-a-crown a night. Mere walking ladies were proffered
ss. a week, and the experience.
A humorous item in “Arizona” is Frawley’s patriotic
leference to the “ dear old Flag, which he has been
taught to take off his hat to,” and which is “ calling him
to go and fight for his country”—against the terrible
forces of Spain. It comes hard upon a Yankee actor to
have to assume a red-hot Jingo demeanor on the subject
of America’s soft snap with Spain.
Bland Holt is guilty of a business oversight in not
getting the local Purity League or Christian Morality-
Association to write to the papers protesting against the
mixed-bathing scene in “Breaking of the Drought” at
Melb. Royal. A beautiful discussion might be started by
a letter from the Rev. Gimlet Hohler, drawing attention
to the fact that Miss Annette Kellermann, attired in a
defiant bright red costume with braid trimmings, somer-
saults into the tank, followed by sundry young men, who
appear to be chasing her. Rev. Gimlet might further
advertise the drama in church circles by stating- that on
one occasion he distinctly saw (through his glasses) the
leg of a young man brush the elbow of bonnie Miss K.
when they were swimming in opposite directions.
She was a Yankee actress appearing in an Australian
city, and her admiration for her native land was inten-
sified by her failure to astonish the natives hereabouts.
Her remarks when she went shopping were calculated
to hurt the feelings of the young man who vainly tried
to find out what she wanted. “I don’t like these—
shops—you have in this city. So different to Amurka 1
In Amurka we have big stores, you know ; and we get
served properly, I guess.” The discomfited assistant
endured the lady’s snorts uncomplainingly until she rose
to depart (without having bought anything) and fired her
parting shot I guess you are not up-to-date he-er.
I don’t like your shops, anyhow!” Then the young
man unburdened his soul of the retort discourteous : “I
guess we’re about quits : we don’t like your acting 1 ”
The portly Marie Narelle, of Sydney, was at latest date
warbling in Dublin with her cousin, Miss Rooney, also of
Sydney; and a complimentary concert was given to
“Mary”—the Irish like that better than “Marie,” and
so the Narelle dropped the French form when she went
to Dublin—at the big Round Room of the Rotunda. Miss
Narelle was billed as “ the great Irish-Australian
soprano.’’
Corpulent M‘Kee Rankin, who accompanied Nance
O’Neil here a couple of years ago, used to tell a yarn
against himself. In the heyday of his younger and less
corpulent days he was starring in ’Frisco to big business.
One night he made his entrance and received the usual
burst of applause, but instead of subsiding after a few
seconds the applause increased. Mac bowed to different
parts of the house, his head becoming bigger and bigger
at the prolonged ovation. At length, after about the
fortieth bow, he began to think that even he, great as
were his merits, was hardly entitled to such laud and
honor, and just then he saw a little grey-headed man
bowing gravely to the audience from a box. It was
General Sheridan, and just at that moment the audience
had quite forgotten that M‘Kee liankin had ever been
born.
. Another young Australian leaves to try what he can do
m the U. States—O. P. Heggie, who some time back
quitted bank-clerking in Adelaide to talk altruistic
platitudes in a deep bass as the Martian in Hawtrey’s
“ Message from Mars ” co.
The Bendigo girl, Alice Crawford, whom Wilson Barrett
saw was good and took ’Ome, is getting to the front in
long healthy strides. A recent letter states! that
she is now playing Edyth Latimer’s parts, with a
correspondingly increased salary. Barrett has just
finished up a provincial tour at Glasgow, and is now
thinking out new “bluffs” while the co. rests for two
months.
The defection of old Dr. Ross from the
See party in N.S.W. Parliament has its compen-
sations. For years the Government has labored
to supply answers to his extraordinary questions
about the number of beetles ip the county of
Yancowinna, or the reasons for-believing that it
will be wet on the 10th January, 1906, pr some-
thing like that. Now it will perhaps go;on strike,
and tell the amazing old, gentlemen to ask* Pa
Brunker. . ?
Miss White, the enterprising lady who started
in Melbourne as an auctioneer and estate agent some
years ago, proposes to convert her business into a limited
company, and open branch offices in each of the States.
The prospectus of the L. White Agency Extension appears
in another column, and, is worthy the attention of
investors.*
Agent-General Copeland
Why should not the eldest son of the Prince of Wales
be called the Prince of Canada, and the second son the
Prince of Australia? This would interest greatly the
people of the two colonies, and make them, if possible,
even more loyal than they were.
Henry posed at one time as a Republican. He
backslid 15 years ago, while a Minister, "find
on being challenged for the backslide oni the floor
of Parliament he replied : “I am as democratic as
a man in my position can be.” Poor Henry is
probably as democratic as his job in London and
his court suit allow. : t /■
The magnitude of the huge Waranga
Basin (Vic.) irrigation works may be realised from
the fact that one section of the outlet channel cuts
through a hill so deep that the soil excavated
would fill a yard-wide drain, a yard deep, right
from Albury to Melbourne. There are other
Sections almost as big, other cuttings almost as
deep, besides the enormous basin itself. And
this great Socialistic scheme is being undertaken
for the benefit of the rich Goulbuny Valley
farmers, and the city artisan is taxed to meet the
bill. '
Once again New South Wales Assembly
has put up a record for riotous behaviour and
emphasised the necessity for a sweet and peaceful
spirit. The lack of D.C.L. in these parliamentary
affairs is much to be regretted. Politicians who
obtain illumination from that best of whiskeys,
although always ready with sparks of wit and
flashes of eloquence, are never tempted to'rage
like the heathen in his fury. “ D.C.L.” brightens
the intellect whilst soothing the heart.*
Mr. F. E. HOLDEN, Greenleaf, Mint)., writes:
“ My little daughter had A DEEP-SEATED COUGH,
which all remedies failed to reach until we tried Jayne’s
Expectorant. This medicine CURED THE CHILD.”*
From early May to late September,
These are the chilly months, remember,
When coughs and colds do most prevail
And weakened health begins to fail, -
And all humanity’s coughing and sneezing*
And bronchial tubes are stuffed and wheezing,
It’s time to get that mixture, pure—
W. E. Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
\
You Can Learn\
all particulars of the VULCANISED
mi
RES
TAPE
by sending to us
THMKWEU
Before purchasing Cqcle Tqres.
Our Vulcanised.
[ DUHLaP I^YRES'I
nay cost you a few Shillings nore
but they are worth if,
containing as they do, the highest
Quality of Material a the best-
rode of Manufacture under » V
hydraulic Pressure.
Ncave Genuine without this Trade Hark **■ ['
ratMlff MUrtATICTYPEC?SmTD. '
108 rlirvters bt fldb. & at Sydney, AddAidc.PerfK,BKisb^r\c.ChrislcKurcK.N.2
I
H j.vtf
for a copy of our fine artistic
Booklet/ “All About
Dunlop Tyres for
1903,” which we post you
gratis upon receipt of your
name and address*
N-?,W,
Dejpot:
150 Clarence Street Sydney*


m
mm
A.
&
i ’t-
ill
-«a
£tN
' r ffu ,o(d m am, U> ©yd&nA gtumea -
fy- forfudah^'-"
A Straight
Statement-
GUINEA GOLD CIGARETTES smoke cool and
sweet to the very end.
That's the statement—it's a fact, and any-
body can prove it by smoking one.
In doing so it will also be found that they
also possess another virtue—and that is 44 de-
lightful fragrance."
British American Tobacco Co., Ltd.
(Ogden Branch).
45 York Street, Sydney.
“ Burglar Bill ” on life sentences :
TjCt “ Nosey Bob ” do his work ; it is preferable to a life
sentence. S'eigh, who was hanged a few years hack,
was praying that the Executive would not reprieve him ;
he had already done a fifteen years sentence, and he
kmiv. All the “ lifers ” are insane. Knew one who
examined his private clothes at every available oppor-
tunity to see the moths had not injured them. He had
only served two years out of a life sentence, and he was
already crazed with the hopelessness of the outlook —it
was his craziness that made him hopeful. During the
Commonwealth celebrations he would not undress at
night for fear that he should he called to the “ front” at
any moment and discharged. And when liberated he is
useless ; ten to fifteen years of prison life leave a man
totally unfitted to combat the outside w’orld. If I had
my choice, I would take Mr. Howard as the quickest
way of ending the misery.
“ Muke ” : Coming over from W.A., I
struck a blood-and-thunder, black-haired, poke-
bonneted Salvarmy lass, who captained a few
other flag-lilies and drumsticks across the Bight.
On Sunday morning they monopolised the saloon,
and sawed through a service and some hymns.
The “ captain ” (not bad-looking had she been
dressed like an ordinary Christian) gave her
experiences for half-an-hour. Then the inevitable
tambowent around for the “orphans and waifs.”
After putting in a shilling, a greasy old Chow got
up and thanked her thusly : “You welly good—
welly ni. Me come alonga you— you makee me
good. You talkee welly plitty. Halleluia I
Mothers and sisters ! ”
Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Bills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Not genuine without the signature.
.Be sure you get Martin’s. Sole proprietor, W.
Martin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
England.*
The more recent cables contain the infor-
mation that “all the best people” of Servia were
up to the neck in the revolution. Yet poor
Alexander’s chief crime seems to have been an
inclination for occasional suspensions of the con-
stitution which had not been in vogue for more
than five years. Premier Irvine ought to feel
glad he didn’t introduce his Strike Suppression
Bill in Servia. He might have been cold meat by
now, for he was a lot better at suspending con-
stitutions than poor Alexander, and all the best
Servian people would have felt bound to hang
him and Bent. Bent wouldn’t look nice hanged.
Bent’s rude remark, “Not another day,
the game is played for all it is worth,” to the
deputation of squatters begging still another ex-
tension of the nominal rates for the carriage of
stock, was just bounce, after all. The starving
stock rates are still in force, and will be till the
last hoof is carried. Bullying the overworked,
underpaid men who fall asleep at their posts from
sheer weariness, and whose wages are cut down
to run this charity traffic, is not the same thing as
bullyingthe “Reform” crowd. Greatis the power
of Kyabram, and Bent’s manly and disinterested
bellow is handy to deceive the public.
CROUPY CHILDREN.
If your children are subject to croup, watch for
the first symptom of the disease—hoarseness. If
Chamberlain's Cough Remedy is given as soon as
the child becomes hoarse, the attack can be avert-
ed. Even after the croupy cough has appeared
the attack can always be prevented by giving this
remedy. It is also invaluable for colds and
whooping cough. It always cures, and cures
quickly. Is. 6d.*
J
%/
V
I
v\NV' v
NO CURE, NO PAY
Dr, Austin’s Electric Belt
Is Sold on this basis to Men and Women
everywhere —Not to be Paid For Until the
Cure Is Complete,
The Dr. Austin Electric Bel t is the only remedy
in the world which can be, sold on such a plan. It
is the only never-failing cure for Rheumatism,
Lumbago, Weak Back and Kidneys, Nervousness,
Liver, Bladder and Stomach Troubles; in fact, all
chronic diseases of Men and Women. It cures
after all other remedies have failed. Why ? Be-
cause it restores nerve life, animal vitality,
warmth and vigor to all the weakened parts.
DRUGS ONLY STIMULATE.
LASTING STRENGTH.
DR. AUSTIN’S ELECTRIC BELT GIVES
ITS CURES ARE PERMANENT.
PAY WHEN CURED.
You nav only when cured, if you can offer reasonable security. Failure to cure costs
you nothing. The Dr. Austin Belt is warranted on a bond of £lOOO to give a stronger
current, last longer, and to cure quicker than any other electric body appliance made.
We make no charge for advice, written or personal. , „ , ~ ~ Q frnm
FREE BOOK.—Write for my beautifully illustrated Medical Book and letters from
Cured Patients, sent sealed, Free. WRITE TO-DAY.
The Dr. J. n. Austin Electric Co. (Dept - M ;>
49 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
WEAK, NERVOUS MEN, WHY SUFFER
vv **
communicate with him without delay, no matter where you live. Treatment by Post a Speciality. Pamp
ALF ALINE VITALITY PILLS. Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d., posted.
Blood and Sksn Diseases
Blood Disorders, Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, Stone in the Bladder, and Blood
Impurities guaranteed to be removed and permanently cured by
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS. Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d, posted.
Anaemic Women
suffering from Wasting Diseases, Pale, Lifeless, and otherwise affected, should at once communicate with HERR
R AiSSMUSSEN. His lifelong experience is at their service, and his
ALE ALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS will cure them. Boxes, 6s; Courses, 235. 6d.
LIVER and KIDNEY
TROUBLES cured at once by the ALFALINE LIVER and KIDNEY PILLS, Boxes Is.
His RHEUMATIC PILLS are World-famed, and his PILE POWDERS never fail ; 6s. per box each.
HERR RASSMUSSEN
will euarantee to cure Nervous Weak-
ness 8 Blood Diseases, Piles, Rheuma-
tism, Corpulency, Liver and Kidney
Troubles. He will send his Book Free.
All correspondence, will be held
rnnfidential.
The ALFALINE REMEDIES can only beobtained from . .
Herr Rassmussen's Head Office
547 George St., Sydney,
AND HIS BRANCHES AS FOLLOW-
BRISBANE: 309 Queen St.
MELBOURNE = 150 Bourke St.
ADELAIDE: 15 Pulteney St.
N-Z.: 91 Lambton Quay, Wellington.
W.A., PEETH: 481 Hay St.
KALGOOEUE ? 11l Hannan St.
FREMANTLE; 117 High St-
BOULDER CITY: Piesse St.


Melbourne is. just now more or less agitated over
the question whether M‘Eacharn, Consul for
Japan, should also remain colonel of the Vic.
Scottish regiment. The Bulletin doesn’t take
much stock in the bag-pipes, the sporran, and the
rest of the haberdashery that go to make a
Scot- Australian warrior; also it reckons that
M'Eacharn’s appearances on the field of battle
will probably be few. But it does most emphati-
cally affirm that as Consul for a foreign power
M'Eacharn, and everybody else so situated,
should-be debarred from sitting in the Australian
Parliament. In this matter the American practice
should be strictly followed. Any Australian
citizen entering the service of any foreign power
should thereby render himself incapable of. holding
any Australian public office whatsoever. Every
Consul is expected to inform his Government on
questions of trade, openings for imports, opportuni-
ties for starting new branches of commerce for the
advantage of the country whose Consul he is ; and,
therefore, frequently for the disadvantage of the
country in which he lives. Also he is often
required to furnish information about defences.
To a patriotic Australian, as between his fellow-
citizens and his foreign paymaster, there would
always be a divided duty, and no country can
affor 1 to allow a citizen thus hampered to help
make its laws. It doesn’t necessarily follow that
M'Eacharn would use any officially acquired
knowledge for the advantage of his Jap employers,
or the detriment of Australia, but, however scru-
pulous the canny Scotchman with the brief legs
may be, the divided duty is always there.
If the man on the Land wishes to remain
there in peace, he should- employ W. N. Willis,
Land Agent, 21 Bligh-street, as his Agent. No
results, no payments.*
BEAUTIFUL EYES & LASHES.
(VI ORRIS’S^
'‘imperial.’* Kmpenal
% *
©intment
Adds lustre, strengthens vision,
restores lashes. No toilet table
complete without it. Pots 2/-
<'hernists Sc stores. Post 2/2 from Proprietary, Melb!
DO PEOPLE ILL
WORRY YOU} ..
y
i
Lilian
H
U
M
P
|H
iR
E
Y
S
51 Alma Street, Darlington, Sydney,
October 24th, 1902.
Dear Sira : —When only nine months
old my little girl contracted whoop-
ing cough, which was followed by pneumonia;
for three months she was ill in bed, and for two
whole weeks delirious. When she had slightly
improved in condition, the doctor attending
her recommended us to give her Scott's
Emulsion. We did not take his advice. Five
months later there was a return of the illness
and she became as bad as she was before.
The doctor was in constant attendance. This
time I gave her Scott’s Emulsion on trial. It
worked wonders— enabling her to eat and
digest her food; she has gained flesh and
looks a different child, the picture of health
and happiness. She has since had measles, and
by the aid of Scott’s Emulsion pulled through
with little trouble and with no sign of a return
of the pneumonia. Faithfully yours,
(Signed) Mrs. C. Humphreys.
Messrs. Scott & Bowne, Ltd.,
483 Kent Street, Sydney.
DO PEOPLE ILL WORRY
YOU nore especially when they are
members of your own family ? They worry
most people, particularly mothers, for no
mother can remain indifferent to the, suffer-
ings of a child ! When whooping-cough or
pneumonia appears, it is natural to be wor-
ried ; but you need not be if you send at once
for Scott’s Emulsion.. Ju3t above, one who
has seen the cure performed, tells you how
Scott’s Emulsion acts; and, when whooping-
cough or pneumonia attacks your child, what
you want is a remedy. That remedy is
SCOTT’S EMULSION, it i,
necessary to know anything else about whoop-
ing cough or pneumonia except what will
cure it. This, Scott’s Emulsion does rapidly,
surely, steadily, until the cure is reached. It
has cured whooping cough in every land under
the sun; it will cure it in Australia, You have
one precaution only to take; and that is to see
that on the wrapper of the bottle there is a pic-
ture of a man carrying a big cod-fish ; if that
cod-fish is not there, you are not getting what
we promise you—a cure. You can obtain a
sample of Scott’s Emulsion and the choicest
children’s booklet of the year, “ A Bunch of
Roses, ’ beautifully printed in colours, by send-
ing sd. to Scott and Bowne, Ltd., 483 Kent
Street, Sydney, and mentioning this paper.
All chemists sell Scott’s Emulsion.
The Farm Labor Swindle.
The re-arrangement of the Federal electorates in
Victoria and New South Wales has resulted, in
each instance, in a country electorate being wiped
out of existence, while another seat has been
added to the cluster round each capital. This has
drawn further attention to the size of these cities.
The spectacle of over a third of the inhabitants of
a State living in one town is beginning to be
talked about in an anxious way by Chambers of
Commerce and other fat and feeble societies,
which are scratching their bald heads in a vain
endeavor to solve the trouble. As usual, there is
a tendency to blame the Labor party, and the
city unemployed are being urged to buck up, and
be men, and go out into the country, where
there is plenty of work available. For once
m a while The Bulletin is glad to be able
to agree with the Chambers of Commerce, and
to heartily endorse its indictment of the Labor
party. City crowding is to some extent due to the
Labor party which has made the lot of the city
working-man—the mechanic, the artisan, and the
factory-hand—a fairly tolerable one. But the spec-
tacle of the corpulent city magnates, urging the
city working man to go out into the country,
where the hours are long, the food poor, the
wage small, and the conditions intolerable,
mu which fills this paper with derision.
The highest wage paid in the country for farm or
station labor is £1 per week, with board and
lodgings; and it runs—in a violent hurry—from
that sum down to half-a-crown a week “and
calf-skins.’’ There is no more prosperous
industry in the Commonwealth than dairy-
ing) and yet there is no dairy farmer within
The Bulletin’s fairly wide experience who gives
more than £1 a week and coarse food to his
employees, while most give a lot less. In the
great majority of cases even this wage is not a
constant one. The bulk of the dairymen pay it
only in the busy season, which lasts about half
the year ; for the rest of the 12 months the em-
ployee is either turned adrift, or kept on as a
favor at reduced pay. It is probably well within
the mark to say that the average dairy hand
earns or, rather, gets—l2s. 6d. per week the year
round. For this dole he works from 10 to 15
hours a day, seven days a week, with absolutely
no real holiday for six months of the year. And
when these men, sick and disgusted with their
lot, pack up their swags and make for the cities,
the daily papers come out with the scare-heading,
‘‘Scarcity of Farm Laborers.” Were the dairy
industry unable to pay decent wages there might
be some little excuse for this miserable state of
affairs ; but it is absolutely beyond dispute that
it can afford to pay an honest wage—say 7s.
a day—and still leave a handsome profit for the
dairyman. This is proved, if proof is needed, by
the extravagant rents that are being paid for .
dairy land, up to £3 ss. an acre being given, while
£2 an acre is a common rent. This means, in
plain English, that the man who does the hard
work—and milking is one of the hardest and least
attractive kinds of work—is defrauded of his just
earnings in order that the already rich landowner
may become still richer. There is, in the country
districts, such a persistent and fatuous belief
that cheap labor—“good men at 15s. a week and
found, ” as the Pastoralists’ Review puts it—is
an absolute necessity for the farmer, that it is
taking some time to convince the electors of the
contrary. Even though dairymen on rented land
live well, drive good horses, have their trips to the
city, and accumulate property, it is rank heresy
to suggest that their unfortunate employees
should receive a share of the general prosperity.
When the Vic. Factories Act was originally
enacted this wrong-headed notion was trotted
out, and there was great unanimity in excluding
dairymen and butter factories from the operation
of the Act; while the plain fact of the matter
was that no industry in the State was more in
need of being included in the Act. The result of
this carefully-fostered freetrade in country labor
is that there are multitudes of young men em-
ployed on dairy farms who have not the faintest
prospect of getting married and becoming decent
citizens, or of improving their position in the
slightest. They are overworked seven days a
week, and have no time for either recreation or
mental culture, and their outlook is about as
gloomy as that of a lame devil at the back of hell.
Is there, then, any reason for surprise when they
leave the cow-haunted backblocks and make for
the cities ? What is badly wanted is a measure
that will sweep away as many as possible of the
evils that attend country labor, and that will
ensure to the laborer a fair return for his work,
with the prospect of being able to save money and
settle down in a home of his own.
»
How ought wages to be fixed ? What is the right
basis? Late Justice Moorhead, first president of
the Westralian Arbitration Court, took cost of
living into consideration. His chief cases were
on the goldfields, and there he made elaborate
inquiries into the price of cabbages and chops ;
the higher the price of cabbages and chops the
higher he made the wage. But Justice Parker,
the new president, will not consider the prices of
things; what he considers is the earning capacity
of the men, as shown by the profits of the industry.
Perhaps, however, if Justice Parker had started
his Arbitration work on the goldfields he would
have gone on the same lines as the other ; anyway,
if he didn t, but went on the lines he has just
laid down, he would presumably have said that the
man who works in the Golden Horseshoe should
have £2 10s. a day, while the equally good man
who works in the hopeless Wild Cat Extended
should get nothing at all. Or if he thinks the
man who works in the Extended Cat should get
something, how does he arrive at that something
unless he takes more or less into account what it
costs the man to live thereabouts ? Altogether
it s a stiff problem, to which an absolutely and
scientifically exact answer doesn’t seem possible.
Still, with all drawbacks, the chances are that
even the worst Arbitration Judge will fix wages,
on thewhole, more equitably than thev would be
fixed by whatever power it is that fixes wages
when there isn’t any Arbitration Court. And
that alone marks an advance.
How hard some papers will lie to win an impor-
ter s smile and keep his advt. ! Up north now
when an importer is convicted of describing wool
as cotton and thus swindling the customs, and is
fined for it, and the case is so bad that he doesn’t
think it worth an appeal, the papers always add
to the report of his conviction that “nothing in
the way of fraud was disclosed.” Thev don’t
fLof h l' Was wrongly convicted ; they simply imply
that his swindle wasn’t fraud. An importer
nee< ?, to .be caught breaking into the
Treasury with a jemmy m one hand, a gun in the
a bunch of skel h t a d l gg<3r ’ f ? lug °l dynamite and
a bunch of skeleton-keys, before they would ven-
event) hIS 11ghly mora l character. And
even then, those papers that thought of it would
ball 16 WaS l i eally going to a fancy-dress
as Kingston, the Customs Monster,” and
ad wandered into the Treasury by mistake.
URIC ACID.
Rheumatism Gout— Backache— Lumbago
Sciatica- Persistent Headache-Neuralgia
—Gravel —Stone - Bladder Troubles Their
Cause—Their Scientific Treatment and
Cure.
THE KIDNEYS AND KIDNEY POISONS.
The health of man is influenced to a very great extent by the conditions of the kidneys. Any
disease of the kidneys, or interference with their action, affects the whole system, because the purity
of the blood is dependent upon the proper extraction from it of certain specific poisons, which it is the
duty of the kidneys to remove.
The kidneys are situated in the small of the back, one on each side of the spine. Human kidneys
are similar in shape to those of a sheep, but are somewhat larger. They are encased in fat, and are
supplied with arteries which convey blood to them from the heart. By a process akin to filtering,
the kidneys take any excess of water from the blood and they also extract from the blood various
waste poisons with which it becomes laden in its journey through the veins.
When a person is in good health these waste poisons are dissolved in the water taken from the
blood by the kidneys, and the solution is passed through narrow passages leading from each kidney
into the bladder, and is thence expelled from the body. This solution is known as urine. Some of
the poisons contained in urine are animal matter, such as urea and uric acid ; others are mineral
matter, being salts of lime, magnesia, potash and soda.
Unless the kidneys do their work thoroughly, the waste matter is incompletely extracted from
the blood, and becomes actively poisonous, causing us to suffer from various disorders which cannot
be cured until the kidneys are restored to health and activity.
After the blood is filtered and purified by the kidneys it enters the veins, and is, in due time,
returned to the heart, having, in the meanwhile, traversed the body and taken up a fresh supply of
waste matter. The heart again sends the blood to the kidneys, which once more filter it and extract
the impurites. This process goes on without ceasing day or night.
The kidneys of the average man filter and extract from the blood about three pints of urine in
twenty-four hours. In this quantity of urine are dissolved about an ounce of urea, and ten or twelve
grains, in weight, of uric acid, together with other animal and mineral matter, varying from a third
of an ounce to nearly an oynce.
The blood, in the com’se of its circulation, carries nourishment, derived from the food we eat, and
oxygen to every part of the tissues of the body, and receives from the tissues matter which they have
consumed and for which they have no further use. This waste matter it is the duty of tl e skin, lungs
and kidneys to throw off and get rid of. In the form of carbonic acid, the lungs throw off the equiva-
lent of eight ounces of pure charcoal every twenty-four hours, and the kidneys do theirshareby elimi-
nating urea, uric acid, etc., as described.
The principal disorders directly attributed to failure of the kidneys to perform their allotted task
are Rheumatism, Grout, Lumbago, Sciatica, Persistent Headache, Neuralg a, Anaemia,
Gravel Stone and Bladder Troubles. When the kidneys are properly doing their work none of
the complaints mentioned can exist, because the causative poisons are then duly removed in a natural
manner.
Warner’s Safe Cure.
This remarkable medicine is the outcome of years of scientific research, and has been in use
throughout the world for more than a quarter of a century. It is the only known medicine which has
the power to expel uric acid from the system, and it owes this power simply to its ability to restore
worn, weak, or diseased kidneys to their natural vigor. Nature does the rest.
Thousands suffer from kidney disease and do not know it. The commonest first symptom is
PAIN IN THE BACK.
A simple test to make as to the condition of the kidneys is to place some urine, passed the first thing
in the morning, in a covered glass and let it stand until the next morning. If it is then cloudy or
there is a brick-dust like sediment, or if particles float about in it, then the kidneys are not healthy
and no time should be lost in adopting remedial measures or Bright’s Disease or some serious illness
will be the result.
Remember that Warner’s Safe Cure will in all cases restore the kidneys to health and will con-
sequently cure—and permanently cure—all diseases arising from their feeble condition and the
retention of uric acid in the system.
A treatise containing a full description of the curative action of Warner’s Safe Cure and many
accounts of cases cured will be sent free on application to H. H. Warner and Co., Limited. Australa-
sian Branch, Melbourne.
“Ranger” Guns
made to our order by the Remington Arms
Co. Am.
Sale Old
Price Price.
No. 1, 12 bore, 30in. barrels ... £4 £5 10s
No. 3, with Ejector Meohanism £8 8s £lO
Scott’s Guns
D.8.8.L., 12 gauge.
Sale Old
No. 43970, for Pigeon Shooting £lB £2l
No. 46771, Pigeon, weight 741bs. £2O £24
No. 46794/5, Compensation Lever, <£2l £25
Ghas. Boswell’s Guns
are of the best quality,
largely used at the traps :
Sale Old
Price. Price.
With Hammers £l5 £lB
Hammer less ... £27 £4O
New Remington No 6
Take-down Rifle, Single
Shot.
Sale Price, 15s.
Old Price, 20s.
REVOLVERS
Webley’s No. 2
320 cal.
Sale Price, 40s.
Old Price, £2 10s.
Webley’s No M.P.
450 cal.
Sale Price, 455.
Old Price. £2 15s.
N
W—*—E
S
You will find Quotations for
many different makes of
GUNS *» RIFLES
descriptions are not full, but
write for details to
McLean Bros. & Rigg
LIMITED,
who are selling off their entire
stock of everything. New pre-
mises in which to finish their
'Clearing Sale have been leased
for a short time.
279 Lonsdale Street,
Melbourne.
I. Hollis & Sons’
D.8.8.L., with Hammers.
Sale Old
Price Price
No. 6721, Twist Barrels, &0.... £3 10s £4 10s
No. H. 205, Bar-action, &c. ... £4 10s £5
No. H. 206, Treble Bolt ... £5 £6
Single Barrel Collector’s Gun £2 5s £2 15s
Gashmore’s Guns
D.8.8.L., with Hammers. Have an untar-
nished reputation all over the World. Write
for a Descriptive Catalogue. Only a few left.
Bull’s Eye Rifle
for '22 cal. ammunition,
an accurate shooter and
well made in every respect.
Sale Price, 9s 6d
Old Price, 13s
4 : ;
Cartridges
Sale
Price
Cannonite ... 9s.
U.M.C. Nitro
Club ... 9s.
Southern Cross 7s.
Witton
(Rabbit) 6s.
Old
Price.
11s.
I
10s
Bs.
7s.
McLEAN BROS. & RIGG, LTD.
279 LONSDALE STREET, MELBOURNE.
((
On Our Selection.” By “ Steele Rudd.”
Price, 65., Postage Bd., from The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Ltd., Sydney.


Inadvertent publication of a private
dispatoh in England shows that Governor-General
Tennyson advised the King to disallow —or
rather, to refuse to ratify—the White Australia
Act, providing for the deportation of time-
expired Kanakas to their native islands, until the
Australian Government passed regulations under
the Act which would ensure that no hardship
-should be done to the blacks so deported. Since
the Australian Government was definitely pledged
to pass such regulations, Tennyson’s dispatch
practically amounted to a statement that Federal
Ministers were not to be trusted. But Premier
Barton doesn’t seem to mind the implication at
all; nor is he disposed to resent this interference
With Australia’s self-governing rights by" the
ornamental figurehead who is paid a huge salary
to be affable and keep his political opinions to
himself.
CHAMBERLAIN’S COUGH REMEDY
Loosens the cough, relieves the lungs, and opens
the secretions. It counteracts any tendency of a
bad cold to result in pneumonia. It is unequalled
for bad colds. It always cures, and cures quickly.
Is. 64.*
~~~ Amusements.
CANADA, UNITED STATES, NEWFOUNDLAND,
NEW ZEALAND, TASMANIA.
Hr. EDWARD BRANSCOHBE’S
WESTMINSTER ABBEY GLEE AND CONCERT
PARTY,
in a Unique PROGRAMME of the
National Music
of England, Scotland, Ireland, and Wales,
Comprising
GLEES, MADRIGALS, CATCHES, and BALLADS.
Artists :
Concert Contralto—Madame MARIE HOOTON.
Soprano Boys :
Masteis ALFRED BOUGHTON, REGINALD HYDE,
HORACE MARCHANT, LEONARD HUBBARD,
: • and HAROLD SIIEMMONDS.
Male Alto—Mr. PERCY COWARD.
Tenors—Mr. EDWARD BRANSCOMBE and Mr.
GEORGE POWNALL.
Basses—Mr. ALBERT ARCHDEACON and Mr.
HERBERT HILTON.
Humorous Musical Sketches-Mr. DUDLEY OAUSTON.
Accompanists :
Mr. HERBERT HILTON and Mr. EDWARD
11 " ' BRANSCOMBE. ' - "
TOWN HALL, JULY 11, 14, 15, 18.
Prices.—Balcony and Reserved Chairs, 3s. ; Unreserved
and South Gallery, 2s. ; Back Seats, Is.
Reserved Plan open at Glen’s, Tuesday, July 7.
CHANGE OF PROGRAMME NIGHTLY.
-Hoar pemanstration
Hrt Union
i
(Under sanction of
the Attorney-General)
Monday, sth Oct., 1903.
Prizes value £1250,
First Prize, value £5OO ; Second Prize, value £looi
1 h:rd Prize, value £5O ; and 150 other valuable Prizes
The Prize Drawing is open to the public and the
press, and every purchaser of a ticket has an equal
chance whether present or not.
Last year a number of applications for tickets were
received too late for participation in the drawing,
and the- moneys had to be returned.' People from a
distance 'should apply early and avoid this disap-
pointment.
Tickets to be obtained from . ,1
A. McDougall, Secretary,
Trades Hall, Sydney,
or from'Local Agents everywhere.
) The First Prize (a Golden Emu valued at 500 so vs.)
was last year won by Mrs. Swadling, of Edden-street,
| Leichhardt, Sydney.
i . Buy your Tickets Early.
One
Under Vice-Regal
Patronage .
And by
Special Appointment
Mrs* William Green and Miss Green
Professois of Ballroom Dancing, Deportment, Graceful
Carriage; Etiquette and Calislhenic Exercises.
The Latest Society Skirt Dances. Classes arranged for at
private residences. Colleges and Convents attended.
Classes in all suburbs. Prospectus—
“ Elterslie,” 100 Nicholson-st.,Fitzroy.
Engine man’s master key.-aii subjects
relating to Examinations for Certificates of Com-
petency in all th'e States. 365 Pages, 106 Illustrations;
6s. 6d, -posted, by L. F. R. SCHNABEL, Consulting
Engineer, 443 Bourke-street, Melbourne. Also COLE’S,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney.
Amusements.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the Direction of Charles Holloway.
EVERY EVENING, EVERY EVENING,
CHARLES HOLLOWAY’S
DRAMATIC COMPANY
in the Most Successful, the Most Human Play ever written
THE TWO LITTLE VAGABONDS
(By Special Arrangement with J. O. Williamson, Esq.).
A GREAT -CAST OF CHARACTERS.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Paling’s.
THEA TR E ROYAL, SYD NE Y.
Lessee .. .. Mr. J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
Under the Direction of Mr. GEORGE MUSGROVE.
SATURDAY NEXT, JULY 11', ,1
FAREWELL SEASON—THREE WEEKS ONLY,
GEO. MUSGROVE’S NEW ENGLISH COMEDY CO. and
MISS NELLIE STEWART,
For Six Nights Only, in
MICS _A_ 3XT O JVC lE3 3XT.
Sat., July 18, DOLORES. Sat., July 25, A COUNTRY
MOUSE and Pantomime Rehearsal, SWEET NELL.
Matinees Every Wednesday. Plan Nicholson’s.
ALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. 0. WILLIAMSON; -
SATURDAY NEXT, JULY 11, First Appearance in
Sydney of
MR. DANIEL FRAWLEY
and his Company of American Players in Augustus
Thomas’s Typical American Play,
“ARIZON A.,”
“ America’s Greatest Play."
Box Plan at Paling’s. Prices—ss., 35., 25., and Is.
YCEUM THE AT R E, SYDNEY.
Lessee .. .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
TO-NIGHT, and EVERY EVENING, at 7.50, !
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
FAMOUS DRAMATIC ORGANISATION
in the Magnificently Staged, Melodramatic, Sensational
Spectacle, by James Williard, Esq.,
IN THE SHADOW OF NIGHT.
Prices—3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Box Plan open at Elvy’s Music
Warehouse, George Street.
ILLI A R D S
REDIVIVUS.
STEVENSON v. MEMMOTT and SMITH.
1903 EXPOSITIONS EXTRAORDINARY.
QUEEN VICTORIA MARKETS
CONCERT HALL.
Direction of Messrs. ALCOCK and CO.
SEASON OF SIX DAYS ONLY, Commencing
FRIDAY AFTERNOON NEXT, JULY 10,
TWICE DAILY, at 3 p.m. and 8 p.m.
(SPECIAL LADIES’ SESSION, MONDAY, JULY 13.)
The World’s Incomparable Cueist,
MR. H. W. STEVENSON
in
TWO GREAT EXHIBITION BILLIARD CONTESTS
with
MR. C. MEMMOTT and MR. FRANK SMITH.
Three days each, 5000 up, concession of 1800. *
Table, Accessories and Complete Hall Appointments by
Alcoclc and Co., 891 A George-street.
Rates, ss. (Reserved); 2s. fid. ; Is. Plan at Paling’s.
Business Manager, A. W. BATISTE.
the MUTOSCOPE.
WONDERFUL LIVING PICTURES.
KING STREET ARCADE
~„d 400 GEORGE STREET.
Always on View.
IEP" Admission FREE.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor and Manager —Mr. Harry Rickards.
NEW FIRST PART-LAWN TENNIS.
Splendid Success of the Royal Society Entertainer,
RUDINOFF. Also, America’s Greatest Comedy
Sketch Artists, HALLEN and FULLER. ■
Continued Brilliant Success of Miss MAUD PERMAR.
Mr. FRANK YORKE, Miss MOLLY BENTLEY, Mr.
EDWARD FORD, Mr. GEO. BENTLEY, Miss MAGGIE
FRASER, Miss NEVA CARR-GLYNN, Miss FLORRIE
RANGER, Mr. GUS FRANKS, and all our Great Co.
PERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. H. Rickards.
11 THE BOLSSETTS 11
The Greatest Entertainment in the world.
W. C. FEILDS,
America’s Greatest Eccentric Juggler.
FRED. RIVENHALL, WILL WHITBURN, RODA
PERRY, 808 BELL, - WALKER & MAY, CONNJE
HAMILTON, LULU GOULD. . a -
PIrINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee ..- .. Mr. George Musgrove.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of THE THIRTY THIEVES.
SATUR.DAY NEXT, JULY 11, Mr. Musgrove’s Grand
Comic Opera Co. in
A FORTUNE TELLER,
For 6 Nights Only.
SATURDAY, JULY 18, THE SERENADE,
For Four Weeks Only.
USUAL PRICES. Box Plan at Allan’s.
TH EATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Lessee .. .. .. • Mr. Bland Holt.
Business Manager .. C. Simonsens.
Continued Success Every Evening of
Bland Holt’s Dramatic Co. in the Great Australian
Melodramatic Attraction,
THE BREAKING OF THE DROUGHT.
Written by Mr. Arthur Shirley.
p r ; ces —'i Si 2s fid, 2s, Is fid and Is. Box Plan at Allan's.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson.
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY), LAST NIGHT of
DANIEL FRAWLEY AND COMPANY
in Melbourne.
SATURDAY NEXT, JULY li, Mr. J. C. Williamson’s
New, Musical Comedy Co. in
THE BELLE OF NEW YORK.
PROSPECTUS
OF
THE EXTENSION
OF
THE L. WHITE AGENCY
COMPANY, LIMITED,
AUCTIONEERS AND ESTATE AGENTS
(REGISTERED UNDER “THE COMPANIES ACT 1896").
Capital : £20,000, in 20,000 Shares of
£1 Each, Fully Paid, NO LIABILITY.
• t . F 1 ■ •
■ *
DIRECTORS : •
A, O. ELLISTON, “Dimoia,” Wattle Tree-road, Malvern.
M. H. JAMES, “Chastleton,” Alma-road, St. Kilda.
A. C. BLACK, “ Waratah,” Darling-street, South Yarra.
MANAGING DIRECTOR :
L. WHITE, Equitable Building, Collins-street.
BANKERSi
THE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
SOLICITORS :
Messrs. WHITING AND AITKEN.
AUDITOR :
' G. M. FOSBERY, Esq., F.I.A.A,
SECRETARY' : N. NICHOLS, Equitable Building, Collins-street
(with whom Applications for Shares should be Lodged).
AUCTIONEER AND GENERAL MANAGER : R. A. WHITEHEAD, Esq.
REGISTERED HEAD OFFICE: EQUITABLE BUILDING, COLLINS-ST., MELBOURNE.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
That the investing public may have an idea of the rapid growth and extent c f
the business, we draw their attention to the following Balance Sheets and attached
Certificates from the Auditors s
AUDITED RETURNS. ,
1896 ..
1897 .
1898 .
1899 .
. net profit
99
•• 99
99
£525 O 6
£BO5 11 9
£924 9 O
£1476 lO 7
1900
1901
1902
... net profit
... ff
£1532 10 11
£1731 16 6
£2235 12 6
We hereby certify having audited your books for the year ending 31st December, 1900, and from them have
made out the above statement, which, in our opinion, shows the amount of commission received foi the jears
ending as stated. FOSBERY and BLOOMFIELD,
Incorporated Accountants and Licensed Auditors, Queen-street, Melbourne.
I hereby certify that I have audited your books for the year ending 31st December, 1901, and from them have
made out the above statement, which in my opinion shows the amount of commission received for the years ending
as stated. . 5 A. S. BLOOMFIELD,
Incorporated Accountant, Queen-street, Melbourne.
I hereby certify that I have examined and compared the books and accounts of the company for the year ending
31st December! 1902, and so far as I am in a position to judge the said balance sheet and accounts have been drawn
up in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Acts, and are correct, and present a collect new of th
company’s affairs on that date. G. M. FOSBERY, F.1.A.A., Licensed Auditor.
Prell’s Buildings, Queen-street, Melbourne, 11th May, 1903.
The foregoing returns will point out that this ismot a new venture or a mere speculation, the business having
been established for the past 10 years, and converted into a Proprietary Company 111 December, 1901, with s
marked success that the Company feel fully justified in extending their business operations in the adjoining State ,
* n years under review the volume of bus Hess has .increased mo'te than four-fold, and, with
'"T. *> ** *— ***«- »*««*••
a DIVIDEND of 4/ per share, being 1 20 per cent, per annum, was paid to the
Shareholders last year, and with the Extension of the Business a further Inclel.se
may be expected.
The Objects of the Extension of the Company are
1 To further extend and increase Its business operations. ~ _ . ... l
2. To carry on Inter-State, House, Land, Auctioneer, and Estate Business, and any other Agency Business which
the Comnany may deem advisable.
3. To establish Branch Offices in each of the other States, in order to facilitate Inter-State business.
Why you should be a Shareholder in this Company
i Tti nroeressive—vour shares will increase in value. , _ . . . ~ „ i
o’ It is a splendid investment—you receive a good return for the money invested. Read our Annual Report an
Balance-Sheet for the year ending December, 1902. We paid our shareholders a dividend of 4/ per shaie,
3 I^ls'nofa ! iicw ve ritur been established for the past ten years, and converted into a proprietary
company December, 1901, with marked success.
a. Tfq nrofits are derived from commission only—it is not exposed to risks of traae.
5. It is managed by a highly competent staff and board of directors, and the volume of business is increase g
■ year by year. ,
6 The liability of the members is limited. . ~ . .
Thf> canital of the company is £20,000, divided into 20,000 shares of £1 each, fully paid. ■ ...
The amount per share pa/able on application is £l. As the shares will then be fully paid up, nothing will be
P aJ RigMbis'reserved to allot shares in such proportions and to such persons, or to entirely refuse any.application foi
same, as the directors may determine. /
Prospectuses and Forms of Application may be obtained at the Registered
Office of the Company, Equitable Building, Collins-sfcreet. Available Fr.day
morning at 10 o’clock.
As a number of shares have already bpen applied for by the present share-
holders, early application is necessary.
Share List Close 14 th July.
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth,'3oo pages ; price, 4s. 6d. ; postage, Cd.
KERSLEYS
iNever Fails to give Instant Relief to
Sufferers from Colds in any stage,
Th e following are a few of the thousands of imsolicited Testimonials we have received:
[Copy] .
*T
, . 1.. ....
. the only reliable and speedy cure for
Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, Asthma,
Quinsy, Croup, Whooping Cough,
AND ALL CHEST AND THROAT DISEASES.
To Mu. John Eckrrslev, Melbourne. Wfl fin( i p- i n .
Dear Sir,—We shall be glad if you will forward us per parcel post two dozen Mentholine. We find it in
valuable this wintrv weather as a preventive of colds. We used it last year in the Influenza Epid m
hSni of as S failure. We ha P ve given it to a number of commercial men and always with the same
successful result. —We are, yours faithfully, BUCKLAND BROS., Moe, 29th April, 1892.
T ° J Dear Sir-rtWnfiu’s J bX°ight E i should let vou know how mhch benefited dur^Vy^e'vere
attack of Influenza by using your’ Mentholine ; I took it inwardly and applied I , t ° utw^l^J V y th
results. It only wants to be better known to be universally used m (M‘Lean Bros?
advertisement, as you are getting it without asking for it.-Yours truly, ANDREW OIIISHUDM uean
: j[ Rigg), Melbourne.
Dear S r-Having been a great sufferer from Neuralgia in rmt head, which affeeted-my sight till I coni,
scarcely see I can recommend your Mentholine to : any suffering: from that disease After using several
bottles of Mentholine I am thankful to say that my sight has improved, and I am not now troubled with
nainsfn liiy head. I may say that I have used your Mentholine fear Rheumatic pains in my shoulders and
hack and am free from any pain accompanying those diseases. Th inking you for benefits derived by Usmg
your Mentholine.-! am, yburs faithfully, ALFRED BUTLER, 2 Albert-street, Footscray, May 10th, 1892.
A SEVERE CASE OF BRONCHITIS CURED BY MENTHOLINE
Mr lOHN SKEHAN, Desailley’s Flat, Sale, writes as follows Tour Mentholine is the only cure for
Bronchitis. In my own case I find it an invaluable remedy for Chronic Bronchitis.
the Commonwealth
nts must enclose six p
ONE SHILLING
Wholesale
per bottle
Storekeepers and Chemists at


FREE
TO COUNTRY “ BULLETIN ” READERS
FOR ONE MONTH ONLY.
MEN
The present question extant is that which deals with the maintenance of
Good Health in Man. To a healthy man great success is possible. He
who is afflicted by ill-health is robbed of much of Life’s joys and successes.
A Reliable Standard Medical Guide
all men should possess. It should be his chief companion, for health is of vital significance.
Here is one of the finest medical works published in Australia, favorably reviewed by over 200
Australian journals, containing
570 pages Instructive Letterpress,
150 medical plates, and other extensive articles upon matters relative to Hygiene and Sanita-
tion, and dealing with questions of the greatest vital importance to man. A brief review of
the chapters enumerated below will show the magnificence of this work, and prove that it is no
mere pamphlet as is used for advertising purposes. It is a boon to any reader.
WOMEN
This magnificent work contains much of great interest to
you. It deals with questions which are ever in your mind.
It illustrates many of those phases of illness which a medical
work alone can illustrate. It will prove to be a reliable authority
In Cases of Severe Serious Sickness-
It will tell you how to act when Fevers are in your house, or how to nurse an Invalid. You
will also find a list of 50 valuable prescriptions for Home Use which any chemist can dispense.
It is the House-wife’s friend, and is
As Good as a Medical Man
in the house to people living in the country. . In cases of Burns and Scalds, Indigestion,
Sunstroke, Apoplexy, Wounds, Persons Apparently Drowned, Broken Limbs, etc., etc., it is
an invaluable aid. As an Australian journal says, 4 It is truly worth a pound a page to
country, residents.” Every woman should have this book on hand for reference purposes.
List of 31 Chapters.
Each of these chapters is
illustrated with plates which
are the perfection of excellence
pertaining to the medical sub=
jects of which they form a part.
! f '*rj, 'X- M
. 2..v>;?-
H
4S»
:•
HSS
m
m
■ms
m
to
2kl
liV''
I yj
4&.
8F«
ssi
Ch.'-.H
SjH;
sSKSS
i :*
j.^{j
<*■63s
ss»
s>?
SslmSw
$
?s§
L,"-V
ikii-Six
icyfi
4b?
?SS
:
a®
; WV&S
£
W
5
51
Mg
in
5=.“<5
t fjjS
ffie
&5
3$
■.S'i
:■?
3*
i
-: ;^o
S 8
fit
9t*y
as
■
vrf&O
fSSS
<mm
S*ft
«s
A Few Valuable
Press Notices.
Kalgodrlie "8UN": “‘CLINICAL
EXPERIENCES' contains much valuable
information written in a popularmanner."
Adelaide “OBBERVER" : “There
has never been published of its kind in
Australia a more worthy addition to the
literature of the colony."
Hobart “ MERCURY" I “ It is an ele-
gantlv-bound volume. Over 20,000 ...
copies are issued yearly.”
Brisbane “WORKER” : “Almost
every disease which flesh is heir to has
been treated within the pages of this
work.”
“ NEW ZEALAND MAIL.” : “ In this
book the authors give us much that is
instructive from a physical health view-
point.”
“SUNDAY TIMEB,” Perth, in “Bits
about Books,” on March 29,1903, says :
“‘CLINICAL EXPERIENCES' on
General Diseases is splendidly compiled.
It would be hard to overrate'its value,
nor do we ever remember to have seen a
more creditable production or' one that
merits a more appreciative press notice.”
Auckland “ OBSERVER ” A high-,
ly interesting volume. It deals with
nerve complaints and how to cure them.” :
“ GOLDEN FLEECE,” Sydney:
“ The volume conducts humanity from
the cradle to the grave."
“ FREE LANCE," Wellington :
“ Nerve diseases and a thousand and
one ills arising from them are exhaust-
ively described.”
“ FEDERAL PASTORALIST ”
“ The medical illustrations show the per-
fection of illustrative excellence.”
“ PUNCH,” Melbourne : “Any .suf-
ferer interested in a medically diagnosed
incurable disease should write to the
Specialists of the Institute.”
Bendigo "‘INDEPENDENT”:
“ Amongst the leading Medical Institutes
of the world, the Freeman and Wallace
Institute holds a position of high signifi-
cance.”
These are but a fe. of
some hundreds of reviews
given by the leading weekly
and daily journals in the Com-
monwealth of Australasia.
Beware of persons advertising our “ INVIGORATOR ” Belts at TEN SHILLINGS,
and write to us at once for full explanation and particulars.
SPECIAL ATTENTION is drawn to the chapter .upon Electricity and its appli-
cation to the human nerve system by the use of
The FREEMAN & WALLACE ELECTRIC “ INVICORATOR” BELT.
This treatment is fully described and illustrated, and its uses explained. It is a genuine
electric “Belt,” as is now in use amongst English Scientists, who recognise that an even
current of medical electricity infused into the chief nerve centres governing the stomach and
kidneys is a certain relief in cases of physical “weakness” and general breakdown.
THIS “ INVICORATOR ” IS SOLD FOR £1 ONLY.
It is superior to any electric instrument used in medical practice in Australia. A perusal of
this chapter re testimonies of cure from leading persons, and the certificates pf test of this
medical “ BELT, ” given by leading members of the electrical world of Sydney, will be instruc-
tive. Worn round the waist for a few hours nightly, the greatest forms of nerve diseases
classed as “incurable” are permanently relieved. It has often cured where doctors have
signally failed.
No man or woman should wear an Electric “Belt” until they have read in this
book the probable effect of Electricity upon them. They should be certain it does
not aggravate their disease and render a cure impossible as has been proved in
many instances.
THERE WILL BE FOUND AN APPENDIX OF 173 PACES.
further illustrated, which will be found of interest, containing articles upon correspondence to the
Specialists in Foreign Languages (in French, German, or Italian), Burns and Scalds, Poisoned
Wounds, Sick Room Management, Children and their Illnesses, the Sickness of Old Age, &c.
A LIST OF 50 VALUABLE PRESCRIPTIONS FOR HOME USE
containing many useful remedies of well-known efficacy are included. A chapter upon
Poisons and their Antidotes, an illustrated chapter of personal testimonials, and a vocabulary
of 1000 medical terms, indispensable to the reader unenlightened in the'details of physiology
and anatomy is instructive. The reader’s attention is also drawn to the five full-page illustra-
tions of the modes of wearing an Electric Belt by either sex. Each plate is explained, as well
as the mechanism of the “ IN VIGORATOR,” which is constructed on scientific principles.
This magnificent work can be obtained as a Splendid Presentation Volume. After you have read it, lend it to
your friends. It will be forwarded to any address in Australia for Fivepence only, in stamps, to coyer postage. This
is the Cheapest and Most Instructive Medical Work ever offered to the Australian public. Remember—there is no other
charge. All letters are replied to punctually and treated with professional privacy, no matter what subject is discussed
■ ■
FREEMAN & WALLACE
ELECTRO-MEDICAL and
SURGICAL INSTITUTE
Cor. ELIZABETH and BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.


This time it is Seddon talking :
They were told that the public debt waa increasing',
but how could they construct railways, roads and public
buildings, buy lands and advance moneys to settlers
without increasing their indebtedness?
How can a man have breakfast and dinner with-
out running up a permanent debt at the butcher’s
and the baker’s, and handing over the unpaid
accounts to his children to square up? Seddon
knows how—by paying up. And that’s just how
to construct railways and rQads and public build-
ings without “increasing indebtedness.” It is
remarkable that a man who has been in the
butchering business in Maoriland and South
Africa, and is going into it in England, couldn’t
think of a simple plan like that.
Coffee-growers of the Cairna (Q.) district
are petitioning for a bonus of fourpence a lb. on
coffee-growing. No doubt it is an industry which
should be encouraged, but the bonus proposal
looks rather steep. The petitioners say :
Under the late Queensland tariff, coffee growing was
making good progress, there being an import duty of 4d.
per lb. on raw coffee, and 6d. per lb. on tea.
They state further that the removal of the duty on
tea has made it so cheap as to drive coffee out of
consumption. The Federal tariff protects coffee
to the extent of threepence a lb., and lets tea in
free. It might with great advantage be amended
to the old Queensland figures. But the bonus
proposal asks too much; the “great natural
industries ” of Australia are always asking too
much.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1549. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leaser old City or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and C. P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New Zealand.
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per
cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fne.
Directors— Thomas Littlejohn, Esq.,Chairman; The Hon. A. \V. Meeks, M.L.C., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin Short,
Esq. ; Senator J. T. Walker; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C. ; F. E. Winciicombk, Esq., M.P.
General Manager and Actuary— Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Hearne’s Bronchitis Care
THES FAMOUS REMJBDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
J a h , o T f° f i W, '°, have take . n fchia “edicin® are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
fortinp- in -ill ivtnor delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
never been kLl'r H tk0 | |' kroat / in d g lvlll S strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
ind a Complete Cure 6 hT certain OUgb3 iavo been P ro P erl y treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
BEIWA.RE OTP COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
A. MART YU TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
DURED BY ONE BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
“Orange, N.S.W.
•Mr. Hearne.—
“ Dear Sir, —I enclose for your own private perusal
jortion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
if London, England, from which you will glean that
lour medicine has been a perfect God send to a martyr to
iolds and bronchial asthma. I do not wish any names to
le mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
'ortion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
and. You can see for yourself what an immense success
t was.—Yours faithfully,
Extract from letter alluded to above
"You will be interested in hearing that I think the
bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
irrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
nuch interested in it. He came yesterday, and earned
iff the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
rom a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
upplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS* TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“Dergholm, Victoria.
“Dear Sir,—i wish to add my testimony to the won-
lerful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
nonths, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
dvice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
•ours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
Irst dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
m a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
oay depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
londerful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“Yours faithfully,
“JAMES ASTBURY.’’
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
learne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
ectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
ndoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
he Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
fty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS*
"I user! your'Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
doses.—P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.”
•
Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. 1 only gave him four doses, and have some of
the medicine yet; but lam sending- for another bottle in case I should want it.—D. M'DONALD, Trinkey, via
Quinndi, N.S.W.
O
" Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.—A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney."
Q
‘ M y w 'i fe is 82 years old, and lam 79, and lam glad to inform you that your Brochitis Cure has done us
both a wonderful deal of good, it having quickly cured us bolh.—R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford,
Victoria,
©
, l A ave used on ? bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as .the smothering has com-
pletely left me.—(Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria.”
©
" I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria."
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone.—J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W.”
©
“My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses.—C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers.
Queen-street, Melbourne.” *
“ I lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miraculous.—F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.”
"Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—o. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria."
" Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cura without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.-(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.”
•
„ '’ er y Phased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result Was marvellous. It eased me right off at onoe.—
U. bUYIkR, Bourke, New South Wales.** • @
"Your medicine for asthma is Worth £l a bottle—W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria."
“r 1 tried lota of medicine, but yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to everybody.—S
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” © a J J
I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine
that I am astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of my brief trial.—JOHN o!
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.”
“Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
me any good ; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well —H HOOD
Brooklands, Avoca-street South Yafra, Melbourne,” ‘ *
©
“ Please send me half-a-do Zen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.”
“Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from vou have milled
me through a long and dangerous illness, —HENRY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria ”
•
_ , “ Th ? bottle ?' Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects.—CHAS. WHYBROW Snooh’s
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.”
Gratitude and Appreciation
HUNDREDS CUREd"~IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
•• The Scientific Australian Office,
“169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
“Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during' the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom-
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ac-
countant, Oollins-street, and the effect that it had was so
marked that he has ever since been continually recom-
mending it to others.
“ We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.”
Queensland Testimony.
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
“69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Please send us 30
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose our
cheque to cover amount of order.
“We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
“We are, faithfully yours,
• THOMASON, CHATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemists."
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATE PUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir,—Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitii
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“It. QUAKRILL,
“Editor Geelong Advertiser.”
“Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.”—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong 1 , Victoria.
branch depot. office . jj 0i 5 First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
THES
SMELTING & REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
Works: DAPTO, LAKE ILLAWARRA (56 Miles from Sydney). 1901, Limited.
Highest Price paid for Gold, Silver, Lead, and Copper Ores,
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay. Cyanide, SlagS, and Jewellers’ Sweep, etC.
For all Information regarding Rates, apply to the Manager, Head Office, Dapto ;
or, A. B. RUDDER & CO., 40 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Forwarding Agents.
BENGER’S FOOD is
not only highly nutritive,
but is most easily digested
and is so delicious that it
is enjoyed by Infants, In-
valids, Convalescents and
the aged.
m
&
The London Medical Record
sa>s“ It is retained when all
other foods are rejected.”
The British Medical Journal i
saysßenger’s Food has by i
its excellence established a I
reputation of its own.”
Benger’s Food is sold in tins
by Chemists, etc., everywhere.


My Melb. correspondent continues :
“ A woman of common sense has alighted on a
suburban assembly. She arrives early with her
flock, hustles the boys, gets the girls off the mark
and paired with polka mates. Then she draws
her chair up to the stove (all the suburban hops
have their patent heaters), and trots out her fancy
work. In a few minutes more she is racing along
with needle and thread. That is something like.
There is no damper sight than the border of
waiting mothers round the ball-room wall. When
the fun of dancing begins their martyrdom starts.
Gossip along the line languishes after a time.
The noise of the adjacent fiddlers teases the
nerves. The whirl of the linked dancers
tends to produce eye-strain. An ashen look
of fatigue creeps into the rouged cheeks of Duty.
But a cosy knitting corner will do away with that.
“Only the unlovely of the nursing profession
need apply to one grim, dour doctor. He’s
heartily sick, he says, of the enticing little angel
in the pale-blue uniform. The more ciitical the
case, the gaunter and uncomelier the Nightingale
must be. Of course, he’s the scorn of the whole
nursing profession, for what woman is going to
turn her ugliness into an asset ? You’ll never find
one to acknowledge her entire unattractiveness.
The most hopeless of them will say— ‘ I know I’m
no beauty—but ’ There’s much virtue in that
‘but.’
“The other damp night, in Toorak, a powder
competition party was evolved by some smart
girls. Each carried a puff in a dainty bag by her
side. After every dance the puff was used and
the cambric duster applied without the aid of a
mirror. Then points for the best laying-on were
awarded by the johnnies, and the girl who scored
most points before midnight secured the trophy.
The competitors took immense delight in the
powder race, and were not in the least ashamed of
their proficiency. They threaten to presently try
a more blushful toilette competition, touching the
line of ‘ Honi soit.’
“One of the institutions of the independent
sporting She is the hotel dinner party. Awhile
back, a rifle team of invincible Eves journeyed
to Ballarat, took the field with a local team and
waved the flag of victory. As a gracious recog-
nition of the visitors’ prowess, a swagger feed was
turned on at Ballarat’s leading hostelry, and the
petticoat party broke into turkey, toast and
story. That was a strictly sporting venture. But,
more recently, in Melbourne’s most luxurious
dining-room, an academic set dined some of the
notable members of society. This was quite a
gorgeous feast. The toast-list ranged wide, and
the glasses clinked in the ordinary smoke-party
way, at every bold and spirited utterance. The
lettered hostesses werecompletelj;satisfied with the
success of the spree, and the idea of the male
being a necessary appointment to a jolly, go-as-
you-please table is scoffed at by this set.
“ There are carriages for hire now to be had in
Oollins-street. They are stationed—one or two of
them —at busy corners, and the ticket-of-hire
notice hangs over the window, but the multitude
mostly moves on after a contemplative stare. The
casual carriage isn’t likely to flourish here as in
Sydney. Trams are good enough even for the
frilliest. Indeed, a hansom is only requisitioned
when trains are in mind and time is short.
“The fashionable shopkeeper is on the increase.
One of the keenest of our smart women has just
left for Europe to learn the latest art in millinery.
Eventually, she will come back to unfold her
fashion-book of Revelations, and be the vogue for
a time. It is amusing to buy a straw shape or a
feather sometimes from the ex-societyite. She
serves you with much of her old affectation.
Her tones are stilted, and a great scorn comes
into her tones when you fail to purchase a six
guinea toque from the show case. You remain
determined to buy nothing but the feather, and
she turns from you with a tired air, while one of
the ‘hands’ disinterestedly ties up your paltry
parcel.
“ To be properly ‘in with’ the Yic. Governor
Clarke family, it is necessary, above all things, to
be musical. Nice young aide Browning has
caught the music-germ pretty badly, and is now
studying hard at singing with a plump French
tenor. He is said to possess a nice light voice,
which the chinny Governor persuaded him to
have cultivated; and the spectacle of young
Browning as he sails into Glen’s with a roll of
music under his arm and a rapt expression on
his face is one that is very greatly admired by
feminine Blockdom.
“ Soon all the pristine Mount Morganaires will
be gone. Already fat, jolly, clever William
Pattison, the most notable of the band, is a fast-
fading memory. Just the other week died Mr.
Tuson, one of the original ‘Mount’ shareholders,
and for many years manager of the Rockhampton
branch of the Union Bank. Deceased was a quiet,
plucky Englishman, who came to Australia as a
lad and stuck to his work in the Union Bank
(Melbourne) when most of his colleagues skipped
to the Ballarat gold-rush. Worked nearly to
death, he stood to his guns till the short-
handed time was over, when he went down
with brain fever. In rcognition of his grit,
he got (and worked successfully for 20
years) the management of his bank’s Rock-
hampton branch, an appointment worth
having in those days. Then the Golden Mount
cropped up, and the climate-worn banker closed
his ledgers for good, and fared forth with his
family to see the world. One son is now a captain
in the 16th Lancers (‘ the Scarlet Lancers,’ written
up by John Strange Winter). Another is a lieu-
tenant in the navy.
“So Melba has been helping on little harpiste
Sassoli in her London concert schemes ! No one
can be more good-natured than the Diva to any-
one she likes, and she is just as merciless to those
who ‘ aggravate ’ her, to use her own word. One
Melbournian, who felt the rough side of her
tongue, still nurses the grievance. He is a smart
Society pet, addicted to song, and, almost as soon
as the Star arrived, he called upon her and asked
her to hear what he could do in the vocal line.
Madame listened and praised his efforts prettily
enough. Encouraged, he weujt on to tell of a
small throat operation he haa lately undergone
with a view to improving his voice. Still his
hostess was amiable, and still he prattled. Sud-
denly she said— ‘ Why didn’t you get something
done to that while you were about it ? pointing
to one of her visitor’s features, whioh might be
described (in a nice way) as ‘not classically
perfeot.’
“ A wealthy and virtuous old bachelor became
strongly enamored of one of the recent divinities
of the grand drama season. His devotion was a
touching thing—to onlookers ; and the sweet
mummer plaved with him, as friskish femininity
will with gold-fish. Night after night he took up
his perch in the front stalls, and his attitude
breathed the prayer, ‘ Loose now and then
a scattered smile, and that _ I’ll live on.
Some of her tenderest lines were aimed directly at
his ear, her eyes softly pressing the shot home.
But she has passed, in all her glamor, from the
Princess’s scenes. Moreover, she scuttled away
with a flippant and hurried good-bye. Now a
perturbed and wretched bachelor plays Diogenes.
“ Miss Ruby Webb, the sweet and only daugh-
ter of Tax-Commissioner Webb, prepares a
mighty wardrobe for a season in London. A big
programme of festivity includes presentation a,t
Court, when a Duchess is to figure as the nomi-
nator.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.
The Australasian, with a big Freetrade
gape of astonishment, has discovered that there is
actually a firm manufacturing something in Aus-
tralia after all. May 30 it notes the export to
’Frisco of some Australian-made harvesting
machinery, and adds: —
That an Australian firm should be able, under a heavy
handicap of freight and customs duties, to successfully
compete in any line against the cleverest makers in the
world, seems on the face of it incredible.
That reflects the Freetrade idea of the Australian,
that he is a poor creature, who can’t make any-
thing, but must live on borrowing and importing.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. Ib dri\es away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
T
HERE ARE SEVERAL ....
TALKING MACHINES
• ♦ BUT THERE IS ONLY ONE . .
(uiorioit
WHICH IS MADE BY
The gramophone >$ Typewriter [td.
This is a “JUNIOR fIONARCH” GRAMOPHONE,
Price £6 10s., and it is unsurpassed by any
Talking Machine at any Price.
Other Styles, £3 to £l4 10s.
Read what ADELINA PATTI says:
To The Gramophone
City Road,
Gentlemen,
Co. ,
London.
Craig-Y-Nos Castle,
Ystradgynlais, R.S.O
Breconshire,
South Wales
I have much pleasure in stating that I have heard your
Monarch Gramophone, and that I consider it a very remarkable instru-
ment of its kind, and quite the most perfect that I have ever heard.
It reproduces the human voice to such a fine point, that in listening
to the records of Caruso, Plancon, etc., it seemed to me as if those
artists were actually singing in my saloons. I have never heard
anything to equal it.
Australian Agencies—VlCTOßlA: A. P. Sykes, 227 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Messrs. S. B. Hunt & Co., 94 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
WESTRALIA: Messrs. Nicholson & Co.. Perth.
TASMANIA: Messrs. Wertheimer, Benjamin, & Anderson, 71 Collins Street, Hobart.
QUEENSLAND: Messrs. HeindorfF Bros., 210 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Represented all over
World.
WHOLESALE DEPOT FOR AUSTRALASIA -
AGENTS IN EVERY TOWN.
The Gramophone and Typewriter Ltd., 163 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Castro's Cast Sacrament
And Other Stories,
BY ALBERT DORRINGTON.
“ The Most Brilliant Short Stories Produced in
Australia.”
A CONSENSUS OF CRITICAL OPINION.
NEW SOUTH WALES.
“ He has been everywhere and seen every-
thing, and he has to no ordinary extent the
power of presenting things as they seemed to
him —the gift of vivid and powerful narration.
. . . . Contains dramatic pictures which the
best of our artists in words might well envy.”—
Sydney Moi ning Herald.
“The stories are often filled with incidents
that startle the reader, and emotions whose very
strength makes him shiver. . . . Mr. Dorring-
ton’s warrant as a writer of short stories is that
of absolute genius.’’ Sydney Daily Telegraph.
The Bulletin Newspaper Go., Ltd,,
211 George Street, Sydney, Australia.
DARK OR AROMATIC
FINEST SELECTED
AMERIGAN LEAF.
TOBACCO
HIGHEST QUALITY
MANUFACTURED.


The Inky Way.
Rev. Regd. Campbell, of London City Temple, invites
prominent men to give addresses at some of his meet-
ings. A speaker on “The Religion of . a Journalist”
■aid : “ The journalist comes so much in contacc with
the professionalism of the parson, and sees so much of
the inner aspects of advertising philanthropy, that he is
apt to become cynical. If journalists are irreligious,
their irreligion is due to the irreligious actions of many
professedly religious people.”
* * * *
This is the sad and solemn apology of a North Island
(M.L.) editor : “ We are requested to state that we were
all wrong in our report about the fire at London House.
There was no explosion, the retort was not open, and the
generator-house did not catch fire. The only thing we
were right about was as to a match being struck.”
* * * *
Melbourne dailies are much worried by a strike. At
Kensington alone (a thickly populated suburb of mostly
railway men) it is said that over 1000 Age subscribers
“ came out" in one week. Perhaps Mr. Irvine could
bring down a Bill providing that everyone must subscribe
to the Age or Argus.
* * * *
This from a country paper re an amateur performance:
“ Mr. Parnaby was unfortunate in the part of George
Seymour, the decidedly wooden hero of the play. Mr.
Parnaby’s talents are worthy of better things, and it
seemed a pity that one of the Club’s master hands should
be obliged to hide his light behind a character of the
George Seymour type.”
The imprint of that paper is—“ Printed and published by
the proprietor, H. Parnaby, etc.”
* * * *
The Corryong Courier, published on a mountain top
in Gippsland (Vic.), did its little advt. during the strike
season :—“ The enterprise displayed by the proprietor of
the Courier, in waking the office boy half an hour earlier
than usual last Thursday morning, was the subject of
much favorable comment amongst the townspeople, who
were thereby enabled to get the strike news earlier.
Owing to arrangements made by the thoughtful pro-
prietor with a swagman, who was travelling this way, the
residents of Jingelary had last week’s issue of the Courier
containing news of the strike, much earlier than usual.
The stoppage of the Adelaide express last week did not
affect the distribution of the Courier at Boggy Creek in
the slightest degree. The enterprising proprietor sent
the papers out by the butcher’s cart, as usual 1” The
country editor’s joke is mostly a joke about his own
poverty.
* * * *
David Syme practically lives at the Age office, and yet
has a superb country residence. The Simpson’s-road
tram passes the Age door, and takes D.S. to the foot of
Simpson’s road, at the Yarra bridge. The first mansion
beyond the bridge is Herbert Syme’s, and the second is
“dad’s.” Between the tram and the telephone, D.S. is
practically always at the Age office, night and day. Since
he has been getting oldffhe never sees anyone in the
office but heads of departments, and this is not an im-
provement on the old times, when David thought and
saw for himself.
* * * »
It is understood that several politicians are busily
engaged in promoting a new “ liberal ” paper in Mel-
bourne. The enterprise has no connection with the
“ democratic ” sheet mooted some time ago. One morn-
ing journal proprietor is believed to be strenuously
dummying a controlling interest, as the simplest way of
squelching the opposition.
* * * *
A Maoriland pressman writes : In the “ Inky Way ’’
(Bulletin, 30/5/’O3) you have a par concerning the late
P. S. Cassidy. This par is a horrid fiction, and the inci-
dent mentioned never happened. But the following
really did happen. Cassidy one day sent out three of the
reporters of the Times “ to investigate the Chinese dens
of Wellington.” There were not any Chinese dens worth
mentioning at the time, although Sow Fat was
there in some numbers, mostly as storekeeper and carrot-
merchant. The reporters went round and got no copy at
all, which was natural enough, and the best they could
do in the way of facts was to make a list of the colorless
and hopeless Johns, with remarks on their general disre-
gard for bathing. After considering the pale narrative
they had a meeting, and concluded that they had
better give Cassidy something better, so they threw
truth overboard, and wrote up the story with
all the lurid details and lies they could imagine,
and proudly laid it in front of the man from New York.
That man emitted a snort full to the bung with the best
brand of twang: “ Gard, is this all y’ can do ? A Chinese
den is not within a thousand years as slow as that.
What the Sheol is the use of it ? You must get noos, not
gard damn dry stat-istics. The public won’t believe that
damn yarn. A Chinaman ia the damndeat thing on this
airth. I know it, and this ia not the real thing. Waal,
this does beat me right bad. Clear to hell.” Then he
went with hia mind on fire to hia room and churned out
a story that gave Wellington the nightmare lor three
weeks, and made it cross tne street and pull out its re-
volver every time it saw the man who provided it with
parsnips. The yarn was amazing, treated with American
headlines and crossheads, and told stories of assault and
.seduction and sin and fantan and opium till the police
nearly had a fit. They spent the next month in rushing
madly round the Chinese houses looking for Cassidy s
horrors. Cassidy’s story was simply a picture of what
Hell would be if it were tenanted solely by Chinamen.
But Cassidy admired his effort so much that he thought
that he ought to write a leading article about it, and he
did, and he gave the police the worst time they ever had
for permitting the city to be defiled with this carnival of
Mongolian horror.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin, —Kindly switch me on to the writer of
that par on the Australian country press in “ Inky Way,”
while I try to perforate the cocksure self-assertiveness of
his mental casing with a few home truths. I don’t know
his name—call him Jones to save pronouns. I’m one of
the editor-proprietors he refers to. I’ve been running a
weekly (double “ e ”) in a far north-east corner of the
Cabbage-Garden. I’m on the edge of settlement —50 miles
beyond the railway. Ido all the writing and half
the setting, and, in fact, most of the things that appear
as offensive to the fastidious taste of the metropolitan
inkslinger are matters of daily occurrence to me. The
life is not too easy, but I like it; I wouldn’t stop here if I
didn’t. I’ve ploughed and harvested for cockies; I’ve
worked underground, reefing; and I’ve clerked in offices
—but I must say I never worked the hours Ido now. I
like it for all that. I’ve made a living at it so far, and
my soul is my own yet. If Jones thinks he can buy it
with a double-column advt,, let him try. There’s a bit
of level ground in the back yard, and, weary and all as I
may be with the “ editor-cum-compositor-cum-&c.”
business, I’ll undertake to put a dark-brown shock on the
head of that blatant journalistic bounder, inside of four
rounds—or I’ll give him twelve months’ advertising for
nothing. He talks airily about suppression, “it is
noticeable,” &c. The most noticeable thing about the par
in my opinion is the damnable impertinence of the writer.
Let me tell him for one that there has never been a case
heard in my time in the local court that has not been
published. I won’t say that I haven’t been asked to keep
some out of the paper, but I will say that the same
person has never asked me twice. If there were fewer
writers of the Jones sort in the country, undermining the
public’s confidence in provincial proprietors, we would
have much less trouble with these people. Jones’s re-
marks about the Factories Act don’t trouble me at all. I
keep one comp., and I pay him good wages. He’s satis-
fied and I’m satisfied, and why Jones should derive such
pleasure from the shutting down of our little concern the
Lord only knows. It's a great pity, anyway, that Jones
does not settle in some country town and test his
theories before he sets them out as established facts.—
Courier.
* • • *
The popular “Johnny" Sandes was always regarded
as the show descriptive man of the Argus, in addition to
“ doing” the “ Oriel ” column, in which, up to a few years
ago, he had the collaboration of leader-writer Fricker
and Peter Simmonds, probably the slickest reporter who
ever trod ground in Australia. The fact that he has been
kept so long at the reporting treadmill is merely
another evidence of the general hopelessness of the pros-
pect before a good man in that branch of journalism.
The spectacle of men like Sandes, Donald Macdonald,
and other excellent writers being sent out to chronicle
petty butchers’ and bakers’ meetings, or to report the
dull platitudes of Spruce Myth and Jawbone Neild in
Parliament is a beautiful satire on the aspirations of the
young man who wants to write for th« papers.
Died in Melbourne, Jack Taylor, reporter on Melbourne
Herald, and one of the probably best known of Southern
sporting scribes. A Bendigonian, Taylor sustained a fall
during infancy which shortened his left foot, rendering
it necessary for him to wear an iron boot sin. high on
reaching manhood. Notwithstanding this deformity, he
became a boxer who might have made a name for himself
in professional ranks. Fitted with a pair of arms like a
heavyweight, he turned the scale in condition at 9.6,
and, in the height of the boxing boom of 12 years ago, he
entered fora9.7 competition at Crystal Palace, Richmond,
and finished runner-up among 30 competitors, having
knocked-out no less than five rivals to reach that position.
Taylor was a very quiet, inoffensive fellow in private life,
but was naturally very sensitive about his foot, and
several large bullies who presumed upon hi 6 deformity
and jeered at it were smitten heavily, and lay down to
think over the matter for a long time. For many years
prior to his fatal illness, Taylor did the City Court for
Melb. Herald, and was the Southern boxing authority
of the Referee. ■ * *
.
Sydney Star heading to a railway fatality.
PULP.
Horrible Railway Fatality.
Guard Killed.
•• ua- 1 , »»a.,„.
the recent Tie. railway strike it wa. printed that the
combined funds of the railway unions were £70,000. Do
tbe N.S.W. ""l 0 " 3 compa r. e favorably with these in point
of affluenoe ? If so, as strikes are alleged to be things of
the past in N.S.W., why not utilise the funds in pro-
moling a labor organ? An expensive matter truly, hut
think of the profits, monetary and otherwise. Thousands
in Sydney and Melbourne outside of the labor umonsare
heartily sick of the present shamefully partisan ‘dm-
seminator of refined educational matter, and give their
Penny grudgingly They would welcome anything as a
change for the better. „ *
All the efforts of the Melbourne morning dailies to get
humble representations on the part of the united press
gallery from further restriction of the already very scant
accommodation given to the reporters in the way of
“ writing-up ’’ rooms. All except the Victorian mem-
bers, most of whom drew in their political nutrition at
the flat bosom of David Syrne, treat the lobbying press-
men either with gentle disdain, or openly expressed
hostility. The Victorians, however,, behave in precisely
StoS^'
the morning papers, directly they have finished acting to
THE OFFICE OAT.—AN EDITOR’S SONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Lo, in the dark mid-hours of night,
When all the stars are still,
And I am busy grinding out
The “ copy ’’ from the mill,
There sits a party by my side
(He dwelleth in my flat),
With whiskers long and eyebrows wide,
My friend —the Office Cat.
When all the earth has slunk to rest
We two sit there alone,
I with my fingers on the pen,
The cat as still as stone.
And, when my leaders burn and scoff,
I feel a solemn pat.
It is the silent plaudit of
My pard, the Office Cat.
And when I turn me unto pars.
Of ribaldry and drink,
Behold, with widely smiling face,
The cat doth rise and wink t
With arching back and curving tail,
And ribs all sleek and fat,
He grins whene’er I write of ale,
My mate, the Office Cat.
And 10, when in a lightsome mood,
I write a song of love,
The cat grows grave and gazes on
The ceiling up above.
Ah, me ! we thrill with thoughts akin,
Our hearts go pit-a-pat
In tune; but O, lie thinks of Sin,
My pal, the Office Cat.
I strive to mend men’s evil ways
By writing poems of bliss,
Where all the joys of life are found
In a platonic kiss.
But 10, he grinneth in his guile,
And wonders what I’m at.
He is not the platonic kind—
That scamp, the Office Cat.
And, when he thinks I’ve done enough,
He rubs against my sleeve,
And anon lieth flatly on
My inky “ copy ” sheave ;
And there he stops, as though to say
‘ * Knock off, old man ; let’s chat ”
He is a cheerful beast, and gay,
My pal, the Office Cat.
And so we sit until the morn
Comes creeping faint and gray,
And then I take my two feet down,
And throw my “ smoke” away.
With firm and philosophic tread
I leave him on the mat,
Curled up on his impromptu bed,
My mate, the Office Cat.
GRANT HERVEY.
A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
cases in six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
only Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
Of Chemists, or from PARIS MEDICINE CO., 28, Shoe-
lane, London, England.*
DRYSDALE’S ANTIBILIOUS PILLB
for biliousness, indigestion, headache, loss of appetite,
giddiness, &e., are prescribed by physicians of the highest
standing, who acknowledge their thorough efficiency in
all cases. 1/1 per box, post paid. F. J. Tinlbury,
chemist, Petrie’s Bight, Brisbane.*
In one Queensland town the municipal
council employs as its clerk the editor of the only
local organ ; and it’s surprising how little that
paper finds to criticise in the doings of the council.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance
is solicited
3®
Wm
tm
r. ■-.
'"t. ’
r
mm.
m
m
-; cgm -
-- " r§^
-cTvV
AS AN INVESTMENT.
READ WHAT
AN AUTHORITY SAYS
PEOPLE oannot understand why Diamonds do not come down in price.
Unless some new Diamond fields are discovered they will never come
down, and I think that proportionately they will go as much higher
in the next ten years as they have in the last ten years. The reason
is this: Ten years ago it took less than one-third of the effort to produce
Diamonds as it does to-day. In other words, the strata of blue ground in the
Kimberley Fields that were then worked were so prolific that Diamonds
were found practically on the top of the earth. After the very prolific strata
were worked out and it was necessary to go down a little deeper into the
earth Diamonds were not quite so plentiful, and to-day it takes at least three
times the effort to produce the same amount of stones it did ten years ago.
Pearls are also going up in value at a rapid rate.
A
UNIQUE
INVESTMENT.
AS an investment, Diamonds afford advantages offered by nothing else.
F or years they have increased in value at about the rate of 10 per
J~\ cent, a year, which makes them as an investment about three times as
good as any bank. When you put your money in the bank someone
else has the use of it; when you put it in Diamonds you yourself have the use
of it, and the pleasure and "satisfaction of wearing Diamonds are worth as
much as the returns from the investment. This is no idle statement, written
only with the view of selling our Diamond goods, but actual facts which you
can easily prove to be correct.
We are the only Australian firm having a Warehouse in Hatton Garden,
which place, as everyone knows, is the Diamond Mart of the world. Our
long and careful study of the Stone Market has placed us in the unique posi-
tion of being able to buy more favorably than almost any firm. These
advantages are shared with our customers, while others, if they could buy as
cheaply, would probably retain them as extra profit.
Investment No. 1
Is a very handsome Drop Style NECK-
LACE for evening wear. 74 Fine Diamonds
and 27 pretty Whole Pearls. . Price, £5O,
worth more now.
Investment No. 2
Is an exceedingly handsome Festoon NECK-
LACE, for evening wear, set with 117 bright
Diamonds and 26 fine color Turquoises. Price,
£75, worth nearer £lOO.
Investment No. 3
Is a NECKLET with 11 pendant pieces
set with 163 fine Diamonds, 12 large Pearls,
and 29 pretty Whole Pearls. Price, only
£135.
Investment No. 4
This is the Gem of the Collection—a
magnificent DIAMOND and PEARL COM-
BINATION NECKLACE and TIARA. Set
with 296 Exquisite Diamonds and 15 lovely-
whole Pearls. Were we to mount one to
match, the price would run to about £5OO.
This one costs £385.
Investment No. 5
Is an Exquisitely Designed NECKLET, in
the form of 7-leaf Pendants and diamond
set square pattern back, the whole containing
225 Diamonds. Price, .£5O.
Investment No. 6
For lovers of OPALS and DIAMONDS this
should prove attractive. A beautifully
designed NECKLACE. Set with 211 Dia-
monds and 31 rainbow-tinted opals. Price, £l2O.
Investment No. 7
Superb Turquoise and Diamond NECK-
LACE, beautiful in design and finish. Set with
163 Diamonds and 37 lovely blue Turquoises.
Price, £135, but worth quite 15 per cent, more
to-day.
Investment No. 8
Is a row of Single Stones—beautiful blazing
DIAMONDS, pure in colour and free from
blemishes. Each stone set in a separate
Collet, so that ouly the least particle of gold
shows round the.edges of the stones j 59 stones
in all. Price, £250.
DIAMOND
JEWELLERY
Is like a coat of arms, it fixes the
standing of the wearer. It is the
only thing you buy to wear that does
not wear out.
DIAMONDS:
Nothing that you might select for a
wedding-gift would be more accept-
able or sensible, for Diamonds—such
as we sell—increase in intrinsic worth
with age, and never deteriorate in
beauty.
Although we give particulars of the NECKLETS only we have lovely things set with Diamonds,
such as Rings, Brooches, Bracelets, Pendants, Pins, Studs, from a few pounds upwards.
It is not necessary for you to be wealthy to possess a piece of Diamond Jewellery.


A Woolshed Wooing.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Thu Nipper gained his heart's desire through the
agency of Yellow Peak woolshed. Woolsheds are
mainly intended for the shearing of sheep, but all
sorts of odd things quite unconnected with sheep
or wool are apt to happen there, especially during
that part of the year when the vast building is at
rest like a giant asleep, and so still, that all around
it the grass grows lush and long, and the tall
nettle-weeds hide the net-work of hurdle-yards
from view, while swallows dart in and out of the
narrow windows to their nests above the slippery
shearing-floors, and no one disturbs them unless a
station child creeps in to seek treasure in the shape
of an empty tar-pot or. a lump of raddle. Or some-
times, on Sunday, station-lovers may utilise its
twilight seclusion for a courting place. But
neither children nor lovers ever ventured after
dark into the Yellow Peak woolshed. Neither
had Barney Gleddan, the boss, need to put a
guard there—even in shed-burning times—for the
place held a reputation which was a safeguard in
itself—being built on the site of a bygone tragedy.
Yet no one even whispered the story, of late
years, for old Gleddan was sure to sack the man
who did so, and Gleddan was a boss whose will
was law all over the big freehold of Yellow 1 eak.
Most of all did he try to correct the actions of
his 17-year-old daughter Rose. He would have
ruled her thoughts, too ; but a maid s mind is
elusive, and Rose had no fancy for old Dug aid
M‘Bean as a husband, though he was Barney
Gleddan’s fancy, right enough, for a son-in-law.
There was a time when we on the station thought
she did fancy “the Nipper’’—otherwise Charlie
Gifford, the new-chum jackaroo. He had a boyish
way with him that almost disarmed Barney him-
self, and got him a reluctant invitation to come
over to his big house on Sunday evenings for an
hour to sing—for the Nipper could sing, with all
the passion of all the ages in his young voice
and the boss liked to listen on the porch, while
Rose played the accompaniments. And I can
promise you the doors were all wide open, for
Gleddan’s creed about all women was that they
must be watched and not trusted ; but the Nipper
was in the presence of his beloved, and that was
something gained. Even Dugald M’Bean didn’t
object He liked to listen and smoke also, when
he rode over for a yarn with his old friend
Gleddan. Gifford was a relative of Barney’s
English partner, and, therefore, a necessary evil,
for Gleddan hated the whole jackaroo class,
English or home-made; but he did not dislike the
Nipper individually until later. One could not
swear that the prejudice dated from the time
Kingscote came as a super, to Yellow Peak, any
more than one could swear that the handsome
adventurer’s interest in his boss’s daughter dated
from the hour of a conversation held with me
over a bottle of old “ Scotch ” at the quarters one
night, when, in a communicative mood, I made
known to him the fact that when Rose came of
age she would inherit a large fortune from her
mother. * ■ -
I had been book-keeper on Yellow Peak for 20
years, and old Gleddan reckoned me discreet, but
I wasn’t discreet on that occasion. My money
was all on the Nipper, so to speak, for I had a
soft spot in my heart for the lad; but Kingscote
rode to win from that out, and the Nipper was
left rods behind in no time. Kingscote had the
pull in every way. He was big, and bronzed, and
world-worn, whereas the Nipper was ridiculously
pink-and-white of complexion and full of angles
and crudities. The other again could ride like a
centaur, but the Nipper (who had started life as a
middy) would be a sailor-on-horseback to the end ;
and in this respect no amount of pluck will weigh
with a woman, if a man uses his arms like wings
and cannot turn corners along with his stock-
horse.
Kingscote also had made love in many lands to
many different types of women. He wasn t really
in love with Rose, either, and that was the biggest
pull of all, for the Nipper was—over head and ears
—and as foolishly shy as the average man is in
like condition. Before that unlucky slip of mine
(and after it, too, for the matter of that) Kingscote
used to spend much of his spare time with the
handsome, flaxen-haired daughter of the host of
the Wayside Inn, whose nearness to Yellow Peak
head-station had been a thorn in the side of two
generations of Gleddans. She was a fine-looking
girl, with black brows, for all her golden mane,
and Kingscote’s bold eyes spelt genuine admira-
tion such as Rose Gleddan’s finer, more delicate
type could never rouse in them.
The Boss didn’t want Rose to marry anyone but
Dugald Mcßean; but Kingscote disguised his
intentions cleverly and got the ear of the suspicious
old man right enough ; so it was not long before
the Sunday night invitation was transferred to
the super, and the jackaroo was fain to kick his
heels and smoke savagely on the bachelor-quarters
verandah, quite well knowing that beyond the
fringe of yucca trees Rose Gleddan was listening
in the shadow of the verandah-vines to Kings-
cote’s travellers’-tales —told to the Boss and
Dugald—but for her, all the same.
Apparently there wasn’t a flaw anywhere in
Kingscote’s armor. As the Nipper said, “he had
weighed in correctly,” and the latter’s chance was
Buckley’s, sure enough.
Then, one day, Andy Burton, the old overseer,
told me a certain story. He had been camping-
out with Kingscote at the Nigger Bend all night,
cod-fishing ; and after that I had a card—the sort
of card that might spoil a nap hand if one once
got the lead. But fate was working for Kingscote
all along; and I knew just what was coming
when Rose crept into my office one evening and
told me a secret, first binding me over solemnly
with the old formula—You must swear not to
tell father,” which had been the prelude to con-
fession of all sorts of childish escapades for many
years. “Of course I wouldn’t tell father.”
Didn’t I, in common with the whole station,
shield the bonny child from the boss’s harsh
punishments for the breaking of his autocratic
and ridiculous rules? So I promised now—and
regretted it for the first time on record—for in the
next breath she declared that Kingscote had the
parson squared and the marriage all arranged to
take place next morning in Bordertown, to
which they would ride that night, taking coach
on next day as man and wife to Hendra railway
Siding.
My part in the play was to row her across the
oreek that night, because Barney was strangely
suspicious and would surely watch footbridge^
I would row her to Nigger Bend, and she wou
run across the paddock to t ie woo> >
Kingscote had the liorses ready undertheshade
of the wool-loading stage. I was to row back as
quickly as possible and put the boat in the sh ,
to which I alone had a duplicate key.
“It will be a long, dark walk through the
yards and the length of the shed, I
“Do you think the man is worth it all, Kose .
“Of course he is. I am a very lucky girl
indeed to have won his love. He is not faithless
and fickle and-and untrustworthy.
man, and not an unstable boy. > . i-
last word defiantly, and I Oharltl
Kingscote had been telling her about Charlie
Gifford. But I returned to the subject of
woolshed. ' . „ T
.“It’s an uncanny place for a lovers mee
said; “but well-chosen for no oneeseou he
station would venture there. You 11 be sate
enough.”
•• uou’t be silly,” said Rose. “As if any sen-
sible person believed in ghosts ! Nothing me
dissuade me from going ; and at“l
your promise, so I will be at the boa > ■
o’clock.” And then she rushed away, for Died
dan’s step sounded on the verandah.
I had a long talk to the Nipper before tea and
amongst other things told him Andy Burton s
story of his vigil with Kingscote at Nigger Bend
and I began to think I might spoil Kingscote s
nap-hand after all. _
We smoked as usual on the wide verandah of
the quarters : Kingscote, Burton, _ the Nipper,
myself, and the storekeeper from Widgeon Cioss-
ing Kingscote acted his part admirably, and no
one could have guessed that lie was gomg to make
a big throw for fortune later in the even
ing Somehow or other the conversation got on
tothe subject of ghosts and haunted houses, and
such-like weird things.
“Hasn’t the Yellow Peak woolshed got a
ghost?” said the Nipper, casually. L notice
iveryone gives it a wide berth at night, and the
boss jumped down my throat once when I asked
him about it.” . ,
burton laughed. “If any place has a, right to
be haunted, that there shed has, he said.
“What confounded rot! ” said Kingscote irri-
tably. “A man of your age, Burton, ought to
have better sense than repeat such old women s
yarns. Besides, you located the YeUow leak
ghost at the Nigger Bend, if I remember right 3 .
Now you are going to shift it half-a-nnle further
tip ? ”
•■ i know you don’t care about ghosts any
time,” chuckled Burton, with a sly wink at me.
“ Thirty years ago—no, forty—a blacks camp was
dispersed by old Gleddan and Barney—then a lad
of twenty—just where that woolshed stand..
Some of ’em run into the creek at Aigger Ben
and was shot there. Young Barney was in the
thick of it—and was the cause of it, for the rnattei
of that—and so the subject am t mentioned 011
Yellow Peak, not when the boss is about, any-
way.” „
The Nipper laughed. “ Oh, I heard that story,
he said, “at Jackson’s pub. one night; you must
have heard it, too, Kingscote. It wasn t much to
the boss’s credit. However, I d sleep in the shed
any time for a quid.”
“ I never heard it before,” said Kingscote ; and
he spoke sincerely. “But what is all this abou
the place being haunted-no one has ever seen
anything?” He spoke anxiously, and had risen
uneasily from his chair. n
I lowered my voice. “ Look here, Kingscote,
I said, “things have been seen ; quite unaccount-
able, too. I’ve been on Yellow Peak 20 years,
and, if you ask me my real opinion, I say that
something odd does go on there now and then ;
for Gleddan wouldn’t sleep there if you paid him.
But he put a wretched man in once—said he
wanted a caretaker.” ~ ,
“ Well ? ” said Kingscote; did he see the ban-
shee, or the ghosts of the niggers, or what ?
“ Can’t say—because we found him dead next
morning,” I answered, briefly,
Kingscote began to walk up and down the ver-
andah, and the Nipper wanted to hear more about
the woolshed ghost. Both Burton and I piled it
on pretty stiffly ; and by the time we had finished
there wasn’t a hair that would lie flat on the
super’s head, and his face was the color of lead.
About that time, too, I was due at the boathouse,
so I rose to go. I was half-way down the path to
the creek when Kingscote stopped me and called
me back. , , _ „ ,
“Rose told me she had spoken to you, he
said. “I can’t let her risk being frightened to
death in that damned building. Of course, she
doesn’t know the story.”
“ There you are mistaken ; she has known it all
her life, but she knows it’s the only safe place to
meet you in. Barney watches pretty closely;
and she’s more frightened of him than she is of
the dead niggers. However, the horses will be
all right if you leave them for a little while. You
could meet her at the back of the shed and take
her through.” ~ ' , „„
“I’m not going near the place —and that sail
about it ! I’m not quite such an ass. The girl
ought to have told me the facts of the —the—story
before she consented to go there.” Kingscote
had lost all his swagger now. The man was an
out-and-out cur on some points—the supernatural,
for instance, as was proved by Andy’s story of his
abject state of fear when he heard that things
“ walked” at Nigger Bend. ■
“Well, that’s none of my business, 1 said.
“ I’ve promised to land her at Nigger Bend, and
I’ll do so. Barney is on the watch—he’s got an
idea that all isn’t square ; so you had better not
come across with me. Meet us at the Bend, if
you like, and explain matters ; 'but it might not
be safe for the girl to row back again. If Barney
sees me, I’m best alone.”
“I tell you I’m .not going near either the
cursed Bend or the shed to-night,” said King-
-BCOt% hat!—going to leave the girl waiting there
all night?”
“ No ; you can tell her.
“I’ll tell her nothing. You’ve no right to
marry anyone, unless it’s that girl of Jackson s.
I’ll do what I promised, but nothing more or
less.”
“ Then what in the hell am I to do ? ”
“ Send the Nipper along—he might oblige you,
as he’s young and green.”
Kingscote caught at the suggestion. “He said
to-night that he would sleep in the shed for a
pound. 11l get him to meet Rose and tell her vve
must put things off another day. He wouldn’t
split, for fear of getting her into trouble,” said
Kingscote slowly. .
“ You’ve gauged your man well —he has some
now rather obsolete ideas of honor. Go and
square him ; for I know he won’t let the girl run
the risk of waiting by herself; and he isn’t consti-
tutionally afraid of —I mean, averse to ghosts.”
“I’ve made a beastly mess of it this time,”
said Kingscote; “but, if Gifford does as I ask
him, I’ll win through yet.”
He found the Nipper quite amenable to his*
proposals —viz., to meet Rose at the woolshed
arid tell her that he had been suddenly taken ill
and could not keep his appointment. He was in
a. beastly mess, as he said himself; and would
rather have asked help from anyone than the
jackaroo. Rut he knew my stubborn moods too
well to argue; and, when the Nipper declined
to go unless he could manage matters in his own
way—l don’t think the super felt too happy.
As a matter of fact the Nipper gave the message
verbatim, but added the truth himself as to the
nature of the man’s sudden indisposition. Also,
1 e thought the woolshed a good place in which to
piess his own suit —which he did most effectively,
while Burton saddled two horses in the corner of
the home-paddock as carefully and quietly as he
could. Kingsrote had a silver tongue, and, given
time, might win the day yet; so the-IS ipper very
wisely didn't give him the chance. Rose was in
a royal rage, of course, and declared she wouldn’t
be the bride of a coward at ahy price. And-it was
then that the Nipper pointed out to her the
necessity of marrying someone. She could never
reach the house again without being discovered ;
and, brave as the-girl'was, the idea of meeting
the infuriated boss was too much for her courage.
And so it was that the two rode from Yellow Peak
in the warmth of an Australian might, and were
next day married by the Bordertown parson, to
whom a change of bridegroom mattered little.
Backblock parsons are used to strange hap pen-
-111 And, from overseer to smallest horseboy, every
man on the station was glad to see Kingseote
beaten on the post. The Jackson girl (whom lie
afterwards married) was the only person there-
abouts who had good cause to be sorry.
ETHEL MILLS.
WITH AN
Atlcock's
POROUS
PLASTER
This painful trouble can be relieved and cured by using an
Allcock's Porous Plaster . Warm the plaster before applying—
if not relieved by bedtime, place a hot water bag against the
plaster on that shoulder. . ;
REMEMBER.— These plasters are good for all pains and aches.
They have been in use 55 years, have been imitated more than any article
ever sold, and have made more cures than any other external remedy, they
are infinitely superior to any belladonna, capsicum or strengthening plaster.
Get the best— Allcock’s—The Plaster that Cures.
a. <a» f.
PEAKS,
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SO APM AKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
l&otice
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd.
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
(fern* Ltd '


God in History.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When Egypt’s secret science solved
The mysteries of God,
When wonders of the world evolved
To every Pharaoh’s nod.
Sad Israel, with tasks o’erweighedj
A wormwood chalice drank,
Or, toys of luxury and trade,
To slow perdition sank.
The Pharaohs now are fellaheen—
Bond-bled ’neath Hebrew sway,
Where cycles saw their glory green,
Simoom and desert play.
Tho’ Athens lured from Silence Song,
And Form from Chaos graved ;
Through centuries of Turkish wrong,
Unpitied, robbed, enslaved,
She penance did for cities sacked,
For slavery allowed,
For sea-kissed Syracuse, attacked
On clamor of the crowd.
Tho’ Greece in light the old world laved
(By tidal Homer’s song
Love-linked), and Europe’s pastures saved
From Xerxes’ locust throng ;
Tho’ Greater Greece in majesty
From Gaul to Ganges swayed :
Their age-long vice and tyranny
With age-long bonds were paid.
Rome gave us Lore and Law, and sowed
Great norms of Liberty,
But dawning peoples overrode
With callous usury.
She held them sponges but to squeeze,
And not her trust from God—
The maid for foul adulteries,
The man for tax and rod.
Too wide she would at height of pride
Her loose-held confines spread,
So Goth and Parthian myriads died
That Roman greed be fed.
She sickened so, she could not breed
Upholders of her might;
She armed the stranger in her need,
She hii’ed her foes to fight.
Then, to such tint as Yerres bled
The flesh of Sicily
Paled fatted Rome, when Etzel fed
His Hunnish chivalry.
Lethargic grew her vitals, sucked
By parasites she bare,
The vulture Goths this eagle plucked,
And cawed the Vandals “There ! ”
And those great Empires of the Seas—
Tyre, Carthage, Holland, Spain—
Developed golden gluttonies,
Grew bandits of the main.
The trade they found so deft a tool
At last they made their goal,
And for the maxims of its school
Each lost its very soul.
While smugly on their gods they fawned,
Whole realms their wars would blight
To sell a drug, exact a bond,
Acquire an Ophir site.
A vassal or a daughter State
They sowed ’neath every sky,
But goaded them into the hate
That mothers Liberty.
To-day Oblivion’s mask, Decay,
Sneers at their old renown ;
The mermaids of the Silent Bay
Have dragged those sailors down.
MELB.
DANTON.
Camels in the Far West
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Verily the ways of the man who says “ Hoosh’ta ’
to his “oont” in the Far West are at times good,
and sometimes hard. Since the beginning of the
year (in addition to the usual caravans taking
loading from Broken Hill and Wilcannia, White
Cliffs and up the Mount Browne road) Tintin-
allogy, Weinteriga, Teryawyuia, Albemarle
(stations between Wilcannia and Menindie) have
had occasion to avail themselves of their services
for carrying rations and horsefeed from “The
Hill,” horse and bullock teams for that purpose
being almost entirely dispensed with. One of
the foregoing stations, instead of paying teams
£6 10s. for loading, now pays the camel people
£3 15s. with delivery in half the time of the horse
and bullock teams. In addition to the above,
Teryawynia and Albemarle had recourse to the
“ship of the desert” to carry in their wool
(that owing to the drought they had been com-
pelled to take off in bough-sheds at their wells)
from 50 and 60 miles outback to the frontage.
Quite an imposing sight to see a bull team "of
about 28 camels, with a carrying capacity of over
eight tons, striding majestically along with 56
long bales of greasy, undumped wool, and again
to see them fording our local creek, “The
Darling,” in about three feet of water.
As to sore backs. These undoubtedly do occur,
and the animal has such an immobile and hard-
faced expression of countenance (’twould be a
small fortune to a poker player), that one can-
not tell whether he is pleased or otherwise
with the same. A limp or clumsy gait sometimes
tells the tale, although “brisket chafe” (under
the “arms”) is sometimes accountable for this.
Brisket chafe is supposed to be hereditary, and,
where it is possible to be avoided, camels so
afflicted are not used for breeding. A searing-
iron is almost the universal remedy amongst the
Afghans for sore backs, cuts or scars. The
Broken Hill authorities jumped on a man in the
caflip at Broken Hill, recently, for the inevitable
sore-backed camel. There was no saddle on this
one, and the man got off. In Wilcannia, though,
one man fell xn for a fiver, and at White Cliffs
another man was fined £3 on each of two charges.
A magistrate in the Western District once,
ariving to one of our river ports to dispense
justice, ran into a mob of camels with his pair-
norse buggy, and, the horses becoming alarmed,
he remonstrated with the Jemidar (head
darnel Johnnie) for not turning aside quickly
enough from the path of Justice, also for spank-
ing a young camel, in turn frightened by the
buggy, etc. The J. retorted in broken Eng’ish
or battered Afghan. Anyhow Solon, on his
arrival at the river port, despatched a myrmidon
of the law 20 miles up the river to arrest the
Afghan for seditious language, or righteous
behavior, or pounding the camel. The man in
blue collared the wrong Afghan, but that didn’t
„ matter a fig to Justice, the aggrieved pafty, who
sat on the bench himself. Don’t think he even
got off it or tendered any evidence, only acted as
interlocutor in this Western Division farce. Tried
to demonstrate to the Afghan from the bench,
f?*®ticulations and “who-aing” and “gee
offing ’ how his spirited horses had
become alarmed, but the subject of the
Ameer only smiled at justice working himself
up and getting excited, driving his imaginary
buggy imd horse on the Bench. Nathless, he was
fined £2, which he parted.
i ' r belief forbids these Afghans to
handle anything connected with the domestic
porker, so the storekeepers carefully case up any
Tm l1 ’ , con > utu.i and way-bill them as sundries.
What the eye does not see the heart does not
grieve over.
STILL WATER.
The Romance of a Mean Street.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Yer can clear to blazes out of this if yer like,”
said the woman, standing in the doorway of an
evil-smelling Goulburn-street rookery ; “ an’ I
don t care if I never sets eyes on yer again. I
haven’t had a day’s luck since I met yer. Here
it’s Gawd knows how long since I had a penny
from yer, an’ you’ve got the hide to come home
drunk an’ ”
ITer Gawsake shut up,” said the bull-necked
loafer, taking a match from his pocket and
nervously lighting a cigarette. “ S’elp me good-
ness you’re worse ’n a phonograph in th’ horrors
when yer get goin’. Anyway,” he added, ex-
pectorating interrogatively across his elbow, “ yer
talk about me not givin’ yer any brass, but what’d
you do if yer hadn’t me to look after yer ? '’
“You look after me!’’said the woman, scorn-
fully turning up a depraved nose; “nice speci-
men you are to look after any woman. All you’re
good for is staying at home sleepin’ an’ guzzlin’
beer, whilst I go out like a big flat makin’ money
for you. But I’m not going to be a fool any
longer. I m not gom ter have a big blood-suckin’
wretch like you hangin’ on ter me all the days of
me life.”
“Spare me days, anyone ’d think y’ was an
angel out of Government ’Ouse,” said the man
sneenngly brushing the tobacco ash from his
clothes ; “ why, if it wasn’t fer me havin’ yer like
a mile-stone round me neck I’d be an independent
man ter day. There’s every bloomin’ stick I had
in pawn for yer. And what for ? Fer ter keep
yer, an feed yer, and doll yer up in flash clobber ;
an now because I arsks yer for a paltry tray bit
to get a drink y’ slings off at me an’ sez things
that hupset me feelings.”
Upset your feelings! What’d upset your
feelings would lay any other man up in the hos-
pital for a month. And if yer say yer bought me
flash clobber, ye never told a bigger lie in yer life.
j- hank Heaven ! what I’ve got I bought an’ paid
tor out of me own hard-earned money. Yer might
have bought clobber fer that big 'gaol-bird that
ver used ter be breakin’ yer neck after, in Eliza-
beth-street, but y’ never gave me any. A pretty
article she was ter spend yer silver on I
must say ! ” ’
“ She was as good as you, if she was a gaol-bird.
Anyway, what was you afore I got yer? Why
y didn’t know what it was t’ have ’r decent ’ome
till the day I borrowed the quid to pay yer fine
and saved yer from being sent to quod fer a
month ! ’
“You low-lived wretch!” said the woman
trembling with rage, “ to insinuate ”
“ I don't insinuate nothin’,” said he. “ ’Twasn’t
an insinuation ; ’twasaquid.”
Yer a slanderin’ liar, ’ she said, picking up a
chair, and hurling it at the man’s head, “an’if
yer say another word I’ll knock yer brains out.”
Next minute a prostrate woman was being
dragged up the street by the hair. Then Bill left
her,.and, drawing back a few yards, ran at her
with a view to taking a flying leap on to the
prone figure. But he never arrived. A swift
constable felled him to the ground with his
baton.
* * » ♦
The woman came out first (women always do).
‘Sorry I couldn’t get enough to pay yer fine,
Bill,” she said when they met at the gaol gates
the morning the man was liberated, “ but I was
only out a week afore yer, an’ 1 ain’t found things
too good. But I’ve got the price of a couple of
drinks,” she said, cheerfully pulling the man’s
coat sleeve. “ S’pose y’ can do one ? ”
Bill was sullen, and didn t answer.
“I’m arstin’ yer if y’ll have a drink ! ” urged
the woman, petulantly leading the way to the
corner, “because if y’ don’t want it yer can take
tner money an’ get some breakfast.’-’
Bill had the drinks.
BARBY SPRAYTON.
“ Petramos ” : Undertakers may be pleas-
ant persons, and grave-diggers be addicted to
hilarious mirth, but “painless dentists” are
shrieking comedy. Visited one the other
day. His dental parlors were too cheerful-,
looking altogether resplendent with gilded
fittings and nude statutes—and there was a cheer-
ful-visaged nigger standing outside. When the
cheerful nig. had conducted me into a cheerful-
looking room, I took a seat, and in came a cheer-
ful-looking dentist with a pair of forceps in his
hand. After a few cheerful words, he told me I’d
have to have six teeth out. Said I’d rather take
the consequences and have only one extracted, and
for the next five minutes I was dragged about the
room, and the shrieks that arise while you are
having your tooth extracted without pain filled
the air. Then he cheerfully bade me “ good-day,”
and I was shown out by the happy nigger, who
remarked that it was a pleasant afternoon. I
would like to extract a dentist’s tooth without
pain—with the corkscrew.
THE KIDNEYS:
WHERE THEY ARE AND WHAT THEY DO.
As the kidneys have more work to
do than any organ of the body, it is
important to know where they are,
what they are, and what they do.
The picture shows where the kid-
neys are—in the small of the back.
That is why the back aches when
there is kidney trouble.
What are the kidneys?—They are
two bean-shaped organs, made up of
thousands of small cells and fine mem-
branes. They are the most delicate
organs of the body. When the kid-
neys are weak, the least cold or chill
affects their action.
What the kidneys do.—They filter
the blood—every drop of our blood
goes to the kidneys to be filtered and
purified. When they are well the
kidneys take out nearly five hundred
grains of impure matter evei’y twenty-
four hours.
When the kidneys are sick every
organ goes wrong, because sick kid-
neys cannot filter the blood properly.
Poisons and impurities are left in,
and these cause headaches, backaches,
limb aches, fluttering of the heart,
dropsy, and rheumatism. There will
be a too great or too little flow of the
urine, with gravel or sediment; you
will feel always tired, done up, ner-
vous, and restless.
Doan’s backache Kidney Pills are
the great kidney and bladder cure.
They go to the root of the whole
trouble, and greatly relieve, heal, and
regulate the kidneys. They freshen
you up, because they rid the body of
its accumulated impurities through the kidneys.
To one with kidney or bladder trouble, whose kidneys and whole system
are clogged with impurities, there can be no relief equal to that afforded
by this great kidney medicine.
Kl ONgys
floan’s Backache |Mieg pills
But do not be satisfied with our word for this|
Read what our fellow townspeople say :
Mr. William Greenland, printer, 22 Forsyth-streefc, Glebe, says: “I
have suffered from backache and kidney trouble. The backache was a heavy
pain in the small of my back, in the vicinity of the kidneys. It caused me
both pain and inconvenience as it affected my movements to a great degree.
My secretions were very much disordered and contained a great amount of
sediment. I procured a supply of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills and having
used them I am pleased to say that they have completely removed the back-
ache, and put my kidneys in a healthy state. Although I used a number of
medicines before I got Doan s Pills it was only this remedy that proved good
for my trouble. I know others who have tried them and think as much of the
pills as I do.”
If every cold or chill affects the back and kidneys ; if spirits, beer, or tea
excite the kidneys, or if you have any of the symptoms given above, Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills will relieve and cure you. They do not act on the
bowels, but only on the kidneys and bladder, and can, therefore, be taken
whenever and as often as necessary, without interfering with your daily
work. It dissolves the gravel and uric acid, and carries them and all other
poisons out through the kidneys, giving the patient prompt and lasting relief.
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS
are for sale by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes,
15s. 3d.), or will be posted, on receipt of price, by Foster-McClellan Co., 76
Pitt-street, Sydney.
BUT BE SURE THEY ARE DOAN’S.
Kchiness of the Skin.
Ever have any irritation of the skin? There
are many forms of it, any of thorn bad enough
to tax your patience. Haemorrhoid, a plague
of the night—no rest for the sufferer from that
complaint. Eczema, too. Hives don’t sound
dangerous, but they cause much misery to
those unfortunate enough to be troubled with
them. Doan’s Ointment is “a wonder” for
any such trouble. ISTo troublesome irritation
of the skin can resist its healing, soothing
influence. Lots of Sydney people know this
now.
Mrs. Silva, 5G Duke-street, Woolloomooloo,
says : “ A year or two ago I informed you of
the iffii’i;;. ;e benefit I derived from the use of
Doan’s Ointment. My little girl had a skin
trouble which affected the leg. It was not
unlike ringworm, only a lot more spread out.
It was so irritable that she scratched it until
it became raw. We applied a lot of ointments
at times, but they did not seem to benefit it.
When I made the statement which has
appeared in the Sydney papers, Doan's Oint-
ment hadn’t quite cured her, but had done her
a wonderful lot of good. I gave that testimonial
for the marvellous way this Ointment used to
bring ease, but since then the Ointment cured
it thoroughly. We used two pots, and she has
been free of the rash over twelve months now.
We think the world of Doan’s Ointment.”
Doan’s Ointment is splendid in all diseases
of the skin, eczema, piles, hives, sores, insect
bites, chilblains, etc. It is perfectly safe and
very effective. Very often two or three pots
have cured chronic cases which have resisted
other remedies for years.
Doan’s Ointment is sold by all chemists and
storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per pot, or will be
posted on receipt of price by Foster-
McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-st., Sydney.
But be sure you get DOAN’S.


Nothing tends to annihilate promotion of
6port more quickly than the “members’ ticket privi-
leges" so glaringly issued by trustees and those in charge
•f the principal Australian sports’ grounds. A sum of
money is exacted by such grab-alls for the privilege to
enter the grounds and witness all kinds of sport, and the
organisation which, through lack of other accommoda-
tion, has perforce to hire the ground, finds an enormous
attendance composed chiefly of dead-head holders of
“ members of the ground privileges.” What is needed all
over Australasia are athletic grounds with no “ members’
privileges,” and where sport promoters gather in all the
receipts. Until then, there’ll always be the yell about
“ impositions,” “ loose manner of" management,” etc.,
which has grown so familiar of late in Australia.
**. * *
Pugilists frequently suffer from blood-poisoning
in, and sores on, the hands, and there is little doubt
that the use of dirty gloves is at the bottom of the
trouble. Those worn in the recent Turner-M‘Gowan
fight, at Kalgoorlie, for lightweight supremacy of the
continent, are said to have done service in a score or
more previous matches, and, besides being blood-and-
sweat-soaked, were as hard as the hobs of Sheol from
constant twisting and flattening out. Old Sydney
Amateur Gymnastic Club used to import best-quality
gloves from 'Frisco at 30s. a set, and only use them for
one fight—every match meant new ones. Pads in
evidence at Sydney Golden Gate and Gaiety A.G’s. look
as if used on opening nights of the clubs, many, many
years ago ? Where are the health authorities ?
* * * »
“ Uppercut ”: Did the Queensbery rules
emanate from the Greeks? Authorities on Hellenic
sports show that there were three forms of man-to-man
contests—boxing, wrestling, and the pancratium-- the
last-named being boxing and wrestling combined. From
the distinction, it would appear that Greek boxing con-
tained no element of wrestling, and hitting in holds was
barred. If so, the result must have.approximated closely
to the modern Queensbery combat; and it is probable,
that, when Ajax fought him the best of 20
rounds at Troy, Agamemnon had to break away as
frequently as Paddy Basto does to-day. The pancratium,
on the other hand, must have resembled the fights under
the rules of the London prize ring, and the separation of
two forms of fighting so utterly distinct, show once more
the true artistic sense of the Greek character.
* * * *
“George Mack” (who may, or may not, be
serious) “ Re par. by *D. Hamm ' (Bulletin, 23rd
May) about marbles at Queenstown, Tas. ‘ 1). Harum ’
has got, the yarn by the wrong handle. .Marbles is a
game played at only one Queenstown pub., and it is not,
and never has been, played in the bar. There; is a big
lodge room set apart for tne purpose. The competitors
don’t play for beers, but for substantial slakes. As many
as 30, 40 and 50 enter for tournaments, and great excite-
ment is worked up over them. There is a board' of
handicappers, and the game hat ousted billiards. It is a
variant on school-boy marbles. Each man is allowed six
taws, and can use the same taw again if he pots an alley.
There are 12 alleys, two of them brass ones, counting
double. First shot knee up and toe the line. If you pot
an alley then you can knuckle down.to it. Last tourna-
ment such arguments occurred that coats came off, and
things got lively. Publican nets a good deal more than
£2 over each tournament. There’s another in about
three weeks. If ‘D. Harum ’is passing he’d better look
it; he’ll find that it isn’t as feeble a game as it sounds.”
» » * *
“Petramos” : On a recent Sunday, in a senii-
bak-blox town, struck a group of farm hands gathered
round a barn door and engaged in expectorating for
stakes. The bull’s eye was on the aforementioned barn
door, the firing distance syds., and the stake a modest
tray-bit per poll. Planked down a hob and was entered
for four expectorations, which was about as much as I
could manage, so you see you can’t lose heavily on. the
gamble. They told me the game has quite supplanted
cricket as the popular sport of the back countryman.
The ancient Latin who remarked “ Out of
Africa cometh every new thing” would probably have
fallen down dead with astonishment had he lived to see
the latest product of that weird continent. At the last
meeting at Capetown three Hebrew jockeys appeared—
Myer, Isaacs and Cohen. Myer scored a win, Isaacs got
home in a double, and Cohen also won his race, but was
promptly disqualified for backing his own mount. ThB
Hebrew hod-carrier is not yet in sight, but he’s a possi-
bility—in Africa.
* * * *
At Moyston (Vic.) sports meeting a one-legged
resident (C. Moorfoot) started in the sack race, and
battled home fourth out of about a dozen competitors.
Mode of progression was by a series of long, vigorous hops.
* * * *
Sport Out-back : A scratch team of cricketers
lately travelled from Miles (Q.) to Taroom (100 miles N. W.)
to play the local team, which they. beat. Then says
Dalny Herald :—“ Mr. R. Scott, of Hornet Bank station,
issued a challenge to play any man from Miles, marbles
(big ring) for the championship of the Dawson, which he
claimed. P. Lynagh accepted the challenge on behalf of
Miles, and played Mr. Scott six singles, winning four;
therefore as final P. Lynagh and LI. Smith (Miles) played
R. Scott and C. Johnstone (Taroom) best two out of
three, and won. Miles can thus claim the championship.
The return matches, cricket and marbles, are to be played
in Miles in the near future.”
* * * *
From report of a country race meeting (near
Dungog, N.S.W.): —“To say that one fair and above-
board race took place, would be making a statement, the
truth of which could be at once questioned, and ulti-
mately disproved. I have been on many bush courses in
my time, and remember once seeing two horses run off
the track to allow a third horse to win, but I never till
Saturday beheld a horse deliberately pull up and the rider
turn round and call for the second horse to come on, and
the second horse 10 lengths behind. The race was
naturally run over again and this time the right horse
won, the rider, instead of pulling up, managing to fall
off.”
Th# wiener of the last Chester Cup in England
received “a Champion prize Cheshire Cheese, of
™ value of 5 sors.,’* as well as the Cup and £2OOO in
cash. The owners *f second and third divided £5OO
between them and took a cheese each.
’ item * from a M.L. race report;
««Theories of the tripe-thfpaced hookies laying 2 to 1 the
f ee . u id were like the howls of Sodom and Gomorrah.”
* * * *
Recent deaths, at Calatoek stud, of brood mares
ciaudine and Cobweb bring a Melbourne Cup winner of
y ears a g o to mind. Ciaudine by St. Albans from Queen
jj ar y ( was full sister to Sheet Anchor. Cobweb owed
or igin to Napoleon a*d the Peter Wilkins mare, Black
g egs
» * • *
p orta the speedy Italian cyclist, who for a few
y ftarB collared many prizes on Australian tracks, has
„j ¥en the game best, and has settled in Piedmont as
English-Italian interpreter to an English co. with mining
concessions there. Porta has a large quantity of moder-
atel broken English at command, and fills in the gaps
j,v waving his hands.
* * * *
Strange fact that Jephson, the Surrey (Eng.)
bow ] er b as been so successful, seeing that he is lame and
h lo g t the sight of one eye. Football was the cause
. fnrmpr m i s f or fcune
°* the former misfortune.
q . « Oiieionslanri’s ohamnion fnnt
, C hf n )P 10n . .
bailer, erst of N.S.W., had the bad luck to sprain his
knee in a recent electoral match, and his loss caused h.s
club (North Brisbane) to go down to the agile Toombu
Pta* e ™>“J the Hospital Cup struggle. Scores : Toombul
North Brisbane 3. The loss of Spragg will be a severe
blow to Queensland m the coming struggle with N.S.W.
At Ipswich (Q.) A.A.O. sports, t’other day, J
Kearney hurled the discus 119 ft. 10m., which lowered
previous Australasian best (also Kearney s) by lft. lOin.
boasts five better performances r 130 ft. 6m.
(*(• C- ( Jracken, three years ago), 124ft.,-122ft. 4m.,
122 ft. 3fm., and 120 ft. 7-|in. British athletes don’t throw
le diSpus. *
" '
Looks as if Melbourne s proposed Australian
Henley will be an accomplished fact—at any rate, insofar
as' the actual regatta is concerned ; but whether it will be
possible to secure the other conditions essential towards
repeating in Australia what obtains in London every
year is quite another tiling. A regatta only, no matter
how successful in itself, will not create a Henley. Leaders
of society- must make it a carnival and gather there in
big numbers. So far from the regatta in connection with
English Henley being the attraction, it is rather a draw-
hack, beyond the fact of forming the excuse for the'
gathering. Melbourne idea is to establish challenge cups
for four and eight-oar and sculling races, also for school
and college competitions—these to take thfe place of the
Grand Challenge Cup, the Stewards’ Challenge Cup, the
Diamond Challenge Sculls, and the Ladies’ Plate of
London Henley. The Yarra at the particular section chosen
('tween Princes Bridge and the Botanical Gardens Bridge)
is , probably, just about the thing wanted, if the public
will go there—but it probably won’t. There are differ-
ences. The London proceeding takes place far enough
f *-om the city to make it a sort of holiday in the country ;
the Melbourne affair will he like picnicking in your own
front garden, and that doesn’t seem the real thing. Also
the Thames is reverenced jn England ; no one in Victoria
reverences the Yarra much, save as a handy dog
receptacle.
AUSTRALIA’S—-
SWEET SINGER.
Victor J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk,”
handsomely bound, makes a fine presentation
volume to friends abroad. Post free from Bul-
letin office, ss. 4d.
Works by Francis Adams:
(Publishers' Remainders, offered as Second-Hand.)
Poetical Works, complete edition, printed
in Brisbane by Muir &' Morcom. Paper
covers; 4to. Only a few copies remain.
Price, ss. ; postage, 4d.
Australian - Essays, printed in Melbourne
by Wm. Inglis <fc Co. Paper covers, Bvo.
Only a few copies remain. Price, 2s. fid. ;
postage, 3d.
Songs of the Army of the Night, printed
in Sydney. .Boards, Bvo. Only a few copies
remain. Price, 2s. 6d. ; postage, 3d.
THE BULLETIN BOOKS.
Sole Distributing Agents :
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbanb,
Special Wholesale Agents :
New South Wales .. Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd.
Queensland ~ .. Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd
victoria .. .. .. George Robertson Proprietary.
Tasmania George Robertson Proprietary.
South Australia .. E. S. Wigs & Son.
Westralia .. .. E. S. Wigg & Son.
Auckland and district Wildman, Lyell, & Arby.
Others to be appointed.
Sold by All Leading Booksellers.
The Bulletin Newspaper Go., Ltd.,
2H George-st., Sydney, Australia.
On Our Selection, written by A. H. Davis
(“ Steele Rudd ”) and published by Tub
Bulletin Co., has earned the title of “the
jolliest book ever printed in Australia.”
There is laughter on every page ; yet the
book remains grimly true to the facts. As
a picture of life on an Australian selection
it has never been surpassed. Since it was
published, little more than two years ago,
upwards of 12,000 copies have been sold at
the comparatively high price of 6s.—making
I
an Australian publishing record. The reason of the' sale is'not far to seekT'the
people who have bought the book know they have got value for their money-
and they recommend it to others. The price is comparatively high because the book is expensive to
produce. It is well printed, and strongly bound in cloth in good style. There are numerous pictures
by such well-known illustrators as Mahony, Leist, Lambert, Fischer, Fullwood, and Vincent From
cover to cover the book is Australian—the product of Aus- ’ 1
tralian workmen. If it were produced by cheaper labour
in England, it would cost less, and could be sold at a
cheaper rate. The publishers prefer to employ Australian
labor only. When you buy On Our Selection you pay
a little more than you pay for an English book ; but
you get 100 times the Australian value. “ Steele Rudd’s ”
book has gone all over Australia, and wherever it has
gone it has become the treasure of a household, often
the delight of a township. People never leave off
reading it until it is thumbed to rags ; and then they
buy another copy. The characters of “Our Selection”—
“Old Dad,” “Joe,” “Dave,” “Sarah,” and the rest—
JrsSrSS srs s“' jraawa :;Tr ma , lhc *rt
y,‘»*-j,. wltt “• POM,K "' direot 40 T “ B “™ «»“. It will b, iVwJdJd to “ny’fa”,™
I
I
TAKE NOTICE.
1 Beecham’s Pills do not promise more than
they can perform, and they perform all they
promise. Beecham’s Pills are the safest and j
most perfectly reliable medicine ever offered 1
to the Public for Biliousness and Sluggish J
or Disordered Liver. 1
t :
► They have no equal in cases of Indigestion and Loss of Appetite. (
j They are simply splendid as a Tonic and Restorative of the Nervous <
i System, '
i They are excellent in removing the causes of Sleeplessness,
1 They are remarkable in their purifying action on the Blood. ,
'
$
Their use brings the body to a high \
condition of health and fitness and J
fortifies it against disease. No other <
preparation in the world has so many J
valuable qualities, and as a general <
or family medicine there is nothing
equal to
BEECHAM’S PILLS
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
Corner George & Market Sts., SYDNEY
The Best Luncheon in Town from ONE SHILLING, served from 12 sharp till 2.30;
Dinner from 5.30 to 7.30, same price.
The Most Convenient Place for Ladies and Gentlemen visiting the Theatres to dine at.
N.B.— ■-Visitors osjiy pay for what they actually baVc.
TERMS.—The Convenient and Modern System of paying for a
room on arrival, and Meals as they are had.
Apartments: BEDROOM, Single, 3s. per day; Double, 6s. per day.
engage rooms at ROBERTS’ HOTEL, SYDNCY.
NOTE.— Send to ROBERTS’ WINE and SPIRIT STORE, MARKET ST., next GEORGE ST.,
for REVISED PRICE LIST. COUNTRY ORDERS PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO.
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the East
THE BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
M.D., C.M., L.E.C.P.E., L.R.C.S.E.,
L.F.P.S.Cr., L.M., etc.,
Registered by the Medical Boards of Great
Britain, Victoria, New South Wales,
etc.,
The Eminent Specialist, whose- unparalleled success in the Treatment of Blood and Nerve
Diseases has earned for him a reputation unequalled by any other Specialist in Australia, may be consulted
daily, personally or by letter, at “ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 E!izabeth-st., Sydrtey. Old and Obsolete
Methods discarded. DR. MARTIN’S latest treatment has proved absolutely effective in all cases of Blood
Disease, Nerve Affections, Paralysis, Loss of Energy, Lung, Heart, Skin, and all
Chronic Diseases of Men and Women. His Consulting Rooms are replete with all the
latest and most scientific improvements in Electric Appliances, etc. Country Patients
treated by Correspondence at their own homes. Advice and Medicine, One
Pound. All Sufferers should write for a copy of Dr. Martin’s Latest Medical Work,
“THE ‘ KNOX-MEROER ’ TREATMENT IN DISEASE.” This work should find a place in every
household, as it contains a full and explicit account of the Most Wonderful Treatment of the Present
Age. It has been the means of Curing Thousands who fo lowed out the Instructions contained
therein. This Marvellous Treatment Cleanses and Rejuvenates the Whole System, and is the Cheapest
Treatment in Existence, as nothing out the Book is required.
Price, 55.; by post, ss. 6d.
CONSULTING HOURS; 10 to 2 and 7 to 9 Daily
“ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.


WATERPROOF COATS
RUBBER BOOTS is/6 to 20/-.
GOLOSHES 2/6 to 4/6.
Carriage Free
to any part of
N.S.W. if this
advertisement
is cut out and
sent with re-
mittance.
Made to wear—
give satisfaction-
look well to the end
of their long service.
•jQ, ■; '■ •'>' •*. ‘*. ' v .’‘
See oar Stock.
2 2
& CO.,
o. )r O ll eA ( i, 3r ess- RUBBER "CHANTS,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Best Address for
English, French,
German
Books and Photos.
Apply—
-116 BOX, PARIS.
2/- for Catal. and Miniat.
SS4
WE SHIP ON APPROVAL
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles. Fully warranted.
10 t0£5.5.0
Dunlop Tyres, Steel or Wood Rims,
Free Whee’l3, Mud Guards and Brakes.
CARRIAGE PAID
To any tort in Australasia.
TYRES, ACCESSORIES,
Sporting Goods and Sewing
Machines Half Usual Prices.
Write for Catalogue and Special Offer
Using 2sd. Stamp. Address Dept 3*.BD
Mead Cycle Co. C ST'
SIMPSON BROTHERS
32 & 34 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK*
Sole Australasian Representatives for
Boiler Feed Pump.
®«r SEND FOR CATALOGUES.
James Simpson & Co., Ltd., London and Newark.
Worthington Pump Company, Limited, Lo«do*
Warren Webster & Co. New jersey.
Enquiries Invited for ......
Worthington Pumps
Webster Feed Water Heaters & Purifiers
Cincinnati Air Compressors
TAKTGYES
on
Stationary and Portable,
For Shearing, Wood & Chaff-Cutting,
Pumping, Electric Lighting, &c. J
Sole Representatives in Australia :
BENNIE, TEARE & CO.,
Mining & Engineering Furnishers,
Sydney, Melbourne, Perth, Gooigardie.
■jtgHusgair.-iiw Tffrar— mM.isai?r
IRRIGATING PLANTS a Speciality.
■ ' ft
&eunp‘B]ft TBiatraQ *
( 3NUnOSI3IAI PUB A3NQAS
in Australia for— Blake’s
umps, Bay’s Woodworking Machinery,
Machinery, Dempster Moore & Co., Ltd., Engineers’ Machine Tools, “Atlas” Works E]
Co.’s Laundry
nes and Boilers.
':y.
L'te
■
k ■' u
tm
;
'ml
-. -* v
m
n
■ v '-
60 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
ALL KINDS OF
ENGINES & BOILERS
:e»tt3vi :t»s,
MINING MACHINERY
And APPLIANCES,
ENGINEERS’ TOOLS & FITTINGS,
WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY,
ETC., ETC.
T. M. GOODALL & CO. , 129 HAY ST., SYDNEY
have .. stock AHD.TojgRjyE- Portable, Traction, Vertical & Horizontal Boilers,
Engineers and Mining Tools, Saw Mill Machinery, Pulleys, Belting, Etc.
Irrigation and Pumping Plants a Specialty. Hew and Second-Hand Machinery always available.
Size, 61" x SJ" x 5".
r We are Direct importers
AND HAVE FOR SALE—
Snow Duplex Pumps
(all sizes for,,all purposes),
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling
and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shaft-
ing, Hangers, Bearings, Collars, etc.
Engineers ’ Tools and Fittings, Valves,
Cocks, Gauges, etc. Cast, Tool and
Mining Steel, Wire Ropes and all Requi-
sites for Contractors, Engineers, Saw
Mills and Mining Proprietors.
R. L. Scrutton &Co. Ltd/
97 Clarence-st., Sydney.
Deane Patent Sinking Pumps
Criton Pumps
Double Standard Centrifugal Pumps
Carye Donkey Pumps
PulSOmeter Pumps, with patent Crel, which
effect large saving in steam.
Manufactured by
PULSOMETER ENGINEERING GO.,
READING, ENGLAND.
Agents
N. GUTHRIDGE, LTD.,
71 Clarence Street, Sydney.
STOCKS KEPT.
a
TA^e
ft*
OIA
$
ifls ee
%«» Alt Chemist*
throughout Great Britain & m Colonies
!LS
*v
UNUM CATHfIRtICUM Plus Rji.-U'Vl'WltiMi
> se CO AC U LIN E v
rjIkANSPARfNT CEMENT Articies^
