

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
PIG STOUT.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
K.
Mining
107 Kent street, Sydney,
—FOR—
and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Hequisit
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
9
(i
THE
The Perfect Motor Vehicle. Driven by Steam.
Climbs any hill. No Noise. No Smell. No Vibration.
Manufactured by the cCocomobile Co. of America.
In Stock and to Arrive. Send for further particulars to
SOLE AGENTS
BATTLE & CO«5 85 Pitt Street, Sydney, N. S.W.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG.
X
WONDERFUL VALUE—A packet of Seven different
articles, comprising Yankee Rubber Baby, can be carried
in vest pocket and blown out to life size (causes roars of
laughter), Book of Conjuring- Tricks (containing over 100
Coin and Card Tricks), the YVizard Fish (gives the defini-
tion of your character—very superior for parlor enter-
tainments), the Vest Pocket Tubular Microscope (very
useful for examining small objects), the Cinematograph
(or book of moving pictures), the great Yankee Bicycle
Puzzle (very ingenious), and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Disappearing Coin Trick (instruc-
tions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australia (Free) on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarkefc.
X
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
710 George-st., Sydney.
“HERVEY’S RACKAROCK”
17 Years’ Unbroken Record as a Standard Australian Exp osive. Cor CLARENCE & *ING STS., SYDNEY
THORN
Estbd. 1831.
WHISKY
HOBART
Jfs
DUNEDiEM, N.Z.
CITY HOTEL
(First Grade).
J. A. TURNER - - Proprietor.
Tawny Port
Invalid Port
Golden Sherry
V.O. Frontignac
Rich Constantia
PENFOLD’S W
No. 0 Claret
No. 1 Claret
Chablis
Tokay
Muscadine
Championship of Australia, Melbourne, 1902. Championship, Adelaide, 1902.
PERFECT
t^water
ASSISTS
DIGESTION
SH
LD
BE
e:
d
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania
and Queensland.
PRICES PER FOOT OF SINGLE AND DOUBLE
BELTING :
2 2£ .3 3£ 4 6 6 8 10 12 inch.
-n ~/9 -/10i II- 1/2 1/6 IAI 2 8 3/4 4/-
1/2 1/4 1/7 IAO 2/2 2/11 3/5 4/5 5/7 6/9
Agents in every State.
Made by „
J. C. LUDOWICI & SOM, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
TN order to introduce our Gold Wire Jewellery
to the Australian public we have decided to
offer one of the greatest bargains ever seen irt the
jewellery trade— viz., the above handsome Brooch
(any name or three initials) made of extra quality
9ct. gold-filled wire, with heart pendant ; guaran-
teed the same quality as the brooch advertised,
complete. Sent post-free on receipt of P. 0.0, or
M.O. for ss. in round wire or sq. twisted wire, 15ct
gold, filled, Bs. 6d. Illustrated catalogues sent free.
} SIMS and ELRICK, Manufacturing Jewellers.
Our anly address—
COLE’S BOOK ARCADE, MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA
Mining and Dredging Plants. Engines, Boilers, &c.
Fowler Traction Engines.
The Clyde Engineering C?y, Lip
Desiccating Plants.
Hopper Waggons, &c.
PROOF
Head Office:
10 BLICH ST., SYDNEY
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manuf. Company,
When in town, pay ns a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying: from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5 ; '2-Spring: Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring: Sulkies, £7 Lss. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia. £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O, Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of pver.v des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will, forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who-say they.-will deliver fcßjess,
than we can. They cannot do so, and yeu pay 15 per
cent, more for your requirements.
193 to 195 Cl eve land-street. Red-fern, SYDNEY
OUR SPECIAL Vo. 2
£8 18/6
ftHlrerrd at any WTxtrf or
XS.W. Rail trays, Station
£lO 10/-
VISITORS TO ME BOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
HRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconslleld Parade
ST. HILDA.
rpHE Largest and Best-Appoinf'd Boardlngr-horrse in the
Colonies. 100 rooms. Mag tificent situation,
Beach. Charges much lower tb.m licensed hotels. City,
i-hpur by tram. Billiards, etc.
TTI mm
SPOONER’S
m
:::!«*
SPOONERS
V
*
*
r>* •«*•»#•**«»
I ,•••■■■ W * ‘*««M***»
4TINT LEATHER BOOTS
.cuga^fos.«
MH
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
On bottles) «d. and is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EM BttoeATTOM,
Liquid Blacking:,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Etot Shops, Saddhrs, etc.
The Bulletin
Vol 24.—N0. 1199. j
[Saturday, February 7, 1903
Registered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Book trade Advertisements.
READY Ist MARCH.
red WEST ROAD;
ENGINE-BOOM SONGS AND SEA-VERSES,
by “QtnwN.” ILLUSTRATED. PRICE, Is. 6d
From Booksellers in Maoriland or Direct from Publishers, Messrs. Turnbull, Hickson and Gooder ,
Wellington, M.L. Australian Agents to bej»rangedJo»j__^___________________ i _
THE LATEST BOOKS AT
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Heath, Popular Atlas of Astronomy, 7s6d postage 80.
Reeks, Common Colics of the Horse, 65., p. 6d*
Cleeve Purple of the Orient, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Mitchell, Relforts of Culbien, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Hichens, Felix, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Kerr The Whole Difference, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Besant, London in the 18th Century, 365, p. 2s.
Wright and Smith’s Parliament, Vol. 11, 9s, postage Is 2d.
Moore, The Tanganika Problem, 30s, p. Is 6d.
Viljoen, The Boer War, 6s, p. 6d.
Jokai, Slaves of the Padishah, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Quiller-Couch, The White Wolf, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Benson (8.K.), Bayard’s Courier, 6s, p. 6d.
Lee, Lost Art of Reading, 7s 6d, p. Sd.
SYDNEY (4 Doors Sooth of King St.) & at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane & London
71 CASTLEREAGH ST
“CK Bulletin” Story Book
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
<2l jt
Che Best Short Stories
of two Decades.
nothin® better typical
of Australian tetters.
jt jt
VIVID
VIVID
VIVID
VIVID
BRIGHT
BRIGHT
BRIGHT
BRIGHT
RACY
RACY
RACY
RACY
Price 4/6 ; Post Free from Bulletin Office, 5/-.
“Cbe Bulletin” Reciter.
Humorous and Exciting Stories in
Stirring Verse Suitable for
Recitation.
Handsomely bound in cloth, with illustrations
by “Hop,” Fred Leist, A. J. Fischer, I). H.
Soutar and Norman Lindsay.
Price s{-; Post Free from Bulletin Office, 5/4.
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes.
For
COUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
and all
AFFECTIONS of the
THROAT and
LUNGS.
(REGISTERED).
■so^
Wr&
, The Great
Antiseptic Remedy
for the Cure of
INFLUENZA and
Prevention o£
CONSUMPTION.
Invaluable for Singers
and Public Speakers.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, OR POST FREE FROM THE PROPRIETOR*
Gr. HUDSON, CHEMIST, IPSWICH, Q.
SYDNEY DEPOT : 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE ; and FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO., MELBOURNE, AGENTS.
They ease a Tired Throat, and are helpful in Indigestion and Dyspepsia.
THE RED PAGE.
The Poets' Corner.
TfC was the bounding B—df—d, bluff and boisterous,
I who begot the idea. “See?” he said, “I’m going
I to be the Pierpont Morgan of Australian poetry.
■ You watch this space! ” And after half-a-dozen
journeys to city pubs, and backblocks shanties he
returned to Melbourne with a portmanteau full of powers-
of-attorney signed by every Australian poet of note who
had been sober enough to write his name.
At the preliminary meeting the first point raised was
the definition of a poet for the purpose of Schedule A of
the articles of association. It was finally agreed that
everybody who got paid for his (whatever it was) was a
poet for the uses of the company. The chairman, after
extolling his own prowess, impressed his idea firmly on
those present. “ You can see that practically the whole
of Australian poetry is in our hands. Only decent
organisation is wanted to kill the greatest curse of the
game, over-production ! ”
More drinks were called for, and the meeting proceeded
to elect office-bearers. P —zg —b—n was elected presi-
dent. ; P—rt —11, vice-president; B —df—d, secretary ;
P—t—rs—n, legal adviser ; and D—s—n, S—nd—s,
Br—nn—n and D—1—y formed the council. The meeting
dispersed as well as it was able ; and on the advice of
the council Qu —nn and L —ws—n were led away by
different doors,
foreign Poets Excluded.
In a week’s time the existence of the Poets Corner
became apparent. An ambitious beginner went to every
bookseller in Melbourne, to find that all the rhyming
dictionaries had been mysteriously bought up by
some unknown hand. The fact was publicly commented
upon, but even the most far-seeing of speculators never
associated it with the existence of a ring. It was with
the defeat of the Barton Ministry that the Corners influ-
ence began to be felt.
The winter was spent in preparing a plan of cam-
paign, and the moment George Keid carried his want-ot-
confidence motion the Council got to work. Members
were interviewed, Ministers placated ; and when Reid
announced his new tariff it contained the novelty,
“ Poems, per line, £1 Is." The item passed both
Houses without amendment, Senator N—Id, who
had become one of the most prominent mem-
bers of the Corner, honourably _ abstaining from
voting as (in his own words) “an interesting party.
An amendment of the Immigration Restriction Act was
then necessary to protect the Corner from the importi
tion of pauper labour poets from Britain and Italy
and Reid passed a short Act making it mandatory
that all personsentering the Commonwealth should prove
to the satisfaction of the Customs authorities their in-
ability to write four lines of verse rhymed or otherwise.
The way was now clear for the Corner to start work in
earnest. The council registered a design under the
Trades Marks Act; and all poems produced by the
members of the Corner bore the device of a gilded lyre,
with the motto “ Pro Pecunia,” stamped at the top of the
first page.
The output began to be restricted. The prices of
prime poems advanced by fifty per cent, in the
day when the existence of the Corner first became
known; and the “spec, sellers” were heavily hit.
Next day there was a panic on the Stock Exchange ; and
four of the leading journals in Melbourne, which had been
bearing poems strongly, were compelled to close their
doors.
Toolisb Public Outcry.
A public outerv arose against the operations of the
Corner. Certain well-meaning humanitarians denounced
it as a blight upon the community, and pitiful pictures
were drawn of unfortunate families left poemless through
being unable to pay the extortionate charges artificially
created by the operations of the Corner. Kindly
suburban clergymen started leagues for the production
of poems for the consumption of the poor. Ambitious
poets arose like mushrooms in all directions, eager to take
advantage of the opening. It was then that H—bb—th—te
suggested that the poet's license should be made fact
instead of a mere figure of speech. The Vic. Legislative
Council, always eager to assist in the good cause of
monopoly, passed the necessary amendment to the
Crimes Act, making the unlawful pursuit of poesy
punishable bv six months imprisonment. But Vic.
Assembly happened to be discussing its annual Constitu-
tion Reform Bill at this time, and legislation was delayed.
The Corner turned to other means. Backblocks black-
leg poets were driven to starve in their distant huts.
Provisions, for some unknown reason, failed to arrive
when expected, and horses mysteriously fell lame. As
for the city poets who- attempted to interfere with tne
working of the Corner, a few shillings judiciously spent
among friendly policemen led to all possible competitors
being charged with vagrancy. As it was impossible for
them to prove lawful visible means of livelihood, they had
to 2fO to gaol. A private speculator tried to defy the Im-
migration Act by importing cheap poets from oversea,
and a dozen were landing at Port Melbourne when their
hats blew off and exposed their long hair. They were at
once seized ; the case was proved against them; and, with
their principal, they received long terms of imprisonment.
itbynim on Ro$e-Ceac<$.
As for the members of the Corner, they changed so
completely in outward appearance that their worst
friends did not know them. Ch —r —h was mentioned as
the next Lord Mayor of Melbourne. C—st—u was never
seen without his bell-topper and long frock coat. L—ws—n
spent most of his time in the manicurist s parlour ; and
the climax came when D—1—y was mistaken for Malcolm
M’Eacharn. The luxury that was the downfall of Rome
seemed to be menacing the Poets’ Corner. The members
had so much money to spend that they found no time
to turn out any new poems.
Then B—df—d struck the idea of the Poem Factory.
Instead of getting promising aspirants for poetic profit
convicted of vagrancy, the Corner set to work to buy
them up. Did any decent verse appear in an obscure
place, the author was hunted out and engaged for a term
of years to labour for the Cor.ier. Poetic bound ary-riders
in the Never were no longer starved into submission.
They were brought to town at wages a shade higher than
the squatters paid them. An attempt on the part of
the Trades Hall to organise a Poets Union fell to the
ground, despite the brave show made on Eight Hours
Day, when a hundred journeyman poets, in their working
garb, followed a lightly-clad young lady standing on a
lorry, lyre in hand.
The Corner prospered more than ever. Verses still
appeared signed with the old names, but the nominal
authors had really little to do with their making.
A line changed characteristically, a metre recast
according to the idiosyncrasy of the signatory,
a little mannerism worked in here and _ there, —
that was all the alteration that they were subjected to.
After a time, the operatives became so expert that even
this alteration was unnecessary, and the members of
the Corner spent most of their time at their clubs, leaving
the management of the factory to the dour Scotchman
who had formerly made a reputation as a champion driver
in an engineering workshop.
Split on a Scottish Hock.
One day it occurred to Al— x —d—r H—ct—r D—n—ld
M—K—y that he might do better by starting for himself ;
and, investing the savings of seventy-five years in the ven-
ture, he left the factory with twenty of the leading
journeymen. B—df—d was touring Europe at the time,
and the majority of the members of the Corner had lost
all grip both of the profession and of business methods.
F —zg —b—n made a strong attempt to grapple with the
difficulty, by having all parties arrested for absconding
from their hired service, but M—K —y had obtained good
legal advice and won the day. Then commenced his
action against the Corner for malicious prosecution, and
a series of appeals ended when the Privy Council granted
heavy damages against the Corner.
Meanwhile, orders were being left unfulfilled, despite
the frantic endeavours of the old members to recover
their vanished form. The loss of trade was enormous,
and it flowed steadily to the factory of M—K —y, who
secured the most persistent travellers from Flinders Lane
and sent them all over the Commonwealth forcing his
goods. The final blow came when B —df —d came back
and tried to bring in a gang of foreign poets, only to find
himself blocked by the Act that he had himself en-
gineered. The men were seized, and, to avoid arrest,
F—zg—b—n, P—rt—ll and the rest of the council had
to flee on board a tramp wind-jammer bound for Guam.
Thus ended the Poets’ Corner.
JUNIUS JUNIOR.
Contributors in Chorus.
S.T.S. : In John Mathew’s Australian Echoes ,
just published in Melbourne, this is the fine open-
ing of “ Facing Death ” :
There is an hour which God hath set, when every life of
days or years.
Worn to a flimsy, trembling thread, shall shuddering feel
the fatal shears. . . .
At least, that is how it ought to open. This is
how it is printed :
There is an hour which God hath set.
When every life of days or years,
Worn to a flimsy, trembling thread,
Shall shuddering feel the fatal shears.
The gain in stateliness by the first method is
obvious. What would “Locksley Hall” (for
example) lose if every one of its swinging lines
were chopped in two ?
L.R. writes of the Literary Vampire. This
beast may be of either sex ; but the fact that it is usually
female bears out the contention of many male authors
that woman is rather ingenious and adaptive (or adoptive)
than original. The Literary Vampire is possessed of
magnetism sufficient to induce her literary friends to
talk.—to recall incidents and adventures,—to be foolish
even to the extent of relating the plot of a story, the gist
of a paragraph, or a short article in hand. We may even
read over our copy to her as she sits before us, apparently
not half interested ; but a week, or it may be only a day
later, we see our ideas or plots worked out in print—
possibly in better language—the Vampire having con-
structed and worked into shape the matter we had dug
up. As a partner, the Literary Vampire is invaluable;
but as a friend who sticketh closer than a creditor she
flourishes on your blood and brains. Guard 1
L.O. : It was a youth in a Sydney bookshop who, asked
the other day for Lamb’s Tales , replied, “ We only sell
books here, madam." The same youngster, in answer to
a man who enquired for The Waybacks (written by Henry
Fletcher on the model of “Steele Rudd"), courteously
pointed out the way to the rear of the premises.
Commercial: At our (Sydney suburban) library “ The
Works of Robert Browning ’’ were recently demanded in
the book kept for “Recommendations." A wag foot-
noted objection to the effect that, in the interest of good
morals, he hoped the committee would not admit the
works of an author who lamented “ Never the time, the
place, and the loved one altogether .’’ And, always in the
interest of good morals, the committee did n’t!
S.T.S. : London Bookman contains a standing offer of
remarkable prices for various first editions, some of them
quite modern : e.g., Lang’s Blue Fairy Book “large paper,
1889,” 25s.. Any first edition of Stevenson seems to be
worth from 15s. to twice as much ; and even Phillips’
Paolo and Francesca is worth 10s. The original Alice in
Wonderland has risen to £2. ; and all the works of the
Kelmscott Press (not yet ten years old) run from £\ to
£$. Anything of Pater, J. A. Symonds, or Meredith is in
demand'; but, as usual, the best prices are reserved for
whatever may be suspected of impropriety : Payne’s
Novels of Bandello, £2. and his Arabian Nights, £9 ;
while the latter in Burton’s curious edition is always good
for £20.
Theta: Concerning the spelling of Macarthur : Spelt
so ’tis in accordance with the Scottish custom. Scottish
names should almost invariably be spelled out. I live
among Macdonalds, Mackinnons, Macraes, Macfarlaneg,
Mackintoshes and Mackays: all spell their names as I
have written, and most strongly object to the clipped
form. The Mackays (pronounced Mae-kye, accent on
second)prefer even being occasionally called “Mackey"
(pronounced Mack-ee, accent on first) to having their
patronymic spelled M'Kay. The Scot is peculiarly sensi-
tive about the spelling of his name ; and I once mortally
offended a Highlander by writing Frazer instead of
Fraser. The Frazers are Irish, as are also the Mackeys.
The Irish are usually indifferent as to the spell-
ing or pronunciation of their names. A couple
near me are known as “ Mr. Sharry ” and “ Mrs. Sherry.”
In another family, the old man spells his name either
“ Darmody ” or “ Dermody,” and always pronounces it
Darmody ; while his children all spell with an e. When
the creamery manager asked the old man to stick to one
form, he smiled and waived the matter aside as of no con-
sequence. Speaking to a Mahony, I said, “ You have n’t
got the usual O’ to your name ? ” “ Oh,” he replied, “ I
have it; but I niver use it. Phwat the divil’s the differ-
ence ? ” A perjury case in Warrnambool (Vic.), not long
ago, turned on the spelling of the Irish name Porter,
which, it was sworn, was spelled either Porter or Portar.
All this to a Scotchman is anathema.
The Brunt of the War.
€MILY HOBHOUSE publishes The Brunt of
the War (Methuen ; 2s. 6 d. and 3s. 6d.). 1t was the
Boer women and children who bore the brunt) or
the war ” ; and Miss Hobhouse’s persistence in
their service is known. She was Africa’s Florence Night-
ingale, with the difference that the opportunity
personal ministration was often denied her, and tnac s
had no ministering organisation at her back ; so that
best work was perforce done in arousing with her pen
world-wide sympathy for Kitchener’s victims.
the flood of Patriotic £ie».
During the war, of course, the newspapers were
fed on lies; and now that the war is over no
trouble is taken to bolster the lies. It is ad-
mitted by innumerable witnesses that the Boers, as a
race, were neither especially' dirty nor especially ignorant.
Some families doubtless were so, as some are in Britain
and Australia. But the “green paint,” story, taken as
typical, was a lie which disgraced its disseminators.
And it is cynically admitted, even in London Times
(special correspondence, July 12, 1902) that the scheme
of the concentration camps “ was designed to bring
pressure upon the Boers in the field.’ The story
that the camps were a work of charity and mercy
was a lie. In a sense, to' be sure, the camps were
necessary; since after the Transvaal and the Free
State had been laid waste, after the women’s homes
had been burnt over their heads and their food destroyed,
it may be supposed that Kitchener would be averse from
leaving them to perish of starvation. None the less, the
camps were primarily and essentially a military expe-
dient. Writes the Times special correspondent (loc.
cit.) :
Lord Kitchener’s first intention undoubtedly was
definitely to clear the country of stock and inhabitants
by mobile columns operating from the railway. The
impression generally prevailed in South Africa, that the
Boers, on account of their proverbial domesticity,
could not long endure separation from their wives and
families.
In other words, failing to conquer the Boer fighting
men in the field, Kitchener determined to strike at them
through their wives and children. We will grant that
even this was justified. We will grant that, despite the
barbarism of the expedient, despite its denunciation by
the comity of civilised nations, such war against women
and children was Kitchener’s military right, lay within
his military duty. But the concession extends to the
deportation i no farther. No military necessity can
justify the killing of such non-combatants by cruelty, by
starvation, or by neglect. Or if it be held that Britain’s
national existence was so concerned in the war that it
was compulsory for the war to be ended at any cost of
innocent life, then the argument recoils upon itself. All
war is savagery ; but the slaying of women and children
exceeds savagery. If it were necessary for those women
and children to die that the British nation might survive,
then the British nation is a mere wild beast, an enemy of
human rights and human justice, and does not deserve to
survive.
Cbe ethics ot Patriotism.
Never forget that, apart from the sentiment of
tradition and the emotion of the crowd, patriotism is
sheer self-interest. It is by selfishness that the individual
survives with his family, and the union of individals in a
nation is merely an expedient to secure a better chance
of individual survival, or a survival on better terms. If
the flag and the country do not profit an intelligent self-
interest, then there is no reason, no justification for
them. An intelligent self-interest looks, of course, to the
betterment of the race—not the tribe or nation, but
humanity. Intelligent selfishness is precisely the same
as intelligent altruism—it means not loving another
better than one’s-self, but (in Maeterlinck’s phrase) loving
another in one’s-self ; and (in Nietzsche’s belief) that
other is not to-day’s neighbour in space, but to-morrow's
neighbour in time—the man to come, the potential other,
the better man conceivable.
There are but two things that stand fast in ethics:
Truth—the most we can see; leading to Justice—the
best we can do; devoted to the service of the Future.
When a nation comes clearly into conflict with the
broadest human Justice, it commits an act of ethical
suicide that warrants any of its citizens in casting ofif
allegiance. “My country, right or wrong,” is a base
maxim ; though not always base in practice, seeing that
the admeasurement of turpitude depends in every case
upon the result of the maxim’s application. On the
wide plane of human justice, its exponents rank
as wild beasts, enemies of humanity; and just as
the nation comprehends and effaces the individual,
so humanity, in an ethical appeal, comprehends and
effaces the nation. Given always that these are lines
of general theory, and that it is impossible to prove
their validity for the individual or the nation that denies
the particular application. But, when he is sure that the
life of a wild beast endangers him, the individual justly
destroys it; when a nation is sure that the life of a
citizen endangers it, the nation justly destroys the
citizen; and when the consensus of humanity decides
that the existence of a nation endangers humanity,
then humanity may justly destroy the nation. Only,
we must take care, when we use petty wits and raise our
petty voices, that we really do stand for humanity, not
alone as we envisage it, but as humanity will envisage
itself a hundred or a thousand years hence.
tbo Slaughter of the Innocents.
The human verdict upon Kitchener’s concentra-
tion camps is open to little doubt. The guilt lay neither
in conception nor execution ; but in the manner of execu-
tion. Kitchener deliberately planned without foresight,
and with open eyes blundered into massacre. His
generals, following his orders, collected homeless and
starving wretches into droves, and shepherded them into
camps of huts or tents made anywhere—with no ade-
Iquate provision for food, or shelter, or health.
The greatest population of all camps was 118,408, in
October, 1901. The death-total in fourteen months, so
far as recorded, was 20,177. The average general monthly
death-rate ranged up to 344 per 1000 per annum. Children
were naturally the chief victims. Their average monthly
death-rate in the Transvaal ranged up to 586 per 1000 per
annum ; in the Orange Free State, up to 629 ; in Natal,
up to 327. In thirteen camps it was over 1000 ; during
the month of October, 1901, children died in Brandfort
camp at the rate of 1951 per 1000 per annum t
Why did they die ? From starvation and epidemic
disease fostered by insanitary camp situations and
systems. That they were at first starved is shown by the
fact that the ration-scale was several times increased ;
and as it was increased the death-rate fell. Some were at
first starved more than others ; the so-called “ undesir-
ables,” whose kindred still fought, being given (with a
cruelty quite devilish) a less ration than those whose
kindred had surrendered. “ The scheme .. . was de-
signed to bring pressure upon the Boers in the field,"
writes the Times special correspondent.
How did those fifteen thousand children die? They
died- in long-drawn agony under the eyes of their
impotent mothers —died for want of milk and suitable
food ; died for want of medicine and medical skill pdied
for want of clothes and blankets ; died because they were
crowded together in insufficient space without sufficient
water ; died because, when inevitable disease broke out,
there were no means to check it. And the steam of their
blood rises up to humanity—the foulest offering ever
made to the Glory of Britain.
CIK Sbeddcr ot Blood.
At whose door do their deaths lie ?
Kitchener laid and fired the train that exploded
the magazine of disaster. When he gave his order
he would not or could not see Death staring him
in the face. When the slaughter commenced, he did
apparently little to end it. As soon as Chamberlain took
charge, the death-rate fell markedly. Nurses and doctors
were supplied ; the camps were shifted or made sanitary ;
proper food was given in sufficient quantity ; and the
remnant of the miserable prisoners drew a breath of
miserable relief and stepped out of Kitchener’s hells.
Say that Kitchener was merely a dolt; that his fault
was merely a muddle what a criminal dolt! what a
murderous muddle ! The story of the African concen-
tration camps is the blackest page in all the history of
England ; its shame and disgrace will never be wiped out
while pen can write or tongue has speech. And with
those fifteen thousand little skeletons not yet mouldered
into merciful dust, Chamberlain prates reconciliation of
the races, and his press apologists foretell forgiveness and
amity! Ask of the Boer Rachel weeping for her
children, the children who cried to. her, “Woe is
me, my mother, that thou hast borne me 1"
Will she'forgive ? Ask of the Boer farmer returning to his
desolate home over the graves of his household. Can he
forget? Can the world forget, permeated by the universal
sentiment of fatherhood' and motherhood ?
Some Recent Boohs.
!The Founding of Fortunes , by Jane Barlow
ethuen ; 2s. 6<f. and 3s. 6d.) Irish rural life and charac-
• written in microscopic detail. The story winds in
d out of the life and character, moving: sluggishly.
>w-paced minds may relish it.
The River, by Eden Phillpotts (Methuen; 2s. 6 d.
d 3s. 6 d.) Primal human passions, withi Dartmoor for
>ack*aound. Written after Thomas Hardy's manner,
t less well than Hardy writes ; and humourless. Still,
itory considerably above to-day’s English average.
Angelot, by Eleanor C. Price (Bell2s. 6 d. and
6 d.) Another specimen of the “ historical romance"
she is wrote by Weyman’s formula. Rather duller than
ual, if that be possible. One’s eye rests with relief
ion some neat illustrations by Tom Robinson.
The Two Vanrevels, by Booth Tarkington. A
easant trifle ; but a trifle : the author of The Gentleman
jm Indiana/ looked to be made of stronger stuff.
History of Australian Bushranging, 1869 to 1878, by
larles White (Sydney: Angus and Robertson; Is.)
cample of a deplorable class of publications. The cur-
nt of Australian highway crime might presently cease
a backblocks billabong, or be lost in backblocks sand,
it were not continually driven through the wits of
ish-brooding lads by. the stimulus of accounts of the
elly gang or their confraternity—“ price only one
lilling.” It must be said' that Charles White’s style is.
the prosiest, and. his story would hardly stimulate a
•awn in counterpoise the book is decked'with a lurid!
>ver depicting the noble bushranger— with red shirt, flash
jrse, mask and pistol complete—defiant amid sheltering
ees. Mature readers will not be influenced!: unluckily
,s Ellis writes in The Criminal, P- 220) “it is youths and
lildren who are especially prone to the imitation of
•iminal events from books or from real life.” (
The Credit of the County, by W. E. Norris (Methue/i
i. 6d. and 3s. 6tf.) A. dish of tepid scandal for British
mires and their dames. Somebody’s dame is kissed by
lother body ; and! a. third body, a Low Person, sees andl
ireatens to tell the County if the County is n’t per-
raded to call on his Vulgar Wife. But Somebody for-
ives his dame ; the Low Person and his Vulgar Wife are
riven off ; and the Credit of the County is saved.
Woodside Farm, by Mrs. W. K. Clifford (Duckworth,
i. 6 d. and 3s. 6 d. net). A feeble little story of tame little
eople.
The Silver Gate, by C. Forestier-Wa ker (Greening
a 6d.). Worse stories have been printed ?
At the Change of the Moon, by Bernard C. Blake
Sreening; 2s. 6d.). One presumes Bernard paid for his
leasure : his readers also pay.
Of our loquent lady of dishevelled aspirations, Frances
Vrrell Gill, now in London, E.F. writes Miss Gill
ecame possessed'of an artful Notion and publisher Grant
tichards “ bought it right out,” unfortunately for the
x-Australian lady. The Notion is-selling freely, and she
;ets no royalty. Wit and Wisdom of Modern Women
Vriters is a- compilation from fifbeen. other women s
looks, linked together by introductory notes of lauda-
ion from the editor. The avowed object of the book is
‘to bring together passages from the most typical work
if the women writers who are enriching our literature to-
lay,” whilst the introductions are “ designed to indicate
iriefly the development of each author’s thought and the
listinctiveness of her mental outlook.” Alice Meynell,
‘ Lucas Malet,” Mrs. Rentoul Essler, Mary Gholmondeley
ind others are “ extracted.”
Miss Gill confesses to a friend that she wanted to leave
jorelli out of the book (because, of course, popularity
lisqualifies her for notice, from the mental outlook of
,he other women) ; and 1 she argued-with the publisher.
Che publisher was adamant, however ; he could n't B“°™
;o let Marie be treated like that Roman citizen s bust
vhich was conspicuously missing from the procession.
50 a rival authoress neatly remarked that the pub.
‘ wanted to catch royalty and all the barmaids. Hebes
idvertise books by ostentatiously reading them during
business hours and talking about them to the customers .
“ Oh, yes ! I’ve read Sorrows of Satan —whisky, I thins
you said ’—two or three times —will you have soda or
water?—l do love it so—what will your friend take I
Methuen and Co. have asked Miss Gill to discuss
Burner for their “ Art Series.”
4
Publisher’s advt., dedicated to the Are of Dr. Ross in
his next eruption :—“ The Cigarette Smoker. The mo
sensational story of the day. Everyone should rea<l
book. The Press unanimous in its praise as an excip s
story, a remarkably clever piece of literary work, an®
powerful indictment of excessive cigarette smosyig-
Greening & Co., London.”
“ And you ? ” I added. “ Since in England you are no
longer an Anarchist ; what are you?”
“ I am a professional chessplayer,” he replied. _
** You do well,” f said. “ The same sort of hat is wo™
in both professions. ’ —Francis Gnb •
T.P.’s Weekly is a better penn’orth than G. W. Foote
would have us believe. O’Connor’s own literary tast
singularly vulgar ; but he prints interesting topical scraps.
Correspondence.
W.il. : Jose’s Short History of Australia, \t„ i» t! *
best available. Rusden’s histories of Australia an
New Zealand are not yet superseded—each 425., post &
2s. “Books giving an insight into Australian pout •
As you have A Policy for the Commonwealth, cani
recommend any beyond W. P. Reeves’s State Lxpen ■ .
in Australia and New Zealand, two vols., 2bs., post g
Is. 6 d. Your local library should procure it
E.A.H. : Too far back. Send your items m all-h0t....-
Oui: Sez you: “Every M.L. town has its P9 et >
curiously enough, Seddon is about the only subject,
subsidises the cripples with old-age pensions, ana .\
spend their spare time in composing ‘ songs and po
to his Glory.” But we’ve already quoted B. many ti •
H.G.: Strikes us as lop-sided. There s nc• sense 1
despising true culture : it’s the abomination ot c ~
falsely so-called that disgusts us J.J- • f OO 8* J
one of your two specific instances stale, t’other sma
uncertain.
[?]


WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, and
WOOL BROKERS AND PRODUCE
__ S Y 13 IV E Y.
GO., Limited,
SALESMEN
Send your^^»
HIDES
SHEEPSKINS
TALLOW
TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & GO., Ltd.
m c; TVT ~F»~S " < y
The Lead inf/ Salesmen. Full Values and Quick Returns.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Stores: PYRMOMT.
Sole Commiaaiou 3 Per
on Large and Small
Cent, to tlie Grower
Accounts A.lilce.
health giving,
ENO’
COOLING,
FRUIT
REFRESHIN
ALT.’
AND INVIGORATING.
S. FREEMAN SONS LIMITED
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN'S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXIRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
head OFFJCEJ WYNYAXID SQUARE, SYDNEY.
NEITHER CRACK
NOR BURN.
8®
5806
*9
C
BB
5807
5808
SHILLING BRIAR PIPES
QUALITY NOT BETTER
IN A GUINEA PIPE. . ,
QUARANTEB.— Should any of our Celebrated CAN’T-B-BEAT Briar Pines Crack or
- New One will be Exchanged for it immediately on Application.
Sold by all Tobacconists. By Post,
Bara a
1«. 20.
Quality not better in
a G-uinea Pip e<
c.b.b:
c.b.b:
CJ.8.8. Pipe, Sterling Silver Mount, 2/6
each.
0.8.8. Pipe, hand-finished, with Ster-
ling Silver Mount, polished Vulcanite
Mouthpiece, in Morocco Leather
Case, 4/- each.
0.8.8. Meerchaum Pipe, guaranteed
genuine, Sterling Silver Screw, Best
Quality Mouthpiece, Morocco Gold-
lined Case, 21/- each.
0 -S-,®: P ''P e > hand-finished, Sterling
Silver Mounted Rim and Band, in
Morocco Gold-lined Leather Case,
o/o e t ach. *
O.B.B; Presentation Companion, con-
taining- two Silver Mounted, hand-
finished- Pipes, Superior Quality
Mouthpieces, Red Morocco Gold-
lined Case, 15/6 each.
C. 8.8.
C. 8.8.
TOBACCO
Dark and
Bright
IS THE BEST.
Price, ss. lb., Post Free, all States.
A Perfect Pipe Tobacco.
HAVING secured the Sole Agency for the
above brand of AMERICAN TOBACCO, we
have very much pleasure in recommending
“ ™ °oTr™H? nts and the Smoking Public.
SOUD SHOT ” TOBACCO, Splendid Aroma,
does not bite the tongue. With the ordinary
smoker this Tobacco is in great demand.
Save “Solid Shot” Tobacco Tags.
For Each 100 you will receive from the
Agents, free, one only C. 8.8. Briar
Pipe and Pocket Knife.
'
■ip-
\
is
RICHMOND
VA
“Arkansas” Mixture
A Blend
of the
very highest grade Tobaccos. Packed in ±lb
Tins, 7s. 6d. lb. Sample Jib. Tins, 25., post free.
Sole Agent for C. 8.8. Briar Pipes.
Send for Wholesale Price Lists.
"MS'N ‘AaupAs ‘iomjbuiAbh ‘SNONNIB MOiW
FREE TO MEN
Your Health Restored!
Your Nerves Steadied and Marie Strong!
:v-
I
i
r
"IVTO man should be weak ; no man should suffer the loss of that vital element which renders life morth'living. No man should allow
llf himself to become less a man than Nature intended him ;no man should suffer when there isTiere at hand a certain cure for his
trouble, a check to his waste of vitality.
Most of the pains, most of the weakness of STOMACH, HEART, BRAIN, and NERVES, from which men suffer are due to an
early loss of Nature’s reserve power through mistakes. You need not suffer for this. You can be restored. The very element which you
nave lost you can get back, and you may be as happy as any man that lives.
DR. MCLAUGHLIN’S NEW ELECTRIC BELT
Will cure any ease of weakness that ever existed, or we will forfeit £lOOO. We mean what we say. It k is the acme of mechanical
construction. There never has been anything like it. Fakers copy our advertising, and imitate the appearance of our Belt, but they
don t sell, nor can’t make, a Belt to equal ours. It gives a powerful soothing current for hours at a time while you sleep. It is Nature’s
Restorer of vitality and it wi{l cure you. “ Wake up.” Get well, and be happy.
FROM S.A.
Beaufort.
Your Belt freed me from the terrible attacks
of Kidney and Bladder trouble I used to have,
and I am very thankful for the benefits I have
received from it, for I feel like a different
man.
WM. THOMAS.
Upper Meroo.
IM.S.W.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co.
Dear Sirs, —I am pleased to say that your Belt
is doing- me a deal of (food. I am slowly mend-
ing-, and feel quite a different man from what I
was when I first applied to you and purchased
your Belt. I have the honor to be, yours truly,
JOHN YATES.
Angel Terrace, Coolgardie, W.A.
Dear Sirs,—l got your Belt after all the doctors here had
given me up—after all the hospitals had passed me as an in-
curable. I had Sciatica so bad that I could neither work por
walk. In a week I had no pain and begamto mend, and I
would like to meet a man more grateful to you than I am.
I don’t think I ever will. Yours truly,
P. W. KELLY.
Our Chief-of-Staff is the only Registered Qualified Specialist in Australia who
devotes his entire time to Electric Treatment. DON’T FORGET THIS!
NOTICE.
We want you to read our free book and learn the truth about our arguments. If you are not as vigorous as you
would like to be. if you have RHEUMATIC PAINS, WEAK KIDNEYS, LOSS OF VITALITY
PROSTATIC TROUBLES, NERVOUS SPELLS, VARICOCELE, or any ailment of that kind, it
would assure you future happiness if you would look into this method of ours. We know beyond all possibility of doubt that
we can cure you, and cure you permanently. Our Belts are within reach of all. Don’t delay trying it, your best days are slipping
by. If you want this book, we send it closely sealed free, if you send this paragraph. Hours—9 a.m. to 8.30 p.m.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co.,
85 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Offices : 167 E Swanston Street.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
I'O COIWCJP£JTIXXOKr.
WINES ne Bed *£* SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS 0E MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Don’t wait for Thisl
ARE YOU BALD
Let me examine your scalp, and I will tell you whether
or not you can be cured. The great majority of those
who are bald CAN be cured, and if I undertake your
case I will make a small charge for treatment in addition
to the cost of CAPILLA used.
CAPILLA HAIR TONIC
If this Preparation is rightly used it will produce the
result I claim—it will make your Hair grow. And if
you will call on me I will convince you.
HAIR TONIC is obtainable at all Chemists—2/6 per bottle.
W. OLIVER RICHARDS, Sole Proprietor and Inventor, 164 Pitt Street, Sydney*


S 3
SMOKE
The Unrivalled
World Renowned
BRIAR
PIPES
LARGEST DEPOT :
231 Clarence St„
SYDNEY.
wm.
m
m
m
m
S'
m
m
m
m
M
m
Sss*
m,
vz.
Vsss.
m
m.
*
i
m
m
m
w.
m
m
m
W 2.
m
5%
'm.
m
MV S AAA,
►
S'i.
if
*
■
■
W/A
m
m
11' C - ivi- -_-.-= -_— = “
“ZITA” (Regd.) ADJUSTER
GIVES that charming dip-front or long waist effect now so essential
to well-dressed woman. It can be put on instantly and adjusted
to any depth. There are no spikes. The wearer will be surprised
at the extraordinary difference lengthening the front of the waist makes
to the figure. Never have results so striking been achieved by a device
so simple. |-j- MAKES YOUR WAIST LOOK SMALLER.
Size 1 for waists up to 24 in. Size 2 for waists above 24 in.
If unable to obtain from your Draper, send Money Order or English stamps for 18d. to the Manufacturers
if unabie PRETTY & SONS, Ltd. (Dept. 2), Ipswich, England.
The
Oldsmobile
Made
in
America
and
shipped
here
for
a very
reason-
able
price
We can make you a
delivered price at your
nearest port on the most
practical automobile run-
about that is made.
5,000 are now in daily
use, giving complete satis-
faction. They sell in
America for $650.00
Wi3o) and freight to this
point is not large —quick delivery.
The Oldsmobile will run over any passable road, climb
steep hills, is almost noiseless, has a speed of 25 miles
an hour; will run 30 miles on a gallon of gasoline.
The construction is simple. There is no fire, no
boiler to burn out; nothing to watch but the road ahead
and nothing to get out of order. Starts at ease from
the seat —and no experience is required to run it.
Write for handsome illustrated book sent free.
Olds Motor Works ,
Detroit 9 Michigan 9 Um S* 4»
CLOTHED WITH AIR
AERTEX CELLULAR FABRIC
is the ideal form of body covering:, possessing: all the nices-
sary hvgienic qualities, and being also most comfortable and
of attractive appearance, and for those reasons is recom-
mended by the Me^ c r a | e^ C "jar' Unde'rwear is a Sure Preventative against Chills
m
ft;
p
Si
Cellular Day Shirts.
Silk neckbands and soft wrists.
White and Self Colors, 4s to 7s 6d
Fancy Designs, 7s 6d to 9s 6d.
Cellular Neglige Shirts.
Soft fronts of plain or pleated
Cellular Cloth; wrists, French
Print, Linen, or Cellular. Recom-
mended for Golf, Cycling, &c.
White body, 7 s 6d; colored, 8s 9d
Cellular Dress Shirt.
Fitted best Belfast Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 0.8. or 0.F., one stud.
Cellular Cotton Body—
-6s 6d to 8s 6d
Cellular Lisle Body—
-9s 6d and 10s 6d
Cellular Short-Front Shirt
for every-day wear.
Open behind, 2in. linen wrists —
* 5s 6d, 6s 6d.
Open front or behind, square
cuffs— 6s 6d, 7s 6d
Cellular Tennis Shirt.
With Collar and Pocket. The most
comfortable for all out-door sports
of all kinds. A great variety of
patterns stocked.
Plain Colors, 4s. (id. to 7s. 6d.
Fancy Designs, 7s. Gd. to 11s. 6d.
I'
AERTEX
Cellular Combinations.
High or Low Kecks.
s. d
.White Cotton, trimmed
Lace 5 6
■ White Cotton, trimmed
Embroidery ■ • ..76
■ White Cotton, trimmed
I Lace 9 6
White Lisle, trimmed Em-
broidery 10 6
, AERTEX
Cellular Nightdresses.
White Cotton, trimmed
Embroidery .. ..90
White Lisle, trimmed Em-
broidery 20 0
White Lisle, prettily
trimmed, fine Torchon.. 19 6
AertexCellularChemises.
Real Torchon, 14s 6d and 16s 6d.
Aertex Cellular Slip-Bodices. K.S2 «x£'
White Lisle, trimmed Torchon, 6s 6d and 8s 6d.
Send for Illustrated Price List—Post Free.
DAVID BRAHAM & CO.,
73 & 75 King-St., Sydney.
Sole
V
/
Aertex Cellular Corsets.
Fitted real Greenland Whalebone.
s. d.
Cl Ecru 13in. deep .. .. 15 6
02 long waist, 14iin deep 16 6
M White Cotton, 14iii., nar-
row spool i busk .. .. 21 0
G White Cotton, 14iin., with
Elastic Supporter .. 24 6
F Ecru, Hiding or Cycling.. 12 6
V Cycling, Boned French
Horn, Elastic Hips ..15 0
D 1 same shape as Cl, Watch-
spring Steels -•
The Dark Room Dispensed With !
Write for Particulars of the Wonderful
KODAK - -
DAYLIGHT ■
DEVELOPING
MACHINE -
To be Obtained of all Dealers, or of
KODAK, Limited,
284 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Please Mention this Paper.
TATTERSALL’S
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania).
IMPORTANT NOTICE
The Tasmanian Government having imposed a tax
on every Five Shilling Ticket issued hy Tattersall’s on
January, 1903, clients will please forward Id. extra
ticket applied for, or 4d. for every JBI, and so on.
of One Penny
and after Ist
for each ss.
NOW OPEN
NEWMARKET H’CAP—Flemington, Vic., Feb 28 100,000 at 5/1
AUSTRALIAN CUP—Flemington, Vic., March 3 50,000 at 5/1
DONCASTER H’CAP-Randwick. N.S.W.. April 11 25.000 at 5/1
SYDNEY CUP— Randwick, N.S.W., April 13 ... 25.000 at 5/1
Subscribers will please note that GEORGE ADAMS (“ITATTERSALL ”) STILL
CONTINUES his business in HOBART, under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN
GOVERNMENT, and that clients can send their subscriptions by letter to any friend or
acquaintance in HOBART, who will there have no difficulty in dekivering the application and
securing the despatch of tickets and results direct to clients.
Money can also be paid through any Bank in Australasia, to the credit of GEORGE
ADAMS, Commercial Bank of Tasmania, Hobart. Clients when so doing will please request
Bank to advise GEORGE ADAMS of amount, with their name and full address.
Small Parcels addressed to me can be forwarded to Hobart through any PARCEL
DELIVERY CO. doing business with Tasmania.


&
&
That hard
cough of
yours
what are
you doing,
for it? Look
out, or it
will bind
you with
all the
strength of a powerful chain.
Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral
cures coughs and colds, ©yen hard
coughs and old colds.
Mrs. A. White, of Fitzroy, Victoria,
says: “I had a very hard cough night
and day. I tried many remedies, but
without relief. I thought my lungs
were nearly gone. I then tried Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral. I began to improve
at once, and only one and one-half bot-
tles completely cured me.”
There are many substitutes and imi-
tations. Beware of them ! Be sure
you get Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral.
Two sizes. Large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
W.H.Wigzell.
FRINGES : Best Natural Curly
Hair, 3/6, 5/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each.
TAILS and PLAITS : 20in. long,
5/6 ; extra thick, 7/6; 24in., 10/6;
extra thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings worked up,
2/6 per oz. Don’t be misled.
Our Plaits and Tails are twice as
thick as sold elsewhere at the
same price. Send color of Hair.
Only one address : tlO WILLIAM-
ST., cor. of Palmer St. SYDNEY.
Cable trams will stop at door. All work guaranteed.
Illustrated Catalogue post free. Prompt attention given
to country orders. Wigs made on shortest notice. All
Hairwork sent to the other States free of duty. Transfor-
mations. entire covering for the head, 30/- each.
A GIFT for the LADIES.
We make this
SPECIAL OFFER
to Advertise our
Ostrich
Tips.
5/-
The Bunch,
Worth 10/6.
TWO VERY SUPERIOR TIPS, with
OSPREYS, in Black, White or Cream.
Post Free. Send Postal Notes.
Miller’s Feather Shop
Oorner Bourke & Swanston Sts., Melbourne.
Mention The Bulletin.
*
FLUID
OIL
ORUDE FLUID
POWDER
EMBROCATION
SOAPS
DISINFECTORS
INHALERS
FUMIGATORB
Nfl
HSINFECTINfi
FLUID.
I/-
COLORLESS
FRAGRANT
NON.
POISONOUB
DOES NOT
STAIN
KILLS ALL
DISEASE
GERMS
OXYGENATES
THE AIR.
Sulphur Candles - \
Formic Fumigators /
KINGZETT’S
PATENTS.
"HOW TO DISINFECT " Book Free.
The “SANITAS” CO., Ltd.,
Bethnal Green, LONDON,
NMttcuyns
FITS CURED
From tho first dose of Ozerlna fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst oases of Epilepsy when
every other remedy had failed. Price 4/8 and 111*
thousands of testimonials.
OF ALL. CHEMISTS. STORES. ETC.
WHOLESALE AGENTS
SAVERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEf.
Psepaheo by I. W. NICHOLL, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
2$ HIGH STREET, BELFAST, IRELAND,
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle. *
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold city or Suburban
Properties, or on
and , C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the seourltv of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New Zealand
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per
cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fne. 8 1 F
Directors— Thomas Littlejohn, Esq.,Chairman ; The Hon. A. YV. Meeks, M.L.C., Deputv-Chairman • Benjamin Short
cIV atorJ - T - Walker; J. Abbott, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.cITf-TS
1 Manager and Actuary— Richard Teece, F.I.A.fF.F.A., F.S S ’ <l '’ ' ‘
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Commercial
B «Brgfy,
£l4 10*
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-sfc.,
SYDNEY.
£ST Send for a
Catalogue.
Wont Shaft Sulkies,
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles.
The Best and Cheapest,
H. HILLIER, i3o Sussex St., Sydney
Straight Shaft 3-Spring Sulkies, £8 10s.
Barven Sulky Wheels Tyred, £2 4s 6d pair.
Discount to Wholesale Buyers. Send for Catalogue.
KING
2h.p. to lOOh.p.
MARINE OIL ENGINES.
Launches built 20ft. to SOft. overall.
Hi#
Noiseless Uuderwater . . .
Exhaust.
Perfect Gas Generator.
Double Cylinder.
Automatic Oil Feed.
Simple Electric Ignition
with Dynamo.
jr. f.
Telephone 2671.
WITH THE KING ENGINE— ONE LEVER THE WHOLE.
c OER. M O T T & CO TVT P A TXT Y,
30 PITT STREET, SYDNEY-
A
Hotelkeepers, make your own
DERATED WATERS
THE “AUSTRAL” CRATED WATER MACHINE* occupies
only Four Feet square, will produce 160 dozen BOTTLES
per day of Finest Waters (Lemonade, Ginger Ale, Sodawater
&c.) at a COST BELOW FOURPENCE PER DOZEN. These machines
are now working in all the Australian States, New Zealand and
South Africa. ’
Write for Prices and Particulars.
Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers—
ECKERSLEY ANP SONS,
214-216 Queen Street, Melbourne.
WINCHESTER
MODEL 1902 SINGLE SHOT RIFLE
'fHE name “ Winchester ” on this
rifle is a guarantee in itself of its
quality. The Model 1902 is a hammerless take-
down, and can be taken apart easily and quickly.
It is made with an 18-inch round barrel, fitted with open
front and peep rear sights. It shoots .22 Short and .22 Long
Rim-Fire cartridges, and Bullet Breech caps. Some makes of
.22 Caliber rifles are a few pence cheaper, but they are a great
deal cheaper in quality than they are in price. We don’t
try to see how cheap we can make this rifle but how good.
FOR SALE BY ALL IRONMONGERS
WE STOCK ALL ....
WINCHESTER GOODS.
M'LEAN BROS. & RIGG, Ltd.
ELIZABETH STREET, iTELBOURNE.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks—Free.
plays sr-"
French’s Acting Edition.
Rare Books
French Novels
Books the Married
Extra Special Catalogue o/
Books Eree.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE .
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne
mv HiOtj uivh
qood
AU< CHEMIST*.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustra
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY“IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
tZT For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATUR ALINE.
For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINS.
COLOR, It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
Washington H. Soul & C\k,
PUt-street. Sydney.
CONSULT HOLLAND FOR ALL DIBEABE3 OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by WATKINS & MACKAY, Chemists, Queen Street, Brisbane ; Mr. GORDON, 92« torte
Street, Rockhampton, Queensland, and h
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Col I ins-street, MELBOURNE,
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
What Used To Be.
Hill an’ ridge an* barren river, all the station
ridin’,
Mobs o’ cattle, flanks a-quiver, in the ti-tree
I hidin’;
I Cloudin’ dust, an’ red sun flarin’; ’member how
we caught ’em,
Wheeled ’em (thousand eyes a-glarin’); ’long the
sidin’ brought ’em !
Ride ! Rouse ’em up across the hill-tops !
Bring ’em down the gullies in the dawn ;
For the boys are set an’ goin’, an’ there’s half the
herd a-lowin’—
Whoo-oop 1 through the yellow of the dawn !
Gleamin’ horns like lines o’ lances—an’ the mob
stampedin’ ;
Why did you—yer knew the chances—head them,
never heedin’
Crowdin’ brutes that tossed an’ rolled yer—
stamped yer inter clay ?
So 111 never more be’old yer, never hear yer say—
Hi! Ring ’em in along the tussock ;
Swing ’em where the gates are set an’ wide—
But the clackin’ hoofs are thunder, an’ yer done if
yer git under—
Steady ! where the gates are yawnin’ wide 1 ”
Wish I’d died wi’ yer that momin’ when yer bed
we made yer ;
Left yer to the night an’ dawnin’ with the scrub
ter shade yer.
Yer was friend more olose than brother—now yei
sleepin’ far—
’N I’ll not ride wi’ any other where the long down:
are.
Now, yer’ll be ridin’ in the mountings,
Though the cattle will not turn to see yer pass ;
There’s no sod or stone will hold yer when thi
shoutin’ whips have told yer—
“ Ride ! the mob is breakin’ in the Pass ! ”
Hill an’ scrub an’ lone grey river—only thine?
I’m lovin’—
I will serve no more for ever (Hey ! the column’s
movin’,
Hear the blessed bugles Mowin’)—you’ll be on thi
track
With the boys—them all unknowin’—bring thi
cattle back.
Ah ! slow ’em down across the shingle ;
Trail ’em up the cuttin’ in the dark,
There was nothin’ feared or tried me wi’ your knet
beside me;
Ah-h ! the crawlin’ homeward in the dark !
M.L.
E. B. LANCASTER.
At the Back of Wyngha Run.
When the shades of night were gathering and tht
plains were growing dim,
And the hushed Bush seemed to listen to th
curlew’s evening hymn,
While the kookaburras chuckled as they watched
the old day die,
And the star of even glittered like a jewel in the
sky ;
When the breezes were a-roam
On our way we cantered home ;
Cantered briskly through the twilight, for our
hard day’s work was done ;
But we stopped at Sandy Rise,
Half in horror, half surprise ;
For we found a swagman lying at the back of
Wyugha Run.
Dead ! the sand had drifted round him by the old
grey boundary fence.
Tramping on to God knows whither, he had
tramped from God knows whence ;
Tramping on to God knows whither—till h
reached the endless plain,
Where his pleadings and his curses and his prayer-
were all in vain.
Not a comrade’s voice to cheer
When the end was drawing near,
And the anguished cries grew fainter, there
beneath the glaring sun ;
None to watch him as he died,
Not a living thing beside,
Save the black crows loafing round him at th»
back of Wyngha Run.
Close beside him lay his billy and the pipe he used
to smoke.
And the dusty swag he shouldered when a spree
had left him “broke.”
It was when the tanks were empty and the drought
was on the land,
And for miles around the country was a waste oi
billowed sand.
Out afar beneath the glare,
Where he’d thrown it in despair,
Lay the water-bag he’d cherished till its precious
load was done.
When he reached the Ten-mile tank
(By the high and whitened bank),
It was just to find it empty at the back of Wyngha
Run.
Maybe there’s a wife a-waiting, in some far-ofi
Southern town,
For the “cheque which giveth comfort,” that
the mail should bring her down ;
But her hopes grow daily fainter, and her hair is
turning grey,
As she hears the oft-repeated, “Nothing here for
you to-day ! ”
But she has no time to weep,
For the’re little ones to keep—
Little ones for ever asking when their daddy will
be done
With his labors in the West:
When he’ll journey home and rest:
Little knowing daddy’s resting at the back of
Wyngha Run.
Or perhaps a mate is searching round about the
land out-back,
Looking for a trace of Billy, or it maybe Jim, or
Jack.
Eagerly he seeks and questions in the huts and
round the fires—
How strong hopes rise up within him as he learns
by “ mulga wires ” :
“ He wa3 spoken to near Bourke,
On the look-out there for work !
He was seen in Riverina when the shearing had
begun ! ”
But he'll use the blades no more,
For his shearing days are o’er,
And his “summer spell ” he’s taking at the back
of Wyngha Run.
N.S.W.
RIVMRINA.


A Quiet
Nip ••••
## # #
Four Crown
Whisky
fcL:
ik
V
In the Grip of La Grippe
MANY COMPLICATIONS LEFT BEHIND
All Banished and Health Restored
by CLEMENTS TONIC-
The Cass of Nr J BARTLETT
it a rr:>~rr mtssto.
I: h tc si* isseras «t tUi BHMbj * **3
ill cat Siscn si>c.zi>i r« sc- ecKcxud ihts vc «t
nsty kaoMK a seLi-rebxxs tii pnprai
peccie. tx»i rc- pz: tha irs* me pneSscs!
s rs-s*c<rrer was EMBMai sc* hrrag
teirre the •»-*m-r ttctt aw; er here iatls
:t Mr. Jtr« Bsnkn. «£ Xa 5
Pines- * F-xf'Xixxs. Xsxi-ssrier. Syirey.
*' Is the mi* c£ a * ewfes. >r. stir
Mr. Pi hi ilrtl " ri<i zxrnea-jA wts rue- :*
mm n SsntT, I wt* oi« oe she taut
sri*s SAihc sa chair thl terstis
■' yea. is. xtagec ci reeefiKg sill
no?** rcaae: rec-res ? " uir; she writer.
•* There su eiecy hheahaM. sots I
Wnria «4I f pel Wt*. AgkßV U I wt* a A
fcyiftf jr ki« Bar* :<i: but
M aar* wc: ao bA% with are sit: I
v>K«ehi I m ar.: : * hcceLxxs im-s
tetaass AS rrcee, 4*: « I
I was itii xc for vwehs, mJ «srl3 »:» 5: a
■**T** sc work fee wres. nanc.*. Ilfcakl
xv 1 £*:•:•! rusts sc fern ihtx iyy I rrc
*: tin ts>i cx-vai y wizie sits *»£T
u xta I was emr rare -r nai—i ~1 •■ se-
to *» gxftsrec Awicly w~c&k me she her-
p.iv |IM ix mr sst w*
w rex atit wish fn*t s senses.. leiug rc i.rits
kvj xktsxrx wiiis. Kites the
ini as if-there sswrfy rtre ami
Kuw ix si* xrcxii- Is was. bos she k-
£; st.rx ftsdf tits I rst-i ss» restJirt sr »a>rt
as si* ir-tris is sets fxfcssi. fer tlx
leecei s»: its. i* irwx saas there w&s xtc
A SKEL'i put ASMS Kit Mt i.lt US T ST* *1
rtried wsii Aries feat c I ▼'tit*! a :;a
ytriLs I »i t» srs *srwx tut ~sc fnr she
pxrpree etsme she ptrx. r»« Ajx*sier
rsucr why I chat. a»**s cr rir whjwks
xw r-irr>r A SSeL TU bf-rAASIS I XSSftC if SATX
T*cy “-3fy Fmcci lists cask I x«Lrvy
fell diwts aiasst *e' sca! three. *:
siu I was ifeM tirAi ic rrc-* sx
tC xresi_r £ wisi tx bsssockx I w rsre-ersi
K*iAi tu she r;o: rr st* ' X x sa>ri srisery
fee I liti o: ens-cy. x»r »* axc-
-I.- —;f ihtr wxi w ieix Xit rxc For araefa
Asxi v itf-cs I omii x>:i s=s: txj sine txr
sxiers wts a sa *y eye* t* if xr>ey :.ii
*celse zj. A ctri rue was A:
r ?ry rm. sry fcea| *1 :i-f iru I
K‘xji fCArfey see >a>s if - wtiieti U psc
t.-T----ir ire ni-aJf I ’t: i» £~rps acuto
as if is w"Err itrt I cctrjf x>rc ieac • -ary
#—LJ<i~-fy eeiiSer. m« s» ■ sertaae erre-
T TT-r 3 ary fti k rxts I *wia x«:*: ixDri
eae sc txyrmry. Istseec- I wts a xiasAi*re
Ar r* t-i* wmxr _te » XiAte ran
cc sir Wat a: zie xecserim; wharx
utm * rae «rx~ rc iry btS: tnr tiitir**
pftTWffi im wbsDET-sr I scr»ra«ei. Tix
sccetx«r wzix tr« rx riitsss t£ si 7 x-sne.
tti^r r-f li.tr sit kiixeys wece isrrfrr-•eL
tr> 1 I was ti er» v~n icus sir ry lie ranees
wt-rBE Ivu ic-sAsei it. w _3t ue tf istbal
—t ~ -I—r-.t~-rf- r'nt.l XIT fem Tti U*: 3Bh
eAssc."'
- ~ ISJsfer r.T yM try xaerirrae ’ *
*Of rsui-se ihey c. i. aj>£ I wts urT-e:
hexrx>i riAT»f rx ia.V~t;c :z ts ny •errarrac
tiaisrirs frrnr »-rrk xmi t creti jass rc
xre. ««j I w-txier is £*s reiser Fix sanDe-
hew. xt mbxdk icntsei maasArr
V‘a>in. I *EA*r .ner arj is wts tl-
wsyx frr?: txi reaver, wide xry xnnxii
V.i f * ftvxl xuae ts if . i*i :«»ar irrx£±Ec
V;,- * mnrsitl a: rrer ai.xj£ I ecci»ri I
Air me rroe i» rr I txr itriy hetssx
axc I xa»ftc sc iDAif xjiez sts bn 3
w-~.r~«J r»esx iedee f I it: scuac xry-
n>' rw tietVs. ts strisnrwc tr
OictT 3 lie sAivniWT ajj£ £•-'** r* a sx
tas starJEt k. At* snm rc wrxry sctsnrs.
), the sr.i ts £ t Xi.ec* rc lestf it:
14.75: „:ere fir sia prrpaßf rc s-axcimc iry
h.-"»si mi li'ars ru xr rsos lx :e c:<:
A_ I witWiiiel e*cg:-i _-.rn£ xx utx Tie
xrettX'ess rc my skkjaix wts *>. ti »AXir*i
- I -airjj arc tee? ht rare om. st
ti#! ai 1 sairt mc tit Tfe-iijeusK mbs ixe ham
ti f.Hji I vi» tnef-.r Tbar! » * n« suaxe
t>ir.g wztit it bears. e'xirb palpi-
tated as if I fcai swes is-ix_£sxx ix «sc* ti-
res*.re eieccs*. aas witk slt r*rr-»a all
I Trii xarj .esely •wn-zi.-ed trzcz eresy
press re onr. A tt>:i sty
irr.sased Ef. baft far uit roaster I
il< ix ax jxui ji esm4. erea sr*
so—*f c£ T-j.-aae raises ix laxxi:*r bsig
wmStCMaft se *---■ j jse : bxs I »~Ri sr>
a-ss eras* axo ©ssx >iat ssas I i>s acft
kawr itu :• m liis a««i Ia kt
cteart Kresxhea af &>Kf I gta there Aadbed
ic pksxre xpax r y -jxs-rex ax-i abec.
I nrr*ES XT I OWJw I*iC t*€p TT,Ttk~Ti£ TiTA*
ji .-Trf ..' -- I ireiiid aaxl«d Rxr*iy bar psx,
A.xr.axrt I iwoosoisoe. siias Deoii a->iLi.
baits ieer preterab* no axj
•■ Wij cn to ass ay
•• as-g* ct
*• If I kaf 90S dome »: I acnji etc be
to-iay uln ri.h-xi -Try fas: aner
lie a- u>c torsaxxßX -::tpir r :sy :a lbs
six : * x et ibseases. a xer a fe-ow aurk-
T-.t ~ jtrarczzf.z as* to sry Cctmt is T 3E-
Is arts arc ibi I sarrwi res s_* oaxxc snas
tie nixtiai *v :«&:«, u>: »?a. ifrs a
j*»r ; £ ijji rg r-rt.rr-nf expcrxmoe, I ia. SIX'S
si*r* if s>: raeii-icne -re earns xxe _ .«ssia
Tittae. for live: sajmx a roxpfs of bottloi I
a-R* feebt* a sr» xssersss sx tiaceace.
Tbs atri':*«Hwi ixt ibsr sc- mnes that
I Tea lx si s® iop* xr*s a poA _isy stiM
txe:ei siar I vmlc tk recover. aa»i fcy
rhntftly ptrsarti ny rates: rutr*: c sreas-
sea: ay rear-rels bwa a-ere pi3ifiM.f I
att si* rxi: srark axsi a bixis
rt a'xari cirods -r_r~. ■ —*. _ XSBg
u .ear*sixs ax.:c *x»x iesi stirs ness:iae
jgiLirLM* nc :i-rre**i. Tieo. rry Irver be-
rax 1* a-ara ts.ire -igsbriy a fairs arscA
irs:~r-“i jabef 3as "-Era. axya Frr
~ « -f~ ■* ny bsalar ses ax. wd!
si* srily sasr.e I-sfx e; nwixsi. Wfcf sat-
rut frl -caf DC Try t yt~ sx sscaer Tws.se K is*
cs-sas J fewu re r-f s 3n xlxssesb swfrc’f sx*2n.
TW Etas 2 st sor< m *wsj?!n ssrs
rriser stat r«fsre. e : I fa: ar trufJe it
maibat t* mj stwc ru s-Esre free sssst
rcxcesi ax A fee n* «C T sjtitr rxitfi
xxtdxxx ay lyeceii m,r:>xxr si* tt*>.irxjt of
Cfenws.i Tout as" I tu n-3.:~x fct x*si
absfalj abd siiraei xsxs sty ::o: tu
f'x*s -a * ae-I. I uajT-tL-af as si* rsn>±siT
assi ar_ri tty Tigrsg liivlia vfr?
rs ::e: a 1 _ * -_r* arsum u: I--en>Htss 7 rtur
at ay x*s-Traa fyaai oooM arc :* sat
RS.reea. «£. ity fiooo ui
i. A__i*y i rx: :«*a. ri.sf ies x aZ fyxx.sr.xa
«C - ry Cjemetss I I bar by kz*a
new s» Frx-rc*so u* r ust* I ftsx es-
panaSy u x>» sasa* reaiasnel ior axxiery
a* :s si* ssase tc try sears. ti->a reaoe-f
larrru: ai'irly afsar fas.xjeara Ta=
re e: -si. *
•inf xra yxic saals-i a passes, I
k&Ki **
~ls dmj! xm r* b*ss*r. fir I snri
djgnuaj Ymsx s£2 I vu rrre.l ennirtx.
ani fa: si* jass rrre* ysxss I sa T s B.sajea
mrs IJ ssm*A lax s.r<aj.xfxl s*i* as *s*
c t"* so_a srfrcmasjaL. ax_'ir ym na
at sx axj lay is -iecoa yia. 1
STiTTT'IAT tr~»ur.3
L Zs it i laser 5 Bnjirnfa las-
■reel S"4bt n Be saa* if fksrr >rnni Tva
Camnani-Team m iisrix ni sneunii" ant kx-
ooßeL-r asi-! ina I rar* raeerdy -sot
si* saiesi: axtmumx rjiaa,nt a Bar
laiiSß ant sibce ’ej avaiHfl r-tm.
me si iotr anr rrac s shniram* anr s a n» anx
aanmnE if n * Hhe* tar maa iy ~V»»n-fi»
fan: tin a»i smsans nr 3nl wrm» iiw xr ivli-
:si n u ■ vay n - «cxrantei * —*xlt* I
w*.*inir ”irg kht mj’iueiiS Ktraf
I naif ms smbb tmrjknz-.zn •’rnaaeicir»im 7 2«-
iij» su&f xr i*f ne. uu r’ a ua
zr zrt: :%iis Ars. 23M,
raitf;
-«na a l.k~ii
mm Jt l MHR
bush worker
for the
am
Su/c
l-l/.'.JUJH*
. wtkk ml- -
r* ra Ti»-» ■ •?■ —■ — >*«*-<!« «*-
A 72E2 **»“ **
u» * T*r A-J L 1 IHH
ZAM * BUK CO- »
Be.-J.3M P813.T Sag? -'-* T f * rj ’*r *=** g** I ”—*y*
CmCX TO K*3LBOtTRXT VTSITOE.*
N
WOKtr? GEORGE HOTEL r^‘ : »'* f
Ea Sa-aai tS^eTriM —
:i • xzacA. 15'—“5TTE ■*
9s. per Iv T =r iraat - sz-ixai yg
HENRy SkTnner^
Soatt Mdbonnft
- ------ T t JMS. .^.CATERER
K- Sensor faw * -«*■* i ■<»■**» —* q * tfaiT T
i y tVT TiSLE iT.lt> 7
• ; sa>i mas —anjufit a aw
;4-* » wmt OgnftWEUSE
Bli3-2S»Bi Sri liJt
Public and
Private Balls
Otssna fat
tnK-sc
jisaeiTStiu*
Banquets anj
Dinner Part sb
Ti*
n & Cameron's Pens
ti % :orrr ta: i al»: zitsz-_
ttm. Orl tai ■sat « c~si. ’
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
tea *» mt *r* tmmert uta HE«Mt tfc*
fft p »£* iE«as Jtwr ~"- ttlw ■ rrrr Id. s
,- i eam»» '27 *33*er;«r<:a!r iazi2&
!_ T i- - irumc T J its isnrD^i-
BHURE OF IXrTATIOWS. ~mj
XACMVEN 4c CAMERON. LTD.
EWVBIVOi *=*i BHtWPBGHAII.
TEE MOST sminors.
EPPS’S
GMATXrrX—CO MTO R rrsa
COCOA
A«T —S ZTT SSL
noy'T MISS THIS
:-T~' •ST - '. >: -■ T "'- sr r ~ - m * *** v **l-
- • ' snf I UEV*? :>«» o»nr T‘V
'fmi'f ' wt»sjc irawß toc
s>r O»TiPsJkT af 121 s xun «* '•'il ienr tj «sn
sbEhs i TUaL Ou4uBSX Ts—i rf ntairci wni tnia;
b- J« ££S7iX Senr SO* u»£ rjc uanmj
■ rtv Aanrsse—
SCT4SX m&IITUTE.
l'eara >jn>r:. P2*wcs«-»". Umiinf
DRUNK
A±-s s* rifi
ENNESS
CURED
!■ SO Orvs.
K» tZ tbf
fez. s i':, w®ersex, I sz-z?e zz
100 Test Cii<s. adrrr*x r--.- T
zz’j ~zr Ajtc&ojszz :> z pi&sitiK ?
trettzse«t
ec i— N ; ; t=>— 'zs, uz
? z_ pasTtozzlars free,
V*. I_ANtL>TOV MK CS Elf
oS 5r leftesrae.
Resc
mm Jga * av«
c ilii
"HMI
E ;
o
O . •*
Li.
Is
isi
p *
4
RUPTURE
CURED
'-'D
•n
cp-rxzirc cr tu ~
2c QeaeKfiiar frcat '•cr-i. ccofctreC-
Trcsss> Tbf cstr
crstmsr: K;t^r?Js
>' r.s :>ciT ix
-rsirsf Sc. ;c. Actress
Sl'.fitOS U.SGSTCS,
Cm 4 » s-*.,
Wi.SCv«Ni.
i- 1
-n *.
Capillarine
*
CRAIG 4 i vj.* *«.*«.* v
Bn * ***l fisnac* imr s>i.a\
L JJSGtMI illZ 0? UT? CZ¥IIFEICE.
CALVERTS
CARBOLIC
Tooth Powder
A *3*ea«dera predation for
-ia Jc-SEphsaag the peat.
F C. 'AI! I. ; ! t .4.. lixjtskr. Eng.
c>
S
F *w»~
,/
% r i
MORRIS
IMPERIAL
RIRTMEHT
TOOTH-ACHE
CJ = tZ BY
BUNTERS
p^stc#
Ti winn, Hiatus
NERVINE
: X mac. ■duly iar ;
The BEST FAMILY MEDICINE
KAYES VOBOELL'S PILLS
Hidden Secretsof
Disease Revealed
Tiis “ (SARD
L X»K" which is
scit \hfllutely
FREE.
-Vrpr* rf WxOmmf ft
in- --1-* *ii«
t». '*i Fnfe-fc* «s*
-.▼i ±
itm nnmc m
t* D*
BCOuk
-arlLuc tpx l
kite ▼i ttri J®i six
yr-mjr Xr**»-~ T - 5t tWL It
p «» t*
j, irssAGi
: t&z viO
o*>*TM*C COY.,
Sfc. IU*.
30 Days’ Trial.
K Is fc*
m
• I 4*. Hi * K
-sft4
4
«li
y iii A
mb j
:" rr, 'S[N\
All (HTMlfin
4r
%
’ r c
An •£ v la.
c s 5 loco
s£S5
A - I'fktx 5.E.
TABLETS
AT A/O p ER BOX


BACH
ICE-MAKING MACHINES from 70/-
Water converted into Ice in One Minute.
ICE-CREAM FREEZERS from 15/- EAC!I
Send for Catalogue.
BRANDT BROS,
236 Pitt St.
Sydney,
and 422 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
WABASH
Expansion
Business
Systems.
Letter Filing
Devices.
Card Index
Systems.
Fob all
Businks&bs.
We Systematise your Office Pree of Charge.
Write us for Illustrated Catalogue
’ WOOLLEY, BERGIN & CO.,
Solemn.., A«.tralU 69 8 *" Sya " e >"
Engineer Electric Plant.
Nicß.clean worlc,(food pay. Wouldn’t you liko
spcmdence £? e 1° . help you ' U S>we?
spondence Electrical, Steam, Mechanical
Engineeri n g,—
P'umbing, Heating,
Ventilating or
Mechanical Drawing.
These subjects are taught
at home by correspon-
dence ; also Steam,
Jlechanical and Elec-
trical Engineering,
Mechanical Drawing,
etc. Write for informal
tion and Handbook “ B.”
American School of
Correspondence, at Ar-
mour Institute of Tech-
nology.
Sydney : Box 629, G.P.O.
m
HYPNOTISM, Magneto Healing, &c.
W-
Lw.rn to Hypnotize I
Wonderful, Mysterious, Fas
cinating 1 I teach you how
to become a Hypnotist so
that you can exert a etrang]
and magic influence over
others. Celebrate ! instan
taneous method, discovered
and taught only by me.
Easily and quickly learned.
You can perform astonish-
ing feats and produce fun
by the hour. Surprise all
your friends and makeyour-
•elf famous. You can give
entertainments and make
money. Gratifies eve’ y am-
bition, compels others to
love and obey you, and
brings health, happiness,
and success in life. Cures
diseases and bad habits.
Send two stamps for my big
FREE BOOK, which treats
on all the wonders, secrets,
and mysteries of the art,
and shows you just how to
become a Hypnotist.
ADDRESS—
Prof. R. H. Barraden, 89 Pitt Street, BYDNEY.
MEN
If
you
are
suffering from
exhaustion, Vari-
cocele, Wasting,
Weakness, enclose 6 stamps (postage and
packing), and I will send a trial bottle of my
REMEDY, FREE.
IT COSTS YOU NOTHING
to try my Life Syrup Remedies, which
give back strength of body and brain, renewed
vigor, and development of the vital organs;
not a free prescription dodge, but a trial of
my wonderful remedy free for the asking.
Professor h. read,
165 Collins Street, Melbourne.
THE ROAD
TO HEALTH IS
PAVED WITH
GOOD
DIGESTION.
.VEGETABLE
I i
Charcoal
Speedily ourea Acidity, Flatulenoe, Heartburn,
mpure Breath, Indigestion, Diarrhoea, &o. It
destroys all disease germs, and,absorbing all impuri-
ties in the stomach and bowels,gives a healthy tone
to the whole system. Wards oil all attacks of Typhoid
and other Fevers. Prevents many an illness.
AG t’sJ£. , !£, RB CHARCOAL POWDER in
Bottles, LOZENGES and BISCUITS in Tins
take >; Sold by all Chemists and Stores,
nro™ * COl ? l P laints of the injury done by other
Fh* r a ® e se ® fchat each Bottle or Tin bears
*J.L.B.,in monogram,’on the wrapper.
MEDICAL GALVANISM.
HALE AND SON’S FIRM has distinguished
<j nT „ ‘n the development of ELECTRICAL
as a MEDICAL AGENT. By an entirely NEW
aiiiOD of application they have succeeded in produc-
lnwTOA™r ECTßlG BODY BELT, which for COMFORT,
* a °d GENUINENESS is unquestionably far
perior to any previous invention. Yet the whole appli
nee is so compact that it only weighs a few ounces. In
h lB eOl shams it is something to get an article that
Monthly* power a P ar t from imagination."— Medical
n„ HA^ E A? ELECTRIC BELTS have eon-
-2M e o re< i the most OBSTINATE cases of NERVOUS and
Anp Pi™ A8 ES after all other remedies have FAILED.
imp ELECTRIC belt with suspensor
lOR GENTLEMEN HAS NO EQUAL. Catalogue and
rnce List gratis. CONSULTATION FREE.
HALE & SON, Medical Galvanists,
CASTLEREACH-STREET, SYDNEY.
V
WeaK
.Men WOMEN
A Can obtain *trength and vigor
1 by the use of DR. PIERCE'S
r ELECTRIC BELT." A Won-
derful Restorative. The most
Scientific Electrical Appliance
ever made. Drugs do not cure.
! This Belt does. Send stamp (any sort)
for “Booklet No. 2.” (£J * Write to-day:
Pierce Electric Co., 206 Post St.
Mention
thia
S*u Fnm«iB CO ,U.B.A. J W. U. Soul i Co-.Agti. Sydn.y
WOOL. PRODUCE. CRAIN.
The New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency
ACT Coy., Ltd., SYDNEY,
Ctmgignort ar, , nR ° KE «3 OSTI.Y.
COMMISSION FOR SELLING
dame in the Memorandum of Association of this Company
WOOL
THREE-QUARTERS (|) PER CENT.
WAREHOUSING
71 '£ t 0 St ? re ’ Eire Insurance;'
Advft?’ L n Unpacking, Sample Bales,
Advertising, Cataloguing, etc.) on Wool real-
wilTbel?' SI * PE^CE charges
0 peTc°e olS erTb iSing SI * PE^CE and over Four'
°under° 1S realising FOUftPENdfi per'lb. and
3s. 9d. per Bale.
2s.' 6d. per Bale.
Is. 6d. per Bale.
Perfect System of Weighing __Way Bills sent on Application.
RAT ira PRODUCE
of Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, Marsupial Skins, etc., HELD WEEKLY.
Stock; and. Station Affentc!
lebush. Paddock Accommodation for the Reception and Watering of Sheep and Cattle
Sates Held Monday and Thursday each week .
AGENTS POR McDOUGALL'S SHEEP DIP.
J. BARTRAM & SON,
34 & 36 Market Street, Sydney
(Corner of
Clarence Street)
b our zxe.
l ®’ 21 ’ 23 King Street,
SOLE AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES
The ENGLISH DE LAVAL STEAM TURBINE CO. LTD., Leeds.
Makers of Steam Turbines, Turbine Dynamos, Turbine Pumps, Turbins Fans.
(Over 80,000 Horse-power in use.)
Messrs. OREENWOOD & HATLEY LTD.. Albion Worts, Leeds.
Machine Tool Manufacturers and Electrical Engineers, Dynamos, Motors. Pumas, eto
Messrs. CONNOLLY BROS. LTD,, Manchester.
— —i, Insulated Cables, Wires, Tapes, eto.
ARE YOU WEAK ?
Low-spirited, Tired of Life, Have you utterly
failed in your efforts to regain Health?
Go to the Fountain Head
And consult Old Surgeon Langston, who will Cure
you. Forty years’ practice as a Specialist is sufficient
Guarantee of the doctor’s ability.
AVOID unskilled pretenders, flaming advertisements and specious
cui e-aiJs. r
Vigor and Strength
for all who
desire it.
OLD SURGEON LANGSTON,
al C ° lle % e England, located in Melbourne
k 86 ’ P erfected hls method of treatment that it can
almost be said there are no hopeless or incurable cases.
Be the equal of your fellow man.
If you are a sufferer from any nervous, chronic Blood or Skin diseases, or interested in the subject of
Neurasthenia and associated evils, write at once for book of information, blank forms, etc., and have the
old doctor diagnose your case. *
Seels, tlio Truth, it; costa Nothing!
All communications strictly confidential. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, cor Russell & Collins Sts., Melbourne.
NOME CYCLOPEDIA
XMBRACINd
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou”
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician.’ Chapters
t 0 ! nnu . t ' lerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embmced
in its covers. The new 1902 edition just arrived.
i n?GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged
*1 ed,tlon ot this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND ‘ 1
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy : is 6d Dost.
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d. *
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards illus
Is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted'
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk Is 9d
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is ’
The Art of Wrestling, post Is. HoYLE’i Games post 2/6
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc ) Is 3d post
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor Is.
Aust. Miners* Guide (simple tests for minerals) 3s 6d
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new, work, Is posted. Camille Is 3d
Secret History of the Court of England, 1 6 post free'
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted'
Lover’s Letter Writer, is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history) Is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
Up-To-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free.
How TO Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest sones
Is 3d post free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d.
G. W. Reynolds Court op London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted. Sappho Is
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted ’
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilb'rs’ Assis.
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want.
The Wife s Handbook, Is 2<l posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post.
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages
1600 illus. Leather bound, my price, 15s post paid’
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted. ’
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is 3d.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s posted.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music comple e Is 6d.
The Age op Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d posted.
Send for my Illustrated Blgr Book
Catalogue—post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney,
Too Stout
I was for years ; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to lOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street Sydney
Sending, mention this paper.
OF INTEREST to MEN
T)EAR SIR,—I have been cured of weakness and De-
bilit.v by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to
Mr. ROBERT E. PARKHURST,
Pitt at rest, Sydney.
Re(p/WWP
JNDICEjTio^J
BLAIR'S
60UT $ RHEUMATIC
PILLS.
The Great English Remedy for
GOUT, RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO & NEURALCIA.
The acute pain is quickly relieved and cured fh a
few days by this celebrated Medicine. "*
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout & Co., 229
Strand, London, and sold at Is. l£d. and 2s. 9d!
per box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
ASTHMACURE
GRIIHAULTS INDIAN CIfiARFTTFS
Fop Asthmatic people who suffer from
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault’s Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest, &
QRIMAULT & Co., Paris. Sold by all Chemists.
NOTICE
To snflerersfrom Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs,
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstrk & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstrk & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use o-f
Q 6 RI.CORO’s
tSSt^ cE °f p £•
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled and
unprecedented success throughout the World.
Dr. Ricord's Essence of Life restores Health and Strength
to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 128. or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope
Agents for Australasia— PEßßY & CO., 47 Queen St.,
Melbourne ; Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
F. H. Fauldlng & Co., 16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
£EE
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
I how long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
DEAF
TO
Addm«— A, M. NABT, 145 CoUla B St. 4 Melbourne


HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
BRANDY
Hennessy’s
Old Battle Axe
Brand
Is
known
and
appreciated
all the
World
over.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
W£W/ LL pfISS DINNEf\ TODAY
Gh'./TeVer mind that old n /W*
WfVf GOT T=L£NTY or
mi
/ <
/j
IM «\
§s^s
THE
* PLUM’
THE
‘PLUM’
r\ ENTLEMEN.—This razor Is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, ,
V* like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easv shave, and, having had them in use for a number ot years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The "PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Rator, 7«. Od.
"RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
Prick
rSinde Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 2 IS.
[ Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s;. Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautrful oaae, 30»-
Registered and sent Post Free to any part op the World.
ggT" Please add 6d. exchange osi Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
Sole Agents
A ROYAL LIQUEUR.
PETER F. HEERING, Copenhagen,
CHERRY BRANDY
Supplied to— _ , _ .
The King of England; The Royal Danish and Imperial Russian Courts.
BWIFT AND COMPANY, 7 Spring Street, Bydney, Australasian Agenta
The “Enterprise
Rubber Massage Roller
Makes, Keeps
and Restores
Beauty in Na-
ture'sown way.
The cup-shaped teeth have a
suction effect on the skin that
smooths out wrinkles, rounds out
the beauty muscles, and gives per-
fect circulation of the blood.
It is so constructed that it treats
every portion of the face and neck
perfectly, even to the “ crow s
feet" in the oorners of the eyes.
Price of Roller - • - -
(with FREE Sample
Jar of “SKIN --
FOOD")
4/6
Post
Free.
Box 133, G.P.O.
THE ENTERPRISE CO., melb.
When ordering please mention this paper.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK
CLOTH, 300 PAGES.
PRICE, 4s. 6d. ; POSTAGE 6d.
BY SIXTY BULLETIN WRITERS.
Sole Distributing Agents—
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
There are men in this world who are almost successful, almost religious, almost well, almost
happy. But a miss is as good as a mile. A recruit who is 5 feet 9 inches in height, when the
standard is 5 feet 10 inches, is rejected just as surely as if he were only 4 feet in height. It is of
little avail how valiant, and how strong, and how experienced, and how willing to fight he may be.
He is not up to the standard required, and so he is rejected.
If you run and jump 7 feet after a ferry boat leaving the dock, and the ferry boat is 7I feet
away, you fall into the water just as surely and get just as wet as a little child who only jumps
one foot, and you sink just as deep, for you both go to the bottom.
“ Almost ” is a dangerous word. It is so alluring, but is really so deceptive. What you want
is a certainty. You want to be assured. You want definite information. You want—not “almost,”
but absolutely—the best, YOU want a Ruberoid Roof.
AGENTS:—
Fremantle, W.A.
J. M. Ferguson, Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
A. W. Sandford & Co.,
Melbourne, Vic.
Brooks, Robinson & Co.
Launceston, Taa.
Hedeey Button.
Wellington, N.Z.
James W. Jack.
E. Rl CH & CO., Limited
B
RISBANE.
SYDNEY,


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
VoL. 24.—N0. 1199.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1903.
Phiob ®d
THE GREAT AUSTRALIAN BITE.-BE WARNED IN TIME!
THE PLAGUE-RAT, WHICH HAS APPEARED AT FREMANTLE, IS AGAIN IN QUEST OF DIRTY CITIES.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
** Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Maclkod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS AFTER
Ist NOVEMBER, 1909
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... ® 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... "J ®
Quarterly ... ... 0 7 0
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty.
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed'to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
pirt of the contents of this number, is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing ivith Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Cojnes of Tiie Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival o f each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludjate Circus.
South Africa — Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown;
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal; Solomon
and Wilson, S 3 flout St., Capetown ; Solomon and
Wilson, Commissioners Street, Johannesburg ; Granger
Bros,, Johannesburg ; Isaacs and Co., Durban; Argus
Printing Co., Rhodesia; Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
Ceylon .—Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver.- Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
B.C.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 22 Queens Road, Hong
Kong.
China.— Brewer and Co., SI Wanking Road, Shanghai.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1903.
Concerning Some Financial Cripples.
Probably there is no other country in the
world which carries such a large proportion of
lame, crippled and partially-dead financial
institutions as Australia. They are not
nearly so numerous as they wore three or
four years ago, but still they are numerous
—reckoning banks, land banks, large
building societies which would make very
respectable banks in the country districts of
the United States, and miscellaneous places
which take in the deposits of the public (to
say nothing of sundry assurance societies),
they are much more numerous than is com-
monly supposed. The “ reconstructed ”
institution is peculiar to Australia. In
most countries, when a bank is unable
to pay its creditors on demand it just
dies—unless some other institution comes
forward with the money. The art of
making terms with the unpaid credi-
tor—of giving him something on account
and a long-dated bit of paper for the rest
—of turning him partly into a preference
shareholder, and partly into a debenture-
holder, and partly writing him off, and
inscribing him, and making him “ preferred ”
or “ deferred ” or “ interminable,” and pro-
mising to pay him the shortage out of profits
—in brief, the great art of prolonging the
agony and keeping the snake alive till sun-
set—these things are mostly, if not wholly,
Australian.
* m . 9 \ 9 N. •
It may be admitted at once that recon-
struction was, in most cases, a wise proceed-
ing ; it was bad, but for most of the country
to go into liquidation would have been worse.
It may also be admitted that the finan-
cial institutions which went broke in ’93
were not all wholly responsible for what
happened to them. They perished through
the breaking of a boom which they made in
part, and which was partly owing to frantic
borrowing by the people’s Government, reck-
less land sales, a hilarious belief that it would
rain in the West every year, and a wildly
unreasoning faith in “ our magnificent
natural resources.” Many of the institutions
that perished were swindles pure and simple,
and the promoters thereof ought to have gone
to gaol, but didn’t. Most of those which
survive were concerns which intended to be
honest but didn’t know any too well what
honesty meant; and many of them were run by
ignorant, incapable and pompous bounders
who meant well, but who made a shocking ex-
hibition of themselves by posing in high places
as financial authorities of bottomless sagacity,
and grieving over the crude ideas of Labor
politicians and the like. The bounders are a
little less vociferous now. Some of the insti-
tutions they helped to wreck have, by
immense efforts, wiped off their losses;
some others of them have made great
efforts and have wiped oft' part of their
losses, and are dragging the rest of the
dead body along with them till further
notice ; and some are not doing much
beyond drifting. If the matter was one
which concerned only the shareholders it
would be the shareholders’ exclusive funeral.
Even if it concerned only the shareholders
and the depositors it wouldn't be, strictly
speaking, the funeral of the general public.
But Australia in general has its good name
damaged by having this mob of financial
invalids convalescing publicly, year after
year, on its front balcony, as an advertise-
ment of the hospital inside. And there is
always the fear that just a little more slump
—which may come to pass any day if the
supply of foreign loans gives out—would end
some of the partially-recovered invalids.
Then another long row of funerals would
start from this country’s front door, with
the liquidator driving the hearse and the
depositors weeping in the rear carriages.
• • • •
A Federal Banking Bill is promised for
the coming session of the Australian Parlia-
ment, and, in addition to putting the utterly
unsatisfactory banking laws of the Common-
wealth on a better footing, it ought to con-
tain some provision for removing the horde
of financial derelicts off the stage. Those
which have a good chance of recovery should
be assisted in order to make the recovery
more rapid ; any that have absolutely no
chance should be asphyxiated decently in a
quiet spot and put out of their misery. It
would be possible, in many cases, to give a
large amount of assistance without risk, and
even with a profit, to the Treasury The
case of the Bank of New Zealand, which was
saved and put on its feet again by Govern-
ment interference, is a case in point; and
the fact that the Maoriland Government was
foolish enough to demand nothing in return
for its aid need not be a case in point.
* • * •
Anyone can locate quite a number of insti-
tutions which, if the money were available,
could buy up large quantities of their depre-
ciated securities at a low figure, and thus
greatly reduce their liabilities. If the Philp
Government, for instance, were something
else than the dead broke concern it is, and
could have spent £1,000,000 during the last
few years in gradually buying up the deposits
of its Queensland National Bank at the
figure which seems now to be chronic with
that institution, it could have taken in return
£1,000,000 worth of preference shares carry-
ing a minimum 5 per cent, dividend with a
prospect of more, which would have been a
paying investment for the State. And
on this basis the bank would have saved
about £15,000 a year in interest, and
have wiped off some £500,000 or
£700,000 of its deficit in one act. Such a
proceeding, of course, would make the
Queensland National Bank virtually a State
institution. The State would be the largest
shareholder, the auditor, and, to all intents,
the manager. But, on the other hand, the
benefits would be so large that even the
most excited apostle of Private Enterprise
should be able to recognise them. The
State would make, under any kind of
decent management, a handsome and per-
manent profit on its investment. The
institution would be from £500,000 to
£700,000 nearer to definite solvency, and
also about £15,000 a year nearer to
the same desirable goal. The private
shareholders would be that amount nearer
to a dividend ; a great mass of un-
wholesome-looking securities would be taken
off the market ; and one financial cripple
would be making better progress towards
convalescence.
* • * •
A similar method might have been adopted
in N.S.W. with the Australian Joint Stock
Bank if the O’See Government had not used
all the trust funds for other purposes, and if
the demands for assistance for the Balmain
Choral Union and similar brassy mendi-
cants, and the general habit of scatter-
ing money loosely around, hadn’t swal-
lowed up even the eleven millions of
revenue. It might also have been adopted
in Victoria with the A. 1). and M. Bank,
the Land Mortgage Bank, and one or two
large building societies. Likewise, if the
Bent Government had largely bought up,
especially during the recent slump, the pre-
ference shares and Assets Trust deposits of
the Commercial Bank (though that institu-
tion is no longer among the very bad samples
■of crippledom), and constituted itself a pre-
ference shareholder for the money expended,
it might have made a good investment for
itself and improved the position of the insti-
tution by half-a-million. In every case, of
course, this would mean constituting the
State principal shareholder with a decisive
voice in the management, but it would be a
highly-profitable bargain for the private
shareholders also. As the State Governments
seem incapable of moving in the matter, and
as Australia is weary of seeing the old ghost
turning up daily in the long column
of depreciated deposits that decorate the
share-list, the Australian Parliament should
consider whether it isn’t due to inter-
fere. To do so effectually it would have to
assume large powers to audit and supervise
all institutions which take deposits from the
public ; to order the closing of institutions
whose position is utterly hopeless unless the
parties concerned put up sufficient money to
place them on a better basis ; to come to the
aid of embarrassed concerns which are not
hopeless, and constitute itself a preference
shareholder on terms that will leave it a
profit and yet make things better for the
sufferer ; to amalgamate superfluous institu-
tions under its charge while preserving the
interests of the private shareholders ; and
generally to do something to lift the reproach
that lies on Australia of being about the most
reconstructed country on this globe.
* * * •
These proceedings would put sundry Aus-
tralian banks in the same position as, say, the
Bank of Norway, wherein the State is chief,
but not sole, shareholder. Should they result,
later on, in complete Federal ownership and
consolidation, so much the better. If the
Federal authority thinks of taking over any
existing institution or institutions as the
nucleus of a Government Bank, as has been
frequently suggested, it is better to take
over and amalgamate the wrecks than to
take over a solid concern and leave the
invalids still in full public view. Some of
them are a distinct blot on the landscape,
and some, by reason of the possibility that
another slump may come before they are
strong enough to stand it, are an actual
danger. And it is better, in one sense,
that the Bank of the People should be
formed by taking over existing institutions
than start as a separate and additional insti-
tution. If it started as an additional insti-
tution it would increase competition, which
is too great already ; the extra competition
would increase the danger that one or two
existing banks might go down and wreck
many sober and respectable Australian
citizens in their fall ; and it would make
them try to grind their debtors even a little
harder in their effort to keep up. In an
over-banked country all these things call for
consideration. A process which would make
less banks instead of more, leave two or
three less managements and directorates to
live on the game, and repair or take alto-
gether out of public view certain concerns
which look as if the next panic would pro-
bably overtake them before they have
nearly recovered from the last one, would
have points of advantage.
An Agent-General on Loans.
In financial matters an Australian Agent-General
is a hired ostrich, who buries his head in the sand
for a consideration, and takes a cheerful view of
his State’s credit for a salary. As a rule, he does
it with the air of one who fully believes what he
says ; but it is only necessary to picture what
would happen to an Agent-General who frankly
admitted in London that his State was wild,
foolish, extravagant, and possibly booming along
the high road to bankruptcy, to realise the worth-
lessness of his assurances that all is well. In
financial matters he appears for the defendant,
and the person who appears for the defendant
isn’t expected to state that the defendant is about
as bad a character as anyone could reasonably
expect to meet. The latest Agent-General to be
honestly surprised (at a good salary), and un-
feignedly shocked (for his living) at the aspersions
cast on Australia’s borrowing policy, is Grainger
of South Australia. The following extract shows
that Grainger is quite as much shocked as anyone
could reasonably expect at the money :
With the indebtedness of Australia and the indebted-
ness per head of Australians most writers on financial
subjects deal fairly, clearly, and with knowledge ; others
have to be told again and again that in Australia the
Governments own railways, tramways, harbors, wharfs,
jetties, roads, telegraphs, telephones, waterworks, etc.,
and that several of these undertakings return more net
revenue—after deducting working expenses—than the
interest on the cost of construction. There can be no
objection to the money expended in any country under
Responsible Government being £lOOO per head of the
population, so long as the profit exceeds the amount of
interest at which that £lOOO per head has been borrowed.
I do not know, nor do I wish to ascertain, what the
indebtedness per head of this country amounts to, nor the
area of land still belonging to the people. By the
indebtedness per head I mean the public debt, plus muni-
cipal debt, plus the cost of railways, canals, etc. Such a
calculation, if it could be arrived at, would be of no value.
Our Australian debt has not been expended in glory and
gunpowder, in purchasing remounts from plundering
rascals, and in other utterly asinine blunders, nor is our
taxation, under the heads of income tax, municipal, and
county council rates, as burdensome or as heavy as that
of our generous English critics.
* • • *
Grainger is certainly vigorous enough, but he
is horribly unconvincing, and the care with which
he dodges the question at issue is really painful.
Australia certainly is far less heavily burdened
with national and municipal taxes than Britain is,
and that is just where the largest crack lies.
Australia pays out of loans (largely foreign loans)
many things which Britain pays out of taxes;
therefore, Australia is less heavily taxed. And
the fact that Australia doesn’t, through not
paying sufficient taxes, pay its way as Britain
does, has really come to be regarded as some kind
of a virtue—as a valuable disease to be petted and
preserved ; and Agents-General speak proudly of
it (for a reasonable salary). The Bulletin
is not surprised that it should be so. The world
is full of quite respectable-looking citizens who
would profess to be proud of a caterpillar or a boil
for a moderate salary.
* * * *
In recent months the Australian Agents-
General have been kept rather busy expressing, in
the London papers, their absolutely honest "and
disinterested conviction (which they are paid for)
that Australian finance is perfectly sound. But
not one, so far as The Bulletin is aware, has ever
yet faced this point—which is the real point after
all: The public debts of Australia were certainly,
in a large measure, incurred for the construction
of public works, though in very many cases they
were for public works which are wholly, or to a
great extent, unprofitable ; and the public debts of
Britain, France and the United States were
largely incurred for unprofitable wars. But Aus-
tralia’s debt is mostly a foreign debt, while the
debts of these other countries are almost wholly
owing to their own people. And the JES a man owes
himself, even if he incurred the debt for the worst
possible motives, embarrasses him a great deal less
than the £5 he owes to someone else, even if the
debt was created with the best possible intentions.
Great Britain, France, and the United States,
when the national accounts are balanced, owe no
outside person or State a penny for their roads,
railways, telegraphs, publio buildings, harbors,
canals, or even for their disastrous wars. The Aus-
tralian Commonwealth owes nearly £200,000,000
(£49 per inhabitant) to outside creditors, which
means that about £7,000,000 has to be exported to
pay interest. Not, be it observed, £7,000,000 a
year paid to local creditors, and spent locally in
goods and wages, but £7,000,000 spent in goods
and wages in Britain —which makes all the
difference.
* • • •
A good deal too much self-congratulatory
twaddle is written about the fact that Australia’s
foreign debt was incurred mostly for public works.
If Australia had built its public works out of taxa-
tion, and then incurred the same debt by foolish
wars, provided the war debt was a local one, it
would be a great deal better off than it is now.
The ghastly fact, which no whitewashing arts can
disguise, is that, in a list of the 18 principal States
of the world, Australia owes more money per
inhabitant, which is not represented by remunerative
assets, than any save France and Portugal.
France owes its debt to itself, and is reasonably
prosperous; Portugal owes its debt to other nations,
just like Australia, and has gone bankrupt.
And Australia isn’t, by any means, the only
country which has State railways, telegraphs,
banks, &c., to show for its debt. Germany,
Austria, Sweden, Norway, Denmark, and Bel-
gium also borrowed money mainly for public
works, but they confined their borrowings far
more carefully to remunerative works than Aus-
tralia did, and didn’t call deficits, and State aid
to religion, and military stores, and roads, and
sand-shifting, and immigrants’ passage-money,
“permanent and reproductive works” to any-
thing like the extent Australia has done.
* • • •
Australia has six notable delusions in the
matter of its loan policy :
(1) That it is the only country with great public assets
in the way of State-owned lands. Even old countries
like France, Austria, Prussia, Italy, and Russia have huge
assets of the same kind.
(2) That itis the only country whose debt wasn’t incurred
for war purposes, whereas there are plenty whose debt
was also incurred chiefly for public works, and in all
Europe and most of America it is only possible to find
two countries with so heavy an unremunerative debt per
head as Australia possesses.
(3) That the State lands of Australia are in some way a
security for the public debt, which they are not, for,
under the present system of finance, every penny that
can be screwed out of them is required to cover ordinary
expenditure.
(4) That desert (and most of the still unsold land is
practically desert) is a convincing asset if the figures are
only large enough.
(5) That the fact that Australia persistently refuses to
pay enough taxes to keep itself decently solvent is, in
some way, a merit and a proof of its solvency.
(6) That the fact that Australia’s railways, &c., pay to
a certain extent while the country is in a condition of
boom created and maintained by foreign loans, is proof
that they will pay equally well when there are no foreign
Joans and no boom.
Any Agent-General who would write to the press
about these six matters, and write clearly and
definitely—not fly promiscuously off the handle
about our railways, and our unsold lands, and
other countries’ war debts —would have an excel-
lent chance to say something interesting.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Gippsland Coal Troubles.
The existing strike at two out of the three Gipps-
land coal mines once again sets forth the folly of
the State in not inaugurating a system of com-
pulsory arbitration—purely for its own advantage.
The strike is chiefly over a proposed reduction of
Is. per ton in the hewing rate —from 3s. 6d. to
2s. 6d.—wages of shift men and other employees
being lowered 20 per cent. But there are other
matters which cause the miners to look on the
management with considerable suspicion—the
proposed abolition of the understanding that the
8-hours’ day shall be reckoned from bank to bank;
the new rule that any man absent two days in a
fortnight shall be deemed to have left his job;
restriction of the advancement of wheelers, shift-
men and brushers to be coalmen; and the pro-
posed new rule that no manager, assistant
manager, overman, deputy, engineer, engine-
driver, stoker, braceman, tipper, weighman
or screener shall belong to any coal-miners’
association or union. Another matter which has
caused much trouble between the parties is tin
shifty treatment meted out to the Outtrim miners
since Jan. 1, when a notice was posted intimating
that the mine would be idle till the sth, in order
to fix a new endless rope. On the sth this notice
was extended till the 7th ; again that day till the
8tli; and again that day till the 12th. When the
first notice was posted, many miners asked a
week’s leave to visit their distant homes, but were
refused ; they waited about—and still wait. At
Outtrim mine, which, in the present dispute, is
working hand and glove with the Jumbunna, this
is the fourth strike within 18 months. The
co., being “on its own,’’has hitherto been defeated,
but now a combined attempt is being made to down
Labor in the Gippsland collieries. The third co.,
the Coal Creek Co., is so far working on a tem-
porary agreement, and seems likely to come tc
terms with its employees, though strenuous efforts
are being made to bring it into the combine. Th«
points in dispute are not so complicated or incap
able of solution that an Arbitration Court couldn’/
settle them in a couple of days, but there is no
such Court. If there were, it would have to be t
compulsory one, for any co. that had four strikes
in 18 months would be viewed with suspicior
by the most conciliatory Court in the world.
Meanwhile, the State’s property is lying idle, the
State railways are sending money away to N.S.W
which is badly needed in Victoria, and severa
hundred miners are unemployed. Even Beni
knows the folly of such proceedings !
The Conspiracy Against White Labor
in_N.Q.
About the tricks of N.Q. nigger advocate*
“ J. F. K. ” writes:—
The general feeling towards the white cane-cutters or-
the Mossman I found hostile, bitterly so. No accusation,
however false, seemed too bad to bring against them-
One vindictive remark of a cane-grower, who had not
registered for the rebate, was : “ Wait till they come tc
’s ; they’ll meet their Waterloo ! ” Clearly it was
to be no question as to whether white men could cut cant
in this climate ; the point at issue was—Could white mer
cut cane for the mill if the mill people and nine out ol
ten of the growers did not want them to ? In the first
place, the only communication the employer would hold
with the men was through a “ contractor,” in privatu
interviews, at which no witness from the men’s
side was permitted to be present. Under these cir
cumstances, I was not surprised to hear that the
contractor" threw up the job at a critical time.
Ihe men were then cutting grub cane going under seven


tons to the acre and were behind in their output. The
mill people seized the opportunity to harass them, told
them their deposit was forfeited and their services would
be dispensed with. More than half the men threw up
the sponge and deserted. White cane-cutting in this
instance had been a ridiculous fiasco, and the black squad
was triumphant. At this point a storekeeper came for-
ward with a deposit of £5O, and the mill agreed to let the
gang appoint another “contractor” and start again on
the same terms as before with a greater number of men.
It was at this time (Sept. 9) I managed to beat into the
party working at the Little Mossman. One of the farms
we cut went under seven tons to the acre and was so
overgrown with matted vines three or four feet deep that
it could not have been cut at any profit at all but for the
rebate money. Though we were actually out of pocket
cutting it, rather than be beaten—as it was confidently
assorted we would be—we cut it clean out. When the
last load went off, the owner was so delighted and
astonished that he came among us and said, “ I’ve
had all sorts working for me during the last
five years, but you are the gamest men I’ve
ever struck.” He then gave us a gratuity. Yet
the very next da.v he put blacks in, showing that he
had only registered for white labor in order to clean off
his rubbish and clear his land for a fresh start with nig-
gers. In the meantime the other party had been engaged
on what I had been tauntingly told would be their Water-
loo. They proved thpmselves white men and got
through all the bad ground. On the Saturday the
men were knocked off, it was known that the very last of
the had cane had been cut, and a terrible corner of it had
been going about 3 tons to the acre. All there was before
the men then was some 500 tons of clean standing cane
going about 30 tons to the acre and three weeks to" do it
in. It would not have taken more than six or seven days
at the outside. They loaded 15 trucks that morning, of
cane cut over night, and then started cutting. They had
been cutting about two hours when a Jap. rode
up with a letter from the mill. It was an order
from the manager to cease work. The cane cut
was afterwards loaded on the trucks in three hours It
filled 34 -trucks, weighing 51J tons, cut and loaded by 22
men in five hours, which show's what money can be made
under favorable circumstances in heavy cane. In the
evening, the “contractor” returned with the informa-
tion that our services were dispensed with, as the cane
delivered by us had been 1£ ton short of the specified
quantity for some time, and our £lOO deposit would be
held as forfeit, unless the “contractor” would sign a
document confessing his inability to carry out the work.
Myself and all but 11 of the gang had joined too late to
pay anything towards this deposit, and were not allowed
to have any say. The others put it to the vote among
themselves, and resolved by a majority of two not to
sign. Tney held to their resolution for another 10 days,
and then signed “ confession of failure,” and divided the
£lOO among them. Nigger advocates in N.Q. are reso-
lute not to give white labor a fair trial; and they won’t
stick at anything to effect their purpose.
♦
An Impeached. Lands Minister.
The resignation of Victorian Lands Minister
M’Kenzie, by reason of a charge brought by
Labor member Prendekgast of using his Minis-
terial position for his own private profit, is a heavy
blow to the Irvine Government. It has been in
office a very short time, and imputations of such
a kind are about the worst charges under which a
new “Reform” Ministry can suffer. Also,
when a Tory squatter Cabinet has to drop
mer board, even temporarily, its most bitterly
Tory squatter with the shadow of an awk-
ward accusation upon him, the situation is
more difficult than if it was a different kind
of man who went overboard. It isn’t so much
Pkendergast’s charges as M'Kenzie’s own
explanations that constitute the trouble. Even if
nothing absolutely illegal has been done or alleged,
the story as told by M'Kenzie himself sounds
none too well as a matter of high moral principle.
The gist of the ex-Minister’s narrative is as
follows:
He held 14,000 acres of State land under lease in the
broken and rather inaccessible Fumina district at a very
low rent. He says he lost money by doing this, but
kept the lease so as to have a block of well-watered
country to fall back upon in dry seasons.
Last vear, when the drought was at its worst, he applied
for and obtained from his own Department, a lease of
another 7300 acres adjoining the above, at a yearly rental,
it is alleged, of £6— as M'Kenzie puts it, at “the usual
rental.” He says he took up the extra block because he
wa9 about to put stock on his own 14,000 acres, and it
was cheaper to take up the adjoining block than to repair
his fence so as to keep his stock within bounds. Mr.
M'Kenzie says that this 7300 acres was so inaccessible
that no one else wanted it or would take it. In his own
words, “no person with starving stock would look at
that patch of land.” Yet he didn’t mind looking at it
himself—to a certain extent, at all events.
Then he “ made other arrangements” for his own sheep
near Wood’s Point, and sub-let the Fumina land, for some
large amount. With the rest he sub-let the 7300-
acre block which “no person with starving stock would
look at,” though how much of the rent he received was
on account of that patch doesn’t appear.
He either got permission from his own Department to
sub let, or did it without permission.
He admits having taken up another grazing lease in a
name that was not his own—in other words, having got a
third party or dummy to apply to his own Department
for him. He says this was done in the interests of purity
of administration, so that his underlings might sit down
hard on the dummy if the case called for it when they
might hesitate to sit on their own chief (Minister
M'Kexzie’s representative was not sat upon, either by his
underlings or by himself).
Minister M'Kenzie, by his own showing, looks
like a man who, in a time when land with water
and grass on it was immensely valuable, took up
a large area of it and made a profit out of the
community’s distresses. Whether he did anything
illegal, and whether in applying to himself for land
he gave himself any unfair advantage, is a differ-
ent question. A Parliamentary committee is to
enquire into that. But, however legal his actions
may have been, they look grasping and un-
patriotic. It is further alleged that the same
gentleman who took Minister M'Kenzie’s
land at a handsome profit to Minister M'Kenzie
had, in the worst period of the drought, 68,000
acres of land in well-watered Gippsland leased to
him by Minister M'Kenzie’s department for £2l
a year. This was about three times the area of the
land which he leased (it is said, for something
between £5OO and £1000) from Minister M'Kenzie.
The difference in the rental which Minister
M'Kenzie charged for his own land and for the
public land appears to be just as staggering as the
difference in the price at which M'Kenzie let the
public estate to himself and the price at which he
sublet it to the other man.
Taking “ A Firm Stand.”
From Melbourne come two unsatisfying items of
information. One is a vague and undefinable
assurance that, if the House of 48 Ricli Landlords
knocks the Reform Bill on the head, or amends
it out of all useful shape, and throws out the Pro-
bate Duties Bill again, the Irvine Government
will “take a firm stand.” The other is a rumor
to the effect that in such a case the Irvine Govern-
ment will take the heroic course of dissolving the
Assembly and appealing to the country. If it
does the latter, it might just as well let the
matter alone. The Victorian Council doesn’t care
bow often the Assembly appeals to the country,
•r what Assembly majority the Government
omes back with, and it has scoffed at that body’s
•ppeals and majorities for nearly 50 years. The
<ttBe, as set forth in the unpublished fables of
<Esop, i s something as follows :
The mouse decided that the cat was more of a nuisance
man usual, so he dissolved himself and appealed to the
Jountry for authority to remove that animal. And he
same back with a large majority.
And the cat didn’t move.
When the mouse had read the Bill for the removal of
the eat three times and still the cat didn’t move, the
mouse dissolved himself and appealed to the country
again, and came back with a larger majority.
And as nothing happened he dissolved again and
appealed to the country, and got the largest majority of
all, and it was decided that the cat’s conduct was Un-
constitutional.
And the mouse kept on dissolving hims'elf until he
became quite soluble and had to keep himself in a jug, and
things went on just as before.
hieh unpublished fable about expresses the
i idieulous. position into which Victoria has
allowed its unreformed Parliament to drift.
Ineie is nothing to be gained by dissolving
16 j ~s s? n . W as for “taking a firm
stand,” it is highly questionable if the Irvine
(government has the necessary amount of stand
about it. Nothing ordinary in the way of a
stand is of the slightest use. A century ago
(-Treat Britain faced a somewhat similar-problem
when it decided to shift the alleged Irish Parlia-
5 1 . en ,k.,. wasn’t really an Irish Parliament; the
disabilities laid on Catholics shut out the Irish
people from it almost bodily ; and as a Parliament
consisting mainly of alien Protestant oppressors
in Ireland it had made itself utterly loathsome by
l murder, torture, and other horrors of
the Middle Ages. As it wouldn’t abolish or
reform itself for the good of the country, the gang
of ruffians which formed the majority was bought
out, and departed from the scene for a considera-
tion. Victoria must either follow that precedent,
or make its House of Landlords shift by revolu-
tionary means, or organise a great movement to
hand over to the Australian Parliament all the
urgent social and economic questions on which
the sodden House of Landlords blocks progress.
Merely taking “a firm stand” in the ordinary
acceptation of the term is just as useless as taking
a hat-stand.
♦
The Curious and Bumptious British
Mental Attitude.
Almost every eminently respectable British
paper has had some remarks to make about the
exclusion of the six hatters (who weren’t excluded
at all), and the same quaintly and bumptiously
British attitude characterises the crowd. The
following sample (out of dozens) is taken from
London Statist :
We can imagine nothing better calculated to bring
about disruption. It is to be recollected that Australia
was originally acquired by the people of the United
Kingdom ; that it was settled by the people of the United
Kingdom ; that it was the people of the United Kingdom
who granted to the descendants of those settlers home
rule ; and that the intention all through was that Aus-
tralia should continue an integral part of the British
Empire, and should be open to all Britishers. The pro-
tection of Australia has been by Great Britain. The cost
of building up Australia has been at the expense of Great
Britain. And for the descendants of British subjects
settled in Australia, protected, fostered, encouraged, in
every way favored by the mother country, to turn round
now and refuse to allow their own relatives and fellow-
citizens to enter Australia is an act of actual hostility.
What would be thought here if Irishmen or Scotchmen
were refused admission into England? And yet the
Commonwealth of Australia professes to be an integral
part of the British Empire, while it refuses to allow six
British workmen to land upon its territory, except they
can prove that they are possessed of special skill which
cannot be found anywhere else in the Commonwealth.
Even from the narrow view of Australian interest, the
policy of this Immigration Act is utterly mistaken.
This is the typical British attitude in the matter—
the attitude of the British person in England who
can’t see that any other British person who lives
in a “ colony” has any of the ordinary rights of a
human being, or of a British citizen. Consider
the same question from another standpoint:
Australia was originally acquired by the people of the
United Kingdom. At that date we were as much the
people of the United Kingdom as the Statist or any other
British person, so we acquired it as well as they. And
we have some voice in our own acquisition.
It was settled by the people of the United Kingdom,
or rather by a small section of them. That is to say it
was settled by us— not by the Statist which stayed com-
fortably at home.
The people who stayed at home had the unutterable
insolence to decree, for nearly balf-a-century, that every
British person who went to Australia and helped to add
a new continent to the British Empire, should thereby lose
all self-governing rights and privileges and become subject
to the despotism of a British military Governor. At last,
with great reluctance, they partly withdrew the curse, and
enacted that the British person in Australiashould manage
his own affairs within certain limits—that he should only,
as a punishment for expanding the empire, lose all claim
to have a voice or a vote in deciding the policy of the
empire, and should be so far deprived of self-governing
rights that his legislation should be liable to be vetoed by
the Crown (which never dares to veto the legislation of
the British person who stays at home), on the advice of
the Ministry created by the British persons who stayed
at home. Also all high Imperial office is, in effect, closed
against him, and he can’t even be Governor of his own
State. The British person who stays at home actually
expects the equally British person who goes abroad and
builds up an empire to be abjectly grateful because things
are not worse, though the latter lives under conditions
that would cause a revolution if applied to England—for
even England would revolushe if it were deprived of all
control of the Empire’s naval and military policy, and
saw its Parliamentary Acts vetoed by some authority
over which it had no control—the Kaiser, for instance.
And the British citizen who stays at home and sees his
country enriched by the gold that comes from Australia,
by the rents that come from Australia, by the profits of
great British land-grabbing corporations in Australia, by
the profits of Australian silver coinage, by the exploiting
of Australia by British trading companies of all kinds,
really has a vague idea that Australia was built up at the
expense of Great Britain. He couldn’t tell to save his
life exactly where the building-up expense came in, but
it is a tradition with him that is somewhere around.
Above all, the British individual who has spent all his
life in a London office has an idea that somehow or other
he pioneered the Australian wilderness, struggled over
the mountains, tracked out the deserts of Mount Browne
and Kalgoorlie and Cooper’s Creek, and the wildernesses
of the Overland Telegraph line ; and he is really indignant
under his glistening shirt-stud that the Australianised
Briton who actually did these things isn’t sufficiently
grateful to him, for saying he did them. And the idea
that the Briton who went out and added a new continent
to the British empire, and his sons and grandsons, should
dare to do anything displeasing to the fat, lazy, un-
enterprising Englishman who stayed at home in an office,
and never expanded the empire worth 2d.—well, it makes
the person in the office in London feel too shocked for
words.
>
If Our Credit Were Stopped.
One Horatio BoTtomley, widely and unfavor-
ably known in many quarters, has been speaking
rather sternly in London about this country’s
anti-colored-alien policy, and threatens that unless
Australia mends its ways Britain will lend it no
more money. Supposing that event did happen
it might be a pretty bad shock at first—yet, alter
all, what a razzle Australia might have ! An
enormous amount of the respect this country pays
to Britain arises out of the desire to keep on good
terms with the man who lends the money, and if
we were once certain that that man would lend no
more, Australia would feel something like Mr.
Toots when he came to the end of his last term
at Dr. Blimber’s commercial academy, and
threw off his allegiance, and called the principal
“Old Blimber.” Now, when a big loan falls
due, Australia absolutely grovels to get it renewed
for the sake of its credit, and pays from £50,000
to .£300,000 in commission, perks, steals, stamps,
boodle, etc., for getting it done. When Australia’s
credit doesn’t need to be preserved any longer, it
will probably cease to worry about these things.
It will, in all probability, just remark, “Gentle-
men, this loan is due. We can’t pay it, but just
hang on to your securities till we can. Consider
them renewed indefinitely at 3 per cent, or 3£
per cent. Send in the documents and get them
rubber-stamped ‘ renewed till further notice.’ ” _ It
might even go further and make its foreign
bondholders subject to income - tax, from
which they have hitherto been free—various
countries have done that when they became quite
certain that they had no further use for their
credit in London. These things might not be
strictly honest, but they would probably be as
honest as could be expected under the circum-
stances ; nobody knows till he tries how much of
his honesty is his own, and how much of it arises
out of a desire to raise another loan. When any
Tory rose to remark that some proposed measure
“would produce a bad effect in financial circles in
London,” the House, for the first time in the
memory of any man now living, would be able to
dash financial circles in London with a loud,
off-hand dash. Australia would grow free arid
riotous, and cock.. its hat over one ear,
and ostentatiously jump on English financial
papers in its club. When any one told the
Treasurer that our securities were down to £BO in
London, lie would be able to say frankly that he
didn’t care if they were down to 2d. in London..
Then a Repudiation Party would begin to arise
which would ask how on earth Britain could ex-,
pect us to pay the interest when it wouldn’t lend
us the money to pay the interest with. There
would be bad times if Britain definitely stopped
our credit, but there would be hilarious times, too.
Australia might have only 3d. left, but it would
drink that 3d. with a large, hairy howl, and refuse
to go home till morning on any terms.
♦
Smellful Hobart.
Hobart, which, if it were a decently clean city,
would have the chance of being hospitable to
20,000 or so visitors from the hot mainland every
summer, is at last thinking of washing up a little.
The present sanitary state of the naturally beauti-
ful little city would disgrace a Chinese town.
Loathsome liquid refuse is run into cobble-stone
gutters, where it festers in the sun between storms
(sometimes for weeks at a time). Open sewers of
the most primitive kind are provided, as for
instance (to quote an official report):
By Act of Parliament the Hobart Rivulet, which flows
through the centre of the city, has been dedicated as a
public sewer. Accordingly, the sewage from numerous
dwellings and business premises throughout the city is at
present directly discharged into it. From a point just
above Macquarie-street, where it crosses the rivulet, to a
point near Harrington-street, the bed of the Hobart
Rivulet is formed either of concrete or stone pavement.
A channel about four feet in width has been constructed
down the centre, for the purpose of carrying off the dry-
weather flow. The paved portion of the rivulet varies in
width from 13 feet to 30 feet. The various pipes which
carry off the sewage discharge their contents directly on
to the paved floor, where it remains until such time as
the scavenger comes along with his broom and sweeps it
into the channel in the centre. The existence of such a
state of things is most reprehensible, and calls for imme-
diate and drastic remedial measures, for it is only in very
rare instances (in times of continuous heavy rainfalls)
that the paved bed receives a thorough cleansing. The
sight and smell of such masses of filth awaiting the ad-
vent of the broom are objectionable and highly offensive.
Natural results, a constantly-infected atmosphere
and an annual typhoid epidemic (so that there
will not be too many recoveries from typhoid,
Hobart Hospital is built by the banks of this open
sewer). It is now proposed to lay down a fairly-
civilised sewerage system. Certainly it is only to
be a small affair, confined to the city area, and
discharging at Point Macquarie right into Hobart
harbor, but as the city population is not very great
(about as large as that of a big Sydney suburb),
and as, before discharge, the sewage will be partially
treated in a septic tank, the system will probably
serve well enough for a generation or so. It has
the advantage of being well within the means of
even so poor a community as Hobart. Mr. E. i 1.
Wilkinson, the engineer for drainage, calculates
the total cost at £79,341, and the annual charge
for interest, up-keep, and repayment of debt at
£5550. Hobart should not hesitate a moment,
but seize this cheap opportunity of stepping into
the ranks of civilised towns.
»
The “ Injunction ” Weapon.
In the general campaign against trades-unionism,
the “ injunction ” in Equity is proving a powerful
weapon. As regards this campaign, its sudden
origin is mysterious ; it seems to have sprung up
in a night, as it were. Within the memory of
most, the London Dockers’ strike was evoking
general sympathy with trades-unionism through-
out England and Australasia; and if, in the
enthusiasm of a strike in those days, a union-man
was betrayed into such eccentricities of behavior
as went beyond rudeness to a “blackleg,” the
action was tacitly condoned. But, as organised
Labor has progressed, perfected its methods, and
become a political as well as an industrial power,
“ middle-class ” sentiment seems to have under-
gone a change, which is now all at once made
manifest. It would seem as if the bourgeoisie was
willing enough to give assistance to Labor when
revolting against practically intolerable condi-
tions of servitude, but promptly swings to the
other side when further concessions are claimed,
well enough warranted in justice, but not so
markedly necessary as those at issue in earlier
struggles. At any rate, whatever explanation is
the true one for its existence, the fact is obvious
enough ; the Labor cause is faced by antagonism
now, the degree of which is almost unexampled.
Not only is the Political Labor Party attacked,
but also the very principle of trades-unionism. The
favorite method in the latter attack is by “injunc-
tion in Equity ”; of this, there have been some
recent Australasian examples, and its value
as a weapon against militant trades-unionism is
undoubted in all the States except Maoriland and
New South Wales, where industrial arbitration
laws are in force. In those States —where the
law expressly decrees that preference of employ-
ment shall be given to trades-unionists, other
circumstances being equal—it is difficult to see
how a Supreme Court can logically punish a
trades-union for taking steps to boycott non-union
labor, or can restrain it from such action. But in
England, and in the Australian States where
trades-unionism, as a militant force, is tolerated
rather than legalised, there is little doubt that, if
the Judges share the temper of the class from
which they are drawn, trades-unions will find
their power practically paralysed by the free use
of “injunctions.” If a trades-union can be
restrained from seeking to compass the dis-
missal of blacklegs, from protesting against
a reduction of wages by inducing the
workers to strike, from taking action to
seduce from their employment men who would
take the place of striking unionists, it may as well
close its offices and dissolve. There is no longer
any real reason for its existence. And that is the
end which the organised employing classes aim at,
and which several recent “ injunction ” incidents
seem to suggest that they will aim at successfully.
Of course, that would not end the matter, Kill
the trades-unions and you will not thereby kill the
grievances which made trades unions necessary
and the resolution which made them possible.
The workers, repulsed at one point, will concen-
trate their energies to find relief at another, and
the bourgeoisie and its press organs, such as the
Sydney Daily Telegraph, will have occasion
to mourn that they ever conceived the idea of
screwing down the safety valve. The movement
which seeks to give the laborer a more honest
wage for his work, which opposes a social system
that condemns the majority of mankind to hope-
less poverty, cannot be crushed out at this stage.
It has gone too far. The majority has too much
power, and is too conscious of its power. The
injunction, and all the other legal subtleties by
which it is sought now to kill the vital force of
trades-unionism, seem to promise a great deal to
the cause of capitalism. But the promise is a
snare. The social-reform movement will not be
killed, will not even be seriously retarded ; it may
be turned into a more dangerous direction;
and that is the consummation which its enemies
now strive for —unwittingly.
4
Such Men !
Sir,—Without a doubt the most pleasing event of the
week is the election of Mr. Robert Reid to the Senate.
He is a worthy successor to that splendid man, Mr.
Frederick Sarqood. It is to be hoped that in the elec-
tions, now within measurable distance, we shall have
many such men coming out for the Senate and Lower
House, in place of the many professional politicians that
now occupy seats. . . . Abolish payment of members,
and you get rid of the undesirable class of men who now
get there, and we shall then get decent legislation, and
laws that will allow all to manage their own business
affairs ; and the country will prosper.— J. Leigh Jones.
[A letter to a Sydney daily paper. Note that the sort of
gentleman this correspondent is always signs “J. Leigh
Jones,” or “F. Critchley Snooks,” or “T. Park hurst
Smith,” the reason of which is that one must appear
important somehow, if not by being important, then by
preying upon the alphabet.]
It is a curious thing that in a professedly Chris-
tian community, which should believe that the
poor are the salt of the earth, and the rich the
damned or probably so; in a professedly educated
community which should, with even nodding
acquaintance with any of the principles of phil-
osophy, know that those qualities which make a
man rich in commercial competition are precisely
those which make it least likely that he will be of
an altruistic and public-serving type—the views
of Mr. J. Leigh Jones should find fairly general
acceptance. There is practical unanimity among
Men who Have and a very-widely-prevailing
notion among Men who Have Not, and can never
hope to Have, that the work of governing the
country is in good hands when a wealthy draper or
a more than ordinarily predatory stock-exchange
speculator condescends to go into politics. Such
men, it is reasoned, are likely to do well for the
community, because they have done well for
themselves at the expense of the community.
But apart from the fact that it is only
when tired of doing well for himself and
anxious to gratify some social or other vanity that
the rich man is willing to go into politics with the
dregs of his brain-power— is a graduation at the
school of predatory commercialism the best pre-
paration for public life ? The successful business
man in the drapery line and most other distri-
buting and speculative branches of trade—we do
not refer to the men who build up large manu-
factures and are actual producers mostly
succeeds at the expense of others. His whole
training is directed to teaching him to hood-
wink and bamboozle the public, to sell them
cheap things dear, or to induce them to sell him
dear things cheap. That is the secret of 30 per
cent, profits and large fortunes. To put this man
into politics and ask him to forget all about his
own profits and the profits of his business for the
sake of the community’s profit is to ask him to
turn his back on all the traditions of “business.”
This fact should be obvious enough, but very
little is obvious to the J. Leigh Joneses ; and it
is extraordinary how many J. Leigh Joneses
there are in the world.
*
Chamberlain’s “Tact.”
A large amount of the praise that has been ex-
E ended on Joseph Chamberlain for the “tact”
e has displayed in South Africa seems quite un-
called for. One remark in particular, instead of
suggesting tact and diplomacy as alleged, reads
rather like a clumsy putting of both feet into a
delicate situation. Chamberlain has told the
Boers that the late war was inevitable because
“two proud and kindred races had gone to South
Africa to stay,” and their natural desire for
supremacy made it impossible to avert a collision.
It would surely be difficult to say anything
clumsier. The two proud and kindred races
are still there. The elements which make
collision inevitable are still there. Britain
has thrice annexed the Transvaal, and
twice the Boers have shaken off the
yoke. They hope to shake it off again, and
Chamberlain has awkwardly reminded them of
the possibility of another war with that end in
view, for his luckless remark applies just as well
to the next collision as to the last one. The mere
fact that a British army is just now in Pretoria is
no proof that the present settlement is any more
definite than the other two. There has been a
British army on an errand of conquest before now
in Paris, and a French army in London, and they
are both gone and have left no trace. The Boers
have seen the back view of two British forces
retiringacrossthe Vaal, and theback view of a third
isn’t impossible. Anyhow, Joseph Chamberlain
has explained to them, in effect, that the hatchet
is unburiable —that where there are two proud
and warlike races in one country a struggle for
supremacy is inevitable. And they are still there,
with all the time between now and Judgment
Day to argue the question of supremacy. The
annexer always assumes that the settlement just
arrived at is permanent and unshakable; the
annexed always regards it as a mere passing
incident. And a look at the map of Europe as it
fluctuated from Caesar down to Chamberlain
shows that it is a toss-up. which is right.
—♦ '
Vic. Premier Irvine, lauded by the daily press
as the fine, strong, stern man, wobbled badly at
the recent A.N. A. fete. Replying to the toast of
the State Ministry, Irvine started off by remark-
ing that “Victoria has been fiddling too much
with socialism.” That, of course, was to please
the Tory faction that supports his Tory-tinged
Government. Continuing, “the strong man”
observed, “That may be a bold statement to
make in this or any other company, but I have
not the slightest hesitation in announcing it as
the honest result of eareful investigation on my
part.” It must be recorded to the credit of the
A.N.A. that a portion of Irvine’s audience at
once dissented from the assertion. There were a
couple of interjections in which Irvine was for-
cibly invited to look at Maoriland, and asked
whether he wanted to go back to the sweating
days when there was no State interference. “ The
strong ” man then began to wobble in a shameless
manner. He floundered around for a few minutes,
and then plunged headlong into, an advocacy of the
application of the principles of socialism to the
development of the “natural resource* of the


The EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
of the United States.
ASSETS
INCREASE IX ASSETS
FINANCIAL STATEMENT
FOR TEAR ENDING 31ST DECEMBER, 190 L
SURPLUS ••
INCREASE IN SURPLUS
£.68,966,608
£5,505,678
ASSURANCE IN FORCE
INCREASE IN ASSURANCE IN FORCE ..
£14,797,717
£1,039,973
THE NEW BUSINESS EXCEEDED THAT OF 1900 by ...
£245,682,651
£13,000,350
£8,088,718
LOCAL DIRECTORS:
Sir MM. M'MILLAN, K.C.M.G., Chairman; Hon. C. K. MACKELLAR, MB MLC"
F. NORTON MANNING, Esq., M.D. '
C. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia.
F C COWLEY Secretary & Wl D ' A U RCY IRVINE, F.S.S.,
F. C. COWLEY, Secretar}. Manager lor N.B.W. and Queensland.
SAWMILL machinery.
Single and Double Cutting BAXD MILLS for
hardwood logs, CIRCULAR SAW MILLS, Com-
plete Outfit* of any capacity. Band Resaws,
Engines'and Boilers.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
“The Rabbit Curse”
-la\ be turned into a blessing in disguise” by such as have the energy to
systematically set about trapping dear bunny.
The Rosewarne Packing Co., Ltd.
is now paying high prices for
rabbits at their Chilling Works
Narar.dera and Young, in any quantity. Send for particulars to the Company
either at their Works or their
Head Office : 70 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The experiment will pay you well.
country.” The Government, he said, was deter-
mined to set about big schemes of water conser-
vation to aid the people in making a living on the
land. Also something would have to be done by
the State for the mining industry. Further,
Irvine condemned in strong terms the system of
landlordism that is growing up in the Western
District of Victoria, where the squatters are
cutting up their estates and farming them out to
the dairyman and wheat-grower. He declared that
such a system would not tend to the advancement
of the country, nor would it be accepted by the
people as a satisfactory solution of the land ques-
tion. This announcement must have done much
to spoil the pleasure that Chief Justice Madden
and a few other Tories present derived from the
dinner they had just eaten. By and by, when the
Victorian democrats have freed their eyes from
the daily-newspaper dust about Irvine’s strength,
they will find that he is one of the most able
wobblers that has ever infested a land of public
wobble.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Lyceum “ Breaking of the Drought'*
RorAt, “ The Fortune Teller.*
Criterion. “Lady Barmaid.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Palace “Robin Hood.”
Town Hall. ......_ .„.. Jubilee Singers (Sat.).
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMINQ WEEK.
Princess’s “ Zaza.”
Theatre Rotal “ When London Sleeps.’
Opera House Rickards’Vaudeville Co.
r*
“ Robin Hood ” is rather opera with a
flavor of fun than comic opera. It runs on the
traditional lines of grand opera, is full of
meritorious and fairly original music, and must
depend for success on good singing—especially in
the choruses and concerted numbers. And it gets
very good singing from the Royal Comic Opera
co. at Sydney Palace. The cast is far and away
ahead of that entrusted with the last perfor-
mance of this opera at Her Majesty’s, as regards
soloists ; and the chorus maintains the standard of
excellence established decades ago. There are
male members of the R.C.O. co. who are growing
grey in the chorus (female members aren’t allowed
to grow grey, because of the brisk matrimonial
demand for them), and a man who has been prac-
tising to sing in tune 15 years or so ought to be
proficient. The tinkers’ chorus, the Sherwood
Forest hymn in praise of nut-brown ale, and many
another part-song, show the good work of the
supernumeraries of the co., and do much to estab-
lish the success of the present “ Robin Hood.”
* * * •
As to the principals, “Miss Carrie Moore
has at last deigned to show the public something
of her old merit, and as maid Marian—except for
a tendency now and again to force her voice—is
unexceptionable, bright, and winsome. Miss
Florence Young, as Allan-a-dale, is as successful
almost as in “Paul Jones”; boy parts suit her
voice and style. Miss Maud Chetwynd is bright
and pert, and Miss Ghiloni is pleasant in various
ways. Of the long list of male principals no one
is open to hostile criticism, and some do especially
good work—-Mr. Roberts, Mr. Thorley (a fine
figure of “Little John”), Mr. Fred Young and
Mr. Stannis Leslie. The “comic relief” of the
opera is provided by Mr. Lauri as the Sheriff of
Nottingham and Mr. Ward as Sir Guy. The
make-up of the latter, as a flagrant idiot of a type
which is common enough in these days among the
British aristocracy, is probably a gross libel on
the nobility of Merrie Englande in the days of
Richard the Big Crusader. The lords of those
times had their faults; they didn’t wash to any
extent, and they had no idea of the refined Stock
Exchange methods of robbing their neighbors, and
they were predatory in a rough, unpleasant fashion,
which made a mess on the Castle floor and dis-
turbed the air with horrid groanings; still they
were not weaklings, for it was an age when the
tallest survived and the broadest came out
on top. Mr. Ward’s anachronistic nobleman is
a poor creature who could only have been reared
in an incubator; but he is, all the same, genuinely
funny and a marvel of make-up. “ Robin Hood ”
is to be continued until further notice, and will be
followed by “ The Geisha.” The idea of present-
ing a new opera this season has been abandoned.
The Palace stage is so small that to have new
scenery painted for it would be a wasteful pro-
ceeding ; the canvases would be unavailable for
any other theatre.
** » *
“ The Lady Barmaid,” which is under
grave suspicion of being really “ The New Bar-
maid,” was begun at Sydney Criterion last Satur-
day, and proved itself twin sister to numerous
other musical comedies that Sheridan has staged
during his stay. Its general ideas are about as
familiar as the now ancient programme observa-
tion that “ every lady who removes her hat during
a performance shows a graceful consideration for
those occupying seats behind her.” Johnny, in
Act 1, is a head-waiter who, curiously enough, does
not upset things—the stage waiter generally does.
Sydney Carden ishis affiuent brother with a horrible
accent. In Act 11., John F. wears the maroon
complexion and red suit with blue facings that
marks an African millionaire; while bis brother,
t hrough too much high living,is reduced to the tray-
carrying business. The rest of the family (who
don’t appear) are mother, who is on the job again;
and Eliza, doing time in Darlinghurst. Mean-
while, the two barmaids are separately discovered
on strong absence of evidence to be the long-lost
daughter of a sun-dried Colonel. The rest of the
plot consists in Johnny, as waiter, telling the good
new barmaid to be sure and let them hear the
cash-box bell ring occasionally, the bad ex-barmaid
having neglected to do so. When he shows her
how todrink toast-and-water with the fleeting dude
of the moment, and charge liim a shilling for it,
the audience applauds till Johnny advises them
not to as it is too hot. There are one or two fair
musical items in “The Barmaid,” notably “Here-
ditary Tendencies,” by Johnny and Sydney
Carden, a topical song or two, and an item by
Tommy, otherwise Miss Tilke Dunbar. Miss
Celia Mavis, in white with red ribbons, is a model
for all publichouse maidens to follow ; while the
Folies Ballet and the dancing of Miss Minnie
Hooper are as good as previous displays of a simi-
lar nature, and not widely different from most of
them.
* * * *
The more or less Hungarian opera is doing
well in its third week at Sydney Royal, and
Madame Slap, as the two girls and the young
man, is as brilliant as ever. It is difficult to fix
the probable date of the story, but as Madame
Slap goes off and badly licks the Austrians in one
capacity and a uniform, while she stays behind
and mashes the short fat Count in two other
capacities and skirts, it is probably supposed to
have something to do with the revolutionary
period of ’4B and ’49. Still, Hungarian history is
filled for nearly four centuries with more or less
reliable tales about how a noble but not extra-
clean nation went out and licked the Austrians,
so, after all, it might belong to almost any date.
And, anyhow, a decent opera has a right to belong
to any date it thinks best.
* * * *
“ The Breaking of the Drought ” has now
an honorable life of many weeks to look back upon,
and it is not likely that anything will need to take
its place at Sydney Lyceum before the end of the
season. The numerous persons who prognosticated
that the Drought Drama would prove too sad for
a sympathetic city overrated the sensitiveness
of Sydney people altogether. The funereal sheep
and the withered horse and other items of public
distress are received with strong approval, and
there seems to be a demand for more of these
bones rather than less.
* * * *
Sydney Tivoli has no new features this
week, Inaudi, the Gracie Emmett Co., Wallace
Brownlow, and Professor Maccann being still the
chief attractions.
* * * *
Only one of the Melbourne shows drew a
full congregation last Saturday. Every seat for
the Armes Beaumont concert was sold some time
before the event, and the night was not quite hot
enough to keep people from taking out their
money’s worth. They had paid to go there, so
rather than make a loss over the transaction they
tottered up to the Town Hall, beaded with mois-
ture and haunted by a fear that Melba might beg
to be excused on account of the high temperature.
But Melba was as good as her word, or even
better. She sang, in beautiful voice, “Olieto
8uol,” from “Les Huguenots,” and gave “Doro-
thy May,” the happiest of her simple ballads, for
an encore. Subsequently she sang Mozart’s sweet,
churchy “ Voi che sapete ” bracketed with “Fille
de Cadiz,” which is saucy, and after several
attempts to escape the encore she threw in Tosti’s
“Serenata,” to her own piano accompaniment.
The weather favored the vocalists all round.
Melbourne was glad to find its old friend, Miss
Ida Osborne at her best, and the voice of
Miss Amy Murphy, from Maoriland, scored a
particular success. But, next to Melba, nobody
gave more satisfaction than Armes Beaumont,
the tenor who made his Sydney debut as Thaddeus
in the “ Bohemian Girl,” in 1863. Hearing him
on Saturday, it was hard to believe that this same
Beaumont had sung the principal tenor parts in
76 operas during the Lyster era, which closed in
1880, about the time The Bulletin was bom.
The voice was “ worked to death ” in its prime,
and still it flourishes when wanted in its 63rd
year. Beaumont deserved to have Melba sing for
him. Fate has been very unkind to him. If he
were a veteran English tenor with his present
vocal ability, instead of a veteran Australian
tenor, -he might fairly expect to be imported to
this country on his reputation, at a vast salary, in
about another five years from now.
* * * *
“ Zaza,” which might be advertised as a
nice, warm play for nice, warm evenings, promises
to achieve its financial purpose and show a profit
on the production. In some respects “ Zaza ” is
a likeable play. The plot is a false conception,
but the duologues—and the dialogue is mostly
duologue throughout—contain some human truths
re the husband, the wife, and the other woman.
Cascart, the music-hall man, in bright brown suit
and red necktie, takes the fancy of this scribe
because he comes along from time to time and
practically denounces the devotion of Zaza to her
blue-eyed commercial traveller (or whatever he is)
as an outrage on common sense. He says
to Zaza—“You know it can’t last, old girl,”
or words to that effect, and he pro-
poses to conduct the female scorcher back
to her native atmosphere of the ’alls. Yet the
dramatist gives a gullible public to suppose that
Zaza’s feelings would never have changed but for
her discovery of a lawful wife in the case. The
commercial gent might have been a confirmed
bachelor with a talent for keeping his occasional
infidelities dark, in which case Zaza would have
needed to love him furiously for evermore, or
forfeit her character as a sentimental heroine.
She took the man on spec, after throwing the
handkerchief to him. There was no question of
marriage between them. She had no misgivings
re his Saturday to Monday absences. Love had
purified the rorty song-and-dance artist of even
the suspiciousness that music-hall experience
breeds. Rats ! Therefore, the artless child of
fiction could get no particular public admiration
without the aid of a grievance, and the wife whom
Bernard treats to chocolate is the grievance.
Somehow the grievance is inextricably mixed with
the chocolate. The tidiness and good cookery of
Bernard’s orthodox home, as compared with the
untidiness and abominably bad cookery at Zaza’s
domicile, is another grievance against the Man.
Nellie Stewart gets a good grip of the heroines
grievance and shakes it for all it is worth. Some
nights her acting seems more spontaneous than
on other nights. When she scores her biggest
effect, a vehement amphitheatre accepts Zaza as
a genuinely noble character, and despises the
pleasant, married Bernard for being. anxious to
remain on good domestic terms with his wife and
child.
** * *
At Melbourne Royal there is a further
continuance of the things that happen “When
London Sleep®.” A previous reference to the
aforesaid drama stated that Inman was dropped
down a trap-hole in the last act. The Bulletin
withdraws the statement. Inman is saved from
the trap-hole by the sudden apparition of Bert
Bailey, consequently there is nothing except a
whack on the head to prevent him from giving a
trapeze performance outside the Indian Exhibi-
tion. ’Which explains why he clothes himself in
pink fleshings in order to conceal himself within
a brazen image what time Willard is preparing to
burn Miss Duggan to ashes on the adjacent grid-
iron. This is Willard’s second attempt to bum
Miss D. during the evening, so when the brass
god yields up its Inman, and the schemes of
Willard are foiled again, the p>olice step in to pre-
vent a third conflagration.
*m * *
The programme at the Opera House this
week is much the same as before, and the weather
at time of writing suggests that any violent
change of bill would be a wasted effort. The
exhausted panto, at Her Majesty’s comes to a full
stop to-morrow (Friday), after which the theatre
will take a fortnight’s rest prior to a return of the
opera co. The twice-a-night show at the Gaiety
has already full-stoppied, but somebody threatens
to re-op>en the ill-fated house with a once-a-night
variety co. The delusion that Melbourne can
support two variety shows at once has been
frequently exploded, but never destroyed.
** * #
Adelaide Tivoli, now re-opened with the
old-fashioned first pmrt restored, is doing well
with an all-round co. that includes the humorist
Spry and the Harbecks. Seeley and West, just
arrived from England (by way of Perth), have
been droppied into the programme, and the girls
who play net-ball are already in possession of the
stage. At the Royal, the Dampiers alternate
“Monte Cristo” and “East Lynne” with one
evening of Shakespeare each week. Wirth’s
Circus was so successful that it extended its
season ; it is now playing in the country towns.
The Wild Cat Column.
The Metropolitan Gas Co. (Melbourne), for
the half-year ended 31st. December, 1902, shows results
hardly up to the usual average :
New Works
Charged to Re-
Profits. Dividends. Revenue, serves.
Dec., 1899 £519,683
June, 1900 .. £47,129 8 p.C. =£34,288 632,524
Dec., 1900 .. 58,727 8 „ „ 34,288 £1,442 555,521
June, 1901 .. 53,955 9 „ „ 38,574 9,758 561,144
Dec., 1901.. 56,872 9 „ „ 38,574 10,725 568,717
June, 1902.. 50,212 9 „ „ 38,574 11,643 568,712
Dec., 1902.. 50,454 9 „ „ 38,574 6,172 575,420
The reserves consist of premium on shares, £466,536;
reserve fund, £87,366 ; meter renewal fund, £lO,OOO ; and
undivided profit, £11,518. The fact that the profits are
so much below those of the corresponding periods of
1900 and 1901 is set down to the disastrously high price
of coal. In other respects the figures show no material
alteration. The Metropolitan Gas Co. has issued deben-
tures to the extent of £848,000 (£50,000 worth of deben-
tures—presumably its own debentures—have been bought
up by the co. as a reserve fund investment, so apparently
there are £798,000 worth of these securities in circula-
tion). Through the very ill-judged increase of the
dividend to 9 per cent, any margin that might have
existed for the accumulation of a cash fund to pay, or
partly pay, these off at maturity has practically disap-
peared. The co. is making good progress, inasmuch as a
great deal of expenditure for the extension of its business
to new districts is now paid out of earnings, when it
might be charged to capital; but if the dividend had
been kept at 8 per cent, the co. might have, in addition,
done something in the way of a sinking fund, and con-
siderably reduced its load of debt when the debentures
begun to fall due in 1908.
• • • •
The Australian Coffee Palace Co., Limited
(Melbourne), which is also the principal shareholder in
the Hotel Metro pole, Sydney, shows results for 1902,
which are not materially different from those for 1901:
Added
Profits. Dividends. Written to Re-
off. Reserves, serves.
1892 .. £3OOB £2,937 £7l £27,689
1893 .. 395 434 27,650
1894 .. 331 18,355 0,626
1895 .. 594 10,114 106
1896 .. 976 600 £476 682
1897 .. 1776 1,600 276 858
1898 .. 1310 - 2,000 - 168
1899 .. 5054 4,000 1064 1,222
1900 .. 4860 3 p.c. = £l5OO 3360 4 552
1901 .. 5190 3 „ „ 1500 3690 8 272
1902 .. 5088 3 „ ~ 1500 - 3588 11,860
The earnings represent over 10 per cent, on the paid-up
capital of £50,000, but the dividend is wisely kept at a low
figure. The Australian Coffee Palace Co., as owner of
the Australian Coffee Palace in Melbourne and five-sixths
of the Hotel Metropole in Sydney, possesses an immensity
of bricks and mortar, and as it was all acquired in the
gaudy boom days a very large amount of writing off was
necessary to bring it down to present values. As a sign
that the process may not even yet be completed, despite
the large amounts written off, the largest part of the
existing reserves is called “ Freehold Depreciation Re-
serve, £11,000.” Moreover, there were huge mortgages
on both properties, and in view of the heavy interest bur-
den the management is wisely devoting a'large propor-
tion of the earnings to paying these off. The following
figures show the total mortgages on the Australian Coffee
Palace and Hotel Metropole at various dates :
December, 1896 £137,166 December, 1900 £9S 545
" 125 >786 „ 1901 88*625
” 115,593 „ 1902 81,100
„ 1599 107,000 '
When this process of repayment is completed the profit*
from both institutions should incro&se vcrv largely.
The Launceston Examiner speaks words of
comfort (partial comfort, at all events) to the people of
Tasmania s sloppy isle “ Our debt undoubtedly is
heavy, but we do not, like gome extreme writers, attempt
to draw comparison between it and the debts of other
countries. There is no analogy between a State which
undertakes railway construction and one which leaves it
to be done by private enterprise. Still we have borrowed
lavishly and spent foolishly.” Just so—but the respect-
able middle-aged paper considers it has done its whole
duty when it has made some perfunctory remark like
that, and it never thinks of telling the people exactly
haw lavish and how insanely foolish they have been. And
the respectable middle-aged paper extracts a world of
comfort out of our State railways, which really represent
a comparatively small portion of our borrowings—and
after all it isn’t so very unusual a thing for the State to
own railways. This is how things look when reduced to
hard figures, in a rough and ready way—it isn’t necessary
to pursue the calculation to the last shilling and copper
to point the moral:—
Debt apart
National Nominal from Railways,
and value of , - ■ ■,
Local State Per
Debt. Railway*. TotaL In habi-
tant.
£ £ £ £
France ..1,400,000,000 30,000,000 1,370,000,000 35
S Acstralla.. 26,000,000 13,500,000 12,500,000 34
Westralia .. 14,000,000 7,500,000 6,500,000 31
Tasmania .. 9,000,000 4,000,000 5,000,000 29
Portugal .. 148,000,000 15,000,000 133,000,000 28
Qceensland .. 36,000,000 22,500,000 13,500,000 27
N.S. Wales .. 75,500,000 45,000,000 30,500,000 22
Victoria .. 62,000,000 38,000,000 24,000,000 20
Holland .. 112,000,000 22,000,000 90,000,000 19
Spain .. .. 293,000,000 293,000,300 16
Greece.. .. 34,000,000 1,000,000 33,000,000 15
Italy . .. 653,000,000 130,000,000 423,000,000 14
Austria .. 655,000,000 231,000,000 324,000,000 8
United States. 425,000,000 425,000,000 6
Belgium .. 88,000,000 68,000,000 30,000,000 6
Russia . .. 703,000,000 208,000,000 495,000,000 5
Switzerland .. 13,000,000 13,000,000 4
Germany .. 604,000,000 487,000,000 117,000,000 2
Sweden and
Norway .. 85,000,000 23,000,000 12,000,000 2
Denmark .. 11,000,000 10,000,000 1,000,000 10/
» * • *
Great Britain (debt about £24 per head) is
omitted, because it is impossible to get the figures
accurately until the war liability i* put in shape. But
though the list is only a partial one, it is very eloquent.
Australia is full of people and papers that talk as if
owning State railways as a set-off to the public debt was
something quite extraordinary, and as if any foolishness
or extravagance was excusable in a perfectly extraordin-
ary country like Australia, which owned State railways.
Also, it is full of complacent idiots who think that every
other country’s debt is a war debt, and who imagine that
when the value of Australia’s railways is deducted from
its debt it compares well with the best of foreign States,
instead of barely holding its own among the worst. Of
course, Australia has some other works to set against the
rest of its debt, but so have other countries also—many
of them are far further ahead in that direction than
we are.
* • * •
The Newcastle-Wallsend Coal Co. (New-
castle, N.8.W.):
Added R
Profits. Dividends to Re- ’
serves. 8
June, 1899 £51,766
Dec., 1899 £7,128 15 per cent. = £7,500 51,394
June, 1900 7,577 15 „ „ 7,500 £77 51,471
Dec., 1900 10,183 20 „ „ 10,000 183 51,654
June, 1901 15,534 30 „ „ 15,000 534 52,188
Dec., 1901 17,968 35 „ „ 17,500 468 52,656
June, 1902 17,645 35 „ „ 17,500 145 52,801
Dec., 1902 17,673 35 „ „ 17,500 173 52,974
9 • • •
Complete revenue returns for January will not
be available in time for this issue, but those for N.S.W.
are to hand. This is the remarkable situation con-
densed : Revenue for January, 1903, £882,010; being a
decrease of £83,411 compared with January,_ 1902.
Expenditure for January, 1903, £1,103,302; being an
increase of £501,351 as compared with January, 19C2.
Deficit for January, 1903, £221,292. Deficit for the seven
months of the financial year that have already expired,
£927,588 ; and if “ payments in suspense ” are added the
deficit for the seven months is £1,028,438. Also, if the
deficit brought forward from last year is included
the shortage is £1,265,219. All the trust funds
(£5,885,642) have now been borrowed, and £11,874
from the banks in addition, so even the £1,000,000
which is now being borrowed won’t go far. Loan expen-
diture was cut down tremendously in January, 19.3 (it
was £277,937, or £308,239 less than in January, 1902),
from sheer want of any more money to spend. In fact,
January, 1903, closed with an absolutely penniless Govern-
ment “ facing the dawn,” and draper Law, M.L.A., still
wanting £75 for the Balmain Choral Union.
* « • •
The Deniliquin and Moama Railway Co.
(Deniliquin, N.S.W.) had a better half-year than usual to
Sist December, 1902, despite the lamentable nature of
the season in its district. A very considerable increase
in the receipts for conveyance of live stock is the chief
cause of this sudden affluence. This is where the private
railway co. scores. It isn’t expected to waste its sub-
stance on charity as the State railways do in bad times,
so it can make a lot of money out of starving-stock traffic
and the like, though, when "the stock is passed on to the
Victorian State lines, to be carried the rest of the journey,
the State is expected to convey it at reduced rates, which
don’t pay axle-grease, and the State management is also
dunned for further concessions, and asked, at the same
time, why it doesn’t make its lines pay as the private co.
does ! The Deniliquin and Moama Railway Co., in addi-
tion to its visible profits, has sometimes unexplained
additions to its renewal reserves, which are shown sepa-
rately :
Income. Outgoings.
Unexplained Written Dividend
Increase of off Re- at 4 per Re-
Profits. Reserve. serve. cent, serves.
Dec., 1899 £2999 £36,006
June, 1900 682 £390 £2OOO 35,078
Dec., 1900 4603 1583 2000 39,264
June, 1901 973 £1584 2000 36,653
Dec., 1901 4106 218 2000 38,541
June, 1902 2228 13 2000 38,782
Dec., 1902 4412 1 2000 41,195
The earnings for the past 18 months have been at the
rate of almost exactly 5$ per cent, per annum.
• • • •
Australia’s fat friends, Dr. Montague and Mr.
Thomas Lawless, of the Red Indian 1.0. F. life assurance
concern, have gone back to Canada, and, according to
their institution’s paper, the following news has re-
turned with them :
“ Already the Independent Order of Foresters has made
its mark in that country (Australia) in that it has com-
pelled two of the strongest and most conservative Aus-
tralian old-line companies to recognise the fraternal
principal in life assurance. I refer to the Australian
Mutual Provident Society and the National Mutual Life
Association, one of which has already established a
fraternal branch so-called, and the other of which is pre-
paring to do so."


TRAMWAYS FOR MINES.
STOCKS in SYDNEY and MELBOURNE include—Steel Rails, Bridge Rails
Steel Side and End Tip Trucks, Portable Tramway, Portable and Permanent
Switches, Ball-bearing Turntables, Axle Boxes, Wheels and Axles, Jim Crows,
Dog Spikes, etc., etc. |N D E NTS.— LOCOMOTIVES from 10 to 400 h.p.,
including Compound Locos, and every description of Light Railway Material.
CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY APPLIANCES
Prop. Ltd., 40 Hunter St., SYDNEY. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager,
Representing Orenstein and Kopfel, Ltd., London, Berlin and Paris.
Branches—Melbourne, Brisbane, Cairns and Zeehan (Tasmania).
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
as prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “big prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject toinspection. Cable address: “Option,”
Melbourne.*
* * * *
A. Kozminsky, 106 Queen-street, Melbourne,
having returned from his visit to England, is now pre-
pared to purchase approved Mines and Mining Properties
situated in any part of Australasia requiring Capital for
Development and Machinery. Only genuine and
legitimate ventures, capable of bearing the strictest
examinations, will be entertained.*
» * * *
A revolution in smelting furnaces seems pro-
bable. The aid of gasoline has not been recognised.
Ernest de Beer, 439 Bourke-street. Melbourne, supplies
forms to suit assayers, which are marvellous in their
efficiency.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, of Melbourne, reports
that there has been a great improvement in the general
outlook of the engineering business since the new year
started, and that his pipe making works in Melbourne
and Perth are working full-handed. Amongst the orders
now being executed at Footscray works is one for 7 miles
10 chains of 18in. diameter light steel spiral-riveted pipes
for the Victorian water supply ; and at Perth works a
■contract is in progress for over 6 miles of lOJin. diameter
spiral-riveted pipes, flanged joints, for the Greenbushes
Tin-Mining Syndicate. About two miles of these pipes
are to stand a test pressure of 8001 b. to the square inch. *
• • * »
Scottish Critic, October 1902, writes, re the
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited :—“The
■company was established in 1873 and the management
has always been characterised by abundant enterprise,
tempered with the prudence which can alone make
energy valuable in a life assurance company.”*
• * • •
The Berry Consols Extended G.M. Co. have
given a contract for the supply and complete installation
of an underground electric mine haulage plant to the
Austral Otis Engineering Co. Ltd., as sole representatives
of Ganz and Co. Ltd., Budapest, Hungary. The directors
came to this decision after carefully considering the
seven tenders which had been sent in by the following
firms The Austral Otis Eng. Co., G. Weymouth and
Co., The Australian Metal Co , The Australian General
Electric Co., J. A. Newton and Co., Siemens Bros., and
Knox, Schlapp and Go. Although there were lower ten-
ders the directors, after having advice from an electrical
expert, gave preference to The Austral Otis Co., more
especially because of the great satisfaction given by a
haulage plant supplied by that firm to the Great Southern
Consols G.M. Co., Rutherglen. This plant started on the
17th April, 1902, and has been running continuously ever
since without a hitch, both day and night. The plant
which will be supplied to the Berry Consols Extended
G.M. Co. comprises a complete generating station, light-
ing plant, and three mine locomotives, and will be
running in 6 months’ time. The giving of this contract
to the Austral Otis Co. is once more evidence of the high
reputation the Ganz electrical apparatus have established
in Australasia.*
• * » *
It is not generally known that in the treatment
of ore as much of the valuable minerals is often lost in
the tailings as is saved by the appliances. This is due
in most instances to the inefficient machines used and
the difficulty in saving the fines and slimes. The best
machine to treat the latter classes are Luhrig Vanners.
These machines are in successful daily use in the principal
gold, galena, copper and tin mines in Australia and
Tasmania, proving their superiority over other so-called
slime machines. Messrs W. & J. Lempriere, 506 Little
Collins-street, Melbourne, are the general agents, and full
particulars can be obtained from them.*
• • * *
Golden Link’s (W.A.) first monthly crushing
from the Eclipse lease averaged only lldwts. per ton
against the 2oa. obtained from the picked trial parcel.
The battery did very good work putting through an
average of 4J tons per stamp daily, and it is said that,
owing to this, a lot of gold was left in the tailings. This
will be recovered later on by cyaniding. The main shaft
on the Link lease is down 1300 ft. and another attempt
will shortly be made to find the Consols lode at this
depth. Co. looks a pretty hopeless concern v/ith its
400,000 shares, and scrip can’t be recommended, more
especially as there is a 2s. liability on them.
INSIST ON GETTING
75ug%£ m
I&
o3eef3l iced A\ang o,
Gheen/Aamgo,CasHmere.
, (
All Grocer? and3roreK.eeper>.Lveryujhere
SCHWEPPES MALVERN SPA
By Special Appoint=
ment to His Majesty
King Edward VII.
Bottled at Celebrated AXalverzi Springs. n t i,.
This gasbaggy variety of literature is a striking evidence
of the p*)wer of mere catch phrases. The A.M.P. and
the National Mutual are a great deal more .raternal"
than the 1.0. F. ever was, and have been in that state
longer. But in the 1.0. F. vocabulary, when you charge
a man a great deal more for a £lOO policy than the
A.M.P. or the N.M. does, and give him no surrender value,
and incomparably worse security, and make him liable for
“assessments” as well, and deceive him by telling him you
are selling him an extra special cheap policy, and call him
“Brother” Smith—that is the beautiful “fraternal"
system. And if you charge a great deal less for a £lOO
policy, and give better security, and don’t keep a huge
Red Indian on the premises, then you are an “ old line”
office, and “ old line ” is the last human possibility in the
way of contempt according to the 1.0. F. vocabulary. The
A.M.P. and the National Mutual haven’t gone in for the
1.0.F.'s brand of fraternalism, and any statement that
they have done so is simply the 1.0. F. paper’s lie—there-
fore their policy-holders may feel quite safe.
• * • •
The New York and Brooklyn Tobacco Co.,
Limited (Sydney) hasn’t done nearly so well for 1902 as
in previous years. Gross income is about £9OO less than
that for 1901, while working expenses and provision for
bad debts have both increased slightly. The net results
since the commencement of the co. have been these :
Deficit(Good’
Added will and
to Preliminary
Profits. Dividends. Re- Expenses not
serves. Reckoned as
Assets).
1897.. £2119
1898.. £2603 10per cent. = £1625 £978 1141
1899.. 1520 10 „ „ 1500 20 1121
1900.. 2111 10 „ „ 1500 611 510
Reserves
1901.. 2318 10 „ „ 1500 818 308
1902.. 1432 10 „ „ 1500 240
According to its own balance-sheet the New York
and Brooklyn Tobacco Co. has £1240 of reserves,
but when the £lOOO which still appears among the
assets under the heading of “Goodwill, brands and
trade-marks ” is deducted, the real situation is as above.
Of course things are, in one sense, not quite so bad as
they look. The co. doesn’t set aside each year the
income-tax charge for the year, but debits it when paid ;
therefore, 1902 is debited with £l9O income-tax on the
large profits of 1901, instead of being charged about
£llO on the smaller profits of 1902. But even if 1902
didn’t carry this extra load, the fact remains that the
10 per cent, dividend has been earned with a very bare
margin, and it would have been much better to cut the
dividend down to 7or 8 per cent. In fact, it should
never have been put up to 10 per cent, till a substantial
reserve fund was accumulated.
* * • »
Democrat : New York Life, Mutual Life of
New York, National Mutual, Mutual Life Association—
choose from among them.
• * • *
The Shamrock Brewing and Malting Co.
(Melbourne) shows up as follows for the three years to
November, 1902 (no complete accounts going further back
than that date are available at this office) :
Net Dividends Added to r.
Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Keserves
1899 £5,931
1900 £9209 8 per cent. = £3612 £5597 11,528
1901 7251 8 „ „ 3612 3639 15,167
1902 6644 8 „ „ 3612 3032 18,199
The profits represent £l4 14s 4d. per cent, per annum on
the paid-up capital, which is exceedingly handsome ; at
the same time a diminishing tendency is distinctly visible.
The cut-throat competition among Melbourne breweries
and the consequent low price of beer (Protection hasn’t
made beer expensive, somehow) are largely responsible
for this. The Shamrock Brewing and Malting Co. has
no permanent reserve fund ; its reserves consist of depre-
ciation fund (£474) and undivided profit (£17,725). The
concern seems to have effected a considerable reduction
in its net liabilities this year, the figures for three years
being :
Owing to Less Bank Net
Mortgagees, &c. Balance. Liabilities.
1900 .. £11,958 ... .. £11,958
1901 .. 14,630 .. .. 14,630
1902 .. 15,897 .. £3122 .. 12,775
The business is weighted with a £15,000 mortgage, which
isn’t a desirable acquaintance to have on the premises.
Still it is a highly profitable business, and the prospects
appear very good.
• • • •
A large amount of good Australian money might
be saved if the Commonwealth took over, renewed and
consolidated the State debts, but such an action would
diminish somewhat the beastly little importance of the
State Ministers. So Treasurer Turner’s appeal to the
States for full official information about their debts on
which to base a conversion scheme remains unanswered,
Superficial people say that the affair is of no importance ;
the credit of the people in their State capacity is as good
as the credit of the same people in their Federal capacity.
But the money-lender is apt to view the matter differ-
ently. After the Braddon clause expires the Common-
wealth Government will have full control of the prin-
cipal sources of revenue (customs and excise). If it
is liable for the public debt it will pay the interest out of
this revenue. If it isn’t liable it may return the States
enough to enable them to pay their interest, or it may
not —there may be an O’Sullivan kind of Commonwealth
Government by that time which will find ways of spending
the whole lot. In any case a Federal debt will be a first
mortgage on the principal source of revenue ; a State debt
will only be a second mortgage. If the State Govern-
ments choose to do the renewal of their own loans they
deliberately offer their creditors a second mortgage
security when they could, by falling in with Turner’s
proposal, offer a first mortgage. And the interest on
second mortgages is heavy.
• • • •
The Assets Realisation and General
Finance Co. Ltd. (Sydney):—
Written Loss on
Loss on off Pro- Property Total Lose. Visible
Business*, perties. Sales. Deficit.
Iggg £37 g 57
1894 £2850 £1498 £1,096 £5,444 43^301
1895 .. 6,815 50,116
1896 .. 1667 579 12,946 15,192 65,308
1897 .. 1318 844 2,162 67,470
1898 .. 1293 521 1,814 69,284
1899 .. 1089 294 6,949 8,332 77,616
1900 .. 808 490 1,298 78,914
1901 .. 242 442 3,670 4,354 83,268
1902 .. 631 539 1,170 84,438
The paid-up capital stands at £128,547, so that £44,109
remains nominally intact to provide for the annual loss
on working the concern and any further depreciation on
investments nominally worth £70,729. During 1902 the
co. earned £1032 in various ways, but management
expenses alone absorbed £823 of this, and interest on
deposits and mortgages made the rest of the trouble. If
this and about six other equally unfortunate concerns
ould decide to work together, with one manager, office,
staff, gas-bill, office-boy and board of directors, it is just
barely possible that the Assets Realisation and General
Finance Co. would then be able to pay interest and
working expenses out of earnings. There is very little
apparent hope of doing that “ on"its own.” In every con-
cern that is slowly liquidating there comes a time when
there is so very little left that the income derived from it
can’t possibly support an office and the other appliances
of a limited liability co. single-handed.
J.M. : Don fc care to take the responsibility
of advising anybody how to invest £lOOO. If writer,
however, were investing £lOOO of his own, he would prob-
ably try one or more of the following : Melbourne Trams ;
Colonial Mutual Fire Insurance; National Insurance
(Maoriland) ; Commercial Bank of Australia Assets Trust
deposits ; E.S. and A. Bank Preferred Deposit Stock;
Bank of Victoria Preference Shares; N.S. W. Mont de Pi6t6.
(The above is how the writer would feel if he were invest-
ing, but if you go and feel the same way you do it on
your own responsibility.)
• * • •
The Darling Downs Permanent Building
and Investment Society (Toowoomba, Queensland), from
its foundation to 31st December, 1902 :
Dividends Added
Profits. and to Reserves.
Dividend Tax. Reserves.
'• * per cent. - £7 £1 £1
1898 „ 87 4 „ 7$ n 12
- 220 6 „ „ 175 45 57
-. 485 5 „ „ 339 146 203
1901 •* 778 5 •> .. *Bl 297 500
1902 .. 1,223 6 „ „ 935 288 788
For a very young institution, the Darling Downs Per-
manent Building and Investment Society has made an
exceedingly good start, but the management is in much
too great haste to increase the dividend. The original 5
per cent, should have been maintained for another half-
dozen years at least, till a really substantial reserve had
been accumulated. The capital now stands at £15,861,
and by comparison the £7BB of reserves are not large. An
especially good point, however, is that the liability to
depositors is only £350. Depositors have proved a source
of danger to many building societies.
• * » •
A sign of the times : Queensland Savings Bank
records for the last five months of 1902: Deposits,
£749,289; withdrawals, £927,665.
* * * *
The Perpetual Trustees, Executors and
Agency Go. op Tasmania Ltd. (Hobart) again shows a
slight decline in profits :
Profits. Dividends and Added to Re-
Dividend Tax. Reserves, serves.
June, 1896 .. £521 6 per cent. =£3ls £206 £3619
Dec., 1896.. 462 6 „ „ 315 147 3766
June, 1897.. 349 6 „ „ 315 34 3800
Dec., 1987 .. 465 6 „ „ 315 150 3950
June, 1898.. 421 6 „ „ 315 106 4056
Dec., 1898 .. 421 6 „ „ 315 106 4162
June, 1899.. 365 6 ~ „ 315 60 4212
Dec., 1899.. 346 6 „ ~ 315 31 4243
June, 1900.. 380 6 „ „ 315 65 4308
Dec., 1900.. 358 6 „ ~ 315 43 4351
June, 1901 .. 454 6 ~ „ 315 139 4490
Dec., 1901 .. 1404 8 „ „ 420 984 5474
June, 1902.. 703{^ rit £ noff » go} 28 6802
Dec., 1902 .. 677 8 per cent. = 420 257 5759
The earnings, though they have again fallen off a little,
are still equal to over 13J per cent, on capital, so the
Perpetual Trustees, Executors and Agency Co. of Tas-
mania is doing very well. It still furnishes as little in-
formation as usual about its investments, and gives
no information at all about what income it derives
from them—“ Commission and Interest” are run together
in one line, and how much is commission and how much
is interest is not explained. Tasmanian financial institu-
tions are mostly pretty solid—the conservatism of the
island prevents them rushing into reckless speculations.
And that same conservatism makes them stick to old
ideas about the dangers of trusting shareholders and the
public with too much information.
• * • •
Richardson and Wrench, Limited (Sydney),
auctioneers, valuators and dealers in property generally :
Deficit
(Goodwill
In Re- not
duction reckoned
of as an
Profits. Dividends. Deficit. Asset).
June, 1899 £52,057
Dec., 1899 £2071 5 per cent. =£lsoo £571 51,486
June, 1900 2448 5 „ „ 1600 948 50,538
Dec., 1900 2538 5 „ „ 1500 1038 49,500
June, 1901 2517 5 „ „ 1500 1017 48,483
Dec., 1901 3313 5 „ „ 1500 1813 46,670
June, 1902 3263 5 „ „ 1500 1763 44,907
Dec., 1902 2993 5 „ „ 1500 1493 43,414
The slight falling off in profits suggests bad times and a
sagging tendency in the property market. Even now,
however, the earnings are at the rate of £9 19s. 6d. per
cent, per annum on capital, and very good progress is being
made at writing off the goodwill item, which originally
stood at £67,500. The co.’s principal investments consist
of Treasury bills £7OOO, and £13,502 cash in bank. Pre-
sumably a good part of the latter item consists of fixed
deposits, and the fact ought to be specified. If it is all
current account it looks like a sorrowful waste of
Interest. And even if it is largely fixed deposit it. doesn’t
seem a very profitable mode of investment.
* • • •
Concerning the much-discussed authorisation of
more debentures by the Sulphide Corp. (8.H.), the board
explained at the annual meeting in London that the power
to issue them would be used “ sparingly and by degrees.”
The co., not content with a creep and a new shaft, has
taken on a friendly law'action too. Pref. shareholders
are entitled to a 10 per cent. div. ; and they claim that,
if a full 10 per cent. div. isnot declared, as much of the
undivided balance as would make up the full pound of
flesh must be “ ear-marked,” and they must get it at the
next division. It’s going to be a cold century for the
“ ordinaries.”
* * * *
Last four years’ record of the B.H. Prop. :
Gross
Half-year Ore Silver Lead profit Divs.
to tons. oz. tons. £ £
May, ’99.. 202,693.. 2,218,234.. 17,823.. 142,180.. 120,000
N0v.,’99.. 206,193.. 2,502,463.. 17,831.. 144,492.. 96,000
May, ’OO.. 232,487 . 2,175,422.. 15,472.. 129,576.. 96,000
N0v.,’00.. 293,451.. 2,780,937.. 21,855.. 167,795.. 120,000
May, ’Ol. . 296,389.. 3,009,164.. 27,869.. 102,505.. 120,000
Nov., ’Ol.. 305,628.. 2,683,946.. 30,457.. 56,293.. 48,000
May, ’02.. 308,878.. 2,554,169.. 32,289.. 68,236.. 48,000
N0v.,’02.. 334,709.. 2,798,020.. 33,522.. 73,459.. 48,000
But these figures don’t show the value of the work which
the co.’s staff has done in the last year or two. That can
better be reckoned by following the course of the metal
markets :
Silver, per oz. Lead, per ton.
Highest. Lowest. Highest. Lowest,
s. d. s. d. £ s. d. £ s. d.
1898 ..2 4 5-16 2 1 14 10 0 12 5 0
1899 .. 2 4 7-8 2 2 5-8 17 10 0 13 0 0
1900 .. 2 6 3-16 2 215-16 17 17 6 16 0 0
1901 .. 2 5 7-8 2 1 3-8 16 12 6 11 0 0
1902 .. 2 2 1-8 1 911-16 11 15 0 10 2 6
In the half-year to Nov., 1900, the co.’s expenses mopped
up 2s. 3fd. per oz. of the silver, and £lO Is. 6d. per ton of
the lead. If it had cost that much in the past half-year
there would have been a loss of about £19,000 instead of
a gross profit of £73,000. On the basis of last half-year’s
work, production is now possible at Is. lid. for silver,
and £8 19s. 3d. for lead. The directors refer to the
savings made by the new desulphurising and sintering
works; but these savings are not apparent in the
accounts. As a matter of fact, the desulphurising plant
was not fully' at work until the half-year was well through,
and if it does what the directors say, the current half-
year’s accounts should show a much larger profit. So far
as last half-year is concerned, the biggest saving appears
to have been in coke, mainly as the result of the co. sup-
plj’ing nearly the whole of its requirements from its.
own Bellambi (N.S.W.) works.
For comparison with the figures in the first
B.H. Prop, table on top of this, here is the record of the.
co.’s most heavily-gilded year :
Gro=s
Half-year Ore, Silver, Lead, Pr fit P vs.,.
to tons. oz. tons. £ £
May, ’9l .. 138,645 4,918,124 24,222 613,382 576,000'
N0v.,’91 .. 147,473 6,028,914 17,465 658,583 576,000-
• • • *
Some of the big figures of the B. H. Prop. :
Ore handled, 6,067,475 tons; silver won, 117,062,7680 z. j
lead, 565,089 tons; dividends, £7,544,000; spent om
works, £1,249,963 ; estimated present value of works,,
£414,853. This is the result of 16 years’ work—or 17.',
counting the first 12 months that were spent in finding:
out the difference between tin and ironstone, and things
like that.
* • * m
A sample of what Australia can do when it-
isn’t too tired to try :—The B.H. Prop., in the half-year
to Nov., 1891, smelted 127,234 tons ore—“wet” stuff
that almost smelted itself. The coke bill was £100,086..
So far, the co. had been “bluffed off” Australian coke,,
and had bought only German and Welsh. Later on it
tried Australian coke, and finally put up a plant of its.
own, and last half-year made theie nearly all it wanted.
Result— it smelted 134,242 tons of far more intractable!
stuff, and its coke bill was £37,855.
• • • •
North B.H. Co.’s half-yearly report discloses,
nothing of interest. The co., which is still waiting for-
lead to reach £l2 before it starts its mill, has only £Booi
left in its stocking ; and, as it is slowly sinking its shaft
deeper and has five healthy directors, two auditors, a.
manager, a general manager, and a business manager at.
the mine to feed and clothe, another call is scented—the-
first for nearly 12 months.
• • * •
It is assumed by all the Broken Hill co.’s which-
have shut down for a while that they will be able,,
on resumption of work, to produce metal cheaper
than they could when they knocked off; and if they-
can’t there is a cold prospect for shareholders,,
seeing that some of the mines could not then pro-
duce lead at under £l3. The North’s figure was over
£l3 ss. ; the Junction’s and Block 14’s more. With their-
new plant most of them ought to be able to show a.
saving ; but the thing isn’t so dead sure as it has beem
assumed to be. The Sulphide Corporation, for instance,
which has never let expense stand in the way of experi-
ments or new machinery, could produce its lead at £Bl7s.
in 1900; but its last returns work out at £ll os. 6d.
putting silver at the same amount (2s. 3d.) in each case.
Also the full effect of the fall in silver does not seem to-
have been realised by a good many operators in B.H.
stocks, who have got the idea that pretty well everything
depends now on lead. Yet the fact is that, in the case of
the B.H. Prop., a fall of 3d. in silver still more than:
counter-balances a £1 rise in lead—actual figures for last,
half-year were £35,000 and £33,522. With some other
co.’s the fall in silver doesn’t mean relatively as much,,
but in every case it means a lot.
• • * *
The experts who have been engaged examining
the Cobar and other properties associated with it, which.
are under offer to an English syndicate, have completed
their work, but it is thought that some weeks will
elapse before they will finish their calculations and
transmit their preliminary report. Stated that the-
report is likely to be highly favorable, and, if so, there is
a strong probability that the deal will come off. Nymagee
mine was not included in the original contract, but just,
as they were about finishing their examination of Great
Cohar, the experts got cabled instructions to inspect that,
property. It is understood that negotiations are in
progress to include it in the deal.
• • • *
The flotation of the Conrad Mines, Bora Creek
(N.S.W.) having been successfully accomplished, arrange-
ments have been made for the immediate resumption of
operations under the direction of Mr. John Howell. The
mines have been well developed and great quantities of
high-value ore are ready for stoping. The chief work
now to be undertaken is the erection of a large treatment
plant. The ore is complex and the whole future of the
property depends upon the effectiveness of the plant
selected. From elaborate experimental tests Mr. Howell
is satisfied that the ore can be treated, so as to save all
the metals, at a very reasonable cost. Should this
anticipation be realised the Oonrad Mines will become a
most valuable property.
• • • •
“The Cassilis Co., Vio.,” writes a soured
correspondent, “is a mining will o’ the wisp. For three
years the co. has been ripping out gold, paying wages
and buying machinery. It is working refractory ore suc-
cessfully and putting out almost 800 oz. a month. Yet
the proceeds are swallowed up, and the shareholder gets
nil. Now the directors say they want £2OOO worth more
machinery, and the shareholders will, for some time, get
more of nothing. The four Wilfley tables cannot stop
gold, to the extent of £2OOO a month, going into the
tailings which assay about lOdwts. Two more Wilfleys,
another Edward furnace and a cyanide plant to treat 300
tons of tailings a week are wanted. The present tailings-
heap holds 13,000 tons of sand valued by the co. at £6OOO.
There are 36,000 shares in the co. worth about 275. Some
day, when Gabriel is about due for the band contest, the
Cassilis will pay a div., and by that time each shareholder
will be looking after a furnace and a chlorination plant of
his own."
• * • *
South Star, Ballarat, has been one of the
biggest disappointments of Victoria. Frequently it has
given promise of emerging from the doubtful to a highly
profitable stage, but the promise has never been more
than fitfully fulfilled. The mine has now been brought
to a dead standstill. The bank overdraft is £20,000, and
directors have received intimation that this must be
promptly reduoed. As only one-third of the shares are
contributing, and a 6d. call per month does not do much
more than cover the cost of firewood, and as there is no
production, the directors have been forced to shut down.
Reconstruction is talked of, but what there is to recon-
struct on outsiders cannot see. The incubus of a £20,000
overdraft is likely to weigh down any attempt to reform
the co.
* * • •
The directors of New Loch Fyne mine, Matlock
(Vic.), have been making some interesting experiments to
determine the values of the different sections of the large
dyke formation. It has been shown that practically the
whole of the gold is contained in the quartz veins which
intersperse the dyke, so that the old policy of separating
quartz from country rock, as far as practicable,
will have to be continued. The assumption in all
the Eastern mining districts of Vic., where these
big dyke formations prevail, is that the bodies
are more or less gold-bearing throughout, but the
Loch Fyne experiment must be accepted as evidence that
such is not so. However, it is not the rule for gold-con-
tents of such bodies to be carried only in the quartz.
There are numerous examples to the contrary in W.A.
and N.S.W. In Orange district (N.S.W.) in particular,
there is a big field for investigation in this respect.
There are several alluvial leads which have been worked,
and the experience has been the less quartz the more
gold. The precious metal must have been shed from
diorite and other dykes, which have never been found
and have never even been looked for.
• • « •
To counteract adverse rumors which were afloat
in London, the directors of the Golden Horseshoe (W.A.)
have issued a special circular, in which they state that there
was nothing in the position or prospects of the mine to
warrant the depression in share values which existed at
the end of last year. _ It is stated that “ the intrinsic
value of the property is greater now than at any previous
date. The ore reserves are larger, and the lodes at lowest
level are rich, wide and strong. The ore reserves actually
in sight and ready for stoping on June 30 last were 446,295
tons, containing 697,2300 z. gold, as against 278,464
tons, containing 460,7250 z., on 31st Dec., 1901. The
directors are assured by Mr. Sutherland that this is a
most conservative estimate, and is made only in relation
to ore actually in sight above 800 ft. level.”
The much-talked-of amalgamation of Asso-
ciated, Associated Northern and Oroya mines (W.A.) has
■ended in smoke. There never was any serious intent
ito even attempt to bring; it about. Its purpose was to
■create a temporary boom in the shares, and it served
’this admirably. The chances are that nothing further
'wilf be heard about the scheme.
* * * •
Kalgurli Amalgamated (W.A.), a recent re-haslt
■of some half-dozen very doubtfuls situated at the north
■end of Kalgurli field, is busy prospecting the more likely
portions'Cf its 122 acres with the diamond drill. Included
In the combine is Hannan’s Block 45, on which property
-the first telluride in the State was discovered by llolroyd.
Go. has £50,000 working capital at its disposal, besides
■haviug 100,000 shares in reserve, so that stock-holders
should have a good run for their money. In the past
#some very rich dabs and patches were struck in various
pacts of co.’s extensive property, and systematic pros-
pecting may eventually lead to something substantial.
<3®. is now controlled by Jowf tt, who may be relied upon
tto do all possible to command success.
• • « *
Associated (W.A.) has at last ordered 12 Merton
furnaces to replace the two old long-condemned roasters.
'This substitution will much increase output, and effect
:a saving of about ss. a ton, as roasting by the old plant
works out at about Bs. as against only 3s. by Merton.
In addition, a far higher extraction will be got, as the
■old furnaces, in their dilapidated condition, give such
a, bad roast that the tailings assay about Bdwt. The
imine is looking very well at present, and some splendid
ore is being got at No. 7 level in Tetley’s shaft. The
■diamond drill is just about starting work at the 1050 ft.
ilevel of Judd’s shaft, to try and locate the continuation
■of the rich Oroya chute. Manager Gleisberg is evidently
going to make things hustle.
* » •* •
Sons of Gwalia, Leonora (W.A.) is looking
much better than for a long time past. The lode is open-
ing well on the north of the shaft at No. 7 level, while at
Nos. 5 and 6it was a blank. Under Mr. Loring’s manage-
ment costs have been enormously reduced and efficiency
Increased, so that co. is again working at a profit, and
should soon re-appear as a div.-payer. Unfortunately,
■owing to the resignation of Feldtmann from the firm of
’Bewick, Moreing, and Go., Loring has resigned the
management of the mine, and, together with Pritchard,
manager of the L.V. Consols, is now in charge of the
■firm’s Kalgoorlie office. During co.’s four years’ existence
mine has been bossed by seven different managers, and
will shortly have the eighth. All Bewick, Moreing’s mines
suffer in a similar way. The next man to take charge
may upset all Loring’s work, and again reduce every-
thing to chaos. Shareholders should strongly protest
Against these frequent changes.
(Continued on 'page 29.)


DAVID JONES & COMPANY
SPECIAL PURCHASE
GENUINE.—
Panama Hats
(FOLDERS)
Original
Price - 27/6
nal Value 55/- /
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
m
.-•i
m
reflection
sty
HARRINGTON & CO., LTD.,
Photographic Merchants,
i many other Cameras.
, Writs for Nkw Illustrated Catalogue.
bb King St., Sydney ; 93 Queen St., Brisbane.
SOCIETY
[?]
[?]
N.S.W. Parliamentary economists, what-
ever party they may belong to, should agree to
appoint one member (Wully Affleck is as good as
any) to trace a host of small leakages of taxpayers’
money, and having defined them, present a Bill
for their instant and everlasting stoppage. For
instance, for a Governor’s levee every barrister is
Provided with a cab or other conveyance by the
tate ; on the same occasion every member of
both Houses of Parliament is provided with a
cab. They do not all go, of course, but as many
as like to go get their cabs free ; and, indeed, if
they wish they can take a carriage-and-pair. No
Bill ever passed through Parliament authorising
such fool-pranks. A generation ago an Attorney-
General started the game for his horse-haired
friends, and a Premier for his crowd, and the
impudent robbery endures.
• » * •
One of the worst inconveniences caused
by Bully Bent’s costly “retrenchments” on the
Vic. railways (writes a Bulletin correspondent)
is the midday traffic block at Melb. stations. I
watched a hurrying luncheon crowd trying to get
out of Flinders-street station t’other day. Three
trains had just come in together, every one of
them packed, and for the bulk of the perspiring
contents there was just one gate to get through,
instead of three, as in the pre-Bent days. The
old arrangement was none too speedy, but when
Bent’s seven-days’-work-for-five-days’-pay gate-
keeper had to lock his gate and chase a woman
who gave him the wrong ticket, and imprisoned
40 or 50 people who would get into trouble if late
back at their shops and offices, the full beauty of
Bent’s reforms became suddenly apparent.
Another place in which his praiseworthy policy
has had excellent effect is the Spencer-street
parcels room, where every day scores of people are
to be heard cursing Thomas and all his inadequate
myrmidons because they have missed their trains
in waiting for their possessions.
• * * •
“ Euroa ” writes re the vile mismanage-
ment of Vic. railways:—
T’other morning I had occasion to travel per first train
from a Melb. suburban station, and, getting to the
station shortly before time, I found about a dozen
THE HONEYMOON—FIRST QUARTER.
"Nothing , dear, nothing—only that horrid Miss Gotrocks was here, and said we wouldn't
always be so happy as we are now."
men angrily knocking at the booking-office window. No
one was in charge of the station, and when the train
came in the guard advised us to get on board, as he
couldn’t wait. We got on, and at Princes’ Bridge the
ticket-collector casually mentioned that it would be as
well to pay at the booking-office, but, as the least delay
meant, for me, missing the country train at Spencer-
street I didn’t go round and pay, and I suspect a good
many others didn’t either.
• • • •
Last Thursday’s issues of the Sydney
evening papers recorded (1) a tragedy at Darling-
hurst, a man shooting his wife and then killing
himself, (2) proceedings against the men charged
with killing a constable by shooting, (3) a Dubbo
suicide, a man shooting himself, (4) a robbery
under firearms at Sydney. In view of the
embarrassed state of the finances, and the serious
frequency of tragedies arising from the careless
or malicious use of firearms, the time seems oppor-
tune for imposing a license-fee and certain regula-
tions on all vendors and purchasers of fire-
arms. A man may not sell poisons with-
out a license, and since effective legislation
on that point was enforced, it is claimed
that in N.S.W. there has been a decrease
of 50 p.c. in poison-casualties. If everyone selling
firearms were obliged to hold a licence and forced
to exercise reasonable discretion in his business,
and if it were necessary to take out a license
in order to own or hold possession of a firearm of
any sort, probably the crop of police-shootings,
family massacres, and didn’t-know-it was-loadeds
would at once decrease. As matters stand, any
fool, any child, any desperado may get a revolver
and ammunition without any question being
asked.
* • * *
Chin Sing, who keeps a store in Lilly
Buck-st., Melb., scored an interesting triumph
over a local Clistian medical man the other week.
The doctor attended Chin Sing for a cut head, put
some stitches in the wound, visited him four times
to see that the healing process was satisfactory,
and charged 10 guineas. The patient paid 7
guineas, and the County Court decided that he
had paid enough. An ordinary Clistian patient
would have passed the bill for 10 guineas—and
owed it. One medical witness, whilst maintaining
that 2 guineas per visit was not an excessive
demand upon a “good mark,” admitted that good
marks were sometimes expected to pay for
bad ones. Which medical doctrine pretty well
explains why the same sort of people who pay for
medical attendance in Britain (where an M.D. is
glad to accept 3s. 6d. a visit as “family doctor”)
are candidates for hospital treatment gratis in
this country. The social standard of the average
hospital patient in Australia is probably higher
than in any other country in the world, not because
Australians are specially disposed to throw them-
selves upon public charity in time of sickness, but
because the medical profession has an inflated
idea of itself, and wants to keep up too large an
importance at the public expense. It was well
that a Melbourne medico received from a Chow a
simple lesson in sweet reasonableness (with costs).
* • • *
The Sydney electric-tram service has
played havoc with the ’bus and cab traffic.
Four years ago there were nearly 400 licensed
’buses plying from suburbs to city ; to-day there
are but 60, and the chances are that by the end of
the year a ’bus will be a rarity anywhere round
Sydney. The trams, the shrinkage of visitors,
the price of horsefeed, and public “ nearness” are
reasons ascribed for the partial passing of the
cabby. Nine years ago there were close on 1650
hansoms in the streets ; now there are only 940,
about seven per cent, of which are rubber-tyred.
• • * *
The speed of the Sydney electric trams is
a matter of serious concern to the public. They
are supposed not to travel at a greater speed than
15 miles an hour when outside the city, but many
of them, when they get good way on, far exceed
this rate. The speed should be placed beyond the
control of the driver altogether by the gearing of
the electric motors being so arranged that 15 miles
an hour would be the absolute limit of speed
secured. A tram which returned empty from
Leichhardt to Sydney at midnight some months
ago is said to have averaged a 40-miles-an-hour
rate. The driver and conductor vouch for the
accuracy of this, but they were careful not to
chronicle their record at headquarters.
Quite a lot of the
people who live there
still hug the delusion
that Mildura, the irri-
gation place on the
Murray, is a “tem-
perance township; ”
and so they are in-
viting one another to
be strong, and to re-
fuse permission to let
a pub. greet the new
railway—even a pub.
owned and controlled
by the local shire
council. Yet this
model “temperance
town ’’has three well-
established “clubs,”
and any visitor who
comes along and
winks is invited to be
a member of one at
least of them ; and if
he doesn’t wink he is
asked why he doesn’t.
And on top of the
three “clubs” there
are “shanties,” and
“wine carts,” and
occasional trading
boats, and a pub.
across the river; and
if a man can’t get
drunk and drugged
on that lot, a mere
municipal pub. won’t
affect him—he could
take on a whole
brewery.
» • *
If the South Aus-
tralian census returns
are a fair guide, a
man’s chance of losing
an arm (by accident
or otherwise that
doesn’t cost life) is
one in 20,300. If he
loses both arms ht
has the worst luck in
180,000. For every
male that loses an
arm three lose a leg ;
and ten times more people lose one leg
than two. (A good many more lose the two,
but they don’t live). The figures as to
females aren’t very definite; when Melinda has
an artificial limb it isn’t the census-collector that
finds it out —assuming, of course, that he sticks
strictly to census-collecting.
• * • •
A Rebuke :
For heaven’s sake let Tub Bulletin crawl off the track
that has led it to the imbecility of the Devil’s Year para-
graphs scattered through a recent issue. There are too
many things at work calculated to increase Australian
suicide and robbery-with-violence statistics without any
paper starting to gibber foolishness. If 1903 is the year
of Old Nick because its digits tot up to 13, so was ISO 4,
and 1813, and 1822, and 1831, and 1840. There were five
Devil’s years in the last century. And not only do the
figures of this present blessed year tot up to a baker’s
dozen (by the way, does the association of the two fire
artists in the pull-devil, pull-baker proverb arise from
their supposed joint interest in this number?), but 1912,
1921 and 1930 do the same. There’s absolutely nothing
in the idea but drivelling idiocy, but if it gets repeated as
often as the Dry Dog or the Little Boy at Manly it may
have just enough force to drive a few sun-baked settlers
over the line which allegedly separates them from
lunacy. Instead of trying to further scare people who
have enough to scare them already, what with Woolls-
Rutledge and the drought and the threatened arrival of
Milner, why not point out that if we were decent Moham-
medans and counted from the Hegira it wouldn’t be 1903
at all, wouldn’t reckon up to 13, and so wouldn’t be the
Devil’s Year at all 1 It can only be Devil’s Year in a so-called
“Christian country,” like N.S.VV., for instance. In a
Confucian country it might be the Angel Gabriel’s Year
(or whoever it is that blows the horn in Mongolian
theology).
* * * •
Said that every man has ability enough to
keep a billet that he has ability enough to get;
but if the post of Inspector-General of N.S.W.
police goes to “crawl” ability it will be little
short of a calamity. The capacity for being
servile to the great is exactly the wrong capacity
for a police-officer to have.
• * • •
The news that another blessed archduke
desires to “ renounce his birthright and marry the
daughter of a tradesman ” was announced in Melb.
Argus (and most other Australian daily papers)
under the heading of “ Another Royal Scandal.”
In the eyes of the “ respectable press ” it seems a
shocking thing that a man should want to sacri-
fice a royal title in order to make an ordinary girl
his legal wife. By the way, the Archduke in
question is on the verge of 40. The love of a man
of 40, as Marshall Hall told his Melbourne pupils
a while ago, is of all loves the red-hottest, and,
perhaps, the most purified by fire.
* • * *
Coghlan estimates that the average
Australian consumes annually two sheep and one-
fifth of a bullock, or about 2651 b. per head per
annum—twice as much meat as an Englishman
and three times as much as a Frenchman. The
Queenslander is the greatest meat-eater—3B2£lbs.
per annum being his allowance ; the N.S. Welsh-
man contents himself with 2851b5., while the
Victorian puts away only 2091b5. of flesh yearly.
The frugal Tasmanian is “a whale on” porridge
and potatoes, while in tinned foods the Westralian
comes an easy first.
THE “STRAIGHT GRIFFIN. ”
HE: “ Oh, my honey !”
SHE: “ You drone, why don't you gather me in ?"
The present drought indirectly caused the
shifting of the Quarter Sessions from a northern
N.S.W. town. Through the hard times no
one felt brisk enough to commit felony, and
the small quantity of things worth steal-
ing were carefully guarded, so that the
Judge carried off four pairs of gloves in
succession, with the above result. The next
town is 70 miles off ; expenses in civil actions will
be trebled, and the townsmen are in throes of
indignation at the insult. They contemplate
importing a batch of burglars to recover their lost
bad reputation.
• • » •
The new ocean steamer Corinthia seems
entered for a run of hard luck. At Hobart one
of the derrick booms slid as it was being unshipped
and smashed the bosun’s head against the mast.
A few days later an unfortunate wretch, who was
working his passage from London, got a clout
from the hoisting gear and was knocked into the
hold, falling 30ft. Result, a fractured skull and
one leg broken. The very next day a fireman
called Cocklin sailed slap through the engine-room
skylight and was hauled out again with a shattered
thigh. And finally, to top up, the following
morning a coal-lumper, while at work on the
vessel, tripped and split his head open. He soon
died, leaving a widow and family. The crev/’s
nerve is failing owing to this succesi'on of
accidents.
• • ■ •
Nicholson-st., Melbourne, the broad, well-
lighted, extremely respectable thoroughfare which
runs past the front door of the Exhibition Building,
has a unique record for sensational crime. There
it was, four years back, that two bombs were ex-
ploded at the front doors of private houses. Only
20 yards from the scene of one of these outrages a
wild-eyed Barrier boy made a sensational attempt
to shoot the variety actress of his heart, and then
to suicide; and, more recently, in this street,
arsonist Macnainara burned to death his infant
son. On the other Saturday night the last sensa-
tion occurred, when the residence of a swell
Chinese doctor, nearly opposite the main entrance
to the Exhibition, was raided by two yellow
desperadoes, who obtained admission to the house
on the ground that they had been assaulted by
larrikins, produced revolvers and bowie-knives,
and were about to loot the house, when the
doctor’s assistants came in and made them decamp.
• * • *
Bishop Frodsham, while deploring the
absence of religious enterprise and the lack of
missionary work in N.Q., said, in addition, that
what struck him most in the North was the
“ absence of sectarian bitterness.” If the worthy
Bishop will only go South to districts where the
churches are strong, where the paganism he
deplores is less evident and where orthodoxy is
flourishing and rampant, he will find plenty of
sectarian bitterness. The broad tolerance on
religious matters which is a prominent character-
istic of N.Q. will not be so observable in 20 years
time when the sky-pilots have multiplied ana the
ohurches are nearly as numerous as the grog-shops.


Wild’s, in the Sydney Arcade, is the most
gentlemen’s hairdressing saloon in
Sydney. Every attention possible is paid to the
customers by six expert hairdressers. Address.—
30 Sydney Arcade, entrance from Georg '-street
or King street, Sydnev.*
SILVER STAR STARCH.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
BILE BEANS
p£ ,k» OSNESS - I,VER
and Troubles.
Brisbane, with a population (including
suburbs) of nearly 120,000, cannot get even a
tolerable fish supply, though Southport, where
the waters literally teem with fish, is but a few
miles away. On the other hand, such towns as
Rockhampton and Mt. Morgan enjoy a splendid
supply, simply because the Lake’s Creek Meat
Preserving Co. has added the fish business to the
meat business, and, by virtue of cold-storage
facilities, is able to make the thing a huge
success, and purvey for the neighboring towns.
• • * m
“Cara j How excited the Australian
woman gets over colored celebrities. Ranji. caused
an epidemic of hysteria, a few years ago, and now
IVXajor Taylor has occasioned another. It was
amusing sickening to watch the exhibition
many women made of themselves at the late
cycling carnival. While our own riders fought
out desperate finishes, women were deep in study-
ing each other s hats, but when Taylor appeared,
how great the change ! Some women jumped on
seats and fairly shrieked, and one (a type of
many) stood up and called out endearing epithets
to the darkey. A fashionably-dressed girl in front
of me, one night, with a goggle-eyed youth, com-
pletely lost her head when the black made one of
his jumping sprints, and throwing her arms round
her boy s . neck, she shrieked with joy, ending
up by breaking her fan on his Panama. It might
have been girlish abandon, but it was dis-
gusting all the same !
• * • .
S.A. Govt, hasn’t altered the size of the
new receipt-stamps (l£in. by lin.), which is twice
the necessary size. Too much dubious gum to
hek ! S.A. people are thus the real “Gumsuckers.”
* * * •
Quaint, but doubtless necessary, Adelaide
brewery advt., sequel to a cellarman’s shocking
death
J hereby certify that I have witnessed the running into
the deep-drainage sewer of the vat of stout in which the
body of George Castles was found.
And the brewery knew its squeamish public well
enough to destroy the vat as well.
A FAIR PRICE.
MIDNIGHT MARAUDER: “ Yer shekels or yer life !”
MOSES: “ But mine life is no goot to you, and mine monish I can’t gif avay for nuddings;
but I dell you vat I’ll do, I vill buy dot bistol off you for a fair price.”
Editor Bulletin. —Below is a copy of cir-
cular recently issued to N.S.W. teachers. I
understood that all this question of religion had
been dropped, and. moreover, that civil servants
had the option of stating their religious beliefs or
not. Following does not look like it.—Peda-
gogue.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, Ist January, 1903.
Memorandum to the Teacher,
Public School.
In order to enable the Premier and Chief Secretary to
lay upon the Table of the House certain information pro-
mised, in reply to a question asked by Mr. Quinn, in the
Legislative Assembly, I have the honor to request you to
be good enough to state the name of the religious de-
nomination to which you belong, and, if you have
teachers under your supervision, to supply similar infor-
mation in regard to each of them on Schedule overleaf.
The information should be supplied by return post.
J. C. Maynard,
Under-Secretary.
Visitors to Sydney are warned of a gang
of “ring-finders” working at or near to Redfern
railway-station. You alight from the train look-
ing fairly innocent, when a stranger apparently
picks up from under your very feet a gold ring set
with gems. He calls your attention to his luck,
and, after you’ve admired the jewellery, offers it
to you for £l, or 10s., or 5s. —as much, in short,
as he thinks lie will get. If you purchase, you
have a Brummagem article, worth 3d., and he
sallies off to “find” another ring and another
“mug.”
* * * m
A fine, with the alternative of impiison-
ment, was imposed in a Sydney court, the otht r
day, for larceny-by-finding. A sixpenny-bit caused
the trouble, but so loose are ideas on the subject
of picking tilings up in the street that a lesson on
the matter in State school-books would not be
amiss.
Related that Constable Long, recently
4, üburn - N.S.W., once went very
near potting a respectable city grocer. The
r u bu , rn ,\ n , g home to Auburn late one
s W ht . h ® d ha Y e a look at some untenanted
m the v l cln . lfc y and . aa it happened,
from nnl ru men n PPing off the roofing-lead
from one of them. He carefully hid himself and
then yelled, “Come down out of that!” Long
3 ano , ther constable had seen the men upon the
u v a 7 wer e waitmg to pounce upon them when
T,rnmnH?lru d T' end; b ? fc now the lead-stealers
hindv th hd d ° Wn a u d scooted - Help being
grocer brave and as a form rushed
close Keif- w OVe T he ran in pursuit with Long
close behind. Long mistaking the little man for
another of em, called upon him to “stand !”
wut the grocer only slung back blasphemy and
kept on runmng “Stand or I’ll fire !” again
dnllln!] 0 ,! 1 " and ’ rec f' ving no response, hd let
drive and down went the grocer flat and lay there
rn, ' H°ng came up and asked where he was hit.
i hen the small man arose and cursed the force
generally and Long in particular, with such vim
fnlLj*r iet a fc j at tbe decea sed constable never
rorgot it And even when afterwards the mer-
chant acknowledged that Long had made a very
” afc “ ra , mistake, the latter would sooner do the
tnck or dod sre into a handy doorway than
face the grocer’s genial salutation.
* * » •
Three years ago, a Melbourne solicitor’s
accountant embezzled his employer’s bank balance
and departed for parts unknown. The solicitor,
being in London, recently found himself, on the
top ot a bus, seated alongside his long-sought
retainer, but, being a, man who can recognise
and forgiv W k en sees * b ’ be consented to forget
“Esini ”: I have discovered J that the
microbe of the “lodger habit” is simply the
vanity of many Australian girls who, marrying
men of small incomes, insist on living in houses
of a size and style beyond their means. To enable
fn 80 th ®y take in lodgers—and the
habit follows. My business (insurance can-
vassing) has shown me many such cases. Know-
ing the status and probable “ screw ” of the hus-
band, In aye diplomatically expressed surprise at
bis ability to maintain such a large house. ‘‘ Oh
the wife won t live in a small house, so we take
one or two boarders,” is the invariable answer.
Une young fellow of my acquaintance, who mar-
nes shortiy on a , Y a l a 10s. per week, con-
fided to me that his girl was coaxing him to take
lodgers. I asked him if he intended to do so. He
said, Not much. I’m not going to buck up
against any chances ” From which saying I
gathered that he re 0 Is his Bulletin.
* ’ » »
Bishop Webber on the cathedral cadging
tour, said recently :
J<-t Gh T h ° f Et i^ n<} has not properly discharged its
duties, and many of the emigrants in W.Q. have simply
*fPf. e< V nt ° Whlt f 6 P a ? anism - • • • A cathedral is greatly
needed as a*centre of ecclesiastical life.
It needed a truly great ecclesiastical mind to dis-
cover that the crying need of the white pagans of
the y. bush was a stately cathedral on the banks
of the Brisbane.
Chamberlain, appealing to the wealthy
Johannesburgers, mostly Hebrews, to shoulder
some of the cost of the war, suggested
(sardonically, probably) that they would not be
more careful of their purses than they had been of
their lives. It may not be generally known that
the Johannesburg Jews fought most valiantly in
the war. Never will the exploits of the famous
Ten Tribes Brigade be forgotten. Time after
time they charged the foe (100 per cent.), until the
mere sight of their banner (three golden balls on a
silver field) was enough to put to flight the largest
commando of burghers. One drawback only they
had, and it was fatal. The diamonds they wore
made them so conspicuous that they could not
conceal their movements. The last of them was
killed in ambush just before the struggle closed.
It was not till after that, that the War Office, with
the fatuity which has ever distinguished it, issued
an order that the members of the corps were to have
their jewels painted kharki—but the heroes were
then dead to the very last man.
* * * *
Sydney Evangelical Council has petitioned
the Governor-General to appoint a Royal Com-
mission to inquire into the charges made by Car-
dinal Moran in connection with the recent Samoan
war. An impartial investigation of the 3ort
would probably prove entirely unsatisfactory to
both gangs of sectarian squabblers, and would be
therefore welcomed by the general public. But
the Commision is hardly likely to issue. A surer
way, if the E.C. is really in earnest about an
inquiry, would be an action at law by one of the
individuals who regards himself as slandered.
* • * *
At Carlton (Melb.), one Conroy, still a
youngish man, was recently sentenced for the
hundredth time for various offences, Nothing
like continual justice for reforming a man. See
how it has reformed Conroy.
* * m •
Once a man comes under the control of
the “System” there are several new offences,
quite unknown “outside,” for which he may be
punished. A couple of Pentridge prisoners were
lately given four days’ solitary by a visiting
magistrate for “quarrelling,” while for declining
to say how they got certain marks on their faces—
apparently the results of the quarrel—each got an
extra seven days. Which was rubbing it in with
a vengeance!
• * • •
Safe to predict that the next winner of
Melb. National Gallery students’ scholarship will
be a Jew, like the Altsons (Abey and Meyer). In
fact, the strongest specimen of painting from the
nude in the recent exhibition of students’ work
was Cohen’s figure of a reclining woman, boldly
drawn (back view) and admirably flesh tinted.
Cohen is a diminutive fellow, a mere ‘ ‘ bit of a
boy.” The present generation of art students in
Melbourne ought to have talent to compensate for
their lack of physique.
* * * •
“P.X.”: Melba “went crabbing” in
Adelaide, or as near Adelaide as the crabs are ;
but she went in a boat, and that is not the way to
do it:—
The Port River, which is really an arm of the Gulf,
slops over a vast expanse of flat mangrove beach ; the
tide runs in for two or three miles. The idea is to wade
out as far as you can among the derelict bottles and jam-
tins (it may be a couple of miles at least), armed with a
scoop-net on a 6ft. pole. Sometimes it is also necessary
to make a tub fast to your belt and tow it after you, and
sometimes it isn’t. The tub is to hold the crabs that are
caught. The big blue fellow doesn’t wait for the net, and
the chase is often exciting ; the tub helps the crab, and
the artful dodger really doesn’t want much helping.
When beaten he has a knack of turning, and his jaws are
too powerful to be trifled with ; baggy pants—the baggiest
in the lumber-room—are therefore recommended. These
and boots that don’t let in the shells, which are sharper
than needles —boots that do so are Perdition. Luckily,
perhaps, the beach isn’t too easily got at from the city,
and so the unique sport is preserved.
Melbourne has produced an alleged lady
burglar, and if all of her species are equally
inefficient the sex had better give up burgling and
go on with its sweeping. Her method when found
out (she worked by day and appeared to be regu-
larly found out) was to laugh a ringing laugh, and
say that she was pretending to be a housebreaker
for the wild humor of the thing, and now she
wanted to be led at once to her dear friend Mrs
Jones so that she might kiss the new baby
instantly. Being assured that it wasn't Mrs
Jones s house, she would blush all over with shame
at her mistake and apologise abjectly. She was a
dark-haired siren of only 28, so she got off regu-
larly for a while, where a woman of 56 with an
apron made of bagging would have fallen in at the
first time of asking. But in the end an inhuman
householder refused to accept the blush as suffi-
cient explanation, and now the law is going to
decide, if possible, whether she is a real burglar
or a, practical jokist, ora crank with a mania for
finding Mrs. Jones’s baby.
* * • »
._ Th » fc _ heartrending fire at Colney Hatch
(ling.) Lunatic Asylum should spur on N.S.W.
authorities to close George-st., Parramatta, Asylum
for the Infirm The high fatality-list at Colney
Hatch would be much exceeded if a fire broke out
i 6 ™. ree ' store y e d Parramatta building, with its
old-fashioned staircases and its hundreds of help-
less inmates. v
• • • *
It was not a good testimonial to the value
of “expert eyidence ” that was afforded by the
recent Sydney “Lost Diamond” case. A lost
diamond haying been entrusted to the police
two men claimed it as theirs :
.. H y? on Ridley, 28 years in the jewellery trade, “ knew
the diamond before the court. To the best of his belief
It was the property of Milverton, and belonged to the
ring worn by him. It fitted the setting exactly. The
setting in Lemon’s ring was very similar to Milverton’s,
and both were so near that the stone would fit either.”
Nathan Owles, jeweller, said “ Milverton’s was not the
correct setting for the stone. The diamond fitted the
setting of Lemon’s ring exactly.”
Evan Jones, jeweller, said it was “evident that the
diamond had been in Milverton’s ring before and belonged
i not fit the setting of Lemon’s ring so well
as that of Milverton’s. The setting of Lemon’s rin>' wai
entirely different.” ”
Celestin Paillis, diamond-mounter, deposed that
after trying the stone in both settings, he unhesitatingl!
stated that it only fitted Lemon’s.”
Joseph Wainribe, working jeweller, “had purchased
the diamond in Melbourne not quite 12 months ago, and
had set it for Lemon.” He had weighed it, and named
its weight exactly.
Mr. Lemon got the stone, on the weight of evi-
dence. If it had been a criminal case, with only
the Crown collecting “expert evidence,” probably
there would have been a unanimous chorus of
experts to send some poor devil to the gaol or the
scaffold.
• • * «
What with Premier See’s assurance that
the Government is going right on with the build-
ing, in Sydney, of the finest railway station in
the world, and Minister Perry’s hints that sorn *
kind of tin-and-bagging station is going to be put
up wlule the original gorgeous design stands over
indefinitely, Sydney hardly knows where it are
just now. But still all is not gloom. The Zetland
tramway, it is announced, is to be officially open* d
on Feb. 11. Trams have been running on the
line for a month or so, it is true, but the official
feed and oration are fixed for the 11th.
LOVE IN FETTERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
t held Love to me with reins of hair—
One golden hair and a cobweb fine ;
And his face was ruddy and debonnai’r,
Nor strained he ever the dainty line •
But my heart, poor heart! with desire atoss,
Fluttered, grew cold, with fear of loss.
I bound Love to me with cords of silk—
Two silken cords of delicate hue,
Studded with opals pale as milk,
Clamped and fastened with sapphires blue :
But Love turned restless and tried to stray,
And I would keep him for ever and aye.
I chained Love to me with ropes of gold,
Fettered his arms and his errant feet
His eyes I bandaged with gauzy fold
That none but mine his eyes might meet.
He struggled a moment, then bowed his head
The chains fell, useless—poor Love w’as dead.
JILL.
A MATINEE TRAGEDY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Twas at a matinee,
When Nellie Stewart “panto” played ,
There sat in front of me
A lady who a hat displayed
Built up with flowers and feathers hijh,
So that no stage could I espy.
In front of her there sat
Another lady, neat and trim,
Who wore a “ sailor ” hat,
Low-crowned and with a narrow brim:
Of course you will infer that such
Would not obstruct the view so much ,
The overture was o'er ,
And as the curtain upward went
The lady with the store
Of flowers and feathers forward leant
To where the other lady sat,
And asked her to remove her hat.
The other, thus besought,
Removed her hat to please this dame :
1 naturally thought
That Number One would do the same—
But she, with coolness most sublime,
KEPT HER HAT ON ALL THE TIME.
SYDNEY.
CHIB.


In the Matter of Dress attention to Detail Indicates Breeding.
EVERY LADY KNOWS THAT -
KLEINERT’S HOOKON
isTHEONLYQ orrect n ose Supporter
To Wear with the NEW FORM CORSET.
Sold only at the Best Shops.
SET OF TEETH ONE GUINEA
A
Beautiful and Lifelike in Appearance and Guaranteed Perfect Fit. Absolutely Painless
Extractions and Stoppings Guaranteed.
Special Attention Given to Regulating Children's Teeth.
Mr. J. SPENCER NOLAN, R.D.S., Surgeon Dentist, 43 Oxfo'd-st. Sydney
Sold by all Drapers and Hosiers
KNEIPP LINEN
UNDERWEAR
Porous. Cool. Clean. Unshrinkable
Recommended by “ Lancet ”
MCBRATNEY (Wholesale only),
321 Flinders Lane, Melb. 389 Georye-st., Sydney.
The Lacte Remedies— What they are. How
to use them, and speedily obtain a beautiful
plumpness of face, neck and arms, and a perfect
bust. Write for H. Westall Guest’s new pamph-
let, post free, 229 Bourke-st., Melb. Sydney
agents : Mrs. Rogers, 54 Strand Arcade, and Miss
CutKbert, 11 Victoria Arcade, Castlereagh-st.*
w 1,1 nf
*
4
4
%
* HEERING
CHERRY BR
S
+
BRANDY
WITH
SODA
WATER
s
Dress fftßßies
Are Stocked bv the
Leading Drapers.
radsmarkTHE varnished board
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, February 3, 1903.
My Dear Arini—
The Sydney Ladies’ Swimming Club (founder
had to say Ladies’, I suppose, instead of Women’s,
as the State Governoress is at its head) is the
bantling of a little woman enthusiast, Mrs. Loftus.
She use to be a thin, white, small person, always
ailing, when a doctor told her, in effect, to go to
the fish and consider its ways. And her husband,
who could swim as one finned and gilled and
tailed, taught her to swim, so that within 18
months she could beat him —at swimming, of
course. And now that she is rosy, and sturdy as
a little whale, she is an enthusiast for swimming
for women. S.L.S.C. was only formed in Novem-
ber ; the earlier members, who didn’t know
enough to keep them from drowning, are now
racing each other. There are some 30 members
in the club, which is very altruistic, for neither
founder nor executive makes anything out of it.
Mrs. Loftus and the committee teach all the
flounderers to swim, and save their own and
other people’s lives in several different ways.
On three days a week you may see the club,
dressed in two yards of navy-blue twill with a
white yoke and a shield with the letters 5.L.9.C.,
at Coogee or Rushcutter Baths. By the way,
only three out of every 100 women who go down
to the sea in bathing-clothes are able to swim a
stroke. Mrs. Bland Holt (who often brings the
baby used in the melodrama) and some women of
the Holt co. may be seen splashfully disporting
themselves in Coogee Baths. No men are per-
mitted to join S.L.S.C. Mrs. Loftus looks coldly
on mixed bathing, and no professional women
swimmers are welcome. Probably the club will
hold a carnival in March, when, as a cynic
suggested, it ought to invite the Blind Asylum
band to play its swimming music. Miss Nellie
King is non- sec. mermaid; Mayoress Hughes,
Mrs. G. H. Reid and Miss Rose Scott are also
members.
All the women now doing the Block in Sydney
have the trail of the cheap-sale over them.
Especially do their hats show it. And why will
any woman with less than a perfect complexion
and of more than 20 years wear those white muslin
frilled hats ? “It is impossible to get a becoming
fashionable hat,” writes an acquaintance, from
London; “they are all tambourines, or plates
and bell-ropes.” Miss Harrie Ireland, in a Bland
Holt role, wears a hat which, I heard a woman
say, shows “real character.” It is one of those
light, soft, wide-brimmed sunburnt straws, and
around the crown is tied a very narrow piece of
orange velvet—only that and nothing more ; but
under the brim, over a fascinating left ear, are
six black ostrich tips and a little tuft of more
orange velvet.
Primate Saumarez Smith, unlike most men
with a quiverful, is careless of the matrimonial
prospects of his daughters. “He does not give
the girls a chance,” say sympathetic people.
Lieut.-Gov. Madden, Lord Hampden, and other
notabilities generally had eligibles on their staffs.
The Primate, having four daughters in Sydney
and two in London, made his only son his chap-
lain ! This young gentleman is called “ Straw-
berry ” by his ex-companions of Sydney Grammar
School, and “ that sweet child ” by young-old
matrons.
Sydney has not overwhelmed the French cruiser
Protet with hospitality. She has been berthed at
Neutral Bay, where nothing is to be seen, and the
shore can only be reached with some trouble. It’s
like giving a distinguished visitor aback bedroom,
instead of the hostess turning out of the front
room in her honor. The officers tell in their im-
perfect English of the hospitality enjoyed at
Tahiti and Noumea. Save for some formal calls
paid by officials and some private entertainments
given by French residents, the presence of the
foreigners in Sydney has been practically ignored.
And the foreigners are glad. One day they had
a reception, and a Sydney “lydy ” with a cake in
one hand and a cup of tea in the other, stood over
against the bareheaded Commander and shouted
to another lydy : “ Say, Mollie, wonder if the top
of his ’air was shot off ? ”
That fine old Demosthenes who is to be mar-
ried early this month to a rich widow (reported to
have the wealth of an Attalus or of a Tyson), was
the means of introducing the lady’s daughter to a
suitor, an Englishman “of good family.” Within
a fortnight, the latter was received into the
Church of his bride, and the marriage of the
.young couple precedes that of the parent and the
parent-in-law by the space of a week or two.
Edward Lloyd, the English tenor, will be sup-
ported in his Australian season by Peterkin (the
basso), Emily Foxcroft (contralto), and Jean
Newman (soprano).
Ada Crossley, flushed and delighted with her
American triumph, will probably come to Aus-
tralia fairly early this year. Negotiations are
now under cable.
Talking of musicians; Maud MacCarthy has
appeared with that august body, the Phil-
harmonic, in New York, and the critics were not
much kinder to her than to Dani. Maud
played in N.Y. in her childish days. Max
Schluter has returned to Denmark and further
study. Franz Wilczek, after a conquering tour
of the Pacific coast, is back in N.Y., where it has
been 28deg. below zero. He may revisit Austra-
lia during the Columbian summer.
Miss Ethel Mollison, J. C. Williamson’s leading
lady for.“ Are You a Mason?” is described as
much prettier than her portraits. She is above
middje height and a blonde.
The orchid (its botanical name is like a mouth-
ful of ashes) that is shown this week in Searle’s
window was grown at Mr. Hugh Hixson’s place at
Summer Hill. Parent plant has been in his
orchid house for seven years, and this is the shy
thing’s first blossoming in Australia. It has a
fell look. Someone told me that it came from the
Malay archipelago. The stem is quite 7ft. long,
and from a foot or so above the base to the top of
the stem depend blossoms, perhaps to the number
of 250, of a dull yellow, spotted with brown. The
tawny ground color hardly predominates over the
brown blotches. The plant has several other
stems (or telegraph poles) of flowers.
A Sydney citizen recently had a new baby
added to his household. Infant is so like her
father that the likeness was apparent to the other
child, aged seven. “ Where did you get the new
little girl ? ’’ she asked of the doctor. “ I bought
it,” he replied; “at the greengrocer’s.” “How
curious,” said the child, “ that they should have
one so like father 1 ”
Brisbane is going to have a regular “India
relish ” in the way of a divorce case. Drawing
room conversations to be repeated are said to be
smarter than the “ Dolly Dialogues ” —and more
compromising. Petitioner married his moneyed
little brunette some seven or eight years ago.
Emily Soldene, writing from London, bemoans
the price of fish and oysters. “A lovely turbot,
with a lovely fat, white front ” (imagine Emily’s
eyes—two glowing notes of admiration!) “two
guineas.” “A fine lobster—yes, ss. 6d. —and a
nice pair of soles, 7s. 6d.” There is, after all,
something in man’s gibe that woman learns to
write about eating long before she learns to eat—
eat, that is to say, in the sense of eating , not of
merely stoking herself.
In print the list of legacies left by the late
squatter Illiffe of Albury looks like a Tatt.’s
sweep. There are close upon 50 legatees, most of
them women or girl relatives, connections or
friends of the kindly, old, childless widower. Yet
his fortune was small—only £11,850. What a lot
of happiness a rich man can throw round by
“remembering” people! Sydney has not for-
g itten the will of the late J. T. Neale.
A young American man among us is much sur-
prised and disgusted at the way Australian women
dress their children. “Whilst they are at the
very pretty wax-doll-seeming period, they are
dressed beautifully, like regular picture-children,
but, from the age of seven or eight onwards to the
time when they ‘ come out,’ they look like inmates
of charity institutions.” Which observation has
some truth. At a children’s party at Elizabeth
Bay I saw two little sisters, about three and
five respectively, dressed in French fashion. Kate
Greenaway infants present were quite over-
shadowed by the Frenchies, who were like 50-
guinea wax dolls at Chicago Exhibition. They
were low-necked, short-sleeved and socked. About
10 inches of highly goffered muslin and lace
underskirts stood out above the pink bare knees.
Their tiny knickers had rosettes of blue ribbon.
They wore short silk mits and bangles, and close
chiffon hoods with strings and sprays of French
flowers.
Sydney is full of annual meetings. I note that
the Dental Hospital, which has more than justi-
fied its existence by the relief it has given to the
tooth-aching poor, treated 935 cases for the year,
with an average daily attendance of 25.
Menie Muriel Dowie’s (Mrs. Norman’s) divorce
is a splendid advt. for her books. In all Sydney
public libraries you will hear inquiries : “Give me
something by Miss Dowie.” Personally, I was
not greatly surprised at the rending of the bonds,
for I had read her “Gallia, the Real New
Woman.” Of course, she is best known by her
book “A Girl in the Karpathians.” Henry
Norman, the petitioner, author, traveller, and
M.P., ought to have been brainy enough for any
advanced woman. Mr. Fitzgerald, the co-re., is
also something of an author, a great traveller and
climber.
The effrontery of the ping-ponger! A Sydney
lady without a handle to her name has got a letter
from a German town which runs so:—
Frau Brown. Hochwohlgeboren (right honorable). Dear
and most respected madam.—You will no doubt be a little
astonished at the receipt of this letter, and more so, per-
haps, since it comes from one who is a total stranger to
you, but to whom you were well known when he visited
in comradeship with your son and nephew. Dear
lady, I will now approach the subject on which I intend
to broach you. We are several young English people
here, including two from Australia, and we have all joined
together to form a ping-pong club, but at our first meet-
ing we found our funds, inadequate to furnish a table,
chairs, a room, &c., and we have decided to write to our
friends and relatives for their contributions, and though
I have never had the honor to make your acquaintance, I
know your generosity well, and therefore appeal to you
in this letter for any donation you would be happv to
give. In hopeful anticipation of a speedy answe'r, I
remain, .
A women’s club in Sydney was much disturbed
by a tailor, who occupied the floor above, using
his goose too vigorously, and he was told if his
thump, thump did not stop, “steps would be
taken to have him removed.” A meeting of more
than usual interest one day caused a great babel
of tongues below the tailor, who promptly sent
word down that their cackle interfered with his
goose, “and he must take steps,” &c.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ Miss ‘Stonington’ Clarke was sandwiched in
witn Melba’s family party at the Beaumont
benefit on Saturday night. Society for this
occasion had changed its auarters—deserting the
balconies for the body of the hall. A small
sprinkling of Toorak stars lay outside and beyond
the Mitchell clan.
“At the Armes Beaumont benefit the most
brightly dressed lady was Mrs. Alfred Taylor,
in a fiercely vivid rose-pink silk frock.
Femininity found 105‘ in the shade a
food excuse for leaving off as much as possible.
>raughts were created to the waist, shoul-
ders bereft even of an apology band, thatches
freed of upholstered frames and millinery odds
and ends. A city auctioneer’s wife made the
biggest effort to keep cool by wearing nothing
whatever above the big bust line.
“ Melba did not regulate her frocking to a high
temperature. She was severely encased in a
topaz-shaded silk of a flower pattern, with sudden
gushes of roseate tulle at the elbows and the usual
flying pennants of the same roseate hue from the
waist. At the conclusion of each number (she
gave of her bounty to the Beaumont bill) a
glass of iced water was handed her at the
foot of the platform steps. A new arrival
from 'Ome expressed his surprise at the Voice
Wonder’s air of familiarity, and the general devil-
may-careness of her demeanor on our boards. In
London, this tourist declares, Melba’s way of
coming on and leaving the platform is a slow,
dignified march, and her pose one of Cold and
Calm Rigidity. In gay Paris, after a grand opera
scene, she may sometimes show graceful abandon,
but she is ordinarily much the majestic prinia
donna —unflurried, self-sufficient. As for plumping
down on the piano stqol, pitching her ’kerchief on
the lid, and striking off a gay symphony for her-
self—the traveller is Aghast. It has upset all his
notions.
“Miss Louie Mueller, one of the few handsome
platformers the Marshall-Hall school has yet
turned out, was, next to Melba, the most highly-
chiffoned contributor to the Beaumont programme.
She secured a ‘Gibson’ effect in foamy cream.
The benefit-taker was fortunate in having a gifted
little song-bird, a tender little twitterer, in Miss
Doris Carter to demonstrate the quality of his art
of instruction. . The Maoriland soprano, Miss
Amy Murphy, by her confidence showed that she
knew something about debuts.
“They did honor to Melba at the Victoria Park
race meeting in the Holy City, by allowing her
carriage to crunch the verdant lawn, that she
might be let down at the V.R. enclosure of the
stand. They have never done as much for a Gov.-
General, or even for Royalty.
“ The only member of Melba’s troupe who took
the fancy of the Westerners was little Signorina
Sassoli. The minute the stolid little Italian ap-
peared at her melodious harp, a delighted shout
would shake the tin halls of Forrest Land. The
rest of Melba’s ‘ support ’ fell flat.
“ Melba has a way of sweeping up her vegetable
trophies that suggests a housewife snapping up
the towels for the weekly tub. There is impatient
haste and a practical turn in the act. Also, she
recalls the demeanor of an autocrat yielding a
point with a ‘ Now-nO-fuss—That-will-do ’ gesture
as she comes on to give an encore. When she, on
the other hand, gives a negative shake to her
head, there is an emphatic doggedness in ti e
denial. ‘ I shall not sing, ’ she seems to say, with
a foot-stamp, ‘because I shall not. So there ! ’
“‘Music’ is not inscribed on the plain post-
cards that summon one to a Melba ‘ At Home ’ on
Friday (6th). As much of society as hides its
midsummer term behind the drawn blinds at
Toorak is invited, and wonders what’s to be the
afternoon bill-of-fare. Up to this, covers for
twelve have been the largest order for ‘ My ora ’
hospitality.
“Wild whispers are abroad as to the number of
Philistines, and others, a Samsoness of the song-
world has slain.
“Judge Madden was delighted to welcome his
new grandson, Mrs. Harry Osborne’s second baby
and second son. Mrs. Vallange’s recent baby is
also a boy, so the Waxcellency has three grandsons
to one granddaughter. To use his own words, he
himself ‘ never had but one boy/ hence his glee
when his first grandson, little ‘Pat. John Osborne,’
came along. The C.J.’s brother, Mr. Frank
Madden, has also only one son to counter-balance
several daughters. This young man, evidently,
does not inherit the ‘dirty left’ of the elder
Maddens. According to newspaper accounts, he
came downstairs t’other night in the Madden
mansion at Kew(Melb.)to look for a suspected
burglar. The intruder hit him in the mouth and
knocked out a front tooth. Young Madden was
dazed for some time, and small blame to him, but
it seemed over-placid for him to go straight to bed
when consciousness returned and stay there till
ten o’clock next morning. Then he rose and in-
formed the caretakers, who were on duty during
the absence of most of the family.
“At the Turkish baths in Melbourne (the city
has only one such establishment nowadays ; 10
years ago it had three) a large proportion of the
bathers on ‘ladies’ days’ are barmaids. The
average barmaid is a cleaner person than the
average woman of domestic life, anyhow. Even
the high-toned Toorakienne, with lots of time to
spare for face-massage and manicuring, rarely
troubles to purify herself by means of ‘ Nature’s
reviving sweats.’ A female attendant at one of
the Turkish baths being asked whether the
smartest girls were regular customers, said— ‘ Bless
you ! No. They only come here once in their
lives—the day before they get married! If they
don’t get married they never patronise as at all ’
One pictures the cynical T.B. lady eyeing the
unwonted spinster who comes up to the hot rooms
for her bridal ‘clean,’ and murmuring to herself—
‘ I wonder whether she’s making a good match.’
“ ‘Zaza ’ is the sort of play that sets a painted
man-huntress on a pedestal to be worshipped
Said man-huntress, to do her justice, hunts for
love, not for pay. Having said that, one has
summed up all her claims to heroineship Taking
a feverish fancy to a comely unknown, she com
mandeers him to her dressing-room, saturates him
with scent, smites him (literally) with her legs
and swoons finally—paint, scent, legs and all—
into his half-reluctant arms. The fair, human
Etna institutes no inquiries into her captive’s
domestic connections, while he, for his part
makes no promises for the future. Yet, at the end
of six months, when it is discovered that Zaza’s
prize still cherishes a sneaking regard for his
unsuspecting wife and child, the audience ig
cheated into letting its tears down-fall on behalf
of the painted lady.
“Nellie Stewart’s ‘Zaza’ clothes are blowsy
and bold, compared with those worn by ‘Sweet
Nell ’ and the ‘ Country Mouse.’ Miss Stewart,
artist that she is, bows to the fact that the
Parisian music-hall siren, with her name yet to
make, would favor toilette-tactics, ‘ loud ’ rather
than chic, boisterous rather than becoming. Most
of her costumes are scarlet. The . red-cloth
walking-skirt, worn in the love-in-the-cottage
scene, is appallingly frank in its anatomical reve-
lations. When wearer is seated the outline sug-
gests a ‘ nude ’ done in cochineal.
“ Parents seemingly make quite a point of
taking children to plays of the ‘ Zaza ’ type. They
intend the treat to act as a warning, no doubt.
The youngsters are just as likely to regard it as
an example. Scribe heard two school-girls in the
train discussing the grisette’s ‘mashing’ tech-
nique, with frank enthusiasm. Said the one who
had seen the play to her less fortunate chum:
‘ First of all she drenched herself with scent-
heliotrope it was. Then she half-closed her eyes
and gazed in darling Beatty’s face, right under his
eyelids, like this. Then she rocked backwards
and forwards in her chair and kept touching him
accidentally with her foot. Her frock was dis-
gracefully short, you know, and talk about a low
bodice !'
“If there is in ‘Zaza’ any lesson likely to
benefit a ‘ respectable young person ’ it must be
that good housekeeping tells in the long run.
Bernard’s lawful wife, unaware even of the ex-
istence of her rival, nevertheless unknowingly
fights that rival, when she keeps her home as
‘fresh as a rose.’ Zaza, squalid slattern, dusts the
breakfast cups with her petticoat and throws the
‘ combings ’ from her toilette-brush over the
balcony into the garden. Her lover laughs good-
humoredly when she serves him with underdone
eggs and burnt beefsteak on a soiled tablecloth,
but when he’s not in a picnic mood and wants a
dainty meal and a clean bed, he goes elsewhere.
Some people imagine men don’t object to a dash
of humorous dirt. In reality, they’re far cleaner
than women. Have you ever got a man to help
wash-up ? If so, you know that boiling water and
soap failed to satisfy his ideal of cleanliness.
Heaps of elbow-grease went to the rim of ever)'
individual cup, because ‘that’s the part they’ve
been drinking out of, you know ! ’
“The Mrs. Macdonald whose wing is stretched
to shelter the two Castles sisters to Europe is
reputedly a very shrewd dame. Her late husband
was a general and a diplomat, and his widow has
seen service in Austrian Court circles. She sports
a superb medallion—a gift from a crowned head.
Generally suspected that she was the ‘ One Who
Has Known Her’ writer of that Saxon Crown
Princess vindication article—which, by the way,
wasn’t a particularly shrewd production.
“Mrs. Edward Miller has returned from
abroad, after an absence of two years. She spent
the time watching over the shadow’s of her sons at
the academic desk. The Edward Millers afforded
another example of the weak politician and the
strenuous she-partner. I can recall a feeble effort
on the part of the Hon. Edward to denounce
Woman’s Suffrage in the House. He spluttered
on stupidly, the while his spouse sat in the
visitors’ gallery show’ing manifest impatience.
She could have said the whole thing herself in
two or three commanding sentences.
“Earl Carrington heads the list of Australian
ex-Govemors (so home-trotters advise) who are
hospitable to Australians in the Big Smoke. The
yawnful earl goes to some trouble to be kind.
Doesn’t content himself with merely supplying a
sheaf of introductions, but spreads a feast, and
takes the chair at his own board. The Marquis
of Linlithgow’s weak health has saved him from
more than postal courtesies to inquiring globe-
trotters. As for Lord Brassey, the Faller-off, he
sails away in his Sunbeam at frequent intervals,
and is not easily buttonholed. Earl Beauchamp
stands sponsor for Art and Letters generally.
“ As an instance of Melbourne climatic variety.
Last Wednesday week a bride was unable to step
out from the church into a deluge of rain in her
flimsy white satin shoes, and was carried by the
blushing bridegroom to the carriage—adozen yards
away. A week later another Melbourne bride
was visibly melting. Her tulle veil had lost all
its starch and hung in limp folds over the moist
face of the newly-sacrificed.
“ The honeymoon has become an energetic
jaunt. A pair went off a month or two ago for a
bicycle tour through rural Victoria. A fortnight
back another newly-hitched couple started on an
equestrian expedition. Instead of providing
themselves with quiet old nags, trained to pull-up
at kissing-posts, they selected two thoroughbreds
that promise to take all before them through the
Gippsland forest.
“ The latest domestic fracas arose through the
wicked agency of the telephone. Mrs. Blank was
ringing up her dear old hubby to bring home an
extra pound of pork mysteries, or something,
when, in the interim of waiting, with her wifely
ear cleaving fast to the receiver, she found herself
listening to an animated conversation between
the dear fellow and a barmaid. She has gone
straight away to her relatives.
( Continued on page 80.)


MEDICAL ADVICE FREE.
If you are ill, write to us for advice.
That advice is free. It won’t cost you a single penny.
Send us a full description of your case. You will have our best attention
and honest, sympathetic help.
We shall tell you truthfully whether we can or cannot recommend you to
take Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills won’t cure everybody. We shall not recommend
them to you unless we know that they will cure you.
We have a special organisation for advice. We shall write you a careful
letter of instructions exactly suited to your case —absolutely free.
Write to-day to this address—
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co,, Queen’s Place, Sydney, N.S.W.
iMO
ink pills for pale people
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Veteran £ £ Smith has just built a
country residence at Berwick, Vic., where he
holds open house, mainly for ’theatricals.
Characteristically enough he has named the villa
“L. L. Vale.”
John Norton has been gipsying through
Tasmania, and, at latest, was in Hobart. John’s
resemblance to the brief, round Bishop of Tas-
mania has caused consternation among the short-
sighted ladies of the bishop’s flock.
Single-taxer Hirsch seized his chance to
air his pet fad during the adjourned Budget
debate in Vic. Assembly; he spoke for four solid
hours to a thin House. The deliverance occupies
54 columns in Hansard, and Max now considers
his mission in life within sight of fulfilment.
Ragman Reid, alleged Victorian senator, is
unquestionably the most flamboyant speaker in
Southern public life. His words are wild and
whirling, and, though they have little meaning
the average public cares more for sound and fury
and, getting it from Mr. Reid, is satisfied.
Tit Bits (London) is in possession of some
interesting and exclusive information re the
Owe’Sullivan :
Born, in Tasmania, the a ? e of ten he was installed as
printer s devil in the office of the Hobart Mercury To-
day he owns both morning, evening, and weekly journals.
Charles Gavan Duffy, in his first speech in
Victoria, declared he had promoted the ’4B insur-
rection in Ireland and that he neither repented it
nor would apologise for it. “I am still a rebel
to the backbone and spinal marrow,” he cried.
He wasn’t, tried for treason, but sent to Parlia-
ment. Lynch would have fared better had he
been bolder.
The lately-deceased (in England) Lieut.-
Col. St. John, who was for several years one of
the staff of Sir Hercules Robinson when the latter
was N.S.W. Governor, was twice married to the
same daughter of Sir Hercules. The second
ceremony was necessary because the lady had been
divorced by her husband in the interval, the co-
respondent being an army captain.
Ex-editor Haddon, of the Argus, will be
64 to-morrow (Sunday); General Downes, late
Victorian Military Commandant, will be 69 on
Tuesday, on which day the birthday of Attorney-
General Wise also falls; Sunbeam Brassey will
be 67 on Wednesday; J. J. Duncan, leader of
S.A. Council Opposition, 58 on Thursday ; and
squatter A. B. Murray, the oldest of S.A. pas-
toralists, who sat in the first Parliament in 1857,
will be 87 on Saturday, Dec. 14.
Jefferson Stow is the picturesque “char-
acter” among S.A. stipendiaries. Experienced
in the parson’s study (though only as the parson’s
ROBERT REID, THE ALLEGED
NEW SENATOR.
son), in the
survey
camp, as
knock-
about man
in the N.
Territory
(where you
can learn
a lot of
things),
and in
newspaper
work (he
got as high
as the
“ chair” in
S.A. Ad-
vertiser
office), he
is reported
to have a
better
string of
yarns than
a n ybo dy
else in S.A.
The law-
yers don’t
have to
explain
slang in his
court. The
other day,
though,
half-ashamed, he had to ask what “shickered”
was. They told him it was the Pt. Pirie wharf
word for drunk, and he added it to his reserves
of knowledge.
A correspondent from Melbourne :
The “ bosses’ ” train had just arrived (9.45 a.m.) at
Flinders-street from Brighton. As the passengers—mer-
chants, lawyers, consequential managing clerks —rushed
along they ignored the struggles of a small boy with a
big parcel, who was vainly attempting to get a start on
his bike from the kerb, till a portly, well-groomed per-
sonage kindly held the machine whilst the youngster
mounted and got away. It was his Waxellency, the
Lieut.-Governor of Victoria.
They tell of a “fairy godfather” to Aus-
tralians in England that he is getting a little bit
weary of the r6le. One Australian writer’s
clothing-emporium sent to him a little bill for the
habiliments of literary genius. Another great
writer, calling at the castle, or whatever it is, in
a full and Bohemian moorl, and finding that the
fairy godfather was not at home, borrowed half-a-
crown from the butler !
Salary offered by tho Commonwealth for
the New Guinea judgeship (£lOOO a year and no
pension rights) is not nearly enough to attract a
good man. The post is, financially, only equal to a
3>500-a-year billet in Sydney, taking into aocount
the climate, and so on. Said that Tom Slattery,
M.L.C., has his eye on the thing for his son-in-
law, barrister Lyons.
W. J. Lyne’s desire to picnic to North
Queensland and New Guinea is characteristic of
the plodding, stick-at-it manner that, despite a
host of defects, keeps him still about the front.
Nearly 40 years ago he was starved out of those
tropic parts. To get away with his life he had to
struggle almost alone over a thousand miles of
inhospitable country. Now, just on 60, it is the wish
of his life to go there again, and he will go, too,
in all probability.
Rev. Dill Macky, at Bathurst, the other
Sunday, refused to let fly at the Pope on the Lord’s
Day :
He hoped that none of those present expected him to
denounce the errors of Popery or to put before them the
claims of the mission on account of which he was touring
the country. He never did so on the Sabbath Day. He
took advantage of the opportunity that was given to
occupy the pulpit and preach the simple Gospel.
Which seems to suggest that Dr. Dill has in
his heart some doubt as to the holiness of his
sec tarian mission.
The death of Joseph Hewitt, near Dubbo,
blotsout another of the picturesque pioneers. H<
was in Sydney as a soldier in 1836, afterwardi
u t " e Amounted Police, fought bushrangers
an “ h° re their gunshot marks till his death, and
ended up as farmer. He was an Irishman, and
»1 years old when his record closed.
Queensland Tories profess astonishment
at the continued popularity of P.M.G. Drake.
For 12 years Drake fought a game battle for
democracy ; then he wriggled and joined the
-rhilp Ministry. When he accepted a seat in the
Harton Government, the Philpocrats thought he
vT- aS '' sa f. e ” an .d muzz l e d- But he swung back to
his old Liberalism, and has been a steady demo-
SI “C6. Democracy can afford to forgive one
fall, but no more.
( The late W. H. Osmand, M.L.C. (Vic.)—
Bill the Smelter ” —a large station-holder, deter-
mmed some six years ago to acquire from the
-British Heralds’ College the right to bear arms.
He was given a beautiful emblazonment contain-
JSR -A- bullock at gaze”—instead of “graze.”
U lB 1“ e distinction cost him over £6OO. But
then he passed his youth in the British navy,
where a man whose father owns two dogs is con-
sidered to be better than he whose father possesses
only one.
Premier Seddon, as a Jingo, takes himself
very seriously indeed. A Xmas card circulated
by the ex-radical is inscribed:
Peace in South Africa, Qoronation of King Edward,
Christmas greetings, and best wishes for a Happy New
Year with the compliments of the Prime Minister of
Maonland. A year of industry, crowned with Peace and
Prosperity.
The card is “adorned” with portraits of the
British King and Queen, the Yorklet and his
wife, and other personal friends of the ex-shanty-
keeper.
The Laugh of ex-Premier Peacock is now
seldom heard in Vic. Assembly. That forced and
unpleasant guffaw at last brought on a throat-
trouble, and nowadays Peacock merely smiles in
a tired way on special occasions. But a weak and
fraudulent imitation of the Laugh is frequently
heard, and listeners are much disgusted when
they find that its perpetrator is only produce-
merchant Keast, who divides the honor with
Albert Harris of being the amiable butt of the
Assembly. Peacock, though superficially healthy-
looking again, lias of late fattened out in a way
that seems to betoken trouble.
Premier Seddon, who is now with great
reluctance accepting big cash testimonials from
the M.L. public, is regarded as one of the
closest * of men, though reputedly worth some
tens of thousands. King Dick is not averse to
being entertained, but of entertainments he gives
none. He travels free per rail and steamer, and
so does his family, and the country supplies him
with a free house, fuel, and lighting. His Majesty’s
acceptance, now, of big money gifts from his sub-
jects is rather curious in view of his request in
London to Reuter’s agency to state that—“ There
was a movement in the colony for presenting, the
Premier with a sum of money, but at his request
it was not proceeded with.”
Commutation of Arthur Lynch’s sentence
from death to penal servitude for life leaves room
for a further concession later on. But Lynch is
of the unhappy, bungling, timorous, Charles I.
type of man who get precious little sympathy
until he is dead. He hadn’t the courage of his
change of flags, and tried to shuffle out of his
responsibility for it, by which he offended Fenian
sympathisers without conciliating the British
Government. Palpably a futile fellow, drifting
into treason without malice in his mind, or even
any thought of the seriousness of the step, and
then taking refuge in weak falsehood.
Arthur Lynch, M.P., whose death-sentence
for treason has been commuted to life imprison-
ment, was born at Smythesdale, Ballarat, in 1861.
Old man Lynch, still on deck, also had a tussle
with Britain—-at Eureka stockade. Young Lynch
is M.A. and C.E. of Melb. University, and is by
now a thorough cosmopolitan, having dwelt in
Berlin, Paris and the U.S., besides taking casual
glances at Turkey, Morocco, Canada, Germany
and Russia. Went to Ashantee as war-correspon-
dent, thence to the Transvaal. Has published
selections of his poetry, and “Modern Authors,”
“A Koran,” “Religio Athletae” and other
books. Is a finished swordsman, and a brainy
but not too well-ballasted young man.
“ In a Sydney barber’s-shop, t’other day,”
writes a Bulletin correspondent, “I noticed a
lock of grey hair, tied to a piece of cardboard,
inscribed, ‘Lock of Henry Parkes’ hair.’ This
barber, in answer to my inquiry, said, ‘Oh
yes, that’s off the old man’s head right enough ,
but I had a greater curio than that. After
shavin’ ’im once, I put the whole cutting
into the cage of my canaries, which were buildin’
at the time, and they made a nest of it, and
hatched a brood in it. But some curiosity-hunter
shook the bloomin’ thing. Only yesterday,’ he
went on, ‘ I cut Bishop ’s hair ; he’s off to
the Old Country, and,’ showing me a lock of the
episcopal clip, ‘I kep’this because, as I says to
him, “ Maybe it’s the larst time you’ll ever ’ave
your ’air cut.” ’ Cheerful valediction ! ”
DISCRETION THE BETTER PART.
IRATE PARENT (to frightened youth who has
stolen cautiously into the house): “Here,
you! didn’t I tell you not to show yourself
inside again till tea-time ? Outside you go,
and ”
SMALL BOT (sullenly): “Ugh Pm not going
out there, seel There’s a bloke coming down
the street that Pm going to give a hiding to.”
E. W. Christmas (a painter and a man—
not a festive season), who recently brought out the
collection of British pictures for Melb. “Federal
Exhibition,” states that John LongstafFs work
was in high repute in London when he so unwisely
returned to Australia some years ago. “I was
surprised,” says Mr. Christmas, “to find what a
name Longstaff had left behind him. Of course
he is *in the Swim ’ again now, but he was lucky
to get there, after having sacrificed his first
chance. The chanoe rarely comes to an artist the
second time.”
Generally understood in Melb. press
circles that F. W. Ward, who leaves the Argus
to renew his editorship of Sydney D.T., will be
succeeded as political leader-writer on the Argus
by “Dave” Maling, long identified with that
paper. Maling is one of the old school of Argus
men, a Tory to his finger tips, and regards any
statement in the leading columns of his journal as
holy gospel. Since Willoughby dropped writing
political notes as “Timotheus” and took the editor-
ship, Maling has followed gracefully in his foot-
steps as commentator, even sticking religiously
to the practice of having just three literary quota-
tions in each column. Willoughby was maliciously
said to write his three quotations first, and then
turn off .the surrounding paragraphs. Maling’s
prospective rise is not likely to make any great
difference in the Argus reporting staff, which was
getting rather overstocked with the “ literary,”
as distinct from the recording element. *
“ What may happen to a man in Australia,”
from Melb. Age :
The ups and downs of life were vividly illustrated in a
case which was called before the City Court yesterday.
A venerable looking old vagrant, rejoicing in the name of
William Carrington Smith Heale, rather astonished the
Bench by relating an outline of his past career. He said
he had been in Victoria since 1848 ; that for 18 years he
had been a manager of the London Chartered Bank,
portion of the time at Ballarat; that for five years he
had been in the service of the Bank of Australasia, and
that his father had been for 37 years connected with the
London Chartered Bank, also had acted as executor for a
large Collins-street estate. This aged financier, according
to the police, was found camped beside a fire on a piece
of land at the corner of Lonsdale and King-streets, and
had for years been carrying about pieces of firewood in a
bag, having no visible means of support. His defence
was that his wife worked in a restaurant where she earned
“good money"—good as far as it went—and that she
supplied him with meals. The chairman commented on
the painful position to which Heale had reduced himself,
and imposed a sentence of three months’ imprisonment.
Melbourne, in taking the
new C.E. Bishop Clark, breaks
away from its associates of
half a century. 56 years ago
the Archbishop of Canter-
bury consecrated on one day
three Bishops—Short for
Adelaide, Perry for Mel-
bourne, and Tyrrell for
Newcastle (N.S.W.), and
up till the other day the
three districts scored
bishop for bishop. Ade-
laide had had three, New-
castle three, and Mel-
bourne three. Now Mel-
bourne forges ahead with
a fourth. The second leg
of each episcopal tripod
was favored by England.
Kennion of Adelaide and
Moorhouse of Melbourne
were given sees there, and
Pearson of Newcastle was
offered an English see, but
declined it owing to ill-
health.
Dr. Ernest Morrison,
the well-advertised Pekin
correspondent of London
Times, left Australia years
ago with the reputation of
being rather a crank in his
craving for notoriety. As
a young fellow, he tramped
from the Gulf of Carpen-
taria to Melbourne, and,
because his father was the
principal of Geelong Col-
lege, the adventures of
Ernest got widely
Subsequently, the Age engaged
_ T . him as its special explorer in
JNcw b-umea —that was at the time when some
member of the De Rougemont persuasion had
rom Fapua with graphic accounts of
gold discoveries. Morrison went to look for the
alleged seams of solid gold which were glistening
in the sun. But the Age expedition proved a
failure. Morrison had gone no distance into the
island when he fell ill, or was wounded by natives,
or something. Anyhow, he dropped out of Dotice
after his return to Melbourne.
“Mr. T. Horn has joined the board of
the Great Fingall.” It recalls one of the families
that, in a few years, have almost faded out of
Australian memory. There were three brothers,
”• , S., and T. 8., who for years were
moderately-successful 8. Australian and West
Darling squatters. In that way they got in early
at Broken Hill; W. A. was one of the provisional
directors of the B. H. Prop.; T. S. was the Ade-
laide broker, and could get off only a few hundred
shares. W. A. then went into Parliament, and
used to spend his nights building up smart things
to throw off on the spur of the moment next day.
It was he who guided Gov. Xintore into his suc-
cessful Broken Hill specs.; and, in return, Xintore
chaperoned the family in England. Apparently,
they still do a bit “in the city.”
George Brookman, M.L.C., the mining
magnate, who gave £15,000 to Adelaide School of
Mines, is understood to be much hurt because he
has not received even a C.M.G. in return. It has
been suggested that he should double the gift, and
then see what will happen, But he hesitates to
put more money down the shaft, lest it should
agmn prove a “ wild cat.” Samuel Wilson aiid
Walter Watson Hughes gave £20,000 to Mel-
bourne and Adelaide Universities respectively,
brought off the bauble they coveted, but
Brookman gift is evidently considered below
the mark. It was Brookman’s brother who
resigned the Mayoralty of Perth last year because
his predecessor (Alec. Forrest, Bigjohn’s brother)
was made a C.M.G. on the occasion of the Duke’s
visit, and not himself. Geo. Brookman learned
courtesy behind a grocer’s counter, and has
remained amiable despite his mining successes.
Ihe ex-Mayor of Perth, however, has not managed
to take such a firm hold on public esteem.
“ Galvo ” : Re Donald Murray’s tele-
graphic typewriter:—
Murray was a born genius, and only the few who knew
hovv the man persevered under great difficulties toper-
feet his idea can appreciate it. He began entirely with-
out electrical or mechanical knowledge, and it is most
unusual for a man to begin to acquire such knowledge at
the age Mr. Murray did and to succeed. He bought a
lathe and stuck to it until he could use it as well as any
mechanic. Then he studied theoretical electricity and
8” a fair grasp of that. Finding it necessary to have
Clans for his patent, he learned mechanical drawing and
ecame an extremely neat draftsman. Between times,
he studied for and became first 8.A., then M.A., at
Umversity. All this time he was empfoyed on
the S.M. Herald staff ; and, whatever her faults, th« old
lady of O’Connell-st. does not encourage idleness By
Murray s method press-messages can be sent from a
central point to any number of offices at the rate of a
couple of hundred words a minute, the matter being
automatically set into type at once. When Murray took
his invention to America it was at once grabbed at by
one of the big U.S. telegraph co’s., who installed him in
an office with a salary of 2000dol. a year and the free and
avT Use ot elr l' nes {or the purpose of experimenting.
About a year ago the Scientific American published an
Illustrated article highly commending Murray’s invention.


MACONOCHIE’S
DELICIOUS FRESH HERRINGrS.
SWIFT & COMPANY, General Agents, 7 Spring Street, Sydney.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
MARTELLS
THREE STAR
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors.— In the cate of ethnological and
natural history items, etc., always give date and
place of experience ; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific
value.
T. P. Winter, Acting Administrator of
British Papua, tells of a curious form of mourning
he saw on Trobriand Islands. A man was seen
wearing on a string hung from his neck several
joints of a human backbone, also a human jaw-
bone with a fine set of teeth. A woman also wore
a similar necklet. Inquiry elicited that the man
was mourning for a wife, and the wife for a hus-
band, and that the emblems of sorrow formed
parts of the skeleton of the dear defunct. Tells,
further, that the people of the Trobriands are
very smart at learning arithmetic, their language
containing 9999 separate names of numerals.
That custom of mourning for your late wife by
wearing her teeth in your ear is a truly touching
one.
* * • •
A correspondent from “ the Islands ” to
the Sydney L.T.:—
The natives of Vila, New Hebrides, had a very enjoy-
able Xmas Day. Converts belonging to all the tribes. m
the island were invited by the Presbyterian missionaries
to a somewhat sumptuous entertainment. The menu
comprised fine fat pigs roasted whole, varied with beef,
supplemented with vegetables, and ending with a dessert
of native fruits. A French correspondent affirms that
this is how the Protestant missionaries secure and retain
converts. The native fondness for “ fat pig ” is, he says,
irresistible.
On the other side, it is itffirmed that the.R.C.
padres keep a very respectable brand of gin for
their converts, and Presbyterian pig. is easily
countered with the spirituous consolations of the
other faith. A Yes-No ( i.e ., Pork-Gin) religious
man ought to do very well at the Islands.
Ten aborigines, who had been gaoled at
Port Augusta (S.A.), for stealing beef on a
Centralian station, were released on a recent
Tuesday. They were marched to a station on
the G.N. line, placed on board train and carried
to Oodnadatta, 600 miles north, and then let loose
to find their way home as best they could. Gaol
meant constant food and house-room, but they
will, in the future, like the wild beasts, have to
“seek their meat from God.” If they take it
from the squatter’s runs there will be either a
bullet or more gaol for their portion.
AT THE AGRICULTURAL SHOW.
SMALL CITY BOY (looking at a full-fleeced ram): “ Why, fa, that sheep’s clothes don’t fit!”
rm, Q or-Lloca nrnttlp of fhp nresiddnt of the
Ihe artless prattle or me president oi me
State-helped Lutheran mission at Hermannsourg,
Centralia, to the S.A. Govt. :
The monsoonal rains we usually can rely on in Jan. and
Feb were altogether absent, and a dearth of feed and
water was the consequence, disastrous alike for man and
beast. The blacks outside the station were unable to
Drovide their necessary food, and helped themselves by
spearing 1 cattle at the watering places. Ten of
these offenders yvere sent to Alice Springs, and
dealt with by the S.M. We found it altogether
difficult to procure work for the blacks, on
The° super.' (Mr? the scarcity of
yvork enabled him to start a course of religious instruc
tion with those yvho live on the station, but so far none
has become a Christian. They are all groyvn-up people,
many crippled in one way or another, Some of these
found the task of learning and ,listening quietly too
SSHt'Yf
three hours a day, and as all their yvants are supplied
they seem a happy enough lot of youngsters. The
number of Christians has remained stationary, no death
having occurred and no birth having taken place.
From which last one is to assume that it is only
necessary to be bom in a mission hut to be a
Christian. But, alas, it seems that babies are
not fashionable among the Christian ladies of
Hermannsburg either.
» • • *
Another competitor for the drought prize
—Woodlands, on the Lower Darling anabranch,
Far West, N.S.W. The rain register for 1902 was
l - 58in. “ Woodlands ” —the irony of it! But,
after all, that is fairly characteristic of nomencla-
ture out in the mulga. Picture Sturt’s Meadows,
for instance —sleek sheep_ waddling in the waving
grass; sleeker cattle dozing in the shade of the
branching gums. In real life, though, Sturt’s
Meadows haven’t a stick of timber, and for many
years past have had hardly a blade of grass. See
a little bare galvanised-iron “humpy ” at the end
of a small winding dusty track that branches from
a deeper winding dusty track, in a setting of bare
rooks and a clump of eight ragged mulgas, and if
you are not told it’s Mulga Vale it’s most likely
because the man with you doesn’t know.
v • • • *
The ghastly record of western N.S.W., as
disclosed in the annual sheep returns for Wil-
cannia district :
1893 .. 1,570,000 1898 .. 835,000
1894 .. 1,575,000 1899 .. 482,000
1895 .. 1,228,000 1900 .. 491,000
1896 .. 1,063,000 1901 .. 444,000
1897 .. 931,000 1902 .. 271,000
Once the country averaged a sheep to 6§ acres ;
the present figure is one to 40.
• • • •
Vic. up-country trappers have been losing
heavily of late over consignments of dead rabbits
to Melbourne. Instead of cool, up-to-date cars
for their carriage, Bungler Bent provides a string
of slow-moving ones, and the other day, on arrival
in Melb., 20,000 putrefying pairs had to be thrown
out.
• * . •
Be H. Stockdale’s remarks (8., 24/l/’O3)
about aboriginal grave memorial stones
Near Lake Bolac (Vic.) there is an old aboriginal bury-
ing-ground, wherein, some years ago, I found lying along-
side the remains of a skeleton seven stones varying in
size from that of a cricket-ball to that of a marble. These
stones are brown and very hard, the two medium sizes
having a peculiar raised “ blister ”on them. The largest
was watch-shaped, and the others became more spherical
as they decreased in size, the two smallest being perfect
spheres. Found three separate complete sets of seven,
which could not be differentiated. H.S. is probably right
in hlB ,dea that BUch stones" have been moulded.
Scattered aroU nd in the me place were other stones,
da j. w ith round edges, with small hollows in the centre,
probably intended to be held between finger and thumb
for grinding; also a stone hollowed out like a rude
mortar, with which I fancy the other kind of stone just
mentioned was used as a pestle to grind seeds and roots,
, . , .
_ . . .
The fly pest IS proving a perfect scourge
just now in S.W. and Southern Queensland. The
recent rains have provoked a spring in the grass
hence the trouble. Horses and cattle are being
worried to death, and the only means of saving
the eyes of the former seems to lie in ban-
daging the head with muslin or mosquito-net
—a process which the animal endures with
equanimity. Insectibane rubbed in the animal’s
f ace appears to be an excellent protection. The
i ern *» have
or late.
“ Polstan ” : Be “S.P.’s” ferocious
iguana (B. 17/l/’O3). The iguana, when in
danger, always makes for a tree or a stump,
and if surprised in a clearing, will often
mistake a man or a horse for such. Man
or horse aforesaid then usually. “ pulls foot,
and the reptile follows in its fright.
* * * *
“ Ajab” : At first, Lake Way was a
great “specking” patch, and the gins—of
whom there were a good crowd —were great
speckers, and brought in a lot of slug gold.
After a time, however, they got fat and
lazy, and brought in but little, and the
miners of the camp were at their wits’ end
for a means to induce them to continue
specking. One day Polly appeared wear-
ing a gorgeous red dressing-gown. Then,
later, Bitty, a young gin, came round,
smiling, and looking lovely in a blue vel-
veteen dress. It was elicited from Kitty
that Charley Johns—a new arrival—had
given her the dress, and she had given him
“big feller gold.” Charley Johns had also
given Polly her gown for “two feller gold.’
Then another gin called Nelly turned up
wearing a bright red dress, and the same
day came Mary garbed in a dress of pink
and blue cretonne. A month after Charley
Johns’ arrival a dozen gins were wearing
gorgeous raiment, and Charley Johns was
still the man in charge. The other miners
who had no dress stuffs to barter made
every effort to get rid of him, and even tried
to buy him out, but all without avail. All
the gins were out specking for Charley. At
last Charley Johns, in his ignorance, lent
his rifle to a nigger to get a kangaroo.
This was a serious offence, and merited ex-
pulsion from the camp. The verdict of
the miners was soon enforced and Charley
Johns left, but he took 320 ounces of gold with
him.
• * • *
What is considered a record ride was
accomplished last October by a drover named
Charlie Turner. With three changes of horses, he
covered exactly 800 miles between Leigh’s Creek
(S. A.) and Winton (Q.) in 14 days, the route being
via Cork and Birdsville. It was to inspect a mob
of cattle for Sid. Kidman.
•'• * •
It takes a lot to stop some women from
getting home. Last Dec. a girl started from
Winton (Q.) by coach for Boulia, but on reaching
Caddie Creek it was found impossible to cross the
flood by vehicle. The driver and a passenger
then fastened a strap round' their bodies, and with
the lady clinging to it between them, successfully
negotiated a 70yds. swim. At Middleton she
swam another flooded creek on horseback, and
reached Boulia in time to have Christinas dinner
with her parents.
• » * »
“ Gilgool ” : On Jan. 9, ’O3, an 18-year-old
girl walked from Grenfell to the Lachlan, 28
miles, between 6 a.m. and 2 p.m. There is, also,
an old man on the Lachlan, who was born on the
same day as the late Queen Victoria, who still
ploughs a piece of land and reaps the crop with
a sickle.
* • * *
“F.R.” : Tea controversy so far seems to
stand at this. (1) Bushmen don’t boil their tea;
(2) you can’t make good tea without boiling it as
the bushmen do. Facts remain that overdrawn
or boiled tea is highly injurious, even though it
may satisfy a “ craving ” ; and that nine-tenths
of Australian tea is overdrawn or boiled. It is
quite easy to believe that indulgence in a strong
solution of tannic acid in time sets up a craving
for more of that “dope”; but that only accen-
tuates the case against badly-made tea. The
stimulating and refreshing qualities to be got
from the tea-leaf (not always, by the way, from
the cheap tea-leaf, which is, as often as not,
“exhausted” leaf re-fried and re-colored with
chemicals) consist of theine, caffeine, and other
volatile extracts. They are driven off by boiling
or stewing. Australians as a race would shoot
better, digest better, and work better it they
drank more coffee and less ill-made tea. Coffee
is even more directly stimulating than tea, when
pure and properly prepared, and is a valuable
enteric disinfectant. A coffee-drinker won’t get
typhoid fever easily. And coffee can be grown
with ease in many parts of Australia.
* * * *
“ Chass.” : It isn’t very uncommon for
horses to suicide. I once saw a horse, after suffer-
ing great agony from bowel-stoppage, drown
itself in 9in. water. Apropos horse, saw a yearling
foal, t’other day, with small hoofs like the toes of
the prehistoric horse hanging from each of the
front fetlocks.
• • * *
“ Wiljar” : The laboring class in wayback
townships is having a rough time just now. There
has been practically no harvesting, and all private
and council work is postponed for want of funds.
A general exodus has taken place in search of
employment, many men leaving wives and families
behind in sore straits. Common now to see thin-
faced little kiddies, barefoot and half-dressed,
exploring the bush all day for firewood, “ under-
ground mutton,” and other necessaries. Rabbit-
skins, horse-hair, etc., are exchanged for flour,
and what ’possums the small hunters capture go
to make stew.
• • • •
“T.G.F.”: Reports come to hand daily
from the country re the natural signs of approach-
ing floods, as recognised by the aborigines. We
are informed that the ants are seeking higher
ground; that the wild-fowl are deserting the
ANOTHER SCANDAL IN HIGH SOCIETY.
“Early on Tuesday morning a sensation was caused in
the vicinity of the camp of Fitzgeralds’ Circus at Geelong
by the escape of an elephant. On Monday one of the
baboons escaped.”— DAILY PAPER.
creeks for the waterless gilgais ; and that whirl-
winds are becoming more frequent. Ri iable
flood-sign is the occurrence of the great inland
dust-storms, reported at intervals during several
weeks past. As for whirlwinds, I have lived for
years in the sun-dried West, and have watched the
spiral dust-columns, known as whirlwinds, come
season after season, but never a decent shower of
rain. Dust-storms occur only at intervals of years,
coming from the West in the form of huge clouds,
brick-colored or blue-black. They pass over
slowly, the sun being obscured for 12 to 15min.
If the records are looked up, it will be seen that
for a couple of months previous to the last floods
heavy dust-storms were reported from all parts of
the West and N.W.
• * * *
“ Paw-Paw ” on the green tree-ants of the
N. Queensland scrubs :
Their “nests" are always in trees, and are curiously
constructed. A suitable bunch of leaves is selected, and
the edges of the leaves are drawn together and cemented
with a fluid which is apparently emitted at will by the
little workers. When the structure :s completed it is
a comfortable dwelling,perfectly rain-proof. Entrances are
located at convenient points, which are strictly guarded.
The other day noticed that a colony was using a
“ lawyer-vine ” as a bridge between two trees I broke
this, and leaving the ends about an inch apart, “com-
pletely suspended the traffic.’’ News of the disaster was
quickly passed along the whole line of communication,
and a consultation apparently took place, after which
large numbers gathered at each end, one reaching over
the other till “ hands were joined” over the breach, and
traffic resumed over the living bridge. The aborigines
gather large numbers of these ants, squeeze the moisture
from them, mix with water, and drink it with relish
• » * *
From a letter from N.W. Queensland :
“As I write I can hear a continual ‘chop-chop.’ It
is dad and Will stripping the last few trees of
their foliage, to keep the stock alive. The tree
that grows above this tent goes to-morrow; then
we move on further South, to strip the country
there ; and, that done, on again—till the drought
breaks up.”
• • * •
What with hot summers, “ the theft of
the Murray waters,” and the salting of Lake
Alexandrina, South Australia seems to be dying
of thirst. Lake A. is now so salt that stock
cannot drink from it.
. • • •
How’s this for nerve ? Two brothers were
out rabbiting near Woodstock. One put his
hand up a log and was rewarded by a snakebite.
They had no knife, so the bitten man placed his
finger against one sharp stone and juggled it off
with another.
* * • *
Writes “T." : -
Thus The Transmitter, 17th Jan., 1903 : “ Died at Yal-
goo, a few weeks ago, Mrs. W. Pearce, nie aboriginal
“Nellie," who discovered the famous Emerald Reward
mine, and conveyed the news to Billy Pearce, who was
shepherding on Yalgoo run. The find yielded about
£90,000 worth of gold from a shallow deposit, and Billy
got £5OOO as one of the original vendors. He subse-
quently married Nellie and took her to England, return-
ing in course of time to his old haunts and occupation.
Last, saw Nellie about 12 months ago, employed cooking
at a hotel at Melville, a small mining camp 12 miles from
Y'algoo. Melville is named after Clarence Melville, an old
telegraphist, and the original prospector of the place. .. .
Believe he netted £3OOO from his discovery.” Now,
“ Nellie ” did notdiscover the Emerald. The prospectors,
falling in with shepherd Billy Pearce, were advised by
him to try a locality, to guide them to which he sent a
gin. They found a reef and began to sink, but not
thinking much of it, prospected a bit in spare time. One
Sunday morning, two of them out together simultaneously
knapped stone showing fine gold, one specimen being
absolutely yellow with it. That was the Emerald. They
let Billy Pearce stand in. Dollied a lot; first crushing,
16oz. to ton. When writer was there they had got out
most of the stone forming the rich, shallow, boat-shaped
deposit, and were putting through the whole of the thin
layer of surface covering the rock on the 8-acre lease, ana
said to be going loz. to the ton.


THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is thq largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance
is solicited.
Mr. L. C. RAWLS, Searight, Ala., writes:—
J ‘ My little boy, five years old, took WHOOPING-
COUGH. I thought he could not live. The doctor said
his lungs were diseased, and gave him medicine, but he
did no good. JAYNE’S EXPECTORANT CURED HlM.’’
A Worn-out Constitution Renewed.
Mrs. Sarah Lewis, of 5 Avon-street, Glebe
Point, Sydney, says:—“Some 12 months ago,
a friend of mine told me she had used your Bile
Beans, and that they had cured her of biliousness,
and as I was at that time run down from anxiety
and over-work, she advised me to try them. I
needed a real “ pick-me-up,” as I felt as tired in
in the morning as when I went to bed, and my
appetite was greatly impaired ; in fact, I was quite
done up, and did not know what to take to recover
my strength. Although I was a little prejudiced
against medicines in general, I was persuaded to
give your Bile Beans a trial, and it is with much
pleasure that I tell you that a very few of them
worked a miracle with me, and I began to feel
the benefit at once by being quite bright after
taking one at night, and my usual health began to
return to me, and I would have no other
medicine in the house. My daughter*, was
also troubled with pimples on the fac£> and
also at times neuralgia, and both these complaints
were cured by the careful use of Bile Beans.
These few words may not voice my full opinion
of your medicine, but will give you an idea of the
high estimation in which I hold Bile Beans.”
Bile Beans have now a world-wide reputation for
curing biliousness, headache, indigestion, constipa-
tion, piles, debility, female weaknesses, nervous-
ness, bad blood, pimples and all skin eruptions,
bad breath, anaemia, loss of appetite, sleeplessness,
summer fag, &c. Bile Beans are obtainable from
all medicine vendors, price Is. ljd. or 2s. 9d.
large box, (contains three times the quantity of
the Is. lj. size.)*
A Drink! A Tonic! A Medicine!
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Cell for WOLFH'S Schnapps and make sure that
you take nothing else
“ SIGHT FAILURE:
ITS CAUSE AND CURE.”
Our Hr. OSCAR G. ROBERTS will give a
Popular Lecture Entertainment (assisted by
Limelight Diagrams) on the above subject at
8 o’clock in the School oi Arts, Hornsby, on
SATURDAY EVENING, 7 th FEBRUARY.
Admission by ticket obtainable irom . . . .
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
1-OJfe
M
(he OMett Optical
tlouit m tsjfdact
23 Hunter St.
Profile and full-face photos, of HENRY JONES , alivs M' UIRE, " wanted” by the N.S.W.
police on a charge of murdering Constable Long, at Auburn, Sydney. £200 reward is offered
for hie arrest.
Following Is adescription of the suspect :-About 36 years of age 5ft. 3½in. high, medium build 1591b.
weight head slightly stooped forward, broad forehead, florid complexion, lair hair, inclined to mandy, bald on
top of head, may have short sandy moustache, blue eyes, peculiar determined facial expression, anchor and star
faintly tattooed on outside of left wrist, rings tattooed on middle and third fingers of left hand—these tattoo
marka have been scarred with a view to t heir removal; generally dressed la light sac suit and biown or grey Dr
Jim hat; slovenly appearanco ; very reserved in manner. ‘ J
DIGBY GRAND, accused of complicity in the
murder of Constable Long, at Auburn, Sydney.
“Ses”: Be sharks (B. 31/l/’O3. “F.”
says “sharks do not attack clothed persons—as
witness divers,” etc. If a shark is hungry, he’ll
go for the clothes quick enough ; though a naked
white man, or a person dressed in white, runs
more risk than a black man, or a person dressed
in black. White makes a glaring mark in water,
and thus attracts. As to divers, they have
frequent conflicts with sharks, but are apparently
safe while on bottom. A veteran relates a close
shave he had once, while pearling. He’d been
cautioned never to stir from the bottom until he
had looked up and around, and, in making his
customary survey, spotted a huge shark overhead
watching him. He dodged behind a rock, the
shark following with a slight movement of its tail.
Then he conceived the idea of blinding the brute
with mud, and worked for dear life till the imme-
diate water was thick. Then, slipping round the
rock again, he rose to the surface, and was hauled
on board just as the shark rushed at him.
* * » *
A runaway-boy in Mackay district dis-
played so much resourcefulness and self-reliance
that his feats deserve to be chronicled. On being
brought home after a voluntary absence of some
weeks, he was asked, “Where did you sleep?”
“Under tree.” “And how did you live?”
“Lived on goanners ! ” There’s a future ahead of
that boy.
* • * •
“ T.G.F.” : Owned a broody hen, but
had no eggs for l.sr to hatch. She did a “ dry
hatch ” in the corner of a large box.
About this time our cat had four
kittens in the bedroom, and as we
wanted the bedroom to sleep in,
Blobbs, the boy, put the kittens in
the case where the hen was sitting
wisely on nothing in particular
except its own tail. Went round a
couple of days later and saw the
mother of the kittens drawing them
one by one from under the hen.
She then suckled them and went
away. As soon as Madam Cat left
the youngsters the feathered female
gathered them under her and
seemed, prouder than if she had 50
chickens. The hen did all the hard
work and the cat just called in
occasionally.
• * *
“D.” :T ve a bulldog. Lately
it showed a tendency to develop
into a flea-bag. Rubbed stuff into
it. No good. Fleas increased. Some
of our incubated chickens made
friends with bully, and began picking at
his waistcoat during a quiet sleep. Bully
resented—then consented. There are no
fleas on the bulldog now, and the chickens
have ceased to cultivate his acquaintance.
* * * *
“Ino” Concerning a Bird of Sleep :
Many years since, a friend of mine told me
that he and three other carriers, when down
some river for wool (think it was the Lachlan) shot
and ate some birds for supper. They all fell asleep
no more until the sun was up next morn-
ing ; then they found themselves sprawled about,
and everything just as they finished supper. They
mentioned it to a station hand. He said an aborigine
told him “ S’pose you eat that bird, tumble down sleep
quick, jump up next day all right.” Was it a fish yarn ?
• * * •
Do you eat pork ? Extracts from the
report of the Mayor of Bendigo (Vic.) on certain
local piggeries:—
In consequence of complaints made to me on the con-
dition of some of the private slaughtering houses, and of
objectionable matter being run into a drain within this
city, I visited Conway’s yards, where it is alleged that
dead horses are thrown to the pigs kept there. Although
I did not actually see pigs feeding on the carcases of
dead horses, there were distinct evidences that carcases
had recently been there, in the shape of pieces of hide,
skin, bones, and entrails. The whole yard was in a filthy
condition, and many pigs were wallowing in filthy
matter. In a large open space, immediately adjoining
the pig yard, were seen about 30 frames or skeletons of
beasts (a large number horses), which were lying in a
natural watercourse leading to the pig yard, through
which water, during wet weather, would flow.
• • » •
Luck! A Merriwa (N.S.W.) woman was
bitten by a venomous snake on Saturday of t’other
week, and, after the usual treatment recovered,
but only to be bitten again on the following
Tuesday. She again recovered.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address 'must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany .
Stanley P. : Not on our lines ; and not brightly enough
argued on other lines to attract. There are two sorts of
articles that here meet with a kindly eye—the things
agreeable to our views, and the bright things disagreeable
to our views J.A.P. : No one can legally copy a
picture without the express consent of the holder of the
copyright, whether the holder in question be the artist or
the person to whom the artist has transferred his copy-
right. (2) Thanks for directing attention to the “mar-
vellous coincidence" in question A.K. : “Morgan’s
Lookout” is a solitary rock standing on a hill in the
Ironbong Mountains midway between Illabo and Be-
thungra on the N.S.W. Southern line. It was from the
shelter of this rock that Morgan, the Clarkes and other
“ rangers” kept a watch on the surrounding district, and
got away to the safety of the mountains when any
“traps” showed on the horizon A.L.L. : But this
country hasn’t much sympathy to spare for the Hope-
toun who threw away his chance of settling down
quietly as Gov.-General. He might have made it a
very easy billet. Tennyson makes it easy enough.,..
Lolo : The starving tramp, who warns to go to gaol and
PAVING THE WAY.
PARSON : “ Oh! is there no way to the hearts of th'se young men ”
BOULDER BLOCKER: “Yus, guv'nor. Trot ’em round to the pub., and shout ’em a couple of
drinks, an’ you’ll be able to handle ’em like lambs.”
smashes a big window to do so, often attracts a good deal
of sympathy. But it is a wicked and wasteful method.
Why spoil a £2O window when the mere threat to break,
or a few insulting words to a policeman, woukt serve l as
well? Koko : Kanakas are just about three times'as
criminal as the male adult population of Queensland....
Outlaw : You’re very cock-sure about Labouchere’s “ mis-
take,” but he is absolutely right. It is a solemn and
beautiful fact that a Cambridge B.A. can be kept out of
Australia if he cannot write 50 words in, say, the
ltussian language to dictation : can be kept out,
mark ; there is no suggestion that he is going to
be kept out. But the Immigration Restriction
Act gives the Government the widest of powers
and trusts to its discretion to use them reasonably. The
present law was passed because Joseph Chamberlain very
plainly informed this country that an Aliens Restriction
law which drew a color line would be vetoed, and that
only something based on the principles of the Natal
Act would be allowed to pass. If you are dissatis-
fied with the result write to Joseph ; he’s responsible
lI.G. : The rough and-ready way of dividing people into
two classes and labelling those called Maloney and the
like R.O.’s, and the others Protestants doesn’t always
answer, as regards individuals anyhow 303: No
“ good mark ” who has an atom of sense ever pays 80 per
cent, interest: a man with a good fixed salary and a
reputation for honesty among his friends could (provided
be can insure his life) finance out of any reasonable diffi-
culty at 10 or 12 per cent., but he must have an honest
reputation... .L.W.: You should have sent news clipping
to verify facts 0.0. H. : Not at all well-done.. .A.O.M. :
You don’t know how to tell a story G.D.S. : Too thin.
. ..F.F.8.: We don’t “go in for" controversies in verse...
Rowlings: Better dead... .J.McC. : Remember nothing
sadder than your verses “ Gaudeamus." G.AI. : Sorry
unavailable... .E.F.M.: Possibly Alichod : Not un-
promising. Make them shorter, brighter; count your
feet and perfect your rhymes... .A.E.B. : ■* What do I
live for, I wonder?” To worry us, it seems General :
Considering Stanley: Done before; and not in itself
brilliant.... Hope : Vain T. 8.; Unconvincing....
Elmore: Honest try; regretfully judged not good
enough Esmi: Tolerably conceived; not forcibly
handled Prospect: “ Leichhardt ’’and “Abandoned,"
with many faults, have not your usual force R.B.R. ;
Declined.. ..F.W.: No thanks... .Croak : Mostly unin-
telligible W. Browne: “Betty” is the better, but
neither is quite good enough H.F. &B. : The “ ’Twas
but a Dream ” idea is too hackneyed Martini (Q.) :No
very enthralling points about that vagrant press-liar
Kolero : When present writer, as a kid of 17, went to
Melbourne police court to report petty cases, his infantile
intelligence was soon struck with the piggish corrupt-
ness of the honorary-justice system. On the other hand,
he soon came to the conclusion that such men as Mr.
Sturt and Mr. Call, P.M.’s, were most scrupulously
honorable gentlemen. The Vic. honorary-J.P. system is
still corrupt, and should be wiped out of existence.
Whenever a P.M. is available no mere J.P. should be
allowed to sit.... A.G. W. : poetic merit ” whatever.
.... Flora :We floored her... .Alone : Sent below in com-
pany ... .R.A.K. : The superfluity of Clarkes in Melbourne
“society" is not a new subject. And you overlooked
Rupert Clarke and Lady G.: It isn’t a common
sight. The beauteous artist only did it once. And as
for the “glory of Bohemia’’—pickles 1....A.D.8. : Sorry
don’t care for Cuthbert F. : Ready to consider, but
please be terse and pointed as possible Ginger :
Totally unintelligible... Glig : Some promise, but style
too wordy and elaborate. Go more directly to the
point Ted Murray : Too long, and very labored
humor Quarter Bloke : Comprehensive military
scheme to hand, and put away, pending consideration, in
the drawer with the other 61 comprehensive military
schemes... .H. 8.0. : Well, Australia is open to every
white worker who is decently educated and not a
lunatic, a notorious criminal, or dangerously diseased—
with one exception. There have been plenty of cases in
which employers imported labor, when equally skilled
labor was obtainable locally, merely to congest the'
market and force down wages. It is quite fair to make
the employer of contract labor prove that he isn’t doing
this. The U.S., despite its yearning for private enter-
prise, did so, because it found it had to do 50.... A.J. : A
vapid and snobbish thing that makes all one’s bristles
arise Val. A. : Send addressed stamped envelope and
we’ll recommend you one G.G.H. (M.L.): We don’t
return rejected paragraphs under such circs If you
wish to be paid, you will have to furnish clipping with
date and page of publication 8.C.J.: Under con-
sideration May: “Womanwise” is crude, but shows
promise of better work... .T.D.O. : You don’t give name
of place, and you make a hopeless jumble of the facts,
anyhow Veracity : Not worth correcting after such an
interval.... Barak : The Hamlet-" tanner ” joke is well-
stricken in years... .Susie : Has a faint pathos which
doesn’t redeem the triteness of the theme... .H.E. :
Worthless... .Albatross :We don’t care much for‘‘moral
emblems ”... .T.D.D. : Look like weak translations—
pallid echoes, anyway...K. Mew : Not amusing... Young-
'Un : Neat; too light. .Omen : Incoherent.. P.C.C.: Worth
par. 0n1y... W. J.C.: Joke stale... P.C. de C.: Point small,
would need re-writing by a more dramatic pen....
P.S.O : One may do ; the longer is the worse. . .Sirdar:
Not quite light and bright enough Dorinda: We
couldn’t undertake to say—at such a distance in time....
O.P. : If meant as humor, it’s very serious ; if intended
seriously, it’s very humorous Tom Tiddler: Prosy,
preachy..... Sax : No central idea M. M‘M. : You
amble aimlessly in a forest of fine words.... Kitty 0. :
’oo thin and weak... .Garboard : A violent eruption of
>alderdash.... W.M.B. : Well written, but much too long
for 8... .Cigo (or something like that): You have a frozen
front to expect us to waste time over such hopeless
illegibility. ..Ted W. : Both “coniform” and “cunei-
form ” are correct. Latter more common.... Bill Forbes :
’Ye can’t always help little things like that If you
handled as many such contributions as we do, perhaps
you'd fall-in quite as often... .Frank Swain: Some skill
in your fresh (and quite unnatural) treatment of married
iife ; in details, however, it errs badly, and it’s rather too
obstetric to pass.. ..Q. Rix : Your story simply gets to
nowhere C.ILL. : Substance of Amer. racehorse
paragraph already printed in a Sydney paper.. ..M.G.J. :
Not enough in " Two S.” Jinks: YVhat, a “mug”you
must consider this paper !... .J.F.D. : “ Homing ” much
too close to American verse on same subject, and not
very attractive anyhow... .L.S. : Not badly told, but the
football doings of an English regiment don't interest
The Bulletin. .. .X.X.X. : Reads too much like the yarn
of the man who was disappointed Fact: Yes? And
who are you that you have such an “inside” knowledge of
the secrets of disreputable houses?. ...P.S.O. : Nothing in
it...E.V.C. : Merely asinine.. ..Graeme : Doesn’t hit us...
E.L.A. : All messages concerning the disposal of copy
should be written on the face of the copy itself B. :
Not a tasty enough trifle... Eve : Has some gleams, and
on the whole suggests promise ; but not up to publica-
tion mark ... .Mamoose : Rather dull dreams 8.5.:
Kiddies’ cheek, and not very lively at that Javert:
Not bright enough in treatment to warrant re-hashing of
a very old motive The Shadow : On too familiar lines.
....Point. Blank: Too heavy a strain on the probabili-
ties W.B. (M.L.): A swindle worth a good par, but
not a story Alexander : Not fond of that sort of sub-
ject, unless it is on quite new lines John R. : (1) No,
we can’t name that contributor (for obvious reasons) who
took down boarding-housekeepers by unwarrantably
using our name. Other contributors need have no
grievance unless then want to get tick on bogus
Bulletin authority.' 12) Didn’t get the drought
prediction ; could you send along the Govt, ac-
knowledgment of same as proof of good faith?
W.J. : We wouldn’t care to dogmatise on the subject of
that deceased politician’s relatives : as dangerous as being
certain, in print, about theatrical matrimonial relations.
E.J. : But the dingoes didn’t eat you, which rather
spoils your argument E.A.H. : What sort of an ass do
you take us for ? Send the matter to one of the
“ religious ” papers Ket Barb : Don’t remember those
verses Don’t believe they ever appeared here
Medico: Too far off our “beat.”....Novice: Shows
promise Wat F. : Surprisingly unequal ; some of it
clever and some of it pure bosh Marietta: Anything
sent will receive due consideration, but we don’t buy pigs
in pokes S.S.M. : Returned accordingly Max S.: A
very fair effort in the Zolaesque line ; but not up to
publication mark....C.0.L.M.: “Her ladyship ... his
lordship . . . violet eyes . . . excitement at the castle,
etc.” You’ve sent your dear little story to the
wrong shop, Madam. Try the Family Herald
W. Browne : Both have some descriptive power, yet don’t
get.quite “ up.”... .Wilhelm : Hardly well enough put
together Radam : Doubtless true enough, but why
send such an item to The Bulletin? Gidya: Too
shrieky. Shrillness is never convincing Amy R. :
Would be effective if it didn’t meander so much. Study
directness C.A.R. : Would suit London Journal. Too
conventional for Bulletin.. . .Marco : Watery sentiment
and feeble style P.C. : Pretentious, cumbrous
W.A.F. ; Opens with spirit, but weakens away tonothing-
ness... .Silas B. : Slightly improved, but still below mark.
....Dido: Lacks color and vitality Gordon B.S. :
Boldly labelled “ Poems,” and therefore, almost as a
matter of course, emphatically not poems Leura :
Forward to “Accountant, Bulletin Office.’’.... ..J.C.
(W.A.) : Style stiff and interest slender.


ghfd
Becar.se some men have to sit up so
late Saturday night playing poker
that they can’t get up in time.
n>ONT
( r T o
s
C H
Because of this sort of thing • " Brethren, let us
unite in singing ‘ I’m glad Salvation’s free 1 But
first, let me remind you that the interest on the
church debt is again due, and unless
special efforts are put forth,” <fee., <fcc.
p DOMESTIC TRAGEDY AT a
DARLINGHDRST.
A MAN SHOOTS HJS WIFE.
THEN COMMITS SUICIDE.
THU CRIME DUE TO DRINii.
A, TRAGEDY AT DUBBO.
CRIME OF A SELECTOR.
INFATUATED WITH A MARRIED
WOMAN
TRIES TO SHOOT HER AND THEN
COMMITS SUICIDE.
DARING ASSAULT AND
ROBBERY.
AN OLD MAN THE VTCTIM
THE AUBURX TRAGEDY.
POLICE COURT PROCEEDINGS.
ANOTHL’R WITNESS EXAMINED.
REMANDED UNTIL FEBRUARY 9.
THE MURDERED CONSTABL E
A SENSATIONAL DEVELOPMENT.
AI.LEt; \TIONK BY ONE OF THE
\ CCUS ED.
- THE STIRLING TRAGEDY.
MURDERED (BY SOMEONE UNKNOWN.
yf> .
&
. jy
o4<*
X
.
* 4
. to** '
Others don’t go because they don't
want to. They prefer to stop at
home and play with the cat.
»An address \
was delivered
last week by Mr.
William M'Millan, X
M.H.R-, at a meeting X XS,
of the Women’s Liberal \
League, Paddington. Mr. \\
M'Millan said that one
help feeling that a new «rd \
this country believed in freedom)
Womens Liberal { he individual.
mentation in this country
One man finds it cooler in
rgirgming than in the average
Qhurch,
ONE DAY OF THE DEVIL’S
YEAR.” The above headings are
clipped from a single issue of a Sydney
daily paper
Behold ! another's ox hath
fallen into a pit.
It looks afl sf little Mac intended to take refuge behind the petti-
coats or this new power in politics when the stormy winds of
“ current political events ” do*blow..
A “ Fl7’i-Teetotal Society ” has been organised,
the members pledging themselves to drink only at
meals.
Mr Colee.'.}! : " And how does the exj ifiment
affect you 1 ’’
'Mr ’Boltin : “ Well, if anything, I fancy there is
a tendency to over-feed. If you’ll believe me,
this is my fourteenth meal to-day.”
Mb. Coldham : "Oh well, never mind; finish that
up, andT come and have a grilled steak with
’ me.”
THE SILtY SEASON.
•'Sub-Editor : “ Would you be good enough to suggest a
subject, sir? Parliament is in recess, the drought
has been officially declared off; and really there
seems to be nothing moving in the way of—of”
Chief Editor of Great Daily: “Nothing! Good
Hea-vens, Mr. Featherwait, how often must I tell
youh-hat you can always fill up with the negro
problem in the U.S., and you can always get up a
dironerion about ‘Why Men Don’t Go to Church’ ”
Some men of a high order of intellect find
that the average sermon does not satisfy
their literary ideals. Besides, you can’t
smoke in church.
I don’t go, because my callow mind is as
yet incapable of grasping the various rami-
fications of divagating doctrines which
permeate the dissemination of Gospel truth.
I find .it tnates me tired*
CARTOONLETS.


grown in fafoor-jtrfii
We Son)e of our noost"
<ji o4 we a,n
I™*" upper l—■ A r g u s
i^liceroAu'— (ie+"oj» er
doin' Kneel.no down m Ije
of street fer 7
l*7 iSfiKino G°d Y e V<?
-
t{eW MjJdW
-■ h* ss> been 'j'idd -—-
'loo 07ucl] wilTf soci&Jisrr;
(B«i*ttcr Irenes s|>eec|j atf A.mX i
I S\y. . /Ott cv>y expect"
<5/ 1o oU.nce ~To ttjsT A w f al •
rWcr fo*' KkVoorlie
H /W j^d'<tnc^
%> v
"1% -figt-llyitfleV'tfc w V)ii
J Cocci rqofnw' ijw
V'b'j 'H^in'T^ujil 7 -15 >F •
Yes You clout" S&Y
Wot* 0,4 6>Wn?
V K'pl ,r 7£ —
bsb^\*) ST
'• breed •tffet" us u?osl"
go 5 s Doctor Avew senov> 3 -
you see ili h>s „
bro Ken oc"T in zyti&tf'f "ibe S&une
up 'flje
W W
e*»Qd»m?g into
lfrug £r no-tying
W rnzXw W'f d.scoVer.es
gy^ 7 of pronjiyne Un<*s °f
g® Rcfortn vvl]ich eVe *"
JshW\ irjelt" mto tn. Sty
|Pjg) Ay>>^
/ BenT ('fonj inyde)
sec where djl ttj»s bUnKy
StnoKe's 'from .* i
S ir CieotpeSmKe Affye-kM./K
Seed
KOr YCSO'ivtQi Htc.ir possibilities
- {■fete***
isj>«
ig£ MtSBSI
S Mr J* \ c, S JI' t jl
if- K *Wy ~ ib
V of A*S tjol~
2jssm
W * w w,l? 4^ b f«
r ibis »S * n
defini'tion of njc
(ouncil by
\ *' ~rt|c Council nyiJst
\ & or
. Canton, e»tn«y
IjM’i’tJ v/cii
M
VICTORIANA.


Key,
£3los.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUSHMEN AND MINERS.
ROTHERHAM SPECIAL MADE ENGLISH
LEVERS, Full Cap, Hand Finished. Extra
Jewelled Works, Perfect Timekeeper, with Pure
Silver Cases, Dust and Water Tight, £8 10s.
Extra Quality, with Chronometer Balance,
£4 10s, £5, £5 10s, £6, £7, £8 :
Solid Gold, £lO, £lB, £2O.
▲ written certificate for 8,4, and B year*.
Try one ; you will not regret it.
Keyless,
£ 5.
FREETRADH
JBIGKS.
NO
advance.
A. SAUNDERS.
Strong, Reliable LEVERS, “Tie Challenge,” 13s.
TlmUnrivalled Lever, in Black or Niokel, 20s ; perfect
timekeeper. The London Lever, new J-plate model,
25e: in Solid Silver, £2 2s; in Donble Case, £2 10s, £3.
■Rotherham LEVERS, £Blos, £4, £5, £6, £7, £B. Gold
WATCHES, '£4 4s. £5 ss, £6 6s, £7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s,
£l5, £2O. Mind, we guarantee you the utmost satis-
faction, “ otherwise we will exchange watch for you.”
Send for Illustrated book of particulars, post free.
20s.
20s.
A. SAUNDEES.
Unrivalled non-magnet LEVEE.
Perfect Timekeeper, Screw Cases,
dust and water tight, 20s.
A written Guarantee given with
each Watch.
Black or
Nickel,
30s.
Silver,
£5.
« FLY-BACK CHRONOMETERS.”
These we have at Every Price and Style. In Solid
Nickel or Black, 30s ; Extra Quality, £2, £2 10s ;
Split Seconds, £3 10s. Pure Solid Silver, £5, £6, £7,
£B, and £lO ; Solid Gold, £l5, £2O, £25, and £3O.
4. written certificate for 2,3, 4, 5, and 6 years.
TRY ONE.
WALTHAM LEVERS.
We are Special Direct Agents.
Pure Solid Silver Hunting Cases, Extra
Quality Movements,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, and £5 ;
Gold Patent Cases, Walthams, £4 4e, £5 5s •
Solid Gold, £7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O ’
and £25. ’
Solid
Silver,
.£2 103-
Gold
Cases,
£4 4s.
■¥
I I
)>Su Gold Scroll Pearl Sot BROOCH, 20s ;
Hall marked.
s'
Dot. Gold Square or half-round BB ACELET f
3 Red or Blue Stones, £2.
Very Neat and Cheap.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Wishbone and Arrow, with Red
Stone, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Wish Bone and Forget-Me-Not, 15s.
10
11
15
12 13 14
A. SAUNDERS’
FRKETRADE PRICES.
10. Round LINK, 9ct. Gold, £2, £2los,
£3 ; loot., £4, £5.
11. Rope Pattern, 9ct. Gold, £2, £2los,
£3 ; 15ct., £4, £5.
12. —Cui b Pattern, 9ct. Gold, £2, £2los,
£3 ; 15ct., £4, £5.
13. —Rope and Ball. 9ct. Gold, £2, £2los,
£3 . loot., £4, £5.
14. —Curb and Link, £3, £4, £5, £6.
15. Chain andßondell, £4 to £7 10s.
Solid Gold CHAIN (Single or Double). £2
£B, £3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5. 15et. Solid Gold, £6
£6, £6 10s, £7, £B, £lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s
15s, 20s. Send for Price Illustrated Book.
M
8s?
15ct. Gold Bw and Scroll BROOCH, Pearls
Red Stones, 85s. Quite New.
A. BAUNDERB.
New Motto Registered Gold “ D inn a'Forget ”
BROOCH and Amethysts, 9ct. Gold, 17s 6d :
15et. Gold, 80s ; 18ct. Gold,
16ct. Gold, Extra Strong, -with First-class
Opal, £2 5s ; similar, 85s, £2, and £2 10s.
15ct. Gold, Diamond and 2. Rubies, 22s 6d_.
A. SAUNDERS.
(Registered)'Gold Secret Name BROOCH,
16ct. Gold, Diamonds, £2 10s, £3, £4.
Any Name or Motto Free.
Six Different Patterns, Similar.
lßot. Gold 2-Bar Ivy Leaf, Set with Bed,
White, and Bine Stones, 22s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
; 15ct. Gold Ivy and Pearl Gold BROOCH, 255;
9ot. Gold, smaller, 12s 6d.
&
Sira
A. SAUNDERS.
Newest Solid G<?ld Name BROOCH, 7s 6d ;
with Raised Mowers each side (Any Name),
15ct. Gold, 15s. Latest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. 2-Bar Pure Diamond, Double Cut, £2.
Ladies’ Curb Gold
Chain, Snap Padlock,
255, 30s, 355, £2 ss,
£3 ; 15ct., £2 10s, £3,
£4, £4 10s, £5, £6,
£7 10s, £B, £9, £lO.
10s extra for Key
Padlock.
All with Safety Chain.
A. SAUNDERS.
Nicely Chased Gold BRACELET, 255. Very Neat and Pretty.
A. SAUNTERS.
Gold Mizpah BROOCH, 2 Hearts, 10s
larger, 12s 6d, A Nice Brooch.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Raised Flowers, 5s 6d.
Larger, 6s 6d and 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Latest Style, 15ct. Gold Pearl Set Buckle 2-Bar
BROOCH, 32s 6d. English Hall Marked.
Sword and Sheath PAPER CUTTER, 6in. long.
Most Useful Present, 4s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
English Hall Marked 15ct. Gold Ruby and
Eearls, Scroll and Fancy Sides, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold BROOCH, 3-Bar Diamond, 12a 6d.
Very Neat.
18 ct.
Solid
Gold, £lO
Extra
Strong,
£l2los
A. SAUNDERS..
18ct. Solid Gold Keyless WALTHAM V
LEVER. Full Jewelled Works,
Action, New Model £lO, £l2 io s . ,
You Can’t get a Better .Watch. f
14ct. Solid Gold, £Blos..
&rr
A. SAUNDERS.
•Gold Dinna Forget,
10s 6d.
Our own Registered
Design.
.SAUNDERS
CHARM.
Gold Bell,
73 6d.
(=*<
/
A. SAUNDERS.
.Ladies’ Solid Silver Hunting
Keyless WATCH,
Full Jewelled, 255, 30s, £2,
£2 10s.
Price to quality of work'.
Guaranteed 2,3, 4 years.
Gold “ Good Luck ” BROOCH, 10s 6d ;
15ct. Gold, 21s.
15ct. Gold
Turquoise
Forget-
me-Not
and
Pearl
Scroll,
20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
ALU ARTICLES POST FREE.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
Silver Hunting Keyless, 2Es, 30s, £2,
£2 10s, £3.
Solid Gold Keyless, £2, £3, £4, £5 ;
Superioi duality, £6, £7, £B, £lO.
ALL GUARANTEED.
Floral
PIN,
Pearl and
Tur-
quoise,
255.
15s.
20s.
Solid
Gold,
£6 10s.
Post Card Gold
CHARM, 10s.
Any Name Free.
Silver, gilt, 6s 6d.
mmm iM
■■ ■,
mUI
Silver,
£2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Black Keyless WATCH,
Hood Timekeeper, 15s ;
Extra Quality, 20s.
Guaranteed.
Gold Boot
CHARM, 5s 6d.
Latest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
LADIES’ WALTHAM SOLID
GOLD KEYLESS,
J-movement, Chronometer Balance,
Jewelled, Perfect Timekeeper,
Exlra Strong Cases.
Full Size, £6 10s : Small Size, £5 10s.
Pure Solid Silver, same works,
£2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Pearl and
Turquoise Floral and
Ribbon BROOCH, £2 10s.
London's Newest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Pearl and)
Turquoise Heart
BROOCH, £2 2s,
The Latest Style;
, A. SAUnM VR&
15ct./'Solid Gold Ops 1 LINKS,
* with Initial. £2, fSe.
j Extra Strong .
I
A. SAUNDERS.
Beautifully Chased. Oct. iflold
large size LINKS, 22s '<vd.;
Plain, 21s, or with
nicely Chased, 225-tidL
15ct. Oold, £2 ;
Silver., 4s 6d. ,
A. SAUNDERS.
(Registered).
Gold LINKS, 20s;
15et. Gold,'32s 6d ;
Silver and Gold, 10s ;
all Silver - , ss.
' A. SAUNDERS.
Gold LINKS,
very pretty, 12s fid.
.'Large Size. iss and 20k.
Silver, 2s 6d and 4s 6d.
MIZPAH GOLD
CHARM, 48.
A. SAUNDERS’
Watches,
Clocks,
Jewellery,
AND
Silverplate
AT
FREETRADE
PRICES.
SAVE 25 PEE CENT.
TO 50 PER CENT.
Showrooms :
815 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Solid Gold, 5 pure
Diamonds. £l2 10s ;
Smaller, £5, £6, £7,
£7 10s, to £3O.
18ct. Solid Gold,
5 Pure Diamonds, £5.
Diamond and
Sapphire or Ruby,
£3 10s ;
larger, £4 10s, £5.
A. SAlhi), RS.
18ct. Gold,
3 Sapphires. Rubies,
or Opals, 4 Diamonds,
£3, £3 10s, £4,
A. SAUNDERS.
Opal Band RINGS,
9ct. Solid Gold, 17s 6d;
15ct. Gold, 80s;
18ct. Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct.-Buttercup Single
Stone Diamond
RING,
£3, £4, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold.
3 Pure Diamonds,
2 Opal Hearts, £4 10s.
Latest Style.
A. SAUNOERS. '
9ct. Solid Goldßuekle,
17s 6d; 15ct. tfold. 30s ;
18ot. Gold, £2.
Solid Gold, Turquoise
and Pearl, 20s.
Newest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Solid Gold, 3 pure
Double-cut Diamonds,
£5, 1 Diamond and
2.Rubies or Sapphires,
£3.
18ot. Solid Gold Diamond
Band, £2, £2 10s, £3;
15ct. Gold, 30s.
18ct. Gold Buckle
RING, Diamond, and
2 Rubies or Sapphires,
With Name, Band RINGS,
9ct. Solid Gold, 12s6d. 15s;
loct. Gold, 20s, 25s ;
ISot. Gold, 255, 80s, 355, £2.
GENT.S RING,
Solid Gold, Amethyst, 255;
15ct. Gold, £2;
18ct , £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Hand-made Wedding RINGS and KEEPERS.
9ct. Solid Gold, 5s (3d, 7s 6d, lost each ; 15ct. Gold, 15s;
extra heavy, 25s ; ISct. Gold. 20s :
extra heavy, 30s, 355, 40s. Send for Card.
RS,
815 AND
817 GEORGE-STREET.
JEWELLER £ND SILVERSMITH
XE \RLY OPPOSITE
RAILWAY STATION,
SYDNEY,


Re the Sydney P. A. Hospital.
A correspondent (name not published for
reasons which will be readily understood) makes
a specific charge of hospital mal-administration
which is calling for prompt inquiry :
My wife fell sick and was sent to a private establish-
ment for a delicate operation. Shortly after, a renewal
of distressful symptoms showed that another operation
was needed. Owing to my inability to pay the private-
hospital tariff this time, I applied for her admission to
Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney. On a Sunday morning,
armed with a doctor’s certificate, I called there and asked
for the Superintendent. I was informed that the official
was “round the wards." I waited for upwards of an
hour, without avail. At night I tried again, and then
learned that the Med. Sup. I had been kicking my heels
for in the morning was in reality away from town, on a
holiday, and the institution was in charge of another
medico, who presently gave me an Interview. He took
down my n une, address, age, etc., and my employment,
salary, family, etc., and asked what I was prepared to
pay ? I mentioned an amount, and negotiations were
nearing a satisfactory issue when I interrupted proceed-
ings on the patient’s behalf. It was on the subject of
medical pupils’ admittance to the proposed operation
Perhaps the following letter to the Medical Superinten-
dent will explain best:—
“6th Jan., 1903.
to my interview last Sunday evening
with Dr. -—, I have now, on my wife’s behalf, to inform
you that, owing to your refusal to allow' an operation to
take place at your hospital without the presence thereat
of medical pupils, my wife declines to enter vour hospital,
As I was personally assured by Dr. that the hos-
pital authorities will make no exception to the custom
observed on these occasions, and I do presume that, in a
case such as the present one, where my wife (without
adequate means to pay for private medical attention)
absolutely refuses to submit to that intolerable condition,
the hospital authorities adhere to their custom.” No
answer was received to this protest up to January 21.
It has been complained before that Prince Alfred
Hospital is too much of a “clinic” and too little
of a “hospital”; and to this very question
of the attendance of medical students at
operations and examinations reference was made
some time ago. But it was stated then—officially,
we believe—that the presence of strangers at
operations was not insisted upon when women
patients objected.
4
Indeterminate Sentences.
A wild and whirling letter from “Kiwi” of
Maoriland (somewhat condensed):
Enlightened opinion is against Titus Salt (B. 3/l/’O3),
in his disparagement of the indeterminate sentence.
According to Havelock Ellis (whose book, “The
Criminal,” is the best English work of the kind available)
the experiments at Elmira Reformatory, N.Y., have been
eminently successful, and in any case th.e fixed sentence
is obviously unscientific, an I therefore indefensible.
What should we think of the doctor who applied the same
treatment to each class of ailments without regard to
each individual case? Yet that is precisely what the law
does vvith criminals, although modern investigation tends
mote and more to show that crime is often a disease.
Criminologists divide criminals into two great classes—
instinctive criminals and criminals of passion ; and
medical opinion unanimously condemns the legal con-
tention that mental unsoundness is no excuse for a crime,
provided the perpetrator knew he was doing wrong.
Medical opinion, supported by so eminent a judge as
Baron Bramwell and such an enlightened thinker as
Havelock Ellis, declares that the real test should be :
“Could he help it?"—in other words: “Was accused
subject to an uncontrollable impulse?” The inability of
the law adequately to apportion punishment on cases as
they arise has long been realised ; and hence the law
prescribes the maximum penalty only, leaving a wide
margin to judges to indulge their individual idiosyncrasies.
In theory the law is not vindictive, but in practice the
public (which makes the law) is savagely vindictive, and
is perfectly satisfied as long as the culprit is punished.
Now, criminologists are agreed, and experience shows,
that punishment neither reforms the criminal nor deters
others. The whole theory of punishment proceeds upon
the erroneous assumption that the offender is a normal
man, whereas he is anthropologically, socially, physically,
and morally an abnormal. He doesn’t feel punishment,
for instance, as we fancy he does, but we measure him by
our standard, all the same. Men like Lombroso, Ferri,
Garofola, and Ellis do not want to abolish, but to
rationalise, punishment, and they are unanimous in
denouncing existing punitive methods. Most crimin-
ologists favor abolition of the death penalty,
and they agree in demanding better classifi-
cation of prisoners, abolition of solitary confinement,
and of flogging. In fact Ellis considers flogging more
brutal and demoralising than hanging. He also severely
condemns putting prisoners in charge of comparatively
illiterate men. Prison warders, he insists, should be cul-
tured and refined men and women, just as sick-nurses
are. Our whole prison system, in fact, and our methods
of dealing with crime generally, are sorely in need of
reformation.
To which a few words may be said in reply :
(1) Elmira prison is not the humane place it is cracked
up to be ; recent revelations have revealed that in some
respects it is a most brutally conducted institution.
. (2) “Criminologists” is a fine, large satisfying term,
but even llavf.lock Ellis might possibly, if he were
given an individual burglar or bogus-bank-promoter to
reform, make as bad a job of it as any ordinary gaol
warder. Anyhow, there are not enough expert criminolo-
gists to go round, so we get back to the fact that the
man in charge would often be some broken-down political
hack, and he would decide the real length of the sentence
instead of the judge. The judge generally knows a little ;
he is generally honest in his own narrow way ; and he
acts in public. The alleged “criminologist”—probably
somebody who used to vote for Seddon —would really
be a secret court, and might be actuated by petty malice,
relig ; ous prejudice, or the most corrupt motives.
(3) The present methods may be bad, but at least there
is re ison to believe that crime is diminishing a little
under them. A sentence fixed publicly by a Judge and
reviewed by the public may be unscientific ; but it doesn’t
necessarily follow that a sentence fixed or readjusted
secretly by any irresponsible person who may be called a
“ criminologist ” will be any more scientific.
(4) It is absurd to talk of all criminals as abnormal. If
that is so, everybody is abnormal. Crime is simply that
variety of sin, or objectionable conduct, which is suffi-
ciently large and tangible for the law to take hold of.
The other sins the law gives up in despair. It arrests the
GO TO HELL-
)<;<>[,AND for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
woman who kills her husband with an axe ; it doesn’t
arrest the one vtho nag's a nervous husband to death, tor
it can’t locate her. It fines the.unmannerly ruffian who
spits on the pavement ; it fine the equally objec-
tionable one who spits on his own floor, for it can’t find
him—and so on. If all criminals are abnormal, then
everybody is abnormal, and when everybody is abnormal
then everybody is normal.
(5) To get down to business, will “Kiwi” send a
sufficient list of expert criminologists (men who can
really be trusted to wield the enormous power that must
be given to a man who runs a reformatory on the
indeterminate-sentence principle) in his own State to
control the gaols of his own State on the “ scientific ”
principles suggested ? He can leave out Lombroso,
Havelock Ellis, &c. They will be wanted in their own
countries.
Health Essential To Beauty.
In many of its aspects the civilisation of the
ancient Greeks has never been equalled. No race
was ever endowed with a juster perception of
natural beauty, or greater skill in interpreting it
by various forms of art. After three thousand
years the skill of the Greek sculptor is as pre-
eminent as in that far-distant day when he
handled the chisel and mallet. As a judge of
female beauty, too, he was faultless. His marble
creations still extant prove the fact beyond
question. One trembles to think what such
consummate as the ancient Greeks would
have said of that modern barbarism, the laced-in
waist. Surely the words of their language, com-
prehensive as that language is, would nave hardly
sufficed for their denunciations. None perceived
more clearly than they that only what is natural
is beautiful; and ill-health being an unnatural
condition, they modelled their statues so as to
depict health and strength in absolute perfection.
Miss Ethel Williams, of 9, Wemyss-street,
Sydney, N.S.W., has, we think, a full share of
beauty. But she was once in danger of losing it—
a danger now happily averted. “For several
years,” writes Miss Williams on 27th June, 1902,
“my life was rendered miserable by indigestion
and general debility. It would be impossible to
oxaggerate my sufferings during that dreadful
period. My strength declined daily, I wasted to
a shadow, and became pale, nervous, and dejected.
My parents were alarmed on my account, and
obtained a variety of medicines for me ; but none
of them did me any good, for unfortunately
Mother Seigel’s Curative Syrup was not one of
them. Often at meal-times I would have to leave
the table to vomit; and on such occasions as this
did not occur I would, soon after swallowing a
few morsels, feel acute pain in the chest and an
oppressive sensation of suffocation. I could not
sleep at night, but was so drowsy and heavy in
the day that I would sometimes fall asleep over
mv work. In addition to all this misery, I was
often afflicted with severe sick headaches and
bilious attacks. I continued to grow worse until
an old family friend, hearing of my illness,
recommended Mother Selgel’s Curative Syrup.
He spoke so highly of it that my father at once
bought a bottle. I did not think there was any
likelihood of its benefiting me, but 1 persevered
with it to please my parents. Within a week I
discovered that the Syrup was doing me sub-
stantial good. The pain in the chest diminished,
and I could eat, work, and sleep better than I had
done. Eight bottles were sufficient for my com-
plete and lasting ouye.”*
A REAL PICK-ME-UP. “ Talk about cham-
pagne,’’ said Byron, “there is nothing which
cheers your spirits up like a dose of sdts.” But
had he known Hunyadi Janos he would certainly
have preferred this, the best and safest natural
aperient.*
Stated that there is a steady demand in
London for coats of mail to be worn by prominent
politicians in South America. They will turn
any knife-thrust, but are of doubtful use against a
revolver at close quarters. The weight is about
lOlbs. and the cost 25. guineas.
A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
cases in six days. This is a new discovery, and it is Ihe
only Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee., 2s. 3d.
Of Chemists, or from PARIS MEDICINE CO., 28, Shoe-
lane, London, England.*
Some of Bishop Webber’s reasons for
demanding British support of his Brisbane
cathedral scheme:
1. During the past 17 years Q. has received from the
old cojuntry 80,026 unprbpvrlied immigrants whose
passage has been paid or assisted by the Q. Government.
By the 1901 census 37 p.c. of Q. population is Church of
England.
2. The seven years’ drought has impoverished Queens-
land. Many thousand sq. miles of Q. belong to London
companies and absentee owners and a great part of the
money made in Q. is spent in England.
3. Of £18,8*1,987 paid during the last 17 years in
interest on public loans no less than £17,4§6,G93 has been
paid to.the old country.
And the moral to all this is—according to the
Bishop—let the British investor shell out in aid of
the cathedral. Meantime, wouldn’t it be better if
the average Queenslander set himself to work
diminishing, by discriminative legislation, the
number of absentees? Wouldn’t it be well if a
stand were made against this foreign-loan business
so that there should be no increase in this annual
drain of millions interest, mostly paid to the
old country? Were this done it is quite possible
Q. might continue to exist without having to send
a Bishop home to cadge for a cathedral.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out door work our Silk Stripk
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS BRISBANE,
ROB ROY pens.
Hinks, Wells & Co. beg to’ draw attention to this new series of
turned up pointed and other pens, made of the same material, by the
same tools by the same process and at the same works, as the well
known .series of Waverley Pens, which Hinks, Wells & Co. have for
30 years and upwards (prior to September 1901), manufactured for
and supplied to the proprietors thereof.
W-
Vi
Sold by all
Stationers in 18
varieties in
6d., Is. & gross boxes.
HINKS,
VV ELLS & CO., Birmingham,
England.
ASTHMA asp BRONCHITIS CURED
By using CA3E’S ASTHMA CURE, made from the Queensland Asthma.
Plant. Relieves instantly, eventually Cures. 4s. 6d. large bottle;
Posted to any State, ss.
J. W. CASE, Chemist, 140 Wickham-st., Brisbane.
Please mention Bulletin when'writiny.
“ALOK!”
<tr ' .
Saves Doctors’ Bills and Ensures Constant Good Health.
ALL HOTELS, with Soda Water, 6d. per Glass.
Leaves a Good
Impression.
a
ALOK
JJ
T
-S'
r
rh
o
\1
*
*
m
VDVs
■rfT> <3S?
Fisher & Co.’s Famous
PICK-ME-UP * TONIC
Freshly Prepared from the Celebrated African
KOLA NUTS (Cola Acu ninata)
EVERY MORNING AND BEFORE EACH MEAL DRINK
“MIGHTY ALOK”
It makes you Eat and
Makes you Strong.
All Chemists, 23 6d and 3s Gd per bottle.
MANUFACTURING
PHARMACY-
337 George St., Sydney
(NEARLY OPPOSITE
G.P.0.)
Melbourne Agents—Messrs. TAYLOR, FERCUSON & CO., ciinders Lane.
' A.
*V wi™
\rwm-:
/ v
S' V
v /VH aS*s
k
wrnrf
>, '
i
1 1 I M
w
IWMsJ
I
l .W <
«
fc> A 'w»
h)
m
y
mf *
r is
#y Vv V
-*4
WE WON'T GO HOME TILL MORNING.
“ Oh , what a d ifferenee in the mo
“ALOK”
is the great nORNING DRINK OF AUSTRALIA, with cold Soda Water,
A Veritable PICK=JVIE=UP.
clears the Head, Ret'ilates the St-itnach and Liver. Drink it every day to
ensure CONSTANT GOOD HEALTH.
"ALOK ”
A.ll Hotels with Soda Water, 6cl. per Olass
Sweet as Roses.
When you think how any
•i %
ordinary soap factory smells, and
that in such places it is that
Toilet Soaps are made, you should
bear in mind that Vinolia Works
are sweet as a kitchen, and
Vinolia Soap purest, safest, best
for the complexion.


TO CURE SUFFERING ANIMALS.
Amost useful Veterinary Book is attached
to every bottle of Condy’s Fluid. This
Book contains instructions for curing most
of the ailments and accidents affecting
Horses, Dogs, Sheep, Cattle and Poultry.
In this Book eminent Ve cerinary Surgeons
secommend Condy’s Fluid as a certain
oure for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs,
Broken Knees, Grease,Thrush,and Cracked
Heels in Horses. —Scab, Foot Rot, Fly,
etc., in Sheep.—Hoove, Foul in the Foot,
Wounds and Sores in Cattle..
Condy <* Fluid is made by Condy and
Mitchell^Ltd., of 65, Goswell Road,
London, "England, and is sold by all
Chemists and Stores. Beware of Local sub-
stitutes. Insist on having Condy’s Fluid,
AUSTRALIAN STAMPS
Bought, Sold & Exchanged.
Gibbons’ Philatelic Albums
and all requirements. Price lists gratis.
J. H. SMYTH & CO.,
88 KING ST., SYDNEY.
Before booking your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers’
Gazette & Sailing List, with map.
thos. COOK & SON,
288 Oolllns-st, Melbourne.
4 Hunter-at, Sydney.
SPECTACLES
—FOR—
DEFECTIVE
VISION, t.
COUNTRY READERS
who cannot visit us
personally, we send,
Post Free to any ad-
dress, with full in-
structions and Price List, ourmarvellously-accurate
and popular SELF SIGHT-MEASURING PATENT.
By its use you can Test your own sight and de-
termine for yourself the style and quality of the
glasses you may need. Write for it to—
H. A. BARRACLOUGH, Optician,
371 Qeorge-st., Sydney, next A.J.3. Bank.
Don’t shout”
1 hear you. I can hear now
as well as anybody.
■"How?’ Oh. some-
thingnew— The Wilson.
Common-sense Ear-
Drum. I've a pair in m>
ears now, you can't see them
they're invisible. 1 wouldn't!
know I bad them in
jk o(jly that I hear all right.” „ 1
/The Wilson Ear-Drum <s
a substitute for the
parts of the
natural ear. Has no
wire. Invisible, easy to ad
just, comfortable ' Totally
* different from any other de-
vICW
Descriptive pamphlet «ent upon request
bL_CHA|,WtKS. 229-2 SI Coillos. Help.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Why has the Mongrelian capitalistic press
ceased its wild shriek about the impending ruin of
the sugar industry ?
N.S. W. Political Labor League has decided
to retain Federal Old Age Pensions as a fighting
plank in its Federal platform.
Australians are meeting with little luck in
war matters. Now all the sailor-men who took
part in the late Chow row get medals except the
Australians of the gun-boat Protector.
Commission of inquiry as to the Federal
oapital site seems to be taking evidence mostly as
regards Fogs, Gooseberries, and Bricks; the pre-
cise connection of these matters with the suitable-
ness of a national capital is hard to understand.
M‘Kenzie Vic. Minister of Lands, im-
peached for afteged dummying, frankly told the
Vic. Assembly that he is “what is called a
squatter.” Just as well to remember that Premier
Irvine selected “ what is called a squatter” for the
head of the Lands Department.
Senator Glassey is a politician who has
“ thorough ” for his motto. He has just started out
on a lung exhibition, intending to address over 50
meetings between Normanton in the north and
Toowoomba in the south. Mr. Glassey receives
very little press countenance in Q., and hopes to
achieve per lung what he cannot get done by
leading articles.
Queensland Protectionists have been
galvanised into activity by George Reid’s volcanic
fiscal crusade. The local organisation, split over
the Kanaka-labor question at last election, is now
concentrating and collecting funds. Q. manu-
facturers feel that it is better to have industries
and no Tommy Tanna than Tommy Tanna and
no industries.
Snow’s Adelaide tramway syndicate has
got a year’s extension of the time in which it
is to pay for the old tramways—till the end of
1903. By it 3 Act of Parliament it is bound to
establish over 40 miles of electric tram by the end
of 1904, but it will probably want an extension of
time on that matter also.. Syndicates mostly
exist on the Ministerial doormat, cadging for
extensions and concessions.
OVERHEARD ON AN OCEAN-LINER.
DE JONES: “ Well, you'll excuse me for a little
while—I want to go and visit my tonsorial
expert .”
MRS. DE BROWN: “ You surprise me! I wasn't
aware that you suffered from any throat-
trouble.”
Sorrowful truth from the leading columns
of Sydney D.T.: —
Without vetoing Commonwealth laws, Imperial states-
men wishing to thwart the aspirations of the Australian
people have a surer means of doing so by “nobbling”
the colonial politicians who are entrusted with the duty
of giving effect to them. Of course, this does not imply
anything in the way of sordid corruption, but there is a
side to human nature upon which other influences can
always be calculated to operate with more or less effect.
With weak statesmen the glamor of Imperialism, when
brought to bear upon their weakness, can, and frequently
does, cause them to see things in quite a different light
from that of practical Australian interest. In this way
our laws may be shaped unconsciously to suit the con-
veniences of Downing-street.
According to Brisbane Courier, Premier
Philp is weak and halt; Foxton is an arbitrary
despot; Dalrymple is a “tired and weary ad-
ministrator”; Cribb is a Treasurer who cannot
grasp the needs of the country. The Courier’s
abuse is the one piece of political luck these poli-
ticians have had during the existence of the Poll-
tax Government.
Minister Lyne, spouting at Perth, said
that, for his own part, he would not hesitate to
have the trans-Australian railway constructed at
once, “ because there can be no true federation
between Westralia and the Eastern States with-
out it.” Meanwhile, nothing more is heard about
a true federation between Tasmania and the main-
land by means of a Government steamship service.
Freedom comes with the British flag to
S’Africa. Advt. from Natal Mercury :
Absconded from Waterfall Farm, near Hill Crest,
an indentured Indian named “ Munusnmy ” ; dis-
coloration of skin on left side of chest and left cheek.
Also, indentured Indian named “Ponusamy”; scar
on right shoulder-blade, mole on right palm. Any-
one harboring same will be prosecuted.—H. G.
DAVIDSON.
“Fat” politics struck bedrock at the
Senatorial conference between the two Vic.
Houses, when Mr. Pratt, M.L.C., annoyed at
Dr. Maloney’s dema'nd for a division, arose and
solemnly moved “ That no more divisions be
taken.” The motion was even too much for the
House of 48 Rich Landlords to take seriously,
and President Wrixon pointed out smilingly that
Mr. Pratt’s own motion might a division.
Marconi’s wireless telegraph system is now
so far advanced that chess-matches have been
played between two Atlantic liners, the moves
being telegraphed from one ship to another.
Messages are being regularly received across the
Atlantic, and the new system is about to be in-
stalled to fill the breaks in the Cape-to-Cairo line.
It is getting very near time to cease calling tele-
graph lines “ permanent and reproductive works.”
Premier Irvine, at the A.N.A. banquet :
“ He would take the opportunity of stating the
obligation of the country to those broad-minded
squatters in the Western District who had com-
menced to part with their land to smaller land-
holders.” Consider the noble spectacle of the
b.m. squatter selling the land, which the State
gave him, or which he dummied from it, at £1 an
acre, to the small man at 1000 per cent, profit—
and then only driven thereto by the fear of the
coming land-tax or the fact that it pays him better
to sell land than to rear sheep.
A large part of P.M.G. Drake’s time in
Q. was occupied explaining to hungry billet-
hunters that, under Federal law, a Minister
hasn’t even a chairmanship at his disposal. But
still the worn-out ex-M.P., and the political
hanger-on vow that Drake’s cake will be dough at
next election—“if their vote and influence count for
anything.” Meanwhile, the honest citizen, who
wishes a civil service career for his son or daughter,
rejoices exceedingly. Curious that most ex-
M’s.P. fancy they have a mortgage on the State
which they have fooled or fleeced.
“A Victim” gives in brief “the
strength of” N.S.W. Civil Service Super-
annuation Fund grievance:—
By the Superannuation Act all civil servants
were forced to contribute 4 per cent, of their
salaries to a pension fund. Fully 50 per cent,
of them protested against the reduction, having
a lively remembrance of John Robertson’s pre-
vious Pension Act that “went bung.” How-
ever, all contributors to that fund were repaid,
with 6 per cent, interest added. Not so in the
present case. Hundreds of contributors can-
not get a cent of their money, through hav-
ing either retired or been removed from
the service. A clause in the Act stated
that removed C.S.’s were to forfeit all
right to a pension, but nothing was
said about getting back their
money contributed. Depart-
mental officials state that
neither the past nor the pre-
sent Acts provide for a
refund, so stick to montfy
that in equity they should
disgorge. The whole affair
from first to last is a bare-
faced robbery.
“ Glenara ” gives
food for reflection :
Re the necessity of keep-
ing the “ Federal Idea”
well in view of a care-
less country, with the
great dailies continually
pouring poison in the
ears of the politically-
asleep people, it would
not be very strange if
Federation did become
a thing to be only men-
tioned with curses. But a
great contributing cause to
whatever genuine dissatisfaction exists (as
far as Vic. is concerned) is, that the people
feel that they have, to a certain extent, been
tricked in the matter of State Parliaments. There
is no denying that when Federation was being fought
for, press writers and platform speakers made a great
point of the saving that would be effected by the
abolition, or, at least, vast reduction of the S.P’s.
Up to date they have been neither abolished nor
reduced. lam not contending that the abolition of
the S.P. will be a very great benefit to the State-
probably a well-elected, well-paid House would be’
worth its keep for a long time to come. But the people
have become thoroughly imbued with the notion that
S.P’s. are useless, unnecessary, and undesirable. And
sooner or later they will have to go. For the sake of the
Federal Idea, the sooner the better. And the party
Labor, Liberal, or Tory—that removes them will have the
strongest hold upon the political affections of Victoria.
There are rival unions in Westralia just as
there are among N.S.W. bush-workers; but the
Westralian registrar avoids the N.S.W. blunder
and steadily refuses to register the two for the
same class of men. Where both unions exist the
A.M.A. is to represent the miners and the A.W.A.
the laborers ; where only one exists whichever of
them it is may represent both. Amalgamation
might be better, but neither side approaches the
solution in a very promising spirit. Many earnest
laborites are getting tired of the wrangling
between the leaders, and feel very like bumping
the two lots of heads together.
The Australian Government, as the law’
now stands, can’t build the transcontinental rail-
way to Westralia (that line which the bumptious
Dry Dog man says they ought to have started
before now) without permission from the State
Parliaments of both S.A. and Westralia. Jenkins
Iscariot solemnly promised to introduce a Bill
granting the authority, but Jenkins’ Bill has
never appeared, and there is no news about it.
This may mean that the S.A. Government wants
only one transcontinental line (to Port Darwin), or
it may be only Jenkins’ chronic incivility.
Considering the sort of Governors now
bestowed, apparently by system, on the States,
N.S.W. for one should repeal the Parkes motion
still on the records of the House, or say what
interpretation shall be given it. That motion,
carried enthusiastically at the time MTlwraith
slammed the door of Queensland in policeman
Blake’s face, prescribed that N.S.W. Ministry
should be informed of a Governor’s name before
his appointment, and stipulated that only men
who had held distinguished civil positions or had
had eminent careers in the House of Commons
would be eligible.
An expert to The Bulletin :
In view of the fact that the Federal P. and T. Dept,
has to pay for new lines, repairs, &c., out of revenue, the
falling off in telegraphic receipts for Nov. and Dec. makes
it look as if P.M.G. Drake will have a hard row to hoe to
make ends meet, or even avoid a big shortage. The cheap
telegraph rates came into force Nov. 1, and as that month
and Dec. are reckoned the two heavy months, things look
blue for the lean times ahead. The
P.O. authorities assumed that extra-
cheap rates would lead to increased
business, but that expectation is
frustrated by the average business
man, who cuts down the address to
one or two words, uses a code, and
sends no signature, thus getting his
wires cheaper by 25 to 50 per cent.
The charges are, in many instances,
altogether out of proportion to the
distances traversed. Thus a 16-word
message from Thargomindah to
Burketown (say 1900 miles) only costs
9d., and writer saw a message pass-
ing from Pt. Darwin to Thursday
Island (about 5000 miles of wire) at a
cost of Is., and it had to be “ re-
peated ” over nine land lines and one
cable 1 In Europe or America,
where labor is cheaper and popula-
tion more dense, such a wire would
cost 3s. or 4s. Imagine a man wish-
ing to wire a 16-word message from
Glasgow to Lisbon, or from Copen-
hagen to Oporto, and offering Is. as
payment! The zone system of
charging, as in U.S.A., would be a
good way out, but the Constitution
forbids discrimination between the
States of the Commonwealth. Prac-
tical men consider that what will be
necessary, if ends are to meet, will be
—within the State, 10 words, 9d, each
additional word Id. ; inter-State, 10
words, Is., each additional word
Id. ; address and signature, if any,
to be counted. It seems a fair pro-
phecy that an Amending Postal
Rates Bill will be on the agenda-
paper next Federal session. Apropos
—lf the Constitution forbids any dis-
crimination ’twixt States, how is it
that it costs more to wire to and
from Tasmania than between any
other two States ?
Because there is a private cable-
line to Tas. for using which the
Govt, has to pay.
Q. Minister Dalrymple, speaking at the
A.N.A. annual banquet in Brisbane, referred to
a possible combination of malcontents, Indepen-
dents and Laborites as a “fantastic mixture of
oil and water —which would never mix.” What
price the Continuous-Coalition Ministry of which
the sardonic Dalrymple is now a member ? Does
the innocent Minister remember two men named
MTlwraith and Griffith? Does he remember
himself ?
One Queensland Labor member (promi-
nent in his party) is understood to hint that there
is a probability of a fusion of various “fag ends”
during next Q. State session—moderate Laborites,
the present fragmentary “ Opposition ” and vari-
ous discontented Philpites who think it is time
to come in out of the wet. The idea is to make
Speaker Morgan Premie*-, but Mr. Morgan is in a
very snug and secure billet and is constitutionally
easy-going.
It isn’t a bad thing to live in the electorate
of a Minister of the Crown—if that Minister is
Bent. Workmen’s trains arouixd Melbourne are
limited to a 9-mile radius, but down Bent’s way
workmen get the reduced rate as far as
Mordialloc —15 miles. Also, the Mordialloo
“ workman ” has an extra train laid on for him
which reaches the city about 8.45 a.m. The
mechanics of Mordialloc mostly wear bell-toppers
and Panamas.
According to Wynne, M.L.C., the Vic-
torian House of 48 Rich Landlords will accept
parts of the Irvine Reform Bill. It will accept the
ratepayers’ rail as the qualification for voters; it
will utterly reject the double dissolution and the
joint sitting; it will require two paid Ministers
instead of one; it will throw out woman’s
suffrage; it will not reduce its members below 42 ;
and it declines to lower the qualification for
membership of the Council to less than £5O annual
rateable value worth of property. And most of
the Council plainly regarded Wynne as a dan-
gerous revolutionary for going so far.
British papers are already scoffing at
Jenkins Iscariot’s land-grant transcontinental
railway. They speak of the 90,000,000-acre steal
as mere sandy desert, and reckon that only a
person with earth-hunger in a very bad and very
ill-judged form would look at Jenkins’ offer. The
book-fiend Premier seems to have misjudged the
situation. Any number of companies have built
land-grant railways in his own country ; but, un-
fortunately, good land is scarce in Australia, and
nearly all there is of it would be required to satisfy
the rapacity of one such atrocious steal company
as the Canadian Pacifio. If Jenkins got hold of
an equally rapacious syndicate he would probably
require to give it the whole Territory, and some
cash as well.
About the meanest feature of Q. poll-tax ia
its operation on the Kanaka population. AKanaka
receives a monetary wage of £6 per annum. Out
of this he has to pay a poll-tax of 10s. per annum,
or 8J per cent, on his wretched wage. Surely
Premier Philp, who was lately so distressed about
the prospects ahead of Tommy Tanna, ought to
see to a matter of this kind. No Kanaka agent
ever explained this matter to Tommy when he
embarked for Queensland.
Robert Reid, the Victorian M.L.C. and
alleged Senator, has resigned his seat in the State
House of Landlords. Thereby he acknowledges
that, just as the Federal law says, it is not legal
to attempt to sit in both Parliaments. And the
same Federal law, whose existence he thus admits,
also says that his election was null and void
because he was a State M.L.C. at the time of his
nomination. A wiser dog, when he had a week to
find out that the other thing was only a shadow,
would have hung on to his bone.
That Single-Tax bore, Maximilian Hirsch,
M.L.A., suggests that Victoria should “shut
down all its non-paying railways.” Quite a lob of
non-paying railways both in Victoria and N.S.W.
could be made payable by promoting closer set-
tlement along their routes. It is the big non-pay-
ing landlord, not the non-paying railway, that
wants closing. Would Maximilian also advocate
closing roads in thinly-populated districts, or any-
thing else in the way of a relapse into economical
barbarism ?
New Senator Reid will now have an oppor-
tunity of directly impressing the Commonwealth
Parliament with a sense of its duty. In Vie.
Council recently, he bitterly railed against the
ingratitude of Federal members, because they did
not fully and frequently express “their indebted-
ness to the State Parliament ” (not the people,
mark !) “of Victoria for placing at their disposal,
without fee or reward, a Government House and
a Parliament House which cost so much.”
Melb. Argus lately received a “ Contribu-
tion from China to the Drought Relief Fund,”
from H. McGowan, of the Custom House, Canton;
also a letter containing this :
Things are a bit slow here : the Chinese are selling
their children and women folk for a few dollars, and so-
great is the supply that a girl worth 400 to 500 dol. a few
months ago is at present only worth 20 to 30 dol.
Now the Argus has persistently barracked for
Foreign Missions, the Open Door, Free Admission
of the Yellow Agony and so on. Does that
respectable family paper want to see girls sold in
Australia at a fiver apiece when the next big
drought comes?
There is something very shady in the
Irvine Govt.’s manner of toying with the question
of a new Commissioner for Vic. Railways. Over
18 months have passed since Mathieson left, and
Irvine promised, on becoming Premier, to imme-
diately get a competent man for the Commissioner-
ship, but has got no nearer to it than twice
repeating the appointment of traffic-manager
Fitzpatrick as acting-Commissioner. All the
time, his Govt, has been making the shallowest
pretence of trying to find a permanent railway
manager. But it was obvious from the first that
this would not suit the book of Minister Bent,
who only wants a nice subservient person about
whilst he is restoring the system of political con-
trol, and incidentally making himself solid with
his constituents.
Melb. Age started belaboring the Irvine
Govt, at the most opportune time possible. The
very day the MMvenzie trouble came along, it
assailed Mines Minister Cameron with a vim
reminiscent of the Trenwith days, and a day
later began asking Bent in a threatening tone
whether he had really got a railway policy, or
whether it was his intention to keep on doing
nothing at the top of his voice. If the select-
committee inquiry into the M‘Kenzie cases leaves
the slightest shadow of suspicion round the devoted
head of that excellent Scotchbyterian land-dealer,
it s a million to one that Syme’s paper will come
down upon the whole Irvine crowd with a thump.
The rehabilitation of a somewhat discredited
journal is the first consideration, and present
indications are that by “slugging” Irvine and
his colleagues that result will be most speedily
achieved.
AS USURAL
FOR THE BULLETIN
Kc s+ood on TKe. e>l
Ip* “ OK.-IHIS 15 tFje. tiTajoK. for me. '
§of. In br.^htes rfed 111 paihr'ny name.
Opon%e hitShtshrung*of Famt-”
p/ A h- Other
r'fhe dreamy he painted
As
&oT whaf ca<"ed he ►v’haiT, S>aid 1
1 M/FAMIW.LL U.VE- WHEN fHEy'Lh b<L De**Y^
ll^v) r' came m and Changed the tone -■«
f lr> manner - sad to 5 te * *
' cwld not Kefif
A FA rr v ' ,e -^
He. had "to pa>nr
What he. C ool d Sell •
h 5° Went' out"
A sv
S A WAS
IV> L
S.D.


Callaghan Boot
More about these Men’s Boots
at 16/6 a pair.
V
We present herewith an exact photograph of
the Men’s Black Calfskin Boots at 16/6, about
which we have already told you.
It gives a most accurate
idea of the style, quality and
workmanship of these excel-
lent boots.
When ordering you have
the privilege of exchanging
them after trying them on if
not correct; or your money
is refunded if desired.
Price - - 16/6
Post Paid, 17/6
Delivered
POST and
DUTY FREE
17/6
a pair,
To any address in the
Commonwealth.
We look to sell
Thousands of these Hard Wear
Boots for Hard Times.
Full Description follows:
SOLES— SoIid oak-tanned stout walking soles, stitched on a Goodyear maehinA
best Irish Flax Thread, warranted not to rip open. 7 machlne -
UPPE w ty UPPerS and VamP are ° Ut fr ° m plUmp SkinS and are nofc skimped in
LINING-A good grade of heavy drill. The inner sole is milled perfectly smooth on
the surface and free from nails, creases or thread. * y 00111 on
HEELS —Square trimmed, size 1 inch, properly nailed.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 ceorce st., Sydney.
A Legacy from Typhoid Fever
RUNNING 50RES IN LEG FOR
EIGHT YEARS
.... CURED BY ....
VITADATIO
Epson, Auckland, December 16, 1901.
Mr. S. A. PALMER.
Dear Sir,—lt gives me the greatest of pleasure to know
that you are about to bring your medicine, VITADATIO,
before the public and my friends in the old country. I
am sure they will thank and even bless you from their
hearts for the good you will be doing, as I, for one, out of
many thousands can prove. When you get to Plymouth
you can show my friends what I say, also at Liscard and
Bodmin, the place of my birth, especially, where they all
know m?. I had the misfortune to contract Typhoid
Fever, which caused other serious complaints, and I was
laid up 12 months. When I was able to get about the
disease went into my right leg and it was swollen very
much. Inside of 12 months it all broke out into one mass
of sores. I called in my doctor, and he told me he could
do nothing, as I would have a bad leg the rest of my
life. Not being satisfied I saw four other doctors, and
they all told me about the same thing. I gave up hopes
of doing any more work, but being advised by my friends
to try other medicines, I did so, which cost me about £4O,
and I never received any benefit whatever from them. I
then tried a newly advertised remedy, but after taking a
large course of it I was no better. 1 then thought the
doctors were right, so 1 gave up trying any more. I was
suffering for about eight years, when one Saturday night
I went to the city of Auckland and was looking at the
shop windows when I saw a lot of strange looking bottles
in a window, with a frame of testimonials from different
people. I said to my daughter “ Another lot of quackery,”
when your agent, Mr. Ibbotson, said to me I was mis-
taken, and after a little conversation with him he advised
me to try it, which I am thankful to him that I did.
After taking 10 bottles I saw a great change in the leg,
which made me persevere with the medicine until I had
taken 36 bottles, when I can truly' say my leg is well.
For I can run, skip, and jump, and I am better in health
than ever I was in my life. 1 never weighed more than
lOst. lOibs., but now lam 12st. 2lbs., and never feel tired
or out of sorts. If anyone doubts my statements they can
write to me, or to a dozen other people who can testify to
my cure. I may add that I am doing all in my power
for others to try VITADATIO for the suffering com-
munity. Wishing you a pleasant voyage to the dear old
country.
I remain, yours truly,
T. H. ROWE, Blacksmith,
Auckland, New Zealand.
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER,
184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The Price of Medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
Newman’s
Antiseptic Pastilles.
The Best for all Affections of the Throat.
TRY THEM PRICE-ONE SHILLINC.
S. HARRIS, W. P. S., Pharmaceutical Chemist,
Telephone 2288. 82 KING-ST., SYDNEY.
The last man, prior to Arthur Lynch, sen-
ln Bntam for high treason, was
Colonel Thomas F. Burke, who, in April 1867
headed a Fenian rising in Tipperary. The Prime
Minister, Lord Derby, resisted the appeals for a
commutation, declaring that Burke should hang
but, a few hours before the time appointed for
execution, the sentence was commuted
Q. L ? d i e n rec A °mmend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia Agents for N. S. Wales: Sayers,
All port and Potter, Sydney. Sole proprietor W
England £ harmaceutical chemist, Southampton,"
The sale of liquor on Sundays would soon
be put a stop to if every policeman were as reso-
lute and as resourceful as Sergeant Harrison, of
Redfern (Sydney). He had been watching a
hotel, and, from suspicions thus received, knocked
and entered. There was nobody in the bar and
no direct evidence of liquor having been sold
Jt>ut he
went into the bar, and, after examining the glasses came
to the conclusion that a good deal of drinking had just
been going on He found glasses, bottom upwards
which contained froth. F
The Bench considered the case proved on this
evidence. Hitherto convictions for liquor-selling
on Sunday have been hampered by the fact that!
the law being tacitly condemned as unreasonable
reasonable methods of proving lapses have not
been used. The Bulletin, apart from the issue
of Sunday beer or no Sunday beer, would like to
see the Sunday closing law mercilessly enforced
Whilst the law exists it should be respected'
-f hen, if experience shows it to be intolerable it
can be amended. ’
Do You
Wear a
Truss?
Denyer's Elastic Truss.
IT IS THE VERY BEST.
No Discomfort to Wearer. Suits any Rupture.
PRICES: 17/6 Single ; 25/- Double.
Send Measure and P.O. Order.
DENYER BROS.
AND AT MELBOURNE.
"A Plunge in Panamas.”
r\ESPITE the scarcity of this fashionable headgear, as
the result of special arrangements when visiting the
centres of manufacture,
CHARLES GILBERT
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE,
has received another large shipment in Folding and
Alpine Shapes, which will be SOLD at prices no other
firm in the Commonwealth can BUY them for. So great
is the demand, and so scarce the supply, that every hat
could be sold wholesale at a big profit, but he prefers to
give his retail customers the benefit of his keen buying
and thus increase his connection.
Note bis Prices-18/6, 22/6, 25/=, 30/= to 45/- (for
cash with order). Sent securely packed and carriage-paid
to any address. Satisfaction guaranteed or cash returned.
The first prosecution under the bye-law
against spitting on footpaths has just taken plaoe
in Adelaide. The notices prominently displayed
have been enough to check the habit, but a sailor
who offended was fined a shilling and costs as a
warning.
Three new consumption “ cures ” are just
now before the public, two serums cultivated by
European doctors, and an inhalation method put
G woman—the idea of which
is to attack the bacillus in its feeding ground, the
lung, with hot dry medicated air. Since the
present rational” treatment of phthisis is by
~ °Pj en which practically means warfare on
the bacillus by oxygen, it is possible that methods
of cure will in the future include some medication
of the air breathed, with the idea of increasing its
germicidal properties. A resort to “mountain
air practically means that ; and the hot dry
medicated-air idea may prove of some value ; the
latest Sydney idea, though, cannot be seriously
discussed whilst it is a “ secret remedy.”
People behind the scenes in Yic. politics
believe that the cold but reputable Irvine, if not
jumped out of the Premiership within a month or
two, will voluntarily throw it up. When the
JVI ivenzie affair was brought on in the Assembly, it
waa evident to all that Irvine was sick and tired
of it all, and for the first time in his Parliamen-
tary career the icy Equity lawyer got an emotional
hitch m his voice and seemed on the point of tears
It was exactly the same kind of break in the voice
frequently recurring, which heralded the physical
and political collapse of Irvine’s predecessor,
Peacock. And the Iceberg winces badly under
the slightest personal allusion. When little Dr.
Maloney the other night playfully spoke of “ the
profession at which Mr. Irvine got his living ere
he became Premier” the Yic. “reform” boss
looked as uncomfortable as though dining with a
savage who ate peas with a knife.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
ver s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.
Unionist until something better turns
up writes
Vic. Government’s “ultimatum” to the Loco. Ensrine-
drivers and Firemens’ Association and other railway
employees unions, demanding their severance from the
Trades Hall, is about the most audacious attempt vet
made upon the liberty of a section of the community by
the Bent Government. The blow seems to have been
aimed directly at the loco, men, for, whereas other
organisations have been affiliated with the Trades Hall
for years, the Drivers’ Association had only joined a few
hours when “ sat upon ” The Acting-Commissioner’s
memo, to the various bodies concerned drawing their
attention to Rule 32 is a very carefully-worded document
( Rule 32 is— No employee shall be a member of a
political association of any kind.”) He suggests severance
from the Trades Hall—it cannot be taken as an order
and was no doubt written regretfully. It has been sug-
gested that the societies thus called upon “receive” the
precious memo, and order it to “ lie on the table ” pend-
ing further consideration. It is an important matter
and warrants the men’s earnest consideration for (say) a
year or two. The systematic crushing of the loco, men’s
association adopted by the present Govt, is a bitter con-
trast to the tone adopted towards it only a short year or
two ago. Then, at the men’s annual banquet (there was
none last year!), Ministers, M’s.P., and head railway
officials vied with each other in saying the pleasantest
possible things about that “ splendid branch of the ser-
vice.” Verily the glory of the footplate has departed.
Martin’s Apiol and Steel Pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia, price 4s 8d
Agents: Sayers, Allport, and Potter, Sydney*
Sole Proprietor, W. Martin, Pharmaceutical
Chemist, Southampton, England.*
The dignity of the suburban Mayor falls
in sometimes. Recently, on the night on which
the nominations for the local council closed, his
Worship, having retired early, was aroused a few
minutes before midnight by loud, authoritative
knocking at his door. Poking his head out of his
top window, his lordship found half-a-dozen
persons awaiting him below. On demanding
their business, he was informed that it was
official. They wished to nominate another
aldermanic candidate ere it was too late. Then
the pride of that suburb’s church waxed angry,
and was about to bang his window down,’
when the spokesman of the crowd reminded him
that he was compelled to accept nominations up to
twelve that night. The spokesman also enlarged
on the awful consequences of a breach of the law,
and did it with such eloquence that, before he had
quite finished, the mayor was at the door in his
nightshirt and demanding the papers, for Heaven’s
sake, before the clock stopped striking. The
deputation then handed the documents over with
much seriousness and retired. Next morning his
worship opened them and found them to consist
of a demand to know where he got that hat. or
something to that effect.
What; should have been described in the
daily papers as a “pathetic incident” occurred
outside St. Kilda cemetery on the day of the
gorgeous Sargood funeral. As the magnificent
spectacle wound its way from .Dandenong road
through the gates, with the military bands re-
sounding, a shabbily-dressed, elderly Irishwoman
leaned agaunst the fence and sobbed bitterly.
Sympathetic onlookers, scenting some unknown
j Vo^enc ® of, the .deceased senator, watched the
old dame with interest, and at last one approached
* D r\ remarked w hat a good man he ' had been.
”°S ( h.• ; she said, lifting her skirt to dry her
ey ®> , m Y Mickey in the simmitry beyant,
W!d ah l this trumpetin’ an’ blashtin’ it’s thinkin’
that it s the Day av Judgment, that he’ll be.”
“Yanoro” writes:
The filling-up of the vacancy in the Senate has raised a
3 u ®f c ° ns t>tutional Point. The Constitution has been
“yW fc o read that affcer the firs t three years the
re . fclre ? re the three who received the least
number of vptes of the six successful candidates at the
genera! election. In Victoria the three are Styles, Best
• rett ;u Nex . t year ’ in add »tion to the three ordinary
2“? the electors will be called upon to elect a
nJiS I ' M- th ® Pu aCe v. ?, f the late Fredk. Sargood (Robt.
Si -n nB: i th u blllet temporarily) and the man so
nt-hi. 0 d , W l ', ll ° nly h . ave three years lease of office while the
■ will have six. Naturally the commonsense solu-
tb ® f °ur candidates in a bunch, the fourth
on the list to fill the deceased Senator’s shoes. But a
theory is advanced that the law will not
a "d in consequence a pretty situation pre-
f 6 f ' Two Sections, some hair-splitting constitu-
: ™ ust be held, one for the three seats
and one for the extra seat. No one will like to say that
Pf '®, a second-class sort of man who might do for a
thaM?h» te SOrfc .°? half-time Senator, let alone the fact
sixvpw L a " , get ' n '7 u hy not KO the whole hog and get a
in -i ® ars term. On the other hand a man might squeeze
woufd ?, PP ° S - ,ti ° n for the three years' Job who
wouicl be defeated against stronger candidates for one of
nomin.fi/f‘; arS n, J ° bs ‘ Y J e J fc a K ain - 80 many men might
minate for the one odd Senatorship, thinking it the
get’ffi onThfi tbe , t w°;, that it might become harder to
fonstitntinnti u Cke , tb . an on the other - Probably the
constitutional are all wrong, but the situa-
tmnlooks as if it might become interesting.
D c
\0 YOU WISH TO LEARN A NEW PROFTTARTF
\ BUSINESS, SUITABLE FOR EITHER SEX ? nso
send for my FREE BOOKLET, “AN EASY INDUSTRY ’’
which gives full particulars. IiNUUHIK Y,
G. COVERDALE, Box 7, G.P.0., Melbourne.
Missing Friends.
ELLEN GERTRUDE WRIGHT
. ln 1890 > of Emerald St., Collingwood,
Vio. ; m 1893, of Wimble St., Northcote, Yic. ;
and later of Nine Mile, Deepwater, N.S.W.,
please send present address to
«/. HASSETT, Solicitor,
YARRA WO NO A.
The Veterinarian.
ALWAYS
CIVES YOU
The
Standard
Preparations
of ... .
SALVITIS
RESTORING AND CONSERVING
THE HEALTH OF
Horses
Pigs
Cattle
Poultry
Sheep
Dogs
SHOULD
BE TRIED
Used by Leading Stockowners.
SALVITIS INDEX of DISEASES
To be had of Storekeepers, etc.
Direct Agents for New South Wales—
E. RICH & COfIPANY, Ltd., SYDNEY
•w**
i .*'
)
CORSETS
The Recognised Standard
High-Class Corsets
LATEST SPECIALTY
STRAIGHT FRONT
NOUVELLE FORM
Obtainable from Leading
Drapers Everywhere.
Avoid Inferior Imitations, and see that
eaeh pa l r bears the Manufacturer’s “Trade
Mark on band inside, as above.


Banking, Public Companies, &o.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.-^
LOWEST INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
c#>
<0
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
nxr.J3.-w.
(|)ont deplete D> I. Co., [td-
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
* SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
'—THIS—,
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burks, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,595,870.
Policies issued 88,299— assuring £26,826,380.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,767,115.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—eauitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 Ac 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
fhe Bank of north Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, PhilpA Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... ... ... £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250 900 ... £350.000
Royal Bank of Queensland
J LIMIT IS I).
CAPITAL PAID-UP £456,927
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 176,239
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 68,000
£691,166
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Dat. Asst. Mngr., W. B. ALFORD
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Queensland Smelting Qompy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
"OUTERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
-D Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, the Branch
Office, 54 Market-street. Melbourne, or IRWIN HINDS,
Branch Manager, 6 Spring-street, Sydney.
H E SAVINGS BANK
HAS MONEY TO LEND in VICTORIA
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £2OOO to £15,000, on Town
Properties ; £2OOO to £25,000 on BROAD ACRES, and
sums from £5OO to £2OOO at per cent, on Town
Properties FOR FIVE YEARS, WITH OPTION OF
PAYING OFF PART HALF YEARLY.
FARMERS’ CREDIT FONCIER.
Loans up to £2OOO at 4J per cent. FOR 31 \ YEARS.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Market-street, Melbourne.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Hon. John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlank ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar. J. J.ALLEN, General Manager for Australia
131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amoun t of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital ... .. £2,500,000
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) £9576 13 4
Directors : F. It. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BOItItOWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager
°JL r No. 56 ACETYLENE CAS Catalogue
s the MOST COMPLETE
and COMPREHENSIVE
ever issued.
Tells all about the Best
ACETYLENE CAS GENER-
ATORS, LAMPS, and
everything in connection
with ACETYLENE.
Nearly 400 of our
Reliable Automatic
Acetylene Gas
Generators
in daily use.
Large Stocks of the
Best
Carbide
Calcium
Quotations on application.
James MARTIN & CO.,
• * •
161 Clarence Street.
Nr.. King'-si., Sydney.
3NT. 3D. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OP
Twin Screw Steamers.
BOOKED to Egypt, Naples. Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
*Twin-screw steamer.
Leaving MELBOURNE Wednesday after Sydney.
Interstate First-Class Return Tickets are now available
for Return by the Steamers of the P. and 0.. Orient
Pacific, or M.M. Co.’s.
TO SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA.
MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. STETT IIM , 18th FEBRUARY.
And Regularly Thereafter.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Exoellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents.
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Brides.
street, Sydney.
Shipping.
TN€ ABCRPCCN LIN€
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. £55 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal ~ £3l 10s .. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £l2O.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUQOAOE received only on day of sailing.
JDalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
Huddart, parker & Co’s Cine
MELBOURNE,
LAUNCESTON,
HOBART,
WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Tares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
ajscv
I 3XT E
via
San Francisoo,
California.
FASTEST ANP BEST
ROUTE
TO
ENGLAND,
Via America and Canada*
The Commercial Banicing Company
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,010,000 0 0
Reserve Liability ... 1,000,000 0 0
£3,010,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
G. J. Cohen, Esq Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Eater, M.L.C Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. R. Jones, M.L.C. Hon. H. Moses, M.L.G.
Hon. F. T. Humphery, M.L.C.
Auditors:
W. L. Docker, Esq. James O. Fairfax, Esq.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager: T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. _J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Bircliixi - Lane
Directors: Sir J. A. Youl, K.C.M.G; F. H.
Dangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq. ; Hon. H S
Littleton. Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
CO. (Limited).
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500,000.
Fire Insurances
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Marine Risks . ■
Rates Very Low.
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager.
Bushman and Buccaneer.
A True Account of the operations of the
Bushveldt Carbineers, and of the sorry
fate of fiARRY MO RANT.
Jfll “Che Breaker's” Uerses.
The first edition has now been almost exhausted,
and a second print of 5000 is in the press. Send
orders early, to ensure despatch.
PRICE ONE SHILLING.
LADIES.-^-
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address—L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
PHOTOS
Models from Life, Beautiful Stereo-
scopies, etc. List with 100 Minia-
ture and 3 Cabinet size photos.,
ss. , P. 0.0. or stamps.
S. REGKNACEL NACHF, Munich, 1 Brieffach, Germany.
Missing Friends.
IF this should meet the eye of ANDY MILLON,
who left Taihape, North Island, New
Zealand, some 6 years ago, or any friend
knowing his whereabouts, would heor they kindly
communicate with the undersigned, who will
supply news of beneficial character.
G. N. JENSEN,
Taihape,
North Island, New Zealand.
THE GREAT
/ OVERSEA \
\ OVERLAND /
HIGHWAY
TO THE UNITED KINGDOM,
Via NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH SEAS, and AMERICA.
The NEWEST, LARGEST (6000 Tons each), FASTEST,
and ONLY TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS engaged in
the TRANS-PACIFIC PASSENGER SERVICE from
Australia and New Zealand.
Round the World Itineraries compiled.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Managing Agents,
Pm and Bridge Sts. SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
"ALL-RED” ROUTE.
R.M.S. Moana Sails Feb. 23.
Absolutely the Finest Steamer
Crossing the Pacific.
STATE-ROOMS LARGE AND AIRY.
FOLLOWING SAILINGS—
MARCH 23, APRIL 20,
MAY 8.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
Medical.
SANDY BLIGHT, WEAK AND INFLAMED EYES
Cured by
ROSE’S CELEBRATED
Eye Lotion.
Beware of Imitations.
Free for Asking*.
%*#RITE to us and we will forward you our scientific
■ » book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magic, and you will be filled with energy
strength and ambition once more. Posted free Write’
to John Wilson, Box 135, G.P.0., Adelaide, S.A."
TURKISH BATHS for 2d
II “HETTRICK”
n Folding: Bath
Cabinetgivesyoua
Turkish bath room
at home. At a
cost of 2d. you get
all the possible
benefit of any
vapour or hot air
bath. These baths,
taken regularly, in-
sure health, vigour
and cleanliness.
They clear the
complexion, they
cure colds ; and no
other treatment is
so widely employed
by the best
physicians in the
cure of most
chronic diseases.
The “ HETTRICK ” is not like the flimsy and unser-
viceable cabinets that are widely sold, but a cabinet
which is endorsed by the medical profession, and one that
gives universal satisfaction. No family should be without
one. Price, £1 10s. (freight paid).
Queensland Agent: Arthur C. Bray, 92 Eagle-st Bris
bane. Tasmania Agents: Wertheimer, Benjamin and
Anderson, 71 Collins-st., Hobart. Victoria ; Alfred w
Jones, 317 Collins-st., Melbourne. J. LANDES 108
Pitt-st., Sydney, Sole Agent Australasia. ’
At Dawn and Dusk:
By V. J. Daley. In handsome cloth,
with portrait. Price 55.; postage, 4d.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Tranghippingjat Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Rockton,
Friday, February 6
(To Melbourne Only).
S.S. Wollowra,
Saturday, February 14.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Osirns
S.S. Warrego, Sat., Feb. 7.
-S.S. Rockton, Sat., Feb. 14.
S.S. Eurimbla, Frid., Feb. 20.
Rest and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. 8. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
P.
AND Q COMPANY’S
ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
_ on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
* Via Hobart.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B to £77
Ditto Ditto Return, £66 to £ll5
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by Orient-Pacific, Messageries
Mari times and N.D.L. Steamers having room.
63 Pitt-street.
A. GORDON WESCHE,
Acting Agent.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with tha
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE. FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and POUT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows:
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistant:#
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
State Ports are available for return by P. and 0.,
Orient Pacific and N.D.L. steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Officer
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. . BT THE . .
“E. and A.” LINE.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
These steamers specially built for the Eastern passenger
trade are fitted with EVERY CONVENIENCE FOR
TROPICAL TRAVELLING. The Saloon Cabins con-
taining two berths only are all on UPPER DECK AMID-
SHIPS, and are large, cool, and fitted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Canada, United
States of America and Europe.
For handbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.,
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-st., Sydney.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
rHLOROPYNE.
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyna
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BftOHCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, & c -» bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—-
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS a*
Sept. 28, 1895, gays:
“If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusiou of all
others, I should say Chlokodynk. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation."
ORNAMENTAL HAIR.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers & Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to
any Part of Australasia
& AITKEN,
N.S.W. Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 George Street, Sydney.
GENTS.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE kOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address.—L.D.l. , 300 Collins St., Melbourne


No. F7989.—9ct. Gold Leaf and Wishbone
Brooch, Xlg 6d.
WM
■ *
No. 0637.—501 id Silver Bean Shape
Match Box, 8s 6cL
No. FBl9o.—9ct. Gold Bamboo Bar, Leaf
and Heart Brooch, 8s 6d-
No. Gl4.—The Nurses’ Watch, Keyless,
Open Face, Engraved Silver Case, fine
Jewelled Lever Movement, Warranted
Reliable, 32s 6d.
We have looked long: for a good
Nurses’ Watch, and at last we
believe we have secured the
very one wanted.
No. 112. — Handsome 9ct. Gold and Fine
Amethyst Brooch, 18s 6d.
Our Variety makes Suitable Selection Easy,.
“ WC t d 0 *”• Eight Stores, each as Weil-Stocked as our Sydney one, means that we
our own H U tt SUC S “h" 0 J . ewe . nery busineM ia Australia can claim. We have
In 24 h" uTs than k Garden, London, manned by Experts who see more goods
very pick at the Home ZrLt T®/*! “►..“T' Y °“ thus that <=a„ offer you the
ages we get to oursetves wln ll * '° W P rlces - We d °n’t keep all the advant-
to is, we never .acHfice7hTJ,X T ° Z°\ u m °‘ t im P° rtant P®"*. *« d one we adhere
No. BB34L—Solid Silver and Pearl Book-marker, ajin., 4a ; larger, 6a 6d.
No. FBlB6.—The Latest
Lace Pin, Emu or
Kangaroo, 7s 6d.
?°,\ F7^3l -—Novel Style Salt
Cellar, with Spoon, Silver-plate
4s 6d.
0
■o
&
No. FB2ls—Cut-Glass and Solid
Silver Toilet Bottle, 5£ inchee
high, 22s 6d.
o. 17065. —Oct. Gold, two-bar Ornamented
Brooch, 11s 6d.
No. G29B.—Polished English Oak and Nickel-mounted Double
Inkstand, £1 ss.
No. 17660.—9 ct. Gold Bamboo Bar and
Loaf Brooch, 8s 6d.
No. E4933.—Fruit Dish of Pretty
China, 7 inches square, strong
Silver-plated Stand, 7s 6d.
No. F2itotj —Silver-plated Fern
Pofc, handsomely chased •
4in., 22s 6d ; 54in., 37s 6d.’
No. Fs9oB.—Solid Silver Bowl on Ebony Stand, s^inches
high, 7J inches wide, £lO 10s; in best Plate, 84s.
Illustrated Catalogue Post Free.
Ho. FsSBB.— Case containing 2 Pearl and Silver-
plated Butter Forks, 14s 6d.
No. E 8759.
-Best Quality Silver-plated Tile Centre
Teapot Stand, 10s 6d.
No. E6797.— 9ct. Gold Brooch, set Sapphire, Ruby
and Diamond, 16s 6d.
No. F493B.—Case of 2 Out-Glass
Silver Mounted Knife Rests, 11/6.
No. FB7o4.—Remarkable
Value. Diamond, Ruin and
Sapphire Scarf Pin or Pin
and Stud, Fine Gold Settings*,
£3 10s.
No. E6627.—Strong 9ct. Gold Twist Bracelet.
A Pretty Style, 32s 6d
4,2 ORGE SYDNEY.
T
HERE ARE SEVERAL ♦ ♦ * ♦
TALKING MACHINES
. . BUT THERE IS ONLY ONE . .
GRAMOPHONE
WHICH IS MADE BY
The gramophone & Typewriter [td.
This is a “ JUNIOR fIONARCH ” GRAMOPHONE,
Price £6 10s., and it is unsurpassed by any
Talking Machine at any Price.
Other Styles, £3 to £l4 10s.
DT well to remember this when discussing the artistic merit of sound reproducing contrivances. There is little
difficulty in reproducing a sound. There is, however, a gigantic difficulty in reproducing good music, and the actual
I voices of famous singers. We would ask you to remember that THE GRAMOPHONE made by The Gramophone
and Typewriter Ltd. does this. How do we do it? Why, because we have unlimited capital at our back, and because
we do not hesitate to obtain the services of the finest and most celebrated artistes of the day to sing for us. The better the
artiste the better the song. The public are the best judges in the world of the intrinsic value of an article. We are selling
FIVE MILLION RECORDS
per annum—and why ? Because our records are real reproductions of these singers. Our catalogue includes records made
by Carusa, Plangon, Benaud, David Bispham, Ben Davies, Andrew Black, Bichard Green, Joseph O’Mara, Mesdames Calve
Suzanne Adams, Kirby Lunn, Esther Palliser, Percival Allen, Connie Ediss, and Marie Tempest. Also Dan Leno, George
Bobey, Louis Bradfield, and Maurice Earkoa, besides hundreds of others.
Australian Agencies—VlCTOßlA: A. P. Sykes, 227 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Represented all over
World.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Messrs. S. B. Hunt & Co., 94 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
WESTRALIA: Messrs. Nicholson & Co.. Perth.
TASMANIA: Messrs. Wertheimer, Benjamin, & Anderson, 71 Collins Street, Hob-rt
QUEENSLAND: Messrs. Heindorff Bros., 210 Queen Street, Brisbane.
WHOLESALE DEPOT FOR AUSTRALASIA - AGEHTS IN EVERY TOWN.
The Gramophone and Typewriter Ltd., 163 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.


Hotel
Australia
BATES:
12s. 6d. per Day,
and upwards.
This beautiful hotel is fireproof from tower to
basement.
For cuisine, comfort, style, appointments, and
perfection of attendance, The Australia is the
first hotel of the Southern Hemisphere.
It is Sydney’s great summer hotel, being
situated on a lofty site, and catching every
breeze. Visitors to The Australia sleep in a cool,
pure atmosphere.
J. URE SMITH (Late of Menzies’), Manager,
Oastlereagh-st., Sydney.
Scarcely without exception all the champions
at the recent Sydney cycling carvival rode Dunlop Tyres. ♦
An Ex Mayor’s Opinion.
The opinion of a man is often useful, especially
when the man is well-known to be a master of the
subject upon which he speaks; then his state-
ments are more than mere opinions, they are
absolute facts. Such, for instance, is the statement
recently made by Mr. P. A. Phillips, ex-Mayor
of Auckland, who, after spending many years in
public service in New Zealand, has now come to
permanently reside at Woollahra, Sydney. His
opinion of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills is one
founded upon the most substantial grounds, for he
himself has personally tested them, and found
them, use in his own words, of “ inestimable
value. ’ _ “ I suffered,” he says “from flatulence,
dyspepsia, and indigestion, together with their
usual train of horrors. In my search for a remedy,
1 tried every known medicine, and I must have
taken a cart-load of drugs and patent medicines.
All of these were useless. None removed the
cause of my trouble, and it was only when at last
1 took Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills that I found
tv tv*- 8,11 , a P e . rman ent cure for my ailments.”
° rSe 8 n di an Root Pills are a perfect blood
purifier, and a positive cure for biliousness,
indigestion, constipation, headaches, sallow com-
j wi 11 ’ i lver Sidney troubles, piles, pimples
and blotches, and for female ailments. Put up in
amber bottles and the full name blown thereon.*
1 FACILE PRINCEPS. |
| SEMPER IDEM."!
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
Kuppers Elbcrfeld Lag*er
“Train up a Child the Way He Should
Co,”
and when he i
straight into <
s old enough he will walk
sur showrooms and buy a
RED BIRD BICYCLE.
aif^lfe^orofessional 1 rmS “l 8 ??* |o«der thta words
all the professional records were put D ° N Walker ‘ides a Red Bird, and
We still have one left for you. (JaM our simple, innocent-looking little wheel.
Branches in every State.
goold bicycle Co.,
64 King-st,
Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
.. A Australian bookmaker made his first
m ™ e JY, br< L a . k ‘ n £ tbe bank of a three-up man. In
man's fnnell* thought of that, he attended the
™?u r 8 . wh >ch happened not long after the
own lnc ident, and at the grave-side—this is his
tb , rew a P air of dice on the coffin. The
aice turned up deuce-ace, which, in Ikey’s narrative
signified crabs" for the deceased. ’
* • • •
: v At a recent pony race-meeting at
ichmond (Melb.), I saw at the back-of-the-course pun-
if”’?° ul . d n <>t raise enough to go inside, put their
Tw y « °!” 7 f Gks (dd) on their “ dead-birds.”
“J? , fc . hls the extreme.” They have a runner
watching with a telescope through a convenient
*i the fenc !’ t® Hs the scratchings, etc. Among
this motley crowd of men, women, and children (all
punters) was an ex-mayor of a city near Melb. Sydney
can parallel this with " the hill" outside Randwick, and
various points of vantage overlooking other courses,
where the books make wagers on the basis of penny
postage-stamps and tram-tickets. F r
• * • •
Australian Peer, who died the other week, was
a persistent opponent of the more famous Abercorn
during their 3 and 4-year-old careers. They met over
a dozen times, and Mr. James White’s chestnut
champion had practically nothing the better of the rivalry.
Whenever they met in a w.f.a. race one or other of them
actually won, and in nearly every case the beaten battler
finked second. Abercorn was first and the Peer came
third, behind Niagara, in the A.J.C. Derby, but in V.R G
Derby it was the Peer first, with Abercorn and Niagara
running a dead heat for second. Abercorn took both the
Degers. In their other contests up to two miles
honors were easy. Moreover, the Peer won a Sydney
Gup, carrying 8.6 as a 3-year-old ; and although Abercorn
outlasted his rival on the turf, he never managed to
capture one of the big handicaps.
* * • •
If it is true that “ Bob ” Phillips, the owner of
Abundance, has been making fruitless offers for Great
Scot, one naturally surmises that Robert was meditating
Gup. cou P~ Newraarket Handicap and Australian
* * * *
The A.J.C. Stipendiary stewards are just as
dead as the other variety. Canterbury Park, last
Saturday, was simply heaped with dead ’uns: but the
stipendiaries made no effort to shift the carrion.
. * * *
Misgivings (prompted by the noise he made
when galloping) about Maoriland’s premier nag Advance
bemg able to travel a distance have been completely
by his success in Wellington Cup, which he won
with 10.4 up, traversing the ljm. in 2.34 1-s—an Austral-
asian record. Advance, in 27 starts, has only failed to
£6695 aCe f br ’ ce > his total 17, and stakes won,
* • * »
On his recent Randwick form Purser looks a
fairly good thing for Newmarket Handicap. He can
run out every inch of a mile strong, and is the class of
nag required for the big Flemington sprint. At S.T.C.’s
recent meet 10.9 in the Welter Handicap seemed nothing
o .7 ,“? nda y he had H. 2 up, and, giving the crack
Contest 181bs., beat him smartly.
• * • *
Ballarat trainer Scobie’s scoop of a few years
ago may be repeated at coming Caulfield and Flemington
Autumn meets; already he has in training Fairy States,
F.J.A., Sweet Nell, Annotate, Eleanor, Royal Oak
Presto, Kiota, Sir Harry, Emir, Rienzi, and Sinnang.
Flagship is shaping extra well in work, which
\r l D S ?f*'?T'^ us^ r ?'' an < -' u P probabilities. He appropriated
y.K.C. Hep. (lfm.) at record rate with 9.10 up. His load
in the coming big 2Jm. plum is 9st., but Flagship is a
weight-carrier above the ordinary.
Scratching of last Melbourne Cup winner, The
Victory, for Australian Cup was a hard knock for early
takers of doubles. Said now that the crack’s special
mission is the Champion Race, with a view to sending
him to his owners in England—if he wins.
* * • *
Famous ’Murkan-bred trotting sire Honesty
died at Wangaratta (V.). Late Mr. R. Towns, of Hobart-
ville (N.S. W.), brought Honesty and Childe Harold to
this continent at same time. Both have improved the
quality of Australian trotting stock immensely.
Chesterfield and Larissa, the winner and second
horse in Hobart and Launceston Cups, are in one stable,
but differently owned. Chesterfield is the seventh na«-
to get away with this double ; the other six were Strop
15. ' 6 > Chaldean in ’B9, Macquarie in ’9O, Amadeus in ’94,
Flintlock in ’99, and Eiridsdale in 1900.
* * • *
Big disappointment Skein Dhu, who, for long,
while doing watch-breaking things on the track, failed
to materialise under colors, and so brought wealth to
Mo, ran near her best at Canterbury Park, Saturday.
She struck hard luck in being badly interfered with in
the straight by Santoi, who passed the post half-a-neck
to the good. Protest by Skein Dhu’s owner was dismissed
by stipendiary stewards, and notice of appeal to A.J.C.
given ; till that is decided, bets are in abeyance. Con-
trary to usual state of affairs when nags of Skein Dhu’s
sort score, she was heavily backed, and in the last race
(Shorts Handicap) same day, carrying 71b. penalty,
picked up a big stake for her stable easily.
• • • *
John Hill, head of South Australia’s one big
coaching firm, has been telling people how to feed
horses. The prescription : From 251 b. to 301 b. per diem,
in four doses. (Only heavy draughts require a full 301 b.)
To make 301 b., take 31b. of bran and pollard, 21b. of oats
Jib. of molasses ; the balance, sound chaff.
Full merit of N.S.W.’s success by five wickets
over Victoria, last week, doesn’t seem properly under-
stood. ’Twas a bowler’s pitch that the greater part of
home team batted on in its initial innings. Victoria
was very much more favored in this respect. Duff evi-
denced lots of Trumper in his work when piling up that
132—quite the best display Sydney has had from
him, and an exceptionally bright showing. Last day
revealed another N.S.W. man with big possibilities
ahead in the person of R. N. Hickson, who rose
to a ticklish occasion and, together with Noble,
was responsible for an unfinished effort of 152
a record for sixth wicket in N.S.W.-Victoria matches.
Hickson, a novice in inter-State cricket, has been on the
N.S.W. side in four matches this year, and while doing
well previously his latest score—B9 not out—is his best.
Home players wanted 268 to win when they opened their
second innings. Once, with 5 down for 118, things looked
blue, but the Hickson-Noble combination saved the day,
and to that pair alone is the win due. Noble’s compilation
was 102, but his was a lucky innings; he gave three
palpable chances and the ball beat him badly many times,
still it was fine under the circumstances.
* * * *
Saturday last saw Victor Trumper engaged in
club cricket for the first time since going to England.
8000 people watched him, and in 2h. 45min. he hit up 335
for Paddington against Redfern. Twenty-two strokes
brought fivers, the bails disappearing into adjacent
streets, through kitchen windows and other places.
But nobody minded, they were proud to have their win-
dows broken by Victor Trumper. Thirty-nine strokes
brought four each, and the afternoon saw him make the
record individual score for Sydney cricket. Every time
Trumper opened his shoulders crowds ducked their
heads ; and the conduct of the spectators and the fields-
men all went to prove that Sydney takes champions far
too seriously. The mana of Achilles was a miserable
thing compared to that of a champion of any sort in
modern Sydney.
* • • •
Lord Hawke’s team has not found opponents
worthy of its willow in Maoriland, where opposing teams
of anything, between 11 and 22 have been beaten by
wickets and innings. Said that the team is itching to
measure its strength against Cornstalk and Victorian
teams and is threatening many centuries, but if the
measuring takes place the Hawkes will find a vast differ-
ence between Maoriland and Australian cricket.
• • * •
Melbourne press and public have been com-
plaining lately of the deadly dullness of cricket, but if
they went out countrywards they would find the “ grand
old game” played with quite sufficient liveliness and
spirit. On a recent Saturday, Cathcart and Salt Creek
met for a friendly game, but before the finish, players,
bats, stumps, fists, ball, black eyes and spectators had
become hopelessly mixed in a wild and woolly rough-and-
tumble. Country cricketers are suggesting the advis-
ability of having a new rule to the effect that all players
who do not feel equal to a “ scrap ” might be allowed to
leave the field under the protection of a white flag when
the game begins to get too willin’.
• • • *
Inter-State cricket-match concluded last week
was the 70th played between Vic. and N.S.W. Victoria
has now a lead of but four games, the last few seasons
seeing the mother State steadily gaining. Unless the
Vies, can unearth a bowler to keep Trumper and Duff
quiet, N.S.W. will soon be in the lead again, a position
not held by her for 25 years.
* • * *
For Petersham Wyrallah against Glenroy, at
Norwood Park, Sydney, Saturday, T. Brown bagged 10
wickets for 1 run, the result of an overthrow. Eight
were clean bowled, one caught, and one l.b.w. Alto-
gether, same afternoon, same man secured 16 for 10, and
did the hat trick in each innings.
• • * •
N.S.W.’s unbroken record of victories in con-
tests for the Sheffield Shield for 1902-3 was gained, as tar
as batting was concerned, by three men—Duff, Noble and
Trumper. In the four inter-State matches the dozen
N.S.W. reps, totalled 1955 runs, of which the trio scored
583, 343, and 393. Duff’s average was 73. Howell
headed the bowling with an average of 17.
• * * •
N.S.W. stumper J. J. Kelly is easily the boss
of his section of the game. Against Vic. last week he
was very smart, only 14 sundries, including two no
balls, being scored in totals of 207 and 427. Vic.
wicket-keeper Hastings had 58 sundries (including six no-
balls) in totals of 367 and 269. Kelly stumps with auto
matic regularity, and very, very rarely lets an oppor-
tunity slip.
• • * m
“G. A. Y.”: What an extraordinary hold cricket
has upon the Australian community? Even dogs play
cricket —fact—for do we not hear of greyhounds “ run-
ning a bye ? ” Boozers, too, play cricket. I have knowh
a “ beer-chewer” to waltz into a pub. and start running
up “ a big score,” until the landlord “ran him out”;
then a policeman ran him in, and, as he couldn’t find his
“ bails,” he had a good innings for three months. Also
it’s common for the captain of a “ Monkey Park Eleven ”
(age about 9) to bounce into the local tobacconist’s for
“ a penn’orth of cigarettes, and would yer mind putting
the team in yer winder.” Writer once witnessed a
match between a team calling themselves “ The Indepen-
dents ” (independent whether they worked or not) and
another hailing from a well-known brewery. Latter
turned upon a lorry, with tjie usual barrel of squirt on
board. Independents won the toss, grabbed their panni-
kins, and started batting on a “ wet wicket.” The
wicketkeeper was simply marvellous 1 ; he “never let a
beer pass him ” all day. And, as for the fielders, they
couldn t stop a tram, let alone a ball. One bowler did
the “ hat trick.” He took it around the crowd and col-
lected three “ bob.” Independents scored over 100 runs
on the barrel! Captain wanted to “ follow on,” but the
brewery team “ weren’t having any.” Match ended in a
win for Independents by three gallons.
• • • •
Query—how long is it since batsman Trumper,
before Vic.-N.S.W. fixture last week, failed to score in an
innings ?
• • • •
In a recent Vic. cricket match between Tray-
nor’s Lagoon and Banyena clubs, P. D. Cunningham
playing for the former, hit a ball close upon 300yds., and
the batsmen ran 9 without an overthrow.
• • • •
Chinaman’s luck! Chinese succeed so frequently
in carrying off substantial prizes in Adams’ sweeps, that
several white speculators recently Chinesed their names
when sending for tickets.
* * • .
Melbourne papers record a plucky attempt by a
young bookmaker to save a drowning lad at Black Rock
last week. But the bookmaker’s name was not Abrahams
Isaacs, Jacobs, or Moses. It was Moriarty !
* • • t
What a lot of sporting people there are in S. A.
named Hill. Another of them has just been shooting
rather well. At the Adelaide Smallbore Rifle Club
Arthur of that ilk, with a -22 calibre “ long rifle,” rim-fire
cartridge, at 50yds. scored 48; at 100yds. the possible 50 •
and at 200yds. 49; a total of 147 out of a possible 150
points.
• * » •
“Nym.”: In an account (recently printed in
the Australasian) of a fishing-excursion to Water Re-
serve No. 101, Edwards River, 45 miles from Deniliquin
the writer states that, using light fly rods and tackle, and
red and copper “ spoons" about 2in. long, in one day he
and another landed 17 perch up to 3£lb., and 25 cod up to
151bs. ; total weight 1261b5. ; and next day caught 54 fish
totalling 1621b5.; giving for two days a total of 2881bs
all taken by spinning from the bank. I have fished the
Murray, Ovens, King, and Campaspe since boyhood, and
have never yet hooked a cod on an artificial bait—frog
shrimp, or red-rag. The golden perch is the only fish that
I have known to dart at a moving bait. The cod only
shows his ferocity in this respect when a small live fish is
being slowly drawn to land. I am inclined to look upon the
“ spoon ’’ business as a page from “ Anglers’ Tales,” and
would like to know if any Bulletin fish-liars have used
“ spoons ” with success. If the Australasian writer’s
tatements are true, then half the trouble of angling is
gone, for the scarcity of bait when fish are “ on the bite ”
is proverbial. I have had my piscatorial leg pulled so
often that I’m very sceptical.
* * • *
The line of least resistance. A prad named
lachimo by his owner was promptly rechristened “ Ikey
Mo ” by the hook-nosed on the occasion of his first race-
course appearance.
• * • •
A tale of the Major Taylor cycling carnival as
told byone of the competitors:—“l felt that I could
easily win the event, but, when I tried to get out, I found
I was pocketed, couldn’t get an opening anywhere. The
prize was £lO, and I said to one of the men stopping me,
‘ Say, let us out and I’ll give yer two quid.’ ‘ No,’
he said, very short. 1 Well, take us along a bit,’ I asked.
‘ No,’ he said. I didn’t win—couldn’t. I found after-
wards that they were all in it to keep me blocked.” This
is published for the benefit of donkeys who bet on cycling
races.
• * • *
Motor-cycle racing is not likely to be popular
with the public. The speed attained by the noisy
machine, whereon the rider sits like an amateur jock, on
a bolting horse, is certainly terrific ; but there is no final
“ kick,” no “ lifting over the line ” by inches as with the
man-pushed bike. The average crowd likes to see muscle
bursting itself in a hard finish. The knowledge that
the attainment of more speed is only a matter of turning
a handle takes away most of the interest.
* * • •
“ Tyred ” : Was induced (by the advt.) to go to
Melb. Exhibition Oval, last Saturday afternoon, to see
“ The greatest, most interesting, absorbing, exciting,
electrifying cycling matches ever submitted to sporting
patrons in Victoria.” It was a M.B.C. entertainment.
The third item on the programme was about to begin,
and the notice-board announced that the “ match ’’would
go a distance of 40 laps. O ! the excitement of that
match ! A man started to travel round the track on what
appeared to be a motor bicycle, having its motive-power
stored in a tin arrangement resembling a miniature
baked-potato can. He didn’t work the treadles—just sat
on the saddle, in a crouching position, and steered the
feeble vehicle round the track. As a slow-going motor,
this was probably unique. When the man had pursued
his lonely career for some minutes, another man on a faster
motor commenced to run rings round him. Motor No. 2,
however, was a short-lived joy. As soon as a third vehicle,
the fastest of the three, started its 40-lap journey, with a
man perched upon its saddle, the No. 2 motor struck work.
Many vain attempts were made to restore animation to
this unhappy machine. An M. 8.0. official, in frockcoat and
belltopper (temperature, 105 in the shade) tried to urge
the reluctant No. 2 motor to a sense of duty by pushing
it from the rear. Other willing workers came from the
centre of the arena and contributed their respective
shoves to the lost cause, but No. 2 had seemingly burst
its boiler and could race no more. So it retired from the
match. Meanwhile, the potato-can motorist continued
on the even tenor of his way like a well-regulated funeral.
He rode a strictly inside track, whilst No. 3 motorist, the
lightning-speeder of the occasion, passed him again and
again. The notice board recorded the laps as they were
travelled. 30 more to go—2o to go—lo to go. Still the
absurd potato-can person plodded on. Heaven knows
how many laps he covered. He didn’t appear to win the
blessed match. When No. 3 man had put in 40circuits of
the course a pistol went off, and the limited crowd
cheered him as though he had done something to be
proud of in sitting quietly on his cycle. Then came the
Great Event of the afternoon—Major Taylor v. T. Robl
a 10-laps “ race,” paced by motor cycles, with two riders
on each pacer. About 20 minutes were wasted whilst
the Australian riders of Taylor’s motor-pacer tried to
understand how they were going to make a satisfactory
race against Robl and his expert German pacers. Finally
the pistol was fired, and the Robl trio went right away
from the Taylor party. The procession did not present
the semblance of a real race. Robl’s pioneers simply
showed the way to Taylor’s pioneers, and there was an
end of the “ match.” The idea of submitting stuff like
that to “ sporting patrons! ” Where was the sport ? In
the race between the two double-manned motors, Taylor
and Robl didn’t race against one another as horses, peds
oarsmen and swimmers race. They followed pace. Each
was the tail-piece of a machine, and Robl proved to be the
more expert tail-piece of a machine that outpaced Taylor’s
machine. The darkie seemed to be working harder
with his legs than the other fellow, hut his extra exertion
had no influence upon the motor to which he was allied
Truly an absurd sport is the modern pace-following
competition. Why do a couple of champion cyclists want
motors to assist them in a “ test ” of speed, endurance and
courage (which is something different from mechanical
staying power) over a two-mile course ? They might start
level with one another on opposite sides of the track
their heads turned in opposite directions, and race
like men “on their own.” Each would be chasing
the other at a distance of half-a-lap from the
outset, and the champion who passed the other or
finished within a shorter distance than half-a-lap of
his hind wheel would be declared victor in the sight of
Heaven and the crowd. This is obviously the right way
of deciding the relative merits of two cyclists on a circu-
lar track. And, presuming that bicycle tracks were
straight— a straight mile, or a straight 10 miles with
parallel hnes of railings running the full length of the
track to keep the competitors apart, so that nobody could
hang on to anybody else’s wheel—given those ideal
conditions for a contest—would anybody out of a lunatic
asylum propose to introduce pacing machines into the
contest:
* * * •
Foreign pace - following cyclists, Robl and
Diekentman, upset all local traditions by discarding-
massage wholly. While the Australian cyclist spend!
much time being rubbed down by a horny-handed
trainer, Robl and Diekentman simply take a bath
put on their clothes and start to smoke their wav
through several boxes of cigarettes daily
* * * •
N.S.W League of Wheelman has just about
a «?-"l e< ? ~z enlth - Altogether there are 71 clubs
affiliated, with a membership of nearly 10,000—which is
something to beam over. The recent carnival drew an
aggregate attendance of 250,000 people at 12 meetimrs
which is the N.S.W record. Still all this popularity will
fade awaj and die unless the racing is kept clean
and racing can only be kept clean by politely but
firmly standing the bookmaker on his neck outside the
ground immediately he opens his mouth.
* * * .
Bob Turner and Tim Hegarty saw 2000 faces
extending right up against the ceiling at Sydney
C . lu , b , tosee fchem decide which
owned the lightweight supremacy of Australia. Both
were in superb trim, and they scaled 9st, 3-Mbs. each
Turner sans everything, and Hegarty wearing screens and
boxing boots. Turner was prime favorite, and money
was laid at 6 to 4 on at first, and then two, and once even
f Xt W rn Sa £°° d 4 ussle ’ to ugh and fast from go, till
! , f °i' rth ro , u / ld ’ Hearty fell limp as a dead snake ’
but he dragged himself up, and in the next round was’
strong as ever. Turner was decorated with a splits
and a, cut and a lump under the left orb. In the llth
round his remaining lines of beauty were badly bashed by
a heavy left and while his teeth rattled like castanets he
tZt Ltn' n- rm 4 hrou * h the whirling stars
that flashed before him and Rfsgarty went down prone
and neglected to rise again. Up to the knock on? ???
points had been in the vanquished man’s favor? 6th
m^! th T Ughb ? aten ’ He ? art y f ought the best fightof
h.s life. Turner’s apparent insensibility to punishment was
the secret of his success, although he certainly operated
more than usual with the right, which he usually keeps
glued over his left jaw to protect the point; and Hegartv
landed him on the unprotected part again and again, but
could make no impression. The knock-out blow was
reminiscent of old time middleweight Jim Fogarty, who
in similar fashion, broke Charlie Dunn’s jaw twice and
Tom Taylor’s once. It is a case of bring the right hook
across the body when the opponent is close in.
• • » •
Sydney Gaiety A.C. saw a wondrous scrap last
week when Black Barnes and Newcastle Bill Smith, both
heavyweights, rolled round the floor in one another’s
arms and hit out wildly and anyhow when they did
occasionally get right end uppermost. Twice Barnes was
floored by vicious uppercuts, which landed where they
brand cattle, and sent head first across the ring. The end
came through Smith falling upon Barnes who was resting
on his hands and knees, and flattening him out so that he
was counted out before he could rise.
• * • *
What a forefront bruiser earns. Dan Creedon,
back again after ten years in America and England, tells
that the biggest purse he ever fought for was 12,000d015.
and, though then beaten by “ Kid ” M‘Coy in 16 rounds’
he got half the prize. Twice in one week at Chicago he
met the “ Barbadoes Terror,” black Joe Walcot (gorilla-
like in build and appearance), for a purse of 4000d015.,
and whacked the money each time. After winning the
British heavy-weight championship by defeating Jem
Smith he travelled with a big circus, and was paid £l6O
weekly for two or three months, then £B5 and £7s—these
latter amounts while showing at music-halls.
• • * *
Pug. match at Sydney Gaiety A.C. on Monday
night between welterweights American Jack Grace and
Australian George Johns, weighing 9.2£ and 9.2 J respec-
tively, saw the hall densely packed everywhere. Johns,
deeply sun-tanned all over, stood higher and had greater
length of limb than his pallid, shorter, but more heavily,
constructed adversary. From 2to 1 betting went to 6to
1 on Johns. Grace was never in it once. For three
rounds Johns literally punched him anywhere and every-
where, sending home very heavy blows. Grace would
rise dazed and staggering, to be floored again and come
up in the same condition. This went on till the middle
of the third round. The amount of punishment the
’Murkan took was enormous. Ultimately, while Grace
still rocked and sagged, and looked vacant, the referee
gave Johns the verdict.
• • • *
Pigeon shooter Neild, who, through sheer in-
ability to recognise the ridiculous, calls himself “Locks-
ley,” showed up well in the Berrima (N.S.W.) shoot, the
other day, dropping 56 straight from the 31 yards’ mark
and scoring 35 first-barrel kills. Another exceptional
feat was that of Fonville. The Yass shooter’s sequence of
56 sparrows were all cleanly shot without the semblance
of a fluke.
• • • •
Footscray regatta, formerly one of Victoria’s
leading rowing fixtures, was revived last Saturday after
an interval of 20 years. Among those who witnessed the
show were Mr. George Upward, “father of Australian
rowing,” who stroked a senior four to victory the last
time the regatta was held. Mr. Upward is a man to
whom rowing has been a factor of success in life. Had
Fate fixed him in an inland town, instead of in Geelong, he
would not ush with the black rod in the Senate to-day.
The oldest performer in Vic. waters now is AlecChamley,
who has been rowing for nearly a score of years, and who
was in the winning senior pair at Footscray. He has
rowed in more inter-State races than any other two men.
His peculiarity is that he is a bow-sid‘e oar and never
show's to advantage on the stroke side. In Vic., unlike
N.S.W., the stroke oars are to the right of the oarsman.
• • * *
Printed in South Australian papers that local
swimmer, Moon, if he beats Cavill, will go to England
with a view to swimming the Channel. This certainly
looks like a bad case of counting the chickens. Moon
hasn’t the calibre fer the Channel swim.
* * • •
The 220yds. championships of Victoria and
N.S.W. will both be decided Saturda}'next. Difference
between respective winners’ times will be interesting.
Victoria’s fastest 100 of late years is somewhere about
1.12, while N.S.W.’s best, accomplished this season, is
59sec. The extent of the Vic. slump is illustrated by the
fact that 20 years ago Walter M’lndoe, the then champion,
did it in 1.5.
Victoria had a furious heat spell on
Saturday and Sunday, Melbourne shade tem-
perature going up to 105, and the whole State
frizzling under 100 or more. A curiosity of the
great Australian climate is that Melbourne and
Adelaide, though nearly 1000 miles further from
the Equator than Brisbane, can beat the northern
city easily in a heat-wave competition.
Mr. J. S. Evison, a journalist well known in
Australia and Maoriland, and whose tales, chiefly
of Oriental soldier-life, have attracted much atten-
tion in a wide circle, has been stricken by internal
cancer, and now lies bravely awaiting the end at
his home at Bondi, Sydney. Mr. Evison’s slender
resources have been quite exhausted by his hope-
less illness, and it now behoves his friends to bear
a hand in alleviating the suffering of his last days.
Any subscriptions which may reach The Bulletin
office will be thankfully acknowledged.


ICE!
ICE!
ICE!
ee« a Refrigerator, and use Ice?
Si?” aI A Food in good coni
able ”/ the distressing Heat bear-
• b1 *- <«m e /y me of /ce often saues Ufe
i* atl ® / rom distilled water- 5
d as clear as crystal. <|> <|>
~Swiy b °— *> -*•
agencies. SEND FOR A*Pr!ce^iw
6%a
N.S.W. Fresh Food <a Ice Co. Ltd.
Sydney
The lassey-Harris
Open
Saturday
Afternoon.
S« d q Si«Tlnd?"e P 4th. ” ith th °“ '■»>. *> gain a low price,
expense, or experience is grudged to nrodn™ oL, t * w ° r . ld > and no labor,
reason of its great popularity; P Ce a perfect “achine. This is the
Call and see our New Models.
CANADA CYCLE & HOTOR CO., Ltd
Br “ Ch ' S Enry S, “'- 357 GEORGE ST.! SYDNEY.
Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER
YOU GET THE BEST VALUE FOR YOUR
BUY A
MONEY WHEN YOU
REMINGTON
Double-Barrel . .
Hammerless Gun.
Thoroughly Guaranteed.
Kept n stock by the Largest Gun Stores in Melbourne and Sydney.
Remington Arms Company,
Head Office; 315 BROADWAY, NEW YORK, U.S A
REMINGTON GUNS, £5 ios. to £is
REMINGTON RIFLES, 23 6 post free
McLEAN BROS. & RICC, Ltd., 107 Elizabeth-St., Melbourne.
A NIB,
A BOTTLE OF INK,
A SHEET OF PAPER and
A PEN CARBON BOOK
makes a complete outfit with
which any
MAN,
WOMAN OR
CHILD
can write a letter, and at the same
time make an exact copy without
leaving- the slightest sign ot copy-
ing on the original.
z
„„„ Ik. kee P 8 a duplicate of bills you send out, of orders, receipts, bank checks. It leaves no vajrue
uncertain mark, but a tracing that is often clearer than the original.
indi8 P utable'record'. lnony there . Can be no appeal - K wiU Bave house « family much money by its
There is no man or woman, professional or not, who would not at some time or other find
THE PEN CARBON LETTER BOOK
For fullest particulars, price, etc., write to the sole A and Valued Friend -
Agent j for Australasia : E. RICH & CO. LTD., Sydney brisbanb
Ihb Bulletin Reciter has been taken by
Bill and Jim straight to their warm hearts, and
already its contents have gladdened thousands of
audiences all over Australia. Most of the best
and most famous Bulletin recitation-pieces are
included in this fine collection—price Cs. post-
fiee from Bulletin office.
a
u
J? erson who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
, Allis’ King Street Coffee Palace,”
. lef at 50 and near the General Post
m ' fc - Proprietor—GEO. IF. ELLIS.
riIHE BALLARAT SCHOOL OF MINES
A will re-open on the 10th FEBRUARY.
FRED. J. MARTELL,
DIBEOTOB.
SNARPSHOOTINg
For Sport and War.
By W. W. GREENER.
HITS THE MARK I
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, 1/. nett.*
Posted, 1/2.
The best 1/- worth ever Published.
|F you wish to get good work and value
■ you should purchase W. W. GREENER’S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to—
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne
(Greener’s Representative).
JIOR NIGH A CENTURY
WILLIAMS’ BARBERS’ BAR
has been the FAITHFUL FRIEND of the
TONSORIAL ARTIST.
TO-DAY, The Potent Phrase, “THIS SHOP USES ONLY
WILLIAMS'!” is a Sure PASSPORT TO PUBLIC FAVOR.
Send a Penny Stamp for Williams’ Changing Face
Puzzle. Can you explain it? J. B. WILLIAMS CO
Glastonbury, Conn., U.S.A. ; and 232 Clarence-st., Sydney
Croydon, a flourishing mining town in
N.Q., wants a School of Arts, and the local autho-
rities are writing to Carnegie, soliciting his assist-
ance. Just, fancy a mining town of Croydon’s
importance having to cadge funds to start a School
°' A?*? ! . A more striking instance of the want
ot initiative and self-reliance on the part of our
great loan-fed population it would be hard to
find.
The Arkansas mixture sold by Mick Simmons
possesses qualities over and above those of any other
tobacco. No mixture ever put upon the market has
caught on as Arkansas has done, and when once a
smoker has enjoyed it, he tells all his friends that
Arkansas is the best smoke in the world.*
The bright man who would be always at
his brightest, needs to pay particular attention to
the brand upon the bottle. Great enterprises
have been utterly ruined by two or three nips of
the whisky that inebriates but does not cheer,
lhe man who has once tried D.C.L. never falters
m his aHegiance. Its title of “The Whisky of
the Wise is now a household phrase, approved
by thousands of keen business men and clever
poets. A bad deal or a dull verse has never been
transacted on D.C.L.•
How liable to tarnish is the financial credit
of the See Govt. ! February 1 fell on a Sunday,
so the See Govt, had to pay either on Saturday
Jan. 31, or Monday, Feb. 2. The banks and the
pay branches of the service alike strongly object
to paying on a Saturday ; so on Thursday it was
announced that no salaries would be paid till
Monday. On Friday somebody wrote to Sydney
D.l. and gloomily hinted that the Govt, had no
money, and that putting off paying until Monday
would, m some mysterious manner, save their
bacon. At once Treasurer Waddell waxed indig-
" a A t A t “L® monstrous imputation, and announced
that the Govt, would pay on Saturday. The man
who wrote to the D.T. then winked joyfully. He
had drawn his badger. J
Vic. ex-Premier Peacock’s “ luck ” sticks
to . mm. A week after his apparent political
suicide in getting defeated for the Senate, his
mistake was forgotten in the hubbub raised by
the charges of “dummying” made against Lands
Minister MKenzie. If these accusations lead to
f .xl? 16 -'? downfall, it will be another instance
ot the bmiler’s luck, as the total disruption of the
Iceberg Govt, will surely follow, and the ap-
parently hopeless Opposition leader will bob up
again, if he plays his cards properly. But
x eacock has of late been a very indefinite sort of
person—out of sorts with some of his own party
openly defiant of the Labor corner, and danger-
ously disinclined to criticise the other side. It
has been rumored that he was likely to become a
cage-mate of Shiels the Haven, but his proverbial
luck may save him from that folly.
The Irvine Govt. (Vic.) has only been in
office six months, and has already achieved the
following record of scandals, or alleged scan-
mu ’’ ,lV can ? ing on the work of “reform”:
lhe MKenzie alleged “dummying” case, the
Waranga basin business (special advantages were
scored by a contractor with influence), the ap-
pointment of five of Mr. Tom Bent’s friends as
railway scouts, and the suggestion that Mr.
Robert Reid should draw two salaries. A sug-
gestion to purchase a useless private line to an
idle sugar-mill was just bowled out in time. The
tame Peacock Ministry was in office nearly two
y ears without any such things occurring. “Re-
form is a banner under which peculiar enter-
prises can be carried out.
From a description of the effects of
salicylic acid (with which Australian beer is so
often 1 ‘ preserved ”) on the human organism :—
Human beings showed, after poisonous doses, vomit-
mg, unconsciousness, delirium, slow and gasping respir-
ation, acute deafness, dysphagia and fall of temperature,
irregular pulse, as well as anaesthesia of the feet.
That characteristic effect of the acid—numbing
and rendering useless the feet—perhaps partly
explains the drunk who “goes in the legs” after
over-free use of doctored beer.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It dri\ es away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
The career of a 14-year-old Victorian boy,
named Tattersall, should be worth watching. This
festive youth, after graduating at a reformatory,
got a billet on a station at Rosedale (Vic.), where,
in due course, he stole some jewellery belonging
to the manager's wife. The theft having been
discovered the resourceful culprit went to the
gardener and made inquiries re the nature of cer-
tain dirty salt-like stuff ” which was kept in the
tool-house and used for killing weeds. The gar-
dener told the boy not to touch the stuff as it was
‘rank poison.” Thereupon he secretly took a
pinch of the rank poison and put it into the family
‘for a lark,” he says—and the manager
and his wife and the governess were taken ill
after drinking, their coffee. Fortunately they
vomited the poison. The medical evidence showed
that the all-round dose “ would have proved fatal
had it been on empty stomachs.” Clearly
the boy’s “lark” was intended to stop further
inquiry into the jewellery theft by silencing
the inquirers for evermore. Last week young
Hopeful came before Judge A’Beckett for
sentence on the. two charges proved against
mm he had, in fact, confessed to both
the robbery and the poisoning “lark”—and his
Honor committed prisoner to the care of a san-
guine philanthropist who gave him a good charac-
ter as “a Try Excelsior boy” in the past, and un-
dertook to look after him in the future. One
naturally hopes that the moral influence of the
Try Excelsior gentleman will be more efficacious
than the Reformatory training. But the question
arises as to whether it will be a fair thing to
place this bright boy in another billet without
putting his employer on his guard. What is the
best thin? to do with a peculative poisoner of
tender years ?
By Special
Appointment.
G. H. SMITH and SON,
TROPICAL HELMET
with special air-space,
in white drill, <kc. and
in all colors in felt.
10/6 and 12 6
Mat and Cap Manufacturers
and Importers,
302 George-st. Sydney
Sombrero Soft Felt Hats,
All Shades and Sizes.
Soft Felt Hombergs.
In all Sizes and Colors.
Straw Hats. Stetson Hats.
Polo Caps, Military and Naval
Caps, Livery Hats, Clerical Silk
Hats, Etc., Made to Order
m
i
2
Do
You
Understand
the advantages of fitting our DUNLOP-XELLY
Solid
Rubber
CARRIAGE
to your Buggy, Dogcart, or Brougham ?
They stop all noise and vibration,
Double the life of your vehicle,
and render driving a luxury.
Fitted to new or second-hand wheels, from £4 13s. 6d. per set
and upwards.
Illustrated Catalogue and Price List
posted upon receipt of your name and
address, at
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Aus., Ltd.,
150 Clare Sydney.
And at
Melbourne Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane and Christchurch N.Z.


O
o
jttee ymo
STILL
ymo
Are you Saving the Photos ?
For every hundred forwarded to us we will give (or post free) a HANDSOME CLOTH-BOUND ALBUM made especially to contain
the Photographs. It will be well worth your while to have one.
OGDENS, LIMITED, 45 YORK STREET, SYDNEY,
Samuel Davenport, who still lives in
S. Australia, though now exceedingly feeble, was
one of the first trustees of the Savings Bank, 53
years ago. All the other eleven are dead. The
old doctor produces on his estate the most
deliciously delicate olive oil which you can buy
for money. It is as well to know this in a country
where 999-thousandths of the “Lucca” used is
shamelessly adulterated with cotton-seed oil.
Letter published in all innocence by the
painfully-respectable Christchurch (M.L.) Press :
Can you suggest any means by which women and girls,
who walk out in the streets in search of adventure, might
be readily distinguished from quietly dressed ladies. It
seems very hard that a lady of over 30, coming up by the
express, and wishing to stretch her legs, should not be
able to walk home without being accosted by a gentle-
manly man, who, on perceiving his blunder, at once
raised his hat and slunk away. I should be the last to
interfere with personal liberty, but would it not be
possible for those of both sexes, who enjoy roaming the
streets in search of adventure, to establish some sort of
Masonic sign, or could not certain streets be given over
to them after 8 o’clock. —A PERPLEXED MOTHER.
The same ingenuous paper, a while ago, in the
midst of a fierce rumpus arising out of the alleged
collusion between doctors and chemists, solemnly
printed a letter from “ Servant-girl ” complaining
that a chemist charged her twice the Australian
advertised price for a certain Neo-Malthusian
species of pills. The guileless Press made the letter
the text of a virtuously indignant leader upon the
robbery and roguery of the chemist in putting a
prohibitive price upon “medicines that should be
within the reach of even the poorest of the
community.”
Harry Morant and his sorry fate, told of
in “Bushman and Buccaneer” (now in its second
edition). The history of the Breaker and his
verses and letters, including photo, reproduction
of the Pietersburg gaol MS. Price one shilling.
Booksellers and Bulletin office (post free Is. Id.)
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-t
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURD YOU. 1 don’t say perhaps ; but 1 WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not how being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT'S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, l/ljd. per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents : iYILLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for trade mark of the Grasshopper on •
green label on tach box. (Regd. copyright).
JOYFUL NEWS
/
s
\
Is
S
//
For WEAK MEN.
For men whose bodies are racked with pain, and whose
minds are tortured by the realisation of the loss of
youthful vigor; men whose physical force is being
destroyed by Rheumatism, Lumbago, Weak Back or
Kidneys, Nervousness, Liver, Bladder or Stomach
Troubles. Are you a man of this class? If so, you must know that
what has restored the joy of life to thousands of other men must be
a blessing to you. The Dr. Austin Electric Belt gives a soothing,
warm, strengthening and delightful current of Electricity into the
affected parts, thereby effecting a practical, certain and speedy
cure. We are so positive of the tremendous therapeutic properties
of this wonderful Belt that we will send it, with all attachments
complete, to any person writing us, and you can wear it for
90 days, and
PAY ONLY WHEN CURED.
SPECIAL NOTICE. —If you have a Belt which has failed, or
burns and blisters, or uses vinegar, I will allow you for it in exchange
for mine.
CALL TO-DAY and test Belt free. No charge for consultation.
FREE BOOK. —If you cannot call, write for my beautifully-
illustrated Medical Book, which every adult should read; sent
sealed, free. Write to-day.
The Dr. J. H. Austin Electric Co.
39 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
WEAK, NERVOUS MEN, WHY SUFFER
WHEN you can be quickly and permanently cured bv taking Herr Rassmussen's ALFALINE Vitality Pills which have cured so many
thousand sufferers from DEBILITY, POOR MEMORY, WEAK SPINE, DESPONDENCY, and all which robs Manhood of that which
is dearest to it—Vital Strength. Herr Rassmussen will guarantee this remedy to cure every case, no matter of how long standing, and he will
give his skilled advice personally to all patrons of his remedies FREE OF CHARGE, either in his offices or by post. So don’t despair, but
communicate with him without delay, no matter where you live. Treatment by Post a Speciality. Pamphlet sent Free.
ALF ALINE VITALITY PILLS. Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d., posted.
Blood and Skin Diseases
Blood Disorders, Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, Stone in the Bladder, and Blood
Impurities guaranteed to be removed and permanently cured by
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS. Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d. posted.
Anaemic Women
suffering from Wasting Diseases, Pale, Lifeless, and otherwise affected, should at once communicate
RASSMUSSEN. His lifelong experience is at their service, and his
with
HERR
ALF ALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS ’"■U cure them. Boxes, 6s; Course's, 235. 6d.
LIVER and KIDNEY TROUBLES cured at once by the ALFALINE LIVER and KIDNEY PILLS, Boxes is.
His RHEUMATIC PILLS are World-famed, and his PILE POWDERS never fail ; 6s. per box each.
The ALFALINE REMEDIES oan only beobtained from ... f* A |*9 j ■■
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office— IrCOFg'G St., Sydney,
AND HIS BRANCHES AS FOLLOW-
HERR RASSMUSSEN
will guarantee to cure Nervous Weak-
ness, Blood Diseases, Piles, Rheuma-
tism, Corpulency, Liver and Kidney
Troubles. He will send his Book Free.
All correspondence will be held
confidential.
BRISBANE: 309 Queen St.
MELBOURNE = 150 Bourke St.
ADELAIDE: 15 Pulteney St.
N Z.: 91 Lambton Quay, Wellington.
W.A., PERTH i 481 Hay St.
KALGOORLIE: 111 Hannan St.
FREMANTLE: 117 High St
BOULDER CITY: Piesse St.


Headaches
Banished
. . BY . .
Chamberlain’s
Stomach and
Liver Tablets
Price, 1/6. JUST WHAT YOU NEED.
Headache is most often caused by con-
stipation or a torpidity of the liver. When
the bowels are constipated the poisons in the
excreta are absorbed into the system and
cause headache. When the liver is torpid
and fails to perform its functions, the bile is
absorbed into the blood resulting in head-
ache and often in a derangement of the
whole system. Two of Chamberlain’s
Stomach and Liver Tablets taken im-
mediately after supper will correct the dis-
orders of the liver and move the bowels.
This should be followed by one tablet each
day until the bowels become regular.
Sick Headache arises from a disordered
condition of the stomach and a torpid liver.
Take two of Chamberlain’s Stomach and
Liver Tablets; they will cleanse the
stomach and tone up the liver to a healthy
action. Those who are subject to such
attacks usually feel dull, have little or no
appetite, and are constipated the day before
the attack comes on. In such cases the
attack may be warded off by taking three
tablets as soon as these symptoms appear.
NOTE.—It not able to obtain Chamber*
lain’s Stomach and Liver Tablets locally,
a package will be sent, post paid, upon re-
ceipt of 1/6, or six packets for 8/., by
addressing Chamberlain Medicine Co., 64
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. 122
The Australian Sailorman s 800k —
E. J. BRADY’S
“Cbe Ways of many Wafers.”
A rattling collection of Sea Chanties. Price
6a. 3d. post free from Tub Bulletin office.
Some more devices for squaring the Victorian
public ledger:—
The Argus in its terrible dread of taxation, realising
that something heroic has to be done, has started a series
of papers on “ How the Money Goes ; Hints to Re-
formers.” Taking the first as a sample, it attacks almost
every bit of humane and economic legislation the 48 Rich
Landlords have allowed to pass. It has the beautiful
Christian stand-off title, “ Other People’s Children,” and
shows how the State can save £72,466 a year by boiling
down or making good manure of 5655 neglected children
Fatman doesn’t see in the 5655 neglected children any-
thing but a curse and a worry ; his small soul can’t grasp
the fact that 5655 neglected children, grown to 5655 res-
pectable citizens, are a better asset than 5655 criminals
and loafers, and that the £l2 spent per neglected child
per annum is a good investment all the time. It
is a wretched, mean, sordid, trumpery idea, this
unprincipled grab of charity moneys’ to square
the accounts, making the country’s weakest always the
first to suffer if there is any shortage ; and the proposal
to abandon the neglected children and destroy for ever
their chance of being anything decent, is about the
meanest. Writer knows of a miserable family—father
and mother both drunkards, generally one in and one out
of gaol. The children subsist somehow and that’s all ;
according to the local police they are growing up about
as vicious and depraved as possible. The force can
do nothing unless the children are sleeping out,
otherwise the father is supposed to be keeping a roof
over them. One night one of the waifs was captured,
committed as a vagrant, and boarded out with others
on a farm, where he is being educated and turned into a
respectable human being. His parents do their best to
find out where he is, because he pretty well kept them
with his petty pilfering, but the Government takes care
they won’t, and the police are lying in wait to get hold of
the rest of the family. An institution that does an
immense amount of good, like this system of State ward-
ship, requires to be liberally managed, not skimped and
starved and shorn of half its usefulness just to save
such as Cornelius Job Ham, M.L.0., paying land-tax
on their Melborurne properties.
DRYSDALE'S ANTIBILIOUS PILLS
for biliousness, indigestion, headache, loss of appetite,
giddiness, &c., are prescribed by physicians of the highest
standing, who acknowledge their thorough efficiency in
all cases. 1/1 per box, post paid. F. J. Timbury,
chemist, Petrie’s Bight, Brisbane.*
PAIN IN THE BACK, GOUT.
EIGHTEEN YEARS’ SUFFERING.
WHAT WAS THE CAUSE ?
to 'iirffftr Place, North Richmond, Vic., says :—“Twenty years ago I began
bourne th k ba ° k ' j 1 conaultf ? d several of the most eminent doctors in Mel-
went to d luh I u h d ]“ mba K°. and gave me liniment to rub on it, but it did me no good. L
£oyed and K? m r ing ’ Uri , ne ’ Baid that the tissues of my kidneys were des-
wm thrown hv fh?a Ji ld J P 7 T- but a / ortl ? lßht to hve - You can tell the state of alarm into which I
no“nced mv tlnnwl / K d \ lm ™ edlate ?y consulted another doctor, and he, to my relief, pro-
For eighteen veari l w b<3 He treated me, but Ins treatment did me no good.
insLuct ons thev l l vr^A Und^ r ,n rS . ° n ? doct °V' and then another, and faithfully carried out all the
excrutiatine' min g A yJ?! T d the treatment they prescribed, but still I obtained no relief from the
UD consul ag °} n des P air > and in my desperation I determined to give
to my own beino- onror) hi if fca^ e Warner s faafe Cure, as I had heard and read of many similar cases
Dain and ache fmm ur i, j^® r ta ]P? g the first dose I got relief from the pain. In two days the
take the medicine for Jm ..^ ad s V^ ere d for eighteen years had entirely disappeared. I continued to
have a ri son ?e little tune, and can sincerely declare that it has absolutely cured me, as I
gill but sfnee tak t 9 I P T/°^ tw Ve arS - 1 used also to suffer a « reat deal from attacks of
gout, Out since taking Warner s Safe Cure I have not been troubled in this way either.”
IT WAS URIC ACID POISONING.
manner 0 th ® bI T I il ? B . te u a^ T ° f h*™* expelled from the system in a natural
maimer, it was one of the many signs by which Nature indicates
KIDNEY DISEASE.
body by the continuous rWif uno acid and other urinary poisons, manufactured in the
there is anv vu.t-l fh tl ® su ® s > are naturally removed. The moment, however, that
we feel the effeef hv « *' 6 actmnof'the kidneys, these poisons accumulate in the system, and
Anamia Br£ht-« y nl±"“ g 1 i r ° ,n Gout, Lumbago, Sciatica, Backache,
TwoTd Liver TheSfifA ’ D *°? Sy ’ Gr f vel - Stone - Bidder Troubles, Indigestion
tenflfs Of The oLs and fllnpipT ° f n th tTv forms in which disease manifests itself. Nine-
that the kidnevs and ifvil a™ ' to whl J?. h f . the hu . ma, i race is subject can be avoided if care is taken
tnat the kidneys and liver are m a condition to do their work efficiently. The reason that
Warner’s Safe Cure
*“ “ "»""**“<> property of being able
KIDNEYS AND LIVER.
The food eaten nourishes
All urinary and biliary poisons are then duly expelled from the system,
the blood, and robust health is established.
If you have any reason to suspect that your kidneys are not healthily performing their dutv
thou™ U H *•.*"* thi 7S in £ a covered glass anYTetit “and for tweng’-
r hours, if it is then milky, or shows a sediment like brick-dust, or if particles float about in it
NWWt- 11 d^Vrf 6 No time should then be lost in commencing to take Warner’s Safe Cure’
InifostTtion o '' 8 W 1" r6SUIt in Bright ’ S DiseaSe ’ Diabete3 ’ ° r SOme less ser ious but mo re
ful J P artjiculars , and . accounts of many remarkable cures effected by
Co Me“tourni ’° n a PP llcatlon to the Australasian Branch, H. H. Warner and
There’s SECURITY in
TER’S
Absolutely Cure
biliousness.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
FURRED TONGUE.
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
i
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
•Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Prlca.
They TOUGH the LIVER
Be Sure they are Carter's
the owl cut-rate drug CO., “SBgBSK^aSm.
STOMACH DISORDERS F]<Ui > riph 108 '’- U 8 P f lCe 19 infallible in the cure of WEAKNESS and
FINCHAM'S FA OK rt F Apr pi 1 , ■ . ITS “ EPELEP —A remedy for Epilepsy in all its forms
to: ?»v.tab.e "°" Sp<> “’ Bed ”'* ! ’ E ™S h “«*’ *™U«. T», Surrtarr,
FINCHAM’S INFALLIBLE WORM POWDERS.-SpeoMy .oiteU. lor child™. A c.rUio our. 10, worm.
Note the Address :
0. P. PINOHAM, Chemist.
THE OWL CUT-RATE DRUG CO.,
227 ELIZABETH STREET, Opp. Hyde Park, SYDNEY.
JAYNE’S^EXPECTORANT
CURES THE WORSTCOUGHiS.
A deputation of W.A. mine-owners asked the
Agent-General to recommend that the tax on profits
should be made applicable to dividends only, and that
such a change should be retrospective. The A G beat
about the bush in reply. Were he half as clever as'he is
supposed to be, he would have made prompt answer •
“Right you are You guarantee that London directors
will limit their fat fees to percentages on actually-divided
profits, and that they will do this retrospectively and I
will strongly recommend your suggestion." The gilded
guinea-pigs would not stomach a dose like that Same
deputation had the cheek to ask that labor on a lease
should be allowed to cover leases held by the same people
in other districts-i.e., that the holder of leases at Norse-
man, Murchison, and Kalgoorlie should be allowed a
monopoly of all of them, provided that the labor em-
ployed on one was enough to cover the aggregate legally
required on all. The evil of consolidation on contiguous
blocks is bad enough in that it often promotes systematic
sitting down, but the proposed change would be ten
thousand times worse. It would mean wholesale shen-
herding without any power to check it. The pioneer
prospector would be practically extinguished.
• • • •
Melbourne papers still devote columns to dis-
c“?s'°“of I , t^ e question of mining tenure. Writers are
chiefly Bull boodlers and would-be monopolists. No one
as yet has cited an instance where, in Australia, a lease
has been unjustly forfeited. If anything, the Mines
departments are too lenient; they allow too many trivial
excuses for non-working to pass muster. There is no
more difficult thing to be done in any State than to dis-
possess the man who won’t work a lease, provided he Da vs
the rent and knows the right button to press. A favorite
suggestion is that money spent on machinery should be
allowed as a set-off against labor. If this were sanctioned
any fourth-rate, second-hand machinery dealer could
monopolise half the country side. An English co erects
an expensive 40-stamp mill, and then proceeds with mine-
development only to demonstrate that it owns a 4-stamn
mine. Should its folly entitle it to possession of the
property in perpetuity to the exclusion of other men who
would make a success of it as a 4-stamp show? This is
not an imaginary case. Every goldfield where English
money has been spent furnishes an example. In some
parts of Q. and N.S.W. there is more rusting than work-
ing machinery, the rust representing Bull foolishness.
Writer knows many good mines which are under the
damnation of the rust of machinery that was either
useless or unnecessary, but despite this indication of
failure some of these mines would be employing hundreds
of hands if men who knew how to handle them could onlv
dispossess the outsiders. Present owners, to all intents
and purposes, have abandoned the mines, yet contrive
by smart manipulation to keep grip, in the hope that as
big fools as themselves will come along and refund them
the money which they have squandered.
Some of the letters on this subject are clever as
cheap advts., but much of the cleverness is shown at the
expense of truth—this, however, is supposed to be as
foreign to the average mining man as polite language
is to a bullock-driver. The men who, for example, say,
in effect, ‘ We have been obliged to send back to London
money which has been remitted to us for investment in
mining because our principals disapproved of the tenure."
are unblushing liars. This scribe has had dealings with
English mining investor,” and he knows that the last
thing they do is “ partit is like pulling butter out of a
dog s throat to get money out of their pockets. The Idea
of their sending money to any agent in anticipation of his
finding some suitable mining in vestment ’’ is almost too
absurd for fiction. “ Insecurity of tenure ”is an excuse
kept in stock for use when dullness reigns in London.
.The trouble is forgotten when anything like a boom sets
in and a new flock of lambs are waiting to be fleeced.
• • • •
Two mine managers who have records to be
proud of. “ Dave ’’ Rollston has controlled the Day Dawn
Block and Wyndham mine(C.T.), for nearly 20 years, in
which time it has paid £755,390 in divs. “Jimmy”
Carroll has run the Brilliant St. George mine about from
the start, and since 1891 over £600,000 has been paid in
?u VS ' . r . ters Towers co.’s treat their managers better
t han Victorian co.’s do, but the probability is that neither
of the two successful men named gets more than an
English co. would pay to the collar-and-euffs swell who
keeps mine-books.
*n T optiin o on° f B ev h f e J ftt V e ! A « yndicate which held
Wyalontr whi cla ‘ ma at the White Reef line.
thousand’s, mifsert 1 r^lod^h aft?r Bpe " di ?K Beveral
tributors (including by B,x ,eet A P a Vv of
Barrier mine on t hntl li .r managers) took the
stones thev starS and ’ a,t . er worki ' 1 K' out some old
in six feeV srrnnL a crosscut in the harming wall, and
followed for over a£/b^ ft ' mi 1 ? 6 ’ . which the .V h *v#
face. The orushim/f’if nd ,fc J s * Bti l going strong in the
2Jozs. per ton ° f the ,evel returned over
i nsnecred thU'm ; .T 68 ted men who have recently
second to Neeld’s mine ThT , p ™ 9p< : ctB !^ rankB a K ood
as well as ever and th!' „ The u tter 18 “id to be looking
to increase their battery to n |o rB Btempe‘
handled^w^Taibfre^ Ex P l °ration Co., whioh
GallymontminM fN s Ql braltar (Adelong), and
thine- in th#> • Beems fco have struck a good
s£r& tessx s?a
blame If- hna ft° r . w Jj! cll Mines Department is to
wh ch it should^ 6 n?h i 5° be furnished with the returns,
wmcn it should demand for public information.
The Consols, the one Broken Hill mine which
naneddow^tte^n-^J 3 / Btrikes or lock -outs, has just
was the haft a, £ te f 16 y eare of vicissitudes. It
); „yf curiosity mine of the Barrier. Right off the main
ine t °neve?t d hX h n 0 Ve r y ,, clear connection with that
* leB8 ’ earned a vein which occasionally
suddenly 1 netered " T ? f , al ™ 8t Bolid Bilve r. and then Z
usunl .nd P ®i t t' lately it petered even more than
there’hovi I* Ver has ? been worth a® much as it was, and
R H° U 8 . London office troubles as well
Vtnis was the firet B.H. mine that Bull bought), and a new
manager promised more than he ought, so that when
nothing but the familiar “ good prospects ” hapnened t-hc
th * *W <■' »o« onto
• • • .
Sln gle Australian press-cable service lately
made every daily quote B.H*. Props, at 375. 6d.-a jumj
wron’y S^ U t°”i, th rif bt l v he . P a P ers couldn’t all be
vrong- so, though half-doubting at first, they out it
down to the nsmg lead-market and the Delprat process,
and jumped in with liberal orders up to 335. 6<L Next
than °* ble was 31s. They know now a little more
hf 1 . Rubied to find out before about the vast
enterprise of Australian daily-paperdom.
• * • *
“Every cloud has a zinc lining.*—Revised
version, as now adopted at Broken Hill.
• • • «
Ti < -? f^ ern TerritoriesGoldfield B of Australia,
“ m > t Q e ®} 18 reconstructing some more-and the present
co. was formed less than 18 months ago ! For appalling
?^rh> aVaganCe f h ® averagre B ull-bossed " Northern P Terrn
tones co. gets in an easy first.
• • • •
Boulder Main Reef and South Kalgurli (W.A.)
»nd e th b »lt n^ h - e f tW °- gr t eat J disappointments of the year,
as d time I of lmprov ‘ug, becomes worse
as time passes. In both cases, the grade of ore is de-
clining, and, as they could not be made to pay on the
higher grade, their prospects on the lower are utterly
hopeless. It is stated that the Kalgurii is to try the
b^‘ C i n^ Ure 1 of .I 88u its 20 - 000 reserve shares to pay
off its debts. As it is illegal to issue shares at a discount,
and no one 19 likely to take them at par when they can
be bought m the open market at considerably less, the
project is unlikely to come off. Developments in the
lower levels of both mines have been, on the whole,
disappointing and the plants on both are too small to
treat low-grade ores profitably. The only apparent
chance for either co. 18 in its being mopped up by one of
its rich neighbor?.
• • • •
Lake View Cousols and Associated (W.A.), have
11 fe both bee " disappointing, though neither has actu-
ally lost ground. The former’s main shaft is now down
about 1400 ft. and the latter’s 1050 ft. Development is being
pushed ahead in both cases, and any day may see a vast
improvement in their prospects. The Associated is
severely handicapped by being saddled with an extrava-
gant unwieldy treatment plant, a legacy of former
alleged metallurgical experts, and it is doubtful if it can
ever be made sufficiently economical. Drilling for the
continuation of the Oroya rich chute will be started
shortly, and its location would improve things immensely.
Lake View Consols is more than meeting expenses out of
yield, and is in a strong position to continue explorations.
The Elmore oil process will shortly be tested on this
mine, and, if successful, will give a great fillip to low-
grade propositions.
• * • •
The Cape-Australian Cable cost the Eastern
Extension Telegraph Co. *871,973. The paid-up capital
of the co. is £3,000,000, its reserve fund £1,405,000, net
profit £148,526 a year and the div. 7 per cent, per annum.
These figures look healthy enough, and vet the chairman
at last half-yearly meeting wailed bitterly that the Pacific
cable had forced the Eastern to reduce its Australian
rates from 4s. 9d. to 3s. There is not likely to be any
further reduction at present. This particular Telegraph
Co. has enjoyed a monopoly of Australian cable traffic for
many years and it’s a public benefit that the Pacific cable
has come to compete.
* * * •
Sydney “Royal Agricultural Society,” despite
the fact that it does practically nothing in return for its
subsidy “to encourage agriculture,” and is allowed to
wholly monopolise a big park area for running third-class
variety and cheap-jack shows, ended last year with a
deficit of £9OOO. This was largely incurred by the fol-
lowing works “for the encouragement of agriculture”—
Federal stand, £1450 ; wine bar, £l4lB ; beer and whisky
bar, £1024 ; secretary’s residence, £985.


Printed that “Miss Rose McDowell, who,
56 years ago, refused an offer of marriage made by
the Irish Liberator Daniel O’Connell, has just died
in Dublin, aged 82 years.” O’Connell died in May
1847, “just 56 years ago.”
The newly-enfranchised women voters of
N.S.W. should read The Bulletin’s “A Policy
for the Commonwealth,” by James Edmond.
Post free from Bulletin office for 7d.
Pleasant to the palate, pleasant in action,
and delightfully exhilarating and refreshing
in its effects —these are the qualities which
have earned wide-spread popularity for
Syrup Figs
“NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE.”
Acts Gently but Surely on the
KIDNEYS, LIVER AND BOWELS.
Cleanses the System Effectually,
Dispels Colds, Headaches and Fevers, and
PERMANENTLY OVERCOMES
HABITUAL CONSTIPATION
and all kindred complaints, speedily restoring health,
appetite, energy and good spirits.
Ask for CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS and look for the Name
and Trade Mark of the
CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP COMPANY,
31 & 3a SNOW MILL, LONDON.
Australian Branch— 7 Barrack Street, Sydney.
Of all leading Chemists, ,
cinematograph
Paul's New Century Animatograph, £6O
Paul's Celebrated Picture Films, 9d.
per foot.
Full Particulars on Application to Paul’s Agents, viz.:
W. WATSON & SONS,
78 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Amusements. ~
yceum t h e a t r e, s ydney,
Lessee Mr. Wm. Anderson.
Sub Lessee .. .. Bland Holt.
EVERY EVENING,
Up-to-date and Full of Local Interest and Color,
BLAND HOLT’S Australian Melodrama,
THE BREAKING OF THE DROUGHT.
POPULAR PRICES—3s,, 25., Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
R I TERION THEATRE, SY D NEY,
SOLE LESSEE .. .. Mr. JOHN F. SHERIDAN.,
Manager Mr. Frank Weathersby.
Every Evening at 8. Matinee, Wednesday Next at 2 p.im
THE SPARKLING MUSICAL COMEDY,
THE LADY BARMAID.
AS
WILLIAM
WHITE.
JOHN F. SHERIDAN
( AS
KIMBERLEY
l. CAPE.
Hear the New Topical Song—
BOOM 1 BOOM 11 BOOM 111
pr- SEE THE FOLIES’ BALLET.
«< HAVE YOU HEARD ABOUT AUNTIE?”
“ A LITTLE BIT OF SUGAR FOR THE BIRD."
PRICES—3s., 2a., la. 6d. & la. Box Plan and Day Sale
at White Roae Confectionery, Royal Arcade, 269 Pitt-st.
HEATRE ROYAL, S Y D N E Y.
Under the Direction of MR. GEORGE MUSGROVE.
Manager, Mr. T. P. Hudson.
Continued TriumphantSuccessof GEORGE MUSGROVE’S
NEW COMIC OPERA CO.
in the Romantic and Fascinating Hungarian Comic Opera,
THE FORTUNE TELLER,
Enormous Success of MADAME SLAPOFFSKI and
MR. LEMPRIERE PRINGLE.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan Now Open at Nicholson’s.
ALACE THEATRE, S Y D N E Y.
Lessees Messrs. Lee find Rial.
Under the Direction of MR. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
Positively the LAST THREE WEEKS of the
ROYAL COMIC OPERA SEASON.
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY), and for a Limited Number
of Nights Only,
ROBIIM HOOD.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. £2T PRICES AS USUAL.
-p OW N HALL, SYD N E Y
EVERY SATURDAY EVERY
EVERY SATURDAY EVERY
1/-
PEOPLE’S POPS
PEOPLES POPS
1/-
by those World-Wide Renowned Musicians,
McADOO’S FISK
JUBILEE SINCERS
PEOPLE’S POPULAR PROGRAMMES.
Seats may be reserved at the White Rose Confectionery
Pitt-street, corner of Royal Arcade.
Tickets for Sale at Bookstalls of N.S.W., Bookstall Co.
of Railway Stations and Ferry Landings ; also at White
Rose Confectionery, Pitt-street, and at Kahu’s, tobac-
conist, Ring-street.
I V O L I THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor and Manager—Me. Harry Rickards.
Triumphant Success of M. JACQUES INAUDI.
WALLACE BROWNLOW.
Splendid Success of FRED POPLAR, Miss KITTY WACER,
A Series of Triumphs scored by J. W. WINTON and
M’CINTY, the Clever Ventriloquial Entertainer.
PEARL LOVELL, WILL WOODS, SYLVIA WILSON,
MALVENA MOORE, PROFESSOR MACCANN, and
all our Great Tivoli Co.
ICKARDS’ NEW OPERA HOUSE,
MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager—Mr. HARRY RICKARDS.
EVERY EVENING, at 8 p.m.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS at 2.30 p.m.
SPRY and MONTI.
A. C. SPRY. G. W. HUNTER. DIAMOND DUO.
ELSIE M'LACHLAN. LES WARTON. WELBY COOKE.
BIOSCOPE.
Prices—2s. 6d., 25., Is. ‘tfiSi Plan at Allan’s.
DRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ Sole Lessee .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
EVERY EVENING, EVERY EVENING,
Z A.2S A.,
A Comedy Drama in 5 Acts, and the Most Remarkable
Play of the Century.
MISS NELLIE STEWART as ZAZA, Supported by Mr.
George Musgrove’s New English Comedy Co.
USUAL PRICES. Box Plan at Allan’s.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
* Lessee Mr. Bland Holt.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. William Anderson.
Bus. Manager, Jafnes Hendy. Treas., Julius Grant.
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S Famous Dramatic Organisation
headed by Miss EUGENIE DUGGAN,
3rd WEEK of the Immensely Successful Drama,
WHEN LONDON SLEEPS.
Prices—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan's.
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ ■ Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. Tallis. Treas., E. J. Tait.
FRIDAY, FEB. 6, LAST NIGHT of the /
Great Pantomime,
DICK WHITTINGTON AND HIS CAT.
With New Effects and Fresh Novelties.
Entrancing Music rendered by an Opera Chorus and an
D „ . Opera Orchestra.
Prices m Usual. TBJ Bo* Plan si
“The Cliveden dowager did not make her
house a place of lamentation during her fever
attack. The dinner-parties went on, and her
daughter presided at the head of the table. The
invalid has the services of one of the prettiest
nurses in Melbourne.
“The Melbourne papers proclaim the engage-
ment of one ‘Miss Advance Australia,’ from
Tallangatta way.
“ Rockhamptonites are interested in the
announcement of compatriot Florence Schmidt’s
engagement. The singer is the last unmarried
daughter in her family, and her sisters say that
Florence always was the lucky one, and that
probably her matrimonial future will grow roses
as abundantly as her unmarried past. None of
the Schmidt sisters were pretty, but they are all
attractive —very musical, and not penniless.
“A letter arrived by last mail from a Mel-
bourne sojourner in gay Paree. ‘ Ah,’ she
scribbles, ‘ this is the place. Wrinkles obliterated
—all above board, but taken on in their place a
hundred others in the form of brain etchings.
Here are four of them : The way to create the
outer circle; the manner of suppressing the
pantry ; the trick of building the hat to the head ;
the manufacture of the smile that hides age and
villainy. And there are many others. Mdlle. of
Shopland is a marvel. She is droll and excessive.
You must be fool or rogue to resist her. This is
how she does a big deal in hats. Chatters
incessantly, smiles, shrugs, spreads white
hands, all by way of ostensible civilities.
In truth, all the while she is studying your
style. It is her clever and most pleasant
way of doing it. Measures effects swiftly. During
the operation you are as unconscious as if you
were chloroformed. Then she shows the dreams
of millinery suitable to your style. And what
dreams you behold! Frail shapes like cloud
mists and peach bloom and morning dew, blown
together by a breeze from a bright garden. She
sets to work, your back to the mirror. The
transformation is effected with spider quiet and
cunning. A hairpin is withdrawn here, inserted
there, the thatch softened, loosened, touched ten-
derly. Then the hat is set on the fuzzy (you feel
it fuzzy) thatch, a skewer slides along the scalp,
and pinions the hat. A few more touches. You
look and are lost: you - must have that hat at the
price of anything.’ t
“ The second Castles sister has no sooner got
out of her swaddling clothes and been set on her
platform pins than a third is heralded as crowing
more melodiously than the two already tried.
When will the Castles family end ?
“The wife of a Melbourne wine-merchant heads
the visiting hostesses who are trying to make
Tasmania sit up. At Elswick races, t’other day,
this dressy dame led off with a sparkling basket
banquet—all the choice viands and ice-cased
‘ cham ’ that are portable in a hired carriage*
Afterwards her party promenaded, and the show
of silk and underwear struck Slowbart femininity
dumber than usual.
“Is it going to be the rule for daughters of ex-
Speakers to take to the stage ? Two of Graham
Berry’s daughters tried it, and now F. C. Mason’s
youngest figures pleasantly in panto, ballet. With
a nimble foot for the intricacies of the dance, a
voice of some timbre, and a dainty physique, she
may yet skip to a front rank.
“Up at the State House members tease Mr.
Gillies as to the number of the solicitous fair
sending enquiries every day of his recent illness.
One of the medicoes says gruffly—‘Waal, it’s nae
the wimmen’s foolt that Duncan’s ne’er married.’
“Mr. Robert Harper looked shockingly ill when
he landed from his trip abroad, but bore up a day
or two while the bonfires of ‘ Welcome Home ’
were ablaze. When they went out, he gave up
and collapsed. The shock of that hotel fire,
and its subsequent effects, are held responsible
for the present illness. A further holiday is
advised, but the bait isn’t tempting. The Harpers
will probably be very grateful to be once more in
possession of ‘ Myoora.’
“It seems years since the modish bassinette,
along with baby wardrobes, was on show in the
shops. But since the adoption of mitherless
bairns came into fashion, the bassinette has be-
come an article of sale again. Next month, seve-
ral young damsels of a smart set, who happened
to be in various parts of the State when the local
trumpets announced the domestic occurrence,
have arranged to confer together and hold private
views of the newlv-arrived infants. One of the
number boasts that there is £4O worth of Maltese
lace in her ‘ darling’s ’ long robe.
“The astonishing spectacle was witnessed on
our Block recently of three small boys ‘rigged
out ’ in the costumes of Franciscan monks, but
without the flagellating cords and the sandals, the
youngsters having no footwear. They were in
charge of a benevolent-looking old lady who
probably has ideas of her own on the subject of
dress for waifs. But it is fortunate that Rev.
Digby Berry, and his Sydney prototype, Dill
Macky, were not about at the time. If they were,
food would have been afforded for a six months’
controversy.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.
Melb. Age fell in rather heavily, but un-
deservedly, over the “unauthorised” announce-
ment that the Iceberg Govt, intended to threaten
the House of Landlords with its resignation if the
Probate Duties Bill were cast out a second time.
The news, probably communicated by an honorary
Minister hungering for a portfolio, was divulged
at the same time as Lands Minister M’Keuzie
found himself in a mess over his land transactions.
The M’Kenzie business, coming hot-foot on the
resentment caused by Robert Reid’s retention in
the Govt., naturally made the Shiels-Irvine crowd
a little more careful how they scattered threats
about. Therefore, the prematurely-announced
decision was revoked, but, when questioned in the
Assembly, Irvine did not dare to say there was
no foundation for the statement. He merely re-
marked that it was “unauthorised.”
The editors of Sydney E. News, Sydney
D.T., and the Argus are all being, or have just
been, changed; and there are rumors of big
changes in the Age and S.M. Herald staffs.
Howard Willoughby retires for a year from
the editorial chair of Melb. Argus. After a
month’s holiday at the Lakes, the editor returned
to Melbourne only to collapse. Six months' com-
plete rest is ordered, with six months’ partial
rest to follow. The illness of the chief, and the
transfer of Mr. F. Ward from his leader-writer-
ship to Sydney D.T. editorship, place the Argus
office in a hole, as it will be difficult to find men
for the vacant positions. Mr. F. W. Haddon,
ex-editor, and now trustee for the Wilson interest
in the proprietary fund, has just returned from
England, but is not likely to go into literary
harness again.
At Poverty Point.
How easily veteran R. S. Smvthe takes the cake for
tricky advertisement ! As business-manager of Artnes
Beaumont’s recent benefit concert, the old tactician got
over the difficulty of announcing one more last final
farewell for the ofttimes-farewelled tenor by styling it a
Concert D’Adieu. And then, on the morning of the
event, he summed up the attraction in the neatest of 3in.
display advts. There were 16 lines in the ad.; “ Madame
Melba” had 4 consecutive lines, ahd “The House Full”
was repeated 8 times. The hand of the born pressman is
always visible in R.S.S.’s work.
“ J.A.C.”: The late William Elton- his death, of
stomach cancer, is cabled—although by no means an
“ emotional actor,” was a prey to great nervousness. I
have stood beside him, in the wings of the Princess’s
Theatre, Melb., while he was waiting, on a “ first night,”
to make his entry as Lurcher, in “ Dorothy,” and he was
all “ pins and needles.” He said to me, “ I never felt so
nervous irony life.” Yet he had already established his
reputation in the same part in Melbourne, and was cer-
tain of a brilliant reception. He had also a distinct dis-
like for melodrama, although very good in some parts—
Tom Bassett, in “ Hands Across the Sea,” for instance,
which he played on the first production of the drama by
Charles Warner in Australia. He then spent most of the
time he was off the stage in “ curses, not loud, but deep.”
“ Altesiinder ” : No doubt a lot of mischief is worked
by such plays as “Zaza” and “Camille.” Apart from
their doctrine of “purification by love,” they tend to
create an inexperienced female belief in the possibility of
an insatiable passion controlled by absolute faithfulness
on the woman’s part. They present in dramatic form
the green-sick damsel’s dream of an eternal domestic
honeymoon, such as Nature couldn’t tolerate. The
woman in these plays has no maternal aspirations.
Camille and Zaza are the ideal heroines of the mock senti-
mental barmaid who puts her elbows on the counter and
gives Bertie to understand that a gorgeous capacity for
undying affection lies hidden within her padded bosom
if Bertie will only persevere with his suit and take her
away from her “ hollow life ” among the beer and
whisky. Every second or third barmaid talks
Zaza; gazes tenderly into space and remarks that
it’s an awful thing for a girl to get enslaved by a
Married Man, and be thereby prevented from “ ever
loving again.” After which she repeats, parenthetically,
the old gag—“ But men don’t know what love is.” These
cerulean passion plays must be false in sentiment or they
wouldn’t appeal so strongly to the admiration of the
more fraudulent members of the Sex.
Lalla Miranda’s latest notable success was scored at
Nice, where she appeared as the Queen of Navarre in
“Les Hugenots." One notice described her voice as “of
the caressing stamp, fresh and pure,” and said, “her
beautiful diction and perfect vocalisation captivated the
audience, who overwhelmed with applause this exquisite
artist.” These repeated successes of the ex-Melbourne
girl are a satire on the verdict of the London critic—a
barracker for the German school of vocalism—who wrote,
in a loud, Podsnapian tone of voice, “I love not such
singers as Lalla Miranda.”
Printed that “ there is life in the old boy yet” ; more
unlikely things have happened than a farewell appear-
ance of J. O. Williamson in a round of his favorite
characters, say, John Stofel, Rip Van Winkle, Kerry, and
Shaun.
Melba put in an active 24 hours in Adelaide. Arriving
on Monday afternoon, she drove almost at once to the
races at Victoria Park. In the evening she attended
Wirth’s Circus, and attempted to puzzle the thought-
reading Howards, finishing up with a long drive round
the suburbs. On the Tuesday afternoon she sang to a
crowded and perspiring female audience in the Town
Hall—and caught the Melbourne express at 4.30 !
Consider the poor playwright, how he gets his crust.
In Melbourne,-Ignatio Tyrrell lately sued Howard Harvey,
of the Gaiety Theatre, for £4 45., being remuneration for
writing two dramas. Forty-two “ bob ” per drama 1 He
got a verdict for the price of one drama, which would just
about pay a week’s board if there weren’t too many
drinks in the board. There are some names that require
a great deal of living up to, and when Howard and
Ignatio take to scrambling in the courts over the price of
the forty-two shilling melodrama the writer feels glad
that his own name is Bill. (N.B. —His other name is
Theodore).
Married, the other day, Ethel Buckley to George Mar-
low, treasurer of one of the Anderson co’s. Ethel, who
is about 17 or so, made her first impression on Sydney
audiences some two years ago, when she appeared in
“ when the Lamps are Lighted ” as Semolina, a par-
ticularly weird type of stage slavey. She was in George
Rignold’s co. as a child, and makes a dainty little
soubrette whenever the management lets her.
The “ Continentals ” which were to have been carried
on through the summer on Sydney Cricket Ground have
been discontinued, public support not being considered
adequate. Though large attendances were the rule
before Xmas, the huge proportion of deadheads reduced
the paying portion to a small crowd, considering the
expenses. The class of programme put forward (mostly
fourth class Music Hall turns) was not calculated to draw
big crowds.
The David Belasco who adapted “Zaza” from the
original French play, is son of the late David James, a
rather famous London comedian and old-time burlesque
actor. David James’s proper name was'Belasco.
Wilson Barrett has received some candid notices for his
London performance of “Alfred.” The Express of Dec. 19
says that his appearance as a harpist was far from
happy.” Edyth Latimer was “ winsome, but hardly con-
vincing,” and the jokes of the Saxon churls were ‘ nearly
as old as the historical incidents depicted. But it is
admitted that Barrett had a big popular success, as he
had all over the “ provinces.”
Miss Ada Lawrence, the up-country Camille, just now
appearing with Anderson’s co. at Melbourne Royal, is the
daughter of Carrie George, an old-time Australian
favorite. The question is sometimes asked, “What
became of Carrie George?” For many years she has been
living in the North. Her second husband, J. S. Lyle, is
sec. to the school of arts at Mount Morgan, and he contri-
butes to the press thereabouts.
On the first night of “ Zaza,” some of the characters in
the play referred to the heroine as Z'ctr-za, whilst others
called her Zazzer, which was, seemingly, the official pro-
nunciation— i.e., she was Zazzer to her best boy. Under
the circumstances, the conflict of pronunciations gave
realism to the play. Zaza is supposed to be a music-hall
girl, who has assumed a fancy name. Once there was a
Zazel, who used to be fired out of a cannon to a trapeze,
or shot up in the air by a spring trap. Different people
gave different sounds to the name —Zay-zel, Zar-zel, or
Zazzle.
In “ From Door to Door ” Bernard Capes tells of a play-
ful custom of the Spanish ladies. In their excitement
after a toreador’s victory they often cast their stays
(worn on the surface) at his feet, redeeming them after
the performance. A middle-aged widow fell in love with
a toreador. She lined her stays with some of her for-
tune in gold coins, and when the time to applaud came
she “ loosen’d her fragrant bodice ” (as Keats would say)
and hurled it at the hero. The toreador was stunned by
the golden offering, and the romantic widow was arrested
and fined. Her court trouble over, she found that the
toreador had clung to the corsets, left the profession, and
married a younger woman.
“ The Conservatorium voice ” is a descriptive term now
commonly used in Melbourne musical circles. It means,
a voice that has been carefully constructed with common
material. There is no wear in the Conservatorium
soprano voice. It pleases the ear and impresses the un-
initiated at first, whilst it is still new. But, instead of
improving with hard work, the voice loses flesh and
deteriorates into a shriek.
“T.D.” A Bulletin par asks, “ Where are the male
singers?” Well, there are plenty of them about, but they
do not rush to the nearest well-advertised Conservatorium
and play at being aesthetes before they have well mastered
the technicalities of music or learned to handle their
voices. The man who says he is going to make a
profession of it, settles down to hard work for a year or
two, and at the end he puts his name on to every
programme that comes in his way. His development is
so sudden that most people take him for a singer of years’
standing. But the Conservatorium girl makes a “ pupil’s
concert ” the dream of her existence, insists on singing
Brahms and Tschaikowsky, and if called upon to warble
an ordinary ballad written by a common English person,
indignantly replies that she doesn’t know any such
rubbish. The public, nine times out of ten, wants to hear
something like “ Mary of Argyle ’’ or “ Bid me to Love,”
and the average budding man professional gives what he
is asked for, but he doesn’t start talking in January
about a pupils’ concert at which he may possibly be
allowed to chortle some Rubinstein in the following
December. He has no time to lose.
“Fingleur”: Now that a move in the right direction
has been made by the production of the Hungarian comic
opera of “ The Fortune Teller,” why not follow on with a
season of legitimate comic opera instead of the frothy
foolery of the modern French school? The genuine comic
opera would be well within the powers of the artists now
available here. The first of all comic operas is Mozart’s
“ La Nozze di Figaro,” then comes Rossini’s “ Barber of
Seville,” with Cimaroso’s “II Matrimonio Segreto" a
good third. After these come Donizetti’s sparkling trio,
“ The Daughter of the Regiment,” “ The Elixir of Love,”
and “ Don Pasquale,” Auber’s “ Fra Diavolo ” and “ Le
Domino Noir,” and Boieldieu’s “ Caliph of Bagdad.”
Probably Lyster’s most successful venture in the comic-
opera line was when he staged “ La Nozze di Figaro,”
with Signora Magi as the pretty page, Cherubino. Who
that saw her then could ever forget her delightful sing-
jng, not to mention her delightful legs 1
Work of demolishing the old walls of Her Majesty’s
Theatre, Sydney, has been commenced, and the new
theatre will be opened, it is thought, within six months.
Hall’s Australian Juveniles are playing “The Red
Hussar” in South Africa.
One of the richest of violinists is Kubelik. He is but
22 years old, and his London earnings in a fortnight
recently were nearly £4OOO. He is insured against acci
dents for a very large amount, the premiums being paid,
not by the violinist, but by the managers under whom he
appears.
The rule of the Jewhannesburg capitalist
in S’Africa stands confessed by the announcement
that Alfred Beit, of Beit, Wernher and Co. (how
truly British is the name of the firm !) has held an
informal conference with the Boer generals, to
whom he expressed “ moderately conciliatory
views. ”
Tasmania is contributing generously to the
N.S.W. drought-relief fund. The island State
has done very well indeed from the blessings of
Federation and the curses of the mainland
drought. Federation opened the whole Common-
wealth market to her produce, and the drought
made values for anything green and eatable very
high.


MEN’S DISEAS S.
Mr. HOWARD FREEMAN,
The Famous Specialist.
We have cured Hundreds of
Cases like Yours!!
riIHERE is nothing gained in employing an un-
J- practical person to do an expert’s task. Nine
. times in ten, EAIEURE follows. The average
physician is oftentimes an amateur in the treat-
ment of grave nerve diseases. His time is so fully
occupied in treating a full assortment of human ills
that he cannot devote special study to any particular
branch of practice. Some diseases are sufficiently
simple as to require only the general knowledge
obtained in colleges and general practice.
The More Complex and Perplexing 1 Ailments
are not always favored by the family doctor. He pre-
fers to be relieved of tasks which call for special know-
ledge and special skill.
V
H
J
Vjft t-.
Dr. RICHARD WALLACE,
Physician-in-Chief.
The true SPECIALIST is a physician who is absolutely expert in the treatment of a few diseases He knows all
about the complaints he treats, and he supervises difficult cases with the same certainty with which the general practitioner
treats a common ailment. general
For over 30 Years we have been treating Nerve Diseases.
We began our special work after thorough training in some of the best known colleges abroad. We have cured more
men of their troubles than any association of men in Australia. You can come to us feeling certain that we know just
what to do, that you will be free from malpractice and certain of a cure if one remains for you. J
WEA.KRTESS.
The Functional derangement, commonly
termed “ WEAKNESS,” is generally a direct
result from inflammation causing severe pro-
static troubles. The nerve parts governing
the afflicted centres require stimulating.
Sound medical treatment under the
supervision of a skilled SPECIALIST is
required, combined with the wearing of our
specially tested Electric “INVIGORATOR”
or Belt, which pours a current of vital energy
into the weak parts, giving them new life and
strength. Over ninety per cent, of our cases
have been completely cured in this manner.
This “INVIGORATOR,” the best in Aus-
tralia, is ONE POUND ONLY. It is a
genuine Electric Belt, and the only one sold
in Australian medical practice locally certifica-
ted. Duty is paid free to all Australian States.
VARICOCELE.
Men who have for years been afflicted with
Varicocele, can come to us with com-
plete assurance that we will effect a per-
manent cure in a few week’s time, by a
painless and absolutely harmless method.
There is no dangerous operation or detention
from business. We regard each case as a
means of proving our superior skill, and show-
ing the needlessness of a surgical operation.
We will cure you quickly, thoroughly, and
without the need of hospital care.
BLOOD POISON.
There are many phases of this complaint
and its origin is sometimes obscure. No
man should trifle if he suffers from any
disorder of the blood. An unhealthy state of
the life fluid of the body sometimes imparts
the worst form of physical and mental disease.
We have special methods of cure. We treat
successfully those cases aggravated by the
tampering of others.
RXJJPTXJRB.
Since our practice commenced we have
treated over 2500 cases of Rupture. We cure
many cases without cutting or painful opera-
tions. Our patients seldom have to wear
trusses after our treatment. Of^course there
are some cases in which a truss must be worn,
and for those we have on hand the finest,
cheapest, and most comfortable kinds yet
devised by science.
OUR INSTITUTE, SYDNEY.
A Bond of £lOOO.
We are under a guarantee bond of £lOOO to faithfully perform all or
any medical contracts that we may enter into. We do not consider any
man cured until he asserts it personally or sends in his testimonial. Of
these we have many thousands, of which a few extracts are here published.
Our Medical Institute, supervised by a Staff of Skilled SPECIALISTS,
is the most scientific in Australia. Over £lOO,OOO has been expended
upon it. Its medical literature embraces an annual disbursement of 25 000
volumes of medical works.
When under treatment you are under the care of an internationally-
registered SPECIALIST, who holds nine diplomas and certificates of
qualification, and registration by Australian, English and American Boards.
Sir Dominic Corrigan, Bart., Physician to the late Queen, says of
him : “I entertain a high opinion of Dr. Wallace respecting his profes-
sional qualifications.”
Read what the
Cured Say!
ME. PHILIP NEWBURY,
the great English tenor, now starring in the leading
musical ccptres, London, writes
, “ For years I have suffered from uric acid
m the blood. Thanks to the wonderful
efficacy of your Electric ‘ INVIGORATOR, ’
I am now completely cured.
(Signed) “ PHILIP NEWBURY."
MR. CHAS. KENNINGHAM.
principal tenor, Royal English Opera Company,
Savoy Theatre, London, and Royal Comic Opera
Company, Sydney, testifies :
“I was afflicted for years by insomnia. I
wore your Electric ‘Belt* constantly, with
the result that I now sleep well, and my
general health and appetite are now improved.
(Sgd.) “CHARLES KENNINGHAM."
A Victorian says:
“Warwillah, Hawkesdale, Victoria.
“ I beg to acknowledge receipt of Electric
‘INVIGORATOR,’ which I have used ac-
cording to instructions, and find I sleep much
better. I must admit I feel a different man
to what I did when I commenced your treat-
ment. “ Yours faithfully,
“H. J. SHERRING.”
Newcastle Man writes s
“Merewether, Newcastle.
“Please forward me more medicines. I
am still improving. I think those ‘ INVI-
GORATORS ’of yours are very good. I
have not had any pains in my shoulders this
last fortnight. Am pretty well right again.
“ Yours truly,
“WILLIAM DAVIES.”
A New Zealander attests s
“ Limestone Island,
“Auckland, N.Z.
“Your ‘Belt’ came to hand all right. I
am wearing it according to instructions. I
feel much better. It seems to make me sleep
well since applying it.
“ Yours sincerely,
“H. HEWLETT."
If you are interested in these cases,
write for special brochure, illustrated.
You may find there a case similar to
youf own.
1
t
ces
Gene
Disec
&
tl/Lctr o Medical*
I' ll COMSULTINC
is
This Book is Your Best Friend.
This famous work is now in its tenth edition. “CLINICAL EXPERIENCES” was first published in 1901. Since
that time ovei 000,000 volumes have been issued throughout Australia. It is a handsome, exhaustive work, containing over 550
pages letterpiess and 150 MEDICAL PLATES. A chapter on Anatomy covers 30 pages. There are life-size diagrams of the
human body and its various functions. There are over 30 chapters upon general diseases, and 20 additional articles upon the
treatment of persons afflicted with SNAKE-BITE, SUNSTROKE, PLAGUE, FEVERS ABSCESS CONSUMPTION
BLOOD DISEASES, WEAKNESS IN MEN, INSOMNIA, Etc., Etc. ’ ’
This Magnificent Work will be POSTED FREE to any Address in Australia on
receipt of ONE SHILLING IN STAMPS. No Further Charge.
FREEMAN & WALLACE
ELECTRO-MEDICAL and
SURGICAL INSTITUTE
ELIZABETH and BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
HOWARD FREEMAN, Director.
Dr. RICHARD WALLACE, M.D., L.R.C.P., E., L.F.P.S , E., L.M , Physician-in-Chief.
Medicines packed Free from Observation and sent to all parts of Australia.
Letters treated with Professional Secrecy and promptly attended to.


That lamentable Westralian public job,
the granting of something like 100,000 acres of
land gratis to an English land-syndicate, may yet
prove the downfall of the James Ministry. It
certainly should lead to the downfall of somebody.
The English syndicate took up an immense area
as a “ poison lease,” the terms being that, if all the
poisonous plants were eradicated by 1903, and if
the land was kept quite clear for three years there-
after, the syndicate was entitled to a freehold grant
in 1906. The syndicate did nothing lor over 15
years, and then its lease was practically lost, for it
was impossible to eradicate the poison-plant in the
short time remaining. But just here the syndi-
cate discovered that part ot its ground had been
included in a water-reserve on which the regula-
tions, it is said, prohibited the keeping of stock,
and it demanded compensation because, if it gob
the grant, which, through its own neglect, it no
longer had the slightest chance of getting, it
wouldn’t be able to keep pigs on the land. (For
15 years it hadn’t shown the slightest desire to
keep pigs). And, by way of compensation for the
pigs it didn’t have on the land it didn’t have
eitiier, it got a free grant of about 100,000 acres !!!
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK
A Handsome Cloth-bound Volume of over 300 pages
The Best Collection of Short Stories and Literary
Sketches yet produced in Australia. Price, 4s. 6d.;
postage, 6d.
Beanie’s Bronchitis Cure.
THE FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
*nd a Complete Cure is certain.
BEWARE OR* COUGHS!
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT. AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
& MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
DURED BY ONE BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
"Orange, N.S.W.
•Mr. Hearne. —
“ Dear Sir,—l enclose for your own private perusal
Bortion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
»f London, England, from which you will glean that
rour medicine has been a perfect God-send to a martyr to
tolds and bronchial asthma. Ido not wish any names to
>e mentioned, but you are at liberty to make uae of any
<ortion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
and. You can see for yourself what an immense success
i was.—Yours faithfully,
Extract from letter alluded to above:—
"You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
irrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
nuch interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
iff the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
Tom a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication,- but will be
upplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONT H S’ TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“Dergholm, Victoria.
"Dear Sir, —1 wish to add mv testimony to the won-
lerfut effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
nonths, and the cough was so distressingly' bad at nights
was obliged to get up and sit by the tire. I had medical
dvice, and tried other ‘ remedies,' without avail. I tried
'ours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
Irst dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
m a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
nay depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
vonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
" Yours faithfully,
“JAMES ASTBURY.”
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
learne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
ectly and rafiidh successful under circumstances which
ndoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
he Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, M.vers-street, Geelong, and
fty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS.
"I used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them in from am to three
doses.—P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.”
•
“Your Bronchitis Cure relieved iny son wonderfully quick. » only gave him four doses, and have some of
the medicine yet: but lam sending lor another bottle in case I should want it.—D. M’DONALD, Trinkey, via
Quirindi, N.S.W.”
©
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.—A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney."
‘ My wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and I am glad to inform you that your Brochitis Cure has done us
both a wonderful deal of good.it having quickly cured us both.—R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford,
Victoria.”
©
“I have used one bottle of vour Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me.—(Mrs.) JOHN It A HILLY, Glemnaggie, Victoria.”
O
“ I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, A'ictoria.
O
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent., and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone.— J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.VV.”
©
“My cold, bad as it was, disappeared alter two doses.— C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers,
Queen-street, Melbourne.”
•
“ I lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miraculous.—F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.”
“Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria.”
“Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.—(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria."
•
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once.—
Q. SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” •
“Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle.—W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria.”
“I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to everybody.—S.
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” •
“ I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine,
but I can truly say that I am astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of mv brief trial.—JOHN 0.
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.”
•
“ Last year l suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
me any good ; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well.—H. HOOD,
Broeklands, Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.”
•
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria."
“Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from you have pulled
me through a long and dangerous illness.—HENßY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria."
•
“ The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects.—CHAS. WHYBROW, Enoch’s
Point, via D&rlingford, Victoria.”
Gratitude and Appreciation
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
“The Scientific Australian Office,
“ 169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
“Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom-
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ac-
countant, Collins-street, and the effect that it had was so
marked that he has ever since been continually recom-
mending it to others.
“ We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO."
Queensland Testimony-
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMIST&
“69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Please send us 36
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose our
cheque to cover amount of order.
“ We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
“We are, faithfully yours,
• THOMASON, CHATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemists.”
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
"W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir,—Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUARRILL,
“Editor Gkklono Advertiser."
“Upon looking through our books we are struok with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure."—ELLIOTT BROS.. Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARIME, Chemist, » Geelong, Victoria.
branch depot office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded, by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally .
THE
SMELTING & REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
Works: DAPTO, LAKE ILLAWARRA (56 Miles from Sydney). 1901, Limited.
Highest Price paid for Gold, Silver, Lead, and Copper Ores,
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay. Sl&gS, &H(j SW66Pi etC.
For all Information regarding Kates, apply to the Manager, Head Office, Dapto;
or, A. E. RUDDER & CO., 40 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Forwarding Agents.
“ Retained when
all other Foods are
rejected. It is in-
valuable.’ 1
London Medical Record.
“‘Bengep*s Food*
has by its excellence
established a repu-
tation of its own.”
British Medical Record.
GOLD MEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
Benger’s Food
For Infants, Invalids, and the Aged. Delicious, Nutritive, and Digestible .
... Benger’s Food is sold by Chemists, &c., Everywhere-
Extracts jrom Private
Letters.
“ My last little boy was
fed entirely upon it from
birth, and a healthier
child it would be difficult
to find. My wife sounds
the praise of ‘ Benger s
food ’ everywhere.”
If every mother knew
of its value, no other
would be used.


G 0 (G
GEGECE
E
,jc , AUSTRALIAN
GENERAL ELECTRIC
INCANDESCENT LAMPS.
THE EDISON LAMP
abs ?h U e te ß est.
Annual Sales, 18,000,000.
After Competitive Tests, 63,750 were purchased by the Melb. City Council.
LONG LIFE, HIGH EFFICIENCY.
Large Stock always on hand.
AU STRALIAN
GENERAL ELECTRIC CO.,
Equitable Buildings,
Melbourne & Sydney
Motors, Dynamos, Steam Dynamo Sets, &c., also in Stock.
UNDER THE ROYAL PATRONAGE OF
H.M. THE QUEEN OF GREECE.
H.R.H. PRINCESS MARIE OF GREECE.
H.R.H. THE DUKE OF SPARTA.
a
H.R.H. THE DUCHESS OF SPARTA.
H.R.H. PRINCESS HOHENLOHE.
H.R.H. PRINCE GEORGE OF GREECE.
(High Commissioner of Crete, &c., &C.)
HARL
FOR
THE
' V
V.
Photo d specially for the " Harleue - (Jo., by ban
Haymarket Thea/rt v*
Miss JULIA NEILSON
writes —
" / am at present trying your ' Harlene 'for my
hair, and I find it one of the best Hair Tonics and
Restorers / have ever used, and 1 have tried many.
Will you kindly send me two more bottles."
THE GREAT HAIR
PRODUCER and RESTORER.
THE FINEST DRESSING SPECIALLY PREPARED AND
DELICATELY PERFUMED.
A LUXURY AND A NECESSITY TO EVERY MODERN TOILET
“Harlene” Produces Luxuriant Hair. Prevent its Falling Off and Turning
Grey. Unequalled for Prompting the Growth of the Beard and Moustache.
The 'World Renowned Remedy for Baldness. For Preserving, Strengtheningt
and Rendering the Hair Beautifully Soft, for Removing Scurf Dandruff, &c.,
'also for Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Colour.
Crown Prince’s Palace, Athens.
H.R.H. PRINCESS MARIE OF GREECE
writes—“ Messrs. Edwards’ Preparation, ‘Harlene’ for the Hair, has given entire
satisfaction. H.K.H. wishes six more bottles of ‘Harlene’ sent as soon as possible.’’
Kitegyhaza, County Bikis, Hungary.
COUNTESS DENIS ALMASY
writes—“ Please forward me three more bottles of‘Harlene,’ as lam particularly satisfied
with the two bottles sent me to Switzerland, and have been using it ever since.”
Full Description and Directions for use in Twenty Languages supplied with every
Bottle. 1/-, 2/6, and (three times 2/6 size) 4/6 per Bottle, from Druggists &c
all over the World.
a
S
kS
Photo'd specially lor the •• Harlene Co., by Lan K fier, Bond St., W,
Gariick Theatre, London.
Miss VIOLET VANBRUGH
w> ites —
"l ant very pleased to testify to the excellent
qualities of ■ Harlene,' it is most refreshing and
invigorating and l have found it very Stimulating
to the Growth ol my Hair. - ■
" P S*—l hope fate will never take me to any
quarter oj the globe where I should be unable
to procure ‘ Harlene.' ”
.EDWARDS’
HARLENE” Co., 95 & 96, High Hoi born, London, W.C.


“ Burglar Bill,” re the “ religious '
trimin&l:—
Doing a “ stretch ” in a first-timers’ gaol, I found that
#ie “ religious ” criminal was, in 8 cases out of 10, a
sexual offender —normal or perverted. _ There were two
Ihoirs, O. of E. and R.C., one organist officiating for
both ; and during my stay the three organists (prisoners)
who occupied the position were of this class. Out of 11
prisoners composing the 0. of E. choir seven were sexual
offenders—two of these being “lifers”; and the R.O,
choir had one unnatural offender to every four choristers.
The “ numbers ” of these prisoners were always down in
the request-book for interviews with the clergymen of their
respective denominations when they should visit the
gaol, and in the cell over mine a man, serving 15 years
for a horrible offence, used to drone out prayers of
his own composition during meal-hours and up
to 9 p.m. During the time I acted as prisoners
librarian I had a standing offer of three “ long
tailors ” (gaol-plugs) to one that I could pick the
sexual offender on his library lists (each prisoner selects a
list from the library catalogue). “ Stepping Heaven-
wards,” “ The Gate’s Ajar,” “ Pilgrim’s Progress,”
and the like, were in great demand with this sort;
indeed, in the next cell to mine, an elderly man, con-
victed of a heinous crime against his own daughter, read
nothing but the “Pilgrim’s Progress” for 2J years.!
Nearly all the men of this stamp were loathsome hypo-
crites and crawlers —hated by warders and prisoners
alike for their snuffle and sneakery. I protested
against being exercised in a yard with 27 others —18 of
whom were unnatural offenders; because the sexual
maniac’s conversation is always turned in a sexual direc-
tion. The Comptroller-General is, I believe, in favor of a
division, but at present the underpaid clerk who took a
few pounds of his employer’s money is classed, exercised
and worked with the sexual lunatic. It certainly does
not tend to reform the petty-cash pilferer to find that
the creature in front of him on the exercise-track is an
outrager of his own daughter, or that the case of the
object who is mumbling a prayer behind him was too
filthy for even the gutter press to touch.
SICK MADE WELL
WEAK MADE STRONG.
Marvellous Elixir of Life Discovered
by Famous Doctor-Scientist That
Cures Every Known Ailment
Wonderful Cures are Effected That
Seem Like Miracles Performed—
The Secret of Long Life of
Olden Times Revived.
The Remedy is Free to All Who Bend
Name and Address.
After years of patient study, and delving into
the dusty records of the past, as well as following
mo lern experiments in the realms of medical
science, Dr. James W. Kidd, 48f> First National
Bank-building, Fort Wayne, Ind„ U. S.A.,
DB. JAMES WILLIAM KIDD.
tn&kes the startling announcement that he
has surely discovered the elixir of life. That
he is able with the aid of a mysterious com-
pound, known only to himself, produced as a
result of the years he has spent in searching
for this precious life-giving boon, to cure any
and every disease that is kn own to the human
body. There is no doubt of the doctor’s earnest-
ness in making his claim and the remark-
able cures that he is daily effecting seems to
bear him out very strongly. His theory which
he advances is one of reason and based on
sound experience in a medical practice of many
vears. It costs nothing to try his remarkable
‘‘Elixir of Life," as he calls it, for he sends
it free, to anyone who is a sufferer, in sufficient
quantities to convince of its ability to cure, so
there is absolutely no risk to run. Some of
the cures cited are very remarkable, and but
for reliable witnesses would hardly be credited.
The lame have thrown away crutches and
walked about after two or three trials of tho
remedy. The sick, given up by home doctors,
have been restored to their families and friends
in perfect health. Bheumatism, neuralgia,
stomach, heart, liver, kidney, blood and skin
diseases and bladder troubles disappear as
by magic. Headaches, backaches, nervousness,
fevers, consumption, coughs, colds, asthma,
catarrh, bronchitis and all affections of the
throat, lungs or any vital organs are easily
overcome in a space of time that is simpl
marvellous.
Partial paralysis, locomotor ataxia, dropsy,
gout, scrofula aud piles are quickly and per-
manently removed. It purifies the entire
system, blood and tissues, restores normal
nerve power, circulation and a state of perfect
health is.produced at once. To the doctor all
systems are alike and equally affected by this
great “Elixir of Life.” Send for the rem dy
to-dpy. It is free to every sufferer. State what
you) want to be cured of and the sure remedy
for it will be sent you free by return mad.
Remember, a letter to America requires 2sd.
postage.' Write your name very plain, and be
sure to give your full address, so tli re o;.n be
no mistake in delivery.
The representative book of Australian humor—
STEELE RUDD’S
“ On Our Selection.”
Second impression now ready. Price, 6s. Bd.
post free from The Bulletin office.
ITCHING HUMOURS
SPEEDY CURE TREATMENT
FOR EVERY HUMOUR.
Bathe the affected parts with hot water and CUTICURA
SOAP, to cleanse the skin and scalp of crusts and scales, and
soften the thickened cuticle. Dry, without hard rubbing, and
apply CUTICURA OINTMENT freely to allay itching, irritation,
and inflammation, and soothe and heal, and lastly take CUTI-
CURA RESOLVENT PILLS, to cool and cleanse the *blood.
This pure, sweet, and wholesome treatment affords instant
relief, permits rest and sleep, and points to a speedy, perman-
ent, and economical cure of the most torturing, disfiguring,
itching, burning, and scaly skin, scalp, and blood humours,
eczemas, rashes, and irritations, from infancy to age, with
loss of hair, when all else fails.
MILLIONS USE CUTICURA SOAP
Assisted by Cuticura Ointment, for preserving, purifying, and beautify-
ing the skin, for cleansing the scalp of crusts, scales, and dandruff, and the
stopping of falling hair, for softening, whitening, and soothing red, rough,
and sore hands, for baby rashes, itchings, and chafings, and for all the pur-
poses of the toilet, bath, and nursery. Millions of Women use Cuticura
Soap in the form of baths for annoying irritations, inflammations, and
excoriations, for too free or offensive perspiration, in the form of washes
for ulcerative weaknesses, and for many sanative, antiseptic purposes which
readily suggest themselves to women, especially mothers.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT PILLS, CHOCOLATE COATED,
Are a new, tasteless, odourless, economical substitute for the celebrated liquid Cuticura
Resolvent, as well as for all other blood purifiers and humour cures. Put up in screw-
cap pocket vials containing 60 doses. Cuticura Pills are alterative, antiseptic, tonic,
and digestive, and beyond question the purest, sweetest, most successful and economical
blood and skin purifiers, humour cures, and tonic-digestives, yet compounded.
CtmcußA. Rbwkdiks are sold throughout the world. Auetralian Depot! R. Towns A Co., Sydney. Britieh
Depot: 27-88, Charterhouse Bq., London. French Depots ft Rue de la Paix, Faria. Potteb Dbdo and Cher.
Coar., Sola Prop*., Boston, U. B. A.
S? High-Class Smoking Mixture
ff A
HAS NO EQUAL IN QUALITY.
3WILD.
FULL.
ausDxuTvr.
In i-lb. AIR-TIGHT TINS.
Dr J A AUSTIN writes: “ After a long and fruitless quest for an ideal smoking mixture, I have at
last alighted on the famous « ARDATH,* which is perfectly free from the crudeness and asperities of inferior
tobacco so injurious to the heart and nerves, and renders smoking a harmless luxury.
S. HOFFNUNG & CO. Ltd., Wholesale Tobacconists,
WhDhMle Agent, for Australia. v SYDNEY and BRISBANE
Sole Manufacturers: ARDATH TOBACCO CO., 44 Worship Street, London, England.
MODEL ENGINES,
SCIENTIFIC MARVELS, &c,
for New Catalogue.
Osborn & Jerdan,
«MY OPTICIANS,”
393 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY,
'And at Brisbane. Post Free to any Address.
LoNG DRINK
0
£
$
A
I
INTSE
FRUITJ
yP URE !
Lime
- Fruit
Juice
Sola Consignees—
i EVANS SONS,
r LESCHER & WEBB,
Limited.
London & Liverpool.
Agents:
Elliott Bros., Ltd.; J. Connell & Co., Sydney.
D. Cohen & Co., Newcastle.
A Distinct Advance in Infant Feeding.
THE
*
Mi*™
"■KIM
TntimtmP)
i Oi
Han
The “Allenburys” Foods provide nourishment suited to the growing digestive powers
of the Infant, and constitute an altogether distinct advance on the mischievous expedient of trying
to make the child’s stomach accomodate itself to a food essentially unsuited to its digestive powers.
Farinaceous foods of all kinds are totally unfit for infants under five or six months of age, such foods
being a potent cause of digestive troubles, rickets, and many disorders arising from mal-nutrition.
The “Allenburys” Foods are especially valuable in hot
climates. They are in the form of powder and keep perfeotiy.
Pamphlet on “INFANT FEEDING” (48 pages) free, from
495, Bourke Street, Melbourne.
ALLEN & HANBURYS, Ltd., London, Eng.
MILK FOOD No. 1.
From birth to three months.
MILK FOOD No. 2.
From three to six months.
MALTED FOOD No. 3.
From six months and upwards.
DARK OR AROMATIC
FINEST SELECTED
AMERICAN LEAF.
TOBACCO
HIGHEST QUAUTY
MANUFACTURED.


*S?Si*I3S
•T-,
i.
•tv
XVo+4o'* A.
n ,
I
W V
>*v
V///s
\
i
>
4\
/
%
and so does
PEARS
*'■s. A -
V
v-
€s-
S:±/
-J
ft*
V’tjiJ
it:
xry
»U»!
■ '»>".
1
SP!
i
\ <Vy/>
-V 1
%
8
- y
■■;#v
What
it
Means
To
Yon
If you could suddenly be provided with the ability to play
the piano perfectly, and to retain the ability without the necessity
of constant practice, would you not gladly j ay £OO 1
The PIANOLA will provide this wonderful ability. It will
give to any one absolute control over the piano.
It will enable you to play your piano, although you may not
have played one note in your life.
No musical knowledge is necessary and the possessor of a
PIANOLA finds himself master of a technique greater than that
of any artist that ever lived.
Is it not worth while to consider the advisability of owning
a PIANOLA yourself 1 If you will write us, we will mail you
free a catalogue describing the instrument. When writing, ask
for Catalogue “ B.”
The price of the Pianola is £6O for prompt cash, or £65 on
moderate monthly payments.
Henry M. Birge & Co.
323 George Street, Sydney ;
185-187 Collins St., Melbourne.
Along the Castlereagh.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Uncle Jim was building a house-boat. He had
been reading a Sunday paper which pointed out
in its leading article on melon jam, that every
selector with a creek frontage could, with a small
outlay, spend his summer months on a house-boat,
instead of sweltering night and day ashore under
an iron roof.
Uncle had bought eight dozen egg-boxes from
Brannigan, the storekeeper, also some twine and
a pound of nails. Three palings laid endways
made a capital garboard-strake ; there were corn-
sacks to make an awning, and several buckets of
tar from Feeney’s wool-shed to caulk the timbers.
Uncle said it would be worth looking at when
finished; strong in the hull, and guaranteed
not to founder when uncle Bill fell out of bed.
Uncle hammered at the garboard-strake until
the sweat dripped from his arms. A man came
round the liend carrying a bundle on his shoulder;
he wore blue serge clothes and walked with the
swagger of a seafaring man. His legs curved
slightly, and there were knots and wrinkles on his
skin, showing that the sea had warped him badly.
He stopped near our fence, lit his pipe, and
watched uncle measure an imaginary deck-house
with a piece of twine.
“Buildin’ a barge?” he asked, and threw a
lighted match into the dry scrub.
Uncle glanced at him sideways, but made no
answer. I he sailor-man’s eye wandered towards
the homestead, and then down to the boulders in
the creek bed.
“Any gold about here?” he said huskily. “I
was told you’d got it rich up here.”
Uncle stopped hammering the garboard-strake
and looked kindly at the new-chum. There could
lie no evil in a man, he thought, who hunted for
nuggets along the Castlereagh.
“There ain’t no gold in my paddick, matey;
th’ niggers took it all away. We grow nothing
but lyre birds an’ cassowaries here. There might
be a few diamonds, but we ain’t had the time ter
look.”
The sailor-man appeared depressed, and threw
another lighted match into our dry scrub. “ Want
a hand with yer boat?” he asked, anxiously.
“It ain’t a boat.” Uncle turned his back and
piled 13 egg-boxes where he intended the dining-
room to be. “ It’s a machine fer shearin’ goats,”
he went on. “Shearer goes in one end, goat
t’other. If the shearer stays in, ye send in ’nother
goat.” He touched a board with the hammer
gently. ‘This is the slot ye put the shearer in.
It’s me own idea.”
It s a boat,” said the sailor-man, stubbornly,
“ and you’ll never shift her without the right sort
o’ power.”
Uncle looked flattered and lit his pi > “ You
seem to know a bit about boats, ma! What
sort of power would yer use, if it’s » Jr ques-
tion ? ”
The sailor-man cast another matcn in.,,, our
scrub, and swung his bandy legs over the rail.
“ Why hitch her to a team o’ cows?” he answered
quietly. “Stick yer compass between the near
cow’s horns an’ steer by her head. Plenty of
cow-power in this country.” Uncle walked
towards him, the hammer in his fist. “ Get off
my land,” he said, looking hard at the sailor’s
feet; “get off .”
The man slipped away hastily, and disappeared
round the bend.
“Danm ye! why didn’t ye stop him?” cried
uncle to me. But I sat still, and argued that it
was unlucky to stop a man with curved legs.
Uncle cursed us both as he stamped out the tiny
flames that crackled along the fence.
Towards the end of the month the Castlereagh
fell 9in., and one dark night Cassidy, accompanied
by 18 underfed bullocks, walked through the
boathouse from stem to stern ; he is now threaten-
ing to sue uncle for obstructing the thoroughfare.
* * « *
A circus-agent came to the house one day, and
gazed fixedly at our paddock. “Plenty of level
space here,” he said loudly. There were rings on
his fingers half concealed in the flesh.
Uncle came to the verandah. “What the
h ,” he began.
The agent lit a cigar. “We’ve seven caravans,
14 horses, a performing goat and a bear,” he said.
“ Git out!” thundered uncle; “d’ye hear?”
“ I expect ’em to arrive here to-morrow,” went
on the agent. “We don’t object to paying a
little ground-rent.”
“But—” uncle came off the verandah, his
hands in his pockets.
The agent began striding up and down the
paddock, as though measuring it off. “Yer look
like a business man,” said uncle, following him.
“What’s yer name?” Ten minutes afterwards
the agent lent him a shilling. Uncle walked back
with him to the end of the paddock and shook
hands at the sliprail.
* * * »
Aunt, who knew nothing about the circus, was
standing at the door, deep in thought. Suddenly
the shaggy head of a full-grown bear appeared
over the fence and looked straight into her face.
Aunt’s exclamation was heard up the river and
down the river ; then she backed inside and piled
furniture against the doors.
“What’s th’ matter?” shouted uncle, looking
in at the window. “Frightened of a poor old
bear. What rot, Emma ! Call yourself a bush-
woman?” He walked deliberately towards the
slothful apparition lolling over the fence. “Poor
old chap,” he began, soothingly. “What’s th’
matter with yer, eh ? Poor old boy ! ”
The bear’s ears twitched slightly ; the tip of his
black muzzle moved up and down. Uncle’s voice
seemed to brighten him up, and when uncle
stroked the thick fur between his ears he emitted
a pleased noise, and put two huge paws on uncle’s
shoulder. “ Poor old chap, poor old chap ! ” The
bear and uncle began to swing rythmically to
and fro.
“Don’t be top friendly, old chap,” breathed
uncle. “Don’t spile me clothes.”
The brute moaned softly, but drew uncle closer
and began to lick his face, eyes, ears and cheek.
“ Blast ye, let me go ! Don’t try ter wash me.”
He struggled gamely, but the bear seemed lonely
and pining for company, and after he had licked
uncle’s face thoroughly, he started with his rasp-
like tongue to lick the clothes off uncle’s back.
Just then the keeper came running towards them,
and he hit the bear on the hind leg with a paling.
„ “ He's a great wrassler, boss,” he said apolo-
getically to uncle, “ but he aint used to your
style.”
‘ ‘ Holy Moses ! ” Uncle wiped his wet face and
retreated from the fence. “What d’ye mean by
tyin’ a thing like that to my property?”
Been licking yer? ” grinned the keeper.
“Lick?” choked uncle; “’Struth, he’s worse
than a member of Parliment.”
• * • *
Uncle walked towards the Swag and Pannikin
somewnat dubiously. The bear had torn his coat
and licked his hair into a permanently upright
condition. He stayed a moment at the crossing
to read a police notice nailed to a tree which
stated in big letters that the sum of one hundred
pounds would be paid to any person supplying
information that would lead to the arrest of
Jimmy and Joe Governor,
“ ter meet Jimmy or Joe,” said uncle
aloud ; “if I was to meet 'em in the scrub. . ,
By cnpes ! A hundred quid’s a lot of money.”
He entered the pub. and discovered Brannigan
and Pat Casey playing quoits. Before he had
time to call for his drink, Professor Buzzi, the
circus contortionist, walked in and ordeied a glass
of port wine. The professor wore a suit of white
duck, and his black hair fell in oiled ringlets
about his neck. Uncle stared at him for three
minutes, it was the first time he had ever seen an
oiled professor, and he burst into a fit of horrible
laughter. The pub.’s pet jackass echoed the laugh
and sent it across the river. The professor put
aside his wine ; his face reddened.
‘ What fora you laugh lika that ?” he demanded
hotly.
Maybe yer lookin’ for a scrap?” Uncle’s
temper changed suddenly. The bear had ruffled
his temper, and the sight of a newly-washed con-
tortionist with oiled ringlets was more than he
could stand.
“Maybe yer’d like to put ’em up?” Uncle,
who prides Himself on his footwork, walked round
the professor, feinting with his dirt-smeared left.
The professor watched him until uncle’s left
came towards his ear ; with a sudden leap he rose
in the air and descended with both legs round
uncle’s neck, then bending his back he twisted his
body and arms into a figure 8 knot round uncle’s
ribs. “You dara hita me now,” he said, cheer-
fully. Uncle staggered about the bar with the
contortionist’s head peeping from under his left
arm.
Brannigan and Casey continued playing quoits.
Publican Primrose leaned over the counter read-
ing a paper.
“ Take this—bloke—off—me—neck—Casey,”
cried uncle. “Yer can have me plough-horses
any time next week.”
Casey stared at uncle, and then looked hard at
Brannigan. “I can’t see a bloke round yer neck
Jim. ”
“Go home, Jim.” Brannigan picked up the
quoits and put them on the peg. “’Tis a good
slape ye want. Ye’ve been dhrinkin’ heavy of
late. Go home, Jim, like a good mahn.”
Uncle stood still for a moment, then sprang for-
ward, twisting himself like a buckjumper. The
contortionist smiled, and knocked his head on
uncle’s breast. “You hita me now,” he whis-
pered.
Uncle ran to the fireplace and rubbed the pro-
fessor’s head up and down the chimney for three
minutes, then, with a shout, he started down the
road towards the Flat.
Several mounted shearers coming towards the
pub. pulled up in surprise, at sight of uncle and
the soot-smeared contortionist.
* Don’t stop me, lads!” he shouted; “I’m
carryin’ this cove for a wager.” He dashed full-
speed over the bridge into the police-station. »
Constable Murphy, brightening his handcuffs
with a rag, looked up hastily. “F’what have ye
there, Sloan ? ” he demanded.
“ Jimmy Governor ! ” gasped uncle; “I’ve bin
chasin’ him for a week, an’ here he is at last. Git
him off me neck, Murphy ! ”
Constable Murphy hit the contortionist with
the point of his finger under a certain rib, and the
contortionist straightened out immediately. An-
other policeman, standing by, rushed him into a
cell and banomd the
Uncle stood by and breathed.
“Yer a good malm, toioan,” said Murphy,
admiringly. “ A diver mahn, Sloan.”
“I played a waitin’ game, Murphy.* Uncle
leaned familiarly against the door. “How about
th’ reward ?” he asked, anxiously.
“How dara you locka me up?” screamed the
Professor from the cell ; “you leta me out now 1 ”
“Behave there, Jimmy,” growled Murphy,
peeping in at the cell grating, “or I’ll shake the
thripes out av ye.”
The Professor wept bitterly in Italian.
Uncle borrowed a shilling from Murphy, pro-
mising to repay it when the reward-money arrived ;
but that night Jimmy Governor contorted his
way through the lock-up roof and was not seen
again in the district.
Uncle said it was a put-up job to rob him of
the reward. Anyhow, he never paid Murphy his
shilling.
ALBERT DORRINGTON.
Hard Luck.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Little Charlie had sat near his pen on the shear-
ing-hoard nearly all through the dinner-hour,
listening silently to the others spinning buck-
jumping lies before he started to tell his small,
plain truth.
“I could ride a bit, meself, one time,” he said.
“ Oh yes, I’ll own up that I was thrown once, but
it was only pure hard luck.
“You see, the old man, when he owned a
s’lection on G-uniworil, had a horse called Archer
that simply licked creation to buck. In fact, 1
was the only one could ride him. Me brother
Dan said he rode him once, but he often told lies.
“Once, I had to go to Wombindi with wool,
and was away for a month, and Archer had a
longer spell than he’d had since bein’ broke-in. I
catches him the mornin’ after my return, and puts
the saddle on him. He was quite quiet; you
couldn’t frighten him with the saddle; but we all
knew what to expect once I mounted. As luck
happen’d, me girl was there that mornin’ to have a
look, an’ I made up me mind to sit Archer if only
for the sake of her presence. Spare me days ! that
was just the reason I had to be slung. Archer let
me seat meself, an’ then he starts.
“ First me cap came olf, but that was nothing ;
nor when me tobacco was slung out of one
trousers-pocket, an’ me knife out of the other, I
wasn’t greatly int’rested. But when both heels
were bucked off me boots an’ the laces whisked
out an’ me boots fell off, I reckoned that Archer
was gettin’ into form. Next the studs and buttons
began to leave me shirt; an’ then—as Archer
bucked from the middle of the yard an’ struck the
top-rail on one side, an’ then whipped round in
mid-air an’ landed at the other side perpendic’lar
on his head —me shirt was whipped up over me
shoulders an’ slung in the dirt, an’a false tooth
was jerked down me throat.
“Still, me an’ Archer was inseparable. Me
girl rushed in an’ picked up me shirt an’ gave me
an admirin’ smile. I saw it; an’ I silently prayed
that the Lord would, at least, spare me pants, an’
I’d never get slung in front of that girl.
“ But, the very next buck, me belt shot up
under me arms an’ one leg of me pants was shook
right off, an’ then—well, in the int’rests of
decency, I had to leave. Hard luck, wasn’t it ? ”
GENERAL.


Hundreds of Aching Backs.
(Z
\r
Mr. Jas. Rees, 97 Macquarie-street South, this city,
says:—“For over three years now I’ve seen my name
appearing in the Sydney papers in connection with
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. The statement set out
that these pills had cured me of Lumbago-like pains in
the small of my back. Well, that statement is quite true.
Four years have now passed since I used that medicine,
and I’ve been right ever since. It is no fool of a medi-
cine that will cure like that. I had been having a lot of
trouble with the back before I got this remedy. I am a
painter, and no doubt the nature of my calling induced
the complaint. Six weeks before I got Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills my ailment was a lot worse than usual, my
back paining horribly, and I had an all-tired-out feeling.
I felt I had to do something for it, so I got Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills, and they cured me. For backache
these pills can’t be equalled.”
Yes ; thousands of them here in Sydney.
In offices, in workshops, in homes—everywhere they may be found.
But they should not be aching Nature never intended them to ache. And
they wouldn’t ache if it were not for the delicate nature of those filters of the
blood—the kidneys.
You know that when a filter gets clogged up there’s going to be serious
trouble if it isn’t cleaned out. It’s exactly the same with the kidneys —they
become clogged and disordered through cold, overwork, strain, or faulty living —
the poisons they ought to take out of the blood are left and carried all round the
system. Backaches and Kidney Trouble follow as surely as night follows day.
But there’s a cure—a perfectly safe, sure, and proved cure—
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
They have been curing people in Sydney for years, curing every form of
Kidney Trouble—yes, even down to the last stages of Bright’s Disease and
Diabetes. They will cure you, too.
This claim is backed up by
SYDNEY PROOF.
Mr. John Allen, 42 Palmer-street, Woolloomooloo,
writes : —“My kidneys have been out of order two years,
and my back ached all the time. The pains were located
light iu the small of my back, and sometimes travelled
between the shoulders. A white sediment appeared in
the secretions, which were mostly discolored very much.
Various remedies were recommended to me, but I got no
relief until I used Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. These
Pills went straight to the kidneys without affecting
the bowels, consequently causing no weakness or inter-
ference with my work. They have effected a cure in my
case, and I have no hesitation in recommending them to
other sufferers.”
Mrs. Allen states, four years later “My husband has
never had any trouble with the kidneys since he used
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills about four years ago.
The pills effected an absolute cure in his case. I know
of other cases where marked benefits have resulted from
the use of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.”
Mr. F. Florance, 208 Alfred-st., North Sydney, says:
“About five years ago I had a lot of bother with a pain-
ful back, brought on, I believe, by weak kidneys. It
used to be so bad that I could not stand up straight, or
do any work, and I began to think that I was crippled
with my back. I procured a box of Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills, as they seemed promising for my ailment.
lam glad to say that they wrought a cure. The first few
doses gave me ease. I have said as much as this in a
previous statement which I made over three years ago,
when I had been free of the pains over twelve months.
Now, I may state that I am still free of the trouble, and
that I ve never had a pain since I made that statement.
It is a wonder to me that the pills proved so good at my
age. I can work and use my back as freely as in mv
young days.”
For sale by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes 15s. 3d.), or will be posted on receipt of
price by Foster McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
BUT BE SURE THEY ARE DOAN’S.
The Star that Fell.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He was a slave of the snaffle and spur;
She was a queen in the land,
With the white of the snow on her blue-veined
brow
And the earth in her hollowed hand.
She, who had all of the wide world’s best
To wait on her whispered word,
Stood by the moon with him breast to breast
Where the box-leaves fluttered and stirred.
“ Ah ! why are your lips so sweet, so sweet ?
And why do your soft arms twine ?
And the golden heart of you, why does it beat
On this rough man’s heart of mine ?
“And why do you care for my love?” he said,
“Who am under your feet so far.
Distant and dim as the glow-worm’s red
Might seem to the midnight star?”
“Ah! Love, my Love!” And her fair face
flushed—
“ Am I richer than you, after all ?
For the glow-worm’s life may indeed be crushed,
But you know that a star may fall! ” *
Then they wandered away in the silver night
Down the meadows that march with Hell—
And the glow-worm shines with his old warm
light,
—lt was only the star that fell!
U.K.
WILL OGILVIE.
T’e Overdraf'.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The little M.L. town was shaken to its centre.
All sorts of rumors buzzed through the streets.
One thing was certain —a new manager sat in the
bank parlor up the street, and the former manager
walked disconsolate. Then the local paper added
to the sensation. One of their most respected
citizens, who had been recently banqueted on the
eve of his departure for England and the Con-
tinent, was returning from ’Frisco without com-
pleting his trip. A restricted overdraft was popu-
larly supposed to be the cause.
The overdraft became the one subject of dis-
cussion throughout the town ; over in the pah, up
the river, the Maoris had a talk on the subject.
Meanwhile, the new manager gathered up his pre-
decessor’s reins and conducted the bank’s business
in the strictest manner, especially in regard to
overdrafts.
» • * »
“T’e boss in?”
“ Knock at the door,” said the solitary and
youthful clerk to the 17-stone Maori.
“ Come in ! ” cried the manager. “ Aw, I don’t
buy whitebait. ”
“ Me Paul,” said the Maori, depositing his tin
of whitebait on the floor and sinking into the
clients’ chair.
“ Yes,” said the manager.
“Me your fren’; shake hart’s,” said the Maori.
“ Me going away trip, Nort’ Island.”
“ Well,” said the manager.
“You make me t’e overdraf’.”
The manager laughed.
“ Ten poun’ overdraf’,” said Paul, seriously.
“ No overdrafts to people who can’t give secu-
rity.”
“ What you call him ? ”
“Property, land, things,” explained the mana-
ger.
“Plenty gun, canoe.”
“ No, Paul, no good ; I’m busy this morning.”
Then Paul, ticking off on his fingers the names
of some of the leading citizens, “You make t’e
overdraf Brown—be no pay, he no good. You
make t’e overdraf Jones—he no pay, he no good.
You make t’e overdraf Robinson—all no good.
You make t’e overdraf Paul—he right, good,
werry good.”
“It won’t do, Paul—good-day,” pointing to the
door.
Paul rose and stooped over the table.
“You make t’e overdraf five poun’.”
“No.”
“You make t’e overdraf one poun’.”
“Not a shilling.”
“Pah!’’said Paul, “bank no good,” and he
walked majestically towards the door.
“ Don’t let any more of these Maoris enter my
room,” the manager said to the clerk when Paul
was safely off the premises.
The clerk was adding a column of figures when
a soft footfall caught his ear.
“ Hi ! stop ! You can’t go in there,” he cried.
A Maori woman, no longer in the first bloom
of her youth, bare-headed and bare-footed, looked
over her shoulder and laughed. She opened the
manager’s door, without knocking, and walked in.
“ Hurro ! ” she cried ; “ Me Miriama.”
“Go away, Miriama ; this is not an hotel. No
place for Maoris.”
“You know Paul, t’e Maori? You no make
him t’e overdraf ? ”
“Of course not.”
“ Paul, he no good—he no pay. You no make
him t’e overdraf. You know Miriama ” (tapping
herself on the breast)—“you make t’e overdraf
Miriama ; she all right, she good”—advancing on
him with a smile from ear to ear and with
extended hands.
The manager grabbed a ruler and dodged round
the table.
“ Go out! ” he cried.
“One poun’ overdraf’.”
“Go out !”
“One bob overdraf’.”
‘ ‘ Go out! ”
“You got t’e match?” asked Miriama, pro-
ducing her pipe from under her shawl.
4 ‘ Take some and go,” cried the relieved manager,
handing her his silver match-box.
She took one, and slipped the match-box under
her shawl.
Then two ladies, the leaders of “society ” in the
township, who were calling upon the manager
about some important social function, walked into
the room.
“Hurro!” cried Miriama to them. “You
make t’e overdraf’, too? No damn good,” she
added, shaking her head.
Then waving her pipe to the speechless
manager, “Good day, boy,” she disappeared into
the street.
* • * *
That afternoon was the first the manager had
felt free to enjoy away from the office, and he
walked for miles along the one road that led
inland. .
He was unused to the bush, and its beauty
tempted him to leave the road and explore its
labyrinths. At first he was certain he could re-
gain the road in five minutes; then he was
doubtful how long it would take, but was confident
of ultimate success. Finally, he was tired-out,
and whether the road lay north, south, east or
west was an unsolvable problem. All around was
a tangled, almost impenetrable mass of vegetation
—nothing but moss and ferns and undergrowth
and trees in wild profusion.
“Coo-ee!” he shouted. No response. He
shouted and shouted again. Then there was an
answering cry—a noise of parting branches, and
a Maori stepped into view, carrying a brace of
snared kakas (parrots).
“ Hurro t’e bank ! ” he exclaimed.
“ Is that you, Paul ? ” said the manager.
“You look for t’e pah to bring me t’e overdraf, ’
inquired Paul.
“I’ve lost my way.”
“ Don’t know where ? ” asked the Maori.
“ No; which is the way to the road ? ”
Paul looked at the manager ; his wan, pale face,
torn hands and clothes —mud-red to the knee.
“ You make me t’e overdraf’ fifty poun’.”
“ Nonsense ! I’ll give you five shillings to show
me the road.”
“Pah ! ” exclaimed Paul, picking up the birds.
“ Ten shillings,” said the manager.
“Pah, you boy, you tired, you go home,” said
Paul as he turned on his heel.
“ Stop. I say, I’ll give you a pound.”
“Twenty poun’ overdraf.”
It was already dark in the recesses of the bush,
and the manager, in despair, cried:
“Look here, I’ll give you five pounds, all the
money I have with me.”
“Show,” said Paul.
Paul put the five-pound note in his pocket, led
the manager a few steps through some luxuriant
ferns to a beaten track —pointed down it, and,
turning round, was lost in the depths of the bush.
The manager walked along the narrow track for
fifty paces and turned the flank of a big rata tree.
“Well, I’m d ——d!” he exclaimed, as he
looked across a large clearing and saw a horseman
jogging lazily homewards along the road.
• * • •
“Me make t’e overdraf’ five poun’,” said Paul,
and bis financial mana was great.
MAORI LAND.
T. H.
LIZ.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Kit was the woman for him, after all; he had as
much as told her so, and she had as much as
agreed.
Everyone understood that Liz and he were to
be spliced in a month, and as even the wedding
things had been arranged, this conviction ;uout
Liz being the right one had come at a difficult
time. He was wondering how he could back-out
of the business.
• “ I’ll go down to Liz and tell the whole
truth, ” he said at last. ‘ ‘ She never went agin me
yet, an’ I’ll arsk her ter give me the kick-off, an’
say as ’ow I carn’t ’elp what’s happened. . . . I’ll
tell her as how I always knowed she wuz a brick,
an j » He drew his hat over his eyes and set
off in the direction of Liz’s home.
Liz met him at the door. Her manner seemed
somewhat distant. She was dressed to kill in a
whitish-looking thing with frills roui d it. Jim
was fond of whitish things.
“Oh, it’s yah!” she said. “I didn’t quite
know yer at first; step in. I wuz expectin’ some-
one else.”
“That accounts fer yer bein got up so fine.
Who’s ther girl, Liz ? ”
•'lt ain’t a girl; it’s someone yer—yer knows
yerself.”
'i'ne expression of Jim’s face became more
decided : “Spit his name out. Ain’t he got ’er
name?” . .
Liz stepped up closer and laid a hafld on his
arm. “ Jirri,” she said, “we was wonderin’ if—if
you’d let me orf that promise I give yer about
gettin’ spliced ? ”
Jim was too taken aback to remember that he
had come to ask that same question : “ Why are
yer wantin’ ter back out o’ it, Liz?” he asked,
grumblingly. .
“ Because o’ a friend o’ unne. It ain t fair that
me, who can have me pick and choice of the
blokes around, should cotton to yer, when she’d
give her very eyes fer yer. It weren’t as if I were
perticular which I accepts. But ct f I b lieve
she’d let yer walk on ’er if yer was ter arsk ’er.
Lor’! she do love yer. Yer’ll never get another
so willin’ ter have yer; so yer oughter take yer
charnce now it’s come.”
Jim tried to say something, but Liz went on :
“I know she ain’t a beauty—but watter that?
Sal was laughin’ at her mouth larst night. But a
mouth don’t make a woman—do it, Jim ? ”
Jim looked at Liz’s pretty mouth and said
nothing, while Liz continued: “ An’ her eyes,
they ain’t nothin’ ter be ashamed of. They say
I’ve a fine pair o’ eyes, but I carn’t say as I’d be
ashamed o’Tier’s if 1 got ’em.”
“It ain’t fair o’ them ter be pointin’out her
faults,” said Jim, looking down.
“No, it ain’t; an’ when I goes ter ther circus
Monday I’ll tell ’em so. I’ll say, ‘lf Kit ain’t
favorable-lookin’, she’s a friend o’ mine all the
same. ” .
“ O ! Monday, who’s a-takin’ yer, Liz ?
Liz looked down and traced the cracks in the
hearthstone with her foot. “ ’E’s awful ’andsome,
Jim,” she murmured.
“Liz !”
“Yes!”
“Who is it?”
“It ain’t any interest ter you, Jim.” There
was silence for a long minute, and then Liz spoke
again: “Yer don’t mind, do yer, Jim? I was
meanin’ to keep it secret till Monday.” _
“ Won’t yer go on keepin’ it secret, Liz?”
“Why’”
“ ’Cause—’cause —’cause yer promised ter come
out with me o’ Monday.”
“ But there’s Kit; she ain’t got no one tor take
her, an’ I can get lots. It don’t seem fair ter be
talcin’ her last chance; she’s bin watching it fer
months, too. I used ter think yer ratty when yer
couldn’t see what she were at.”
“’Speets I wuz, Liz—but, say, Liz, are yer
really tryin’ ter back out o’ that bein’ spliced next
month ? ”
“ Well, I bin thinkin’ o’ Kit-—what of her ?
“ Bust ’er; wot about us bein’ spliced o’ Mon-
day?”
“ Are yer meanin’ it, Jim ? ”
‘‘ Course ; wot yer take me for ? ”
JEHAN.


Bad Blood. Boils
Suffered Greatly, Skin in Terrible Condition. Blood Filled with
Impurities. All Remedies but One Failed.
V
''s*s
Mr. 11. Feder, of Prospect, South
Australia, sends us liis photograph
and says:
“About two months ago I began to
feel badly all over. I was easily made
tired. I lost my appetite and was very
nervous. In a few days my arms and
neck were all broken out with large
boils. For weeks my suffering was
terrible. I tried remedy after remedy,
but without relief. A friend told me it
was not my skin but my blood that
needed help, and urged me to try Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla. He said he knew many
people who had been cured by it. I
bought a bottle, and I began to feel
better at once. My appetite returned,
my food digested better, and I felt
greatly encouraged. Before the bottle
was all used my blood was pure and
the boils had entirely disappeared.”
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
Boils, rashes, pimples, eruptions, eczema, etc., are but evidences of trouble
down deep in tbe blood. Don’t treat tbe skin. Treat the blood. Take Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla, the medicine that has been curing impure blood for 60 years.
When your blood is pure the skin will be smooth and healthy. And you will
feel brighter, better in every way.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla isn’t like other Sarsaparillas. It is made differently, con-
tains stronger medicines. Don’t experiment with imitations.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Makes the Blood Pore and Rich
Keep your bowels in good condition by taking Ayer’s Pills*
The Bulletin's Popular Publications,
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Fifth Thousand. Cloth, 4s. 6d.; postage, 6d,
THE BULLETIN RECITER
By Eighty Bulletin Writers. Sixth Thousand. Cloth, Illustrated, 65.; postage, 4d.
ON OUR SELECTION
By A. H. Davis (“ Steele Rudd ”). Twelfth Thousand. Cloth, Illustrated, 65.; postage, Bd.
CASTRO’S LAST SACRATIENT
And Other Stories, by Albert Dobbington. Second Thousand. Cloth, 4s. 6d. ; postage, 7d.
Obtainable from all Booksellers, or from the Publishers—
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., Ltd., 214 George-St, Sydney, Australia
SORE
SINGLETONS EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORB AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYELASHES-
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES.
NEVER FAILS.
Ask youp Chemist fop the Little Book:
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
CURED
“IT’S A MARVEL!”
EVERY WOMAN
is interested and should know
about the wonderful
Marvel Whirling Spray
The new FEMALE SYRINGE
Injection and Suction. The best,
safest and most convenient.
It Cleanses Instantly.
If your druggist cannot
supply the MARVEL,
accept no other, but write us for
Illustrated Book, sent free —
sealed. It gives price by mail,
particulars and directions invalu-
able to ladies, indorsed by Physicians.
Times Building, N. Y.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN AGENTS-
THE MARVEL CO.
OF AUSTRALIA.
Camden Building, 418 George Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
LADY SPECIALISE IN ATTENDANCE.
Postal Address, Box 623, G.P.0., Sydney
Write for Booklet. Sent free, sealed.
« o ' aW "b To/v ’*
IRISH MOSS
-The besf remedy
INFLUENZA,
COUGHS,
FOR
Ask for Banning ton’s
and seeth&tyou get it.
COL 05,
BRONCHITIS.
ASTHMA.
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
PTLLs
CURE
Bilious and Nervous Disorders,
Constipation, Indigestion, Sick-
Headache, Dyspepsia, and all
Stomachic Troubles.
Arouse Sluggish and Torpid Livers.
Purify the Blood, Remove Scurvy>
Improve the Complexion, Regu-
late the System.
M's
m
rv
-
It is surprising how they do it, but they
do—they get there—there is no mistake
about it. They have a way of going straight
to business that gives satisfaction, and
that is the main thing. If Beecham’s Pills
did not give satisfaction, no amount of
forcing would induce the publio to swallow
them. It is because they have been found
to carry out the requirements of an ex-
pectant and suffering humanity, going
straight as an arrow to the seat of the mis-
chief, that Beecham’s Pills can claim such
an enormous sale after a trial of 57 years.
The Sale exceeds 6,000,000 Boxes Annually.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
In Boxes, Price 1/1-J- (56 Pills) and 2/9 (168 Pills).
ROBERTS’ HOTEL.
COBNEB
George 0 Market Sts.,
LADIES prefer ROBERTS’ HOTEL because it is situated bight ON THE FASHION-
ABLE BLOCK in the centre of the LEADING SHOPS, THEATRES, and
CHURCHES.
GENTLEMEN because it is in the BUSINESS HEART OF THE CITY.
EVERYBODY because it is the MOST COMFORTABLE, BEST CONDUCTED, and
MOST UP-TO-DATE IN THE COMMONWEALTH.
TERMS.—The Convenient and Modern System of paying for
Room on arrival, and Meals as they are had.
BEDROOM, Single, 3s. per day ; Double, 6s. per day.
SINGLE ROOfl, with Full Board, Bs. per day, £2 2s. per week.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL, George and Market Streets, SYDNEY.
Dr.LL.Smith,
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the East
THE BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
All
M.D., C.M., L.R.C.P.E., L.E.C.5.1.,
L.P.P.S.G., L.M., etc..
Registered by the Medical Boards of Great
Britain, Victoria, New South Wales,
etc.,
The Eminent Specialist, whose unparalleled success in the Treatment of Blood and Nerve
Diseases has earned for him a reputation unequalled by any other Specialist in Australia, may be consulted
daily at “ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 Elizabeth-st., Sydney. Old and Obsolete Methods discarded.
DR. MARTIN'S latest discovery has proved absolutely effective in all cases of Blood Disease, Nerve
Affections, Paralysis, Lung, Heart, Skin, and all Diseases of Men and Women. His
Consulting Rooms are replete with all the latest and most scientific improvements in Electric
Appliances, etc. Country Patients treated by correspondence at their own homes. Advice and
Medicine, One Pound. All Sufferers, who do not wish to consult a doctor, should write for a copy
of Dr. Martin’s Latest Medical Work, entitled, “ Mind Over Matter; or, How to Secure a New Lease of Life
without Drugs, Medicines, or Quack Nostrums,” This work should find a place in every household, as it contains
a full and explicit account of the Most Wonderful Treatment of the Present Age. It has been the means of
Curing Thousands who followed out the instructions contained therein. This Marvellous Treatment
Cleanses and Rejuvenates the Whole System, and is the Cheapest Treatment in Existence, as
nothing but the Book is required.
Price, 55.; by post, ss. 6d.
Delay is Dangerous. Obtain a copy at once from the Publishers, “ ELMLEY HOUSE,”
151 Elizabeth-street, Sydney.


PERDRIAU & CO
270 GEORGE STREET
(Between Hunter and Bond Streets).
WE SHIP ON APPROVAL
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles. Fully warranted.
Latest
Models'
£2.10t0£5.5.0
Dunlop Tyres, Steel or Wood Rims,
tree Wheels, Mud Guards and Brakes.
CARRIAGE PAID
To any Port in Australasia.
TYRES, ACCESSORIES,
Sporting Goods and Sewing
Machines Half Usual Prices.
Write for Catalogue and Special Offer
Using 2jd. Stamp. Address Dept 346 D
Mead Cycle Co -
Chicago.
U.S.A.
so
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
w_ c. ZEIiZDIRIIENSKE & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
(Sole Australasian Representatives)
TRADE MARK.
SYDNEY.
32 & 34 Clarence Street,
Worthington Fin'
For all Services kept in Stock.
for Co-’ta/losri©*
BENNIE, TEARE
Representatives.
A
<4
Stocks at Sidney, Melbourne, Perth, Coolgardie.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Have for Sale a-ncl to arrive
74 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE : 435 Bourke Street.
PUMPING MAGHINERY of every description, Woodworking Machinery, English and American Engines, Boilers,
Injectors, Reducing Valves, Steam Gauges, Steam Traps, Laundry Machinery, Painters’ and Bakers’
Machinery, Engineers’ Machine Tools, Shafting, Plummer Blocks, Pulleys, Hangers, Couplings, Collars,
Lubricating Oil, Brunton Pocket Trans ts, Shedd’s Electrical Fans, Hoisting Engines and Boilers. J
V
ft
a
I
& LACY
PANY LIMITED
Consulting Engineers on all matters relating to mining, hydraulic, and general engineering
propositions. Manufacturers and importers of mining machinery, and steam engines and boilers
of all kinds. Mines furnished with complete plants—Milling, Concentrating, Cyaniding,
Chlorinating, &c. Pumping outfits designed and supplied with all plans necessary for erection,
capacity guaranteed. All classes of pumps kept in stock and ready for immediate delivery;
together with boilers, pipes, and other items of equipment. Correspondence invited from
pastoralists and others requiring plant for irrigating purposes. Brickworks designed and brick-
making machinery of the most modern and approved pattern supplied to order. Quotations
given for complete installation of any kind of plant whatsoever. Iron and woodworking tools
and all kinds of engineers’ fittings and supplies kept in stock. Agents for Ingersoll rock drills
and air compressors, Knowles pumps, Gates rockbreakers, etc., etc., etc.
60 Clarence St,
Sydney
ADE>n.ESSBS
533 Collins St
Melbourne
21 & 23 Fremont St,
San Francisco
Sufferer* from Deafeee* or Hea~ poises
desiring a complete and permanent cure
should write to The L. R. VERNON CO.
60 HUNTER ST.. SYDNEY, for pam-
phlet de*c ibing an entirely new sell-
applied method which we will *endpo*t
free onAnentiening this paper.
i'.
Size, 51" x 3jr x 5"
ggp. We are Direct Importers
AND HAVE FOR SALE—
Snow Duplex Pumps
(all sizes for all purposes),
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling
and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shaft-
ing, Hangers, Bearings, Collars, etc.
Engineers' Tools and Pittlngs, Valves,
Cocks, Gauges, etc., Cast, Tool and
Mining Steel, Wire Ropes and all Requi-
sites for Contractors, Engineers, Saw
Mills and Mining Proprietors.
R. L. SORUTTOIM & CO.,
97 Glarence-st., Sydney.
The Uniyersal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach. Headache, Heartburn. Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, ' • «us Affections.
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS>i
MAGNESIA,
N. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd.,
71 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Manufacturers of RACKAROCK
Manufacturers and Sole Proprietors of the new
Patent Explosive Compound,
RENDROCK
NERVOUSNESS.
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS of SELF
CURE, will forward the same, free of
charge, to anyone interested.
Address: A. MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Trewhella Bros.
patent
LOG AND STUMP JACKS.
r
m
If you have Stumps, Roots, Stones, or Logs to clear, or
Threshers or Machinery t'o move, try these Jacks. They
are used by thousands throughout Australasia, and the
sales are rapidly increasing, which proves their value.
You can obtain them from the ironmonger with whom
you deal, or I will supply you direct.
The Melbourne and Sydney Prices are—
Lift, Toss Price
Double Purchase Jack 4 65-
JJ 99 91 6 75-
Single „ „ 2} 40 -
With AUTOMATIC LOWERING GEAR, 5/- extra.
Full Information and Trade Discounts from
W. TREWHELLA, Trentham, Victoria,
or H. HINDS, 17 Eoftus St., Sydney.
