

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC
I
Reid’s London Draught Stout,
R. G. WATKINS CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
-—FOB— , ~
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS AND GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW AND SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
M
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG, X
WONDERFUL VALUE—A packet of Seven different
articles, comprising Yankee Rubber Baby, can be carried
in vest pocket and blown out to life size (causes roars of
laughter), Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
Coin and Card Tricks), the Wizard Fish (gives the defini-
tion of your character —very superior for parlor enter-
tainments), the Vest Pocket Tubular Microscope (very
useful for examining small objects), the Cinematograph
(or book of moving pictures), the great Yankee Bicycle
Puzzle (very ingenious), and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Disappearing Coin Trick (instruc-
tions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australia (Free) on receipt of 2s. fid.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box S, P. 0., Hay market.
MM
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
710 George-st., Sydney.
SB
THE
The Perfect Motor Vehicle. Driven by Steam.
Climbs any hill. No Noise. No Smell. No Vibration.
Manufactured by the cCocomobile Co. of America.
In Stock and to Arrive. Send for further particulars to
BATTLE & 80. . 85 Pitt Street, Sydney, N. S.W.
*
“ HERVEY’S RAOKAROCK
17 Years’ Unbroken Record as a Standard Australian Explosive. Cor. CLARENCE & KINC STS , SYPNEYg
THORNE’S
Estbd. 1831. WHISKY.
HOBA.R.T.
— zm —
Radley's Orient jjotel.
M
m
Writes Dr. Andrew Wilson, F.R.C.S.E. » author of “Health Notes,” London.
M
FPIEST
BY POST, A MEDICAL
TREATISE by that justly-
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST,
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OP ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.
S3T ID Untie 3T-
XTSB
POOLER’S
SPOONER’S
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL. CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and la.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,:
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
Mining and
ging r
Fowler
Engines, Boilers, &c.
Engines.
eClyde Engineering C?r.
Desiccating
Waggons, &c
&DE
m
k
PROOF
M
M
10 BLIOH ST., SYDNEY
IM.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manuf. Company,
193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
When in town, pay As a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5 ; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7 ;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia. £ll.
Double Buggies, £215. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you-, our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE. —Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
mnt. more for your requirements.
Oim SPECIAL No. 8
£8 18/6
M
Dellrered at any Wharf « r
?i.S.*W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
A CLINCHER
■■■■BMHBniBUHHnUnHMHHHBHB
FOR SCEPTICS!
M
The following’ report by-
two of Sydney’s leading
Accountants ought to con-
vince the greatest sceptic
that
CAPILLA
HAIR TONIC
MUST have some merit
in it to command this big
' increase in its sales :
Yaralla Chambers,
109 Pitt St., Sydney.
16th, June, 1903.
We hereby certify that we have ex-
amined the books of The Capilla Pro-
prietary, and find therefrom that,
comparing the period March to May,
1903, with that of 1902, the sales of
RICHARDS’ CAPILLA HAIR TONIC
show the large increase of over 48 per
cent., which means that the demand
has increased one-half—in other words,
for every 94 bottles spld last year 140
are now being sold.
(Signed) W. ROBERTSON, F.S.I.A.
(Signed) W. E. JOHNSON, A.S.I.A.
CAPILLA is obtainable at all Chemists throughout
the Commonwealth and New Zealand at 2s. 6d. a
bottle, posted for 3s. 3d. ; full course, 17s. 2d.
W. OLIVER RICHARDS,
SOLE PROPRIETOR AND INVENTOR ,
164 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300
pages ; price, 4s. 6d.
The Bulletin
Vol. 24.—N0. 1223.]
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
[Thursday, July 23, 1903.


Book trade Advertisement.
THE LATEST BOOKS AT-'-
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Olston, Mind Power, (is, postage 6d.
H-iss ili French History (Temple Primers), Is 3d, p. Sd.
(Oscar', Impressionsof Indian Travel, 4s, p. sd.
Root Trade Relations of the British Empire, 10s 6d, p. 9d.
Sr,:J« c.), & w-lfflr.*** * *<* p- «•
Tr „v, P M.
! “Quilp N.,” The Red West Road, Is 6d, postage 2d.
Hill, Athletics, &c., For Women, 7s 6d, p. 7d.
Brierly, Ourselves and the Universe, 3s (3d, p. 6d.
Williams, Modern Chess Problems, ss, p. 6d.
Crawford (E. Marion), Man Overboard, 2s 6d, p. 3d,
Lorimer, Catherine Sterling, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Winter (J.S,), Girl in London, Is, p. 3d.
71 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doors South of Kinf St.) & at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane & LMdon
HUDSON’S EUiIENTHOL JUJUiES
Contain no Cocaine or
other Poisonous Drug.
For COUGH*,
COLDS,
LOSS OF VOICE,
BRONCHITIS,
and all Aflactians
tha Tbraat and Lungs.
M
The Great Antiseptic
Remedy tar the Care
of INFLUENZA and
PREVENTION of CON-
SUHPTION.
Invaluable for Singers
and Public Speakers.
Sold by all Chemists, tins, 1/6.
Sole Manufacturer: G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Au*tralia.
SYDNEY DEPOT : 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE. Agents In all the Australian States and New Zealand.
Melbourne end West Australia .. .. FELTON, GRIM WADE & 00.
g«utb
.. FAULTING & CO. I
FAIfiTHOBNE & CO. |
Hebart..
Mew Zealand
A. P. J4JLLAR A SOS
SHARLAIf® * 00.,
THE It ED PAGE.
Scotty the Wrinkler: I like the “ Sangs o’
Scotland,” the new and the old. But I must correct
Jessie Mackay, also, this writing. I’m sick ; we ca’d
“seek" whar I come f’ae—and in bed. But the mavis
does n’t sing on the moor. The mavis, throstle or thrush
is a “plantin’” bird, a dweller in the thicket; and he
does n’t sing much. The blackbird licks him, and he
whistles, too ; (I ca’d whustles.) All the same, Jessie
and Mackay are Scotch ; I .can’t tell if it’s Scots or Scotch.
I am only a lowlander, or borderer, not a cattle riever
but a lowland-heilander, one from the Ochils, the
dividers, where we make whisky, and ken the mavis, and
the felty-fleerer, and the throstle, and a’ the birdie* frae
the white-throat tae the “ nicht at hame.” Just saw a
Scotch (or Scot) man the day, and I lie on my back and
think.
8.5.: “The note of expectancy in Australian
scenery.” Gertrude Atherton discovered the same note
in the American forest. In The Aristocrats (p. 193) she
says “ The next morning I got up for a few moments
at 6 and peered out of my window. Some of the smaller
trees have been cut down, and I could see a little
distance into the forest. It looked so quiet—so expectant.
I have decided that that is the spirit of these mountain
forests of the New World—expectancy, waiting. . . .
What is it they expect? What disaster? What con-
quests? It seems to me sometimes as if they were
holding their breath.”
Books are made of paper. Paper is made of
cellulose. Cellulose nowadays is made chiefly of wood.
So this is The Scientific American’s little table—
-1 spruce tree = J-cord of suitable wood,
j-cord of wood = 5001 b. of paper.
5001 b. of paper = 400 average novels.
Therefore an author of renown will destroy a small
forest; and “Steele Rudd” has cut down a clump of
fifty trees or so. But not “on our selection.” Australian
book paper is still imported ; though it is quite time we
began to make it for ourselves.
A Psalm of Life and Death.
I.
BEHIND the gums the fires of sunset die
’’From tender crimson light to solemn
grey ;
And over leagues of leaves from far away
A sadness breathes, and with the fall and sigh
Wake thoughts that sleep by day.
While 1 am yearning for the distant home
The silent stealing shadows round me close
From under darkness, like dim forest foes
In ambush ; but across the ocean foam
My soul with sighing goes.
By winding meadow paths, by rustic stiles
Sweet with love’s whisper, down the sunny lane
Where Loud still murmurs, under scented rain
Of soft green light, I run the well-known miles
To be at home again !
Low roofs are best, and this is very low,
With old brown thatch, and walls of hawthorn
white
With mellow stains for sleepy Time’s delight—
For here the moments linger, pensive, slow ;
And gently falls the night.
And there are faces —long'ago made dust—
That lift to mine, and arms that cling around
My humbled neck, and voices softly sound
As hand in hand with looks of loving trust
We roam that haunted ground.
The thatchy nest, the sheets from white-thorn
hedge
Well lavendered in oaken kist, give sleep,
Save when the ancient clock, melodious, deep,
Chimes, and from homes upon the window ledge
Answers each feathered heap.
These rustlers in the ivy cheep and sing
And wake me to the vacant golden light
And thin pure air, and in the dews of night
I wash all aches away, and from the spring
Bear water, sunny, bright.
The palmer’s holv fount, the Mary’s well,
The fall from mask antique, the nymphy stream :
These are not dearer to the meinoried dream
Than this poor hedge-side flow in ferny deb
Of light and sunken beam.
I run to all: the hoary orchard bourn,
The fallen beech adzed to a bridge, the brook
And shallow silver plash, the deep brown nook
With amber pebbles very thin and worn,
So cool for rod and book.
The doves are cooing on the barn’s grey roof,
A peaceful sound for sitters in the sun
Of afternoons when half the work is done;
And bare and blue old Parlic holds aloof ;
And curlews cry and run.
Again the still procession of the year
Goes by, and with the birth of trembling Spring
The hipping-stones are hid with floods that bring
New soil, and snowdrops turn sad Winter’s rear,
And woodlarks sweetly sing. _
A tenderness of green is on the earth ;
The russet fallows and “old sloth, the plough
Appeal to Ceres ; on the naked bough
The throstle in a flow of mellow mirth
Renews his true-love vow.
The ewes are yeaning, and the faint far bleat
Of new-drop lambs is heard ; by fragsanee led
I light on violets in leafy bed,
And in their beauty feel again the sweet
Of noonings with the dead.
The changing posy in my hand is now
Of crocus gold or primy primrose pale,
Now deep with daffodillies of the dale,
Or rich with dreaming buds from almond bough
And sallows of the vale.
In April blue the swallows dip and skim ;
The cuckoo’s call returning on the ear
Stirs with the note of Spring; to stream and mere
The angler hies ; and nightingales make dim
The woods with love and fear.
The elves that haunt the billows of the grass,
Young rustling corn, and may so touching sweet,
And blushing apple-bloom, with lightsome feet
Dance, and with song of birds in lofty pass
Pan’s rustic measures beat.
Now honeysuckles ripen ; sunburnt men
With sweep of flaming scythe lay very low
The meadow’s summer beauty, row on row ;
And sheep are calling from the wattled pen,
For daylight will not go.
Come, dearest friend, and click my humble latch,
And tell June’s scents: the breath of withered
flowers,
•Quick wild rose and the new-mown hay, and
bowers
Wet with the dew ; come, sit beneath my thatch
The long unhindered hours.
Now light grows golden and the sickle gleams
And gleaners follow : aged, infant hands
Catch up the precious grains from alien lands,
Lost in the twilight years—but morning beams,,
Now gild the worker bands !
And they shall reap their fields in freedom’s
might,
And in the stubble sleep at sultry noon,
And wake with laughter to the labour, soon
To keep the feast beneath the dead gold light
Of low-swung harvest moon . . .
*<i i m
Now slopes are steeped in purple heather wine;
And happy homeward children break their fast
On browning hazel clusters : now the last
Autumnal song of birds is faint : the swine
Range in the forest mast.
From worn and mossy boughs the orchards yield
To lifted hands their rosy fruit; the leaves
Sum golden-red ; the martin from the eaves
Departs ; our Lady’s raiment on the field
The fairy spider weaves.
The wind-swept leaves swirl down in joyless
mirth
And in dim corners sink to slow decay :
Ah, race of men, so soon to pass away,
In this vast pipelining life and homely earth
Look strangely bleak and grey !
Not so the children think when on the panes
They trace the icy ferns and see the light
Of snow upon the ceiling, and the white
Still frozen landscape, and along the lanes
The redbreasts rosy bright.
The world shut out, now crouch about the blaze,
The soothing, slumbrous winter hearth, and pause
To hear the rumbling wind, while red as rose
The holly shines —O, happy Christmas days,
Again the yule log glows !
Now snuff the candles, ’tis the sweet of night;
Closer, old friends, the wind moans at the door;
Or is it Gabriel hound from fairy shore,
Or wild bird’s cry ? Let nothing us affright;
Bring out the winter lore.
Sing once again before we go the song,
The merry song of youth, and tell the tales
We loved to hear. Ah, how the spirit fails !
Whence comes this tang of sadness? Shadows
long,
And parting makes them pale !
How pure and tender are the scenes of youth.
Of childhood in the country, near to earth:
How sweet the solemn silence of the birth
Of morn : how life is full of sternest truth,
Yet touched with russet mirth !
The very names are of the quiet ground
And sing, as clasping mother’s hand again,
A child, I follow unchanged paths in pain
Of fond remembrance, losing no sweet sound—
To hear her voice how ; fain !
I stray away, a very little way,
From her dear side, to pluck the golden brown
Of gillyver; or, holding by her gown,
I listen to the lark’s high-shrilling lay,
And watch him dropping down.
She carried me: I cannot help but move
With strained heart and mouth a little space
Whenas I, dreaming, think of that pure face
Bent low above me, and the bosom’s love,
Gone where I cannot trace...
Not unremelnbered are the rooky trees,
The ancient bells, the dial’s silent shade,
The altar-tomb where sleeps a little maid,
Loved, and the murmur of the wandering bees
In flowers that never fade.
We and our story pass ! Why did you leave
Your sweetest thresholds and the quiet dream
To lie with: old forgotten sleepers ? .Breme
The life that seeks again the old to weave
By far unhaunted stream.
Why leave ? The old Norse spirit drove me forth
To seek the wilderness : all vagrom men
Break with the Spring from out their narrow pen
Of daily round : pushed from t ie chilly north
I sought a sunny den.
And here am dreaming in this island home,
So far away ! with souls of bygone woes
Of vanished race around.. . . There sailing goes
The moon, large, tremulous, in silver foam
Dispersing all my foes.
What have I seen ! A world’s dim flaming sea,
The breach of foamy floods, and felt the thrill
Of straining horse, yea, drunk life to the till ;
And, O, I love this home, rude though it be,
This Bush so vast and still ! ,
These are the tales told by the sheoak blaze :
Of horses wildly thundering up the track,
Of women wailing those who ne’er come back,
Of gunshot wounds and thirsty crawling days,
And life-blood ebbing slack.
It must be so : there is no time for grace ;
The forest warfare leaves to man no rest,
Before he knows the sun is in the west ;
Though he has plenty, yet there is no place
For thought of what is best.
And death comes thus untimely, and his tomb
Is stark as was his life : nO tendrils run
Along a sculptured stone worn by the sun
And rain, with inner meanings all a-bloom,
Reserved yet to be won.
So gather branches for a cheerful light,
Nor mourn thy dateless exile —idly willed.
Fair kingdoms come to minds content and stilled
By purest thought: so pass the pensive night
With spirit vintage filled... *
J.H.
NORFOLK ISLAND.
God planted a green islet in blue seas
And said, Grow thou the fairest of all these.
I give my placid suns and gentle gales,
Blessing of rains, beauty of hills and dales.
Let flower and fruit as bosom jewels come
To shine above the girdle of the foam.
In stately tree-tops, neighbouring the shies,
Let happy birds trill hymns of Paradise,
Finding this brightest of my garden isles,
A source of primal Joy, a bo wer of smiles ...
Then the old Gardener to his plot of Earth
Bent bravely, scattering the seeds of birth,
Weeding the cities noisome in his sight,
Turning the clods of continents to light,
Giving the grace the eternal seasons asked:
And so passed on—poor labourer overtasked l
(What will her eyes say ,
Flashing and dewing ?
What will her lips say
To urge pursuing ?
Will it be night
Or the sunniest morning ?
How will she deck her
For bride’s adorning f
Will she wait shyly
Or run, run to meet me f
What will her words be
When she shall greet me ?
Ah, my life’s angel,
My lover, mine only :
The way is so long...
Ah, God ! I am lonely.)
Man came and said, Let Beauty no more smile.
For I will make a desert of this isle.
Here Tyranny shall rear his savage head,
And Cruelty shall walk with stealthy tread ;
And Sin shall bear, upon a barren shore,
The foulest brood that ever yet she bore.
In bitter oaths be hallowed my name ;
My kingdom come in infamy and shame:
My will be done till Death is wooed as bride
And hope of Hell can sweeten suicide :
Give me each day my daily gallows-bread ;
Lash me each night a bubbling draught and red:
Mine is the power to turn my kin to beasts ;
Mine is the glory of Satanic feasts :
Let Outrage, Horror, Anguish never cease—
For I am Man, the ages' masterpiece.
( Brunelys ! waiting beyond,
Know you your lover is coming ?- ■
Gallant, and ardent, and fond,
With passionate pulses a-drumming :
This is the song that I sing,
* Waiting the day and the hour . . .
All of my laurels I fling
To pluck you, my flower !
Let your girls gather the nuts,
Spear the fresh fish on the reef,
Cook the young pigs in the huts,
Chew the strong kavafrom leaf.
Daily am I your true knight,
Nightly I dream I am, too :
What is a victor’s delight
Till he is victor of you 0
I heard the prison's sad Memnonian stones
Wail Murder's greeting, blasphemy and groans:
Ironic altar-pile !—I bent the knee
To worship Britain and Humanity.
I saw the grave-yard, where together lie
With mockery of monuments awry
Convicts whose crimes are hidden from the day,
Jailers more vile, more criminal than they.
I walked the rotting path toward the ridge,
Across a marsh spanned by the Bloody Bridge :
Strange, monstrous whispers crawled upon the breeze,
Phantoms obscene were writhing in the trees ;
Even the innocent heaven, as I stood,
Grew leprous, sinister, and blotched with blood:
The Spirit of that dreadful place drew near . . .
Shrieking, I fled—and still I sweat with fear.
BOOKFELLOWSHIPMENT
This page goes to press on Thursday for the
following Thursday’s issue, so the death of VV. E. Henley
at the beginning of last week passed unnoticed, Had he
lived till 23rd August, he would have completed his 54th
year. His effective life ended some years ago : toward
the close-he was losing sense of values, sense of propor-
tions ; and stood lower than his height.
Henley was born at Gloucester on Severn, in the
English West Country. From his twelfth to his eighteenth
year he was a pupil at the Crypt Grammar School,
Gloucester, with frequent absences due to ill-health. A*
a young man, he had to make his own way, and it has
been printed that he picked up carpentry and house-paint-
ing, and for a time gained his living thus. At the same
time, from his nineteenth year onward, he was contribut-
ing verse and prose to London periodicals.
His appearance as a literary figure dates from
1874, when he met Stevenson. “ Yesterday,” writes the
latter, “ Leslie Stephan called on me, and took me up to
•ee a poor fellow, a uoat who writes for him, and who
has been eighteen months in our infirmary [Edinburgh].
Stephen and I sat on a couple of chairs, and the poor
fellow sat up in his bed with his hair and beard all
tangled, and talked as cheerfully as if he had been in a
king’s palace, or the Great King’s palace of the blue au 1 -
He has taught himself two languages since he was lying
there. I shall try to be of use to him.”
At Edinburgh infirmary Henley’s foot was
partially amputated, and he was lame for the rest of
ais days. Tlie tragedy of such a mishap, to a man so
passionately in love with sensuous life, has been dwelt
upon. A truer view would regard Henley’s ardent
expression of himself as ,due in great part to tne
enforced cerebral concentration of vitality that ne
could not easily dissipate through peripheral channels.
His Edinburgh period struck the keynote of Hen-
ley’s life- In Edinburgh he met Anna Boyle, who became
his wife in 1878. Tne acquaintance with Stevenson grew
to intimate friendship, and the two wrote several plays
together : Deacon Brodie, Beau Austin, Admiral Guinea,
and Macaire. Henley played the title-rdle in the first of
these when it was produced for copyright purposes at a
London matinbe. A younger brother, Edward Henley,
reckoned three-fourths of a scapegrace, took the stage as
a profession, and ranked as “ a promising actor ” when
he died in America about 1898.
In 1877 Henley commenced his critical life-
work as editor of London, a magazine that lived a year
only. For four years following he was occupied in
reviewing and writing verses ; and from 1882 to 1886 he
edited The Magazine of Art for Cassell and Go.
“ E.A.V.,” a contributor who knew him well at this time,
writes:—“Henley made the M. of A. too literary, and
dragged his art-god .Millet into comparison with nearly
every artist under notice, generally to the disparagement
of these. Practically he re-wrote all the contributions in
his own epigrammatic style, to the mystification of his
readers and the writers of the articles : and both classes
protested.
“Henley was tall and big-boned, with a dull
and sallow skin, and bristling red hair and beard. An un-
kempt, unbrushed, always un-dressed man,shuffling along
with the aid of crutch and stick. Strenuous and argu-
mentative, with a merry twinkle in his grey eyes, and
given to outbursts of boyish fun and all manner of
devilry.”
The five years from 1888 to 1893, when Henley
was editing The Scots (afterwards The National) Observer,
were among his most fruitful. He was a magnet to young
writers. Kipling contributed some of the earlier and
better Ballads : Charles Whibley, Marriott Watson, and
many another were impressed by his example and pre-
cept. He led a reaction against Early Victorian modes,
and shouted “ Long Live Life 1 ” with a force and con-
viction that permanently changed the English outlook.
And he wrote his own fashion articles 1
The National Observer died too : it was caviare
to the multitude ; -and Henley’s boisterous insistence on
his own way ended by alienating' literary supporters
strong enough to hold opinions of their own. Henley
became editor of The New Review, which he made the
most brilliant of monthlies from 1893 to 1898, when the
issue ceased. The publisher, it is said, was not unwilling
to continue ; but the pressure of years and unvarying ill-
health made Henley glad to retire on his Govt, pension
of A 225 a year, Since 1898 he has done little new work
of importance.
Henley’s chief work comes in two volumes of
verse—the collected Poems (1898), and Hawthorn and
Lavender (1901); and the two prose volumes of Views
and Reviews. His edition of Burns (with W. Henderson)
is the best extant; he undertook Byron, but the task was
too heavy, and one volume only was published. It is his
share in Farmer’s Slang and its Analogues which makes
that dictionary notable.
The Froudites and the anti-Froudites are blazing
away on the Oarlyle question, and literary London is
being pulled hither and thither by the partisans of Mr. C.
or Mrs. 0. “What do you think of that for linen?”
asks Alick Oarlyle, holding up a garment of Jane’s.
“But what do you think of that?" retort Froude’s
executors, who have just published My* Relations
with Carlyle, a posthumous pamphlet which Froude
left for his defence. “That” includes Miss Jews-
bury’s sinister statement that “ Carlyle was one
of those persons who ought never to have married ”
—which was a lady-like way of putting things.
“But,” respond the Tommies, “ Jane herself described
Miss J. as “a flimsy tatter of a creature,’ ’“the most
gossiping and romancing of all our mutual acquaintance.”
Tattle of coteries —grief of the judicious—hay for the
publishers—vogue la misbre 1
Crichton-Browne is replying to tlie Froude
attack in July Contemporary Review. “As regards one
allegation, so base that the daily press cannot with
decency touch it, I need only say that it will be refuted
before a suitable medical tribunal.” This refets to Miss
Jewsbury’s pretty little yarn. Alas for the Chelsea sage !
What would he have raved.at the idea of Sartor resartus
before a jury of medicoes or matrons 1
Cotter Morison’s The Service Of Man is the
latest sixpenny book in the Rationalist Press series;
posted, Bd. . . ,L. R. Macleod, an occasional Bulletin con-
tr butor, edits a new paper at Wyalong, N.B.W. —The
Wyalong Advocate... .J anus: Answered—ra: ely have
space for translations.
“We want a theatre’’—said Edmond Rostand
just welcomed to the French ' Academy—“ where,
lyrically exalting, solacing with grace, and moralising
with beauty our poets, without expressly seeking them,
shall bring us lessons of the soul. We need a poetical
theatre, even heroical! ” *
E. V. Lucas, editor of the new edition of
Charles Lamb’s works, has discovered that Lamb was
once placed in the stocks one Sunday morning, at
Barnet, “ for brawling during church hours. ’ Another
reason for loving him.
W. T. Stead persists that the King of Servia’s
death in June was foretold by a Lond. clairvoyant in
March. “What happened, as far as I remember, was
this : In the courseof the seance the medium was handed
a jewel, which at one time belonged to King Alexander,
and a letter which had been written by the King. She
was not aware to whom they belonged, or where they
came from. She took them in her hands, and after
ho ing them for a time she said, ‘These belong to
Roy uty.’ She then became very excited. ,‘I see,’ she
said, ‘ the interior of a palace. The King is being killed.
Tne Queen is beside him. She has fallen on her knees
and is crying to them to save her. I can’t see whether
the Oueen has been killed ; but the King is dead. Terrible,
terrible!’ . . . Thefe is no question whatever about the
fundamental fact that something which had belonged to
or had come from King Alexander was handed to the
medium—Mrs. Burchell, I believe, although I should not
like to be positive on the point—and after handling it she
pictured the murder scene in which King Alexander was
killed, and the Queen was in imminent danger if she had
not been actually murdered.”—Unluckily, Stead’s testi-
mony upon a matter of the kind is worth precisely 0.
“ Of all the sad words of tongue or of pen!” The
Dundee Advertiser— “ the most important literary news-
paper in Scotland out of Edinburgh and Glasgow -in
reviewing On Our Selection , compares “ Steel* Ruud <
J. M. Barrie ! “Mr. Davis may be called the Barrie oi
Australia.” “The beautifully mingled humour »na
pathos of this story of the building of a bush homeste
and the development of its family life are open to ah-
The thing is great by reason of its simplicity. R is m
writing; it is life.” The italics are the-ghost-of-Sydney-
Smith’s. A prize of one copy of On Our Selection wM
riven (for 65.) to any Scotchman who can eee the joke.
A-fcS-


M
~ and CO., Limited,
WOOL BROKERS AND PRODUCE SALESMEN > %
SYDNEY. %
FUR SKINS!
SEKTD TO
ICHGOMBE, CARSON & C0.,1m
- g-YTtivrßs-y.
THE MOST SUCCESSFUL SALESHEN.
w
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. i-iwit
Offices: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIBCULAB QUAY. Otorssi PYRMOHT.
Sole Commiarfon 3 Per Cent, to Gro.
on. Large Small Alifce.
A GO-AHEAD FIRM
f/R* PATESON & COBCROFT, 231
Sussex Street*
SYDNEY.
Auctioneers, Commission and Live Stock Agents,
and Produce Merchants.
0— ««w2*d dl received Ire- .fleer »v <« C "° Ceb B.»-
THE LEADING HOUSE for SPORTING GOODS and TOBACCO.
'lea
(?)
(2
Leola.
‘Safp'l
So®
Santiago.
SINGLE BOX AT WHOLESALE PRICE.
GOODS EXCHANGED or MONEY RETURNED.
***
r4*
z-z-us#
A/?/MANILA
NO- 1 Manila*
opunw 13
SCniHDCHX ob
Jflwnw
m
GUARANTEE.—EVERY CIGAR SOUND
AND IN PERFECT CONDITION.
Post Free Post Free
N.S.W. oth. States
Post Free Post Free
xr s w. oth. States
ROMA QUEENS
LA PAROLA, Reliable Smoke ..
HIGH LIFE MENDOZAS .. ..
NIMROD REINA VICTORIA ..
LA SPECIAL, from Choicest Leaf
SANTIAGO LA FLOR, Fine Quality
“ LEOLA,” Borneo, Mild Smoking
“EL RIVAL,” Borneo, Full Flavor
HEAVY WEIGHTS (P. de Mendoxa) 100
Per 100.
Inbox, s. d.
“PERLA” BOUQUET .. •• 50 189
“EL MUNDO ” (Rothschilds) .. • -
“MENDOZA” (Rothschilds) .. •• f
“ PERL A ” (Rothschilds) .. ••
“MINERVA” No. 1 MANILA .. •• 100
“ WINDSOR LADY ” (Manila Regalia) .. 50
“ PERLA MINERVA,” Manila, Fine Qual. 25
FLOR DE NAVES (Havana Reina) •• !00
HENRY CLAY (Havana Oouchas, extra) 50
21 0
25 3
25 3
15 6
19 0
25 0
29 0
35 0
d.
2^
I|
2 '
2
~8
8
8,
0 box
Per 100.
REVOLUTION ” IN THE TOBACCO TRADE
“ RED SEAL” TOBACCO
AT MILLION PRICES
TO SUIT THE TIMES.
u
Red Seal”
Dark Plug
Strong & Medium
13/-
per lb.
Post Free
“Red Seal”
Bright Cut
2o z. Packets
}
4/31
per in.
Post Free
“Red Seal”
Bright Plug
Mil.l i.mo ins-
-1
3 6
per lb.
Post Free
“Red Seal
59
Bright Cut \
4oz. Patent TinsJ
1-4/3
per iw.
Post Free
“RED SEAL” is a R3AL GOOD Smoking Tobacco, guaranteed BEST VALUE in the States.
We RECOnnEND Smoke:s to give “ E ED SEAL” Tobacco a TRIAL.. svcJxxey*
3VT4elfc S* Toamoias, Hety***arKet, y
I. Hoi Sis
& Son’s
M
“THE RELIABLE.”
Price £6 12s. ed-*
AT?fl
DBBL Gun, 12 gauge, top lever, bar action, real twist or steel _
barrels,' Greener cross-boltf left choke, rebounding locks ,
chambered tor 2|in. cartridges. Guaranteed for all Smokeless rowa
Mick Simmons, Haymarket
A GREAT REMEDY.
HOW precious it is for any man or woman to say—“ lam in perfect health ! I feel splendid !
and have no aches or pains, and to declare that every nerve is as strong, and each muscle
as vigorous as ever it was? How many suffering ones are there to-day who would like to
be able to say that. We know there are thousands in this great community go on ailing trom
day to day, and if they would only consult us we could afford them : r f A p»TW T T
“I AM A HAPPY MAN TO-DAY, FO& wmCH ACCEPT „
THANKS, FOR YOUR WONDERFUL BELT HAS B.ROUGHT ME BACK TO LIF .
Such and similar expressions of gratitude we are receiving daily from hundreds who have receive
relief from.our Belts.” We are pleased to think we are doing such great good to afflicted in
this country, and our earnest hope is that every poor sufferer should know of the WondemJl
Value Of our Electric Belts. Do not delay if you wish to be well and strong
Send to-day for one of our Illustrated Books, which costs you nothing, and which will explain
more fully the everlasting benefits to be
obtained. They have cured thousands and
are curing thousands to-day.
DR.
M'LAUGHUN
A GRATEFUL SOLDIER.
Westwood, HAMILTON, NEWCASTLE.
Dear Sirs. —I have worn your Electric Belt now for over
three months, and I am pleased to tell you that the results
have been simply marvellous. I would strongly recommend
anyone suffering from Rheumatism, Gout, Indigestion,
Weakness, etc., etc., “ as I did,” to try your Electric Belt,
and I am confident that they will never /egret doing so,-
Yours faithfully, W. P. MULHOLLAND.
No Drugs Necessary.
Do not buy an Electric Belt if you con-
tinue to take Drugs. We insist that it is
foolish of you to take drugs of any kind.
Drug treatment is expensive and useless if
you have a really good Electric Body
Appliance.
Our Belt is an Electric Appliance manu-
factured by practical Electricians according
to our patent specifications, and not made by
manufacturing jewellers as all infringements
generally are.
The Greatest Strength-Giver
*****
of the Nineteenth Century.
SSSES
J
s?v
«fS
BKS
e?
K't'/TOgljj
To any address
-\yg ( will send
post pre-paid
and sealed free
-‘One of our hand-
some Illustrated
■ Books, giving
' -wood-cuts, etc.,
and showing how we apply Electricity in all
chronic ailments. It also gives names o
many people cured. Write i for it, you may
find the names of some of your friends m it.
We have cures in nearly every town, audit is
nice to know how your neighbor was cure .
Send To-Day.
£lOOO offered for one of our Belts that
does not give rvn Electric Current.
M
nr. F. J. GLASSC N, oi says:
Gentlemen.— l am pleased t<* "he able tel ll s’°u that. I
am well satisfied with the pffcot of J'C it Be t.
but very little, and I find t Wn that has the d. sired eftect.
My wife has worn it also f. ir rheumatic piuns with Excess.
Yours (truly, *• J - GLAbbUJN -
Mr T COAFORT, of Redfarn, employed on the Railways, wri ses
Sirs.—As I have used on'e of ‘your Belts for a few months I wish pother ifX
Belt, and I will explain to them the good it; has done of”mine your " T -n—ned.atelv
Rheumatism, and I was very bad with same for four n . » T wear |njy your Belt long- when
wrote for one, which I received, and lam greatly please : . ‘ anything now. Before I got
and now lam pleased to say that I never felt better in y * , , have a bad head of a morning, b* inai hub »»«
morning more tired than when I went to bed of a ni„ht. I t will pvnHin to them fullv Thar Mnir you again for the good jour-
wouldn't mind advising other sufferers to write to me m the matter, I *£ -Sira;
Belt has done me,
irTiast year when 1 took ill with
Belt tome. I them immediately
I started to get the Benefit of it,
l your Belt -1 used to wake up of a
it that has all left me. So it you
Mr. S. JEWELL, of Illaho, N.S.W., says—
Dear Sirs. -I have very much pleasure inletting you.know'how lam Setting
written is any good to you to print in your testimonials, you k rt>w ’that a I preach is true,
and all the people around here know me from far and near, and know that all 1 1 leac
is -glad to say, a genuine article, and
feltk but I don’t thank I shall need
iMv days, and I ran honestly say it
itosng not to part with it._ I must tell
.with a very bad pain in the back.
«j{l over the farm with me. The pain
tyr'the sick. Dear sirs, if what I have
Wlitionist of eigliteen years standing,
Yours faithfully, £>. JBWLLL
The Dr. McLaughlin Go.,
10OW. Mar! *t Street, Sydney.
Melbourne Off fce-t67E Swanston Street.


M
SMOKE
The Unrivalled
World Renownei
BRIAR
PIPES
LARGEST DEPOT:
231 Clarence St,
SYDNEY.
mmsm
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections’.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
DINNEF6RDSI
MAGNESIA j
MM
drink-
GARDN
PA WATER
From oar Springs at Helldon. OWEN GARDNER 4 SONS, Brisbane (Head office) sat Helldon.
THE
M
THE
‘PLUM’
like a bell, and never requires grfndhi* 3 Bdnv J,V S f, eC ‘ a "' V tempered, perfectly hollow ground, ring
edge that is required to ensure an easvihave and^’havtn^hld'Tbe 8 ™ 611 oUl ? elve8 > we know the exact,kind of
their merits. Wit GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEaTs’" USS f ° r a number of J' ear3 ‘ caQ testify to
‘‘lmzOL.ES^’ cake^ aZOT ' ’
ro, “ {asst sswatar
i ol ‘ > age " te CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
Ask for ..
AA
Ready
Slade
Dried-
.
M
It is . .
Known
as the
Best..
! gOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE,- 50 engravings, 3/6 I
posted, 4/-. How to Mesmeiu.se, 1/-; Magic
Uf-to-Date, 1/3 ; Metal . Working, solder-
grazing, 1/6; Camille, 1/3 ; llow to
Play Billiards, 1/3; How to Vamp, 13-
Piano Tuning and Repairing, 1/6 ; Modern
Etiquette, 1/-; Card Games; 1/-; Great-
Book of Wonders, Secrets and Mysteries
1/-: Poultry Keeping, 1/-; Horse and
Cattle Doctor, 1/-; Parlor Magic, 1/. •
Dream Book, 1/-; Every Man His Own
Builder, I/O ; Carpentry, 1/6-; Lightning/
Calculator, 1/2 ; Australian Doctor., i/6 *
Letter Writer, 1/3 ; Speeches and Toasts!
1/3; Kelly Gang of Bushrangers, 1/3-
ol '’ Dialogues, 1/-; Enquirer’s Oracle,’
0000 subjects, 1/6 ; Self Instructor, 1/S ;
M
How to Dance, 1/3 ; Art of Boxing, 1/3 ;;
Art of Wrestling, 1/3; Moll Flanders,
1/6; Tailoring for Amateurs; 1/3 ; Ven-
triloquism, 1/-; Cosac Reciter, IS® gems,
13; Irish Comic Reciter, 1/3; Little
Folks’ Reciter, 1/3 Nigger Stumf
Speeches, 1/3 ; New Tricks with Cards,,
1/3 ; That Rascal Gustave, 1/3 ; Plain
Home Talk, 7/6; Sappho (genuine), 1/6;
Fortune Telling Cards, directions, 1/6 ;
Advice to Women, 1/3; Midwives’ Hand-
book, £2 practical illustrations (better than
Aristotle), 3/- ; Paliosto.y, chart and guide,
6d. ; Clog Dancing, 1/-, Above prices in-
clude postage to any address. Stamps or
Postal Notes of any State will do.. Free
Catalogues—Plays, Conjuring Apparatus,
Racy Novels, Useful. Books, Private Books
for the Married, etc-
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK. AND MAGIC
ARCADE, -
201 Bourfce-st.* Melbourne.
Shooters obtain tho most satisfactory results by using
NEW CLUB CARTRIDGES
I s
/isi,'.', BULK SMOKELESS POWDER
and U.M.C. AMMUNITION,
M
ORDER
AND ACCEPT NO SUBSTITUTE.
*»
Rifle on the Remington Principle.
Shoots 22 long 22 short, and No. 1 bullet cap. Well sighted and rifled.
Kills at 300 yards. 10s., carriage paid, to any Railway Station in N.S. W.
Bush Gun. 12 bore > breach loader, Schneider action, single barrel.
" * to any Railway Station in N.S.W.
Revolvers. 3’20 and 3'Bo bore, Bs. to 325. 6d.
10s., post free,
i 4
!' •'
SYDKTBY
T. TOMBLESON, Manager.
S MA.LL OO. a
57 P.O. Chambers, PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Wk
WITH GREENER BOLT AS DRAWN, THIS “ WARATAH,”
60-
WITHOUT GREENER BOLT, THE “WONGA,”
50/-
BAR LOCKS.
Loft Barrel Full Choke
Right Barrel Cylinder Bore.
For accurate and close shooting this gun cannot ue surpassed, made of Best
Materials, and equal in finish and workmanship to guns of three times the
price. Barrels are Browned Twist, carrying a high polish. BAR LOCKS, Treble
Bolt, half-pistol hand. Hammers are well down out of the line of sight. Vulcanite
heel-plate on best selected polished walnut stock. Carriage paid to any Railway Station in N.S.W. F. 0.8. to
any other State. Send your P. 0.0. with orders to—
Sydney Small Arms Co.
T. TOMBLESON, Manager.
57 P.O. Chambers,
Pltt-sfc, Sydney.
M
There’s SECURITY in
ARTER'S
ITTLE
IVER
Jr Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
k FURRED TONGUE.
)
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
They TOUCH the LIVER
Be Sure they are
Small Pill. Small Dase. Small Price.
On Our Selection.” By “ Steele Rudd.
Price, 6s. The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Ltd., Sydney.
(George Adams,
RSALL’S
Hobart, Tasmania).
M
The Tasmanian Government having 1 imposed a tax of One Penny
on every Five Shilling Ticket issued by Tattersall’s on and after Ist
January, 1933, clients will please forward Id. extra for each ss.
ticket applied for, or 4d. for every <£l, and so on.
M
ADEXAIDE GRAND NATIONAL HURDLE, Victoria Park, S.A., August 8, 25,000 at 5/1.
. 1 METROPOLITAN STAKES, Randwick, N.S.W., September 14, 50,000 at 5/1.
CAULFIELD CUP, Caulfield, Vic., October 17, 100,000 at 5/1.
MELBOURNE CUP, Flemington, Vic., November 3, 100,000 at 10/2.
Subscribers will please note that GEORGE ADAMS (**TATTERSALL ”) STILL
CONTINUES bis business in HOBART, under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN
GOVERNMENT, and that clients dan send their subscription* " k b.v letter to any friend or
acquaintance in HOBART, who will ti'iere have no difficulty in ck-iv ering the application and
securing tlie despatch of tickets and re snilts direct to clients.
Money can also be paid through any Bank in Australasia, to the credit of GEORGE
ADA Mb, Commercial Bank of lasmania, Hobart. Clients when so doing will please request
Bank to advise GEORGE ADAMS of amount, with their name and full address.
Small Parcels addressed to me can be forwarded to Hobart through any PARCEL
DELIVERY GO. doing business with Tasmania.


Cockroaches!
♦♦»♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦
BUFFON’S
COCKROACH . . .
EXTERMINATOR
Clears houses of these pests very quickly.
Has been used for many years with
great success.
To be obtained of all Chemists.
BOSISTO’S
“Parrot Brand”
Eucalyptus Oil
For Rheumatism, Sprains, Bruises,
Wounds, Coughs, Colds and
Sore Throats.
CAUTION.—Ask for Bosisto’s
PARROT BRAND,
and Beware of Imitations.
M
•m
W. H.Wigzell.
i FRINGES: Best Natural Curly
| Hair, 3/6, 5/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each, f
, TAILS and PLAITS : 20in. long, 1
• 5/6 ; extra thick, 7/6; 24in., 10/6;
extra thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings worked up,
2/6 per oe. Don’t be misled.
Our Plaits and Tails are twice as
thick as sold elsewhere at the
same price. Send color of Hair.
Only one address: 110 WILLIAM-
ST., cor. of Palmer St. SYDNEY.
M
Notice.—NO Branch Businesses. All work guaranteed.
Illustrated Catalogue post free. Prompt attention given
to country orders. Wigs made on shortest notice. All
Hairwork sent to the. other States free of duty. Transfoi -
matrons, entire covering for the head, SO/- each.
M
FLUID
OIL
CRUDE FLUID
POWDER
EMBROCATION
80AP8
DIBINFECTORB
INHALERS
FUMICATORB
f -/I !
omii
\mmi
mi
COLORLESS
FRAGRANT
NON.
POISONOUS
DOES NOT
STAIN
KILLS ALL
DISEASE
GERMS
OXYGENATEB
THE AIR.
Sulphur Candles - \
Formic Fumigators /
KINGZETT’S
PATENTS.
“HOW TO DISINFECT ’’ Book Free.
The “SANITAS ” CO., Ltd,
Bethnal Green, LONDON, Ei
M
MM
ISANOOW’Si
'N Trade Marls.
CLOSED.
OPEN.
SPRING GRIP DUMB-BELL
Ladies and Gentlemen,
I fear there has been some misunderstanding as
regards the method of using my
PHYSICAL CULTURE APPLIANCES.
In the first instance, my SPRING GRIP DUMB
BELL should be used according to the Charts accom-
panying it. This gives an all-round and symmetrical
development of every muscle of the body, rendering
them firm and strong, and my DEVELOPER, or
OBESITY REDUCER, should be used afterwards,
in conjunction with the Grip Dumb-bells. . . .
Yours faithfully, EUGEN SANDOW.
S. HOFFNUNG & CO. (1902) Ltd., Wholesale Agents.
Obtainable • from all Sports Depots, Ironmongers and
Storekeepers throughout Australia.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. HILDA.
ITIHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
-*■ the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
lieeesed hotels. @ity, J-hour
— ir7~rv -a
bonnington's
Carrageen
i
OR
IRISH MOSS
:ebNNiN<rro*
CHHI3TCHUCCH
CARRAGEEN
IRISH°VIOSS j
z/Ah mvahtalle mediciftO j|
the extraordinary property of
immediately relieving the chest
of the •congealed phlegm.con&e -
(fruently causing a free expectord:
aft on without straining. Ofpro* 1
moling healthy respiration freeing
the azr tubes, andgivnig strength
to the musci/tan organa.
M
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 10a-
H. Hillier,
130 Susaex-st.,
SYDNEY.
£3T Send for a
Catalogue.
M
Went Shaft Sulhlea
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE 6®
buyers of Light Vehicle*
The Best and Cheapen.
H. HILLIER, i3o Sussex St., Sydney
Straight Shaft 3-Bpring Sulkies, £8 lOs.
Sarven Sulky Wheels Tyred, £2 4s 6d pair.
Discount to Wholesale Buyers. Send for Catalogue.
SMITH
*
21/-
2 V-
YOU WANT^
A Good Timekeeper
at a Reasonable Price.
HERE IT IS!!
A Solid Silver Keyless
Hunting Watch
Warranted 2 Years.
Posted Free to any part of
Australasia—
-21/-
Send/or my New Catalogue— FßEE
H. F. SMITH
Queensland Leading; Jeweller, QUEEN ST., BRISBANE.
IPSWICH and TOOWOOMBA.
MM
'Winchester
RIFLE AND PISTOL
CARTRIDGES
M
“ It’s the shots that hit that count.” Winches-
ter Rifle and Pistol Cartridges hit, that is,
shoot accurately, and strike a good, hard, pen-
etrating blow. They are loaded with great
care and precision, and made in calibers
suitable for all kinds of game, from rabbits
to grizzly bears. If you want reliable ammu-
nition, buy the time-tried Winchester make.
FOR SALE BY ALL DEALERS.
good hair for
ra
*
c£
All Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
RW For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
ggf For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
ALL l
c 55
±> e
2.
I
Wabhinqton H. Soot. & Co.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by WATKINS & MACKAY, Chemists, Queen Street, Brisbane ; Mr. GORDON, 92 George
J Street, Rockhampton, Queensland, and
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally aeknowledged
I*o DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES n ‘ B,st V* oniy SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS. &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Myra.
Town is one hundred miles or so away ;
To get a little peace I left that town ;
But now, in greatest restlessness, I stray
And meditate, and wander up and down ;
And sigh ; and eye the moon and stars above :
And all of this because I am in love 1
Ye gods ! lam in love ! Yet when I said—
’Twas in a lover’s whisper—“ Myra, dear,
We’ll watch those three stars ” (pointing overhead)
“ At the same time on certain nights,” I fear
That, though I drew her sweet attention to it,
I hardly dreamt the little dear would do it.
And now, behold me 1 like a restless child
I’m pining for the city once again ;
Not even by country maids am I beguiled ;
And so I suffer all a lover’s pain
Because I never knew, alack the day !
I loved, until one hundred miles away 1
Let me but see my Myra once again ;
Let me but clasp her yielding waist, and kiss ;
And if from her again I long remain,
I own I shall not merit such great bliss ;
But, on the other hand, deserve to stay
From her for aye, one hundred miles away !
S.A.
WILLIAM MAcDONALD.
The Bonfire.
To-night I have taken your picture,
And held it long in my hand,
And wondered what you were doing
Away in a foreign land ;
And now I’m musing on many things
That you wouldn’t understand.
To-morrow brings me my wedding,
With worth apd prosperity ;
’Tis meet I should build me a bonfire
As a grave for what used to be—
For those things that have lain forgotten
With the days of my vanity.
Here is an old ball’programme
Smartly got up in red,
Dashes instead of initials,
I understood them, Ned.
And here is a faded roseleaf
From the wreath I wore on my head.
A poor little old bent sixpence,
Broken between us two,
And a bundle of yellow letters,
A ribbon that once was blue;
I wonder how many you kept, Ned,
Of the letters I sent to you ?
See how my fire is burning,
See how its flames flash red,
It is meet they should be cremated
These tokens so long lain dead.
Ashes to ashes they’re falling,
Have you forgotten, Ned ?
Q.
K. SMITH.
Near and Par.
Strange it is, when you are far
You seem worthy
To be classed as some high star;
Not a thing, earth-born or earthy,
Seems your equal where you are.
Distant hills are blue, they say,
And say rightly;
For, when you are near by day
Or by night, I most unknightly
See your feet are feet of clay.
Why should this be, why grows cold
And sour your sweetness —
When my arms are near to fold ?
O Life, ne’er yet in completeness
Gave Love all to have and hold !
Yet some red your lips retain,
Your eyes cherish
Some dear lights, some sweets remain;
Needs I must take these or perish—
Take, or leave and love in vain.
Ido well; when you are far
You seem colder.
Meet the skies are for a star;
But.. . your girl-head on my shoulder:
I would have you as you are.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
If You Were Mine.
If you were mine !
T could not ask of God a joy more dear
Than know your heart to'mine was ever near ;
What power so strong my drooping soul to cheer
As love of you ?
While others claimed of Him a goodly share
Of worldly joys, ’twould be my constant prayer
To thank my God for one so wondrous fair,
My love, as you !
If you were mine !
I should not crave of God another boon,
Life would be a long spring-time afternoon
Or summer night, when from the unveiled moon
The soft winds dart.
To hold you in my arms, and keep you there
For hour on hour —what joy could e’er compare
With this ? Could sadness, then, or Cara
Live in my heart ?
If you were mine !
No beauty, grace, no charm would potent be
To blind my eyes—no subtle coquetry
Of witching maid could turn my love from thee,
Make me forget.
With you the laughter of the days to be,
The rippling sweetness of life’s melody,
Would know no hush —without you life would be
A leng regret.
N.S.W.
J. P. COOK.


Sixteen Years Martyrdom.
Sallow, Shrivelled and Emaciated.
Saved from an Untimely End.
The Case of
Mrs. A. H. FULLAGAR,
(by a local reporter. )
There are some branches of study which
cannot give the information which the
reader is seeking, even though the amount
of useful learning may be increased by the
theories therein contained, but the follow-
ing singular story may be sa f ely regarded
as one which should be stored in the
mind of every person in the community. It
commences with a brief reference to an acci-
dent which befel Mrs. Alice Harriette Ful-
lagar, of 83 Mitchell-street, Glebe, in de-
scribing which the narrator said :
“ I can trace all my physical trouble back
to the day that I was thrown out of a sulky
through the horse taking fright at the noise
of a passing train and bolting down the
street. The animal was galloping at full
speed when it suddenly fell, and I was
hurled with great violence on to the hard
road.”
“ It is a wonder you jvere not killed,” re-
marked the reporter.
“ Indeed I was lucky-tb have escaped as I
did, but the accident itself was a mere trifle
to what followed,” continued Mrs. Ful-
lagar. “ You see, I was in a delicate state
of health at the time, and that made matters
much worse for me. I had to keep my bed
from the 3rd of February till the 14th of
March, and even then I had to be lifted like
a child from place to place, as I was too
weak to hold my head up. My doctor ad-
vised me to take a sea trip, and I went to
England, where all my relatives live ; but,
after staying there some time, I returned to
Sydney no better than when I went away.
The pains in my legs were something never
to be forgotten, and my stomach was so
weak that I could not keep down even the
lightest of food. I consulted one doctor
after another in the hope of meeting with
one who could successfully treat my case,
hut. I found no benefit resulting from the
uoe of their medicines. That they under-
stood what was wrong with me was quite
plain, for they all said that I would have to
vo under an operation, and also that my
liver and kidneys were out of order. What
with one cause and another I was in a
chronic state of misery. Instead of fading
asleep like any other mortal when night
came I could only twist and turn in aggra-
vating restlessness, and all the time I was
thinking of things which made me cringe
with fear. If I slept at all I dreamt such
horrible dreams that when I awoke I forced
myself to keep awake to avoid dreaming
again. As for being nervous, well, I am
sure you could not possibly guess how I
used to shake when I heard any sound, and
I would not stay in a room by myself for the
world. My appetite was so poor that I
never felt hungry, while in the mornings,
when my mouth had a taste as if I had eaten
a stale egg, the smell of food made me sick.
The expectoration of an ill-smelling phlegm
was of frequent occurrence, and I was
almost tormented to death with frightful
headaches and t harp pains in the side and
between the shoulders. My heart pains and
palpitations were a constant worry to me,
and it was because I felt certain that that
organ was too weak for me to undergo any
operation.”
“ Did the doctors express an opinion on
that matter ? ”
“ They said my heart was weak, and that
an operation was the only thing to save me.
I did not think I could stand it. and as I
thought I would never get better, I pre-
ferred to die as I was, without beinghacked
about by doctors. Another reason for my
timidity was that I suffered severely from
fits, which used to leave me prostrate for
two or three days. I was thoroughly weary
of life, for a heavy despondency robbed me
of any remaining comfort that I might have
otherwise enjoyed. The smallest particle of
food made my stomach so painful that I
could not bear the weight of my clothes,
and the pains in my chest seemed to take
my breath away. All the medicines, pills,
and ointments I had purchased during my
sixteen years’ martyrdom were quite use-
less, and all that was left of me was a sal :
low, shrivelled face and an emaciated body.
This wretched state of affairs was changed
in a most extraordinary manner by Clem-
ents Tonic, and I have no hesitation in
stating that by using that medicine I was
saved from an untimely end. ”
“ How came you to take Clements Tonic,
Mrs. Fullagar ? ”
“Through the advice of my grandmother,
who had half-a-bottle in the house, which
she gave me, and when I had taken it I felt
slightly better, so I sent for three bottles of
Clements Tonic on my own account. Then
a little disappointment was experienced, as
my condition after drinking the first bottle
was not altered much ; but instead of giving
way to despair, I went on with the second
bottle, and then my appetite commenced to
come back. Such a strange, happy feeling
of hopefulness then stole over me that I
felt quite a different woman, especially as
my stomach wa3 so strengthened by the use
of Clements Tonic that my food digested
and nourished my body, thereby giving me
increased vitality every day. Then I started
to take a new interest in life, for by easing
my body pains and giving tone to my brain
and nerves, Clements Tonic restored the
health-giving sleep which I required so
much. Another supply of that remarkable
remedy was obtained as soon as the first lot
was finished, as past experience taught me
Clements Tonic was my only chance. And
shall I ever forget how thankful I was when
the pains in my side and shoulders stopped ?
and when the distressing palpii ations of my
heart were remedied I realised that I was
out of danger. Each day I ate more
heartily, but I now had good reason to eat
freely, as there were no pains—not even in
the chest —to deter me from doing so. The
cleansing and regulating influences of
Clements Tonic were shown by the entire
disappearance of my headaches, and the re-
moval of my internal disorders. The re-
storation of my nervous system to a sound
condition makes me ever grateful to
Clements Tonic, as it ultimately had the
effect of giving me entire freedom from fits,
and my health has not faltered in the least
since 1 took my last dose of Clements Tonic
two year 3 ago.”
“ Was your recovery comp’ete in every
detail ? ”
“Yes; Clements Tonic left nothing un-
done, and as I think an account of my cure
will undoubtedly assist other sufferers, you
may publish it in any way you please.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Alice Harrietts Fullagar, of 83 Mitchell-
street, Glebe in the State of New South
Wales, Commonwealth of Australia, do solemnly
and sincerely declare that I have carefully
read the annexed document, consisting of five
folios, and consecutively numbered from one to
live, and that ir. contains and is a true and faithful
account of my illness ami cure by Clements Tonic;
and also contains my full permission to publish in
any way my statements—which I give volun-
tarily, without receiving any payment; and I
make this solemn declaration conscientiously be-
lieving the same to be true, ana by virtue of the
provisions of the Oaths Act, i9OO.
Subscribed and declared at Glebe, this twentieth
day of February, one thousand nine hundred and
two, before me,
W. T. TATE, J.P.
S. FREEMAN # SONS LIMITEP
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES!
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
heap office. WTNYABD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK
CLOTH, 300 PAGES.
BY SIXTY BULLETIN WRITERS. PRICE, 4s. 6d.
From all Booksellers, or the Publishers,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co ,, Bid., 214: George-st., Sydney, Australia.
FOR THE 8008 WOHKEB
am
-Bu/c
A SOOTHING BALM and EMBROCATION. Will be found
a CERTAIN CURE for Cuts, Burns, Boils, Barcoo,
Eczema, Sprains, Ringworm, Sore Feet, Piles all
forms of Skin Disease or Muscular Affections, etc.
From all Chemists, 1/6 per Tin. A FREE SAMPLE will
be sent you. Address the
ZAM-BUK CO., 39 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Enclose Penny Stamp for postage, and mention this paper.
ill
“«£T
TO M!©LBOURNBJ VISITORS,
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite Sb.
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trains. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 10HS. w^CATERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
Belected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCIN3 FJ-OSRS
of various sizes supplied.
Study Evenings
foreknowledge AT HOME. Wore P»y
Courses offered by mail
Mechanical.
Electrical.
Stationary*
Telegraphy.
Marine. Civil.
Sanitary.
Locomotive.
Architecture*
Sheet Metal Work.
Meek. & Perspective Draw’gl
American School
Armour Inst.of Technology
Chicago, 111.
li Write for Handbook.
160 VICKERY’S CHAHiBERS,
BOX 629, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Mr. Andrew Carnegie says: “The secret of
American industrial success is emphatically the
application of brains and knowledge to work," even
in the smallest detail; and the influence of the
Correspondence Technical School in furthering
America’s advantages in this regard deserves
universal recognition.”
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
“ They come as a boon and a blessing to men,
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen.”
M
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEN made by Mncniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
separatey examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
£2©" BEWARE OF IMITATIONS, “a®
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.,
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAM
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
DEBILITATED
•\TTEAK, NERVOUS SUFFERER. Let us send you a
trial course of our CONCENTRATED BOTANIC
REMEDIES FREE OF CHARGE. You will be more
than pleased with the result, and you will show your
appreciation of our valuable treatment by persevering
in its use for a few weeks until you are PERMANENTLY
CURED. Address—
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
M
ENNESS
CURED
Absolutely Conquered in 20 Days.
lllFSee my proposition to the Government,
November Bth, igoi, wherein I agree to
accept ioo Test Cases 0 and prove that my
Vegetable Cure for Alcoholism is a positive
and reliable remedy Home treatment
within the reach of all. No restrictions, no
hypodermic injections. Full particulars free.
W. LANGSTON, M R.C.S.. Eng ..
129 Collins-st., Me bourne.
CURED
without opera-
(Throw away
tion or pain, no detention from work,
or dependence upon Trusses. The
ONLY humane treatment. Hundreds
cured. Write to-day for illustrated
Treatise No. 10. Address:
SURGEON LANGSTON, m.r.c.s.. eng.,
129 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
Dr. Langston’s Representative will visit
Newcastle, June 6th to 20th ; Bathurst,
June 23rd to 29th ; Orange, July Ist to 6th ;
Dubbo, July 7th to 13th.
JAYNE’S EXPECTORANT
CURBS THE WORSTCOUGHS.
ALL CHEMISTS
pOTSW
An/emia,
Poverty of Blood
and Weakness
prom Whatever Cau se: .o*
TABLETS
AT 3/e PER box
LARGEST SALE OP ANY DENTIFRICE.
CALVERTS
CARBOLIC
Tooth Powder.
A unique and efficacious preparation for
cleansing the teeth and strengthening the gums.
F. C. CALYERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
tfor&lciL&t ILii/hU
Jnfants
TRY
X
M
M
Refuse af/Z/n/ferf/ons
Satisfying. Strengthening. Soothing for Infante
Agreeable. Digestible, Nourishing
AGF/Vrs FOR SYD/VFY.
SAYFPS A LLP OFF * POTTFFf
RIDGES FOOD MILLS. LONDON.Ewe
TOOTH-ACHE
CURED INSTANTLY BY
M
Prevent* Decay, Saves
Extraction, Sleepless Nights
Prevented.
Neuralgic Head aches & all Nerve
Pains remoyed by BUNTEB’B
NERVINE. Of all Stores.
NERVINE
“As a specifto for Tooth ache It has no equal. I have
ÜBed it successfully for years.”— Prof. W. Wilsok, M.D.
The BEST FAMILY MEDICINE
KAYE’Sworsdeits PILLS
Are a certain Cure for Indigestion, Biliousness, Head ache,
Dyspepsia, Constipation, Liver and Kidney Complaints, &c f
Of all Stores.
30 Days’ Trial.
M
We grant every purchases
of our
ELECTItIO
BELTS and
APPLIANCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electrio
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Eleotrio
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXESi
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address
German Electric Appliance Agency
Elizabeth Stbeet, SYDNEY.
WEBSTER’S
CARBOLIC
DENTIFRICE
HAS MANY FINE POINTS.
FOR QUALITY, FLAVOR AND PRICE
HAS NO EQUAL
Sold all over Australia.
LARGE TINS, 6d.
INSIST ON GETTING IT.
Free for Asking 1 .
WRITE to us and we will forward you our scientific
book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong and Vigorous— the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con*
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body wijl
vanish like magic, and you will be filled with energy,
strength and ambition once more. Posted free. Write
to G. Specific, Elizabeth Street, North Melbourne.


BLAIR'S
GOUT St RHEUMATIC
FIIiXiS.
The Great English Remedy for
GOUT, RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA,
LUMBACO & NEURALGIA.
The acute pain is quickly relieved and cured In •
few days by this celebrated Medicine.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, and sold at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d.
per box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
Too Stout
I was for years ; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to lOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Sending, mention this paper.
Hypnotism
M
Reader, why not "be able to use the
most mysterious and powerful force of
nature? By my method you can learn
to Hypnotize in a few hours time, with*
out leaving your home. You can per-
form all the many marvellous feats
that are possible to the Hypnotist.
Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
conquer pain; win reluctant affection,
gratify your ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I have
just issued in booh form a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or Key to
Hypnotism, which fully explains
the mysteries and secrets
of the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the kind
ever published. For a short
time I wi 1 send this magnifi-
cent work FREE, sealed on
receipt of 6d. (stamps) to covei
postage. Order to-day and learn
to Hypnotize. It is a chance oi
a life-time. Address—
M
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
M
If
you
are
suffering from
exhaustion, Vari-
cocele, Wasting,
Weakness, enclose 6 stamps (postage and
packing), and I will send a trial bottle of my
REMEDY, FREE.
IT COSTS YOU NOTHING
to try my Life Syrup Remedies, which
give back strength of body and brain, renewed
vigor, and development of the vital organs;
not a free prescription dodge, but a trial of
my wonderful remedy free for the asking.
PROFESSOR H. READ,
165 Collins street, Melbourne.
VEGETABLE
Charcoal
THE ROAD
TO HEALTH IS
PAVED WITH
GOOD
. DIGESTION.
Speedily cares Acidity, Flatulence, Heartburn,
Impure Breath, Indigestion, Diarrhoea, &c. It
destroys all disease germs, and,absorbing all impuri-
ties in the stomach and bowels,gives a healthy tone
to the whole system. Wards off all attacks of Typhoid
and other Fevers. Prevents many an illness.
BRAGG’S PURE CHARCOAL POWDER in
Bottles; DOZENGRS and BISCUITS in Tins
(pleasant to take). Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
Having had complaints of the injury done by other
preparations,please see that each Boctle or Tin bears
the Trade Mark ‘J.L.B., in monogram,’on the wrapper.
OF INTEREST to MEN
T\EAR SIR, —I have been cured of weakness and De-
bilitv by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to
Mr. ROBERT E. PARKHURST,
Pi** street, Sydney.
THE BALLET GIRL
MM
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, 1s
The Life, Adventures
and Confesssions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, is,
tend stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
BOX 913. G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
ENGINEMAN’S MASTER KEY. -All subjects
relating to Examinations for Certificates of Com-
petency in all the States. 365 Pages, 106 Illustrations ;
6s. 6d. posted, by L. F. E. SCHNABEL, Consulting
Engineer, 443 Bou'rke-street, Melbourne. Also COLE’S,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney.
Skin -Tortured Babies
AND TIRED MOTHERS
Find Comfort in Cuticura
Instant Relief and refreshing sleep for Skin-tortured Babies and
rest for Tired Mothers in warm baths with Cuticura Soap, and
gentle anointings with Cuticura Ointment, the great skm cure and
purest of emollients, to be followed in severe cases by mild doses off
Cuticura Resolvent Pills, to cool and cleanse the bloody This is
the purest, sweetest, most speedy, permanent, and economical treat-
ment for torturing, disfiguring, itching, burning, bleeding, scaly,
crusted, and pimply humours, eczemas, rashes, irritations, and
itchings, with loss of hair, of infants and children, yet compounded.
JUONS USE CUTICURA SOAP
Assisted by Cuticura Ointment, for preserving purifying, and beautifying
the skin, for cleansing the scalp of crusts, scales, and dandruff, and the
stopping of falling hair, for softening, whitening, and soothing red, rough,
and sore hands, for baby rashes, itchings, and chafings, m the form of baths
for annoying irritations and inflammations, or too free or offensive perspira-
tion, in the form of washes for ulcerative weaknesses, and for many sanative,
antiseptic purposes which readily suggest themselves to women, especially
mothers and for all the purposes of the toilet, bath, and nursery. No other
medicated soap ever compounded ia to be eompared with ttta' P”g,
purifying and beautifying the skm, scalp, hair, and hands. No other
foreign or domestic toilet soap, however expensive, is to be compared with
it forall the purposes of the toilet, bath, and nursery. Thus it combines
in One Soap at One Price, the best skin and complexion soap, and the
best toilet and best baby soap in the world.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT PILLS
(Chocolate Coated) are a new, tasteless,
odourless, economical substitute for the cele-
i s lVtsvswl onH hnmmiP
brated liquid Cuticura Resolvent, as well as for all other blood purifiers and Humour
cures. Put up in screw-cap pocket vials, containing 60 doses.
Cuticura Remedies are sold throughout the world. Australian Depot: R. Towns & C°., Bydney.
Depot: 27-28, Charterhouse Sq., London. French Depot: 5 Ruo de la Etux, Paris. Potiee Deuo and CheM
Corf., Bole Props., Boston, D. S. A.
M
ARE YOU WEAK ?
Low-spirited, Tired of Life, Have you utterly
failed in your efforts to regain Health?
Go to the Fountain Head
and consult OLD SURGEON LANGSTON, member of the Royal
College of Surgeons, Eng., who will cure you. Forty years’
practice as a Specialist is sufficient guarantee of the doctor’s
ability. Ido not seek to demonstrate a theory. I have no time for that,
for I am accomplishing facts. I am curing thousands who have
given up all hope of life. I am bringingjoy and happiness
into hundreds of homes. If you suffer from kidney and liver disease,
lung, stomach or heart trouble, consumption, debility, insomnia, blood
poison, Varicocele, headaches, backache, nervousness, or any disease
or weakness of the vital organs, come to me and i will cure you
and make you well. The people whom I have snatched from the very
jaws of death and have lifted up and given strength and health are
living witnesses of the everlasting power of my treatment. It
matters not how long you have been afflicted ; it matters nob how
hopeless or helpless you may be ; it matters not what doctors have
said or what remedies have failed to cure you ; it matters not whether
you have faith.
iST I WILL CURE YOU.
A NEW TREATMENT AND GUARANTEED CURE FOR VARICOCELE WITHOUT OPERATION.
Be the Equal of Your Fellow Man.
If you are a sufferer from any nervous, chronic Blood or Skin diseases, or interested in the subject of
Neurasthenia and associated evils, write at once for book of information, blank forms, etc., and have the
old doctor diagnose your case.
All communications strictly confidential. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, 129 Collins Street, Melbourne
Established in Melbourne 1886.
■; m
i
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT-IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1902 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking: made easy • is fid post
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards illus
Is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted’
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk Ts 9d '
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is ’
The Art of Wrestling, post Is. Hoyle’s Games, post 2/6
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc ) Is 3d post
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
- One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor Is.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, Is posted. Camille Is 3d
Secret History of tiie Court of England, X 6 post free
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted’
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history),’ Is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted. Sappho, Is.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want.
The Wife’s Handbook, Is 2d posted.
The Slide Rule- and How to Use It, Is 6d post.
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus. Leather bound, my price, 15s post paid
I Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
i Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic,
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance. Is 3d.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s posted.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music comple e Is 6d.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d posted.
Send for my Illustrated Big Book
Catalogue—post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney.
ASTHMA and BRONCHITIS CURED
®y u ;ing CASPS ASTHMA CURE, made from the Queensland Asthma
Plant. Relieves instantly, eventually Cures. 4s. 6d. large bottle;
Posted to any State, ss.
«J. W. CASE, Chemist, 140 Wickham-st., Brisbane.
Please mention Bulletin when writing.
r
Powell’s Balsam
of Aniseed.
SAFE AND RELIABLE*
Gives Immediate Relief.
FOR 78 YEARS
THE POPULAR REMEDY FOR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza, and all Lung Troubles.
Ii loosens the Phlegm immediately, and removes
the tickling- sensation in the Throat, which de-
prives so many of rest during the night. It also
Strengthens the Voice and Cures Hoarseness.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers,
But see the well-known Trade Mark—Lion, Net
• and Mouse—is on each wrapper.
Prepared only by Thomas Poweil, Ltd.,
EVERY WOMAN
M
is interested and should know
about the wonderful
Marvel Whirling Spray
The new FEMALE SYRINGE
Injection and Suction. The best,
safest and most convenient.
It Cleanses Instantly.
If your druggist cannot
supply the MARVEL,
accept no other, but write us for
Illustrated Book, sent free
sealed. It gives price by mail,
particulars and directions invalu-
able to ladies. n Godorned toy Physicians.
Times Building, N.Y.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS-
THE MARVEL GO. OF AUSTRALIA,
CAMDEN BUILDING,
418 George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
LADY SPECIALIST IN ATTENDANCE.
Postal Address, Box 623, G.P.0., Sydney.
Write for Booklet. Sent free, sealed.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by using
R< CO ftp’s I
\.\ f C-J
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS, DEBILITY,
VARICOCELE, etc.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life affords relief and permanently
cures all who suffer from wasting and withering of the
nervous tissues; restores Energy, Strength and
Vitality to the most weak and shattered constitutions
(no matter from what cause) and regenerates all the
important elements of the human frame.
Price 125., or four quantities in one, 365. Freight extra,
Is. and Is. 6d. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope.
Agents for Australasia— PEßßY & CO., 47 Queen St.,
Melbourne; N.S.W.— Faulding & Co., 16 O’Connell
St., Sydney ; Newcastle, Adelaide and Perth.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout, Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdicstkk & Tkuman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B. —Insist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstke & Tkuman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
References' throughout Great Britain mnd Colonitt *
ASTHMA
taken from the System.
Nothing remains which can
produce an attack. You can
eat, sleep and stand exposure without slightest return of
symptoms. Cured to stay cured, by elimination and re-
construction. Appetite improved; blood enriched ; nerves
strengthened; whole Bystem built up; life made enjoyable.
Keliefs, or change of climate no longer needed. We have
treated over 52,000 Asthma and Hay Fever patients. Es-
tablished 1883. Explanatory BOOK 300 post FREE.
Address: Dr. P. HAROU) HAYES’ASTHMATIC INSTITUTE
Buffalo, N. Y., O. S. A.
ASTBMACURE
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
For Asthmatic people who suffer from
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY In EXPECTORATION.
Grirnault’s Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest.
QRIMAULT a Co., Paris. Sold bf »11 ChsmliU


IKIIIY
Hennessy’s
Old Battle Axe
Brand
Is Known
and
Appreciated
all
the
World
Over.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
WOOLLEN UNDERWEAR
.. . 0F...
7ERTEX CELLULAR
FABRIC
is the healthiest, most comfortable to even
the tenderest skin, and most hygienic of all
materials for Winter.
It is, in its construction, a copy of Nature, and
acts as a supplementary skin, regulating the heat of
the body, and allowing the exuded vapours and
deleterious gases to dissipate without hindrance.
It is economical, most easily washed, and does
not felt up or thicken as a result of that operation.
Stocked in Under-garments of every kind for
Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s wear. Special garments
made to order. Fabric by the yard.
Call or write for full Illustrated Price List—post
free.
PAVID BRAHAM & CO.,
73 & 75 King St., Sydney.
Sole Agents for the Cellular Clothing Co. in N.S.W.
A Distinct Advance in Infant Feeding.
9
THE
Al>?
ffiESi
r °«THS FIRST 3 MOMTWf
IttlliiUU,
Testimony,
maim
Hanboo
Mle n
EBB®
The “ Allenburys” Foods provide nourishment suited to the growing digestive powers
of the Infant, and constitute an altogether distinct advance on the mischievous expedient of trying
to make the child’s stomach accomodate itself to a food essentially unsulted to its digestive powers.
Farinaceous foods of all kinds are totally unfit for infants under five or six months of age, such foods
being a potent cause of digestive troubles, rickets, and many disorders arising from mal-nutrition.
The “Allenburys” Foods are especially valuable In hot
climates. They are in the form of powder and keep perfectly.
Pamphlet on
INFANT FEEDING” (48 pages) free, from
495, Bourke Street, Melbourne.
ALLEN & HANBURYS, Ltd., London, Eng.
MILK FOOD No. 1.
From birth to three months.
MILK FOOD No. 2.
From three to six months.
MALTED FOOD No. 3.
From six months and upwards.
does not appear to be quite as easy at it looks, as Dr. McCarthy has by this time found out —although
he produced CLOUDS. This has caused a smile amongst Sydneyites, who are accustomed, with
Cameo Cigarettes
to produce clouds, without the aid of chemicals*
in
You know a good thing when you see it. But do you always know a better when you see it ?
It is easy to know a good thing. A thrippence is a good thing. But |thef goodness there is in a
thrippence can never be enjoyed until you spend it. And you don’t;spend itfuntil 1 you know something
better than a thrippence. The value of a thrippence, therefore, is/as much|in your own quick insight
and keen perception as in the money itself. If your good sense (tells you, that ta better thing than a
thrippence is a tram car ride over thst long, dusty road you are I travelling, you) are indebted to your
own sagacity for at least half the benefit you enjoy by the exchange.
Then, what you and all the rest of the world seek is that is better than your money,
so that in the spending of your money you will get more than its lvalue.! Is there anything at this
particular time that will give you better return for your money than a|RuBFROiD Roof?
Full Particulars from
Fremantle, W.A.
J, M. Ferguson, I/cd.
Adelaide, S.A.
A. W. Sandford & Co.
Melbourne, Vic.
Brooks, Robinson & Co.
I Hi Launceston, Tas.
I | ? *Hrdi,ey Button.
Wellington* N.Z.
James W. Jack.
E. RICH & CO., LiA/hted,
Sydney
Brisbane


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
'
VOL. 24.—N0. 1223.
THURSDAY, JULY 23, 1303.
Pbiob Gd.
THE REVIVAL OF DILL-MACKYISM.
THE VOICE OF THE ANIMAL : “Gentlemen, what we want (he-haw!) at next Federal elections is that you should drop all questions about tariffs, promotion
of loca inustries, transcontinental railways, old age pensions, settlement of the people on the land, debt consolidation, arbitration, defence, and all
matters relating to your own interests, and vote solely for Orange candidates. An Orange candidate, I may explain, is a man who can’t possibly
get into Parliament on any other pretence (he-haw!). Our flag (which you will notice above) must fly over every polling booth at the ensuing
Federal election."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the A ustralians. ”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 013 0
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Ofllce Twenty -
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc.', and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary communications to be addressed to the Editor.
Special Notice.
The contents of this pager are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number, is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknoivledgc in the “ Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Jilacle and White.
Anyone supplying to Tub Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa— Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown ;
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal; Solomon
and Wilson, 22 Hout St., Capetown; Solomon and
Wilson, Commissioners Street, Johannesburg ; Granger
Bros,, Johannesburg ; Isaacs and Co., Durban ; Argus
Printing Co., Rhodesia; Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
Ceylon. —Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver
B.C.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., 22 Queens Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai.— Brewer and Co.
THURSDAY, JULY 23, 1903.
O’Sullivanian.
There is in that tendency, which may be clearly
enough described as Owe’Sullivanism, and
which has been effectively illustrated in N.S.W.
by the Fitzroy Dock exposures, a more serious
danger to Australian social democracy than in
Irvineism. It is more serious because it is more
subtle. The callous brutality and injustice which
mark the present Victorian administration must
in time outrage all human sympathy and bring
about its own fall. An unthinking class and
a sordid press may applaud it for a while, but
finally the idea of the indigent dying in the
streets or crowded into the gaols for want of
hospitals, and of the State workers being swindled
and sweated to square the finances, will shock
even Kyabram. Irvineism thus, though abhorrent
enough, constitutes no serious permanent danger
to democracy; it is Toryism, not Liberalism, that
Irvine is bringing into contempt and loathing#
Owe’Sullivanism is a different matter. It eats
into the fibre of the democracy with flatteries and
concessions, sets up a false standard of popularity
—the old “bread and circuses ” standard which
finished the ruin of another democracy; dis-
credits by maladministration the idea of State
enterprise; and lays the foundation of a great
Tory reaction. And all this is done with a foolish
good-nature which does much to disarm criticism.
Everyone likes to see the worker earning good
wages, likes to think that the toiler is to the
fullest extent protected against any arbitrary
tyranny on the part of his “boss,” hears with
pleasure of the ancient allowed to potter away
still at his job when all real capacity for
work has left him. On the other hand, it
is necessary to run the risk of being re-
proached with inhumanity if a critic takes,
even for the most valid reasons, the opposite
side, and objects to undeserved wage increases,
to the subversion of all order and discipline, to
the coddling of veterans on State works. That is
why Owe’Sullivanism is so subtle a poison to
democracy. It appeals for popularity so plausibly;
it is so ready and so seeming-right in its counter-
charge of “illiberality,”of “Toryism,”of “sweat-
ing sympathies” when criticised. Yet it is so
absolutely certain to bring State enterprise into
contempt and to undermine all progressive ideals
that Owe’Sullivan is just now the worst enemy
that the democratic cause has in Australia.
* * * ♦
If the State’s enterprises are not carried out on
business lines, they must either fail altogether or
continue to exist only as an intolerable and un-
necessary burden on the mass of the people.
They should be conducted on such lines as to
ensure to every employee a decent living wage;
and also a rate of pay at least as high, and, if
possible, higher than rules in private employ-
ment ; further, their management should keep
always in view the equal civic rights of laborer
and overseer, treating every employee with
justice. But loafing, favoritism, over-payment,
extravagance, lack of discipline, should be as
carefully guarded against as in a well-managed
private enterprise. For the community to defraud
it! employee under Irvine is no worse than for
the employee to defraud the community under
Owk’Sulltvan. If the State enterprise is such
that it enters into competition with private under-
takings, the faults due to inefficiency are quickly
discovered, and in time the State goes out of that
field. If the industry concerned is a State mono-
poly, it has a longer course to run, but in time
must come to an end, either in the exhaustion of
the State, or in its resolve to rid itself of the
burden by invoking the aid of the private capita-
list.. The inevitable ultimate result of O’Sulli-
vanism is to restrict State employment, and it,
therefore, runs clean counter to the movement
towards better social conditions. It cannot for that
reason be treated indulgently. Mr. Owk’Sulli-
van’s good intentions do not enter into the ques-
tion ;.the world is full of ruins made by men with
good intentions. When it is a question of decid-
ing between Mr. Owe’Sulmvan on the one hand
and the principle of State control of enterprises
on the other, Mr. Owe’Sullivan must go.
» • * •
That is the alternative. The system of social
democracy is one presenting great difficulties of
administration. A State socialism with a despotic
or semi-despotic head is a type of Government
familiar enough and generally successful enough.
Ancient Peru was a socialism of that sort; Russia
(which is far more socialistic than Australia) is a
modern example of a movement towards the Peru-
vian system. A despotic Government finds itself
helped rather than hindered by the extension of
its enterprises, for every new employee is a new
functionary vitally interested in the maintenance
of the despotism which governs and employs him.
But when a State progresses towards socialism
—owns its railways, waterworks, telegraphs,
docks, and, to some extent, its factories—and at the
same time wishes to be a free democracy, the
difficulty at once arises that the employees of the
State are also, in a measure, the governors of the
State, and can, if they are foolish enough, and if
the Government is foolish enough to permit it,
use their political influence to cover up extrava-
gance, laziness, and incapacity. That has been
happening in N.S.W. on a large scale whilst
Mr. Owe’Sullivan has been in charge of the
great employing department of the State. The
evil existed before, but under his reign it has
beeome greatly aggravated. The issue has thus
been. directly raised as to whether the State can
continue at once its democracy and its socialism,
whether it will not have to give up one or the
other, resort to the tyranny of disfranchising its
servants or give up its enterprises altogether.
The Bulletin does not believe that either is
necessary. There is possible the other course, of
maintaining the State enterprises and the political
rights of State employees, but keeping the man-
agement of the Government works in honest,
capable, firm, and just hands, and treating the
employee, not as a voter with so much “pull,” but
as a workman with so much capacity. But that
course is impossible with Owe’Sullivan adminis-
tration. Mr. Owe’Sullivan is just now in a repen-
tant and virtuous mood. The consequences of his
maladministration at Fitzroy Dock have been ex-
posed so fully that he has been shocked into a pro-
bably sincere notion of “swearing off.” But the
mood will pass as other moods of the same nature
have passed. Mr. Owe’Sullivan has all the
instincts of a ward politician, and all the kindness
of heart of the charity official of a Tammany
organisation. He won to office in the vicious
regime of William Lyne, and no Australian
politician brought the art of using the machinery
of the State for party purposes to a lower level
than William Lyne. It is impossible to imagine
Mr. Owe'Sullivan doing anything else than re-
turning to the old good-natured, muddling, dis-
organising system at Fitzroy Dock and elsewhere,
as soon as the present scandal has been forgotten.
Once a jolly good fellow in the Works Depart-
ment always a jolly good fellow. The habit
of taking an active interest in Bill’s dirt money
is incurable.
• * * *
Fitzroy Dock —it is to be kept in mind—is
typical only and not comprehensive of the
Owe’Sullivan disease. It is only of a piece
with disclosures that are constantly being made
about how the resources of the Works Depart-
ment are used to conciliate constituencies and
officials. The taunt that an “honorable”mem-
ber of Parliament has made his seat quite safe by
the amount of public money he has extracted
from Mr. Owe’Sullivan has become so common
of late that it passes almost without notice and
its truth is accepted with a grin. At Fitzroy
Dock, according to the report of the Royal
Commission of Inquiry, in 1899 matters were
fairly satisfactory. Since then, owing to constant
political interference—Mr. Owe’Sullivan inter-
vening to prevent men being discharged, to have
men put on, to increase wages and allowances of
individuals and to shield insubordination—the
Dock has degenerated into a hideously extrava-
gant and utterly disorganised enterprise, which is
a fraud on every taxpayer in the community.
The blame of this must rest primarily on him. To
quote the report of the Commission:
The first, most important, and inescapable conclusion
to be derived from a study of the evidence taken is that
if the affairs of the dock are to be placed upon a satis-
factory and business-like footing, such changes must be
made as will finally put an end to political control. All
else that can be suggested is mere detail. The vital
principle of successful management of any enterprise is
that responsibility and power shall be in the same hands.
In the case of the dock nothing but the shadow of power
can be discovered anywhere but in the hands of the
Minister (Mr. Owe’Sullivan).
There is no need to go further. The Minister’s “ direct
and active interest in all matters connected with the
employment and control of the men ” has reduced all the
officials nominally responsible for the dock to figure-
heads.
The discredited Minister in the end, alarmed at
the conditions he had himself created, sought relief
from the demands of the political wire-pullers at
Fitzroy Dock. And he now promises reformation
in regard to that enterprise. But he still says
nothing of reform in other directions. Fitzroy
Dock is, after all, only an example of Works De-
partment administration under the Owe’Sullivan
regime. There are other scandals, perhaps not so
great in extent, but very much greater in the aggre-
gate. The theory of administration, according to
Mr. Owe’Sullivan, is to find work with public
money for the unemployed even when it is useless
work, to give concessions to members and their
constituents, in the shape of unnecessary public
works, and to find the funds by borrowing. There
has been no personal dishonesty. It has been
simply that a great department of State has been
run on the lines of a Jubilee Juggins,
* * * *
Juggins came to grief. So must a State
department run on Juggins lines. That is as
sure as anything can be on this earth. And it is
just as sure that, if the N.S.W. Labor party con-
tinues to bind itself down to extravagant and
careless administration, it will also come to grief.
Whilst it is still possible to borrow money, the
prodigal Owe’Sullivan may continue to flourish.
But a time must come, and come very quickly,
when further borrowing is impossible. Then the
policy of scattering about bridges and court-houses,
and making useless jobs such as Lyne Park, and
crowding incompetent people on the State pay-
sheet will, of necessity, come to a sudden halt.
If, at the time, the Labor Party is still supporting
the Owe’Sullivan disease, the daily press and the
Tory party generally will be prompt to put the
whole blame on it and its support of the policy of
State enterprises.
• * * *
The Labor party has this time deliberately
made itself responsible for the continuance of
the Owe’Sullivan disease. Its leader moved
that because Mr. Owe’Sullivan, he having been
found out, and no longer able to help himself, had
given his perfectly useless promise to reform so
far as concerned the one matter where he was
found out, he should continue in office, and should
be left to pursue his disastrous policy in other
departments where he hasn’t yet been found
out. It put itself forth as the semi-apologist
for waste, folly, and gross political corruption.
As a result, every time the Owe’Sullivan is
found out in the future, another nail will be
driven in the Labor party’s coffin. It will
be remembered against it, when the crash
comes, that the working classes, which
mostly profited by Mr. Owe’Sullivan’s incapable
good nature, largely belong to its party. And
when the full dimensions of the great fraud which
the Owe’Sullivan incapacity perpetrates on the
public revenue becomes known the Labor party
will be denounced as a party of fraud, jobbery and
grab—not grab for itself, but for its constituents.
The daily press will attend to these matters most
carefully.
• * * *
The policy of State enterprise is more definitely
the policy of the Labor party than of any other
party. If the Labor party doesn’t exert itself to
see that the said policy is kept clean and solvent
no one else is likely to do much in that direction.
If the Labor party allows Mr. Owe’Sullivan to
bring the most distinctive feature of its policy
into discredit, the loss will fall more on it than
on Mr. Owe’Sullivan. When the reaction comes
most of the members of the See Government may
find a new political career as apostles of private
enterprise ; they can go Kyabramming and start
afresh. The Labor party can’t turn Tory when
the Owe’Sullivan management brings Toryism
into fashion, and when old age pensions, arbitra-
tion laws, factory laws, and so on begin to go
overboard. There is still time for the Labor
party to make itself the party of honesty and
economy, and to show that State enterprise isn’t
necessarily associated with big loans, muddle,
incapacity, and the methods of ward politician
Owe’Sullivan. There is still time—-but not
much time, and every day that it allows itself to
be seen in the political company of Owe’Sullivan
it is wasting that precious time. If there isn’t a
democratic reaction against Owe’Sullivanism very
soon there is certain to be a Tory reaction against
it.
The Holy Red Herring
The Protestant flag must fly on every election hustings,
both in Federal and State politics. Those who were not
for them were against them. There must be no blending
of colors—orange with the green. Orange color was good
enough to stand by itself. Though he was in public life,
he cared not whether a Laborite or Protectionist was
to be returned, but he must be a Protestant.— Wilks.
M.11.R.
The Protestant Defence Association would bring about
a revolution at the next general election. (Cheers.) He
believed the female vote would elevate the morals of the
State. The Roman Catholic vote at the next election
would be a tremendous one, and every Protestant woman
who failed to use her franchise would be giving a vote to
Roman Catholicism. He implored them, therefore, to
come out as true women and do their duty.— Parson
Dill-Macky,
Whether the squalid sectarian row will play a
large or small part at the ensuing Federal elec-
tions it is difficult to say, but it is certain that a
violently unscrupulous gang of fanatics or
hypocrites is doing its best to make it the
chief feature of the contest. In New South
Wales, especially, the Unclean Thing has
been more or less of an influence in politics ever
since Parkes began to wave the gory banner of
hatred, malice and uncharitableness in his own
personal and political interests many years ago.
At that time the fiscal question slept, and
the Kiama ghost was neither Protectionist
nor Freetrade, but when Parkes finally de-
cided to be a Freetrader, who protected almost
everything of importance and denied that he did
it, he took the gory banner into the importers’
camp so far as he was able to do so. Ever since
then the remnant of the old Parkes party has
tried to expound the doctrine that Protestantism
is, in some way, bound up with the holy cause of
free imports, no local manufactures, low wages,
nigger labor, and an abundant influx of cheap
Chinese, and other foreign goods. That view,
however, never got any serious hold outside
N.S.W., and it is very little use to put it openly
forward in Federal politics. Now the fiscal issue
is ostensibly dropped, and the public is assured
that it doesn’t matter whether a candidate is
Freetrade or Protectionist, Tory or Democrat;
that the one essential is to vote for a bigoted
Orangeman and let everything else slide. It
is a wonderful commentary on the vanity of a few
petty and insanely-inflated churchmen that they
should really think their miserable little row is of
such importance that it is Australia’s duty to
drop all other concerns and to consider their con-
cern, and theirs alone. Yet, that is the theory
they put forward, and to which they ask Australia
to subscribe.
• * * *
The frantic appeal of the Wilks and Dill-
Maoky babblers is, of course, based on the
assumption that there is at present some great,
immediate pressing danger from the spread of
Roman Catholicism. It would be no use appeal-
ing otherwise. Only on such a ground could they
have the front to ask Australia to drop or in-
definitely postpone all consideration of its food
and drink and material prosperity—its tariff
question, its land problem, its irrigation diffi-
culties, the restoration of its finances, debt
consolidation, transcontinental railway, in-
dustrial arbitration, defence, graduated land-
tax, Federal old age pensions, State Bank—to
lay them all aside and consider solely the squalid
animosities of a man with a black coat and a long
tail against a man with a red hat and a long skirt.
For that is what they do ask. They demand that
the workers shall vote for the candidate who is in
favor of abolishing Protection, shutting up
factories, reducing wages, preserving the big
estates against settlement, and generally oppress-
ing the poor—that they should vote for their
worst and most abusive enemy, if that enemy is in
favor of the bishop with the weird gaiters
or the conventicler with the weird whiskers, as
against the cardinal with the weird head-gear.
And the workers naturally ask: Even assuming
that these grossly selfish preachers have any
special claim on our gratitude, where is the present
necessity for all this fury? According to the
census returns, the story about the spread of
Roman Catholicism is an impudent lie, and the
census returns are much better authority than the
Dill-Wilks crowd is ever likely to be. This is
what the census says (the figures cover Australia,
Tasmania and Maoriland): —
Members of each Denomination in every 1000 People.
In 1871. In 1901. Increase.
Methodists 105 132 27
Anglicans 391 405 14
Baptists 20 24 4
Jews 4 4
Dpprpnop
Presbyterians .. 136 135 1
Congregationalists 24 18 6
Roman Catholics .. .. 231 216 16
Other Sects .. .. 89 66 23
1000 1000
* * • *
The general result is that the Roman Catholics
are, among the large sects, the one which has lost
most ground in the past 30 years. There is nothing
111 this to explain the frenzy of the Dill-Macky
band. Even assuming that there was any-
thing special about Dill-Macky and his fellow
screamers that the workers should rally round
them—assuming that they had stood by the poor
instead of grovelled to the rich ; that they hadn’t
been in the main consistent barrackers for the
employer, right or wrong, whenever he and the
workers came in conflict; that they weren’t as
a rule the servile fuglemen of those who want
to import cheap foreign niggers to displace the
Australian worker and cheap foreign boots to
deprive the Australian artisan of a job—why
should the workers drop all their own concerns to
rally round Protestantism just now? There is n<
reason why Protestantism wants to be rallied
round. There is no great Roman Catholic revival
except in the diseased imaginations of certain
people who live on the game and get their mean
little importance and their mean little advertise-
ment out of an imaginary Catholic upheaval,
just as a certain T. Oates did long ago.
Therefore, the ostensible reason of the present
upheaval being so pitiably thin, the question is :
What real reason lies behind, and whose axe is
being ground under false pretences ? If the next
Federal election is fought on purely political
grounds there will almost certainly be a majority
for keeping _ Australia white, for encouraging
Australian industries, for strengthening the
Federal Union, for granting old age pensions, foi
breaking up the huge land monopolies which make it
impossible for the small settler to get land except
away back in the desert, and for good arbitration
laws. _ The only visible or feasible reason foi
dragging in a false issue based on false statements
lies in the desire to upset the results which would
have been arrived at if that lying issue had not
been brought in. So the problem demands an ex-
planation : To which gang of cheap importers or
nigger labor advocates or big land-grabbers have
the originators of the present movement sold theii
souls and consciences, and whose axe are they
grinding, and whose steal are they engineering,
and whose stalking-horse are they ?
* * * *
The .Australian Constitution is so devised that
no Ministry or Parliamentary majority can do
anything worth mentioning to give a lift to any
creed whatever. It can’t give grants to any
church. It can’t teach any religious doctrine in
schools or colleges, for it has no control over
education. It can do nothing that is of the least
advantage to any church whatever. Therefore
the Dill-Macky and Wilks push is certainly not
trying to control the Federal elections from re-
ligious motives, unless it has utterly gone off its
head; success or failure would be equally im-
material. The assumption is that it is really
the tool of some party, and that it is the tool of a
party whose position, if it travelled on its own
merits, would be quite hopeless. It is not hard
to identify the party. Almost every parson who
has meddled with politics of late years has been
an advocate of nigger and Chinese labor, and of
the destruction of Australian industries for the
benefit of the rich importer (they mostly call tl e
free admission of foreign cheap-labor goods by
some such beautiful name as the “brotherhood of
man ”). The parsons who went up to Queensland
to investigate the colored labor question habitually
put up at the house of the rich planter, listened
exclusively to his version of the case, and then
came back to preach their purely one-sided tale
against Labor and to take the name of God in vain
on the sweater’s behalf. The parson is almost
invariably the friend of the big landlord who
rack-rents his tenants and gives part of the
stealings to the church. He has been the habitual
associate of the pious men who made fortunes out
of fraudulent banks, and gave some of the bPod
money of the depositors to the church. He was
mostly on the side of the unspeakable Bent in his
dealings with the Victorian railway men. And at
next election it seems probable that he will be on
the same old side. Certainly such men as Charles
Kingston, George Turner, Alfred Deakin and
J. C. Watson, don’t require to wave any yellow
banner to make their re-election safe, and it isn’t
likely the gory banner is being waved where it is
so utterly superfluous. But there is many a hope-
less Tory of the Simon Fraser type, who may
just scramble in again if the foolish section of the
public can be sufficiently impressed with the fact
that he represents a great religious movement
and is strongly opposed to the burning of
Protestants in Paddy’s Market. The appeal to
consider nothing but the candidate’s Protestantism
is a beautiful device for getting men into Parlia-
ment that the community wouldn’t look at in its
sober moments.
• * * *
There is no danger of a great Roman Catholic
revival in Australia. That is guaranteed by the
blank indifference of the great mass of the people,
by their growing contempt for the squalid rows of
the sects, by their disgust at the pottering of the
clerical ants oyer small doctrines, vestments and
rites. But, if there could be a great Roman
Catholic revival in Australia, the reason would
not be difficult to seek. The Roman Catholic
Church—ignorant, antiquated, narrow, utterly
illogical as it is—has been in Australia to
a considerable extent the Church of the poor.
It hasn t sold itself body and soul to the
importer, the land-stealer, and the monopolist as
so large a proportion of the Protestant clergy has
done. It may have assumed this attitude as a
matter of principle or as a matter of policy—but
the attitude is there. On the occasion of the
Victorian railway trouble, a large and influential
section of Protestant parsondom took Bent un-
questioningly to its bosom as soon as it knew that
degraded and abusive politician represented the
party of wealth and influence, and that line of
conduct, as compared with the courageous and
democratic attitude of the local head of the Red
Hat faith, did more damage to active Protestant-
ism than a decade of flapping of the yellow
banner of strife can repair. The enthusiasm
with which so many Protestant clerics have
shouted for the cause of cheap nigger labor,
cheap imports, low wages, and the destruc-
tion of local manufactures in the M‘Millan
interest, while the Catholic Church has either
taken the national and patriotic side or has
remained neutral, may not have gained converts
to Catholicism, but it has utterly disgusted many
Protestants with religion in every shape and
form. There is no Catholic revival in view, but
the sordid Toryism of a large body of Protestant


parsons is a powerful influence to arrest the decay
of Catholicism.
» • » *
And now the Orange mob practically addresses
the great mass of the people in words like these :
“You have found us in the main your consistent
enemies and the opponents of your most patriotic
aspirations. You have found us in the main per-
sistently on the side of the sweater, the rack-
renting landlord, the Tory politician, the im-
porter, the nigger driver, the Chinese leprosy, the
Bent-Irvine disease, and the Jingo. And
we ask you now to let us select your can-
didates—you know the sort of candidates we
are likely to select. You are not to inquire
into their political views at all; their politi-
cal views won’t bear inquiring into; you are
to accept them solely because they howl about
‘the encroachments of Rome.’ For that reason
you are to entrust them, for three years at least,
with the care of your finances, laws, hopes, pros-
pects—your everything in fact. And the only justi-
fication we can offer for this outrageous demand
is the alleged great spread of Roman Catholicism
—which alleged great spread is wholly belied and
contradicted by the census returns.” That is the
case which the Dill-Macky and Wilks interest
puts before Australia. It has been putting that
view before Australia at intervals for the last
dozen years, and Australia has to consider
seriously whether the view is good enough. i
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Policy of Poverty and Stagnation.
The dismal effects of the Bent-Ibvin*-Shiels
policy of sweating, stealing and stagnation,
combined with the reduction in the Protective
tariff, are falling heavily on Victoria. An
appalling exodus of the State’s adult taxpayers
has commenced, and a frantic Government begins
to discuss the need of taking strong measures
to keep its people at home. But no measures are
likely to do much good while the Kyabram curse
is upon the land. The Government led the way
by cutting down wages, and private employers
followed suit, and then stagnation fell on shops
and warehouses, because the people had so much
less to spend, and that stagnation reacted on
banks which had less business to do, and land-
lords who couldn’t collect their rents. The rail-
ways were allowed to go into utter disrepair to
save maintenance expenses, and the men whose pay
ceased in consequence ceased to a great extent to
support the local tradespeople. Thebuildingof new
engines was stopped though these engines were
badly wanted, and the great Ballarat foundry
closed up, and Ballarat fell into poverty and woe,
to the damage of shopkeepers, warehousemen,
manufacturers, banks, and of the city rates and
the public revenue. Victoria has 50 sections of
non-paying railway; most of them don’t pav
because there are few people thereabouts, and
there are few people because the local big land-
holders won’t sell their land and let people settle
there, and for want of those people shops and
warehouses do little business, banks make small
profits, and the revenue doesn’t expand. Instead
of forcing the big landlords to sell, the current
remedy is to close the railways, wherefore busi-
ness gets a little worse instead of better through
settlement being still further retarded. Where
the State has still a little land to sell it is mostly
inaccessible for want of roads; it is impossible to
borrow the money to make these roads, and to raise
the money by taxation would offend the little tin
Joss of Kyabram. During the last few months
about 2000 taxpayers have fled from Victoria—
which means about £12,000 a year of revenue gone
in one act. Nobody is launching out into new
enterprises, because nobody sees where he is to
find profitable customers. The whole country is
sitting down in a petrified state on its money bag,
and the capitalist who saves 10s. in taxes under
the Irvine regime has already lost £lO in stagna-
tion of trade, and will probably lose much more
ere long. The Irvine idea of prosperity is to
reduce taxes, to stop progress and development
work, to reduce everybody’s wages so low that he
won’t be able to buy anything, toflatteneverything
down to a Chinese dead level, and then sit down
and admire the consequence. And it is a
fool of a policy. The country that prospers is
not that kind of a country ; nor is it the country
with the borrowing boom. The really prosperous
State is the one where the big landlord is extir-
pated, where taxes are high, where wages are
good, where the Government spends money (not
loan money but revenue) freely on necessary
works; where, because of the good wages paid, the
worker has plenty of money to spend in buying
goods from the manufacturer, so that the manu-
facturer has to rush up a new factory instead of
closing his old one, and where people are coming
in to look for a high wage instead of going away
to escape from a low one. A Government that
would remorselessly break up the big estates,
settle people along the non-paying railways, and
raise another £1,000,000 a year by taxation to pay
for necessary public works could resurrect
Victoria.
« ,
The Tasmanian Land-Tax.
Tasmania’s Commissioner of Taxes, in his annual
report, gives some idea of the size of the Flyspeck’s
biggest internal debtor. A couple of extracts:—
For some time it has been apparent that much of the
land in Tasmania has been under-assessed. ... I suppose
no greater instance of under-valuation could possibly be
found than that of the large tracts of land owned by the
Van Diemen’s hand Co., for, notwithstanding the private
and public improvements made in the immediate vicinity,
all of which, without mentioning increased population’
tend to improve the value, not alone of small, but of large
holdings, the assessments of these large areas have re-
mained stationary, whilst those of smaller properties
have been considerably increased. I therefore, during
the year, made a special effort to have the assessments
placed on a more equitable basis, and, after obtaining
special reports, appealed to have the values increased.
Although a substantial increase of over 270 per cent, was
secured, I am of opinion that there is still room for im-
provement, but fear that, without special legislation
dealing with the matter, the assessment of large areas,
such as these under review, will always be of an unsatis-
factory nature.
The “special legislation” referred to is promised
by the Propsting-Nicholls Government, the
new Ministry having definitely pledged itself to
an Assessment Bill, providing for self-assessment
of land values with a “ power to resume ” clause.
In the event of the Legislative Council offering
violent objection to the Assessment Bill—which
is highly probable—the P.N. (ominous initials !)
Ministry threatens to do something vigorous.
Whether that “something vigorous” will take
the form of an appeal to the electors, or a letter
of protest to the local Mercury, or an inti-
mation to the Council that no Money Bills
will be passed till it caves in, time will
show. In case of war really happening
between the two Houses over the proposal
to tax the Y.D.L. Co’s unearned land values,
past records supply some interesting arguments
for the progressive party. Until lately 99,115
acres of the great V.D.L. co.’s monopoly were
valued for taxation purposes at only Is. 2d. per
acre, and 160,000 acres at only 2s. Even with the
increase made last year the valuation put on this
lot is only 3s. 6d. an acre for 99,115 acres; 6s. an
acre for 150,000 acres, and 7s. 6d. an acre for
10,000 acres. The co., in its dealings with the
public, often demands more than that per
annum as rent; apparently, it considers the
land in many cases worth about 20 times
the increased valuation, and about 60 times
the old valuation. Yet the co. strongly objects to
being rated even at this mere fraction of the value
it puts on its own property. Its reply should be
a valuable document to wave at election time if
the P.-N. Government had the courage to go to
the country with a demand for the abolition of
the Legislative Council. The Council declares
openly that it represents Property, and when
Property defrauds the State of its taxes in this
wholesale way it seems that neither it nor burglary
has any fair claim for special representation.
Mistaken Patriotism in a Flurry.
Mb. Nicholas Hawken has tabled a notice of
motion in the N.S.W. Upper House—in 240
words and two sentences, the general effect of
which is to give the impression of a very stout
gentleman trying to express his devotion to the
throne and Empire after running up Lavender
Bay steps on a hot day. The splutter is worth
quoting in full:
Mr. Hawken to move,—{l) That, in the opinion of this
House, any circumstance warranting certain portions of
a despatch from the Secretary of State for the Colonies
to the Governor-General of the Commonwealth of Aus-
tralia with regard to mail contract, setting forth that
“His Majesty’s Government much regret that the
legislation which has recently been passed in Australia
has made it impossible for them to be associated in the
future with the Commonwealth in any mail contract ...
they would not, on slight grounds, withdraw from such
co-operation, but the legislation in question . . . leaves no
other course open to them . . . His Majesty’s Government
have shown every sympathy with the efforts of the people
of Australia . . . but they have always objected to
specific legislative discrimination. . . . Also that it would
destroy the faith of the people ... in the sanctity of the
obligations undertaken by the Crown . . . His Majesty’s
Government deeply regret that this feeling of obligation
... is not shared by the Parliament of the Common-
wealth . . . and that . . . the people of Australia should
have considered it desirable to dissociate themselves so
completely from the obligations and policy of the
Empire,” is to be deplored.
(2) That faith is unshaken in the “ sanctity of obli-
gation” noted in such despatch, and that unswerving
determination to support the united policy of the Empire
should be recorded.
Translated and expounded the above means: The
Australian Government, believing in white labor,
having a profound affection for the “ Boy of the
Bulldog breed,” who is popularly represented as
being the strong bulwark of Britain’s greatness,
and not liking the cheap, unreliable, panic-liable
nigger as a sailor, has refused to subsidise mail-
boats employing black labor. The British Govern-
ment, which does not believe in its own Boy of the
Bulldog breed to anything like the same extent,
has not joined in this refusal, and will continue to
subsidise the greedy and unpatriotic British ship-
° [ ' vn ® r , w .ho> the sake of his dividends, boycotts
the British sailor and employs the cheapest black
alien he can find. There is nothing to quarrel
over in either decision. The Australian mail
subsidy comes out of the Australian purse, and if
we choose to spend it in encouraging the Bulldog
Boy—the sturdy, manly, honest British tar—
that s our business. It’s our own Imperial
patriotism and it’s our own money. If the British
Government because the big lascar-employingr
non-patriotic, British-sailor-hating companies
have a legislative pull—is afraid to follow
the Australian example, and daren’t encourage
its own seamen, that is its business. Also, if it
has to defend its utterly un-British attitude with
the outpouring of pap about “sanctity of obliga-
tions,” and so on, that is also its business. It is a
hard position to defend and pap is about the only
thing available. Such is the mail contract
position. Nicholas Hawken’s position is not
nearly so clear. Plainly he deplores something.
Whilst he ought to be deploring the refusal of the
British to join with the Australian Government in
encouraging British sailors, he seems to be sad in
a violent and unintelligible way over the painful
verbal wrigglings which Joseph Chamberlain
makes in the vain effort to defend an illogical
attitude. Also, in a violent and unintelligible
way Mr. Hawken seems to wish that the N.S. W.
Upper House should say “ yah ” to the Australian
Parliament over the matter. If it is any satisfac-
tion to that body it may say “yah” without
breaking anything.
-♦ ■ -
A Serious Charge of Courage.
Alfred Deakin, Attorney-General of Australia,
has been well served by the charge of courage
made against him by Deane, one of the paid
agitators of the Kyabram madness in Victoria.
The Kyabramapootra has feathers growing over
its brain, and therefore thought it was making a
weighty accusation against Attorney-General
Deakin in this :
The vote of one at least of the members of the House
of Representatives was given for the Judiciary Bill owing
to the fact that Mr. Deakin had expressed his intention
to resign if the Bill was not carried. The speaker de-
nounced this as a highly improper intimidation.
Nothing more honorable and flattering has been
said of Alfred Deakin for many a month—not,
in fact, since an American gentleman who said he
had shot at somebody in the States, testified in
the witness box that he and his partners had
thought of bribing Deakin, but, after look-
ing at him, decided it was impossible. The
statement shows him to be a man of courage and
of a proper responsibility of his position as a
Minister. A Federal Judiciary—a strong, digni-
fied High Court—is an essential to the proper
administration of that Federal Constitution
which Attorney-General Deakin is sworn to
serve. He knows that, without such a court,
the union would very soon become farcical
—a theme for contempt and laughter. Just
as an honorable manager of a business would re-
fuse to carry on, and would threaten resignation,
if the directors insisted on following a course
which he knew to be disastrous, so Mr. Deakin
was absolutely in the right in intimating that if
the Federation was to be dragged in the mud by
a refusal to entrust it with a Supreme Court, he
was resolved not to remain at the helm of the law
department—a captain without authority. It is
the most cheering thing that has been heard
about Alfred Deakin for a long while. It is a
pity that there is not the same spirit in some
other members of the Australian Cabinet.
-
The Fall of Bent.
The shuffle of portfolios in Victoria probably
means two things ; the weary, dilapidated Shiels,
knowing his surplus is more visionary than real,
desires to get from under before the usual deficit
comes along next year, as it assuredly must if the
’Pootra crowd still runs things ; and Bent has
been temporarily squelched, at the Railways at
least. Bent only got away from his old depart-
ment in time. The very day that Thomas retired
from the Railways, Commissioner Tait’s new
regulations were published—and these practically
annul all Bent’s alleged work. Certainly, pros-
pective “retiring compensation” rights are
abolished and 250 of the ex-strikers are dispensed
with, but probably Tait declined to mix himself
up with the old disputes. Spite of all the strike
blather about “high wages paid for what was
really unskilled work,’’the enginemen’s wages fixed
for the future are higher than before. Drivers
range from 11s. to 14s. a day of a little over eight
hours, as against 10s. to 14s. a day of nominally
nine but often 12 hours. Firemen get from 7s. fid.
to 9s. a day, as before, but with reduced hours.
Cleaners now get from 4s. to 6s. for eight hours,
as against Bent’s sweating wage of 2s. to 6s. for
all hours. The short-time folly—whereby the
men were compulsorily made idle one day a week
—is utterly abolished. Superior work is paid for
at the superior rate ; men ordered for duty but
not actually utilised are guaranteed half-pay for
at least three hours for that day ; reasonable
travelling expenses, with half-pay for travelling
time, are allowed ; and all the “ loyal ” men are
to pass the usual service examination, remaining
in the highest class they can qualify for ; if they
can’t qualify for cleaner, they must fossick round
the yards with a broom, or do something equally
simple, or else leave. So all Bent’s blather about
“economies,” all his talk about the petted
darlings of the service, with their privileges and
concessions, go for nothing. His spy system,
his “ reduced-time ” folly, his ridiculous weed-
ing contracts which nobody would take, all his
vaunted “economies”—have merely resulted in still
further decreasing an already insufficient revenue,
in bringing the roads to a dangerous state, in
rendering the engines and rolling stock unsafe
and rotten, in goading the service into revolt and
in sowing a bitter animosity in the minds of the
workers that years of fair dealing will hardly
eradicate. Also, it has run into the service a few
score inexpert blacklegs and has run out a few
score expert railway men. The verdict of the new
expert manager, as shown by his actions, is that
Bent was a hopeless incapable. Victoria dis-
covered that 20 years ago when Bent was Minister
for Railways under Premier O’Loghlen. Now
it has discovered the same old fact over again.
■ - ■ 4
Irvine and Bent are “restoring confidence” n
Victoria so rapidly that during the past six
months 1747 persons left for S’Africa alone ; and
a greater number still left for those parts of the
Commonwealth which Irvine and Bent aren’t
engaged in saving. “Steps,” it is said in the
papers, “are being taken by the authorities”—
that is to say, by Irvine and Bent—“ to check
the outflow of good and useful citizens.” An
Emigration Suppression Bill, no doubt. Any
person who speaks respectfully of any country
except Victoria will be fined £lOO or imprisoned
for 12 months, or both. Anybody who is sus-
pected of saying that either himself or anybody
else in Victoria isn’t getting three meals and a
counter-lunch every day will be liable to be dis-
persed by the police without warrant; and anyone
caught hanging round a wharf, or a shipping
office, shall be cast into gaol, and shall not be
released on bail under any pretext whatever.
Moreover, any person speaking disrespectfully
about Irvine and Bent and the other people who
are making the country such a happy home, or
about any of these people’s children or mothers-
in-law, shall be liable under this Act. A small
thing like suppressing emigration oughtn’t to give
a cool strong man like Irvine, or a hot broad man
like Bent, any trouble at all, especially with the
experience they have had in suppressing other
things.
It now appears that Mugglestone (it is an awful
name— Mugglestone), ex-president of the Boot-
xroto Pinion, who recently repudiated the
N.o.W. Labor party, is, like counter-jumper
Law, actuated by Yellow Pup motives. Thus
Mugglestone at a recent suburban howl:
One could understand Roman Catholics opposing sec-
tarianism, but the same excuse did not hold good for the
Labor party. They were returned to Parliament by con-
scientious reformers for the purpose of securing measures
of reform that would give the people better opportunities
to reach a higher ideal of civilisation. It was never
anticipated that the Labor party would become a cat’s-
paw in the hands of a party that recognised no power,
temporal or spiritual, save that of the Vatican.
What curious ideas an unusually ignorant boot-
maker is capable of! According to Mugglestone,
the Roman Catholic recognises no temporal power
save that of the Pope. In other words, the
Argentine, Brazilian, Chilian, Peruvian, Yene-
euelian, Bolivian, Mexican or Frenchman doesn’t
recognise his own President and Legislature, and
the Spaniard, Portuguese, Bavarian, Austrian,
Belgian or Italian throws the Legislature and the
king overboard, and all those blessed tomes of
history which represent the Pope’s temporal
Sower as being repudiated even in his own ultra-
!atholic country and his own ultra-Catholic city
of Rome, are mere imagination. A person named
Mugglestone waves his hand and 17 Roman
Catholic republics and a multitude of Roman
Catholic kingdoms and principalities vanish away.
Doesn’t Mugglestone begin to have the glimmer-
ing of an idea that this sort of thing sounds very
like the voice of Nicholas Bottom, the weaver,
during a temporary and distressing episode in his
career ?
- ♦
Tasmanian ex-Minister Mulcahy (himself an im-
porter and softgoodsman) in a letter to Hobart
Mercury on Kingston :
There is a tolerably large section of people in every
Australian importing centre who fully approve of the
Minister’s strong administration, and of his evident de-
termination to safeguard the Federal revenue, as well as
to protect the honest merchant from the unfair competi-
tion of less scrupulous rivals. People with a better and
more practical knowledge of customs matters even than
editors feel that a Kingston has been badly wanted for
years, and infinitely prefer his open and above-board
methods of dealing judicially with offenders to the old
kind of Star Chamber trials by the Minister himself. It
is.quite time this hole and corner business should be done
with. When we know that even in Tasmania offences
against the Customs, involving a £5OO penalty, have been
carefully veiled from the public, we are apt to ask why
the business man, who attempts to rob the country,
should not be subjected to the same obloquy as the poor
devil who steals a meal or the price of one.
The Mercury added a footnote which contained
two recognisable lies: —
It is no use to dispute about tastes. If Mr. Mulcahy
admires Mr. Kingston’s style on the platform and in
administration, he must be left alone in his admiration.
(First lie. Alone? when nine-tenths of Australia ap-
proves !) Mr. Kingston admits that he has found little
dishonesty among importers. Mr. Mulcahy thinks that
all are dishonest—himself, we suppose, included. (Second
lie. Mulcahy said, and presumably thinks, no such
thing.)
»
During his recent Northern tour Premier Philp
is said to have spoken thus to a black labor depu-
tation at Cairns:
When the Kanakas are gone there will be plenty of
other colored labor available. There are a large number
of Chinese in the Northern Territory ; many of them are
coming over our border to grow bananas, and there is no
reason why they should not cultivate cane. And he
assured the deputation that if they could make arrange,
ments to secure the necessary labor he would recommend
Parliament to loan them £60,000 for a central sugar mill 1
The Brisbane papers kept dead silence about this
reckless and disastrous offer to subsidise Chinese
labor with £60,000 of public money, but all the
silence on earth won’t prevent it counting for
hundreds of votes to the White Australia party at
next election. Also it will go far to strengthen
the impression that it is “ up "to ” the Australian
Government to take Philp by his generous ear
and firmly tell him to get out of the gangway. If
Philp proposes to combat the White Australia
policy by offering special assistance to Chinese-
grown sugar, the only resource is for the Common-
wealth to retaliate by increasing the imposts and
liabilities on the heathen article, and thereby to
show Philp that it is the Australian Parliament
and not his tin-pot combination that is running
the colored labor question.
» -
Just when Joe Carruthers, of N.S.W., isalmost
insight of office, he lets off some great slab of
mental timber like this, and damages his chances
again:
The State was losing its population by emigration of
numbers of its best men, leaving with considerable means
to go to South Africa, Canada, and elsewhere. Unless
our population increased, and our people were employed
profitably, our railways would suffer. This country
wanted more population. We were losing people—our
greatest wealth. We were overloading ourselves with
debt, and were frightening private enterprise. There
was the danger to railway men, and they ought, as a
body of sensible men, with a stake in the country, and
most of them with families, try to lift up the public life
of the country, and inaugurate a better era of sounder
politics, so that we might, as a State, attract both popu-
lation and capital to our shores, and so restore that pro-
sperity which, unfortunately, appeared to be sorely
shaken at present.
Australia is full of politicians who shed around
them as they go great indefinite tree-trunks of
verbiage about “ lifting up public life,” “ sounder
politics,” and “ inaugurating a better era,” and it
doesn’t want pompous and muddled ballast of
that kind. If Hazy Joseph would state posi-
tively that, as Premier, he would abolish borrow-
ing and find, say, £2,000,000 a year for public
works out of revenue, maintain old age pensions,
establish Local Government, graduated land-tax,
absentee-tax, and public debt sinking fund, and
have no deficits, then Joseph would cease to look
so like a large ball of fluff drifting along the high-
way.
«,
Papers in regard to the cable agreement between
the Australian Government and the Eastern Ex-
tension Cable Co. seem to show—
(1) That in giving the Eastern Extension Co., under a
ten years agreement, certain concessions in regard to
Australian business, the Australian Government acted to
the prejudice of the Pacific cable—in which it is one of
the chief partners.
(2) That the Australian Government was pretty well
forced into making some such bargain, for in the pre-
federation days the Eastern Extension Co. had hood-
winked N.S.W. and three other States into granting the
concessions mentioned in perpetuity. The Common-
wealth practically exchanged a perpetual agreement
covering three-fourths of the Commonwealth for a ter-
minable agreement covering the whole Commonwealth.
The Australian Government didn’t get much change out
of the Eastern Extension Co. ; it is a co. which keeps its
change under strict lock and key, with a good high-
salaried man holding the key. On the other hand, the
Government made about as good a bargain as was possible
under the circumstances.
(3) N.S.W. made a remarkably bad bargain when, in
opposition to its own interests as one of the chief pro-
prietors of the Pacific cable, it gave concessions in per-
petuity to the Eastern Extension Co. But it’s quite the
usual thing for a State department to be bamboozled
when it comes into negotiation with a big private co.
The co. has the sense to pay a big price for brains, and
gets them. The State department is generally in a state
of incipient Kyabramism, and invests in cheap brains.
Cheap brains are a dreadful wild cat as an investment.
The Voice of Trade.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
I send the mission man abroad,
I send the brazen god,
The bane and antidote alike
Are raised upon my sod ;
I sell the Word with toys of tin,
I pack the Bible near the gin.
The weapons that my children use
Are fraud and foul chicane;
With competition’s bitter spur
I drive the crowd amain,
The whiles I drop the casual crumb
To keep my hungry helots dumb.
My temple is the merry mart
Where Gain is all the goal ;
There is no Justice in my heart—
No Mercy in my soul ;
And where I rule—a manly breed
Must waste away to human weed.
I make a god of Calico,
I vend the vilest rum.
And all the wond’ring nations know
My diamonds made at Brum ;
Doth not the brawny Dervish ken
The bending blades of England’s men ?
I broke the Kaffir on my knee,
I burst the Maori gun ;
And yestreen only on the Yaal
My bloody hest was done;
And hark ! Along the Northern way
My Tartar hounds begin to bay !
I sit behind the purple throne
And pull the hidden string,
And he must be my marionette
Whom men would call a king;
The incense sweet of many a shrine
And golden spoils of earth are mine.
I wrap the spangled robes of Cant
About the bones of Need ;
I grind the grieving hearts of Men
In mills of Grab and Greed ;
Where Labor’s paths are rough and wild
I plant the thorns that pierce the child.
I fill the Earth with brutal War,
And yet more brutal Peace—
A Peace that buildeth Maxim guns
And whets the pirate kreese ;
A Peace that breeds in fetid den
A swarm of things that pass for men ;
A Peace that offers flesh and blood
On Profit’s altar-stone;
A Peace that robs the tender ones
With unctuous sigh and groan ;
A Peace that gives a daily dole
And leaves a race without a soul.
Q.
P.L.


The EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
FINANCIAL STATEMENT
FOR YEAR ENDED 31st DECEMBER, 1902.
ASSURANCE IN FORCE £265,597,775
INCREASE IN ASSURANCE IN FORCE.. . i £l9 915124
ASSETS
INCREASE IN ASSETS
£73,855,783
£4,389,175
SURPLUS ••
INCREASE IN SURPLUS ..
THE NEW BUSINESS EXCEEDED THAT OF 1901 by ...
£15,418,151
£620,43 4
£6,555,178
Local Directors have power to Issue Policies, Pay Claims, etc.
Sir WILLIAM: M'MILLAN, K.C.M.G., Chairman; : Hon. 0. K. MACKELLAR, M.B , MLC
F. NORTON MANNING, Esq., M.D.
C. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia.
F. C. COWLEY, Secretary ALEX. JOBSON, Actuary for Australasia. DAVID FELL, Auditor.
8. W. O’ARCY IRVINE, F.S.S., Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland!
Patriotism Exalteth a Nation.
This may not be quite orthodox, but it is nevertheless true. It is also a fact that in N.S.W.
patriotism is sadly lacking in its people. Parochialism and selfishness are rampant every-
where—in Parliament and People. Instead of AUSTRALIAN MANUFACTURED GOODS
of equal merit to the Foreign-made Article being preferred, they are only taken if CHEAPER.
The very men who cry the loudest, “ AUSTRALIA FOR THE AUSTRALIANS ! ’’—even to
the extent of keeping out the English Hatters—are those who, from pure prejudice, call
for the Foreign-made Article in preference to the Australian production. This is not the
spirit that prevails in America, and which has made it the greatest country on the face of 1
the earth. There nothing is good unless it is “’Murkan,” and so it must be here if we are
to become a Nation. The Rosewarne Packing Co., Limited, have lately added to the other
branches of their canning business the manufacture of Potted Ham and other Meats, in
two and four-ounce tins. The packages are neatly got up, the contents are AT LEAST
EQUAL TO, AND THE PRICE IS LOWER THAN, THE IMPORTED ARTICLE. Be
patriotic enough to give them a trial, and you will find that they are REALLY GOOD,
They may be had from all the Principal Storekeepers and Grocers.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Lyoeum:. v "The Ladder of Life.”
Royal “ A Country Mouse.”
Tivoli Rickard's’Co.
Palace.... “Arizona.”
Criterion .;. 11 Because I Love Yon.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Prince55’5....;.......; “ The Serenade.”
Her Majesty’s. “ The Messenger Boy.”
Theatre Royal " Going the Pace.”
Opera House Rickards’Vaudeville Co.
Town Hall Westminster Abbey Concert Party
' • (Farewell Concerts).
——♦
‘ ‘ Dolores ” is none of your slop- made
goods, picked up at the bargain-counter or in the
misfit parlor; Haddon Chambers built it expressly
to Nellie Stewart’s measure, and the judgment of
as many people as Sydney Royal would hold on
Saturday night was that it was a perfect fit. So
far, that is, as Nellie Stewart is concerned. The
others weren’t measured, and the clothes only fit
them here and there. Even for Nellie Stewart,
Haddon Chambers created no new fashion. A
hundred other literary tailors before have
snipped a piece off the same roll of dirty
drab material and laid out much the same
brown-paper pattern on the table to cut
by. A drunken father; a weakling child,
fading for want of roast beef and gravy ; a beauti-
ful, doting sister ; the pursuing rich young man ;
a “ fall ” ; roast beef and gravy for the sister and
more beer for the father; a faithful but ’umble
lover; rescue at last. Still there are frills on
Haddon Chambers’ garment, and Chambers being
a skilled craftsman, they somewhat distinguish
‘ ‘ Dolores ” from the rest. Dolores loves, or
thinks she loves, only one being in the world—
the weakling sister. It is for her she becomes a
Magdalen. Yet the father, through whom the
roast beef and the gravy reach the household,
allows the sister, as she fattens, to believe that he
is earning the money, and that Dolores has gone
to the bad and thrown them off. So when the
gilded Dolores, now Madcap of the music-halls
and mistress of a flat (two flats, in fact;
one human, and one the other sort), hun-
grier than ever for the love of the sis-
ter _ she has saved, comes back to draw
a little on account, she is repulsed. It is the
scene of the piece—Dolores, who had sacrificed
everything, shunned by her for whom the sacrifice
was made. The curtain is kept running up and
down for several minutes at the close of this
scene.
* . * * •
The father ought to be htted most cor-
dially, and yet he isn’t. Cruickshank might have
conceived him. Probably he is Micawber’s
brother. He is pretty well rjl that a father
should not be, and yet so grotesque, so amusing,
such a grandiloquent humbug, that both Dolores
and the audience tolerate him and even laugh at
him to the end. The success of the piece that isn’t
that of Nellie Stewart, the daughter, belongs to
Harcourt Beatty, the father. The one gives us
force, the other finish. And just as Garbum,
the father, isn’t detested, though he ought to be,
“ Uncle ” Beddington, a money-lender who wants
Dolores at the outset anyhow, but afterwards only
as wife, is quite unjustifiably frowned upon. But,
then, as Garburn says, we can forgive the man
who steals money, but never the man who lends
it. E. B. Russell plays this thankless part, and
makes a good deal of it. The rest, except, per-
haps, Alfred Tapping, in a caricature of a jour-
nalist, are among the misfits. The faithful but
’umble lover is ineffective ; the writer doesn’t
believe Dolores will be happy with him. Perhaps
that is Haddon Chambers’ idea—he may want a
commission to write another play. Finally, the
orchestra deserves a line and a half. It keeps the
whole house in its seat, and Conductor Brahms
has to turn and abase himself several times in an
evening. ‘‘ A Country Mouse ” will chase
“ Dolores ” on Saturday.
*& & *
The charm of “Arizona” took a little
while to impress the Sydney public, but, after a
night or two of doubt, it has now settled doyvn to
enjoy a warm appreciation. The characteristic
American humor, and the sentiment which is
human without being maudlin, give a somewhat
faulty story an atmosphere which is very attrac-
tive. A long run for this piece seems assured ;
afterwards there wi’ll be presented two or three
other Amerjcan dramas.
** * *
The fire in Wm. Anderson’s petroleum
store at Sydney Lyceum has nearly burned itself
out, and on Friday of this week Willard will cease
to say that Carey knows too much of his affairs,
and Carey will have a rest from being locked in
the burning building, and next night Inman will
commence to be some other sorb of hero. “The
Shadows of Night’’will be followed by “The
Ladder of Life ” the lurid improbability in which
Mcßrown and McJones and McSmith rescue the
heroine from the jaws of the steam-hammer by
manufacturing themselves into a rope. When it
was played here first, so many people wanted to
see the lady saved that the agony had to be
prolonged for nearly three months ; and after that
the hammer was carted round Australia with
similar results.
** * *
“The Two Little Vagabonds ” have very
nearly reached the end of their career at Sydney
Criterion, and the bill will be changed on Satur-
day night, when Charles Holloway will stage
“Because I Love You So.” As before remarked,
there is unexpected strength in Holloway’s com-
pany, and it ought to be specially suited to a nice
domestic drama such as this promises to be.
** * *
Sydney Tivoli presents this week an un-
changed programme, of which Rudinoff is the star
feature. Reported, by the way, that Rudinoff,
after travelling the world as a bachelor, has fallen
a victim to an Australian girl’s charms, and that
he will leave the Commonwealth a wedded
nightingale.
#* * #
Wirth’s great circus is to open shortly in
a bright green waterproof tent in Phillip Park,
Sydney. The tent cost and is the only
green mackintosh tent which has yet housed a
circus in Australia. The extraordinary nature of
the tent material is about the only information
yet to hand ; further particulars will be available
shortly,
** * *
Miss Florence Menkmeyer, the Melbourne
pianist, comes Australia-wards again after a long
visit to Europe, in the course of which she col-
lected good notices in about ten languages. She
appears at Sydney Town Hall on 22nd August.
“ The Serenade ” which met its first
Australian audience at Melb. Princess’s on Satur-
day night, carries about the same weight of music
and gorgeousness as “The Fortune Teller,” by
the same composer. The libretto, on its first-
night merits, threatens to locate this three-act
opera in the cold shades of public neglect. Satur-
day’s performance was a struggle to extract
humor from a bustling fiction that lacks smart
dialogue and has no human feeling in it. The
spectacle is rich, the music pleasing and plentiful,
but the plot, in mechanism and purpose, seems
too puerile to admit of being much improved by
practised treatment. The thing moves, but the
movement is quite unnatural. Besides, all the
members of the co. are not fully equipped for the
struggle. Lauri, capitally made-up as the old
Duke, gets through his songs—the verse is crisper
than the prose throughout—in a passable tone,
and should be a convincing ancient when he sticks
tight to the character all the time. Piddock, the
hero of the precious Serenade, makes a fine bari-
tone figure, although the oratorical flourish of his
right arm grows irritating, and one wishes he
would let out with his left to break the
monotony. Foster Courtney’s infatuated tailor is
humorous. Lemmone fills a corner neatly, and
Lempriere Pringle is a lethargic brigand, who
doesn’t get any apparent chance to sparkle if he
were that way disposed. The ladies, on the other
hand, are clearly unequal to their positions at cer-
tain points. Miss May Beatty is just a soubrette
Duchess, flippant rather than arch, and when she
essays to sing of the Gentle Angelus in a chastened
spirit she might as well be Peggy Pryde chanting
grace before meat. Probably an exchange of
places by Miss Beatty and Madame Slapoffski
would be better for both. Madame S. represents
a young and bounding columbine, on tour. As
Duchess, she would need to assume the uncon-
genial disguise of a burlesque boy, but in the
present case she is also required to imitate an
aptitude, for dancing. Alas ! and again alas !
The chorus, orchestra, and silent effects deserve a
prosperous season for “The Serenade.”
At the Opera House the show for the
moment has no particular backbone except
Crawley, whose other name is Daniel. On Satur-
day one or two new turns, notably Somebody and
Fuller, come to the rescue of the Rickards bill.
** * *
Bland Holt’s serviceable ‘ ‘ Drought ” drama
is concluding a long innings at Melbourne Royal,
and the final distribution of meat pies to the
irrelevant small boys of Paddy’s Market will take
place on Friday night. The drama appointed for
Saturday is “Going the Pace,” a production
which promises many excitements and a reckless
profusion of horse. In fact, it is said to be the
most equestrian romance that ever showed the
manager a satisfactory gallop.
#* * *
At Her Majesty’s, where the numerous
hot-water radiators are preserving the audi-
torium’s temperature from reproach, “The Belle
of New York” has given the Musical Comedy
co. a gobd start. The present season is limited,
otherwise Bronson’s labors in the field of moral
endeavor might have been continued for
another week or two. The new Bronson,
although a more commonplace humorist than
his long, lean, lamented predecessor, is a
parent who improves on acquaintance, and his
conversations with the Queen of Comic Opera are
bright, unobtrusive comedy on both sides. A
new Belle was rung into the show on Saturday,
Elsie Moore taking the place of Rose Musgrove.
The character benefits by the change of singing
voice. Elsie Moore makes the hallelujah spinster
a rather hard-spoken Violet, but the old impedi-
ment in her enunciation is not so marked as it
was, and her warble has grown stronger, likewise
sweeter. On Saturday next (25th) Melbourne
will have a first experience of the unaccustomed
Comedy Co. in “The Messenger Boy.”
** * *
On Saturday afternoon the Town Hall
will be flooded with the musio of Marshall Hall’s
Orchestra. The third and last concert of the
series is to introduce the Strauss poem, “Tod und
Verklarung,” to Australian notice, along with four
popular selections from Wagner operas.
** * #
The Westminster Abbey Concert Party
which came to Melbourne Town Hall to give four
concerts, is remaining to give five more, at the
instance of General Desire, the old General hav-
ing expressed himself forcibly in cash at the
doors. The extra concerts will mostly be bygones
when this Bulletin comes to light, but there is a
farewell fixed for Saturday evening (25th), when
the full-sized male quartette, and the four small,
melodious boys, and the contralto lady who con-
stitutes a host in herself, offer their admirers a
special programme. The “Abbey” gleesters,
interesting artists individually and collectively,
are going to travel this continent, leaving a trail
of approbation behind them.
£ ## # *
“ K.K.” writes :
Una Bourne, the tall, wan young Melbourne pianiste,
gave a recital at Glen’s concert hall last week, and played
many things brilliantly. Since she came to light as a
youthful performer at one of the first Oastles Concerts
in '99, Miss Bourne has made all the improvement
expected of her She is a fine artist, but unfortunately
she has none of the personal magnetism that brings fame
to a woman pianist in rare—very rare—instances. To
get right hold of the public the girl who offers a piano
solo must be something more than an exceptionally
skilled executant and soulful interpretress of the
composer. She needs a power of fascination in herself—
a commanding presence, a queer mannerism, a subtle
charm—something which the quiet, angular Miss Una
has not. Money is not made by giving proofs of rare
ability to professionals or to laborious amateurs, who are
looking out for points in piano practice. The general
public must be excited by the performer rather than by
the performance, before it begins to talk of the Name
as. an attraction. All stage art, which is a perishable
thing, depends for success upon the casual conversation
of the multitude. An artist plays in vain if the world
doesn’t Talk.
* * * '*
The second week of “ Midsummer Night,”
at the Adelaide Royal, has seen schools coming
in bodily to be taught what an amusing little cuss
the Bard could be on his off-days. Booking con-
sequently better than ever. However, the fairy
play has had to give way to “ As You Like It ”
some of the fairies being still used (without any
license from the author) to decorate the Forest of
Arden. The human interest among the young
people of Athens is very well sustained by Maud
Milton and Cynthia Brooke, aided by Holding
and Partridge. Bucklaw makes a somewhat tired
Duke. But the stage-manager and the man who
runs the lighting effects deserve the highest credit
of all. The Tivoli has strengthened its bill with
Fields, who is a highly desirable item, even
though somewhat reminiscent of various recent
tramps, and also of the lamented Cinquevalli (with
attendant).
** * *
Johnny Sheridan, who has various com-
panies playing Irish widows and impossible song-
and-dance females in various parts of Australia,
swoops down on the coaly city of Newcastle on
Saturday (July 25) with the “Lady Slavey,”
which lady will shamefully neglect her dusting
for five nights.
Died just as The Bulletin was going to
press, Leo XIII., the 263rd Pope, after a reign of
25 years—seven years less than that of his prede-
cessor Pius IX., the man who lost the States of
the Church. Leo was 93 when he passed away—
a kindly, clever, respectable old man. The Popes
have been respectable for very many years now;
no Pope in these times has relatives like Caesar
Borgia to carve out a new empire for St. Peter,
and the days when a Pope was occasionally a
fighting man, and when cardinals led the army of
Rome are long since passed. The Papacy has lost
much of its picturesqueness since the race
of gentle, fatherly old men began to occupy
the chair of the old Fisherman, but these
fatherly old men hold the office longer than did
their stormy predecessors. Six Popes filled the
19th century ; there were nine in the 18th cen-
tury; eleven in the 17th ; seventeen in the 16th;
fourteen in the 15th ; and before that they averaged
about eighteen Popes to every 100 years.
THE SERENADE.
There’s a Spanish mountain pass,
Where an ancient ducal ass
Conducts his youthful Duchess
To a tumble-down chateau,
Whilst the brigands round about
Warble choruses, and shout,
And a pair of strolling mummers
With a tailor-man in tow—
Comic tailor-man in tow —
Assist the complication
Of a tuneful situation A
Which was fashioned by the author
When his reason must have flown, if
For a crazy plot is laid
Round a certain Serenade
That centres in the person
Of a pompous baritone—
The gay apparelled person
Of a pompous baritone.
Now, the Duchess superfine,
And the strolling columbine
And the tailor, and her father
Who has seen a better day,
They frivol for a while
In an operatic style,
And the Duke (who, like his chateau,
Is a structure in decay),
Crumbling slowly in decay,
Maintains the complication
With his anxious speculation
lie the fascinating singer
Of identity unknown
Whom his wife—a giddy jade !
And the jealous mummer maid
Are loving to distraction.
That’s the fatal baritone ;
The lyric stage is governed
By the fatal baritone.
There’s a convent garden small,
Half-divided by a wall,
From the monkery adjoining,
Where the brigand ohief is found,
And the Duke condemns his wife
To a week of convent life,
Though she’s free to change her costume
In the monastery ground—
Good old monastery ground 1
No regard for rank and station
Curbs the rush of complication,
For the tailor treats the convent
Just as though it were his own,
And miraculous surprises,
False pretences and disguises
Are more or less connected
With the fatal baritone—
, The central, serenadal,
Fickle, fatal baritone.
By the chateau once again
’Midst the mimic hills of Spain
The dotard Duke is dancing,
And the hour is growing late ;
So the brigand false and true,
With a sudden end in view.
Compels the local autocrat
To loose his giddy mate—
Divorce his giddy mate.
And the Duchess’s salvation
Is the story’s termination ;
The disappointed tailor
Vents his sorrow in a groan,
And the columbine, consoled
With a heavy sum in gold,
Renounces her pretensions
To the fatal baritone—
The central, serenadal,
Fickle, fatal baritone.
The Wild Cat Column.
The Commercial Bank of Australia made a
re-valuation in 1901, and nothing is to be gained by going
back further than that in dealing with this institution :
Profits
(less Loss Dividends on Added
on Assets Preference to Re-Bank Re-
, Trust). Shares. serves, serves.
June, 1901 ..
Dec., 1901 .. £42,460 3 p.c.= £31,758 £10,702 27,619
June, 1902 .. 38,434 3 „ ~ 31,758 6,676 34,295
Forfeited capital added to Reserves 143,000 177,295
Dec., 1902 .. £39,1.94 3 p.c. = £31,759 7,435 184,730
Forfeited capital added to Reserves 3,000 187,730
June, 1903 ..£37,442 3 p.c. = £31,759 5,683 193,413
The nominal capital of the bank is now £2,212,172 ; and
upon this the net profits of the bank and Assets Trust
combined, for the half-year were equal to £3 7s. 9d. per
cent, per annum. If the reserves are included in the
funds the returns come down to £3 2s. sd. per cent. The
bank, however, stands behind the Assets Trust, which
has an estimated deficiency far in excess of this reserve ;
so that there is actually no real reserve. The net profit,
calculated on capital alone—£3 7s. 9d. per cent, per
annum—compares rather unfavorably with £3 10s. lOd.
realised the previous half-year. Just prior to that term
capital was written down severely ; so comparisons going
back further than that would be of no account.
Slowly, but steadily, the Commercial Bank of
Australia’s incubus, represented by the Assets Trust,
is being got rid of—the Trust into which the bank cast all
its saddest-looking business at the great clearing-up.
The movement in 12 months has been as follows :
. . June, 1902. June, 1903.
Liabilities of Assets Trust .. £3,309,982 £3,089,725
Assets of Assets Trust.. .. 1,775,000 1,705,000
Deficit of Assets Trust.. ..£1,534,982 £1,384,725
Less Bank Reserves .. .. 34,295 193,413
Net Deficit ..£1,500,687 £1,191,312
The deficit has thus been reduced by £309,875 ; but for
£147,000 of this the additions of forfeited capital to re-
serves is responsible. As to the Trust itself, it appears
that, while the assets have been reduced by only £70,000,
the liabilities have been reduced by £220,257. This is a
very satisfactory result indeed. The position of the whole
concern, bank and assets trust, combined, as disclosed,
is—
Capital (as written down) .. .. £2,212,172
Net Deficit on Trust Account .. 1,191,312
Shareholders’Funds intact .. £1,021,860
The general business of the Commercial has
been rather less profitable than usual ; but the re-
serves of cash and liquid securities are still re-
markably strong—too strong, in fact, to permit of very
large aggregate profits. The position with regard to
some leading items, compares with that of 12 months
back:—
June, 1902. June, 1903. Decreases.
Capital .. .. £3,249,991 £2,212,172 £1,037,819
Advances .. .. 4,324,424 3,804,321 520,103
Premises and other
Real Estate .. 581,269 448,943 132,32 b
Six Months’ Profits .. 38,434 37,442 992
Increases.
Deposits .. .. 3,387,912 3,417,798 29,886
Cash and Liquid
Securities .. .. 1,545,955 2,124,814 578,859
The striking increase of cash and liquid securities is
nearly all duebo an increase of £505,000 in money at call and
short notice in London, presumabl}' being mobilised for
some special purpose. Cash and liquid securities are now
equal to no less than 54 per cent, of all liabilities to the
public, as against 48 per cent. 12 months ago ; and even
the latter was reckoned about the most substantial cash
reserve in Australasia. The great increase in the cash
and liquid securities probably accounts for the diminished
profits.
* * » *
Vic. Premier Irvine’s conduct in sending a
Treasury official to England to supply facts and figures
that will aid the flotation of the £5,000,000 odd renewal
loan, suggests that the position is pretty bad. For the
first time Australia has got evidence on a large scale of
the folly of floating loans repayable on a fixed date.
When the date comes they must be repaid if credit
is to be maintained, and as Australia never has any
sinking fund worth mentioning, it has to borrow to repay
them. It has to borrow’ exactly then, no matter how bad
things are or how awful the cost. Victoria’s biggest loan
falls due when Britain is hard up, and when Australia’s
credit smells like an aged cat-fish, and in the ordinary
course of things the expense will be very heavy. Of
course, a really strong man might get out of the ordinary
course of things. He might say to the blessed creditor :
*’ We are honest but quite unconventional. We are never
going to borrow any more-in fact, we are going to begin
repaying our present debt. Therefore, we don’t care
what happens to cur credit. These bonds will not be
repaid when due; they will simply be renewed in-
definitely, whether our creditors like it or not, at per
cent.” Such a policy would at least be reasonably honest,
and it would be a memorable episode. There would be
very little Australian borrowing after that. The man
who cheerfully damned Cohen in this fashion would be a
regenerator.
* * * *
The Queensland National Bank, from the
latest re-arrangement of its affairs
Less
* A >
Repaid Repaid Total
Gross Written Govern- Private Re-
Profits. off. ment. Deposi- serves.
tors.
Dec., 1897 .. £16,635 £8,635 £2OOO £4OOO £2,000
June, 1898.. 17,795 8,795 2250 4500 4,250
Dec., 1898.. 21,255 12,256 2250 4500 6,500
June, 1899 .. 23,879 13,879 2500 5000 9,0: 0
Dec., 1899.. 27,341 15,341 30C0 6000 12,000
June, 1900 .. 27,447 15,447 3000 6000 15,000
Dec., 1900 .. 27,712 15,712 3000 6000 18,000
June, 1901 . 28,350 16,350 3000 6000 21,000
Dec., 1901 .. 28,745 16,745 3000 6000 24,000
June, 1902.. 25,605 13,605 3000 6000 27,000
Dec., 1902 .. 22,329 10,329 3000 6000 30,000
June, 1903.. 21,660 9,660 3000 6000 33,000
The decline in profits which began in 1901 has continued.
On shareholders’ funds as at the commencement of the
half-year (capital £413,146 and reserves £30,000), the
gross profit was equal to £9 15s. 6d. per cent, per annum,
and the net profit (£12,000, being the amount left after
writing off £9660) was equal to £5 Bs. 3d. per cent, per
annum. These results compare with previous figures as
follows:
Gross Profits. Net Profits.
June, 1900 .. £l2 18 5 p.c. £5 13 0 p.c.
Dec., 1900 .. 12 19 0 „ 512 2 „
June, 1901 .. 13 3 2 „ 511 5 „
Dec., 1901 .. 13 411 „ 610 7 „
June, 1902 .. 11 14 4 „ 6 910 ,
Dec., 1902 .. 10 3 0 „ 59 1
June, 1903 .. 915 6 „ 5 8 3 ”
These figures are not, however, worth much. Net profits
are cut down to a uniform £12,000 per half-year by
the process of writing off a varying amount each term.
The gross profits, no doubt, show more accurately the true
course of the business. So far as current business goes,
it is obviously still very profitable ; the percentage return
stands almost at the head of the Australian list. This,
however, is explained to a, large extent by the fact that
the Q.N. has the bulk of its deposits at an extremely low


M
TRAMWAYS FOR MINES
ECONOMY IN HAULAGE.— Horse Mtd dray is cheaper than a wheelbarrow, but an
i?«mi date Tratnwa y> with suitable rolling stock for manual, horse or loco, traction,
stocks STpprßVh‘w- 1 . and ® x P edit l ioU f; Large Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane
Stocks of Rails, Mining Tip-trucks,-Portable Tramway, Switches, Turntables, &c.
irulnis.— Dog-spikes to Compound Locomotives— i.e. t EVERYTHING.
£3T Our CATALOGUE is yours for the asking.
CENTRAL MINING &. TRAMWAY APPLIANCES
Prop. Ltd., Hunter St., SYDNEY. A. E. LEPLA3TRIER, Manager,
Representing Oresstein and Koppel, Ltd., London, Berlin and Paris.
Branches—Melbourne, Brisbane, Cairns and Zeehan (Tasmania).
To empty old abandoned shafts, or to cope with •
inrushes of water at a minimum cost, may be effected by'
the use of the Vertical Plunger Sinking Pumps, manufac-
tured by The A. S. Cameron Steam Pump Works of New
York ; and represented by Messrs. W. & J. Lempriere, of
Melbourne, who hold stocks of these and various olher
sizes and styles of steam or air pumps. These pumps are
distinct'from any other make of so-called “Cameron’
Pump. They work automatically, and have no dead
centre, neither have they springs nor outside valve gear
to become deranged. They occupy less space in a shaft
than any other Sinking Pump of same capacity.*
• * * *
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime and
all Mining and Assay Chemicals and Apparatus, Micro-
scopes and accessories can be obtained of Felton, Cirim-
wade and Go., Melbourne. 4th edition, enlarged (red
cover) of illustrated catalogue of all mining requisites
now ready. Free on application on receipt of 4d.
postage.*
• • « *
In the case recently brought by the Wilfley
Ore Concentrator Syndicate against the Central Cookman
Gold Mining Company, the Victorian Chief Justice has
granted an injunction restraining the defendants, from
making or using any concentrating table constructed in
accordance with the Wilfley specification or in colorable
imitation thereof. The sole manufacturers in Australasia
of the Wilfley Ore Concentrators are the Austral Otis
Engineering Company, Ltd., South Melbourne.*
• * » *
Scottish Critic, 1902, writes re the Colonial
Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited “ The company
was established in 1873 and the management has always
been characterised by abundant enterprise, tempered
with the prudence which can alone make energy valuable
in a life assurance company.”*
* * * *
De Beer Silberberg and Co., invite inspection
of a new shipment of Gasoline Furnaces and Galopin
Assay Balances at 439 Bourke-street, Melbourne. All
assayers’requisites and up-to-date scientific materials in
stock. Correspondence invited.*
* * * *
H. Brandon Skertchly, geologist, mining engi-
neer and assayer, is prepared to furnish scientific reports
and plans to British and Australian investors. Assays
undertaken, and inquiries re mining properties, promptly
attended to. For fuller information apply to H. Brandon
Skertchly, Norman Chambers, Creek-street, Brisbane.*
* * * *
George Morrison, Stock and Share broker
(member Brisbane Stock Exchange), 377 Queen-street
opposite Stock Exchange, Brisbane. Agents all parts of
the World. Correspondence invited.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S. W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, of Melbourne, reports
that there has been a great improvement in the general
outlook of the engineering business since the new year
started, and that his pipe making works in Melbourne
and Perth are working full-handed. Amongst the orders
now being executed at Footscray works is one for 7 miles
10 chains of 18in. diameter light steel spiral-riveted pipes
for the Victorian water supply and at Perth works a
contract is in progress for over 6 miles of lOJin. diameter
spiral-riveted pipes, flanged joints, for the Greenbushes
Tin-Mining Syndicate. About two miles of these pipes
are to stand a test pressure of 8001 b. to the square inch.*
• • • ,
A. Kozminsky, 106 Queen-st., Melbourne,
having returned from England, is now prepared to
purchase paying mines, and mining properties (not
merely surface shows), situated in any part of
Australasia requiring further capital for development and
machinery. Only genuine and legitimate ventures,
capable of bearing the strictest examinations will be
entertained.*
* * * * >
Norman God’dn, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develop, with option of
purchase “big prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address : “ Option,”
Melbourne *
*** j *
Hedley Hawkins, sharebroker, Queen-street,
Brisbane (member, Brisbane Stock Exchange), has agents
every important mining centre and cities of Common-
wealth. Correspondence invited.*
* * * *
The loss on the Westralian Goldfields water
supply was recently stated here at £130,000 * year.
Premier James now owns up to £135,000. That is to sav,
the general taxpayer is subs'dising what is at present ly
far the most profitable industry in the State, or probably
in all Australia, to the extent of £135,000 a year. And,
more galling still, by far the greater part of the profits
of that subsidised industry goes to absentees.
MW
$
SUN
HIGHEST
QUALITY'
BRAND
SOLO
EVERYWHERE.
rate, while a large amount of them is so tightly fixed that
there is no need to maintain coin and bullion against
them.
As hitherto, the Q.N. balance-sheet isn’t any-
thing in the neighborhood of what a balance-sheet ought
to be. Except a small amount which is added every
half-year to reserves, the profits are all cast into the
abyss that was dug in the bad, drunken old days of the
bank ; and precisely how big that abyss is, or how much
it will take to fill it, so that shareholders may at last get
a bite at the profits, the balance-sheet does not say. The
visible progress made is, however, as follows:
December, June,
1897. 1903. Reduction.
Non-interest-bearing debt
of bank to Government £458,331 £380,831 £77,500
Non-interest-bearing debt
to private depositors
(about) 1,040,000 974,000 66,000
Debts owing to bank in
suspense 742,835 530,381 212,454
The part of the abyss about whose size there is no
information is the “ non-interest-bearing debt to private
depositors ” (the ss. in the £ that was nominally written
off, but which is repayable out of profits, and which
does not appear in the balance-sheet), and consequently
the amount which is still owing under that head is an
estimate only. If this estimate is wrong, the bank ought
to put forward the exact figures. It ought to put forward
the exact figures anyway. The “debts in suspense ” are
also a distracting item—they may be worth much or
little. It is noteworthy that £30,000 has come off this
item during the past six months. Part of this is probably
represented by the amount avowedly written off; the
rest of the reduction is presumably through realisation
of securities. About all these things, however, nothing
very definite can be said.
The Q.N. Bank’s position as at June, 1902, and
June, 1903, compares in this way
June, 1902 June, 1903 Decrease
Cash and Liquid
Securities .. .. £2,151,805 £1,731,168 £420,637
New Deposits .. .. 2,311,551 1,755,189 556,362
Q. Govt. Deposits (in-
cluded in above .. 716,864 492,550 224,314
Six months’Profits .. 25,605 21,660 3,945
Capital Paid-up.. .. 413,036 413,146 110
Advances .. '.. .. 4,911,852 4,967,465 55,613
Reserve Fund .. .. 27,000 33,000 6,000
The heavy decline in deposits explains the bank’s recent
action in putting up the rate of interest on deposits. It
cannot be said that this comparison is very cheering just
at present; still there is every reason for hope. The
present business is very profitable, even if it isn’t as
profitable as it was ; and, if it can have a long enough
run, the abyss will all be filled at last. Meantime, with
the growth of a reserve-fund (invested in Government
stocks), the profit should, other things being equal, be
slightly larger every term, and the filling-up of the hole
should be consequently more rapid. If the State could
advance the bank another £1,000,000 at, say, 4 or 4J per
cent., with which to buy up the depreciated deposits, it
should be a good spec, for both parties.
* * * *
Sydney Morning Herald came out last week
with its usual lamentation (it laments about twice a year)
re the iniquity of proposing that there should be a State
official with power to audit life assurance offices and
make certain about their solvency. The proposal, it
says, “will not commend itself ”to life offices. Also it
isn’t needed, for, so far, only one Australian life office
has, collapsed ; and as the thing that hasn’t happened
can t hsppen, and the man who never died before can't
die in the future ; and the banks that never broke before
’93 couldn’t possibly break in ’93, therefore the Herald
holds that the idea of taking precaution is wholly super-
fluous. At the same time the Herald says that “the
public ought to have some protection against wild cat
companies,” and it proposes “ a fixed standard of
valuation,” and reckons that sufficient publicity, also
the provision of penalty for fraud or deception,
will do the rest. Which is in every respect quite like the
old, respectable Herald. A fixed' standard of valuation
merely signifies that all assurance offices shall calculate,
on a certain basis, the present value of their liabilities
and consequently how much assets they should have to
make them solvent. The publicity presumably means
that they shall publish their balance-sheets regularly,
which they do already, only not one person in a hundred
understands them. And for the rest, the offices all show
assets more than equal to their liabilities. Some of them
write up the value of their office properties to make
things look better, and some reckon money spent as an
asset and call it “ extension account ” or something like
that, but they all, or almost all, value their liabilities on
honest lines, and every one of them says that it has suf-
ficient assets to cover these liabilities. So the S.M.
Herald is as solid as a rock on the fact that there should
be no independent and authoritative examination to
make sure that the assets are real. Such a departure
would be contrary to precedent, and precedent is a sacred
thing in the mangy-looking triangular office in Hunter-
street, Sydney.
* * * *
The Bank of Victoria :
Dividends.
Profits. Ordinary, JfgJ Re-
June, 1895. .£19,863 £10,419 £9*444' £16,549
Dec., 1895.. 20,631 10,419 10,212 26,761
June, 1896.. 15,069 10,419 _ 4,650 31 411
Dec., 1896.. 17,928 10,419 7,509 38,920
June, 1897.. 17,877 10,419 7,458 46,378
Dec., 1897.. 22.730 10,419 12,311 58 689
June, 1898.. 24,380 10,419 13,961 72,650
Dec., 1898.. 27,800 10,419 17,381 90 031
June, 1899.. 27,637 10,419 17,218 107 249
Dec., 1899.. 27,906 10,419 17,487 124,736
June, 1900.. 28,554 10,419 £13,266 4,869 129,605
Dec., 1900.. 30,178 10,419
June, 1901.. 31,399 10,419 15,919 5,061 138,506
Dec., 1901.. 33,136 10,419 15,919 6,798 145,304
_ ■ • 3J p.c.
June, 1902.. 33,323 10,419 18,572 4,332 149,636
Dec., 1902.. 33,715 10,419 18,572 4,724 154,360
June, 1903.. 29,440 10,419 18.572 449 154,809
Profits look a good deal poorer than in the preceding
half-year. The facts are, however, probably not quite
n°i!mr- as khey look. This last half-year is charged with
£1093 income-tax for 1902. If the charge were evenly dis-
tributed, the profits for the two periods, instead of being
£42/5 apart, would he only a little over £2OOO apart.
There would still be a substantial decline ; yet, even as
matters stand, earnings are greatly in excess of the
average of the past few years. And, as the past half-year
has certainly been a good deal under the average in
general prosperity, it is obvious that the bank has been
making headway. But, on the profits now made, it has
not made headway enough to justify a 3J per cent, divi-
dend on ordinary shares.
The Bank of Victoria’s shareholders’ funds at
the commencement of the half-year totalled £1,632,370
(£1,478,010 capital and £154,360 reserves); and the return
on this is equivalent to £3 12s. 2d. per cent, per annum •
this compares with recent results as follows : -
June, 1900 ~ £3 12 5 June, 1902 .. £4 2 1
Dec., 1900 .. 315 1 Dec., 1902 .. 4 210
June, 1901... 317 11 June, 1903 .. 312 2
Dec., 1901 .. 4 2 0
Comparing the position with that disclosed 12 months
ago these principal results are reached
June, 1902 June, 1903 Increases
Advances .. ..- .. £4,853,736 £4,899,626 £45,890
Bills m Circulation .. 436,166 453,397 17 231
Real Estate.. .. 402,652 413,099 10,447
_ Decreases
Profits .. 33,323 29,440 3,883
Cash & Liquid Securi-
tie ? -- 1,552,651 1,433,467 119,184
Deposits ...... 4,561,004 4,497,192 63,812
Notes in Circulation 117,921 110,458 7 463
But, in spite ol the increase of advances and the decrease
of deposits, the reserve of cash and liquid securities is
still very substantial, amounting to slightly over 28 per
cent, of the total liabilities to the public, as against
a shade under 32 per cent, six months ago and per
cent. 12 months ago. Before the troubles of 1893, the
Bank of Victoria had reserves (undivided profits) amount-
ing to £269,380. That didn’t prove to be enough. The
reserves now reach no higher than £154,809; the half-
year’s additions were only £449. The reserves are clearly
not strong enough ; and either the profit must improve
a good deal, or the dividend ought to come down again
for a while,
* * * *
B.H. Water Supply Cos. is battling for its life.
Only a few years ago, when purchase by the Government
or the municipality was talked of, it wanted £350,000
for the whole turn-out. After that, £250,000 was men-
tioned, and now £22o,ooo—the Government has an offer
of it at that price. The price, however, is still thought
to be too high in view of three facts : (1) The reservoir is
now empty, except of silt, which has greatly diminished
its value ; (2) according to the Government Engineer-in-
Ghief, part of the works are of poor material ; (3) in 15
years the Government will have the entire undertaking
for nothing. The fixing of the price by arbitration is sug-
gested ; and the co. would, it is believed, agree to this.
It would prefer to have power to extend its water-catch-
ment by including Yanco Creek, and it would do this work
in return for an extension of its life ; but Government
has been warned that Parliament would hotly oppose this.
The co. has intimated that if a price could be fixed it
would be willing to take payment in debentures ; but it
is alleged that some Ministers, at any rate, do not approve
of this course on the extraordinary ground that it would
weaken the State’s credit if it were said that it bought
works but could not pay cash for them and had to pay in
bills. As matters stand, if the works are bought the
Government will pay for them with borrowed money ;
and if the co. will accept debentures it simply means that
Government borrows from the co. instead of from some-
one else.
* * * *
Queensland Trustees, Limited (Brisbane)
Dividends Carried
Profits. and to Deficit.
Dividend Duty. Reserves.
June, 1892.. Nil £276
„ 1893.. £IOO Nil £IOO 176
„ 1894.. 1,065 2£p. c. = £663 402 £226'
„ 1895.. 714 2J „ „ 662 52 278
„ 1896.. 920 3„ „ 795 125 403
„ 1897.. 1,077 3£ „ „ 927 150 553
~ 1898.. 1,195 4„ „ 1,060 135 688
„ 1899.. 2,248 7„ „ 1,856 392 1,080
„ 1900.. 3,359 8„ „ 2,121 1,238 2,318
„ 1901.. 2,367 8„ „ 2,121 246 2,564
„ 1902.. 3,929 8„ „ 2,121 1,808 4,372
„ 1903.. 2,546 8„ „ 2,121 425 4,797
The figures for 1902 are somewhat different from those
published 12 months ago, the annual meeting having
decided to pay the officers a bonus of £241. This
amount is charged in the present accounts against the
balance brought forward. The figures generally reflect
the dismal depression which has been lying heavily on
Queensland’s chest, and in the circumstances they might
easily have been worse. Under the present circum-
stances the 8 per cent, dividend looks wholly unjusti-
fiable.
* ** *
Tasmania, under Federation, enjoys such a
streak of prosperity as hasn’t come its way for many
years. Even its sorrowful railways are looking up. In
1902 its lines earned £59,917 towards paying interest on
cost of construction (that is to say earnings were
£59,917 over working expenses), whereas in 1901 the
surplus was only £32,392. The Tas. railways earned
17s. per cent, on their cost in 1901, and £llls. 2d. per
cent, in 1902. There are now only four lines which
don’t pay working expenses against six in 1901. Tas-
mania has never before seen things looking so well since
its railways began.
* ** *
The Trustees, Executors, and Agency Cos.
(Melb.) for.the past 10 years:—
Added to
Written Re- Total
Profits Dividends off serves Reserves
Dec., 1893 £3908 12J p.c. =£3750 £25,000 £88,120
June, 1894 2288 7£ „ 2250 £3B 88,158
Dec., 1894 2265 7$ „ 2250 l5 88,173
June, 1895 304 Nil 304 88,477
Dec., 1895 256 Nil 45,000 43,733
June, 1896 1702 4 p.c.= 1200 502 44,235
Dec., 1896 1779 5 „ 1500 279 44,514
June, 1897 1757 5 „ 1500 257 44,771
Dec., 1897 1705 5 „ 1500 205 44,976
June, 1898 1722 5 „ 1500 222 45,198
Dec., 1898 1101 5 „ 1500 42,000 2,799
June, 1899 1954 5 „ 1500 454 3,253
Dec., 1899 2693 5 „ 2250 443 3,696
June, 1900 3971 5 „ 2250 1721\ R
A.D. and M. Bank shares written up 1400/
Dec., 1900 3746 5 p.c.= 2250 1496 8,313
June, 1901 2795 5 „ 2250 545 8,858
Dec., 1901 2783 5 „ 2250 533 9,391
June, 1902 2436 5 „ 2250 lB6 9,577
Deq., 1902 3168 5 „ 2250 9lB 10,495
June, 1903 3699 6 „ 3150 549 11,044
The gross profit for the six months just ended was £4401;
but, in consequence of the recent access of new business,
the staff is given a bonus of 10 per cent, on salaries ; and
this amount is herein charged to expenses, thus reducing
the.profit to the amount stated above. Considering the
very large amount of writing-down that has had to be
done in the past, and the comparatively small reserves
which have been accumulated since then, it is a pity
the regular 5 per cent, was interfered with at all just
yet, notwithstanding the improvement in business. After
allowing for the bonus to officers, the profits on the half-
year’s business were equivalent to £7 7s. 3d. per cent, per
annum on the shareholders’ funds as at Jan. Ist (£90,000
capital and £10,495 reserves), as compared with £4 18s.
for the corresponding part of 1902. On Dec. 31 the co.
had £6,674,160 worth of estates in its hands ;on June 30
it had £7,467,202, or £793,052 more. This is substantial
progress indeed.
* * * -tr ** *
The report of the N.S.W. Railway Com-
missioners for the half-year, October 1902 to March 1903,
is melancholy reading. Excess of revenue over working
expenses (exclusive, of course, of interest) shows up as
follows: —
1901-2. 1902-3. Decrease.
£897,584 .. £608,193 .. £289,391
The working expenses for the six months were equal to
65-27 of the total earnings. This compares with results
for a few years past in this way :
1896 .. .. 55 - 02 p.c. 1900 .. ... 65 - 93 p.c.
1897 .. .. 53-11 „ 1901 .. .. 57T7 „
1899 .. .. 53-31 „ 1902 .. .. 61-80 „
1899 ' .. 53'75 ~ 1903 (six months) 65.27 ~
This means that, comparing the position with what it
was six years ago, there is 12 per cent, less of the earnings
available wherewith to pay interest; and the railways are
by that much less reproductive works than they were.
This is partly due to the drought (though, in view of the
steady movement shown, not to so great an extent as is
usually represented), partly to the increase of costs, and
largely to the rapid extension of hopelessly unproductive
lines. The shortage has to be either borrowed Or made
up by the general taxpayer ;in either case, the Toss which
has to be made good on the non-paying lines amounts to
£ subsidy extorted from the man who doesn’t use them
to the business of the man who does use them.
* ** *
Of South Australia’s total railway revenue of
£1,085,175- last year, the Broken Hill Prop, alone paid
£124,924, or nearly one-eighth. The other co.’s, all now
practically idle, together paid as much.
* ** * j
The company which claims to harle certain
rights over the Yanco Glen catchment at Broken Hill is
again attempting to secure a definite lease of the ground.
A “ South Australian irrigation syndicate ” has now
offered to construct a reservoir and pay the company
£IOOO a year for the water. Some people, however,
assert that the syndicate and the company are one, anc
that the offer is only another move in the peculiar game
that has been played right along.
* * * *
The Co-opebative Wool and Produce Cos.
(Sydney)
Bonus Added Total
Profits. Dividends. to to Re- Re-
_ , Clients, serves, serves.
Feb., 1899.. 6p.e. =£ll2 £2538 £2745
~1900.. £B7BB 6„ „ 304 4506 £3978 6723
April, 1901.. 320 6 „ „ 855
June, 1902.. 2689 6„ „ 1409 l2BO 7468
„ 1903.. 1625 6„ „ 1282 343 7811
The co. existed for a couple of years before the period
covered by the above, but during that time published
only a condensed statement of assets and liabilities. The
wool business, like most others depending wholly and
directly upon the “natural” producing industries of a
droughty country, is liable to serious fluctuations ; some
of them are reflected in these accounts. In the bad time
of the last two or three years a steady 6 per cent, has been
paid on a capital which at present stands at £22,166,
and £lll3 has been added to reserves in a little over three
years ; the result is a testimony to the energy of the
management and the merit of the co-operative principle.
All the same, the additions to reserves might, with ad-
vantage, be larger; in other words, for the present the
dividends might well be smaller. So far the co. has
struggled along without making any charge to the buy-
ing wool-broker ; but, under stress of competition, it has
had to go at last the way of its rivals. At the same time,
however, it reduces the growers’ commission. In the end
the change probably won’t make much difference to the
grower. Still, the great art in business, robbery, &c., is
to bleed your victim without his knowledge ; and when
part of the commission is nominally paid by the buyer,
the grower doesn’t always know that he is being bled
through getting a little lower price than he would get
otherwise. Thus the Co-operative, which tried to live on
a direct commission only, found itself getting squeezed;
and so at last it lines up with the rest, at any rate so far
as the system of charging goes.
* * * *
The Broken Hill mines have now more or less
resumed work ; the resumption, however, except so far
as the B.H. Prop, is concerned, does not amount to as
much as has been represented. Some of the co’s. are
not, in fact, rushing the business ; with metals at present
prices they would almost as soon be idle (now that they
have had an excuse fo'r stopping) as they would be
tearing out their good ore and getting rid of it at little or
no profit. Minister Owe’Sullivan’s arrangements for the
supply of water, mainly from S.A., are not, moreover,
panning out well so far: the water trains leak and lose
about half the water, and the supply is irregular. The
B.H. Prop., which is relying on mineralised water and
anew system of condensing, is the best off. As far as it
has gone, this condensing promises pretty considerable
things, and it is most likely that it will be continued even
after the water-famine is over. The object is not so much
to turn mineralised water into pure water, as to save all
the exhaust steam. Contrary to general belief, the
boilers take more water than the concentrating mills;
and it is believed that the condensers, by collecting the
exhaust steam, will save from 50 to 75 per cent, of the
water. _ It is further claimed that there will be a material
saving in fuel by the use of this condensed water. The
British is now providing itself with a similar plant.
* * * *
The highest profit ever made by the Broken
Hill Prop, was in 1886, shortly after the mine was
discovered; £8 7s. Id. per ton was then reached. The
profit for the last half-year for which accounts are
published, was 3s. 3d. per ton. And this remarkable
decline has taken place in spite of the fact that, whereas
in 1887 it cost £6 12s. sd. to treat a ton of ore, last half
year it cost only £llls. Bd. Three causes have produced
the decline in profits—(l) fall in metal prices (silver went
up to 4s. s|d. in 1890, and is now about 2s. Id., though it
has been down to Is. lOd.); (2) lower metal contents ; (3)
inability to extract more than half the metals from
present ores. In the last respect a steady improvement
is, however, taking place. In fact, but for the improve-
ments made within the last couple of years, a loss of 2s.
per ton would have been made last half year.
* * * *
Brown’s Creek mine, six miles from Blayney
(N.S.W.), is undergoing resuscitation, machinery having
lately been carted there from the Red Hill mine, Tamba-
roora. The Red Hill, brace now stands, dejected and
useless, like a gigantic, gallows against the skyline ; and
Tambaroora, that in the roaring days possessed, accord-
ing to reminiscent ancient residents, 35 pubs, has fallen
so low as to have none at all. Yet this field has left its
footprint on the sands of time ; for when in convivial
circles will the wild, fierce joy of the Tambaroora shake
ever fade ?
* * * *
“ Sessil ” : What an abominable system is that
of Mineral Conditional Purchase 1 Apparently, one pay-
ment enables the shark to secure the ground, and he can
wait till some prospector has spent, perhaps, months
of toil, and then, if any find is made, pay up instalments
due, it may be for years, and proceed to levy tribute.
Much promising country at Emmaville (N.S.W.) is thus
held. Why is not regular payment of instalments de-
manded or the land forfeited, as with other C.P.’s?
M.C.P.’s are under the Lands Department. What is the
comparative value of such and mining licenses? And
why does a single payment—years before—enable the
C.P. man to claim the rights of private ownership? In
fact, why aren’t M.C.P.’s abolished altogether? Cer-
tainly, they are dead against all modern ideas with regard
to mining lands.
* * • *
Colao : The last two years of the Cosmopolitan
(W.A.) compare as follows:
1901. 1902.
Value of gold .. .. £81,741 .. £181,861
Profit 26,609 .. 43,200
Costs per cent, of gold .. £67 9 0 .. £76 6 0
Prospects will be inquired into.
• * * *
The following additional Westralian dividends
have been declared for July:—lvanhoe, 55.; Perseverance,
Is. 3d.; Ida H., 2s. ;Q. Menzies, 6d.
* * * *
The 26 leading W.A. outputs for June :—Perse-
verance, 17,6310 z. ; Horseshoe, 17,5880 z. ; Great Boulder,
14,3340 z. ; Great Fingall, 11,0290 z. ; Ivanhoe, 10,5420 z. ;
Oroya-Brown Hill, 8041 oz. ; Associated, 61560 z. ; Sons of
Gwalia, 54170 z. ; Westralia Mt, Morgans, 53850 z. ;• Cosmo-
politan, 53260 z. ; Associated Northern, 49560 z. ;,L..V. Con-
sols, 49050 z. ; Kalgurli, 36250 z. ; Peak Hill, 30200 z.
cess Royal, 28380 z.; Westralia and East Extension,
19480 z.; Golden Link, 16400 z. ; Long Reef, 16560 z. ; East
Murchison United, 1618 oz. ; Burbanks Birthday Gift,
1610 oz. ; Bellevue, 14420 z. ; Queensland Menzies, i3370z. ;
Boulder Main Reef, 12840 z. ; W.F. Main Reefs, 12570 z. ;
Ida H., 11720 z. ; Hainault, 9250 z. These account for
two-thirds of the State’s total yield.
* * * *
Atlas, Kalpini (W.A.), has had its first regular
monthly crushing—looo tons for 5400 z. Although the
average is barely lldwt., this will leave a fair margin, as
255. to 265. a ton should cover all costs. Mine is well
opened up to 300 ft., and has an up-to-date 10-head mill,
rock-breaker, self-feeders, air compressor, rock drills,
cyanide plant, &c. Everything works automatically from
the time the ore is filled into skips below. Mine will,
however, never be anything but a small affair.
• • * *
Great Boulder Prop. (W.A.) looks like turning
out a bigger thing than ever. In addition to the
boundary lode coming back into the mine at 10 level,
the continuation of the chute in the main lode south-
wards has been traced so far south that Edwards’ shaft is
being enlarged, and will be deepened with the view
to working the hitherto practically neglected south
block. The locating by diamond drill of the continua-
tion of the Ivanhoe east lode in the northern blocks
gives them a hitherto unsuspected value. Cos. has also
arranged to drill from one end of the Ivanhoe’s deeper
levels to test the 16-acre lease to the west, into which
the Ivanhoe’s lodes are underlaying.
* * * *
Queensland Menzies (W.A.) is now sinking
its main shaft another 80ft., and will open up its seventh
level at 526 ft. A winze from the 446 ft. level is already
down on the western reef to a vertical depth of 580 ft.,
and the lode is going down strong and of high grade all
the way. The winze going down on the eastern reef is
also in good ore. Under the circumstances the outlook
is very good, and a long run of good returns and div 9.
is assured. The south end of the property is being pros-
pected in the soft oxidized zone at the 90ft. level, but
nothing of any value has been found yet. Stoping is
bejng done at 300, 366 and 446 ft., and enough ore is
being broken down to keep the mill going full time.
Bayley’s Reward, Coolgardie (W.A.), having
■ot to the end of the £38,750 raised by the reconstruction
of two years ago, is again asking its shareholders to
pay, pay, pay.” This time the assessment is to be Is.
a share, or £31,000. Mine never has been any good
below 100 ft., and, as 900 ft. of sinking and thousands of
feet of cross-cutting, driving and diamond drilling have
proved it an absolute duffer, further expenditure
is hardly justified. After the last reconstruction had
raised price of scrip, Coolgardie residents banged them
tor all they were worth in Kalgoorlie Open Call, showing
what they thought of their only mine. Shareholders
may get a chance of getting out at more than the assess-
ment by joining the reconstruction, but, as to any hope
of a div., there is positively none. All W.A.’s rich surface
shows have proved a delusion.
* * * *
South Eingall, Day Dawn(W. A.), appears a dubi-
P ro ! ,os . | t'' on - Blocks originally pegged out south-west
i Consols having proved quite off the line of
lode, a Government reserve to the north-west was com-
mandeered and bore holes sunk. From one of these, at
a depth of 760 to 761Jft., the core was assayed to be worth
ooz. 18dwt. 16gr., as cheeked by Government. It is
now alleged that the core was dollied before being sub-
mitted to the Government check, and consequently
people are insinuating that the stuff might have been
salted, and that, in any case, the Government check
assay is absolutely valueless. This co. is an offshoot of
Chaffers, which holds the bulk of the shares, and anyone
feeling tempted to buy either co.’s stock on account of
the alleged favorable assays in South Fingall is advised
to wait a bit.
* * • *
Cue Gold-Mining and Exploration Cos., Day
Dawn (W.A.), which holds 17 leases in four groups, more
or less adjacent to the mine, claims to have the Great
Fingall reef in a block to the south-east. After leaving
the Great Fingall the reef dips below the surface, and its
trend so far is a mere matter of speculation. The
southern blocks claim to have cut it in a bore, but, if the
Cue co. has it, there must be some mistake, or else the
reef has as many branches as the Great Boulder reef was
alleged to have in the early days. The Cue co. ’s block,
when held by the defunct Bull co., Kinsella, treated
7655 tons for 3818 oz. from the oxidised zone, so that there
is, or was, some gold to be won. A 20-head mill is nearly
up, and should shortly tell its tale. This mill can easily
treat about 2000 ton’s monthly, so that it will very quickly
locate any weak spot on the property. Developments are
very backward. As the reef is big, mill may be kept
going for a time, at least, but must eventually come a
cropper.
* • • *
It is worth noting, owing to the .apparent
decline in their monthly returns; that the following
W.A. co.’s now publish their monthly. output in fine
ounces: Great Fingall Consols, Ivanhoe, Lake View
Consols, Sons of Gwalia, East Murchison United, Golden
Age Consols, VVaroonga South and Vivian. Two mines,
Kalgurli and Hainault, state their yields in standard •
ounces. For the sake of uniformity, Government should
insist on all returns being given in fine ounces.
(Continued on page 80.)


David Jones & Co.’s
celebrated «* ORIENT TO fIEASURE ”
SAC SUITS
In Tweed
or Serge
Send for
Patterns and
Self-
Measurement
Forms...
TO MEASURE
Delivered Free to any Railway Station or Seaport in the States,
George and Barrack Sts., Sydney.
WATSON’S
WHISKY
Reach’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
SOCIETY
loglal[?]a
B[?]yw[?]
Rain-maker McCarthy will presently get
himself disliked if he isn’t careful. He claims
now that he got to work one recent Friday
in Melbourne and continued all that night,
and that rain fell steadily the following
Saturday, Sunday, Monday and Tuesday. If
M'Carthy convinces the people that he is the
person responsible for the floods in the Vie.
coastal regions he will stand a fair chance of being
lynched. A rain-maker who can’t make rain in
dry country but who brings down, out of pure
cussedness, a deluge in districts that were wet
enough already is hunting for unpopularity.
STIFLING PRIVATE ENTERPRISE.
“Fearing a recrudescence of the plague the N.S.W.
Government is spending large sums of money in exter-
minating rats and mice.” —News Item.
IST. CAT : “ State Socialism is ruining this
country.”
2ND. DITTOO: “ How?”
1ST. DITTO : “ Why the Government’s hilling the
rats and mice and our living’s gone now.”
“Scotty the Wrinkler” sent along this
invitation to Premier See when that potentate
was going South to a recent function :
“ Scotty the Wrinkler ” invites Premier See and his
mates to his camp within the municipality of Narandera
at Show and Farmers’ Conference time.
Phil Mowbray.
Popular Tree,
12th June, 1903.
P.S.—I can put up two camp-followers in tents and give
them breakfast at any hour. Ask Mr. Fitzpatrick
(Murrumbidgee) if I can’t.
Premier See might have done much worse than
accept. Probably almost the only place in N. S. W.
where he could put up without seeing in his host’s
eye the hungry expression of a man who wants
a culvert is “the Wrinkler’s” camp.
It seems to be utterly hopeless to expect
the Melbourne municipalities to make decent
provision for the sick poor —even to take such
steps as will keep richer citizens free from epi-
demic disease. They have only too cheerfully
followed the “thrifty” example of the Kyabram
Government and have out down their charitable
doles to a figure that would make even a miser
blush. The Fever Hospital still stands idle, the
haunt of birds and rats, while the Councils
squabble over the few pounds they are each called
on to pay to contribute a sum equal to the
Government’s offer of £ISOO a year. Meanwhile
fever patients are lying on the ground and are
packed two and three in a bed in the tents
of Melbourne Hospital. In the past fort-
night Melbourne reported 21 cases of diphtheria,
and 117 cases of scarlet fever —the latter an in-
crease of 86 over the corresponding period last
year. Just here the figures of last year’s con-
tributions to Melbourne Hospital are sugges-
tive. The highly-rated but poor suburbs of
Footscray and Port Melbourne gave £42 and £25
out of revenues of £14,451 and £9292 respectively;
while the wealthy council of Melbourne gave £75
out of £305,416; Kew gave £9 ss. out of £8585;
St. Kilda gave £3 out of £24,875, and Brighton
(Bent’s place) out of £II,OOO revenue, donated a
whole £2! These figures go to back up
the known fact that, spite of special appeals,
bazaars, etc., it is, in the long run, the shillings
of the workers that keep the charities going.
If the tote were legalised and the State’s per-
centage of the profits devoted to charity, the
difficulty about hospital accommodation would
be settled, but parsonical influence makes that
impossible. And parsonical influence doesn’t
make any effort to find the money in other ways.
It is, in a great measure, because of the callous,
brutal, parsonical influence that the sick poor are
dying on the cold ground, in windy tents, in gaol,
or neglected in their own squalid homes. _ Truly,
there are few more heartless things in this world
than parsonical influence when it gets fairly going.
The two main follies of the N.S.W. prison
system come out clearly in the Comptroller’s
report for 1902: the treatment of “drunks” as
criminals instead of as patients (the drunks pro-
vide more than half the prison total); and the
use of the gaols instead of the hospital retreats for
the sick poor (to provide a man, who is only sick
and poor, with a 10ft. high wall and an armed
warder is financially foolish as well as senti-
mentally cruel). If alcoholic cases were dealt
with in inebriate hospitals, and the practice of
sending people to gaol for no other reason
than poverty and illness were abandoned,
gaol expenditure could be reduced by 60
per cent, and the saving would not be nearly
all absorbed by the increased hospital accommo-
dation called for. In time a percentage at least
of the drunks would be cured and cease to trouble
the State, whilst the sick poor could be treated
much more economically than by gaoling them.
* • * *
N.S.W. Public Service Board has im-
proved on its recent hifaluting scheme of an
academic examination which the clerical division
may undergo without anything definite in the
shape of reward. The Government has approved
of £lO being set apart for a gold medal to be
awarded annually to the man doing best at the
exam., the winner to be known as “the Public
Service Gold Medallist.” To provide against the
obvious peril of neglect of their routine duties on
the part of those competing for the medal, the
Board announces that the candidates’ official
work and record in his department are to count
towards the prize. Thus, if young Brains, of the
Works Department, shows that he has learnt
Sanscrit, can read the hieroglyphics of the ancient
Aztecs, write a treatise on odontology or paleon-
tology, and discourse on ethics, lyrics and polemics,
he has also to prove that he has not acquired these
graceful accomplishments at the cost of neglecting
the trivial tasks of his office grind. Possibly the
medal may have some effect in encouraging the
civil servant along the stony paths of knowledge ;
but it doesn’t seem to quite fit in with the present
policy of levelling down the salaries attached to
superior positions in N.S.W. service whenever
they become vacant. If the idea of saving £IOO or
so a year on any rearrangement of positions con-
sequent on a death or resignation goes on, billets
of ,£4OO and over will become rarer and rarer in
the public service list. And what inducement is
it to young Brains and his like to enter the service
and cram up to be Public Service Gold Medallist,
when he can earn twice the ultimately possible
salary by pushing the sales of a York-st. hatter or
opening a grocery ?
“ Zealandia,’
whose “forbears
are in Foxe’s
Book of Martyrs, ”
scanned the world
for possible miser-
ies, and thus un-
buttoned herself
recently in Syd-
ney Telegraph :
All my life I have
been a singularly
healthy woman—
have never seen the
inside of one of
those chambers of
horrors, a woman’s
private hospital—
thank God, and it
has often been
a matter of
wonder why
I have not
tw e 1 v e
children,
instead of
only three.
The other
married member
of my family is
childless. Although
my mother belonged
to people who have
been proverbial for large
families, we have rigidly
followed the other side of the
house. My father was an only son, and his sisters
averaged two children each. It is a matter of specu-
lation will my children end the line, or will yet one
more generation struggle through before it is extinct ?
The author of three children should surely brace
up and trust that the family will hang together a
while longer.
• • • •
Another Melbourne “lift” fatality—a
visitor falling 80ft headlong down a lift shaft in
the same Melbourne Coffee Palace where a
waitress, a year ago, broke her back by a similar
accident —once more draws attention to the
neglect of the city authorities in regard to lift
regulation. Only a week before one of a couple
of youngsters, using an elevator supposed to be
kept strictly for warehouse employees, had his
leg cut off. In the latest case the verdict was
again ‘ ‘ accidental death.” Coroner Candler held
that, as there was nothing in the Health Act
about lift doors, he “ had merely to decide
whether there was any criminal element in the
matter —and there was not.” The dangerous
door was right alongside that of a lavatory, with
nothing on it to show whether it was to be opened
or not. There was no safeguard of any sort about
it—“a child could open it,” the investigating
constable said. There was no criminal intent, of
course, for an hotelkeeper doesn’t actually want
dead bodies on his premises ; but there certainly
is a criminal degree of carelessness, of which the
law should take cognisance, in leaving lift open-
ings without proper guards. The person killed
couldn’t be any deader if it had been intended
that he should fall down the lift, and that fact
should be taken into consideration.
• * * •
Cablegram from London :
The Pope has also been afforded much pleasure by the
receipt of a sympathetic cable message from the Maori-
land Premier, Mr. R. Seddon.
Seddon will be interrupted at his work some of
these days by a very large yellow dog calling on
him to ask what he means by this sort of thing.
* * * *
N.S.W. police report for 1902 shows that
the force of the State reached in that year the
beautifully symmetrical number of 2222. Unfortu-
nately the number was inadequate as well as
symmetrical for, in addition to thb strictly police
duties of the prevention of crime, hunting down
criminals and looking after lock-ups (76,167
arrests), those 2,222 men had to act as inspectors
under the Licensing Act (there are 15,000 licenses
of various sorts in the metropolitan district
alone); see to death and fire inquests (1,298 of
the former and 152-of the latter); administer the
Metropolitan Traffic Act and look after the
license fees of cabs ; act as inspectors under the
Education Act (1,965 prosecutions); help
to administer the Dairies Act, the Noxious
Trades Act and the Diseased Meat Aot
(496 communications from the Board of Health
in regard to these Acts); conduct inquiries for the
State charities, for the Master in Lunacy, for the
Departments of Mines, Lands, Fisheries, Explo-
sives, Taxation, for the Statistician, the Labor
Commissioners, the Advances to Settlers’ Board,
and the Early Closing Act authorities (total
inquiries under these heads in 1902 were 6254);
collect electoral rolls; administer the Shearers’
Accommodation Act and the Old Age Pensions
Act. The reason for the policeman’s traditionally
large foot is obvious; he has to cover so much
ground. The reason why crime sometimes goes
undetected is also obvious —the criminal can
devote all his time to dodging the police; the
policeman can only give a fraction of his to hunt-
ing the criminal.
* * • •
A landmark of old Sydney goes down pre-
sently—the old Star Inn—at the corner of Phillip
and Hunter-streets. Its origin is lost in the mists
of the best part of a century ago. For many
years it was kept by George Hoyte Cummins,
a grandson of Alderman George Hoyte, Lord
Mayor of Dublin in 1839, one of the last of what
Daniel O’Connell stigmatised as the “Rotten
Corporation.” A tenant subsequent to Mr. Cum-
mins was Thomas Jones, who on a trip to Mel-
bourne became enamored of the waggonettes for
hire in that city. On his return, after much
opposition from the Corporation officials, who
then had the supervision of public vehicles, he
started half-a-dozen on the George-street, Redfern
and Glebe routes, but they did not catch on, and
Jones lost his all in the venture. He ran them
for months at a loss, but the Sydney people had
not an eye for beauty, and preferred the ram-
shackle, old hen-house omnibuses of the day.
• • • *
The wife of an eccentric old country buffer
died in Maoriland a while back, and as there was
nobody in the house but himself, he measured the
corpse for its pine outfit and went to town.
Whilst giving the undertaker particulars, he said
he felt so grieved that he didn’t think he’d survive
the shock long, and asked the ghoul to measure
him for his own coffin and send the two up
together. This was done. But sunnier days
swept away corroding care, and when he was
accepted by a tangle-haired neighboring widow,
the old chap chopped up his gruesome piece of
cemetery furniture for cooking purposes.
A SCANDALOUS REASON.
H E: “ Why do you have that terrible woman
come to the house to sew for you ? She doesn’t
understand her business.”
SHE: “Perhaps not. But she understands every-
body els's business.”
The centenary of Australian Freemasonry
was celebrated in Sydney Town Hall on Monday
night. The first Freemason who made a move-
ment towards forming a lodge was Sir Henry
Brown Hayes, the Cork man who was transported
for abducting a Quaker lady, Miss Pike. Hayes,
who resided at Vaueluse (afterwards the property
of Piper and Wentworth), applied to Governor
King for permission to establish a lodge, but King
thought it was some kind of Irish conspiracy and
refused. Hayes, nevertheless, opened the lodge
on 16th May, 1803, and was deported to Van Die-
men’s Land for his trouble. What good the cult
of the apron and the many initials has done to
Australia in its 100 years of existence is not very
easy to find out, but it has put on much frill and
hauteur, and has fed mysteriously on a large
scale.
* * * *
“Jimpan”: So frightened, by rain-fakir
Mick Carthy’s loud talk and confident style, were
some Broken Hill householders, that, a day or two
after the doctor’s arrival, they packed up their
valuables, ready for a flit to the hills when the
deluge came. A week later they unpacked their
goods, and wondered what words the fakir could
have left out of his charm.
• • • •
The unreliable parson again ! One Rev.
Hosking, chief of the League for the Complete
Regeneration of Collingwood (Melb.), stated
in the press and to Chief-Secretary Murray
that (1) both the local members were “con-
veniently absent ” from the Parliamentary division
on the Tote Suppression Bill; (2) that obscene
literature was sold all over the suburb; and (3)
that charitable donations of bread had been ex-
changed for beer. Then he was invited to peruse
Hansard on the date when the Totalisator Bill
was discussed and he would find that one of the
representatives (Beazley) had actually then been
in the chair; to specify any shop where obscene
prints were sold, and to give the name of one
hotel where beer had been given for bread. And
the only answer his interrogators got was the
corpse of a dead silence. The parson should stick
to his pulpit. No “back talk” is allowed there,
and there is no possibility of refuting his asser-
tions.
» * * *
The unpardonable sin in woman’s eyes.
From Melb. Age (20/6/’O3): —
pARK-ST. I
will never
forgive you as
long as I live.
You are mean.
May.
* *
A Mel b.
cabman’s
story :
He came out
of the Grand
Hotel biting a
toothpick one
night, and asked
how far it was
to the Melbourne
Club. I’d had a
bad week, so
risked it and
said, “About
three miles."
“ Is it as far as
that?” he sez.
“ Every inch,"
sez I. He
climbed inside.
I whipped up
and drove him
all' over town,
down Lonsdale-
street to Spen-
cer-street and
up past the
paper offices to
the club.
“ What’s the
damage ? " he
asked when he
got out. “ A
dollar,” sez I,
and he parted
up like a toff. I
A SOFT ANSWER, &c.
THE TRAP : “ Now then, yez, phat
are yez doin' 'ere?”
Y OUTH: “ That's all right, sargint.
I'm only waitin' fer me girl.”
wonder what he said on the return journey.
Baker, Grand Secretary and Most Worship-
ful Howler of the ancient and dishonorable Order
of the Yellow Pup in Victoria, has “fiercely
attacked ” Premier Barton for grasping hands with
the Pope. He stigmatised Toby’s action as “the
most fatal mistake of his life,” and one which he
would live to most bitterly regret. It is understood
that at an early period Baker will denounce God
for having created Leo XI'II. ; also, after death
he will decline to enter the Kingdom of Heaven
if the Almighty has been indiscreet enough to
admit any of the Homan hierarchy. Then prob-
ably Baker will “bitterly regret” his aotion for
the rest of eternity.
THE NATIONAL IDEAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
So long she’s kept her lofty seat
Upon the mountain’s towering brow,
Above the burden and the heat,
She must be cold about the feet
And feel it in her bones by now 1
So very long her seat she kept
Above the crag, beyond the cliff,
We’ve often wondered if she slept;
So long she’s neither moved nor wept,
She must, at least, be very stiff.
We’ve called her loud, we’ve called her long,
In mellow tones, in voices shrill,
Our shackles, rattling, drown our song,
Our prison bars are stout and strong,
And Fatman is our gaoler still!
We want the Grub denied by Greed !
This locked-up land her key invites !
We want not theory but deed.
O, Frozen Female—in our need
Pray thaw thyself upon the heights 1
N.S.W.
THE POSTMAN.
THE LOVE-LETTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
I’m a-dreamin’ of you, darling, as I lay me down to sleep,
When the stars are in the heavens and the moon is on
the deep,
And the winds they come a-whispering, how small the
world muse be
When just one little woman can be all the world to me !
I’m a-thinkin’ of you, darling, when the day comes up
the skies
(And it’s you, my dear, a-glowin’ with the love that’s in
your eyes)
Then my heart it starts a-beatin’, swells and throbs and
beats anew,
Till at last it breaks its prison and flies back again to you !
N.S.W.
EXILE.


Wild’s, in the Sydney'Arcads, is the’most
fashionable gentlemen’s hairdressing saloon! in
Sydney. Every attention possible is paid to the
customers by six expert hairdressers. Address, -3-
30 Sydney Arcade, entrance from George--stree&
or King street, Sydney.*
“Steele Rudd’s” , second book, “Oob New
Selection ! ” —will he ready before Christmas.
Better than the first book, if possible; with many
f lustrations. A
SILVER STAR STARCH.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
1
t ,ou SNES s.. M VER
and
Labor leader Watson, a short time ago,
lectured to the Christian Social Union in Mel-
bourne St. Paul’s Cathedral Chapter House on
the “Ideals of the Labor Movement.” The
discussion that ensued had two delightful bits in
it. Rev. Ed. (wooden ’ed, perhaps) Crawford
wanted to know if it were not a fact that Socialists
advocated laxity of the marriage tie; and a
member of the Union told the astonished J. C.
Watson that he found a great difficulty in per-
suading churchmen that Socialism didn’t include
free love and that Labor members had no “cor-
porate policy of this kind.”
Two significant items appeared lately side
by side in the Melbourne papers. One, in
an appeal for aid for the Vic. Infant
Asylum, set forth that last year the
institution received 77 babies, of
whom but five died, which has
been about its average sinoe
it started 25 years ago.
The otherintimated that,
•during the first half of
this year, 460 in-
quests had been held
lin Melbourne alone,
'9O per cent, of which
were onsmall infants
;nursed out, aband-
oned or otherwise
mislaid. So here is
■one single Australian
■city which deliber-
ately throws away
#OO lives annually—
that means about
'6OOO or 7000 lives in
the whole Common-
wealth—because of
its hypocritical
squeamishness about
mentioning such a
■thing as a Foundling
Hospital. This is
what makes the wail
about the loss of
population such a :
gruesome farce.
These prospective citi-
•zens have not to be
•attracted hither by
•grants of land or
promises of billets or
■assisted passages; there
is no question as to whence
'they are to be obtained,
they are here already. A
•country which annually throws
away 7000 prospective citizens,
'because it is too shiftless or
•snufflesome to take the steps that
experience has shown will keep
'them, had better go out of the popula-
tion business quicker than immediately. It
'is only fit for sand-shifting or painting fences or
'borrowing money.
• • • •
John Lane’s organising tour through
‘Queensland in the interests of Cosme colony,
South America, has added 13 to the strength of
'the little band of still-hopeful battlers—among
'them “Adam Tramp,” one of the best-known
'writers of rugged Labor literature up North.
• * * *
Ashburton, in Maoriland, has become a
iprohibition town, and it celebrated the beginning
■of the long drought by such a fog and such a
•drunk as it hasn’t had for a long time. Right up
to the last moment the pubs were packed with
customers, pathetically struggling to get full
before the sun was eclipsed and the heavens were
darkened. In most cases stocks had been allowed
to run down to next to nothing, and when the
whisky ran out Ashburton had to turn to gin,
and top off with beer ; and the result was disaster
■on the way home, and a large striped taste in the
mouth in the morning, and nothing but water to
wash it away with. Most of the pubs have
turned themselves into boarding houses; and
when there wasn’t any room for a boarding-house
they had a clearing-out sale, and the cold-tea
enthusiasts bought the beer engines and the
whisky-measure as trophies of victory. But,
though Ashburton is on the whole as parched now
as a lime-kiln, there is still a wet place here and
'there;.in one day, just before the Cursed Thing
was banned, 86 cases of whisky arrived; so
evidently a little bit of Ashburton, anyway, can
still sit in out of the cold and drink to Letter
times.
The demolition of Altson’s cigar shop at
the corner of Elizabeth and Collins-streets, Mel-
bourne, remtjyes an interesting land mark.
Erected in 1840, it was the first brick building
in the embryo city, originally known as Number 1,
Melbourne. On the site of the early edifice,
B. H. Altson (brother of the two Vic. artists who
have captured the Travelling Scholarship) is going
to fix a six-storey building. He’s the commercial-
minded Rudinoff of the family, and the new
premises will be his picture—made out of smoke.
• * * *
The straight tip from Russia to President
Roosevelt that the TJ.S.A. would be better em-
ployed preventing the burning alive of negroes
than signing petitions to the Czar about the
murdering of Jews has apparently produced some
effect. The latest would-be negro lynchers fell
in. When they attacked the gaol the militia fired
low.
* * * *
Apropos of that precious Maoriland “ pre-
cedence ” list which has brought Seddon and
Chief-Justice Stout into such hot conflict. It is
now noted that that important officer, the Audi-
tor-General, has been omitted altogether, though
the Public Trustee figures in the list. People are
putting down the omission of the auditor to
Seddon’s bitter hostility to that official. The first
dispute arose some years ago over a penny stamp,
or something, and the mutual resentment has
grown till nothing but the other party’s head
would satisfy either of them. The big man in the
check waistcoat is getting himself seriously dis-
liked in his old age, there being a general, though
probably quite erroneous, impression that he is
responsible for the precedence row
* * * *
A flimsy looking shirt alleged to have been
worn by George IV., and a tablecloth, with the
story of Jonah woven in, which belonged to the
late Queen Anne, are objects of veneration at
Christchurch (M.L.) museum.
* * * »
G. K. Chesterton, the new English writer,
on the fetish of Race:
It is curious that the romance of race should be spoken
of as if it were a thing peculiarly aristocratic; that
admiration for rank, or interest in family, should mean
only interest in one not very interesting type of rank and
family. The truth is that aristocrats exhibit less of the
romance of pedigree than any other people in the
world. For, since it is their principle to marry only
within their own class and mode of life, there is no
opportunity for any of the more interesting studies in
heredity ; they exhibit almost the unbroken uniformity
of the lower animals. It is in the middle classes that we
find the poetry of genealogy ; it is the suburban r~'>cer,
standing at his shop-door, whom some wild dash of
Eastern or Celtic blood may drive suddenly to a whole
holiday or a crime.
ANOTHER GOOD GIRL GONE WRONG.
JANE: “Did you hear what Annie's done ?—
Taken a place where she cant give notice."
MARY: "What? Where? ”
JANE: “ She’s married."
One street in Adelaide is now entirely
occupied by the cottages built out of the £2?,000
left by Thomas Elder for providing workmen’s
homes. There was already an Elder-street in the
city; but the City Council has taken away its
name, and given it to the street with the cottages
in. There are 48 of them so far, and more are
going up.
The Queen’s Memorial Statue, the Soldiers’
Memorial, the Burns’ Memorial and a few others
have all been given sites on the St. Kilda
Road, Melbourne. No worse place could be
selected for sculpture, which loses all its sig-
nificance unless backed up with
architecture. In a few years the
St. Kilda Road will have to be
renamed|“The Obituary Road.”
And what an added sorrow to
the late and delaying drunk
who passes along that
highway! He will
think he has lost him-
self in the cemetery.
BROTHER JOHN CONFESSES HIS
POLITICAL SINS.
THE SALVATION ARMY.—EULOGISED BY THE
PREMIER.
“ The Premier said he did not feel in the least out of
place. He had experienced the honor on more than one
occasion in giving his countenance and support to the
work in which the Army was engaged.”
Maoriland has a fierce military nocent
waterspout in its polities, too—Major W. J.
Steward. Having been one of the Parliamentary
party which recently had the giddy picnic to the
Islands at Government expense, the warrior has
now published (also, it is alleged, at Government
expense) “some account” of it, in probably the
worst poem that ever ran to 250 verses. Every-
thing is “poetry” that Steward can carve into
short lengths with his sword. They had a bath :
four verses. A shave: eight verses. (If they
had had a hair cut it would have been twelve
verses for certain.) They bought clam-shells —
half-a-dozen verses or so. Mostly it was a Paradise
out there; but the Laureate thinks the houris
might be improved upon :
We saw the sacred maiden
Who is tapued for a chief ;
You couldn’t call her pretty—
She ran too much to beef.
In fact, it was the old trouble over again—every
prospect pleased them, but only man was vile.
They wouldn’t give them anything without cash
on the nail: —
Unsophisticated natives ? Pooh !
There isn’t one alive ;
They all know mighty well, I guess,
How many beans make five.
As it is worth something to know even that much,
the money spent on the trip was not all wasted.
* * * *
N.Z. Herald advt. :
TMMEDIATE assistance, by officer’s widow (young).
Will any gentleman advance loan? No agents.
Strictly confidential.— “ Orphan,” Herald Office.
She will probably get the money. And if she
advertised that she was the elderly widow of a
pick-and-shovel man and had a mother living, she
probably wouldn’t get it.
* * * •
It was bound to come. A New Plymouth
(M.L.) paper has announced, on what it calls
“undoubted authority,’’that the local Spiritualists
were told by their medium a couple of nights
before the Servian atrocities that “a king and
queen of a foreign country were about to be mur-
dered.” Result is a great influx of shallow-
brained people to “the circle.” Little items of
this sort should be communicated to the press
beforehand.
* * ♦ *
When the Gaud Mayor of Sydney recently
visited his plain brother of Brisbane the latter
was struck with the great idea of presenting his
larger contemporary with the “freedom of the
city.” This is an old English idea, which implies
that the recipient of the honor will not be slain in
that city without trial, or that he may come and
live there at his own expense if he wants to with-
out being cast headlong over the wall on suspicion
of being a spy, or something of the sort. It also
makes the recipient eligible for the job of in-
spector of nuisances, night watchman, traffic
officer, dog-strangler, town clerk, rate collector,
or other municipal office —or if it doesn’t the Lord
only knows what it is good for. And behold!
when the plain Mayor of Brisbane tried to present
the freedom of his city to the Gaud Mayor of
Sydney, no one could tell what the freedom was
like; all that could be discovered was that in
England it was frequently bestowed in a golden
casket, but what on earth was inside the casket no
one knew. So the ceremony stands adjourned.
* * * *
The Yellow Pup gave a performance at
Hobart on July 13, but he was sick, and the show
was wet and limpy. The chairman, Cold-Water
Crouch, threw his favorite drink right over the
demonstration by announcing to all and sundry
that he wasn’t an Orangeman, and then up rose
Presbyterian parson Buntine and said that neither
was he. These things cast a gloom that refused
to be dissipated.
“Alba” writes some picturesque fiction
Amusing' to note how the big medicos and sub-divinitie
fall in on notable occasions. Signor Mazzoni, the Pole’s
physician, declared weeks ago that His HolnieSs could
only live three days. Leo, in the throes of his last poem,
stated pathetically that he “ would die to-morrow.”
Probably the man we respect least is the one who calls
us to his bedside to bid us farewell, and who gets up a
week later saying that he feels a bit shaky, but much
on 'y man I know of who can die to order is
the Hindoo. He says “I go die now,” and he expires
like a tradesman. He isn’t looked upon as an infallible
person either. Knew a big Collingwood draper who lost his
reason on account of the Hindoo rag-hawkers that persisted
In dying under his verandah and inside his shop.
He had once offended the rag-serang, who promptly
issued a kind of death-jeddah against him. Passing
Hindoos who didn’t feel well strolled in casually and
drew their last breath among piles of well-constructed
straw hats or beaver trimming ; wherever the big draper
looked, under the counter or among the calicoes, he was
sure to discover a pair of thin legs and a dead black face.
The draper retired from business. One day a black
hawker came into my back-yard, and before I could
prevent him died under the kitchen window. There was a
Chinaman’s vegetable cart in the lane, and with the
assistance of a friend I laid him in it and covered'him
with cabbages. These Chows are a bad lot.
• • • *
The girl addicted to illegitimate offspring
soon grows unreasonable in her views concerning
what to do with them. At Melbourne Crim.
Court last week there was the case of a domestic
servant whose mistress had been willing to keep
her as long as she confined herself to one baby,
which she supported on the premises. When the
damsel repeated her indiscretion her mistress told
her to find another place, whereupon she planked
her first-born (aged 19 months) on the doorstep of
a parson who had known her father, and who
was expected to look after his deceased friend’s
grandchild. The parson, however, was not taking
any accidental babies for old acquaintance sake,
so the matter came before the police,
and trustful Ellen was charged with un-
lawfully exposing baby to the weather.
Ellen means no harm, but she seems
to be out of sympathy with the ruling social con-
ditions. The Australian birth-rate needs helping
along, and she has done her best for it thus far.
If she could get married she would, hut she can’t
—for the young man is not “ on.” And the State,
which wants all the married Ellen’s babies it can
get, has nothing to say to this prolific spinster,
except that she mustn’t leave her young family on
other people’s doorsteps.
• * • *
What a casting of rude aspersions on our
noble “swaddy” is the report, just cabled, that
Field-Marshal Lord Roberts has appealed for the
restoration of stolen Boer Bibles containing family
records, and expressly desired that his appeal should
be brought specially under the notice of the colonial
troops /
* • • *
Mayor Cohen, the Jew, presided at the
Orange pup demonstration in Adelaide, but con-
fined his remarks to an excuse for being present.
Parson Davidson, the chief speaker, began with
a statement that he wasn’t an Orangeman, and
shocked his audience by expressing the opinion
that King Edward had a perfect right to visit the
Pope. > The Pup is a very small, weak dog in
Adelaide.
“HOW ABOUT OUR TOES?"
KINGSTON: “Better put ’em back a bit.”
According to the Bishop of N.Q. after the
recent cyclone
Within a radius of 70 miles of Townsville there was
only one church left in which it was possible to hold
diving seryice.'and it is a mysterious thing' that although
all these houses of God were wrecked many houses of siri
escaped almost untouched.
The Bishop didn’t attempt any explanation.
• * • •
The Cairns (Q.) Chinese had their feelings
somewhat hurt, the other day, when Lady
Chermside refused to accept from them a gold
bangle, “as she only accepted presents of value
from relatives.” It is a curious sort of white, they
reckon at Cairns, who won’t be patronised by a
Chinaman. * , .
SOME "CHRISTIAN" OCCUPATIONS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Mrs. W. M‘Lean, of the Women’s Christian Temperance
Union, spoke of the necessity for doing away with the
barmaid evil in the interests of the barmaids themselves.
As a women’s society the W.C.T.U. naturally concerned
itself with the . . . dismissal of some thousands of
women. They should be gradually drafted off to other
occupations.— Age.
Of course they should, bedad I
It’s unutterably sad
To have young and pretty women filling stations
Which lead them to the brink
Of the thrice-accursed Drink—
Reprehensibly belovfcd of the nations!
Lor* bless you— happy thought—
These ex-barmaids might be bought
For the harems of the Turk and his relations !
Or they might sew and hem —
It is good enough for them—
And be sweated into Sheol by gradations 1
Also, what a holy pride
Would thrill all the countryside
When the Government announced, in grand orations,
That, in future, every lass
Would be taught to say the Mass,
And conduct religious functions and oblations 1
Though the Parson and the Priest
Would not like it in the least,
.The country would pooh-pooh their fulminations.
Though the W.C.T.U.
Would perform till all was blue,
They need not enter people’s calculations !
Last—as “oops,” and Jaypees, too,
We could teach a goodly few
To run in drinks and mumble objurgations ;
With their training at the Bar
Some as legal lights could star—
Yes, we’ll quickly draft them into occupations !
v.
O. C. CABOT.
TO LET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Upon the dusty shelf she stood
A sweet and lovely maid,
Content to be both kind and good
If love her love repaid.
And yet in spite of charm and grace
Life’s crowd of men swept by,
Unheeded shone her radiant face
Till I drew near—and I
I took her down and brushed away
The grey dust of regret;
Her place upon the shelf to-day
Is advertised “To Let.”
W. FRANCIS CHAMBIRS.


SOD
it®
s
e
O*
rt*
s*' r *J
« Sprint
The cablegrams from Rome between
Friday and Tuesday may be summed up that the
physicians had just got the Pope quite cured
when his case became hopeless—he had just re-
covered when he died, in a manner of speaking.
A good feature in connection with
Burnham Industrial school (Canterbury, M.L.)
is that the boys are paid for work done in the
shops, the money being banked. The lads are
divided into three classes, and not a few of the
best conducted of them, aged 13 or 14, have £30
to credit. The amount standing in the names of
present inmates is over £3000. On being dis-
charged the amount due is held in trust until the
youngster has found a good investment for it.
Absconders have the cost of recapture deducted
from their little account. The only drawback is
that escapes are pretty numerous. There is a
great tendency to let the boy go and keep the
money.
Women ! why be thin and undeveloped ?
Lact&, the wonderful skin-food, plumps the flesh
where thin and undeveloped, gives a beautiful
roundness to face, neck, bust, and arms. A
quick, sure and safe home treatment. Jars
7s. 6d., post 8s. 2d. Thousands of women using it
daily, all of whom testify to the wonderful results
from its use. Write for pamphlet to H. Westall
Guest, Yice-regal chemist, 229 Bourke-street,
Melbourne.*
WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
A Reliable Glove
which you can depend upon to give
you satisfaction—hard to get we
know, but just try a sample pair of
The Royal Kid Glove
to be obtained in every color, and
every pair carries a guarantee.
Price l g*
Z/O PAIR.
W. T. WATERS & CO. LTD.
“ The Leaders of Fashion’’
King & George Sts,, SYDNEY.
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WTW WTW WTW WTW VVTW WTW WTW
FACILE PRINCEPS.
SEMPER IDEM.
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
M
TRADE
Dress Fabrics
Are Stocked bv the q
.£ Leading Drapers.
maVkTHE varnished board ,
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Mr Dhab Abb,,.- Srd ° W ’ J " ly *• l9oa
Mayoress T. Hushes is a convert to tlie short
skirt. Not a just “clear the ground”compromise,
but a proper croppy gown, in which she looks
smart and well-groomed and well-booted. But
sight of another well-known society woman short-
skirter nearly made me shed my eyelashes. Her
frock wasn tso bad; it was her shoeing. She
wore gun-boat shoes on her healthy-sized feet,
their big points stretching far ahead and en-
croaching on her neighbor’s share of the Cosmos.
Aiso, she wore open work hose. If she had
sacrificed her pointed toes and worn gaiters, I
would not be hereby entreating her to go back to
the long skirts of happy chance.
C' ( m cer m n £j Nellie Stewart’s feet as worn in
“ Mice and Men.” A correspondent seems quite
I should know that those are not
Nellie s bare feet at all, but bogus extremities of
wax or some life-like imitation, into which she
slips her own tootsies. This accounts for the
size. The wax paws look sevens. Nellie’s own
are only about fours. She wore the same false
feet in Nell Gwynne, as going on her own bare
pedestals “ would chill her to death.”
Nellie Stewart’s little girl, now in the pin-
feather stage, is a tall, picturesque youngster
who looks likely to fledge into very good looks
and figure.
Foreign papers by last mail give all the revolt-
ing details of the murder of Servian Queen Draga,
and the journalists don’t write with rose-water
when commenting upon the unhappy woman’s
reputation. She had, all accounts aver, no
“charm,” no great intellectual force, and no
beauty; but she exercised over the young king a
strange animal fascination, a quality which some
women possess in a particularly marked degree,
and for which quality science doesn’t seem to
have an accurate name. The French call such a
one a grande wmowrewse. There have been many
of them, from Faustina downwards, and their
influence is inexplicable, but none the less real.
Talking of Queens: Young Wilhelmina of
Holland is said to be showing symptoms of a
tuberculous character. It is probable that she
will be compelled to live a year in Egypt. Some-
one ought to tell her of our climate. Since their
big row, about a year' ago, Q. Wilhelmina and
Pnnce Henry have dropped out of the news-
papers ; the Prince seems to have settled down
to the limitations of his position. A letter pur-
porting to be written by him, however, still goes
the rounds of a section of the foreign press. It is
a wail of pity for himself in his position as Prince
Consort, and he instances our late British Prince
Aloert as a fellow victim of Prince Consortism.
“The English,” he complains in effect, “treated
their Prince Consort as a sort of sunerior footman
until he was the father of ten children. Then
they unbended to the extent of allowing him to
open agricultural shows. ” *,
. Mrs. E. T. Cook (a sister of Mrs. B. R. Wise),
in an amusing article in National Review— “ A
Chelsea Menage’’—gives a tabulated list of the
general servants kept by the Carlyles during their
30 years’ residence in Cheyne Row. The list is
compiled from a recently-published batch of
Carlyle letters, and opposite every damsel’s name
is the comment —sarcastic, contemptuous, vitrio-
lic —culled from the stormy little missus’ budgets
to her husband or friends. The Carlyles had
35 servants in 30 years. When you learn that
one of the 35 stayed 11 years and another five-and-
a-half, you may guess that Mrs. Jane had a fairly
revolutionary time with the other 33. And this
during the period from 1835 to 1865. Yet this
generation is told by the oldsters that the incom-
petent, muddling “general” is an absolutely
modern product and peculiar to “ the colonies.”
For the five years prior to her death Mrs.
Carlyle kept a cook and housemaid, but for 25
years one “general ” ran the show. And as Mrs.
Cook points out, the mistress was often ailing,
the house a large one, the damsel’s wages rarely
more than £l2 a year, and she baked the bread
and slept in the dark, damp, back kitchen. One
of the Anns “kindly offered to ‘air’the absent
Carlyle’s bed by sleeping in it.” Actually a lady
help was tried ! A lady help far back as’’sB, and
this is the acid little woman’s comment on her—
“ The soi-disant daughter of a half-pay lieu-
tenant—an Irish impostor convicted of lying and
theft.” Several of the other ** generals” “steal
the beer ”or are “ drunk again. ” It’s a comfort to
know that they had a servant question in those
•days. lam going to study the Egyptian hiero-
glyphics all over again. There are some puzzling
things therein, for which one may find a solution
in the theory that the Ptolemies had a servant girl
trouble occasionally, and Mrs. Ptolemy had to
polish up the brass bulls of the palace with her
own (jueenly hands, while Mr. Ptolemy chopped
np Nile drift-wood to oook the morning meal.
Was shown the other day the latest thing in
•corsets. A Sydneysider brought it and a French
accent back from Paris last week. The corset
back and front does not rise more than an inch or
so above the waist line, but under the arms it is
so high that I am sure the owner, when inside it,
-will have to carry her arms like semaphores (at
the danger angle), or like Moses, who held up his
kands on a hill all day while the Israelites battered
Amalek at Hesbbon, or Gibraltar, or some such
place. Below the waist it is awfully long—looks
as if it reached the knees—and at the back it is
thickly padded. The price of the beastie in Eng-
lish money was three guineas.
Ladies’ Realm—an English mag. containing
superb photographs, beautiful type, and bad
Grammar —has had a discussion, “ Should Widows
tarry?” A titled lady with a name like a
sounding-brass leads off, but the only writer
whose share in the discussion is worth noticing is
Violet Hunt, the novelist. She put the query to
her housemaid, ‘ ‘ Annie, should widows marry ? ”
and swift came the reply, ‘‘No, miss, they
shouldn’t; it’s greedy.” No matter how the dis-
cussers may decide, or how St. Paul advises, the
widow will marry if it suits her. Sydney and
Melbourne have several fashionable widows, who
as wives were quiet, undistinguished domestic
members of society. They seemed to have long
put away childish things and vain imaginings and
did not dress at all up to the date of the month
after next. Their consorts were called hence,
and after a few months of black weeds these ladies
put on the greys and mauves of re-eligibilty. A
year of widowhood found them in white satins
and white chiffons dancing at fashionable charity
balls with young men who, until then, had con-
sidered them as nice old ladies, and the mothers
of awfully nice grown-up girls. They have all
got l grandchildren, these white mousseline de soie
clad widows, and the men who sit whispering
with them at theatres are mostly 30 years their
juniors. It is scarcely likely that these widows
would be dotty enough to marry again. They
have simply resolved to enjoy a second youth.
The world buds every year. They don’t see why
humans shouldn’t bud twice.
The death of the Pope has disturbed R.C. affairs
and fixtures. The Cardinal, only lately returned
from a Roman holiday, hurriedly put fresh cords
and tassels on his hat, took out the wax-taper
spots of grease from his red robe, freshened it up
with dye, and, accompanied by Dean O’Haran,
left by the Oroya, en route for Naples. St.
Patrick’s annual ball is postponed until Sep-
tember 1. I note that cards for this
function state that it is under the patronage
of the Consul-General for France, M. Biard
d’Aunet. Curious ! The Consul-General is one
of the most courteous and courtly-looking old
gentlemen that ever came out of the Elysee. He
has grave and reverent side-whiskers, a gait that
suggests the treading of stately minuets and the
elegant bend of the shoulders that is only acquired
by long years of obeisance before thrones and
high-born women. But it is surely not for these
qualifications that the ladies of St. Patrick
selected him as patron for their ball. Just now
France is throwing out its gentlemen in holy
orders—throwing them out body and brisket; so
the committee cannot be under the delusion that
it is honoring a R.C. country by securing France’s
representative as patron for its patron saint’s
dance.
Wonder does any woman ever do her hair after
the fashion of the plates given in the Queen and
other fashion papers. Coil and toil and turmoil
(and a curl) of tresses ! One turns from the ad-
vertisement pictures of the latest style “simple
and effective ” (no doubt it would occupy a
practised hairdresser three-quartets of an hour) to
the portraits of English royal women, society
beauties and actresses, to find its very antithesis—
although the simplicity and effectiveness are
generally present. No woman does her hair
after the style of these advertisement
pictures or the lay-figure heads seen in Sydney
barbers’ windows. Amongst the “transforma-
tion specimens” advertised is one for ladies “who
do not enjoy the best of health,” or “for sleeping
wear when the hair often looks unsightly.” The
ace that the artist has got under the specimen is
a round, big-eyed, well-nourished one of 19 or so
—a girl to whom sleep-ruffled hair would give ad-
ditional charm. He hadn’t the courage to put a
very sick face or one getting on in years under
the sleeping hair-cap. Sydney women stick to
the hair-frame as if it were a religion. It is ring-
barking their heads, and the voice of the derma-
tologist is lifted against its wear. Quite 80 per
cent, of pictures of American and English women
somebodies show them with simply parted hair—
mighty poor hair, too, some of it—just as soprano
Dolores wore hers.
Vfhat a run heavy lace collars or pelerines are
having ! They are worn over coats, capes, and
as berthes for evening frocks. Saw a string-
colored one over a waterproof lately. Nellie
Stewart, off the stage, wears one about two feet
deep over a black brocade evening coat. Two
collars I specially admire belong to a woman who
travels regularly on a certain ferry line. They
are of very different pattern and quality, and
week about she wears one draping her hat and
the other on her shoulders.
Two newchum Englishmen, Maurice Buokler,
the reciter, and young Penley (son of the man
who created the great part in “Charley’s Aunt”),
did some amateur Sherlock Holmes work lately
in Sydney. They had taken into their house
aud treated most charitably a stone-broke fellow-
countryman—the son of a certain gallant colonel
in the Great Smoke ; and he repaid them by going
off in the night with as much of their property,
even to their socks and dress-clothes, as he could
stagger under. Their own and police efforts
failed to locate the thief, but a letter came to
their place addressed to him. It gave a clue.
To make the acquaintance of the writer they
disguised themselves and spent a night in the
Sydney Chinese opium quarter. Not to catch
Auld Scratch himself would they repeat the
experience. But it led to their intercepting their
quarry at Redfern station a day or so later. The
pair haled him to police quarters. Later, when
they saw him in his dungeon, with one short
blanket for his long person, they were sorry, and
started to harry the authorities to release him.
On this, Thursday, evening will take place in the
Centenary Hall, the first of two performances of
Lisa Lehmann’s setting of Omar’s “ Persian Gar-
den.” Vocalists are Misses Violet Mount and
Maud Dalrymple, and Messrs. Henry Weir and
Robyns. Time of performance runs to an hour
and a half. Last Tuesday afternoon the “ Persian
Garden” was given at Federal Government
House before the Tennysons, and Rawsons, their
respective suites and some choice outsiders. The
pianola is used in accompanying the vocalists.
A Sydney man who is in the habit of giving
recitals of chamber-music at his house heads his
programme with the text: “ Pour not out words
where there is a musician.” (Ecclesiasticus xxxii.,
4). Evidently they were troubled, even in those
times, with the person who interrupted the shawm
with conversation.
*1 wo commercial families of old Sydney came
together last week in the third—or is it the fourth ’
—generation. Mervyn Campbell, son of the late
bep. Stephen, M.L.A., was married in London
to Stella, youngest daughter of Charles Parbury,
of DeVere Gardens. The bridegroom is grandson
of Robert Campbell, merchant, of Bligh-street,
and the bride is daughter of “one of the Par-
burys,” of the wharf below Fort-street—Parbury,
Lamb and co. of the good old days. Mr. Camp-
bell the elder, founder of the family, was an
enormously stout gentleman, who did business in
his carriage. A portion of the old Bligh-street
store still stands, but the private house, a stately
mansion, has given way to the Union Club
building.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ Governor-General Tennyson is doing the vice-
regal rounds alone just now, owing to his lady’s
tiredness after incessant journeyings to and fro.
She was not even at the swagger Matrons’ hop for
the navy. But Lady Silverlocks was present
looking her finest in pearly satin, much duchesse
point lace and a presentation trophy of violets.
It was a bright occasion for a coming-out ; Miss
Maud Anderson was a prominent debutante.
One notable frock was a bold shrimp satin with
huge black roses loafing thereon, and some wealthy
lace about the corsage. This was worn by Mrs.
Norton Grimwade. Not a few dressed up to the
ambitious gold and cream mountings of the hall.
“ Governor and Lady Clarke gave their irritat-
ing patronage to the latest University Conserva-
torium concert at Melbourne Town Hall. They
arrived at 8.35, whereupon the orchestra played
‘ God Save, ’ and the audience stood up. ‘ Loyalty ’
—in Melbourne, at any rate—seems to have no
sense of what is due to it from the vice-regal per-
sonage. Punctuality ought to be the soul of
‘loyalty’s’ business on these occasions, and the
Gov. who arrives at 8.30 should be considered as
too late for the soup.
7 Great is the wrath of the hunting-men against
the crowd of ‘ followers ’ — more particularly
those on side-saddles. Men who can’t ride and
get in the way of those who can may be sworn at
with impunity, but a lingering dislike to cursing a
woman springs eternal in the male breast, however
much she may merit it. The ‘ follower ’ nuisance
was specially in evidence at the Rupertswood
meet —always a field-day for the society equestri-
enne with a pretty habit and as much idea of
sitting a horse as a dodo. These, in dozens and
scores, with men equally ornamental and useless,
crowded upon the hounds, blocked every gap in a
barbed-wire fence, and took an especial and
fiendish pleasure in riding gaily across a man or
woman who was sending a horse honestly at a
two-railer.
“Ada Crossley’s Big Smoke chums are doing
the advance agent biz. well, under cover of guile-
less correspondence to Melbourne friends. One
can’t turn at any current show without colliding
with someone who has just had ‘such a sweet letter’
from Gerty or Mary So-and-So, ‘ telling me about
dear Ada.’ We have recently learnt, via these
unsophisticated channels, all about the Crossley
triumphs, the Crossley charity, the Crossley wit and
humor, and, ah, the Crossley craving for ‘dearold
Australia.’ By this time all Melbourne’s agog to
behold Ada, and to gush, and to crowd to her
recitals.
‘ ‘The ‘General’ of the Loretto convents through-
out the world has been visiting Victoria. The
Loretto nuns are a ‘fashionable’ order—they
may be called female Jesuits, as to status and
learning. In the cities of the “ old world” the
Loretto convents are always in the fashionable
quarters. There are houses of the order in
Ballarat and at Albert Park, Melbourne. The
nuns were first brought to Australia in the middle
of the seventies by the late Bishop O’Connor, of
Ballarat. He had been parish priest of Rath-
farnham, a fashionable suburb of Dublin, where
Loretto Abbey, the head house of the order, is.
The ‘ General ’ is making a tour of the world,
wherever there’s a convent of the order, and,
when she has done, R. S. Smythe may retire
from the profession of much-travelling.
“ W. E. Norris, the English novelist, and brother
of Lady Havelock, the Governoress of Tasmania,
has been staying at Government House, Hobart,
for some time past. Norris is a lean, gloomy-
looking man, from whom you’d hardly expect
funny Scotch ghost stories. Yet he has produced
one at all events. Perhaps the labor of making
humor out of a dead Scotchman has worn him
out. He looks as weary as a man who had been
carrying the Encyclopaedia Britannica uphill for a
century.
“ ‘The Voice that Breath’d ’ is gradually thin-
ning the ranks of she-professionals. Already two
women doctors have dropped their diplomas and
forceps at the call of Hymen, and now a pair of
fair dentists abandon their brass plates and their
dragging implements to wield the weapons of
domestic government. Suggests again the ques-
tion : Is the academic game worth the candle if
the she-graduate is to marry almost as soon as she
arrives at professional distinction ?
.“A wealthy belle whose frills have been a long
source of distraction to swagger hotel sojourners
hereabouts has skipped over the social hurdles
into the more public field of the stage. It is a
very long time since any society charmer deserted
the drawing-room for the footlight boards. At
present she is in the chorus of the ‘ Princess ’
shows, where she is given an advantageous stand.
Speaker Mason’s daughter took a very brief time
to get over her infatuation for the stage. A month
or two of pantomime rehearsals affected her
health and cheerfulness, and a few weeks under
the limelight led to her retirement from the
boards.
“ Rose Musgrove’s lean proportions make one
look back on ‘ Belle of New York ’ memories with
a sigh over the plump picture of Louise Hepner.
I remember how seductively the indigo blue
uniform fitted over Louise and how sweetly
her coy eyes fell earthwards when she warbled her
lay. Rose Musgrove hasn’t the sly charm which
the part calls for.
“ Our golfers, fencers, and other female muscle-
developers, are not in it with the Yanks. A
recent mag. flourished a wild page of feminine
‘sports,’ all wearing slap-up bloomers and
sweaters, in various attitudes and at diverse
games. Some were vaulting over dizzy hurdles,
some throwing the stone, a few were at leap-frog.
All the Yanks depicted had trim legs and—as far
as the pictures showed—sinewy frames. Natural
result of physical culture, they say, is to swell the
chest and thin the waist. But women should
avoid forms of exercise in which there is much
jumping or much risk of a fall—otherwise, there
will be a doctor to pay some day.
“All the ‘Belle of New York’ trippers went
through their vaccinating pricks before opening
at Her Majesty’s. The fears of the principals
were excessive. The Board of Health people
never had cases as importunate and worrying as
this gay crowd. * When will the thing take ? ’
was the general specific query of he and she
mummers. ‘ Our first appearance in a big show
on Melbourne boards ! 5 they wailed in protest to
the man of the lancet, but they had to submit
and report how the prick was taking later on.
Fred Graham confessed to a little ‘ soreness ’ for
some days, but once going as Ichabod forgot it.
“Churchy and Liedertafel folk have been
lionizing the Westminster dee contingent. So
strong was the former element at Saturday’s sing-
song that a request went up privately fdr the in-
clusion of anthems in the bill. The fiat went
forth that there would be anthems on special
nights of this week’s supplementary series, and a
Hallelujah went up from the congregation.
There’s a decidedly holy and chastened spirit
about these dee performers. Even the comic
man of the show cracks jokes of the Gikl’s Own
Annual quality.
“Mr. Frank Madden’s fame as the champion
amateur rose-grower got noised about consider-
ably when, in default of the florist’s ability to
supply the whole of the Hodges’ marriage order
for the blooms, he stepped in with a cartload.
Mr. Madden’s Kew garden is a-bloom all the year
round, the soil and growth being humored to yield
roses in and out of season. His enthusiasm for
blooms beats his passion for the turf, and leads
him to start thousands of slips for his friends. No
rose-grower appeals to him in vain. Probably it’s
from this garden the Waxellency culls the beau-
teous flowers that daily adorn his button-hole.
“ A new craze has superseded the old-fashioned
progressive euchre party in Melbourne. The
‘ king ’ table plays 5-up euchre, and various com-
petitions go on at the other tables. At one,
players endeavor to lift marbles into a celery bowl
with a pair of knitting-needles; at another, to
put large potatoes into a saucepan with a tea-
spoon ; at a third, to thread needles; at a fourth,
to build card-houses ; at a fifth, to convince the
editor of the Aegus that Socialism is a good thing
—no, I think that last must be a mistake. The
technical name is a 1 Salmagundi ’ evening.
“ Slowbart boasts in Captain Gaskell quite a
gay and Yarmouthy vice-regal Aide. He climbs
several sorts of trees. In private theatricals he
cuts the greatest dash of all. Minuet capers and
dogcart cavortings are not in it with the effective-
ness of the Gaskell stage strut. Last summer,
when many Melbourne girls flocked south, the
decorative Captain showered hostly attentions on
the fair visitors. But once they were aboard the
return tug he ’verted back to the local charmers,
and all his sins of omission were blotted out. So
a Tasmanienne tells me.
“Madame Marie Hooton flashed a grand Nile
green confection with lace filigree and pearls on a
crowded and effusive Glee audience on Saturday
night. There was nothing in the hall as telling as
this excellently modelled toilette. The well set-
up contralto is most accurately groomed and
gowned. In the audience Mrs. Senator Best
scored with a flowing blaek-satin cloak boasting
lace elaborations and a girlish white bow under
the lea of her coiffure. The Winter-Cooke party
was a large and fashionable one, the haughty
monocle of the host breathing the popular refrain
—‘ Of course you can never be like us.’ Why is
every eye-glass, save George Reid’s, aggressive,
and why is that round man’s merely humorous—a
sort of ‘Here we are again, hoop-la’ pane of
glass ?
“Another fur-wrapped sportive crowd gave
Caulfield an air of bustle and life on Saturday.
The Stonington troupe marched in to Gor’ Save.
The briskest moment of the day was 4 o’clock,
when the Skinner sixpenny toll (the most reason-
able thing on any of the world’s racecourses)
began, and members and their flocks passed into
the haven where tea, cakes and toast are con-
sumed ad lib. The staff of waiters pours out with
Sphinx-like gravity the fourth and fifth cups for
gorging graces, and hands along the twelfth tray
of tepid toast without relaxing a feature. And
all for sixpence—the five cups, the twelve toasts,
and the Sphinx-like gravity.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


SKIN SORES.
There’s nothing so loathsome as a skin disease. Nothing is so surely caused by bad blood. Nothing
is so easily cured—if Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are used. a
Winter’s cold and confinement, following on Summer’s heat, upset the blood. Unsightly pimples,
irritating skin diseases, itch, eczema, psoriasis and scrofula result. _
They all come from impure blood—through the blood they must be cured. Lotions, liniments and
ointments irritate or feed them never cure them.
Dr Williams’ Pink Pills cure them—every time. They act immediately on the blood. Ihey expel
the poisonous humors. They make fresh blood, and send this new, warm, healthy fluid racing through the
veins— carrying health and strength to every nook and corner of the body.
Then scrofula, eczema, pimples, sores and itches disappear. There’s no bad blood for them to feed upon.
nieeiriißlNG ECZEMA CURED.— “That horrible disease, Eczema, broke out on my face two years ago.
DISFIGURING wa - pontinnallv itchino- My legs became so swollen and tender that I
It gradually spreadallovermybod. Time t £ ev . cracked and fell off, leaving dry
l°±r n A ' When l left bed I was ashamed to be seen in public. Afterwards I had hospital treatment and tried all
“tSti Jf. rCS, 43 Stanley-stfeet, Sydney, W
I —”—■
Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney.
Price, 2s. 9d. a box; six boxes, 15s. 3d. Substitutes are Poisonous.
M
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Attorney-General Gordon (S.A.) will be
53 on Sunday (July 26), and Governor Chermside
(Q.) will be 53 next Friday.
John Norton, ’tis said, now cultivates the
social graces and recites poetry at festive gather-
ings—poetry of a meek and holy strain.
Mr. Joseph Kronheimer, a Victorian
Hebrew, lias given £5OOO to the Austin hospital
for consumptives ; additions to the hospital to
accommodate 60 extra patients are contemplated.
John Haynes scored when he suggested,
as an amendment to Dan O’Connor’s motion to
refer the Orick-O’Connor rumpus to a Royal Com-
mission, that it “ be referred to the Refreshment
Committee.”
John Wood Beilby, who died the other
day at Beechworth, aged 86, had resided in Vic-
toria for 60 years. As one of the first discoverers
of gold at Bendigo he was granted by the Turner
Government a pension of £1 per week.
George Lansell, the ancient Bendigo deep-
ground battler, is now working eight productive
mines entirely on his own account, in addition to
two or three prospecting shows; and he has a
commanding interest in half-a-dozen more.
According to Adelaide ’Tisek, there are in
Commonwealth politics but two real men,
Kingston and Bonython mostly Bonython.
And it is generally understood in the ’Tisek that
what greatness Kingston has, arises mostly because
Bonython approves of him.
V. B. J. Lesina, Labor M L.A. for
Clermont (Q.), is now editor of Norton’s Brisbane
Truth, while ex-Labor member Cross, defeated
by Lesina in 1898, when Cross and Hoolan
“ratted” on their party, writes the leaders of the
same Truth, which is much stronger than fiction.
There are two Philps—Philp, the Premier
and leader of the Queensland Continuous Ministry
—the most objectionable crowd of Australian
politicians—and Philp, the pleasant fellow that
everybody likes. The second Philp is the greatest
enemy to all progress ; he disarms the opponents
of the other Pliilp.
Mr. Le Hunte, Governor of S.A., had a
fine smack of originality, and one felt a warm
feeling towards him at once. But all this has
been spoilt, and he’s been made ordinary and
commonplace “ Sir George.” Australia’s string
of Sir Georges will soon be as formidable as
Victoria’s list of Clarkes.
Fred. B. Norton, the Melbourne advt.
agent with the flower in his button-hole, lately
had the misfortune to sue the Tramway Co. for
damages on account of a fall from the “ dummy. ”
His own report on the case is characteristic.
“ The fault rested with one dummy or the other,
and the judge thought it was me.”
Labor party in N.S.W. Parliament is
painfully respectable. Of its 24 members, Hall,
Holman, Storey, and Hugh Macdonald neither
drink nor smoke. Miller, Cann, M‘Gowan, Jones,
and, lately, Dacey, have all sworn-off drink, but
enjoy a pipe; Griffith, Nielsen, Donald* Mac-
donnell, and Scobie are not above a cheerful glass,
but abhor tobacco. f ■.
A familiar figuVc in Adelaide is that of
Herr Carl Drews, professor of languages. A big,
bulky, long-haired in-
dividual, even in sum-
mer ensconced in so
many furs, coats, &c.,
that he re.-embles a
living bundle of old
clothes. He has been
teaching languages at
Adel a i d e’s toney -
schools for years, and :
has turned out in- \
numeral le text-books. ;
Yhen writer (then a "
schoolboy) first knew
him, his initial order
<>n entering a class-
room was: “ Shut der
vinder und der door.”
if it had been possible
he would have closed
Ibfj ventilators and
put a fat scholar up
-the chimney to block
that also. He drives
about' town in an
extraordinary-looking vehicle—half four-wheeler,
part hansom cab, and the rest a mixture of every
kind of vehicle that came in and went out of use
during the Victorian era. One horse, driven by a
little girl perched on a sort of box seat, drags
along the professor, who, wrapped in his fur coats,
sits inside away from draughts and the refreshing
breezes of heaven. When the day is very hot he
wears a top hat, but only when it is very hot.
N.S.W. Judge Pring never smiles—on the
bench at any rate. His thin bony face and iron-
grey beard assist to perfect the austerity. “Do
take off a month,” pleaded a prisoner once after a
pronouncement of five years. “Not an hour,”
said the judge, as he slammed his note book on
the bench. It wasn’t so much what he said as the
nasty way he said it.
The opinion amongst leading members of
N.S.W. Bar is that Chief Justice Darley will
return only to “square up” his affairs and take a
final farewell. C. E. Pilcher and R. E. O’Connor
are among those mentioned as Darley’s successor,
though Pilcher would sacrifice a great deal financi-
ally by the change. Both Pilcher and O’Connor
“ read law ” with Darley.
Cabled that Mr. Win, M’Quade, of Potts
Point and Windsor (N.S.W.), has died in London.
The M'Quade fortune started in Windsor when
M‘Quade the First, in the ’2o’s, was a dealer or
general storekeeper, investing his profits in real
estate, which in time became valuable. Real
estate doesn’t do that kind of thing to any great
extent in these degenerate days.
“ J.A.C.” : For suavity of speech the late
Maoriland politician, “Billy” Swanson, would
have been almost qualified for N.S.W. Parlia-
ment. On one occasion, addressing a meeting of
electors in Auckland, he was interrupted by some
one who wished to ask him a question. ‘ ‘ Shut
up, you hound!” said the “Hon. Billy,” “the
people want to hear me if you don’t! ”
A centenarian —apparently a real one—
passed away lately, at Beaconsfield (Vic.), in the
person of Mrs. Catherine Buchanan. The old
lady was born at Portsea, Isle of Skye, 28th Dec.,
1796, and landed here in 1852. She left six
children (the eldest said to be aged 90), 47 grand-
children, 124 great-grand-children, and seven
great-great-grand-children. Her chief occupation
latterly seems to have been reciting the Psalms,
which is a harmless sort of amusement tending to
placid rumination and an agricultural habit of
mind.
District Court Judge Docker, whose name
is on N.S.W. Parliamentary bill for another night
out, was, in his undergraduate years, Sydney
University don in prose and verse. He wasn t
rushed with briefs in his Bar days, so quietly
settled down as Crown Prosecutor. After ten
years of that class of work he climbed into a minor
judgeship, and has sat there ‘ tight ever since.
He practically defies Parliamentary criticisms.
Australia’s old friend, G. De Thierry, has
an article on “English Provincialism” m the
Empire Review for June, and, amongst other
things, asks furiously: “In all the length and
breadth of the King’s dominions oversea is there
a constituency which would return to Parliament
a political buffoon like Sir Wilfred Lawson?”
Apparently Thierry never heard of Yes-No Reid
in all his travels —nor of Bent, Dr. Ross, or poet
Caldwell.
“ Top ” : The rotting and pulling down of
the Bull and Mouth Hotel, Melbourne, synchron-
ises with the decay of Duncan Gillies. It was his
haunt in his dapper young days, what time he
flourished as a subsidised Conservative M.L. A.,
and became a very fair billiard player by dint of
oscillating on all off-nights between the B. and M.
in Bourke-street and the Belvidere Hotel, Bruns-
wick-street, Fitzroy. Now the tired legislator is
content to retire to his lodgings and preserve a
masterly silence.
Charles M‘Arthur King retires from the
post of Chief Magistrate of Norfolk Island at the
end of the month. He was appointed in 1899,
rather late in life, for he was then coming up to
70, but the sentimental reason that his father was
born on the island had much to do with it. The
salary is only .£3OO a year, but Mr. King supple-
ments that with a pension from N.S.W. Govern-
ment. The King who was born on the island
became Admiral, and died a few years ago at
North Shore, Sydney.
Died, within a week of one another,
lately, two of the first prospectors of the Barrier
silver-field —“Bill” Giles and “Pat” May.
May, besides being among the pioneers of the
silver-field, was also among the first at Ballarat;
there he and his mates owned the John Bull, one
of the first shows on the gold-field to be provided
with a winding engine. Before that he had been in
California. Rushing from field to field, he had
never time in 78 years to marry. Like most of
them he left little behind him but a hard life.
A daily paper tells us that the Pope’s
sacristan is
Ex-officio Bishop of Porphyra, attendant on the throne,
prelate of the Pope’s household, advisor to the congre-
gations of rites, of indulgences, and of relics, member of
the Theological College of the Roman University, member
of the pontifical committee on Christian Archaeology, and
administrator of the pious offerings made to the Madonna
del Parto in St. Augustin’s.
Now that seems a nice, ornate, dignified billet
with lots of frill. Couldn’t an Australian prelate,
on his approaching visit to Rome, appropriate it ?
THE PASTORAL-INDUSTRIAL POSITION.
PASTORALIISTS' UNION: “I reckon that cat is
going to score pretty soon now; hut it’s not
too much of my business. The rat has made
some fun for me, anyhow. ”
Gr. H. Reid, asked the other day what
views he held on a particular political question,
asked in return “What are Barton’s views?”
Characteristic ! There is not room for the two
fat men on the point of the needle of popularity,
and it’s only by knocking Barton off that Reid Can
get on. Therefore it is needful to know Barton's
views before having views of his own.
The very doubtful
Chinese leper who has
been ineffectively quar-
antined for a year or so
at Macraes, Southern
M.L., continues to pro-
voke the authorities to
expressions of piety.
Three times as much
food as lie can eat is
left near his humpy regu-
larly, and he promptly
takes most of it to a
rather indigent Chow
camp some miles away,
to which the tucker is a
perfect godsend. As
his compatriots, who
know something about
the disease, declare it
not to be leprosy, and
as the man’s wounds are
healing up, he is hailed
as a sort of yellow angel,
and takes a hand in
their quaint little gam-
bles. A proposal to
fence the leper in with
barbed wire wasn’t acted
upon, but useless sign
board warnings are
erected round him as
a “precautionary
measure,” ora guide to tourists, or something.
N.'S.W. Premier See claims to have found
in John Ruskin’s and John Stuart Mill’s works
his chief political inspirations. N.S.W. Premiers
since Parkes have not been a hard-reading lot.
Lyne didn’t soar higher than Marie Corelli;
Reid was rather proud of never reading ; Dibbs
spent his leisure from the Cabinet ill cabmet-
makiug to the neglect of books.
Judg& Boothby, father of S. Australia’s
sheriff and returning-officer who died a few days
back, was one of the very few modern Judges
who have been removed from the bench. Ihe
old Judge, who had had numerous rows with his
colleagues, finally decided that he wouldn’t try
any prisoner who had not been dealt with by
a grand jury (though grand juries had been
abolished for 12 or 14 years), and so kept the
prisoners waiting in gaol for some weeks. Parlia-
ment, which had threatened to “do something
before, did something then.
Charles Todd, deputy-postmaster of S.A.,
had a 77th birthday the other day, and is still in
harness. Before Federation S.A. didn t trouble
to have a Ministerial Postmaster-General—it just
left the business to Todd. The Minister of
Education, being handiest to the post-office,
usually gave that branch a corner of his eye.
Before he left Greenwich Observatory for S.A. in
1855 Mr. Todd married, and at the wedding
breakfast announced his idea of working till he
could communicate direct with England by tele-
graph. The dream came off 17 years later.
Robert Homburg is the one member of
the S. Australian Opposition who is making
things unpleasant for Jenkins Iscariot. Homi.urg
is a plain German attorney who has a healthy con-
tempt for shams, and just at present he is insisting
that the S.A. surplus is a sham. He long ago
sized up S.A. as a very dry and poor place which
couldn’t afford to wear frills. The yarn goes
that, when he became a Minister in 1890, the
first thing he discovered on going through the
offices was that all the clerks were using expen-
sive magnum bonum pens. Homburg promptly
ordered a less expensive brand. But though he
was a colleague of Kingston and Playford then,
he was a good solid German Tory, and hasn’t got
less so since.
“J.”: Re J. M. Gibson (Bulletin, 2/7/’O3).
It was not Gibson, but Mander Ross, from the
Treasury, who was the man picked upon by
N.S.W. Public Service Board asCritchettWalker’s
successor. Ross used invariably to speak of
Critchett Walker patronisingly as “ Poor Critch,”
and went into the Colonial Secretary’s office to set
things right straight away. Critchett Walker,
from”’the clay Ross set foot in the office, simply
ignored him, and Ross became a nonentity. It
became notorious in the service, and the Public
Service Board, finding the situation impossible,
appointed Ross secretary to the Public Service
Tender Board, in which position he died a couple
of years back. It was a curious instance of the
Board’s ineptitude. ' ■
A. R. Guinness j the new Speaker of M.L.
House of Representatives, is a native of India,
and a barrister. One time lawyers almost monopo-
lised Australasian Speakerships ; now Guinness
has no other lawyer to keep him company. F. W.
Holder, of the Australian Reps., is a journalist;
so are M‘Court, of N.S.W., and Morgan, of
Queensland; Coles, of S.A., is an auctioneer;
Duncan Gillies, of Victoria, has been many
things, but never a lawyer and never of any use ;
Lee-Steere, of Westralia, is a squatter, merchant,
and investor (the most heavily gilded of the
crowd); and N. J. Brown, of Tas., is “engaged
in pastoral pursuits.” In the Landlords’ Houses
things are different, though; but, then, they
don’t have Speakers—they have mere presidents.
REFORM!
They've mopped up their own—now they want his.
THE KID'S SIX FATHERS (altogether): “I say, it's our plain dooty to
kill the kid afore he eats us out of house and home."
A certain provincial Governor has a huge
reputation for “ lamin’,” and his Tory friends
tell with pride that he speaks fluently eleven lan-
guages. Hence the public is painfully impressed
when it finds the gubernatorial genius cannot
make a speech for five minutes on any subject,
but has to read his oration.
Premier Seddon’s huge daily mail has
aroused the cupidity of youthful stamp collectors,
and the old man doles out the stamps by the hun-
dred to youngsters, whose applications are filed
in due order. One collector was graciously in-
formed per letter lately, however, that he couldn’t
be accommodated, as the Premier had orders to
fulfil two years ahead.
“A.”: A word in defence of Melbourne
Bard of Works Fitzgibbon. Right through the
Board you will get the same verdict: “Fitz. is a
white man.” And his job is not too easy. Fancy
keeping a selection of average councillors in har-
mony ' The average Board’s commissioner is a
walking Labor Bureau for his friends, and the
“White Knight” keeps that push up to the
collar, and actually manages to prevent it making
an absolute ass of itself. If any employee has a
grievance, no matter how trifling, he is certain of
attention and redress from our Grand Old Man.
The sale of the A. A. Co.'s Gloucester
(N.S.W.) estate recalls the co.’s early stud-master,
J. C. White (father of R. H. D. White). Mr.
White was a man of fine physique and a splendid
shot. There is an amusing anecdote told of him.
He uttered some very strong language about a
certain Bench of Magistrates. It was at a time
when duels were winked at in New South Wales.
The magisterial utterance went forth that every
magistrate would call Mr. White out until they
killed him. White was quite agreeable. The
first “beak” to come out shook like an aspen,
and could scarcely hold his “ gun.” White fired
in the air. “ Now, Air. , I have spared you
he said, “ but I’ll shoot the next magistrate that
comes out, whoever he is.” The “ next one” did
not come out. . - 1 ” - 3
Dr. Moorhouse, who, at the age of 77,
throws up the episcopal gaiters at Manchester, is
probably best remembered by droughty Australia
for his objections to periodic prayer for rain. But
his tilt with Marcus Clarke is not forgotten.
The Bishop and Marcus between them killed
Patchett Martin’s Melbourne Review, and left
George Robertson lamenting. The Bishop
advocated smoking and moderate drinking, and
said that without the aid of liquor his stomach
was not qualified to digest “great masses of
food.” It is also worth recalling that fie one
week solemnly assured his Melbourne flock that
he would never leave Australia, and the following
week, on receiving, through the good offices of
Gladstone, an invitation to the See of Manchester,
with £5OOO a year and a seat in the House of
Lords, he packed up and left. ■ ■' '■*
Manager Wilson, of Sydney Electric Tele-
graph Department, retires on a pension, after 45
years’ service. He joined the Department in 1858,
three months : after its establishment, and took
charge of Parramatta, then the terminus of the
Western line. The only other stations opened
then were Sydney, South Head, Liverpool,
Campbelltown and Goulburn. The other officers
were Cracknell (Supt.), P. B. Walker, Gibson,
Hipsley, Wills and Chidgey, Only Hipshy,
Wills and Wilson are alive to-day. Thirty years
ago four or five eminent doctors gave Wilson about
a year to live, and he was afterwards put on a diet
of sandwiches made of raw minced beef.. The
doctors are dead, but Wilson still lives. The
Telegraph says he “did much in building the
Department up to its present magnitude.” As
a matter of fact he did nothing ; he had no power
outside the operating room.


To Play your Piano
E
The Pianola will aid you*
Would you believe there are nearly one
hundred thousand pianos lying idle in
Australia ?
Did it ever occur to you how very little
your piano is being used ?
Do you know the Pianola will enable
you to play your piano at once, although
you may never have played one note in
your life ?
If you will write us we will mail you
free a catalogue explaining how. Ask for
Catalogue “B.”
The price of the Pianola is £6O prompt
cash, or £65 on moderate monthly pay-
ments.
HENRY M. BIRGE & GO.,
Sole Agents for Australasia,
SYDNEY: 323 George St.,
MELBOURNE: 185-187 Collins St.
MR. J. SPENCER NOLAN, R.D.S.,
DENTAL SURGEON, 43 Oxford-st., Sydney
(between Mark Foy’s and Riley-st.). HIGH-CLASS
sSsf T B^nHfn7^ P^ e f B, »«?,” ante / d ab l olu . te] y Painless extractions by latest American system-a great
comfort and nahn-.li^nJ >erfeCtfit r" f! a . fcinos P heno suction sets of American teeth, giving the wearer ease,
recent oori >! ,ne s ll ™ plates, without springs or wires. Elastic Gum Coraline is the
that it defies detection 6 P ]?w tt ‘ e . th - All wrinkles and Hollow cheeks disappear. It is so natural
Coraline is nerfectlv rnstpi °.' col *} forl: > strength and lightness it surpasses everything previously introduced,
system Un to date toldl™ wholesome and pure. Badly fitting plates remodelled on this new
ShigleTteeh f minSs t!, ;. ° a T' d ® e ® s P e pnnens of latest methods. Upper and lower sets from £1 Is.
° le teeth fioui ss. Teeth filled, scaled and bleached. Country visitors fitted in one day if required.
DAVID STOHEH & SONS’ ,n ™™> bed ant . blue
Registered
Trade
Mark.
M
Is the Only Absolutely
SAFE
Woo]-
Marking or
The Perfect Sheep-Marker, SHEEP BRANDING OIL.
Kept by ALL MERCHANTS and STOREKEEPERS.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors.— In the ease of ethnological and
natural history items, etc., always give date and
place of experience ;or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific
value.
“ H.P.” grubs a tree :
Some 30 or 40 years ago our borough council planted
blue gum trees in our streets. They have already begun
to die off. (Is dying young going to be an Australian
national defect ?) I applied to the council for permission
to grub one that had died near my house. Permission to
remove the corpse was granted. Collected an array of
tools and scattered them around the tree in a business-
like manner, and started work. Had not cleared away
the first root before passers-by began to stop and offer
suggestions. One said I should start at the under side of
the tree. Then a dispute arose as to which was the
under side. Another said I should get a rope and fix it
on to the limbs and pull the tree over. As I had begun
to make some impression on the roots by this time, I
declined this offer, with thanks. I let a fellow-school-boy
chop a tree down while I was up in its branches once, and
had not forgotten the sensation 1 Next, I was advised to
get a screw-jack under the roots and lift the tree over ;
then to cut it down and grub the stump afterwards.
Then my axes wanted sharpening; the picks wanted
pointing with steel; the shovel was not the right shape.
I was taking too much trouble and going too deep. I
ought to know better than leave so much tree in the
ground—in the street, too I What did 1 want with the
tree, anyhow ? Why didn’t I get it down before while it
was greener and softer to chop ? Why on earth didn’t I
leave it till it got half-rotten at the roots, and make the
work easier? I believe the whole of the inhabitants
passed that day, and about 99J per cent, of them
assisted me—with suggestions. None did more than
suggest things, or ask questions. About sundown a
council official came around, and wanted to know if I
was going to leave a half-grubbed tree standing in the
street all night? He suggested that I had better get a
laborer who lived handy and get the tree down before
somebody got hurt. That suggestion seemed a good
one. I did so. The man had the tree down in about 20
minutes. He cut it up and carted it away by dark.
* • • a
“Con.”: Driving from Wingham along
the road to Stroud and Dungog (N.S.W.) with an
old party, he gave a wide sweep with his arm and
said: “In them ranges there’s a tunnel about
half-a-mile long, through a mountain.” He further
said ’twas excavated single-handed by a miner
looking for gold and occupied 30 years of his life
off and on—“off” being when the miner went
away to work for wages so as to get money with
which to carry on his prospecting. Any reader
heard of a one-man tunnel half-a-mile long ?
* * • •
“ Uloola ” on some country parents :
Re the ignorance of some mothers as to the care of
children. Here is the story of one young wife and her
children’s luck. First one got along all right for a few
months, then it fell ill. The mother did nothing for it
for a few days ; then she asked a neighbor if she thought
it was sick 1 Neighbor advised taking it to a doctor
immediately. The mother did so, and it died a few
minutes after arriving there; she brought the corpse
back in her arms. Number two miraculously survived
till it was about two years of age. Then it caught a
severe cold. After a week ol so the mother again con-
sulted a neighbor—she wanted to know why the child
made such a noise in breathing 1 “ Good Good! ” said
the woman questioned, “don’t you know the child’s
dying of bronchitis?” “Is it?” said the mother, help-
lessly. “Go home and warm the room, and put hot
poultices on the child ; and then send for a doctor.” “ I
don’t know how you make a poultice,” was the reply,
“ will you come over and show me ? ” The neighbor did
so, and on leaving advised that the hot poultices should
be kept going all night. On going over next morning she
found the mother had left one poultice on all night. It
had, of course, become stone cold. When the doctor
came, and the neighbor told him her tale, he lost his
temper and swore. “ Pneumonia is setting in, and it’s
improbable that the child can live,” said he. The child
died that night, the father and mother sitting stupidly
watching it, never attempting to touch it. “Well, the
poor little thing’s dead,” said the neighbor. They stared
awhile longer. “ Gome on Em.,” said the father at last,
“ I s’pose we’d better go to bed."
* • * *
“Ed Be “ L.L.’s ” par (8., 20/6/’O3) on
tree limbs growing together. Near Goroke (Vic.)
I saw a red-gum with
a limb growing from
the trunk and back
again into the trunk
two foet higher up.
When branches grow-
ing on the upper parts
of trees break and fall
into a fork and balance
there, in the course of
time the bark and later
the sap-wood grow
round the limb, leaving
■the dead ends pro-
jecting from opposite
sides of the trunk,
giving the appearance
of the limb having
been pushed through
the trunk. In the
Avoca (Vic.) district I
saw the limb of a
yellow box with a
bucket handle through
it. The bucket had
been apparently hung
on it in the gold-
digging days and the
handle had become im-
bedded in the wood and bark. But, by way of
something really unaccountable —a veterinary sur-
geon in Bendigo has on view the skull of a horse,
with a rope through the bone between the eyes
and nostrils. The bone had grown round the rope.
The skull was found in the hills in the North-East
of Victoria. Now what in thunder happened to
that horse ? He couldn’t have inhaled the rope.
BEATEN BY A HEAD.
HORSEY MAN (after overhauling young colt at yearling sales): “Well, Ted, whatcher think of him? ”
TED: “I was just thinking how like Tommy Bent ’e is. ”
HORSEY MAN : “ Tommy Bent be hanged. Howcher make that out? ”
THE WAG: “ Well—only for his head he’d be a gentleman.”
‘ ‘ Onlooker ” writes :
With regard to the praise lavished on Dr. Roth in some
quarters, so far as this district (Geraldton, Q.) is concerned,
it is little deserved. Poor Binghi gets small protection
here. He is at the mercy of the opium-selling Ohow and
the “docile” Kanaka. Chows not only employ blacks,
but have them camping in their banana gardens all over
this district. By law a Ohow is forbidden to employ an
aboriginal at all; yet on the Johnstone River and close to
its mouth a party of Chinese fishermen have a number of
blacks, male and female, camped on their premises, in
full view of every passing steamer. On the Tully River,
farther to the south, the Chow banana-growers use the
blacks as they please, and last year the largest employers
of blacks in the Cardwell district were a couple of
Chinese living not five miles from the town. And how is
it that blacks are induced to come from their own dis-
tricts to work on some of the Johnstone River planta-
tions (the local aboriginal being pretty well all poisoned
off by the Chinese)? On the two plantations on the south
branch of the Johnstone a large number of blacks cut
cane last year, and the mustering is beginning again for
this 3'ear’s operations. Both of those plantations are
worked almost entirely by black and brindle labor. If
hotels, as Dr. Roth has decided, are not fit places for
aboriginals to work at, surely a plantation, infested with
all sorts of colored aliens, with no women of their own, is
no place to bring poor Binghi and his family.
* » * *
The Wesfcralian Government offers a re-
ward of J 2300 to any person who first discovers,
within two years, a practicable cart road from
Derby through the Leopold Ranges to the Harm
River, near Mount Caroline. The grade of the
route is not to exceed 1 in IG, and the track must
be distinctly blazed. The sum is not much in-
ducement to a.man to risk his life in that desolate
country ; but it sounds a lot these bad times, and
doubtless venturesome fossickers will strike out
in the desired direction and find something—
probably a grave.
• • * *
Our black brother Bill can’t stand many
years’ civilising—especially the civilising you buy
in a glass for sixpence Out-back. Already there
is not much left of the “wild tribe” that was
roped in on Cuthero Station, far-west N.S.W., 10
or 12 years ago ; another of them died in Went-
worth Hospital early in July. This tribe furnishes
a curious story.. Forty years or so ago a young
buck named Ninnia, having had some trouble
with one of his tribesmen over a lady, put a spear
through the gentleman ; then, remembering that
there were other spears in that camp, he left sud-
denly, taking with him the lady and a spare
one. They got right back into the mallee-
and-porcupine scrub of Cuthero Station—a huge
tract of country which, though good in places,
is so desperately bad in others that it is
not used. As the surrounding country was more
closely occupied the game was driven in here;
and on kangaroo and goanna Ninnia and the two
ladies built up a new tribe. A few times traces
were found; but not until 10 or 12 years ago was
there any certain knowledge of them. Then it
was decided to muster them. Ninnia, of course,
was dead, as well as the other heads of the family •
but there were 30 more. They were the wildest
of wild people—didn’t even know enough to ask
for sixpence. They had hardly any language,
and apparently had no names for themselves. The
only person who had had a name was Ninnia, and
he was dead. In spite of their intimate family
relations they weren’t a bad-looking lot; and
most of the young men were soon broken in to the
ordinary casual black’s-work of the stations.
* * * *
Amusing, to note the pars, in the Mel-
bourne dailies from North Victorian corres-
pondents, asserting that “the harvest is assured.”
At the end of every sowing season (and sometimes
earlier) the joyful news is wired down that a big
yield is certain and the farmers are jubilant. But
a Mallee or Wimmera harvest is never assured
until it is in the bags. For even if it survives all
other grain troubles, the blistering North wind is
apt to knock the optimistic calculations endways
at any time.
* * * *
The labor question in Queensland. A
shearer recently applied (by letter) to a station
near Longreach for a stand. Wrote in April for
a stand in July. Received answer that he was
seven months too late in making an application.
You must be a very early bird in West Queensland
to get a job at all nowadays.
* • * *
“K.”: Was told by a surveyor that in early
days, when purchasing potatoes from Maoris, no
scales being available, he invariably went through
the form of “weighing” them upon the plumb-
line hanging beneath the tripod of the theodolite.
This promoted honesty. The instrument was
also brought into use to decide the time of day
when disputes arose with or amongst native
followers, as to “knocking off” or “tucker”time.
This promoted industry. He once, when con-
sulted by a native with a sore leg, painted it with
iodine. In the morning the pah was in a state of
excitement —the patient’s leg had turned black !
There was only one explanation. The pakeha
was trying to do away with the sufferer, in order
to become possessed of his widow— a toothless
old bag of bones with no assets. I forget what
this promoted.
VACUITY.
1ST. HOWLING DUDE: “Do you know anything?”
2ND. DITTIO: “No; do you?"
1ST. DITTO : “ No.”
“ W.J.” : Cattle are very fond of sheoak,
even when grass is plentiful. Am told by an old
“ puncher ” (who used to fell a small tree to “save
gom for ’em ”) that his bulls, grazing, perhaps,
half-a-mile off, would immediately make for camp
on hearing the ring of the axe. The foliage in
season has an acidulous flavor, and is fattening.
AN OLD TIME “TEA-AND-PUBLIO."
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
In the days before Dill Moran and Pat Macky broke the
peace,
When they held religious meetings without calling in
police,
In our homely old bush township there was no sectarian
rage,
(You may doubt it! but ’twas recent—and not in the
Golden Age !)
We could only boast one chapel, neat and pretty, though
’twas small;
And though of the cult of Wesley, it was patronised by
all.
For the decent folks about there—Roman, Baptist,
Anglican—
Sent their youngsters in th? morning—came to service to
a man !
But the annual “ tea-and-public,” always held on New
Year’s Day,
Was the crowning of their concord, when they banished
Care away !
They were days preparing for it. All the dainties were
home-made,
And the hams and cakes and pastry which were on the
table laid,
Willing: women-folk had cooked ’em, and ’twas partly for
the sake
Of the pleasant hours of gossip cutting up the ham and
cake 1
Neither were the men-folk idle, they did their allotted
share,
Cutting bushes for the booth-frame, which had stood a
whole 3' ear bare 1
‘Tea at 3 o’clock precisely’—that was how the notice
read ;
And from miles around they mustered—tariff, eighteen-
pence per head!
Though the sun might burn his fiercest, in the booth the
shade was deep,
And a flow of chaff and banter young and old alike did
keep 1
And when tea at length was over (twice, at least, the
booth would fill!)
When the sun was sinking westward towards the big,
bush-covered hill,
Then commenced the games and gambols, and the
staidest Christian there,
Came and joined the fun and frolic ’mong the dames and
damsels fair 1
Simple country games were fav’rites—with what vim we
used to play
“Twos and Threes" and “ Jolly Miller” in the waning
light of day 1
And, of course, the “ spoony " couples—they improved
the time, no doubt,
For they wandered off in secret, and returned when stars
came out!
But there came an innovation when the Reverend Bildnd
Hicks,
Pastor from a city chapel, put the tea-hour on to six !
And that hour made all the difference, though it might
be civilised—
Most of us no longer troubled, for the new style was
despised 1
Tea is spread now in the chapel—musty chapel, painted
brown ;
And the frame we built the booth on, it has long since
mouldered down !
In these days I’ve no religion- I’m not even Wesleyan ;
But I’m glad that what I did have in that old bush town
began 1
THE OCEAN—FROM AN OUTBACK
POINT OF VIEW.
“Here come those people from outback.”
“ Yes, I heard ’em say at breakfast they were
going for a swim in the big dam.”
And I often have a vision, when there comes a sweltering
day,
Of a booth of cool, green branches, and a ring of facet
gay!
Pent up in the arid city, that one soene I can’t forget—
And the scent of with’ring gum-leaves lingers in my nos-
trils yet I
N.B.W.
ULOOLA.


A Drink I
A Tonic! A Medicine!
Wolfe's Schnapps.
Call for WOLFE’S Schnapps and make sure that
you take nothing else.
Anyone that has sore throat
Must know he’s caught a cold,
Our good advice he then should note
And do what he is told:
Which is—if he has got the sense—
To hasten to procure
The thing that sells for eighteenpence,
Some Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
25
Per Cent.
Or one quarter of what you
pay for imported jewellery
goes into the Federal Cus-
toms. The Thimble we now
sell at Is., we sold before
the duties at 9d.
RESULT.
M
All Fine Gold, 408.
With Ruby Sapphire and
Diamond, £6 6s.
10c., 12s 6d.
15c., 245.
9c., 10s 6d.
15c., 225.
We Stock an Endless Variety of Designs of Links.
We now have to manufacture more and more, and our arrangements are such that we are
turning out jewellery of the most exquisite finish at London Prices.
London Prices
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash !
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter St.
“Arrelleff” : My new domes-
tic arrived by rail, full of glad
exoitement. The train she came
by had run over a Chinaman.
“’E was lying on the rails, and
the train cut him fair in two,”
said Gladys, beamingly ; “ but they
put him together somethink beauti-
ful out on hte platform. My!
there wuz a rush to see ’im when
the train stopped, but they only let
them that was in the car to see
him. I ’ad a real good look, and
lor! you’d hardly a’known he’d
been cut in ’alves, they put the
pieces together that well. But ’e
looked’orrible in the face, though.”
“Surely, you didn’t try to look at
him, Gladys ? ” I remonstrated,
with a shudder. A look of surprise
crept over her countenance. ‘ 1 Why,
mum,” she answered, nasally, “I
never seen a dead Chinaman
before.”
• • •
The unlucky number again.
Every 13th family in N.S.W. takes
in a lodger. Also every 13th baby
is illegitimate.
* * *
“ M.Y.E.” : Ten years ago
Australia was to supply the world’s
markets with fat mutton and beef,
and loud was the outcry against
any man who hinted that Aus-
tralian merino was inferior even
to Southdown. Not much of that
now. But still N.S.W. has timber
good as the best, and an Agent-
General determined to pave London
with it. Does no man think it
worth while to ask how much ?
Shall we have N.S.W- to fail in the
supply of some big order, before it
is understood that red-gum and
iron-bark are, even as cedar, scarce
with her as fat mutton and .beef ? What forests
she had are wasted now; and is the control any
better, or the look-out of reforestation any
brighter, than in the days when Parkes made
poor Kendall lord of all the realm, and sent him
out on the trip whose results were pneumonia and
death ?
* * * *
A curious case was heard at a small town-
ship near Winton (Q.) recently. There are only
two pubs in the place; and a shearer went to one
of them, had a few drinks, and left for the other.
But Mrs. Bung the First didn’t approve of the
transfer of custom, and followed her levanting
customer to Pub No. 2, hauled him out, fell on
him, rifled his pockets of £3, and then let him go.
The good woman got off with .£5 fine and costs.
• • » *
“Kelmscott”: Be shearing a sheep on
top of a six-wire fence. That’s the tallest lie
I’ve unearthed for years. It’s impossible. I’m a
shearer of much experience, and know a bit about
the game, and will wager against it every time.
Somebody has been trying to dislocate your leg.
Any practical shearer will bear out my assertion.
Ask “Scotty the Wrinkler” and see what he
says. [“Kelmscott” is painfully serious about
the matter, anyhow. He seems to be the sort of
man who would write to Jonah and express doubts
about the whale.—Ed. B.]
A “ SMOKE-NIGHT” SKETCH.
Johnny Sandes (late of Melbourne), the latest
addition to the Sydney press.
Aboriginal item from among the wild black
tribes of Melbourne :
The bullroarer or churinga of the Central and Wes-
tralian blackfellows is regarded as sacred and must
not be seen by women or uninitiated men. In Centralia
if a gin does happen to see a bullroarer she is punished
with death or, at least, blinding. If any aboriginaliar can
give any information concerning bullroarers of any of the
other States will he please do so or for ever hold his peace.
Writer, as a student of Australian ethnology, wishes to
obtain some bullroarers, and especially N.S.W. and
Queensland specimens. Can anyone oblige ? Address :
P. C. Cole, c/o. 472 Chancery Lane, Melbourne.
ILLEGAL DETENTION.
MR. DRINKWATER STAYLATE : “ You’re jes ’ in
time, constable. I wish you’d shpeak to thish
f'la—he won’t let me go home.”
“ Djin Djin ” : It freezes to some purpose
in certain parts of Maoriland. T’other day two
well-grown bunnies were found frozen to the iron
rails of the Seaward Bush (Southland) tramway.
Both were alive, but partly paralysed with the
intense cold. Surmised that bunnies jumped
through the wet grass alongside the bush tram-
way and, resting on the rail, were caught and
held fast by Jack Frost.
In those thrice-blessed parts of the coun-
try where a dog-fight is an event and the annual
race-meeting a wild, long-looked-forward-to dissi-
pation, the “bee” idea threatens to catch on. It is
an American idea, which deserves to be encouraged.
Recently, whilst Archdeacon Dunstan was on
a visit to Sydney, his Forbes (N.S.W.) parishion-
ers got together in a “ bee,” and provided a
surprise against his return by ploughing, sowing,
and harrowing his land. The patch was of over
14 acres, and, with about 12 ploughs and 30 horses
operating, the job was finished in a day. Also, at
Walcha (N.S.W.), recently, the residents, during
the township’s weekly half-holiday, cleaned up
the local cemetery. The “bee” idea is the anti-
thesis of the old weary device of calling meetings,
passing resolutions, hunting up the local member,
and sending deputations to Sydney to wear out
Owe’Sullivan’s temper and doormat by asking the
Government to send its officers a distance of 150
miles to do a job worth 50s.
* * * *
“ C.A.R.0.” sends a streak of poetry :
Was up West for a few days, and found a new world,
seemingly—a world of green, good to look upon, though
it was of forced, unstable growth, with no vitality. The
poor bush tries to hide its nakedness in this short-lived
life, but the skeleton—bare, gaunt, blackened with fire,
tortured by thirst—cannot be so quickly hidden. It is
hideously apparent, and pitiful to see l Down in the
gullies, on the plains, which, a few months ago, danced
with white, molten heat, now tinted soft with the crude
tints of verdure, lie the white gleaming bones, sorrowful
amongst the newly-sprung grass. The depleted flocks
drift and browse round them —menacing landmarks of
the summer to come. The city so quickly forgets. For
a time, when our own streets throbbed in the glare of the
sun, and the breezes whimpered and died by the harbor s
edge, tales of the pitiless, blazing plains, and dusty bush
choking for rain, came home vividly. But now—it is for-
gotten ! The average person thinks vaguely the drought
has broken, because a few skimpy showers have fallen-
showers that have forced the meagre, weakened grass, that
will shrivel before the Spring. Along the Lachlan the banks
are green, truly, but the creeks are mostly dry, and tha
rivers chains of holes. What about the long months to
come? The tragedy of the bush is a long one, and it is
not yet played out. The wattles are budding in the
scrub, but there is no hope of flowers, and the hardy
bush creepers are rattling dead against the trees. Passing
through the swamps, the teamster will show you where
the teams bogged years ago ; there are yet yawning holes
where the great wheels sank. Now the men and weary
animals cough in the dust that has waited so many
seasons for the rains to allay it. There are flood marks
even yet on some of the gums along the creeks, high
among the branches. Now their leaves fall sorrowfully
into the dust below. It will be a bare, bleak world for
this year’s lambs. The poor, weakly mothers will be
little protection against the cold of early Spring and the
devilment of the crows, who, preening themselves high
in the oaks, or flapping lazily over the paddocks, are
bitter forecasts for the heat-time to come.
• • * *
“ Cam.” on the send-off disease :
Par. in Bulletin some time back concerning the send-
off trouble in country towns reminds me of how that sort
of thing was blocked for a time up Albury way years
ago. Albury had the complaint badly. Every Govern-
ment official, bank clerk, and bird of passage had to be
“ farewelled.” Illuminated addresses and other appen-
dages became as cheap as the “Reform movements” of
to-day. At last some who had to pay, but who, having
solid interests right there, were not likely to be “fare-
welled ” themselves, got dead tired and resolved to end
it. They did. Thera was a specially wearisome loafer
knocking about, such as is to be found in almost every
Australian town ;he was known as Billy. Few knew his
proper title of William Henry Morgan (which it wasn’t,
but that is near enough), and when the friends
of Mr. William Henry Morgan were requested
to attend, &c„ &c., tickets 7s. 6d., only the
conspirators knew they were honoring Billy. The
rest of the people turned up mechanically because they
had become so much in the, habit of turning up that it
was second nature to them. A few fled in disgust when
they found out the manner of the proceedings, but the
majority stayed and put a good face on their discom-
fiture. Billy was drunk when the banquet com-
menced, and fell under the table early. A number of
speeches were made about the loss which Albury would
sustain by the departure of Mr. William Henry Morgan,
“ now on the floor and overcome with emotion, ’ and
a bouquet and a second-class ticket to Sydney were
bestowed upon Billy. For years after Billy s great
farewell, no one was game to run any more send-offs in
Albury, but alas 1 degeneracy has set in, and we are
looking for another Billy.
THE DANDY DROVER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“ I saw a dandy drover in t’other day. He wore
a panama, and sat in a sulky smoking a cigar. I noticed
that he was wearing two or three fine rings.”— Extract
from a droving friend's letter:
My heart is sore, and saddened with the news this letter
brings:
My mate has seen a drover-man, who sported diamond
rings,
Reclining in his sulky with a costly panama
Upon his head, and ’twixt his lips a “ weally gwand
cigah.”
The bush bards have often told us that good times are on
the wane,
And sadly do we wonder if they’ll ever come again ;
And, the strong tea I’ve been drinking causing visions to
arise ;
The future dandy drover rises up before my eyes.
He’ll bear the name of Reginald (or some such name as
that),
And everyone who speaks to him will have to raise his
hat.
A boy shall lead his cuddy at an amble or a jog,
And on summer days shall fan him while the dandy
“works” his dog.
He’ll never join the old hands in a flaring, crimson
“ bust ”
While names like Bill and Jim and Bob shall fill him
with disgust.
And he’ll stare the man to silence who shall venture the
remark
That the sheep are “blanky restless" or the nights are
“blanky dark.”
And poor old Saltbush William, when he views the flash
turn out,
Shall go and weep for bye-gone days and miss his turn to
shout.
He’ll hang old “ Tweed ” and “ Lassie ” in the thickest of
the scrub,
And spend the sad days left to him snake-hunting
round the pub.
N.S.W.
RIVERINA.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
Ho notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken in any case re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted, whether sent by post or handed in ; and in
no case will MS. be returned unless stamps (of any
State) accompany.
Tadgle: We had already dealt with Anthony
and his vain imaginings when your letter arrived ; will
keep on his track Tydvil: A man’s notion of what a
love-sick maiden feels ; and we can get the information
from the girl herself. There are 123 female poets on The
Bulletin contributors’ list J.M. : You’re drifting
into the ranks of the Ancient and Unpleasing Order of ■
Albummers—people who send yards of album verse
weekly J.R.D. : The daily newspapers have stopped
howling and started paying ; we’re inclined to let them
be for a while... .Bullswool slf it had been objectionable
and not objectless it would have been modified for publi
cation. It was the fact that there was nothing in it
which ensured rejection Sniff: Rather small beer; and
some of the yarns have been told before Ne’er-do-weel:
Long drawn out and obviously made-up Big Scrub :
Hadn’t the twins better issue their own challenge. This
one might prove to be somebody’s darned bad joke
Marsupial: (1) English rifles have three figures : 320, 380,
450 American rifles have only two figures : 32, 44. Th«
American 44 is the same as the English 450. A ‘22
American is the same as a Colt '466. Certainly a revolver
won’t throw a bullet the same distance as a rifle—both
using the same cartridge... .B. Pfaff : There is no direct
route from Maoriland to Borneo. You will have
to take steamer to Thursday Island (Q.); and go
thence by the Dutch line. Burns, Philp and Co. are
the agents for all steamers going Borneowards....
H.M.L. (Maoriland): We can’t “ forward the value ” of
your verses. They are worth assault and battery. ..
Heoi (Wellington): (1) Your statement that State inter-
ference in fire insurance business is incons.stent with
The Bulletin’s principles is a lie. (2) The statement that
Government fire insurance can’t pay because it will be
purely Maoriland business and Maoriland business doesn’t
pay is another lie 0.H.8. (Wainiate) :No use for
verses that have already appeared in other papers
G.A.P. : Our opinion of the work in question is too low
to be worth mentioning P.X. :Re the suggestion,
arising out of the scarcity of infants, that we should have
a Minister of Matrimony, haven’t we a Department of
Labor already? Letter for Lieutenant Colonel Murray
at Bulletin office... .6 x 8 : Two wings of a flying fish
received with thanks....A.W. : Surely you don’t expect
us to believe that the Coburg-Somerton line costs £5OOO
a month interest (£60,000 a year). The whole line only
cost £72,630.... H. (Norseman) : He’s not worth it....
E.V.C. (Melbourne): Have great doubts if the pars
are worth the 4d. they cost in deficient postage....
Q. Rix : Streak of tender melancholy declined Uani:
Sorry to say not good enough Bynnya: Where did
that remarkable team start that amazing journey from ?
Name not legible.... Sat-on : Will print. ..E. H. Harris
and Paul Mell: Please send addresses to Accountant,
Bulletin F.H.B. :No snap in Joe’s yarn General:
“Parson’s Discomfiture” rather bad taste John O. :
When “Greek joins Greek” good idea indifferently
worked out M.S. : “ Woman’s Letter from Hell” thin
Frenchy thing ; also there was no smell of brimstone,
and the post-mark gave the show away C.W.: “The
Unfortunate Thing” weak melodrama Arthur A.D. :
“ Checkmate ” squalid magniloquence : also calculated to
encourage the unattached female and baby to afflict men
even more than at present.... Missing: “ Three of Us” is
insipid improbability L.F. : “That Perfect Day ” just
a bit too sugary. Try again.. ..John Gilpin: “One
Good Turn ” very bold and sudden H.S. (Melbourne):
Paragraphs mostly dirty and objectionable....Fence:
Flat as the underside of a Salvationist’s feet Allen-
green : Last consignment of verse hardly up to mark
Haman: Quite ordinary....O.A.R.O.: Some good items
....J.B.: “Larrikin” too ponderous Thurla : Most
certainly the man you speak of wasn’t De Rougemont
G.N. (Sydney): Pars quite flat Jones: But that
correspondent’s letter came from one of the prettiest
little towns that lie among the Victorian Alps, and
your picture of him as a wild-haired person from the
western desert is quite out. They wear snow-shows in
winter where he writes from B : Can’t print “Legis-
lator’s Lament.” Don’t believe Kyabram will amount to
twopenn’orth of coppers as regards elections for Austra-
lian Parliament... .D.M.M.: No hope for “Iconoclast”
J. B. Nrohlcie: Accepted.. ..Casual : You are in a con-
siderable hurry... .Stokes : Sentiment all right; verse
awful Leigh W.: You have to guard against thinking
that obvious untruths are humor. For example : “The
worst of it is that the average M.L.A. or city alderman is
such a blown-up heap of adipose tissue that he can’t do
any real harm to the other fellow when he does hit him.”
Now, N.S.W. Parliament—including the Upper House —
averages only about 10 stone; and Sydney Municipal
Council hasn’t got one really fat alderman, in the physical
sense Emmaville : Theory that we should keep on
borrowing till Gabriel’s trump sounds has a drawback—
the trump probably won’t sound soon enough. We have
already paid about as much in interest as the loans
amounted to, and Gabriel hasn’t blown worth a cent.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
W. R. Mac.: Joke not new J. Parsons : Not good
•nOUgh, yet not violently bad Edgelena : Sorry not
goou enough. The 2d. we had to pay for insufficient
postage had nothing to do with this decision ; it was
simply not good enough.. ..W.R.M.: You “ are unable
to draw a real handsome female.” Alas, yes, and so are
many even of the artists whose work we accept Under-
grad. : Chestnuts J.H.O. : Picture only moderate;
joke old ; letter cost 2d. for insufficient postage... .S.G.:
Drawings show some idea of form ; don’t *• stipple ” with
so fine a line.....W.H.G. : Unsuitable....S.L. (Pera).
Drawings show some promise ; you should try your hand
with Indian ink and good white paper.. ..H.W.T.: Both
frightfully wooden....H.W. : Your cow is all horns and
hoofs, and there are 75 other faults about your picture,
beside all of which it is no good.. ..A.E.R. : We’re tired
of jokes on twins and triplets.
This is the awkward position of Maoriland
Premier Seddon: He has enthusiastically taken
up Chamberlain’s idea of preferential duties in
favor of Britain. His Protectionist followers
won’t let him reduce the duties on British goods,
so the only thing to do is to increase the duties
on foreign imports. These come chiefly from the
United States, and already politicians are saying
that if U.S. goods are to be shut out with extra
vigor it isn’t worth while renewing the San
Francisco mail subsidy. If that subsidy isn t
renewed the steamers stop, and if Auckland loses
its blessed American mail line it probably gives
up supporting Seddon. To deprive Auckland of
its ’Frisco steamer is a worse insult than driving
hogs into a mosque.
A LIKELY POSSESSION.
DAME : “ Now, I’ve given you a meal, can’t you
do something for me? ”
ARTFUL: “ Yis, certainly; bring out yer motor
car, mum, an’ I’ll overhaul it for yer.”
N.S.W. politician Sleath complained bit-
terly in his Assembly, the other day, that he,
when disorderly, had been not only ejected from
the Chamber, bub “ thrown into the street, by
order of the Chairman of Committees. Removal
merely from the Chamber should suffice. Public
opinion will be, however, inclined to hold that, it
a disorderly member was, in addition to being
thrown into the street, rolled in the gutter and
iumped on by the Sergeant-at-arms, no great
wrong would be done. Parliament is a place of
debate—not a football ground or a cyclists
meeting.
The vagaries of S. J. Law, State member
for Balmain, the man who will never be reconciled
to John See till he gets £75 of public money for
Balmain Choral Society, suggest that the
Labor party should put another plank in its plat-
form rendering it impossible for the party to ever
again include a draper in its ranks. No good
ever yefc came out of a draper’s shop, and of such
are customs swindlers, robbers of the people when
a tariff or a railway strike gives the slightest
shadow of an excuse to raise prices, barrackers
for subsidies for choral societies, and other politi-
cal bummers and turn-coats.


For some time past Mr. Shielß's health i
has been the subject of* considerable
anxiety to his friends.. He has agreed m ,
relinquishing the Treasury, to accept a
position which will not involve work ot”
each an arduous or difficult character.
Mr. Shiels, however, has offered to con-
tinue to administer the Old Age Pensions
Act. which involves a considerable amount
of time and attention to minor details,
with which Mr. Shiels is now thoroughly
familiar- «
The Sick Minister.— " I'm only a poor
invalid, but I've strength enough.to
deal with the aged and infirm. 111
take your shirt now, and, if heaven
i spares me, Til have your skin before
_ long."
jtg|
«Premier Irvine continues to receive
congratulations from the English press on
the success of his policy of retrenchment
and reform.”
-—’ ” T\X^C^'
j- s ‘ ,„tv tld f tto° iroieto
• ( a Good authority.
The Lunatic. —“Well, you'll take a few
points from me, I've been here for
fifteen years." _ _
f John Coffinelate.—“ Gays f I should aay%
so. Had a great lift in business lately.
Big hotel opposite is very popular
•>, with country visitors. Those who V
don’t succumb to the depression are
killed by the elevator.”
•V?V® \\
, Vy^v N
x <«*>
M
The authontHT hed |
? the engincm^ 1 * - u«g not kept its
Irvine.—“ A truly strong man, as I am,
can afford to be an autocrat. See me
sway this mass ’’
Vic.— “ Yes, but if the mass takes a turn,
where will Irvine be ? ’’
Bpook.—“ If there’s many more iv thim
falso alarms divil a soul iv us will
they get up for the rizeroction, I’m
thinkin "
-r-M itLaassr'
VICTORIANA.


A plagu&etricken rat has bfcen foind
at Potts Point. —News item.
«Would you kindly tell Mrs. Fitz- t
Clarence that I have called around
from Woolloomooloo ? ”
Most enthusiastic Orange
meeting in Melb. Town
Hall, Senator Fraser in the
chair. Rev. Dill Macky sent
a flaming message from
Sydney.
Fraser : “'Ye’ll tak care.
to see all the Roman
Catholics tucked up in Hell
the noo t ”
i The Devil (himself a
Scotchman) : “ Hoo
aboot yersells 1 ” a
5 “In conclusion Mr: O’Sullivan said that now :
- that the matter had been cleared up (! 1!) he :
- hoped to be able to put the dock on a firm
basis.”—E. W. O’Sullivan on Fitzroy Dock,
The Owe’Sullivan : “Thank Heaven that
matter is settled.”
THE MICAWBER SYSTEM IN POLITICS.
THE AUSTRALIAN.
After Wyatt has done with him (we |
don’t think). I
W VERY STRONG, INDEED.
Premier Seddon has taken another
portfolio.
MM
Minister Forrest’s idea
nr I of a defence system—war-
L/O Bhips gone elsewhere; a pick-
axe army.
Mb. Forrest : ” Under the provisions
there would be 1,000,000 men, hale and hearty,
available to resist any invasion.”
Mb, Fishes : "You have not the rifles with
which to arm them.”
Mb. Forrest : “ Oh, we could give them a pick-
axe, or something.” —Federal Hantard.
TEACHING THE BOY TO
BE RUDE.
Navy Leaguer Wyatt prac-
tically tells him to do this to all
the nations but Hingland.
The question how to stop the outflow of
our population induced Mr. Carruthers to.
make some profound but unintelligible
remarks about people who had a stake in
the country. Why not tie the emigrant
and the dry dog 'to that stake, and make
sure of them 1
A LOOK ROUND.


Key,
£3 10s
M
Keyless,
£5.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUSHMEN ANJO MINERS’
SPECIAL MADE ENGLISH
LEVERS, Full Cap, Hand Finished. Extra
Jewelled Works, Perfect Timekeeper, with
Pure Silver Cases, Dust and Watertight, £3
10s. Extra Quality, with Chronometer
Balance, £4 10s, £5, £5 10s, £6, £7, £S. Solid
Gold, £lO, £l5, £2O. A written certificate for
3,4, and 5 years. Try one, you will not
regret it.
Free-
trade
Prices.
/
s=a
$
yance,
A. SAUNDERS.
Strong Reliable
WATERBURY WATCHES.
Long Wind, 8s 6d ;
New Short Wind, 10s ;
New Model, G., 18s fid ;
Extra Quality, f-plate, 18s 6d and £1;
Silver, 85s;
Gold, £2 15s.
The reputation of these watches is a suffi-
cient guarantee of the reliability.
M
20s.
20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Unrivalled Non-mag-net LEVER.
Perfect Timekeeper, Screw Cates,
Dust and Water tight, 20s ;
Solid Silver, 35s ; Double Case, £2.
A Written Guarantee given with
each Watch.
Black
or
Nickel,
£3 10s.
%
i
«H*=«
*
Silver,
£5.
A. SAUNDERS.
“ FLY-BACK CHRONOMETERS.”
Fly-back only. In Solid Nickel or Black. Extra
duality, £■ 2 , £2 10s ; same as above, £3 10s ; Split
Seconds, £3 10s. Pure Solid Silver, as above, £5,
£6, £7, £B, and £lO ; Solid Gold, £l5, £2O, £25,
and £3O. A written certificate for 2,3, 4,5, and 6
years. TEY ONE.
Solid
Silver
£2los
M
Gold
Cased,
£4 4s.
A. SAUNDERS.
WALTHAM LEVEES.
We are Direct Buyers. Pure Solid
Silver Hunting Cases, Extra Quality
Movements, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, and £5 ;
Gold Patent Cases, Walthams, £4 4s, £5
5s j Solid Gold, £7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s. £l5,
£2O, and £25.
8,4, 5, and 6 Years’ Guarantee.
M
Solid Gold Chain, Single or Double, £2 XOs, £3, £3 10s,
£4, £4 10s, £5. 16c. Solid Gold, £5 10s, £6, £6 10s, £7,
£B, £lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 16s, 20s. Send for
Price Illustrated Book.
M
A. SAUNDERS (Registered).
Friendship Gold Motto BROOCH, 20s
Isct. gold, 35s ; 18ct., gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Ivy Leaf BROOCH, 12s 6d ; 15ct. gold,
Gem Set, 80s; Diamonds, £2.
M
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold-mounted Tusk BROOCH,
Chain and Bell, 15s 6d.
Bamboo Gold BRACELETS. All the Styles. Prices
according to width, 255, 80s, £2, JE2 10s, £B, £8 10s ; 15c.
Gold, £B, £4, £5, £6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Nellie Stewart Secret Snap BRACELE T, Beautifully
Finished, £4 10s; 15c. Gold, £6 10s and £7 10s.
Similar, £2 15s, £3, £3 ss, £3 10s, £4.
15ct. Gold Pearl Star PENDANT
or BB.OOCH, £5 10s ;
with Diamond centre, £7 10s;
with double row of Pc arls,
Same Price.
15ct. Gold BROOCH,
Diamond, 2 Red or Bine Stones, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
A. SaUNDEES.
Diamond Cut Amethyßt BEAOEDET, Gold-mounted, £4
Heart Amethyst Padlock, £5 ss.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Band Name BRACELET,
in Three Sizes, 255, 30s. as above,
and 40s wider ; 15ct. Gold, £3, £3 10a,
£4,
M
15ct. Gold Double Heart
and Knob PENDANT or
BROUCH, £4 10s ;
Diamond in centre of Bow,
£6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Registered Good Wish Gold BROOCH, 13s
6d ; loot. Gold. 25s ; Silver, 4s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Two-Heart Amethyst and Love Knot
BROOCH, 20s.
jffip.
A. SAUNDERS.
150. Gold Two-Bar Opal and Four-Diamond
BROOCH, £2 10s. Very Effective.
ea
8-Bar Amethyst Gold BROOCH, 25s ;
lSct. Gold, 455.
Solid Gold Pearl Set Twin Love Birds,
BROOCH, Red Stone Centre, 17s 6d.
Goll Name BROOCH with Raised Flowers,
7s 6d; 15ot. Gold, 15s ; any Name Free,
N
F=q
High Grade Ladies’ Solid Silver LEVERS,
Full Jewelled, g-plite, £2los, £3, £3 10s,
£4, and £4 10s. In'Solid Gold, £slos, £6
10s, £7 10s, £8 10s, 10 guineas, £l2 10s,
£l5, and £2O. Guar. 3,4, 5, and 6 Yrs.
ƒ
Goia
SLIPPER,
Chain, Nob,
and Pin, 6s 6d;
Metal Pin, 5s 6d.
Silver, 2s 6d.
Gent/s Solid Gold Front STUDS,
3s 6d, Bs 6d, 7» 6d each,
Q
Handsome Solid Gold Floral NECKLET, set with Pure White Pearls. £3 ; Extra Quality 15ct. Gold, Pure Pearls,
£5 ss, in Silk-lined Case.
MM
A. SAUNDERS.
Good Luck Gold .HEART,
Cham and Pin, 7s 6d.
A
■s*
-22
%
&
m
£<Ss&\
(i% (
ft
r/;.#
I
M
m
m
7X.
mh
m
Sgf
A. SAUNDERS.
ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed. Silver Hunting
Keyless, 255, 30s, £2, £2 10s, £3. Solid Gold
Keyless, £2. £3, £4, £5 ; Superior Quality,
£6, £7, £B, £lO.
ALL GUARANTEED.
d
15ct. Gold Fan BROOCH,
Diamond and 2 Rubies, £3
3 Diamonds, £4.
M
Gold Mizpah
CHAR VT, 4s 3d.
M
Solid Gold Opal Band,
17s Ud ;
Three Opals, 22s 6d ; (
15ct. Gold, 30s ; Three
Opals, £2. 1
M
, Band RINGS,
with Name, Pet. Solid Gold,
12s 6d, 15s ;
Isct. Gold, 20s, 25s ;
18ct. Gold, 255, 30s, 355, £2.
MM
Signet Plain RING,
9et. Gold, ‘2os, 25s ;
15ct. Gold, 30s, 35s ;
18ct. Gold, £2,
£2 10s.
M
15ct. Gold, Two Hearts,
Diamond and Ruby, 35s
Two Diamonds, £2 ss.
Latest Style.
M
M
18ct. Solid Gold,
Diamond and Two
_ Rubies or Sapphires,
£2 10s ; 3 Diamonds, £3.
M
18ct. Gold, 4 Diamonds,
with 3 Rubies,
Sapphires, or Opals,
£3 10s, £4 10s, £5, £6.
M
Two Diamond Sparks
and Ked Stone,
15ct. Gold, 80s.
M
18ct. Gold, Pure Double
Out Diamonds and
Rubies or Sapphires, £3 10s,
£4, £4 10s ; Rive Diamonds, £5.
Si3£ilfc
18ct. Solid Gold,
Pure Double Cut Dia-
mond, Pure Rubies
or Sapphire, £2,
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold CHARM, Pearl
Star and Crescent,
32s 6d ;
Larger, £2 2s.
Good Friendship
CHARM, 10s 6d ;
with Erin-Go-Biagh,
10s 6d.
9ct. Gold Heart-shaped
LINKS, 12s 6d ;
15ct. Gold, 255.
9ct. Gold LINKS, 22s 6d;
ICot. Gold £2 ;
in Solid Silver 4s 6d.
Ladies’ Long Gold Muif CHAINS in every
Style and Pattern made. £2 10s, £3, £3 10s
•£4, £4los, £5, £5 10s, £3, £7, £B, £lO.
Latest Style Gold Bow and Chain
Photo PENDANT to Hold Two
Photos. 255, 27s 6d, 30s.
M
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Heart,
Double Out Diamond,
30s. 40s ;
Ruby or Sapphire, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold
Pearl Star
PENDANT
or BROOCH, £3,
very neat.
M
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Amethyst and
Pearl ileai t CHARM,
10s 6d ;
larger, 15s and 20s.
m
A. SAUNDERS.
15et. Gold 3-Bar BROOCH,
with Double Cut Diamond Centre,
£3 10s;
larger Diamonds, £4 10s.
m
18ct. Gold Half Hoop,
Five Double Cut,
Diamonds, KING £5,
Larger Diamonds, £6 ;
£7 10s, £B, £lO, £l5, £2O.
MM
18ct. .fold Buckle,
Diamond
and Two Rubies or
Sapphires, £2 10s ;
3 Diamonds, £4.
Uent.’s Set. Solid
Gold Amethyst RING,
25s ; 15et. Solid Gold,
18ct. Solid Gold Two
Hearts,Opals,
Three Pure Double Cut
Diamonds, £4 10s.
IBet. Gold
Pure 1 )ouble
Gut Diamond,
£2 10s. £3.
18ct. Gold
Opal BING, £2 10s
Size Barger,
£3 10s.
M
Hand -made WEDDING KINGS and KEEPERS, Oct,
Solid Gold, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s 6deach; loot. Gold, 15s;
Extra Heavy, 25s ; 18et. Gold, 20s ; Extra Heavy, 30s,
355, 40s. Quality of Gold and Finish First Class.
M
18ct. Solid Gold
Buttercup Pure
Diamond KING,
£3, £4, £5.
A. SAUNDERS,
JEWELLER AND
SILVERSMITH,
815 and 817 George-street
(Nearly Opposite
Kailway Station),
Sydney.


Old Winter comes with chilly breath,
Bringing sickness, sometimes death ;
Yet every family, praise the saints,
May now be free from chest complaints.
At winter’s cold and winter’s rain
We can laugh with might and main,
For we have the remedy, pure—
W. E. Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
A BEAL PICK-ME-UP. —“Talk about cham-
pagne,” said Byron, there is nothing which clieeis
your spirits up like a dose of salts.” But had he
known Hunyadi Janos he would certainly have
preferred this, the best and safest natural
aperient.*
The Inky Way.
" T.D.” : Some excellent rot was talked at the farewell
to Melbourne journalist Sandes about the tribute which
was being paid to the “ great ” press. All the time, it
was Sandes the man, the good fellow of the club and the
theatre lounge, who was being farewelled. There are
others on the press of marked ability, and identified with
the work just as long as the popular “ Johnny,” who
would leave Melbourne without a word said. And what
nonsense it is, anyway, to gush about privilege of con-
nection with the papers which condemn men of the
Sandes stamp to go out reporting the annual meeting of
the Tinpot Mine, very Limited, or to waste their abilities
in the Parliamentary gallery, recording the poor faded
opinions of Oonroy and Pumpkin Smith. The spectacle
of Donald Macdonald recently taking notes at a suburban
parsonical “ rally” was such as to teach a lesson to every
young man who thinks of joining the press aa the first
step on the pathway to Literature.
* • • *
There is a project in Adelaide to turn the weekly
Labor Herald into a Labor-Liberal daily. The Trades
Council is trying to whip up £3OO to be used practically
in “floating” the concern. The cable difficulty, though,
sticks out already. What is needed is, not only co-opera-
tion in one city, but co-operation among all the cities.
It may be a bit easier to establish one paper than to
establish three, but it will be a good deal easier to
successfully run three papers than one, because all
the most expensive matter will do just as well for the
three as for one.
* * * •
Melbourne Herald has just been running a competition
about the twelve best books. One reckoned he had the
prize won when he forwarded the following :—i. “ Aus-
tralians at War”; 2, “ Australians at War”; 3, “Aus-
tralians at W’ar”; i, “Australians at War”; 5, “Aus-
tralians at War” ; 6, “Australians at War” ; 7, “Aus-
tralians at War”; 8, “Australians at War” ; 9, “Aus-
tralians at War”; 10, “ Australians at War ” ; 11, “Aus-
tralians at War”; 12, “Australians at War.” Another
competitor sent in the following :—“There are no twelve
best books, but only three—i.e., the Bible, ‘ Shakspeare,’
and ‘Australians at War.”’ But the modest Lieut.-
Colonel Reay wouldn’t give either of these enterprising
leg-pullers the award.
A MATTER OF CONSCIENCE.
CROWN PROSECUTOR: “Now, then, John, why did you swear falsely?”
JOHN (indignantly): “No otce[?]h eah false. You make me blow out match, bleak plate, no good. Me
Chlistian—kiss book.”
The enterprise of the Bendigo (Vic.)_ dailies has re-
eeived a cruel set-back at Bent’s hands since the strike,
The early morning train from Bendigo to Echuca, by
which the goldfields’ papers scored over their heavier
metropolitan contemporaries by several hours’ start, has
been discontinued ; it now runs as a goods train about
once a week. The bike service inaugurated during the
train stoppage has been continued, at ruinous cost, the
papers being delivered to newsagents on the route by
messengers on safeties, arriving some hours late—but
before the Age and Argus. The Riverina Herald, the
Echuca daily, which suffers in all ways from the want of
a rival, made a feeble attempt to take the place of the
late-coming Bendigo papers, but without avail, as the
editor’s grip on the parish pump-handle is unrelaxed,
It is surprising what a hold football sometimes gets on
the waybaok inkslinger’s intellect, while the festive
antics of the local goat are always an enthralling subject
for his trenchant quill !
A * *
Melb. : Samuel Vincent Winter, of Melbourne
Herald, has gone to Japan. Maybe he is prepared to
throw up the journalistic profession, like Gullett, or
I would rather say the newspaper business, with regard
to Sam. He was early impressed by the truth of the
saying from Disraeli, and others: “A man may resolve
to be great, but only a woman can make him so.” He
found this treasure when he was twenty ; he was then
earning twenty shillings a week as comp, with VV. H.
Williams and 00. He married at once, without a shilling
of capital. Duffy advised him in the founding of the
Advocate. Then he became manager of the Herald,
advancing to editor also, and general employer and
all-round boss. Thenceforward his career has been writ
pretty large.
* * • * , . * ,
John Gale retires from the editorship of Queanbeyan
Qbserver (N.S.W.), after half a century of active jour-
nalism. He was member for the Murrumbidgee for a
while, and ran a newspaper at Manly. He is a comp.,
and used regularly to set up his leader without copy.
He composed it on the stick, and there was always more
of the compositor than the leader-writer about it. In
the very long ago Gale published a small volume of verse
in England. He had forgotten it, when a copy was
washed up to him from the wreck of the Dunbar. He
has been a teetotaller all his life, and was a Methodist
pracher for many years.
One of the reasons why the Age continues
to be the “popular” Melbourne daily is
the fact that it is a good hater. There is
never any difficulty in discovering what
side the Age is on, while the Argus— like
Sir Roger de Coverley—very often writes
as if “ there is a lot to be said on both
sides.” The Argus attacks an abuse as if
it were administering a mild and pained
reproof to a near and dear friend, while
the Age approaches the subject with an
axe in one hand and a firebrand in
the other and its pockets full of curses.
It is said that Ben Hoare is responsible
for most of the “ bite ” in the Age’s con-
troversial leaders. It was the vitriolic Ben
who referred to Patterson, when Premier,
in a stinging leader, as a “run-down
dingo," a phrase which he had previously
worked off, in Geelong Times, on Graham
Berry. A few tuys ago, in an article
dealing with the Trades Hall criticism of
its strike attitude, the Age— through the
pen of Benjamin—said that the Labor
speakers had “ the same dislike for the
press that certain insects have for the
small toothcomb”—which is vigorous if
not particularly elegant.
“Cam”: Re par. in “Inky Way "con-
earning Melbourne ’Erald “ volte-face ” on
•trike question. Heard it somewhat like this
from ardent loyalist and generally “ damn-
the-Labor-party ” person : “Yes, sir ; lam
proud to say we had all the press with us.
They were loyal to the core. Certainly the
Herald —not that it counts for much—had
some scandalous reports in about the scoun-
drels for a time. Most disgraceful state-
ments I You could hardly think a paper
capable of printing such lies. But, thank Ood,
Theodore Fink went round on Sunday night—he’s
got big financial interest in it—and they stopped. Yes,
sir, they stopped—to the credit of Melbourne, they
stopped! ”
* • • *
Maoriland has a “Journalists’ Institute," with a
membership of nearly 200, incorporated under an Act
of Parliament in 1895. Said Institute has been tottering
along for 12 years altogether, overloaded with pro-
prietary interests, although from time to time the work-
ing hack section has made a spasmodic attempt to buck
its collective employer off. So far, the employer has
shown a limpet-like tendency to stick, and the hacks are
so busy that the prospect of their getting rid of the in-
cubus and registering under the Arbitration Act is more
remote than ever. Canterbury branch, getting weary of
waiting for the rest to move, defected in a body and
formed a Union under the said Act, but after doing so it
sank back into the old spot without getting a sixpence
more per week or a quarterly Sunday off. Curiously
enough, the working journalists in the Institute have
been tugging away for years to get an antiquated libel-
law off the Statute Book, while the proprietors, who have
everything to gain by the change, have stood by with
folded hands. Under present law, about the only thing
a M.L. paper oan claim privilege for is a report of a
court oase.
» * * *
Saturday’s issues of Melb. Agb and Argus have
terribly deteriorated in the last few years. When the
Agb returned to its original eight-page form in ’B4, it
kept three special men contributing to its Saturday
number, besides publishing “specials” by its senior
reporters. The Argus was then level with its rival, but
on reducing its price to Id. set itself to imitate London
Tit-Bits, filling up with short extracts from British and
foreign papers ; and the Age has faithfully copied that
plan, effecting a great saving in cost of production, to
the grievous loss of the public. Nothing short of the
establishment of a third morning paper will secure a
return of the old enterprising days, which were alike
good for journalists and readers.
Ex-Premier Peacock, Grand-Master of Victorian Free-
masons, has subscribed £5 towards preliminary expenses
of starting the Australian Independent, a Republican
daily paper to be published in Melbourne. The sponsors
for the new publication are Trenwith and Elmslie,
M’s.L.A., whose signatures appear under the appeal for
subscriptions. The Trades Hall party is promoting the
People’s Daily, which professes loyalty in its prospectus,
... *
The stupid policy of skimp and mendacity adopted by
many Australian weeklies often makes them'the laughing
stock of even the very dullest reader. Slab after slab of
European matter is scissored into them and placed before
the readers as Australian information and advice. The
result is often farcical. One Melbourne weekly often
comes out full of advice to “ our country readers,” such
as: “ The feet of every member of the flock should be
carefully trimmed before they are turned out to grass”;
and “ pure air and sunlight have a favorable effect on the’
breeding of ewes”; and “don’t feed a lot of rich grain to
the ewes a few days before weaning.” Presumably the
editorial paste pot imagines the Australian sheep-breeder
keeps his jumbucks in dog kennels on a string, without
sufficient air and sunlight; and hand-feeds them lavishly
with a lot of rich grain. The stock notes are stolen from
the Esquimaux Exciter, no doubt,
* * * •
“Minion”: Dr. Maloney’s notion of printing Vic
Government Gazette and Hansard together, and making
a popular paper of the combination, reminds me of the
fact that the only “paper” a large number of country
people get is the district Stock and Station Journal,
which is sent to them free by the auctioneers. The onf-
part of the ordinary country paper read by a lot of the
farmers is the auctioneer’s advts. and reports. One of
the subscribers to a country paper I was running came to
me complaining of the lack of news, and a cross-examin-
ation revealed that the trouble was the non-appearance
of a certain auctioneer’s advertisement about sales of
sheep and cows (he didn’t advertise with us) The Vic
Government Gazette is about the sloppiest and mo 4
awkward publication that I know of. It is neither cut
bound, nor stamped, so that, once the wrapper is torn
off, the whole thing tumbles to pieces like a Chinese
puzzle. The only people who read it are the unfortunate
editors of country papers, who reprint anything con
cerning their districts ; and yet it is so full of tabular
matter that it must cost a lot to get out.
THE SPORTING INSTINCT.
Rudolph Marmaduke (to teacher who has been
explaining what angels are): “Kin they fly
like birds?”
TEACHER: “Yes, Rudolph Marmaduke.”
R.M.: “Golly, then, when I go to Heaven I"ll
bring a gun.”
How the “unlettered, small-knowing" souls of Mel-
bourne, who read the “ littery ” leaders in the Saturday
editions of the Age and Argus must have stared and
scratched their heads over the Argus leaders of 20th
June. The erudite writers casually alluded to Solomon,
Zeno (“ the Stoic Sage” the Argus called him), Carlyle,
Mrs. Carlyle, Froude, Judas (Iscariot), Plato, “Hodge,”
Virgil, Beethoven, Wagner, Phidias (the purist called
him “ Pheidias”), Angelo, Shakspeare (of course), Words-
worth, Julius Csesar, Charlemagne, Chaucer, Milton,
Dryden, Browning, Dante, MoliCre, Goethe, Burns,
Byron, Walter Crane, Venus (in this company, too),
Pauline Borghese, De Stael, George Eliot, Madame
Roland, Madame E6camier, Madame Tallien, Monna
Lisa, Leonardo, Raphael, Jeanne D’Aragon, Mr. Weller
Senior, Cleopatra, Iseult, Helen, Emerson, Longfellow,
and—the Devil!
* * * *
“ J.0.L.”: Re sweating and low wages in newspaper
offices. One Australian provincial daily is run with a
staff of five reporters, including a mining writer, and the
literary wage-sheet amounts to £l5 ss.—this, mind you,
including the editor’s weekly dole. Reporters’ hours of
work range from 12 to 17, a fair daily average being 14
hour's.
* * * *
Every reporter who goes on to the Bendigo Indepen-
dent is warned against recording the price of “ seed
pollard” in the produce market quotations. A waggish
dealer in hay and chaff and cockies’ promissory notes got
the joke off on an unsuspecting reporter some years ago,
and “ seed pollard, 3s. 6d. bushel” duly appeared in next
morning’s issue. Then there were ructions, in which the
wrathful proprietor made all sorts of dire threats against
the grain-man. An apology was sent and declined, and
that particular firm’s quotations were knocked out of the
commercial column. The produce dealer then resorted
to strategy. The Independent has a strong Catholic
following, and several Irish customers were sent to the
office to declare, begorra! if ’s prices were not
quoted they would give up the paper. They only took it
to see ’s prices. Then the quotations appeared as
hitherto.
* * *
Not generally known that press correspondence is
carried free on the Victorian railways. The amount of
money the big dailies steal from the Postal Department
by this little ruse is a serious item. At present the Vic.
railways are largely run on a charity basis in the interests
of landowr°rs and the Melbourne dailies.
* * • *
A country correspondentship of the Vic. city or pro-
vincial dailies is now looked upon as a profitable asset.
When the Waybaek correspondent covers his worldly
possessions with his hat and prepares to take his walking
ticket from Grubville, he looks around with hungry eye
for an offer for his billet ! The arrangement generally
arrived at is for the new correspondent to give the de-
parting prober into local trivialities half of his income for
the previous six months ; or to agree to give 50 or 75 per
cent, of prospective earnings for the same period. Hence
the eagerness of the new ink-slinger to probe, for public
edification, to the bottom details regarding the sudden
demise of Bill-Jack’s umbrella-stand and hat-rack from
bot-fly. He has a dead horse of some dimensions to
work off.
* * * •
New York Herald recently published a special number
of 1U) pages to mark the 20th anniversary of its control
by Mr. Pulitzer. A daily of that sort is far too much
ahead of the times. It should be kept for a few
thousands of centuries when the day will three months
long.
An Adelaide shopkeeper complains in the
dailies of July Ist that, having his shop window
broken and a £lOO ring stolen at dusk the night
before, he rang up the detective office at once and
received the reply that the force was all at tea
just, then, but would come round to investigate
when it had finished !
“ Scrip ” : Re the practice of giving
“characters” to departing employees. The
most remarkable I ever saw was shown me
by a policeman, who found it on a lady of the
street whom he had arrested on some compre-
hensive charge or other. It was written by the
bloated keeper of a Hall of Pleasure in the north,
to another in the same line of biz in the south,
and was a very fine “ reference ” indeed.
IS MOST ANNOYING,
A cold at this season is most annoying, and
should not be neglected. Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy will relieve the luugs, make expectora-
tion easy, effect a quick cure, and leave the
system in a healthy condition. It always cures,
and cures quickly. Is. 6d.*
A tremendous indictment was thrown at a
couple of common Chinkies at Melbourne city
court lately, in the shape of an Act of Richard 11.
of blessed memory; which set forth that they
“ with force and arms and with strong hand, and
with multitude of people, unlawfully did enter,
and unlawfully expel and put out the said
Ah Lean from the peaceable possession of the
said messuage and premises with the appur-
tenances situated at and being 113 Little
Bourke-street, and with force and arms, and wit h
strong hand, and with multitude of people, un-
lawfully did expel and put out the said Ah Lean,
contrary to the form of the statute,” etc. This
fearsome enactment boiled down to a charge
of common assault. Ah Fat and Ah Stout
having rushed into Ah Lean’s one room, got him
by the scruff of the neck and cast him into the
gutter. It seems a fine, comprehensive statute,
anyhow ; and no doubt the Tories of that day
thought it a gross interference with the liberty of
the subject, and a restriction of private enterprise
tending to drive capital out of the country.
THE PIOUS EDITOR’S REVISED CREED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
I do believe in keepin’ down
The Guvernment expenses;
I’m dead agin a single crown
Goin’ in extravygences.
Economy my text remains—
I’ll stand no other capers.
(With special early morning trains
For carryin’ my papers.)
For Guvernment to hev to sue
For money is degradin’
The moment that a tax is due
I think it should be paid in ;
Likewise that all the people ought
To pay their fair proportion.
(Exceptin’ me. I’ve always thought
That taxin’ me’s extortion.)
So this my daily text shall be :
“Expenses under income ;
Straight dealin’ and strict honesty,
And all that’s called fair dinkum.”
With all these virtues I’ll acquaint
The people—for a penny.
(Provided always that I ain’t
Obliged to practise any.)
S.H.P.
THE DAILY PAPERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Whatever other faults they h;v.
On this, at least, we all agree—
The Sydney daily papers can’t
Be charged with inconsistency ;
They preach whatever pays them best,
And if you watch, you’ll see the fact is
That’s always just the very thing
They also practise.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
First minute-book of Geelong R.C., formed 60
years ago, was unearthed the other day. All at inaugural
meeting pooled £1 each to get things under way. Open-
ing programme was run at Bell Post Hill. Management
ventured a three days’ meet in 1850 and gave £365 prize-
money. Entrance-fees were paralysing, up to £lO being
exacted for a £lOO stake.
.■ • •
Astuteness of Townsville Jockey Club is re-
freshing. Saddling-paddock betting rights in connection
with the recent meet were sold to one of the hook-nosed
for £250. Deal was the outcome of a demand by the com-
mittee of £4O from each of those who wanted to lay the
odds, with a stipulation that the total sum must not be
less than £250 ; but Moses generally wasn’t having any
at the price. If the volume of business can be gauged by
tote transactions on the first day, the venture should
have panned out handsomely for the enterprising
“ book ”—£4ooo went through the machine.
* * * *
J. N. M‘Arthur, Marmont's owner, is one of
the very few prad proprietors who go to any trouble in
naming their nags. Sits for hours surrounded by books
of reference and other bulky tomes in search of a name
for a two-year-old, which rewards him, perhaps, by
winning one small race in eleven tries.
* * * *
“Le Ohasse” asserts: Even if it were cor-
rect that the totalisator encourages gambling, that
would be amply atoned for by the support it gives to
charitable institutions when placed under proper control.
For instance, French charities were benefited last year
by the tote to the extent of £192,400, the amount of the
percentage derived for that object, while £96,000 went
towards the purchase of Government sires. The grand
total of the tote investments for the year reached the
splendid sum of £9,620,000, figures calculated to make
“ Ikey Mo ” gape with astonishment and exclaim : “ Ish
der so much monish in der whole ploomin’ vorldt?”
• • • *
The record of a mile a minute per motor is
approaching. English motor cyclist F. W. Chase, in a
13 mile ride, put up (in the seventh mile) the wonderful
time of lmin. 6 3-6 secs.— a world’s record. The recent
motor fatalities don’t appear to blunt the appetite for
records.
• * * *
“Ne’er-do-weel” writes: —“Jab” (8., 13/6/’O3)
laughs at the idea that the present-day boxers know
more about the game than the men of old. “Jab” goes
back only 20 years ; what about the men of an even
earlier date? I suppose there are not many men in
Australia who can vouch for the prowess of the old-time
ring heroes from personal knowledge, but from the
accounts in “ Pugilistioa ” of the fights between Sayers
and Heenan, Sayers and the Tipton Slasher, Langham
and Sayers, Sayers and Jones, and scores of others,
“Jab” must have every right to laugh By the
way, is the art of reporting a fight also to be con-
sidered among the lost arts? How quaintly and pic-
turesquely the accounts in “Pugilistioa” read compared
with present-day reports. Such a sentence as, “ Tom re-
ceived a tidy smack on the spectacle beam,”
leaves no doubt in one’s mind as to where the
blow fell, and but little as to the force with
which it was propelled. “Tom got home on the snuffer-
tray, removing a piece of the japan, and drawing forth a
fresh supply of the ruby,” is vividly descriptive—there is
nothing ambiguous about it. Those writers seemed to
fight very shy of the word “blood”; instead, they re-
ferred to it as “ ruby,” “carmine,” “ claret,”, “supply
from the beet-bin,” “ cataract; from the cavern,” “elixir
of life,” “pink,” “cochineal,” “juice,” “crimson,” “ver-
milion,” “Burgundy,” and so on. In referring to the
combatants’ noses they 7 ranged from the sublime to the
ridiculous. F’rinstance, “Tom got home heavily on the
olfactory 7 projection ” reads quite imposingly ; but what
about “Sayers pinked him on the smeller” or “the
Slasher napped it heavy on the nozzle”? Other
names by which this useful organ was indicated
by writers in “Pugilistioa” are “proboscis,” “beak,”
“ snuff-box,” “ cutwater,” “snout,” “ nasal promontory 7 ,”
“sneezer,” “snuffer tray 7,” “sniffer,” “scent bottle,”
etc. The mouth was variously known as “ potato trap,”
“ kisser,” “ kissing organ,” “ ivory box,” “ oration trap,”
“whistler,” “sucker”—all are expressive terms. The
ey 7 es too —“dexter goggle,” “damaged ogle,” “sinister
peeper,” “left ogle,” “left peeper.” Also, the head
generally 7 —“mug,” “brainpan.” “cranium,” “nob,”
“ wigbox,” “ frontispiece,” “ knowledge box.” Some sen-
tences are puzzling, as f’rinstance, “this brought on
exchanges each on the “ mazzard.” What is the “ maz-
zard”? Again, “Tom came up—his gnomon much out
of straight.” The following sentence leaves no room
whatever for doubt —“ Tom then napped a left-hander on
the grubberv."
• * * *
The light-as-air, leather-encased punching blad-
der seems likely to give way to the more solid, kapok-
stuffed leather bag that Larry 7 Foley, Peter Jackson,
George Dawson and co. affected. Present-day bruisers
haven’t the punching power of those of 15 or 20 years
ago, mainly because the swinging ball offers far too
little resistance to a blow to strengthen and attune
knuckles, wrists and arms to punching the body of a man
without a resultant jar. The contention that punching
the sphere makes the boxer quicker is bunkum. Foley,
Jackson and Dawson were speedy enough for anything—
much more so than the best we have to-day, and every-
one of them trained with the bag ; though, when the ball
had become fashionable the heavier article was discarded
by Jackson, while Dawson continued to use it. Jim
Scanlan has been using a bag preparing for Doherty, and
says it has made a huge difference in the force of his blows.
* * * *
The estimated wealth of the leading pugs.,
according to Boston Poi.ioe News :—Mitchell 200,000d015.,
champion Jeffries 30,000d015., Sailor Sharkey 70,000d015.,
Pompadour Corbett 20,000d015., Choynski 30,000d015.,
M‘Govern 50,000d015., Fitzsimmons 35,000d015., Ruhlin
10,000dols. Curious how pugs, run to an even number of
dollars.
• • * *
Football is one of the many games which are
not played to-day as they were a few centuries ago.
In the 15th century football was the national game
of Italy, where it was called “ Calcio,” and formed the
great feature of the Carnival season. One of the rules
then laid down was that “ each player should endeavor
to have his clothes beautiful and gay, and to see that
they are well-fitting and becoming to him, charming
ladies and the most noble gentlemen in the land.”
“ Calcio ” play was preceded by a grand procession through
the city, and the teams, each consisting of 27 players,
were headed by trumpeters and followed by thousands of
eager excited sightseers. The judges, three on each side,
were men who had been famous players, but instead of
having to hustle about among the players and take the
risk of being sent home on shutters, they were perched
on high in gorgeous chairs, and smart waiters were on
hand to see that the judge’s silver jugs never remained
empty long. A football judge was greater then than a
Chief Justice is to-day.
* * * *
“The Prince”: Recently attended a country
sports meeting. A big German was competing in the
principal handicap. When the pistol sounded Strassburg
was left at the post. His old man approached the com-
mittee and cried: “No race! I tinks, gentlemans, ve
have dot overs agin. Mine Dolph dids not hear the
phistle vent.”
• * * *
The decision of the Amateur Athletic Associa-
tion to disallow the record discus throw of 119 ft. 10in.,
put up recently by J. Kearney at Ipswich (Q.), simply
because it was done as an exhibition, is arrant nonsense.
The disqualification grows still more absurd when the
fact is remembered that most amateur records are put up
under special conditions.
(Continued on page 26.)


WE WILL GIVE CASH TO YOU
for any old Gold Watches, Breast Pins,
Chains, Rings, Lockets, Brooches, Diamonds,
Pearls, Sapphires or Rubies; in short, any old
Gold Jewellery or Precious Stones, whether
broken or not. We will send you a liberal
money order the same day the goods are re-
ceived. If our offer is not acceptable your
articles will be returned immediately.
Pack your articles in cotton wadding or tissue
paper, in small box, write our name and address
<\ plainly on package, and send by registered post,
; and we hold ourselves responsible. We refer you
to the London Bank of Australia, Ltd., Broken Hill.
SHAW & CO., Jewellers,
(Also at Lox don. )
BROKEN HILL.
N.B. —We sell loot. Gent’s Gold Alberts (double
single) at 75 - per ounce—Cheapest in Australia.
M
GO TO HELX-
KjOLANI) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagei?,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Eiszabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
AUSTRALIAN STAMPS
M
Bought, Sold & Exchanged.
Gibbons’ Philatelic Albums
and all requirements. Price lists gratis.
J. K. SMYTH & CO.,
88 KINO ST., SYDNEY
“Don’t shout”
M
L\
I hear you. I can hear now ■
as well as anybody.
■'•How?' Ob some-
thingrnew— The Wilson. 1
Common-sense Bar-
Drum. I've a pair in my
ears now. you can't see them
they’re invisible. 1 wouldn'
know I had them in myseli
that I hear all right.”
M
/The Wilson Ear-Drum ts
Sk really a substitute for the
pans of the!
natural ear. Has nol
wire. Invisible, easy to atl
just, comfortable Totally
different from any other de-
vie* Descriptive pamphlet sent upon request
J. CHAIHtg». 229-231 Collins St., Help.
SPECTACLES
M
DEFECTIVE
VISION.
TO
COUNTRY READERS
who cannot visit us
personally, we send,
Post Fre.e to any ad-
dress, with full in-
structions and Price List, our marvellously-accurate
and popular SELF SICHT-MEASUftIHG PATENT.
By its use you can Test y ur own sight and de-
termine for yourself the style and quality of the
glasses you may need. Write for it to —
H. A. BARRACLOUGH, Optician,
85 Georgrej-st., Sydney (opposite Strand Arcade).
POLITICAL
POINTS
London. Daily Express
It may now be taken as proved that the flowing tide is
not with supporters of orthodox free trade.
N.S.W. Gov. Rawson will be sorry to
hear that the Russian Czar has abolished flogging
in Siberia. ■
It took a solid 25 minutes’ fast travelling
for Governor Ranfurly to read Seddon’s speech at
the opening of M.L. Parliament.
“Free laborers” is Edden’s title for
members who leave the Labor party for other
sides in Parliament. More euphonious than
“ rats,” and hits the same spot.
The Age exposes, without censuring, the
lawless Irvine Government {re old-age pensions):
During the last few months the Government, it is un-
derstood, has been practically disregarding the provision
for a maximum of Bs. a week, bringing it down in most
cases to 75..
A feature of the debate so far on the
Naval Agreement Bill has been the appalling
repetition of the old wheeze, “ the time is not
ripe.” The time never is ripe in the eyes of some
people for the doing of anything active or intelli-
gent —it seems to be a hard, sour thing affected
by chronic greenness.
Seddon still hammers away. From the
speech at the opening of M.L. Parliament
The owners of large areas of land resident outside the
State are not taxed through the customs, and the aggre-
gation of large estates continues. My Ministers conclude
that there will not be any serious objection to increasing
the present absentee-tax.
Things like that atone for a lot.
According to the Orange Lodge organ in
N.S.W., Rev. Dill-Macky’s “Protestant Defence
League’’has “created far more serious breaches
in the ranks of Protestantism than hitherto ex-
isted.” Perhaps Dill is an agent of the Scarlet
Woman? A man with such beautiful calves
doesn’t, somehow, seem likely to be a sincere in-
cendiary.
S.M. Herald, in its anxiety to discredit
N.S.W. Arbitration laws, t’other day, allowed
one C. R. Staples to write this :
As an example of the disastrous effects upon N.S.W.
industries of unequal labor conditions, let me give an
instance : Our Arbitration Court has decided that white
work—that is, the making of shirts, collars, and similar
articles of apparel—must be classed as skilled, and a
minimum wage is consequently fixed.
Then, a couple of days later, Attorney-General
Wise pointed out that the Arbitration Court has
never had white work under its consideration,
and, consequently, has never classed such work as
“ skilled ” or anything else.
REMOVAL.
Mr. Bent goes from the railways to re-organise the Public Works Department.” —News Item.
In the matter of liquor-trade regulation,
it seems very likely that S.A. will go the way of
Maoriland. A significant vote has just been taken
up north, in the Petersburg district, where a 2 to
1 majority was registered against new licenses.
The leader of the Parliamentary Labor party
joined in, on the teetotal side, of course ; the S.A.
Labor party is nearly all teetotal.
Carruthers declared a while ago (though
he didn’t mean it) that he would never take office
in N.S.W. and be dependent on the Labor vote.
A very little more Owe’Sullivanism, and Joseph,
to his own great surprise, will be able to get office
without the aid of the Labor vote. And, con-
sidering that Joseph labors under the awful han-
dicap of being Joseph, that is a good deal to say.
The decease of Bowker, R. H. Roberts,
Toohey and Edward Greville brings N.S.W.
Leg. Council down to 59 members. About one-
half of the 59 are chronically inefficient. That is
the trouble with all Houses of life nominees.
About half the members are too old to know what
happens, and more than half have got to that
stage that they don’t see the need of change—
things will last their time.
Things are moving. Labor-leader Price,
of S.A., in the Assembly the other night, advo-
cated the employment of prison labor on useful
and reproductive work. Laborites have_ so far
mostly shied at the idea of ‘ ‘ the competition of
the prisoners with free labor,” overlooking the
fact that if the prisoner isn’t allowed to keep him-
self the free laborer has to feed two mouths instead
of one—his own and the prisoner’s.
Coolgardie has decided very unanimously
that it will be an “insufferable burden” if it is
required, in addition to paying for its water, to
pay a water-rate of Is. 6d. in the £ on the rental
value of all land. Yet, if that rate isn’t levied
the State generally will have to carry the
insufferable burden of paying for a pauperised
goldfield’s water-supply. In this country paying
for anything seems to be an insufferable burden.
Item of news from any Victorian paper of
any recent date:
A strong protest is being made against the action of
the Irvine Government in taking the common lands of
this town and offering same for sale. A deputation of
townspeople will wait on the Minister for Lands on
Wednesday concerning the matter.
Seems as if the Iceberg crowd is prepared to do
anything to raise funds, in order to avoid taxing
the big squatters of Normanby and Collins-street.
A letter, sweetly characteristic of the
’Pootra, appeared in Melbourne Age lately, over
the signature of B. Goddard, inquiring why Labor
leader Watson advocated a High Court of five
judges at £3500 a year each, yet posed as the friend
of the workers. Watson promptly replied that,
as Goddard’s very first sentence contained two
gross inaccuracies—he had advocated neither five
judges nor £3500 salaries all round—he declined
further controversy with such a surprisingly un-
truthful opponent.
A Maoriland politician who knows most
of the things worth knowing in M.L. politics,
holds that Stout will resign the Chief Justiceship
over the new precedence regulations, under which
Premier Seddon is to stalk in front of him at
ham-frill functions; that at the first possible
chance a vacancy will be found for him in the
House of Peps.; and that he will come back to
politics for the express purpose of stirring up
Seddon as that person has not been stirred up
in the last ten years.
The Irvine Government, with its usual
blundering, having gone into recess will now
either have to illegally exact the percentage re-
duction money from its employees or abolish the
stop-gap reduotion. The Act providing for per-
centage reductions expired on the 30th June, 1903.
If the reduction is abolished Irvine will have to
trust to another extra large return from the “ex-
travagant” Federal Treasurer, as it' is now
officially denied that he is bringing forward a
Bill to pole-axe all public servants receiving over
£5OO a year.
Parliament badly wants an official sense of
humor, a streak of mirth on the notice paper, and
less grim seriousness on the part of the officials.
Senator Higgs, who has been waiting some
months for certain military information, grew
excited the other day, and wanted to put a ques-
tion on the paper as to how long a Department of
such phenomenal slowness would take to sight a
Boer on a kopje. And, just when there was a
chance of the notice paper being cheered up a
little, some wooden person with no more smile in
him than a horse, ruled the innocent mirth out of
order.
A proposal is being seriously considered
by Premier Barton that Chamberlain should be
invited to visit Australia. If Barton doesn’t
know better surely Australia does. Chamberlain
and Barton met once since the latter became
Premier, and the drowsy, easy-going, heavy-
feeding gentleman fell in and started promising
things in a way which might easily have lost him
his billet. Now he seriously thinks of asking the
mesmerist to come and fix him with his baleful
eye-glass again, so that he may promise more
things and really come to grief this time.
Sydney Evening News recently reported,
with great grief, that 9573 persons had left N.S.
Wales during the last six months, which seems
distinctly less than the average. It said nothing
about arrivals, but it declared, with bitterness,
that these 9573 persons were driven away by
“socialistic legislation.” Then it proceeded to
show that 6451 of them had gone to Maoriland,
the most socialistic as well as the most Protec-
tionist and the most heavily-taxed State in Aus-
tralasia. But perhaps the Noose had got its
figures muddled as usual. It has been fearfully
muddled in its figures of late.
Melbourne Age had the powerful assur-
ance to make this remark in a recent leader:
it is a question if much of our railway trouble would
not have been avoided if the actual working of the lines
had been left to private enterprise.
T , . . x -. - xli itr •
it is almost a pity, just to clear up a lot of mis-
conception, that Victoria can t have just one
year’s private railway management. No more
special morning trains to carry Syme’s paper; no
more gratis carriage of Syme’s correspondence;
no more free, or almost free, carriage of starving
stock; no more of the ridiculously unprofitable
rates for the conveyance of Kyabram’s produce;
no more special seed wheat rates; no more free
passes to the rich people who build houses in
Bent’s electorate. What a time Syme’s friends
would have !
“Ed.” on
Bent’s Victorian
railway econo-
mies :
A stationmaster
on the North-east
line, having much
overtime to take
out in holidays,
was notified thft
he could have his
Sundays free; the
Sundays off to
count against the
overtime.
Another S.M. on
the Brighton line
is regularly on
from 5.30 a.m. un-
til 7 p.m.
At an important
junction on the
N.E. line .is a
station -master who
manages the goods
traffic for his own
station and two
other stations, one
a busy wood-siding
His hours are from
7.30 a.m. until 9.45
p.m. Goods trains
average three to
the hour. He re-
ceives trucks from
the two unmanned
stations, des-
patches empties to
the same, receives
payments for all
goods for his own
and other two
stations; iis post-
master, receiving
and delivering
mails, manages
telegraphing, sells
tickets, keeps the station books, and is responsible for
the signals. For all this he receives less money than
he was paid 15 years ago.
And with all this, Bent shows the railway deficit
almost doubled in a single year.
Wilks, M.H.R., has stated that as regards
the Federal elections he doesn’t care “ whether a
Laborite or a Freetrader or a Protectionist is re-
turned so long as he is a Protestant.” And having
laid down this rule the Wilks push will put for-
ward a crowd of violent Foreign-traders on the
Orange ticket and denounce Protectionists who
don’t vote for them as minions of the Pope.
Also if a violently Protestant Protectionist stands
against the violently Protestant Foreign-trade
Wilks the latter won’t retire for the good of the
Yellow Pup cause—not even if the splitting of the
Protestant vote is liable to end in a Jesuit being
returned.
According to the cable, ex-Agent-General
Oockburn, of S.A., has made this very deep
remark about preferential trade :
The Colonists have discarded the false lights of
doctrinaires and reverted to common-sense empiricism
and the power of adaptation to circumstances, which
may, and can alone, maintain the Empire.
Apparently the men who interpret cables at this
end haven’t a glimmer of intelligence. “ Reverted
to common-sense empiricism and the power of
adaptation to circumstances ” ! Think of offering
that vague, capsized maundering—a sort of a
nothing standing on its head—as the opinion of
somebody of importance.
The Carruthers party lost little time in
carrying out its threat to block business in
N.S.W. Assembly. When Fegan, M.L.A.,
joined the Cabinet as an Honorary Minister, he
naturally forfeited his position on the Public
Accounts Committee, for the simple reason that
no member of the Government is allowed thereon.
On a motion to appoint a successor Carruthers
speech on the point of order that the
House technically did not know that a vacancy-
existed. The Government withdrew the motion
immediately Carruthers made bis point of order,
but the Opposition took up the best portion of the
sitting by wearily belaboring the dead technicality.
“ Mr. O’Sullivan, interviewed in Mel-
bourne, said that he had nothing to be ashamed
of; a policy of political patronage had been
inaugurated by his predecessor.”
“What d’ye mean,’’ said Mister Owe’See,
“ What d’ye mean by blaming me?
It was ’Tater Young who started to mix
The Fitzroy Dock up with polities.
“ Citizen Doolan worked in the dirt,.
And he made a claim when he soiled his shirt;
Young bid two bob and I bid three . . .
Ain’t I cleared myself?” said Mister Owe’See.
The report of the Federal Commission on
a possible capital is a dreadful blow to the foolish
Sydney Telegraph which recently announced so
confidently that a site in the Orange district was
the one selected as the best. The report reckons
Tumut the best for climate, fertility, cheap-
ness and abundance of water supply ; and gives
Albury the palm in most other directions. Water
works to supply a population of 50,000 are esti-
mated to cost £200,000 at Tumut, £380,000 at Lake
George, £391,000 at Armidale, and £1,207,000 at
Orange. Tumut is reckoned to have available
water sufficient for 1,000,000 people ; Albury for
900,000; Lake George for 552,000; Bombala for
530,000; Armidale for 480,000; Orange for only
225,000. On the Commission’s report the struggle
seems to lie between Tumut and Albury.
Extract from leading article in that;
crusted Tory paper, the Launceston (Tas.) Ex-
aminer •
. _ .., , , , ~ , . _ .
We have a Closer Settlement Act on the Statute Book
which is a dead letter. The Legislative Council cut out
the vital section dealing with compulsory acquisition of
land, on the plea that plenty would be offering. They
were entirely wrong. None is offering, and trains are
kemg run daily through unproductive areas which should
he yielding tonnage for them to carry,
It was the Upper House that spoiled the measure
as usual. The Examiner, when the abolition of
the Upper Idiot is suggested, always says in-
dignantly that it is a bulwark of the Constitution,
In between times it forgets and admits its regret
that its bulwark is such a dashed useless, inter-
fering old fool.
CLASS LEGISLATION.—SOOLING ’EM ON.
IRVINE (to Colao farmers): “The one bulwark against such ideas ” (labor-
politics) “was to have a large number of small freeholders —an increase
of farmers —who must be always opposed to such legislation.”
When the P. and 0.. steamer Oceana
steamed into Melbourne on November 3rd, 1901,
with its seals broken, the Foreign-trade assort-
ment that barks at the behest of Mcßillion was-
jubilant. It confidently declared that an appeal
to the Privy Council would break up
case and made no secret of its desire to see the
law of its own country flouted by foreign ship-
owners. Now information comes by cable that
the Privy Council has declared in favor of King-
ston and the right of Australia to control its own
coastal trade. The importers’ press mentioned the
decision as briefly as possible in its cable news,,
and then there was a great silence.
A. R. Addison, M.P. —a fearsome person,
evidently—got up in the S.A. Leg. Council,,
t’other day, and spoke thusly on the Murray
waters question :
Not only was he prepared to fight the question with his
coat off, but, if necessary, he would take up his rifle.
If New South Wales and Victoria denied South Australia
riparian rights it wou'd be the duty of the Government
to send an army into the neighboring States and destroy
their irrigation works.
This poor excited beggar apparently doesn’t
realise yet that S.A. hasn’t any army, though the-
Australian Government has one. And if S.A.
had an army, that force would have a very long
dry tramp before it reached any N.S.W. or Vic-
torian irrigation works to destroy them, and the
native bear is very scarce on the road, and even
the caterpillar is an uncertain refreshment this
year.
The N.S.W. Labor party has now pub
itself in such a position that N.S.W. has to con-
sider whether it will have to get rid of its Labor
party in order to get rid of the Owe Sullivan
disease. It has directly identified itself with
Owe’Sullivanism. It moved, and was instru-
mental in carrying, the motion which white-
washed political corruption, folly and waste. And
it has directly challenged the people to consider
whether any solvent kind of government is pos-
sible while the Labor party holds the balance of
power. The Labor party wasn’t compelled to-
vote for the Owe’Sullivan infamy—it could have-
secured from any possible Premier a guarantee
that there would be no going back on the } ath
of democratic legislation. It voted for political
waste and corruption quite needlessly, and thereby
did itself the worst injury it has received up to
date.
A Maoriland pressman writes :
In connection with the Maoriland licensing muddle,
things are much as they were. The Local Option poll
came into force on July Ist. In Newtown, where Prohi-
bition was carried and the poll was upset, and the com-
mittee refused to grant licenses (because the law said in
one place-that it must grant them and in another that it
mustn’t), the publicans are still plying the beer pump,
and nobody knows what to do. Seddon distinctly stated
at the top of his voice several times in pre-sessional
addresses, that he was going to introduce reforms in the
licensing laws, and solder it up in the hundred and one
spots, the weakness of which has recently been revealed.
Yet in the Governor’s speech there was no mention of
licensing legislation at all. Consequently Seddon is
being denounced as a trimmer by all hands. He is afraid"
to legislate in the direction of providing for a new poll
for Newtown, or in any future cases where the poll has
been upset, lest by so doing he deals a heavy blow to
Bung, and at the same time he is anxious to conciliate
the Pump party. He is between the devil of Prohibition
and the deep, cold sea of Beer, and he can’t see any way
of pleasing both crowds. Under the cold, stony eye of
the temperance mob and the bleary glare of Bung he is
wriggling ahout and wearing a hunted look and wishing
there was a fence. Seddon hasn’t often used a fence ;
but hitherto when he has Wanted one it has been there.
But there is no fence this time. As I write, the Supreme-
Court is wrestling with an application for a mandamus-.-
to compel the Newtown committee to grant licenses.


Order by Post a Pair of
I
SHOES FOR LADIES.
POST FREE
DUTY FREE
FOR
13/6
All over the States
except W.A.
1
■
This picture represents our
Collarette Shoe at 12/11
a pair ; or, post and duty
paid, 13/6 per pair, to any
place in the Commonwealth except
W.A. We have it in pointed,
medium, or broad toes, or to lace or
button. We submit below, also, prices of
three other kinds of our Ladies’ Shoes, with any
of which we are sure you would be more than satisfied.
Frenoh Patent Vamp Shoes, Vioi Kid Backs, button or lace, on modish lasts, 17/6,
post and duty free, 18/3.
Black Vici Lace Shoes, patent tips, pointed, medium, or wide toes, 12/6, 15/6,
post and duty free, 13/3 and 16/3.
Glace-Kid Evening Shoes, fancy steel buckle, narrow toes, military heels, 11/9,
post and duty free, 12/6.
Shoes Exchanged or money refunded.
CALLAGHAN & SON, ass ceorce st., Sydney.
Another Wonderful
Cure by
VITADATIO
Read fir, Joseph Cox’s Testimony.
Cox’s Villa, Jindalee, N.S.W.,
November 18th, 1901.
Mr. S. A. PALMER,
Dear Sir,—l was a sufferer for about twelve years with
a pain in my left side, on the lungs, and I have been
under several doctors’ treatment without a cure. And I
also had a bad cough, and spat blood and corruption.
The doctors always told me my liver was wrong and out
of order ; and I was subject to asthma, and I had given
up hopes of ever getting right. But on reading of the
wonderful cures of VITADATIO in the papers I thought
I would give it a trial, and, to my great astonishment, it
worked like a marvel on me. I took it for twelve months
at the rate of a large bottle a week, and in October of
1900 (nineteen hundred) two lumps came away from my
side, where I used to have the pains, and I kept on taking
the medicine for a month after, and I felt thoroughly
cured. I have not been troubled with it since,' and that
is eleven months ago. I am able to do a better day’s
work to-day than I could fifteen years ago. I am sixty-
seven years of age, and I feel it has added years to my
life. lam sending this to you for the benefit of other
sufferers, and you are at liberty to do as you like with it.
I am well-known jn Jindalee and Cootamundra districts,
being a resident of thirty-two years. Anyone that wishes
to write to me about my illness, I will be only too happy
to give them all the information I can.
I remain yours gratefully,
JOSEPH OOX
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER,
Mead Office: Clarendon Street N. ,
South Melbourne .
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The price of medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
MESSRS. ELLIOTT BROS., O’Connell-street, Sydney,
Sole Agents N.S.W.
- . . AH Chemists and Storekeepers.
M
Truss
Cdmfort
Is only assured when.trusses
are properly fitted. We sell
the finest trusses made and
have expert fitters on the
premises.
; Elastic Trusses—Single, 155.; Double, 20s.
DENYER BROTHERS,
Medical Supply Depot, Surgical Instrument and
Truss Makers, , „
281 George Street (opp. Hunter-st.), Sydney.
' And at Melbourne.- ~
“OLD TIMES.”
A REMARKABLE BOOK on the early flays. A History
in a unique form. Thousands of interesting facts
and rare engravings. Every phase of life dealt with.
Interesting and sensational reminiscences of Pioneers
(living and dead); educational, instructive, and amusing
information never before published.
Secretary—C. P. COY, 37 Pitt-st., Sydney.
Price—Ordinary Edition, Is. 6d.
Special Edition, 2s. 6d. Postage Free.
.1
I
I*
II
HOTEL DANIELL
(Late inPERIAL),
Corner of GEORGE & ADELAIDE STS.,
[ BRISBANE
“Your Money Back
If You Want It.”
A LTHOUGH the reader of this may be hundreds of
miles away, please believe we mean exactly what
we say. We are Tailors and Outfitters with a reputation
to lose, and permit nobody to say that CHARLES
GILBERT expects a customer to keep what doesn’t
please him. On these lines we have built one of the
largest tailoring trades in the Commonwealth, and if
you write for samples of New Winter Suitings (from
50s. Suit to Measure), self-measuring forms, and
send us a trial order, your dealings with us will be
exactly on this footing. You thus stand to lose nothing,
but we mean to gain your future business.
Queen Street, Brisbane (only).
Rescued from Drink
by a new discovery, odorless and tasteless, which anv lady-
can give in tea, coffee or food. It does its work so silently
and surely that while the devoted wife, sisteror daughter
looks on, the drunkard isreclaimed, even against his will
and without his knowledge and co-operation. Send name
and address to THE EUCRASY CO., 62 HUNTER ST.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W., and they will send you booklet and
particulars free.
Wanted.
iftfANTED, Employment by a private employer or cor-
" poration who regards his or its men as MEN. Have
had 15 years’ experience at railway work, and am a duly
qualified certificated locomotive engine-drivey. Have
also had some little experience at clerical and literary-
\york. An ideal employment would be that of private
secretary to a literary man. Have had some Australian
bush experience. Am married, so a salary or wages is
needful. But the first consideration is that of being
treated as a MAN. •
Apply in first instance to
“MAN,’ Bulletin Office.
The Opal Miner (White Cliffs, N.S.W.)
says: “It has been common rumor that Mr.
Sleath wouldn’t contest this electorate again.
We are in a position to state that this, is not the
case. Richard, of the fatty degeneration and the
broken pledge, has already written to some of his
friends, and we believe that his threatenings are
something awful to listen to.”
Photographure copies of Charles Nuttall’s pic-
ture of “ The Opening of the Commonwealth Parliament ’
are now obtainable from Mr. A. S. Gordon, of Broken
Hill Chambers, Melbourne, or Messrs. W. H. Glen and Co.,
the local retail agents. Nuttall’s clever picture, 50 x 34,
has been faithfully reproduced on a 40 x 20 plate, and the
likenesses of the 350 persons are, in many cases, improved
by the reduction process. To every stout and loyal citi-
zen thus focussed by the camera of history, and to their
heirs and assigns, the photographure will be of abiding
family interest in the future if they make haste to order
a copy now.*
The introduction of a bogus bomb into the
proceedings at Dill Macky’s recent lecture at
Woollougong (N.S.W.], seems to indicate that
fresh sensations are being found necessary to keep
up public interest in the sectarian shindy,
Bishop Stone-Wjgg, of New-Guinea, wants
the next Governor of that territory to be “a
Britisher who has been accustomed to rule coolies. ”
He courteously indicates that an Australian would
probably treat the Papuans as the Australian
aborigines have been treated. The Bishop should
read recent reports from India to judge how the
Britisher treats his nigger. Ar.d, by the way,
our early-days cruelty to the blacks was mostly
the work of Britishers—necessarily so, for there
were no Australians then.
Sir Charles Cameron, M.D., Ex-President
of the Royal College of Surgeons, certi-
fies to the purity of the materials of
which Sunlight Soap is made.
SUNLIGHT
SOHP
REDUCES
EXPENSE
TYPEWRITERS
MM
3 of the World’s Best
rnrrn
New riodel No. 10, adopted by Depts. of
External and Home Affairs.
THE No. 5 DENSMORE.
Fastest machine in the world. Used and endorsed
by Messrs. Dalgety & Co., Sydney.
THE NEW CENTURY.
Velvet touch—as supplied to Governor-General and
Governors of N.S. Wales and Victoria.
UNITED TYPEWRITER AND SUPPLIES CO.,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE and PERTH.
BRISBANE- Webster & Co. ADELAIDE—N. York Import. Co. LAUNCESTON— Hedley —Button.
HARDY BROTHERS,
13 Hunter Street, SYDNEY;
and at 118 Queen Street, BRISBANE.
Presentation Silver
Our Stock of Solid Silver Ware suitable
for Presentation is the Largest in the
Commonwealth*
Special Terms to Race Clubs and Presen-
tation Committees.
Goods forwarded without delay to all parts of
Australia.
Goldsmiths, Jewellers and Silversmiths*
M
1
fzasSE
SKIS
»)lis
S':t
CORSETS
>♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦«
The Recognised Standard
High-Class Corsets
; LATEST SPECIALTY
STRAIGHT FRONT
NOUVELLE FORM
Obtainable from Leading
Drapers Everywhere.
Avoid Inferior Imitations, and see that
»ach pair bears the Manufacturer’s “Trade
Mark ” ou band inside, as above.


Banking, Public Companies, Ac.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
-$5
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
3ST-S,"W.
fflont deplete j).s 1.C0., [td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
* SYDNEY '
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
'-THIS-,
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
FOB
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with*
out Mutual Liability.
Offices • - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Robirts
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bhucb Smith, Esq., M.H.R.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,706,830.
Policies issued 91,305 —assuring £27,614,218.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,981,398.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—eauitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE:.
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
P« Bank of north Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL *700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250 900 ... *350,000
Royal Bank of Queensland
LIMITED.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £456,927
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 176,239
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 58,000
£691,166
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Queensland Smelting Compy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
•DUYEItS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
•*-* Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
eto. For tariff, ap.'ly to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aidershot, Queensland, the Branch
Office, 54 Market-street. Melbourne, or IRWIN HINDS,
Branch Manager, 6 Spring-street, Sydney.
The savings bank
HAS MONEY TO LEND in VICTORIA
at 41 per cent., in sums of £5OO to £15,000, on Town
Properties; and £2OOO to £25,000 on BROAD ACRES
FOR FIVE YEARS, with option of paying off part
half-yearlv.
FARMERS’ CREDIT FONCIER.
Loans from £5O to £2OOO at 4J per cent, for 31J years.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
29 Market-street, Melbourne.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. latd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. VV. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), lion. John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clynb ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farquiiar. J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australia
131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Equitable Building’s, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amoun tof Capital payable by Shareholders 000,000
Total Capital - ». £2,500,000
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) £10,494 16 9
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., 0.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M L C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDIi. A. LANG, Assistant Managei
JAMES MARTIN & CO
161 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY N.S.W.
AS
FOR
ACETYLENE CAS
MARTIN'S Reliable AUTOriATIC GENERATORS
are in daily use throughout New South Wales, and
users everywhere speak of them in the highest terms.
Manufactured from the best Galvanised Steel. Light
your home, church, store, factory, or town with
Martin’s Acetylene Gas. Comprehensive Catalogues
and all other particulars can be obtained from us.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUn at the BEST PRICES.
Sblpplng.
3XT. 33. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Four-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin-screw steamer.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
. TO SINGAPORE,
Via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA.
MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. STETTIN, sth AUGUST.
And Regularly Every 6 Weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent-
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, S3'dney. °
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIH€.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
London .. .. £55 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. £31109 .. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £l2O.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
Huddart, Parker £ (Jo’s Qine
—TO—
MELBOURNE,
LAUNCESTON,
HO II ART,
WEST AUSTRALIA.
NEW ZEALAND POUTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Bates.
Oceanic Steamship Company,
A. and A. LIOXTEI.
TWO Gr R. iV. 3XT D SXCURaiOKTS.
YOSEMITE VALLEY
and CALIFORNIA BIG TREES,
UP IN THE HEART OF THE SIERRA NEVADA MOUNTAINS.
Travellers of note who have visited Switzerland say Yosemite surpasses even the grandeur of the Alps.
£72 (including everything).
HOTEL DEL MONTE
(MONTEREY).
ALL-THE-YEAR-ROUND HEALTH AND PLEASURE RESORT.
£65 (including everything).
Through Passengers to London and American centres may participate in these excursions.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., flanaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
A NOVEL PRESENT.
/AN receipt of P. 0.0, or M.O. for 5/- we will forward to
any address in Australia one of our Handsome
9ct. Gold-filled Round Wire Brooches, with
either Bell, Heart, Anchor or Cross Pendant, guaranteed
the same quality as brooch ; and without pendant, 3/6.
In 15ct. G.F. Twisted Wire, 8/6 ; without pendant. 6/6.
Illustrated Catalogues sent Free. All letters carefully
addressed to R. SIMS, Gold Wire Kins’, Cole’s
Book Arcade, Melbourne, Vic.
NERVOUSNESS.
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH, |
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried in vain every I
advertised remedy, and at last dis- !
covered a SIMPLE MEANS of SELF
CURB, will forward the same, free of I
charge, to anyone interested.
Address i A. MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
EPILEPSY
TRENCH’S
REMEDY
Immediate
Relief.
IS
Permanent
Cure.
Valuable
Pamphlet
Posted Free
CURABLE
THE UNION M’F’G & AGENCY CO.,
359'36i Collins St., Melbourne.
M
DEAF
ST
w
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Deafness
land Hkab Noises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
GXTEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
w. c. ELDBIDGE & GO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
“ I’ll Try It.”
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Capillarine
Posted (under cover
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
I'hs Result.
CRAIG & AITKEIM, N.s •W. Barber’s Supply
House, 680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
FOREIGN STAMPS.
M
/"I HEAP SETS.—4O Japan, Is 6d ;
'- >l 47 Spain, Is 6d; 6 British
Guiana, 6d ; 8 Egypt, 6d ; 16 Heli-
goland, Is; 11 Canada, 6d : 15
Roumania, 6d, 6 United States War-
ships, 3d ; 8 Java, 6d ; 5 Costa
Rica, 4d ; 6 Guatemala, 6d; 12
Indian Telegraphs, 6d ; 20 Brazil,
Is ; 12 Cuba, 9d ; 11 Portugal, 6d.
New Catalogue of Stamps, &c., Gratis. Stamps purchased.
CHARLES DONNE, 346 Little Collins st., Melbourne.
A Policy for the Commonwealth:
A Handy Manual of Politics. By James
Edmond. Price, 6d.; post free from The
Bulletin Office, 7d.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
Grand Excursion to Canada
MOANA, AUGUST 10,
The Fastest and Finest Steamer
on the Pacific.
An Opportunity to See the South Sea
Islands and the Rocky Mountains.
The Finest Scenery in the World.
Send for Illustrated Pamphlet, Furnished Free.
NEXT SAILINGS TO VANCOUVER—
Oct. 5, Nov. 2, Nov. 30.
UNION STEAM BHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
Unrivalled Position in LONDON
(England),
The Langham Hotel
PORTLAND PLACE
And REGENT STREET, LONDON, W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con=
venient and Healthy Locality.
flodern Appointments. Moderate Tariff.
“The Challenge”
Latest Scientific
Punching Machine.
—-—
A new World’s Record of 12251b5. was established on
the above machine at the Royal Agricultural Society's
Show, Sydney, 1903, by Mr. T. W. Aulsebrook, of Messrs.
Aulsebrook and Sons, Ltd., the previous World’s Record,
held by Mr. Robert Fitzsimmons, champion pugilist!
being 10851bs.
The “Challenge” is an Automatic Penny-in-the-Slot
Machine, and is especially suitable for Hotels, Bil.iard
and Refreshment Rooms, Tobacconist Shops, etc.
It is a great attraction to any place, a first class money-
maker, never gets out of order, and requires no attention
whatever.
All other kinds of Automatic Slot Machines kept in
Stock. Illustrated Catalogue posted on application.
J. LANDES,
108 PITT ST., SYDNEY,
Sole A(/ent for Australasia.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK :
By Sixty Bulletin writers. Cloth, 300 pages ;
price, 4s. 6d. From all Booksellers, or the
Publishers, The Bulletin Newspaper Ce., Ltd.,
214 George Street, Sydney, Australia.
STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
THE ADELAIDE
FOE MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULP PORTS!
KSPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhippinprab Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Innamincka,
Friday, July 24.
S.S. Wollowra,
Saturday, August 1
(Without Transhipment).
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Calrna
I S.S. Rockton, July 25.
j-S.S. Innamincka, August 1.
' S.S. Gabo, August 8.
Best and Cheapest ltonte to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are.interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. 8. YU ILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
P AND o COMPANY’S
ROYAL MAIL STEAMER 3
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
_ on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B to £/7
Ditto Ditto Return, £66 to £ll5
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by Orient-Pacific, Messageries
Mari times and N.D.L. Steamers having room.
63 Pitt-street.
A. GORDON WESOHE,
Acting Agent.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE. FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows: -
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77.
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the.Custom*
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and'CSlais.
For further particulars apply at the Company Office*
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
L. BRIOARD, Acting Principal Agent.
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. . BY THE . .
“E. and A.” LINE.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Steamer. Tns f Commander. LeaveSyilnoy
EASTERN
♦AUSTRALIAN
EMPIRE
•EASTERN
3600 Winthrop Ellis .. August 5
3000 W. G. McArthur.. September 2
4500 P. T. Helms .. September 30
3600 Winthrop Ellis .. October 28
•DOes riot call at Port Darwin;
EVERY CONVENIENCE FOR A TROPICAL VOYAGE.
The Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Europe via Canada,
U.S. America, or the Trans-Siberian Railway.
Forhandbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.,
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-st., Sydney.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHUjA, bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS it
Sept. 28, 1895, says;
“If I were asked which single medicine T should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forma
its best recommendation.”
CHLORODYNE
LADIES 1
HAIR
DRESSERS
CRAIG &
AITKEN.
Tel, 1198.
THE most charming and slylish
Transformations and semi-
Transformations you ever
saw from 21/- each. Switches of
hair from 5/6. Your own Comb-
ings made up into Switches at
2/6 per oz. Specific Lotion, an
unfailing remedy for falling hair
and eradicating dandruff, 3/6 per
bottle.
Supply stores wholesale, human
hair merchants, assistants en-
gaged and sent anywhere.
Mail orders receive special
attention.
Price Lists on application.
680-682 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
A.t Dawn and Busk:
*7 V. J. Bales:. Ip handsome elotli,
with portrait, rrica ss.


TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-'
ver s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere. > •
BEAUTIFUL EYES & LASHES.
MORRIS’S^
imperial
IMPERIAL.”
wu
-t„ -
chemists & stores. ]
EV>e * *
©intment
’ Adds lustre, strengthens vision,
restores lashes. No toilet table
completewHhonirit. - Pots 2/*
Post 2/ 2 tvcm Proprietary .Melb!
“ Ranger ” Guns
made to our order by the Remington Arms
Co. Am.
Sale Old
Price Price.
No. 1, 12 bore, 30in. barrels ... £4 £5 10s
No. 3, with Ejector Mechanism £8 8s £lO
Scott’s Guns
D.8.8.L., 12 gauge.
Sale Old
No. 43970, for Pigeon Shooting £lB £2l
No. 46771, Pigeon, weight 7£lbs. £2O £24
No. 46794/5, Compensation Lever, .£2l £25
I. Hollis & Sons’
D.8.8.L., with Hammers.
Sale Old
Price Price
No. 6721, Twist Barrels, &c.... £3 10s £4 10s
No. H. 205, Bar-action, Sco. ... £4 10s £5
No. H. 206, Treble Bolt ... £5 £6
Single Barrel Collector’s Gun £2 5s £2 15s
Cashmore’s Guns
D.8.8.L., with Hammers. Have an untar-
nished reputation all over the World. Write
for a Descriptive Catalogue. Only a few left.
Ghas. Boswell’s Guns
are of the best quality,
largely used at the traps:
Sale Old
Price. Price.
With Hammers £l5 £lB
Hammerless ... £27 £4O
New Remington No 6
Take-down Rifle, Single
Shot.
Sale Price, 15s.
Old Price, 20s.
REVOLVERS
Webley’s No* 2
320 cal.
Sale Price, 40s.
Old Price, £2 10s.
Wobley’s No MP.
450 cal.
Sale Price, 455.
Old Price. £2 15s.
N
W—j—E
S
You will find Quotations for
many different makes of
GUNS RIFLES
descriptions are not full, but
write for details to
McLean Bros. & Ri gg
LIMITED,
who are selling off their entire
stock of everything. New pre-
mises in which to finish their
Clearing Sale have been leased
for a short time.
279 Lonsdale Street,
Melbourne.
Sale Old
Price. Price.
No. 1 „. £5 £6 10s
No. 3 ... £5 10s £7
No. 5 «. .£6 £7 10s
No. 7 ~ £7 £lO
No. 11 ... £lO £l3
Bull’s Eye Rifle
for "22 cal. ammunition,
an accurate shooter and
well made in every respect.
Sale Price, 9s 6d
Old Price, 13s
Cartridges
Sale Old
Price. Price.
Cannonite ... 9s. 11s.
U.M.C. Nitro
Club ... 9s. 10s.
Southern Cross 7s. Bs.
Witton
(Rabbit) 6s. 7s.
McLEAN BROS. & RIGG, LTD.
279 LONSDALE STREET, MELBOURNE.
'5
»7v.. :
'J V*« • ■ ,N* *
■v-i>;r>v-vs
w •»'*>
rtf?
ea
BNWfcM'
EVERYTH INC
“
this paper
ItfililiioLUNS ST
IIpt#p£;;MELBOURNE.
M
™ E CENTURY THERMAL BATH CABINET
is equal to A DOCTOR IN EVERY HOME*
THOUSANDS CLADLY TESTIFY TO THIS FACT !
Hot-air and Vapour Baths administered by this Cabinet are
a speedy cure for RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA, BRONCHITIS,
GOUT, LIVER and KIDNEY TROUBLES, INFLUENZA,
COLDS, FEVERS—in fact, there is no disease which can resist
the power of heat as applied by this Cabinet. 300,000 now
being used in Great Britain weekly.
PRICES, delivered, 30/- to 84/-. *
Write to-day for descriptive Booklet—FßEE.
.Century Thermal Bath Cabinet Co. Ltd.( DBPT - 8 >
!(Sole Agents Wanted for Sydney.)
ALEX. TROUP, Manager,
Royal Arcade, Elizabeth-st. Entrance, MELBOURNE.
SORE
SINGLETONS EYE OINTM ENT
FOR SORB AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYELASHES.
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES.
NEVER RAILS.
Ask your Chemist for the Little Book:
‘HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES
CURED
CITIZENS’ LIFE
Assurance
Co., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Citizens’ Buildings, Moore and Castlereagh Streets, Sydney.
FUNDS
£1,000,000.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
on security of Freehold City or Suburban Properties,
good Dairy Farms, Agricultural and Grazing Lands
(Freehold or C.P. and C. L.) or Government Stock of
any of the Australian States or New Zealand, at Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
LOANS ARRANGED for a fixed term, or made repayable by Instalments,
without notice or payment of any finer
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300 pages; price, 4s. 6d,
According to* Vic. Premier Irvine the
only bulwark against Socialism —•
is to have a large class of small freeholders who must
always be opposed to an increase of Government employ-
ment and Government functions
(except, of course, in the matter of the State
building irrigation works for them and taxing the
city worker to pay the cost). But the question
arises: How does Irvine expect to get all these
small freeholders unless he breaks up the big
estates, and makes the aggregation of further big
estates impossible, by a heavy graduated land
tax and absentee tax? And what is he doing
about it ?
Bully Bent leaves the Victorian Railway
Department, but retains the portfolio of Works.
This means either that Commissioner Tait would
not stand the Bully’s interference, or that the
Works is held to require special rage and
disorganisation. Perhaps it means both. Irvine
takes over the Treasury and the alleged surplus
from Shiels; and Shiels goes to the Railways,
where he will presumably continue to draw £lOOO
a year for doing nothing, and looking limp while
he does it. For, if Commissioner Tait is the
strong man he is supposed to be, there is prac-
tically nothing for a Railways Minister to do save
look limp.
Octavius C." Beale, one of Sydney’s ener-
getic busybodies, and an administrator of the
Drought Fund, informed Premier See that it was
a great pity that his (Octavius’s) suggestion that
wealthy Australians resident in London be
asked to subscribe towards the Drought Fund was
not acted upon. Octavius doesn’t know much
about Socialism, but he’s got a glimmering of
one very good idea. The wealthy Australians
aforementioned should certainly be asked to con-
tribute, and contribute liberally, by means of an
absentee-tax. That is a manner of asking that
won’t take “No!” for an answer.
The electors of Yorke’s Peninsula (S. A.)
have caused a mild sensation by electing an ad-
mittedly dead man to their District Council. And
it wasn’t mere foolishness, but deep political
strategy. Smith and Jones (say) were nominated,
and local feeling ran high. Smith died suddenly
before the polling day; whereupon Jones’s sup-
porters considered the matter settled, and mostly
stayed away from the poll. The Smith people,
however, arranged to go right ahead, and so had
little difficiilty in electing their deceased candi-
date. They explain that this involves a fresh
election, and a chance of electing somebody who,
at any rate, shall not be Jones. Legal opinion,
however, seems to hold that Jones takes the seat
anyway, by default.
N.S.W. Premier See on the censure de-
bate :
Those who went over from the Government to the
Opposition did so from personal motives, and not on
public grounds. They all wanted something from the
Government that they did not get, and because they did
not get it they voted with the Opposition. Well, Mr.
Carruthers was welcome to them. The sooner such
members left the Government party the better.
There were some definite charges to the same
effect during the censure debate—charges that one
man wanted a billet, another a board appoint-
ment, another a seat in the Upper House, and so
on. And Premier See shouldn’t let the matter
end with a querulous complaint, for the sooner
such members leave Parliament the better.
It’s well, and necessary enough, to complain
of political influence in connection with public
works. Yet note the cloven hoof. The S.M.
Herald is horrified to find that “ these men have
full pay for the eight publio holidays that
occur in the year* They have a week’s leave on
full pay every year. They have sick pay for a
week if necessary.” But, while it is so horrible
a thing for the man who works for the State with
a hammer to have these things, the man who
works for it with a pen can have 20 holidays a
year, and a fortnight’s leave, and much besides,
and the Herald isn’t horrified at all. What
does make all this difference between the one man
who works with his coat on and the other who
works with it off ? •
Westralia is still in all the glow of its
young bumptiousness—the railways are new and
don’t cost much for repairs; almost the biggest
debt on earth has been accumulated in 12 years;
the Golden Mile hasn’t died out yet and left the
Coolgardie water scheme a mere pelican in the
wilderness ; the forests are being cut down gaily
and sold; and the border customs are still being
collected, though they will ceaSe shortly. So
Premier James, of W.A., has assured Premier
Jenkins, of S.A., that, if he will help to get the
western transcontinental railway built, James’s
State will gladly pay, for ten years, the share of
the loss which would otherwise fall on Jenkins’s
State. Jamps s State will probably be very sorry
before the end of ten years that it ever mentioned
the subject to Jenkins’s State. But Jenkins’s
State should take the offer with both hands.
The distant fields once more ! No less than
443 emigrants left Melbourne in one recent day
for S’Africa. Some were from Sydney, but the
Cabbage Garden supplied the majority. One
man—who looked as if the loss of a hundred or
two wouldn’t break him— boiled the story of the
crowd down in this fashion :
The lowering of the customs duties from the Victorian
standard has restricted factory employment a good deal,
but that is not all: Victorian policy, political and com-
mercial, is so very *■ saving ** now that presently you will
wake up to find that you have savecfeverything and have
nothing left to save. No one strikes out now, everyone
seeming content to potter along like timorous people who
have had all the soul whipped out of them. *
That is the result of the retrenching, low wages,
sweating, Iceberg policy. Contrast it with another
brand of statesmanship, when Maoriland had
overborrowed and was “sick”—the high pro-
tective policy, combined with the building up of
thriving towns by a land-tax, absentee-tax, com-
pulsory resumption and other means.
Last October Queensland Treasurer Cribb
urged Parliament to pass his new taxation pro-
posals, and promised a surplus of £9OOO. The
proposals were passed. Since then the drought
has partly broken up ; Federal Treasurer Turner
has given Queensland £96,000 more than was
expected; the dividend-tax and poll-tax have
yielded £56,000 more than was expected—and the
Government of Blatant Incapables has a new
deficit of about £191,000. Philp’s Ministry has
been in office 3| .years, and has bad three huge
deficits. The otner day it orated in Brisbane
about what would happen if the Labor crowd got
into power,- Gould the Labor party well have
more than three tremendous deficits in 3J years?
Assiduous underground engineering goes
on to induce John Hughes, M.L.C., to jump
Carruthers’ post. Hughes has been in the Council
since 1895 and, except in sectarianism, expresses
fully the old Parkes ideas.
“ Mr. Taverner is certainly hampered to a
great extent by the absence of any compulsory
resumption clause in the Land A.ct . . . but a
greater power is almost certain to be given later
on .” Victorian Presbyterian Messenger.
Gradually the shadows fall for Victoria’s selfish
and unpatriotic squattoerats.
Sydney University Library goes Up rapidly,
but Sydney new Public Library has not made a
start. Parliament voted money for the latter a
dozen years ago, but the cash was used for other pur-
poses. Parliament refused to vote money for the
former three years ago, but in a subsequent ses-
sion the Minister brought in the estimate at 2
a.m., and carried it.
Argument used by the plutocrats for
whom Australia helped to subjewgate the Rand
(Jo’burg Leader) :
History has a curious trick of repeating itself. What
was true" of Australia in 1878 appears to be equally true
of the Witvvatersrand in 1903. But it should be noted,
and history records the fact, that the Chinaman proved
an invaluable auxiliary in developing Australian gold-
fields 1
Shades of Lambing Flat! The Chinaman an in-
valuable auxiliary in developing Australian gold-
fields !
This is the age of huge projects. Among
those now mooted are a ship canal across Scotland,
to cost £10,000,000 (if much more of that small
country is dug out for canals there will be no
country left); a ship canal across Russia, to con-
nect the Black and Baltic Seas; a ship canal
across France, to enable the largest vessels to pro-
ceed from the Bay of Biscay to the Mediterranean;
a bridge, 107 miles long, to connect Asia and
America at Behring Strait; and a railway from
Buenos Ayres to Paris. Also, George Reid has a
scheme on hand for being an ardent and con-
scientious Freetrader who raises revenue solely
through Customs duties.
The Westralian Laborites have begun to
sort out their Federal candidates. Nobody offered
to contest Swan against Bigjohn ; and nobody
wanted to disturb Fowler and Mahon, present
members of the party, in Perth and Coolgardie.
Kirwan belied rumor and did not seek his ticket
for Kalgoorlie ; and no very well-known man is
in the list of his probable opponents. Carpenter,
ex-M.L.A. of S.A. —for some time the O’Malley’s
colleague—is the most conspicuous of the candi-
dates for the Fremantle nomination. Thirteen
others contest, with sitting Senator De Largie,
the Senate nominations.
The Melbourne dailies, which have now
commenced more or less to belabor the Iceberg
Government, make it pretty plain that one reason
for doing so is Irvine’s uncommunicativeness.
Irvine, foisted on the public as a “cool, calm,
strong man ” by the newspapers, to serve their own
ends, has from the first been hostile to pressmen.
During the railway strike he enjoined his Minis-
ters to say nothing, and also said nothing himself
beyond the kind of thing that was necessary to
help along the mendacious cause of his Govern-
ment. The same rule has since been kept up.
Shiels’ old habit of climbing out of windows and
rushing out of unexpected doors to avoid the
reporters probably cost him his Premiership
earlier than would otherwise have been the case,
and Irvine is going the right way about losing the
number of his political mess.
The Maoriland Ministry is subdivided into
about 24 portfolios—those of Premier, Minister
for Works, ditto of Mines, ditto of Defence, ditto
of Native Affairs, ditto of Labor, Commissioner of
Trade and Customs, Postmaster-General, Electric
Telegraph Commissioner, Treasurer, Attorney-
General, Colonial Secretary, Minister of Marine,
ditto Education, Commissioner of Stamp Duties,
Minister of Justice, ditto Lands, ditto Immigra-
tion, ditto Agriculture, Commissioner of Forests,
Minister of Railways, ditto Public Health, and
sometimes Minister of Industries; also occasion-
ally Trade is separated from Customs. As a rule
Seddon totters under about seven portfolios and
Ward under six, but McGowan never yearns for
more that two.
In Queensland, as in N.S.W., the woman
vote will add something substantial to the elec-
toral power of Brisbane and the coastal towns,
and take something from the back-country. Five
bush and five town State electorates compare this
way in the matter of the female vote:
Burke .. 189 Brisbane S. .. 5100
Bulloo .. ... 229 O. Towers .. 4461
Carpentaria .. 280 Fortitude Valley 4154
Gregory.. .. 376 Brisbane N. .. 3606
Croydon „ 485 Toombul .. 3510
Totals .. 1559 20,831
In the State Parliament the “bush’’group has
five members, the “ town” group nine.
Events prove that in N.S.W. at least the
Premier should always be Treasurer, and no man
who isn’t fit to be Treasurer should be Premier.
The Treasurer should always be in a position to
say a loud and final “No ” to spending proposals
when the money isn’t available, and he can only
do that when he is boss. Turner was his own
Treasurer in Vic., and Holder in S.A., with good
results. Reid was his own Treasurer in N.S.W.,
and had a .£600,000 shortage in ’96, but then Reid
didn’t know finance; he only knew the three-card
trick. Parkes believed in. the combination of the
Premiership and Treasurership, but he knew that
the public would shriek with laughter at the
idea of Henry the Spendthrift running the public
finances. He held the Treasury one time for
three or four days, but it was kept dark from the
public till his colleague recovered.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance
is solicited


Sick Headache
Cored by Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills.
When the food is improperly digested and
becomes clogged in the intestines, sick headache
is almost sure to follow. Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills strike at the cause aiding digestion—
cleansing the system and making the stomach
clean and pure. They assist nature in the dis-
charge of all her functions, increase the appetite,
produce sound sleep, and give elasticity to the
spirits. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a
permanent cure for all diseases arising from a
disordered condition of the stomach, liver and
kidneys. They purify the blood and make it rich
and red, and are a positive cure for biliousness,
indigestion, constipation, headaches, sallow com-
plexion, piles, pimples, boils and blotches and for
female ailments. Packed in amber bottles with
the full name blown thereon.
ACCEPT NO SUBSTITUTES.*
RESCH S SELECT STOCK ALE and LAGER
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives. BREWERY and OFFICES: DOWLING ST., EEDFEEN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Died, last week, cunning little Tom Wilson,
who trained horses for Adam Lindsay Gordon, in the 60’s.
Tommy s star was at the zenith in ’B9, when he won the
Melbourne Cup for W. T. Jones with Bravo, and had. the
old Caulfield Cup wihnerj Oakleigh, also in training.
Jones being in England at the time, the management of
Lravo was left to Tommy Wilson and another party who
represented the owner. They were to get a share of any
stakes won by Bravo during the season. Trainer Tommy
was in favor of reserving Bravo for Melbourne Cup,
whereas the other man, guided by jockey Mick O’Brien,
made up his mind to send the horse for Caulfield Cup.
Tm Bulletiu, years ago, told the story of how Tommy
stiffened Bravo for the C.C. At 5 o’clock on the
morning of the race he gave the horse a rousing four-mile
gallop, with the result that, when he was brought out
for the Cup* at 3 o’clock .in the afternoon, the jockey
couldn’t get him extended until he was near the end of
the journey. Then he came with a rush from the rear
and finished third. On returning to the paddock Mick
O’Brien, never dreaming .of the trick that had been
played, told Tommy Wilson that it would be well to ease
Bravo in his work, as he was “too full of muscle.”
Tommy took the horse back tO'Ballarat, made a great to*
do about him having gone lame through a nail in his
foot, and a fortnight .later Bravo won the Melbourne Cup.
A hero of former days, poor old Progress, met
his end by means of the “friendly bullet "a few days
ago. The old racehorse was close on 26 years of age, and
had lately become decrepit and a burden to himself.
Progress had the bad luck; to be sired in the same year as 1
the meteoric Grand Flaneur, and ran second to him
in the Derby and Cup of 1880, besides several minor
races. When Grand Flaneur retired from the turf
through lameness, after competing in the Town Plate a
year later, Progress was easily on top, and had a great
innings at the A.J.C. meeting, winning the St. Leger,
Sydney Cup, Cumberland Stakes and A.J.C. Plate, and
he followed this up by several successes at Adelaide. He
closed his racing career as a four-year-old, and went to
the stud, but was not a success as a getter of stock. He
spent his last days in peace-a pensioner on the Bun-
doora estate of Mr. J. V. Smith.
• * * •
Rather disgusting to hear that some of the
books professed to be “out” by the victory of Grafnell
in the Grand National Steeple, as the result of having
, “laid one of tbe stable connections a very nice wager in
order to induce him to accept for the race.” Punters are
gravely informed by the “respectable” press that the
hooks were solely .responsible for the starting of Grafnell.
They thought the Grafton horse might beat the favorites,
so they bribed the owner or owners to give the youngster
a run. Candid racing men have had the hardihood to
oppose the tote on the ground that bookmakers are abso-
lutely necessary conveniences to owners ; and, in the light
of the Grafnell story, this theory presents almost the
appearance of truth. Ikey Mo. is certainly the guide,
philosopher and friend of owners who need “ inducing ”
with “ a very nice wager.” The tote doesn’t set apart a
portion of its receipts to form an inducement fund. No-
body runs his horse (or scratches it) by private arrange-
ment with the machine.
•»* * *
Wootton’s Wyena’s running in Warwick Farm
big event week before indicated that her chance of
annexing Rosehill Handicap (lm. Sf.) last Saturday was
second to none, and money came accordingly till 5 to 2
against needed a lot of looking for. But Miss Trenchant
succeeded easily, with Wyena second. Winner was well
backed down to fives, despite that Saturday prior, at
Warwick Farm, she ran a very poor sixth to Vocalist,
who cantered home five lengths ahead. Miss T’s weight
at “the Farm” was 81b. (7.8) greater than at Rosehill,
but at latter place she had Jfur. further to go. If she
tries, same mare will probably win again at Canterbury
Park, Saturday, 25th. Early punters rushed Haut Star
for this event, and took 5 to 2 in some places, but
ere flag fell, the “ books ” severely taxed their throats in
endeavors to lay 12 and 15 to 1 against, and Haut Star
ran accordingly—last; but, all the same, should not be
lost sight of, for he’s a rare good one when properly
labelled.
» * * *
One of the hottest finishes seen for years was in
Highweight Handicap (6fur.) at Rosehill on Saturday.
At last 200yds. the race looked a moral for the leader,
Bum Dum, when Vanlock (about whom 15 to 1 was taken
when betting began, and who started at “ fives”), and
previously much-tipped, but disappointing, Turquoise
closed up, and a battle royal to the post saw all three
pass the judge abreast. Verdict was a head win for Tur-
quoise, with'probably a nose between Vanlock and Dum
Dum. Jacobite started favorite and (taking part in a
race for the first time) got away tardily ; he was last of a
very much spread field ere getting over the first furlong,
but subsequently came with a rush and finished a close
fourth. Jacobite is a big possibility for the Spring Han-
dicap. He is a 2yr.-old brother to Dewey (a Caulfield Cup
winner) by Lochiel from Dona. Strangely enough, the
first and second in the same race owe origin to Lochiel.
* • * *
i Soft successes at South Australian Tattersall’s
meet, Saturday', were Corizann’s and Footmark’s. Former
(the Nautilus-Silver nag who, a week or two back, landed
a div. of £53 odd) again paid £21165. for every sov. on
him. Corizann and Footmark each Has 6.8 in Caulfield
Cup. Corizann’s Melbourne Cup load is 6.12—121 b. less
than Saturday’s feather, which enabled him to shape the
winner from jump to judge. Footmark spread-eagled
her field, and, passing the post, had a margin of 12 lengths
to the good.
* * * *
Ancient marvellous gelding Brummy (once in
“ Bill ” Long’s stable) has been stirring things up some
among Victoria’s unregistered. All burdens so far have
been humped with apparent ease. Latest boil-over was
at Ascot last week, when Brummy, with 11.11 up, covered
4fur. in 581-sec., and could have done better if necessary.
Neckersgat-Paigle nag, Lord Kitchener, recently
secured for stud duties, broke a thigh while running in a
Westralian paddock. In his time L.K. gathered, among
other events, S.A.J.C., Somerton and Accession Handi-
caps, Tatts. July Handicap, and Gawler Prince of Wales
H&ndiCB>p«
* * • *
Trainer (T. Wilson) of three Caulfield and two
Melb. Cup winners died at Ballarat t’other day aged 73
years.
* • • •
Westerly’s third in V.R.C. Grand National
’Chase surprised M.L..(whence he came) turf people, who
rated him not by any means high. Previous to leaving
for Australia he could get no nearer than third in each of
two hack hurdle races at Woodville R.C. meet, Feb. last.
All the same, Westerly’s strain of blood is particularly
good—he is by Westmere (grandson of Musket) from
Maitua, daughter of Cadogan and Maritana, by Traducer.
* * * *
Flemington’s history reveals that Grafnell is
the third nag to win Maiden and Grand National
Steeples in one year. Previous two were Fearless 11.
(1890) and Hayseed (1897).
* * * •
The V- A.T.C. gave punters a disastrous meeting
at Caulfield last Saturday, when never a favorite, nor
second favorite, got home in any of the six events. About
90 per cent, of the dejected backers having failed to strike
a winner in five tries, the sixth race was a desperate
“ recovery ” stakes, and eight out of the twenty starters
were supported more or less freely. The result was
utterly woeful. A couple of “ any price ” outsiders
finished first and second, and the meeting dispersed with
wild staring eyes. Even the “ books " were thoughtful,
for the weight of their bags warned them that some of
their customers would swear off for the next six months,
if not for ever. Among the non-triers for the last two
flat races, whose names don’t figure in the quotations, the
winner of next Caulfield Cup was possibly concealed.
This is the time of the year when winning form throws no
light on the Spring handicaps, whereas the unmistakable
stiff 'uns cast their shadows before.
• * * •
The starters for last English Derby were
seemingly a poor lot. In the £lO,OOO Eclipse Stakes, a
w.f.a. race, the 1902 Derby winner (Ard Patrick) beat
Sceptre, who took the other principal 3-year-old races,
whilst Rock Sand, the winner of this year’s Derby, could
only finish third. An Australian Eclipse Stakes, on a
reduced scale, might serve to keep this country in
possession of its “ crack ” horses. Under present condi-
tions they are practically under offer to foreign buyers
as soon as their excellence is proved, because they have
no valuable w.f.a. engagements ahead.
* * * *
The impression that remarkable Victorian pacer
Almont came from America is wrong ; he was bred in
M.L. and is by Rothschild from Puella. At breaking of
late Mr. H. Mace’s stud Mr. Barber, of Melbourne, got
him for 640 gs. Before leaving M.L. the nag covered
2m. in 4.46.
* * * *
Despite that Geelong R.C.’s balance - sheet
showed a credit of £lOl, matters with that body have
been for some time very much of a hand-to-mouth nature.
During past 4 years 5 out of 7 consecutive meets have
had to be postponed or abandoned. Club has only 100
members at a guinea each and roll threatens to dwindle
still further. Absolute collapse seems probable.
“ Polstan ” : Once knew a man to bet that he
would eat 24 bananas in five minutes. He managed 23.
He still had half a minute left, but the fruit, not the
time, had him beaten.
* * * *
It is announced from Maoriland that Mr.
Tanner, the diver of New Plymouth, who came into
prominence in connection with the wreck of the
Elingamite, intends touring the world in a barrel. This
barrel will carry a sail, will be ballasted with lead, and
will be open at the top to form a cabin. Mr. Tanner is
confident of success, but The Bulletin reckons there
are pleasanter ways of dying than foundering off Cape
Horn in a keg.
♦ * * *
This is a description of a billy-goat race, which
was lately reported out Mackay (Q.) way “There were
six entries—namely. Barton, Kingston, Lyne, Deakin,
Bamford, and Glassey. There was some trouble in getting
a fan* start. Barton, a fine, fat goat of the Angora type,
appeared to require all the track. This Lyne resented,
horns were freely used ; Bamford also gave some trouble.
This animal, a jet black, was hopelessly outclassed. King-
ston, a fine grey goat, should have made the pace warmer.
I am given to understand he got at the clothes line the
night previous and gorged himself with a baby’s flannel-
ette nightdress. Glassey made a hard fight, but his
horns appeared to be always in the way. Some of the
animals have acquired the very useful practice of pulling
in their horns when closely pressed. Deakin, a very use-
ful animal with a perfect temper, would have made the
race warm on a straight course. A protest was lodged
against Barton for wilful jostling, but after an exhaustive
inquiry the committee disallowed the protest, on the
grounds that Barton did not deviate from his usual
course.”
* * » *
Sydney tramway and railway employees’ 10-mile
walk, Saturday, saw 38 of 49 entrants line up, and also
saw a dozen, more or less, in it after first few miles. Pace
set by cross-country champion, “Wally” York, found
heaps of weak spots, and the incapable were plentiful
early. Still, 10 completed an estimated 10 miles (latter
part of which was through fairly busy thoroughfares)
inside two hours, and two were right on that time. York
won in 1.44, with second man, Denham, lmin. behind,
and a couple of others a dead-heat for third. Remark-
able how the thing caught on with the public. Hun-
dreds saw the start at Sans Souci and gathered at different
points along the route, while thousands witnessed the
finish. This in face of the big football match, Rosehill
races, &c.
* * * *
Among Australian disciples of Sandow the
most impressive young muscleman is C. A. Weber, on
account of his versatility. Weber last year won the
5-mile Amateur Cycling championship of Victoria on the
track, and the 25-mile championship on the road, taking
both events before he had come to 20 years of age. He
scored second places in the amateur high jump and the
i-mile hurdles. He runs, swims and pole-jumps with the
best of them. When he was an overgrown boy of from
16 to 17, clerking in an office, Weber went in for
the Sandow exercises, with ordinary 21b. dumb-
bells at first. He had turned 19 before he became
the possessor of a bike. The first time he made
the easy journey from Brighton to Melbourne
he was so much of a novice that he didn’t attempt to ride
up the St. Kilda hill, but preferred to get off the machine
and push it. Six months later he was the Vic. Amateur
Champion. Sandowism had given his 19-year-old
material the capacity for speed and endurance, and all he
needed was a little practice on the wheel. Granting that
he comes of a strong family and stands 6 feet in his socks,
there is no arguing against the fact that young “C.A. ”
by devoting himself to the system—the concentration of
mind upon muscle—has already made himself much
stronger than three elder Weber brothers, all of whom
lead healthy, active lives.
* * * *
The Victorian Club billiard tournament this
year resulted in a win for bookmaker Sammy Allen, who
was favorite at 100 to 7 before the first round commenced.
Samuel being one of themselves the books didn’t howl
and bark at him as they would have barked and howled
at a privately trained good thing, such as the Mr.
Prosper,” who took them down some years ago.
* * • *
Hazard ” writes: Nerve-faddists may note
that, although billiardist Stevenson belongs to the
nervous type and is decidedly high-strung, he owns up to
liking. a whisky-and-soda now and then.” And if
whisky is “off ” he is “ willing to take anything else on
m small doses,” but doesn’t care for beer, it being
heady and heavy.” Is a smoker of pipe, cigar, or
cigarette, whichever is nearest to hand, in moderation,
and ‘ can knock it off for a week or a month without any
inconvenience.” Thinks my Lady Nicotine soothes the
nerves, which is good, as billiard playing has the opposite
effect. Also believes in amateur referees, as the pro-
fessional is generally a minor player who occasionally
tours with the champions and has his likes and dislikes.
Stevenson also complains that, whatever trouble occurs, in
an English match he is always expected to “ be agreeable
and make concessions.”
* • * •
Billiardist Stevenson’s second big match in
Sydney began and ended last week, when he conceded
Frank Smith 1800 in 5000, and beat him by 1321. First
day visitor made runs of 90, 85, 176 (in 12min.), 50, 106
102, 171, 50, 51, 86, 108, 57, and 140 unfinished. Second
day saw him pile up breaks of 210 (140 of which showed
on the board previously), 85, 336 (nurseries and winning
hazards, with occasional drop cannons and masse
strokes), 130, 88, 130, 52, 188, 115, 110, 156, and 86
(unfinished). Third and last day’s compilation was : Un-
finished 86 of evening before carried to 160, then 225, 61
6S, 77, 154, 88, 137, 74, 50, and, finally, 500 made up of a’
remarkable number of nursery cannons; during the
effort Stevenson only played from baulk four times. The
putting together of the 500 occupied 29Jmin. Display
was fast, crisp, and sure, and the collapse occurred over
a wide cannon. Smith paled to insignificance compara-
tively ; through the match he accumulated scores of 52
62, 114, 50, 64, 57, 52, 57, 64, 94, and 61.
* * * «
Attendance at first N.S.W.-M.L. struggle was
the highest recorded in N.S. W. for a football match.
* » • *
Saturday’s big Rugby match was expected to
demonstrate the . comparative merits of M.L. and
N.S.W. methods, i.e., the seven men in the scrum, two
five-eights, and three three-quarters system, in vogue on
t’other side of the Tasman, opposed to N.S.W.’s eight
pack and four three-quarters. But owing to the all-one-
way-nature of the game no opportunity occurred for
passing judgment—it may come in subsequent matches.
* » ♦ *
Considering the decided roughness of some
Maorilanders on Saturday, one is inclined to think that
had the day gone against them instead of all their way
the match might have degenerated into a veritable
Donnvbrook. Force is looked for in such vigorous games
as football, but force isn’t necessarily actual fight, such
as at least two of the visitors evidenced when they got
something the worse of tactics, and which offences
I*2 th f P erem Ptory ordering of one player off
the field (followed by a great roar of hoots), ancf the sub-
sequent cautioning of another, whose display of temper
escaped the referee’s attention at the time. Both cases
will be duly dealt with. Unless the visitors evince a
better spirit henceforth they’ll find themselves severely
disliked and their tour a comparative failure. M L
players andM.L. spectators complain of lack of apprecia’-
tion for or sympathy with the visitors on the part of the
spectators, but the spectators were there to see a football
match and not a slugging competition. The roughness
disgraceful unnecessary ’ often »P»teful, and altogether
* * * *
M.L.-N.S.W. football riot, at Sydney Cricket
Ground, Saturday, drew 32,000 people, and panned out
as anticipated. The visitors won easily, but not with
nearly as much to the good as would have been the case
had they been in Sydney a week instead of three days,
wq ™ e V e u° ff during the second half, and enabled
JN.S.VV to show better comparatively. M.L. literally
overwhelmed the home team ; dribbling l and passing with
precision that made the other 15 look very ordinary in
marking high punting, and pace generally (sea-legs not-
withstanding), M.L. was much superior. Scrum-work
S « W combination shine occasionally, but sure and
effective tackling of t’other side minimised results. First
half brought M.L. 9 points to NiS.W.’s nil, the latter
never threatening trouble. In second term, a little luck
would have seen N.S.W. score once or twice, and their
defence looked better because the vigor of the opposing
force had petered out a great deal. N.S.W. didn’t once
rise to ordinary crack club form. Newtown, as that club
has been shaping this season, would have shown a much
bolder front and done better every way. Altogether it
was a sorry thing as a match, pure and simple, and this
not because the required material isn’t in the cornstalk
state, but owing to the way the selection of the team was
bungled.
* * * *
. freely stated in Adelaide that the heavy beat-
ing S.A. got at football in Melbourne was chiefly due to
dissensions in the team that went over. Direct charges
laid by the manager against one player are being investi-
gated by the Association, and a second 18, pitted against
the beaten one, kicked 10 goals, 15 behinds, only losing
by 9 points in a heavy-scoring game. With several
judicious changes, S.A. expects to make a good show in
the return match at Adelaide on August 2.
* * * *
Return Q.-N.S.W. football match on ’Varsity
Oval (Sydney), last week, despite better weather condi-
tions and hard going in place of mud and water
of five days before, ended almost exactly as did the first
engagement—N.S.W. won by 11 to 8 as against 11 to 6.
Second time Bananalanders played close up as well as
their opponents, and only fell short in goal-kicking. The
game however, proved another big disappointment, and
vvasri tin it with many club tussles seen this season. So
far N.S.W. has never been beaten in Sydney, but things
have been the other way about at Brisbane, with the ex-
ception of one match last year. Ten thousand people
saw last week s contest. Six of winning side’s 41 came
through penalties, and they only scored 1 try to the
visitors’ 2. N.S.W.’s backs (bar Wickham) were not
nearly up to requirements, and forwards, though working
well together and resolutely, were slow. One-handed St.
John was again conspicuous on losing side, as were
halves Evans and Bird.
* • * •
Scrip ” : The detestable wing-forward system,
Y l6 , cu f se of modern Rugby, is responsible for a great
deal of intentional rough play and other luxuries in
Maonland. Opposing “ wings ” (who are invariably off-
side) have a keen nose for making field “ points,” and if a
welt on the jaw can temporarily embarrass t’other fellow,
latter doesn’t dream of stopping the game to complain of
such a trivial pleasantry, but waits his chance. Two
players passed out by Canterbury R.U. admitted that
there had been little “incidents” between them during
the game, but protested that they didn’t scrap very
much Another disqualified gent, complained that he
had been struck “numerously” by his opponent, yet
when he launched out he was ordered off the field
There is a whiff of the spirit of old-time Rugby about the
game this season, and men who can’t give and take a
good deal don’t seem to be wanted.
* * * *
“Vir.”: Football umpires strike trouble at
times, but amongst country clubs the wonder is that they
are not bashed or killed more often. A regular practice
of country teams is to take along a “ friendly ” referee
and when an opposing side has to battle against eighteen
players and the umpire it is nowise strange that the man
with the whistle falls in. Decisions given by these alleged
umpires when the game is going the wrong way are some-
thing astounding. In a S. Vic. village a Sunday-school
teacher deals out a particularly hot brand of “justice.”
Remarkable, too, is the biassed ferocity of the residents
in favor of the home team. A great part of the rough and
foul play is caused by the brutal encouragement of the
onlookers. Even if a visiting team is fit to win it is not a
very wise proceeding to do so.
• • * •
Cabled Saturday that Australian F. S. Kelly
(Balhol College, Oxford) appropriated Wingfield Sculls
previous Thursday, beating last year’s winner (A. H.
Cloutte, London Rowing Club) by lmin. 12sec. Time
was 23.32 as against 24.32 12 months before. F.S.K. is
the Sydneyite who annexed last year’s Henley Diamond
Sculls (really world’s amateur rowing supremacy). Addi-
tional merit attaches to Kelly’s success through the fact
that he is always coached by an amateur, and that
Cloutte has done a heap of rowing during past couple of
years. Wingfield Sculls has been a fixture for three-
fourths of a century. Kelly won his “ blue ” present
year among Oxford reps, in ’Varsity contest. ’Tis
Eossible that latest success was achieved in a boat made
y Neilson, of Sydney, to the order of the crack sculler’s
friends, and forwarded in recognition of his Diamond
Sculls feat.
• * * *
Professor Miller, who went to England a while
ago to settle down in possession of a snug property he
had inherited, will perhaps be tempted to take up a
recent challenge from Donald Dinnie. Donald, now in
his 66th year, offers to meet any man not more than 10
years younger than himself in any round of athletics he
may choose. Miller is presumably in the 50’s, and if he
be under the limit-age fixed by the challenger he might
offer a concession. Old Donald is said to have won 11,000
prizes, worth more than £25,000 cash, during his career as
an all-round athlete. He ought to be comfortably off
Donald was verra cautious wi’ the siller when Australia
knew him.
* * • *
There were some really “ willing ” incidents in
the usual boxing matches in Adelaide on a recent Satur-
day night. According to the Advertiser report, Dunne,
the manager, smashed an opponent’s nose so badly in a
preliminary spar that “ Britisher,” one of the star boxers
for the evening, who was looking on, fainted and could
not come to time for his event. A substitute was found
in one “ Dublin,” who took on the “12 rounds, one to
win,” contract with Casabianca, and damaged the lat-
ter’s spine against a post so effectually in the second
round that the entertainment closed up abruptly. Dunne
obligingly offered to fight any gentleman present to fill
up the time, but no one was taking any.
♦ * * *
. At Sydney National S.C. heavyweight contest,
Jim Scanlan (U.S.A.) and Bill Doherty (Victoria), weights
were announced as 12.4 and 11.10 respectively. It was a
cleanly-fought and clever struggle, with alternate streaks
of tameness and wild excitement. Doherty fought
cleverly, sending in long range shots, and used his skilful
feet in a manner that baffled the ’Murkan badly on
occasions. Scanlan hadn’t the science of the Australian,
but he was determined and forceful. Yankee nearly had
the fight in the initial round—had his weighty left swing
landed just a little lower on the jaw ’twould have been
all over. He sent the Victorian to his knees in the second
round and dazed him, while the house roared applause.
Dohertv was the expert boxer in the fourth term, jigging
round, baulking, feinting and otherwise bewildering his
much slower, heavier moving, and less scientific adver-
sary. The eighth 3min. was all fight, the pair standing up
and punching with vigor and effect that threatened
seriously for both, but they survived in a pumped out
condition. The minute’s spjell revived them remarkably,
and thence on Doherty relied solely on his skill (rarely
running' risks and mixing it, despite that Scan lan
implored him to “ stand up and fight”) till the 15th
round, when, during a hot minute, he cried enough,
complaining that his hands were gone, and at a time too
when he had the match won on points. But it, was
a lame excuse. Writer examined the'niaulies closely
afterwards, and came to the conclusion that it was more
a case of heart than hands. The Yankee was worse
than the Australian as far as weapons were concerned,
and none but his seconds knew it till next day ; his right
hand (badly put out) had been little use to him for
several rounds. Truth is that Doherty either loves fight
no longer or is not altogether right inside.
* * » *
“ Fug ” : Why is Ed. Williams always referred
to as lightweight top-notcher of Victoria ? He has never
beaten Jack M‘Gowan, and won’t fight him.
* * ♦ *
Match (arranged and carried out by Liudfield
Golf Club) on Killara (Sydney) links between five profes-
sionals, Thomson, Martin, Clarke, Hutchinson, and
East, last week, was unique in Australian golf. It ended
in success of Thomson, who set up a record for 36 holes,
and created new “bests” for the out and home course,
his highest being 36. Conditions were 2 rounds medal
play. Victor’s total was 160. Martin (163) finished
second, and Clarke (164) third. Australian amateur
champion, Soutar, went the round with the odd man and
really filled second position (162).
• * * •
The N.S.W. National Coursing Association
shows signs of being a go-ahead body. There is a unani-
mous opinion to discountenance the “ shouting ” practice
which has become a drag on successful nominators, and
which is so eagerly looked forward to by nominators of
other dogs. Another good idea is the proposed purchase
of a Plumpton, to be the,sole property of the Association,
and thus procure a reserve where the principal fixtures
of the Association can take place. Gradually the execu-
tive bodies of the different branches of sport are awaken-
ing to the need of procuring grounds of their own, free
from encumbrances.
* * * *
“ B.”: The Melbourne Cricket Club—organising
the coming Marylebone combination—has done one
sensible thing, at any rate, by refusing to sanction
umpire Phillips accompanying the team. The objection
is not only the wish of the M.O.C.—the cricket governing
bodies of each State have backed it up ; and, as for
Phillips acting as umpire against an Australian combina-
tion—that is an impossibility in the future. Wherever
international honors are at stake, the umpire in any
branch of sport should be an individual imbued with the
spirit of fair play ; not, as in the case of Phillips, a
dabbler in ink as to what he would do were he in the
piosition to no-ball Australian trundlers on a future visit.
The one-time “ fair” umpire has killed his goose.
* * * *
Charlie Bannerman returns to Christchurch
(M.L.) next spring to resume cricket instruction at the
local college. The ex-Australian cricketer and umpire
seems to have fallen into a good billet—a kind of position
which the “ boss ” State Cricket Associations should
endeavor to find for their one-time first-flight players, if
only in justice for the hard play they have put in to
maintain the finances of the Associations.
• • * *
Dunlop inter-club bike event was further ad-
vanced last Saturday, when Burwood, Western Suburbs,
and Suburban reps, showed out. Course was 20 miles.
The four Burwood men led over first half in excellent
time of slightly worse than 26tnin. Two and a half miles
further one man came a cropper, and five more flopped
over him. Sorting put machines and patching up limbs
and other things occupied much time, but all except
those absolutely incapable got going again, and second
10 miles were traversed in something over 31min. M’Kay
(Burwood) got home first, a long way in front; then came
Steffanoni (Suburban), while the first man to fall in the
crash, and consequently the innocent cause of it, was
third.
• • • •
As a means of giving the new Sydney Sports
Ground a good christening, the N.S.W. League of
Wheelmen (that is, if it hasn’t eaten itself out of exist-
ence in the meantime) proposes a two-days’ meeting in
October. Judging by the difficulty recently experienced
by the football authorities in obtaining sufficient suitable
grounds, an additional up-to-date ground is badly needed.
The cycling track is estimated to rank amongst the
fastest in. the world ; but the recent trouble in cycling
meetings in Sydney has not been in the tracks, but with
management and “teaming” and scheming of the
riders. For next racing season, a disqualification com-
mittee will be a necessity, that is, if the sport is to be
maintained.
• • • «
A junior lacrosse team in Adelaide, on July 4,
established what is believed to be a new record for
Australia— 2B goals to nil in an ordinary matoh.
The proposed entente between France and
England affords another bright illustration of the
fraternising power of D.C.L. Whisky. It is only
within the past year that the D.C.L. brand has
“caught on’’ in France, and note the result!
Brainy people, after adopting D.C.L. as a religion,
owe much of their success in the arts and enter-
E rises of peace to its brain-quickening qualities.
i.C.L., the Whisky of the Wise.*
The Freetrade, Tory, pro-Bent press is
just like some ancient, moulting cockatoo that
always screeches the same distracting phrases.
The six hatters that were not kept out only recur
at long intervals now. But “socialistic tenden-
cies ” and “ the spirit of socialism ” supply oauses
for everything. They have ruined our credit, our
constitutions, our population, our commerce, our
manufactures, and now the Australasian has
discovered that the spirit of socialism is ruining
our climate. In issue of July 4th it says, re Broken
Hill water famine : “ The truth is that the spirit
of socialism that has dominated politics in N.S.W.
is responsible for the distress of the town and the
dislocation of mine work.” So the Australasian
reckons it is the spirit of socialism that laid it
down that foreign capital must not be taxed
and which prevented the Broken Hill mines
being compelled to pay their share of a service-
able water scheme. Most people think it Was the
spirit of kow-tow to Cohen and co.—excepting
Dill Macky and Wilks, who probably think the
Pope has dried things up.


TENNIS AND GOLF.
are in full swing just now, and so is FOOTBALL and CYCLING,
we keep full stocks of
Please note
HIGHEST GRADE SPORTS GOODS
FOR EVERY GAME.
Oar prices are very low, as you will find if you ask us to quote, and we guarantee
the quality of everything we sell. ’Write for what you require, or call and
examine our stocks.
CANADA CYCLE & HOTOR CO., Ltd.,
Branches In Every State. 357 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
STRENGTH MEANS COMFORT.
When on tour it just makes all the difference in the
world whether you can positively rely on your bike or not.
RED BIRD BICYCLES (1903 Models)
are strong, built specially for rough Australian roads, designed to stand hard wear—and the consequence
is, they are reliable. You will enjoy comfort and safety when you fly along on a RED BIRD.
Call and inspect our New Models—Ladies’ and Gents’.
Branches in every State. GOOI.D BICYCLE CO., LTD., 64 King St., Sydney.
BALANCE SHEET
OF THE
BANK OF NORTH QUEENSLAND Ltd
Dr. For the Half-Year ended 30th June, 1903. Cr.
£ s. d.
Deposits
Treasury Note Account
Bills Payable and other Liabilities..
Capital .. £350,000 0 0
Less Reserve
Liability 250,000 0 0
lOO,OOO 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 15,000 0 0
Profit and Loss .. .. 2,33118 10
£ s. d.
257,108 6 11
33,333 0 0
48,735 8 8
339,176 14 7
117,334 18 10
£456,511 18 6
£> s d
Coin, Bullion, and Cash Balances .. .. 48,655 8 4
Treasury Notes on Hand .. .. „ 12’556 0 0
Remittances in Transit to Branches and
Agents 25,348 4 11
Government Stock .. 25 750 0 0
Bills Discounted and all other Debts due to
the Bank 322,125 19 4
Bank Premises, Furniture, and Stamp
Accounts 21,776 0 10
£456,511 13 6
Profit and Loss Account,
£ s. d.
To Salaries, Rent, and other charges at Head
Office, 11 Branches, and 1 Agency ... 6,769 6 2
~ Interest paid and accrued on Deposits
and Treasury Note Account .. .. 2,726 19 3
„ Balance.. .. 2,334 18 10
£10,831 4 8
£ s. d.
By Balance from last Half-year .. .. 182 3 8
„ Gross Amount of Profit for Half-year .. 10,649 0 7
£10,831 4 3
Reserve Fund.
To Balance
I
£15,000 0 0
£15,000 0 0
By Balance .. .. £13,750 0 0
„ Transfer from Profit to Loss Account 1,250 0 0
£15,000 0 0
Audited and found correct—
G. O. BEARDMORE
G. T. C. LANG, F.F.I.A.
Auditors.
A. S. COWLEY, Chairman of Directors.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
AUDITORS’ REPORT.
We have examined the foregoing Balance Sheet, made up to 30th June, 1903, and report that we
find the several items therein stated to conform to the Balances at Head Office, and to the Balance
Sheets furnished by the various Branches, the latter being certified to by the respective Managers
and Accountants.
We have counted the cash and examined the Bills held by the Bank at the Head Office in
Brisbane on the 30th ult., and hereby certify that we have found them correct.
We further certify that in our opinion the Balance Sheet is full and fair, properly drawn up, and
exhibits a true and correct view of the affairs of the Bank as shewn by the books on the 30th June
1903.
Brisbane, 9th July, 1903.
G. O. BEARDMORE
G. T. C. LANG, E.F.I.A.
Auditors.
“ P.T.” writes :
Proposal to place letter-boxes on Sydney trams has
been abandoned, the Federal Post-office considering the
price-- i.e., £2 per annum per box—asked by the Railway
Commissioners too high. In other words, Sydney people,
as citizens of the Commonwealth, will see themselves
jiggered before they will pay themselves, as citizens of
N.S.W., that price for the convenience of tram letter-
boxes. e
Also, to put it another way, the Federal Post-
office can’t afford to pay exorbitant prices to the
State for small services and then be taunted with
the “ extravagance of its management.” It has to
show respectable results from its departments for
its own credit’s sake, and can’t sacrifice its repu-
tation so that the N.S.W. railway management
may get extra revenue and brag how much better
it runs things than the Commonwealth can do.
CHAMBERLAIN’S COUGH REMEDY
Is a cure for severe colds, persistent coughs, and
a preventive of pneumonia. It is the mother’s
favourite for whooping cough. It always cures,
and cures quickly. Is. 6d.*
ra
m
&
XES
m
n»i
i
cm
□Bu
T?OR the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
x ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “Ellis’ King: Street Coffee Palace,”
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor — GEO. W. ELLIS.
ROOfIS, BOARD and RESIDENCE. Flats —fur-
nished and unfurnished ; Houses recommended by
MADAMES TOLLFREE and COMPTON. All personally
inspected and fullest details given. Residential and
Domestic Agents.
522 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SNAPSHOOTING
For Sport and War.
M
By W. W. GREENER.
HITS THE MARK!
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, 1/- nett.;
Posted, 1/2.
The best 1/- worth ever Published.
IF you wish to get good work and value
you should purchase W.W. GREENER’S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to—
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne,
(Greener’s Representative).
@8
HAND-IN-HAND
forEIGHTYYEARS
Williams'
Barbers' Bar.
WILLIAMS' Traveller's Shaving Stick*
You may worry thru a face
scrape on most “Any Old
Soap." To enjoy the Luxury
of a Perfect Shave you must
use Williams’.
If youdoubt it, send a penny
stamp for Williams’ Changing
Face Puzzle. Tells you why.
J. B. WILLIAMS 00., Glas-
tonbury, Conn., U.S.A. Also
232 Clarence Street, Sydney.
IS
I
IT'S UNSIGHTLY
the electricon
RESTORES LO ST HEARING.
A New Scientific Discovery, worn for two or three hour*
nauy, anyone can wear it. Book that tells all Posted Free.!
L. R. Vernon Coy., 60-64 Hunter St., Sydney
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK:
Price, 4s, 6d.
A Nib,
A Bottle of Ink,
A Sheet of Paper,
and
THE
mm
LETTER BOOK
Make* a complete outfit
with which any man, wo-
man or child C an write •
letter, and at the same
time make an exact copy.
From O. Plummer,
Straw Hat Manufacturer.
that your
Rutland Street, Auckland, N.Z.,
August 18, 1902.
Two months* trial of the Pen Carbon Letter Boor obtained from you has satisfied us
pen
roduce
reserve
revent
M
lean
|opies
onfusion
ETTER
egible
.asting
oss and
OOKS
ills
(right
ad Language
Yours faithfully, C. PLUMMER.
The Pen Carbon Letter Book
Is a True and Valued Friend.
Sole Australasian
Agents—
E. RICH & CO., Ltd.
SYDNEY.
BRI BANE
Australia is having hard luck this winter ;
small pox has broken out at Launceston, plague
in Queensland, and Irvine is still epidemic in
Melbourne.
After the dailies had carefully smoothed
over Bent’s retirement from the railways, and
made everything look good and pretty, the
blundering old man, who had been away up
country, came back and gave the show away. “I
am surprised,” he blurted out, “at the Premier’s
haste. I had suggested the Railways portfolio as
one that would suit Mr. Shiels in his present in-
different health, but I had no idea the matter
would be fired off so quickly.” Bent, in fact,
came back as a man who had been sacked un-
expectedly and was not pleased. He had just
been inspecting the half-finished Mildura line,
whose completion he and his fellow Ministers had
stopped for want of funds, and he made more
foolish remarks about that job. “I found much
of the work done going to ruin. Sleepers are
lying all over the place and cuttings that have
been made are gradually filling up again. I am
going to find out who is responsible for this.”
Apparently Bent thinks that if he orders a cutting
to be made and bellows to the Universe that this
is his cutting, all Nature is to stand off and leave
the blessed thing alone for evermore.
Groom, M.H.R., from Tarra Bend or
some other place in Victoria, told the House of
Reps, in the course of the Naval Tribute discussion
(Age report) that “ Australia would never be able
to support a navy without the aid of Great
Britain.” If Groom feels like that he must feel
himself a very pitiable specimen of humanity and
must think all Australians are like him. Chili,
with just two-thirds the population of the
Commonwealth, supports a navy which has put up
a very fine fighting record. Groom, M.H.R.,
evidently feels that he isn’t worth two-thirds of a
Chilian, but he should keep that view to himself.
This habit of telling the world that we are poor
helpless cowards, interspersed with wild shrieks
about being Boys of the Bulldog Breed and worthy
of our splendid British ancestry, is silly hysterics.
N.S.W. Pastoralists’Union, in spite of the
success, so far, of its tactics against the A.W.U.
in the Arbitration Court, recognises that ulti-
mately that Court must administer even-handed
justice, and accordingly complains in its annual
report: —
After twelve months’ experience of the Arbitration Act
the outlook was unpromising. The first effect of the new
law had been to multiply and intensify differences and
disputes to an enormous extent. The sooner the Act dis-
appeared from the statute-book the better it would be
for the State.
It is reckoned in Melbourne that it was
Alfred Deakin who led George Reid to make so
remarkable an exhibition of himself over the
Federal High Court Bill. As a rule there are prac-
tically no speeches on a third reading, but the long
missing Dry Dog had just turned up after long
disappearance, and there was a desire to see him
perform. So Deakin spoke for an hour or more,
and Reid was tempted to reply. He had already
been twice for and twice against the Bill so his
position was a difficult one, and after turning four
somersaults in about half an hour he took his seat
upside down amid the mirth even of his own
followers. , ;
What Melbourne Argos calls an “im-
Eortant development ” has arisen because of the
onus Australia pays for ‘ ‘ white ” sugar. The
blessed organ of the importers is worried over the
fact that if the Countervailing Sugar Duties Bill,
now before the British Commons, passes, the
British market may be closed against Australian
sugar because of the bonus paid for the encourage-
ment of white labor. This anxiety about a foreign
market is truly touching. So far, Australia has
not been able to anything like supply itself with
sugar. It won’t be able to export any for
years yet, and by that time, owing to the nigger
being extinct, the white labor bonus will probably
be needless. Also, the British Bill isn’t passed
yet. And anyhow, the Argus has all along
assured the public that the sugar industry is'
doomed unless Kanaka labor is forthwith restored.
So why worry about a foreign market for our
sugar when we won’t have any ?
To
Housewives
•••
•••
••
n
{Washing
HADE EASIER when your Wringer Rollers are
in good condition - You should note
that we arc r\ow re-rubberingßollers'
vat the /ollowir\g Prices.
j Io*l%*@4 / ea
12 I s/ 4 <p s'ea To these prices
| must be added carnage both ways -
J3r \f you prc/cr it wc will /orward you
/Rubber tube -& instructions for /ifting
wsame yoursel/. without loss of time
jra t the above Prices.
I The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Goof Aus ltd loBFlinders V ddb
[ 150 Clarence it Sydney Il7orenfcll if Adelaide 28Adeldideit
l^nsbdr\Ms^arracl^^eUtn2BUchfiel<^^Kcl^^n
Sydney Depot:
150 Clarence Street


X
\/
V?
\h
olpL
W>
XO..JP
m
'&r
&
i"
&
00
y''
lift
\\
\
5
v?
X
o
fi
<3
7?
shl
%
?..-o
CVGK
VO
\ft
*»V\U|
d«
a**
V>°!
\'o
»M ft
e» l
V'*
COOLNESS.
Cool smoking is one of the many good points about Guinea Gold Cigarettes. No matter if you smoke fast or slow they will
not bum the tongue. Why 1 Because the tobacco used is the best obtainable, properly prepared and cut extremely fine.
BRITISH-AMERICAN TOBACCO CO., LTD, (OGDEN BRANCH), 45 York Street, Sydney.
A bush boy-leader writes :
. I have just finished a week of examination for promo-
tion--a time of terrible anxiety and exhausting mental
strain. I was all wound up and so felt fit; but the
brutally cruel way in which the inspector superintended
the exam, nearly drove me, in my overwrought state,
raving mad. Despite the wise, thoughtful, and very
explicit “ Instructions to officers conducting examina-
” (quoted below), the inspector had daily quite a
crowd of visitors (male creatures only) to keep him com-
pany in the torture chamber. The bowelless snobs
tramped about the examination room, laughing loudly,
talking continually, day after day. The babble of their
tongues, their idiotic laughter, and the horrible shuffling
of their huge feet made mental concentration (so neces-
saryjfor the production of creditably written examination
papers) utterly impossible for some of the tired teachers
present. What is the use of reporting the inspector?
That would only make one’s professional life a big hell
while in the inspector’s district—and, possibly, after
years of petty tyranny, one would escape into the district
of a sympathising friend of the inspector’s. Instructions
Nos. 7, 8, 9—
(7) No persons are permitted to be in the room during
examination except the candidates, the inspector, and
presiding officers.
(8) During, the examination, conversation between the
persons superintending the room, remarks by inspectors
to candidates, comments on their work, and all noises
that may distract attention, must be strictly avoided.
(9) Officers in charge are to give their entire attention
to the superintendence of the room, and are not to
engage in clerical or any other work which may interfere
with due watchfulness on their part.
Here also is Begulat ion 99 :—“ In their intercourse with
teachers, inspectors should be guided by feelings of
respect for the teacher’s office, and of sympathy for his
labors. They should exhibit towards teachers every
possible courtesy, treating them at all times with the
consideration and kindness which the difficulties of their
position demand.”
Orders now received for “Such is Life ! "
The Bulletin’s new book. By Tom Colling.
Heady 1st. August. 4s. 6d.
“ The humane are so ungodly, and the
godly are so inhuman; that is the difficulty.”
The Rev. R. R. Dolling, in his newly-published
Biography.
“J.F.D.”: There is a bull-dog living
three doors from us. He held an unbeaten record
till yesterday when a bull-terrier came down the
street and vanquished him in five minutes. The
victor had a piece of an electric belt tied round
his neck with a boot lace, and by his looks I
should imagine he would make a rousing fight
with Cerberus. It was too dangerous to look for
the maker’s name on the belt, so a useful testimony
as to its efficacy is lost.
VERY PREVALENT.
Influenza is always more or less prevalent at
this season of the year. This disease is very
similar to a severe cold, and if allowed to take
its course, is liable to cause serious results. The
best treatment for influenza is to avoid exposure,
and take Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy. This
medicine gives immediate relief, and, if used as
directed, will ward off all dangerous consequences.
It leaves the system in a natural and healthy
condition. It always cures, and cures quickly.
Is. 6d.*
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when every
other remedy has failed. English Prices, 4/6 and 11/-.
Thousands of Testimonials. Of all Chemists, Stores, etc.
Wholesale Agents :
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist
25 High-street, Belfast, Ireland.
FREE! FREE!
\
IS
§:
\
Cut this out and send it to us, and we will
send you free, postage prepaid, in plain wrapper,
a copy of the New Edition of our spleudid, in-
valuable and standard illustrated medical work,
“ Electro Therapeutics,” which acknowledged
medical treatise should be read by every adult.
The Twentieth Century Belt.
. Our Improved Belt is the most modern and perfect in tne world.
It is stronger than any other, and is a Certain Cure for All Cases
of Nervous Disorders, Weak Back, Lumbago, Rheumatism, Liver,
Kidney and Stomach Troubles, Come-and-Go Pains, and that Tired
J eeling. It will cure after all others fail. Our Belt gives a soothing,
warm, strengthening and delightful current of electricity into the
afflicted nerves and system while you sleep. It never blisters or
burns the body, because it is constructed to give electricity in a
proper way.
NO CURE, NO PAY.
Others claim this, but I am the only one who will really send a
valuable belt absolutely free, on trial, for three months. If you
are cured I know you will willingly pay; if you are not cured, you
will not have to pay one penny. Write at once, or call and test
my Belt free. No charge for personal consultation.
The Dr. J. I*l. Austin Electric Co. (Dept. m.>
49 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
MM
HERR RASSMUSSEN
will guarantee to cure Nervous Weak-
ness, Blood Diseases, Piles, Rheuma-
tism, Corpulency, Liver and Kidney
Troubles. He will send his Book Free.
All correspondence will be held
confidential.
BRISBANE: 309 Queen St.
MELBOURNE: 150 Bourke St.
WEAK, NERVOUS MEN, WHY SUFFER
w
HEN you can be quickly and permanently cured by taking Herr Rassmussen’s ALFALINE Vitality Fills which have cured so many
thousand sufferers from DEBILITY, POOR MEMORY, WEAK SPINE, DESPONDENCY, and all which robs Manhood of that which
is dearest to it—Vital Strength. Herr Rassmussen will guarantee this remedy to cure every case, no matter of how long standing, and he will
personally to all patrons of his remedies FREE OF CHARGE, either in his offices or by post. So don’t despair, bub
give his skilled advice
communicate with him without delay, no matter where you live.
ALF ALINE VITALITY PILLS.
by post.
Pamphlet sent Free.
Treatment by Post a Speciality.
Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d., posted.
Blood and Skin Diseases.
Blood Disorders, Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, Stone in the Bladder, and Blood
Impurities guaranteed to be removed and permanently cured by
ALF ALINE BLOOD PILLS. Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d. posted.
Anaemic Women
suffering from Wasting Diseases, Pale, Lifeless, and otherwise affected, should at once communicate with HERR
R AHSMIJSSEN. His lifelong experience is at their service, and his
ALF ALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS will cure them. Boxes, 6s; Courses, 235. 6d.
LIVER and KIDNEY TROUBLES cured at once by the ALFALINE LIVER and KIDNEY PILLS, Boxes Is.
His RHEUMATIC PILLS are World-famed, and his PILE POWDERS never fail
The ALFALINE REMEDIES can only beobtained from .. . pjm .
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office— ureorge St.,
AND HIS BRANCHES AS FOLLOW
ADELAIDE: 15 Pulteney St.
N-Z.: 91 Lambton Quay, Wellington.
W.A., PERTH: 481 Hay St.
KALGrOORUE : 111 Hannam St.
FREMANTLE: 117 High St-
BOULDER CITY: Piesse St.


Thirsty Maoriland.
The liquor position in M.L. in brief:—
In five districts prohibition was carried at last local
option poll; in several others it was lost by only a few
votes, whilst 16 electorates had bar# majorities for pro-
hibition. In nine others again reduction was carried,
which ensures the closing of not less than 5 per cent, nor
more than 25 per cent, of the existing houses at the will
of the licensing committees. Some of these have exer-
cised their full power. To carry prohibition requires a
three-fifths majority of the total votes recorded, but a
bare majority secures the election of a partisan com-
mittee. In Dunedin the committee, when renewing
licenses, imposed various conditions, including the abo-
lition of barmaids, counter lunches and second bars. In
the South Island prohibition covers a large area. Olutha
electorate, which carried abolition of licenses years ago,
still retains it. It is hard to reverse, the law requiring that
a three-fifths majority shall restore what a three-fifths
majority abolished. The electorates north and south of
Clutha (Mataura and Bruce) joined hands with it, whilst
the two districts south from Mataura (Invercargill and
Awarua) failed to do so by a dozen, or less, votes each.
In Port Chalmers and Ashburton electorates prohibition
topped the poll. At Ashburton there was, after the poll,
great increase in th# membership of the local club, th#
charter of which was not supposed to be affected by the
abolition of licenses ; but the Government has decided to
withdraw all club charters, likewise railway refresh-
ment-room licenses, within prohibited areas. Many,
including the Premier, contend that the conditions of
license should be uniform throughout the State, and
favor State option polls; but, naturally, differences of
opinion exist a# to the majority to be fixed as necessary
to carry it. Had the issue of recent poll been State pro-
hibition on a bare majority it would have been carried by
3000 votes, seeing that prohibition secured 151,000 sup-
porters airainst 148,000 for continuance of existing
licenses. The final stage will probably be State control
of the traffic. But before that comes M.L. threatens to
become a very thirsty place. Australia should be pro-
foundly grateful to M.L. for exploring in the unknown
territory of prohibition with such courage. For the
Commonwealth can take advantage of its painfully-bought
experience, which, just now, is rather akin to the experi-
ment of a man seeing how far he can walk along a dusty
track on a hot day without actually dropping.
♦
Mr. C. H. THOMAS, Cedarville, Texas,
writes:
“ I was afflicted with a cough, which physicians pro-
nounced CONSUMPTION. TWO BOTTLES OF JAYNE’S
EXPECTORANT CURED ME.’’*
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wound* that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
P.resa your Anger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the Joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended Various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not how being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
*c Price, in Great Britain, 1/ljd. per box. Prepared by
A 1 BERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents •. ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers snould
look for th * registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright}.
DO YOU EVER
WATCH A CHILD
when the little child is suffering from
teething troubles ? It is at this period that
convulsions often attack children and you have
the horror of witnessing their really acute
sufferings—always a pitiable thing where
children are concerned. It is such a mistake
to make light of teething troubles, just because
they have to happen ! But it is not necessary
to describe these sufferings; you are con-
cerned only in their cure.
DO YOU EVER WATCH A
CHILD when teething and suffering from
the arrival of these necessary adjuncts to the
human body, and long for a cure ? That cure
is to be found in Scott’s Emulsion, which
removes the sufferings and troubles of teeth-
ing by direct action as a medicine, and by
indirect action as a tonic food which
strengthens and helps the child’s vital organ-
ism to throw off and eliminate the conditions
that cause teething troubles. Yet while
Scott’s Emulsion will cause the troubles of
teething to disappear, there is something better
to be done. When the child is three months
old, begin with Scott’s Emulsion, which sup-
plies earthy matter, lime, etc., needed to
make teeth, and you find that the baby’s teeth
will arrive on time and without pain to the
child.
SCOTT'S EMULSION. T h, „„ „ f
Scott’s Emulsion is likely also to make the
teeth more perfect. You have one precaution
only to take, and that is to see that on the
wrapper of the bottle there is a picture of a
man carrying a big cod-fish ; if that cod-fish is
not there, you are not getting what we promise
you—a cure ! You can obtain a sample of
Scott’s Emulsion and the choicest children’s
booklet of the year, “A Bunch of Roses,”
beautifully printed in colors, by sending sd.
to Scott & Bowne, Ltd., 483 Kent Street,
Sydney, and mentioning this paper. All
chemists sell Scott’s Emulsion.
More Land Grab in the West.
Ip Westralia doesn’t keep awake it will presently
find its Government committing it to another
wild land-grab railway scheme. Walter Kings-
mill, its Colonial Secretary, has been touring the
North-west, where, besides gold and copper fields,
there is some of the best of the State’s sheep and
cattle country; and, in the course of the usual
speech, he announced with regard to the proposed
Port Hedland-Marble Bar railway, the project
which the North-west talks most about:—
At present it was not possible to borrow money to con-
struct it. The whole line would cost about £600,000,
and he did not think there would be sufficient surplus
revenue to build it, and they could not go on the market
on top of existing obligations, some of which were a great
burden on the Treasurer and the Government. On the
other hand, were a reasonable offer made to build the
line by private enterprise, he thought the Government
would look favorably on it, recognising the immense
benefit to the district, in which he (Mr. Kingsmill)
believed thoroughly, and had always believed.
So the foreigner won’t lend Westralia any more
money, won’t he ? Well, Westralia needn’t
worry—it can easily get the money from the
foreigner, all the same. Westralia is ripping out
its gold, and for the greater part sending it to
the foreigner, at the rate of about £8,000,000 or
£10,000,000 a year. In the few months of this
year which have passed the profits have exceeded
.£1,000,000, and the foreigner has got most of that.
Not satisfied with ripping out its gold mainly for
the benefit of the foreigner, it is also chopping
down its forests, and exporting them at the rate
of about £750,000 a year; and the foreigner
gets most of that profit too. If, then, the
foreigner will not hand back a little of this
treasure which Westraliais flingingat him, and take
interest for it, Westralia’s remedy is simple. It
needn’t fling it at all; it can hang on to a little of
its own wealth by putting on a stiffer dividend or
absentee tax, and pay no interest at all. Also,
there is room for a land tax on big estates like
Hampton Plains. Why, in fact, Westralia should
ever dream of borrowing £600,000 is a mystery.
Of course, the foreigner will howl and say that it
is extortion and robbery. But Westralia need not
worry about that, either; it is the foreigner’s
business to howl. Westralia should just hang on
to a little of its own natural wealth, which it has
already made available, in order to pay for the
development of the natural wealth which it hasn’t
yet made available.
The Sand-drift from Inside.
J. H. Maiden, Director of Sydney Botanic
Girdens, has further discussed before N.S.W.
Royal Society the large question of the slow but
oertain burial of Australia under the wandering
sandhills of the inside. He finds three causes
producing the disaster—droughts, overstocking,
and the rabbit pest. But practically these
three are so closely related that, in this connec-
tion, anyhow, they cannot be distinguished.
Overstocking, for instance, is simply a matter of
season ; country which this time last year would
have been overstocked if it had to keep two crows
and a kangaroo to the square mile, just now
can comfortably carry a sheep to five or
six acres. The best hope for the in-
side at present lies in the fact that
there has been such general devastation among
stock that there is no prospect of heavy stocking
for some time to come; holders who have lost
nearly all they had cannot afford the high prices
which they would have to pay in order to rapidly
“stock up ” again. With average seasons, then,
the country will have a better chance to recover.
But even under these favorable conditions it cer-
tainly will not get back to its aboriginal state, at
any rate by being left alone, simply because, over
large areas, many of the most valuable native
plants have disappeared entirely, and they
will not reappear unless they are replanted.
The carrying capacity of most land can, by
tillage, be enormously increased; but the best
that is hoped for in connection with this land,
which comprises by far the greater part of
Australia, is that it may be nursed back to its
virgin state. And as that virgin state was only
preserved by the very lightest of stocking, and
even then occasionally failed thenative fauna which
lived upon it, it is pretty certain that, even if it
can be nursed back, it can only be relied upon to
carry a small number of stock. That is all, even
if the best that can be hoped for is realised. As a
national asset the value of all this country must
therefore be written down unsparingly; for the
old basis of valuation was wrong—its utter failure
to do what was expected of it proves that.
“ Cheetah,” on an urgent subject:
Wanted, immediately, a stringent law, prohibiting
invalids on any account to contract marriage. If
we are to raise a healthy race, a law of this kind will have
to come, and that quickly. In this respect, the Salvarmy
is a great offender against the code of Health. Marriages
are contracted amongst the officers, whose sole assets are
a big voice, hollow chest, and an unbounded cheek and
belief in the Salvarmy. They have not a “bean” to
bless themselves with ; their health is, in nine cases out
of ten, precarious ; and they are prepared to " sweat ” in
the cause of Booth and co., for tucker and uniform, and
the privilege of swelling the census on such a pitiable
income that any other citizen who married on such terms
would be voted a lunatic. A country officer, while deliver-
ing that unwholesome rag, the War Cry, confided in me,
the other month, that he was leaving the local corps to
get married. Seeing he could not raise half-a-crown to
pay me over a business transaction (I had to take it out
m Army publications) I was astounded—but when the
report of his wedding appeared in the Cry with big
captions, and portraits of the silly couple—I wondered no
longer. The “ lass ” was an officer also, and scrubbed out
a_“ Home of Rest” or something for her keep. Whether
either had any brain capacity I don’t know, for I never
discerned any about him, but brains are not required
nowadays for breeding purposes—worse luck. Now, his
successor is on the same road, and is to marry another
officer “ lass.” “A fine nurse she is,” he says'; “hasn’t
required a doctor to one of her cases in the Maternity
Home ! ” This weak mortal is wise in his choice, how-
ever, for he will require a nurse before long—in fact, I long
formed the idea that he merely kept moving to dodge the
undertaker. All this bridegroom in prospective can boast
is the regulation big voice, a lame back and a wedding-ring
Where he got the ring beats me-through donations
cadged from the poorer members of the corps, maybe.
The males who venture on these criminal marriages
seem to be pretty well all immigrants from England—
somehow England seems to grow the male Salvationists
more fcnan Australia does. The <( lasses ft are generally
strapping Australians who like plenty of emotion with
their domestic servitude, and a poke bonnet thrown
m—and they jump at the chance of wedlock, under the
Salvarmy s sanction, with any delicate weed of a man
who reaches a certain title and can “ testify.” There
should be a law to preventmen with no income, no re-
munerative occupation, no chests worth speaking of, and
practically no assets save a hollow cough and a sillv ex-
P r ®* s '° n -f*;? 1 ? taking wives. P.S.-Since the above' was
penned, splicing No. 2 mentioned above has come off in
true Army style and the happy couple are living in a two-
Sb1„°ol'EkS“ ed “‘ nd
Labob member Maodonnell (N.S.W.)—in a
speech carefully suppressed by the Sydney daily
press—fully exposed the bogus character of the
Machine Shearers’ Union, which, by the extra-
ordinary decision of the Registrar of the N.S.W.
Arbitration Court, is allowed to stand in the way
of industrial peace in N.S.W. Mr. Macdoneel
gave specific instances—supported by sworn affi-
davits—of pastoralists forcing employees to join
the M.S.U. When the M.S.U. brought its first
case into court it had 350 members and a 2s. 6d.
fee; yet it was able to pay Mr. Jack Want, K.C.,
for two days (probable cost at least £75). The
balance-sheet of the M.S.U. shows receipts
from subscriptions, £226 6s ; from donations and
levies, £1057 7s. 6d. (this second sum probably
represents the money the pastoralists put into the
concern). The auditor chosen by the M.S.U. to
audit its accounts complained that the alleged
receipts from subscriptions largely exceeded the
number of subscription-forms issued, and that a
number of items of receipts and disbursements
had not been passed through any banking account
(the donations from the pastoralists were thus
covered up so as to leave no trace). The fact that
this bogus organisation, this subsidised creature
of the Pastoralists’ Union, is allowed to exist as
an industrial union is a serious blot on the N.S.W.
Arbitration system.
♦
“ N.F.” writes sensibly on the baby question:
Allowing that big families are as desirable as in the
days of Abraham, is this country going the right way to
encourage them? Our people are driven out into the
West, where the average selector’s wife has to do the
work of two men, besides enjoying the privilege of
bringing a family into the world—often with only the
casual assistance of the nearest boundary rider’s wife or
a friendly gin. Ask any doctor if the climate of the far
interior is calculated to brace up our women to be healthy
mothers or bear healthy children. Bring in those women
from the climates where they wither and die or bring
into the world sickly babies for the summer heat to kill.
A decent Closer Settlement Act would open up in
good climates, amid comfortable and civilised sur-
roundings, homes for thousands of them, where
they might rear their children to life. So much for
the country. The city women feel to-day the mise-
rable uncertainty of the present condition of things.
Why should they, when their men folk are struggling for
the bread they may have to beg to-morrow, bring into
the world a family to increase their worry and anx'ety,
and, perhaps, later on, to share their misery? Given a
good Protectionist policy, we might see a prospect of mak-
ing our sons good artisans, capable craftsmen who could
always earn a decent wage, and our daughters sensible
women who would be sure of getting husbands to keep
them. Women aren’t so different now from Rachel and
Sarah, and the instinct of motherhood is the very main-
spring of a woman’s existence. When she evades it she
knows that some day she will have to pay the penalty,
and the increasing number of women’s hospitals tells her
that; so it isn’t altogether selfishness or laziness on her
part. Legislators can’t force maternity on us against our
will, but if a Closer Settlement Act and a straight out
Protective policy didn’t alter the statistics within a
gener ation I, for one, should be surprised.
On women’s wages in N.S.W. :
The bare bones Coohlan rattles together in Part V of
the ‘‘Statistical Register of N.S.W." make a ghastly
sound ; and their significance is various as dismal. The
chief present human interest is in the wages paid to female
employees. Apart from slop clothes, dress and boot
makers, N.S.W. has no factories employing female labor
worth talking about. The slop shops take up 1650—667
of them under 18 years of age. The average wage is 13s.
lid. a week. Over 18 it is 17s. 7d. That leaves a good
deal of temptation when the week’s board and lodging is
paid. The slop shoes pay just about as well as the slop
clothes. It is the genteel employments that show out
worst. The dressmaking and millinery with 2684 hands,
employed 1262 under 18 years ; 348 under 17; 298 under
16; and 75 under 15, exclusive of 261 without pay. Of
those who get pay 73 begin at Is. Id. a week, 292 get 2s.
4d. ; 348, 3s. 7d. ; another 348 receive 5s. 6d., and 187
have a wage of 7s. Id. Exclude the 261 without pay and
the 73 under 15, and all the rest are doing adult work,
serving an apprenticeship after pay begins, of five years,
with the very dim prospect at the end of getting 15s. lid.
a week. “Dim prospect" is advisedly put down, for
when rather more than half the total consists of learners
and improvers, so called, employers do not want fully-
paid workwomen very often. Millinery comes out worst
in this section, for there, with only' 124 general hands
drawing the splendid pay of 19s., weekly, there are 74
apprentices paid nothing; 19 at 4s. a week and 199
assistants and improvers at 5s. 2d. What are they train-
ing and improving for? The devil knows best probably.
Cheap printing uses up a lot of girls and women. Of
female sewers and folders there are 332. They have all
got their hair up, and their wages are 10s. 2d. weekly.
In N.S.W. woollen mills there are 89 females employed
and the average weekly wage is 13s. 8d. ; full pay is 17s.
That is all a half century of Freetrade progress has
enabled N.S.W. to get out of the spinning of the golden
fleece. And it is wearisome to pursue the dismal record
farther. Improvers and apprentices fill the shops and
are expected to get married or something, as soon as
they are fit to draw full pay ; unless they evince capacity
and willingness to do good hard nigger-driving, as fore-
women. Fair pay then and companionship with the boss,
who smokes big cigars or runs a steam yacht or races a
bit, for recreation.
In spite of about half-a-dozen “ extensions
of franchise,” of every five people who have votes
for the Westralian Legislative Assembly only one
has a Legislative Council vote. The goldfields
are the most elaborately disfranchised part of the
State. Hannan’s, with 7750 Assembly electors,
has only 419 Council electors; while Mt. Burgess,
with 3028 voters for the Assembly, can only
muster 85 who are qualified for the other.
The man on the Land is always in trouble,
but his troubles end when he places his business
in the hands of Land Agent W. N. Willis, of 21
Bligh-street. No results, no fees is his business
shingle.*
Red Light—Danger ! We’d better look out
When we see such an ominous sign :
That peril’s ahead, there isn’t much doubt—
Perhaps it’s a slip on the line.
We feel just the same when we get a bad cough—
Our safety we haste to secure,
By buying the stuff that will soon shake it off,
Some Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
PAIN in the BACK. GOUT.
EIGHTEEN YEAR’S SUFFERING.
WHAT WAS THE CAUSE?
U'l. J. Glee son, of Bromham Place, North Richmond, Vic., says—“ Twenty years acm I began to
suffer from a terrible pain m the back. I consulted several of the most eminent doctors in Melbourne
Une doctor said I had lumbago, and gave me liniment to rub on it, but it did me no good I went to
another doctor, who, after examining my urine, said that the tissues of my kidneys were destroyed and
that he could give me but a fortnight to live. You can tell the state of alarm into which I was thrown
by this verdict. I immediately consulted another doctor, and he. to my relief, pronounced my
trouble to be muscular rheumatism. He treated me, but his treatment did me no good. For eighteen
years I was under first one doctor and then another, and faithfully carried out all the instructions thev
gave me and the treatment they prescribed, but still I obtained no relief from the excruciating pain
About two years ago I was in despair, and in my desperation I determined to give up consulting
doctors and to take Warner’s Safe Cure, as I had heard and read of many similar cases to my own
being cured by it After taking the first dose I got relief from the pain. In two days the pain and
ache from which I had suffered for eighteen years had entirely disappeared. I continued to take the
medicine for some little time, and can sincerely declare that it has absolutely cured me, as I have not
had a retum of the pain for two years. I used also to suffer a great deal from attacks of gout but
since taking Warner s Safe Cure I have not been troubled in this way either.”
IT WAS URIC ACID POISONING.
TTrie acid was retained in the blood instead of being expelled from the system in a natural manner
It was one of the many signs by which Nature indicates
KIDNEY DISEASE.
When the kidneys are working perfectly uric acid and other urinary poisons, manufactured i„ the
body by the continuous decay of the tissues, are naturally removed. J The moment however that
there is any interference with the action of the kidneys, these poisons accumulate in’the system and
we feel the effect by suffering from Rheumatism, Gout, Lumbago, Sciatica Backache
Anaemia Disease, Dropsy, Gravel, Stone, Bladder Troubles, Indigestion
Torpid Liver. These are some of the many forms in which kidney disease manifests itseff. Nine-
tenths of the pams and Uinesses to which the human race is subject can be avoided if care is taken
that the kidneys and liver are in a condition to do their work efficiently. The reason that
Warner’s Safe Cure
cures all the disorders mentioned is simply that it possesses the remarkable property of being able to
restore to health and activity the * * ° aoiß 10
KIDNEYS & LIVER.
22 " pelM fro,n the Tbe «•<* “ i »
If you have any reason to suspect that your kidneys are nob healthily performing their dutv
four hon?s U Tf ne ; pa .? ed th .®, first thl . n S ln the morning, in a covered glass and let it stancf for twentv-
! „ If 1S then , mil ky, or shows a sediment like brick-dust, or if particles float about in it
he kidneys are deranged. No time should then be lost in commencing to take Warner’s Safe Cure’
wiU result in Bright ’ 8 Diseaae ’ Diabetes ’ or Bome less
C ° nta irV ng ful * Particulars and accounts of many remarkable cures effected by
Co &r Limifod 6 be senfc ree * on application to the Australasian Branch, H. H. Warner and


IF NEGLECTED,
Whooping cough leads to more serious diseases.
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy will keep the
cough loose, allay the irritation, and counteract
any tendency towards pneumonia. It always
cures, and cures quickly. Is. 6d.*
NEW SOUTH WALES
Mont de Piete Deposit and Investment
Company, Limited,
74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY,
GENERAL MEETING.
A GENERAL MEETING of the Shareholders in the
“ above Company will be held on THURSDAY, 30th
inst., upon the Company’s premises, as above, at
11.30 a.m.
By order of the Board of Directors.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
Business :
To receive the Directors’ Report and Balance-sheet.
To Elect Two Directors in the room of L. C. Russell-
Jones, Esq., and John Hardie, Esq., whose term of
office expires by effluxion of time (both these gentle-
men are eligible for re-lection and offer themselves
accordingly). To Elect Two Auditors for the coming
twelve months (Messrs. J. B. C. Miles and J. H.
Davies are eligible and offer themselves for re-elec-
tion); and to transact any other business that may
be brought before the Meeting in accordance with
the Articles of Association.
Dated 16th July, 1903.
"VIEW SOUTH WALES MONT DE PIETE DEPOSIT AND
xv INVESTMENT COMPANY, Limited,
74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
The TRANSFER BOOKS of this Company will be
CLOSED from the 16th to 31st inst. inclusive.
EUSTACE BENNETT,
General Manager.
Dated 16th July, 1903.
Amusements.
C R, tT5 R,ON . THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the Direction of Charles Holloway.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
CHARLES HOLLOWAY’S
, .. DRAMATIC COMPANY
In the Most Successful, the Most Human Plat ever written
THE TWO LITTLE VAGABONDS
(By Special Arrangement with J. C. Williamson, Esq.).
NEXT > J ULY 25, BECAUSE I LOVE YOU.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Paling's
THEATRE
■ Lessee
ROYAL, SYDNEY.
.. .. Mr. J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
Under the Direction of Mr. GEORGE MUSGROVE.
Manager, Mr. Chas. B. Westmacott.
_ i NIGHT of DOLORES, To-Morrow (Friday).
®ATi 7BDAY EVENING (LAST SIX NIGHTS OF THE
SEASON) GEORGE MUSGROVE’S New English Comedy
Co. and MISS NELLIE STEWART in
A COUNTRY MOUSE.
LAST SWEET NELL MATINEE NEXT WEDNESDAY*
Prices as Usual. Plan Nicholson’s,
DALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY. ~
■ Lessee and Director .. Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
SECOND WEEK AND CONTINUED SUCCESS of
MR. DANIEL FRAWLEY
and his Specially Selected Company of American Plaj r ers,
in America’s Greatest Play,
“ A. II I Z O NT
Box Plan at Paling’s.
Prices—ss., 35., 25., and Is.
IYCEUM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
™ Lessee .. .. ~ Mr. George Musgrove.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
FAMOUS DRAMATIC ORGANISATION
in the Magnificently Staged, Melodramatic, Sensational
Spectacle, by James Williard, Esq.,
IN THE SHADOW OF NIGHT.
SAT. NEXT, JULY 25, THE LADDER OF LIFE.
Prices —3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Box Plan open at Elvy’s Music
Warehouse, George Street.
THE MUTOS 0 0 P L
WONDERFUL LIVING PICTURES.
KING STREET ARCADE
•■.a 400 GEORGE STREET.
Always on View.
Admission FREE.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor and Manager—Mr. Harry Rickards.
NEW FIRST PART-LAWN TENNIS.
Splendid Success of the Royal Society Entertainer,
RUDINOFF.
Continued Brilliant Success of Miss MAUD PERMAN.
THE TWO COLLIERS,
Miss ELLA WELLINGTON, Miss MAGGIE FRASER,
Mr. HUGH HUXHAM, Mr. FRED. RIVENHALL, Mr.
SAM WILSON, Mr. GEO. SCOTT, Mr. GEO. WALLACE,
Mr. GUS FRANKS, and all our Great Co.
PKRA HOUSE, ME L B O U R N E.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. H. Rickards.
FREDERICK
HALLEN
and
MOLLY
FULLER
DAN CRAWLEY,
London’s Quaint Comedian.
WILL WHITBURN, CONNIE HAMILTON, LILIAN
BISHOP, .MOLLY BENTLEY, ERNEST SULLIVAN,
FRANK YORKE, FLORRIE RANGIR, KELSO
HENDERSON,
RINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
j EVERY EVENING,
Mr. Musgrove’s Grand Comic Opera Co. in the Spanish
Comic Opera*
the; serenade,
For First Time in Melbourne.
Music by Victor Herbert.
USUAL PRICES. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessee .. .. .. .. Mr. BJand Holt.
Business Manager .. .. C. Simonsens.
last two Nights of
THE BREAKING OF THE DROUGHT.
SATURDAY, JULY 25, Sensational, . Domestic, and
Equestrian Melodrama,
GOING THE PACE.
Prices—3s. 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at A lan's.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MElBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J.' 6. Willia.usos.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of THE BELLE OF NEW YORK.
SATURDAY NEXT, JULY 25,
Mr. J. 0. WILLIAMSON’S
NOW FAMOUS MUSICAL COMEDY CO.
—in —
THE MESSENGER BOY.
THE 48th ...
0-Hour Qemonstration
and J|rt Union
(Under sanction of
the Attorney-General)
Monday, 5th Oct., 1SC3.
Prizes value £1250.
First Prize, value £500 ; Second Prize, value £fGO;
Third Prize, value £50 ; and 150other valuable Prizes
The Prize Drawing; is open to the public and the
press, and every purchaser of a ticket has an equal
chance whether present or not.
Last year a number of applications for tickets wi re
received too late for participation in the drawing,
and their moneys had to be returned. People from a
distance should apply early and avoid this disap-
pointment.
Tickets to be obtained from
A. McDougall, Secretary,
Trades Halt, Sydney,
or from Local Agents everywhere.
The First Prize (a Golden Emu valued at 500 sovs.)
was last year won by Mrs. Swadling, of Edden-strett,
Leichhardt, Sydney.
Buy your Tickets Early.
Only One Shilling.
Under Vice-Regal
Patronage '
M
And by
Special Appointn ent
Mrs. William Green and Miss Green
Professors of Ballroom Dancing, Deportment, Craceful
Carriage, Etiquette and Calisthenics Exercises.
The Latest Society Skirt Dances. Classes arranged for at
private residences. Colleges and Convents attended.
Classes in all suburbs. Prospectus—
“ ■llerslie,” 100 Nicholson-Bt.,Fitzroy.
Princess Royal, Norseman (W.A.), had a pretty
lively meeting ow ’ n £ the objection of some of the
snareh I era to the manager dabbling in old plant,
reporting on other mines, and also managing North and
Ro - yaL There 18 certainly strong objection to the
JwJiTS especially trading in old machinery,
though Bull doesn t object to a man reporting on other
properties ; but what objection there can be to a manager
bossing three adjacent mines it is difficult to conceive,
the knowledge he thereby acquires benefits the whole
group operating on the same lode. Thousands of pounds
were squandered by the Brown Hill Extended, and the
lease was lost to the co., because the Brown Hill
manager refused all information regarding the trend of
, Even at the present time Ivalgurli, Associated
Bannga are needlessly spending money looking for
the Associated Northern lode, while, were the manage-
ments in one hand, this expense could be saved, and the
proper course of development mapped out in one try.
Co. has started a reserve fund with £5000, which is a step
in the right direction, especially as it takes its own acci-
dent risks.
• • * *
Kalgoorlie Amalgamated (W.A.), a conglomera-
tion of some dozen ancient wild cats at the north end of
the Golden Mile, has so far not justified its existence
The co. was formed in February, 1902, with a nominal
capital of £400,000, in £1 shares, of which 100,000 were
reserved. Cash-working capital was alleged to be
£00,000. Barring a few diamond-drill bore-holes put
down haphazard, and not deep enough to prove any-
thing, the area of 142 acres has been simplv shepherded
The co. has fair prospects if systematically worked, as
the Eclipse lode, now being so successfully worked by the
Golden Link co., should traverse its ground. The co.
has now a new manager, A. Salmon, who comes with a
good reputation for energy. If he lives up to his reputa-
tion the concern may yet prove a success. Minister of
Mines Gregory, in view of the unemployed difficulty, has
rightly taken the bull by the horns, and refused further
exemption and concentration of labor unless all unworked
blocks are open to tributors. He has also fixed the rate of
tribute between a minimum of 2£ and a maximum of 10
per cent., no tribute to be paid till men have cleared
£2 a week apiece. A large number of men will take
advantage of this offer. It is worth while remembering
that the Eclipse lode was found by tributors after the co.
had been fruitlessly fooling about for some seven or eight
years. 6
• • • •
North Kalgurli (W.A.) should join the regular
producers some time in August, as very good headway is
being made with the erection of the mill and the plant.
Although reserves of ore are sufficient to keep the mill
running full time for at least a year, people who have
seen what the same management has done at Hannan’s
Reward, Mt. Charlotte, are not hopeful. When attorneys
dictate to managers the result is usually disastrous.
Co.’s funds are nearly done, and small parcels of picked
ore are going forward to the Fremantle smelters to
provide the sinews of war. This may be necessary, but
it is not good policy. Shares may possibly have a spurt
when the battery gets going, and if that happens many
holders will pass on the baby to somebody else to nurse
• * ♦ * *
Associated Northern (W.A.) directorate, evi-
dently scared by the fall of 60 per cent, in the price of
the stock since the death of Capt. Rodda, and the
announcement of the cessation of the smelting of sulpho-
telluride ore, has resumed shipments of latter ore to
smelters. It is now more than two years since Capt.
Rodda told the directors that he saw no hope for the
bottom of the mine, but that there was enough lower
grade ore in sight to pay dividends of 40s. per share. So
far there is no reason to doubt this estimate. Subse-
quently the diamond drill was alleged to have located
pay ore at 912ft., and rich ore at 1100ft., and prospects
looked brighter. After carrying the main shaft to 950ft.
without result, an east crosscut was started at 950ft. to
try to locate the ore found by diamond drill, and the
search is being continued. The diamond drill may have
been deflected by a hard bar, but the long delay in find-
ing anything of value is helping the “bears” to knock
things endways.
• • • •
Mt. Morgan, Queensland’s unique gold mine,
closed one of its least profitable years on May 31. The
quantity of ore treated was considerably increased, but
there was a further serious fall in metallic contents,
while the expenses were higher than they have been
lately. The gross return was 143,584oz., or 4044oz. less
than in the year before. Ten years ago 02,190 tons of ore
was treated of an average value of loz. 18dwt. 13gr. per
ton ; in the past year 262,819 tons were handled, and the
average value was slightly under llfdwt. Put in another
way, while in the 12 months ended May 31st, 1893, the
ore was worth £7 14s. 2d. per ton, in the last year it was
worth £2 8s. 6d. ; but while costs were formerly
£2 19s. 6d. per ton, they have now been got down
to about £1 7s...leaving a margin of £1 Is. 6d., as against
a former £4 14s. 8d. The highest dividend-point reached
was in 1890, when £866,667 was paid (17s. 4d. per share) ;
from 1892 to 1898 the annual dividends stood at
£300,000 (6s.); they rose to £350,000 (7s.) in 1899, 1900
and 1901; in 1902 fell to £205,000, and this year to
£150,000 (3s.). The principal mine-development of the
year has been at the 750ft. level; but, though the stone
occurs in a large body, its value, so far as it has been
proved, is poorer than was at first thought. It is to get
a better idea of the value of this body in different parts—
for it is evidently patchy—that diamond-drill prospecting
has been adopted. On account of movements of ground
the co. will most likely soon have to face a considerable
outlay for new shaft sinking.
♦ * * 0
Mount Morgan (Q.) dividends have reached
£6,279,166; B.H. Prop. (N.S.W.) still leads, however,
with £7,592,000, though it is now much the less profitable
mine of the two.
• * • *
From Queensland: At Woodlark Island all
hands and the cook are down with malaria. Mining
speculators are mildly excited over two old-new gold
discoveries. In far N.Q., veteran prospector Deicke,
discoverer of Ebagoolah, says he has something extra
choice about 110 miles south of Ebagoolah, towards
Maytown ; and near Warwick (Darling Downs) the native
population can hardly sleep for thinking of the richness
of a find near Pratten. A syndicate has bought up some
of the ground, and the bucolics expect to have 18-ct. stuff
in their ploughshares next spring. At Charters Towers
the Brilliant Freehold makes its 63rd call of 3d., and the
No. 2 S.E. Day Dawn makes its 164th ; hope springs
eternal in the speculator’s breast. The Politician at
Ravenswood belies its name by being equal, so far, to its
promises—49 tons producing £1780, and 179 tons of
seconds with sands and concentrates giving £1223. Other
shows on thisjfield'threaten to do something shortly.
/ * * *
Hartley and Riley, most consistent of Maori-
land dredging cos., has just paid a 5s. div., bringing up
the total to £10 per share. There are 7000 shares. All
the divs. have been paid within four years. Prospects
are still very good.
* * . *' *
Said Treasurer Waduell, of N.S.W., talking- to
some railway men at a banquet on Saturday night:—
“ One of the great disturbing factors in connection with
borrowing in London was the fact that the Victorian
Government in a few months would have to raise
£5,000,’ 00 in order to pay debentures and other stock
which were falling due, and this was prejudicially affect-
ing the money market in London for all colonial borrow-
ing, as he was informed within the last few days directly
from London.” But that is simply the sort of thing that
is going to continue to happen in the future. The bills
have started to come in now ; and this that is just ahead
of Victoria is not a tropical downpour—smart while it
lasts, but soon over; For a year or two after 1904 we
certainly did once look like having a comparatively easy
time; but lately the Governments have taken to borrowing
for three or four years only, so we are not going to have
even those nextfewyears free from bills and duns. For the
whole Commonwealth the loans falling due- next year
amount, to £7,051,290, including Victoria’s £5,475,000;
and that, though it appals Treasurer Waddell, and pre-
vents him borrowing, is hardly more serious than the
average for the whole of -the next 40 years.. Between
now and 1935 Australasia Will have to. find £208,000,000
somewhere—an ~ average of £6,500,000 a year ; and
the. commitments for a good many years after
that are almost as heavy. If Australia cannot
borrow on reasonable terms now because of what
has to happen next year, then, as the same thing has to
happen for the next 35 years, it looks as though Aus-
tralia will not be able to borrow on reasonable terms for
the same length of time. In that case Australia had
better make up its mind at once that the borrowing game
is “up.”
At Poverty Point.
MR. E. NAPOLEON BOFFARD, heralding Australia amongst the Nations at the Alfred
Hospital Ball, recently held in Melbourne.
The Bultißtin a few weeks back mentioned that some
parson should rise up and denounce the mutoscope—
that penny concern which always goes into sudden dark-
ness just when something wicked is going to happen—as
a disappointing fraud. G. E. Ardill, of the ’Ome of ’Ope,
evidently took the hint, and at a recent “Conference on
Public Morals” he spoke very severely of the fleeting
penn’orth.
Stated as a fact, by people who are only guessing at a
possibility, that Musgrove has arranged to send his
Shakspearean shows to the United States and Canada.
It is certain that the imported company didn’t come to
Australia with any thought of returning home via
America and Canada, and thusfar there is no arrange-
ment for even the scenery to go on a foreign tour.
“Roree”: Was sitting beside the Vic. ex-Minister of
Railways, the other night, at “ The Belle of New York.”
Most of the time he slumbered, emitting fat snores at in-
tervals. He was awake, however, when Bronson declared
his compassionate intention of “ leaving half-a-crown to
Thomas Bent.” The prospective legatee didn’t seem to
care for the offer.
THE FLOODS IN WIMMERA.
“Hi, there, you, McCarthy! Call your rain off!”
Townsville is a place of some resource. A considerable
while ago, when the Governor was coming that way, the
people erected an arch with a howl of welcome on it—
something like “ Hooray for His Excellency ! ” It was
still standing when the Jap. Admiral was'east up by
chance among the alligators on that shore, so a new in-
scription was put up ; something like “ Hooray for the
Niggers.” The Fitzgeralds were the next to arrive and
the good old arch of welcome appeared with the decora-
tion “Hooray for the Circus.” And every person
welcomed thought it was a special arch put up for his
benefit.
The small boys of the Westminster Abbey Glee Party
excite considerable attention in Melbourne streets, where
they trot about freely in mortar-board caps and black
gowns. Great is the scorn of the street-urchin for these
amazing clothes, and his remarks are like those addressed
to Dickens’ “ Biler ” when, through the kindness of Dom-
bey, he was made a Bluecoat Boy and had to wear the
horrible petticoat of the Order. The English boys take
it all good-humoredly, but show their caution by always
hunting in packs—the five rarely separate.
The English parson who was inspired by Mrs. Brown-
Potter to write a play, has named it “A Hector’s
Romance.” Oh, dear l
Ivan Oaryll, the music composer, was lately divorced
from his wife, Geraldine Ulmar, for adultery and
desertion. Somebody ought to publish a musical
matrimonial dictionary, showing how the married state
disagrees with singers, instrumentalists and composers.
By the way, it appeared that Ivan Caryll is properly
Felix Tilkin. *
Died last week, Captain' Chanter, R.N., who came to
Australia in 1881 as the husband of Mrs. Scott Siddons.
Chanter was a fine-looking fellow—it was his appearance
and mannahs that “ mashed ” the beautiful actress—but
the voyage to Australia seemed to find out a weak spot
in his brain, and as a crazy husband is an impossible
piece of luggage for an actress to carry around, Mrs.
Siddons popped him into the Yarra Bend Lunatic
Asylum (Melb.), and left him there when she returned to .
Europe. Ten years later the gallant cap. was transferred
to the Beechworth Asylum and there he died, a septua-
genarian, from disease of the heart.
Edward Branscombe, of the Westminster Abbey Glee
Co., is not now paying his first visit to Australia. He *
did the country with Dolores, eight years ago, before she
had acquired her embonpoint, or he had acquired hip
wife - However, his billing and cooing began about then, '
as Marie Hooton was also a member of Dolores’ co.
■<« HM ” : At Covent Garden (London) “ Pagliacci ” and
Cavallena Rusticana” were meditated and London
Rhfbrbb announces “Signor Dianni” to take the part
of Turiddu. Can this be our lately-beloved of the
•op 0 f
Music is played out in Melbourne when even a Marshal
Hall symphonic concert is a financial failure. The receipts
of the first concert of the present season were £132, and
the expenses amounted to £149.
‘‘B.”: Miss Annette Kellermann and the young men who
assist her in the swimming scene in the “ Breaking of the
Drought” probably anticipated that the management
would have had the water warmed, but it wasn’t, and
sturdy Annette and her male assistants dived and swam
in an icy tank. Then Annette was attacked by “ the
rheumatiz” in her legs, and one night the swimmers all
struck, when the scene had only been on a few minutes.
Bland Holt, in the wings, waved his arms frantically to
them to continue, but to no purpose, and the curtain
was rung down. The next night the swimmers were
pleased to see steam rising from the tank. Tanks
are unmanageable things, anyhow. When George Rig-
nold and a tank drama struck Maoriland one winter,
George regularly denounced his manager on alternate
nights for having the tank too cold or else too hot. The
unhappy man never struck the happy medium. Result
was that an angry bright-blue George emerged from the
tank on' Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, and an
angry bright-red George on Tuesdays, Thursdays and
Saturdays. “How dare you boil your employer?” is
said to have been the question thrown at the minion one
especially bad Tuesday.
Alderman Meagher made trouble the other day by
wanting to know why Sydney Town Hall organ, which
was reputed to be the best in the world, should have been
allowed to get into the disgraceful condition which
organist Lemare declares it has arrived at. His Washup
replied it was all the fault of the musical critics on the
daily papers. They sat there night after night listening
to the grand instrument going to rack and ruin, without
ever raising a warning voice to notify him of the danger.
An alderman suggested that perhaps the critics couldn’t
detect anything wrong themselves, but the Mayor indig-
nantly asked how could they be musical critics' engaged
on newspapers of fabulous circulation, if they couldn’t
detect the slightest fault ? And was it likely that such
ignorance would be tolerated by their highly-cultured
employers? The discussion grew heated about this point,
and. things were said that were calculated to bring the
press into disrepute.
When Osoar Girard took the part of Ichabod Bronson in
“The Belle of New York,” he croaked the songs because
he was suffering from tuberculosis of the throat, and
couldn’t sing them. His Australian successor, Fred
Graham, appears to be adapting his penormance to the
necessities of the other man’s malady. An imitative
hoarseness is not necessarily humorous merely because
the original humorist was hoarse.
♦
The imaginative female who rushes to the
police-station with a tale of an outrage by some
unknown person wearing a dark suit has a curious
parallel in Maoriland. The other day a boy at
the Wanganui Collegiate School alleged that he
had been indecently assaulted by the head-master.
The trustees of the college held a private inquiry,
attended by four lawyers, and presided over by
an ex-Chief Justice. The result was the com-
plete exoneration of the master. Meanwhile, the
master became a complete wreck; his hair
turned white, and he lay at the point of death for
some days. The crisis passed, bu*-! the patient’s*
memory is gone. Meanwhile, nothing seems
likely to happen to the boy, who has cheerfully
confessed that the story was pure invention.
The only thing, apparently, that prevented the
master from committing suicide was the fact that
the moment he heard the charge he fainted and
became a mental wreck forthwith. Supposing he
had committed suicide, just as Macdonald did,
there would have been no inquiry, and people
would have concluded that his guilt was estab-
lished.


HEN’S DISORDERS.
,- : v:
is
Mr. HOWARD FREEMAIS,
The Famous Specialist.
We have cured Thousands of
Serious Cases!!
THERE is nothing gained in employing an un-
practical person to do an expert’s task. Nine
times in ten, EAILURE follows. The average
physician is oftentimes an amateur in the treat-
ment of grave nerve diseases. His time is so fully
occupied in treating a full assortment of human ills
that he cannot devote special study to any particular
branch of practice. Some diseases are sufficiently
simple as to require only the general knowledge
obtained in colleges and general practice.
The More Complex and Perplexing Disorders
are not always favored by the family doctor. He pre-
fers to be relieved of tasks which call for special know-
ledge and special skill.
\
m
i'fi 1
m
Dr. RICHARD WALLACE,
Physician-in-Chief.
The true SPECIALIST is a physician who is absolutely expert in the treatment of a few diseases. He knows all
about the complaints he treats, and he supervises difficult cases with the same certainty with which the general practitioner
treats a common ailment.
For over 30 Years we have been treating: Serious Diseases.
We began our special work after thorough training in some of the best known colleges abroad. We have cured more
men of their troubles than any association of men in Australia. You can come to us feeling certain that we know just
what to do, that you will be free from malpractice and certain of a cure if one remains for you.
WEAKNESS.
The Functional derangement, commonly
termed “WEAKNESS,” is generally a direct
result from inflammation causing severe pro-
static troubles. The nerve parts governing
the afflicted centres require stimulating.
Sound medical treatment under the
supervision of a skilled SPECIALIST is
required, combined with the wearing of our
specially tested Electric “INVIGORATOR”
or Belt, which pours a current of vital energy
into the weak parts, giving them new life and
strength. Over ninety per cent, of our cases
have been completely cured in this manner.
This “INVIGORATOR,” the best in Aus-
tralia, is ONE POUND ONLY. It is a
genuine Electric Belt, and the only one sold
in Australian medical practice locally certifica-
ted. Duty is paid free to all Australian States.
VARICOCELE.
Men who have for years been afflicted with
Varicocele, can come to us with com-
plete assurance that we will effect a per-
manent cure in a few week’s time, by a
painless and absolutely harmless method.
There is no dangerous operation or detention
from business. We regard each case as a
means of proving our superior skill, and show-
ing the needlessness of a surgical operation.
We will cure you quickly, thoroughly, and
without the need of hospital care.
BLOOD POISON.
There are many phases of this complaint
and its origin is sometimes obscure. No
man should trifle if he suffers from any
disorder of the blood. An unhealthy state of
the life fluid of the body sometimes imparts
the worst form of physical and mental disease.
We have special methods of cure. We treat
successfully those cases aggravated by the
tampering of others.
RUPTURE.
Since our practice commenced we have
treated over 2500 cases of Rupture. We cure
many cases without cutting or painful opera-
tions. Our patients seldom have to wear
trusses after our treatment. Of course there
are some cases in which a truss must be worn,
and for those we have on hand the finest,
cheapest, and most comfortable kinds yet
devised by science.
OUR MEDICAL INSTITUTE, BYDNEY.
A Bond of £lOOO.
We are under a guarantee bond of £lOOO to faithfully perform all or
any medical contracts that we may enter into. We do not consider any
man cured until he asserts it personally and sends in his testimonial. Of
these we have many thousands, of which a few extracts are here published.
Our Medical Institute, supervised by a Staff of Skilled SPECIALISTS,
is the most scientific in Australia. Over £lOO,OOO has been expended
upon it. Its medical literature embraces an annual disbursement of 25,000
volumes of medical works.
When under treatment you are under the care of an internationally-
registered SPECIALIST, who holds NINE DIPLOMAS AND
CERTIFICATES of qualification and registration by Australian, English
and American Boards.
Sir Dominic Corrigan, Bart., Physician to the late Queen, says of
him : “I entertain a high opinion of Dr. Wallace respecting his profes-
sional qualifications ”
Read what the
■ Cured Say!
Hon. Daniel O’Connor, M.P.
Ex-Minister of the Crown, writing from Parlia-
ment House, Sydney, to the Chief of the Medical
Staff, says of our Electro-Medical treatment: —
“ I have worn one of your Electrio ‘ Belts.’
It has benefited me much. _ For years I
suffered from acute kidney pains, which have
now, I am happy to say, entirely left me.’
Mr. Philip Newbury,
the great English tenor, now starring in the leading
musical centres, London, writes :
“ For years I have suffered from uric acid
in the blood. Thanks to the wonderful
efficacy of your Electric ‘ INVIGORATOR, ’
I am now completely cured.”
Mr. Patrick Larkin, J.P.
This gentleman is well known in Sydney as one of
the most active members of commercial life. His
word is his bond. He testifies to our treatment in
these terms :
“ I am satisfied your Electrio ‘lnvigorator ’
Belt gives health and vigor to the system. I
wore one, consistent with your instructions,
and it has benefited me much.”
Inspector F. Fowler,
A highly esteemed officer of the Sydney Police
Force, occupying a position of great responsibility as
Chief of the Burwood Division of Police, says
“Since wearing your ‘Belt’ my health has
greatly improved. I have so much benefited
that I recommended it to my friends.”
A Station Accountant’s
Eulogy.
Mr. S. H. Bernard, accountant on Ganmain Station,
via Wagga, was, to quote his words, “a physical
wreck ” when consulting us. A few months later he
writes in this strain : -
“I am getting on steadily and surely. I
must say for years I have not felt so well as I
am now feeling.”
If you are interested in these cases,
write for special brochure, illustrated.
You may find there a case similar to
your own.
es
Gene
Dise
(MAN J,
o M*dic&l*
This Book is Your Best Friend.
This famous work is now in its tenth edition. “ CLINICAL EXPERIENCES ” was first published in 1901. Since
that time over 500,000 volumes have been issued throughout Australia. It is a handsome, exhaustive work, containing over 550
pages letterpress and 150 MEDICAL PLATES. A chapter on Anatomy covers 30 pages. There are life-size diagrams of the
human body and its various functions. There are over 30 chapters upon general diseases, and 20 additional articles upon the
treatment of persons afflicted with SNAKE-BITE, SUNSTROKE, PLAGUE, FEVERS, ABSCESS, CONSUMPTION,
BLOOD DISEASES, WEAKNESS IN MEN, INSOMNIA, RHEUMATISM, LOSS OF VITAL POWER, GOUT,
INDIGESTION, Etc.
This Magnificent Work will be POSTED FREE to any Address In Australia on
receipt of ON'E SHILLING IN STAMPS. No Further Charge.
FREEMAN * WALLACE
ELECTRO-MEDICAI—
and SURGICAL INSTITUTE
ELIZABETH and BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
HOWARD FREEMAN, Director. Medicines packed Free from Observation and sent to ail parts of Australia*
Dr. RICHARD WALLACE, M.D., L.R.C.P., E., L.F.P.S., E., L.M., Phy&ician-in-Chief. Letters treated with Professional Secrecy and promptly replied to.


A good old cant phrase found in the notice
paper of N.S. W. Assembly :
a®! 5 the Minister of Public Instruction,—
"' "° Possible way by which the Department
8, . lla schools, to enable honest, industrious
cMdrenEducated ? m ° te PartS ° f the infceri ° r t0 ** their
Why assume that everybody living in the bush
must necessarily be honest and industrious ? The
children of the dishonest and the lazy require
education just as much as those of the other class.
d be ? thing to see a member
drop the cant phrase, and ask the Minister straight
out to provide educational facilities for the
the backblock C °^ &nd drunken cow-stealers in
If British royalty wishes to continue in
existence it should put some curb on the slobber
of the “loyal ” press. The British Weekly, an
excessively loyal and slushy publication, tells this
about the young son of the Duke of York : —
When he was shown a picture in which he was repre-
sented as standing by the side of President Roosevelt,
the little prince naively exclaimed : “ How proud the
President must be to be seen there with me by his side !’>
And the awful publication tells it admiringly,
without any notion at all that the young puppy
should have been soundly spanked right where he
will one day occupy the British throne.
Ready on 1st. August. The Bulletin’s new
book, “ Such is Life ! ” by Tom Collins. 4s. 6d.
Australian
Established 1849.
Mutual Provident Society
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or Now Zealand.
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per
cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any f ne.
Directors—' Thomas Littlejohn, Esq., Chairman; The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin Short,
Esq. ; Senator J. T. Walker ; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.O. ; F. E. Winciicombe, Esq., M.P.
General Manager and Actuary— Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
tub FAMOUS REMEDY for.
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OE ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
SoreneS T- !Xma ™ ( } afc * ts . wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
forlimr inalkviim irriKtfons, tful an d unmeflmi fc e r ehef; an< ? to th f e wh ° are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
never been known to pxiV wlipj-p “Pr „„v, a » stiengt 1 t , ie v f l^ e ’it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
and a Complete Cure is certain VG 6611 ro * ier y treated this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
BEWARE or* COUGHS!
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE,
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OF HEAItNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
„ _ “Orange, N.S.W.
Mr. Hearne.—
“ Dear Sir,—l enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
of London, England, from which you will glean that
your medicine has been a perfect God-send to a martyr to
colds and bronchial asthma. Ido not wish any names to
be mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
land. You can see for yourself what an immense success
it was.—Yours faithfully, .”
Extract from letter alluded to above :
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
arrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
much interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
off the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
from a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, bub will be
supplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS* TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OP HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“ Dergholm, Victoria.
“ Dear Sir,—x wish to add my testimony to the won-
derful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
months, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
I was obliged to get up and sit by the fire.' I had medical
advice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
yours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
first dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
ain a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
may depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
wonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“ Yours faithfully,
“ JAMES ASTBURY.”
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearpe’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapid I v successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed bv
the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
fifty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS-
-1 " sed y®" r r T B T r x,a Ch A tis •°. Ul £ fcl ?, r . e ° °. f “y famil y« and ifc cured each of them in from one to three
aoses.—P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.”
Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of
sending for another bottle in case I should want it.—D. M'DONALD, Trinkey, via
the medicine yet; but lam
Quirindi, N.S.W.”
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.-A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Benny-st., Paddington, Sydney.”
•
. My VVl , fe . is , 8 , 2 y ea r s 0,d * anc J 1 , am 79, and lam glad to inform you that your Brochitis Cure has done us
V?ctoda W ” nderfUl dCal ° f S °° d ’ lfc havlng quickly cured us both.—R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford,
pl.M,'lS JOHN “ ths com*
“ I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria.”
" I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone.-J, HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W.”
disa PP eared after two d oseB.-C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers,
, “ * late, y. administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miracu’.ous.-F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.” UIU J-ne cure was
“Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Viotoria.”
valua'l^e'medidne!—(Mrso'jfsLATEllf CraS,° Vicforia?” 0U " With ° Ut delay ’ a 3 1 t 0 be a “ OSt
G. wS/- 18 Th £ reBult was marvellous. It eased me right off at once.-
“Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle.—W. LETTS, Hey wood, Victoria.”
'tiding?^ w SSth'wJS?" *“ *** 1 lam recoramendin S ifc to everybody.-S.
. f r 1 suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine
TRELAWNEY, y |e a vern a ßive a r!' ** * r6SUIt ° f my brief tria] - JOHN
“ Last y ®, a . r , T f u ®ered severely from Bronchitis, alfd the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
me any good , but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well.— H HOOD
Brooklands, Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.” 4
•
I ® a . B ® J e ” # d J?® half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a fnend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.”
•
. “ Yo . ur Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
mo^h made h me i lnUCb '^ Se ‘ lam satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from you have pulled
me through a long and dangerous illness.—HENßY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria ”
Pointed Darl!n"f f ,9 ure 1 B ot f rom you was magical in its effects.—OHAS. WHYBROW, Enoch’s
Gratitude and Appreciation
HUNDREDS CUrIed”IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
" The Scientific Australian Office,
“ 169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
“Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom-
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ac-
countant, OolJins-street, and the effect that it had was so
marked that he has ever since been continually recom-
mending it to others.
“ We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearhe’s most valuable Bronchicis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.”
Queensland Testimony-
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
“ 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W. G ; Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send us 36
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose our
cheque to cover amount of order.
“ We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
“We are, faithfully yours,
• THOMASON, CIIATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemists.”
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir, —Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“ I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUARRILL,
“Editor Geelong Advertiser."
“Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.”—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
branch DE Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
THE
SMELTING s REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
Works: DAPTO, LAKE ILLAWARRA (56 Miles from Sydney).
1901, Limited.
Highest Price paid for Gold, Silver, Lead, and Copper Ores,
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay. Cyanide, Slags, and Jewellers’ Sweep, etc.
!For alj Information regarding Hates, apply to the Manager, Head Office, I)apto;
or, A. E. REDDER & 00., 40 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Forwarding Agents.
BENGER’S FOOD is
not only highly nutritive,
but is most easily digested
and is so delicious that it
is enjoyed by Infants, In-
valids, Convalescents and
the aged.
m
&
m
MU
The London Medical Record
says:—“ It is retained when all
other foods are rejected.”
The British Medical Journal
says“ Benger’s Foot! has by
its excellence established a
reputation of its own."
Benger’s Food is sold in tins
by Chemists, etc., everywhere.


A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
cases in six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
onlv Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
Of Chemists, or from PARIS MEDICINE CO., 28, Shoe-
lane, London, England.*
In Auckland Court, a few days ago, a
case was heard in which an important point de-
pended upon the definition of the term “idiot.”
Counsel (himself M.H.R.) remarked that accord-
ing to Greek derivation the word meant “any
person out of politics.’
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It dri\es away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Not genuine without the signature.
Be sure you get Martin’s. Sole proprietor, W.
Martin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
England.*
Indigestion Cured.
Bilb Bbans Always Effective.
“ For a period of over four years I was a sufferer
from INDIGESTION,” savsMr. Elliott Watkins,
of Lady Robinson’s Beach, Rockdale, Sydney.
“The symptoms which troubled me most were
dizziness in the head, accompanied by a languid
feeling and a most perpetual and intolerable head-
ache. My stomach was distended after eating,
and violent gnawing pains attacked me in the
chest, breathing being, at times, most distressing.
1 was also greatly troubled with fits of vomiting,
when I would be utterly prostrated and
temporarily deprived of sight. Bile Beans were
recommended to me, and the contents, of .the first
box gave me great relief, and, continuing with
them for a month, I was completely cured.”
Bile Beans have now a world wide reputation for
curing biliousness, headache, indigestion, con-
stipation, piles, debility, female weaknesses,
nervousness, bad blood, pimples and all skin
eruptions, bad breath, ansemia, loss of appetite,
sleeplessness, lumbago, rheumatism, in fact, all
ailments that owe their origin to defective bile
flow, assimilation and digestion.*
T
HERE ARE SEVERAL ....
TALKING MACHINES
. . BUT THERE IS ONLY ORE . .
(MHOFIIII
WHICH IS MADE BY
The gramophone $ Typewriter gtd.
: §a I ■
This Is a “JUNIOR IlONARCH ** GRAMOPHONE,
Price £6 10s., and it is unsurpassed by any
Talking Machine at any Price.
Other Styles, £3 to £14 10s.
Bead what ADELINA PATTI says:
M
To The Gramophone Co.,
City Road, London.
Gentlemen,
M
Craig-Y-Nos Castle,
Ystradgynlais, R.S.O.
Breconshire,
South Wales.
I have much pleasure in stating that I have heard your
Monarch Gramophone, and that I consider it a very remarkable instru-
ment of its kind, and quite the most perfect that I have ever hear .
It reproduces the human voice to such a fine point, that in listenm
to the records of Caruso, Plancon, etc., it seemed to me as if those
artists were actually singing in my saloons. I have never heard
anything to equal it.
Australian Agencies—VICTORIA: A. P. Sykes, 227 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Represented all over
World.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Messrs. S. B. Hunt & Co., 94 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
WESTRALIA: Messrs. Nicholson & Co.. Perth.
TASMANIA: Messrs. Wertheimer, Benjamin, & Anderson, 71 Collins Street, Hobart.
QUEENSLAND : Messrs. Heindorff Bros., 210 Queen Street, Brisbane.
AGENTS IN EVERY TOWN.
WHOLESALE DEPOT FOR AUSTRALASIA—
The Gramophone and Typewriter Ltd., 163 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
KEMP’S PATENT SHEEP BRANDING LIQUID
Is now being used by hundreds of woolgrowers, amongst them some of the largest squatters in Australia.
IT WILL DO EVERYTHING THAT IS CLAIMED EOR IT.
It will stay on the sheep’s back as long as required. It will not injure the wool and can be scoured from it.
Manufacturers and Sole Agents :
rerinil CilfflHlM «CO.. HIELBOIIRIIE.
BLACK , RED, and BLUE (in 8-gallon
PRICE IN MELBOURNE
„ SYDNEY (E. Rich & Co., Ltd.)
„ BRISBANE (E. Rich St Co., Ltd.)
~ HOBART (Wm. Crosby St Co.) ••
Cases):—
Le Hunte, of S.A., is the only King’s
representative in the Federal States (excluding
the Governor-General) who is not either a
soldier or a sailor. Even Tennyson wears a
militia uniform at times.
From Vanity Fair :
Mr. Asquith, a wealthy lawyer with a taste for display,
is now, by the irony of events, the hope of the Socialist
party ; but he has the fatal defect that his expressionless
face does not lend itself to the pencil of the caricaturist.
A nose like Mr. Chamberlain’s might be worth the
Premiership to him.
Victoria’s Iceberg Premier is said, to have
been grievously disappointed when his name was
not included in the last herd of Birthday honors.
Thomas Bent is also understood to be anxiously
awaiting Imperial recognition of his services. In
his case K.C.M.G. might be taken to mean
Kicking Cursing Market Gardener.
The patriot (?) Wentworth. An advertise-
ment from S.M. Herald, Oct. 25, 1852: “To
constables and others. Absconded from Vau-
cluse, Tan Ong, Amoy native, and Anam, Canton
native (a smoker of opium, with a thin and
haggard look). A reward of £2 will be paid for
the apprehension of either of them by W. C.
Wentworth.”
A long-sentence criminal in Darlinghurst
Gaol has been spending his spare time composing
prayers for the health and happiness of Governor-
General Tennyson. These he wrote out neatly
and handed to the authorities for despatch to
head-quai’ters. On being informed, the other day,
that the Governor-General has no control over
State prisons, he left off praying for him and
turned his attention to Rawson.
In 1847 Bishops Perry (Melbourne), Short
(Adelaide), and Tyrrell (Newcastle) were all con-
secrated on the same day in Westminster Abbey.
The Baroness Burdett Coutts, who founded and
endowed the sees, still survives. Melbourne and
Adelaide have only seen the death of one bishop
in that time. Melbourne has had four diocesans,
of whom Moorhouse and Goe are now alive in
England, while Adelaide has had three, of whom
one (Kennion) obtained English preferment and
another (Harmer) is now invited to take a post
there. Harmer is on his way to Australia, but it
is believed that, after wrestling in prayer, he will
take the English billet within the next few
months.
The late Dr. Bowker left £18,260. He
passed away when well over 80. He was a member
of N.B.W. Leg. Assembly and died member of the
Council; began as a Radical and ended as a Tory.
“Look at me,” he cried in the Council a few
years ago ; “ I must still work for my bread ; if 1
didn’t I’d starve. No eight hours for me ; I work
16 hours. No Labor party to help me ; no, 1
must keep at it, and I have been at it since twelve
years of age, and still I’m a poor man.” Well,
£18,260 is not much for about 60 years of work,
but a man holding it by the neck shouldn't cry so
loudly about poverty.
Senator Playford, the massive S.A.
market gardener, puzzles the Australian Parlia-
ment. He is supposed to have left his Radicalism
in the London tailor’s shop where he bought his
Court suit what time he was Agent-General, yet
he still looks upon Kingston with the eye of a
fond father, and swears by him and all his Radical
ways. When Kingston made his grimly earnest
fighting speech at the opening of Parliament, Play-
ford forsook his own House, and listened in the
other place, and beamed all over. He doesn t
forget for a moment that it was he who, when he
formed his first Ministry, gave Kingston a port-
folio ; and afterwards he never sat as a Minister
without Kingston.
“If the grand old man who never
changed had lived this would never have been.”
So the British fossils talk about Chamberlain’s
business move. “The grand old man who never
changed !! ” Gladstone, who began public life
a strong advocate of slavery ; who fought hard in
1848 for the maintenance and expansion of con-
victism in Australia ; who was absolutely assured
in 1864 that the Southern States would achieve
their independence. He was not lost to hope,
even in the way of commonsense and patriotic
economy, when he had gone back and repented
of that little lot. His worshippers and misquoters
have neither sense nor grace to repent. They are
a stiff-necked generation, and would do well to
read and ponder the Old Testament.
In the records of Maori meetings and
transactions there used to be frequently noticed
the name of Tama-te-whai-no (whai is pro-
nounced “fy’. b chief of a tribe of some im-
portance and influence. The name is said to have
arisen thus : In earlier days, the “pakeha-Maon
(the white man who has “gone brown ”) was not
the despised person of to-day, but of much innu-
ence, being frequently the tribe’s counsellor. The
old chief, having had a son born to him, was much
exercised to find a fitting name, and at last con-
sulted his European dependent—an old sailor-
man. Latter was perplexed, and said, “ D d
if I know.” He was about to say more, but the
chief was gone ; he had fled to call his offspring
Tama-te-whai-no before the beautiful name slipped
his memory.
“X” : Be Captain Logan (mentioned in
B. 2/7/’O3). This man was murdered by
blacks outside what is now Brisbane.
The murderers were instigated by the con-
victs in revenge for Logan’s tyranny and
brutality. He was buried in the old Sandhills
cemetery, Sydney (the new railway-station site),
as the authorities feared that if buried in Bris-
bane the body would be disinterred and dismem-
bered. No marked stone was placed over the
spot in the Sandhills where the body was interred,
presumably lest the grave should be disturbed.
There were two elaborate monuments over vaults
in the cemetery, but no indication as to whose
remains they covered. Also the tombstones of
two eminent colonists had disappeared—
Dr. Wardell, murdered by bushrangers, near
Cook’s River, in 1834, and Surveyor General John
Oxley, who died in 1828. And apropos of all this,
the grave of John Knatchbull, hanged in 1844 for
the murder of a poor widow woman, was un-
marked. Though his relative, Lady Gipps, gave
him a brand new suit of broadcloth to be hanged
in, she didn’t shout him a tombstone.
“Be jusfcwith yourself. Don’t steal a sheep
when, by not stealing a sheep, you may gain a
reputation for rugged honesty, which will enable
you to steal a railroad.” — American.
The death of “ Ginger ” Clarke, one of
Parkes’ ex-Ministers, suggests the vast number
of Clarks and Clarkes, big and little, who
have been in Australia. There was the
late Andrew, perhaps the largest of them,
for over 50 years connected more or less with
four States, beginning as aide-de-camp in Tas-
mania, winding up as Agent-General for Vic. ;
William, sen., William, jun., and Joe, the land-
grabbers, etc. ; W. 8., the geologist, who
described the first goldfields of Australia, and
pointed the way to the development of the
coalfields; Marcus; the Rev. George, one of
the founders of the Tasmanian University ; John
Howard, about the most notable editor the S. A.
Register ever had ; A. 1., Tasmanian politician
and Judge; Victoria’s present Gov. and Mel-
bourne’s Bishop; Henry, the oldest member of
N.S.W. Assembly, and a Minister in Dibbs’s day;
“Bob,” the mining authority in many Victorian
Parliaments, and Service’s Mines Minister;
besides A. T., “Ginger,” Rev. Charles, and a few
smaller ones.


Exquisite New Goods^
M OT one of these things we illustrate to-day has been shown before. They are all new—some of
A them have hardly got the wrappers off as we write. They are pretty and serviceable-suited both
for personal wear and gift giving. There is not a common style in the lot and the make and finish are
quite equal to our usual high-grade goods. If you are particular as to what you buy in our line then
nowhere else can you go if you would select from a stock so large-so varied that it is an uncommon
thing for us to have to say, “ Sorry, but we have not got it.” Remember that, although we illustrate but
21 articles, we have hundreds of equally dainty, equally good, and equally low-priced new lines to show
ih w •
you if you call. Our
catalogues, “Attractive
Things at Attractive
Prices” and “Honest
Watches,” will be sent
free on request. We
deliver all Goods free
and safe by post or rail.
No. F 8935. —Exquisite Gold Pearl
and Turquoise Necklet and Pendant,
£3 ss.
DRAWN *S BISE
So. F2376.—Lovely Saw-pierced Belt Clasp
Heavy and Handsome, 21s.
No. Fl76o.—This size Gold Mounted Pen Knife
—Fluted Pattern only, 10s 6d.
No. Cl32o.—Solid Gold Fashion-
able Photo Pendant, 8s 6d.
Exact .size.
Catalogues Free.
No. F8936.—G01d and Fine Pearl
Necklet, with Pendant, £2 12s od.
No. Gl97o:—Solid Silver
Mounted Toilet Bottle,
patent pull off top, 4iin.
high, 15s 6d.
No. F8731.—15ct. Gold
Engraved Cross, exactly
as shown, 18s 6d.
No. F9297.—Dainty
Gold Pearl and Tur-
quoise Pendant, 255.
No. F7539.— x 3 in.
Solid Silver Bag Purse,
32s 6d.
No. F7o9B. —Fish Pendant, Gold, and Greenstone
from Maoriland, 22s 6d.
No. F9oo2—Rustic Inkstand, Silver-plated,
sJin. high, 9s 6d.
mm
as
n
EK
i
No. F2966.—A Magnificent- Cruet, the highest
quality of Plate and Cut Glass, £4 15s.
No. F337.—Baby’s Can.
Engraved aiid Hall-marked Solid
Sterling Silver, 3in., £2 5s.
No. Fs6s.—Solid Silver
Glass Lined Powder Jar,
2£in. high, 22s 6d. •
No. G1414.—A1 Quality Exquisitely Engrave
Hot Water Kettle, £2 15s.
No. F8966. —Handsomely Chased Hair Brush
man’s size, 5Jin., 22s 6d.
No. F729B.—Choice Pearl and Gold Brooch, 21s
No. F3B49.—Solid
Silver Milk Jug, 3iin.
high, £2.
No. Cool.—lsc. Gold
Brooch, set with Pearls
and Turquoise, £1 15s.
No. GBlB. Heavy Gold
Mounted Solid Silver
Match Box, 13in. high,
22s 6d.
No. FB439.—Cluster
Ring, 18c. Gold, 3
Rubles, 6 Diamonds,
£3 ss.
Castro’s Cast Sacrament
And Other stories,
BY ALBERT DORRINGTON.
“ The Most Brilliant Short Stories Produced in
Australia.”
A CONSENSUS OF CRITICAL OPINION.
NEW SOUTH WALES.
“ He has been everywhere and seen every-
thing, and he has to no ordinary extent the
power of presenting things as they seemed to
him—the gift of vivid and powerful narration.
.... Contains dramatic pictures which the
best of our artists in words might well envy.”—
Sydney Meaning Herald.
“The stories are often filled with incidents
that startle the reader, and emotions whose very
strength makes him shiver. . . . Mr. Dorring-
ton’s warrant as a writer of short stories is that
of absolute genius.” —Sydney Daily Telegraph.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
214 George Street, Sydney, Australia.
DARK OR AROMATIC
FINEST SELECTED
AMERICAN LEAF.
TOBACCO
HIGHEST QUALITY
MANUFACTURED.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“ L.W.” : Getting billets is a fine art. Some-
one once remarked that any fool can keep a billet
he has had the skill to obtain, but the statement
is quite incorrect. Writer knows a man who is
never in any billet more than three months, but
he is no sooner out of the collar than he slips into it
again, and meantime, he is collecting- a lot of valuable
ex § er i < j 10e * ® c kting billets is largely a matter of dress
and address. My friend Jenkins was out, as usual : dis-
missed for being a hopeless fool, and quite devoid of
brain. They wanted a man at the Lingerie Importing
Oo. Jenkins went down ; he was dressed in an elegant
frock coat, and the cut of his pants was a dream. When
he entered the emporium the boss noted the way those
elegant pants draped over the faultless spats, and it was
several minutes befor.e he could speak. Then his inspec-
tion travelled up the beauteous figure, taking in its glories
one by one, till he closed his eyes in the sheen of
the perfect silk hat. Jenkins came to business and
explained that he came down to see if the position
advertised would suit him. The manager humbly
explained that it wouldn't, he couldn't dream of offering
him such a miserable job ; but he was so taken with his
appearance that he begged of him to sit down while he
consulted his brother director as to whether there was
nothing which they might offer him. He regretted that
the position advertised was merely that of a common
salesman, but perhaps there might be something on
hand. In a few minutes he returned and engaged
Jenkins as a shop-walker ; and the imperial presence of
Jenkins still graces that emporium. The ordinary person
always reckons. that references are necessary to obtain
billets, but writer knows several men who have port-
manteaux full of references,-and when they get out of
work it takes them nearly twelve months to get back
again. Jenkins, who never had a decent reference in his
life, has never been, to my knowledge, more than three
weeks out—but then he is a draper and his clothes are
like a vision of Paradise.
* * * *
In consequence of the Drought, or the Railway-
Strike, or something, the wealthy proputty owners of
Melbourne find it necessary to reduce their working ex-
penses these times. Take the case of the Royal Arcade,
between Bourke-street and Little Oollins-street, which is
worth, all told, something like £5000 a year in rentals to
“the landlord.” That individual is principally, if not
solely, _ Mrs. Spensley, widow of the anglicised
Australian, Howard Spensley, who married her
when she was the wealthy Miss Staughton. An
exceedingly fortunate family of unearned-incrementers
are the Staughtons, by the way. Well, not long ago Mrs.
bpensley s son, who looks after the raising of rents when
he comes to Melbourne, was shocked to discover that the
night-watchman and day-watchman at the Arcade were
getting the same wages that they had received when the
rents were lower. So he retrenched them 30 per cent,
tt is satisfactory to know that many of the most valuable
city properties in Melbourne are owned by absentees,
wno will noj; come to ruin through reckless generosity*
* passed a unique turn-out on the
M Ivor road, near Bendigo. Two diggers making for the
new rush at Newbridge (Tarnagulla). They had one large
wheel, six feet in diameter, similar in construction to a
buggy wheel. A long axle went through the wheel:
a curved iron bar was fastened on end of the axle, went
up over the wheel, and fastened to other end of the axle.
I here were two pairs of long shafts, one pair fore for the
pulling man ; other pair aft for the pushing man. The
load, consisting of a cradle, picks, shovels, camp-kit,
tent, blankets and sundries, was tied securely to iron bar
and shafts. The whole affair moved very lightly.
According to Commissioner Voice, of Melbourne
Board of Perks, barracking for an increase of salary to
the Werribee farm manager, similar officials in private
empioy are paid from £4OO to £SOO a year. The Bulletin
cloesn t doubt Voice’s word for a moment, but—if private
farm managers get £SOO a year salary, what sort of an
income must the poor fanner himself enjoy
* * * *
Curie, London Economist mining-man, lavs
down three rules for mining “ investments ”as distin-
guished from speculations. (1) Shares must return a
clear 10 per cent. (2) Profits in sight must represent
, more than half the mine’s market valuation,
w. t ihe lowest workings and principal development
points must be in ore of average size and value. Except-
ing the Rand mines there are only four properties in the
world which, in his opinion, conform to these require-
ments, namely, El Oro, Camp Bird, Fingall and Oroya-
Brown Hill. Why is it that the much-travelled Curie
?w*°\ Sake ? hl f e , arl y loves . Mt. Morgan and Associated
(W.A.), particularly the latter?
* * • *
Melbourne’s combative ex-policeman, Cor-
Crowe, has issued another leaflet, this time
with the (inject, among other things, of showing how the
Red Indian Order of Foresters didn’t get officially
inquired into when the matter was talked about some
time ago. Cornelius probably doesn’t always take a
udicial view of things ; but on this occasion he seems to
have been in a position where at least he ought to know
what he is talking about. He says he was Past Chief
Ranger of Court City of Melbourne of the Red Indian
Order, and he alleges that a very high panjandrum indeed
in State polities became a member of the Order and
of that court, and had his annual premium paid
for him ; further, that two other very high
panjandrums in Federal politics also became
Red Indians, one at least of them having his dues paid
for him out of the funds of the Order. Still, supposing
all this to be true, and it doesn’t seem highly improbable,
it does not, of course, follow that any of the high panjan-
drums were bribed ; though the fact remains that no
politician should accept favors from Red Indian assur-
ance concerns—it leads to misconception. They can’t
help being made Red Indians if the chiefs like to
confer that honor upon them; writer may be a dead-
head Red Indian for all he knows. But if an
alleged assurance society issues deadhead policies
to men whom it thinks have some political pull,
what sort of an assurance society must it be ? And what
sort of benefits can the subscribers who aren’t deadheads
hope to get out of it ? The Indian society badly needs to
disprove Crowe’s yarn.
* * * *
How the grabbers grab. A cheerful sight in
Ararat (Vic.) recently was a bevy of wealthy storekeepers
and retired farmers pegging out residential areas under
miners’ rights with a view, of course, to subsequent sale.
The ground was intended to provide homes for working
men, but the shameless moneyed sharks couldn’t resist
the temptation to get their claws on a few more bits of
property.
* * * *
For 4600 acres of inferior land near Avoca
(Vic.) recently thrown open for selection by Lands
Minister Taverner, in 30 blocks of 153 acres each, the
Lands Department received 370 applications. Eleven
allotments in the parish of Barambogie, comprising 5000
acres, drew 105 applications. Such is the hunger to
acquire land on decent terms in Victoria in these days of
Ladies’ Relief Committees, soup kitchen and charity
shops, that if any first-class open country were available
it would cause a bigger rush than a new gold-field.
* * * *
“Sessil”: Recently saw eleven miners leave
Emmaville (N.S.W.) to join companions in West Africa—
a sad and significant exodus. They are to get board and
lodging, £5 per week and their fares. On those terms,
just now, Australian miners could bs got to go to hell
and mine for sulphur.
* * • •
The M.L. island of Kawau, made almost famous
through Hori Grey choosing it as his home in later life,
is to go under the hammer. There are nearly 10 square
miles in Kawau.
* * * *
In a libel action brought against London
Morning Post by one James Head, “guinea pig” to
various London mining and other companies, and chair-
man of directors of London’s leading financial newspaper,
the Financial News, the gullible English speculating
public was treated to some information re the great wild
cat industry. Plaintiff Head calmly allowed that he saw
nothing wrong in his paper taking liberal payment for
“puffs,” and excused himself on the ground that “it
was the usual thing ” for an allegedly reputable paper to
do I He confessed that it was quite true the editor and
principal proprietor of the Financial News had accepted
a small matter of £2000 in connection with the flotation
of a certain bike tyre co., and, in answer to a question by
the presiding judge, plaintiff also admitted that, in its
“correspondence” column, it was quite usual for the
paper to give dishonest replies to genuine enquiries!
The Morning Post won. How must the simple enquirer
in the Financial Noozh “ correspondence ” column now
view the box of scrip which he bought on the paper’s
advice
• * • •
Still another of the lower Murray irrigation
settlements, Holder, established during the back-to-the-
land excitement of 10 or 12 years ago, has petered out
after a hard struggle. The settlement cost the State
£16,239, of which £3673 has been repaid; and for the
deficit of £12,566 it can only show improvements alleged
to be worth £3792. Those who think that irrigation
spells success every time, or even most times, don’t know.
Given the land and the water, the irrigationists often
can’t profitably find the consumers until there is a larger
manufacturing population to do business with.
* * ■ * »
“ J. Quartz ” : A smart piece of “ pegging out ”
was recently accomplished at Ravenswood (N.Q.). Lease
in question was forfeited at 9 a.m. Monday. The lively
ones had provided a steel-pointed peg, watered the
ground to soften it, and stationed certain of their party
on the lease, which was out of view but within easy reach
of the warden’s office. The moment the warden posted
the notice a signal to another one of the peggers,
whose house was within view of the court, sent a flag to
half mast. The real peggers could see this, jammed in
their peg, blew a bugle which the flag operator heard ;
he mastheaded the flag, and the party with the applica-
tion for the lease responded by handing in his papers 2£
minutes from the posting of forfeiture notice. They got
the lease, though an application li- minutes later tried to
block them.


M
IN
THE
M
Mi
/M
m
(
%
TOP THE
WITH AN
M
POROUS
PLASTER
This painful trouble can be relieved and cured by using an
Allcock’s Porous Plaster. Warm the plaster before applying—
if not relieved by bedtime, place a hot water-bag against the
plaster on that shoulder. *
rp REMEMBER. —These plasters are good for all pains and aches.
1 hey have been in use 55 years, have-been-imitated more than any article
ever sold, and have made more cures than any other external remedy. They
are infinitely superior to any belladonna, icapsicum or strengthening plaster.
Get the best— Allcock’s —The Plaster that Cures.
ffiii
V-r: ! :
mm
WM
BH
g
ml
mi
...
Hg
m
sZ
N>
wm
<////,
m
>
a
%
■» \ /
and so does
PEARS
Perth and Kalgoorlie probably wouldn’t
have known that they have the honor to pay very
large amounts in rent to Sir Emile Algernon
Arthur Keppel Cowell-Stepney, Bart., if-his wife,
had not lately sued for judicial separation on the
grounds of 25 years’ desertion. Westralia’s noble
absentee landlord, it seems, has been putting in
time in Idaho (U.S.), and as his wife wouldn’t
join him there he got a divOree and remarried.
Actually Perth’s landlord has two wives, still —
the Idaho one whom the “English courts don’t
recognise, and the English one whom the -Idaho
court doesn’t recognise. Perhaps that is why
absentee landlords’ rents are high.
“ Tartan ” : Be that operation performed
on the Pope: Pleurisy wi e usion, ui
affecting the heart, must draw it off, was wliat
the doctor said to mo. Anaesthetic . Why, R
only the prick of a nee e. ien eja a
murderous hollow spike between my ribs; other
end fitted with a .tube connected with a vacuum
bottle. Very creepy while it lasts. I felt strongly
inclined to howl,* pain of the needle being
secondary to that of the suction on the opposite
side—a breath-snatching, red-hot-coal sensation at
the heart, which I still remember with a shudder,
Result: 40oz. of fluid in bottle. Hope his Holi-
ness had an easier time.
In Praise of Woman,
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“ It would be just as well if the members of various
women’s leagues were to find out the private political
views of the leaders of those leagues, "ahd remember that
women are still but human ."—Letter of a Lady in the
S.M. Herald.
Thou art very foolish, madam,
Thus to give away thy sex;
Sure no gallant-son of Adam
With such words would ladies vex.
All the great bards now in Hades
Have in song exalted Thee ;
For if there were no ladies,
There would be no Poetry.
If there had been no spell in
Woman, would the worll be glad ?
If there had been no Helen
Would there be an Iliad ?
All romance and song is nourished
At the warm, white breasts of Thee;
If no Cleopatra flourished
Who would care for Antony ?
When her nightdress for a banner
up Denmark's Mafgaret,
Faith, her soldiers in a manner
Fought as is remembered yet.
Now, B. Smith, for the sweet sake of
This example, fights with vim ; ’
Do not make the great mistake of
Disillusionising him.
Sure there is not any bard in
This bright living world would care
For the very finest garden,
If no rose were blooming there.
And I think it wrong for woman
Thus to flout all Poetry,
Saying she is “ still hut human ” —
Our Incomparable She.
Once a woman was an angel
Sent to cheer man’s dismal lot,
And I fear some coming strange ill,
When she says that she is not.
Madam, woman’s whole, sole duty—
And the same she must not shirk—
Is to witch the world with beauty,
While coarse man does its coarse work.
K.3.W.
CREEVE ROE.
By Rail and Semaphore.
THE DEBACLE AT ROMAHAPA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
It was a wet, dreary morning when I arrived at
Romahapa to take the place of Mr. Jones in the
Booking-office till someone should be permanently
appointed to the position. Jones, the inventor
of labor-saving machinery, had gone north to the
Rutaniwha section, and Romahapa was not sorry
to be rid of the brilliant but contentious genius.
The passenger portion of Romahapa was a brick
structure, and the offices consisted of a series of
single-board dens within the brick shell, low-
roofed and cramped, where the gas burned all
day, and the clerks toiled in a thick atmosphere,
or shivered in a multitude of draughts.
The stationmaster's office was the solitary ex-
ception. When I went in to report myself for
duty the subdued luxury of the apartment took
my breath away. The furniture was of antique
oak. An alabaster statuette of a nude woman
stepping from a pale pink bath gave elegance to
the top of the S.M.’s oak desk. An Etruscan
vase on top of the bookcase held a solitary spray
of some, strange exotic plant, and a splendid
bronze of a wild horse in full gallop topped the
black marble French clock, fashioned like a Greek
temple, which adorned the mantelpiece. The
asbestos fire-place gave forth a soft refulgence.
The beautiful black clock chimed the hour with a
deep, far-off cathedral chime. And I looked at
the man who sat at the desk—the S.M., “the most
perfect gentleman on the Maoriland railways.”
He had pleasant brown eyes, and I understood
his popularity at once. The charm of the man was
wonderful, and his winning ways made it a
pleasure to work for him. He was of the stuff of
which leaders are made.
Physically he was what blase matrons describe
as a “fine man” ; tall, well-set-up, distinguished-
looking, dressed in the best of taste and style ; a
man of social importance in Romahapa, and
regarded by his staff with great respect and affec-
tion.
His family was a power in the land ; and he
himself was treasurer and lay-reader of St. Sam-
son’s pro-Cathedral; also, he was director and
treasurer of several departmental accident and
benefit funds.
The cathedral atmosphere which hung around
him made the passenger portion of Romahapa
station almost a respectable place. No foul or
profane language was ever heard on platform or
in office; even the guards’-room and lamp-room,
where, usually, the vilest yarns are told and the
wildest pranks played, were highly reputable;
and the guards and shunters were mostly grave
middle-aged men, of deep religious convictions,
who spent their waiting-hours discussing questions
of doctrine, such as predestination and eternal
punishment,
After the luxury of the S.M.’s room, the dingy
dreary Booking-office was a shock. It was dusty •
every _ time the ticket-windows were opened,
whistling draughts blew the ashes out of the
grate, and the gas guttered, and loose papers had
to be fastened down with weights—and the ticket-
windows were always open.
There were four of us in that office, and the day
and the night were a wild rush to overtake the
work that always reeled away just in front, and
which we never quite caught up.
• •
It was the end of the four-weekly period, and
the returns showed signs of being late. I toiled
away till after 1 aim. at the P 2 record-book in
which were entered the tickets sold by the guards
between the thousand and one sidings worked bv
fining north and south of Romahapa.
All the ticket-windows were shut, and there was
a genial glow from gas and fire, and the comfort
was increased by the howling of the wind and the
swish of the rain outside. Ever and again an
engine rushed past with a screeching whistle;
late trains rumbled in, goods trucks clattered up
and down the platform, and cabs rattled by; but
it was only outgoing trains which troubled us in
the Booking-office, and I sat there comfortably
wading through the accounts preparatory to
striking, the office balance-sheet.
_ There was a discrepancy of Is. 4d. in the
balance-sheet, and I took cross shots at it, but
all in vain. I got down the cash-book and com-
menced to analyse the weekly totals to see if they
corresponded with the weekly totals in the vari-
ous books. But the cash-book was so jumbled up
that it was hard to.do, and as thetotal amount for
u 6 * our we ®ks balanced correctly, I was about to
abandon the analysing process when something
struck me in the eye. I remembered the P 2
record total for the first week, and before dis-
covering the futility of the analysing process I
had made up the cash-book total for‘the first
week, and the cash-book showed £7O less paid in
than the guards’ butts amounted to.
I went through the figures again and again, with
a like result. It was the same everywhere. The
thing was as plain as ink could make it. £lBO
had. been short-banked the first three weeks of the
period and then made up during the fourth week.
Maoriland railway service was full of embezzlers,
and I was used to this sort of thing. I had seen
three stationmasters go to gaol through similar
accidents, and was somewhat callous. But this
broke me up. Roberts, the chief booking clerk,
was the only man on the Maoriland railways I
cared for. We had been boys together, and he
had saved my life once on Lake Waihola; and,
although it was my duty and my interest to sit
down and report him, I couldn’t bring myself to
do it. I closed the books with a snap and
wandered out through the rain and wind, and
at 2 a.m. aroused Roberts from the sleep of the
embezzler to hear what he intended to do about it.
* * * *
He cried like a child and reminded me of Lake
Waihola. He raved about his mother, and begged
for a chance to square up and get a shift. He
cursed the S.M. in violent language and with a
vehemence compared to which Job’s fulminations
were faulty. This cursing of the S.M. attracted
my attention, and suddenly he left off raving and
leaning over the table towards me blurted out that
the real deficit in the station was nearly £lOOO ;
that they were all in it—himself, the S.M.. and
the officer in charge of the parcels office.
To expose this gigantic swindle meant instant
promotion—and the ruin of at least three men.
But their ruin was only a question of time. The
first man who did his duty conscientiously in
either the Accountant’s office or among the audi-
tors would bring the whole thing to light, and
once the books of the S.M. at Romahapa were
subjected to the same rigid scrutiny that was
applied to those of less influential personages, the
whole structure of fraud and faked accounts and
specially printed butts would crumble right away.
But the vision of that storm on Lake Waihola,
and Roberts steering the boat with one hand and
hanging on to my trembling, nine-year-old self
with the other, blurred the picture of the subse-
quent honors, and I went back to work as though
I knew nothing.
A week later the winter sunrise filtered through
the fog as I walked down the long platform into
the Booking-office. It looked colder and more
dismal than ever in that half-light, and I lit all
the gas jets to take the edge off the chilliness till
the junior porter should get the fire going.
The Port train backed down to the platform,
and the few early travellers who were not season
ticket holders began to purchase their paste-
boards. I heard the door open, and someone
entered without closing it behind him.
“Shut that confounded door, you idiot!” I
roared, without turning my head.
“ I beg your pardon ! ” said a strange voice.
It was not the junior porter. I turned my
head, and as he stepped back from closing the
door and unfolded his wraps and mufflers the
stranger revealed the bull-face and drawn-bristle
moustache of Hazlewood, the auditor.
I felt an intense desire to cut his throat where
he stood.
“ Hope my early call won’t irritate you ! ” he
remarked, pleasantly, as he stepped over and
marked off each book with green pencil—green
pencils were sacred to the auditors.
What the devil have you got up your sleeve
that you come by steamer and swoop down at 6
a.m. ?”
“Who said I came by steamer?”he queried,
smilingly, as he reached for the cash.
There was a ghastly thoroughness in his
methods which showed that the Accountant had
suspected something and sent him specially.
Roberts’ system was practically useless unless he
had at least two days’ notice, and in half-an-hour
even the dull-witted Hazlewood, indifferent
accountant that he was, had discovered a shortage
of £7O. How he had escaped discovering the
. whole robbery was a mystery I never solved, but
then he was more bulldoggy than arithmetical.
I walked down the platform, and managed to
send a message to Roberts that Hazlewood had
got hold of one end of the swindle, and would
soon drag the whole thing to light, and that he
was to keep out of the road.
Hazlewood was jubilant. He had once been
my.S.M., and he confidently whispered to me that
he reckoned he’d get Roberts at least two years.
He seemed to gloat over the fact, and almost lost
his head with delight when he dragged the rest of
the £lBO deficit to light.
The Traffic Manager came over and looked
through the books. If they’d been in Chaldmic
they d have been just as plain to him, but he
turned over the pages and looked shocked. The
Stationmaster came in and seemed to be fright-
fully upset. In fact, he took it so much to heart
that he went off ill that afternoon; and was
almost cold to Hazlewood before he left. But
later on, he sent round a request to the auditor
to dine with him. As the inspection of the
Booking-office was complete and detectives had
taken up the running, Hazlewood went round
and, for the first time in his life, mixed with the
best society in Romahapa.
Next day a bent, aged woman tottered down
Romahapa platform, and a few hours later
appeared at the Traffic Office and paid Roberts’
deficiency on condition that her boy was allowed
to leave the country.
She had mortgaged her farm, the rent of which
was her sole means of subsistence, to do it; and
the sight of that bent, grey head as she took her
place in the second-class carriage for her little
country home made me feel wretched.
• • * *
The S.M.’s voice said “Come in!” and I
opened the door and walked into the room where
the firelight played pleasantly over the alabaster
woman, and the deep, cathedral-chime of the
clock sounded almost like a benediction.
He looked at me with an expression of utfer
weariness. The pleasant light had gone from his
eyes and given place to a hunted, scared expres-
sion. He placed one hand on his forehead, and
stared at me in a dazed manner, and then as I
approached the desk he leaned forward and tried
to read in my face how muoh I knew. But for


The usual State school children’s address
is generally, on the face of it, a laborious and
servile composition put together by the teacher,
but the following, presented to the Chermsides at
Irvinebarik (N.Q.), strikes a variation in some
respects: —
May it please Your Excellency.—We hope you will ex-
cuse us from a long adress, as adresses from children
are a transparent pretence. Children do not,, of them-
selves write adresses. We hope that both Lady Cherm-
side and yourself will have a pleasant trip through North
Queensland, arid we wish you both all health and happi-
ness, now and hereafter.
We are,
Your Excellency’s sincere well-wishers,
The State School Children op Irvinebank.
“Alba,” who left England some years
ago, and doesn’t want to go back .
S\ dnev D. Telegraph, with the corpse of Cobden on
its tail, prints London Punch pictures to illustrate the
evils of Protection. I lived half my life in mid-England,
and I marvel at the impudence of the Cobden gang.
My home faced a number of fields which Freetrade had
• turned into coverts for the bounding bunnv and the
uneatable fox, and around which the gamekeeper,
armed like a Cossack, slunk night and day to man-
handle the hunger-driven wretches who made dashes foi
food. My mother once tried the charitable experiment
of leaving a loaf of bread on the window-sill each m B t.
The loaves vanished, of course. One night we heard
horrible sounds in the lane. Dashing out with lanterns we
saw a giant yokel in a smock fighting, fist and foot,
n prowd of starved laborers’wives and daughters. The
• :, nt held the loaf above his head and the women bit and
chrsed'him. 6 ‘ Give 1 that bread ; I’ve ted
it Think of mv children,” cried one. But tne smocKeu
■nlumes and ashes round its front joke. writer,w'T h ‘
crowd 8 of anti-Cockney humorists, once waited for the
Punch editor to come out cf the Savage Club. One of the
had a Grievance and desired to bowl a hard loaf or
palty hart iS,mind's waistcoat. A sandwich-man saved
thfe l tor -?e gripped the bread and scuttled d 9 wn a .by-
man can* wave bread or pies'With impunity in
Freetrade England.
s
No Return of Illness for Three Years
Patient : “ The pain is in the smaU of the hack, Doctor.
Doctor : " Ah! That’s kidney trouble 1”
We are answering to- ---
day a very important
question, viz., Do the
people who say they have
been cured by Doan s
Backache Kidney Pula
Stay cured!
A medicine which
crires merely for a day or
a week is worthless, it is
only a tonic, or a
tive.
But a medicine which
drives the illness away,
so that it stays away,
that medicine does all
medicine can do.
We have been verify-
ing our earlier published
cases, and we are pleased
t 6 say the result of our
investigations has been
most gratifying.
THE CERES BY
DOAN’S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS ARE
PERMANENT
; CERES.
H there be any among
those cases which we have
before published, whose
illness has returned, and
whose cure is not perma-
nent, we shall be glad if
they will write us about
it»
Mr. P. Smith, 1 Cheltenham-street, Balmain, this city, says ; ‘
months ago I used Doan’s Backache Sidney Pi three doctors at
they worked a miracle, mmy ease l had been unaer r
different times, but their treatment did me nogood. X™ on when
that I would have to be carried home m a cart if an attauc
working in the street. Sometimes when walk g, n6Ver thought I would
and would be taken to the hospital.. »My bilious-
live through some of these bad turns. I suffered ~, ~ « s tate I
S, vSiSiM ure-like stuff. My were
c p°e”“s“ ve .he b Cp s ; t “ti e rr en< i e Vw“°!dv n e rll£
SSftaDOAN'l BAeKACHE 7 KIBNET PELS, s«tm| tithes. »
The first dose relieved me. When I had finished them, , not a ffect
have worked ever since. It is heavy work am g, re iief was almost
me. These Pills cured me after years of suffer]f badattack of lumbago,
instantaneous. I might state that since tb™ DOAN’S BACKACHE
which laid me up for one month. I never thought that DOAW_S Pf j had
KTDNEY PILLS were good for this complaint, then I rememDere ,
a few in the and not having any other medicine in the houseltned them.
T %r is: ?»&& h s?d s £53
He obtained a box of DOAN’S PILLS, and they nd him stood
firmly convinced he owes his life to DOAN b PILL > saw anybody in such
the pain he used to suffer before he used * boused 1 DOAbPS BACK-
agony. He has never missed a day at his work since he used nuai
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS four years or more ago.
Why Doan’s Cures are Lasting. The cures eff eotedbyDoan’sßackache Kidney
Pills are lasting cures, because this medicine only claims to do one th g,
Kidnev and Bladder diseases and attendant ills. -aTrafn™ fnr the time only, and
They are not a nerve, tonic or purgativewhichbracethe S X® DNp y pILLS have no
May be had of Chemists and Stores at 2s. 9d.
15s. 3d.), or will be posted, on receipt of price,
Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
per box (six boxes,
by Foster-McClellan
BUT BE SURE THEY ARE DOAN’S.
Serious Chances
Auk Taken in Neglecting; a Simple Case
of Piles.
Anv person takes serious chances m ne-
o-lecti'ng an attack of piles. This ailment has a
tendency to become chronic, and there is also
a further tendency to ulceration and forming
of fistula, which we know are most difficult to
cure. „ ' £
The safest remedy for any form ot piles,
whether itching, or protruding, is Doans
Ointment. In using it there is no detention
from daily occupation, and the many cures
made by it have made it famous in every
corner of the world. Any chemist will tell
you that it enjoys a greater demand and more
enthusiastic popularity than any otlier pile
remedy ever placed on the market.
Mr Joseph Holland, 22 Cleveland-street,
City states:—“The advertisement that is.
published from time to time in Sydney papers,
to the effect that Doan’s Ointment cured me
of itching piles is quite true. Before. I used
Doan’s Ointment I thought I would never g
a remedy to do me any good. I had them to
seven years, and they caused me intense pam
and a most teasing irritation. ' It ts two years
ago since I made the statement, and it Doan s
Ointment wasn’t a real good thing I wou
have had some return of the trouble—mstea
I am as free of itching piles as when I ma
the statement. Doan’s Ointment took all
venom out of the trouble these couple of year .
It is a marvellous Ointment. maj
rely on it giving absolute ease. (
It cannot be repeated too often that Doaj l s
Ointment will cure itching piles. 11 vv i
CURE THEM ABSOLUTELY. But do not
take the manufacturer’s word for this, a-
Mr. Holland. He knows, for it cured him,
and he lives here in Sydney. Is not tha *
best possible kind of proof ? Could there
better? ’ , . j
Doan’s Ointment is sold by all chemists
storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per pot, or will
posted on receipt of price by Foster McLlei.
Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Remember the name— DOAN’S-
s thals gr i ey head in the secohd-
f bMs 9^^aj^;t bUt'againMthout
■ ‘a takiranefit :: we* stared - inquiringly at each
» othef,andthe words Rhadin tended to open with
fell,out of my riieniOry 5 I-shook ’like a lea,f, and
ftAvaS iWadfS^F^ clacked voice tnat I
f fdtind'out Roberts’ deficicnoyhe
’told thO everything. HAtoldme that you had
" had theliott’sshare Of the plundered money, and
I feriOw nQW thaVitl is >-true, It’s bad enough to
tee him go dbwn, hutj by -God, his bid mother
• shan’t go With him. _ She’s'mortgaged h6r little bit
hf land artd paid it in * and you’vo got to square
that Off| and damned ; quiqkv too, Or I’ll have an
interview with the Traffic Manager;”
' He blihked at me with changing expressions for
a moment. Rage, fear, contrition and thoughts
- of murder chased oUe another across his fade,
( while he sat there and blinked. At last he spoke.
“Don’t threaten me. I’m a desperate man.
I’ve known for a month that you’ve known, and I
half suspect it was you who brought Hazle-
‘ Wood”
“It wasn’t. I’d have brought ‘the Raven,
and once he got hold of the tail of your swindle
lie’d have brought the whole body to light in one
act —the Raven’s no respector of persons. Square
the mortgage and I’ll know nothing.” j
“Right, give me your hand on that and I’ll
1 settle next week.”
11 -"" ; 1 * * - * ' •
Hazlewood left the Section next day, and it
seemed that the aristocratic, influential Station-
inaster was not even suspected. He failed week
after week to keep his promise, and begged franti-
cally for time. In those days I walked about
fearfully, always waiting for something that never
came. One day I learned that Roberts’ mother
was dead. . They said it was due to shock, but
hastened through want of proper nourishment and
anxiety over, money matters.
I avoided the S. M. after that. I had made up
my mind to tell “ The Raven,” the demon auditor
;of the Maoriland Railways. I started to ascertain
where that unpleasant person was to be found,
‘ hut it was days before I got a reply, and in the
meantime something else happened.
Mr. Knutsford had been appointed to the
' Booking-office and I had gone across to the
District Traffic Manager’s to relieve the chief
telegraphist who was off through ill-health. The
second night I was on duty the Traffic Clerk gave
nie a confidential telegram for the Accountant in
/Wellington. In it the S. M. Romahapa reported
that he had reason to believe that liis Parcels
Clerk had been tampering with his cash, and to
send Mr. Hazlewood immediately. .
I was strongly tempted to put the name of the
“Raven” in place of that of Hazlewood; but
overcame the inclination.
The S.M. was throwing his confederates to the
wolves.
* * * •
The two detectives and the auditor stepped out
of the cab. Parkinson was to be arrested. I
went into the Booking-office to ask Knutsford if
.it wasn’t time the S.M’s ,own doings were in-
vestigated, and, as I Opened the door, I saw the
figure of Parkinson leaning against the desk. His
face was ghastly white, and he was breathing
hard, as tliongh in a state of exhaustion. Knuts-
ford was telling him to steel himself up and face
it like a man. Right on my heels came the detec-
tives and the auditor.
I would have stepped out, but they blocked nay
way. Hazlewood pushed’me in in front of him.
Parkinson looked up when they entered, and gave
a cry ipf "fear. Then there was an explosion.
Parkirishri fell on to the table and rolled
thence to the floor, his forehead all dabbled with
blood. The arm lay out at full length, and the
revolver slipped from the lifeless grasp.
Knutsford was down on his knees beside him.
His white face was contorted horribly. He looked
at the wound, and then cried out, “ Oh, Charlie,
why didn’t you shoot the S.M. first?”
We carried him out with a green flag over his
face, and laid him in a four-wheeler. Then
Knutsford and I went across to the District
Traffic Manager. . . , ... ...
We found the Old Man sitting trembling in his
chair—be couldn’t stand shocks.
“What the devil’s wrong now? for we had
pushed straight into his room without reference
to his clerk or anyone else. .
Knutsford spoke. “We think it’s time to stop
this That holy ruffian who tempted Roberts
and Charlie Parkinson, and threw them over to
keep suspicion from falling on himself, is over
• £lOOO short; and if he’s not arrested soon he 11 get
away from the country.”
The Old Man staggered to his feet,
“ This is impossible ! ’•’ he said.
“It’s true,” I burst in; “it’s true.
The Old Man gripped the table. Hazlewood
came in without knocking. He was still smiling;
the man absolutely revelled in the rum that he
was instrumental in bringing about.
I turned on him : “ You incapable thing—you
call yourself an auditor; here the man who is short
of a few score pounds is dead, and the other ruined,
left the country a beggar; and the man who is
short of hundreds you dine with.
“Yes, Hazlewood/ said the Old Man. Go
and inspect his books immediately, and if therms
a shadow of suspicion take out a warrant for his
Arrest at once. ” . ,
Hazlewood went down stairs at a run—he was
like a hound that had scented game.
* * * *
It was a day of doubt and dread in Romahapa.
Knutsford and I did no work. The men about
the station scowled at us and there was talk of
“■lynching.” If the S.M.’s books proved correct,
we were in the soup. Hazlewood. gave no sign,
and the S.M. went about-his duties as though
nothing had happened. At 2 p.m. he left to take
part in a champagne picnic at Waitotarp.
At 8 pm. he had not returned. Detectives
were waiting at,his hotel, at the boats, and in the
office. He never appeared. _ , .
They found him next morning on the steps of
the altar in St. Samson’s pro-Cathedral. He was
shot through the lungs, but he wasn t quite dead.
He had shot himself at 10 the previous,
evening after his return from the picnic, and
ali'nmht he had lain there mortally wounded,
counting the hours, helpless to move and unable
to reach the revolver to finish himself with. It
thad-rolled down the altar steps, and was just a
foot beyond his grasp. .
At 7 next morning the verger found him and
'removed him to a hospital, but he died at 11
the same morning. ... ■ . A
Thev buried him at 6 a.m. 111 unconsecrated
ground, and every man cm Romahapa station,
barring Knutsford and myself, was present at the
funeral They returned to their duty with a
shndderv feeling that their little benefit funds
W S XpAd With. A week went by «„d
then the ruin that the surpl.ced fraud had made
. ,-J iv,.,p There was a fobbed church. The
Department had lost .nearly £l5OO Parkinson
was dead, Roberts in exile, and a dozen widows
of raUway men killed by accident, wondered
where' they would get the means to feed their
children in future now~that “the most perfect
gentleman on the Mho ril arid railways ’’ had spent
all the benefit funds anddeft them penniless.
C.A. JEFFRIES.
"Garn"
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Lord Brassey, in a press interview anent Mr. Chamber-
lain’s preferential-trade policy, has expressed the opinion
that it is useless tp expect, Australia or Canada to give
any direct return for.preference or to increase their trade
with Great Britain. Lord Brassey ■ declares that the,
future extension of British trade will be mainly in tropic
countries. — Cable. ~.,
Lo ! the Faller-Off hath spoken,
And his words are sign and token
How our parent will go wailing with her carpet-
bag in hand.
At the slip-rails she will curse us,
When at last we snap our purses,
And a weeping, hoary female will leave footmarks
on our strand!
But their toes will point to seaward
“ Ma ” will drift away to leeward,
To those countries Brassey spoke of, where the
heat is most intense;
And if ever she returneth
From those lands to us, and mourneth,
We will clod her like a stranger from the top-rail
of our fence!
dinging, “ Shoo, parent, shoo !
We are full—quite full of you—
And we’re busy, awful busy; haven’t time to spell
and yarn ! ”
Aye, our parent will depart
With a melancholy heart
When we heartlessly repulse her with a shrill
Australian ‘ ‘ Gam! ” -
To her brown sons then she’ll hie her,
Where the climate has more fire,
Where the wants are few and simple and the trade
is parched and small.
Oh, she’ll go and dwell with Ham then,
And we will not give a then,
And in fact we may forget her and but seldom
think at all!
We’ll be busy with our corn-patch,
We’ll be rooting out a thorn-patch,
And our thoughts will circle solely round the local
grave affairs.
If we have spare time at all then
We’ll be waltzing at a ball then,
Or lie listening in the gum-shade to some real
' Australian airs!
Singing “Wail I’dear children, wail!
Britain’s foundered in the gale !
Mother’s down below with Charon, seated firmly
in the stern;
Oh ! our parent’s good as dead —
She’s a-being ferri-ed;
Hear the boatman’s voice a-wafting down the
Styx and saying “ Gam /”
Oh ! the music will distract us,
When by banyan, palm and cactus
She who spanked us in our childhood will be
chased by nigger Ham S
We will not be watching, listening,
When Shem with spear-blade glistening
Prods our parent off his pastures with an angry
tropic “ Damn ! ”
We’ll be gazing far away then,
We’ll be making earnest hay then,
When her brown sons send her fleeing with her
sample-bag in hand.
We’ll be chopping things and trees down,
So we shall not hear her wheeze down
When our dark-skinned brother casts her from
his tropic coral strand.
Yelling “ Shoo ! parent, shoo !
We have had too much of you ;
And we’re hungry, dreadful hungry; haven t time
to stop and yarn.
Oh, our “ Mother ” will depart
With the fragments of a heart
When he scowlingly expels her with a piercing
Hindu “ Gam ! ”
V.
GRANT HERVEY.


Martin’s Apiol and steel pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia. Not genuine
without the signature. Be sure you get Martin’s.
Sole proprietor, W. Martin, pharmaceutical
chemist, Southampton, England.*
BY
'm'T'OWHERE is literary material more abundant
than in legendless Australia. Off the well-
_i_ 1 beaten tracks of the spurious-picturesque and
the unconditional-hoggish, lie spacious areas
of subject-matter, irreverently challenging the Biblical
axiom that “there is no new thing under the sun.”
And countless types of character, evolved by the indus-
trial conditions of heretofore inarticulate life, confront
the eye and invite the graphic pen. For tragedy, pathos,
humour, fancy, however indissolubly linked with human
An Original
nature, mustassume
unhackneyed forms
in acontinent which
resembles Europe
or N. America only
inasmuch as there
is a river in both.
Tbefictional liter-
ature of Australia
—scanty at most,
and uneven at best
—has advanced by orderly gradation from Anglo-Austra-
lian, through Colonial, to National. The successional
replacement of the immigrant, with his old-world
ideals, by the impressionable representative of a new
type, has made such a transition inevitable. But the
mass of our literature is British ; and book-begotten
sentiment dies hard, except among pioneers of opinion.
Conventionality persists in viewing Australian charac-
teristics and deviations as more or le3s exotic ; whilst to
the fully-emancipated Australian these stand as self-
established units of comparison, as normal and legitimate
phenomena, in opposition to the hearsay conditions of
moister and less homelike lands.
The corresponding penalty of this National conscious-
ness is a certain narrowness of outlook, a spontaneous
impression that the sun rises over the Barrier Beef, and
A Yarn of
the Riverina.
sets behind the
Leu win. When
darkened by stolid-
ity, such localised
regard is sometimes
amusing, sometimes
regrettable, thousrh
always pardonable
except when it de-
generates into pro-
vincialism.
But when illuminated by intelligence, the same insular
surrey crystallises into far-sighted patriotism. When
further reinforced by acute observation and culti-
vated forecast, it invests with interest the minutest
details of National life. Add humeur, sympathy,
and felicity of phrase, together with that rarest of
literary qualities, initiative, and the subtle touch of
nature is achieved. Then a new light of signi-
ficance is flashed on the commonplace; a shade of
actuality softens the bizarre ; and each scene, action or
colloquy, carrying authenticity on its face, becomes an
indispensable accessory to the eeheme. This describes
Tom Collins— at his best.
At bis worst, he discloses an immoderate egotism,
apparently undisciplined by controversy, and evidently
fostered by solitary self-communion. Yet his introduc-
tion of Himself, if decided, is invariably courteous, and
often keenly interesting.
The book, Such is Life, which The Bulletin will publish
on the Ist August, is original in scheme. The author
Ist
v
seta out with an un-
premeditated pur-'
pose of amplifying
the diary memor-
anda of one week,
arid his book natur-
ally falls into seven
chapters. The first
date is taken at
hazard, fromaseries
of filled-up pocket
diaries. '
This random text introduces five tvpical bullock -
drivers, with three or four assorted nomads. The day is
uneventful, but the night’s camp (a risky grass-steal) is
enlivened by Out-back topics. The scene is on the
Lachlan plains.
Then, for sufficient reasons, the diary-records cease to
be consecutive, and are henceforth separated by monthly
intervals. The scene of Chap. II is placed inthe Lach-
lan-Darling scrub country, amongst station hands. Chap.
Ill opens on the Murray, between Kchuoa and Albur'.
Chap. IV displays the Lower Lachlan, with actors proper
to the scene ; and Chap. V falls in an adjacent locale y,
with all accessories widely dissimilar. Chap. VI returns
to the vicinity of Chap. I, but the aspect is squattoo ratio,
not nomadic. Chap. VII is arbitrarily built on a date six
mm.
or seven weeks-sub.
sequent to that of
its forerunner, in
order to serve as a
sequel.
Underneath this
Obvious dislocation
of anything resem-
bling narrative run
several undercur-
rents of plot.
manifest to the reader, though ostensibly unnoticed by
the author. For example, an incidental camp-fire yarn,
in Chap. I, casually furnishes the key to some strong
character-painting in Chaps. IV and VI. In fact, the
studied inconsecutiveness of the “Memoirs” is made to
mask intricate coincidences and cross-purposes.
The book is handsomely bound in cloth, decorated ; the
price is 4s. 6 d. Orders, accompanied t;y postal note, may
be sent at once to The Bulletin office ; and th« book will
be forwarded to any address immediately on publication.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co*,
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
PILLS
CURE-—:
I Bilious and Nervous Disorders,
Constipation, Indigestion, Sick-
Headache, Dyspepsia, and all
Stomachic Troubles.
Arouse Sluggish and Torpid Livers.
II Purify the Blood, Remove Scurvy,
Improve the Complexion, Regu-
late the System.
M*
*»< rviS
I
It is surprising how they dp it, but they
do—they get there —there is no mistake
about it. They have a way of going straight
to business that gives satisfaction, and
that is the main tiling. If Beecham s Pills
did not give satisfaction, no amount of
forcing would induce the public to swallow
them. It is because they have been found
to carry out the requirements of an ex-
pectant and suffering humanity, going
straight as an arrow to the seat of the mis-
chief, that Beech am’s Pills can_ claim such
an enormous sale after a trial of 57 years.
The Sale exceeds 6,000,000 Boxes Annually.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
In Boxes, Price 1/1* (56 Pills) and 2/9 (168 Pills).
M
Corner George & Market Sts., SYDNEY
The Best Luncheon in Town from ONE SHILLING, served from 12 sharp till 2.30;
Dinner from 5.30 to 7.30, same price.
The Most Convenient Place for Ladies and Gentlemen visiting the Theatres to dine at.
N.B. —Visitors oply pay for wfoat tb€y actually batfc.
The Convenient and Modern System of paying for a
room on arrival, and Meals as they are had.
Apartments: BEDROOM, Single, 3s. per day; Double, 6s. per day.
ENGAGE ROOMS AT ROBERTS’ HOTEL, SYDHCY.
NOTE -Send to ROBERTS’ WINE and SPIRIT STORE, MARKET ST., next GEORGE ST.,
for REVISED PRICE LIST. COUNTRY ORDERS PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO.
M
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the East
THE BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
MM
M.D., C.M., L.R.C.F.E., L. R.C.S.E.,
t.F.F.S.a., L.M.. ete.,
Registered by the Medical Boards of Great
Britain, Victoria, New South Wales,
etc.,
The Eminent Specialist, whose unparalleled success in the Treatment ef Blood and Nerve
Diseases has earned for him a reputation unequalled by any other Specialist in Australia, may be consulted
-daily,- personally or by letter, at “ELMUEY HOUSE,” 151 Elizabeth-st., Sydney. Old and Obsolete
Methods discarded. DR. MARTIN’S latest treatment has proved absolutely effective in all cases of Blood
Disease, Nerve Affections, Paralysis, Loss of Energy, Lung, Heart, Skin, and all
Chronic Diseases of Mon and Women. His Consulting Rooms are replete with all the
latest and most scientific improvements in Electric Appliances, etc. Country Patients
treated by Correspondence at their own homes. Advice and Medicine, One
Pound. All Sufferers should write for a copy of Dr. Martin’* Latest Medical Work,
“THE ‘ KNOX-MERCER ’ TREATMENT IN DISEASE.” This work should find a place in every
household, as it contains a full and explicit account of the Most Wonderful Treatment of the Present
Age. It has been the means of Curing Thousands who followed out the instructions contained
therein This Marvellous Treatment Cleanses and Rejuvenates the Whole System, and is the Cheapest
Treatment in Existence, as nothing but the Book is required.
Cheap Edition, Is. ; by post, Is. 6d.
“ Pres# Extracts ” posted free throughout Australia. g
CONSULTING HOURS: 10 to 2 and 7 to 9 Daily.
“ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Veteran G. S. Ooppin, now 85 years old, was recently
serenaded at his house by a large surprise party of
brother Freemasons. At the supper which followed he
was as lively as in his best days. All the same it is a very
inconsiderate Freemason who goes howling at the door of
an old gentleman of 85. Very few men of that age could
Btaud it.
Poor old Teddy Haygarth, who long ago reached the
sere and yellow, is still battling on the boards, and lately
has been cheering them up round the Auckland (Maori-
and) gum-fields with “Charley’s Aunt.” As the lady
from Brazil the old man gets through in fairly good style
too.
• “L.W.”: Half the success of the great, incomparable,
royal society entertainer Rudinoff, I think, lies in the
fact that he is a foreigner, and his accent carries him
through. His smoke picture (it is always the same pic-
ture whenever I go to the Tivoli) is the cheapest of tripe,
and could be done by any poster artist who earns a living
in Sydnev. His lightning sketches are also tripe, excep-
ting, perhaps, the Cohen atrocity, which is somewhat
worse than the others. His shadowgraphs are decidedly
clever, but the rest of his performance, if delivered by a
Britisher without an accent, would be a failure. His
whistling is not in the same street as that of a poor
cripple who used to whistle in the streets of Melbourne
for a living, after losing an arm and a leg in a railway
accident. " That cripple could whistle. RUdinoff’s per-
formance was beaten clean out of sight by a cheap jack
in Maoriland who used to travel round with a “ golden”
chariot and self tooth-powder ; he used to whistle like a
nightingale, yelp like a puppy, crow like a rooster,
screech like a cockatoo, and imitate every animal I know
of, bar the black-beetle and the oyster.
The Port Pirie (S.A.) Advertiser of recent date has
an advertisement of the Beatrice Esmond Dramatic Co. •
which describes Miss Beatrice Esmond as “ Australia’s
greatest actress,” and Collet Dobson as “ Australia’s
most versatile actor.”
Irving at the present time is probably aporing larger
profits than he has made for years past in London. He
is playing “ Dante ” to. big business at Drury Lane, which
holds a lot more money than the Lyceum, his old place
of business. Ellen Terry, on the other hand, is doing no
good since she parted from Irving. Her venture with an
Ibsen drama was a failure, and her revival of “ As You
Like It ” seems to be a mistake. Ellen has outlived the
young characters in which she earned her laurels, and
now her memory is unequal to the task of studying new
parts.
‘ S” : Brisbane’s gay season theatrically is winter,
when an occasional melodramatic company enlivens the
gloom of the northern city. Recently, however, even
that didn’t turn up, and as showing the wild dissipation
of the place a series of communications and public dis-
cussions took place because the usual weekly organ
recital was being clashed by a draughts match at the
School of Arts. What dissipation !
King Edward i* said to be a good speaker. He was
taught elocution in his youth by the father of Kyrle
Bellew, then a fashionable London Church of England
clergyman.
“Baskin": S.M. Herald (4/7/’O3) re proximate re-
opening of Her Majesty’s Theatre, speaks of Mr. William-
son’s “ humorous creation ”of the Burgomaster in La
Giirale,” and asserts that the “ humor ” was chiefly due
to his playing- the part in oomic-Dutchman dialect. Now,
first it was the late William Elton who “ created ’ the
rflle’in Australia ; and, second, it is difficult to discover
any “humor” in the alleged introduction of Amenco-
German-broken-English—a jargon, by the way, entirely
unknown outside of “God’s kentryinto a play in
which all the characters are Flemish, and are supposed
to be speaking their own language.' J.C.W. has a wide
reputation as a Dutch-dialect comedian, but, artistically,
“LaOigale” was a hopelessly inappropriate setting for
that kind of thing'.
A Dutch play, lately done into English and produced at
a London theatre, throws a reflection on the dealings of
the Dutch coffin-shipowners. A vessel, the Good Hope
(which is the name of the drama), has been lost at sea
for the benefit of the heavy villain who insured it, and
all the village womenkind of the missing crew gather
together, with the female relations of other drowned
sailors, and tell tales of ships that never returned. And
at the end of each yarn they wring their hands, and roll
their muffled heads in their shawls, and moan, “ Ah ! we
pay dear for the fish.” Miss Beryl Faber, formerly of the
Brough-Boucicault co., appears in this gruesomely
instructive drama as one of two girls who have been
indiscreet. The girl who goes astray is rather frequent
on the Dutch stage.
“ T.D.” : The Amurrikan stage method, as exemplified
by Frawley and half the members of his co., is aggrava-
tingly simple. All One has to do is to stand motionless
at or near the centre of the stage for a quarter of an hour
or more, and drop remarks with an edge to them in a
voice quite devoid of inflection. When Frawley says
“ it’s a dead-sure thing,” or something equally pertinent,
he does’it all on the one note, and takes the most abso-
lute care not to betray any emotions he may feel by facial
expression. Do the old-time G. V. Brookites ever go to
the theatres now ? If they do, they will see what they
used to regard as the “stick” mummer starring as an
up-to-date exponent of Amurrikan stage “intensity."
“ A Girl ”: Re par. about the trick worked to get
kiddies to hand up their pennies to provide testimonials
for departing State school teachers : llow would you like
to be .a variety artist receiving £3 a week, and out of that
provide yourself with stage wardrobe, band parts at 55.,
songs, to say nothing of tram fares, board, etc., and then
receive a sudden invitation to be present at a champagne
supper to your good, kind manager, and there see him
presented with silver ornaments that you have not been
consulted about and have never seen, and that run to over
£l5 ; and when salary day arrives how would you like to
be told by the good, kind management that it is
Stopping £1 7s. 6d. for same? This often occurs—it
occurred recently at a Sydney theatre. Even the ballet
girls are forced to give their share.
A Bill to prevent the employment of children in
theatres has been caustically commented on by Irving
and other of the English theatrical managers. Fact is,
the snufflebusters, who would keep all kiddies off the
stage for their moral good, are quite ignorant of the
alleged evil they are snuffling about. Youngsters em-
ployed in pantomimes and so forth are either the children
of parents connected with theatres, who can better look
after them “in the business” than when they are out of
it, or else they are poor little devils to whom a theatrical
engagement means playing in the theatre instead of
playing in the gutter. Happy is the gutter-snipe that
gets transformed into a fairy, or a Bland Holt crowdling,
at a few shillings a week. Legislation against stage-
children is based on the fallacy that they are dainty little
lambkins, lured from the Sunday-school fold and the care
of unsophisticated guardians into a demoralising sphere of
excitement, whereas most of the children employed at
theatres are getting the best education they ever
had in their lives. The professional infant performers
are a very different matter from the stage-struck amateur
who, in many cases, does come to grief through her in-
fatuation, and rarely succeeds in brightening her own
life or making the audience any less miserable than it
was before.
In the Melbourne Court, during the recent trial of two
scrip forgers, a piece of blotting paper alleged to have
been used during the illicit penmanship was produced
by Detective-sergeant M‘Manamny as a damning
piece of evidence. The blotting paper evidence was
greatly favored by old-time novelists (of the three-decker
style) wherewith to secure the final discomfiture of the
heavy villain by the lightweight hero. And Melbourne’s
cutest ’tec was complimented by his Honor in securing
such an important piece of evidence. Why the dullest
dog of a dramatist who ever compiled the “Face at
the Window ” or the “ Feet at the Keyhole ” in six acts
knows that trick.
OLD DEAD-HEAD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Old Dead-Head sleeping at the show'
Views not the play enacted there,
But drinks long beers of Long Ago,
When beers were long—and girls were fair.
Such memories of mildewed days
Can always set his heart ablaze ;
Then all plays please, all mimes amaze
Old Dead-Head.
That smart “ soubrette ’’—she’s just like Rose—
And that’s the song Rose used to sing ;
The scene is changed ; the young blood glows,
And anything seems everything.
The same large smile, the cheap lime-light,
The club or pub. (that was a night)—
Unmarried then—“ The show’s all right ”
Dreams Dead-Head.
When he was young he thought with you,
And smote bad plays with might and glee ;
The clowns he damned, the “ tripes ’’ he slew—
They would have filled a cemet’ry.
Now he’s too tired to toil, declaim,
Still, when he’s roused, he knows the game,
And battles with the best—the samb
Old Dead-Head.
L.B.E.


WATERPROOF COATS™,.™,
RUBBER BOOTS 18/6 to 20/-.
GOLOSHES 2/6 to 4/6.
Carriage Free
to any part of
N.S.W. if this
advertisement
is out out and
sent with re-
mittance.
Made to wear—to
give satisfaction—to
look well to the end
of their long service.
See our Stock.
& Gu.,
„ , RUBBER MERCHANTS,
Only One Address-
-270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
CURIOUS
BOOKS
PHOTOS.
The Best Address for
English, French,
German
Books and Photos.
Apply—
-116 BOX, PARIS.
2/- for Catal. and Miniat.
M
WE SHIP ON APPROVAL
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles. Fully warranted.
Latest
Models*
£2.f0t0£5,5.0
Duniop Tyres, Steel or Wood Kims,
Free Wheels, Mud- Guards and Brakes.
CARRIAGE PASO
To any Tort in Australasia.
TYRES, ACCESSORIES,
Sporting Goods and Sewing
Machines Half Usual Prices.
Writs It Catalogue, and Special Off«p
Using 2jd. Stamp. Address Dept 3-.6D
nhi/yeiao.
Mead Cyc/e Co. '"asX
SIMPSON BROTHERS
32 & 34 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Australasian Representatives for
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK.
f jili
Boiler Feed Pump-.
Wir SEND FOR CATALOGUES.
James Simpson & Co., Ltd. London and Newark.
Worthington Pump Company, Limited f London
Warren Webster & Co. n© w jersey.
Enquiries Invited for ......
Worthington Pumps
Webster Feed Water Heaters & Purifiers
Cincinnati Air Compressors
TANGYES
Stationary and Portable,
For Shearing, Wood & Gh&ff*Cutting , 9
Pumping, Electric Lighting, &c.
Sole Representatives in Australia :
BENNIE, TEARE & CO.,
Mining 8t Engineering; Furnishers,
Sydney, Melbourne, Perth, Coolgardie.
IRRIGATING PLANTS a Speciality.
MM
M
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE,
Engineers & General Machinery Merchants.
Sole
H
Agents in Australia for—]
“ Atlas ” Works Engines and Boilers, Eay’s Woodworking Mach
’s Steam Pumps, Dempster Moore &
Co., Ltd., Engineers 4 Machine
Co.’s Laundry Machinery.
M
MM
. mm
S'® 1 ;
60 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
ALL KINDS OF
ENGINES & BOILERS
MINING MACHINERY
And APPLIANCES,
ENGINEERS’ TOOLS & FITTINGS,
WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY,
BTC., BTC.
M
T. M. GOODALL & CO.. 129 HAY ST., SYDNEY
- y — STOCK AWD -— Portable, Traction, Vertical & Horizontal BoiSers,
MM
Engineers and mining Tools, Saw miil Machinery, Pulleys, Belting, Etc.
and Pumping Plants a Specialty. New and Second-Hand Machinery always available.
Size, 5J"x3J"x5".
Hr We are Direct importers
AND HAVE FOB SALE—
Snow Duplex Pumps
(all sizes for all purposes),
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling
and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shaft*
ing, Hangers, Bearings, Collars, etc.
Engineers ’ Tools and Fittings, Valves,
Cocks, Gauges, etc. Cast, Tool and
Mining Steel, Wire Ropes and all Requi-
sites for Contractors, Engineers, Saw
Mills and Mining Proprietors.
R. L. Scmttoro & Co. Ltd,
97 CBarence-st., Sydney.
Deane Patent Sinking Pumps '
Criton Pumps
Double Standard Centrifugal Pumps
Carye Donkey Pumps
Pulsometer Pumps, with patent Orel, which
effect large saving in steam.
Manufactured by
PULSOMETER ENGINEERIMG CO.,
READING, ENGLAND.
Agents—
N. GUTHRIDGE, LTD.,
71 Clarence Street, Sydney.
STOCKS KEPT.
wmMßMssnmm
Take
on
flk
m
? insn
OF ALL
(throughout Great Britain 4 rut Colonies
lihum Catharticum Pills (tol/ttyioNi
M
use CoaCuume •
JRANSPARENT CEMENT FOR AUBROH.EH ARTICLES
