

McE WAN’S ALE.
TOUT.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet
R. G. & CO.,
107 X£en.t Street, Sydney,
—FOE— _ ,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
290
PRIZE
MEDALS
AND
GRAND
PRIX
PARIS
1900.
236
26,000 Steam Engines Sold.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
WONDERFUL VALUE—A packet of Seven different
articles, comprising- Yankee Rubber Baby, can be carried
in vest pocket and blown out to life size (causes roars of
laughter), Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
Coin and Card Tricks), the Wizard Fish (gives the defini-
tion of your character —very superior for parlor enter-
tainments), the Vest Pocket Tubular Microscope (very
useful for examining small- objects), the Cinematograph
(or book of moving pictures), the great Yankee Bicycle
Puzzle (very ingenious), and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Disappearing Coin Trick (instruc-
tions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australia (Free) on receipt of'2s. fid.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
XNEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
710 George-st., Sydney.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° ss mt street, SYDNEY.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Ruston, Proctor & Co.,
HAVE IN STOCK and TO ARRIVE—PGI
VERTICAL, FIXED and SEMI-FIXED
STEAM and OIL ENGINES, BOILERS and PUMPS.
Eccentric Motion TJirasliins Machines, Saw Benches. &c., &c
Send for Prices and Particulars.
“HERVEY’S RACKAROCK”
17 Years’ Unbroken Record as a Standard Australian Exposiva. Cor. CLARENCE & KING STS., SYDNEY
THORNE’S
Estbd. 1831.
WHISKY.
HOBART,
Ijadley’s Orient Jotel.
DUIMEDIN, N.Z.
CITY HOTEL
(First Grade).
Proprietor.
J. A. TURNER
H.M. the King’s
Jury of Experts
awarded them
highest honors
London Exhibi-
tion.
*
AD
“ The Lancet ”
says; “ Fare and
genuine, and
specially suitable
for Invalids."
PERFECT
■yri,
‘'wATERI
'ASSISTS
Id I CE ST I ONI
■ ■ I
iBMI
SHOULD
| BE]
ICED
PIONEER
LEATHER
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
The Australian Sailorman’s 800k —
E. J. BRADY’S
“Cbe Ways of many Waters.”
A rattling collection of Sea Chanties. Price
ss. 3d. post free from The Bulletin office.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswan - Lamp.
ill
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
ffave no Worthless
Imitations.
THE EDM E SWAN
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch: 16 Carrington-street,
WYNYARD SQUARK, SYDNEY.
Q'ns and Depot—Central Buildings, Edvvard-st., Brisbane.
Milling and Dredging Plants. Engines, Boilers, &c.
Fowler Traction Engines.
the Clyde Engineering C°y, Lt°
Desiccating Plants.
Hopper Waggons, &c.
m
PROOF
£/VEV*
USE
Head Office:
10 BLICH ST., SYDNEY
JOSHUA’S^
Boomerang Whisky.
A Blended Spirit 8 and 9 years old of
Undoubted Quality, Purity and Flavor.
Very Moderate in Price.
S. HOFFNUNC & CO. (1902) LTD.
Sole Agents for N.S.W.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. HILDA.
rpHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
J-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
SPOONER’S
:
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and la
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Ere.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers , etc.
The Bulletin
Vol. 24.—N0. 1200. j
[Saturday, February 14, 1903.
Registered at the G-eneral Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Book Crack Advertisements.
BUSH STUDIES,
By BARBARA BAYNTON. -CONTENTS :
1. A Dreamer ; 2. Squeaker’s Mate ; 3. Scrammy
>And ; T Billy Skywonkie ;5. Bush Church'; 6 ; The Chosen Vessel. ' Price, 2s. 6d. ;
post free, 2s. 9d. From all Booksellers.
THE LATEST BOOKS AT
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Ruskin on Pictures, Voi. 11, 9s postage 6d
Ward. Colour, Harmony and Contrast, 12s Od, p. 9d.
ChambeHain, Things Japanese, 4th edition, enlarged,
12s6d,p. 9d. .
Slade Marv Neville, 2s 6d & 3s Gd, p. 6d.
Wade, Secondary Batteries, 12s 6d, postage 93.
Roberts-Austin, Metallurgy, sth edition, enlarged, 18s,
p. Is.
Muddock, Woman’s Checkmate, 3s 6d, p, Sd.
Pritchard, The Other Man, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
vitase Write to us for any Book or Magazine you Want
Always plea sea to answer Inquiries,
71 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doors South of King St.) & at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane & London
For tlae IiXTJNTG-S, tlx*3 XHROA.T, tlx© VOICE-
. . THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
o
A. The Larynx, or organ of
voioe. .
B. The Trachea or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung-
D. A lobe of one of the lung
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG
, and
Invaluable to
&INGERS
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered),
. . Contain NO cocaine or other poisonous dru» . . °
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, in Tins, 1s 6d; from the Proprietor, G. HUDSON Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland— P°>
free on receipt of stamps. Sydney Depot: 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE, and FELTON, GIUMWADE & CO.,
Melbourne, Agents.
THE RED PAGE.
An Eng. publishing club, “ At the Sign of the
Hop-Pole,” announces the issue presently of a translation
of M6rim6e’s Carmen, “ with illustrations by ” our Aus-
tralian “ Lionel Lindsay, and a biographical, analytical,
and critical introduction.” Lindsay writes brightly, and
we quote a passage of the subscriber-seducing circular—
A comparison of spirit (if not of motive) may be
entered between Shakespear’s Antony and Cleo-
patra and M6rim6e’s Carmen. In both cases the
world is well lost for love, in both women is that feline
capriciousness whiuh lifts them, along with the capacity
for instinctive cruelty, far from the tame herds of the
world’s femininity. The setting alone separates these
two sisters ; one is queen over Egypt, the other over a
little band of brigands ; but wilful caprice unites them
across the centuries : Yes ! all said and done, Carmen
is the Cleopatra of the picaresque.
Apart from graphic interest, Carmen is one of the
few convincingly real books the world possesses. A
modern would have padded such material to a three-
volume novel. But Merimde, having the true artist’s
eye for essentials, and without undue compression, has
given us something that lives almost by virtue of its
simplicity. M6rim6e knew that truth, as far as we can
know it, is in the world of appearances and surfaces—
things seen, things done. Truth to him was not the
bagatelle of M. Zola, a painful partnership with note-
books. He absorbed and his digestion was perfect.
Seeing clearly, he disdained alike romantic exaggeration
and superfluity ; his taste was impeccable, he wrote
with the ease and concision of a Roman of Augustus
time ■ and, in contradistinction to the story writers of
to-day, he did not shout in order to make himself
is a story that can never grow old. It ex-
presses human nature so profoundly, so simply. Its
construction is like a happening, one wonders that art
should be so easy . . .
The discretion ot it! the decorum of it! And, writes the
commentator,
The offer, I need not say, was accepted or my mother
would not have been born just outside Sydney Heads
and carried ashore by old Mr. John Palmer in a silk
pocket-handkerchief.
The commentator is the Rev. James Hassall, of Corinda
(Q.); and it is from his book In Old Australia: Records
and Reminiscences from 1794 (Brisbane: R. S. Hews)
that the letter is extracted. Mr. Hassall’s maternal
grandfather was the Rev. Sam. Marsden, as shown ; his
paternal grandfather was a missionary who sailed to
Tahiti in 1796, and shortly afterwards came to Australia
and settled in Parramatta ; “ no one was better known at
one period of the early days in New South Wales than
my father, the Rev.'Thomas Hassall,” for some time
chaplain at the convict establishment of Port Macquarie ;
and Mr. Hassall himself continued the ministering tradi-
tion of the family by being ordained to the Church of
England, and serving for some years as chaplain in
Berrima gaol. His book, apart from its quality as a per-
sonal and family record, contains much that is interest-
ing; and the student of early Australian days cannot
neglect it.
Landscape Painting from Nature in Australia,
a manual for the student in oil and water-colours, by A.
J. Daplyn (Sydney ; Penfold). With illustrations from
paintings by Daplyn and Lister, and educational
sketches. An interesting and useful little book. The
author expresses himself well, and tells the student just
what one wants to know. We like his acceptance of the
fact that Australia is Australia—not England or Italy.
That seems a truism ; but several of our painters never
seem to recognise its truth. Says Daplyn—
Australian scenery has been greatly maligned by
writers, tourists, and others; far too much is heard
of its sadness, its want of colour, and its monotony.
Certainly it is not so paintable as the old country,
for there are no venerable ruins clothed with ivy, no
old churches or castles, or quaint red-tiled cottages;
in fact, one does not encounter pictures ready made,
and that only require transferring to the canvas.
But, on the other hand, the scenery is more original,
and has not been painted by generations of artists,
till one is surfeited by repetition. The intense light
makes also for greater finesse of colour: this is
especially observable in the tree forms, which require
a lighter touch and more subtle tone than the thick-
foliaged trees of the old country.
Of Australian trees the eucalyptus is, of course, the
most uncommon. We often hear of the “ everlasting
gum tree,” but its merits have rarely been acknow-
ledged. Few trees are, in truth, so graceful in form
and of such variety. This latter quality is quite lack-
ing in European trees, where the oaks are oaks, and the
elms, elms, and are always alike. Now the gum is
hardly ever the same, and twenty species may be found
growing in the space of a few acres. Some shoot up
into the air straight and smooth like a ship’s mast;
others have rough and shaggy bark, and the trunks
twist and turn in endless convolutions ; many are of a
bright red colour, or spotted like a leopard, while others
shed their bark, which hangs round them in weird
festoons, revealing, so to speak, the creamy-white flesh.
The branches shoot out from the trunk at all manner
of unexpected angles, and go twisting and turning at
their own sweet will, seeming to rebel against all laws
that control the growth of branches in general.
And the foliage—how gracefully it hangs in feathery
clusters! —not giving much shade, it is true, being more
ornamental than useful, and in this much resembling a
fine lady, which the eucalyptus may be said to personate
in the world of trees.
This is well said ; and Daplyn says other good things—
characteristic daplynisms ; but he has not forgotten his
main business of instruction, and his lessons are thorough.
We cordially recommend hi 3 manual to Australian
students.
THREE CLIFFS.
JE'ROM that cliff Daley fell:
The Muses’ lover,
He east his line too well
And himself over.
Shrieked all the tuneful Nine I
Fled all the fishes ! . . .
(One basketful divine ;
Seventeen dishes.)
From, this cliff Lawson fell!
Our Bush reflector,
Losing in hydromel
His poise of Hector.
Were nerves awry his foes ?
Did his wrongs rankle ? . . .
(B roken, a noble nose ;
Item, an ankle.)
Sometimes , in dreaming dull,
By a cliff ghastly
I see a human hull,
Shroud and rent mast lie ;
And humbly meditate:
Here, in this life-hell,
But for the grace of Fate
I, even I fell.
One Realist and Another,
R€HtT$tTG art, as reiterated, is the universal
expression of a particular impression. Two books
published by Duckworth, London Millet ,* by
Bgjmain Rolland ; and Bush Studies , by Barbara
flay nton—come conveniently together to illus-
trate this text.
Millet was an epic realist—his pictures are both des-
criptions and types—in portraying peasants he painted
humanity. Rolland shows clearly that he had no notion
of the social-apostolie meaning attributed, e.g., to The
Man With the Hoe. “Nothing was further from
Millet’s mind : he detested sentimental and melodramatic
painting; he was indifferent to politics; he repudiated
socialism.” True, all Millet’s work can be taken as
symbolistic for those minds that see the symbol ; but for
Millet himself there was no symbol. He was content
with statement; yet he desired for his statement the
deepest basis and the widest possible extension on
the realistic line. He aimed to make his Soiver
one sower fully and clearly expressed, and in that
and by that the expression of all sowers, all scat-
tered of literal grain in an actual field; but
for him his picture held nothing more. He had stated
the fact, uttered the type ; and was content. Yet, with-
out his design—even, as it would appear, without his
sanction* The Soiver becomes the symbol of something
more than the peasant and his labour : it becomes the
figure of those who sow ideas, who sow worlds, the eternal
seminal. Such a picture reaches the apex of realistic
The steps of that art are thus three in number. First,
there is the statement of the thing seen. Second, there
is the statement of the thing seen so that it becomes a
type of its class. Third, there is the statement of the
type so that it is seen in relation to all things, all types ;
becomes universal in its reference—a key to unlock
every comprehending mind.
Millet—rightly, it would seem—contented himself with
taking the first two steps, and leaving the third to his
audience. Or rather, having taken the two first steps, he
took the third despite himself; for the reason that, his
message once given,, the meanings of his message passed
beyond his control —they lay in the eye of the gazer.
Barbara Bavnton has taken only the first step. Her
studies of some Australian people and scenes are realistic
beyond anything of the kind yet written here—beyond
Lawson, even beyond Miles Franklin. Bit by bit, with
careful epithet after epithet, the work is built up until
nothing could be closer to the life. Flaubert would have
been in ecstasy over such a pupil: for minute fidelity
there has been no writer anywhere to surpass this writer.
But always or nearly always Mrs. Baynton remains on
the first plane of realism—she describes wonderfully well
the thing she sees ; but that thing is not a human type,
or is a human type for Australia only. So that the reader,
on the third plane, has to strain his mind to an un-
finished piece of realistic art, if he would receive the
message which is that art’s justification and, climax.
And, if he have not Australian knowledge, this is a task
which the reader cannot achieve.
The value of Bush Studies for Australians is another
matter. Despite inequalities and some lack of finish,
they deserve the warmest praise. “ Bush Church ’’
simply could not be set down better. “Squeaker’s
Mate ” lacks an ending ; but as far as it goes it is almost
similarly perfect. “The Chosen Vessel” has been added
to since it appeared as the “The Tramp” in The Bulletin,
and the additional matter has been inserted in the wrong
place ; but none the less it is astonishingly graphic. To
“Billy Skywonkie” and “Scrammy ’And” the same
praise applies.
The book contains only half-a-dozen sketches ; and
four of them are in all essentials perfect so far as they go.
This is uncompromising commendation ; but Bush
Studies deserves uncompromising commendation. So
precise, so complete, with such insight into detail and
such force of statement, it ranks with the masterpieces
of literary realism in any language.
On the first plane only. <
Newly Published.
Hesper and Hedone: and English Verses , written
by Frederick Richardson, published by Melville & Mullen,
Melbourne. The title-page refers to Phoebus Apollo : the
introduction defers “to Margaret” : the contents merge
modern sentiment with memories of the classic lyre.
The author has no definite message; but he mumbles
musically enough : one can hardly differentiate the nest
of the English Verses from the not-best of Robert
Bridges. Hesper and Hedone is Stephen Phillips; but
fainter. For lack of a little more grace, a little more
force, a little more originality, Frederick must be
whistled down the hot wind. Overnight we did read
with mild interest, and did mark some pleasant lines
for quotation: this morning they look too worn, too
feeble. Yet . . . “To Dawn” —
0 Danin, eternity is in thy smile f * • •
IT.
Thy semblance wed to each fair thing that grow
Seem,s pregnant with the -wonder of the stars ;
Thou art of earth the everlasting Rose,
Thou art ofj/outh the hope no trouble mars :
Each day with eyes unwearied thou dost view
A changeful world, and, scattered from thy hands,
Flushed petals light on Himalayan snows.
Or float above the deep Atlantic blue,
Or down the horizon of far Austral lands
Drop sloxvly ; from the darkness and the dew
Emerge grey hills, loud woods a/nd rippled sands.
And lo ! thou hast created Earth anew.
This, you notice, attains nearly, not quite ; and too-
loud ” earns a bad mark: curious w'hat a noise that
epithet makes in contrast with that mood, that metre.
The moderate love-letter of the Rev. Samuel
Marsden, our historic parson—
London, March 14,1793.
Dear Betsy
I have not had an opportunity to thank you for the
Scripture Characters before now ; since I came to
London my time and thoughts being so very much
engaged. I hope you will not consider this as a mark
of "my Disrespect, but rather look upon my peculiar
situation as a sufficient Apology for my conduct in this
thing. . . . _ ,
Since my lot is now, seemingly, cast and God ap-
pears to be opening my way to carry the Gospel of His
Son to distant Lands ; the time is come for me to lay
open my thoughts to you, which have long been hid in
my own Breast. ..
I shall venture to submit to your Consideration the
following important Question (praying at the same time
that the Lord would enable you to answer it agreeably
to His own Will; and in such a way as may conduce to
vour own happiness and mine). The Question is this :
Will you go along with me ? If upon considering the
subject you can answer in the Affirmative and say : I
am willing ; then my heart (as far as it is proper I should
give it to the Creature) and all I have are yours. I
believe if it be for my good and His Glory He will pro-
vide me with an Helpmate ; and if not He will give me
a mind resigned to His Will. I persuade myself I shod,
be happy in the Enjoyment of you more than any other;
yet I do not wish to purchase my own Peace at the Ex-
pense of vour Comfort; but only if you think you
would be happy. . . . Then I cheerfully offer you my
Hand and my Heart whenever you please.
I remain,
Dear Betsy,
Yours most affectionately,
S. MARSDEN.
Current Commentary.
The fresh editor is godsent to Sydney Neios.
In the desert of evening journalism Paterson’s humorous
leaders are an oasis of joy.
Marchant & Co., a firm of Sydney printers,
noticing that other firms of Sydney printers have been
here “ mentioned,” desire to be mentioned also; and
send specimens of press-work in the form of collections o
photographs reproduced by the half-tone process. The
work is generally fair—better than the Sydney average
and interesting. Sometimes, in his laudable zeal to
“keep the colour up,” the pressman has destroyed
detail; but that is more often the fault of the photo-
graph. The photos, are by Swain & Co. and Kerry & Co.,
and on the whole we prefer Kerry’s : they hold more
tones and more detail : though pictorially one of Swam s
—“The Jamieson Valley ” (in Gems of Blue Mountain
Scenery)—is the best submitted. Both photographers
usually fail with water and scenery : in getting the trees
thev lose the water. Examples are Kerry’s “Katoomba
Falls ” (in Country Scenes and Pleasure Resorts),
looking like a long bathing towel ; and Swain s
“ Weeping Rock,” where the water might be a set
of stalactites. We think conscientious photo-
graphers should make two negatives, and piece them.
Always we would like softer pictures, with less violent
contrast : there is a soft, glowing brilliancy and a hard,
glaring brilliancy, and it is the former that “ a ‘‘-‘t o d e
printers should strive for. Some of the blocks would be
improved by a black-line border on the block. The
process-engraving seems generally fair. Marchant & Go.
suggest that their imprint “would look nice on your
next Catalogue or Booklet” ; but, as it is an excessnel)
ugly block, it could not possibly look well anywhere. It
the imprint is to be so prominent, the firm should set an
original and artistic design. A three-colour page headed
“Fine Printing” is well machined, but the compo-
sition is stiff and tasteless. On the whole, honourable
mention of Marchant & Co. must be confined to their
press-work, though the pressman might study the work
in the Inland Printer, for example, and (once more)
make his tones softer.
It is Miss Elizabeth Knight, of Sydney,
who tells us, in forwarding for publication an un-
printed poem, “The Madness of Ishtar, by Bliss Car-
man,” that her brother, Jasper Knight, is “ Bliss Car-
man B.C. being a pen-name only. This is news of
which Who 's Who gives u$ no hint ‘ that manual s pre-
cise statement reading (ed. 1903, p. 223) —
Carman, Bliss, journalist; b. Fredericton. New Bruns-
wick, Canada, 15 April, 1861; e.s. of William Carman
and Sophia Mary, d. of George P. Bliss.
A Dictionary of American Authors tells the same
story, adding that the name is William Bliss Carman.
That “George P. Bliss” looks very substantial; and as
Carman presumably supplied the information for Who's
Who, and added that his recreation is “canoeing,” we
want to know what Jasper Knight means by it all.
Cabled that Henry Norman, traveller and
writer, now editing The World’s Work, has divorced his
wife (n6e Menie Muriel Dowie—grand-daughter of Robert
Chambers, of the firm of W. and R., author of the
celebrated Vestiges of Creation). The other fellow is
Edward Fitzgerald, the Alpine (and Maoriland Alpine)
climber. The first'thing that the peculiar Menie suggests
s Mene, mene ; the next thing is Tickle ; and the climax
s IJpharsin. Names decide destinies ; and, reading long
ago A Girl in the Karpathians, one reflected that who-
ever christened the author had written prophetically on
the wall.
Ernest Favenc’s valuable articles on “The
Australian Desert,” in Sydney Telegraph, have just this
moral for those who bewail droughts and the ruin of
droughts-•“ Serve you riirht! ”
Nature has done her best with the inefficient means
at her disposal; but man has not ably seconded her. . .
She has made natural canals and reservoirs ,to store
any surplus flood-water, but he has not taken advantage
of the provision. She has given him subterranean
water to supplement the scanty rainfall, and he has let
it run to waste.
She has plainly warned us that Australia is a land of
droughts, and we have allowed our eyes to cheat our
minds when we have seen the grass of a good season.
The eastern interior has been overstocked till even the
grass-roots and bushes have been destroyed. Then hot
winds whirl the loosened soil aloft, and the desert ad-
vances. //Government be wise
Droughts will be fought by water conservation, the
proper and sensible utilisation of the artesian supply,
and the timely removal of stock from the chronically
dry districts. People will not be allowed to impoverish
the land to make a rapid fortune . . . The artesian
supply will be traced so far into the interior that the
natural depressions and lagoons will be kept full, and
the rigour of the climate ameliorated.
If government be wise ! Otherwise, we may look to see
Australia become “a fringe of habitable country encircling
a perennial desert dominated by a rainless climate and a
riot of dust-storms."
Swinburne’s characteristic study of King Lear, in Dec.
Haiper’s, has too much thunder and too little lightning.
His drum-and-trumpet “ criticism ” suggests the vehe-
mence of the man outside the circus, with his per-
petual invitation to walk in to “ the greatest show on
earth.” For example—
That Shakespeare’s judgment was as great and
almost as wonderful as his genius has been a
commonplace of criticism ever since the days of Cole-
ridge ; questionable only by such dirty and dwarfish
creatures of simian intellect and facetious idiocy as
mistake it for a sign of wit instead of dullness, and of
distinction instead of degradation, to deny the sun in
heaven and affirm the fragrance of a sewer . . .
After all, there is a considerable range of tones between
alabaster and the ace of spades. And we read—
Among all [the play’s] other great attributes,
among all the many other attributes which mark it
forever as matchless among the works of man, it has
this, above all, that it is the first great utterance of a
cry from the heights and depths of the human spirit
on behalf of the outcasts of the world—on behalf of
the social sufferers, clean or unclean, innocent or
criminal, thrall or free. To satisfy the sense of
righteousness, the craving for justice, as unknown
and unimaginable by Dante as by Chaucer, a change
must come upon the social scheme of things which
shall make an end of the actual relations between the
judge and the cutpurse, the beadle and the prostitute,
the beggar and the king. All this could be uttered,
could be prophesied, could be thundered from the Eng-
lish stage at the dawn of theseventeenthcentury. Were
it within the power of omnipotence to create a
German or a Russian Shakespeare, could anything of
the sort be whispered or muttered or hinted or
suggested from the boards of a Russian or a German
theatre at the d«,wn of the twentieth'? When a
Tolstoi or a Suderniann can do this, and can do it
with impunity in success, it will be allowed that his
country is not more than three centuries behind
England in civilisation and in reform . . .
As Swinburne’s own cry on behalf of the social sufferers
from the African war was a savage tirade against
Whelps and dams of murderous foes
Whom none save we had spared or feared to stai-ve and
slay,
it looks as if English civilisation, from Swinburne’s stand-
point, had degenerated considerably since Shakespeare’s
time.
Culled Contributors.
H.L.: Note that My Brilliant Career was pub-
lished against the judgment of Blackwood’s London
manager and reader, nor did William Blackwood think
greatly of the book. I told him that it would go in Aus-
tralia ; and he published it at a venture, as you may see
by the cheap get-up. And I was right. I had to barrack
for many religious, political, and sex-problem passages
which I blushed at myself, while 1 was assuring him the
Australians would n’t blush—and he saw tthe blush and
struck ’em out. Old Harris, the schoolmaster, is my
favourite character in that book. I think the school scene
where Harris shapes up to the inspector is a grand touch.
The McSwats are well drawn, and McSwat’s diary and
Harold’s letter to his sister are gems. I’ve read columns
of London reviews of “that extraordinary book a to-
be-continutd notice of four columns altogether, for
instance, in the Sunday Sun ; and I’ve had many letters
about that book ; but I never saw mention of old Harris,
for whose sake, especially, I took it to England. He is a
man and a gentleman, in spite of the drink and his dis-
reputable appearance—the one hero—though he only
has a page or two—the one solitary hero in My Brilliant
Career.
Tim: The Dramatic Critic , Sydney, recently
welcomed, appeared for one issue only. The old story-
no capital. Truth and Henslowe crushed again. Be-
surgant !
X : Reprint this extract from, the will of
Charles Dickens :
I emphatically direct that I be buried in an inex-
pensive, unostentatious, strictly private manner;
that no public announcement be made of the time or
place of my burial ; that at the utmost not more than
three plain mourning coaches be employed ; and that
those who attend my funeral wear no scarf, cloak, black
bow, long hat-band, or other revolting absurdity. I
direct that my name be inscribed in plain English
letters on my tomb, without the addition of “ Mr.” or
“Esquire.” I require my friends on no account to
make me the subject of any monument, memorial, or
testimonial whatever. I rest my claims to the remem-
brance of my country upon my published works, and to
the remembrance of my friends upon their experiences
of me in addition thereto.
R. : A story illustrating Brunton Stephens’s
boundless sympathy and thoughtfulness. A shower of
rain falling in Brisbane, someone remarked that it was
opportune and “ would do a lot of good—lay the dust and
all that you know'.” “Yes,” remarked Stephens, “but
it is a pity it does not fall at night. All the poor fellows
who drive watering-carts will, lose a day’s work—and
pay.”
S. : An advertiser in Oct. Edinburgh Review
desires to sell a maga. file containing papers by “ all the
eminent literati of the day,” including Matthew Arnold,
Fronde, John Morley, and T. Brassey. Er—er—er—
/hx-HuM!
L. : Recent linotype blunders that did not pass the
(Melb.) printer’s reader. A quotation from “As You Like
It ” was rendered “ Tongues in trees, books in the running
brooks, sermons in scones, and food in everything.” The
name of O’Farrell, licensed victualler, was appropriately
changed to O’Barrell. An alteration that would be
endorsed by Vic. railway men was “The restless spout
[spirit] at the head of affairs in the railway department.”
P.N. : Re pronunciation of “ Eyre.” Charlotte Bronte’s
novel hints that she, at least, intended “Eyre” to be
pronounced ire. In chap, xi Mdlle. Adela finds the
name difficult to Why (she being a French girl)
if pronounced with ie long a (air)? That sound, in
various spelling, is common in French ; whereas the
English sound of i in fire (a complex of ah-ee) does not
exist in the language, and is notoriously a stumbling-
block to French students of English.
Correspondence.
f. : Will use presently J. A.K. : Thanks;
icipated you... .E. Wilson Dobbs sends the verses
for by M.0.K., and writes : These lines were
en by John Sandes— ‘ Oriel,’ of The Argus (Melb.),
re first published in‘The Passing Show’column
paper on July Ist, 1899, under the title of ‘ With
i Prophetic Ear.’ Being afterwards ‘corn-
ered’ by an absent-minded person with initials
?., they appeared as ‘ The Boer’s Swan Song ’ in
’lcphone (Capetown), The Glasgow Weekly Herald,
illetin, The Leader (Melb.), The Herald (Melb.),
her papers during six months following. The
republished them in The Argus for January 13th,
vith comments.” Following are the lines as
shed : with acknowledgment to the popular
” and to The Argus —
“ WITH DEATH’S PROPHETIC EAR.”
Lay my rifle here beside me, set my Bible on my breast,
For a moment let the warning bugles cease ;
As the century is closing I am going to my rest,
Lord, lettest Thou Thy servant go in peace.
But loud through all the bugles rings a cadence in mine
ear,
And on the winds my hopes of peace are strowed,
Those winds that waft the voices that already I can hear
Of the rooi-baatje singing on the road.
Yes, the red-coats are returning, I can hear the steady
tramp,
After twenty years of waiting, lulled to sleep,
Since rank and file at Potchefstroom we hemmed them in
their camp,
And cut them up at Bronker spruit like sheep.
They shelled us at Ingogo, but we galloped into range,
And we shot the British gunners where they showed;
1 guessed they would return to us, I knew the chance
must change —
Hark! the rooi-baatje singing on the road !
But now from snow-swept Canada, from India's torrid
plains,
From lone Australian outposts, hither led,
Obeying their commando, as they heard the bugle’s strains,
The men in brown have joined the men in red.
They come to find 'the colours at Majuba left and lost,
They come to pay us back the debt they owed ;
And 1 hear new voices lifted, and I see strange colours
tossed,
’Mid the rooi-baatje singing on the road.
The old, old faiths must falter, and the old, old creeds
must fail —
I hear in that distant murmur low —
The old, old order changes, and ’t is vain for us to rail,
The great ivorld does not want us—we must go.
And veldt, aacl spruit, anil kopje to the stranger u
belong,
No more to trek before him we shall load ;
Too well, too well, 1 know it, for 1 hear it in the song
Of the rooi-baatje singing on the road.
Frank B. ;L. ; T.W.W. ; Gilrooney; S.J.R. ; H.P.; » nd
J.A.A. are thanked for similar information or copies. . •
V.M. : You will find several articles and references in i ,
Bulletin files for last seven years, on this page a
editorial page.
A.D.S.


WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, and CO., Limited,
WOOL BROKERS AND PRODUCE SALESMEN
S YDNE Y.
Send your
HIDES
SHEEPSKINS
TALLOW
TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd
RVniVKY.
The Leading Salesmen, Fall Values and Quick Returns,
the Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Stores: PYR3VIONT.
Sole Commission 3 Per Cent, to the Grower
on Large and, Small Accounts Alike.
S. FREEMAN * SONS
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE : WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
THE OWL CUT-RATE DRUG CO.,
MANUFACTURING
CHEMISTS.
THE FOLLOWING USEFUL LINES ALWAYS KEPT IN STOCK
Fincham’s Gout and Rheumatic Pills cure all cases of
Gout and Rheumatism, Lumbago and Sciatica.
Fincham’s Glycerine and Linseed Balsam —a positive
cure for Coughs, Asthma, Bronchitis, Influenza
and First Stages of Consumption.
Dr. Wilson’s Celebrated Neuralgia Mixture—a cure
for all cases of Neuralgia or Headache.
Fincham’s Antiseptic Rose Dentifrice—For Beautify-
ing and Preserving the Teeth ; a harmless pre-
paration.
Dr. Jones’ Obesity Cure—a blessing to people suffer-
ing from excessive stoutness.
Fincham’s Special Pile Cure—a sure remedy.
Fincham’s Infallible Worm Powders—a certain cure
for all kinds of Worms in Children.
“ Pearline ” Face Bleach —Clears the Skin from spots,
Redness, Roughness, Freckles, Tan, &c. Reaves
it healthy, soft and beautiful.
Fits —Epilep.—a sure cure for Epilepsy in all its forms.
Sole Agent for Or. Clarkson’s Reinvigorator—a vital-
ising Brain, Muscle and Blood Stimulant. We
still offer £lOO for any case of nerve exhaustion
which we cannot cure. Price, 7s 6d per bottle,
3 bottles Cl.
Our Genuine Electric “ Belt,” £1 only. Specially
Certificated.
Notyhe Address: THE OWL CUT=RATE DRUG CO.,
C. P. FINCHAM, Chemist. 227 ELIZABETH STREET, Opp. HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
NEITHER CRACK
NOR BURN.
6°
5806
s a
68 07
•SQoa
CBB
SHILLING BRIAR PIPES
QUALITY NOT BETTER
IN A GUINEA PIPE. .
GUARANTEE.— Should any of our Celebrated CAN’T-B-BEAT Briar Pipes Crack or Barn a
New One will be Exchanged for it immediately on Application.
Sold by all Tobacconists. By Post, Is. 2d.
Quality not better in a Guinea Pipe.
s
s
|i
»a
is k:
d'ii
RICHMOND,VA.
TOBACCO
Dark and
Bright
IS THE BEST.
Price, ss. lb., Post Free, all States.
A Perfect Pipe Tobacco.
HAVING secured the Sole Agency for the
above brand of AMERICAN TOBACCO, we
have very much pleasure in recommending
same to our Clients and the Smoking Public.
“SOLID SHOT” TOBACCO, Splendid Aroma,
does not bite the tongue. With the ordinary
smoker this Tobacco is in great demand.
Save "Solid Shot” Tobacco Tags.
For Each 100 you will receive from the
Agents, free, one only C. 8.8. Briar
Pipe and Pocket Knife.
Sole Agent for C. 8.8. Briar Pipes.
Send for Whole sale Price Lists.
Arkansas” Mixture
A Blend of the very highest grade Tobaccos
Packed in |lb. Tins, 7s. 6d. lb.
Sample Tins, 25., post free.
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney, n.s.w.
99
“zbttcik: txipi
fTIHIS is the way they feel, the men who had given up hope, who thought there was no cure for them, until
I thev came upon DR. McLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT. Now they are full of life, overflowing with
joyous spirits, and “care to the winds." Pains are gone, weakness is gone, and full vigor is in every
limb. They regain that exuberance of spirits that they remember as if a dream.
Do you want to feel like that ? Then wear this grand life-giving appliance for two months at night. It will
charge every organ with electric life, and you will feel like a two-year-old. It puts steam in your run-down
body, drives away pain and renews youth.
DR. McLAUGHLIN’S New Electric Belt
CURBS, OR WE FORFEIT fIOOO.
Unlike other concerns selling Electric Belts, we don’t sell them as so much SCRAP IRON. We don t take
every case that comes to us, but, when we tell a man we can cure him, we are prepared to cure him, and can
afford to back-up our assertion. , . . „ T _, ~T TTT
If you want to get well, follow our advice, wear OUR BELT for a few hours every night, and WE WILL
CURE you. NO DRUGS—Hence, little expense. OUR BELT infuses new vigor, new ambition, new energy
into every muscle and tissue. IT gives new life direct from Nature. USE IT, and you 11 never regret it.
From New Zealand.
The Dr. McLaughlin 00.
Dear Sira. —I was so delighted with my
Belt that I quite forgot all about writing to
you. lam pleased to be able to tell you that
the pain over my heart has entirely dis-
appeared already, and I don’t tire so easily
as I used to. I am more than pleased and
will always recommend your Belt.
I remain, yours sincerely,
OTTO WEBB.
Pahiatua, New Zealand.
From Victoria.
Dear Sirs.—l am sending you a report of
my condition, and am glad to tell you that I
am gradually improving. My spirits are
lighter and brighter, and the dreadful dreams
which I had at night have greatly subsided,
and I can again feel pleasure in my surround-
ings. If I can find any more acquaint-
ances needing help I will be glad to recom-
mend your Belt, and will never fail to do so.
Yours trulv,
Erskdale. G. W. SAUNDERS.
From W.A.
After all doctors and remedies had failed,
and after months of suffering from sciatica,
your Belt cured me, and now I am in fine
condition.
P. W. KELLY.
Angel Terrace,
Ooolgardie.
Our Chief-of-Staff is the only Registered Qualified Specialist in Aus-
tralia who devotes his entire time to Electric Treatment. Trust No Other!
NOTICE.
We want you
would like to
PRO3TATIC
If you are not as vigorous as you
- VITALITY,
that kind,'.it
would assure you future" l.TpVinessTyoTwoukf look into this method of ours We know beyond all possibility of doubt efitt
J 11 mitlun rflar'h of n. . )on t
w« can cure yoh, and cure youpormanently. Ou7Beto.mwi.hin reach of all. Don't delay trying it,jour ta.. days are slipping
by. If you want this book; we send it closely sealed free, if you send this paragraph. Hours 9 a.m. to 9 p.m.
' * .. ’ of the “ Free Bolt” Fraud.
Write u. 3 Fear an anatioxi u
, h ooP -e e- E t
roR
I 1 and
% BtLT
HR rVLABCMLUW%
. .
-wa
\
P;
4
L\
(The Dr. McLaughlin Co.,
, 85 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
' Melbourne Offices : 167 E Swanston Street.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £.900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
<X«O lilil-' ’ST COIVEJP EJ'X’iTXOJXT.
WINES The Best B Z uls onhJ ° f SPIRITS.
MANUFACTUBERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
i
The “ Enterprise ’’
Rubber Massage Roller
Makes, Keeps
and Restores
Beauty in Na-
ture'town way.
The cup-shaped teeth have a
suction effect on the skin that
smooths out wrinkles, rounds out
the beauty muscles, and gives per-
fect circulation of the blood.
It is so constructed that it tre ’t3
every portion of the face and neck
perfectly, even to the “ crow’s
feet ” in the corners of the eyes.
Price of Roller - • - -
(with FREE Sample
Jar of “SKIN --
FOOD")
4/6
Post
Free.
Box 133, G.P.O.
THE ENTERPRISE CO., MELB.
When ordering please mention this paper.
Price 6s.
Post Free.
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
BY
"Steele Rudd.


*-■ r
SMOKE
The Unrivalled
World Renowned
BRIAR
PIPES
LARGEST DEPOT:
231 Clarence St ( ,
SYDNEY.
CORSET SHIELDS
O PATENT
5«
Q*‘of<ris'
(otsnSmtu
>S» (msbShiua
DOUBLE
THE LIFE
OF YOUR
CORSET
“Prevention is better than Cure”
and the Oktis Corset Shields, put into a new Corset, prevent split seams
and broken bones, and more especially that ugly ridge that so soon
appears, and spoils the appearance of the best fitting gown.
It does not Increase the Size of the Waist
Ask for the OKTIS, and see that you are not put off with Imitations.
On each one appears the name “P. & S.—OKTIS—P. & S.”
Oldsmobile
Made
in
America
and
shipped
here
for
a very
reason -
able
price
We can make you a
delivered price at your
nearest port on the most
practical automobile run-
about that is made.
5,000 are now in daily
use, giving complete satis-
faction. They sell in
America for $650.00
(^* l 3°) and freight to this
point is not large—quick delivery.
The Oldsmobile will run over any passable road, climb
steep hills, is almost noiseless, has a speed of 25 miles
an hour; will run 30 miles on a gallon of gasoline.
The construction is simple. There is no fire, no
boiler to burn out; nothing to watch but the road ahead
and nothing to get out of order. Starts at ease from
the seat —and no experience is required to run it.
Write for handsome illustrated book sent free.
Olds Motor Works,
Detroit, Michigan, U* Sm Am
CLOTHED WITH AIR
• rnjey PCI I 111 AR CARRIP i® the ideal form of body covering, possessing all the neces-
nCnl EA uCLLULnH rMDflll/ sary hygienic qualities, and being also most comfortable and
0 f attractive appearance, and for those reasons is recom-
mended by the Medical Faculty wherever introduced.
Aertex Cellular Underwear is a Sure Preventative against Chills
Cellular Day Shirts.
Silk neckbands and soft wrists.
White and Self Colors, 4s to 7s 6d
Fancy Designs, 7s 6d to 9s 6d.
Cellular Neglige Shirts.
Soft fronts of plain or pleated
Cellular Cloth; wrists, French
Print, Linen, or Cellular. Recom-
mended for Golf, Cycling, &c.
White body, 7s 6d ; colored, 8s 9d
Cellular Dress Shirt*
Fitted best Belfast Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 0.8. or 0.F., one stud.
Cellular Cotton Body—
-6s 6d to 8s 6d
Cellular Lisle Body-
-98 6d and 10s 6d
Cellular Short-Front Shirt
for every-day wear.
Open behind, 2in. linen wrists—
-5s 6d, 6s 6d.
Open front or behind, square
cuffs— 6s 6d, 7s 6d
tr
mM
AERTEX
Cellular Combinations.
High or Low Necks.
s. d.
iWhite Cotton, trimmed
Lace 5 6
.White Cotton, trimmed
Embroidery .. .. 7 6
White Cotton, trimmed
Lace 9 0
White Lisle, trimmed Em-
broidery 10 0
. AERTEX
Cellular Nightdresses.
White Cotton, trimmed
Embroidery .. .. 9 C
White Lisle, trimmed Em-
broidery 20 0
White Lisle, prettily
trimmed, fine Torchon.. 19 6
A t>r \p-r r Chrmizoc White Cotton, trimmed Embroidery,
Att ICA LCUUidr Liitllllbtls. White Liglej heavily trimmed
Real Torchon, 14s 6d and 16s 6d.
lertex Cellular Slip-Bodices. “g>» ,iz “
White Lisle, trimmed Torchon, 6s 6d and 8s 6d.
send for Illustrated Price List—Post Free.
DAVID BRAHAM & GO.,
73 & 75 King-St., Sydney.
Sole Agents.
Cellular Tennis Shirt.
With Collar and Pocket. The most
comfortable for all out-door sports
of all kinds. A great variety of
patterns stocked.
Plain Colors, 4s. 6d. to 7s. 6d.
Fancy Designs, 7s. 6d. to 11s. 6<L
Aertex Cellular Corsets.
Fitted real Greenland Whalebone.
8. d.
Cl Ecru 13in. deep .. .. 15 6
C 2 ~ long waist, 14jin deep 16 6
M White Cotton, 14in., nar-
row spoon busk .. .. 21 0
G White Cotton, 141 in., with
Elastic Supporter .. 24 6
F Ecru, Riding or Cycling.. 12 6
V Cycling, Boned French
Horn, Elastic Hips ..15 0
D 1 same shape as Cl, Watch-
spring Steels .. .. 86
Carter's
There’s SECURITY in
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
FURRED TONGUE.
I
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
IVER
PILLS
•Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price.
They TOUGH the LIVER
Be Sure they are Carter’s
-• 'V.Vlr'V,''":
9
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania)
IMPORTANT NOTICE
The Tasmanian Government having imposed a tax of One Penny
on every Five Shilling Ticket iesned by Tatter sail’s on ard after Ist
Janu ry, 1903, clients will please forward Id. extra for each 5s
ticket applied for, or 4d. for every ,£l, and so on.
NOW OPEN
NEWMARKET H’CAP—Flemington. Vic., Eeb 28 100,000 at 5/1
AUSTRALIAN CUP—Fleming-ton, Vic., March 3 50,000 at 5/1
DONCASTER HEAP—Randwick, N.S.W., April 11 25,000 at 5/1
SYDNEY CUP—Randwick, N.S.W.. April 13 ... 25,000 at 5/1
Subscribers will please note that GEORGE ADAMS (“ TATTERS ALL ”) STILL
CONTINUES his business in HOBART, under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN
GOVERNMENT, and that clients can send their subscriptions by letter to any friend or
acquaintance in HOBART, who will there have no difficulty in delivering the application and
securing the despatch of tickets and results direct to clients.
Money can also he paid through any Bank in Australasia, to the credit of GEORGE
ADAMS, Commercial Bank of Tasmania, Hobart. Clients when so doing will please request
Bank to advise GEORGE ADAMS of amount, with their name and full address.
Small Parcels addressed to me can be forwarded to Hobart through any PARCEL
DELIVERY CO. doing business with Tasmania.


It’s an easy job for the barber to
part the hair on a head like this.
It’s just as easy to prevent baldness
if you only do the right thing.
Baldness is almost always a sure
sign of neglect; it is the story of neg-
lected dandruff.
Dandruff is untidy, unnecessary, and
unhealthy.
Ayer's Hair Vigor
cures dandruff and prevents baldness.
You save your hair and you are spared
the annoyance of untidy clothing.
It also stops falling of the hair, and
makes the hair grow thick and long.
Do not be deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Make sure that you get the genuine
Ayer’s Hair Vigor.
Prepared by Dr J. C Ayer & Co., Lowell Mass., U.S.A.
W. H.Wigzell.
FRINGES: Best Natural Curly
Hair, 3/6, 5/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each.
TAILS and PLAITS : 20in. long,
5/6 ; extra thick, 7/6; 24in., 10/6;
extra thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings worked up,
2/6 per oz. Don’t be misled.
Our Plaits and Tails are twice as
thick as sold elsewhere at the
same price. Send color of Hair.
Only one address: 110 WILLIAM-
ST., cor. of Palmer St. SYDNEY.
Cable trams will stop at door. All work guaranteed.
Illustrated Catalogue post free. Prompt attention given
to country orders. Wigs made on shortest notice. All
Hairwork sent to the other States free of duty. Transfor-
mations, entire covering for the head, 30/- each.
Write To-Day.
Send
Postal Note.
Given
away
THIS MONTH
...t0...
Advertise our
Ostrich
Tips.
2/6
The Bunch
Post Free.
3 Black Tips with Ospreys. A Marvel of Cheapness.
Miller’s Feather Shop,
Corner Bourke and Swanston Streets, Melbourne.
Mention The Bulletin.
Per 25 Cent.
Reduction in the
Price of
KODAK
PHOTOGRAPHIC PAPERS.
KNOWN all over the World for
their unequalled richness in Silver,
and all-round Excellence.
Price List of all Dealers and of
KODAK LIMITED,
2"4 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Pi,ease Mention this Papkr.
S€ND US
YOUR PHOTOGRAPH.
JF you send a Photograph of yourself (or friend) to
Mr. Mark Blow, Crown Studios, Sydney,
he will reproduce from it a very beautiful and
Artistically Finished
Permanent Enlargement
In Black and White, equalling a rich Steel Plate
Engraving, handsomely mounted on an Indian-tintea
Plate, sunk mount, and as good in every way as Enlarge-
ments now being supplied at from 30/- to 50/- each, ana
will carefully pack it and send it Carriage Paid to any
address in Australia, Tasmania, or New Zealand for 111/o.
Your Pho to. Returned with Order.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
kstabmsuku 184!). For L,jf e Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P, (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New Zealand.
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per
cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors— Thomas Littlejohn, Esq.,Chairman ; The Hon. A. VV. Meeks, M.L.C., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin Short,
Esq. ; Senator J. T. Walker; J. Abbott, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C. ; F. E. Winchcomkk, Esq., M.P.
General Manager and Actuary— Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S S
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 109.
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
Send for a
Catalogue.
y
Went Shaft Sulkies,
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles.
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, i3o Sussex St., Sydney
Straight Shaft 3-Spring Sulkies, £8 10s.
Sarven Sulky Wheels Tyred, £2 4s 6d pair.
Discount to Wholesale Buyers. Send for Catalogue.
KING
2h.p. to lOOh.p.
MARINE OIL ENGINES.
Launches built 20ft. to 80ft. overall.
WITH THE KING ENGINE—ONE LEVER” CONTROLS' THE WHOLE.
j. f. m; c d e r m; o t t & c o nx f a. kt y,
Telephone 2671. 30 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Noiseless Uuderwater . .
Exhaust.
Perfect Gas Generator.
Double Cylinder.
Automatic Oil Feed.
Simple Electric Ignition
with Dynamo.
Hotelkeepers, make your own
CRATED WATERS
THE “AUSTRAL” A2RATED WATER MACHINE occupies
only Four Feet square, will produce 160 dozen BOTTLES
per day of Finest Waters (Lemonade, Ginger Ale, Sodawater,
&c.) at a COST BELOW FOURPENCE PER DOZEN. These machines
are now working in all the Australian States, New Zealand, and
South Africa.
Write for Prices and Particulars.
Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers—
EQKERSLEY AND SONS,
214-216 Queen Street, Melbourne.
“New Rival ” and “Repeater ”
WINCHESTER
Shotgun Cartridges
Rival ” loaded with Black powder, and “ Repeater ”
loaded with Smokeless powders. When buying, always
insist upon having them, take no others, and you will get
the best Cartridges for the price that money can buy.
NO TROUBLE TO GET, AtL DEALERS KEEP THEM.
WE STOCK —ALL WINCH GOODS.
IVTLEAN BROS. & RIGG, Ltd.
ELIZABETH STREET, HELBOURNE.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks—Free.
PLAYS sr~“
French’s Acting Edition.
Rare Books
French Novels
Books tlie Married
llxtra Special Oataloij tie of
Iloohs Free.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE .
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne
i mv aoj «ivh
CtOOHD
Alii Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has "ained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If vour Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. ' Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
IPS’ For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
CONSULT HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by WATKINS & MACKAY, Chemists, Queen Street, Brisbane ; Mr. GORDON, 9* George
Boiu uy Street, Rockhampton, Queensland, and
E HOLLAND. Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE
Washington H. Souh & 00.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Prayers and Threats.
Towers of daisies will I build,
Bine will I burn and frankincense,
And snowy flour all newly milled,
If thou wilt be my prop and fence,
If thou wilt red her face for me
With shining love’s temerity
As onyx cups with wine do be.
I will pile altars up with fruit,
And spill white oil across the ground,
And stroke the singing gold-haired lute
Into a sweeter tide of sound,
If me, uncompassed, without chart,
Thou, in supremely gracious part
Lead to the latchet of her heart.
But I will break and mutilate
Thy frost-white image into sand,
And strew the atoms, nor abate
Till nothing of thee stop to stand,
And I will devastate thy shrine,
If thou dost put but cold incline
Into her heart for heart of mine.
/.
HUGH R. McCRAE.
The House of Bliss.
The ways of men are sore to the feet, the ways of
men are cold;
H«,rsh is the quarrel of foes that meet —there is
never a friendly face ;
-tt-nd how shall a man find grace in life, or how
shall a man’s faith hold,
With no relief from the weary strife, nor any
quiet space ?
But I will marry the girl I love —we will live in a
hid retreat;
And I shall find solace and balm enough, and a
lazy, long delight
In a soft, clear voice that will float and ring with a
cadence calm and sweet,
And the days will pass like a murmuring, but rap-
ture come with the night.
And I will leave the House of Men, and go down
to our House of Bliss;
And her straight, white arms will hold me then,
and her deep, dark eyes enthrall . . .
Gods that sit in the West, behold ! is there any
life like this ?
That a man should live in a House of Gold, and
make his love his all ?
And we shall be out on the purple hills before the
moon is up,
When a great, cool wave of darkness fills the space
of earth and sky,
And faint night breezes will drift above, and dew
from the high stars’ cup,
While the only folk in the land of Love are mj
Lady of Night and I.
And we shall stand in the red moon’s beam, tossed
back from a silver cloud,
Watching the far horizon gleam where the moon
and the waters kiss,
And trace her path to the West away till she meet
the dawn-mist’s shroud,
And see her dim in the morning grey, and go down
to the House of Bliss.
M.L.
AWAKIG.
What!
What do you say with your eyes,
Looking right straight into mine?
Is it “ I love you !” or “Do you love me? ”
What are you looking at ? What do you see ?
Is it delight or surprise
That makes them gleam so, and shine?
There comes a shadow between,
So that I cannot see in !
Is it another’s, or is it my own ?
Now it has gone again ! Where has it flown ?
Whose was it ? What did it mean ?
Was it the shade of my sin ?
Flash ! There’s the message again !
What is it? What do you mean ?
How to decipher it! How to divine !
How ? If I have not the key ? Is it mine ?
Is it a portent of pain ?
Is it the love that has been?
Look ! Here ! Right straight into mine!
What do you say with your eyes ?
Is it a challenge, a warning, a fear ?
Is it a wish, that for words is too dear,
Born of a passion like wine ?
Is it the love that denies?
Oh ! But my very soul dies,
Calling to yours for a sign !
Must that inscrutable, fathomless gaze
Taunt me and haunt me the rest of my days ?
What do you say with your eyes,
Looking deep down into mine ?
S.A.
NIL.
A Toast.
M. L.
It were a fault to drink,
Save in a subtle wine
(The cup full to the brink,
That glancing gold may shine
Where velvet shadows sink),
To one who is divine !
No name shall we disclose,
But dream of her whose eyes
Have magic with the rose;
Within whose depths arise
Thoughts that are born of those
Cradled in paradise !
HUBERT CHURCH.


A Quiet
Nip"...
Four Crown
Whisky
VI
t
■f
*
■H
Low, Languid, and Dispirited.
The Vagaries of a Torpid Liver.
A Useful Lesson for Sufferers.
The Case of tyr. J. DECNAN-
(FOR THIS “ REDFERN TIMES.”)
Among the most important missions of
inquiry placed on record was that recently
made by our reporter to the home of Mr.
John Degnan, Garden-street, North Botany.
This is due as much to the magnitude of his
discoveries as to the interest of the incident
he elicited on inquiring.
“ Will you favour me with a complete
outline of the vicissitudes you successfully
combated ? ” 1
“ Right willingly,” answered Mr. Deg-
nan, as he offered the pressman a seat. Five
years went by from the time my illness
started till it was finally conquered, and if
I did not have a bad time it was a caution.
Bear in mind, it was all through the torpid
state of my liver, and, believe me, I got
into such a very wretched condition that I
did not care whether I lived or not. Before
I was really aware what disaster was be-
falling me 1 used to feel as though I had no
life in me, and was always low-spirited and
sleepy. There was only one thing that I
was fit for, and that was to lie down, but
when I did so 1 could not sleep, my mind
being actively engaged in going through a
multitude of unhappy thoughts which
seemed to be born of the melancholy condi-
tion I was in. What caused me considerable
uneasiness of mind was that my appetite
became poorer every day, and still more
anxiety was engendered by the knowledge
that what food I did eat was of no benefit
to me, my ability to digest any kind of
eatables having vanished. In this way it
transpired that my strength wasted away
till it was often compulsory for me to knock
off work, although my employment at that
time was not of a heavy description.”
“ How did you feel after your meals? ”
“Just as if I had swallowed so much
lead. Something like a heavy ball seemed
to form in my stomach, the pains arising
from which were simply horrible, and from
the stomach the heavy sensations travelled
up to my chest, thereby giving me extra-
ordinary difficulty in breathing. My head
ached to a degree which proved almost dis-
tracting, for I could not settle down to
read or do anything, and there was even a
swollen feeling in my eyes to annoy me.
Owing to a pricking sensation under my
shoulder-blades I used to think I had
caught a cold, but experience lias taught
me that that was a derangtd liver symptom,
while another one, although more torment-
ing in its persistency, was a nasty aching
pain across the loins, which I felt very dis-
tinctly when .Roving about. The bitter
taste in my mouth was enough to turn any
man off his food, and the dirty coating on
my tongue used to make me feel sick. At
times, when exhausted nature claimed a
few hours’ rest, I fell asleep, J>ut. there was
no comfort in doing so, as the ugly dreams
I had simply beggar description. The flesh
gradually fell away from my frame till my
bones were quite visible, and my prospects
were anything but rosy, especially as my
head had long since been troublesome.
Without any ostensible reason it used to
start beating violently against my ribs, the
sound it made being quite loud enough to
be heard several‘yards away. It seemed
more than likely that my heart was diseased,
particularly so as those fits of palpitation
were usually accompanied by feelings of
faintness. The worry of mind and pain of
body at last succeeded in wearing out my
patience, for it took but little to make me
irritable and excited, after which I sank
into the old gloomy groove of misery till
something else occurred to upset me. Ner-
vousness was not the least of my ailments,
as my nerves twitched involuntarily when-
ever ' nything happened to disturb me, and
in spite of the medicines I had taken, they
still trembled at the least provocation.”
“ Where did you get your medicine from,
Mr. Degnan ?” • f
“I refer- to the medicines which my
doctors prescribed for me, but which I
might as well have left untouched for all the
good they were. I was always paying
money away to doctors, and never got any
value back for it; but now if I should
have the ill-luck to fall into bad health
again I would go straight for Clements
Tonic, as I know it to be the btfst medicine
ever brought within the reach of suffering
humanity.”
“ That being your opinion, why did you
not take some earlier than you did ? ” -
“ Recause I had been suffering five years
before I was told about Clements Tonic,
and another reason was because I had de-
cided against taking any more medicine, as
I thought it was useless. But a relative
came upon the scene and told me how
Clements Tonic had cured his complaints,
which were like mine in nearly every detail;
so I promised to try it, and when I did so
it was the best day’s work I ever did, for
Clements Tonic piloted me to health. I
used to dread the very idea of taking any
food, but when I had been on Clements
Tonic a few days it was quite different, as I
was always the first to sit down to meals
and the last one to finish eating, and before
a week was over there was a great reduc-
tion in the severity of my pains in the
stomach. My food did not ferment and
turn to wind as in former years, but it
digested quite readily, and of course I got
the benefit of its The weary
feelings which had darkened my days were
wafted away by the invigorating qualities
of Clements Tonic, which likewise buckled
together my shattered nerves and ma le
them firm and true. The greatest surprise
I ever got in my life was when I discovered
what a splendid medicine Clements Tonic
was for promoting healthful sleep, and I
say ‘healthful’ advisedly, for there was no
languidness or depression on awaking, such
as is experienced after taking sleeping
draughts or other such means for producing
slumber. The anxious misgivings which I
had borne in silence when my heart was
given to palpitating were not long in being
dispelled, for Clements Tonic made that
organ beat with the regularity of a clock,
and I can make the same statement in
regard to my internal functions generally,
for I never suffered from constipation after
taking a few bottles of Clements Tonic,
which relieved my chest pains and head-
aches very easily. It was pleasant to get
up and notice that my tongue was clean and
that the bitter taste had left my mouth,
but what was still more to be appreciated
was the fact that every ache and pain had
deserted my body, which was regaining its
weight from day to day.”
“ Are you sure about the completeness of
your cure ? ”
“I am quite positive that Clements Tonic
made a new man of me by giving me better
health and more strength than I ever had
before. Not long ago I was helping to cut a
road through the mountains, about ten miles
from Nowra, and I found that I could do
the heaviest manual labour going without
being unduly fatigued, and, as Clements
Tonic gave me the health to do it, you can
publish my story in any way you want.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
i, J Ohs Degnan, of Garden-street, North Botany,
in the State of New South Wales, Commonwealth
of Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare
that I have carefully read the annexed document,
consisting of five folios, and consecutively numbered
from one to five, and that it contains and is a
true and faithful account of my illness and cure
by Clements Tonic; and also contains my full per-
mission to publish in any way my statements—
which I give voluntarily, without receiving any
payment; and I make this solemn declaration con-
scientiously believing the same to be true, and by
virtue of the provisions of the Oaths Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Darlinghursh this twenty-
eighth day of February, one thousand nine hundred
and two, before me,
THOMAS MOORE. J.P.
for the bush worker
am
-BuAr
A SOOTHING BALM and EMBROCATION. Will be found
a CERTAIN CURE for Cuts, Burns, Boils, Barcoo,
Eczema, Sprains, Ringworm, Sore Feet, Piles all
forms of Skin Disease or Muscular Affections, etc.
From all Chemists, 1/6 per Tin. A FREE SAMPLE will
be sent you. Address the
ZAM-BUK CO., 39 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Enclose Penny Stamp for postage, and mention this paper.
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite Sb.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st.,
Telephone No. 10hS.
South Melbourne.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCINQ FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
“ They come as a boon and a blessing to men,
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen.”
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEN made bv Macniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
separately examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAM
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPEK.
DON’T MISS THIS
OPPORTUNITY, if you are suffering with WEAkENING,
NERVOUS, and DEBILITATING Diseases. Our CON-
CENTRATED BOTANIC REMEDIES will CURE YOU.
So CONFIDENT are we of this that we will send to any
sufferer a TRIAL COURSE (Free of Charge) and abide
by the RESULT. Send NOW and your ultimate CURE
CERTAIN. Address—
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
DRUM
K
ENNESS
CURED
Absolutely Conquered in 20 Days.
SiT See my proposition to the Government,
November Bth, igoi, wherein I agree to
accept ioo Test Cases, and prove that my
Vegetable Cure for Alcoholism is a positive
and reliable remedy Home treatment
within the reach of all. No restrictions, no
hypodermic injections. Full particulars free,
W. LANGSTON, m.r.c.s, En?,
68 Russell St., Melbourne.
»
Rescued
From Drink
by a new discovery, odorless and tasteless, which any lady
can give in tea, coffee or food It does its work so silently
and surely that while the devoted wife, sister or daughter
looks on, the drunkard is reclaimed, even against his will
and without his knowledge or co-operation. Send name
and address to THE EUCRASY 00., 62 HUNTER ST.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W., and they will send you booklet and
particulars free.
RUPTURE
Threw away
your Truwi.
CURED withoH
operation or pain,
no detention from work, or depend-
ence upon Trusses. The only
humane treatment. Hundreds
cured. Write to-day for illustrated
Treatise No. io. Address:
1 SURGEON LANGSTON,
M.R.C.S., ENG.,
Cob Russell & Collins Sts.,
r MELBOURNE.
I’ll Try It,"
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
(Japillarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
9
The HeauU,
CRAIG &. AITKEIM. N.s •W. Barber’s Supply
House, 680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
1
Always use at Bedtime
to prevent Mosquito bites,
CALVERTS
20 per cent.
Carbolic Soap.
A delightful soap for toilet purposes.
Most useful to prevent or cure insect bites
or stings, itch, piles, ringworm, etc.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
X
jr
I MORRIS'S”
IMPERIAL
ointment
■ CURES Hi
TOOTH-ACHE
CURED INSTANTLY BY
M ■ | ||Y V M J Prevents Decay, Saves
BUNTER S Ex “; e s vSr Night
Neuralgic Head-aches & all N erve
Pains removed by BUNTER’S
NERVINE. Of all Stores.
NERVINE
“As a specific for Tooth ache it has no equal. I have
used it successfully for years."—Prof. W. Wilson, M.D,
The BEST FAMILY MEDICINE
KAYE’S WORSDELL’S PILLS
Are a certain Cure for Indigestion, Biliousness, Head ache,
Dyspepsia, Constipation, Liver and Kidney Complaints, &c,
Of all Stores.
Hidden Secretsof
WORDS
OF
WISDOM
This “ GRAND
BOOK” which is
sent Absolutely
FREE.
“Words of Wisdom,* a
wonderful book written
for the sole purpose of re-
vealing to sufferers the
wonderful system of Hom-
oeopathic treatment which
has cured so many cases
that were thought to he
hopeless and incurable.
The book is written in a
plain and concise manner,
telling you exactly how
and where you can regain
perfect health. In fact, it
gives you the key to the
grandest knowledge known
It reveals wonderful se-
crets and makes the.impossibilities of yesterday realities of to-
day. No matter what your disease or how many have termea
it hopeless or incurable, you will indeed find it A MESSAGE
OF HOPE to you, for if you follow its dictates, you will, ias
thousands of others have, be entirely cured of your ailments.
Remember this book costs you absolutely nothing and you will
prize it highly. Simply sit down, write your name and address,
send it to the
IRVING HOMOEOPATHIC COY.,
c/r Hunter & Bligh Sts., Sydney, N.S.W.
also stating your ailments, and they will send their opinion and
advice as well as this grand book without cost.
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
REITS and
APPLIANCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ ELEC-
TKIC ERA.” Our Electric
Beits will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electrio
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Brice List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
/
V
m
i
Vi
nr
*
m
ALL CHEMISTS
ppFINSfjfS
FOR
Anemia,
Poverty of Blood
and Weakness
from Whatever Cause.
TABLETS
AT 3/6 PER BOX


ICE-MAKING MACHINES from 70/- * AC h
Water converted into Ice in One Minute.
ICE-CREAM FREEZERS FROM 15/- RACK
Send for Catalogue.
BRANDT BROS
236 Pitt St.
Sydney,
and 422 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
'VV E SPECIALISE in but one direction, i.e , the
EQUIPMENT OF OFFICES
on an UP-TO-DATE SYSTEM.
No Business can
succeed without
METHOD.
This METHOD
we supply.
WABASH
EXPANSION
Business
Systems.
Letter Files.
Document Files
Card Index
Systems
For all
Businesses.
JFrite for
Catalogue.
s*
WOOLLEY, BERGIN & CO.,
269 George St., Sydney.
Sole Agents, Australasia.
Engineer Electric Plant.
Nicß.clean work;, good pay. Wouldn’t you like
it? We’re here to help you. Study by corre-
spondence .Electrical, Steam, Mechanical
Engineering,—
Plumbing, Heating,
Ventilating or
Mechanical Drawing.
These subjects are taught
at home by correspon-
dence ; also Steam,
llechanical and Elec-
trical Engineering,
Mechanical Drawing,
etc. Write for informa-
tion and Handbook “ B.”
American School of
Correspondence, at Ar-
mour Institute of Tech-
nology.
Sydney : Box 629, G.P.O.
m
HYPNOTISM, Magnetie Healing, &c.
m
VSJ*
Learn to Hypnotize I
Wonderful, Mysterious, Fas
cinating! I teach you how
to become a Hypnotist so
that you can exert a Strang J
and magic influence over
others. Celebrated instan
taneous method, discovered
and taught only by me.
Easily and quietly learned.
You can perform astonish-
ing feats and produce fun
by the hour. Surprise all
your friends and make your-
self famous. You can give
entertainments and make
money. Gratifies every am-
bition, compels others to
love and obey you, and
brings health, happiness,
and success in life. Cures
diseases and bad habits.
Send two stamps for my big
FREE BOOK, which treats
on all the wonders, secrets,
and mysteries of the art,
and shows you Just how to
become a Hypnotist.
ADDRESS—
Prof. R. H. Barraden, 89 Pitt Street, BYDNEY.
Par
MEN
If
you
are
suffering from
exhaustion, Vari-
cocele, Wasting,
Weakness, enclose 6 stamps (postage and
packing), and I will send a trial bottle of my
.REMEDY, FREE.
IT COSTS YOU NOTHING
to try my Life Syrup Remedies, which
give back strength of body and brain, renewed
vigor, and development of the vital organs;
not a free prescription dodge, but a trial of
my wonderful remedy free for the asking.
Professor h. read,
165 Collins street, Melbourne.
THE ROAD
TO HEALTH IS
PAVED WITH
GOOD
DIGESTION.
VEGETABLE
Charcoal
Speedily cures Acidity, Flatulence, Heartburn,
Impure Breath, Indigestion, Diarrhoea, <fcc. It
destroys all disease germs, and,absorbing all impuri-
ties in the stomach and bowels,gives a healthy tone
to the whole system. Wards off all attacks ot Typhoid
and other Fevers. Prevents many an illness.
BRAGG S PURE CHARCOAL POWDER in
Bottles; LOZENGES and BISCUITS in Tins
(pleasant to take). Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
Having had complaints of the injury done by other
preparations,please see that each Bottle or Tin bears
the Trade Mark ‘ J.L.8., in monogram,' on the wrapper.
MEDICAL GALVANISM.
“ ATESSRS. HALE AND SON’S FIRM has distinguished
itself in the development of ELECTRICAL
SCIENCE as a MEDICAL AGENT. By an entirely NEW
METHOD of application they have succeeded in prodiic*
ing an ELECTRIC BODY BELT, which for COMFORT,
EFFICACY and GENUINENESS is unquestionably far
superior to any previous invention. \et the whole appli
ance is so compact that it only weighs a few ounces. In
this age of shams it is something to get an article that
has some power apart from imagination.” Medical
Monthly.
HALE’S IMPROVED ELECTRIC BELTS have con-
quered the most OBSTINATE cases of NERVOUS and
other DISEASES after all other remedies have FAILED.
OUR SPECIAL ELECTRIC BELT WITH SUSPENSOR
FOR GENTLEMEN HAS NO EQUAL. Catalogue and
Price List gratis. CONSULTATION FREE.
HALE & SON, Medical Galvanists,
44 CASTLEREACH-STREET, SYDNEY.
0
Rupture
Dr. Pierce’s Electric Truss
is a Marvel. Nothing like
_ it. Best Retainer on earth
and a Genuine Cure for Rupture.
• World-renowned. 27 improvem ts.
If ruptured, send a stamp, (any
sort), for new “Booklet No. 1.
MAGNETIC E. TRUSS CO., 206 Post Street, San
Francisco,U.S. A.: W. H. Sou<& CO., Agents,STDHCT.
WOOL. PRODUCE. CRAIN.
■
The New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency
Coy., Ltd., SYDNEY,
ACT As selling brokers oatt.-v
ignors are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association of this Company .
COMMISSION FOR SELLING THREE-QUARTERS (5) PER CENT.
WAREHOUSING
(Including Receiving into Store, Fire Insurance,
Weighing, Lotting, Repacking, Sample Bales,
Advertising, Cataloguing, etc.) on Wool real-
ising over SIXPENCE per lb. the charges
will be
On Wools realising SIXPENCE and over Four-
pence per lb. . :
On Wools realising FOURPENCE per ib. and
under
3s. 9d. per Bale.
2s. 6d. per Bale.
Is. 6d. per Bale.
Perfect System of Weighing.
Way Bills sent on Application.
PRODUCE
SALES of Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, Marsupial Skins, etc., HELD WEEKLY.
- tocli and Station Agents.
Honiebush Padd ° Ck Accommodat i on for the Reception and Watering of Sheep and Cattle at
Sales Held Monday and Thursday each, iveelc.
AGENTS FOR McDOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP.
J. BARTRAM & SON,
34 & 36 Market Street, Sydney
(Corner of
Clarence Street)
23 King Street, Melbourne.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES .
The ENGLISH DE LAVAL STEAM TURBINE CO. LTD., Leeds.
Makers of Steam Turbines, Turbine Dynamos, Turbine Pumps, Turbine Fan&
(Over 80,000 Horse power in use.)
/Messrs. GREENWOOD & BATLEY LTD., Albion Works, Leeds.
Machine-Tool Manufacturers and Electrical Engineers, Dynamos, Motors, Pumps, eto.
/Messrs. CONNOLLY BROS. LTD,, Manchester.
Insulated Cables, Wires, Tapes, etc.
ARE YOU WEAK ?
Low-spirited, Tired of Life* Have you utterly
failed in your efforts to regain Health?
Go to the Fountain Head
And consult Old Surgeon Langston, who will Cure
you. Forty years’ practice as a Specialist is sufficient
Guarantee of the doctor’s ability.
AVOID unskilled pretenders, flaming advertisements and specious
cure-alls.
Vigor and Strength ” h °
OLD SURGEON LANGSTON,
Member Royal College of Surgeons, England, located in Melbourne
since 1886, has so perfected his method of treatment that it can
almost be said there are no hopeless or incurable cases.
Be the equal of your fellow man.
If you are a sufferer from any nervous, chronic Blood or Skin diseases, or interested in the subject of
Neurasthenia and associated evils, write at once for book of information, blank forms, etc., and have the
old doctor diagnose your case.
Seek the Truth, it: coats 3NTothing!
All communications strictly confidential. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, cor. Russell & Collins Sts,, Melbourne.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
BMBRACINO
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1902 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all, occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy ; Is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d.
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is.
The Artof Wrestling, post Is. Hoyle’s Games, post 2/6
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), Is 3d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, Is posted. Camille, Is 3d.
Secr et History of tiie Court of England, 1 6 post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history), Is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s Od posted.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted. Sappho, Is.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want.
The Wife’s Handbook, Is 2d posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post.
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus. Leather bound, my price, 15s post paid
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic,
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is 3d.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s posted.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music comple e Is 6d.
Tiie Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d posted.
Send for my Illustrated Big Book
Catalogue-post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney.
ASTHMA and BRONCHITIS CURED
By using- CASE’S ASTHMA CURE, made from the Queensland Asthma
Plant. Relieves instantly, eventually Cures. 4s. 6d. large bottle;
Posted to any State, ss.
J. W. CASE, Chemist, 140 Wickham-st., Brisbane.
Please mention Bulletin when writing-.
FiyiD
ALwiem
„ REC«MEJI»tP
s^£ol^tA\EN
LjNDlOEjTlo^
6
ervovs
ik_
HEADACHE
aouT
PILLS.
FOR GOUT,
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO.
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Pro ut & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Fop Asthmatic people who suiter from
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault’s Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest. &
GRIM AULT & Co., Paris, Sold by all Chemists.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism.Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdestre & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN'S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdestre & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use ot'
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled and
unprecedented success throughout the World.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Health and Strength
to the most shattered constitutions , regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s. or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope
Agents for Australasia— PERRY & CO., 47 Queen St.,
Melbourne ; Wholesale Agents for New South Wales —
. H. Faulding & Co., 16 O’Ccnnell St., Sydney.
tED
DEAF
TO
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.


HENNESSY’S
THREE STAS
BRANDY
Safeguard
Your
Health
See
that your
Brandy
is
Bottled
in
Cognac.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
m
ft
%
Cv
w
I
Ijjl
w.
-- ■ if
y
yr
t\%
iffi
I
N_
V*
W
11
t
2 1
I l
AARONS
Exchange Hotel Co.,
SYDNEY.
Tlie system of paying for Room only and
Meals as required is adopted here.
£3 3s. per Week
9s. per Day
GORDON MARE, Secretary.
W. W. AIKEN, Manager,
28 Years in the Establishment.
THE
‘PLUM’
THE
* PLUM’
/^ENTLEMEN. —This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, ring
like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easv shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7s. Od.
“RAZOLES” LICHTNINC RAZOR SHARPENER, 6(1 cake.
Prior /Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 103 6d; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 218.
rKicis (.Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Bole Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney,
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and two minutes from
entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
Tariff, 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments may be
secured separately by the day from 3s. and upwards.
Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted on applica
tion to The Manager.
Visitors to the Old Courvtrv
BAI LEYS
*OVAL F> a>
GLOUCESTER ROAD,
SOUTH HENS//VG TON,
L.O/VDON. S.tV.
HOTEL
THE NEW LOUNGE : ONE OF THE FINEST IN LONDON
Self-eoivtaiived. suites.
___ PLEASANT PRIVATE GARDEN.
THE MOST COMFORTABLE HOTEL IN LONDON
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK
CLOTH, 300 PAGES.
BY SIXTY BULLETIN WRITERS. PRICE, 4s. 6d. ; POSTAGE 6d.
Sole Distributing Agents—
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Drisbane.
TheCANZ
Electric Apparatus
are built right.
Let us give you some
evidence of their
superiority.
Canz Direct Current Ari-Propeiler. SOLE AGENTS •
The flustral Qtis Engineering (Jo., [td., South ||)elb.
To Smokers of High Class Mixture
wills’ 5 “ VICE-REGAL mixture
(Registered.)
Choice Blend of High Class and Carefully Selected TOBACCO.
Packed only in patent air-tight tins.
Manufactured in two grades—Medium and Full.
Price, Is. per 2oz. Tin.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vou 24.—N0. 1200.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1903.
Prick 6d
"THE POLITICAL ..WHAT-IS-IT.”
At a meeting convened by him last nighty
in St James’ Hall, Mr. Carruthers made'an
important speech in his capacity as leader of \
the Liberal and Reform party
He said “We have no fiscal faith/’
The following council were elected
Chairman J. P. Gray ; vice-chairman.
Benjamin James ; hon. treasurer, D.
Storey ; hon. secretary, F. G. C.
Hanslow ; committee, Messrs. Von
Hagen, Aldermen Wells, Dr.
Hodgson, Sir James Graham, J
Salmon, J. J. Miller, R. R.
Sullivan, F. Walsh, John /
Miller, W Wark, P. /
M‘Naught, R. Spriggs, /
C. Lewis, E. W. Fox- /
hall, Alderman Waine, /
Percy Hordern, A /
G. Huie, -G. Pile, /
the Lord Mayor, /
and Percy /
Berne. /
S LARRY FOLEY’S NEW CHAMPION
“ Mr. Larry Foley,” continued the Minister, “ who, I
may say, is a much better man than those who criticise
him, both from a physical and an intellectual point
of view.”— O’Sullivan recent picnic speech /
The Women’s Liberal League have got
at the feet of Bruce Smith, who lectured to
’em recently on how to take political care
of themselves.
A VALENTINE’S
day sketch.
Joe Chamberlain’s latest
is a proposal to introduce
unlimited Japanese labor
into S’Africa Quoth he
“ You object to a black
Africa. What do you say
to a delicate brown tint 1 ”
r
p h o>i * Ts *» ■ ■
,*** bee?' ■So th
GERMAN EDITORS AND
THE MAILED FIST.
The German newspapers complain that “ American insolenceJiaa
reached an unbearable pitch,” and declare that the /
impudence of Mr. Bowen equals that of Pre- / J
sident Castro. They remind Presi- t 1/
dent Roosevelt of the compare-
tive strength of the fleets of
the United States and the_^^
CARTOONLETS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
"Australia for the Australians.**
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney - !
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS AFTER
1st NOVEMBER , 1902
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... El 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... 0 #
Quarterly ... ... ••• 0 7 0
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number, is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the "Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with. Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, 8000 words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
The Bulletin toill return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that toe
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in JilaeTc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture which has to be re-draum—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa — Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown ;
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal ; Solomon
and Wilson, 22 Hout St., Capetown; Solomon and
Wilson, Commissioners Street, Johannesburg ; Granger
Bros,, Johannesburg ; Isaacs and Co., Durban ; Argus
Printing Co., Rhodesia; Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
Ceylon. —Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
B.C.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., 22 Queens Road, Hong
Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., SI Wanking Road, Shanghai.
7%£TszzZZej!z4i.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1903.
The Tasmanian Election.
Tasmania has a general election shortly, and
The Bulletin decides to give its vote for
Premier Lewis and Treasurer Bird and the
men in office. It doesn’t greatly admire
the people in office down at the little city of
the cobble-stones and the smells ; but taking
one thing with another they look a vast
deal better than the people out of office.
Tasmania has never yet raised a Ministry
over which any vigorous Democrat could be
wildly enthusiastic. Nature meant the island
to lead the Commonwealth in everything that
represents real progress, but for the time
being something has gone wrong with the
scheme. Tasmania should be another Maori-
land. It has a climate that is calculated to
produce a sturdy race—sturdy in mind and
body. It has scenery that is an inspiration ;
a good rainfall ; reasonably fertile soil;
and a rich supply of minerals. But it is
slow, insular, and sodden with imported pre-
judice ; it is haunted with a deep and horrible
respect for old tradition, and is strangely
reverential to anybody who has inherited a
griffin on a soup-plate for his coat of arms,
or anybody who can prove he had an ancestor
who did nothing, or a great deal worse than
that, in England very long ago ; it isn’t quite
sure even now that a dead crest isn’t better
than a live locomotive ; and its gods are
land, pedigree, vested interests, private
enterprise, and all the rags and appurten-
ances of the old ox-waggon order of things.
Tasmania certainly shows signs of beginning
to wake up, and its people, and the folk of
the Gippsland mountains and the N.S.W.
table-land, will do a vast amount towards
running the Commonwealth some day ; but
that day is not quite arrived yet.
* * * *
There are many things that The Bul-
letin does not hope for from the Lewis
Ministry. It ought to put on a graduated
land-tax that would strike the shameful
Y.D.L. Co.’s monopoly to the extent of 4d.
or 6d. in the £, and make that incubus cut
up its huge estate and clear out of the island
—and it won’t. It ought to abolish the
utterly ruinous habit of wasting about two-
thirds of the loan money on non-productive
public works, and it probably won’t do that
either. It ought to make a determined
effort to abolish its Upper House and
to pay its Lower House decently, and
though it certainly made an attempt to
close its Legislative Council, it presently
fainted by the way-side and left things as
they were. Still it appeals to the country
on a programme which looks quite as good
as anything likely to be found in Tasmania
just at present. The principal planks are
these :
Another attempt to be made at combining the two
Houses of. Parliament into one body ; failing that, a
reduction in the membership of one House.
No reduction in taxes till the deficit is paid off.
Borrowing to be on a very moderate scale, and only
“ for public works of a reproductive character, or for
such purposes as will secure undoubted national advant-
ages ” (which is painfully vague, and may mean anything
or not much),
A large amalgamation of local bodies (at present almost
every part of Tasmania is bossed by about six local bodies
of one kind or another.)
It isn’t a stirring programme, or one about
which any democrat can become largely
excited, but in a slow-going Tasmanian way
it is at least respectable.
• • * *
There is one point, however, on which the
Lewis Ministry can claim to have more
than negative virtues. When inter-State
duties were abolished the people were re-
lieved of a great load of taxation, and, inci-
dentally, the Treasury lost much money that
it could ill spare. Tasmania was already, by
many miles, the most cheaply-governed
State in Australasia, and it ranked among
the most cheaply-governed in the civilised
world. Nevertheless, the party which
opposes the Lewis Ministry, or a large sec-
tion of that party, demanded that the taxes
which had been abolished should not be re-
placed by others, but that the loss should be
made good by sweating, nigger-driving, and
general robbery of whomsoever could be
robbed with impunity. The Lewis Govern-
ment made some hard economies, but in
the main it refused to be the brutal and con-
scienceless sweater that its critics required.
It made new financial arrangements which,
there seems reason to believe, will make the
public accounts reasonably solvent hence-
forth, and most of the innovations consisted
in levying new taxes—a large proportion of
them on a class which can afford to do some-
thing to keep its State solvent. The bitterest
hostility manifested against Premier Neil
Lewis is because his crowd isn’ta worse sweater
than it is ; because it didn’t let the deficit
slide rather than raise more revenue ; and
because it has ideas of making even a slight
attack on the awful dignity of the Upper
House by proposing to make it and the
Assembly sit together and do with one
flunkey and one gas-bill. So if the
Cabinet of Lewis and Bird goes down it
seems more likely to go down by reason of
the good things it did or attempted (which
were not so very many after all) than by
reason of the things it neglected (which were
numerous). For these reasons The Bulle-
tin, if its address were Hobart, would give
the Lewis Government all the votes it could
raise on election day. A Government which
is violently assailed because it won’t sweat
more and rob harder deserves support.
• * * »
. The real awakening of Tasmania isn’t
likely to come either from the Lewis-Bird
combination or its opponents. The present
Ministry has its ox-cart pointed, to some ex-
tent, in the right direction, but an ox-cart
is a slow vehicle at the best. Tasmania has
almost the largest unproductive debt per
inhabitant in the civilised world. It has
an inferior education system, an anti-
quated Parliament, no State Land Bank,
no policy of breaking up big estates
for closer settlement, the most srnellsome
metropolis in Australasia, a petrified press,
a huge useless ballast of tradition, a grievous
antipathy to honestly paying its way, and a
profound faith in getting into debt as the
shortest and best road to affluence. The
best hope for it is that a time will come
when the Commonwealth Parliament will
impose a graduated land-tax which will kill
the island’s Y.D.L. Co. dead, will take over
its railways and extend them, take charge
of its education system, tax its absentees,
furnish it with a State Land Bank and a
closer-settlement system, take over its debt
and commence a vigorous system of repay-
ment, and take public affairs generally out
of the hands of the House of Dodery.
But these things haven’t arrived yet, and
meanwhile The Bulletin gives its vote
for Lewis and Bird, as representing
the more honest, more hopeful, and less
completely dead of the two parties which
practically make up Tasmanian politics.
The present Ministry has, at least, faced its
monetary difficulties much more courageously
than certain larger and more voluble com-
binations on this side, and that fact is some-
thing to its credit. It hasn't tried to borrow
its way wholesale out of its troubles like the
O’See Cabinet of N.S.W. ; nor tried to get
straight by cursing all and sundry like BkN¥ ;
nor gone hankering after new land-syndicate
steals like Jenkins Iscariot. And if it
hasn’t much of a policy, some at least of its
opponents seem to have much less of a policy
—and not so clean a one.
A Petrified Land.
We have in Victoria one of the richest countries in the
world, its progress brought almost to a standstill. Our
small population has practically ceased to grow .—Premier
Irvine of Victoria.
The above remark, or some remark very like it,
has grown to be quite common nowadays in
Australia. The State Premiers of Australia may
be roughly divided into two classes—those who
are searching for the cause of the present stagna-
tion and those who are searching for a loan ; and
neither sample seems to meet with any striking
success just at the moment. Though Prem
Irvine’s query applied only to Victoria, yet i
can find out the cause of the trouble there his
covery will apply almost equally to
Australia. There is a flatness m Ibvtne’s State
as well as in other States—an intangible idea that
the bottom has fallen out of something a lo -
opportunity feeling—a sensation of failure, or a
least a vague and shapeless impression that A -
tralia has not panned out as expected.
Irvine, who is paid to know what is wrong ana
to put it right, goes round asking wearily why
things don’t come right by themselves.
* • • *
Probably, to begin with, Australians expect too
much. During the ten years that elapsed between
the last two censuses the population of the
Commonwealth increased by 588,478. During the
nine months that elapsed between the taking ot
the last census and the end of 1901 the further
increase was estimated at 61,135, or at the rate ot
over 81,500 per annum. Every State had a share
in the movement. N.S.W.’s population increased
in that three-quarters of a year by 24,854; Queens-
land’s increased by 13,924; Westralias by 10,766 ;
Victoria’s by 7640; South Australia’s by 2196;A as-
mania’s by 1755. The three States with the large
increase of population were also the three huge
borrowing States, and owed their expansion
greatly to an artificial prosperity created by loans;
but even Victoria, which borrows less than one-
fifth as much in proportion to population as
N.S.W. does, exhibits a reasonable expansion of
population. Under the Federal tariff the popu-
lation of the Commonwealth has been growing 40
per cent faster than it did in the last decade
under the old separate system, and it is certainly
growing as rapidly as can be expected m the
case of an ill-governed, barren and drought-cursed
land which has sold the best of its public estate;
which has heaped up, in addition, the biggest un-
productive debt per head save one on this earth ;
and which lies so far from Europe that, even if
it had any special inducements to offer to white
immigrants, the cost of the voyage is, in many
cases, a serious difficulty.
* * * *
The population of Australia, of course, is not
increasing as it used to do. In the days when the
gold deposits were almost virgin, when the huge
loans were coming in and the huge tribute for
interest had hardly begun to go out, when the
scanty area of well-watered land was being sold
wholesale, when the <£130,000,000 which this
country owes to foreign creditors, apart from its
public debt, was being gaily borrowed, when
the West hadn’t yet been eaten up, and the
banks hadn’t burst —then population poured
in freely. That period will never come
back, but those who gabble about Australia’s
“splendid natural resources” insist on maintain-
ing an empty delusion, to the effect that the old
time of riot was a normal period, and because
things are not now as they were then, they suffer
from a vague sense of injury and a vague desire to
rend somebody. Also, they have a misty idea
that if payment of members, or something, could
be abolished, or if more people like the late
Frederick Sargood were put into Parliament,
the good old times would come back—the lands
could be sold over again, and the millions bor-
rowed over again, and the gold dug up over again,
and the banks could burst over again, and the
clock of time be put back generally.
• • • •
Premier Irvine’s pathetic inquiry as to what
is wrong with his particular State is not,
after all, so very difficult to answer. Victoria
had a stupendous increase of population
between 1881 and 1891, because in those years
it was willing to find work for everybody
who asked for it on building unprofitable rail-
ways with borrowed money. When the loan policy
burst, a great part of the multitude of people who
came to Victoria to build railways, and the like,
with borrowed money, naturally left again. They
went to the States where the loan policy was still
in the full blast of its iniquity—and when the
loan policy bursts in these States they will leave
them also, if they can find other places with a
loan boom to go to. At present this crowd isn’t
returning to Victoria—and it is well for Victoria
that it isn’t. Miners are not going to Victoria,
because the gold industry is a failing one. Factory
workers of various kinds come only in small num-
bers, because, though Victoria employs more
people in its manufactures than any other State,
the natural increase of population is sufficient to
keep its industries fully manned. Agriculturists
don’t come because, though there is still
much good land not closely settled, it is
kept locked up by selfish monopolists and
public enemies like the Clarkes and the
Chirnsides, and the new agriculturist finds it
very hard to get good soil to settle on except at
a ruinous price. As a certain incapable person
named Irvine refuses to make any serious
attempt to break up the big land-monopolies and
supply land for the people, the agricultural popu-
lation can’t increase very fast. And manufactures
don’t increase so fast as they might because the
agricultural population which would buy their
products is thus restricted. Also, railways don’t
pay in many cases because there is practically no
population along the line of route to make them
pay, and there can’t be any such population till
the big landlords are compelled to open up the
way for close settlement. And as there seems no
hope that the House of Landlords will do any-
thing to shift these big land-owners, or that the
Clarkes and Chirnsides will develop sufficient
patriotism to shift themselves to any great extent,
the best hope is that the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment will impose a graduated land-tax of such
vast dimensions that every one of them will fly to
cut up his land into small holdings and put them
on the market. That will set the whole machine
moving. It will bring population by thousands
to the bare, bald parts of Victoria ; and the popu-
lation will make the railways pay ; and it will pay
taxes which will enable Shiels, the Raven, to
square his financial statement; and it will make
a manufacturing boom by supplying more cus-
tomers for the factories; and the new rush of
manufacturers and operatives will supply more
taxes to gladden the heart of Shiels, the Raven.
But otherwise there is no visible hope save that
the country will plod along in the old groove
• • * •
Certainly even the old groove might be worse
In the ten years between 1891 and 1901—despite
the financial panic, the break-up of the great
insane loan policy, the drought, and the incapa-
city of various politicians, the population of
Victoria grew at the rate of 6000 a year It is
just now growing at the rate of about 10 200 a
year —nothing like the rate that might be
expected certainly, yet, after all, only four
European countries show a greater per-
centage of increase. No sane person expects
the old boom to come back anywhere in Aus-
tralia. This country burned the candle at both
ends in thirty years of stupendous recklessness
and ate up the prospects of a century in one wild
and whirling generation. But now that the candle
is burned, Australia sits about a great deal too
much mumbling over the ashes of the wick, and
asking where on earth the candle has gone to.
There is abundant room still for steady progress
if this country will make the best that can
be made of the small extent of good
soil it possesses. But there is so little that
it affords no space for big land monopolists,
and while they are allowed to block settlement,
and Victoria blandly offers the new arrival a bit
of dry Mallee scrub or a Gippsland mountain
top, it is to no purpose that Equity lawyer Irvine
addresses things in general and asks why things
in general don’t improve more rapidly.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Judicial Obiter Dicta.
In the performance of his actual duties the judge
should be so hedged in with reverence as to make
criticism impossible except under grave com-
pulsion. But what judges very generally
fail to understand is that, when they depart
from the actual business in hand—the expo-
sition of the law and the summing up of the
facts of a case —and wander vagrant in the field of
general comment, they are no longer entitled to
any special respect as judges, are indeed open to
the bluntest of criticism for going beyond their
duty, even if their obiter dicta are unexcep-
tionable in matter and expression. When, as
is often the case, their extra-judicial remarks
are foolish and objectionable, then the censure of
the public can be as weighty and as rude as the
circumstances demand, without its expression
being in any way derogatory to the dignity with
which a decent community will always surround
its judiciary. For the judge when making his
obiter dicta is no longer a judge, but a gentleman
foolishly stepping for the while out of his robes of
office to become a mere private citizen. Censure
should be expressed, and expressed firmly, until
the habit, that some judges have, of going out-
side their duties to air from the judgment seat
opinions which are often crude and nonsensical, is
cured; and if it is necessary to go to the extreme
step of degrading a judge before the evil practice
is abolished, the good attained will be worth
the cost. Judicial obiter dicta are of three
classes : (1) Humorous remarks, without any
particular offensiveness, made during the hearing
of cases (these are venial offences only, though
unwise, because judicial humor is usually of poor
quality, and its airing puts into the heads of many
of the community the idea that a court which
jokes with difficulty must also judge with
difficulty); (2) Opinions as to the merits of wit-
nesses or of litigants, which are not founded
surely on facts, but are flavored with bias (a
common judicial offence this—the Chief-Justice of
N.S.W. the other day branded a litigant publicly
as a liar on a hastily-formed opinion, and, though
circumstances have since shown the opinion to be
utterly wrong, the man injured has no remedy);
and (3) opinions quite foreign to the matter in
hand and expressing one-sided views on questions
of politics or sociology. The last are the most
mischievous of obiter dicta because they show a
judge, who should have a reputation for practical
infallibility, uttering opinions, often demonstrably
wrong, still more often wrong in the view of one
section of the community. The judge on the
Bench should have no pointedly-expressed humor,
no sect, no politics, no class bias, no views on
anything at all outside of the strict law and the
strict facts of the case before him. For in all these
things there is danger. N.S.W. Justice Prynnge,
airing his medieval, crusading-epoch frame of
mind about some question of politics, lays himself
open to a juryman arising and calling him a silly
old man, and adjuring him to mind his own busi-
ness ; and that would not be well for the judicial
system, which, in the community’s interest,
should be respected. But to be respected it must
be respectable; and to be respectable it must
avoid all occasions which bring it into derision.
N.S.W. Labor Conference, now sitting, has
decided to urge upon the Labor party of the State
to bring before Parliament two specially-glaring
cases of alleged judicial foolishness. Mr. Justice
Prynnge, during the course of that Griffith
libel action in which he—as Mr. Prynnge, not as
Justice Pring —made such a conspicuous idiot
of himself in matters of politics, is alleged by one
newspaper report to have also said :
The action of the Shearers’ Union during the recent
strike proves the necessity of a standing army to keep
workmen in their place.
It is open to doubt as to whether Mr. Prynnge
did make this remark ; it was not reported in the
Sydney daily papers. On much better authority,
Mr. Rogers, forgetting for the time that he was
Judge Rogers, is alleged to have said during a
recent case:—
We have seen a little of the shearers, for instance, and
how they behaved last season by endeavoring to take
advantage of employers during the drought. These men
do not command my sympathy, and I do not care if the
whole world knows it.
Probably Mr. Rogers did say this; it showed a
diseased self-esteem on his part, for Mr. Rogers’
opinion on the matter is of no more importance
than Mr. Smith’s or Mr. Brown’s ; it was, as
uttered from the Bench, a contempt of a higher
Court than that of Judge Rogers’ —the Industrial
Arbitration Court; and it was an utterly foolish
and misguided statement altogether. The Labor
party will do well to bring it before Parliament,
and with it the whole question of judicial conduct
on the Bench, which has of late been disfigured by
a good deal of foolish and strictly unnecessary
vagrant comment.
♦
More About Capital Leaving the
Country.
Every now and then some scared Tory strikes the
alarming alleged fact that some State or other has
been paying off some of its debts, and warns the
public that this is another of the evil results of
socialistic legislation. Then some scared news-
paper rushes off and interviews some lawyer or
other who acts as agent for British money-lenders
here and makes a commission out of the country’s
embarrassments, and that non-productive person
speaks weighty words of warning. It is in conse-
quence of this habit that the following slush
appears in Melbourne Age :
However, the variations in the total assessments indi
cate that, while some years showed a gain and others a
loss, the general drift has been against the State to the
extent of more than £9,000.000 since 1895. That the
capital “driven out of the State,” as some say, has not
by any means been all sent back toEngland may be taken
for granted. Part of it doubtless has followed enterpris-
ing Victorians to other States and to other parts of the
world. Much of it, however, must have been withdrawn
by English investors.
The evidence as to the withdrawal of English money
from Victoria is strong. Mr. England, of the firm of Mal-
leson, England and Stewart, when seen on the subject
yesterday, said that since the income-tax on property,
ranging from Bd. to Is. 4d., was imposed, his finn has
remitted toEngland considerably more than £1,500,000,
withdrawn from investment here. He added : “We are
not now getting a penny from England for investment,
while, on the other hand, when money is repaid by the
borrower, we remit to Edinburgh. The investors expect
us to invest their money so as to return a certain rate of
interest with income-tax paid, and it is seldom now that


we can manage that. Yesterday we cabled £19,000 back
to Edinburgh, and, the other day, £55,000, and never a
month goes by without similar remittances having been
made. We ask only a moderate rate of interest, and the
highest we ever obtained was 6 per cent.” Mr. England
added that, if it were attempted to charge such a rate of
interest as would cover the tax, the money would not be
borrowed. There were, he said, so many charges upon
English money invested in Australia that an income-tax
ranging from Bd. to Is. 4d. made it practically as advan-
tageous for the investor to keep it at home. A day of
RETRIBUTION WOULD COME, HE ASSERTED, WHEN THE PEOPLE
WOULD FIND THE STATE DRAINED OF MONEY, AND WHEN IT
WOULD BE NECESSARY TO OFFER ATTRACTIONS FOR ITS RETURN
The income-tax was one of the chief causes of this deple-
tion, whereas in New South Wales the sixpenny tax was
not regarded as a heavy impost.
Another representative of English investors, Mr.
Riggall, of Blake and Riggall, holds very much the
same views as Mr. England. He says that having to pay
the two income taxes, English investors would not send
their money to Australia unless the transactions showed
a substantial margin. Of late years the margin in favor
of Victoria had been so small, owing to the income-tax,
that investors preferred to place their money at home’
His firm frequently received instructions from clients in
England to remit money invested in Victoria on its falling
due. Money was still going out of the State and would
continue to do so, not because it was not plentiful in
England, but because there was a lack of confidence in
local conditions and a feeling of irritation created by the
income taxes.
The experience of the two firms we have mentioned is
no doubt typical of that of others. Full inquiry into the
matter would probably show that such a revision of the
income taxes might be effected as would encourage again
the inflow of cheap money for the development of the
State's resources.
If it is true that, per medium of one firm of
Melbourne solicitors. Victoria has, since the
income-tax arrived in 189 G, paid off £1,500,000 of
its private foreign debt, then the shocking fact
that it has paid off. in all, £9,000,000 of private
debt since 1896, and thereby lamentably and sin-
fully saved about £500,000 or <£550,000 a year in
interest, may be quite reliable. But the Age,
instead of being overjoyed and lighting a bonfire
in Collins-street, is broken up and asks if the
income-tax can’t be readjusted so as to help the
State to get further into debt again. And the
Age perpetrates this shocking hunk of silliness in
spite of these facts :
(1) Victoria hasn’t lost any of its lands, buildings, rail-
ways, public works of any kind, financial institutions, or
any other visible property through the withdrawal of
this alleged total of £9,000,000, and the consequent
saving of £550,000 or so .yearly in interest.
(2) It isn’t any shorter of cash through it—the State’s
stock of money, as shown by the coin reserves in its
banks, hasn't diminished at all through the repayment
of this £9,000,000 of debt.
(3) Money is really more plentiful instead of less, as
evidenced by the fact that Victoria can now afford to re-
fuse with scorn to pay the high rate of interest demanded
by the British money-lender.
(4) The State’s manufactures have‘grown’very largely
since the income-tax was first imposed in 1896 and
capital began in consequence to leave the country, the
number of hands employed having increased by over
16,000. The population has increased. The people’s in-
comes have increased so greatly that the income-tax,
which yielded £170,000 in 1896, returned over £194,000 in
1901—despite the drought. The banks, which were little
more than wrecks in 1896, are mostly paying respectable
dividends in 1901.
(5) And though Victoria is said, since the accursed
income-tax came in force in 1896, to have exported
enough to pay off £9,000,000 of its private debts, still its
exports and imports almost exactly balance each other
just as they did before.
The Bulletin begs to move that, as things are
much better in Victoria since the foreign
capitalist (so it is alleged) began to get scared and
withdraw his money ; and seeing that Victoria is
alleged to have got rid of £9,000,000 of foreign
debt, and to be consequently saving £550,000 or so
per annum in interest, and yet has as much
money (as shown by the banking returns)
and more income (as shown by the income-
tax returns) than it had before ; and as
these things are alleged to arise from
Socialistic legislation—in view of all the circum-
stances it begs to move that Socialistic legis-
lation is obviously a very good thing indeed. It
quite understands that the two big firms of
solicitors above-mentioned are full of unreasoning
anger at the State paying off some of its foreign
private debt, seeing that they made a commission
on collecting the interest on that debt; and it
quite understands their endeavors to scare the
people into getting further into debt again and
threatening them with dire calamities if they don t.
They can’t be expected, by reason of the com-
mission, to take a patriotic or a common sense
view of the matter The Bulletin can take that
view. It makes no commission out of Australia’s
embarrassments.
♦
Buying 1 up a Parliament.
Melbourne Age has, for a dozen years or more,
been demanding vaguely that “ something ”
should be done to the Victorian House of Land-
lords. This (Feb. 5) is its latest :
Possessing an entrenched position, which it well under-
stands, and wielding a power of absolute veto without
the smallest responsibility, there is no reason why the
Council should profess any coyness about its procedure.
It can do as it likes, and there is no one to call it to
account. Having, therefore, as a matter of form passed
the second reading of the Reform Bill, after indicating
that the measure is bad in every part, it now proceeds to
tear it up and cast the pieces in the face of the Assembly.
It will have no effective reduction of Council members ;
no appeal to the people ; no dissolution ; no joint
sitting ; no woman suffrage, and no effectual reduction
in the qualifications of members. All this has been made
tolerably clear during the course of the second-reading
speeches. It was made clearer last night. If there is to
be any reduction of Parliament, and any reform, it must
be of such a pattern as will decrease the weight of the
Assembly and give the Council a proportionate increase
in the balance of things. ... It now becomes the duty
of Ministers to determine what course they will pursue
in these circumstances. Is the country to be nothing,
and the Council everything ? Mr. Irvine gained his
position on his Reform policy. How is he going to keep
it ?
And if the Age can’t tell Irvine how to keep it,
then why pay a penny for that effete organ ?
In an ideal Commonwealth, whenever a paper has
talked three times about what shouldn’t be done
in a certain case, without once suggesting what
should be done, the responsible person will
be fined £lOO and costs for being a useless and
unresourceful blatherskite. The cheapest kind of
journalism in this world is the kind which says
that something is wrong and somebody should do
something unspecified to put it right. It is a
mean dodging of responsibility, for it leaves it
open to the paper to denounce every attempt that
is made to put the evil right on the ground that it
is the wrong kind of attempt, and to conceal
behind a veil of haughty reticence the fact that it
hasn’t the least idea itself what should or could
be done under the circumstances. There are
four courses open with the Victorian House
of Landlords: To turn its flank by systematically
transferring all possible authority to the Common-
wealth Parliament, which is a slow process at
best; to abolish it by revolution, which is
gory, noisy, destructive and illegal—and besides
it would be necessary to import a practical revolu-
tionist from South America to conduct the busi-
ness ; for the Assembly to go on strike and stop
the whole machine of State till the Council passes
the Bill for its own abolition, which would be
expensive but pretty certain ; and to tack on to
the Bill for the complete abolition of the Council
thfdltanfft eac h ML C ; who held a seat at
the date of the said abolition should receive a
hfe-penaon of £lo°o a year, as a mark of the
worth f gratltude * or hls serv ices. It would be
worth far more than ten times £48,000 a year
to get rid of the Council, and the device
would be S ure. The Bill might iTrejS
tWICe or thnce ’ but at ev ery Council
election every mercenary ruffian who could show
f Property qualification would be
ConnoWir £ Seat ’ ?°, that he mi * ht be in the
Counci l which passed the Self-Abolition Bill and
pen s io ns. Either the present M’s.L.C.,
p‘iro , r'o« CrC, f VC i a t trampled over their prostrate
carcases at election time and got their seats
wou!d pass the Bill in the end. And the general
ConnSf W nch COU d be im P° sed as soon as the
Wve il^^nn gone WOuld the Pensions and
t ® {*o a y ea r over. There would have
Thi 2 Ff 1 « d F mgdom but for this same device.
I Parliament and the Irish Parliament
were both bought out, and the Victorian House
ot Landlords will have to be bought out, too, if
clubbed ouT ng t 0 *** early reform—unless it is
The Return of^thTowe’Sullivan.
There is a streak of real pathos about the return
ot the Prodigal Owe’Sullivan from Westralia.
VVhen he left the East to go and help to turn on
, be water at Coolgardie, the great financial balloon
was beautifully globular, and looked, to all out-
ward seemmg, as good as ever. He returned to
tind it burst and almost fiat. In the few weeks
ot his absence the last straw was put on the
camels back, and the long-enduring animal sagged
down wretchedly in the middle till its stomlch
trailed on the ground. In short, the loan money
gave out, and the great N.S.W. Public Works
boom, if itisnt dead, is at least half-dead, and
the date of its recovery can’t be foretold. The con-
dition of the N.S.W. finances at the end of January
was shocking m the extreme. The income for the
seven months of the financial year which were
completed on Jan. 31, was £927,588 less than ex-
penditure, or including sums paid but not yet
I*l rtlfLi 0 the accounts, the shortage was over
£1,000.000. All the trust funds (about £5,900,000)
have been borrowed, or overdrafts established
against them. The State has still a large sum to
pay for the Sydney land-resumptions. It has bor-
rowed back again at 4 per cent, a large amount of
the money already paid for resumed properties.
It is borrowing locally as much money as it can
get at 3£ per cent., but all it gets is only a drop
in the bucket. At the end of January it found
that the revenue was dropping heavily, and
that this month’s expenditure was £220,000
more than the income, and that it hadn’t
two coppers of its own to jingle on the tombstone
of its deadest ancestor. It was then that the
camel sagged down in the middle, and the balloon
burst, and the light went out, and the house that
was built on the sands began to totter horribly.
The See Government started to cut down loan-
expenditure desperately ; it announced a policy of
violent retrenchment; it, to all appearance, post-
poned the “finest rail way-station in the world ”
indefinitely ; it began to reduce the railway staff
whose wages it raised so gaily a little while ago ;
and it even dropped hints of disrespect at the 7s.
per day wage. Minister Owe’Sullivan was
in the very act of telling the Westralians
how much he admired them because, in pro-
portion to population, they “ blewed ” loan money
even more freely than he did, when these things
happened, and he left for the East with his ears
streaming behind him to see what had gone
wrong. It would take a four or five million loan
to set the boom really going again; and if N.S.W.
asked for any such amount just at present, either
the interest offered at this end would be very
high, or else the language used at the other end
would be very bad. So at present there is gloom,
and .John See’s under-jaw sticks out like the fire-
box of a locomotive, and Owe’Sullivan hasn’t
promised a single new railway since he came back,
and the department-trotting member drags his
dejected tail behind him so that it leaves a furrow
in the dry road along which he returns to his con-
stituents to tell them that the new culvert is un-
obtainable. And N.S.W., which rather likes its
Owe’Sullivan, as a cheerful public lunatic and an
optimist of the wildest description, feels sorry,
after a fashion. Also it feels glad after a fashion’
for the last chance that that shameless cadger,
Law, M.L.A., might get £75 for the Balmain
Choral Union is now dust.
The Want of Sufficient Cursing’.
At last the cause of the Victorian railway deficit
has been discovered, for the Irvine Government
has put a long pale cold finger on the spot and
identified it. It is want of sufficient cursing,
yelling and sacking on the part of the bosses that
makes things go wrong. At present a railway
officer has certain rights of appeal, and can’t be
bounced out instantaneously, and that unfortunate
fact strikes Premier Irvine thus (Age report):—
The Government were now brought face to face with
the great problem of railway management. He insisted
on the necessity of studying every phase of the subject
in order that the railways might be managed on true
business principles. Whilst they should under proper
management return large profits they now constituted a
serious drain on the resources of the State. He attributed
the mismanagement to the fact that it was a case of
servants without a master. He maintained that until the
person or persons in charge of the railways had dis-
cretionary power to dispense with the services of an
incompetent person instead of having to prove charges
asminst him, the railways would be non-paying for all
time.
Premier Irvine, having discovered why the Vic-
torian railways don’t pay working expenses and
full interest, proposes to put things completely
right by giving to the various bosses of the service
large powers to curse and sack the rank and file at
the shortest notice. The old circumlocutory
methods are to vanish. When anything goes
wrong the new variety of railway boss will just
rush out of his office, seize the supposed offender
by the collar, and say: “ Look here, d you
all the way to and back again, you d
idiot, take your dashed hat and get out of this.”
Then the offender, if he is large enough, will hit
the boss hard in the eye and go. There will be
no inquiry, no worry, no appeal—only a departing
employee, and a boss with raw steak on his eye
screaming for the police. And when things are
fixed in this fashion all is to be well. The cause of
the deficit, it appears, doesn’t lie in the fact that
many of the railways were built in regions where
there is hardly any population ; that they were
built with money borrowed at absurdly high
interest ; that they were loaded with a ridiculous
amount of debt through paying fraudulent land-
owners three times the fair value of their land
when it was resumed ; that they have perforce to
carry the burden of a very heavy charitable ex-
penditure in the shape of utterly unpayable
“ starving stock rates ” instituted for the benefit
of distressed farmers. No country Qutside Aus-
tralia, which has such a fearful amount of railway
for so few people, makes its rai 1 ways pay even so
well as Victoria does, though most countries in a
similar position have propped up their railway
systems with stupendous land-grants, while
the Victorian lines have to work entirely
**on their own,” but even that doesn’t
matter according to the Irvine theory. With
sufficient cursing and sacking, Irvine and co.
hold that all difficulties can be overcome —the old
rotten engines will cease to break down, and the
old rusted rails will no longer spread, and things
m general will go smoothly. When the hopeless
old locomotive sticks up its train on a steep bank,
Bent will just run behind, and blast vigorously,
and threaten the engine with the immediate loss
of its billet, and it will make a special effort and
get up. Plainly the Irvine-Bent Government
hasn’t realised yet that a railway isn’t exactly the
same thing as a working bullock —still in one sense
it is wise in its generation. It recognises its own
limitations. It recognises also the thing it is best
fitted for. It has no constructive ability, and
little capacity for administration, but at cursing
its subordinates and running them off the premises
it is unequalled, and it has decided to stick to the
thing it is best fitted for and let other things go.
Some Regrets and a Consolation.
N.S.W. State Labor Party Conference, which
has just brought its discussions to a close, covered
an extraordinary amount of ground in debate. It
is impossible to imagine a reform idea (with the
exception of honest finance) which was not in some
way canvassed. This wide diffusion of energy
was a mistake. A political party should be first
and foremost a practical organisation. Its business
is to lay down a course of action for the immediate
future and to let the possibilities of next decade
and next century look after themselves. Queens-
land Labor party for many years did grave
harm to its prospects by looking too far ahead
and pinning itself down to a declaration in
favor of “Socialism in our time.” N.S.W.
Labor Party Conference was not so foolish as
that; and is to be credited with showing sound
common-sense and sturdy devotion to the radical
cause in most of its resolutions. Still, the mis-
take of grasping at more than seems immediately
tangible was made; and The Bulletin— -hoping,
sometimes a little despairingly, that the Labor
party would shape itself to be the genuine reform
party in N.S.W. State politics—regretfully
notices the fact. A more serious mistake was the
rejection of a sound proposal from the Darlington
League that M’s.P. not entering the Assembly
under the Labor party’s banner, but willing to
subscribe to its principles and pledges, should be
allowed to join the caucus. It is not possible to
see that any harm could come of this ; the change
would probably lead to a more rapid growth of
the Labor party by converting constituencies
through their sitting members; and in cer-
tain easily-imagined circumstances it might
prove to be of the utmost value to
the Labor cause. The Owe’Seeulliv an power is
already crumbling ; in this or the next Parliament
it will probably break up. Then a successor will
be found either in a Labor Government of the
Ballance type, or in a Tory anti-Labor coalition.
If the Labor party in Parliament at such a crisis
could draw into its fold all unattached Radicals
and Democrats in the Assembly, very possibly it
would be able to secure the reins of power; other-
wise it could not do so. The Labor Conference
threw cold water on a suggestion which was of
great practical value. The dregs of the qld anti-
Federal spirit, which, by practical experience, has
been purged entirely from the Federal Labor
party, still cloud the mind of the N.S.
Wales Labor party —as shown by a reso-
lution of the Conference to strike out of the
Federal platform a demand for an amendment of
the Constitution to allow of Federal control of
labor legislation. It is a matter of absolute cer-
tainty that the only way by which several indus-
trial reforms, now pressingly needed, can be
secured, and others retained, is through Federal
action. It is possible that in N.S.W. the Labor
party will continue to have a dominant voice in
the Legislature, but the other States are already
given up to Tory reaction, and N.S.W. will not
be able to preserve liberal industrial legislation,
under inter-State Freetrade, if her neighbors
are under the thumb of the sweater. The
N.S.W. worker cannot, therefore, even if he
wishes to do so, safely take the selfish
view that the other States can be left to
their fate. If he has not enough of the broad
Australian spirit to wish for his fellow-Australians
an arbitration law, old-age pensions, a minimum-
wage regulation, and so on, he can, looking at the
matter from the merely narrow provincial point
of view, make certain that if, in Victoria, the
sweater gets a free run, N.S.W. won’t be long
able to continue to make concessions to the
workers involving an increase in the cost of pro-
duction. Uniform Federal legislation on labor
matters—such legislation as the liberal tone of the
Federal Parliament promises—is the only hope of
the social reformer in Australia just now, and
N.S.W. Labor Conference was most misguided in
declaring against that principle. Yet another dis-
appointing fact was the failure of the Conference to
deal adequately with the financial problem created
by reckless borrowing. The Labor party in N.S.W.
is credited, rightly or wrongly, with a full sympa-
thy with the policy of reckless borrowing. But
that is a policy which is even now drifting on the
rocks, and which a party wishing for power
should speedily dissociate itself from. All the
fiery radicalism in the world won’t serve a cent’s
worth as political capital on the fast-approaching
day when Uncle Bull insists on a stoppage of
borrowing, and when a party of strict economy
must, perforce, take the reins. That party could
be the Labor party. But if the Labor party
doesn’t choose to be the honest-finance party,
then it will be an anti-Labor party. In
Maoriland the Labor members associated
themselves with Ballance and honesty,
and they prospered. In N.S.W. if they
bind themselves to the car of the prodigal
Owe’Sullivan they must go down to the shades
with him ; and they are, in the public repute,
bound to that car, until they show otherwise very
clearly. However, in all political disappointments
—and some of the acts of commission and
omission of the N.S.W. Labor Conference are very
serious disappointments—there is this consolation,
that a way out of it all exists : the abolition of all
State Parliaments and parties and the absorption
by the Federal Legislature of the whole business
of governing Australia.
4
The back-number, Brisbane Courier, has lately
been once more heaping scorn on the auti-Jingo
party in England under the heading “The Little
Englander Again.” After all, only time will show
whether the Little Englander or the Bloated Eng-
lander is right. There was probably a Little
Macedonian once who objected to his country
wasting its energy in the insane attempt to con-
?uer Western Asia and Northern Africa and
ndia ; and a Little Swede who had doubts about
the boundless scheme of wiping out Russia,
Poland, and Saxony ; and a Little Spaniard who
thought the scattering of his country’s energies in
conquering South, Central and half North
America was too vast an undertaking ; and a
Little Paraguayan who fancied Carlos Solano
J'OJ’EZ a brilliant madman when he at-
tacked Brazil and Argentina single-handed,
ihere may even have been a Little French-
man who thought Napoleon I was taking
on too large an order; and a Little Epirot
who considered that Pyrrhus, when he went for
Kome, was biting off more than he could chew;
and there were Little Englanders in the back-
a £ es who fancied that the annexation
of r ranee was too large a spadeful to dig up all at
once. Possibly there were Little Persians 2000
years ago, who fancied that the great Darius was
reaching out for too much of the globe at once
when he led his army on its fatal tramp through
all southern Russia. All these little characters
proved to be right in the end, and even the Little
Englander may be vindicated some day.
«
The Bulletin is very tired of the correspondence
it receives about military affairs. The average
mtter starts by saying we should imitate the
Boers and if every able-bodied Australian is
willing to be enrolled for military service, and to
keep his gun ready, and Australia could go out
and fight the Zulus for 40 years by way of getting
its hand in, that would be possible. The rest of
the theory appears to be that there should be no
general and no discipline, that everybody should
write to the papers, and that the country should
produce a military genius when he is wanted.
The Bulletin’s opinion is that there is no de-
finite recipe for saving the country; but the best
it can propose is that; we should have a good large
citizen soldiery that can shoot well and march
well, our own arms and ammunition factory (well
inland), a cheap uniform, no rooster’s tail in the
hat, some kind of a general to struggle along with
when the war comes till the military genius
evolves, and that we should keep a civil tongue in
our head and not say “ blanky ” any more than is
absolutely necessary. Generally, a good deal of
damage is done before the military genius turns
up, but that can’t be helped ; a long war usually
seems to begin with a fool in command, and if the
country has luck it grows a better man after-
wards. There is no visible remedy for this. Two
cwt. of military correspondence is now dropped
into the basket.
Premier Irvine dropped a hint when discussing
the Victorian Railway Bill which shows that the
ugly scheme for selling or leasing the lines isn’t
dead yet. These are his words, as reported by
the Argus :
We are still endeavoring to achieve something which
has been tried and abandoned by almost all other coun-
tries, namely, the carrying on of a huge railway system
under national or State control.
The principal countries that own State railways
are Germany, Russia, Austria, Portugal, Sweden,
Norway, Denmark, Holland, Belgium, Switzer-
land (which has been buying out its private com-
panies), the Danubian States, India, Egypt, Cape
Colony, Natal, Queensland, N.S.W., victoria,
South Australia, Westralia, Tasmania, and
Maoriland—a pretty long list. There are several
in the category that have abandoned private
for State ownership, but very, very few that have
reversed the process, and if Irvine really made
the statement that the Argus debits him with it
was just a lie —and a very mean specimen at that.
Mr. Ezra Tomlinson, authorised delegate from
the Maoriland Drapery Prohibition League to
Australia, has arrived at Sydney to inaugurate
in the Commonwealth a crusade against the
horrors of the drapery trade. In an interview, he
corrects the wrong impression existing that the
league objects to female clothing of all descrip-
tions. Whilst resolute to abolish all millinery
and decorative drapery, the league is prepared to
allow a covering garment to women. A Bill for
an Act to Abolish the Manufacture and Importa-
tion of Drapery has been drafted by the league,
and in the schedules thereto the nature and sub-
stance of the covering allowed to women is
defined as follows :
Schedule A (referred to in clause 14 of the Act) : “One
appropriate garment” shall mean a single gown, covering
from the neck to the heels, plainly spun from cotton or
wool, with two full-length sleeves, hemmed where neces-
sary, but not adorned in any way with insertions, ribbons,
laces, feather-stitchings, tuckings or frillings, and to be
of the one color throughout.
This, Mr. Ezra Tomlinson points out, meets all
reasonable requirements. By strict administra-
tion of the Act it would be possible to guard
against surreptitious attempts at adorning the
female garment, or efforts to secure a fashion-
able cut. If necessary the garments could
be made in a gaol factory as an addi-
tional precaution against coquetry. The pro-
posals of the League, Mr. Tomlinson says,
may seem extreme, but in view of the desolation
of happy homes, the suicides, the fostering of vice,
the ruin of young children caused by the intoxica-
tion of the female mind with drapery and
millinery, sternly repressive measures are justified.
Mr. Tomlinson, who is a gentleman of a markedly
thoughtful type, with thin blue eyes and a faint
halo of pale hair, takes pride in the fact that he
has never assisted to debauch the mind of a woman
with so much as the present of a ribbon. His
mission in the Y.M. and W.C.A. buildings com-
mences shortly.
■— 1 ■ 1 ’ ♦ *
Some Prohibition facts cited by Bishop Potter at
a recent American diocesan conference :
In one of the farming districts of the Middle West,
where local sentiment has pronounced strongly against
any traffic in fermented liquors, it was noticed that
drunkenness of a particularly violent and insanity-pro-
ducing kind was largely on the increase among the farm
laborers. Ultimately the explanation was found in the
fact that the craving forstimulants had led to the tapping
from the silos of the vegetable juices of ensilage, which
were in a condition of alcoholic ferment, and gave a drink
not much less efficacious than fusel oil in maddening
stimulation.
In Vermont, a Prohibition State, Dr. A. P. Grinnel, of
Burlington, made a critical investigation of the consump-
tion of stimulants in that State, chiefly the narcotic
drugs, and of so-called medicines into which such drugs
enter as components of chief efficacy, which is extremely
instructive. Only part of the dealers responded to the
inquiry ; from those that did it was learned that they
dispense every month, of morphine, paregoric, or
laudanum, what is equivalent to 3,300,000 doses of opium
—the standard for a dose being one-eighth grain of
morphine, one-half ounce of paregoric, and twenty drops
of laudanum. The amount thus reported, which by no
means covers the total sales, would give a full dose of
opium daily for half the population of the State.
Moral: prohibit alcohol and you make the people
drink silo juice and eat opium.
Nick Fitzgerald, the ancient brewer, pretends
to believe that Victoria loves and honors its Leg.
Council “because it returned 14 members nnop-
posed at the recent election.” The House of 48
Rich Landlords is always talking trash like this,
but it dare not (it dare not, for it doesn’t even
possess the commonest white man virtue of pluck)
prove that it believes its own silly fable by giving
its constituents power to elect any person they
choose out of their own number to represent them.
The present property-qualification limits the
people’s choice to such a mere handful of candi-
dates that they return the old gang for lack of
better men (often for lack of any men at all) to
put up against them. If the people h*> J a wide


SAWMILL MACHINERY,
Single and Double Cutting BAND MILLS for
hardwood logs, CIRCULAR SAW MILLS, Com-
plete Outfits of any capacity. Band Resaws,
Engines and Boilers.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 CLARENCE ST>?E iT, SYDNEY
THE LARGEST AND BEST IN THE WORLD I
The Mutual Life Insuranee Co. of New York
NET FUNDS, January 1, 1902, £71,975,776.
Principal Agency in Australasia; Company’s Building, Martin Place, Sydney
Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager.
“The Rabbit Curse”
May be turped into ‘ a blessing in disguise ” by such as have the energy
systematically set about trapping dear bunny.
The Rosewarne Packing Co.. Ltd.
is now paying high prices for
rabbits at their Chilling Works
in Naraideia and Young, in any quintity. Send for particulars to the Company
either at their Works or their
Head Office : 70 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The experiment will pay you well.
choice, it is probable that not 10 out of the present
48 would ever see the inside of the House of Fat
again. And the 48 know it so well that they are
madder than 48 wet cats because Irvine’s Reform
Bill proposes to abolish the property qualification
and to give the people a chance to prove their
alleged confidence in the 48 by returning them,
not under compulsion, but of their own free will.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Lyceum “ Breaking of the Drought."
Royal " The Fortune Teller.”
Criterion. “Fun on the Bristol."
Tivoli. Rickards’Oo.
Palace. “The Geisha.”
Town Hall Jubilee Singers (Sat.).
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “Zaza.”
Theatre Royal “In the Shadow of Night."
Otera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
«
“The Geisha” represents the half-way
house between comic opera and the alleged
“musical comedies” of “The Messenger Boy ”
and “Chinese Honeymoon” type—not altogether
decayed, good fruit enough for those whose taste
is for medlars, with some story and a great
amount of melody, the original sources of
which it would not be difficult to find. At
its original production in Sydnev, “The Geisha”
had a warm welcome, and the present revi-
val at the Palace—in some respects showing
distinct improvement—is probably just as attrac-
tive, in spite of the marked unsuitableness of
Miss Florence Young for the chief part. This
season of the Royal Comic Opera Co., which
will draw to a close with the run of “ The Geisha,”
lias been marked by excellent stage management
and great finish in the detail work; but, on the
whole, has shown some failures in regard to the
principals. There is a big gap between Thorley
and Roberts of to-day and Ryley and Bracy of
old times; and Miss Carrie Moore more often
fails than not nowadays. But Miss Florence
Young has been conspicuously successful in every
role until O Mimosa San, for which she is in
figure and voice and manner too robust. Even
her clear, strong vocalisation is, in a way, a dis-
advantage for the role: there should be something
of the languor of drowsy Asia in a Geisha’s
singing.
• • • *
George Lauri’s Wun-hi in “The Geisha”
is one of his best comedy roles, and his broadly
humorous characterisation of the bland and sinful
Chinaman was, perhaps, the most popular feature
of the play on Saturday. Miss Carrie Moore
does very well indeed as Molly Seamore,
singing and dancing brightly. Mr. Hugh
Ward is, however, not very well placed as
Marquis Imari, and Miss Ghiloni fails to
give any special distinction to the part of
Lady Constance Wynne. As Reginald Fairfax,
Mr. Thorley plays and sings with a bright breezi-
ness which very much helps the play to success.
“The Geisha ” will be played until the transfer of
the co. to Melbourne, when two new pieces—
“ The Emerald Isle ” and ‘ ‘ The Country Girl ”
will be produced.
** • *
Most important musical event of these
dog-star days in Sydney has been the re-entree of
Amy Castles, bracketed with the debut of her sister,
Dolly. Dolly proves to be another lyric soprano,
with resonant brilliant upper notes, and an attrac-
tive platform presence. The lucky sisters were
supported by tenor Charles Rose, and baritone
Needham. Latter always secures an affectionate
hearing, by reason of his Scotch songs. Mr. Rose
has a good style and a figure that shows off even-
ing dress to advantage. Miss Freda Miller, a
Kellerman pupil, made a successful debut as
pianist.
*# * #
The Fisk Jubilee Singers are giving Satur-
day Pops at Sydney Town Hall, and, judging by
the results achieved so far, the speculation is a
good one. The Town Hall is intensely respect-
able, and serious families who shun the theatre
feel that they can go there and not have the hem
of their propriety sullied or the tail of their
morality smudged. And at that big building one
can pose as a patron of musical art for Is., which
couldn’t be done in a theatre except up in the
gallery, where Bill has his eyrie and Ginger con-
gregates along with ’Lizer. Nobody can prove
that one wasn’t dragged to the shilling establish-
ment by an intense love of music, instead of by a
sordid desire to save the other 4s. And the Pops
are good value for the money; in fact, they would
be good value for more than that —as to exactly
how much more the writer is undecided, but in
mentioning eighteenpence be feels he is on per-
fectly safe ground.
** * *
“ The Fortune Teller ” is getting near the
end of its season at Sydney Royal, and the in-
visible Austrian army will shortly be bashed by
the invisible Hungarian army for the last time,
this result being attained through the gallantry of
Fedor, who doesn’t appear at all, but is only
spoken about. The advt. still preserves a dignified
reticence as to what will happen next at the
Royal.
** * *
Bland Holt’s “ Breaking of the Drought ”
shows signs of breaking up at last, the “Cotton
King ” being announced as its successor at Sydney
Lyceum. The drama of the dead and scorched
horse and the burnt-up selection will, accordingly,
soon give place to some newer form of distress.
** * *
“The Lady Barmaid” has not proved a
startling success at the Criterion, so on Saturday
Sheridan revives “Fun on the Bristol,” which is
alleged to have made Edward and Alexandra
laugh. _ “The Lady Barmaid ” boasted a nice girl
beer-slinger, and another not so nice; also a
dreadful American lady journalist who earned
elaborate frocking by travelling about and writing
nothing; and other lady journalists, who travel
about and write a great deal, and earn much
cheaper frocks thereby, viewed her with envy,
disfavor, and uncharitableness. The “Bristol”
brand of humor, ancient as it is, will probably be a
change for the better.
* * * 3*
Sydney Tivoli still relies on Jacques Inaudi
as its star. G. W. Hunter, a London comedian,
makes a welcome reappearance, and nobody is
tired of Mr. Maccann’s concertina-playing yet.
A new attraction is being prepared for this
theatre a game of “ Push-ball,” played
by girls. With a view, possibly, to economy,
the game will not start until the weather is a
little cooler. Girls going in for violent athletics
these dog days would probably, like the lamb in
the menagerie “happy family,” have to be re-
newed occasionally. A ball, of such vast dimen-
sions that if it was planted on the pavement The
Bulletin’s business-manager could just about see
over it, is used in the game.
This is the third week of “Zaza ” at Mel-
bourne Princess’s, and the house is pretty well
crowded every night in all parts except the d.c.
There has been some talk of dropping the feeble,
drab-colored fifth act from the crimson body of the
“ Zaza ” narrative, but this managerial idea would
be too rough on the refreshment-bars. The fourth
act, wherein the angry heroine complains that
Bernard doesn’t love her because he grows
savage when he suspects her of making
ructions in his domestic circle, is the hottest
and most thirsty act of the whole drama, and
the succeeding interval provides an earnest
rush for drinks. Besides, “Zaza” has been
shortened sufficiently to admit of time for a vir-
tuous fifth act. _ It could be curtailed a little
more by the excision of an antique lachrymose
duke, who proposes to purchase Zaza’s endear-
ments on liberal terms when he hears of her
trouble with Bernard, True, Zaza’s indignant
dismissal of the dook is much approved by the
amphitheatre. Nevertheless, it is a paltry bid for
applause. Considering that the sight of the dreary
nobleman always makes Zaza’s blood run cold, her
attitude of high morality when she orders him off
the premises does not call for special praise. On
the contrary, it tends to weaken the effect of her
subsequent similar attitude towards the other
man who had made her blood run 110 degrees in
the shade.
* * * *
Her Majesty’s is closed for three weeks,
to recover from the shock of the unlamented
panto. On Feb. 28th, the No. 1 Comic Opera Co.
returns to Melbourne, with intentions which seem
to be wrapped in a thin veil of unnecessary
mystery.
* * * *
Anderson’s telephone wire and Indian
gridiron drama is nearing its latter end. On
Saturday (14th) a drama entitled “In the Shadow
of Night ” will have a first Australian production
at Melbourne Royal, if the advt. speaks truthfully.
Present scribe regrets to notice that advts. as a
rule do not tell the truth when they announce
anything “ for the first time in Australia.” The
managerial habit nowadays is to try the effect of
a new show upon the dog in some place which
isn’t Sydney or Melbourne. Having pleased the
dog more or less, the show is qualified to make a
long series of first Australian appearances.
* * * *
Miss Gracie Emmett, and an imported
comedy company of four people in all, came to
Melb. Opera House last Saturday and played a
brief variation on the old reliable theme of
Widow O’Brien. Miss Emmett’s cheerful little
farce presents the same old Irish lady as a bona
fide woman instead of a Johnny Sheridan in
disguise. Also the Irish lady’s name was Murphy
(which is one of J. S.’s female names) before she
married a wrecky dyspeptic of comparatively
tender years. Miss Emmett plays the cen-
tral character cleverly, whilst the three other
people amount to an ample support. Fred.
Poplar and his unsober effigy from the tailor’s
shop are back at the Opera House. And
John Coleman is doing what he did of yore, with
the only difference that he does it rather better.
This country will seemingly have to wait a long
time for a new comedian who can approach Cole-
man in the art of being unaggressively comic.
** * *
Amy Castles and sister Dolly (who ranks
as a junior “Princess of Song ” in the advt.) will
be joined together in two more Castles concerts at
Melb. Town Hall. The concerts are dated Feb.£
14th and 18th, and numerous depots for sale o
day tickets have been opened in sundry places-
** * *
At Adelaide Tivoli the show has been
strengthened by six Montroses from Austria, who
do athletic work, without apparatus, on the same
lines as the Cragg family, and may fairly be com-
pared with them. Seeley and West are taking in
Broken Hill before Adelaide, but the lady net-
ball players, after several weeks’ hard practice on
the stage, have at last been pronounced fit and
well for public performance; the fixture is S.A.
v. Victoria. At the Royal the Dampiers are con-
cluding their long and (except when it encoun-
tered a heat-wave at the end of Jan.) successful
season. Recent productions have included “ East
Lynne (with “apotheosis”), a detective drama,
with Alfred D. in three parts, and a gloomy hash-
up of events, entitled “ The Stranglers of Paris.”
Wirth’s circus began its country tour badly with a
performance in which the staging twice collapsed,
whereby the Naicest people of Moonta (or, at any
rate, the most expensively-seated) were deposited
on the ground to the number of 500 in all.
A married man, named Bennah (it is Bernard in
the French),
Whose artless wife had left him unprotected for
a while,
Was led into temptation by a tricky, stagey
wench.
But he battled like a hero ’gainst her fascinating
smile.
The subtle spells of Zazzacouldn’t conquer him at
first—
There never was a Bennah half so adamant as
this.
Then, at last, his virtue faltered, and his resolu-
tion burst
When she taught him all the meaning of the
Zazza-Zazza Kiss.
What ho ! the Kiss of Zazza (duly mentioned in
the ad.,
A special line inserted in the Argus and the
Age)
It warmed the soul of Bennah, and it drove him
fairly mad ;
It beat all osculations on the lurid lyric stage.
The victim took his nectar with a married, manly
zest,
In the matter of responses he was never found
remiss j
With the siren’s arms around him, and her head
upon his breast,
He revelled in the sweetness of the Zazza-Zazza
Kiss.
The pair were very happy for a half-a-year or so,
And then the hot enchantress got on Madame
Bennah’s track,
And the good old guilty passion brought its
punishment of Woe,
For that jealous ardent actress had the monkey
on her back.
So the raging lovers parted on the summit of a
“ scene,”
Amidst the scattered fragments of their transcen-
dental bliss;
The woman fed her conscience with regrets for
what had been,
Whilst the man retained a craving for the
Zazza-Zazza Kiss.
Time sped, and then he sought her in her prima-
donna pride.
She chilled her former lover with a meek, decep-
tive gaze
(Had Bennah boldly hugged her he would not
have been denied,
But common-sense is vetoed in these sentimental
plays).
She told him she must leave him, and, ye gods !
he let her leave ;
The serpent writhing near them hissed a disap-
pointed hiss.
Here the poet drops exhausted by his efforts to
conceive
The sultry hidden meaning of that Zazza-Zazza
Kiss.
The Wild Cat Column.
Revenue returns, &c., for January, 1903: —
Revenue Increase as
for compared with
January, 1903. January, 1902
Tasmania .. £71,506 £17,747
Queensland.. .„ 240,651 11,503
Victoria .. .. 630,342 9,332
Westralia(?).. .. 283,542 25,481
New South Wales .. 882,010 83,411
The total result is a decrease of £70,310. South Australia
isn’t included, as its figures only appear quarterly, and
how the totals would stand if the January returns of the
crow-eating State were available is an unknown quantity.
So far as the financial year has gone, and so far
as the figures are available, results are shown in the table
which follows. In the case of Westralia the figures are
only given up to 31st December, as the Government
Statistician’s information extends no further, and the
difficulty of squaring his figures with those for January,
as supplied by telegraph, is insuperable. One authority
habitually includes only State revenue and expenditure,
while the other includes both State and Federal, and
great confusion ensues :
Increase as
compared
with corres-
Revenue. ponding
period
la=t year.
Westralia (6 months to Dec.).. £1,959,185 £241,017
N.S.W. (7 months to Jan.).. 6,246,612 178,298
Tasmania (1 month to Jan.).. 71,506 17,747
S.A. (6 months to Dec.).. 1,062,624 22,015
Victoria (7 months to Jan.).. 3,927,112 119,533
Queensland (7 months to Jan.).. 2,047,431 147,798
The position as regards expenditure is definitely
known in two States up to the end of January, and in
two more up to the end of December. In the other two
there is nothing but obscurity :
Revenue. Expenditure. Surplus.
Westralia (to Dec.) .. £1,959,185 £1,751,854 £207,331
Queensland (to Jan.).. 2,047,431 2,045,376 2,055
IDeficit.
S.A, (to Dec.) .. .. 1,062,624 1,216,109 153,485
N.S.W. (to Jan.) .. 6,246,612 7,174,200 927,588
New South Wales grows more and more conspicuous as
the State with the great boss deficit of Australasia. And
the above isn’t the whole deficit; if sums paid but not yet
brought to account are reckoned, the seven months’
shortage is over £1,000,000. The land and income tax
receipts are yet to come in, which is something;
but, on the other hand, the railway revenue is
beginning to drop heavily. Also, it seems inevit-
able that the loan expenditure must be cut
down from sheer want of money ; and, if so, the
general revenue, which has been inflated through the
State being in a condition of artificial prosperity caused
bv the lavish scattering of loan money, must almost cer-
tainly droop also. As a case in point : The loan expendi-
ture for January was cut down so far that it was £308,000
less than in January, 1902. And the general revenue
promptly responded by showing a decline of £83,411 as
compared with January, 1902. It looks as if only hard
and bitter economy could make ends meet when the
financial year closes on 30th June—and whoever heard of
such a thing from the O’See Ministry.
The deficits and surpluses shown above compare
with those of the previous year as follows :
Last This
year. year.
7 Improve-
Deficit. Deficit. ment.
S.A. (to December) ..£215,568 £153,485 £62,083
Surplus. Surplus.
W -A. ( „ ) .. 167,628 207,331 39,803
Deficit. Surplus.
Queensland (to January).. 24,685 2,055 26,740
Deficit. Deficit. Deteri-
-t ~, , . oration-
N-S.W. ( „ ).. 176,686 927,588 750,902
The first three States have at least done somethin'* to
improve their position. New South Wales alone’has
been going cheerfully to the dogs ; and, even considering
how many dogs there are, and how easy they are to
arrive at, it must be admitted that the State’s success In
arriving has been phenomenal.
In the matter of loan expenditure returns are
available from two States—the usual two—only :
Loan Expenditure.
7 months 7 months
to January, to January, Decrease
1902. 1903.
Queensland.. £708,740 £549,741 £158,999
N.S. Wales.. 2,412,248 3,064,252
But for the sudden reduction of the N.S.W. loan expen-
January, when the trust mone} 7 gave out,
things would have been much worse. In that month
the expenditure of borrowed funds was £277,937, as com-
pared with £686,176 in January, 1902—a drop of £308,239.
In one way and another it begins to look as if N.S.W.
wanted a new Premier, and a Works Minister with a Mac
instead of an O’, very badly indeed.
• • • •
“ G.R.D.”: The annuity would be a safe enough
investment for you. And if you happen to be fatally run
over by a tram-car the day after you buy it, it is a mighty
good investment for the society.
The New Zealand Loan and Mercantile
Agency 00. (head otbce, London), did a little better for
the year ended June, 1902, than in the previous one, but
still it is only able to pay interest on its first and second
debentures and an infinitesimal sum on account of the
interest on the third debentures. The only year in which
the third debenture-holders received their full interest
was 1900, and when the amount paid then is compared
with the amount paid in other years it will be seen how
badly the third-debenture people have come off in these
other years:
OUTGOINGS.
Full interest Paid on
Oross on Ist and account
Profits. 2nd Deben- of Interest Deficit,
tures. on 3rd De-
bentures.
1894 £41,456
16 months to
Sept., 1895.. £138,67* £166,966 69,849
9 months to
June, 1896.. 98,177 1 07,427 79,099
(Deficit and other heavy losses written off capital
and fixed interest charges reduced)
New
Tear to Deficit.
June, 1897.. 130,777 132,993 2,216
„ 1898.. 96,063 100,580 6,733
„ 1899.. 108,706 100,595 £1377 -
„ 1900.. 167,582 100,580 16,016 51,986
„ 1901.. 100,859 100,594 265 51,986
„ 1902.. 101,195 100,659 636 51,988
The increase of profit isn’t much, and the position can’t
be said to have materially improved. If it could have
been arranged that the reserve should be separately in-
vested and allowed to accumulate at compound interest,
apart from the general business, a fund would have been
growing which might some day cover all deficits and put
the Loan and Mercantile on its feet again. Unfortunately
no such arrangement exists.
The New Zealand Loan and Mercantile Agency
00. looks about as hopeless as any reconstructed insti-
tution could do while still remaining afloat. It has
written off almost all its capital (considerably over
£1,000,000) and all its old reserves, and (nominally) nearly
a million and a half of its debentures. But, as some com-
pensation to the debenture-holders, they received £lO,OOO
worth of preference shares which carry a claim (when it can
be met) to UK) per cent, dividends and other privileges.
If the profits increase sufficiently to pay the interest on
all the debentures (which would require about £14,500
over and above present earnings), and to show a steady
margin in addition, the preference shares are entitled
to a dividend of £4 per share (£40,000). They are also
entitled to 60 per cent, of any further profits. There-
fore, even if the earnings went up to £200,000 a year and
remained there, there would be less than £lB,OOO avail-
able (so far as it is possible to decipher so complicated an
arrangement) for dividend to ordinary shareholders, for
building up a reserve, for the repurchase and extinction
of nearly £3,000,000 worth of debentures, and to provide
against further depreciation. There is nominally nearly
£1,800,000 of capital still uncalled, but the shareholders
are so very largely dead and gone that this large
amount is really an unknown quantity. The Maoriland
Government, which helped the Bank of New Zealand out
of its difficulties, hasn't attempted to do likewise by the
Loan and Mercantile. Perhaps the situation is too
complicated for it. Still, it must be remembered that
a lot of the co.’s liabilities could be extinguished very
cheaply if a cash offer were made for them, and if the great
mass of contingent liabilities could be bought up for a
very little in the £, then it would be possible to make
calls on the shareholders and get in some money. There
is a great difference between paying calls into an almost
hopeless concern, and paying them into one which
has a fair chance of coming to vigorous life again. It
might be possible for the State, with profit to itself, to
put the Loan and Mercantile on its feet, and make it a
prosperous Maoriland (not a London) institution again.
And Premier Seddon used, at one time, to like tackling
big difficulties.
• • * •
M‘Cracken’B City Brewery, Limited (Mel-
bourne) has had another bad year—in fact, the wholesale
price of beer is now so disastrously low in Victoria that
there are hardly any save bad years with many brewers:
Deficit
(Prelimi-
nary Ex-
penses,
&c., not
Written reckoned
Profits. Dividends. off. as Assets).
1890 £42,964 8 per cent. =£40,000 £26,458
1891 43,751 8 „ „ 40,000 22,707
1892 30,345 6$ „ „ 27,500 19,862
1893 L °4?636 Nil 24,498
1894 8,322 Nil 32,820
1895 21,263 Nil 54,083
1896 36,149 Nil £159,768 250,000
(£2so,ooo—one-half the paid-up capital—written off)
Profit. Reserves.
1897 1,002 Nil 1,002
Losses. Deficit.
1898 9,158 Nil 8,156
1899 23,904 Nil 32,060
1900 9,679 Nil 41,739
1901 3,960 Nil 115,453 161,152
£175,226 of capital written off which covered
the deficit and left £14,074 available for
further writing-down.
1902 6,716 Nil - \ „
£3957 forfeited capital put to reserves f ’
This is the situation, so far as it can be deciphered from
the accounts. M’Cracken’s City Brewery seems no
sooner to clear off one deficit by writing down capital
than it starts a new one.
«••••*
By dint of making heavy calls the capital has
been again built up to £286,824. But the co. has only
about £5OOO in cash, which will soon disappear if the losses
continue at the present rate ; and there is very little
more capital (only about £2680) to call up. The appar-
ently incurable trouble is that there is £500,000 owing on
41 per cent, debentures, which swallow up £22,500 a year
in interest. If the co was free from debt it would show
a regular profit. But there is no visible prospect of free-
ing it, and unless the price of beer rises the debenture-
holders seem likely to own the concern in time. The
concern started in 1899. It only paid four dividends in
all, and the first one (? per cent, in 1889) was partly
made up by a contribution from the persons who sold the
unlucky concern to the present owners, and who
guaranteed 8 per cent, for the first few years. There
has been only one dividend (5i per cent.) since the
guarantee ran out. <
• • • •
The North Coast Steam Navigation Co.,
Limited (Sydney), closed, on 31st December, 1902, a half-
year which, owing to the drought and the scarcity of
freight to carry, was a very bad one so far as ordinary
earnings were concerned. Yet the insurance reserve,
which has increases and decreases that have no


a*
/
m
hl
TRAMWAYS FOR MINES:
STOCK®? in SYDNEY and MELBOURNE include-Steel Rails, Bridge Rails
Steel Side and End Tip Trucks, Portable Tramway, Portable and Permanent
Switches, Ball-bearing Turntables, Axle Boxes, Wheels and Axles, Jim Crows
Dog Spikes, etc., etc. INDEN TS .-LOCOMOTIVES from 10 to 400 hp ’
including Compound Locos, and every description of Light Railway Material.
CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY APPLIANCES
Prop. Ltd., 40 Hunter St., SYDNEY. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager.
Representing Orkxstein and Koppel, Ltd., London, Berlin and Paris.
Branches—Melbourne, Brisbane, Cairns and Zeehan (Tasmania).
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option ot
purchase, “big prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties oifered
nui st be subject toinspection. Cable address: “Option."
Melbourne.*
* * * *
A revolution in smelting furnaces seems pro-
bable. The aid of gasoline has not been recognised.
Ernest de Beer, 439 Bourke-street. Melbourne, supplies
forms to suit assayers, which are marvellous in their
efficiency.*
* * » *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S. VV.
Mont de Piete 00., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager. *
* * * *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, of Melbourne, reports
that there has been a great improvement in the general
outlook of the engineering business since the new year
started, and that his pipe making works in Melbourne
and Perth are working full-handed. Amongst the orders
now being executed at Footscray works is one for 7 miles
10 chains of 18in. diameter light steel spiral-riveted pipes
for the Victorian water supply ; and at Perth works a
■contract is in progress for over 6 miles of 10pn. diameter
spiral-riveted pipes, flanged joints, for the Greenbushes
Tin-Mining Syndicate. About two miles of these pipes
are to stand a test pressure of 8001 b. to the square inch.*
« « * ♦
The New Zealand Fire and Marine Insurance
00., whose head-office for N.S.W. is at No. 81 Pitt-street,
Sydney, is the largest colonial Fire and Marine Insurance
company, and a large amount of their reserves of
£520,305 is invested in the States. Net revenue (1902)
£408,923. Lowest rates and prompt settlements.*
• * * «
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime and
all Mining and Assay Chemicals and Apparatus, Micro-
scopes and accessories can be obtained of Felton, Grim-
wade and. Co., Melbourne. 4th edition, enlarged (red
■cover) of illustrated catalogue of all mining requisites
now ready. Price Is. 6d., post free.*
• * » *
A. Kozminsky, 106 Queen-st., Melbourne,
Ihaving returned from England, is now prepared to
purchase paying mines, and mining properties (not
merely surface shows), situated in any part of
Australasia requiring further capital for development and
machinery. Only genuine and legitimate ventures,
■capable of bearing the strictest examinations will be
entertained.*
• • * •
The field of concentration after stamps or
amalgamation is an old and recognised one, yet this
treatment is now improved upon in certain instances by
■concentrating direct from the stamps, as it is found (hat
gold heavy enough to sink through the film of water
moving rapidly down the copper plate is heavy enough
to be successfully settled upon the deck of the Wilfley
'table, and thus concentrated. On certain refactory ores,,
a common practice is now to stamp and amalgamate on
plates and to pass the tailings over Wilfley tables,
extracting the troublesome sulphides and then retreating
the tailii gs by pan amalgamation, cyanide or any of
the special lixiviation processes that may be demanded
by the peculiar characteristics of ihe ore. Illustrated
catalogues with valuable notes on ore dressing can be
■obtained from the the Sole Manufacturers in Australia of
the Wilfley Concentrating Table, the Austral Oris
'Company, South Melbourne.*
INSIST ON GETTING^r^rT
iv
- ,* V V'Cri , %
All Grocers and sroreKgepers,everywhere
SCHWEPPES
GOLD
MEDAL
SELTZER WATER
Su PPlietl to Her Late Maieaty Queen Victoria fox*
-33 "STear
£*W1 6 r rl at i£o 110 the earnin £ 8 . expanded by nearly
£3OOO. In the previous half-year fJnn» ion-a u lH
S.©B.lSi~~Ss#S'
had something to do with the matter In U Th« , P n Pe . rty
statement the increases of the reserves! wtdchdo not*
apparently arise from the ordinary profits of the busi’
ness, are shown separately J F lne DUSI
Income. Outgoings.
Un- ' ‘ '
™ sflra s T g?'
P ”"“' R., e “ DiVid “ <! ' •«««•
June, 1899 _ _ _ SlB
Dec., 1899 £5600 £l6Ol £5250
June, 1900 5581 663 6250 _
Dec., 1900 5518 736 5250 _
June, 1901 5445 40 5250 _
Dec., 1901 5480 _ 5250 £BO Wit
June, 1902 5507 13,097 5250 _
Dec., 1902 3988 2,894 6250 _ 43’fg
It was in the report for June, 1902, that the management
announced that it had arrived at a settlement with the
Oovernment re its resumed property, and the results
seem to have been satisfactory. The co. has now £l2 521
cash on deposit, in addition to £133.879 of ship property
aBs * ts > and ltB reserves, even before the wind-
fall of 1902, had an upward tendency.
* • • t
Investor (almost everybody who writes to
this column for information seems to take that pen-
name, and it leads to confusion): Don’t care for them.
If you could sell out without loss, and buy the preferred
inscribed stock of the E.S. and A. Bank, you would have
as good a return and a safer investment. Your present
investment may prove all right, but it is a gamble.
* » • .
Premier o’3ee, of N.S.W., denies, with need-
less emphasis, the rumor that his Government proposes
to float a £1,000,000 loan locally. This is the explanation
given in the daily paper : r
“ ItwiU be remembered that the State Treasurer re-
cently denied that there was any truth in the rumor that
the Government proposed to place locally a million
pounds worth of Treasury bills. The Premier also em-
phatically asserts that the rumor is without foundation.
It was easier, he said, to obtain money in London where
our obligations were, than to get it here, and send it home
to meet payments for rai'way material and other things
Besides, the Government did not wish to take money
from industrial circulation, and use it for Government
purposes.”
Couldn’t Mr. See, as a carrot-merchant of large
discourse, looking before and after, see far enough
ahead to recognise that, if he floats his million loan
in London, he will take £40,000 annually in the shape
of interest out of “industrial circulation” in N.S.W.
while, if he floats it locally, he will keep that £40,000 a’
year in local “industrial circulation?” At the
end of 30 years the floating of that loan in
London will take more money out of local circulation
than would be taken out if it were floated in Sydney • and
a statesman should be able to see 30 years ahead—at all
events, he should see further ahead than the end of his
own fleeting, temporary nose Besides, the excuse is a
silly delusion on the face of it. The See Government is
offering every day to take all the money it can get out of
local circulation at 3J per cent.; it is only when it becomes
a case of borrowing at 4 per cent, that 'its scruples drive
it to London. The N.S.W. people who pay John See’s
screw aren’t worthy of 4 per cent. ; that blessing must be
reserved for the superior Britisher. And there is no need
to send to England for railway material in any case. The
iron is here, and plenty of men are here, and N.S.W. can
make ,ts own railway material—if the helpless borrowing
John will only be true to his alleged Protectionist
principles and try.
* • • •
The Metropolitan Mutual Permanent
Building and Investment Association, Limited (Sydney)
190? d a rather unsatisfac tory year on 31st December,
Loss on Loss on Total D
Business. Properties. Loss. Reserves.
1894 .. jgU jgQ
1895 .. £3,659 £3,659 7!501
1896 .. 3,683 £462 4,145 3 356
1897 .. 2,945 398 3,343 ’ 13
Deficit
1898 .. 2,254 133 2,387 2 374"
1899 .. 938 878 1,816 4,190
{1,890 1,854 3,744 7,934
Depreciation of Assets ..75,250 83,184
Reserves
£103,898 capital written off .. .. 20,714
Profit on Loss on Total
Business. Properties. Profit.
1901 .. 1,597 500 1,097 21,811
lqo c, / 538 385 153)
(Forfeited share capital .. 18/ 21,982
The paid-up capital stands at £42,094, so the net earnings
(£153) represent only a frac ion over 7s. per cent. An
agricultural estate, which represents £26.727, was badly
struck by drought and bush fires, anu snowed a dead
loss of £2OO. The co. possesses assets nominally worth
£165,500, but these are burdened with mortgages and
debenture liabilities to the extent of rather over £lOO,OOO,
and this weighty liability seems to eat up the prospects
bodily. It is nearly 12 years since this unfortunate con-
cern paid a dividend.
* * • •
N.S.W. land and income tax officials are not so
slow as some people would like to imagine. The Act
provides for a re-valuation of land every five years,
and many land-owners in town and country are now
finding out that in this, the revaluation year, the Dept,
has its eyes thoroughly skinned. The Income Tax branch
also is alive to every opportunity for ingathering the
shekels. Any unexpected windfalls to private individuals
mentioned in the daily papers such as court verdicts,
Tattersall’s Rweeps, &c., are carefully noted. The Probate
and Stamp Duties offices also afford a deal of information
to the taxation department. Despite every precaution,
the Dept, is annually defrauded of many thousands. The
individual who does a cash trade and keeps no books is a
thorn in the flesh of the officials.
• * • •
Wellington Trust, Loan and Investment
Co. Ltd. (Wellington, Maoriland), for which only two
consecutive years’ accounts are available at time of
writing
Profits. Dividends. Added to Re-
Reserves. serves.
(XX? £19,980
1901 .. £10,040 8 p.c. =£Bloo £1940 21,920
1902 .. 12,372 8„ „ 8100 4272 26,192
The co. has been in existence for 29 years, and the fact
that, out of its comparatively small reserves of £26,192,
over £6OOO is the result of the last two years’ trading,
suggests that there was more anxiety about large
dividends than about good security in earlier days.
The paid-up capital is £101,250, and the co. holds
£253,852 of deposits, which is a pretty large responsi-
bility. How much it holds against these in the
way of liquid securities, apart from £15,798 in cash and
deposits, doesn’t appear very clearly. It is a highly
prosperous concern, but it seems- just possible that a
period of severe depression, accompanied by heavy
withdrawals of deposits, might cause some excitement iii
the office of the Wellington Trust, Loan and Invest-
ment Co.
wo^m?^?)1L ani> Coks! Co - Limited (Tam-
o 4a. Added
roflts. Dividends. to Reserves
Dec., 1901 _ _ Reserves. _
Dec*’ 1902 £ rm In P-C- “ £so ° £192 1706
Tho ’ 1902I 902 699 10 » .. 600 199 1«05
bscof"towpXmw“'"h' P ‘ l,! ” ,e ' l “ ,he
Com Co. (Manly,
things for 1909 . humble and ordinary state of
the onlv nna f " balance-sheet for that one year i 9
the only one to hand, but it shows up thus
~ Written Re-
-1901 Dividends. off. serves.
1902 .. £1497 7 per cent. =£loso £4OO
fw k I" Uch ot a res >e r ve fund, and it isn’t growing verv
satisfied. aPParen y the Manly Gas and Ooke Co - is'’quite
• • • «
N swlL Creek » one of the moat consistent of
m'alnWoutside^h« C q e f r 8 ; a, l d,lik ? moiit of the sort - held
astheresu ifff ff, ke fps its accounts about square
snenf • the half : year 8 work ! though, as it has
ha P vp o T Ctlner a , nd deve iopment, the result
Six'months’ h « been made to look better than that,
w fl^“re s : 2228 tons for 34350 z. ; average
of outmit 4 £l°o Qo9 Wt ' b^ r , than in Previous half; value
i v’? 93, or £172 better. Recent trial work has
moderate y be ‘° W the 14th level J the results Ze been
• • • •
th?T e kin , d person reall y should take by the arm
assavers 6 ’’»°n/ oUn ti who are “ * oin S to be mining
and should ten th et tw ore fillin e the technical schools,
a doz Thiti th m hat assa ' vers are now worth about 3d.
. , j Z> The aSBa - v offices on the mines long ago refused to
workW y r/e e Staff h and now there are scores o? assay ere
, n ß t er T d a " d wai ting for something to turn
E* J 1 annual pass-lists of N.S.W. technical colleges,
undlr “ h chen^ e t r day ’ tI J were about lift, of names
iferous th a " d asBa > dn S ” ; under “ metal-
Tne there were only seven names all told.
versed P The 0 re de ; r a ° i thlngs the Portion should be re-
wihm»nlv • alwavs room for the skilled miner,
stiff ™ a " y . b fL P [!f eS for the best of him to reach while
dull brown.’ * mere assayer > the outlook is all a
* * * *
mine r *h?’ H ‘ ? lake more, manager of Great Cobar
(S SW V h xamlned -the Growl Creek mine, Shuttleton
(N.S.YV.) his report—an exhaustive one—fully confirms
vlw m nf nt th WhlCh ha r® a PP eare d in print as to the great
tn' Ue - 0f - the property. Mr Blakemore estimates that
there is in sight in the mine, above the 170 ft. level, 24 134
damns « ontal nirig 2231 tons copper ; and on the
l-nfi-P 8 ’ g 9 tons, contaimng 691 tons copper. Between
7 ' 9ft ' and 240 ft-• he calculates that there are 15,390 tons of
u* s tates that, where the ore body was intersected
at this point, it averaged 22J per cent, of copper for 18ft.
The ore near the surface is very silicious, but at the
bottom is self-fluxing and no difficulty whatever is
suggested in treating it. Over 3600 tons have been com
signed to the smelters, averaging over 30 per cent
Development is being rapidly proceeded with, and in a
few weeks the lode will be cut at a lower point. It is
understood that arrangements have been made for the
immediate erection of reverb, furnaces. The differences
between vendors and purchasers, which at one time
threatened to blossom into a long-drawn-out law-suit,
have been amicably settled.
• * * «
Mount Boppy gold mine (near Cobar, N.S.W.):
Directors have issued a special report on the property by
J. H. Cornish, mining engineer, dated 30th Oct. last.
1 he report states that the average yield from the ore sent
i°t p i n, ? n , th ! wa s HJdwt. per ton, of a value
°l f'A 1, ??' The loc * e has been developed for a length
of 1100 ft. at the 100 ft. level, and for 600 ft. at the 200 ft
level; and Mr. C. estimates that, at the time of his
inspection, there were 100,000 tons ore in sight. In a
winze 58ft. below the 200 ft. level the lode is 64ft. in width
and the mean average of nine samples was 3oz. 19dwt.
18gr, per ton. This is the deepest and richest working in
the mine. The report indicates that there is an abundant
supply of water in the mine for milling purposes.
Prospects generally look hopeful in the extreme. On
general showing it is the biggest, if not the best, gold
mine in N.S.W.—which isn’t saying very much.
* * • *
The construction account of a co. like the B.H.
Prop, shows what a constant struggle the silver-miner
has. From first to last the co. has spent £1,249,963 in
plant, and of this £835,110 has been written off- that is
to say, the co. takes credit now for only £414,853, and it
is hardly likely that the plant is worth more The
smelting furnaces have been remodelled at least half-a-
dozen times; they have been practically rebuilt three
times. One after another the oxidised-ore concentrators
and the amalgamating, chloridising and leaching-plants
have become obsolete. The amalgamating plant had less
than a two-years’ life. Again, the briquetting plant, put
up at Pt. Pirie less than three years ago, has just now
been superseded. In the last six years £525,674 has been
spent, and £343,959 has been wiped off. The most
expensive alterations resulted from the changes in the
ore-body as the co. w orked down ; latterly they have been
due chiefly to the things that have been learned in the
groping after a more perfect treatment of the sulphides
* * * •
B.H. Prop, authorities are confident that the
Delprat process for the treatment of zinc ores will be
successful on a commercial scale, but whatever may be
the merits of the process the applications for patents are
not to be allowed to go unchallenged. A Melb. man
named Potter claims that it is an infringement of a pro-
cess for which he holds rights.
♦ * • *
“North Central, buyer Id., seller Ud.” This
has long been one of the curiosities of Sydney Stock Ex-
change list, but it now disappears, the alleged mine
having been sold—presumably to the Sulphide Corpora-
tion, which will make use of the area as a dumpfor tailings.
The price paid was £2530, which includes all machinery.
This is the last of the Sydney co.’s connected with
Broken Hill. The pertinacity with which the holders
have persevered with this worse-than-hopeless proposi-
tion has been amazing. There was never a ghost of a
chance of any payable lode being found in the lease, and
its only value is for the purpose to which it is now to be
devoted. Readers of Sydney newspaper mine reports
will miss the weekly announcement that a certain calcite
head is making larger or smaller, as the case might be ;
that “more water is dripping from the face,” and other
such alluring inducements to call-payers to part.
* * • *
Great Fingall (W.A.) is developing so satisfac-
torily at lower levels that the management has practically
decided to double the mill-power, and this will shortly be
put in hand. The new makes of stone in the south drive
at the seventh level have added largely to ore reserves, and
driving is now’ going on in the upper levels to intersect
this body of ore. The opening of the ninth level will be
started immediately so as to keep ore reserves well ahead
of battery. Total costs of the mine, including develop-
ment, come to about 28s. 6d. a ton, so that profit, when
the additional stamps get going, ought to be ’about
£50,000 a month on present-grade ore. On present out-
look the shares look extremely cheap; they should
eventually go much higher. 00. is now paying ss. div.
quarterly, so that another div. will be due at the end of
March in addition to the one temporarily suspended
owing to the forgery of scrip.
Island Eureka (W. A.) still maintains its output,
last return being 5280 z. from 380 tons. Most of the visible
pay ore is now worked out and, despite official and other
denials, it is an open secret that the mine seems to have
nearly reached the end of its tether. The lode underlays
to the west, as previously stated, while the gold chute
*P*t° the north and, in both cases, Golconda co. gets
the benefit. Latter co. was floated in London in ’96 and,
after treating 6895 tons for 14,8520 z., worth £53,000, and
distributing £6750 in divs., went bung and was recon-
structed last Aug. Including value of gold won, £91,000
has been spent on the property, and there is little to show
for it. On resuming work after reconstruction the new
manager, suspecting that Island Eureka co. was encroach-
ing on his ground, sunk a shaft near the boundary to
ascertain if such were the case. The reef was cut at a
depth of 256 ft., and assays averaged 30dwt. for 2ft. wide.
Two test crushings have practically confirmed the assays.
Golconda reconstruction provided only £9OOO, which
doesn t give the manager much of a show.
• • • •
Associated Northern, Kalgoorlie (W.A.), con-
tinues to open out marvellously. At 550 ft. level, on the
Oroya boundary, the lode is 100 ft. wide and carries rich ore
for the whole width. In a rise above this level an enormous
Dody of rich ore is exposed, and all stone is being bagged
as broken, for shipment to Dapto smelters. The levels
are only 50ft. apart vertically, but nearly double that
distance on the underlay, as the lode is very flat. Main
shaft is down 750 ft. and is being sunk about 70ft. a
month, so should reach the rich ore located per diamond
drill by the beginning of April. To date, mine has
treated 19,460 tons for 101,8820 z. gold, worth £407,500,
divs - Original working capital of
*lOO,OOO is still intact, all costs of mining and treatment
having been taken from gold won. A wonderful achieve-
reflecting great credit on Capt. Rodda, who, in
1899, took charge of what, up to his advent, was looked
upon as a cat of the wildest habits. Go. is about to
erect a large reduction plant.
* • • •
Great Boulder No. 1 (W.A.) seems to have no
luck. This “pup” of the Great Boulder has been in
existence for six years without producing gold. In Nov.,
01, co. was reconstructed with a 4s. assessment to
acquire a new property. Mr. Hamilton selected the
ii.iieen at Davyhurst as a likely venture, judging from the
large amount of one-ounce ore treated by the prospectors.
After a six months’ test, Hamilton concluded that the
prospectors knew as much about mining as he did, and
allowed them to keep the property. Some months ago
one i-oocleriough, at Menzies, was securedon asix months’
working option. From this mine the prospectors, for a
considerable time, had regular crushings going 3£oz. to
the ton, which looked good enough for anything. Since
Hamilton took over the property assays have quite failed
to confirm the battery, the ore, apparently, having been
judiciously picked. From present appearances the option
w '! l be abandoned, and Boulder No. 1 again become
childless.
* * * «
ueen *'^ ar r? are * : , Bulong (W.A.) is treating a
400-ton parcel from its new property, the South Gipps-
•Kfntt.’ at ' 9 s P er^0n - The stone is all coining from the
u.u or Do^om level, and it depends on its result
whether or not the option on the property will
be exercised. So far as ascertainable the stone will
run well over the ounce, and co. is likely
to take the property over. Where it is being broken
down the reef averages about 3ift. wide of solid quartz.
Manager Henderson is, apparently, well satisfied with the
outlook as he has spent a lot of money on the show, and
he is too old a miner to waste money' on a cat. Harvey
Patterson, who controls the destinies of theco., personally
visited the property before the option was acquired, and
satisfied himself that it is well worth a good test. Mr.
Patterson is an expert with the divining rod, and exercised
his black art to locate the gold. Co.’s future should be
better than its past if indications count for anything.
• • • •
Co -> Kalpini (W.A.) has started its
IU-nead mill, but, owing to scarcity of water, is running
only two shifts daily. No stoping has been done so far.
the stone going through all coming from developments.
As all ore has been dumped, a high average is not ex-
pected. Co. has one of the most automatic and up-to-
date plants on the fields, the ore going direct from faces
to rock-breaker, and then right on to the cyanide vats
without handling. The cost of working wiil be much
lower than anything yet known on the field. The mine
is in charge of A. W. Irvine, well known in Queensland,
and one of the early, but unlucky, pioneers of W.A.
* • • •
Chaffers (W.A.), although getting patches of
fairly good ore occasionally, near the Horseshoe boun-
dary, is a hopeless proposition on present indications.
Co. is in 500,000 shares, which, at present price of Bs.,
makes the little 12-acre block worth £200,000. Scrippers,
who gaily buy this worthless paper, seem to quite ignore
u* shares on market, and the eagerness with
which those in the know will pass on the baby for them
to hold.
* • • •
Hannan’s Star, Kalgoorlie (W.A.), has cut a
lode at 675 ft. level, which gives good assays, but has been
insufficiently exploited for its value to be properly
gauged. Mine is situated outside the proved pay-belt
and although rich dabs of ore are occasionally met with*
they don t make up for the blanks. In an active market
the scrip may be quoted, but should be left severely
alone. J
* • • •
Bay ley’s, Coolgardie (W.A.), is again being gal-
vanised into life on the strength of alleged developments
at 1000 ft. level. The reefs being worked only carry gold
in patches for short distances, the greater part of the
stone being barren, in addition to there beino- long;
blanks. The mine looks an absolutely hopeless proposi-
tion, and, like the Londonderry and Wealth of Nations
nearly all the gold seems to have come to the surface!
It seems sheer waste of money going on with such a
show, but, so long as directors’ fees are available, the
farce will be continued.
* * * *
Lake View Consols (W.A.) is getting some very’
rich ore in driving north at 1000 ft. level in the Consolg
and Perseverance lodes. Both lodes for a width of Bft
carry values averaging 2oz. per ton, and have very ricli
patches of telluride in places. This development is quite
as favorable for the Perseverance as for the Consols if
not more so, as the drives are within 150 ft. from t’be
boundary. As the chutes are dipping south, the L V
Consols should get more of them at depth. As the
Central Boulder cut rich ore at a depth of 1536 ft. close to
the north-east boundary of the Consols south block—a
part of the property so far unprospected—the outlook for
the Consols is particularly rosy.
* * * •
Last month’s Westralian gold yield was
210,4500 z., the highest ever recorded in the history of
the State. In October, 1899, when the boom was at its
height, and one or two Kalgoorlie mines were sending
away to the smelting works in the eastern States large
quantities of fabulously rich ore, the output touched
205,1860 z. ; but since Oct., 1899, the monthly total has
never reached 200,0000 z. until now.
* * • *
G. C. Klug, appointed general manager of
1 remantle smelting works, just now taken over by still
another co., was one of the first graduates from Adelaide
School of Mines. But there’s no professional or other
glory to be got out of running custom smelting works ini
Australia. Despite their enormous charges, they all drop-
money sooner or later- generally sooner,
• • » •
A new way of salvation has been found for
Coppertop, the far north-west of S.A. show, which for
years has been going to do great things for its Melb.
shareholders. The local nigger is to do the trick now
it is explained that he is numerous and very cheap Also
as the Coppertops will find out, he is very unreliable • and
the chances are that he will suddenly want his walkabout-
just when the furnaces are charged and when neglect
JY dl I nean destruction. No doubt the prospectors in the
White Range and other wild parts of Centralia have used
him already. The popular “system” of mining there is
to go with the gold ” ; and as windlasses can’t therefore
be used the nigger is bribed to hump the dirt up to the
surface. That is about as far as he has got as a mine**
laborer, and he isn’t likely to get much farther.
The latest development of State aid to prospect-
ing in Weslraliais the lending of camels. The S.A. Govt,,
working on different lines, is sending out a camel-party,
to explore the Centralian ranges ; L. A. Wells, who ha*
done much of this work, will lead.
• * • •
An example of economical and successful
dredging. The Perseverance Dredging Co., Upper Buck-
land (Vic.), was formed 12 months ago with a capital of
£4500. A very large dredge was ordered, and three
months ago, when operations commenced, the co. was in
debt £l4OO. This has been wiped out, and a div. of Is.
per share declared. The average yield is l|gr. per cubic-
yard ; and out of the return co. is making a profit equal
to Is. 6d. per share per month.
• * * »
Lord Nelson, St. Arnaud (Vic.): “Pyrites’’
emits sulphurous fumes as a reply to a Bulletin par.
(31 l/’OS) as to “ the fly in the ointment” at this mine.
He asks : Are the shareholders aware—l. That the whole
crushing and concentrating plant is obsolete and in the
last stage of decay, and that much valuable pyrites
(worth from £l3 to £l7 per ton) is going away to the
tailings dump? 2. That the cyanide plant, which should
return a fair profit, is a losing concern ? 3. (A
doubly-distilled libel.) 4. That no stores are
kept on the mine, and much valuable time
is wasted by employees going to and fro the local
store for a shovel or a few bolts at a time? 5. That the
chief qualifications of some of the men on the mine are-
well, anything but mining knowledge ? 6. That several
other things—but the above ought to be enough to make
shareholders consider themselves lucky to get their Is.
div. per month instead of expecting 2s.
• » * »
Briseis: Another expert has been engaged to
report on the property, which, impliedly, throws a doubt
on other reports. ,
* « » •
It is only natural that a man from the Etheridge
should write “words that burn.” Thus “ 8.G.,” in replv
to “Miner” (Bulletin 17/l/’O3) “ His statements re
efforts to float wild-eats on the Etheridge are false from
start to finish. I have been a resident on this field for 15
years, and in only three mines have they struck the
buckstone mentioned by ‘ Miner.’ As to the money sub-
scribed by English co’s., 3-4ths of it was spent on the
surface, and not in mine-development. With the excep-
tion of the Cumberland, little mining has been done
below water-level. ‘ Miner ’ says he was on the Inter-
national when it was crushing stone valued at £36.
No such stone ever came out of this mine
except as specimens. ‘Miner’ is well-known as
one w'ho enjoved the reputation Of being a flunkey under
one of the English co’s. that he speaks so unfeelingly
about; he has always been looked upon as a very poor
authority on mining, which the reader will quickly notice
in reading his statement, for after running down the
field as only containing a litter of wild cats he finishes up
thus : ‘ But the only hope of salvation for the Etheridge
is a few strong syndicates with plenty of working capital
and practical managers who will go down and find out
what lies below the buck.’ Now, a man who runs down
a field in the manner ‘Miner’ has tried to do, and
finishes up in those words, can only be credited with
having enough brains to be called an ass.” (If the
Etheridge does not “ run a banker ” with Gore, after this,
then N.Q. will not be true to its traditions.)
Money Market Review, July, 1902, writes, re
'the Colonial Mutual .Lite Assurance Society Limited
“ The report is one ofthe most gratifying the manage-
ment have issued for many years, 4or in addition to the
•satisfactory growth of the business, the finances are in a
very strong and sound condition.”
• * • *
Grlenfine South is the stock which, for the time
'being, has the largest share of attention in the Vic.
market. The lower level is rapidly nearing the point at
which the large formation worked in the upper levels
•should be reached, and on its quality will depend whether
co.’s profitable existence will continue. Latest advices,
though somewhat indefinite, are regarded as being satis-
factory.


DAVID JONES & COMPANY
WPS
'■ ' IF* 3 S
' til
A
SPECIAL PURCHASE
GENUINE—
Panama Hats
(FOLDERS)
Price =
Original Value 55/-
27/6
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
R«mn Pe c!' Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
R . etftl<ac « . Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
, Stole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales-
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
SOCIETY
[?]oo[?]
[?]
Sufferers from the drought in N.S.W. can
thank the “ fake ” daily press for the poor
response hitherto made to appeals on their behalf.
When Parliament was sitting, and there was a
chance of making anti-Federal capital out of the
sufferings of the man on the land, “oppressed by
drought and the fodder duties,” the clamorous
shrieks of the daily press filled the air. But the
shrieking was not done with any discretion, and
only caused suspicion. Then, when there was no
longer any political end to be gained, the Sydney
Freetrade press forgot all about the drought and
the distress in the West. Now the public reads,
with its tongue in its cheek, accounts which are
true enough, but which are viewed with suspicion
simply because they appear in the “ fake press.”
* m m *
The steam yacht Victoria, that Mr. Cope-
land or Mr. Henniker Heaton or somebody per-
suaded N.S.W. Govt, to purchase, is now out of
commission and being used to grow barnacles on
in Neutral Bay. The insurance premium alone on
this costly toy is nearly .£lOOO a year, and other
expenses of maintenance are heavy, even though
the vessel is kept out of use. Why not sell the
gorgeous affair ? The money can be put into
revenue account (the ship was paid for out of
loans) and provide further evidence of N.S.W.
prosperity under Premier O’See’s rule.
• • • •
A recentN.S. W. citizen, with a family of six
sons and a tendency to drink, had “the horrors”
occasionally. Instead of his family keeping him
at home to be cured and paying for a medical
man, he was always taken to gaol, brought up on
a charge of lunacy, and remanded from week to
week for medical treatment until he became well
again. And for all this care never a cent was
paid, although the patient was very well-to-do.
He finally died in gaol.
A FAMILY DIFFICULTY.
From Napier (M.L.), where it is a serious offence to
serve children under the age of 13 with liquor.
KIDDY (to barmaid): “ Please, I want a shillin’s
worth o’ brandy."
BARMAID: “ What age are you, sonny?"
KIDDY : “ Twelve."
BARMAID: “ You must tell your mother to send
someone older."
KIDDY : "’Tain’t fer me mother; it’s fer me
father, an’ ’e’s a teetotaller, an' don't want
mother to know."
“ Deeby ” writes :
I was lately a patient in the Sydney Prince Alfred
Hospital, and was simply astonished at the number of
people in good circumstances occupying beds supposed to
be provided for the benefit of those who eannoc afford
the expense incidental to an operation in a private
hospital. One of this class of patients was a gilded
farmer ; another had a respectable share in station
property ; another was a well-to-do storekeeper. One
and all boasted (when in the convalescent stage) of the
money they had saved by entering the P. A. Hospital
at £1 a week with (in cases) a 30-guineas operation
thrown in. Some system should be devised by the
hospital authorities to check this scandalous practice of
some of the greedy well-to-do.
[Sydney Hospital has tried to do so by abolishing
all payments by patients. You must enter that
hospital as a confessedly poor or dishonest
patient.—Ed. B.]
• * • •
The accounts of the Colney Hatch (Eng.)
burning disaster state that the suicidal patients
were the most difficult to get out of the building.
Now, in the case of the ’93 flood mishap at
Goodna Asylum (Q.) the case was different. It
was evening when it was seen that the flood-
waters must submerge the dormitories in the low-
lying portion of the ground, and it was decided to
wait for daylight before removing the patients in
the boats. During the night the patients most
difficult to keep quiet were the suicidal ones.
“We don’t want to be drowned like rats in a
trap,” was their constant cry throughout the
night. The only patient lost was a well-known
city man who had been driven to the asylum by
land-boom and domestic worries. He jumped out
of the boat, and made a determined swim for it
till the force of the current turning the bend beat
the life out of him.
• m • *
This is the time of year when the weary
S. Australian, halting between two opinions,
finally makes up his mind that there isn’t enough
to stay here for. There is hardly a year in which
the summer suicides don’t outnumber those of
winter by 3to 1; the Adelaide aggregates for
three years are 37 to 13.
• • * *
Adelaide has a crematorium all ready for
use, and all that is needed to inaugurate it is some
enthusiastic believer in incineration ; but no one
feels inclined to volunteer for that purpose.
Premier Jenkins laid the foundation stone of the
furnace, but he shows no disposition to test its
efficacy now. A goat, enclosed in “a suitable
coffin,” was put through a few weeks ago with
satisfactory results. Meanwhile the adjoining
cemetery, which holds 50,000 corpses, is being ex-
tended across the parklands to within 80yds. of
the houses on West Terrace.
* • * •
Apropos of a recent event. For the am-
bitious politician, whose mental en-
gine is too small
for his aspirations,
but who is rich, the
way is fairly easy.
Lavish entertain-
ment can do
much. If a muni-
cipal conference
is sitting, invite
its members to
dinner. Each
man entertained
in that way
becomes more
or less an elec-
tioneering-
agent. If some
church gather-
ing is being
held, the rever-
end and lay
members must
be asked out
(to a tea-party,
preferably).
Parsons can be
trusted to be
grateful—it is
their training.
A State school
teachers’ con-
gress is also
worthy of hos-
pitality, and
much also can
be done by private dinners to the influential.
• • » *
What an insufferable bore is the greasy
cableman:—
REGAL SYMPATHY WITH BEREAVED.
London, Tuesday.—The King has telegraphed an ex-
pression of sympathy with the relatives of the men lost
in the torpedo-destoyer Orwell disaster.
Of course the King has cabled his sympathy—or,
rather, his man Friday has. That is the indis-
pensable thing for the man Friday of anyone in
the King business to do. It may be always taken
as read. Why doesn’t the cableman let us take
it as read ?
* ■ • •
A Bulletin correspondent :
An interesting item to passengers travelling on the Vic.
railways. Now that the wages staff are on five days a
week, the men on the lines, repairing bridges, etc., often
leave their work more or less unfinished to take their day
off. As there are no flag-men on duty to warn trains to
go slow over the partially-dismantled bridges and
culverts, the plan adopted is to stick up a green flag (the
signal to go slowly) to warn drivers of approaching
trains. The wind may blow the flag away or roll it round
“ OUT OF THE MOUTHSAc.
KIND LADY (to small boy, who has asked her
for some clothes for a new baby his mother
has just brought home from the hospital):
“ But what is your father doing, my boy-"
SMALL BOY : “ Oh, father cleared out about three
year ago, and mother ain’t seen him since.”
the stick, or a dead calm may prevail, and the flag hang
limp and hidden from the line of sight, and thus the
driver may see it only when he has got too close to
reduce speed much. At. night things appear to be left to
Providence. The possibilities are exciting. Query—
Was that bridge near Wandong, on the N.E. line, under
renoiv when the goods train was smashed up the other
morning ?
# • • •
A complaint directed to Victoria’s
violently-retrenching Minister Bent recently ran
thus :
Our station-master here (Panmure) went on duty at
5.30 a.m. Wednesday. He is still on duty, and likely to
be for some hours. It is now 9.50 p.m. Thursday. Forty
hours 1
The only consolation is that the Ministerial
career of the coarse and deafening market-
gardener will be short. He has got things into
such a state that for a Victorian train to arrive
less than an hour late is becoming a rarity. Busi-
ness men may not care what becomes of the rail-
way employes, but they miss so many profitable
swindles through the utter disorganisation of
things that they begin to have an unholy desire
to fry Bent.
• • * *
He the molasses cure for cancer, said to
have proved efficacious at Mackay (Q.). Dr. Hen-
zell, the local hospital medico, says that two of the
cases were true cancerous growths. Now comes the
statement of a Nundah (Q.) man that, after three
doctors had diagnosed his case as throat cancer,
he practically cured himself by taking a mouthful
of molasses a few times each day.
* • • *
Re cancer-cures. Henry Morris, the Eng-
lish specialist, in British Medical Journal :
Until we know the real cause and nature of cancer the
emplo3'ment of all methods must necessarily be empirical.
Some have been tried upon one theory, some upon
another —in fact, there are nearly as many theories as
there are so-called “cures"; but none of them inspire
confidence, because up to the present moment we are as
ignorant as ever as to what it is we are endeavoring to
cure. Some of the remedies have been credited with
having effected cures in several instances, but how they
have acted, what character of disease they can be relied
upon to influence, why they should ever act beneficially
upon some form of cancer, and not upon others, upon
cancer in some organ or part and not in others, nothing
is known ; all is simply empiricism.
* ♦ * •
The Owe’Sullivan loan boom having col-
lapsed in N.S.W., there is not much hope now of
the construction of the long-promised Sydney Law
Courts, and the ramshackle iron and wood building
at the top of King-street will still have to serve as
one of the chief temples of justice. Pity, under
the circumstances, that the Bankruptcy Court was
removed from King-street, for that spoilt a Beauti-
ful Warning. Entering the old building, a couple
of years ago, you came upon the Equity Court;
on the next floor was Bankruptcy and Lunacy ;
on the next Probate.
• * » •
White mice in cages may be again seen
exposed for sale in Sydney. Since these little
creatures bore part of the suspicion of having
brought bubonic plague to Australia, the Board
of Health might take notice.
The offices of Adelaide Central Board of
Health were cleaned of dirt and dust this month
by an incursion of painters and paperhangers.
This was the first time the accumulation of a
quarter-century had been disturbed, although the
department is most severe on householders who
neglect to keep their premises fresh and sweet.
The killing of a
rooster in a Sydney
court, the other day,
to clinch the oath
of a Chinese wit-
ness, points to the
necessity of abolish-
ing tests of veracity.
While kissing the
Bible stands as a
testf every other
whim and foolery
must be maintained.
Who paid for that
rooster? They tried
to put it down to
the Chinaman, but
if the Christian gets
his Bible free why
not the Chinese his
What if a
gambling-schoo of
Chinese, 50 or so, all
insisted on roosters?
That absurdity
really occurred at
Coonamble, some
years ago. A solici-
tor defending a
score or so of
Chinkies insisted on
a separate rooster
for each, and the
court was soon full
of blood and
feathers. The one
way to get rid of
such practices, some
of them hobgob-
linish, and all of
them stupid, is to
accept evidence
under the penalty
of perjury for wilful material mis-statements.
• • • •
Mild wonder followed the discovery, the
other day, in pulling down some old church
buildings at Darlinghurst (Sydney), that the
foundation-stone laid by Bishop Broughton could
not be found. The foundation-stone of an
adjoining wing, laid later, was found, but on
removal it was discovered that the coins cus-
tomarily deposited had been carried off. Robbing
foundation-stones was a peculiar weakness of early
colonists. Gov. Macquarie laid the foundation-
stone of St. Mathew’s at Windsor in 1817, but a
few nights later the stone was lifted and the coins
stolen. He laid the stone again, but again in a
few nights the money was gone.
• * • •
The site of the first place of worship near
Sydney Custom House, where a commemorative
service was performed a few Sundays ago, brought
up several stories about Rev. Richard Johnson and
his times, but the most curious of the early inci-
dents were omitted. The church built on that
site was paid for by Johnson, according to the
following certificated items: —
20£gal. spirits, 116 cwt. flour, 1811 b. pork,
3511 b. beef. 51b. tobacco, 31b. tea.
First price, £7 14s. Selling price .. £l4 a 9£
Paid in dollars 59 18 0
Price of building £74 7 9)
That bill Johnson forwarded to the Governor,
who derisively repudiated payment. He next
sent it to the Secretary of State, who similarly
rejected it. But on money matters Johnson was
hard to shake off. He wrote to the Archbishop
of Canterbury and the Duke of Wellington. He
kept on writing for four years, and was finally
paid.
TRANSPARENT.
NO. 1: “If the weather keeps on getting warmer
some of these women will come down to tea-
goums. Just look at that one in white!”
NO. 2: “ What an atrocity! Why, you cam see
every line of her figure! ”
Writes “Sister Josephine” re “Ortho”
(B. 31/l/’O3): —
Have never seen Wolinski’s picture, but have had some
experience as a nurse. I invariably give medicine with
left hand, leaving the right (and stronger) arm free to
support patient, if necessary. So far, have managed to
avoid “ spilling medicine with awkward left hand."


Wild’s, in the Sydney Arcade, is the most
fashionable gentlemen’s hairdressing saloon id
Sydney. Every attention possible is paid to th«
customers by six expert hairdressers. Address. -
30 Sydney Arcade, entrance from George-str-c*
or King street, Sydney.*
OO TO HEL3L.-
HJOLANI) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hageo,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
M
66
D.C
L
K
V
WH
S
STARCH
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
WOLFE’S SCHNA PPS
Australia’s
Leading Tonic
Beverage.
Residents of Sydney and suburbs, con-
templating expenditure on their gardens might
as well know that the Water and Sewerage Board
though it has made no public announcement on
the point) intends to again veto the use of water
for other than purely domestic purposes unless
rain soon replenishes Prospect Reservoir
*
How do these mysterious big Sydney fires
occur ? Mostly, no doubt, through defective
electric-wiring. Anybody is allowed to do elec-
tric-wiring work in Sydney. If you want to in-
stal gas, you must employ a licensed qualified
plumber ; but any and every quack can do electric-
wiring work without let or hindrance. To such a
pass have things come that no decent firm with a
reputation to lose desires wiring- work unless in
conjunction with an order for machinery, for it
is idle to attempt competition with people who
put in rotten material and slummed work
* * • *
The amended story of ho wold Richard Ince,
from Ballarat, came to die on his wedding ni<dit
m Melbourne, is a ghastly satire on the law which
permits old men, boys, and “drunks” to get
married almost as easily as they can buy a cigar.
Septuagenarian Ince, according to the amended
story, met a young Westralian widow in
Melbourne when she was on her way to
catch the German steamer for Fremantle. Pre-
sumably the old chap had previously made
the widow’s acquaintance, but the amended
story throws no light on the point. It
merely states that the female had no intention
of getting married when she met Ince. He
being an irresistible Adonis of 72, persuaded
the artless young thing to go right away to a
Wesleyan church in Lonsdale-st. and claim him
for her own. They put up at a coffee palace, and
within half an hour old man Ince died of heart
disease. So the lady who is now a double-
barrelled widow will take a third of his property.
* * « *
Brisbane undertakers have just decided to
discontinue holding funerals on Sunday. The
Brisbane summer climate renders interment
within 24 hours of death a necessity. The under-
takers’ resolution is all very well if people will
abstain from dying on Saturday.
THE CURSES THAT ARE COMING- HOME TO ROOST.
“The cook, parlor and nurse maids are having their names placed on the rolls,
while their mistress is holding aloof.” — ARGUS, Jan. 19.
“An APPEAL TO WOMEN WHO DESIRE MODERATION AND GOOD GOVERNMENT.”—AIIow-
ing the Democrats and the Socialistic party to record their women’s vote, and failing
to record your own, spells disaster to your own side at the next general elections in
December.”— ARGUS, Jan. 21.
CONSERVATIVE PARTY: “Ah, madam, only think how the garment will
become you!”
MIDDLE-CLASS MATRON: “Never will I wear it. It is shocking bad
form; it will unsex and degrade me. You told me so yourself!"
A. northern Chow on the rebate question
. f , ~u.
and the drought trouble .
No lain he come up. I.aw belong white man no good,
White man glow cane and get 4s. ton bonus. _ Chinaman
glow cane and get nothing. Joss make no lain come up
and killem white man.
Quite as sensible as the parson-verdict that the
drought is a punishment for our transgressions,
Same thing, in fact, seen through slant-eyed
spectacles. , * ,
" *
Kwoncr Sue Tack, a gentleman blessed
with 4 wives and 18 children, called on Cairns
Post lately and informed that journal, jubilantly:
“ No. 4 wife catchem boy—half-past thlee yester-
day.” This is a big improvement on: “Mary,
wife of John Smith, Esq., delivered of a boy-
both doing well.” The former style is living
Mongolian poetry ; the latter, beastly, plati-
tudinous Caucasian prose.
Victorian Woman” on the care of
children:—
The registered-nurse system (8., 24/12/’O2) for illegiti-
deaH? T ll enough in South Australia, where "the
D7O v,' r t a f t ye am °ng boarded-out infants was only
fJ 9 HH C t nt ?! e - vear before was only 7-54. No
undling hospital m the world can show such a record.
ti, n v, an< * ln uut * w, '’ t - e a 9 the difference between
S b A - F stem and Victoria's child-slaughtering
policy) no foster-mother is allowed to have charge of
more than one infant, with certain rare exceptions, when
s at the limit, may be placed with one
woman. And every foster-infant is under the constant
supervision of trained women inspectors, who keep up a
high standard of cleanliness. The restriction to one
oaDj means that the foster-mothers are drawn from the
wives of working men, and the child lives and grows up
in a wholesome workman's home. One baby comes in
for all the odd bits of time and attention of the rest of
the family. The professional nurse who takes ’em in and
does for em by the half-dozen, however well-meaning,
can offer no substitute for such natural domestic up-
bringing. So, in S.A., she has ceased to exist. The
figures tell the result.
• » * «
A Melbourne medico, prescribing “moder-
ation ”in meat-eating, says “I do not think
that the average middle-aged person, following a
sedentary occupation, should eat beef or mutton
for breakfast at all. He will do better work and
keep a clearer brain by breakfasting lightly on
porridge, a bit of broiled bacon, and bread or
toast and butter. A light meal of a cutlet or
chop in the middle of the day may be taken, and
a moderate dinner of soup, fish and joint in the
evening.” Sandow wouldn’t prescribe any heavier
feeding than that for a person engaged in violent
muscular development.
• • <• «
Alderman in a Northern town re the local
dog nuisance: “ I have a great respect for canines,
but I do not think the seat of a man’s pants is the
place for a dog.” He had been badly bitten a few
days before, and moved, amid great enthusiasm,
that a certain old town identity should be ap-
pointed to shoot dogs. It was, however, pointed
out that he had been previously detailed for this
duty, but, being defective of vision, had by mis-
take shot an alderman. Then the motion lapsed,
and the meeting dissolved.
An unvarnished
report from speeches
of Mrs. Sand, hired
for “a day’s wash-
ing,” to her employer:
Yes, things have been
pretty fair, thank you,
mum, since I was here
last, but my daughter,
her that married Tom
Cook, has had a bit of
hard luck. Her baby
died through catching a
cold when her mother
went out to a darnce.
Not that there’s not
another coming, but the
doctor had to be called
in for the little one, and
Tom only getting 25 bob
a week—though he gets
that steady—a doctor’s
bill is hard luck. And
Susie can’t go to the
socials now, not caring
to go to a darnce with-
out Tom and he can’t
spare the shilling ’cos
of the doctor’s bill.
Course she could go on
her own, free, but, Lord
bless yer, my girl’s not
that sort, and she and
Tom stick together. But
what with the doctor’s
bill, and the other baby
coming, they won’t have
a darnce for quite a
while.
* * *
Jos. Symes, in
the Liberator :
There has been a great
fuss in the crawling-
papers over a “royal
scandal ” in Germany !
Bah ! royalty is nothing
else but a scandal, and
the most disgusting one
at that. There are no
marriages in royalty, ex-
cept such marriages as
prevail among prize dogs
and stud cattle and
sheep. The marvel is
that the animals put
up with it! They would
not if they had a spark
of manliness or woman-
liness in then). If this
sort of political selection
and breeding led to any
good results, we might
encourage it; but the
animal is never selected,
bought or hired for per-
sonal qualities; these are
never so much as con-
sidered. The whole ques-
tion is where and from
what was the creature
born ? If the pedigree
is all right, nothing else
is required ; physical or
mental weakness or im-
becihty doesnt count, and viciousness is too trifling to
be thought about in such a case. And this kennel-bred
Stuff is “ the fountain of honour,” be it remembered, and
fools, rogues and flunkeys crawl to it for decorations.
titles, &c., and the clergy crawl to it for preferment and
place and pay.
« • « •
Decided at Port Adelaide that a restaurant-
keeper was not liable for injuries caused by apiece
Q f gj ass f ro m a skylight falling on a customer as
he sat at lunch, it not being shown that the place
had been allowed to fall into disrepair. Yet it
seems rough on the injured party, who surely
ought to have an implied guarantee of safety in
visiting such a place for ordinary business pur-
poses. , , ,
*„ * ’ *
R-H. : Re food-adulteration. My
butcher, this morning, took his knife from between
his teeth to inform me that he often uses benzine
to keep the flies off his meat. I never noticed it.
THE WORST KIND OF POVERTY.
HIM: “I believe your husband was a very rich
man?"
HER: “ Oh, yes, an exceedingly rich man, but a
very poor husband."
A curious case under the Children’s Pro-
tection Act was before the present sittings of
Sydney Quarter Sessions. The female defen-
dant’s motive seems to have been a “craze” to
collect children as some individuals do stamps
and china. When arrested her premises (she only
rented a room) contained some half-dozen infants,
whose very names she could or would not tell,
most of them looking decidedly well, and for
whom she seemed to have a strong affection. She
is an elderly woman with practically no means.
The Judge who tried the case was apparently
satisfied that she had no really wicked motives,
as he let her off, on her pleading guilty, with a
nominal sentence. 9
• » • *
A number of well-to-do Charlton (Vic.),
farmers are stated to be selling their farms and
packing up their household gods to go and dwell
in Zion City under the wing of John “ Elijah ”
Dowie. This paper reckons there is a considerable
shock in front of those converts. As an expounder,
financier, and wearer of big purple wings, Dowie
has few equals, but when these farmers set out to
persuade him to irrigate their farms, or to lend
them 250d015. worth of seed-wheat, all the satis-
faction they are likely to get is a tract on the vir-
tues of prayer.
• • • •
The foolishness of the average man when
he gets a firearm in hi 3 hand was well illustrated
in Sydney, t’other day. A man picked up a
revolver, loaded in four chambers, at Redfern
railway station, and, after turning it over and
examining it thoroughly, pointed it at last at a
crowded street, and pulled the trigger, to see if it
was in working order. It was. A cabby going
by had a narrow escape ; the ball just missed him,
and killed his horse. One Sydney paper referred
to the incident as a “ comedy ”; it must have been
very funny for the cabman.
• • • •
Sydney D.T.’s religious column con-
tains a eulogy of the Salvarmy’s success at
street-cleaning, which it has taken in hand
in several U.S.A. cities. The success, of
course, consists in making a profit out of
the work. Any corporation could do the
same if it were allowed to do the work with
slave labor maintained at a cost of only
just sufficient food to keep the wretched
helot alive, and received the bulk of its
food, or its cost, as the result of persistent
cadging. The Salvarmy should be run in
for obtaining money and goods by false
pretences. It is a really money-spinning
concern which makes a handsome profit
out of beggary, through representing
falsely that it begs for the purposes of
charity.
* » * *
M. Nicolas Krukoff, who is just
now travelling around for the Russian
Ministry of Agriculture, seems quite cap-
able of intelligent remarks concerning the
need for better agricultural instruction in
this country, and the absurdity of trying to
grow imitation European wines for Euro-
pean palates instead of striving to create
an intelligent Australian demand for purely
Australian liquor, leaving the public to
discover what sorts of brands they like
best. Asked whether there was a large
wine production in Russia and why the
outside world hears nothing about it,
Krukoff said, “Our wine is made for Russians.
It suits us."
• * * »
A Sydney firm of undertakers circulates in
its correspondence (presumably not in all of it)
this hilarious invitation :
THAT WEDDING OF YOUR’S.
When it comes off, do it in style. It’s a red letter day
—one to be remembered, especially if you make the
happy journey in a landau supplied by' us.
The Bulletin wonders if ever that cheerful invi-
tation drops by accident into the envelope which
encloses the bill, or the receipt for Mr. John
Smith’s funeral; and, if so, whether Mrs. John
Smith is pleased or otherwise at this glowing anti-
cipation of the future. Every widow is at heart a
bride ; but every widow may not be prepared to
think over her next wedding the day after her
late husband’s death. There are some splendid
possibilities latent in the Sydney system of run-
ning corpse-burying and wedding-carriage-pro-
viding from the one shop.
Few sects have ever
cultivated a district more
carefully than the Metho-
dists have the Lower
North of S. Australia.
Every four or five miles
on the dusty
plains you
come upon a
little gabled
Zoar or Ebe-
nezer, with a
dilapidated
post-and-wire
fence in front
and a patch of
graves at the
back. One
under - paid
parson over-
sees a dozen
or so of these;
for the rest, the
local blacksmith
does the best he can
—for some m; sterious
reason the local blacksmith
is the most consistent local
preacher, just as the local shoemaker is
the most consistent Radical and shocking example
generally. For the whole State, the “Church of
England ” runs the Methodists a hard race, and
just wins ; but, for this Lower North, the Metho-
dies win by a good deal more than 2to 1; and
the Scotchbyterians, who actually preponderate
in the better-favored S.E., don’t in the dry North
count one for every Methodist 10.
* •» • »
“ Sarah Jones ” wants to know ;
Is the man who is at present victimising’ Sydney ladies’
schools by means of bogus cheques and a desire to
educate his daughters, any relation to the man who, three
years ago, took down nearly every professional teacher in
Sydney and suburbs for half-a-crown apiece. His method
was to call at the house, when the man was usually out,
and tell the small, flurried wife that he wished to engage
Mr. So-and-So for his college as professor of music,
elocution, or painting, or to swish the pupils, or some-
thing, at a large salary. Then he intimated that the
fact of the husband’s gigantic intellect having been added
to the teaching staff had to be immediately advertised,
and it was customary for the new professor to pay 2s. 6d.
for that purpose. It was a thin device, but when it was
tried on me I didn’t know whether I stood on my head or
my heels for sheer joy, and I paid the 2s. 6d. gladly.
Before I got right end up again he was gone with the
money. When my husband returned home, instead of
dancing the Highland fling at his good fortune, he used
terrible language. He had paid the half-crown himself
the week previous. On comparing notes with our friends,
we reckoned that the little man with the brown beard
and boots slightly down-at-heel had roped in 137 half-
crowns. Six months afterwards he was “doing” Mel-
bourne the same way.
♦ • * •
A Norwegian sailor, named Forssell, con-
victed at Melb. Criminal Court of killing an old
woman in mistake for a younger woman, he being
too drunk to know the difference between them,
was sentenced last week to six years’ gaol. Had he
killed two old women the murderous alien would
probably have got eight years. There’s a reduction
in the price if you take more than one life.
* • * *
The distinctive dress of the larrikin does
not seem so apparent now as a few years ago,
when tailors and bootmakers found it a lucrative
business to provide the hoodlum with the peculiar
outfit of his rank. One famous old-time larrikin
paid £5 for his boots, upon the toe-caps of each of
which were let in the portraits of his noble self
and his donah.
IKEY MO “AT HOME
LITTLE SOLLY ( who is struggling with his parsing
lesson): “Fader, what is ‘hope’?"
SUCCESSFUL FIELDER: “'Ope, my poy, is all de
punter 'as got left."
“Benjie”: Charity has been preached
for 1900 years, and “ the time is not ripe ” for its
practice. I suggest, as a man who has conscien-
tiously avoided church for 20 years, a church
charity-tax. There are 640,000 electors in N.S. YV.;
so surely at least 240,000 attend church. A penny
apiece Would give £lOOO a week, with which
much could be done. And if my suggestion wero
adopted, the number of church-goers would at
once increase.


,n the Ma «er of Dress attention to Detail Indicates Breeding.
EVERY LADY KNOWS twat
KLEINERT’S HOOKON
18THE ONLY Correct'Hose Supporter
Sold only at the Best Shops. T ° W ° ar With the NEW FORM CORSET.
SET OF TEETH ONE GUINEA
Beautiful and Lifelike in Appearance and Guaranteed Perfect Fit. Absolutely Painless
Extractions and Stoppings Guaranteed.
Special; Attention Given to Regulating Childa*c-n ? s Teeth.
Mr. J. SPeNCER NOLAN, R.Q.S., Surgeon Dantht, 43 Oxfo d-st. Sydney
Sold by all Drapers and Hosiers.
KNEIPP LINEN
UNDERWEAR
Porous. Cool. Clean. Unshrinkable
Recommended by “ La*icet.”
J. MoBRATNEY (Wholesale only),
321 Flinders Lane, Melb. 389 George-st., Sydney.
“Young man, go on the Rand,” English
beer is selling at four shillings a bottle at
Johannesburg.
When Dr. Temple, the late Archbishop of
Canterbury, was a little boy, he used to earn a
few coppers by scaring rooks off the freshly-sown
wheat. To the end of his long life he kept the
determination which, in the beginning, helped
him to overcome the obstacles in his path, and he
also retained the appearance of a scarecrow.
The W.C.T.U. is usually “down” on
osculation and violently averse to gambling. But
this paragraph appeared in its Adelaide organ
(the Alliance News) for the current month :
“ I’m so certain that I’m right,” she said, “ that I’ll
bet you a kiss.” “Against what?” he asked. “Against
another kiss, of course,” she answered. He was thought-
ful for a moment. “ That settles it,” he said at last.
“ I’ve found a game that permits both parties to win.
Let’s double the stakes.”
The Lacte Remedies— What they are. How
to use them, and speedily obtain a beautiful
plumpness of face, neck and arms, and a perfect
bust. Write for H. Westall Guest’s new pamph-
let, post free, 229 Bourke-st., Melb. Sydney
agents : Mrs. Rogers, 54 Strand Arcade, and Miss
Cuthbert, 11 Victoria Arcade, Castlereagh-st.*
’’'til
&
*
4
4
* HEERING’S \
CHERRY BRANDY
WIT A
SODA WATER )
V
sv
“craven ettes”
Are the Ideal Fabrics
fo R
raincoats.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, February 10, 1903.
Mr Dear Arini, —
Exodus of money and society to Maoriland is
unprecedented this year. Last Monday, Miss
Rawson, N.S.W. Governor’s daughter, left for
Auckland in the Sonoma. Mrs. Burdekin and
daughter, and Miss Irene Marks, a well-known
Sydney belle, have also gone thither. I have
been looking at published temperatures of N.S.W.
cool spots and summer resorts: Bombala, Moss
>nA> 00m ba, Blackheath, all up amongst the
90 s. ihe only place that is really delightful and
bracing is Kiandra, and that is inacessible, save
by long coach journey. I hope Mr. O’Sullivan
will soon borrow money enough to buy scrap-iron,
or whatever he wants, for a railway, and so fulfil
ms promise to bring us within reasonable distance
of our finest mountain resort and keep Society’s
money in the State.
Castles girls, Dolly and Amy, have made
musical the Town Hall for large, moist audiences
not of the regular concert-going type. At first
concert last week there were enough R.C. priests
present to make a Sacred College. They didn’t
go out in the interval, and, outside the pro-
gramme, nothing interested them till Mr. Dan
i Sl onnor Made a late entry, ushering in two
ladies. The legislator seemed awfully proud of
his charges, and the front-seaters as well as the
soggarths showed lively interest as they followed
with their eyes Demosthenes’ triumphant march to
his seats.
Amy Castles’ reception was as loud and long as
any artist could wish, and her voice seemed to me
as good as it was some months ago, although somo
authorities said that they noticed a change in it.
It must be a bit of a nuisance to have ears so keen
that they hear the grass grow. Her first number
was .Je suis Titania, ” and as encores she fed the
ravening audience with “The Old Folks at Home”
un j . 9 ne Ever Marries Me.” Amy as a
ballad singer is very sweet.
Enter Dolly Castles, debutante. Another lyric
soprano, very flaxen and fair and pink, short-
nocked, modest, and smiling. Her voice is very
much what her sister’s was before her study
abroad. She has some wonderful upper notes.
Ocean, Thou Mighty Monster ! ” from Weber’s
Oberon, was the very large order which the
winsome Dolly undertook to deliver to an astonished
audience, and, quite naturally, not being a finished
choral swimmer, she rather floundered in the
magnificent breakers of the descriptive declama-
tor/ ri S i° nf v Bllt with “ Sweet Vale of Avoca”
and lostis “Good-bye” she did wonders for a
debutante. Miss Freda Miller made her debut as
a piamste of skill. Her self-possession is phe-
nomenal. But it is out of place with short
skirts and the Shetland-pony mane that falls over
hei eyes and face, and gives her such trouble
when she makes her frequent bobs to the
audience.
There was more smoke than fire in the outbreak
at Hotel Australia, just after midnight, last
Saturday. Two firemen went round knocking at
guests and servants’ doors. One gentleman
rushed downstairs with his wife’s silk underskirt
over his pyjamas. All brought their jewellery,
even when they didn’t wait to dress. One dis-
tinguished guest, a military man, gallantlv im-
peded the firemen by his efforts to help them save
the hotel. Fortunately the hose which he was
handling burst and “knocked him out.” Em-
ployees next day presented him with a huge card-
board V.C. “for valor.” He gravely wore it to
the theatre. When this “ gent ” goes to the play
alone he is said to take two seats—one for himself
one for his hat. ’
The tree planted by Melba in King’s Park,
Perth (W.A.), was an already-well-grown Queens-
land flame-tree. She took the shovel from
Minister Forrest and briskly threw in the earth,
then the superintendent of the Gardens
stepped forward and began to trample the soil
over the roots. “ I had hoped to see Madame
Melbi do that,” was King Forrest’s remark, in a
sad voice. “ Then I will,” replied Melba, frankly.
Raising her skirts, and revealing a nice pair of
feet and a ravishing silk and lace under-robe, she
trod a measure on the loose soil around what will
be known in future as “ Melba’s Tree.” Madame
f °rrest snapshotted her the while, and as the
hour was the sunset.one the party did not look
inartistically hot.
A correspondent, the nap of whose mind has
been brushed the wrong way
1 am sure that the par. in last week’s Melbourne letter.
a J,’ ol ‘ b , *; h ® , hl s u h i oned Toorakienne never patronising
tvFl r t klS |i aths > was written by a man - a horrid one
at that! If he asked one of the Sydney T.B. attendants
it the smartest girls were regular customers she would, if
she knew the truth and spoke it, reply : “ They don’t
come here at all, because they have the means to bathe
rurkishly in their own homes.” I have, and most of my
*?ave. , You may buy the canvas cubicle (and
stove), that does duty for a hot room, for 255., and
lathering, rubbing and polishing may be very well done
by yourself if you have not got a maid.—a lady’s maid, l
mean. The smartest society women here and in Mel-
bourne have ladies’-maids. Last week I went to one of
our local T.B. s (the tired feeling was so overwhelming
*T at ? c , ( ? ul ? f do my own rubbing); Its accommoda-
tion is limited, and it is open to women only on certain
days in the week Although I was early, all the dressing
boxes were already occupied; and' the attendant told mo
to leave my clothes on a chair.”’ Several elderly 13-
Stoners were already leaving their garments on chairs,
grumbling the while. I, being, fastidious, as perhaps are
the Toorakiennes,.fled. F
And she is right. I have been doing some 1
Sydney investigation, and I find that, as a matter
ot fact, 80 per cent, of the-women who are regular
customers of the Crescent and the Star are trying
to get rid of fat or to. prevent its increase. After
the bath, they weigh so anxiously—weigh wrapped
in their cooling-down sheets and straw slippers.
One extra-anxious young woman, who turned the
scale at list. 21b., exclaimed in horror, “O, I’ve
Eut on a pound and a quarter since last week ! ”
he pondered over the misery whilst dressing,
rushed out of her box half-clad, and bade the
attendant weigh the sheet and slippers. They
accounted for the extra weight, and, in the relief
and delight, the 11-stoner asked one who was a
stranger to h*r to come and have lunch. The
stranger stared at her for half-a-minute, and then
replied, “I don’t mind!” which, with some
people, is the equivalent for “many thanks.”
They did their hair, and eagerly discussed the
possibilities of Turkish baths as a means of “ keep-
ing the figure,” and finally agreed that there was
nothing in it, and that “it really hurt you, if
your heart was weak.”
All the recumbent figures in the cooling room
were intensely interested in the loud-voiced dis-
cussion, and one lady, who was reading Mrs.
Craigie’s “Love and the Soul Hunters,” while
she drank tea and ate scones, broke in, in
a voice like concussion of the brain : “ About what
you said about ‘keeping the figure,”’and pro-
ceeded to tell of a woman in “this book’’who
lived only for that.
“She was 45 and ” (reading the passage) “her
hair, which used to be a nut-brown, was now of
ebony blackness. Her fresh complexion was now
artificially white—a very smooth, waxen white.
She had shining grey eyes and vivid red lips, the
upper of which had an elaborate Cupid’s bow
well defined by a brush. Her slim, supple figure
was that of an unmarried girl (there was a 22-
year-old daughter in the background). She wore
a white lace gown, one row of superb black pearls
around her throat, pearls in her ears, and a bunch
of heliotrope in her belt.”
Eleven-stoner sighed deeply, and said: “A lot
of us could be like that if we could live in London
and spend £4OO a year on beauty-doctors.” A
girl holding a tortoise-shell comb in her mouth
and a limp, wet magazine on her knee (she had
been reading it in the hot room) removed her
mouthpiece to remark that “France would be
better. ’ And she read her contribution from the
wet magazine (Cosmopolitan, I think) about
Madame Lecompte, who died some months ago in
Paris, at the age of 84, killed, it is believed, by
one of her jealous young suitors. This lady (a
niece of the General Frossard, honored by Napo-
leon III.) and her story are well authenticated.
She lost her second husband when she was 70.
She was rich, and immediately set about renewing
her youth and making fresh conquests. She
made-up to look like thirty, practised a quick,
light step, and when her skillfully-padded and
rounded figure, arrayed in the most delicate and
artistic gown-creations, moved springingly along
the street, she was mistaken for a quite young
woman. Madame was a marvel of what spirit
and nerve may accomplish, for at 84 she was still
engaged in meeting susceptible young men, and
had on hand an endless number of love affairs.
Huge packages of love letters, beribboned, dated
and labelled, were found in her desk.
This contribution had a most extraordinary
effect on a lady of about 60, with very bunioned
feet and about a hundred long grev hairs. She
jumped like a kangaroo when Madame L.’s age
and the love-letters were mentioned, and said the
Frenchwoman was a “hussy.” But her eyes
glittered, and she went over and took the name
and date of the magazine. Awful thing if her
visit to the Turkish baths were to be the cause of
sending her frisking about in a short muslin frock
and white frilled hat and ankle-straps, in search
of young men and adventures.
Away back of Glenore (Otago, Maoriland) flows
the Fountain of the Perfect Complexion. Unfor-
tunately the odour of the spring is perceptible
some miles away, and an appalling and fearsome
odouritis. Even the railway keeps some miles from
that part of Glenore ; yet the railway is a hardy
thing. The man who wants to drink of Glenore
approaches it with a silk handkerchief tied over
his nose and mouth, and a bottle of eau de
Cologne. He drags behind him an unwilling
horse, also with a handkerchief tied over its nose,
and so they cross the mud flats to the Spring.
When the patient.has taken his drink he mounts
the horse immediately, and that noble animal
starts for a sweeter atmosphere at top speed.
The beautifying %vater is delicious to the taste—
a perfect Spa water in fact—clear and effervescing,
but its stench is like nothing else this side the
Pit of Acheron. Its medicinal qualities were
discovered by a railway ganger, who first drank
of it while suffering from the d.t.’s, and made a
wonderfully quick recovery. He got drunk four
times in one week and sobered up on it each time.
At the end of the week he began to shed his skin.
It dried up and peeled off, and that which was
beneath was clear and bright and spotless and un-
wrinkled. Something like twenty years had
■dropped off that inebriated ganger's appearance.
He took home some bottles of the fearful fluid
and poured it down his daughters’ throats by
sheer strength.. The girls became famous for the
beauty of their complexions, and were mostly
married to doctors.
A most plausible swindler has taken down
several school ma’ams in and near Sydney, and, so
far as I know, is still pursuing his nefarious
schemes, as they say in melodrama. He is well-
dressed, and calls on the principal of Dictation
College, and explains that he is a widower with
two little girls whom he would like to place
under Madame’s roof and eye, whilst he goes
to take up a responsible post in China. Re-
port speaks so Highly of Madame, etc. He
insists that Gwen and Flora shall have swim-
ming-lessons twice a week and shall keep a
pony. Terms are agreed upon, £163 per year.
He will bring the children next day. Next morn-
ing he calls again to say that the children will
come in charge of a friend, but he must leave at
once by Melbourne express, and to save incon-
venience he will pay her the first year’s sum in
advance, as his Chinese post is far in the interior
and the Boxers . He produces a cheque for
£173. Madame points out the mistake, £lO in
excess, and the widower acts worried-like, as he
has only that one cheque with him. If Madame
has the money in the house she gives him the
change—sometimes. In any case she never sees
him again.
Doctor Graoe Russell, a Maorilander, is the
first woman doctor to settle in College-st., Sydney.
She studied and took her degrees in London and
has been abroad nine years.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ The Sargood mansion, ‘ Rippon Lea, ’is to be
sold immediately, and Mrs. Sargood and her only
unmarried daughter leave for England at once.
The Rippon Lea garden is said to be the finest
private landscape garden in Australia. The late
owner made a success of it, as he did of most
things, but it always seemed a pity that, to start
with, he had not chosen a site of more natural
beauty. It is a very few feet above sea level, and
20 years ago was a barren sandhill. Now, it is as
fair a spot as artificial hills, lakes, and islands
can make it.
“Justice Brummel Williams and family also
sell off house and props, and make towards a
permanent home in the Big Smoke. The woolly
George Chirnsides ditto. Two wealthy house-
holders out Armadale way also prepare to put up
the auction-sale bills, and take their accumulated
bawbees to a busier hub. Melbourne already
gapes in places, and the flash lady burglar’s
occupation will soon be gone.
“ Melba’s reception was a well-managed affair.
A good business-head always serves its owner in
good stead, be the matter in hand a life’s career
or an afternoon-party. The diva welcomed her
guests on the lawn, and looked as fine, big and
showy a figure as the best of ’em, in her Frenchily-
built muslin, trailed from top to toe with wistaria.
Her big hat of lilac chiffon, with plumes to match,
shaded a face glowing softly with a convincing
bloom of youth. Melba’s face, as a matter of
fact, is plump and round in its contour, so that it
can carry a hint of complexion powder, or such,
without appearing garish or theatrical. Her
chum, little Miss Clarke, the State Governor’s
daughter, also wore lilac-tints, and beside the
glowing Melba seemed a pale periwinkle, nest ing
near a glory of purple convolvuli. Gov. Clarke’s
only chick felt the recent spell of heat dread-
fully, and is ordered by her health oracle
to keep as quiet as she can. In trying
to observe her rest regimen, the patient
falls out of the pan into the fire. She keeps at a
safe distance from gay, tireless Somebodies, only
to fall into the clutches of dull, tiring Nobodies,
who, at the ‘ Myoora ’ affair, apparently almost
worshipped the convalescent to death.
“ Though all the men Melba meets are under-
stood to be sighing and moaning hopelessly on her
account, not very many of the smitten sex faced
the music at her party. Lord Dick Nevill, straw-
hatted and draped about the neck in a dark, up-
holstered sort of tie, was garnered in, early in the
proceedings, Lady Hutton, who wanted to
talk charitable fete over her strawberries. Lord
Dick, of course, is an expert in suggesting
‘draws’ for compassionate capers, but is not always
allowed a free hand. He has a neat knack of in-
ducing prominent theatricals to roll the chariot
along, but unless said stars are certified as models
of propriety from their youth up, charitable dames
label them ‘so very awkward, you know!’ and,
as soon as the Nevill hears this danger signal, he
changes the subject to performing dogs and a
fortune-teller. Old Mr. Buckley, Gov. Brassey’s
sometime crony, was another of the ‘ Myoora *
beaux, also natty Byron Moore, elocutionist
Lupton, who taught Melba of old, and Herr
Hiramer, another friend of her youth.
“ Maybe, the most expensive gown at ‘ Myoora ’
was worn by Mrs. Everard Browne, whose magni-
ficent lace over silk was white, like most of the
best toilettes on hand. Premieress Irvine had
medallions of bright-green inserted into her blue-
silk muslin. Mrs. Robert Harper, looking fagged-
out after her misadventures in Canada and recent
anxieties as to her husband’s health, roamed over
her own ‘ Myoora,’ at present tenanted by Melba,
and, like everyone else, noted the coon song on
the piano, and Marchesi’s portrait with the auto-
graph sentence, ‘lf I love anyone, it’s you ! ’
Kitchener found nothing more novel to inscribe
on his than ‘From your sincere admirer,’while
the Hopetouns contented themselves with names
and dates.
“ ’Tis said that the Myoora garden party—
Melba’s only large entertainment so far—was
arranged partly with a view to putting the
hostess’ old school-friends and similar human
reminiscences (‘rummy nuisances’ they are called
in some quarters) out of their agony. It was
getting on their nerves, so one hears, that ‘Nellie
did not love ’em as she used to do, or she would
not have neglected to welcome them to her marble
halls.’ Now there’s nothing to prevent the faithful
souls singingtheir ‘ Nunc Dimittis ’ whenever it
suits them.
“One of Melba’s male relations-in-law goes
back to the Big Smoke with her as manager at
£lOOO a year.
In an ‘ Aunt Sally ’ square a bona-fide coster
lent London color to the scene. There life moved
at its fastest. Prizes, worth a struggle, shone on
a table within sight of the competitors. Gloves
were split, sleeves gave way in feminine efforts to
dislodge the grinning effigies. Then Melba came
along and had her fling, ripping off her gloves for
the fray. Her six shots went wide of the mark,
and making a grimace she fell back to the side of
Lord Dick Nevill. There was zest and interest
in her eye over this Sally contest. She backed
her fancy against Mrs. Everard Browne’s.
“There was a sudden mustering of the smart
clans at Saturday’s Caulfield meeting. Toorak
had skipped the word along from ’phone to ’phone
that Melba was to be there. She was, in the
most glorious apparel she has yet flashed on the
out-door world. Divers patterns of lace were
dovetailed in a knotted-silk fabric. The sleeves
ended at the elbow in cascades of rare lace.
Aide Nevill played adjutant to her. When not
pacing the terrace by her side, he was backing her
august fancy with the books, or sitting in her
shadow on the Stand relating confidential things
in a low tone. Occasionally the shaking of
the Diva’s shoulders told of enjoyment of
some contretemps related. That always makes
Melba laugh heartily. The world, so anxious
to do the advantageous and proper thing in her
eyes, amuses her when it flounders and bruises
itself. A camera man cleared for his life when he
found himself in Melba’s line of vision. The day
before, at * Myoora,’ some of his brethren had set
up their machines to ‘snap’ her as she took a
turn at the ‘ Aunt Sally,’ when she made a
quick flank movement and bashed three of the
balls right in the camera’s eye. ‘ I owe it to the
brutes,’ she told the crowd, who were in con-
vulsions.
“ Mr. Robert Harper, who was lately said to be
looking ‘shockingly ill,’ is beginning to feel quite
different to that. Stories about the returned
voyageur’s prostration and his collapse after his
welcome home were largely imaginative, and his
appearance never justified them. The doctor is
quite satisfied with Mr. Harper’s present state of
convalescence; he doesn't advise the patient to
take a further holiday, or tell him not to stand
again for Parliament at next election. Mr. H.
expects to be in his usual fighting form long before
next election comes.
“ The widow of Senator Sargood has issue 1
mourning cards (they must run into several thou-
sands), expressing thanks for ‘ the great kindness,
help, and sympathy shown ’ in the time of
bereavement.
“Melba’s present pet is Mrs. Robert Power.
She told this favorite that she ‘ would like to do
something to please her.’ Her friend suggested
‘ a song or two.’ The Diva not only consented,
but begged her chum to invite as many friends as
ever she chose, to share the treat. Then she sent
along a van with a grand piano and a harp, and,
on the appointed evening, arrived with her
harpiste, and sang song after song. She has just
had a miniature of herself painted as a gift to her
pristine pet, Miss Clarke, the State Governor’s
daughter.
“ The most striking feature of the cycling sports
at the Exhibition Oval on Saturday was the
liberal display of shapely openwork hose by a
dainty little damsel in the reserve. The young
lady sat in the front row nursing her knee and
keeping the gaze of a couple of thousand spectators
riveted on the well-turned ankle, bounded at one
end by a neat shoe and at the other by a deep line
of lace. It seemed to be generally considered that
this spectacle was in itself quite worth the
shilling charged for admission.
“ A Melbourne girl, who was married the
other day, did a smart thing, I hear. She was
one of the G.P.O. clerks whose claims to increased
pay were to be decided by exam. Saying nothing
of her intended nuptials, and keeping her mind at
a nice ballast (most unusual in a bride-elect), she
joined the candidates and did the prescribed pass-
papers. Then she married, having attained three
months leave of absence on increased pay. A
wise woman that.
“ There was an awkward pause in the law courts
recently, when a giddy young lady, whose ways of
ordering luxuries were seemingly not justified by her
means, mentioned the name of a large politician
from a neighboring State, but of Federal interest
to all, as a person likely to offer bail ‘ for the sake
of old times.’ He didn’t. It’s doubtful whether
he was even approached seriously on the matter.
As the busy member in question boasts of never
reading the Melbourne papers, the touching com-
pliment of the young female may never have
reached him.
“Lady Chermside—wife of the Bananaland
Governor—went up to Gracedale House on
Friday, and Melba followed suit on Saturday
evening after the races. Gracedale, by the way,
heads the list of Victorian haunts for its romantic
records.
Yours affeotionately,
AKENEHI.


CONSUMPTION.
The only hope lies in plenty of good, rich blood. The only way to fight the bacilli, heal the lungs and
build up the strength is through the blood. That is just the reason why Dr. Williams Pink Pills for Pale
People cure consumption. They make new blood. They give strength, energy and health. They actually
create life-giving blood with every dose. Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are not a positive cure for consumption—
they won’t cure & every case—but they have cured cases that doctors despaired of. That’s a positive fact—
and here is positive proof.
wpII —“ Leadino- Svdnev doctors treated me for Consumption and
A Consumptive Made Btrong G merchant, late of Petersham, but now of Queanbeyan, “In
Asthma for over a year, ./ and it was really a heavy cold that brought on the dread disease,
former years my work took me out ini a 1 « and t } perspirations seemed to drain my system of
° fte '' 1 th P The contfnual coughing caused terrible pain and injury to my lungs. Doctors’ treatment
began taking them. Gradually the coi\y 1s s o strengthened my lungs that they threw off the Consumption altogether,
the best medicine in the world to help the Consumptive battle for his life.
Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney. Price 2s. 9d.; six boxes, 15s. 3d. REFUSE ALL SUBSTITUTES.
Or Williams Pink pills brpalt People
PERSONAL ITEMS.
The wife of Capt. F. C. A. Lyon, of the
P. and O. Co’s flagship in Australian waters, is a
daughter of the late Geo. Higinbotham, Chief
Justice of Victoria.
Editor Willoughby, of Melbourne Argus,
has gone to Queenscliffe for a health holiday. His
house at Toorak (St. Ives) has been taken for a
year by Postmaster-General Drake.
Only three weeks since the late Senator
Sargood was buried in Melbourne, and already
the recollection of his military funeral is a theme
for ridicule—when anyone calls it to mind.
According to the last census there isn’t
one solitary Jew in the N. Territory. In fact,
outside the little metropolitan district there were’
all told, only 23 in the whole of 8. Australia !
Digby alias “Fatty” Grand, arrested on
suspicion of being concerned in the shooting of
Constable Long, is said to come of a big English
family, and to be not far distant from a title.
The yarn is mostly on his own authority.
Inspector Foelsche, who, after being for
28 years in charge of the local police, is said to
know more of the Northern Territory than any
other living man, is putting in his last summer at)
Port Darwin—he comes South shortly on a pen-
sion.
G. H. Reid finds that Austin Chapman
resembles Sancho Panza. That was really one of
the nicknames which the late Parkes kept for
George Reid. One time Parkes called him Sancho,
and Reid went around members asking who was
Sancho.
Senator Cincinnatus Playford, who does
pretty well for S.A. in Parliament, does even
better for it outside. Lately, in his own market
garden, a few miles outside of Adelaide, he has
teen showing the State how to grow 32 tons of
potatoes to the acre.
They aren’t strong on names in Tasmania.
Launceston Examiner regularly alludes to the
Victorian Treasurer as “Shields,” and on 26th
Jan. it described the Commonwealth Premier as
“Sir Edward Baker” —apparently a curious hash
of Richard Baker and Edward Braddon.
They treated the Owe’Sullivan with great
consideration in Melbourne, took marked interest
in him, in fact, and gave him a capital time.
Visiting Vic. Parliament, he was received as a dis-
tinguished guest and accommodated, amid cheers,
with a seat next the Speaker; and he sat there in
loan magnificence.
The charming Tenison Woods mentioned
in Jas. Bonwick’s “An Octogenarian’s Remin-
iscences,” was brother to Nicholas Woods, who,
in conjunction with Dr. W. Howard Russell, did
DR. MORRISON, “Times
representative in the East,
now on a visit to Australia.
the chief picturesque special
reporting for London Times
(such as the marriage of
the Prince of Wales, now
King), in the ’so’s and
’6o’s. Nicholas also won
fame by his graphic ac-
count of the execution of
the pirates of the
“Flowery Land.”
Later on he subsided
into the position of
proprietor of the
London licensed
victuallers’ news-
paper, while
Russell follow-
ed suit with
the Akmy and
Navy Gazette.
Another brother,
who had been a Par-
liamentary reporter
for the Times, was
in the gallery for
Melbourne Ahgus
in the early ’6o’s,
and was regarded as
a wonderful short-
and writer (Gur-
ney’s system). In
those days it was
not customary
« to send more
than one re-
porter to a
meeting, and
Woods prid-
ed himself
on having,
on one oc-
casion,
turned out
for next
morning’s
Argus
without as-
sistance, a
seven-column
report of an
election
speech by John
O’Shanassy delivered the afternoon.
Sydney’s Chamber-Magistrate, R. T.
Mac Nevin, retires, after 22 years’ service, to run
a private commission agency busmessat Loon amble
and thereabouts. The Mao Nevins g° back to a
one-time noted Dublin solicitor, and the first of
the clan, on arrival in Sydney, was at once billeted
by the late Premier Martin.
Josiah Symon was to be seen without his
dignity in a S.A. township t’other day. After
opening an institute, he patronised the sports,
and ran in an Old Buffers’ race with btate-M.P.
Blacker and others. Symon did not stay the
course, and the other legislator fell when leading,
only three yards from the tape.
Labor - Senator M ‘Gregor is a landlord.
When he carried a hod he acquired a quarter-acre
allotment, which he turned into a splendid
—den. Having to leave, he let the place to an
old couple at one penny per week rent Labor
members, who can afford it, need have no fear of
becoming landlords on those terms,
James Conroy, mail-guard on the N-S.W
Southern line, is probably one of the> world s most
“travelled” men. As driver of the mail coacn
from' Campbell town in the old pre-railway days
he 'travelled some 100,000 miles. dunng
30 years’ service as mail-guard on the Southern
railway system he has travelled over 1,3<b,000
miles.
Archdeacon Farr is now probably the
oldest Anglican clergyman in Australia. file
graduated in Arts at Cambridge 60 years ago, and
LoSt priest since 1840. He reachedl Adetode
rm ve . irs ago as head-master of bt. Peter s College,
a post beheld for exactly a-quarter-of-a-century ,
an da large majority of the leading men in that
city were educated under him.
THE MEAT-FAMINE.—A CHESTNUT UP TO DATE.
CUSTOMER (facetiously): “ Three penn’orth of dory’s meat.”
IRATE BUTCHER : “ What!! ” CUSTOMER : “ Three penn’orth of dory’s meat.”
BUTCHER (with suppressed emotion): “ Will yer eat it here, or shall I wrap
it up?” (Both breathe hard.)
“ Where would N.S. Wales be,” says See,
“without the Bills I passed into Acts?” Where
would N.S.W. be had See not been born? Ex-
Premier Salisbury used to say about his Bills, “ I
do not look on them as Acts of Parliament; I re-
fard them in the interest of England as Acts of
’rovidence,” But Salisbury had imagination.
People have, it seems, been cutting up
the bear’s skin without first catching the bear.
As to the speculation concerning Police Inspector-
General Fosbery’s successor, it transpires that
Mr. Fosbery has no present idea of resigning, and
that Premier See hopes he will long retain office.
Sydney Daily Telegraph printed this
from its Melbourne correspondent the other day:
Looking tired and depressed, Mr. O’Sullivan, accom-
panied by Larry Foley, left by the Melbourne express
this afternoon for Sydney.
If the Owe’Sullivan does choose strange company
on State jaunts he must endure the consequences.
Nanson, editor of Perth Morning Herald,
is also leader of the Westralian Opposition, and
he has found the dual office so trying that he has
had to go on the sick-list. He is the only journa-
list in Australia who has doubled those functions,
although Barrow, editor and proprietor of Ade-
laide Advertiser, held the post of Treasurer of
S.A. , and, afterwards, his partner, Thomas King,
from whom editor Bonython acquired the paper,
was Minister of Education.
B. R. Wise has arrived in London, and
put in a good night’s work last Friday (1) defend-
ing and explaining N.S.W. industrial legislation ;
(2) complaining that Australia and Canada hadn’t
been consulted by Britain before embarking on
this Venezuela business, which threatens to be so
disastrous. A popular “gag” the latter before
an English audience. Britain, judging by her
newspapers, bitterly hates the Anglo-German
alliance against America, into which the German
sympathies of the Royal Family have betrayed
her.
Federal Commandant Hutton, though his
own person ally-prepared documents are anything
but perfect examples of English, is mightily par-
ticular about the manner in which his pronounce-
ments go forth to the world. It is his custom to
round up reporters from all the pa pers on these
occasions, seat them in his office, and dictate: —
“ The Department of Defence —capital “ D ” and
comma —having to consider the possibilities of in-
vasion—comma —must be keenly alive to Imperial
interests—full stop. Nothing definite has been
done in the past—semi-colon—something should
be done in the future—full stop.” And so on.
“Melb.", Klingender has just gone, a
sort of TJltimus Romano-rum of the yore-time
attorneys. The squatting, mining, banking
and commercial litigation seems quite to have
passed away, the kind of thing in which attorneys
like Klingender, Muttlebury, Malleson, Duerdin,
Nutt and Moule kept merrily going, and such
barristers as Ireland, Michie, Dawson, Fellows,
Sewell, Wood and Aspinall, in the days when
Stawell, Barry, Williams and Molesworth still
held the Bench. Klingender was a remarkably
cool hand, and conducted great affairs with the
invariable temper of the ice-chest.
The original
MacMahon, of
Ma cMahon’s
Point, Sydney,
relates that the
house on the
Point was once
tenanted by an-
other Mac-
Mah o n, who
claimed rela-
tionship with
Marshal Mac-
Mahon, one-
time President
of the French
Republic, and
greatly valued
a portrait which
had been pre-
sented to him
as that of his
distinguished
connection. But
when Fat her
Power, the
parish priest,
saw the picture,
he exclaimed,
“ Why, my son,
that’s not
Marshal Mac-
Mahon, whom
I knew well in
Paris. That’s
a picture of that
rascally rene-
gade, Father
Ohiniquy!”
“ Glory be to
God, Father, ye
don’t tell me
so ! Will ye
bless me a
couple of buck-
ets of water till
I wash the house out ? ” and, tearing the offending
picture down, the outraged child of the Church
took it into the yard and jumped on it.
Veteran Henry Norman, ex-Governor of
Queensland, talked wildly of as a possible Gov.-
General of Australia, is hardly likely, in his 77th
year, to be offered or to accept such a post.
Besides, General Norman is almost more Aus-
tralian than English in some respects, and disposed
to be sarcastic at the expense of Imperial Federa-
tion —which would prevent the Balfour-Chamber-
lain Government even thinking of him for Aus-
tralia.
Quite the most picturesque (or grotesque,
whichever way you look at it) figure at Melb.
A.N.A. banquet was the Right Rev. the Modera-
tor of the Presbyterian Assembly, who was
attired in a cocked hat, knee-breeches, black silk
stockings, lace ruffles, and a nose that blushed at
his temerity. All religions seem to run to chiffon
and knee-breeches ultimately. Booth will take to
them next. He has got as far as the belltopper. -
Mrs. Humphreys, a 93-year-old. colonist,
has lived, at Watson’s Bay, Sydney,
in the same house for 73 years—a
remarkable instance of constancy in
so shifty a country. She is blind,
but has a wonderful memory. The
mind is specially clear on the long
past. Thus: “I saw old D’Arcy Went-
worth’s funeral going down George-
street to the cemetery behind the
brickfields. Four men carried the
coffin, four more walked behind to
relieve the bearers. In front walked
four mutes, with staffs and crape
streamers ; whilst all the men in
Sydney of any note followed, with
‘ weepers ’ in their hats and sideboard
collars on. It seems more natural-like
for men to carry one another to their
graves than for horses and hearses to
do the work. In the Market-square
sat that day a woman in the stocks, the like
of which I never thought to see in Sydney.”
Will Irvine appoint himself Vic. Supreme
Court Judge on the occurrence of the forthcoming
Williams vacancy? This question agitates the
other Vic. eligibles. There are two notable Vic.
precedents. Attorneys-General Stawell and Ker-
ferd appointed themselves Judges, the former
giving satisfaction; the latter, however, was
very much criticised. With the exception of
Ministerial offices, the only Crown billets open to
sitting M’s.P. are Judgeships and the Agency-
General.
When Larry Foley, chaperoning the Owe’
Sullivan, appeared for half-an-liour t’other night
in Vic. Assembly, it was amusing to note the bee-
line that Treasurer Shiels made for him. Shiels
confesses to a devout admiration of athletics, and is
at all times eager to recount his own early exploits;
no doubt he entertained the old-time pug. cham-
pion with much discourse on that favorite subject.
The Raven Treasurer was once telling a dis-
respectful pressman how his jaw had been dis-
located by a misdirected cricket-ball. “ Was it a
cricket-ball or a metaphor?” asked the long-
suffering gallery-man.
Dr. Abraham, dying at 88 in England,
takes away a patriarch of the Anglican Church of
Australasia. He went as Bishop to Wellington
(M.L.), soon after Dr. Barker arrived in Sydney.
Like most of the imported he made his way back
to England where he has vegetated for the last 30
years. Bishop Barker classed him in early life
among the ripest classical scholars in the church.
The C.E. bishops who conferred in Sydney,
lately, were, on the whole, a well-made body of
men. Queensland, Victoria and N.S.W. were
represented, and the Queenslanders and ex-
Queenslanders were especially presentable from a
physical point of view. In Australian churches,
the bookman and the praying-man are (and a good
job, too) being succeeded by the men of open-air
life and little midnight oil-burning.
W. P. Reeves, whom the Anglo-Australian
press extols as the Hon. Pember Reeves, has faith
in the old idea of a guiding daemon, and acknow-
ledges the visible finger of Providence in his
destiny. Some of these days he may throw him-
self into Federal politics—“a fine field for a
man”—but, so far, his daemon hasn’t warned him
to quit the pleasant neighborhood of St. James’
Park, London. Reeves is really the only Agent-
General who counts apart from his office; he
works hard, and is liked and respected. His new
book, summarising for English readers the
of Australian democratic legislation—“ State
Experiments in Australia and New Zealand”
was written chiefly in the ends of his business
days, before breakfast in the morning and before
bed at night.
Rev. E. Tremayne Dunstan, of Sydney, is
founding, or trying to found, an ‘‘lndependent
Church,” based on “ Apostolic doctrine, Apostolic
fellowship and Apostolic piety.” In connection
with it there is to be a college for training young
men for evangelistic work. The hollow humbug
of modern clericalism is never better shown than
when a priest or parson has a fall. If Mr. Dun-
stan had been a schoolmaster, a club secretary, or
even a racecourse steward, he would probably not
have ventured, or been allowed to venture, to
resume his old employment after such a financial
dibdole as that which preceded his recent hurried
departure from N.S.W. But for a parson’s
billet, for the spiritual guidance of young and old
—well, it seems anybody is good enough for a
parson’s billet.
Hobart (writes a correspondent) was on
the tip-toe of excitement, a couple of weeks ago,
when news was published in the local papers that
N.S.W. Works Minister Owe’Sullivan was about
to take “a well-earned holiday” in his native
town. The oldest inhabitants began to tell stories
about the Owe’Sullivan when he lived in a cottage
in Hampden Road, and the late John Donnellan
Balfe, the Irish M.P., dwelt in Wellington
Crescent hard by and took the O.W.E. as a pro-
tege and gave him a taste for public life. _ And
Foreman Rex, of the Mercury, was garnering all
his recollections of the time when the Owe’S. was
on his wages book; and how he used to praise the
future Works Minister for giving his wages to his
mother, and held him up as an example to all the
dirty-faced youths in the job-room and the machine
place. Then news came that the Owe’Sullivan
wasn’t coming after all.
A RAPID FERTILISER.
MR. MUMPER (rushing in excitedly from the
garden): “My dear, all those lovely Tsar
violets are up.”
MRS. MUMPER: “ Already? Oh, how heavenly!
It must be the effect of this sunny weather.”
MR. MUMPER : “ No, Medusa, it’s the effect of
Mr. Smith’s fowls.”
John Ross, who led the survey-paicy that
went before the transcontinental telegraph con-
structors, died in Adelaide last week. The fine
old bushman was banqueted in the town hall on
coming back from that expedition, with the S. A.
Governor of those days in the chair; but a new
generation has arisen, and the veteran was down
on his luck. A Register paragraph on Tuesday
resulted in an informal meeting, at which over
£5O was put up for him in a few minutes. But on
Thursday he was dead, the end being hastened by
an accident. Ross was born in the far north of
Scotland, in 1817.


LIS
THREE STAR
RANDY
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Aboriginalities.
Tk> Contributors.— ln the ease of ethnological and
natural history items, etc., always give date and
place of experience ; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific
value.
A Riverine squatter, who is carrying out
extensive irrigation works, is besieged with ap-
plicants anxious to work their teams of horses and
ploughs for the munificent wage of one shilling
per day and tucker. The area for each man and
team must not be less than three acres per day ; a
certain amount of fodder is allowed for each horse,
and, to save their stock from absolute starvation,
the owners are willing to give their services and
plant for practically nothing ! After this, we
can’t afford to speak slightingly of the low wages
of European countries.
TW , s Hitman fWlla.wulU'i e "‘"V
Boppj.-Bogs 4 ' ,s s rou s hr
> I-? _ &•, it w 15
coun, ?r,
Tot?~) to ronjo-Zo Drcu-gbt
u t" /iullx*«l!ab Totirn
ia. %»ra.s »"'t »f E m “
flßjgl tc% m *
M- r \'A. • t *x« ifoc *
f 3)
C *nto & cool
r'efrcXX' n Mot
w y\\y «<©*" Sl*«f Or
** '°° y
P? "Mien H« //^
1 jS
h l^ A
sr' U<* b..« *" t
ft- W tew * (1
p \- €
R,,b Vb,n I)V* * W^|T ' V
I V' to«2>
l 6l Tunny ’ '*Wp «■/ L ub^?
r-r - ! V S*f»- Jo*
i 730 /cap, «£ •
is) w *'•;<* rjs"li
s£*«* Vnp -
toA *£■«.»« l? b '* hn y
!/v* -
been r g^e l '« <i "1® h'£> '^ e l£>_
lonp *v«»
bon**, —V«'t'
CDSS*4 TVoi)gV|f ~VbSni
s**f"i%.w , ' xt ' i ' t '^P
■s\t en<J «9 V>> -
—_ -'tomb a)' rtyV’’ * I
< S2W l * So? A r rwn fi eV i #3b
rcoSi"' of Jj, Totchy.
|y Detection °f
/ MultJulla. °”
-ifor v «i-$r b * l4 iv
M| a \ *fc> s«
£f«J 1 ■/
L,. f oe £ s*>**»*< «b/
J il*//
s\s r s'/ /
(ij)
X .s■£*> A
4t
(Mr) lfl« cattle
(16) /\nA 4 r
&ji -Irje zredi'f for ,r^
THE ARCHAEOLOGY OF THE DROUGHT-
As swagtnen begin to venture again on
’ong drought-closed tracks, “Found Dead,” and
“Perished from Thirst” again become common
news-heads. A week or two back two mates
(Mark Glee and Billy Perry) were found dead
near Kalandra woolshed, out Hughenden (Q.)
way. One was in a half-standing position, leaning
against a fence, a hundred yards away from where
the other was lying; their swags were found a
mile away under a tree. Three more “ perishes ”
were reported in N.S.W. during the last week in
January. These horrors could be considerably
lessened by the regular posting of information at
wayside pubs, post-offices, mail-changes, &c., as
to state Of roads, where to get water and probable
time it will last on “long stretches.” Finger-
hoards ghould be placed at all branch roads where
a t rave ll e r would be liable to error, giving distance
to squattage or town, and to intermediate water
(“no water” oould be tacked on when necessary).
This could be done by police, stock-inspectors,
rabbit-inspectors, and others who have com para-
tively easy times in backblock towns. Our
3S£
s ini ness , might give a little attention to the
necessities of those who are very often facing
Sheol.
*
‘ 00100 : English brown trout are being
caught in M'Callum’s Creek, near Talbot (Vic.),
by the old English tickling trick—it was ancient in
Shakespeare’s time. You look in the quiet pools
till you find a trout drowsing through the hot
hours and meditating the vanity of existence.
Then, with precaution against noise and shadows,
you bend over the bank, introduce your hand
beneath the water without a ripple, and gradually
bring it to the trout’s plump belly. Then you
gently “tickle,” and while the trout’s dreams
grow golden your hand slides up to the gills,
clutches, lifts—and the beauty is landed ! There
is a good description of the trick in Cutcliffe
Hyne’s new book, “Thompson’s Progress,” p. 99.
Shakespeare refers to it in “Twelfth Night” (ii,
5, 26)—“Here comes the trought that must be
caught with tickling !”
Menindie Lower Darling has had its first
ia
sight of a river steamer for 14 months,
“1.W.” tells a story of
chivalry:
From Gloucester to Taree by coachi
is a weary journey. We were near-
ing Taree, about 7.39 p. m. The moon
lit up the road, and suddenly the
monotony was broken by the sight,
of a female figure some 300yds. ahead.
There was a young man in a sulky on
the road, between our coach and the
fair one. The coach-driver whipped
up his team to pass the sulky, in the
hope that the lonely pedestrian would
deign to grace the box seat of his
coach and thus make the entry to
Taree a more triumphal one. The
man in the sulky, however, whipped
up too, and, after a short race, drew
up smartly alongside the adorable
one. We got there just in time to
see him politely raise his hat and
hear him gently inquiring if the lady
would accept a “ lift ” into town.
She murmured a thankful assent,
and stepped towards the sulky. But
then the moonlight fell on her face,
and the gallant whipped up his horse
and fled. She was the ugliest old
black gin on the Manning !
* •
“ E.L.N.” re the hardiness
of dogs:
Travelling with horses once from
Hergott Springs (S.A.) to Wilcannia,
had a dog in our camp called
“ Sandy,” who, being slightly deaf,
got spread out about once a week by
a draught horse, but always rallied.
One night, when camped at Calla-
banna station (deserted then, save by
a stockman and wife), the dog wan-
dered off to inspect the sheep-yard,
where the few remaining “killers,”
were housed for the night. The
stockman, hearing the commotion,
appeared on the scene in his shirt,
carrying a gun, and taking Sandy for
a dingo lodged the contents in his
hind-quarters; then, rushing up
with a 3ft. waddy, he completed the
slaughter by bashing his head till
the blood ran out of his nose and
ears. After it was all over, the
stockman struck a match, and
found it was our dog, and a few
minutes later informed us of the
fact. Next morning, we decided
to bury him, and proceeded to
the spot with a spade, but Sandy
had gone. On returning to camp we
found him curled up in the front
of the waggonette. A few days after
he was “ heeling ” the horses as well
as ever. Some weeks later he at-
tempted suicide by picking up a bait
on Yancannia run ; we dosed him
with salt and salad oil, and turned
into bunk, leaving him for dead.
Next day he was all right.
* *
A tough item from “ Proo-
eban ”:
Re strong bush types. Jim Parkes,
a Tumbarumba (N.S.W.) native,
better known as “ Sparkes,” was
the strongest specimen of bushman
I ever met. Here are three per-
formances : (1) Forgot a bag of
flour, returned from dray mile and
a-quarter into town, and carried
the flour out without a spell. (2)
Carried a two-horse plough on his
shoulder a quarter of a mile from a
selector’s to his dray, met a man and
yarned some minutes but did not
drop the plough. (3) Entered Ram-
say Bros, yard at Tumba’ to bring
out an engine-pipe weighing 9cwt.
His mates inserted a long pole in
their end before essaying the lift,
but Jim reached down and, taking
his end with one hand, sauntered
out to the team in the street. Have
seen him take a log, impeding his
dray, by one end ai.a walk round
with it, thus clearing the track—a
log heavy enough for three men.
Moles and Crimean shirt were all
he wanted on the bitterest days of
winter when ranging the snow
hills; but pneumonia eventually
laid him out. He stood 6ft. 7in.
Two station hands, after spending Christ-
mas in Sydney, left Byrock (N.S.W.) on 30th
December on their journey back to Boorooma to
resume work, and perished on the road for want of
water. One was lying under a tree; the other
had struggled on towards a Govt, tank, and died
within half-a-mile of it. His dog perished with
him. Another man, named James Brown, who
had been working on a border station, left Narine
for a spell in Mungindi on Jan. 2. His body was
found 10 miles out, and three-q’uarters of a mile
from the bore drain, with a water-bag and billy
beside it, the swag having been dropped a con-
siderable distance back; i>ls was found in his
pockets—and he had lain there for more than a
week.
• * • •
“F.C.” ; “Shaker" (B. 10/l/’O3) says
he’s going to pass the milk-jug when the milking-
machine comes in. Well, I have had much
experience of the cow-thumper generally, and,
though he doesn’t waste too much hot water or
soda on his buckets, he doesn’t neglect his
separator. Have inspected hundreds (literally) in
Victoria, and repaired dozens, and never have I
seen one that a fly could get a meal off. While
the patents last, the farmer has to pay for his
separator —as he’ll have to pay for his machine-
milker—and the agent takes care to impress upon
him that cleanliness is absolutely necessary to
efficiency and durability. No farmer will want
to buy a new set of mechanical-milkers every year.
HOW IT AFFECTS SOME.
BLINKER (just out from “a sixer"): “ Yairs,
the tucker's gettin ’ worse and worse. All
through this ere retrenchment .”
Writes “ A.8.T.” :
Your correspondent, “Frank D.” (B. 31/1/’OS), is
(assuming sincerity), upon his own showing, a rank
tenderfoot where rabbiting is concerned. I live in S.A.,
180 miles up, in a place which is not “ literally alive with
rabbits,” but there are some, and can report thus :
Bought a small Antwerp rifle and 50 cartridges. Result:
40 dead rabbits in two afternoons from 4to 6 p.m. Kept
this average up for a fortnight, then wearied of a too-
easy game. You need to walk about a bit, judge your
distance, know bunny’s habits, when he is likely to
squat, how far he is from his burrow, when it is safe t@
stalk him for 100yds. or so, &c., &c. In 9 cases out of 10,
if he decides to “ squat,” he squats till shot or chased
away. Out of curiosity, have shot 50 bullets all round
a squatting rabbit, and then chased him away.
“ 2000 shots for 22 rabbits ” ! Frank, get thee to a gun-
nery ! I sometimes watch boys go cautiously towards a
watercourse to which rabbits have gone late in the after-
noon to drink—their burrows being, say, 50yds. from the
bank. The urchins crawl up noiselessly to the burrows,
plug them up with earth, then rush to the creek, yelling.
Bunny wildly scuttles for his burrow, and bumps into
the plug, after which the proverbial “ Silly as a rabbit”
materialises. He has no second idea, no resource what-
ever. A couple of dogs and a few willing hands and legs
in this way often bag dozens. Give bunny a 200yds.
sprint—he has no notion of “saving” himself,
and afterwards you might, his burrow blocked,
catch him on crutches; his lungs are so weak
and his heart so faint. Hard pressed, he often
gives a little squeak, then you know his heart
has “ broken.” But “ Frank D.” says that he dug at one
end whilst the rabbit ran out at the other, which proves
that, silly as bunny is, he can give “Frank D.” points for
shrewdness. When “Frank D.” goes hunting he should
not publish results. Rabbits are trapped round here in
thousands, and mostly destroyed. Does “Frank D.”
know that 20,000,000 were caught in Australia last year
and put, in some shape, upon the market 9 And then the
countless millions destroyed as pests! Talking about
rabbits reminds me that it is hard to keep a cat in these
parts. They take to creeks and sit, fat as mud, at the
burrows awaiting the unwary young bunnies.
* • » »
“ E.” : Re “Frank D.” on rabbit-trapping
(8., 31/l/’03):
He is evidently one of those useless, helpless, poor
devils who don’t know enough to come in out of the wet,
so far as making a living in the bush is concerned. Only
rank new-chums would waste time fiddling about with
the so-called rabbit-traps sold by ironmongers to-day.
Squatters condemned them years ago, and there are
thousands of them stocked and hung-up in sheds on
N.W. stations, while the managers go at bunny with
strips of wire-netting. Bunny is also one of the easiest
things in the bush to shoot, and the man who scores only
22 out of 2000 shots is not a reliable-enough person to
have charge of a gun. Why didn’t he get the billabong
kids to kill some for him with a stick? Said kids could
have told him that the great majority of phosphorus-
poisoned rabbits die in the burrows. And who but an
out-and-out fool would start to dig out rabbits before
blocking the exits 1
* • • •
“Nymsie”: “Frank D.” (8., 31/l/*O3)
re rabbit-trapping says, “I can’t see £lO a year-
let alone a week—in the game.” Yet an Elmore
(Vic.) trapper, t’other day, swore, when applying
for his expenses in the local court, that he made
£1 per day at trapping, and this in a season when
rabbits were scai ce, and during the height
of summer, when half the bunnies forwarded to
the freezing sheds are condemned; but— that
trapper knew and attended to his business !
* * * »
“E.C.” : Is the N.S.W. Birds Protection
Acta dead letter? In any of the Sydney bird-
shops may be seen galahs, butcher-birds, magpies,
parrakeets and finches, all of which, if my memory
serves aright, are protected by the Act. This
trade, in birds is mostly callous greed on the
one side and vulgarity on the other, but it occasion-
ally involves downright cruelty, as witness the
recent postponement of the Yass Gun Club’s
shoot, on account of 70 sparrows for the slaughter
dying prematurely through exposure to the sun.
* * * *
“ A.8.T.” : Syd. Kidman, the cattleman,
discoursed, the other day, to a S. A. newspaper-
man on dingoes as mesmerists. He says that,
when a pack of them goes for big game, they sur-
round that victim, gaze, snap and yell at it till,
thoroughly stupefied, it is incapable of effective
resistance. Then it’s dinner-time. 1 was myself
once, surrounded by a pack of about 25. Had
nothing but a waddy, and dared not precipitate
matters. Simply stood stock-still, whilst the c.urs
snapped, snarled, grinned and leered all round me.
At the end of an hour—it seemed a century—they
sneaked away. I then shook off the lethargy that
lay heavy on my brain. At the end of the first
half-hour, had I wanted to use the waddy, I don’t
think I could have mustered enough energy to do
so. The eyes of the dingoes seemed to be seeing
into my brain.
• * » •
“ Drover ” : In N.S.W., it matters not
whether the roads are “ closed ” or not—the
squatters use them just the same—not only the
roads but the “ routes,” which are supposed to be
set aside for the sole use of travelling stock.
Heaven help the drover who loiters on one of
these reserves to get a bit of grass for his starving
sheep. The neighboring squatter is promptly
down on him with the threat of “proceedings,”
though all the time his own sheep are worrying
it. The roads and reserves are the squatters’, with
the fulness thereof.
A PIONEER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
So Jack Atherton’s dead. Full of years
He has gone to his sleep.
He had sweated and toiled on the land-
In the drought-ridden West-
Where the ropes that he wrought were of sand.
still he kept to his queat
gore begefc by the ri of the droU ght
And the ruin o{ flood .
- the grey years .earthen out,
Drawing deep of his blood.
T \ en ’ wh ® n . bope had de3erted his 1 e
Al f nd ambltl ™ and pnde ~
All a-weary of toiling and strife,
nia t-iMt AfLorinn AieH
“Jason."


STARVATION
White Bread starvation is the unsuspected cause
of wide-spread weakness and debility. The
strength of Wheat lies largely in the Bran-
Phosphates, which are, however, removed in
making White Flour, but are restored to the
diet by using CEREBOS SALT at table and
in cooking.
From Grocers and Stores.
Wholesale Agents:—Harrison & Attwood, Sydney.
SQUATTERS
We can save you from riding hundreds of weary miles in a
year.
Our “ Fx. & R.” Field Glass is the same as we supplied for
the Contingent that left our shores for Africa.
They are very powerful. Their definition is extremely
clear. They have large fields.
They have the “ quick draw ” apparatus.
They are good for Opera, Field, or Marine purposes.
They are light—they are, when drawn out, 5 inches long.
They are cased in Tan Leather Cases, with shoulder-straps.
They are the Best and Cheapest Glass ever offered in
Australia.
London Prices
Plain Futures
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Optical House in Australia,
23 HUNTER-3T., SYDNEY.
“ Towrai ” : The giat of a
special by “Ares,” in the World’s
News (24/1/ 03), is that when specu-
lators first began to acquire land
m Fiji surveying-chains were not to
be had in Australia, but, crinolines
having gone out of fashion about
the same time, Robertson and
Moffat, of Melbourne, had on their
hands four or five tons of crinoline
steel, the whole of which M'Ewan
and. Co. bought up and made into
surveyors’ chains to meet the de-
mand. “Ares’” weird conception
of the form of a chain is thus in-
dicated : “ The steel cut into con-
venient lengths and joined together
with links/ Now a steel tape,
l-16in. wide, weighs about 21b. to
the chain. Crinoline steel, four
times as wide and twice as thick,
would therefore weigh 161 b. to the
chain, and four tons would contain
5600 chains, ample equipment in
those days of one-chain tapes for
1866 survey parties. Surveyors
must have been as plentiful there
as bubonic rats were a year ago.
Fact is, Fijian chiefs soon con-
cluded that measuring meant
robbery and would not let a
chain be dragged over the land
openly, so that many surveys had
to be made by measuring a base
either secretly or outside the for-
bidden area, and then triangulating
with the instrument alone.
» » *
“Jarrah”: The covered-in
tank is a much-neglected con-
venience in the drought areas. A
line of forks up the centre, fairly
strong beams and rafters, and
stripped palings laid on closely,
with a fence round the whole, are
all the essentials. A tank thus
roofed-in will hold water to within a foot
of the surface (the soakage limit) indefinitely,
and is equivalent, through precluding evapora-
tion, to an open tank twice the size. Know
a Mallee man whose protected supply hasn’t
failed him once during present seven-years’
drought, though he has sold thousands of gallons,
» * * «
“D.H.R.”: “Chass” remarks (B. 31/1/03)
that he lately pulled some ears of wheat, one side
of which contained good grain whilst the other
side contained only smut-balls. Had “Chass”
left the ears growing a little longer, he would
have found them all smut. The smut hadn’t had
time to do its work. The side in which “Chass ”
found the smut was probably the western side,
which remained longest without sun in the morn-
ing, and consequently retaining moisture longer,
bred smut.
• * • *
“R. 0.”: Bulletin recently stated that
the Kenniffs owned some valuable horses running
loose at Mitchell. If they did it’s safe to say they
don’t now, as the Roma district is a paradise of
cattle-duffers. Some men, now being tried, are
accused of cutting the brands out of living horses.
* * * *
What is alleged to be the oldest living
cow in N.S.W. was recently exhibited at Dapto
show. She has had 21 calves, and is still milking
and in good condition.
* • • «
The mutton-bird, which, according to Mr.
French, the Yic. Govt, entomologist, is cruelly
treated by being ripped open or trodden under-
foot for the sake of its egg, supplies yolks to many
Melbourne cake-makers. Right along the south
Victorian coast, from Sorrento to Cape Liptrap,
mutton-bird nesting goes on from the last week
in October. Two years ago, when in
Flinders, writer saw a man with a can
full of broken mutton-bird eggs, which
he was sending to Melbourne. He
said that the pastry-cooks flavored
the “mush” with vanilla, etc.,
and it was made into
pastry, etc. It was
much cheaper than
hen eggs.
ON THE BALONNE (Q.).—PULLING OUT
BOGGED STOCK.
“ Jock ” : Came down from a North Coast
,7 , 7 t , • •
river, last week, per steamboat, in company with
many passengers, and a large numbei of pigs.
calves and cows The calves were penned on the
upper deck, next to the ladies cabin ; the pigs
and cows were put forward and a southerly wind
wafted a delicious odor through the ship No
wonder that of 80 passengers, only six faced
dinner. Said I to one farmer-passenger, when a
more than usually odorous wlnff swept along,
Terrible stench, isn t it. Oh, wel, e
replied, “ I don t mind it, you know ; put s me in
mind of home ! ”
MISS ETHEL MOLLISON, who plays "lead" in a
forthcoming Williamson Comedy.
Photo, by Windeatt, Chicago.
Land-owners on the plains south of Ararat
(Vic.), who, years ago, started letting out land
for wheat-growing on the share system, are now
sowing down the stubble with lucerne. In some
paddocks, sown last spring, the lucerne is now 9in.
high, and would carry five sheep to the acre. This
is the land that was offered to the Peacock Govt,
for 50s. an acre for closer settlement, but was re-
fused because it was assessed for taxation as “ 3rd
class.”
* * * *
From Manning Times ;
Recently Mr. Moylan, of the VVoolla, who was at the
Old Bar, caught a flathead, and another fish which
measured about 4in. in length, with a head like a frog,
having a silvery belly and a spotted back. The fish had
no scales. When taken home a suggestion was made to
cook this fish as well as the flathead, but it was decided
to give the cats a feed. The fish was cut into three
pieces and given to three cats, and within Ismin. they
were all dead.
• • * •
“ Bobrid ” : Re Australian farming, which
is mostly wheatgrowing: I know a farmer near
Tumberumba (N.S.W.), who sowed Hungarian
millet alongside wheat, and when the millet was
3ft. high the wheat barely measured 7in., and poor
stuff at that. The millet was stacked for fodder,
and in the present month (Jan.), a self-sown crop
of millet promises to be better than the first one.
Until the “cocky” learns to adapt himself to his
country and his crops he’ll be ever looking for
seed-wheat!
* • * £
“C.H.R.”: Re weight-lifting. Many
years ago, on the Launceston (Tas.) wharf, a con-
test for supremacy took place between Tom
Hortle, son of the then Super, of Longford police,
and “Jock” M‘Cracken, who was afterwards
drowned at Ross, crossing with the mail. The
terms of the contest were: the cleanest lift of a
lOcwt. “monkey ” into the tail of
a dray from the ground with the
hands alone. Hortle lifted first,
but half - way up the weight
slipped and fell to the ground.
M'Cracken then lifted it clean
into the dray. Hortle afterwards
succeeded, but lost on the first
try. M‘Cracken’s son, now in
Tas. Parliament, may verify this
story. Tom Hortle, who died
some years ago in Warrnambool
(Vic.), where he was well known,
could, on the authority of men
still living, take a bajg of wheat
by the ears and sling it clean to
the top of a full dray-load. When
the first gold-rush broke out in
N.S.W., among the Tasmanian con-
tingent were the four brothers Hortle,
Thomas, William, John and Charles. An
old ‘ ‘ collector ” was accustomed to drive across
their washdirt every morning in a chaise-cart.
Unfortunately writer has forgotten his name,
but, for the information of any old digger who
may still survive, he was a very fat, heavy
man, and wore goggles. Tom Hortle warned
him twice. On the third occasion, he grasped
the spokes of one wheel and upset the whole show,
horse and all, off the claim.
Probably some Bulletin readers have seen or
heard of “’Possum Hill Jack,” of ’Possum Hill,
Berlin (Vic.). He was in evidence there 25 years
ago. His great feat was to run alongside a cart,
travelling at a good pace, and completely stop it
by holding one of the wheels with his hands.
There is still living near Deloraine (Tas.) an old
man, named Mick Maginty, one of the heroes of
the Crimea, who once carried a 2001 b. bag of flour
five miles, mostly up hill, with one spell on the
road. His height was sft. 7in., and his weight
9J;si.; and he was A 1 at single-stick, as writer too
well knows.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
Ao notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
\anded in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
ites stamps (of any State) accompany
Whip: The Bulletin would be glad—more
than glad—to see 14,000 square miles of the S.E. corner of
N.S.W. constituted a Federal Territory, the freehold to
be the perpetual and inalienable property of the Com-
monwealth. It only suggested 6000 sq. miles because it
thought there was very little chance of obtaining more.
In fact, it will take a bitter fight to secure that much....
E.F.: It was the man she wanted, not the money,
otherwise he couldn’t have been " hundreds of pounds ”
in her debt. And then came the marriage with the other
woman Stray : Horse-yarn doesn’t strike us at all. As
a matter of honest fact, working horses have a much
better time than working men Tom: You “had”
us on a plagiarism before, and your copy now
isn’t welcome. As jEsop said, “if a man fools
me once shame on him, if he fools me twice shame
on me.” Alone: A small stale crust of a joke,
and for the sake of those who lie in it we try to keep
small stale crumbs out of this bed Frank S. : You
mistake the idea. What the Papal commission will do is
to seek out arguments in support of the belief in the
plenary inspiration of the Scriptures, not inquire as to
the genuineness of that inspiration. The Papacy
is a very old bird and not likely to be caught
publicly inquiring into the stability of its own legs
E.M.P. : You “don’t see the use” of the Vic. Closer
Settlement law when it doesn’t provide for compulsory
resumption. Neither do we, but we said it first....
L.P. : All the information we can gather about Darling-
ton Point is a bald statement in the Year Book that the
whole population is 57 people. You don’t say how many
attended the school on an average M‘G.: The North
British railway is a long way off, and the accident that'
nearly happened there 43 years ago is too ancient.
Writer, by the way, was in the accident that did happen
on same line about 25 years ago, and doesn’t feel
good towards the N. B. Railway Phil Garlic:
“Our Boys” had the longer run of the two
L.O.E. : The Bulletin is always ready to publish any
accusation of plagiarism, supported by reasonable evi-
dence, against a contributor, and once it bowls out a
contributor he won’t get a chance of “ passing ” it again.
The desire of this paper is to pay for original work and
not to steal, or be the medium of stealing, from anybody.
J.A.R. (S.A.): Sorry we should be to detail the
misery endured by so sterling an actor and so good a
fellow in battling for a crust in his old age. Better help
in organising a benefit for him, in which, were it decently
handled, profession and public would enthusiastically
join A.C. (Brix.) : Style too amateurish. Tone down
your tragedy ; and try another Sydney weekly, at greater
length E.V.C. : Better drop" it—we always d 0...
Albert:
Who would not love the proud Monaro girl 1
Who for her country’s prestige has a notion !
Who wouldn’t proclaim this darling gem a pearl?
Who would not kiss her brow with deep devotion ?
Well, we wouldn’t. Brow!! —and her Monaro mouth
waiting!.... A.G.B : Rather conventionally sentimental...
P. : Your yarn about Joe Thompson is mostly his own
story previously published by truckling Turf reporters.
Items from his unpublished career would be more in-
AN IMPOSSIBILITY.
PRISONER : "Have you seen me
during the last 18 months?”
THE SRJINT : “ How could we see you whin ye was surrounded be sthone wall s!“
teresting O.T.W. (Canada): Many thanks Towrai:
Received Dorian: The question has been already
threshed-out in The Bulletin W.W.F. : Ideas good
enough, but rhyme and metre defective.... Argol : Cum-
brous mass of verbiage for such a thin thread of idea
Mark J.: The idea has been frequently used before
Kel B. : It is well known that British subjects fighting for
the Boers were captured wholesale during the S’African
war. The very first prisoner taken by Australians was,
strangely enough, a Maorilander. During the progress
of the war, Englishmen as well as Irishmen and Canadians
were taken whilst fighting for the Boers, in such numbers
as to render execution too big an order to take 0n....
Puy. : Interest too distant. Brief pars better May
Beil : Can’t oblige a lady this time Arthur C. :Not
up Patric D. : Inferior Gordon Vanity: Certainly,
in one sense ; possibly in two... .Maorilander : Seem to
see you on a primitive shore, thumping a nail-can and
howling those verses to the surf Margaret 0.: Some
merit; but ideas too stale, and treatment not dis-
tinguished M.C.S. : Feeble Purples: Bit thin
Mac. : May print you some day among the rude, un-
lettered Miltons Exile : J'Ty they won’t do R.A. :
Wish we could kill you along with it Rita : Possibly.
....W.E. : Considering Adanem :No chop, and too
much choppy Breelong : You forget the bank clerk’s
Beautiful Collars ; they surely entitle him to some
esteem... .John G. : Quite out of our line.... W.J.0.:
Not up to mark J.S.M. : Yes, the action would be
legal enough ; there is nothing in the conditions of hos-
pital endowment to prevent such a payment.. ..E.L.:
Your belief that pawnbrokers lend only a third or fourth
of an article’s value was your undoing. Pawnbrokers may
be “ had ” (though that is rare enough), and they may be
willing to help someone to “have” you Ku Klux :
Excellent sentiments, but, alas, not excellent metre....
Cookie : All over the ground Romulus : You’ve heard
of “ Chinese nerves,” haven’t you—the absolutely stolid
nature of the Chinese nervous system ? That makes them
more deliberate and gives them a control which the
average white man has not. .. Aristofanes : A bald and
unconvincing narrative M.E.F. : Verse not strong
enough John R. :If you want us to consider abstruse
yarns about “ the medium of exchange,” and so on, you’ll
have to write as plainly as J. S. Brunker, or use a type-
writer 0.0. W. : That bench’s decision in favor of'the
claim put forward by many brewers and “ cordial ”
makers that they can reserve to themselves property in
the bottles which hold their wares, whilst selling the
contents, is perfectly sound. Since the non-refillable
bottle has not yet been invented, this plan is considered
the best to prevent bottles bearing well-favored
brands from being re-fllled with other liquors
Volunteer : Certainly not ; actors and actresses were
11 vagabonds ” in the eyes of the law and of the churches
some centuries ago, but not now P. Les. : You may
pretend it is a story, but it looks to us like the glowing
foundation for two or three beautiful libel-actions
Henley: Did you expect us to print that? Noro : A
whole book about the “Social Problem ” received. Too
vast a hunk of philosophy... .G.A.A.: We get about seven
long articles every week re the doings of Victoria’s bent
Government, and we can’t fill the paper with that subject
exclusively H. 0.: Considering Hermit: “Devil”
neat—and flat A.D.B. : “ Maud ” unusable H.E. :
Possibly J. McO. : Impossible T.N. : Very poor
parody Ahau : Too slow 0. Car : Good material ;
style too amateurish. Practise, and come back later o*.
... .Stray : Good points ; not hard and tense enough
S.H.R. : Why wobble feebly at such great length ow£r a
thing like that?... .N.M.R. : Even the airy allusiow„to
the “ Simmonds and Jacks” mine on the Rand won’t
carry it... .L.S.H. : Remittance for you. Please send
address....J.J.D. : That “small Xmas card” is widely
current in Australia.. Factus: You haven’t hit it this thna..
i.W.S. : Not up Tydvil: Too silly-solemn.. ..R.J.K. :
Points; but dull essentially Raymond: Too dreary-
dirty... .Canuck : Haven’t the least idea what it i 5....
R.R. : Snake’s-diet question is hung up Wanderer :
The exaggerated ending spoils it Wollondilly : You
deprecate causticity, but the thing isn’t even worth a
gibe.... .Argo : Means simply that the dog is dreaming at
the time 8.W.: Well invented, but lacks point and
directness W.H. (R., y.): Long, dull and thin....
Barwon: For print; but no name on copy Wilga :
Can’t believe that of a Chinaman. Never saw a Chinese
ill-treat an animal. “ Fat as a Chinaman’s horse ” has
passed into a pro verb.... E.W. A. : Mere skeleton of story...,
H.L.P. : Nicely written ; not quite interest enough....
Roy : Du 11.... Mamoose : No novelty.... T. S. B.: You’ve
been dreaming about blue snakes with cerise eyes....
Pacori : We haven’t heard yet of any “ honestly mistaken
importers” who have over-paid duty. As a matter of
solemn fact, a lot of the “ respectable merchants”
who are howling at Kingston’s heels are men who
have been bowled out in plain swindling or in
the attempt to import obscene and forbidden things
to the Commonwealth. The hatred of this
mob is the noblest tribute a politician could have.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Renard : You will never prosper by your new style....
E.B.A. : One may serve as subject for sketch
Unavailable : Bal. Black, A.D.D., M.S.P., M‘G., Alf. W.,
Assam, Frank S.S., Tom S., A.D.P., E. 8., M.S.P., A.W.S.,
A.J.H., H.8.G., J.8.H., Alb. Fil., Tom S., T.E.G.S.,
W.Y.L., Maze F., Pod.
“Merton”: Be road-sweeping for gold.
Some time ago Maryborough (Vic.) Council
allowed two men to sweep a couple of miles of
road, on condition that metal (10 loads to the
chain) was to be placed thereon after the sweep-
ing, and the whole top-dressed. The contract
was faithfully carried out and the men declared
that it paid them handsomely. Roads paved
with gold 1
The Saxony royal scandal, according to
recent European papers, began with the
Grown Prince being an unmitigated brute ; pro-
gressed by the Grown Princess taking to reading
Zola and riding a bicycle (the King and the
Crown Prince were inexpressibly shocked by this
last “ immodest proceeding ”); then there were
free fights:—
Her husband affected to be as much horrified as the
King at her ways, and quarrels were frequent and violent.
At times, it is said, her husband beat her, when she would
return the blows with vigor, and a veritable rough-and-
tumble fight would result.
The lady, it is alleged, claimed the same right to
be revolting as her husband, and matched his mis-
tresses with her lovers. Finally—■
the Crown Prince took the extreme step of turning the
Princess out of the palace. There was a violent scjyiej
in which recriminations were made by each against the
other. The Prince dismissed both the Princess and the
French tutor, and they left the palace simultaneously.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial 'par
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance
is solicited.
England is certainly the paradise of the
greasy alien. All the people concerned in the
recent Bank of England forgeries were Polish or
German Jews, racial relatives of the Jewhannes-
burg boodlers.


THE PRODIGAL SON-WITH VARIATIONS.
The spendthrift N.S.W. Works Minister Owe’Su llivan has just returned from Westralia, to find that the loan-boom had burst during his brief absence.
THE PRODIGAL: “FATHER SEE, DO I SMELL VEAL?” FATHER SEE (whose calf is out of condition): “NO, MY SON, HE WON’T BE FIT FOR KILLING TILL THE NEXT LOAN.”


Jw si
Goy T l^
o|A« f»e°H €
declzytel JjM/
tfe
—
Aj
Pw,f
f r
A of
* G a *» c, 'l
|Ki zjjtly cU*"7
Tcv'er
H'esc r
i't' does
H«W >*i
' e.%Xkt*r]
{ornwoniiy ■•
'■ '
(^CN^ distr)\)u'Tor —* W do
you orrjC -for you re not i\
■fisy-tvje*' J , __ ,
Tow, Koosew.fc--;• I sy* to
Qy\*A u.k W b' c, > 'Lgj
tjow -yi .
por<2
-M^'M
%\ W;'l
>on e H««l «
'p CV'U^Mdte
v 1 Mm
-— — l ~~
-ii y
HP\
► Give * |>enny
for Gaud's
°Cottia«r a Q w&yi>e s£mf of
Self »n 11)C > m y dtix-
b*>* -ft® ”2-
—
xt a&W&O x
*
fcfcfe* }**.. o.
7
fulW
[would te willing "1o |w \
*»!>}>€aJ -to }>eo|»U
you 2ft" dTnje
"te .
jM T)e<.ide **S
» "Two , s®nny . "
Vic’. s u t»f>ov,e you ,
Wrf? £e+~ o^.
SOME VICTORIAN MATTERS.


A. SAUNDERS
FOR JEWELLERY, WATCHES. CLOCKS, OPTICAL GOODS, LEATHER
GOODS, AND SILVERPLATE OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAD BOARD and KNIFE, Pure Silver-plated on Hard
Nickel Silver, beautifully Chased and Ornamented, 355.
Can be used as Cake Dish or Salver. Similar styles, 255,
80s, £2, £2 10s. A USEFUL PRESENT.
J. DIXON and SONS’ Famous English Plate.
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class 4-Bottle CRUET, Silver-plated, £2.
Similar, 255, 30s, 355.
JAMES DIXON and SONS’ Famous
English Plate.
' V
A. SAUNDERS.
PICKLE. First-class English Fancy Glas
pure Silver-plated frame, £2.
Single Pickle, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Four o’clock CAKE FORKS, Pure Silver-plated
on Hard White Metal, 20s.
Similar style, 12s 6d. A bargain.
JAMES DIXON and SONS’ Famous
English Plate.
A. SAUNDERS.
LADIES’ COMPANION.” pure Solid Silver
mounted, 18s 6d ; smaller, 15s 6d,
A NICE PRESENT.
Ladies’
TICKET
A. SAUNDERS.
New PURSE, REFERENCE, and
BOOK, 10s 6d, pure siher mounted,
large size, 12s 6d.
Our own Special Design.
I'lllllll'i 1
J ft!=GAUNOER_S~
LONDON :&“SY.ONE.Y
g 9
r -#g£=--HggFi
s_
.-. jtor:Mp i
—’ wHfcßs^H^riEtpg,
A. SAUNDERS.
CARVERS, KNIFE, FORK, and STEEL, Joseph Rodgers’ Sheffield make. In silk-lined case.
Will give every satisfaction, ‘2os. Other styles, 30s, £2, £2 10s.
GUARANTEED SATISFACTORY.
A.. SAUNDERS.
0102.—HOT WATER KETTLE and
STAND, Silver-plated on White Metal,
Extra Chased, £2los.
Similar Designs, £2, £3, £3 10s.
DIXON and SONS’ Eamous English Plate.
A. BAUNDERS.
EGG CRUET, very neat, effective, 4 Cups
and Spoons, Pure Silver-plated on White
Nickel Silver, 21s. Other styles and pat-
terns, 255, 30s, 355, £2, £2 10s.
ll
-'in
A. SAUNDERS.
White China, silver-mounted, 10s.
All pure Silver-plated, nicely chased anc
engraved, 15s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
mnnminini"
A. SAUNDERS.
New Design. A 1 Quality, Silver-dated
BUTTER DISH, 12s 6d.
DIXON and SONS’ Highest class plate.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR SCUTTDE, square, pure
Silver electro-plated on White
Metal, beautifully hand-chased,
255; similar, 21s.
Child's Pure Silver-mounted
Nursery Khyme CUP, 10s.
In case, with Pure Silver Spoon,
255.
Specially made by JAMES DIXON and SONS.
Famous English Silver-plated 4 O’clock TEA SETS,
£3, £3los, £4, £4 10s.
KINDLY CALL AND SEE ODE DISPLAY SHOW BOOMS.
A. SAUNDERS.
FISH SERVHR and EORK, in Silk-lined Case, 20s, 255, 30s, Sss to £2 10s.
An Acceptable and Useful Present.
Pure PEBBLE SPECS, 4s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s ; American Gold, 12s 6d, 15s
Solid Gold, 255, 30s, 355, £2. Scientifically adjusted to suit you.
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class English made. Pure Silver-plated on Nickel Silver,
CAKE, £3 3s.
Other styles, similar, 21s, 255, 30s, 355, £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDEES.
Doub’e JAMS, Floral Ornamented China, 255, 30s.
In single. 15s 6d, Pure Silver-plated Eims.
First-class Gent’s
SHAVING
BRUSH, 5s 6d;
extra mounts,
7s 6d, 12s 6d, Jss,
21s.
a. Saunders.
CANDLESTICK,
Pure Silver-plated, 12s 6d.
Leaf Pattern, 8s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS’ LATEST STYLE.
fruit or cake stand,
Silvei-p ated Stand, with Fancy Glass, 30s.
Similar stand, 27s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
FLOWER STAND, Silver-
rla ted Base, 8s 6d per pair.
Larger styles. 12s 6d, 15s 6d,
21s.
Choice Table Appointments.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Crocodile Leather
WALLET and PURSE.
Silver mounted, 5s 6i ;
with shield, 7 s 6d.
SPECIAL VALUE.
A. SAUNDERS.
8124.—0ak BISCUIT, Silver
Mounted, 20s; Shield only
Fluted Rims, 255; Floral
Mounted, 15s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s.
-plated
', 15s;
China
(T S
:*
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM DISH, White or Fancy
Coloured Glass, Pure Silver Plate
on hard White Metal base,
Frame and Shield, 15s.
BUTTER DISH, White Glass, Pure
Silver-plated, £l.
Other Designs, 255, 30s, £2.
A. SACJNDERS.
FIELD and OPERA GLASSES,
First-class Lenses, good effect,
12s 6d, 15s, ‘2os, 255, 30s, £2, £2 10s, £3,
and £4 10s to £l2 10s.
A
DERS
LEADING ART JEWELLER,
809, 811 813, 815, & 817 GEORGE-STREET,
SYDNEY, NEARLY OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION.
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class Cabinet Striking CLOCK,
hours and half hours, 15s, 15s 9d, 17s t>d, 20s, 22s 6d, 255.
Other Btyles, 25s to £2 10s. Add 2s extra postage.
JiiP
m
ill curtctttiuLtrs ctta nnr: rrf r u !
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class ENTREE DISHES, pure Silver on Hard Niekel,
£3. Will last a lifetime.
A SATTISmF.UP.
A. SAUNDEKF.
TEAPOTS, very pretty and useful, Pure Silver-
plated, Hand Chased and Ornamented, 255,
Other styles and Patterns, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, 80s, £2,
£2 10s.
JAMES DIXON and SONS’ High-class English
plate.
A. SAUNDEKS.
Salad BOWL, Ornamented China, with Servers, 30s.
Similar, 255, 355, £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silve l ' JAM SPOON, BUTTER KNIFE, and
BREAD PORK, in silk-lined Case, 355.
Simila , with Sifter instead of Bread Pork, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR ana CREAM, Pure Silver-plated on har<7
White Metal, Gold-plated inside, with spoon, £2 of
A. SAUNDERS.
Fir-t-class Silver-plated CRUET,
specially made by
JAMES DIXON aud SONS.
High-class Quality, 21s,


V.
w
•h
p
V.
n
y
u\
u k.
/5
2S
0
t
i /
X
P*
jfc
v Cv
;
iy
4
<r
J
5*
(5
-—•: cs~
yy
V\M/
?
a
\
-?
e
>\V A
\
■\_
Ti
I
-J
9
n
r
V)
- V" '
2U
S
>//
0
V
i» -
V ' (
hr
yi
,v
£
i\
Oi
V
JW£ A-.X
The Genuine PHOSPHERINE (Fisher & Company’s) may he obtained from all che 2?i?|f_;^l ls ? M ess f s - & CO., Ltd., City and Suburbs;
xne wenume v WASHINGTON H SOUL & CO., ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, and Everywhere.
One Shilling per Bottle, Post Free. Pour Times the Quantity, 2s. 6d.
Manufacturing Pharmacy ! 337 GrG org <3 St., Sydney, uearly Gr.P.O,
®”Tb.e -best Medicine Ever IVEfi rle.
FISHER & CO’S Wonderful —c
“PHOSPHERINE”
UNSOLICITED TESTIMONIAL FROM THE SOUTH.
„ , . Barrentrarrv, June 25,1901.
Messrs, Fisher & Co., 337 George-street, Sydney.
, ii ea ™ust write and tell you that your PHOSPHERINE is a splendid medicine
tor the HEAD and NERVES. I believe it is the BEST MEDICINE EVER MADE. I will
never be without it. It seems to brace up the whole S3’stem, and is undoubtedly an
unequalled tonic.—Yours faithfully, WILLIAM HAY.
THIS SIMPLE, STRAIGHTFORWARD TESTIMONIAL SPEAKS VOLUMES.
fJEFORE
AF,IE^
OF COURSE HE COULD
Mbs. Trubbles: “Doctor.can you do anything for my
husband ?”
Doctor : “ What is the matter?”
Mr*. Trubbles : “ Worrying about money.”
Doctor : “ Oh 1 I can relieve him of that all right.”
The Best Doctor for worry, and at little cost,
is undoubtedly
FISHER &nd CO.’S wonderful
PHOSPHERINE.
Let every man carry a Bottle of FISHER’S
PHOSPHERINE. It only costs ONE SHILLING.
HII Smiles and good tuck.
The very best Remedy and Tonic is to suddenly
nake some afternoon £lOOO.
How success brightens the eye, makes the step
elastic, creates laughter, and mikes one eat and
drink. You go home, kiss the wife and children
with great ardour, you talk to the birds, pat the
dogs, and hand expensive ciears to your coachman.
WORRY kills business men ; it disturbs the
Digestive Powers, Upsets the Liver Disor-
ganises the Kidneys—Causes Headaches and all
the ills that flesh is heir to. FISHER’S PHOS-
PHERINE Saves Men, Cures the Weary,
Nervous Sufferers. It is a great boon to deli-
cate gentlemen, ladies, and children. A few
drop 3 of PHOSPHERINE are worth untold
treasures to the worried man or woman.
The Qther Thing -gad tuck.
When some afternoon you lose £lOO at the
races, you may drink, but you cannot eat or laugh,
you argue and quarrel and offend everyone. A
depressed, sick feeling makes you wish for a
doctor. Let that doctor be FISHER’S PHOS
PHERINE. It produces sweet sleep, and blissful
composure.
Beware of Alcohol.
Take PHOSPHERINE in place of wines,
beer, or spirits to drive the blues away.
In the morning when the head aches, and the
heart is heavy, when you feel sick with worry
take FISHER’S PHOSPHERINE. It sets
you up and enables you to make money with a
clear brain.
WAIT TILL THE CLOUCS ROLL BY.
Worry Kills Business Men.
PHOSPHERINE Saves Men.
Take it, and in less than bO mimitjs th 3 c ojds roll by,
and he sweet sunshine of heal.h and con e.i.mant is
restored.
WE ALL TAKE IT,
During the hot, sultry weather
FISHER'S PHOSPHERINE
is the Most Wonderful NERVE TONIC and
BLOOD BUILDER of the Century. It
remedies the whole system, Curing
Anaemia
Headache
Neuralgia
Nervousness
St. Vitus’ Dance
Lumbago
Sciatica
Paralysis
Rheumatism
Backache
Palpitation
Indigestion
Poor Complexion
General Weakness
Kidney Trouble
Liver Complaints
Fainting Fits
Skin Complaints
Women’s Ailments


HOW TO KEEP COOL.
We strongly recommend all who suffer
from the heat to add a few drops of Condy’s
Fluid to the Daily Bath or Foot Bath.
A Gondy’s Fluid Bath imparts a most
delightful sensation of coolness, freshness
and purity, it invigorates the body and
braces the nerves. The strengthening and
cooling effects are Simply Magical. Tired
or Tender feet are instantly relieved. Book
on bottle contains full directions.
Condy’s Fluid is sold by all Chemists
. throughout the British Empire. Beware
of substitutes. Insist on having “Condy’s
Fluid/ Condy & Mitchell, of London,
Englaner, are the only Makers and their
name and address j$ at foot of label.
AUSTRALIAN STAMPS
Bought, Sold & Exchanged.
Gibbons’ Philatelic Albums
and all requirements. Price lists gratis.
J. H. SMYTH & CO.,
88 KING ST., SYDNEY.
ill
Before booking your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers’
Gazette & Sailing List, with map.
THOS. COOK & SON,
269 Collins st., Melbourne. 4 Hunter-st., Sydney.
SPECTACLES
—FOR—
DEFECTIVE
VISION, to
COUNTRY READERS
who cannot visit us
personally, we send,
Post Free to any ad-
dress, with full in-
structions and Price List, our niarvellously-accurate
and popular SELF SIGHT-MEASURING PATENT.
By its use you can Test your own sight and de-
termine for yourself the style and quality of the
glasses you may need. Write for it to—
H* A. BARRACLOUGH, Optician,
371 Georo-e-st-- Svdnev. next, A.J.S. Bank.
“Don’t shout”
" I hear you. I can hearnow
as well as anybody.
“• How?' Ob. some- 1
thingnew— The Wilson..
Common-sense Ear*'.
Drum. I've a pair in my
ears now, you can't see them
x they're invisible. I wouldn't
know I bad them in myself,
only that 1 hear all right."
The Wilson Ear-Drum is
really a substitute for the
yvorking parts of the
natural ear. Has no
wire. Invisible, easy to ad
just, comfortable *• Totally
different from any other de-
vice Descriptive pamphlet sent upon request
* CIIAI ilHft. 229-231 Collins Si.. Help.
fgd
“ Vivacious unveracity,” lately said B. R.
Wise, “is the policy of Sydney Daily Tele-
graph.”
Gentleman with a German accent (loq.) *
“De Freetraitors of Brisbane objects to Mr.
Kingston.” Yoost zo.
N.S.W. Taxpayers’ Union programme in a
nutshell:—
Owing to extravagant expenditure and borrowing, the
financial position of the State is bad ; therefore let us
reduce taxation and make the financial position worse.
N.S.W. Labor Conference condoned the
action of Fred Flowers, Labor M.L.C., who
voted against woman suffrage, one of the planks
of the Labor platform in the Upper House. The
'dea seemed to be that, after all, it didn’t matter
nuch what a man did in the Upper House.
Lubricating oil pays a duty of 3d. a gallon
under the Federal tariff, of which, by theßraddon
ilause, 2|d. goes back to the importing State as
revenue. N.S.W.’s so-called “ Protectionist ”
Government passes over local industry and buys
its lubricants from the foreigner, so as to swell
ts revenue by the amount of the repaid duty !
The Federal tariff at first proposed an
adequate duty (3d. a lb,) on blue. One big
English firm thereupon prepared to build a factory
in Sydney to manufacture the article locally and
employ 600 hands. The duty was lowered to a
nominal figure by the efforts of the unpatriotic
Foreign-traders, and the factory project was
promptly abandoned.
Now that the Brisbane Newspaper Co. has
fallen out with Philp and Co., the Q. public is
being treated to some truths that, if published
before last State election, would possibly have
made a big hole in Philp’s majority. Now, it is a
day after the fair ; but the Courier is built that
way. Probably before next State election they
will kiss and be friends.
PLAIN ENGLISH AGAIN.
“ My ideah, don’tcherknow, is that we ought to
have Government of the Emviah, by the Em-
piah, for the Ernpiah.”
“ N.S. W. Taxpayers’ Union ” is getting on
nicely. According to the Sunday Kitchen
Wench, it is going to work in harmony with
“The People’s Reform League,” a political
myth seemingly unknown outside the Kitchen
Wench office. At present the “Taxpayers’
Union,” according to its alleged secretary, num-
bers 2500, and is going to hurl John See from
power, keep Joey Carruthers out of office unless he
agrees to its platform, and stamp the hated Labor
party utterly flat. The Tax Dodgers’ Union has
big ideas—pity its stomach is so small.
Peter Airey, M.L.A. lias been asking the
Philp Government a pertinent question. He
wanted to know what was the use of spending
£13,000 a year in assisting more people—mostly
the very poor—to come to Queensland, when the
Government couldn’t find employment for a very
large number of people who are there already.
And for all the answer he got Airey might as well
have put his question to the leper-station or to
Dunwich Asylum.
Last Monday, in an article entitled “ Vic-
toria and the Food Duties,” Sydney D.T.
lamented greatly about the iniquity of levying
Customs duties on produce just now, when the
local supply is temporarily short. Yet the D.T.
advocates a revenue-duty on tea, of which the
local supply is always short—in fact, there is none
at all. Indeed all the things on which it advo-
cates duties are things which are either always in
short supply locally or are in no supply at all,
As showing the tremendous difference
between the Federal and the State franchise and
the progressive, democratic legislation of the
former as contrasted with the stagnation of the
latter, the returns of electors in the Royal Park
district of North Melbourne electorate are inter-
esting. The State Assembly roll includes only
667 voters —and of these but 470 are resident, the
rest being plural-voting property-owners. The
Federal roll shows 1811 persons, all qualified by
residence.
Vanity Fair (London) on the annual re-
union of the Cobden Club —that “great’’Free-
trade organisation which consists of 233 Britishers
and 242 foreigners who sool Britain along the road
that pays the foreigner best: —
So long as a single ox is fattened or a single ear of
wheat is grown in these islands there will always be
occasion for melancholy gatherings, such as that which
met last week to munch its foreign bread and foreign
meat to the greater glory of the foreigner. A dinner of
the Cobden Club resembles nothing so much as a horde
of sick vultures sitting round a well-picked skeleton.
Cabled that Chamberlain, speaking to the
Kimberley diamond-Cohens, t’other day, pre-
dicted that if Cape Colony did not mend its ways
it would become “ the Ishmael of South Africa.”
He did not mean to be complimentary. But see
Genesis xxi., verses 17, 18, and 20 :
And God heard the voice of the lad (Ishmael), and the
angel of God called to Hagar out of heaven and said unto
her : “ What aileth thee, Hagar ? Fear not, for God hath
heard the voice of the lad where he is. Arise, lift up the
lad, and hold him in thine hand ; for I will make him a
great nation.” . And God was with the lad and he
grew.
Sydney Evening News stigmatises as
“preposterous” a request made by labor repre-
sentatives to Premier Barton—
That the crews of all ships coming from abroad, and
discharging or taking in fresh cargo in Australian ports,
should be paid Australian wages.
Yet, what is more just than that Australian work
should be kept for Australian workers at Aus-
tralian wages ? As things are now, the Australian
shipping interest is unfairly exposed to compe-
tition from tramp steamers whose ill-paid crews do
the work of unloading. The Australian shipowner
has to pay his sailor much higher wages and is
forced to give to the wharf-laborer a shilling an
hour. Why should he suffer from the competition
of people who don’t pay their workers even three-
pence an hour ?
In Queensland members of the Defence
Force used to travel free by rail while on duty,
but now that the Force is a Federal affair Minis-
ter Leahy demands that fares shall be paid.
This is good enough, but Minister Leahy’s
explanation is far otherwise. He says
Queensland will gain nothing, because
the fares paid will be deducted from
its share of the surplus, but he wants
to prevent the Commonwealth
Government taking undue credit for
reducing expenditure. Which, it
would seem, really means that he
wants to be able to compare the Com-
monwealth’s Defence expenditure
(railway fares included) with the old
State expenditure (railway fares not
included), and build up against the
Barton Government a bogus charge
of increasing expenditure.
N.S.W. Political Labor Confer-
ence is being soundly trounced by
the daily papers for its resolution
favoring the abolition of the Im-
perial veto as regards legislation
passed twice by the Commonwealth
Parliament. Possibly it would have
been better tactics to avoid raising
such an issue until the need arose
through the rejection of some Aus-
tralian Act by the British Crown ;
but it is absurd for the Sydney
D.T. to argue, as it does, that—
The right of veto is part of the British
Constitution, and it applies to the legis-
lation of the House of Commons, as well
as to that of a colonial Parliament.
The right of the King to veto an
Act of the British Parliament exists in theory
only ; it is never exercised, and never can be
- exercised. It is only colonial legislation that
is at the mercy of an irresponsible veto.
Some tariff facts ; Under the Parkes scale
of duties a flourishing oil-industry was being built
up in N.S.W. (Joadja Creek alone gave employ-
ment to 1100 men). The Reid tariff practically
destroyed the industry, and the Federal tariff con-
tinues the crime. A return to the Parkes scale of
duties on kerosene oils would build up another
great industry in N.S.W.
At a recent meeting of Brisbane Chamber
of Commerce, one infuriated foreign importer laid
a proposal before the other importers, that the
whole gang of foreign importers should treat
Minister Kingston with cold contempt when he
visited their city. The trouble is that Kingston
is a very big man, who could lift up two average
importers at once and tear them up and throw them
away, and unless the importers stand on a chair
to treat him with contempt, he may not see them
at all.
Before the inquiry into the alleged
dummying and other malpractices of Victorian
Lands Minister M’Kenzie was half through, the
Irvine Goverment gave his portfolio to Taverner,
and shut the door firmly in the old squatter’s face.
It might not be kind, but it was certainly wise.
Sometimes when Jonah goes overboard a feebly-
dishonest pretence is made of hoping that he will
be washed back again, or that he will be found
safe on the seashore of Assyria later on, and his
bunk is kept dry for him for a day or two ; but,
after all, no one wants him back, and no one is
deceived.
Still not a word in N.S.W. Labor party’s
generally excellent “fighting platform” about
the debt-slavery into which the State is drifting !
Free education, water conservation, the stoppage
of Crown land sales, and other things to reduce
revenue or increase expense; but not a syllable
about filling up the gap in the accounts. Free
education is good; but if, after abolishing fees, we
simply go that much further into debt, the effect
is merely to make the children pay for their own
education —we pass the bill on to them. And then
we feel good because we have given them “ free
education ” ! The hypocrisy of it!
Alterations in the polling strength of
N.S.W. constituencies, brought about by female
suffrage, will make a re-distribu-
tion of seats necessary. Mr.
“Baldy” Davis, who votes on
the See side, represents 2242
Bourke electors, while Mr. Geo.
Howarth, who votes on the other
side, is the mouthpiece of 10,421
residents of Willoughby. The
preponderance of female voters
in the suburbs will make the
question of metropolitan represen-
tation a more burning one than
ever. The 87 country constitu-
encies have now, in round num-
bers, 340,000 electors, or, say, 3900
each, while the 38 city and sub-
urban electorates have 240,000, or
nearly 6300 each. There are other
curious discrepancies. Sydney
Lang is 2585 strong, Sydney Fitz-
roy, 6000. Woollahra has 2647 men
and 4265 women votors. The
Barwon has 1613 men and only
734 women ; Bourke, 1576 and 666.
Most of the suburban members
must be most respectful to the
ladies, Mr. “Tomato” Jessop
especially ; in his electorate they
are in a majority of 1250.
Donald Macdonald, M.L.A., and Presi-
dent A.W.U., at N.S.W. Labor Conference :
The labor unionists of N.S.W. had been sold like bul-
locks at Smithfield by the Attorney-General, Mr. Wise,
in regard to the Arbitration Act.
Which silly nonsense went without a protest.
N.S.W. Arbitration Act gives trades-unions more
legal protection and wider powers than they
possess anywhere else in the world. Of course,
it does not guarantee a labor union a favorable
verdict whenever it goes to law; and, short of
that, evidently, no Act would satisfy some people.
Some hifalutin’ Joe Chamberlainisms from
J ohannesburg : —•
I hold that no Briton should appeal in a just cause to
the Motherland and go away dissatisfied.
Certainly he shouldn’t—if the Chamberlain crowd
can make a dirty, sordid profit for itself by not
sending him away. But nearly 40 millions of
Britons are appealing in dumb misery, year after
year, against the hideous system of land-monopoly
which makes 1| per cent, of the population of the
United Kingdom proprietors of 80 per cent, of its
wealth. And they go away unsatisfied—if they
are too unsatisfied they go away to gaol.
The paralysing of strike tactics by Supreme
Court injunctions, although only recently used to
any extent in England, has been such a regular
weapon of industrial warfare in America that, in
the early nineties, the phrase ‘ ‘ Government by
injunction ” was in common use by unionists
when denouncing the Federal Government as a
cat’s-paw of the capitalists. The alteration of the
well-known “ Save your money and buy a gun ”
to “ Save your money and buy a judge ” arose out
of one of the numerous injunction cases, where it
was thought the legal armory was placed a little
too freely at the disposal of the trusts in labor
matters.
Victorian Toryism is now enjoying its
first uninterrupted innings since the pre-Berry
days; and, judging by its re-adjustment of old
burdens of taxation, and addition of new burdens
to the shoulders of the landless classes, its election
of a Conservative Senator to represent a radical
people, its successful deprivation of the voting
rights of one-eighth of the citizens, its con-
templated onslaught on free education, and its
scarcely-veiled purpose of reducing old age pen-
sions to a grudged charity, doled out by its wives
in “ Ladies Benevolent Societies ” —it is certainly
making up for lost time, and doing more, with
brains (for it has some), in a year or so, than the
parti-colored tribes of Liberalism have done for
their side in over 20 years of office.
The Vic. Iceberg Govt., said to be the
first formed during the past 20 years without
King Syme’s personal supervision, is showing a
wanton disregard of that magnate’s instructions.
Since R. Speight’s time, David’s care has been the
Railway Dept., and anything he said in connection
therewith was supposed to “go.” But David has
for some time been barracking for the appointment
of a single Railway Commissioner with a board of
five “ directors,” and so certain did he feel that
Irvine and Bent would bow to his dictation,
that the Age actually announced the Govt.’s
“decision” that the management was to be on
these lines. Imagine Syme’s surprise when he
learned a day or two later that the Icebergers had
adopted precisely the same scheme as Peacock’s,
and intended appointing three Railway Commis-
sioneerson the N.S.W. lines. The Age potentate
was misled by two or three people who have been
billet-hunting through the medium of his paper,
and with whom the wish was father to the alleged
“ news.”
A voice from the Vic. House of 48 Rich
Landlords:
Mr. Sternberg regretted that the Government had
found it necessary to introduce new taxation. He would
rather have seen the deficiency funded, if necessary, and
added to the public debt than cast new burdens upon an
already struggling people.
Sternberg, like Micawber, thinks a bill is paid
when an lOU is given for the amount; he has
no idea that debt is a burden on a struggling
people.
William M‘Millan, in an interview at
Adelaide, foaming at the mouth because the
Commonwealth Government refused to hush up
the petty Customs swindles of the importers, said
that “two years of mal-administration have abso-
lutely blasted all the hopes” entertained by
“true Federalists.” Also he raged with special
venom about Federal postal management, and
said it was “thelaughing-stockof practical people.”
Perhaps it is—yet, come to think of it, when
M'Millan was helping to run N.S.W., it cost
to send a Sydney paper about 2000 miles to the
far end of Australia ; it cost nothing to send it 500
or 600 miles to the most inaccessible corner of
N.S.W., and it cost Id. postage to send it 10
yards into the next street. A man who was
partly responsible for an idiotic system like that
should keep very quiet about postal matters.
HIS REASON.
“ William, you haven’t been to Sunday-school
lately. What’s your reason?”
“ Well, yer see, it’s too bloomin’ religious for me.”
Sydney D.T. (now willing to let a little of
the truth peep out as to S’Africa): —
The mine-owners and miners have never formed a
happy family. One of the causes of the ignominious
failure of the Jameson Raid was the flat refusal of the
white miners of the Rand to assist a movement intended
to upset the Boer Government and replace it provisionally
with one which, as they believed, would chiefly represent
mine-owning- and financial interests. The policy of the
powerful corporation which controls Rhodesia has been
to secure the fullest possible share of the benefits arising
from their vast monopoly, regardless of how hard the
conditions of those who must make terms with them may
become, and it was thought that the same policy would
be followed in the Transvaal to a greater extent than was
practicable under Boer government if that of the banks
and companies were substituted.
But the D.T. didn’t let theN.S.W. workers know
that when the cohentingenting fever was on and
President Carey aspired to a knighthood.
George Reicl has been holding forth much
in Westralia about the departure of population
from Victoria Any ordinary person would fancy
that would be a subject about which even George
Reid, as the man who started a pretty large
export of the population of N.S.W., would say as.
little as possible. There are some interesting
figures on this subject in Coghlan’s latest issue of
the “ Seven Colonies,” page 530. The Federal
tariff came in force towards the end of 1901, so that
year may be taken as the end of a period of some-
thing approaching Freetrade which Reid started
in Ist Jan., 1890. The results are these : Two-
years of extensive Protection under the Parkes
tariff and four years of more extensive Protection,
under the Dibbs tariff (1890-1895) saw N.S.W.
gain 34,944 people by excess of arrivals over
departures. Six years of something approaching
Freetrade under Reid’s tariff saw it lose 10,223
people by excess of departures over arrivals. As-
the Vic. departures decreased, those of N.S.W. in-
creased till at last it became the greater popula-
tion-exporting State of the two. George Reid
should get his Dry Dog to audit his statistics, or
else he should audit the dog’s statistics.
Barrister-squatter Mackinnon’s proposal,
made recently to Victoria’s staggered Assembly, to.
square the ledger by an all-round land-tax, sent a
cold shiver down the spine of all landowners-
Mackinnon’s plan is to use the municipal councils’
valuation as a basis, and to add the tax to the-
rates. By this means the tax would be fairly
enough distributed, while the cost of collecting
it would be a mere bagatelle. Mackinnon.
suggested an impost of 3d. in the £, which would
provide enough to meet the deficit without going
on with the unspeakably mean programme which
Irvine is bludgeoning through the Assembly. The-
callous cruelty of starving the charities, stealing a>
day’s pay a week from the railway employees, and:
docking the vote for painting and repairing State
schools, already begins to cause a revolt against;
the Deform Ministry. The astounding feature of
the case is that Mackinnon is a landowner advo-
cating a tax on his own property, and the-
language of his fellow landowners is quite unfit
for printing in an inoffensive rag like The Bulle-
tin. What they will say if Mackinnon ever gets-
into power is too deafening to contemplate. The
said brother squatters are, to a man, personal
acquaintances or friends—mostly the latter up to
date —of the revolutionary Mackinnon ; but it is
understood that they will shortly hold a meeting:
to reconsider their position.


When
you
require
a PIANO—
Remember
They carry the
Hall mark of
Public
Approval.
PALING'S
PIANOS
The
Prices
are
Right.
Ar« as
COOP as
60LP.
Good Tone
Good Touch
Good Workmanship
Abead of
ALL OTHERS
Call or
Write for
CATALOGUES.
Palings
Stock also
VIOLINS
CORNETS
BANJOS
GUITARS
MANDOLINS
AUTOHARPS
CONCERTINAS
ACCORDEONS
In
fact
EVERY KNOWN
MUSICAL INSTRUMENT.
i _
BAND
INSTRUMENTS
OE ALL KINDS.
STRINGS and EITTINGS
If you do not see the instrument you
require enumerated above, Call
or Write to us; we will gladly
show you our immense stock, or
forward CATALOGUES EREE
W. H. PALIN6 *c» L” 338
6EOR6E STREET,
SYDNEY
Brisbane
NtwcaStl
Hemorrhages Conquered by
VITADATIO
Russell-atreet, Prospect, Adelaide,
November 2, 1900.
Mr. S. A. PALMER.
184 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Dear Sir,— It is with pleasure I give my testimony to
the curative powers of Vitadatio. Mv wife was a sufferer
for two years with Hemorrhages, at first intermittently,
and afterwards incessantly, throwing up alarming
quantities of blood, and falling away to a mere skeleton,
becoming also so weak, that she could not walk about.
The only consolation the doctors could give was, that if
the hemorrhage was stopped consumption would follow.
Various remedies were tried, but were of no use. I was
then advised to try Vitadatio for her, which I did,
although I was prejudiced against the remedy thinking
it was only another of those “ cure alls.” To my
surprise, however, before the fourth bottle was finished,
the hemorrhages had ceased, and from that time my
wife increased in weight, health, and strength. Those
who knew her condition, can scarcely believe their own
eyes, her condition now being so different. It is fully 15
months since the cure took place, and there has been no
return of the hemorrhages. You may use this as you
please for the information of others.
WM. CAMERON,
Storekeeper, late of Gawler.
Witness—Geo. R. Davis, Adelaide.
For further particulars ,
S. A. PALMER ,
184 ritt Street, Sydney .
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The Price of Medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
"A Plunge in Panamas/'
TAESPITE the scarcity of this fashionable headgear, as
the result of special arrangements when visiting the
centres of manufacture,
CHARLES GILBERT
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE,
has received another large shipment in Folding and
Alpine Shapes, which will be SOLD at prices no other
firm in the Commonwealth can BUY them for. So great
is the demand, and so scarce the supply, that every'hat
could be sold wholesale at a big profit, but he prefers to
give his retail customers the benefit of his keen buying,
and thus increase his connection.
Note his Prices-18/6, 22/6, 25/-, 30/- to 45/- (for
cash with order). Sent securely packed and carriage-paid
to any address. Satisfaction guaranteed or cash returned.
Newman’s
Antiseptic Pastilles.
The Best for all Affections of the Throat.
try them price-one shilling.
S. HARRIS, M.P. S., Pharmaceutical Chemist,
Telethone 2283. 82 KING-ST., BYPNEY.
~ Missing Friends.
IF EDWARD OGRA )Y, also known as Edward
Stevenson, son of the late Mrs. JOHANNA O’GRADY,
of Wahring, in the State of Victoria, will communicate
with THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS AND AGENCY
COMPANY, LTD.. 412 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE,
he will learn something greatly to his advantage.
ARTIFICIAL LIMBS^
with AA marks
PATENT
RUBBER
FEET .»■>
HANDS
ARE THE BEST
PROCURABLE.
m
i
Sole Agents and Manufacturers:
DENYER BROTHERS,
281 GEORCE ST.,
SYDNEY,
and at cor. Lonsdale & Swanston Sts., Melbourne.
Catalogues and Prices on application.
The Callaghan Boot
More about these Men’s Boots
at 16/6 a pair.
We present herewith an exact photograph of
the Men’s Black Calfskin Boots at 16/6, about
which we have already told you.
It gives a most accurate
idea of the style, quality and
workmanship of these excel-
lent boots.
When ordering you have
the privilege of exchanging
them after trying them on if
not correct; or your money
is refunded if desired.
Price - - 16/6
Post Paid, 17/6
Delivered
POST and
DUTY FREE
17 6
a pair,
To any address in the
Commonwealth.
We look to sell
Thousands of these Hard Wear
Boots for Hard Times.
Fu.l Description follows:
SOLE s—Solid5 —Solid oak-tanned stout walking soles, stitched on a Goodyear machine, with
best Irish Flax Thread, warranted not to rip open.
UPPERS—Uppers and Vamp are cut from plump skins and are not skimped in
any way.
LINING —A good grade of heavy drill. The inner sole is milled perfectly smooth on
the surface and free from nails, creases or thread.
HEELS—Square trimmed, size 1 inch, properly nailed.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 ceorce st., Sydney.
Obit., the much-respected George M‘Credie,
ex-M.L.A. for Cumberland, first of the plague
cleansers in Sydney, and accidental cause of
the George Dean criminal trial convulsion. As
to the last, the son of M'Credie, foreman of the
Dean jury, died, and Justice Windeyer, to hurry
the case through and release the father, kept the
jury at it till the verdict was returned.
Peters, the “ hero ” of the crazy Chelten-
ham (Vic.) flogging outrage, faced the Supreme
Court the other day in a neatly-trimmed brown
beard, and looking the picture of health and
sanity. The contrast between his present and his
first appearance was a strong lesson on the efficacy
of prison diet and regular habits. The jury, on
the evidence of the gaol doctors, found him insane
at the time of his flogging exploit, but expressed
the hope he would be detained until “properly
well.” Sadism, a perversion of sexual desires,
from which he suffered, seems to be a combination
of religious mania and Deadwood Dick. In this
case, said the doctors, it took the form of finding
a pleasure in the sufferings of others. So many
persons have that kind of disease that it is hardly
worth calling it such. It is almost as common
as feet, and they aren’t generally called a disease.
Adelaide police court has decided that a
horse-trainer who severely walloped his apprentice
jockey (aged 18) was not in any way punishable
for assault, because a sort of general authority to
wallop was included in the indentures of appren-
ticeship. Presumably, therefore, if the indentures
authorised amputation, or allowed the apprentice,
under certain circumstances, to be beheaded, and
he was amputated or beheaded, the same painfully
wise court would decide that everything was
perfectly correct. A court that is so bloated out
with wisdom and information seems liable to
decide anything. About 20 years ago an English
police court arrived atawiser conclusion. A factory
owner had devised an ingenious way of promoting
velocity among his girl employees. They were
divided into groups of three and the time they
took to finish a certain amount of work was noted,
and the slowest girl received six strokes from
the forewoman’s cane. The “ rules of the estab-
lishment” were supposed to be sufficient to cover
this, but when one slow girl was caned three times
in one day she proceeded against the stipendiary
spanker for assault. An unusually sensible magis-
trate decided that even if the girls subscribed to
rules which authorised the mistress to flog or hang
or disembowel or scalp or otherwise assault them,
that fact didn’t alter the law under which such
proceedings were quite illegal; and he fined the
nigger-driver something respectable.


Banking. Public Companies, See.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
&
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
3xr.s,^w.
(Ilont deplete D.# I.C®*.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre) '
74
CASTLEREAGH ST.,
SYDNEY
74
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
-THE-.
Colonial Mutual Life
assurance society limited.
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,595,870.
Policies issued 88,299—assuring £26,826,380.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,767,115.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses— eauitably distributed.
Head Office:
119 & 421 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
The Bank of north Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp& Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250 100
£700.000
£350.000
The
Royal Bank of Queensland
J LIMITED.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £456,927
tESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 176,239
ESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 58,000
£691,166
Head Office: BRISBANE.
«ten. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Queensland Smelting Qompy.
** (LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
•DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
■D Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, the Branch
Office, 64 Market-street. Melbourne, or IRWIN HINDS,
Branch Manager, 6 Spring-street, Sydney.
H E SAVINGS BANK
HAS MONEY TO LEND in VICTORIA
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £2OOO to £15,000, on Town
Properties ; £2OOO to £25,000 on BROAD ACRES, and
sums from £5OO to £2OOO at 41 per cent, on Town
Properties FOR FIVE YEARS, WITH OPTION OF
PAYING OFF PART HALF YEARLY.
FARMERS’ CREDIT FONCIER.
Loans up to £2OOO at 41 per cent. FOR 311 YEARS.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Market-street, Melbourne.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Hon. John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Parlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. VV.
Farquiiar. J. J.ALLEN, General Manager for Australia
131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Building's, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital ... .. £2,500,000
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) ... ... £9576 13 4
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROVVMAN, Manager.,
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Managei
°hT No. 56 ACETYLENE CAS Catalogue
8 the MOST COMPLETE
and COMPREHENSIVE
ever issued.
Tells all about the Best
ACETYLENE CAS GENER-
ATORS, LAMPS, and
everything in connection
with ACETYLENE.
Nearly 400 of our
Reliable Automatic
Acetylene Gas
Generators
in daily use.
Large Stocks of the
Best
Carbide
of Calcium
Quotations on application
James MARTIN & CO.,
161 Clarence Street
Nr. King-st., Sydney
Shipping.
nxr. X 3. l.
(NORD-DKUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
to , Na Pl es - Genoa,
_ . xwm-surew steamer.
Leaving MELBOURNE Wednesday after Sydney.
Interstate First-Class Return Tickets are now available
for Return by the Steamers of the P. and 0., Orient
Pacific, or M.M. Co.’s. \
TO SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA
MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. STETTIN, 18th FEBRUARY.
And Regularly Thereafter.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to th^-Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
WHITE STAR LINE
PLYMOUTH and LONDON' via CAPETOWN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
SUE VIC, to Sail on or about 18th FEBRUARY.
PERSIC, RUNIC, MEDIC, and AFRIC
to follow.
FARES—Capetown .. .. £l6 16 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 27 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 33 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
Huddart, parker & Co’s [ine
-TO - “
MELBOURNE. HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
A.KTD
A
&
LINE
via
San Francisco,
California.
FASTEST ANP BEST
ROUTE
TO
ENGLAND,
Via America and Canada*
Bank of New South Wales .
Established 1817.
Head Office—GEOßGS STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. .. ... 2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. ». ... »■ 1,300,000 0 0
Reserve Liability .. .. ». 2,000,000 0 0
Total .. .. ». 6,300,000 0 0
Directors:
Hon. Chas. K. Mackellar, M.L.C., President
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.G.
Senator James Thomas Walker.
Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L 0L
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors :
Harrington Palmer, Esq. Frederick W. Uther, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies, New Zealand
and Fiji ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
T.ie Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
MODEL ENGINES,
SCIENTIFIC MARVELS, &c.
Send for New Catalogue.
Osborn & Jerdan,
“MY OPTICIANS,”
393 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY,
And at Brisbane. Post Free to any Address.
LADIES
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address—L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
Models from Life, Beautiful Stereo-
scopies, etc. List with 100 Minia-
ture and 3 Cabinet size photos.,
55., P. 0.0, or stamps.
S. BECKNACEL NACHF, Munich, 1 Brieffach, Germany.
Too Stout
I was for years ; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to 10st. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney
Sending, mention this paper.
Missing Friends.
IF this should meet the eye of ANDY MILLON,
who left Taihape, North Island, New
Zealand, some 6 years ago, or any friend
knowing his whereabouts, would he or they kindly
communicate with the undersigned, who will
supply news of beneficial character.
G. N. JENSEN,
Taihape,
North Island, New Zealand.
THE GREAT { OVERLAND } HIGHWAY
TO THE UNITED KINGDOM,
Via NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH SEAS, and AMERICA.
The NEWEST, LARGEST (6000 Tons each), FASTEST,
and ONLY TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS engaged in
the TRANS-PACIFIC PASSENGER SERVICE from
Australia and New Zealand.
Round the World Itineraries compiled.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Managing Agents,
Prrr and Bridge Sts. SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
R.M.S. Moana Sails Feb. 23.
Absolutely the Finest Steamer
Crossing the Pacific.
STATE-ROOMS LARGE AND AIRY.
FOLLOWING SAILINGS—
MARCH 23, APRIL 20,
MAY 8.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
Medical.
The Wonderful EYE Remedy,
ROSE’S CELEBRATED
Eye Lotion,
Is Equally Successful on the Eyes of Cattle,
Sheep, Poultry, &c.
Free for Asking.
%*#RITE to us and we will forward you our scientific
» » book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong- and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magic, and you will be filled with energy,
strength and ambition once more. Posted free. Write’
to John Wilson, Box 135, G.P.0., Adelaide, S.A.
TURKISH BATHS for 2d.
A “HETTRICK”
** Folding- Bath
Cabinet givesj'ou a
Turkish bath room
at home. At a
cost of 2d. you get
all the possible
benefit of any
vapour or hot air
bath. These baths,
taken regularly, in-
sure health, vigour
and cleanliness.
They clear the
complexion, they
cure colds ; and n<.
other treatment is
so widely employed
by the besi
physicians in the
cure of most
chronic diseases.
The “ HETTRICK ” is not like the flimsy and unser-
viceable cabinets that are widely sold, but a cabinel
which is endorsed by the medical profession, and one that
gives universal satisfaction. No family should be without
one. Price, £1 10s. (freight paid).
Queensland Agent: Arthur 0. Bray, 92 Eagle-st., Bris
bane. Tasmania Agents: Wertheimer, Benjamin and
Anderson, 71 Collins-st., Hobart. Victoria : Alfred W.
Jones, 317 Collins-st., Melbourne. J. LANDES 108
Pitt-st., Sydney, Sole Agent Australasia.
At Dawn and Dusk:
By V. J. Daley. In handsome cloth,
with portrait. Price 55.; postage, 4d.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOE MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Eurirnbla,
Friday, February 13
(To Melbourne Only).
S.S. Wollowra,
Saturday, February 14.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Port 9 North to Oairna
S.S. Rookfcon, Sat., Feb. 14.
S.S. Eurimbla, Frid., Feb. 20.
S.S. Allinga, Frid., Feb. 27.
Jiest. and Cheapest Ho ate to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
P. AND o.
COMPANY’S
ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B to £77
Ditto Ditto Return, £66 to £ll5
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by Orient-Pacific, Messageries
Mari times and N.D.L. Steamers having room.
A. GORDON WESCHE,
63 Pitt-street. Acting Agent.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing andpassing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
State Ports are available for return by P. and 0.,
Orient Pacific and N.D.L. steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Office*
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydnev.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. . BY THE . .
“E. and A.” LINE.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
These steamers specially built for the Eastern passenger
trade are fitted with EVERY CONVENIENCE FOR
TROPICAL TRAVELLING. The Saloon Cabins con-
taining two berths only are all on UPPER DECK AMID-
SHIPS, and are large, cool, and fitted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Canada, United
States of America and Europe.
Forhandbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.,
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-sfc., Sydney.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
rHLORODYNE.
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, &C., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN 6.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
"If I were asked which single medicine,l should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation."
ORNAMENTAL HAIR.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers &. Wigmakers.
Send to us/or Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Sioc*
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to
any Part of Australasia
CRA.IG & AITKEN,
N.S.W. Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 George Street, Sydney.
GENTS."''
WRITE FOR VALI
CONCERNING YO
Address.— L.D.l. , 300 Collins
UABLE FREE BOOK
• URSELVES.
> St., Melbourne


IN order to introduce our Gold Wire Jewellery
to the Australian public we have decided to
offer one of the greatest bargains ever seen in the
jewellery trade— viz., the above handsome Brooch
(any name or three initials) made of extra quality
9ct. gold-filled wire, with heart pendant; guaran-
teed the same quality as the brooch advertised,
complete. Sent post-free on receipt of P. 0.0, or
M.O. for ss. in round wire or sq. twisted wire, 15ct
gold, filled, Bs. 6d. Illustrated catalogues sent free.
SIMS and ELRICK, Manufacturing Jewellers.
Our only address —
COLE’S BOOK ARCADE, MELBOURNE. AUSTRALIA.
OF INTEREST to MEN
T\EAR SIR, —I have been cured of weakness and De-
bility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to
Mr. ROBERT E. PARKHURST,
v pj** street, Sydney^
THE WORLD’S GRANDEST .
-^CIGARETTE
(VIRGINIA GRADE)
Ho. 555
Absolutely Unique in Quality.
A Revelation to all Cigarette Smoker*.
No. 999
S. HOFFNUNG & CO., Ltd., Wholesale Tobacconists,
Wholesale Agents for Australia. SYDNEY and BRISBANE
Sole Manufacturers: ARDATH TOBACCO CO., 44 Worship Street, London, England.
ENO’S
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
HEADACHE,
‘FRUIT
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION.
SALT.’
The effect of Eno’s 'Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.— -See capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’ Without it you have a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd., ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, ENG.,
by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
DV ROBERT S’
POOR MAN’S
FRIEND
OINTMENT
HAS STOOP THE TEST OF TIME.
In over ioo years' world-wide use it has proved itself the best H eal -
ing Ointment extant. It is particularly recommended for the cure or
Ulcerated Legs, Piles, and all long standing and painful
wounds; also for Blotches on the Skin, Pimples Eczema, Cuts,
Bums, Bruises, and all Skin Affections. Prices (in England) 1/1 /£>
2/9. 11/-, and 22/- pots.
Dr.ROBERTS' ALTERATIVE PILLS
Purify the Blood. Cure Skin Disease.
A Gentle Aperient and Perfect Liver Pill.
40 in a box, 1/1 Vz ; 3 quantities, 2/9.
O f all Drug Stores and Patent Medicine Vendors, and made only by—
BEACH & BARNICOTT, Ltd., BRIDPORT, ENGLAND.
C. L. ROBERTS, K.D.
(CEfc
4
Born 1766. Died i#34* 9
©
©
©
©
@
©
©
@
©
©
©
General Electric
Incandescent Lamps.
THE EDISON LAMP
Absolutely
THE BEST!
Annual Sales, 18,000,000.
After Competitive Tests, 63,750
were purchased by the Melb.
City Council.
LONG LIFE. HIGH EFFICIENCY.
Large Stock always on hand.
AUSTRALIAN
GEICML ELECTRIC CG.
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS,
Melbourne and Sydney.
Motors, Dynamos, Steam Dynamo Sets, etc.,
also in Stock.
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
@
©
BAD COMPLEXIONS
Dry Thin and Falling Hair and Red
Rough Hands Prevented by
CUTICURA SOAP
MILLIONS use Cuticura Soap, assisted by Cuticura Ointment,,
for preserving, purifying, and beautifying the skin, for cleans-
ing the scalp of crusts, scales, and dandruff, and the stopping
of falling hair, for softening, whitening, and soothing red,
rough, and sore hands, for baby rashes, itchings, and chafings, in the
form of baths for annoying irritations and inflammations, or too free
or offensive perspiration, in the form of washes, for ulcerative weak-
nesses, and for many sanative, antiseptic, cleansing purposes which
readily suggest themselves to women, especially mothers, and for all
the purposes of the toilet, bath, and nursery. Cuticura Soap com-
bines delicate emollient properties derived from Cuticura Ointment,,
the great skin cure, with the purest of cleansing ingredients and
the most refreshing of flower odours. No other medicated soap is to
be compared with it for preserving, purifying, and beautifying the
skin, scalp, hair, and hands. No other foreign or domestic toilet soap,,
however expensive, is to be compared with it for all the purposes of
the toilet, bath, and nursery. Thus it combines in One Soap at One
Price, the best skin and complexion soap, and the best toilet and
baby soap in the world.
COMPLETE EXTERNAL AND INTERNAL TREATMENT FOR EVERY HUMOUR,
Consisting of Cuticura Soap, to cleanse the skin of crusts and scales, and soften the
thickened cuticle; Cuticura Ointment, to instantly allay itching, inflammation, and
irritation, and soothe and heal; and Cuticura Resolvent Pills, to cool and cleanse the
blood. A Single Set is often sufficient to cure torturing, disfiguring humours, eczemas,
rashes, and irritations, with loss of hair, when all else fails. Sold throughout the world.
Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co., Sydney. British Depot: 27-28, Charterhouse Sq.,
London. French Depot: 5 Rue de la Paix, Paris. Potter Drug and Chem CORP.,
Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT PILLS
(Chocolate Coated) are a new, tasteless,
odourless, economical substitute for the cele-
brated liquid Cuticura Resolvent, as well as for all other blood purifiers and humour
cures. Put up in screwcap pocket vials, containing 60 doses. Cuticura Pills are
alterative, antiseptic, tonic, and digestive, and beyond question the purest, sweetest,
most successful and economical blood and skin purifiers, humour cures, and tonic-
SORE
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORB AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYFLASHES-
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES.
I'M EVER FAILS.
Ask youp Chemist for the Little Book:
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
CURED
T)0 YOU WISH TO LEARN A NEW, PROFITABLE
BUSINESS, SUITABLE FOR EITHER SEX? M so,
send for my FREE BOOKLET, “AN EASY INDUSTRY,"
which (jives full particulars.
F. E. COVERDALE, Box 7, Q.P.0., Melbourne.
IAYNE'S EXPECTORANT
CURES THE WORST COUGHS.
“ Spelonken ” writes from S’Africa on the
other side of a bitter controversy :—
Re Bushveldt Carbineers, have noted several articles
and paragraphs, also “ Bushman and Buccaneer.” Who-
ever was responsible for that yarn made very little effort
to divorce fact from fiction. It is mostly latter. “ A
representative of an English paper in Pretoria ” (Bulletin
Sept. 13, 1902) also lets himself go in a sort of anyhow
style as to facts. It is pure moonshine that Morant and
co. had “ instructions ” from Hunt or anyone else. The
evidence is all against it. Hunt had the opportunity to
“blot out” several bands of refugees before he was
killed, but he did not do it. Why did not Morant blot
out Field Cornet Kelly and his men, whom he got
subsequent to putting the others "out of sight,”
in accordance with “instructions?” If acting under
instructions, why were these “ blottings out” reported to
headquarters as “ engagements,” “no casualties on our
side.” Again, why should Morant report (after shooting
a wounded Boer lad per firing-party), “ I regret to say
that the Boer captured by us the previous evening died
of his wounds the following day”? That was Morant’s
first start, too. Six Boers had been shot months prior
to this, and Van Bureen (a B.V.C. trooper) also, and this
before Hunt was in charge. Major Thomas here, and
many of your contributors, lose sight of striking facts
which stick up as plain as kopjes on the karoo. Again, that
all the “ blotted out” were, of course, wearing kharki is
pure fiction. Hunt was said to be mutilated, and Morant
may have conscientiously thought so from the terrible
tales that troopers tell, but there was no mutilation
except in the imagination of those who never saw him.
About 20 B.V.C. men could speak definitely on the facts.
The ICO interviewed knew nothing except hearsay.
Thomas and co. are charging the wrong kopje. I never
saw any printed evidence, so cannot say whether
it is “ simply ridiculous” and “infamously mislead-
ing.” The men had a full, fair, and impartial trial.
Every chance was given them to bring evidence as to
“custom” and throughout S.A. it was not forthcoming.
I incline to the view of J.B.M. (B., Nov. 15) re Witton
petition that the verdict was according to tbe evidence
and the confession of the principals. By all means get
the truth out. Then “Booze and Bushveldt" might
make a good title for a future Deadwood Dick.
[The Bulletin has never countenanced any
effort to exculpate Morant: instructions or no
instructions, his were dastardly acts. But it does
think that there is more than sufficient evidence to
justify a full inquiry into the allegation that Boer-
murdering was “ customary ” in the out-districts
during the later stages of the recent war, and was
connived at, if not directly ordered, by high
authority. If that fact is not established by
inquiry (we don’t say that it will be, but that there
is reasonable ground for believing that it will) then
some scores of people have been “ lying with
circumstance ” and with great skill.]
Received, “ The Labor Movement in Both
ihmiiBpheres ” —a well-written, bright pamphlet,
by Tom Mann, pleading for the social-democratic
view m politics.
Melb. raspberry-vinegar makers who say
they tried in vain to make the public to take true
fruit - juice, have a precedent in the historic
jam purveyor whose career Barry Pain told in
verse. After amassing a fortune by the sale of
rotten tomatoes and marrows flavored to taste, he
was converted and issued orders to each of his
mighty factories that only genuine fruit was to be
used. From that day his business dwindled and
he died in the gutter.


A Groundless Pear.
A Women Afraid of Herself.
Walking along a country road in the dark, one
often imagines that every tree or post is some
human being bent on mischief. Sometimes one is
afraid to even look back, so fixed has the idea
become that someone is stealthily following them
with intent to do harm. The darkness of the
night and loneliness of the way is accountable for
such a state. But what can be imagined of a
woman who, during all the day, was afraid of even
the noise made by ner own footsteps ? Nervous,
irritable and depressed ; afraid to move, fearing to
see even those nearest and dearest to her. Such
was once the condition of Mrs. Lillie Johnston, of
14,0 Crown-street, Sydney, before she was restored
to perfect health by Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Bills. “My nerves were entirely run down,” she
says “ and everything I wished to do seemed a
trouble. In neither my home or surroundings
could I take any interest. Indigestion first brought
on my serious illness. From this rapidly
followed loss of appetite, accompanied by frequent
sick headaches. The slightest exertion comdetely
prostrated me. I became low spirited, depressed
and irritable, and my life was indeed a burden.
At seeing the most harmless things I would start
with fear, and oft I would be put into a complete
tremble for nothing at all. I attended a hospital
but their treatment was of no avail. A friend
suggested I should try Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Bills. Before I had taken many my condition
began to improve marvellously. With their con-
tinued use I became completely cured. lam now
a happy woman in the brightest spirits and the
best health. My work is a pleasure to me, and I
am only too pleased to testify to all the wonder-
ful good Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills have done
F? 6- Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a perfect
Dlood purifier, and a positive cure for biliousness,
indigestion, constipation, headaches, sallow com-
X ui n ’ \ lver ar, d kidney troubles, piles, pimples
and blotches, and for female ailmonts. Put up in
amber bottles and the full name blown thereon.*
I facile princeps. I
|~S EMPER IDEM. I
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
Kuppers Elberfeld Lag
SPORTING NOTIONS,
A day before one of the recent big Cups, a few
enterprising punters backed an intended non-trier at
long odds, then wired the owner : “ Drew Lightning in
Tatt s sweep ; will give you half, if you get a place.
Jack smith, Newcastle.** The owner, on receiving the
message, wired to “Tattersall” to look after hisinte-
rests. Lady Blank tried, and came second, and the owner
was so delighted with his win that he immediately gave
the jockey £lO. On sending for his share of the prize, he
was informed that it wasn’t a person named Smith who
•j the horse. Though the punters lost, they
evidently had a good run for their money.
• • • *
Tattersall ” and the Tasmanian Govt, are
seemingly trying to kill the golden goose. Sleepy Hollow
has put a 5 per cent, tax on sweep totals, and investors
have to put up with al5 per cent, deduction. A penny
tax has also been put on each ss. ticket issued, and
Adams has cheerfully passed it on to clients, his 10 per
cent, commission not being able to stand it. This means
ds. 4d. charged on every £1 invested.
• • • .
The utter “deadness” of the A.J.C.’s stipen-
diary stewards beats even that of the horses they were
supposed to galvanise into something like live running.
As a matter of fact, the poor men seem to have abso-
lutely no power. Apparently they can only draw the
, j 11 °* supreme A.J.C. committee to things
that do not seem quite right, and as they have no guaran-
tee that their recommendations will be acted upon
(racing business is very mixed and shady in Sydney just
now), they are content to potter around with a few cases
of reversal of form on the part of horses not too influen-
tially owned. In all probability, if the stewards were to
wade in as they ought to do, they’d take the polish off
the toes of some of the patent-leathers of the A.J.C., and
be promptly snubbed, if not sacked. The wild anxiety
of that committee to keep all real power in its own hands
smells like last year's crayfish.
• • • •
That row over the Skein Dhu-Santoi protest
emphasises the necessity for enlarging the powers of the
stipendiary stewards—or getting stewards who will do
fearlesB 'y- They are on the spot, they are in
the best position to see and hear everything, and their
decision should be final and irrevocable. It might
occasionally result in injustice, but the great blundering
committee, going on hearsay evidence alone, is infinitely
more likely to do so.
• • • •
“Stiff” running continues as per past on Syd-
ney suburban courses, and it begins to look as if the
salaries of stipendiary stewards are simply thrown
away. There are so many ways of running a “ bye”—a
horse gets left at the post, gets “ pocketed,” makes his
run too early or too late. It is only the callow youth
who tries to pull the head off his mount in the straight
that is likely to come to grief. Then, as to the betting
market, half the “ books ” have interests in horses, and
bogus wagers are made galore to show, in the event of in-
quiry, that the horse was backed. The only' way' to pro-
tect the “ mug ” who backs horses would seem to be to
lock him up in Callan Park.
• • * •
The Hobart and Launceston races, ” writes a
correspondent, “brought over the usual contingent of
spielers; two, who were quietly escorted from Elswick
course, had secured an invitation from a visiting doctor
and were royally entertaining some of Slowbart’s very
naicest girls with champagne lunches, afternoon teas, and
drag picnics. Another one, who was by his own account
a colonel and the intimate friend of several earls was
recognised by two Sydney-si'ders, from whom he had ex-
tracted £l4O and £4OO respectively, and was escorted
from a fashionable hotel to quod. On the steps of the
hotel he obtained a minute’s grace ‘ to go back and finish
his glass of wine.’”
• • • *
Caulfield Futurity Stakes, Saturday, next week
look like inducing best field, so far, for that event
Wakeful, Sir Leonard, Abundance, Bonnie Chiel, Chant-
ress and Czarowitch are among the lot left in. Wakeful’s
penalties bring her load in excess of 10st., but still she is
so much above everything else (and her defeat bv Foot-
bolt, Saturday, is not. forgotten) that she may pip the
prize. For an investment, this scribe would prefer New-
castle (N.S.W.) owned Chantress, but Scobie may have
something choice in IOOOgs. Emir, brother to Heloise and
Beanba.
* • * •
Winner (Chesterfield) of recently-decided Hobart
and Launceston Cup struck hard luck t’other dav. Carry
ing 10.5 in Tas. Turf Club Handicap he got home easily,
but, dropping a stirrup leather and iron in the race,
weighed short, and lost the credit of an extra fine feat
• • • * '
Talk of Sydney ponydom just now is the
remarkable performances of 14.2 J Minerva. She
appropriated a mile race at Kensington with 10.10 up,
and for following week’s racing, at same place and over
same distance, her weight was 11.2, and she again won
easing up. Minerva shaped well among horses in M.L.
and Q., but, since coming l to Sydney, has been running
with the unregistered lot and has improved wonderfully.
She was bred at Durham Court stud, by Metal (imp.)
from Georgina, by Moorethorpe from Georgina Frederick
(imp.). At moment of writing pony followers are curious
as to what she’ll be sked to hump this week.
# •
„ Advance’s success in Wellington Cup set half
M.L. talking. He hadn’t seen a racecourse for close on
two years before, and for half that time had the reputa-
tion of being a “has been ” Performance was brilliant:
he carried 10.4 and won easily, doing llm. in 2.344—a
record for the continent. Prior best figures in M.L. and
Australia were 2.35 created by Renown, Tire (M.L.) Fairv
Prince, Survivor and San Fran (N.S.W.) English record
is 2.34, and American 2.344.
* • • •
The coming of Scobie: He started last Saturday
fiy gathering Oakleigh Plate through Rupert Clarke’s
Wallace—La Tosca two-year-old F.J.A. Field totalled 17
and, barring two occasions, was the biggest in the race’s
history. P.J.A. was favorite and won easily enough to
justify watching m future en gagements.
* * • •
Footbolt’s unexpected defeat of Wakeful at
Caulfield last Saturday, recalls how the mare knocked
under to Strata Honda in the early spring. Wakeful is
probably not so fast as she was, and evidently she needs
to be quite wound up to hold her own in w.f.a. against
the speediest. After all, she is only a little one, and it
may be that the uncertain Footbolt, at his best, can out-
sprint anything in training. The 5-year-old ran from the
mare just as Sequence did at Melb. Cup meeting in 1901.
• • * .
First day’s results at V. A. T.C. Autumn meeting
(so called because it is a midsummer fixture) threw little
light on Newmarket Handicap and Australian Cud
Man-in and Maclgwyn showed good form in Ormond
Handicap (9 fur.), but hardly good enough to give them
short-price chances in the forthcoming double, and Foot-
bolt, who is amongst the first acceptors for the Australian
Cup, has not shaped like a stayer thus far
• * * *
General entries for V.R.C. Autumn meet total
477 as against 557 last year. Greatest shortage is in
Select Stakes where 22 figure are opposed to 37 before
There s a falling off of 15 in the Junior Handicap—from
H to 31-and there are 14 less in the Nursery Sicap-
-35 to 49. Brunswick Stakes, Bourke Handicap, River
Handicap, Autumn Steeple and Farewell Handicap show
slight increases. *
• • • •
Tas. Turf Club made a profit of £l3lO on its
Summer meet. Last year 'twas considered a great thine-
*i<v!'if 5 Btake Ju-° nev for the Autumn meet and run a
£lOO handicap. This year s autumn gathering will be a
considerable improvement, for the prize-money voted
reaches £450 and there’ll be a £l5O Newmarket Handicap
The wmter meeting is to see £455 in stakes, as against
£365 last year. A 3 mile steeple will be worth £2tk) and
a handicap hurdle £lOO.
"BOB” TURNER, Lightweight Champion
Boxer of Australasia, who recently defeated
“Jack” M'Gowan and “ Tim” Hegarty.
Turner is not yet 20 years of age.
Photo, by Brand, Park-street, Sydney.
The hook-nosed of Melbourne and Adelaide
are moaning:, but they’d be screeching if thev were
dealt wilh as the brethren are in Westralia. At Helena
Vale Club’s Monday meeting recently 21 paid 10 guineas
each for the privilege of betting in the paddock, and 10
more parted with three guineas each for similar rights
with regard to the Leger reserve. Coin received this
way totalled £252, within £53 of the prize money offered
• • * •
Fry, the late English bookmaker, ap-
peared to be at least a worthier man than either of the
two previous “ kings ”of the betting ring. The original
monarch was one Davis, who made an immense pile in
early days, when there were no telegraph wires and not
much railway travelling, and when “books” on the
popular events were opened one year and two years
in advance. Davis continued to make a £lOO,OOO book
on the Derby even when the “toffs" had discontinued
their old sporting habit of backingyearlings for the “ blue
ribbon.’ Consequently he suffered a huge annual loss on
000 y J° l L me ’ S n< *, w “ not L worth more than about
£70,000 when he retired from business, stricken by par-
alysis. Robbed of the use of his legs, the wretched Davis
shut himself in one room of his house at Brighton (Eng 1
where his wife waited on him “ hand and foot,” and when
at last the misanthrope died he was found to have be-
queathed his fortune to the Brighton Corporation ignor-
ing his wife’s claims. During the years of Davis’s existence
in his one room a hard-headed Yorkshireman named
Steel (partnered by one Peach) ranked as “ leader of the
ring.” The sceptre of wealthy Steel passed to Fry who
had been a big speculator and an indefatigable goer long
ere he took the actual lead. Fry, originally a linen
draper, lived a life of eternal gambling and alms-givin "
Off the racecourse, he was a card player, billiard player
public speaker, and general “sport”—for love of excite’
men t Like Davis aforesaid he was practically a teetotaller •
also he was a non-smoker, and a very sparing eater. He
did his best to keep himself fit for a career which would
have killed a more self-indulgent man long before Frv
lived to be 67, and he was on the racecourse almost ud to
the last, notwithstanding that his death was due in a
great measure to mental anxieties consequent on his
being taken down by the “Yankee jockey ring” For
the past season or two Fry had been compelled to reduce
the size of his book, and put a check on his charitable
disbursements of the boodle. But he never lost his
geniality. Had he troubled about a family tree Frv could
probably have traced his ancestry back to the Quakers
He had a Quaker name and Quaker virtues, and a host of
acquaintances, hard-up and otherwise, called him friend.
“H.P.”: A horsey friend says he can make
almost any horse break ’ when trotting by whistling to
wLhe-’pullinVmyTe??” qUickenin * the rapidly.
* * * *
What Sydney turfdom has come to. Horse-
owners now regularly go round and beg nomination fees
from half-a-dozen friends, on the understanding that
when ready, the nag will jig i„ their (the friends’) inte£
ests exclusively. The number of mugs who are willing to
part up to have a horse jigging only for them is amazing.
f ~ , annua l goose-club ” scheme imported
from Britain appears to have deteriorated into a mere
sixpenny gamble or ‘ art union ” under Australia’s skv
A goose-club promoter invites the public to buy a six-
penny chance of getting a lovely fat bird for the invest-
ment. Nobody but the promoter seems to knowhow
many tickets are sold and what proportion of the receipts
is expended in prizes. Judging from the bitter cries of
the women who expected a goose or a ham for sixpence
and d.dnt get one, the raffle is a huge benefit
or the promoter. Certainly it isn’t a goosellub The
original goose-club was practically I sfvings-bank
conducted by a pub.-keeper, as a rule. Customers ioin-
m>etSef C Ub th - e be *- ri nning °f the year were com-
mitted to a subscription of, say, 3d. a week or Is a
month, or more, and, when Xmas came round every
member of the club had bought his blessed goose trussed
The landlord’s profits lay in the sale of drinks hiddentai
to clubmen’s gatherings. There was no suspicion of fowl
play as regards the dead birds. su sp>uon of fowl-
*.. * * •
The patriotic Waler who offered Victor
Trumper sufficient inducement to refuse big professional
temptations in England has compromised on his arrange
ment. Mr. Trumper is to remain in his present Govt
billet, and to get from his benefactor the difference
between the Govt.’s screw and the previously promised
income. Both parties are pleased with this arrangement.
: Victor Trumper has had a*remarkahle
array of figures in first-grade Sydney cricket during thF
last five years in all a total'of 3304 runs for lorn
Fht h d V nnin r 3 ’ an average of 103.25 per innings It is
world performance thi9 sWe of the line, perhaps in the
• * ,
R. H. Walne is the unluckiest cyclist in Aus-
tralia. A couple of months a'«x> he met with an wit.
which well-nigh sent him off the track Last Teethe
Maio? n TavW SP Ph"i hllSt ■ trainin ff w >th Chalmers and
lajor Taj lor. Chalmers s tyre blew out, and all fell
Waine was badly bruised, Chalmers got a few abrasions
but Taylors luck stuck to him, and he got off scot free’
Some riders are lucky-Taylor’s one of'em- others are
always unlucky-aLd Walne is one of them ’
That correspondent who complained of the lack
of interest in motor-racing on the track overlooked the
possibility of an almighty and picturesque smash.
Australian tracks aren’t constructed for motor-racing,
and the man who sits stiffly, looking like a petrified
jockey, is really holding his life between his red hairy
hands. Such a smash nearly occurred recently on
Melbourne Exhibition track. There is a rule that pace
shall not exceed 18secs. per lap—which means, roughly,
40 miles per hour. But the rider, puffed out with sauer
kraut and Teutonic arrogance whizzed round at 17 3-6 secs.,
and finally streaked past at 17 2-ssecs., or a mile in
1.27 4-6. Then the machine couldn’t hold the track and
something happened. No blood was splashed around,
but there’s always a possibility of seeing the machine
turn turtle, whirl round wrong side up, and drag the
driver in long shreds round a few miles before it can be
stopped. That sort of possibility appeals to an Aus-
tralian audience.
• • ■ •
By turning out to compete in the recent Mel-
bourne bike fixtures Taylor ran considerable risk. The
doctor had said he should not ride. Taylor said he
would, and did ; but he didn’t ride respectably, and his
Quixotic idea of keeping faith with the public was quite
worthless. The public didn’t want to see a sick man
risking his life to make a third-rate show, and would
probably sooner not have seen him at all.
• * • •
“Ban”: “Plugger Bill” is at present as-
tonishing the M.L. population by riding with the front
forks of his jigger reversed, curving back towards the
rider. He explains that he adopted this plan to get
nearer to pacing machines, but he rides this way unpaced
too. It is a weird sight to watch Bill’s sprint nowadays,
with those forks springing and bending with every
down stroke. It must take quite a lot of management on
Bill’s part to keep his feet clear of the front wheel, but up
to date nothing has occurred to damp that hard faced
gentleman’s enthusiasm for his new idea. Martin’s
patriotism blossoms forth as a flower in a red, white and
blue sweater, with khaki sleeves. But he is not having
things all his own way in the Land of the Moa. In a £lOO
match at Christchurch, against Geo. Sutherland (M.L.
champion), Bill was beaten badly, though the odds
were all in his favor. In the first distance,
mile unpaced, Sutherland stole a march on the
veteran, winning anyhow with 50yds. to spare. The 20-
mile paced event brought out an 8-horse French motor
C3’cle, specially built for pacing, for Bilmartin, and an
ordinary motor cycle for Sutherland. In five miles
Martin had gained nearl.v half-a-mile, owing to superior
pacing, when his back tire punctured and the race was
stopped. After delay the event was proceeded with, the
men starting from their relative positions at time of
mishap. After a lap or two Bill’s big pacing engine burst
its back tire and came a cropper. Bill got clear of the
trouble, and, after riding unpaced for nearly a lap, got
behind a similar machine to his opponent’s pacer. A
change at once came o’er the spirit of the dream. Bill
didn’t relish the altered conditions, and lost his pace once
or twice. Sutherland rapidly overhauled and passed
him. Bill then gave up the chase, alleging a broken foot-
strap. He pleasantly replied to the cheers of the crowd
by placing his fingers to his nose.
* • • •
Whatever Major Taylor may be in competition
riding, he is utterly outclassed by Robl in paced contests.
The racing at Melb. Exhibition Oval on Saturday was
merely a repetition of the previous week, “only more
so." Taylor was announced to have recovered from his
illness, and though he afterwards asserted that he still
suffered, he was, anyhow, in better health than on the
previous Saturday. Yet his riding was much worse.
Robl simply made a hack of him in the two two-mile
events. Dickentman made his first appearance as a
competition rider by starting in the open handicap races,
but showed himself a very ordinary second-rater at this
style of cycling. During the day there were some fine
displays of crooked racing.
• • • •
One of the sweet jokes of Sydney cycling circles
is the frequent announcement in the D.T. of some record-
breaking enterprise of Mr. Arthur Smyth (of the Tele-
graph aforesaid). Mr. Smyth is a (say 16st.) gentleman
of more than generous plumpness, and when it is gravely
related that he is going after another record on a machine
“ which only weighs 2til bp.” there is created a humorous
anticipation that something will surely happen this time.
• * * *
Monday morning, Sydney cyclist Smyth, pur-
suing his record-breaking mission, brought Australian
mile best (professional and amateur) down to 1.34 1-5.
Intermediate times were—quarter, 25sec. ; half, 48sec. ;
and three-quarter, 1.11. This achievement is 3-ssec. less
than the best mile (professional) ever done on the con-
tinent, and 3 4-ssec. under the British amateur mile
figures, but is 8 2-ssec. over the world’s amateur best, and
18 l-ssec. in excess of the world’s professional speediest
—Contenet’s.
* • • *
“ Aldon ”: Knew a young fellow (18) who rode
a second-hand hard-tyre machine 14 miles a day to and
from work. He was a cockie’s son, apprenticed to a
Mallee blacksmith, and did that unspeakable ride, besides
bumping waggon-axles with a 121 b. sledge, for 7s. 6d. a
week, not “found.” The track was chopped-up hope-
lessly, his pedals had string-halt, one tyre was all plough-
line, and half the balls were missing. The journey took
him two hours each way—and yet he bought the thing
(£3) “ for the sport! ”
* • * *
It is surprising the ignorance that is displayed
by many' cyclists, and especially country ones, as regards
the proper inflation of their Dunlop tyres. The majority
of wheelmen ride them too slack, thus giving a big rolling
strain to the tyre. The cover will not give nearly as
good wear when it is ridden in this condition, whilst the
risk of side slip and puncturing is increased. The proper
degree of hardness of the back tyre can be correctly
gauged by the rider sitting on the saddle, when there
should be only the slightest depression of the tyre at
point of contact with the ground.*
• • • •
“ L.W.” : That Scanlan scrap at Sydney
Nat. Sporting Club recalled the Fitzjames-Roderick
Dhu unpleasantness. The big hairy Cornstalk wood-
chopper ought to have spread the Yankee in
little bits around the walls. But he didn’t. The
woodman swung frightful blows and shoiered
them thick and fast, but Scanlan side-step ed,
ducked and dodged with effective but ungraceful
celerity. Still, he kept his front to the rusher, arid at the
slightest opportunity he landed heavily. Heckenber«-
only seemed to hit Scanlan once—it was across the kidneys
and made the ’Murkan see stars and realise the necessity
of avoiding any repetition of the dose. Those ridiculous
bull-rushes of Heckenberg’s were his undoing; Scanlan
managed to hook him on the mouth and chin repeatedly
and brought him to his knees. After getting on his feet
again Heckenberg once more waded in to finish it at close
quarters ; but tremendous blows that would have felled
bullocks went over Scanlan’s shoulders, round his neck or
missed him altogether, leaving Heckenberg quite unpro-
tected. As soon as he was sure he wasn’t dead Scanlan
brought a whirling right smash on the pinnacle of
Heckenberg s proboscis and laid him out. Heckenberg
declined to get up, and Scanlan went off looking very
thankful fordeliverance from great peril. Heckenberg has
the makings of a John L. Sullivan if only someone could
teach him to keep cool and use his tremendous reach.
At present his only stock in trade is steam-hammer-
power—not that he hits anything much except the atmo-
sphere.
* * • *
Recent bruise for bantam supremacy of Queens-
land ’tween 19-year-old Sydney boy Coster, pupil of
“ Snowy ” Sturgeon, and ex-Bananaland amateur Frank
Moore, went the full 20 rounds, and was frequently extra
exciting. Moore scored most in the initial round but
subsequently till the 11th Coster had things his wav
mainly through well-judged use of the left. Later Moore
brightened up some and owned the 18th round but
Coster had stored up too many points.
* * * *
Lightweight champion pug., Bob Turner, won’t
be 20 till May 6 next. His methods are not picturesque
but very effective ; his right remains firmly fixed over
the left point of the jaw as a fend, and the wisdom of
this practice is demonstrated by the succession of heavy
swings and “ crosses ”It stops. For offensive purposes
he has the left, and, as Its owner “times" well, that
weapon does considerable execution when opportunity
offers. The lad is also a marvel at taking punishment;
heavy punches on what ordinarily are weak spots appar-
ently trouble him no more than mosquito-bites.
• • • •
“Jab”: Melbourne Sportsman, t’other day,
deplored the alleged absence of backers of pugilists, and
contrasted present state of affairs with that existing 12
years ago at Melbourne Athletio Olub, when “wealthy
patrons supported the noble art In princely fashion."
Writer remembers that period, and had much to do with
the pug. game then, but it’s any odds that there’s at
least as much money for boxers now—from novioe up,
they can all find backing, some to the tune of several
hundreds. A £2OO side bet on a fight is common these
times, and as much as £5OO has been found for each prin-
cipal in some battles of late years. They never did any-
thing better in the Melbourne Athletic Club’s time.
M’Call-Creedon fight, to take place in Sydney March 8,
is for £2OO aside, and before the men shape there'll be
at least £2OOO depending on the outcome.
e • • *
Glove-fight ’tween “Hock” Keys and “Charlie*
Frost, at Sydney Gaiety A. 0., Monday night, didn’t draw
up to expectations. Frost (two weeks ago) filled thi
breach left by Melbourne “ Micko ” Walsh, who suddenlj
streaked home (allegedly ill) without explanation of anj
sort. Battle was hot and clever throughout. Keys (3t4
1 on) justified the odds in the first five rounds, for he had
t’other man down often, but Frost more than held his
own in the sixth, and was decidedly best in the next two.
It was then Keys’ time to be floored a few times, and then
they were spread-eagled alternately. Both tired to
nothing halfway through the stipulated 20 rounds. The
17th saw Keys falling through sheer weakness, whereupon
the referee came between and gave the big part of the
money to Frost. Twice Keys had the fight won, but
over-eagerness to finish marred the effectiveness of his
work. Great grit was shown on both sides.
• • • *
“Uppercut” : The libeller of Vic. art students,
physique in a recent Bullktin must not forget George
Coates, winner of the travelling scholarship of four years
ago. Coates, a coach-painter by trade, stood sft. 10in.,
and was as fine-looking and well-built a fellow as ever
pulled on a sweater. He was as clever with the gloves as
the charcoal-stick, and could hit like a piston-rod ; also
he was extremely good-natured and gentle. Had he not
been an artist in paints, Coates might have made a better
living altering the color of human faces in the 16-foot
ring.
• * • •
“Cul”: Kensington (Sydney) proprietary in-,
tends to give coursing a decent show on its ground, the
centre of the racecourse being well on towards com-
pletion as an ideal coursing-enclosure. “Doping” or
using the hypodermic syringe, a custom now common in
coursing circles, should be put down with a strong hand
by the new club. It is possibly allowable [No, it isn’t.—
Ed. B.] that an invigorator be given to a dog by means of
the syringe, hut it is on’y too often used to stop a dog
when he is required to run “dead.” A friend of writer’s
new to the game had a dog doing splendid work, and
backed him to win a course. He was easily beaten in his
first course and his owner sold him in disgust. He won
several courses in the country almost immediately, and it
came out afterwards that the trainer had dosed him with
the syringe and effectually stopped him. The syringe is a
dangerous factor in the hands of an unscrupulous trainer.
* • v •
“Via”: Re cribbage records (B. 17/l/’O3).
Here’s one. Years hack a Bowen man w'as summoned to
Brisbane on a big court case. Whilst waiting his turn,
he and a fellow boarder played crib every day and all
day, 3d. a game, tally-up at night. Both knew every
point of the game, but every day the N.Q. man “did in ”
a few shillings. After a fortnight the other man left,
and whilst playing a game of whist the cards panned out
two short. Examination proved that two “ threes ’’
were missing, and this was the percentage that gave the
other man the leverage. He rightly concluded that an
ace or king might be missed, but the modest three was
too insignificant. Moral—count your cards even when
playing a friendly game to pass away the time.
» * * •
The “going over” of George Read from the
amateur to the professionals is a much talked about event.
George has some business intellect. Alleged silver
pots, medals and the like, which render down into very
fair pewter, have no attraction for him, and he prefers
the lurid and filthy lucre. Years ago, in Sydney, it was not
uncommon to see a man receive sovereigns for one race
and sideboard furniture for the other, and in those good
old days the “ harbor rat ” competed and rubbed cuticles
with the gentleman swimmer from Govt. House ; and the
champions of those days were the best in all the popu-
lation, and not a limited section of it. However, Read
will not have much opportunity, as South Australia is
the only portion of this continent where money is now
raced for.
• * • *
Hundred yards swimming premiership of Vic-
toria, decided Saturday, evidences wide disparity between
calibre of that State's swimmers and those of N.S.W.
First and second, Humfress and Cadden, are Sydney
boys over there for holidays. Humfress won by a foot in
1.10 1-5, quite his top time. Neither Humfress nor Cadden
could live among the first eight in a N.S.W. champion-
ship if all the best started, and it’s doubtful whether
they d finish with the first dozen. Humfress’ time Satur-
day is a latter-day record for Victoria, but 20 years ago
that State had a man (Walter M’lndoe) who got over the
distance in 1.4.


ICE!
ICE!
ICE!
THe Hot stifling summer flays are wT*
WHy not got a Refrigerator, ZUZfSSi
J?*? ps nl i *»« rt «Hablo Food in good con.
sl° n r^ k ”, th - distressing Heat bear.
ble# - e ftmefy use p/ ; eg 0 /- fen saves Lifo
Snar'd in T*** / r ° m distilled water-'
and as clear as crystal. V* «{*
®*“* in • peci& l transport boxes to any
railway town where not reore«An«A#i w
agencies. SEND FOR A PRICE LOT
— — —~ JSha
N.S.W. Fresh Food ®. Ice Co. Ltd., Sydney
Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER.
YOU GET THE BEST VALUE FOR YOUK MONEY WHEN YOU
UUY A
REMINGTON
Double-Barrel . .
Hammerless Gun.
Thoroughly Guaranteed.
Kept n stock by the Largest Gun Stores in Melbourne and Sydney.
Renilng’tiOix Arms Company
Head Office : 315 BROADWAY, NEW YORK, U.S A.
REMINGTON GUNS, £5 ios. to £l5
REMINGTON RIFLES, 23/6 post free
McLean BROS. & RIGC, Ltd., 107 Elizaboth-St., Melbourne.
GARDNER’S SPA WATER
From our Springs at Helidon. OWEN GARDNER & SONS, Brisbane (Head Office) &at Helidon.
“Train up a Child the Way He Should Go,”
and when he is old enough he will walk D l7 pmr\ Dl C
straight into our showrooms and buy a DlnU CS Ivs Y OUC.
Facts are stubborn things, and speak louder than words. Don Walker rides a Red Bird and
all the professional records were put up by Plugger Bill on our simple, innocent-lookin<>- little wheel
We still have one left for you. Call and see it.
Branches in every State.
GOOLD BICYCLE CO,, 64 King , -st< ) Sydney.
SHARPSHOOTINg
'/y For Sport and War.
■ Ut-
By W. W. GREENER.
HITS THE MARK!
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, 1/- nett. ;
Posted, 1/2.
The best 1/- worth ever Published,
IF you wish to get good work and value
you should purchase W.W. GREENER’S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to —
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
(Greener’s Representative).
For Sale.
TASMANIA.
NORTH WEST COAST.
rpHE VAN DIEMEN’S LAND COMPANY is prepared to
receive tenders for the renting: of portions of their
estates situated at the Surrey Hills and to let parts of the
Hampshire Hills and farms near Burnie.
The lands consist of rich basaltic soil, well-grassed and
timbered, and abundantly watered bv numerous per-
manent rivers and streams.
The Surrey Hills Block, extending to 150,000 acres, has
lately been re-surveyed and divided into 11 Blocks vary-
ing in extent from :inoO to 24,000 acres, to suit the re-
quirements of those tendering.
The Hampshire Hills Block (10,000 acres) will also
shortly be surveyed, and will be dealt with in smaller
lots.
The lands are very favorably situated, and are served
by direct railway communication with the Port of Burnie
whence there is a regular Intercolonial Steam Service.
This railway passes through the full extent of the
lands to be let and provides ready means for the trans-
port of cattle and goods to Mount Bischoff, Zeehan, and
the Western Mineral Fields.
It can also be arranged to let, if desired, smaller cleared
farms near the Coast, or houses to suit requirements
would be built in or near Burnie.
TENDERS FOR LEASES OF THE
SURREY HILLS RUNS
for a term of seven years from the 31st March, 1903, will
be received on or before the 14th March.
Full particulars as to conditions of lease, etc. , may be
obtained at the offices of the VAN DIEMEN’S LAND
COMPANY, BURNIE, TASMANIA, where a plan of the
property may be seen.
Applicants may tender for all or any number of the
runs stipulating that only one or more of their tenders
may be accepted.
The highest or any tender may not necessarily _he
accepted.
By order of the Court of Directors,
A. K. McGAW, Manage)-.
Burnie, Ist February, 1933.
To Country Storekeepers & Others.
A' VERY RARE CHANCE to start Business
. in Sydney. Advertiser retiring wishes to
dispose of small General Drapery business in
GEORGE ST., SYDNEY. Splendid double-
fronted shop and dwelling, good stand, extremely
low rental. No.tp.xes. Would accept half cash,
balance terms. * Principals only.. For further
particulars write
“DRAPER,” Box 801, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
-pOR NIGH A CENTURY
WILLIAMS’ BARBERS’ BAR
has been the FAITHFUL FRIEND of the
TONSORIAL ARTIST.
TO-DAY, The Potent Phrase, “THIS SHOP USES ONLY
WILLIAMS’!” is a Sure PASSPORT TO PUBLIC FAVOR.
Send a Penny Stamp for Williams’ Changing Face
Puzzle. Can you explain it? J. B. WILLIAMS CO.,
Glastonbury, Conn., U.S.A. ; and 232 Clarence-st., Sydney
9
1
EOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “Ellis’ King Street Coffee Palace,”
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor—GEO. IF. ELLIS.
The Veterinarian.
THE DIFFERENT PREPARATIONS OF
‘SALVITIS
HORSES, CATTLE, SHEEP,
PICS, &C. ARE WORTH TRYING!
SALVITIS Index of Diseases, Free.
Remedies suggested in this Column promptly supplied
by Wholesale Agents for N.S.W. —
E. RICH & COMPANY, Ltd., SYDNEY
“SALVITIS”
Ensures abundance
of EGGS and
Healthy Poultry.
USED BY LEADING BREEDERS—I/-, 5/-, 10/-, 20/-
SALVITIS ROUP PILLS, 1/6 per box.
Wholesale Agents for N.S.W.—
E. RICH & COMPANY, Ltd., SYDNEY
Health, Strength,
and a Good Figure
>“
-
If you will
give fifteen
minutes each
day to well-
direc t e d,
scientific exer-
cises which we
will prescribe
by mail for
your indivi-
dual nee d 8,
your special
Development,
Reduction, or
Relief, we can
promise you
Pure Blood,
Free Circula-
tion, Correct
Breathing,
Perfect Diges-
tion, and the
resulting free-
dom from
Nervousness, Constipation, Torpid
Liver, Anaemia, and Obesity.
By the practice of our system of exercises you be-
come thoroughly alive, vibrant with nerve force,
which re-acts upon mental force and resists disease.
A clear skin, rosy cheeks, fullness of life and enthusi-
asm, and delightful personality result.
Women do not aim for an athlete’s prodigious
strength, bui for the development of strength and
symmetry of the curves and lines of beauty.
Our exercises cultivate that distinguished carriage
and bearing, and the engaging presence and ease
which at once bespeak culture and refinement.
They develop mental force and will power.
CANADA CYCLE & MOTOR CO., LTD.,
357 George Street, Sydney.
From the “Sydney Morning Herald” :
GIANT ENERGY.
One of the most continuously successful strokes
of business made in Sydney during the last 10 or
15 years has proved to be Fisher and Co.’s
introduction of a specially pi-epared kola, under
the trade mark “ Mighty Alok.” As everybody
knows now, the word “alok” is kola reversed—
and it was necessary to do this for copyright
purposes, as scores of inferior so-called “kola”
preparations were on sale everywhere. Fisher and
Co. found that as the word “kola ” itself could not
be registered as a trade-mark, it was absolutely’
useless to attempt to build up a big trade on a line
that could every hour of the day be counterfeited.
Hence we have what all Australia now knows—
“ Mighty Alok”—a special preparation from the
kola nut, universally admitted to be a really
remarkable and permanent restorer of human
energy. By a secret scientific process every
particle of the inherent strength-giving properties
of the kola nut have been secured and put up in a
most delightful drink for use in the “usual” or
“extra bitter” form, both containing the same
wonderful and therapeutic virtues. Alok is drank
with cold soda water and makes a delicious morn-
ing drink, slightly bitter, and is a great appetiser.
The Mighty Alok is a splendid tonic, and that it
stands alone is proved by the fact that every year
sees a big increase in the demand everywhere.
All hotels, with soda water, 6d per glass. All
chemists, 2s. 6d. and 3s. 6d. per bottle. Manu-
facturing pharmacy and proprietors, Fisher and
Company, 337 George-street, nearly opposite G.P.
Office.
Melbourne Agents :
Messrs. TAYLOR, FERGUSON 4; CO.
Flinders Lane.
SOLID
Vl mi ct
9
fil
Do you own or ®
Drive a U chicle?
If so, you should fit Solid Rubber
Tyres, fhey ABSORB ALL VIBRA-
TION, STOP ALL NOISE and
DOUBLE THE LIFE OF YOUR TRAP.
Che « «
Dunlop-Heiiy
Solid
Rubber
CARRIAGE
“Tyres
Are obtainable from £6 10/- per set and upwards. THEY WILL LAST
FOR YEARS ON A PRIVATE CONVEYANCE, and are wired on so that
they can-not come c f f nor creep. Tend for Artistic Catalogue and Price
List to
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Aust. Ltd.,
108 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
And at Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane
and Christchurch, N.Z.
Brisbane Courier calls loudly for a new
party, but refrains carefully from specifying its
members. How would the Govt, discontents,
Messrs. Cowley and Cameron (most obstinate of
reactionaries) blend with the Labor Opposition ?
Would the Radical oil amalgamate with the Con-
servative vinegar?
Apparently Victoria’s 48 Rich Landlords
have been cowed by the exhibition of a very small
modicum of backbone—unless they are reserving
their energies for the Reform Bill, The Probate
Act Amendment Bill, which they laid aside but
ten days before, was thrown at them again—
with but a couple of trifling amendments—
and they rushed it through in the record time
(vide Argus) of minutes! Seemingly, the
former platitudes about the necessity of “calm
consideration” and “careful review” were just
so much bunkum.
Sydney Water Board advances a reason-
able. grievance when it complains of the Owe’
Sullivan Government undertaking works not
strictly necessary, interest on which has to come
out of the Board’s revenues. Many a country
town entrusting the central Government with the
construction of a local water-supply system has
been similarly burdened with unreasonable in-
debtedness.. The Railway Commissioners, also,
can complain that construction work is undertaken
for political rather than railway reasons, and the
interest bill debited to them. Such a system
makes economical and remunerative management
practically impossible.
Appropriate names in real life, from
S.M.H. (3/l/’03): —
At Newcastle Police Court, before Mr. Love, S.M.,
William Kurey was convicted of assaulting Thomas
Bland, and knocking out three of his teeth. No provoca-
tion was given.
Wyndham, in Kimberley district of Wes-
tralia, got under the shower-bath of a Timor Sea
monsoon the other day, and had 25 inches of rain
in five days ! If science could only teach how to
guide such noble rain-clouds into the interior !
From the leading London Tory paper, tho
Standard
Mr. George A. Lawson, the sculptor, has received a
commission to execute a statue of Burns for the Cale-
donian-street of Melbourne, to be erected in the New
South Wales capital early next year.
Some of the Hindus, gathered at Delhi to
make up the Coronation circus, suffered terribly
from the cold of that quarter. A few died, among
them Muhammed Munawar Ali, chief Mahom-
medan of the Carnatic, who broke down halfway
thro’ the performance, and died as he was being
rushed back by train to warmer Madras.


a
nth,
G
o
1)
r=g
DnJj
©
/ d D= s
C°3 o pwi
IBtfe»
1
«gj
Gg £■
(U} ef
,-=g es
OIQ
I
S
g, c=?
' ©
Qg &
O
X
m
Less Paper—More Tobacco.
ifi in i ■ pi .•wrnmm arenanm.' mi
Owing to the use of modern machinery, our Cigarettes have a narrower “lap M (pasted edge) than any other brand. This necessarily means more
tobacco and less paper. Compare our GUINEA GOLD CIGARETTES with any other line and see for yourself if this is not true. '
OGDENS, LIMITED, 45 YORK STREET, SYDNEY,
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not how being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, l/l$d. per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents •. 7CLL10TT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
r
FREE TRIAL
for 90 Days
Not a penny down. Simply drop me a postal
card, with your name and address, and I will forward
you at once one of my latest Improved High-Grade
Electric Belts. You can use it for three months, then
pay me if cured, and the price will he only half what
others ask for their inferior belts. If not cured, you
can return the Belt to me, at my expense, and YOUR WORD WILL DECIDE. lam
willing to trust you entirely, knowing that I have the Best and Most Perfect Belt used in
Australia to-day, and nine men in ten always pay when cured.
I WILL TRUST YOU.
This modern Belt is the most perfect and complete ever invented. It will cure all
cases of Rheumatism, Varicocele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back, Kidney, Liver and
Stomach Complaints, Nervousness, and all Weaknesses of Men and Women.’
I—g ~F~S lk» j
A beautiful, illustrated Medical Book, which should be read by all weak men This
will be sent Free, sealed in plain wrapper, ail charges prepaid. It is free, and can'be had
for the asking.
. Don't neglect this splendid opportunity to regain your health. We will make a
written diagnosis of your case FREE. Write To-day.
The Dr. J. IT. Austin Electric Co.
39 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
? ■ ’Sv,
f.
HERR RASSMUSSEN
will guarantee to cure Nervous Weak-
ness, Blood Diseases, Piles, Rheuma-
tism, Corpulency, Liver and Kidney
Troubles. He will send his Book Free.
All correspondence will be held
confidential.
WEAK, NERVOUS MEN, WHY SUFFER
WHEN you can be quickly and permanently cured by taking Herr Rassmussen’s ALFALINS Vitality Pills which have cured <?n mnnv
thousand sufferers from DEBILITY, POOR MEMORY, WEAK SPINE, DESPONDENCY, and all which robs Manhood of that which
is dearest to it—Vital Strength. Herr Rassmussen will guarantee this remedy to cure every case, no matter of how long standing, and he will
give his skilled advice personally to all patrons of his remedies FREE OF CHARGE, either in his offices or by post. So don’t despair but
communicate with him without delay, no matter where you live. Treatment by Post a Speciality. Pamphlet sent Free. ’
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS. Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d., posted.
Blood and Skin Diseases
Blood Disorders, Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, Stone in the Bladder and Blood
Impurities guaranteed to be removed and permanently cured by
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS. Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d. posted.
Anaemic Women
suffering from Wasting Diseases, Pale, Lifeless, and otherwise affected, should at once communicate with HERR
RASSMUSSEN. His lifelong experience is at their service, and his
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS will cure them. Boxes, 6s; Courses, 235. 6d.
LIVER and KIDNEY TROUBLES cured at once by the ALFALINE LIVER and KIDNEY PILLS, Boxes Is.
His RHEUMATIC PILLS are World-Tamed, and his PILE POWDERS never fail ; 6s. per box each.
The ALFALINE REMEDIES can only beobtained from . . .
Herr Eassmussen’s Head Office—
547 George St., Sydney,
AND HIS BRANCHES AS FOLLOW—
BRISBANE: 309 Queen St.
MELBOURNE = 150 Bourke St.
ADELAIDE: 15 Pulteney St.
NZ.: 91 Lambton Quay, Wellington.
W.A., PERTH: 481 Hay St.
KALGOORLIE : 111 Hannan St.
FREMANTLE: 117 High St-
BOULDER CITY: Piesse St.
“ F.R.G.S.” writes :
Mr. Moore’s idea (Bulletin 10/l/’03) of an Australian
transcontinental railway is remarkable, so is his idea of
the geography of Australia, judging by his map. On
this, Oodnadatta is shown in the Northern Territory,
whereas it is located about 130 miles south of the 26th
parallel (the boundary between S.A. and N.T.). Also, the
only hill or mountain he considers worthy of being shown
is Mt. Boothby, in the N.T. This hill is probably as large
as two or three white-ant hills rolled into one.
“Grass-tree ” writes :—
Cabled that, at the recent Delhi Durbar, the Duke of
Connaught appointed a squadron of the Ninth Lancers to
he his escort, and that “ the choice greatly pleased the Eng-
lish in India, as that regiment was unjustly lying under
disgrace.” The facts are these : A native cook was brutally
assaulted within 25yds. of the Lancers’ cantonments. He
crawled to the officers’ mess and, before he died, stated
that two Lancers had assaulted him because he refused to
get native women for them. An inquiry was held, a,t
which native witnesses only were examined. Their evi-
dence corroborated the statements of the murdered
man ; nevertheless, the finding of the Court was that it
was impossible to discover the guilty parties, as there
was only native evidence. The Lieutenant-General was
dissatisfied, and ordered a fresh inquiry. This Court
reported that it could not obtain sufficient evidence to
fix the guilt, as “ all clues had been lost.” Two days
afterwards another native was kicked brutally by a
soldier, and died from the results of the kick. The
soldier was tried, convicted, and fined 50 rupees. Another
who broke a native’s nose was also fined 50 rupees. No
distinction between the killing of a native and breaking
his nose. After these merry frolics a third Court was
ordered to hold an inquiry into the death of the first-
mentioned native, and, according to Lord George Hamil-
ton, it obtained sufficient evidence to show that the
murder had been committed by two men of the Ninth
Lancers. So Lord Curzon punished the regiment by the
calling in of all officers on leave, the stoppage of all leave
till June, 1903, and additional cantonment duty till the
same date. What an object lesson to the Hindoos is the
glorification of these Ninth Lancers by the Duke of
Connaught 1
Harry Moranfc and his sorry fate, told of
in “Bushman and Buccaneer” (now in its second
edition). The history of the Breaker and his
verses and letters, including photo, reproduction
of the Pietersburg gaol MS. Price one shilling.
Booksellers and Bulletin office (post free Is. Id.)


. TRADE MARK .
FOX
Fox Bros. & Co., Ltd., warn
the Public that their Trade
Mark consists
ONLY
of the word
FOX
which is a guarantee of sound'
ness of material and Quality
of Dye of all
Worsted Coatings,
Serges I tweeds
on which it is stamped.
As the result of many years
of experience
fox’s Pure Mgo Dye
is recognised as the best in the
market. All FOX’S standard
cloths are stamped every two
yards on the back
FOX
PURE INDIGO
and without this stamp are
not genuine. These celebrated
serges can be obtained from the
leading Tailors and Drapers
throughout the Colonies.
FOX BROS. & Co., Ltd.,
Wellington, Somerset, Eng.
THE FINEST TONIC
FER BRATAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In concentrated drops.
most effective in
restoring the vitality
of the blood,and ena-
blingthu constitution
to resist climatic
influences.
FER BRAVAIS
Invaluable in all
cases of anaemia and
general debility.
SIVAVHB
Highly recommended
lor weak and
debilitated children.
LANCET “A beautiful and interesting
vrejiarunoTi. __
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL.-**/! hasall
the good effects of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion t ana
it does not blacken the teeth .
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AM- THE WOULD OVEB.
WHOLESALE : Paris, 130,Jlue Lafayette-
Martin’s Apiol and Steel Pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia, price 4s. 6d.
Agents: Sayers, Allport, and Potter, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor, W. Martin, Pharmaceutical
Chemist, Southampton, England.*
Even in these hard times the Victorian
Government subsidies no less than 88 agricultural
shows. The pampered Victorian farmer is the
most successful beggar in the State.
DRYSDALE’S ANTIBILIOUS PILLS
for biliousness, indigestion, headache, loss of appetite,
giddiness, &c., are prescribed by physicians of the highest
standing, who acknowledge their thorough efficiency in
all cases. 1/1 per box, post paid. F. J. Timbury,
chemist, Petrie’s Bight, Brisbane.*
MELLIN’S
FOR INFANTS
AND INVALIDS
FOOD
Is adapted for use -from birth.
Send for Pamphlet and Samples to COLLIN & CO., Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide and Wellington.
KIDNEYS. LIVER.
The Cause of Rheumatism y Gout, Lumbago, Sciatica,
Neuralgia, Blood Disorders, Gravel, Bladder Dis-
orders, Indigestion, Biliousness, Sick Headache,
Anaemia.
HOW TO EFFECT A PERMANENT CURE.
The Kidneys. —Blood is conveyed from the heart to the kidneys through arteries, and it is the
function of the kidneys to filter the blood, and otherwise separate from it water and various impurities.
These impurities are urea, uric acid, and mineral matter. When the kidneys have done their work of
purification, the blood enters the veins and traverses the body, accumulating, in its course, a fresh
supply of effete matter produced by the wasting of the tissues. The heart again delivers the blood to
the kidneys, and the process is repeated. Night and day the work of the kidneys goes on without
ceasing.
When the kidneys, through weakness or disease, are unable to perform their duty efficiently, the
blood retains the uric acid and urea which would otherwise be removed, and becomes contaminated by
these urinary poisons. Nature’s method of letting us know that the kidneys are working indifferently
is to make us conscious of the presence of these poisons by causing us to suffer from Rheumatism,
Gout, Lumbago, Sciatica, Neuralgia, Blood Disorders, Gravel, Stone or Bladder
Troubles. The commonest first symptom is a
PAIN IN THE BACK.
But it is not necessary to wait for this acute signal. If some urine, passed the first thing in the
morning, is placed in a covered glass and allowed to stand for twenty-four hours and is then cloudy,
shows a sediment like brick dust, is an unnatural color, or has particles floating about in it, then the
kidneys are weak or diseased and immediate steps must be taken to restore them to health
and activity.
The Liver. —The health of the liver and of the kidneys is closely connected. It is almost
impossible for the kidneys to be affected and for the liver to remain healthy, or vice versa. The liver
is an automatic chemical laboratory. In the liver various substances are actually made from the
blood. Two or three pounds of bile are thus made by the liver every day. The liver takes sugar
from the blood, converts it into another form, and stores it up so as to be able to again supply it to
the blood, gradually, as the latter requires enrichment. The liver uric acid, which is in-
soluble, into urea, which is completely soluble, and the liver also deals with the blood corpuscles,
which have lived their life and are useful no longer.
When the liver is inactive or diseased, we suffer from Indigestion, Biliousness, Anaemia.
Sick Headache, and Blood Disorders, because the blood is laden with urinary and biliary
poisons to such an extent that it cannot absorb nutriment from the food we eat, red corpuscles are no
longer formed, and it is these red corpuscles which nourish the nerves. In other words, the blood is
vitiated and starved.
The importance of keeping the kidneys and liver in vigorous health will therefore be realised,
and an explanation is afforded why
Warner’s Safe Cure
possesses such wonderful power in curing so many seemingly different disorders as those mentioned.
Warner’s Safe Cure possesses the remarkable property of being able to restore the kidneys and liver
to health and activity. All urinary and biliary poisons are then duly removed by the simple process
of Nature, and all suffering due to the presence of these poisons in the system necessarily ceases.
Mr. R. H. Blackman, 32 Greek-street, Glebe, Sydney, says About seven years ago I was
suffering from Gout, and was suddenly seized by Sciatica, which attacked me as I was driving, and the
pain became so bad that I had to be carried home. I was advised the next morning to take Warner’s
Safe Cure. After taking a few doses I felt relief, and, after taking one or two bottles, was cured
altogether.”
Mr. A. Newcombe, of 53 Arden-street, North Melbourne, says:—“For several years I was a
martyr to periodical attacks of Indigestion. Eating became almost a terror to me. The attacks
became more frequent as time went on. I tried various remedies, but derived no benefit from any of
them. Having heard a good deal about Warner’s Safe Cure, I took some of that medicine, together
with Warner’s Safe Pills, and was quite cured. I have not had an attack now for many months.”
A treatise containing full particulars relating to Warner’s Safe Cure, and accounts of many re-
markable cures effected, will be sent free on application by H. H. Warner and Co., Limited, Austra-
lasian Branch, Melbourne, Vic.
When You Want It
And it happens to be anything connected
with Photography, Phonographs, Lanterns,
Slides, etc., refer to the BAKER & ROUSE
PROPY., LTD. Largest and most varied
Stocks in the Commonwealth.
“AUSTRAL” BROniDE PAPERS, PEARL, STAR and
SUN P.O.P. reduced in price 25 per cent. Always fresh
and free from deterioration caused by long storage on
board ship.
All sizes and designs In “PREMO” and “POCO”
Cameras.
The New “ POCKET POCO A,” the smallest, neatest
and lightest Camera for Ladies.
PR
Sydn
Melbourne
Adelaide.
Brisbane
The Baker & Rouse Proprietary, Ltd.,
- GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and BRISBANE.
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manuf. Company,
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a 193 to 195 Cleveland-etreet, Redfern, SYDNEY
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY ? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7 ;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia. £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and made
to Order: HARN ESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
cent, .more for your requirements.
OUB SPECIAL No. 9
£8 18/6
m
&
9
£
Delivered at any Wharf or
H.B.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
CAPILLA Hair Tonic
A Hair Tonic that
actually produces
Hair.
_A_ll Ch.emistß, 2a 6d per bottle.
W. OLIVER RICHARDS, Sole Proprietor and Inventor, 164 PITT-ST., SYDNEY.
Mark’s Way.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Why do you trouble about mo now?" the
woman asked.
“Oh, just a fancy, I suppose—got tired—began
to yearn for a respectable domestic fireplace and
slippers, and—er—all that sort of thing, so” (with
a sneer) “ I thought I would look you up. It will
be delightful to have legalised respectability once
more.”
The woman walked to the window—the man
indolently glanced around the room.
“ Pretty hard-up, eh ? ” he asked, after a pause.
The woman did not answer.
“ Well, with your good looks, you surely could
have done better for yourself than this .”
The woman faced him. “Fortunately my good
sense proved a better friend to me than my good
looks. The first has given me the love and protec-
tion of a good, honest man. My looks ?—well,
they gave me you ! ”
“Really! and does the good, honest man who
provides the love and protection and”—with a
contemptuous glance around the poor room—“and
—er —this —does he flatter himself that he’s pro-
viding it for a good, honest woman ? ”
“Yes,” she whispered.
“ I thought so! It looks poverty-stricken
enough to damn-well reek of honesty and virtue,
and er —all that sort of thing. Come, Bess, put
on your hat. I can make your honesty much
more luxurious. Come, kiss and make friends,
and I’ll forgive you for—er—deserting me.”
1 fol ?\T e me? You/ ” repeated the
’ s ?2T fu, i y ' “ The lowest thin ff on this
earth would be above your forgiveness ! *
, ow ’ fc h a t san exaggerated view of the case,
m »wu ’ whafc ave 1 done to ”
f have yon done ? Well, nothing unusual
of J our stamp. I suppose, who regard all
. 1 ?|f“ as . tair sport, made simply to give a zest
* leir hves—men who marry when they can’t
U u® the woman they want by any other means,
and who, when they have wearied of her, find amuse-
trfgues 1 ” mSultlng her b y their numerous in-
You look perfectly charming in this light,”
murmured the man, eyeing her critically. “ 1
eg y our pardon, though ; 1 really didn’t moan to
interrupt. You were saying ”
Oh ! why have you troubled about me now?
Y ou tired of me long ago ; you led such a life that
it was impossible for any woman with a spark of
pride to exist under your roof—to bear your
name. J
1 was honored by your acceptance of it even
so s hort a time, I assure you.”
You showed your appreciation in a curious
way.”
„ y°u yours,” remarked the man.
What could Ido ? It was not desertion. I
could not face the horrorß of a divorce-court. You
would not consent to a legal separation ; what
could 1 do but leave you ? ”
Women reach the apex of selfishess,” the man
observed meditatively. “You never considered
my position and feelings in the matter. It was
deuced awkward for me. A man doesn’t like his
name ”
“ y ° vr name ! Listen to me, Mark. I left
your house penniless. I worked desperately hard
for a scanty return. I often wanted food, but
even that was happiness compared to my life with
\ou. I hen this man met me, and helped me with
his friendship ; he, too, was alone and poor ”
The man sat watching her.
“ Mark, you have been so cruel in the old days
be merciful now. He does not know—oh !
Mark, listen—l did not tell him I was a wife. I
married him ! Leave us, Mark, to live out our
lives. There are so many other women in yours ;
you cannot want me. We two are alone in the
world, save for each other. My sin is big, I know,
but shield me, Mark—shield me ; let me live out
my life with . My God !he is coming.
Mark ! Mark ! for pity’s sake ! ”
She clutched at him desperately.
The man rose languidly. “ Deuced awkward
where can I —er —hide?”
As she pushed him behind the screen the door
opened, and a man entered slowly. His pale,
nervous face was drawn, and he passed his hand
in a dazed way over his eyes.
The woman went forward quickly.
“No, my dearest. I’m all right—a little bit
tired, perhaps, ” and he tried to smile in her face ;
“just a little tired. I’ll lie down for a minute or
two . ”
The woman gasped for breath, then hastily put
a chair for him. “ Sit for a moment,” she urged.
He sank down.
“Is anything wrong?” she asked—and won-
dered if he could hear her heart beating.
“No, no, darling—nothing special, just the
same desperate luck. lam a coward to speak of
it, dearest, but somehow to-day I’ve been haunted
by a vague uneasiness. Everything has seemed
more sordid, everyone more heartless. If it were
not for your dear self I would have ended things
—but you are you, my love, my wife.”
She stroked his hair. “It will all come right
soon, dear, don’t worry.” Her voice was hard
and discordant—for her nerves were at desperate
tension. “ Are you too tired to go down for some
bread —I mean some tea, dear ? I haven’t had
any, and my head aches.”
“ Why, yes, darling, of course I will go,” said
the man struggling to his feet. “I’ll just”——
he moved toward the screen.
“No! no! go at once,” she cried excitedly;
but the men were looking at each other.
“Deuced awkward,” murmured Mark. “Really,
but—er — ”
The other man turned to his wife for the ex-
planation he was sure she could give, but her
tongue refused to speak, and she stood stammer-
ing. Then the dark blood crept over the man’s
face.
“ Who is this man ? ” he demanded.
She looked appealingly at Mark, who twirled
his moustache carefully, and was silent.
“ He is—he is ” she began hesitatingly.
“He is your lover,” broke from the man—“ My
God ! and you are the sweet, pure woman I have
prayed to as a god—for you I have humbled
myself in the dust to get money—for you I have
begged—yes, woman, for you begged, do you
hear ? Great God ! I could kill you—you false-
hood—you lie / ”
The woman held out her hands beseechingly.
Mark noted the prettiness of the attitude.
“Why don’t you plead to your lover, woman?
Are you ashamed to own him ? ”
“ He is not my lover,” faltered the woman ;
“ he is ”
“No, by God!” said Mark, stepping to her
side —“and I’ll damned well kill you if you dare
to insult her—she is my wife ! ”
• • • *
In a dismal room in a cheap lodging-house the
woman sat long over a letter. At times she
paused, and her brow flushed. She saw again the
contemptuous face of the man she loved. Then
her pencil moved quickly and her pitiful story
went forth as her plea. But what mattered it to
the figure crouching at the foot of the bed in that
other cheap lodging-house ?
it is only while we live we suffer.
STRAY.


Patents for Inventions. — Arthur Griffith
and Allen, International Patent Agents and Con-
sulting Engineers, University Chambers, Phillip-
street, Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyright
throughout the world.*
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It dri\es away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Adelaide Local Court has decided that it
cannot interfere with the Dental Board (ap-
pointed under last year’s Act), which refused to re-
gister Mr. Aubrey Davis although he has practised
continuously in Sydney for 20 years. He holds a
N.S.W. registration, but on going to Adelaide for
his wife’s health was rejected as “not possessing
any qualification.” Judge Boucaut said that he
himself was not a dental expert, and must assume
that the Board had exercised its discretion in
good faith, but he would like to hear the matter
again in the Supreme Court.
Amuse m ents.
Seats may be reserved at the White Rose Confectionery,
Pitt-street, corner of Royal Arcade.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney,
Sole Proprietor and Manager—Me. Harry Rickards.
The Great London Comedian, MR. W. G. HUNTER.
Triumphant Success of M. JACQUES INAUDI.
Welcome Re-appearance of SPRY and MONTI.
A Series of Triumphs scored hy J. W. WINTON and
M'CINTY, the Clever Ventriloquial Entertainer.
WALLACE BROWNLOW, PEARL LOVELL, MALVENA
MOORE, PROFESSOR MACCANN, EILEEN CAPEL,
and all our Great Tivoli Co.
RICKARDS’ NEW O PERA HOUSE
MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager—Mr. HARRY RICKARDS
EVERY EVENING, at 8 p.m.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS at 2.30p.m.
Enthusiastic Reception of MISS GRACIE EMMETT.
Splendid Success of FRED POPLAR, Miss KITTY WACER,
JOHN COLEMAN. MARK ANTHONY. DIAMOND DUO.
ELSIE M'LACHLAN. LES WARTON. MAY LEWIS
BIOSCOPE.
Prices—2s. 6d., 25., Is. Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, HviELBOURN t;
Sole Lessee .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
EVERY EVENING, EVERY EVENING,
THIRD WEEK of the Great Comedy Drama
ZA.Z A.,
The Most Remarkable Play of the Century.
MISS NELLIE STEWART as ZAZA, Supported by Mr
George Musgrove’s New English Comedy Co.
USUAL PRICES.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
-l-HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE^
■ Lessee .. .. .. Mr. Bland Holt
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. William Anderson
Bus. Manager, James Hendy. Treas., Julius Gran
WILLIAM ANDERSON'S Famous Dramatic Orjranlsath
headed by Miss EUGENIE DUGGAN
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 13, LAST NIGHT of
WHEN LONDON SLEEPS
SATURDAY, FEB. 14, First Time in Australasia
IN THE SHADOW OF NICHT ’
Prices—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is Box Plan at Allan’
FREE,!
Send your name and
address to —
Chamberlain Medicine Co.
64 Elizabeth St., Sydney
(A Post Card will do).
and they will forward you a
Free Sample of
Chamberlain’s
r
Stomach and
Liver Tablets
■
PKYS\C
Hey
RE&VftATVTHE. UN o^w6
Ye
*\h
BETTER THAN PILLS.
The question has been asked : “In what
way are Chamberlain’s Stomach and
Liver Tablets superior to pills?” Our
answer is—they are easier and more pleasant
to take, more gentle and kind in their action
and more reliable, as they can always be
depended upon. Then they cleanse and
invigorate the stomach and leave the bowels
in a natural condition, while pills are more
harsh in effect and their use is often followed
by constipation. Try and be convinced.
NOTE.—If not able to obtain Chamber-
lain’s Stomach and Liver Tablets locally,
a package will be sent, post paid, upon
receipt of 1/6. or six packets for 8/-, by
addressing Chamberlain Medicine Co., 64
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. 119
CINEMATOGRAPH
Paul’s New Century Animatograph, £6O
Paul’s Celebrated Picture Films, 9d.
per foot.
Full Particulars on Application to Paul’s Agents, viz.:
W. WATSON & SONS,
78 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Amusements.
Lyceum theatre, Sydney.
Lessee Mr. Wm. Anderson.
Sub Lessee .. .. Bland Holt.
EVERY EVENING,
Up-to-date and Full of Local Interest and Color,
BLAND HOLT’S Australian Melodrama,
THE BREAKING OF THE DROUGHT.
POPULAR PRICES—3s., 25., Is. Box Plan at Elvy’S.
CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
ARITE R I O N THE A TRE, SYDNEY.
SOLE LESSEE .. .. Mr. JOHN F. SHERIDAN.
Manager Mr. Frank Weathersby.
LAST NIGHTS of TH E LADY BARMAID.
SATURDAY NEXT, JOHN F. SHERIDAN as
WIDOW O’BRIEN
in
FUN ON THE BRISTOL.
(His Inimitable Representation as Pourtrayed by
him over 5500 times.)
JOHN F. SHERIDAN has had the honor of appearing
before their Majesties,
THE KING and QUEEN of ENGLAND.
FIRST ‘ BRISTOL’ MATINEE, WEDNESDAY, FEB. 18.
PRICES—3s., 25., Is. 6d. & Is. Box Plan at White
Rose Confectionery, corner of Royal Arcade and Pitt-st.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY?
■ Under the Direction of MR. GEORGE MUSGROVE.
Manager, Mr. T. P. Hudson.
Farewell Performances of GEORGE MUSGROVE’S
GRAND COMIC OPERA CO.
in the Romantic and Fascinating Hungarian Comic Opera,
THE FORTUNE TELLER,
Enormous Success of MADAME SLAPOFFSKI and
MR. LEMPRIERE PRINGLE.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan Now Open at Nicholson’s.
DALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY?
Lessees .. .. .. Messrs. Lee and Rial.
Under the Direction of MR. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
Positively the LAST EIGHT NIGHTS of the
ROYAL COMIC OPERA BEASON.
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY), the Famous Popular
Japanese Opera,
T H E G - E I S JEX A.
Bo* Plan it Nicboleon*
esr PRICKS \3 USUAL
At Poverty Point.
“ Haresfoot” : Elton was as good a comedian as ever I
saw, in the parts that fitted him. He wanted a really
human part, something like his capital portrait of “ The
Guv’nor.” He was never so well at home as Lauri in the
comic-opera repertoire, despite his hits in "Dorothy”
and the “ Old Guard.” He and Lauri acted together in
“LaCigale.” Lauri lay very low. He seemed to have
nothing to do but hold a donkey in “La Cigale.” Elton
rode the high horse, and was astonished when William-
son accepted his resignation, after which came the public
surprises of Lauri’s Lurcher, Polydore Poupart, &c. He
had the advantage of Elton in singing and dancing.
Many years ago Elton made a success at London Gaiety,
as Caliban, in Burnand’s burlesque of the “Tempest,”
with Monkhouse as Prospero, and Nellie Farren as
Ferdinand.
A Sydney paper solemnly whispers the rumor of a
future partnership between Allan Hamilton and Cecil
Ward, and suggests that “the aim of such a combination
would be to fill the place in the Australian theatrical
world made vacant by the departure of the Broughs.”
Holy smoke! It is easier to take aim than to hit the
bull’s eye. If Cecil Ward is well advised he will be con-
tent with the good goods the gods have given him, and
leave theatrical management alone.
Kyrle Bellew was as vain as any woman about his
clothes. When on Melbourne Herald in 1873 (George
Arthur Walstab, editor) he rarely wore the same suit a
second time in the week, and then worked out numerous
combinations, which made his wardrobe appear inex-
haustible. Tight trousers were a weakness with him—he
fancied his legs.
Townsville Star lets fly, on good provocation, because
of the small support given by the Townsville Goths to the
gifted, but locally-grown, young violinist Ernest Toy :
“ Where were the Australian Natives last night? Where
were those who were given to talk so nicely about the
people who were born in this coutry and the people
who were not? If a violinist of the name of
Mendellsohnoski or Strasburgsausagero had arrived here
from Warsaw or Wurtemburg he would have.been received
with all the honor due to an unknown alien. The Mayor
would have officially welcomed him, and Tom Smyth or
Tom Page or some other equally eloquent Thomas would
have been laid on regardless of expense. The visitor
would have been taken for a trip round our harbor and
shown our beautiful water supply, with a Chinaman wash-
ing his leprous pants included in the scene. Ernest Toy,
alas, is a Queenslander, therefore those honors were
denied him. He’s good enough for the people of London
and big Continental cities, but hardly up to the Towns-
ville standard.”
"Pro.” on tour lands at station, leaves his wife and
luggage in waiting-room while he goes to arrange at
boarding-house. Terms fixed satisfactorily with Scotch
landlady, when he says he will go to the station for wife
and luggage. “Eh ? ” says the landlady, “ yer wife is it,
or a theatrical arrangement? If it’s the latter, et’ll be
twa shullin’s a week extry.”
"L.S.” : Re that latest Sydney “joke” (8., 17/V’OS).
How is this for cruel ? A simple young chap, shunter at
a Melbourne suburban tram terminus, was persuaded by
his mates there that he had a splendid singing voice, and
that he ought to give up work and take on singing as a
profession. He resigned accordingly. One of the prime
movers in the “joke” faked a subscription-list to defray
his expenses ’Ome, and sums for thumping amounts were
put down as coming from well-known local residents. I
met the victim one day in the street, and tried to un-
deceive him. “ They’re only pulling your leg ! ” I said.
“ No, they aren’t,” he replied, “ not one of them came
near me.” I gave him best then. I saw him a few months
later delivering bills at a football match, and looking
right “ down ” to it.
Ellen Mortyne, to whom “Thesp.” recently referred
in this column, was a very popular actress from England,
at old Melb. Royal, in ’39. She died rather suddenly of
consumption. A rumor having been circulated that she
had been illegally operated on by a medical practitioner
still to the fore, an inquest was held, when the late Dr.
Tracey, who made the post mortem, gave evidence that
the unfortunate lady had never even been in need of
such an operation. Public sympathy was greatly aroused,
and the funeral, which started from Mr. and Mrs. G. V.
Brooke’s residence in Nicholson-street, was attended by
over 3000 persons.
The Countess Russell, who aired her first title on the
stage and otherwise made herself conspicuous before she
and her Earl were happily divorced, has now discovered
that her second husband—" Prince de Modena” is an
impostor as regards his title and estates. To marry a
bogus Prince is not a very valuable advt. Until the ex-
countess can get another divorce and marry a genuine
duke or something of that sort, her career of fashionable
notoriety is at an end. She must have been growing
desperate when she took a “Prince de Modena’’seriously.
“J. A. 0.” : “ Fingleur ” (B. 7/2A'S) asks, re " The For-
tune-Teller,” why we cannot have “ a season of legiti-
mate comic-opera?”, and names a number of works.
The answer is that the operas indicated would, with a
couple of exceptions, mean financial disaster, and that
not because musical culture has deteriorated, but rather
because it has advanced. These operas, melodious as they
are, have become “ back numbers.” One great reason
for the decadence of many of them is the absence, partial
or total, of choral numbers. Grand and telling effects,
such as in the “ Benediction of the Poniards” (“ Hugue-
nots”), “O Carlo Quinto” ("Ernani”), " Chimi frena”
(“Lucia”), &c., cannot be obtained without a chorus.
Flotow’s “ Ombra,” a three-act opera with four charac-
ters, an eternal succession of solos, duets, trios, and
quartets, was a conspicuous failure for this very reason.
“ Fingleur ” is perhaps a little too sweeping in his con-
demnation of the “ frothy foolery of the modern French
school.” Some of the opera bouffe of Planquette,
Audran, and Lecocq, particularly the last, is, both in
construction and inspiration, of a very high standard,
while Offenbach’s “ Barbe Blue” is not a work to
be “ sneezed at.” Finally your correspondent states
“ The first of all comic-operas is Mozart’s “Le
Nozze di Figaro,” then comes Rossini’s “ Bar-
ber of Seville,” with Cimaroso’s _ “II Matri-
monio Segreto ” a good third. Now, Rossini’s “ Barber of
Seville ” is, beyond dispute, the king of comic operas, and
certainly ranks before “Le Nozze di Figaro.” Besides,
there are others which might contest second place with
the latter opera—the same composer’s “ Magic Flute,”
for instance, or Meyerbeer’s “ Dinorah,” Thomas’s
“ Mignon,” and others. As for Cimarosa’s “ Matrimonio
Segreto,” during a stay of many years in Italy I only
remember it being once played, for a short season. The
music is bright and sparkling, but antiquated, and here
again the lack of a chorus renders it somewhat
monotonous. “Fingleur” has in his list Boiidieu’s
“Caliph of Bagdad,” but the composer’s chef d'oeuvre is
“ La Dame Blanche,” an opera first produced in the
colonies by the late Martin Simonsen, and only by him,
some 22 years ago, during a tour of Maoriland.
“ F.”: We hear a lot about “ theatrical decadence,” but
nothing about the decadence of the daily press as regards
its dealings with theatrical subjects. The “ respectable”
papers are now merely mouthpieces for showmen. Any
fiction which a theatrical speculator wishes to put before
the public is dropped into the eager ear of a grovelsome
pressman, who straightway utters it in print, with exag-
gerations added, as though it were unquestionable fact.
Fifteen years ago the newspapers mixed the salt of com-
mon sense with their theatrical criticisms and gossip.
Not so now. They allow weak-minded representatives to
serve as pimps for the principal managers, who don’t
even trouble to pretend to be grateful for the “taffy”
given them. The more that the pressmen truckle to
theatrical potentates, the more contemptuously those
self-satisfied merchants speak of their benefactors. Why
the theatrical importer-merchants should receive favors
denied to other sorts of merchants who advertise more
extensively is a question for newspaper proprietors to
answer. Perhaps the explanation can be found in the
managerial free list and whisky bill. Anyway, this
truckling to the men who run the shows is, in a measure,
responsible for “ theatrical decadence.” There is prac-
tically a conspiracy to palm geese off upon the public for
swans.
Every actress who plays Zaza has her own way of
bringing the curtain down on the stormy finish of the
fourth act. Rbjane, in Paris, made for the door, calling
her departed lover to come back to her. Mrs. Carter, in
London, rushed around the room, smashing the crockery
and things with hysterical fury. Nellie Stewart swoons.
The stage swoon is untrue to nature, but, then, the
character of Zaza is a dramatic fiction, and perhaps
Nellie’s collapse is a consistent climax to a powerful false
situation. At any rate, it is strictly orthodox, and there-
fore pleasing to the women. All women like to think
they could swoon after enjoying a terrible row with their
best boy.
At rehearsal. Stage-manager puzzled as to position of
characters at end of act. Characters on stage—wife and
tertium quid, in lady’s bedroom, surprised by husband.
Actors were asked for suggestions as to how they would
act under the circumstances, when—“ Oh 1 ” said the
gentleman cast for T.Q., “ I always apologise 1 ”
Concerning the dear old English nobility. A London
newspaper report :—“ The Marquis of Anglesey, whose
lavish productions at his theatre at Anglesey Castle are
like chapters from the ‘ Arabian Nights,’ produced ‘ Little
Red Riding Hood’ last night on a more elaborate and
opulent style than ever. The Marquis takes the role of
Bonnie Blue Boy. In the final scene he is positively
aglow with diamonds and other precious stones, his
magnificent dress being thickly studded with them. At
the conclusion of the pantomime his lordship gave a
snow-dance, with wonderful effect.”
Melbourne theatrical managers will not grieve to hear
that a suburban municipal entertainment (gratis) has
been unfavorably reported on. The “ show ”in question
was intended for the first of a series of free moonlight
band performances in the Victoria Gardens, Prahran,
which is Melbourne’s “ model suburb.” The city surveyor
stated that the proceedings were a pandemonium of free
music and free fights. Boys and girls misbehaved them-
selves under the influence of popular melody, and were
“chucked out” of the gardens; but they returned by
another gate and misbehaved some more. As a result
of this report, the local mayor and sundry coun-
cillors having been individually and collectively shocked,
it was decided to charge for admission at future concerts.
It is plague season now and the Australian
cities are gradually falling into line. Brisbane
reported an outbreak this week.
A huge turtle was caught, recently, in
Swan River (W.A.), through having got stranded
in shallow water. It required six men to capsize
it —is 7ft. long, and weighs close on a quarter of a
ton.
The provisional council of the “party”
which Mr. Joey Carruthers is trying to rear in
N.S. W. on the unsubstantial basis of the fragrance
left by a departed Dry (and unwashed) Dog, in-
cludes hatter Storey, furniture-man Von Hagen,
Mr. “Florrie” Hanslow, Mr. George Pile (of the
Other Dog), Dr. “Square-head” Hodgson, and
most other of the struggling shrubs of N.S.W.
politics who are ever striving vainly to blossom
into Parliament. It is a hopeless-looking party,
the largest section of which is of the dismal
“single-tax” faith.
The exceedingly virtuous Joseph Car-
ruthers, at Sydney, on Monday night:—
He would never accept the responsibilities of office
unless he had a solid party pledged to his platform sitting
behind him in Parliament. . . . there could be no good,
honest, and pure Government unless there was one party
sitting on one side of the House and another party sitting
in opposition to it.
The same Joseph made a desperate effort to get
into office with Premier See as one of a Cabinet
bossed by the Labor party. It is safe to predict
that he and his followers will “accept the respon-
sibilities of office” the first day that Mr. John
See is so unguarded as to leave those responsi-
bilities not nailed and chained down, _ They are
very hungry for office, are Joseph and his brethren.
Something of the real truth as to
Joseph Chamberlain’s S’African “mission” is
now beginning to leak out. The London papers
—followed dutifully by the Australian dailies—
did their best to put the complexion of a triumph
on to a failure; but the facts have become too
stubborn. It is now evident that with the excep-
tion of the Rand Cohens (who have been let off
with a nominal war-contribution and bribed with
a reversal of the Boers’ “White South Africa”
policy) and the greasers, trimmers and traitors of
the National Scouts type, Mr. Chamberlain has
pleased nobody. And what else could have been
expected ?
A company is being floated in Sydney to
supply Australia with automatic restaurants, such
as are in use in Europe and U.S.A. These
establishments have no attendants. The different
viands are on plates in glass compartments, the
requisite coin isdropped intotheslotoppositeacom-
partment, and the plate is automatically lowered
to an opening through which it can be taken out.
Drink is obtained by holding a glass under the tap
of the beverage selected, and placing a coin in the
slot, when the glass is automatically filled. What
a neat, orderly, reasonable contrast to the counter-
lunch horror which has grown to such proportions
in Sydney; what was originally intended as a
mere relish with drinks has now become a huge
gorge—expected as a right and grumbled over as
if munificently paid for.
“ D.” : One of the most difficult problems
for educationists in modem city aggregations is
how to secure the individual attention to each
child’s wants that the ordinary child needs in
order that its capacities may be “educed.” Till
solved, monotony of type must be the rule with
city children, with corresponding dangers in the
direction of mob-production. Practical sugges-
tions that would also be inexpensive in working
out would be welcomed by the many earnest
State school reformers in our midst, and would
probably effect more radical reforms in national
character than many Police Offences Acts and
perhaps even Declarations of Independence.
[There are no practical suggestions that would
also be inexpensive in working-out. The crux of
the matter is money. The community gets the
education it pays for. When it is willing to pay
more it can get better.—Ed. B.]
Mr. Guthrie, the retiring general manager
of the London Bank, seems to be a thorough cynic
as regards “farewell demonstrations,” anyhow.
One day last week the clerks of the institution
ventured to approach him in his upstairs sanctum
at the Melbourne office to present him with the
usual illuminated address, expressing their loyalty
to his sacred person in the past and their hopes
for his happiness hereafter. When a retiring boss
of an Australian bank has booked his final passage
for Great Britain—where they mostly all go,
health permitting—it is usual for the long-suffer-
ing employees to commit a small extravagance of
this sort. Heaven only knows why they do it,
but they do. Manager Guthrie must have ex-
pected what was coming, and nerved himself to
discountenance a wasteful expenditure of plati-
tudes and money, for when the clerks waited upon
the potentate he curtly declined the compliment
and drew their attention to the Door. So they
went down stairs, taking the illuminated address
with them. It cost 15 guineas, and anyone in
need of a decorative document can purchase the
souvenir at an alarming sacrifice.
An English doctor, at a recent inquest on
the body of a collier, said that deceased had the
usual collier’s black lungs, and that his heart was
as large as a bullock’s, while his kidneys and liver
were abnormally distended.” Such growths and
conditions, the doctor affirms, are peculiar o
coal-mining.
“F.A.R.” writes from Yodda Valley,
British New Guinea :—
Following my prediction of a month ago, comes the
news of a raid, on 1st Nov., by the natives in Tue Goia
district, and the murder of two unfortunate diggers.
One, “ Jimmy the Austrian,” had several spears driven
through him, his pick driven through his neck, and his
head clubbed into smash. The other, Brackenbury, had
been stoned to death. His head was frightfully batt® re jb
and his body was forced into a narrow race, at which " e
had been working. Although with hardly a whole bone
in his body when found, he was still breathing, and the
two finders had but time to ascertain this fact when thej
in turn had to run for their lives. There’s much doubt
as to the safety of other diggers, who are much scattered,
and would fall an easy prey. When gold is being mined
for on Gira, no natives are ever seen there ; tl b e " ea b est
villages being many miles away, and the so-called Warden
and his police being stationed at Tamatai, 20 miles from
the workings. The diggers therefore in no way encroach
on native rights, and it would need more eloquence than
Bishop Stone Wigg’s to make out these deeds as other
than wanton murders. Government is morally res-
ponsible for the slaughter of these unfortunate
men, and should be held accountable. The style of
the officials who have been in charge of the
district since Governor M‘Gregor’s departure has imbued
the police with such contempt for their superior officers
that one wonders they have even kept within the
semblance of authority. Two have lately been away on a
month’s rapine expedition. One turned up at Kumasi
just before the murders, and was put in irons ; the other
remains at large. Reported that they killed four natives
—three males and one female. It may be that the
murder of the whites was in retaliation for the offences
of the police. A searching inquiry should be held by the
Australian Government. 'I he facts that will be brought to
light will astound them, Let a member ask for a return
of the money spent on the goldfields and that expended
on Samarai by the present administrator, and the reply
will convince the House that further information was
necessary before granting any more money for the mis-
government of the Possession.
Things are going from bad to worse on
Victoria’s comic-opera railways, but the climax
was reached when four old engines broke down in
succession while struggling to get the Adelaide
express as far as Ballarat, and at last a fifth one
had to be sent out from the Garden City to look
for the lost train and bring it in. Minister Bent
now issues an official bellow to the effect that if
trains don’t cease being late he will suspend every-
body concerned. Therefore the ungainly figure
of Thomas may be found hanging from a nail at
any moment.
Mr. J. E. HOISLEY, Proprietor of the Halsey
House, New Holland, Ohio, writes :—
“ I had a severe attack of LA GRIPPE. It ran into
PNEUMONIA. Doctors failed to give me relief. I
became so weak that I could not turn in bed. Finally
my wife got a bottle of Jayne’s Expectorant. Before I
had used one half of it my cough was easier, and I was
soon restored. I have no hesitation in saying that
JAYNE’S EXPECTORANT SAVED MY LIFE.”*
The first report of the N.S.W. Public
Accounts Committee is out. Judging by the
tameness of the document, which would feed out
of the hand any day, N.S.W. was just as well
without a Public Accounts Committee. About
all the large financial troubles which raged last
year the Committee says nothing. It seems it
can only deal with questions of “unauthorised
expenditure” and with matters referred to it by
certain authorities, and as nothing of any import-
ance was referred to it, its report is a sinful waste
of good paper and ink.
Melbourne haa a Chinese newspaper which
celebrated the first anniversary of its hieroglyphical
nativity the other day. Chang Luk, late of the
Chinese Times in Sydney, runs the new organ on
a broadly patriotic policy—“ Australia for the
Chineeman and evlybody else who gets there.” A
cheery, plump, enthusiastic Confucian is Chang
Luk. Also a believer in the Blitish Empire next
to the Chinese Empire. He tells the 600 sub-
scribers to the organ that if their ancient country
is going to be bossed by foleign devil, they had
better vote for the Blitish foleign devil they
know, rather than the other foleign devil they
don’t know. But Chang Luk takes an Australian
jingo view of the Hempire. He hasn’t seen as
much of Blitish rule in China as a young cabinet-
maker who arrived in Melbourne lately. This
recent addition to the Commonwealth is a fair-
skinned youth, born of English parents at Hong-
kong. Brought up among the natives, he speaks
Chinese fluently and English hardly at all, and
when reminded of his parentage he doesn’t like it.
He has already started to grow a pigtail. Says
he is a Chinaman, and wants to live happily
among his own people in Lilly Bulk-street. His
views of the Blitish Empire were formed from
experience of the—aw —haw-haw rule at Hong-
kong.
WILLIAM ELTON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ring down the rag, boys ; Billy Elton’s dead ;
Gone home and left us long before his time ;
No waiting for his cue—no good-bye said.
He should be in this act, the merry mime
Who wooed with wit the glimpses of the lime . .
The house would guy us if his lines were read,
But—Billy’s dead.
The play falls flat for want of such a wag
To keep the jesting crisp, the laughter clear;
For he was one of those that never lag
Superfluous on the stage. He should be here
To close the piece, and take his call and hear
The shouts once more. Now, who can speak the tag?
Ring down the rag.
WAI[?].


triumphant PROOF
STRIKING
treated disclosed by Science. The mysterious, agonising, “ incurable ” diseases of yesterday are to-day
INDIO FSTTO'Kr T speedily. Students of Electro-Physiology declare that those ailments (such as
PARALYS^^™wn°I P n L P TS - NEURALGIA, GOUT, GENERAL DEBILITY, SCIATICA, RUPTURES,
DISORDERS which may be traced to" OE^tSt? ^l^ 118 ’ ATROPHY > MENTAL IMPAIRMENT, WEAKNESS, and FUNCTIONAL
exhaustion) are specially amenable to cure by Electri 't A . R POWER, and to the diminished energy of the vital functions consequent upon this
especially effective in the cure of NERVOUS DTSOFrtFRy S . a^ ra f. lv ® R i s fast becoming most beneficial, established upon a sound scientific basis. It is
its power. sln e dissipation of pain and the enticement of sleep. There is no questioning the certain quality of
The Freeman & Wallace Electric “ Invigorator ”
ONLY. h N (f extra barges 6 of any^kmd X ° W Upon * he whole system. It is a genuine Electric “ Belt,” which is sold for ONE POUND
instantaneous relief in cases of acute mins in npms m U 1S pai , e verywhere. This wonderful instrument, similar to those used by European scientists, gives
a few hours its influence is felt in a smedv and » ever . £aiJs to relieve the most insistent cases. Worn round the waist niffhtlv for
O’CONNOR, M.P, ex-MiSsterof thfSroL sJZ ”*3“ *°.= e f h ? ad Ha PP iness ' *. testimony published below from THE HON. DANIEL
, imister ot the Crown, Sydney, and one of the best-known members associated with the commercial and political history of N.S. Wales.
READ THIS
For the good that it has
done during a long term
of ill-health, MR. P. R.
LARKIN, J. P., a promin-
ent Sydney commercial resi-
dent, writes to the Phy-
sician-in-Chief of the Insti-
tute in the following grateful
terms :
Dear Sir,
The Electro-
“ Invigorator ”
Belt I received
from you six
months ago, I
have worn con=
sistent with
your instruc=
tio n s. I am
pleased to say
1 have found
much benefit
from it. I am
satisfied it gives
vigor to the
system and im=
proves the
general health.
(Signed)
P. R. LARKIN, J.P.
m
' , >'
,- ■:
it
V
7i
%rm
X
2«
\
ESwh
sra
.
tx
@ipi
f%
„ v
....
S '»
«%N;X
m
*~
THE HON. DANIEL O'CONNOR, M.P.
AND THIS
Inspector F. FOWLER,
an highly-esteemed officer
of the New South Wales
Police Force, who con-
sulted us some months since,
chronicles his improvement
to us in a recent letter.
Here is an extract:—
44 Since wear=
ing your 4 Belt ’
my health has
improved, and
the trouble I
was suffering
from I hardly
ever feel. As you
are aware, 1 was
so much bene=
fited by the use
of your 4 In=
vigorator ’ I re=
commended my
friends to try it.
(Signed)
F. FOWLER.
Mr. O’CONNOR’S TESTIMONY.
Parliament House, Macquarie-street,
Sydney, January 28, 1903 .
“ I have tried a course of your Electro-Medical treatment, during which time I
have worn one of your Electric “BELTS ” It has benefited me very much. For some
years I teas troubled with severe pains in the bach and kidneys—the legacy of an
attack of lumbago—which has notv altogether, I am happy to say, left me.
“(Signed) DANIEL O’CONNOR, M.P.”
this is but one testimony from many thousands.
CAUTION !
Our Electric “ INVIGORATOR ” Belts have been eulogised by Mr. Chas. Kenningham, principal tenor Royal Comic
Opera Company, Sydney, Mr. P. R. Larkin, J.P., Inspector Fowler, N.S.W. Police, Sydney. Countless others testify
daily to their wonderful efficacy in curing Nerve and Blood Diseases.
When you wear our Electric “ Belt 31 you don't require any expensive medical treatment. But you require sound
medical advice. We have now under treatment a number of persons who have had THEIR MALADIES AGGR AVATED by the wearing alone of an electric
“ belt ” without the necessary full directions as to its use and possibilities. Therein the danger lies. Our “ Belts ” are locally certificated and manufactured at our
special factory. They are NOT imported. They are cheap, but effective. Here are the prices :
COPPER PLATED (specially recommended)... £1
SILVER-PLATED £1 10/-
SOLID SILVER £3
SOLID GOLD (2ozs. IBct. Gold) £io
LOCALLY CERTIFICATED,
We sell our Belts purely upon their merits.
LOCALLY fIANUFACTURED, LOCALLY PROVEN.
They are the most perfect Instruments used in Australian Medical Practice.
*
%
%
Wk
vk
<?
<3
%
vS'x *
'V
Our Fees are; Advice, with Medicine, One Pound Only,
mjm -tj 7% ill &1 pli | If you are ill try this new system, which is endorsed by the scientific
PJ t N A N Inf U XL n I world and praised by thousands of rescued people.
| The Freeman & Wallace Electric “Invigorator”
will cure you. We will send you, Post Free, a special brochure of testimonies, illustrated, showing you
what this grand method has done for others. IT STANDS TO REASON, if it has cured them, it
will cure you. If you cannot call, write to us. We reply to all letters punctually and privately.
REMEMBER: The Physician-in-Chief to the Institute is the only internationally regis-
tered medical practitioner advertising Electric Belts in Australia. He is registered
by AUSTRALIAN, ENGLISH, and AMERICAN BOARDS. He is a qualified
Specialist of great European reputation. When purchasing a “Belt,” see that
your physician’s name is entered in the list of qualified medical practitioners of
New South Wales.
7 . .
, ; .•p-■ : ' '* ' : * ** I
i. INSTITUTE VIGOR A.SundICJUKSTUUTf
HiAUH
f:
H F#' •
I
vi.~~v
The Institute, Sydney.
Our 550-page Medical Health Guide, “CLINICAL EX ERI-
ENCES,” 150 Medical Plates, explains thoroughly the
cure of Nerve Diseases by Electro-Medical Methods. Send
for it. POST FREE ONE SHILLING in Stamps.


C. BRAND AUER & Co.’s (Ltd.)}
CIRCULAR-POINTED PENS J
Seven Prize Medals Awarded.
Neither scratch nor
spurt, the points
being rounded by a
new process.
Attention is also
dranm to their new
“CRADUATED
SERIES OP
PENS.”
Each patte 2^ i^° o^ r J^tZ S r WwfcI'BiRMINQHAM, ENGLAND
Ask your Storekeeper for an Assorted Sample box ot eunur oe
Heame’s Bronchitis Cure.
:b famous
REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA
Sufferers from soy form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pam or
n the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never teen known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine.
and a Complete Cure is certain. REWARB OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY mSEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence, suflorers irom any ‘“‘a .^elrivS’ uaM efas it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
Sorenessin the Chest, experience immediate and to those> who are subject on s *^ h “‘^" , c Cnic. nor Consumptim. to'develop. .
forting in allaying irritation in the giving «* A do*, is generally sufficient,
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—l am writing to tell you
about, the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
my case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first, the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my case to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at, once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-road, 8.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir.—l suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
v ith cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and “can’t be licked.”—Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
small bottle of vour Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
as! cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from vou before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
cin for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mr*. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Victoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
" Llenwellyn,
“ Katunga, Vic.
"Mr. Hearne.—
« Dear Sir,—l am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to my mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
"JOHN S. MORTIMER."
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
«8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
"Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
" Dear Sir,—
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, l was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that previously for 12 months—always w'ent in the
omnibus—as walking caused me such pain and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
"Yours very truly,
“M. MORTIMER.
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY Ilia
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE'S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows :—“ As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne 8
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do —send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since 1 commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night’s rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was verj’ good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Tears’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“ Sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried ;
but I am happv to sav that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure.—l remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
“ WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Five Tears’ Case.
CUBED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. O. Hearne.— Dear Sir,—Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. lam more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be withou
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Seven Tears’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
« Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“ Dear Sir, —Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as I am now, quite well.—Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydn/,.”
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED
A SEVENTEEN YEARS' CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, writes “After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then,
which was in the beginning of 1883— 15 years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine qui
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommendingit.
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states! * I
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
eturn of the Asthma.”
PREPARED
ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND
RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
SMELTING * REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
Works: DAPTO, LAKE ILLAWARRA (56 Miles from Sydney). 1901, Limited.
Highest Price paid for Gold, Silver, Lead, and Copper Ores,
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay. Cyanide, SlagS, and Je Weller S’ Sweep, etc.
Eor all Information regarding Rates, apply to the Manager, Head Office, Dapto;
or, A. E. RUDDER & CO., 40 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Forwarding Agents.
“ Retained when
all other Foods are
rejected. It is in-
valuable.”
London Medical Record.
“‘Bengep*s Food’
has by its excellence
established a repu-
tation of its own.”
British Medical Record.
GOLD MEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
Bender s Food
For Infants, Invalids, and the Aged . Delicious. Nutritive, and Digestible.
Benger’s Food is sold by Chemists, &c., Everywhere
Extracts from Private
Letters.
“My last little boy was
fed entirely upon it from
birth, and a healthier
child it would be difficult
to find. My wife sounds
the praise of ' Benger’s
Food’ everywhere.”
“ If every mother knew
of its value, no other
would be used.
Under the heading : “ The Factories Act—
Vexations Operation,” Melbourne Abgus has
been wailing because certain shameless agri-
cultural sweaters, who had sent their young
children (under 13) to work in the local jam-factory
during their school holidays, were compelled to
desist. If school holidays are to be periods of
hard labor in a factory the children would be
much better without them. The Argus says that
‘‘much irritation ” has been caused by this event.
Did anyone ever hear of a sweater, slave-driver
child-driver, burglar or other bad character who
didn’t experience “much irritation” when com-
pelled to leave off ?
Writes “ Xerxes ” :—
Not generally known that near Walli, about half-way
between Canowindra and Lyndhurst, N.S.W., there are,
on the Belubula River, some splendid caves. Recently
visited them with a party, amongst whom was a man
familiar with Jenolan Caves. He expressed the opinion
that they were quite equal in beauty to the latter. Walli
caves are, of course, quite “ unimproved,” and are not
half explored—a chance for tourists to distinguish them-
selves. In the vicinity there are hot springs, fossils are
abundant, and the river is quite close to the caves. Some
grim stories are told of olden times in the district. The
caves are on the property of Mr. Rothery, whose permis-
sion to visit them must, I think, be obtained.


Fust a Word or Two with you
on the Watch Question.
IRST cost should not be the largest saving on a Watch—the real economy
ot honest wear and correct timekeeping is the true test of value. The
man who pays a little price for a Watch gets but little satisfaction-
pM could hardly expect more. We have built up a reputation for
Reliable Watches and we intend to keep it by selling only the dependable kind.
We illustrate and describe a few Watches here—for others see our large
Catalogue, which we send free to anyone who cares to send for it.
No. Glooo.—This is a particu-
larly neat little Jewelled
Movement Steel-cased Keyless
Watch for a lady; price,
£1 2s. 6d.
We,
5*2
12
11
as
10
¥
4
Lady’s Key-Wind, Solid Silver, Engraved
Case, Jewelled Movement Watch, with
Silver Dial, exquisitely deooiated with
Gold; price, jg 2 2a.
Lady’s High Quality, Keyless,
Hunting Waltham Lever Watch,
Solid Silver, Engraved Oases, and
for extra strength Case is fitted
with Solid Gold Joints ; price,
£4.
The Waltham Lever Watch, with Fine Jewelled Movement and Solid
Silver Hunting Case, Keyless, Brequet Spring, Compensation Balance,
Price £3 10s.
The “ Princess ” 18ct. Gold Hunting-
Cased Watch, with a thoroughly good
Jewelled Movement: price, £5 10s.
If Open Face, £4 tOs Silver
Hunting, £2 10s. Open Face, £2.
No. F9s6.—The Silver “Triumph” Watch,
suitable for men or boys, Jewelled Movement,
Keyless, Solid Silver Case ; price, £t 10s. In
Nickel Silver Case, 18s. 6d.
The “Eclipse” Watch, Key-wind, Capped and Jewelled
Movement, Strong: Solid Silver Hunting Cases, price £2.
Open Face, £1 10s. Lady’s Sizes, with Engraved Case at
the same prices.
-
Illustrated Catalogue Post Free,
No. F 934. —A f-Plate, Jewelled Movement,
Keyless, Solid Silver, Hunting t ase, English
Lever Watch, with Compensation Balance and
Brequet Hair Spring ; price,
JE4 10s.
No. E 9666. —A Highly-polished, Steel-
cased, Keyless, Open Face, Crystal
Glass Lever Watch for Ladies. It has
a First-class, Jewelled Lever Move-
ment ; price, jg 2 ss.
S^uWaysP
YOURMONEYS
© WCfRTH
T
HERE ARE SEVERAL
TALKING MACHINES
. . BUT THERE IS ONLY ONE . .
(KiMOFIOIE
WHICH IS MADE BY
The gramophone $ Typewriter [td.
This is a “ JUNIOR fIONARCH ” GRAMOPHONE,
Price £6 10s., and it is unsurpassed by any
Talking Machine at any Price.
Other Styles, £3 to £l4 10s.
T is well to remember this when discussing the artistic merit of sound reproducing contrivances. There is little
difficulty in reproducing a sound. There is, however, a gigantic difficulty in reproducing good music, and the actual
voices of famous singers. We would ask you to remember that THE GRAMOPHONE made by The Gramophone
and Typewriter Ltd. does this. How do we do it ? Why, because we have unlimited capital at our back, and because
we do not hesitate to obtain the services of the finest and most celebrated artistes of the day to sing for us. The better the
artiste the better the song. The public are the best judges in the world of the intrinsic value of an article. We are selling
FIVE MILLION RECORDS
per annum and why ? Because our records are real reproductions of these singers. Our catalogue includes records made
by Carusa, Plan§on, Benaud, David Bispham, Ben Davies, Andrew Black, Bichard Green, Joseph O’Mara, Mesdames Calve,
Suzanne Adams, Kirby Lunn, Esther Palliser, Percival Allen, Connie Ediss, and Marie Tempest. Also Dan Leno, George
Bobey, Louis Bradfield, and Maurice Earkoa, besides hundreds of others.
Australian Agencies—VlCTOßlA: A. P. Sykes, 227 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
l SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Messrs. S. B. Hunt & Co., 94 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
WESTRALIA: Messrs. Nicholson & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA: Messrs. Wertheimer, Benjamin, & Anderson, 71 Collins Street, Hobart.
QUEENSLAND: Messrs. Heindorff Bros., 210 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Represented all over
World.
AGENTS IN EVERY TOWN.
WHOLESALE DEPOT FOR AUSTRALASIA -
The Gramophone and Typewriter Ltd., 163 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.


Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Agents for N. S. Wales : Sayers,
Allport and Potter, Sydney. Sole proprietor, W.
Martin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
England.*
A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
cases in six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
only Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
Of Chemists, or from PARIS MEDICINE CO., 28, Shoe-
lane, London, England.*
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
' Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS BRISBANE.
BILIOUSNESS, INDIGESTION, and HEADACHE
are Permanently Removed by the use of KUTNOW’S POWDER.
TTNQUESTIONABLY the necessity of vigorous health is seriously personal to everyone, and therein lies the value of
U Kutnow’s Powder, which is superior to any known remedy of the age. It’s purity, its painless action, its prompt
alleviation of suffering, and its strengthening, refreshing, invigorating virtues entitle it to the splendid tribute to its
merit which was paid when
The Court Physicians prescribed Kutnow's Powder for Members of the Royal Family.
On taking Kutnow’s Powder in the morning, an improvement in energy is instantly felt, and a joyous feeling of
vigorous health pervades the whole system. Business difficulties disappear under shrewd solution; in fact, like all compli-
cated and delicate machinery, the cleansing operation at once produces the perfect contributory working of all the functions
which go to make a perfect man, who thus becomes himself again, eats well, sleeps well, and works well.
General Approval,
“Care of National Bank (Ltd.),
Boshof, Orange River Colony,
South Africa, 19th July, 1902.
“Dear Sirs,— Although I have only used
your Kutnow’s Powder for a week, I find it
has a most beneficial effect, and shall gladly
recommend it to anyone suffering. Knowing
now that it can be obtained at Lennon’s I
shall not be without a bottle. The more
your Powder is used, the more benefit to
the public.
“ Yours very truly,
“L. MORGAN.”
HOLD FAST TO THAT
WHICH IS GOOD.
CAUTION. —There are some unscrupulous dealers who for the sake of extra
profit try to sell imitations of Kutnow’s Powder. These may cost a few pence
less, but are worthless, and consequently dear at any price. Insist upon having
Kutnow’s, and do not allow yourself to be persuaded to accept any substitute.
There is only one
Genuine Kutnow’s Powder.
Sir MOBELL MACKENZIE, M.D., wrote:
“I have tried it and find that it answers particularly well.”
As a painless and agreeable antiseptic aperient, it thoroughly cleanses the
bowels, kidneys and bladder, promptly stopping all fermentation and germ
action — cool, refreshing, palatable, safe, thorough and never gripes.
Medical Approval
“ Dear Sirs, —I am constantly prescribing
Kutnow’s Powder, with invariably good
results. I also use it myself in order to
regulate the inactivity of the digestive and
excretory organs. It is especially beneficial
in stimulating a sluggish liver, preventing
biliousness and dyspepsia, and permanently
removes the baneful effects of chronic con-
stipation.
“ Yours truly,
“ W. R. JONES, M.D.,
“Professor of Medical Chemistry and Toxicology,
“University College, June 3, 1901.”
KUTNOW’S POWDER can be obtained from all Chemists and Medicine Stores throughout the World.
Proprietors: S. KUTNOW & CO.. Ltd., 41 Farringdon Road, London, E.C. Proprietors in U.S.A. : KTJTNOW BROS., Ltd., 853 Broadway, New York.
£astro’s Cast Sacrament
And Other Stories,
BY ALBERT DORRINGTON.
“ The Most Brilliant Short Stories Produced in
Australia
A CONSENSUS OF CRITICAL OPINION.
NEW SOUTH WALES.
“ He has been everywhere and seen every-
thing, and he has to no ordinary extent the
power of presenting things as they seemed to
him—the gift of vivid and powerful narration.
. . . . Contains dramatic pictures which the
best of our artists in words might well envy.”—
Sydney Moi ring Herald.
“The stories are often filled with incidents
that startle the reader, and emotions whose very
strength makes him shiver. ... Mr. Dorring-
ton’s warrant as a writer of short stories is that
oi absolute genius.”— Sydney Daily Telegraph.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
214 Georgb Street, Sydhey, Australia.
DARK OR AROMATIC
TOBACCO
LOCk
SOMATIC *
FINEST SELECTED
AMERICAN LEAF.
HIGHEST QUALITY
MANUFACTURED.
Arltunga goldfield (S.A.) was without flour
at Christmas, and expected to be so for about
another month. Its festivities were carried
through on a diet of mutton, rice, and sago. It is
being urged in Adelaide that the transcontinental
railway line (when made) should digress far enough
to the east to take in Arltunga, and thereafter
run close to the Q. border.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.
In the Melbourne “ Boneyard,” as the
P.O. people call the Dead Letter Office, is a
Curiosity Book containing envelopes, &c., that
have at times needed special ingenuity and
patience to ensure their delivery. One super-
scription runs, “To the Chouncle Shir Hall of
the Grand View Estate Skouth Albany, W.A.—
for the rat cleeter.” Another envelope is merely
marked “118 Elis —ambe Split”; this was
accepted as correct at 118 Elizabeth - street.
“Broehenil,” on another, was meant for Broken
Hill; while “ Ridrigand-street, Rollen,” turned
out to be a Russian version of Cardigan-street,
Carlton. A letter was posted one day bearing
only a photo, and “ Victoria. ” The “phiz” was
recognised as that of a Ballarat publican and duly
delivered. Persons with a crude sense of humor
occasionally write a few words on the back of a
stamp, squeeze the address in, and post it. These
the officials generally put through—swearing the
while. The “Bone-yard” has its tragedies
and dramas, too. A letter to a contin-
genter in S’Africa was returned unclaimed.
Opened, it was found to be signed “The girl you
left behind you.” Where the sender’s address
should be was merely a number—she had forgot-
ten to fill in the street and town. But the cancel-
stamp fixed the latter —a Melbourne suburb—and
the postman was told to inquire at that number
in every street. He hadn’t to go far. Almost
the first house he inquired at was occupied by a
family in mourning for a brother killed at the
front, and staying with them was a girl-friend.
She was the “Girl he left behind him.”
Another letter, posted without an address, when
opened disclosed two =£10 notes —nothing else
whatever. No inquiries were made either by
sender or expected recipient. Soon afterwards
another letter was being opened (the addressee
being undiscoverable) when a small slip of paper
fell from the letter. This bore the query, ‘ ‘ Did
you get the two notes ? ” The writer of this —a
representative citizen —was asked to call at the
Boneyard. On being asked if he had lately sent
a letter containing two tenners, he flew into a
great rage. “It was like their dashed impudence,
opening people’s letters; he would see the Deputy
P.M.G. at once.” The officer apologised for
troubling him, he was merely trying to discover
the sender of a letter they couldn’t deliver.
“ And why not ? ” “ Because it had no address.”
The wrathful cit. suddenly cooled down and ad-
mitted that he had sent such a letter, giving the
date it was posted. “ Could you give the numbers
of the notes ? ” He could, and did, and they
were handed over. Then the two went out and
saw a man about a dog, and the citizen admitted
he had been wondering why the notes had never
been acknowledged—but he didn’t say why he
made no inquiries, nor why he got in a rage when
asked about them. “The Curiosity Book” also
contains one signature embellished with a wide
margin of red ink. The writer of this had kicked
up an earthquake once aboutan undelivered missive
which he subsequently discovered under his own
blotting-pad. He was the only man who ever
came back to the Boneyard to apologise for being
abusive without cause, therefore his signature is
preserved as that of the one real gentleman in
Victoria.
Apropos Inaudi, the human calculating-
machine. T’otherside technical journals lately
describe a calculating-machine that isn’t human,
and yet seems as marvellous :
The basis of the system is a card with a number of holes
punched in it, each hole having a definite meaning,
representing a number, a locality, a color, a crop, or
whatever else is desired. The superstructure of the sys-
tem is an electric tabulating machine, capable of taking
note of every hole a card does, or can, present; of select-
ing and grouping the cards according to the presence or
absence of certain holes, of computing the totals repre-
sented by any set of holes, and, in a word, of extracting
all the information the cards supply, and of arranging it
in a hundred different ways. A 100 horse-power
engine has been turned out, and the accounts show that
it has cost less than a similar engine constructed three
years ago. The manager wants to discover the cause of
the economy. It may be due to new tools bought in the
interval, to a lower average of wages paid, to a speeding-
up of the tools, or to better methods and discipline by
which the output of the men is increased, or to a com-
bination of two or more of these causes. The passage
through the machine of all the daily cards belonging to
the periods during which the jobs were in the shops
would pick out all the cards pertaining to the engines,
the other cards being replaced in their proper order.
Then it would be easy to dissect the accounts, and find
the number of men of each class on the job, the number
of hours worked, the average and total wages for each
class of men, and the whole amount charged for shop
expenses to each type of machine, and so on.
Society item from Pt. Douglas (N.Q.): —
Last July (as our readers remember) two Chinese ladies
arrived in Pt. Douglas and there was a wedding a few
days later. News has just reached us from Mossman that
one of the fair ones resident there last Sunday added a
unit to the population of the sugar township.
It is no small event when a Chow is born in a
N.Q. township.
Dry Dog Reid has apparently made a poor
impression in Westralia. This is how he struck
Perth Morning Herald— until very lately a
rampant Foreign-trade organ
From Mr. Reid’s speech at Fremantle on Tuesday
evening the student of political economy can deduce two
important facts in support of the policy of Freetrade.
The first is that in the U.S. of America Protection has
brought down wages to such an extent that—to quote
from the speech—“ the great mass of the laborers do not
earn more than £40 or £50 a year.” The second is that
the Australian manufacturer need not fear the compe-
tition of goods made in the U.&, because—we quote
again from the speech—“in the States even higher wages
are paid than those prevailing in Australia.” These two
arguments seem conclusive. The policy of Protection,
which makes wages so low that the worker cannot live,
and so high that the manufacturer cannot compete with
his rivals in Freetrade countries, must be a terrible thing
indeed. Of course, Protectionists may claim that Mr.
Reid’s two arguments are mutually destructive, and
that as a matter of fact, the American work-
man’ is better off than the workman of any
other country, whilst the American manufacturer is
getting more'than his fair share of the world’s markets.
Mr. Reid is only employing the usual methods of the con-
troversialist when he insists that facts popularly sup-
posed to be stubborn things—must always lend them-
selves to his own view of the case. The mistake he seems
to have made was the introduction of the two opposing
facts in the one speech. The Freetrader may make some
capital with the employer by showing that Protection
increases wages, or with the by demonstrating
that it decreases wages, but only “ Yes-No ” Reid would
think of arguing both ways in the one evening. Evi-
dently he wants to catch the manufacturer and the
laborer on the one hook.


m
■>
:
'
PU
ale
fcleffi
;
The
cos
p- D
PD
CORSETS
The Recognised Standard
High-Class Corsets
LATEST SPECIALTY
STRAIGHT FRONT
NOUVELLE FORM
Obtainable from Leading
Drapers Everywhere.
Avoid Inferior Imitations, and see that
each pair bears the Manufacturer’s “Trade
Mark ” on band inside, as above.
THE PIANOLA
£2
iMil
5?
v *-
CS r i^
What
It
Means
To
You
If you could suddenly be provided with the ability to play
the piano perfectly, and to retain the ability without the necessity
of constant practice, would you not gladly {ay <£6o 1
The PIANOLA will provide this wonderful ability. It will
give to any one absolute control over the piano.
It will enable you to play your piano, although you may not
have played one note in your life.
No musical knowledge is necessary and the possessor of a
PIANOLA finds himself master of a technique greater than that
of any artist that ever lived.
Is it not worth while to consider the advisability of owning
a PIANOLA yourself 1 If you will write us, we will mail you
free a catalogue describing the instrument. When writing, ask
for Catalogue “ B.”
The price of the Pianola is £6O for prompt cash, or <£6s on
model ate monthly payments.
Henry M. Birge & Co.
323 George Street, Sydney;
185-187 Collins St., Melbourne.
Ballister’s Baking; the Other
Fellow’s Story!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Necessarily the other fellow’s—because when,
at Penang, I had the temerity to ask "Bully
Ballister” for his version, his reply, in three
short words, was beneath the dignity of history.
Civilised man, commiserating the brute creation
hugely in words, ill-treats it hardly the less in
deeds; savage man’s practice accords strictly
with his theory. “One man doesn’t feel pain
inflicted on another. Why, then, should he
trouble himself about the sufferings of a brute ? ”
Klake couldn’t understand it. “ Our fathers
have always taken the shell thus; why should we
do otherwise ? ”
Crampton deliberately loaded up the magazine
of his Winchester, the other counting, in his own
tongue, the cartridges as they went in.
“For every one of those reasons, Klake ! Chief
thou callest thyself sometimes ; then, if chief thou
art, let but one more turtle go over the fire, alive,
and the first of these bullets is for thee ! ”
The trader spoke Malay, and, in a broken
version of the same, Klake —assumptive enough
in general —disclaimed the dangerous honor.
“Chief I am none. Tulopi is chief. Tulopi is
there—let him speak for himself.”
Klake’s uncle grinned sardonically. “Like the
young war-bird of the Malays is my nephew—
chief while the old cock is not by.”
Of the hearers who understood Malay, a dozen
raised the uproarious Papuan guffaw. As many
more looked dubiously—as asking leave to laugh—
at Klake, and then, as he angrily picked up his
spear, did likewise, and came over to his side.
Bows, too, were handled, and a club or two swung
up, but then over the sand-ridge came suddenly a
burly, bearded man in striped cottons, who, with
many oaths and in three tongues, commented
freely on the situation.
“Look well, you do, Crampton!—a-standin’
there to egg these cussed niggers on to a shindy
that’ll throw us back a week, perhaps—an’ the
blazin’ schooner due in a couple o’ days ! Beauty
of a pardner you are, an’ no mistake! What in
thunder’s it all about, anyhow ? ”
“It’s just this, Ballister! I know something
about tortoiseshell, I suppose?”
“ S’pose you do ! —what then ? ”
“Well —kill your turtle and scald the plates
off quick—that’s good shell. But get ’em off the
living turtle with a fire—your stuff isn’t so good,
and you’re a cruel, cold-blooded scoundrel.”
“Bully Ballister” stared with all his bloodshot
eyes. “Wli—who ?” he gasped.
“ I don’t say you ! You’re a white man after
all, I suppose, and you can’t have known how
these wretches were getting the shell for you.”
The other did a weird fandango on the sand
before he could find his astounded tongue.
“Not know! —me? Why, you contaminated
mutton-headed idiot! Let me just catch one of
’em a-strippin’ plates off a dead turtle an’ he never
gets another electrified ounce o’ shell for me !
Get back to your trepang-dryin’ as quick’s you
like! Guess I can run this here shell-racket
without any cussed mollycoddle of a Laglander to
help me ! ”
Had Crampton even been a Cornstalk the slur
might have been less gratuitous. As a Banana-
lander his wrath was great.
“You should have been a lag yourself long ago,
Mr. Bully Ballister, by all accounts. And, any-
how, you’re every word of what I called you just
now —and a blatherskiting cur into the bargain ! ”
Ballister was bully enough for twenty, but it
wasn’t cowardice that kept his hand from his
pistol. There is no keeper of the peace like a
commercial interest. “If I plug him,” thought
Ballister, rapidly, “ten to one old Tulopi’ll stick
to the young fool’s half of the stuff —or p’raps
knock me on the head and collar the whole
caboodle.”
He swallowed the rage that had mottled with
unwholesome white his brick-red face. “Just
drop that muzzle o’ yours a bit, young man, will
you ! You an’ me ain’t a-goin’ to blow holes in
each other this turn. I was a bit rough on you
first, I’cknowledge, but let’s take the thing cool
an’ business-like”—and, to the grievous disap-
pointment of the Pogonga men, eagerly expectant
of a “ white-man powder fight,” Ballister took out
his pipe and lit it. Crampton dropped his rifle
into the hollow of his arm, but then between the
two came Tulopi and planted his club-head with a
thump in the sand.
“ It shall be as my brother Crampti wishes. A
foolish notion of his is this. But it is all one to
the men of Pogonga. The shell shall be taken, as
he says, from the dead turtle, not any more from
the living.”
Ballister turned on the old man a sinister red
eye. “We’ll see about that, old cabbage-head.
Just you hold your jaw in the meantime. Now,
look-a-here, Crampton—haven’t I heard you say,
vourself, that these here hawksbill turtles is
bound to be all used up in time because they sticks
so much to the islands they’ve been hatched on ?
An’ don’t you think it’s a darned selfish kind o’
thing to kill every critter for its shell —’stead o’
lettin’ it go agin, to grow more for somebody else?
Grows agin, right enough, the shell does! Old
Fly-by-Night, here, ’ll tell you that, himself !”
But “Fly-by-Night,” otherwise Tulopi, being
questioned in Malay, shook his grizzled mop-
head. “No ; the turtles always died soon after.”
Ballister shook his fist in the old man’s face.
“It’s a lie!” he said. “What’s to kill ’em?
Warmin’ up their backs a bit? Darned if I
wouldn’t stand as much, myself, for a flamin’ ten-
dollar bill! ”
Now, to “demonstrate” at a Pogonga-man is
as bad as to strike him, and for five minutes Mr.
Ballister’s valuable brains were in imminent dan-
ger of dispersion. But the old chief—thinking
that perhaps the English words carried some
amelioration of the insult—held his hand. “ What
saith this mad fellow ? ” he asked of the Queens-
lander.
“That thou art a liar, Tulopi!—and that he
could himself endure all the turtles suffer ! ”
“It is well!” said the chief, quietly, “I will
remember! ”
• • • •
The “ Blushing Fifteen,” men said, had excel-
lent reason to blush over some of the transactions
she had been engaged in, and certain it was, in any
case, that her skipper, “ Shady ” Macdermott,
was very shady. For which reason, when he had
got his anchor down and was comfortably sampling
Ballister’s “ Blankenheim,” he swallowed as
readily as the Hollands a proposal that would have
staggered almost any man—short of an actual
pirate.
“It’s this way, Mac. ! I don’t care a rotten
banana about the way the shell’s got! But I’m
not a-goin’ to be bested by a green-witted galoot
of a half-bred Britisher! Now, I’ll get at him
two ways ! First, I’ll get Klake and some of his
party, to-night, and we’ll yank my gentleman out
of his bed an’ down to the turtle-shed. There s a
couple o whoppers there that was caught last
night, and, just to show my milk-an’-water friend
who’s boss, we’ll put ’em on the fire alive ! ”
Macdermott drank, and nodded. “Very pretty,
all this ! ’ he growled. “ But it isn’t business ! ”
“I’m a-comin’ to business, Mac. Listen!
While me an’ Klake’s at this little job what’ll you
an’ your crew be doin’ ? ”
Experience of his man gave the demi-pirate the
clue. the stuff!” he said, and winked
his solitary eye.
“ Exac’ly, old ship! So, if you’re the same
scarletty man you used to be, you’ll just take a
squint round with me to get the lay of things, an’
then you’ll get aboard an’ heave-short, so’s you
can break your gory mud-hook out at a minute’s
notice. Then you gets your boats ready for ’bout
leven o’clock ; there’ll be a bit of a moon, an’ the
whole blooming lot should be aboard by daylight
—when I slip down to you, an’ off we goes an’
leaves my bold Australian to whistle for his share
of the spondulicks ! See ? ”
“I see! Half?”
“Yes, it’s a half-share. Oh ! yours, you mean ?
Too hot, you old sinner ! Say a quarter !”
“Half!—or I’m not in it!”—and the man of
few words emptied his tumbler and got up.
Same old angle-iron as ever ! Half it is, then
—rot you ! ”
* * * •
But the parties to this precious contract had
reckoned without Tulopi.
That astute old gentleman—thinking it was
about time the supremacy-question was settled—
had provided Klake with other shadows than those
made for him by sun or moon, and was no whit
surprised to be roused up about midnight with
the news that Klake and half-a-score of followers
had accompanied the one white man to the
sleeping-hut of the other.
“Get the people,” he said, “ and let them follow
me ! To the turtle-shed ? ” he added, as another
spy came breathless in. “Good! —we will go,
also ! ”
Now Ballister, having spent the afternoon in
swiping raw gin, was by now in danger of ex-
plosion. By the time the turtle-shed was reached
his alcohol-expanded ferocity had so wholly
swamped his judgment that mere turtle-roasting
was too mild a sop for his revenge. Crainpton
himself, swore Ballister by all his gods, should
taste of the fire—and Klak6 was willing. But his
men were not. Klake wasn’t top dog yet in
Pogonga, by a long way. Tulopi loved this white
man, and Tulopi’s avenging capabilities they
trembled to recall.
“And well is it for ye that ye have so chosen ! ”
said a well-known voice from the outer precincts
of the firelight.
Ballister gazed stupidly round, and Klake
lowered the club he had raised to brain —as a
matter of principle—the spokesman of his myr-
midons, who, for their part, flopped down as one
man upon the sand. They were but ten, and
behind Tulopi the fire-light glanced upon the eyes
and weapons of the whole fighting-strength of the
island—rallied round the old man at the pinch.
Tulopi motioned Klake’s men to join the rest-
then called out a dozen in their stead. “ Crampti,”
he said, “the men of the ship take off thy goods
this night! Is this well ? ”
“It is not well, Tulopi! Some of this man’s
evil work it is ! ”
“Go down then, thou, with all these men. The
fault be with thyself if these white thieves touch
another morsel of thy substance !”
» • * •
Macdermott, pulling cautiously in for a second
boat-load, saw, in the misty moonlight, the white
sand backed by a long line of dusky figures.
“ Holy Patrick! —here’s a fightin’ set-out! —the
whole blasted island ! Aboard again, boys, as
quick as you like ! Our little game’s up ; and it’s
a flamin’ good job we’re hove-short —we wouldn’t
have much show if that crowd came off to us ! * _
The breeze was fresh off the land, and with it
came presently a long-drawn, hideous yell, that
sounded clear above the clanking of the schooner’s
windlass.
“ Friend Ballister a-gettin’ pepper ! ” the
skipper said, coolly. “ And serve the drunken
idiot dam well right! Heave away, boys, and
break him out —before it’s our turn ! ”
• * • *
To Crampton, on the beach, that appalling
screech carried a horrible meaning. He remem-
bered Ballister’s senseless boast, and off he went,
helter-skelter, through the cocoanut trees, over
the limestone ridge, and down the sandy slope
towards the turtle shed. Between him and the
red glare of the fire —like a vision of hell—black
figures struggled frantically to and fro, and then
again, as he reached the shed, arose an ear-
splitting scream of agony.
He was right!—Ballister was on the fire /
Naked, and lashed back-downwards to the bars
—the wretch was as yet but badly scorched when
Crampton rushed in and dragged the grating
bodily off the furnace.
Quoth Tulopi, placidly : “ This man said I was
a liar, and I said I would remember ! In that, at
least, I have not been a liar! But, with all, I
would not have roasted him, Crampti,. had he
not sought to roast thee. The matter is thine ;
take the beast away if thou wilt—and quickly—
lest I send him after Klake faster than 1 had
thought to do ! ”
“ Klake ? Where is Klake gone ? ”
The old man swung his club carelessly towards
a corner of the shed, and dimly in the shadow
Crampton made out a loosely prostrate figure.
He reached for the club and held it towards the
fire-light. Upon the ponderous head long, human
hairs were stuck with half-dried blood.
Tulopi laughed as he took back the weapon.
“That which was,” he said, “was never evil
when that which is is good ! ’’
It was his version of “All’s well that ends
well.”
* * * *
Ballister, nursing his back and his wrath, lay
low until the Dutch Commissioner came round
upon his yearly “any complaints’’’circuit.
Grievous, then, in the official ear was * Bully s
tale—more grievous still his astonishment when
the Commissioner, who had heard of Mr. Ballister
before, ordered him promptly on board the
steamer—ran him up to Amboyna, and shipped
him thence for Singapore, with the pleasing inti-
mation that if he turned up again in Dutch pro-
tected ” territory, he’d make one of the noble
army of martyrs in the antimony mines of feissik.
ALEX. MONTGONERY.
Some of the latest electric-trams have
adopted the Christensen in place of the Westing-
house brake. The Christensen works quite mde-
pendently of the tram, whilst the Westmghouse
is “ pumped ” up by the motion of the car.
The British Navy is a great raisin-eater ;
300 tons of the dried fruit are swallowed annually
on board H.M. ships. So it is good news to hear
that the Imperial authorities are going to give the
Victorian product a trial. This is the result of
representations made by Minister Taverner, ana
should open up a big field for Mildura.
A correspondent to that gilt-edged periodi-
Cal, London VANITY Fair, bemoans the lack of
care tntor.
p r , . ecting people for billets in the
own Colonies :
Apart from a candidate’s professional qualifications,
practically nothing is considered; unless, of course, he
De of notoriously evil character. And, as a consequence,
vjepresent responsible officials of our Crown
uoionies are at least readers and hearers, if not actually
aoers and believers, in the doctrines of—well, say Thb
iqnS™ Eep””™.';
The Bulletin type . . . blossoming out into officials in
Crown Colonies, dpenly deriding the Mother Country
and her “ stupid state of rotten at the core,” and by their
example and conversation, attempting to introduce the
freedom and vigor ” they have themselves been accus-
tomed to in Australasia the harm and danger hardly
require pointing out. ... It is really the system that is
at fault. . Australians, as a rule, are splendid fellows
in many w..ys—especially athletically. . . . But their
politics have hardly reached that stage of dignified repose
wmcsh is so necessary an adjunct of the panoply of the
official of any of the Crown Colonies where natives are
concerned. I could give many painful instances of this
which would shock your readers, and perhaps do little
good. It may do good, though, dear Vanity, if through
your columns a hint is given to Mr. Chamberlain that
when he sends Australians to Crown Colonies something
besides physical and mental fitness is an essential
It would be interesting to know at whom this dis-
appointed office-seeker, whose haw-accent was
overlooked in favor of mere physical and mental
fitness, is aiming at. Of course, every genuine
Australian is more-or-less Republican at heart,
but who are the real “red” ones whose appoint-
ments vex the Vanity Fair correspondent ?
“Jimmy S.” writes :
, * “*»••* ?’ Kf® >" d “
is not surprising that the worker is reluctant to have
children.” Why cut off feet to save buying boots?
Compare King Billy and Brigham Young. The one lost
Australia by not giving the increase. Zion Dowie, the
Pope, or someone, appeared in a vision to the other,
telling him “ the richest crops of Utah were children
whereupon Young practised Brighamy and prospered,
A Boer woman recently based her assertion, “Ons land
(our country) will yet be Ons land,” on a Boer and British
child-bearing comparison. The worker won the eight
hours’ movement by a bloodless revolution. If he cannot
man his position how can he emphasise his present
rights ? A mate of mine has an apple-cart, a wooden
leg, and ten children. “ Too many sometimes, but
there’s none to spare ”—beside which “W.N.’s” surprise
appears morbid, petty, parochial.


Biliousness
PERMANENTLY BANISHED.
m
That Bile Bean 3 do undoubtedly
cure Biliousness in its most severe
forms, is now a well-proved fact
throughout Australia. Many past
sufferers owe their present freedom
from that distressing complaint to
the medicinal properties of Bile
Beans. Just as one illustration, Mrs.
Ellen Keating, of “Louisaville,” Bel-
more-st., Enmore, Sydney, says:-
“ In my opinion your Bile Beans are
a splendid remedy for biliousness and
its attendant evils. I had been
troubled with biliousness, with the
symptoms of splitting headaches, that
miserable, sickly feeling, with no
taste nor relish for food, and was
altogether out of sorts. I had tried
many so-called remedies to improve
vyy deplorable condition, but without
t»vail. Subsequently, Bile Beans
were recommended to me, and,
having taken a course strictly in
accordance with directions, I found
them a perfect remedy for the com-
plaints from which I had suffered,
and always strongly recommend them to fellow sufferers/’
BILE BEANS have been proved to be a n undoubted for BILIOUSNESS,
INDIGESTION, CONSTIPATION, PILESh BAD'BLOOD, PIMPLES AND ALL
QTTTvr t?prTT>TTOArs RAD RREATH DEBILILY, FULNEbo A.b J-EK HiAiiiNbr,
NFRVOTTSNFSS DYSPEPSIA SICK and NERVOUS HEADACHES, DIZZI-
NESS LOSS of’ APPETITE, INSOMNIA, ANAEMIA, SUMMER .FAC, and a
host of other ailments that owe their origin to defective bile flow, afsimflation and
digestion. BILE BEANS are obtainable from all Chemists and Stores. fnce,
Is lid., or 2s. 9d. LARGE BOX (containing three times Is. lid. size).
m
A.®, F.
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SOAPMAKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
K otic e
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceed ngs
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
Ltd '
The Lost Muse.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I left the crowded city :
I could no longer rest. . .
Farewell to comrades witty !
Good-bye to song and jest!
I left the crowded city
Upon a silent quest.
There strong men wrought and wrangled
For room to breathe and be ;
Hard men who could have strangled
The sweet nymph Poesy :
There strong men wrought and wrangled—
But what were they to me?
The City they are barred in
So close that no man sees
God walking in His garden
Among His pleasant trees :
The City they are barred in
By evil destinies.
The houses crouch together
Like dumb beasts terrified :
In vain the golden weather
Gilds all the world outside :
The houses crouch together
As if from God to hide.
I left the crowded City
With all its noise and glare,
Its Greed that knows no pity,
Its .loy and its Despair :
I left the crowded City
To breathe the freer air.
My heart was sore with yearning,
And visions thronged my brain
That like a wheel was turning
And spinning threads of pain :
My heart was sore with yearning
To find my Love again.
Good people, have ye seen her
Who is so fair to see ?
The grass she treads grows greener,
The leaves dance on the tree . . .
Good people, have ye seen her
Who is the world to me ?
She sings where’er she passes
The song of sweet Desire ;
The eyes of lads and lasses
She fills with tender fire :
She sings where’er she passes
And plays upon a lyre.
I heard the wild swans calling
Where northern rivers flow ;
I heard a voice enthralling
That well I used to know :
I heard the wild swans calling
Along the sunset glow.
Upon an island lonely,
Beneath a wild green vine,
For one swift moment only
I saw a vision shine—
Upon an island lonely
Of sighing reed and pine.
Was it my Lady playing
The tunes that charm the trees ?
Or but a mist-wreath swaying
And bending in the breeze ?
Was it my Lady playing
Old Orphic melodies ?
The reeds with secrets quiver
Around that lonely isle
Set in the Northern river
Where Pan reigns yet awhile :
The reeds with secrets quiver—
And oh, I saw her smile!
“ Hast thou some younger Lover,
O fickle Muse,” I cried,
“For whom thou dost uncover
Thy beauty, like a bride ?
Hast thou some younger Lover
Who will not be denied ?
“ And doth he hold thee dearer
And love thee more than I ?
And dost thou draw him nearer
To thee when ghosts go by ?
And doth he hold thee dearer
Than life ? O Muse, reply ! ”
I heard the pine-trees sighing
Like mourners stricken sore ;
I heard the reeds replying
In whispers round the shore ...
I heard the pine-trees sighing—
And I heard nothing more.
GRAFTON, N.S.W.
VICTOR J. DALEY.
Filial Tenderness.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was the first day for the payment of Old Age
Pensions. As late as half-past two in the after-
noon the crowd of applicants blocked the footpath
and part of the street.
“We’ve been ’ere since ten ’smornin’,” com-
plained one old fellow.
“The derangements is rotten,’’declared another.
“ There’s bin four or five faintin’ fits a’ready, an’
the sun’s gittin’ ’otter an’ ’otter. Them old
females oughter ’ave a hawnin’ ter wait under. It
wouldn’t cost nothink, wouldn’t a hawnin’. Jist
a few poles an’ a scrap er canvas from a verandah
out inter the street a little ways, an’ a few seats
under it If there was a hawnin’ like that ”
“It don’t want no awnin’,” interrupted an
aggressive-looking pensioner, with some war-
medals on his breast. “All it wants is fer the
Gov’ment to block them there people what ain’t
c'ot no business a-crowdin’ round the doors.
What’s all them young ’uns doin’ there?”
It was suggested that the younger people might
have charge of aged relatives,
“ Some has, some hain’t. There’s one old
woman got no less’n four middlin’ young females
to shove ’er up to the door. One’s enough.”
A policeman opened the big door and admitted
half-a-dozen of the applicants ; then closed it
again by main force against the surging little
crowd.
One old fellow came round from the exit. He
was tightly buttoned up in a long brown coat, and
carried under his arm a heavy, brass-bound box
as big as a coal-scuttle. He was almost crying
for joy. “I’ve got it,” he panted, “got it at
last.” Then suddenly realising that the wealth
he had acquired after so much trouble might
tempt robbers, he checked his exuberance and
shuffled away.
The oldest men and the youngest of the women
seemed least resigned to the long, weary waiting,
for they crushed closest to the door. The younger
men and the very oldest women (excepting those
that were being forcibly pushed to the front by
young relatives) hobbled about the outskirts of
the crowd, grumbling, or sat on the kerb with
their feet in the gutter, and looked dejectedly
resigned.
“’Tis in the crush I was an hour ago,” said an
old dame, “ but I’d be dead if I stayed, wid their
pushin’ and squazin’, so I would.”
A kindly shopkeeper across the way sent a boy
over with a few empty cases as seats for the old
women.
The passing of a fainting old woman from the
centre of the crush out into the open attracted
attention. She was half-dragged, half-supported
by a woman of about 35, a stoutish, sharp-nosed
person, wearing a red toque with yellow flowers,
and a blue dress with the placket gaping. Her
voice was as sharp as her nose. She was evidently
annoyed at the collapse of her aged companion.
“’Ere, sit down a bit on this box. Now yer all
right. I’m sure I dunno what’s the matter with
yer; there’s somethink ’appenin’ yer every day
lately. Now, ’old up yer ’ead, don’t go slippin’
inter the gutter all of a heap.”
But the old woman persisted in slipping help-
lessly down beside the box. Somebody brought
watev, but it failed to revive the patient.
“Git’er some brandy,” suggested an old pen-
sioner wearing two medals.
The sharp-nosed woman snapped angrily,
“Brandy ! Where’s brandy money to come from,
d’ye think? People can’t get even what’s their
own after waitin’ ’ere since afore 12, let alone
brandy money.”
The old soldier beat a retreat.
“ ’Ere, ’old up, can’t yer! ” continued the virago,
at the same time shaking her charge rather
roughly. “You ain’t as bad as all that. I
declare them old folks is tryin’.”
They got the patient on the box again and
propped her back against a verandah post. The
sharp-nosed woman talked excitedly and querul-
ously, meanwhile vigorously fanning the wrinkled
face of the old woman with a newspaper. “It
ain’t bad enough ’avin’ ter drag all the ways up
from the Point and gittin’ squashed tryin’ ter get
in fer the money, but now she must go and faint
like this.”
“ Did she walk up from Dawes Point ? ” queried
a bystander.
“You don’t suppose she was druv up George’s-
street in a’ansom, do yer?” snapped the sharp-
nosed woman. “Drat the pins ! ” she continued,
trying to unfasten a pin with which the neck of
the old woman’s dress was secured. “My God !
Ain’t she ever comin’-to?”
The yellow flowers shook with excitement;
their wearer was getting anxious. Going down
on her knees, she passed one arm around the
shoulders of the old woman, and with the dis-
engaged hand fanned more vigorously than ever.
The patient exhibited signs of recovery.
“Brandy!and ’ansoms indeed !” muttered the
other—“ Where’d I get money for brandy and
’ansoms, I’d like ter know?” Then, growing
confidential, she gave the little circle some family
history:—“l sez to my ’usband, only the other
day, I sez, * Tom, you’ll be sorry ever yer mother
come outer the ’sylum, mark my words.’ But ’e
would ’ave ’er out, and sez ’e: ‘ Look at the
pension—over two pound a month, an’ no trouble
ter get it! ’ No trouble ! That’s all a man knows
about it. We ain’t drawed no pension yet, an’
we’ve kep’ ’er over three weeks.”
“If you don’t get some brandy she won’t never
draw no pensions ; she’ll be dead,” said the old
soldier, returning to the charge.
The sharp-nosed woman turned pale. “My
God ! ” she exclaimed. The prospect of losing
the pension after all her trouble was alarming.
“Well, I can’t leave her to go and get brandy,”
she whimpered.
Several volunteered to go the message, but a
newsboy was the first one over to the hotel. He
returned empty-handed. “Won’t give it ’thout
the beans,” he announced shortly.
The woman looked appealingly round the circle,
but most faces were averted. Sixpences were
scarce in the gathering.
“Pawn yer red ’at,” suggested the newsboy,
but his impudence passed unnoticed.
The sick woman moaned feebly, and the white
head fell sideways like that of a dying fowl.
“’Tis dying the poor body is,” quavered an old
Irishwoman, who had left her seat on the kerb
and made her way to the scene. Some of those
sq ueezing towards the door of the Pensions Office
turned their heads at this announcement, but few
left their places to investigate further.
“ Why don’t you send for a dhrop of rum ? ” de-
manded the last speaker.
The patient’s daughter-in-law sought her pocket,
and as she fumbled therein the gaping placket
gaped wider than ever. After a while she con-
fusedly withdrew her hand, empty, and again
looked appealingly round among the crowd. But
none volunteered to give.
The old Irishwoman once more lifted up her
voice: “Sure, ’tis terrible, so it is, to lave an
ould woman die in the strate for the sake av a
dirty saxpence ! ”
At this, terror seemed to take possession of the
younger woman, and, with an exclamation that
was half a shriek and half a curse, she plunged her
hand into her pocket and drew forth a coin, which
she threw at the feet of the old soldier. “For
God’s sakebequick,” she screamed. Then, noticing
that the coin the man picked up was yellow, she
turned red and white by turns. She again thrust
her hand into her pocket, this time withdrawing
it with the palm hidden from any eyes but her
own.
“ It’s the smallest I’ve got,” she stammered.
The old soldier hurried away on his errand.
“ Get rum, not brandy,” she cried after him.
When the soldier returned and handed the
woman the glass, she placed it on the kerb, while
she carefully pocketed the change, 9s. 9d. Then
she found that the old Irishwoman had seized the
glass, and, with shaking hand, was trying to force
some of the spirit between the pale lips of the
patient.
“Give it here,” demanded she of the red hat,
roughly. “I’ll make’er drink it meself. You’ll
fumble and fool about till yer spill ther lot. It
costa money ! ”
JOHN DRAYMAN.


A Stringof Complaints
Languor, Depression, General Undoing, Loss of Appetite, Weakness,—
A String of Complaints Due to Hot Weather.
Mr. G. J. Plenty, of Bowden, South
Australia, sends us his photograph
and says:
“ I have a regular string of com-
plaints every summer. The excessive
heat prostrates me. I feel languid
and depressed and have a general un-
doing of my health. A great many
of my friends complain in the same
way. Lately I have found that Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla overcomes all these bad
effects and enables me to go through
the hot season without any trouble.
Jt revivifies my system, purifies my
blood, and gives me an unusual
gree of strength. lam sure no one
will be disappointed with this medi-
cine, for it is not only a preventive
but also a powerful cure of dis-
ease.”
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
Keep your blood in good condition, keep your digestion strong, and keep
your nervous system vigorous. Then you -will not suffer from the weakening
effects of hot weather. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla was made for just these purposes.
It cools the blood, tones up the digestive apparatus, puts force into the
nervous system. And it fortifies you against hot weather, cold weather, or
changeable weather. It gives strength to ward off disease.
Don’t be deceived by trying some other Sarsaparilla. Don’t experiment
with imitations. Hold fast to the tried and tested Sarsaparilla—Ayer’s.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
A Tonic for All Seasons of the Year
dyer’s Pills are a purely vegetable laxative for the whole family.
'Mi
'mi
o.
w t/
ait laic€
6
r
The “LANCET” says:—
“We counsel the public to drink Lime-Fruit Juice
whenever and wherever they list. It is a far more
wholesome drink than any form of Alcohol.”
“ Montserrat” Lime-Fruit Juice either with water or
aerated water is a delightful thirst quencher.
Sole Consigneea :
EVANS SONS, LESCHER, & WEBB, Limited,
London and Liverpool.
AGENTS —Elliott Bros., Ltd. ; J. Cornell A Co., Sydney.
D. Cohen & Co., Newcastle.
The Bulletin Reciter:
By Eighty (80) Bulletin Bards. With Illustrations by “Hop,” N. Lindsay,
A. J. Fischer, F. Leist, D. H. riouter, and H. McCrae. In handsome cloth,
decorated. Price, 55.; postage, 4d.
Sole Distributing Agents — PRICE ss. ; POSTAGE 4d.
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd,, Sydney and Brisbane .
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
CAN OBTAIN
IT
ftk
&
fin
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL. AND
REFRESHED'
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
AH Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d., 1/- & 2/6.
Sole Makers —M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
Felton, Grimwade & Co
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
“IT’S A MARVEL!”
EVERY WOMAN
SOLE AUSTRALIAN AGENTS-
»■
• A
is interested and should know
about the wonderful
Marvel Whirling Spray
The new FEMALE SYRINCE
Injection and Suction. The best,
safest and most convenient.
It Cleanses Instantly.
If your druggist cannot
supply the MARVEL,
accept no other, but write us for
Illustrated Book, sent free
sealed. It gives price by mail,
particulars and directions invalu- • • .
able to ladies. Endorsed by Physicians.
Times Building, N.T.
THE MARVEL CO.
OF AUSTRALIA.
Camden Building, 418 George Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
LADY SPECIALIST IN ATTENDANCE.
Postal Address, Box 623, G.P.0., Sydney
Write for Booklet. Sent free, sealed.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
UOR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wiud and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache
-1 Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Costiveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufFerer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
GUINEA a box.”
BEECH AM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion. Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are “ facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieine in
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM. St. Helens, Lancashire, ENCLAND
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, Is lid, and 2s 9d each.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
Corner
George & Market Sts.,
SYDNEY.
VISITORS TO SYDNEY will find ROBERTS’ HOTEL the most convenient and Comfortable
House in town. It is situated in the ex'act centre of the City, half-way between the Post
Office and the Town Hall. The Proprietor has adopted the modern system of only Charging
his Guests for what they actually have. Those who have friends in Sydney will find this
a Great Saving.
ROBERTS’
HOTEL, Tho
Most Comfortable and the Most Central in Sydney,
GEORGE 4. MARKET STS., SYDNEY.
TERMS.—The Convenient and up-to-date System of paying
a Room on arrival, and Meals as they are had.
Apartments ij BEDROOM, Single, 3s. per day ; Double, 6s. per day.
SINGLE ROOn, with Full Board, 6s. per day, £2 2s. per week.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL, SYDNEY.
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
HIS MAJESTY
THE KING.
MOIR’S
“MAYFAIR”
TABLE-JELLY
12
iM
"Made inhalf-
a-minute by
the mere ad-
dition of boil-
ing water-
IP* PINT
PACKETS.
I —JOHN MOIR ft SON, LTD., LONDON, ABERDEEN and SEVILLE.
Head Office: 9 ft 10, Great Tower Street, LONDON, E.C.
b
a
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the East
THE BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
ill
M.D., C.M., L.R.C.P.E., L.R.C.S.E.,
L.F.P.S.G., L.M., etc.,
Registered by the Medical Boards of Great
Britain, Victoria, New South Wales,
etc.,
The Eminent Specialist, whose unparalleled success in the Treatment of Blood and Nerve
Diseases has earned for him a reputation unequalled by any other Specialist in Australia, may be consulted
daily, personally or by letter, at “ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 Elixabeth-st., Sydney. Old and Obsolete
Methods discarded. DR. MARTIN’S latest discovery has proved absolutely effective in all cases of Blood
Disease, Nerve Affections, Paralysis, Loss of Energy. Lung, Heart, Skin, and all
Chronic Diseases of Men and Women. His Consulting Rooms are replete with all the
latest and most scientific improvements in Electric Appliances, etc. Country Patients treated by
correspondence at their own homes. Advice and Medicine, One Pound. All Sufferers
should write for a copy of Dr. Martin’s Latest Medical Work, entitled, “ Mind Over Matter; or, How to
Secure a New Lease of Life without Drugs, Medicines, or Quack Nostrums.” This work should find a place
n every household, as it contains a full and explicit account of the Most Wonderful Treatment of the Present
Vge. It has been the means of Curing Thousands who followed out the instructions contained
herein. This Marvellous Treatment Cleanses and Rejuvenates the Whole System, and is the Cheapest
reatment in Existence, as nothing but the Book is required.
Price, 55.; by post, ss. 6d.
CONSULTING HOURS: 10 to 2 and 7 to 9 Daily.
** ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 ELIZABETH BTREET, SYDNEY.


WE SKIP ON APPROVAL
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles. Fully warranted.
£2.10t0£5.5.0
Dunlop Tyres, Steel or Wood Rims,
Free Wheels, Mud Guards and Brakes.
CARRIAGE PAID
To any Port in Australasia.
TYRES, ACCESSORIES,
Sporting Goods and Sewing
Machines Half Usual Prices.
Write for Catalogue and Special Offer
Using 2jd. stamp. Address Dept 346 D
Mead Cycle Co,
ChicarjOg
U.S.A.
60
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. O. IEIiiDIE&imG-IE! &c CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Ilall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
SIMP
(Sole Australasian Representatives)
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK.
Mm.
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Worthington Pumps
For all Services kept in Stock.
Send for Catalogue*
Spoons, Forks,
Celebrated
PLATE and
Pocket-Knives & Scissors cutlery
mark.
<&pBL>
J. & J. MAXFIELD, Proprs.. SHEFFIELD
At the Showroom®—
Empire Chambers, 93 York-St*
SYDNEY.
Also as
“ THE BLOCK,*’
Collins-st.. MELBOURNE.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Have for Sa.le and. to arrive
74 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE : 435 Bourke Street.
PUMPING MACHINERY of every description, Woodworking Machinery, English and American Engines, Boilers,
Injectors Reducing Vaives, Steam Gauges, Steam Traps, Laundry Machinery, Painters’ and Bakers’
Machinery, Engineers’ Machine Tools, Shafting, Plummer Blocks, Pulleys, Hangers, Couplings, Collars,
Lubricating Oil, Brunton Pocket Transits, Shedd’s Electrical Fans, Hoisting Engines and Boilers.
PARKE & LACY COMPANY LIMITED
Consulting Engineers on all matters relating to mining, hydraulic, and general engineering
propositions. Manufacturers and importers of mining machinery, and steam engines and boilers
of all kinds. Mines furnished with complete plants—Milling, Concentrating, Cyaniding,
Chlorinating, &c. Pumping outfits designed and supplied with all plans necessary for erection,
capacity guaranteed. All classes of pumps kept in stock and ready for immediate deliveiy;
together with boilers, pipes, and other items of equipment. Correspondence invited from
pastoralists and others requiring plant for irrigating purposes. Brickworks designed and brick-
making machinery of the most modern and approved pattern supplied to order. Quotations
given for complete installation of any kind of plant whatsoever. Iron and woodworking tools
and all kinds of engineers’ fittings and supplies kept in stock. Agents for Ingersoll rock drills
and air compressors, Knowles pumps, Gates rockbreakers, etc., etc., etc.
60 Clarence St.,
Sydney
A.D3DHBSSEIS :
533 Collins St,
Melbourne
21 & 23 Fremont St,
San Francisco
fila^a
Sufferers from Deafness or poises
desiring a complete and permanent cure
should write to The L. R. VERNON CO.
60 HUNTER *T., SYDNEY, for pam-
phlet describing an entirely new self-
applied method which we will send post
free on mentioning this paper.
#
'SI®
Size, 5i w x 3J" x 5".
r We are Direct Importers
AND HAVE FOR SALE —
Snow Duplex Pumps
(all sizes for all purposes),
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling
and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shaft-
ing, Hangers , Bearings, Collars, etc.
Engineers' Tools and Fittings, Valves,
Cocks, Gauges, etc., Cast, Tool and
Mining Steel, Wire Ropes and all Requi-
sites for Contractors, Engineers, Saw
Mills and Mining Proprietors.
R, L. SCRUTTON & CO.,
97 Glarence-st., Sydney.
©
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician's
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle, Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS 1
MAGNESIA,
N. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd.,
71 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Manufacturers of RACKAROCK
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦
Manufacturers and Sole Proprietors of the new
Patent Explosive Compound,
RENDROCK
NERVOUSNESS.
LOSS Of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS of SELF
CURB, will forward the same, free of
Charge, to anyone interested.
Address! A. MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Trewhella Bros.
PATENT
LOG AND STUMP JACKS.
■visSu
If you have Stumps, Roots, Stones, or Logs to clear, or
Threshers or Machinery to move, try these Jacks. They
are used by thousands throughout Australasia, and the
sales are rapidly increasing, which proves their value.
You can obtain them from the ironmonger with whom
you deal, or I will supply you direct.
The Melbourne and Sydney Prices are—
Lift, Tons Price
Double Purchase Jack 4 65/-
ji jj w 6 75/-
Single „ „ 2i 40/-
With AUTOMATIC LOWERINC GEAR, 5/- extra
Full Information and Trade Discounts from
W. TREWHELLA, Trentliam, Victoria,
ok H. HINDS, 17 Loftus St., Sydney.
