

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
STOUT.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet
R. G. AC CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR— .
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW AND SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
IMcLAREN’S Compound
Traction Steam Engine>
MEDICAL CERTIFICATE.
“ Ararat (Victoria), 25th Aug., 1902.
“ During the past few years Eczema has become of very
frequent occurrence, especially in children. In the treat-
ment of this troublesome affection the usual medicinal
remedies failed in many cEfses to give relief, and I was very
pleased to have a new preparation, named ‘ Oleae,’ put into
my hands for trial. I can recall to my mind three casesof
cliildrep in which the usual remedies had no beneficial
effect, and the application of ‘ Oleae ’ according to the
printed directions removed all the irritation of the skin.
T have also heard of many adults using the ‘ Oleae ’ with
jjr*at l>euefit>- JAMfcS SIVfEAE, Surgeon, &c., Ararat "
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK :
Jtv Sixty Bulletin writers. Cloth, 300 pages ;
price, is. 6d. ; postage, 6d.
SOLE DISTRIBUTING AGENTS’:
EDWARDS, D'JNLOP & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
GIBSON, BATTLE & CJ 0, 85 put street, SYDNEY.
Bole Agents for <l. & H. HcLAREN, Leeds, England, Makers of Bteam Ploughing Taokle, Traction Engines for Haulage, General and Special Work,
We Stock and have to arrive McLaren’s compound Traction Engines; HUSTON’S Portable Horizontal and Vertical Steam Engines;
BROADBENT’S Hydro Extractors; KIRCHNER’S Saw Mill and Wood-Working Machinery.
COMPOUND TRACTION
STEAM
ENGINES.
“HERVEY’S RACKAROCK”
17 Years’ Unbroken Record as a Standard Australian Exp’osive. Cor. CLARENCE & KINC STS., SYDNEY
THORNE’S
Estbd. 1831.
WHISKY.
HOBART.
——
Radley’s Orientjjotel.
DUNEDIN, WX
CITY HOTEL
(FK.BT GrAOB>
j. A. TURNER - - Proprietor.
Tawny Port
Invalid Port
Golden Sherry
V.O. Frontignac
Rich Constantia
No. 0 Claret
No. 1 Claret
Chablis
Tokay
Muscadine
Championship of Australia, Melbourne, 1902. Championship, Adelaide, 1902
y%
PERFECT!
P
water]
>SSIST^
DIGESTION
■m
LEATHER
B E LTI N G
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
PRICES PER FOOT OF SINGLE AND DOUBLE
BELTING :
2 3 3i 4 6 6 8 10 12 inch.
-/7 -/9 -/10-i 1/- 1/2 1/6 1/11 2'B 3/4 4/-
1/2 1/4 1/7 1/10 2/2 2/11 3/6 4/5 5/7 6/9
Agents in every State.
Made by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SOM, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
TN order to introduce our Gold Wire Jewellery
J to the Australian public we have decided to
offer one of the greatest bargains ever seen id the
jewellery trade — viz., the above handsome :r °o(' i
(any name or three initials) made of extra qualify
9ct. gold-filled wire, with heart pendant ; guaran-
teed the same quality as the brooch advertised,
complete. Sent post-free on receipt of I -U.U. or
M.O. for ss. in round wire or sq. twisted wire, loot
gold, filled, Bs. 6d. Illustrated catalogues sent free.
SIMS and ELRICK, Manufacturing Jewellers.
Our only address —
COLE’S BOOK ARCADE, MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA.
Mining and Dredging Plants. Engines, Boilers, &c.
Fowler Traction Engines.
f Clyde Engineering C?y,Lt?
esiccating Plants. Hopper Waggons, &c.
m
PROOF
mimm
Head Office:
10 BLICH ST., SYDNEY
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manuf. Company,
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for,our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5 ; Sulkies, £7 ;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia. £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Blackboard Buggies from £9
10s Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog
ami every description of vehicles in Stock and made
to Order.' HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List, NOTICE.—Do not. be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for le.S3
than we can.' They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
cent, more for your requirements.
OUB SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
o«!irered at any Wharf or
N.S.W. Kail nays, Station
£lO 10/-
A NICE PRESENT.
The New Combinatidn PIN-
CUSHION, THIMBLE & REEL
HOLDER, nickel plated, plush
top. Clamps on to any table
by means of a spring. Price,
only 25.; post free.
Star Novelty Company,
229-231 Collins-st.,
Melbourne.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS.TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. KILDA.
fFHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
x Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
i-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
WHEN buying a KEROSENE GAS STOVE insist
” on getting a noiseless
JUPITER
The Very Latest
Invention.
Burns Noiselessly,
Without Smell
or Smoke,
Perfectly Safe.
Obtained. First Prize
wherever exhibited.
Stocked by all Leading Hardware Merchants and
Storekeepers.
Sole Agents Jor Australasia—
Nelson and Robertson,
17 LQFTUS ST., SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
Vol 24—No. 1195.]
[Saturday, January 10, 1903.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Book trade Advertisements.
** RTTTT FTTN ** RARTK and THEIR ADMIRERS.—Read J. LIDDELL KELLY’S Poems of Love,
U-filVl/iJ Religion, Purpose and Philosophy—Serious, Humorous, Satirical. Price, ss.
Published by the Author, New Zealand Times Office, Wellington, N.Z.
THE LATEST BOOKS
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Jacobs, The Lady of the Barge, 2s 6d & "s 6d, postage 6d.
Crawford (Marion), Cecilia, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Hill, Coronation Mysteries, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Davis, Belshazzar, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Patterson, Story of the Oratorio, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Gurnhill, Morals of Suicide, Yol. 11, 6s, p. 6d.
Jerrold, George Meredith, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Bagot, Roman Mystery, 2s 6d it 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Barrie (J.M.), The Little White Bird, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d
Cleeve, Magic of Rome, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Murray, Mademoiselle Fouchette, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Benson and Miles, Daily Training, 4s, p. hd.
Lang, History of Scotland, Vol. 11, 18s, p. Is.
Davidson, Company Drill Made Easy, Is 9d, p. 3d.
71 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doors South of King St.) & at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane & London
ON
On Our Selection, written by A. H. Davis
(“ Steele Rudd ”) and published by The
Bulletin 00. , has earned the title of “the
jolliest book ever printed in Australia.”
There is laughter on every page; yet the
book remains grimly true to the facts. As
a picture of life on an Australian selection
it has never been surpassed. Since it was
published, little more than two years ago
upwards of 12,000 copies have been sold at
the comparatively high price of 6s.—making
an Australian publishing record. The reason of the sale is not far to seek : the
people who have bought the book know they have got value for their money •
and they recommend it to others. The price is comparatively high because the book is expensive to
produce. It is well printed, and strongly bound in cloth in good style. There are S *
by such well-known illustrators as Mahony, Leist, Lambert, Fischer, FullwoodL andVk£ent From
cover to cover the book is Australian—the product of Aus- u ‘ * rom
tralian workmen. If it were produced by cheaper labour
in England, it would cost less, and could be sold at a
cheaper rate. The publishers prefer to employ Australian
labor only. When you buy On Our Selection you pay
a little more than you pay for an English book ; but
you get 100 times the Australian value. “ Steele Rudd’s ”
book has gone all over Australia, and wherever it has
gone it has become the treasure of a household, often
the delight of a township. People never leave off
reading it until it is thumbed to rags ; and then they
buy another copy. The characters of “Our Selection”—
“Old Dad,” “Joe,” “Dave,” “Sarah,” and the rest
have become famous throughout the country ; and their imitation by weaker writer- f
of their grip on the public mind. Any bookseller will sell you the book or Hvn ao n 1
order for 65., with 84. postage, direct to The Bulletin office, it will be a P? stal
by return mail. ’ De Awarded to any address
fv\
I
a
i
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
For
DOUGHS, COLDS
BRONCHITIS,
and all
AFFECTIONS of the
THROAT and
LUNGS.
a
*2
<0
IN TINS, Is. 6d.
The Great
Antiseptic Remedy
for the Cure of
INFLUENZA and .
Prevention of
CONSUMPTION.
Invaluable for Singers
and Public Speakers.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, Oil POST
r* THK proprietor
G. HUDSON, CHEMIST, IPSWICH n
“ EPOT : IT 7 WEEN ' S PLAOE; " XIOS ' geimw “ e - »**»»:*
TKei, ease a T.red Throat, and are helpful i„ Indigestion and Dyspepsia.
THE RED PAGE .
ANOTHER old man garrulous. It is James
Bon wick, —schoolmaster, lecturer, writer,
recorder, ' ‘ never a business man ” ; non-
* smoker, abstainer ; evolutionist, deist;
Freemason, Rechabite, Good Templar, American
Templar ; resident or traveller in England, Scot-
land, Ireland, Wales, Australia, Tasmania, Maori-
land, America, France, Italy, Switzerland, Greece,
Turkey, Russia, Bulgaria, Palestine, Egypt,
India and elsewhere ; bom a nervous, delicate
child, of long-lived English rustic stock ; trained
at a London school on the plan of Lancaster, the
last-century educational reformer ; sent as teacher
to Hobart Normal School in 1841, and for fifty
years sharer in Australian development from
convict days to the day of the Commonwealth ;
who now, waiting with his grandchildren in
London, stricken in health but “ ready to work
on,” publishes at. the age of 85 An Octogenarian’s
Reminiscences (London ; James Nichols ; 1902).
“ I alone remain of the old male stock of
Bon wicks, Beddows, Baystons, and Brittons,” he
says. His wife, Esther Beddow, “one of the
dear old sort, who thought more of duty than
pleasure '’—died in 1901, after 60 years of married
life, His sister married Bayston, formerly a
school-teacher in Victoria ; his brother married
Esther Beddow’s niece, Mary Britton, of the
journalist clan we know. “She was a good
wife and mother. Her husband and several
children died from consumption.” The reminis-
cences, it is seen, tend to be personal and (for
strangers) trivial. One suspects that at 85 James
Bon wick, excusably enough, regards himself as the
Grand Old Man of the family (he prints five
‘portraits) ; and his book is, like Dean Cowper’s,
in the nature of a family document.
But it is more than that. Mark the contrast
bet ween Cowper’s book and Bon wick's : the one
has comparatively nothing to tell ; he moved
through life with the limited vision, the narrowed
mind, of a typical ecclesiastic, however saintly an
ecclesiastic : the other isopen-eyed, open-minded ;
all his life he has observed, questioned, reflected,
judged. Eye and mind have made him an in-
valuable recorder of early Australia.
The list of his printed works tells a rare story
of intellectual activity. “In, three different
ways,” he writes, “ I have been engaged
in the pursuit of History. I have read,
and weighed what men have written on the sub-
ject. I have searched for the facts in original
documents, especially original letters. I have
made history by collecting facts on the spot
from actors in the scenes I wished to describe.”
And later he confesses : “ Having published his?
torical sketches of a Colonial Past, I find, by
more extensive search, that I have been occa-
sionally misled by accepting accounts which I
since discovered were sometimes influenced by
party feeling, or private sympathy.” When
searching records: “As some objected to the
mention of those who came out in earliest times,
I was careful in omitting names, save where need-
ful to the * Official History.’ The Colonial Office
censorship was a difficulty. The copy of a document
at the Record Office could not be removed home
until after censorship. Though occasionally true
History suffered thereby, I had little ground for
complaint. Excision in certain cases was hard to
bear.”
So we get in N. 9. W. official History the smooth
record of what the Colonial Office, and N.S.W.
Government, and the “first families,” and the
discriminating editors, think it is good for us to
know. Not (Bonwick testifies) the whole truth,
but as much truth as may safely be told.
Bonwick has the admirable passion for accuracy;
though his age and absence from Australia dot
the Reminiscences with inaccuracy. He judges
shrewdly, too. Considering his early training, his
mind expanded remarkably. He threw behind
him more early errors and prejudices than most
educated men relinquish. With a Puritan bias,
he is catholic and humane, loving Nature, though
comprehending little of Art. Not imaginative,
his life was happily spent in the study of facts
and origins. And one guesses that his perform-
ance owed an uncommon deal to the sustaining
power of his wife!
The first part of the Reminiscences gives an
interesting sketch of educational progress in the
London of Bonwick’s boyhood (1825-35). He
learned to read and write with a stick and some
sand, after the Indian fashion. Growing up, be
might have become a missionary; but, being
really and enthusiastically religious, he gave up
the idea on being told that, as a missionary in
India, he would be able to keep eight or ten ser-
vants, and live as a gentleman.
Having, in the course of my Colonial career, met with
several returned Missionaries, I always noticed how much
better olf they were, in the capacity of investors, than
our own Colonial ministers of the period. This tended
in no way to revive my romantic wish to be a Missionary.
But l respect the self-denial and devotion of such
labourers as the Salvation Army, and the Roman Catholic
Missionaries.
Bonwick reached Tasmania in 1841, as stated.
In 1849 he came to Sou th Australia, still teaching
school.
After eight years in the slow and convict island of Van
Diemen’s Land, it was a great change to tread the only
part of Australia that had resisted all attempts to inflict
convictism. Though so feeble in population, I found it
as energetic as sound in its plea for freedom.
The secret lay in the fact that it was founded by the
free for free men only.
Bonwick met Sturt, who told him, “with a
smile of self-gratification, ‘ Ah! in all my journeys,
I never caused pain or sorrow to a Black-fellow.’ ”
Presently came the rush to Victorian goldfields.
The extraordinary news from Ballarat and Bendigo
caused almost a wholesale exodus from South Australia.
All kinds of trades suddenly disappeared, and the cessa-
tion of industries caused not only inconvenience, but dire
distress. In the largest chapel, the minister one Sunday
looked around, and cried out, “ I see but one man in my
large congregation.” Immediately, the deserted wives,
sisters and mothers lifted up their voices and wept
bitterly.
Bonwick had to join the others, and sank a hole
in Golden Gully to the great benefit of his health.
He spent upwards of twenty years in Victoria as
school-teacher and school-inspector; writing maga-
zines, pamphlets and books, and undertaking
several journeys to Europe. He gives a glimpse
of Melbourne in the fever-days.
Work was at a standstill. I saw a placard, signed by
the Bishop of Melbourne, beseeching masons to finish the
church walls “ for the love of God and thirty shillings a
day.” But the Church had to wait.
When the Press was attacking Latrobe’s admin-
istration—
The “ Melbourne Argus," the leading paper, having
crushed the “ Herald ” in competing strife, had one of its
columns daily headed with : “ Wanted, a Governor!”
The Argus an apostle of sedition ! Yes, it was
a mad Victorian world then.
Like every other, Bonwick was delighted by
Tenison Woods.
Father Woods . . . was, from his handsome appearance
and graceful accomplishments, the idol of ladies, and yet
won the respect and admiration of men, from the field-
toiler to the Governor. His conversation was simply
fascinating. His knowledge seemed universal. ... I
never was so charmed with any man.
Of an aboriginal chief, called Simon—
One evening my sister rushed out, upon hearing a
scream, and saw Simon hammering his wife’s head with
a waddy. . . Interposing to save the woman, she re-
torted upon my sister, with “No you do that, I him
lubra, good he beat me.”
And Bonwick’s serious, English, self-illuminating
comment:
She, like an Englishwoman, felt she was the property
of her lord.
In the mid-eighties, his appetite for Govt,
employment whetted by some experience as Q.
immigration-lecturer in Britain, Bonwick secured
through H. Parkes, patron of letters, the appoint-
ment as N.S.W. “archivist” which he held till
1902. It was a nice little job, and Bonwick cer-
tainly clung to it. He assiduously rummaged
Eng. Record Office, and in fifteen years drew a
tidy sum from N.S.W. Treasury. Possibly the
whole of fhe money was spent to the best
advantage: we have no data for criticism.
“ A Small Selection of Poems ” at the end of the
Reminiscences may be pardoned to the octogenarian
who has lived so strenuously, so usefully.
«
Clever, ambitious, energetic Arthur Adams, at
present in London, issues there his second poetry
book— The Nazarene: a Study of a Man (Philip
Wellby; 1902). When Adams was a younger
man, contributing from his native Maoriland, The
Bulletin’s fancy was first caught by the vivid
verses called “ A Question ’’—some of which ran :
And so he had died ; it was over at last;
And across him the two women looked at each other
aghast—
Across his cold corse, and across the cold corse of the
loathsome dead Past.
Then the smouldering love of the wife leapt to flame,
And she poured forth her kisses upon him, and called on
his name,
But the other said, "No, he is nothing to you : soul and
body 2 claim ! "
They looked at each other awhile. Said the wife wearily,
“ He is mine ; for I loved him, and ever shall love him :
let be 1 "
But the other sneered, “ No, he is mine, and mine only,
because he loved me I ”
Then the two laid their hands on the body between ;
And fought for it, wife against paramour, fiercely,
unseen—
For the body diseased and polluted, as ever his spirit had
been.
And this is a question for answer in Hell :
To which of the two did his spirit belong, can you tell ?
Think, was it the woman he loved, or the one who had
loved him too well ?
There was more power and promise here than the
mail-bag usually holds ; and Adams went on con-
tributing till he had piled up the material of
Maoriland: and Other Verses— a book which,
with whatever shortcomings, remains a substantial
achievement in the local field.
The Nazarene is a series of pictures, in blank
verse, of the principal figures in the Biblical story
of Jesus’ life and death—some thousand lines in
all. Adams writes the new-fashioned blank verse
of which Stephen Phillips is the most notable
present-day exponent—a verse which usually
observes the familiar pentameter, but cares little
for the regular iambic footfall. The Miltonic
model (though even Milton varied) has a fixed
rhythm and a strong beat at tjie turn —
Of man’s first disobedience aiiH the — bump !
Of that forbidden tree whose mortal thump !
Brought death into the world, and all our — bump I
With loss of Eden, till one greater— thump !
—and so on. The new model dislikes monotony,
however massive or majestic, and seeks for a fluid
line that will sway as thought and emotion make
desirable. Over in France, with occasional sup-
port in England, they carry the “ free verse ” to a
high pitch of perfection, abandoning the measured
line in favour of the line melodious, and looking
to the whole poem for harmony. Once the regular
foot is dropped, in fact, the regular line has
nothing to recommend it.
The Nazarene has some good lines and passages,
and some bad lines and passages, linked together
by many lines and passages which are neither
good nor bad and are consequently doubly
damned. The chief fault of the piece is indicated
by the way in which one naturally considers it—
i.e., as a literary performance, a collection of lines
and passages. There is no whole, no poem: it
does not even throb with the author’s conviction
that it is a poem. One imagines him saying:
“Here’s a fine subject: come and let’s write it
up ! ” And the fashion of “ writing up ” will not
pass in poetry, however efficacious in journalism.
Adams’ treatment lacks the cardinal virtue of sin-
cerity, and he has chosen a theme which either in
its literary or in its religious aspect demands sin-
cerity above all things. He is so much occupied
with his little artifices of phrase and picture that
he has lost, his message—except, maybe, for the
pious people of limited intelligence who feed on
texts and tracts. Their applause is often profit-
able ; but their approval does n’t count.
Adams’ minor faults may be briefly stated.
He is too fond of “stunning words,” and of
garish rhetoric lime-lit by exclamation-points.
Occasionally the method is effective ; but Adams’
taste does not tell him when it is not. His senti-
ment is often good and true; but it rarely rises to
even a weak passion, an’d it frequently falls into
weak sentimentality. And his ear fails him—
some of his lines are plain prose. Finally, he has
little sense of humour, which impliesa poor percep-
tion of incongruities between phrase and thought.
Remain the good lines and passages, pleasant to
linger over—
He was her son, the answer of her hopes,
A gradual wonder from her fibres woven. . . .
Death, blind with rage, striking haphazardly . . ,
Careless, uncared for, lonety and long forgot,
Went limping blindly to oblivion . . .
(Ah! mothers, mothers, still your tears
Are falling, falling as your sons fare forth,
And you must stay and watch them fade from you,
And know they may remember, but no more
Return !) . . .
Wakeful, within his little house beyond
The city walls, the young man Sirach lay
And wondered up into the quiet night,
Clutching at dreams and questioning the dark. . . .
The purposeless defeats, the wanton griefs,
The unmerited despairs disfiguring
This poor procession, Life. ...
Then wearily, for she was worn with sobs,
Mary, the Mother, gathered to her heart
All that was once her son, and held him close,
As she had held him in those dreamy days
At little manv-memoried Nazareth,'
Singing the sunny afternoons away,
His father looking up across his work
To chide her lovingly for all the love
She squandered on the little careless child.
No lines of mourners motionless in grief
Watching in reverent silence the high corse
Upon its last great triumph slowly move. . . .
Adams has a bright mind and quick sympathy :
if he improves his taste his work will improve
greatly. Even now there is some of it memorable ;
and he is to be commended for working, for
endeavouring, for trying to do the best that his
talent permits.
♦
F, G-. Aflalo was twice mis-spelt Alflalo last
week. He passed proof correctly ; he was sent to
press correctly ; and then he turned up on sale
with L flaring where no L should be. Misprints
are plainly the Devil.
More Christmas Numbers. The feature of The
Sydney Mail is Frank Myers’s story, with Fred
Leist's illustrations. Myers is one of our two or
three who have feeling and knowledge of the
Bush, feeling and knowledge of literature, and
skill to write. Leist’s wash illustrations begin to
be admirable: his drawback is that illustration-
work does not pay well enough to justify the
special study of scenes, the special use of models ;
and one cannot trust to memory. But he has
sympathy, and a fine sense of tone. The Sun
(Kalgoorlie) is enterprising and gorgeous in too-
many coloured inks. “ Dryblower’s ” verses are
vigorous and human, and want only better form
to be very good.
Memoranda—
“QuilpN.,”a well-known M.L. Bulletin contributor,
will presently publish a book of his verses entitled The
Red Went Road.
N.S.W. Minister of Instruction is-“securing designs"
for a new public library. One trusts soon to hear that he
has secured the money.
Some Sydney news-agents say the Aust. Review of
Reviews has “ gone down ” since Stead’s control relaxed
in favour of Fitchett’s. Possibly some Sydney news-agents
lie.
Sydney Public Library now,greets you on .the stairs
with information about the catalogues—a charming
concession to complainants. And, since the erection of
the card current-index, there is really no just complaint
against the catalogues which Time and the. staff ,are not
mending as fast as they can..
Clippings—
For the first time since man began to 'trust wholly to
inductive research as the basis of knowledge, is he able,
and compelled, to conceive the universe as a unity, and
to know all its myriad manifestations as but the expres-
sion of the motions of the Ocean of Space.—W. G..P. in
'The Daily 'Telegraph (Sydney).
In France for many years there has been on the part of
some of the best and most progressive of its artists a
desire for the abolition of. the Ecole des Beaux-Arts,
founded upon the facility which.its system of teaching
affords to mediocre talent to acquire a certain unindi-
vidual proficiency of technical equipment, with , the
resulting-effect of creating a body of artists often unen-
dowed with the first prerequisite of undoubted tempera-
ment.—Dec. Scribner’s. (Local paint-students should
con the whole article.)
We have looked through rthe first number -of T.P.’s
Weekly —which is one of the silliest and most egotistical
titles imaginable. The contents are wishy-washy. Noth-
ing else, indeed, was to be expected ; for the great “ Tay
Pay,” while a fluent and “ taking” journalist, is intellec-
tually as shallow as a saucer. Did anybody (able to
judge, we mean) ever see the slightest sign that he had
done any thinking on his own account ? His chief charac-
teristics are sentimentality and superficiality ; and when
these are associated with a ready pen and a readable
style, they are certain to find an extensive, appreciative,
and profitable public. The average man himself is senti-
mental and superficial ; especially in England—Carlyle’s
country of “ thirty millions, mostly fools.”— G„ W. Foote.
Correspondence.
Ortho : Your queries : (1) “ Why is John McArthur’s
name now spelt Macarthur, seeing that he himself wrote
McArthur?” Where? F. M. Bladen, N.S.W. Govt, his-
torian, says John signed Macarthur to everv original
document he has seen. Perhaps Capt. Thompson will tell
us if the family has now changed the spelling to
McArthur?—(2) “Is Therry pronounced as written,
or as Terry ? ” As written ; unless vou can bring
contemporary evidence of other usage.—(3) “Is
Eyre pronounced air or ire?” As air, unless you
can prove ire. Compare Jam Eyre —usually pronounced
air. Air is supported by the quaint fable in-Hamilton
Hume’s life of the explorer, p. 2, thus : “Local tradition
states that at the battle of Hastings, William the Con-
queror was found lying on the ground breathless by the
founder of the Eyre family in England, who, dis-
mounting, unloosed the bars of the King’s helmet,
so that he could breathe, upon which the Conqueror
cried out, ‘De L’Eyre ’; he then mounted the King upon
his own horse, and fought the rest of the day himself on
foot. After the battle, William ordered his -deliverer to
be searched for, when he was found lying on the field
with his leg cut off. The King ordered him at once to be
taken care of, and said, ‘ Henceforth thou shalt be
called De l’Eyre, because thou hast given me the air
I breathe,’ and he gave him for his - crest a leg
in armour cut off above the knee as - his was.”—
(4) “ Why do you not write jail instead of gaol?" That
sent us to A Few English Dictionary, where : “Gaol,
Gaoler, variant spellings of Jail, Jailer. In- British
official use the forms with G are still current; in-literary,
and journalistic use both the G and the J forms are now
admitted as correct, but all recent Dictionaries- give the
preference to the latter.” Henceforth we shall write
JAIL.
G.W.A. : (1) Prof. Anderson, of Sydney University,
recommends James’s Textbook of Psychology (Macmillan,
65.) and Welton’s Logical Basis of Education (Mac-
millan, 3s. 6d.). He adds : “ The science of Psychology is
in a transition state at present, and James gives perhaps
the best introduction. Welton’s book is meant princi-
pally for teachers, but it is really about the best short
treatise on logic for general readers. Of course, the
* general reader ’ usually does not know that logic is a
special science, and not a collection of ‘ tips ’ for debating
societies. Bain’s Education as a Science is sound but
dull. His views on classical education are (in my
opinion) somewhat narrow and one-sided. I have
recommended to my education students, Davidson’s
History of Education (Constable) and Laurie’s
Institutes of Education (Oliver and Boyd) as
good introductions to the systematic study of educa-
tion.” (2) Observe that if you want to know your
subjects, you must deem it no pains- to read a
dozen text-books; and bring what mind’you have
to bear upon analysis, synthesis, and deduction. Ask
your authors Why ? at every step, and make them
justify themselves. (3) Spencer’s Education is certainly
authoritative, and stimulating, and inspiring. But here
again you will’ gain in proportion as you bring. (4) If
you can’t understand Meredith it is because your under-
standing is n’t big enough. Enlarge that understanding
and try again—always critically.
Publications Received.
Chambers s Recitations for the Children, selected by
R. C. 11. Morison. Chambers ; Is. [lncludespleasant
childish verses ; many not especially suited for recita-
tion—none precisely unsuitable.]
The Atom Quarterly, a Magazine for Girls, edited by
Dora E. Moor. Voi. iv, Nos. 3 and 4. Auckland. [No.
4 carries us up to February, 190$; for they grip Time
by the foi clock in Maoriland. The editor prints her
portrait; and we regret to see that (in the portrait)
the corners of her mouth turn down. Articles greet
us “By Olive Tilly, A.C.”—“ Maud Peacocke, A.C.”
“ A.C." means member of the Atom Club—and they
like these little distinctions in Maoriland. The
magazine is moral (like the M.L. girl) and rather
insipid—unlike the M.L. girl.]
Australian Poems and Ballads, by Racey Schlank,
author of Poems. E. S. Wigg & Son ; Adelaide.
[Gentle, inoffensive rhymes that might have been
written by a rabbit—if quite tame.]
A.G.S.


a
s
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, and CO., Limited,
WOOL BROKERS AND PRODUCE SALESMEN
SYDNEY.
Send your__^
HIDES
SHEEPSKINS
TALLOW
TO
WINCHCONIBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
RYDINTEY.
The Leading Salesmen. Full Values and Quick Met urns.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Stores: PYRMOHT.
Sole Commissiozi 3 Per Cent, to the Grower
on Large andL Small Accounts Alike.
ENO’
COOLING,
AND INVIGORATING.
HEALTH GIVING,
REFRESHING,
SALT.’
S. FREEMAN ✓ SONS
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE : WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
j NEITHER CRUX
NOR BURN.
5800
XBB
SHILLING BRIAR PIPES
QUALITY NOT BETTER
IN A GUINEA PIPE. . .
GUARANTEE.—ShouId any of our Celebrated CAN’T-B-BEAT Briar Pipes Crack or Bara I
New One will bo Exchanged for it immediately on Application.
Sold by all Tobacconists. By Post, la. 2d.
Quality not better in a Guinea Pipe.
'c.8.8.
C. 8.8.
0.8.8. Pipe, Sterling Silver Mount, 2/6
0.8.8. Pipe, hand-finished, with Ster-
ling Silver Mount, polished Vulcanite
Mouthpiece, in Morocco Leather
Case, 4/-each.
0.8.8. Meerchaum Pipe, guaranteed
genuine, Sterling Silver Screw, Best
(Quality Mouthpiece, Morocco Gold-
lined Case, 21/- each.
0.8.8. Pipe, hand-finished, Sterling
Silver Mounted Rim and Band, in
Morocco Gold-lined Leather Case,
8/6 each.
0.8.8. Presentation Companion, con-
taining two Silver Mounted, hand-
finished Pipes, Superior Quality
Mouthpieces, Red Morocco Gold-
lined Case, 16/6 each.
c.b.b:
c.b.b;
TOBACCO
Dark and
Bright
7
N
fcy
all II
9!
sell
RICHMOND,VA.^
13 THE BEST.
Price, ss. lb., Post Free, all States,
HAVING secured the Sole Agency for the
above brand of AMERICAN TOBACCO, we
have very much pleasure inrecommending
eame to our Oliehts and the Smoking Public. We
feel sure that one trial will be sufficient to con-
vince Smokers that “ SOLID SHOT ” is the finest
Tobacco on the market. Splendid aroma, and
does not bite the tongue.
Save “Solid Shot” Tobacco Tags.
For Each 100 you will receive from the
Agents, free, one only C. 8.8. Briar
Pipe and Pocket Knife.
WHOLESALE PRICE LISTS ON APPLIGAifON.
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney, n.s.w.
3
WE have the means at hand to cure you ; we know what you require before you can regain your vigor ,
you need New Life, New Nerve Force, New Ambition. Follow our advice—Use ELECTRICITY,
and it will cure you. STOP USING DRUGS , THEY WON’T EVER CURE.
We know that the life of each organ, each nerve, depends Upon a hidden vital force, and we know
that ELECTRICITY is that force. If each nerve cell in your body is full of NERVE FORCE—ELEC-
TRICITY—you can have no weakness. WE WILL SUPPLY THIS FORCE.
To the man or woman with LAME BACK, RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA, LUMBAGO, NERVE
EXHAUSTION, or any CHRONIC AILMENT, we can offer you a Sure and Certain Cure. Long ago
you passed the stage where DRUGS were of any value, and now your only chance of regaining strength lies
in using
Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt
The only Belt in Australia that Cures WITHOUT EXPENSIVE DRUG TREATMENT USED
IN CONJUNCTION. We know that we can give you ELECTRICITY, and that it will Cure you.
We can’t afford to make failures. Our Belt expands the tissues, puts new life and energy into the nerves,
builds new hope, and actually and permanently Cures.
•-S
N\'Ol
<■
'a*
FT'
V'
Bingara, N.S.VV., December 12th, 1!)02.
Gentlemen, —I am pleased to tell .you that I see a
deckled improvement in Mr. Finlan already. For one
thing, he has put his walking-stick in the corner, and
yesterday he carried out a hag of chaff for the horses,
a thing he has not done for six months ; and he told
me this morning, “ 1 feel as if I could jump over the
palisading.” Yours gratefully, A. FINLAN.
Mount Marlow, Isisford (Q.)
Dear Sirs,—l have been wearing j'our Belt accord-
ing to directions for over a month, and must say feci
the benefit of same—rheumatism gone, and appetite
good ; in fact, an improvement all round, and I must
say 1 think it is the best investment I ever made.
Yours faithfully,
W. H. PERRIER.
Geelong.
Hear Sirs,—l now write you these few lines to let
you know how I am getting on. Your Belt is working
alright, and I think it is making me alright, too, as
I don’t think so much of a day’s work. The disease
has nearly all gone. It has stopped the dragging
feeling that I used to have when working.
I remain, 11. GRAHAM.
Riverton, N.Z., November Ist, 1902.
Tub Dr. McLaughlin Co. . , .
Dear Sirs,-I am pleased to tell yoit that lam much improved in health since
wearing your Belt. I have improved wonderfully during the last month, and have
not been troubled at all with either headaches or sleeplessness. DI ,TCHrr r
Yours truly, H. C. PETCHRLL.
Kalgoorlie, W.A.
Tub Dr. McLaughlin Cd.
Replying to your iriquiry after my health, I am just debating leaving the Belt
off. There has been a wonderful improvement in my condition ;in fact, I hardly
know I was ever queer. If I can help your cause you have my support.
TAM TT.S
,raip.s h hours.
I^OTICE
If you have ar
old Belt is ai
that we have
explaining our
, old-stvle Belt that disappointed you, send it in, and we will allow you for it in exchange. We do this not because the
for it is not. But we wish to show people, candidly, that there is one real electric appliance to be had, and
in common with concerns selling a cheap, worthless article. Call and have a free test, and get our free book
methods dX delay. OUR BELT BEARS AUST. PAT. RIGHTS.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co.,
85 KING STREET. SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office : 167 E Swanston Street.
Our Chief=of=Staff is the only Qualified
Registered Specialist in Australia devoting
his entire time to Electric Treatment.
Do Not Fail to
Send for one of
our Free Illus-
trated Books.
They tell how
we cure without
using Drugs.
Sent sealed,
free, post paid
to any address.
By “ STEELE 11UDD.”
PRICE 65.; Postage Bd. Extra.
Direct from THE BULLETIN Offico, 214 George St. Sydney.


©
@
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
General Electric
Incandescent Lamps.
THE EDISON LAMP
Absolutely
THE BEST!
Annual Sales, 18,000,000.
After Competitive Tests, 63,750
were purchased by the Melb.
City Council.
LONG LIFE. HIGH EFFICIENCY.
Large Stock always on hand.
AUSTRALIAN
ELECTRIC
Melbourne and Sydney.
Motors, Dynamos, Steam Dynamo Sets, etc.,
also in Stock.
©
©
©
@
©
§
@
@
©
©
©
@
©
©
@
Toilet (Otto) rVinolia Soap has
been examinedby bacteriologists,
who report that it contains no
bacteria whatever. Vinolia is
Safest for the Complexion, Toilet,
Nursery and Bath.
'OTH & CO., Limit
PAID-UP CAPITAL £.900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
' l ‘ o defy competition.
WINES
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY
On Our Selection.” By “Steele Rudd
Price, Gs., Postage Bd., from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
AERTEX CELLULAR FABRIC
is the ideal form of body covering:, possessing- all the neces-
sary hygienic qualities, and being also most.comfortable and
of attractive appearance, and for those reasons is recom-
mended by the Medical Faculty wherever introduced.
Aertex Cellular Underwear is a
Sure Freventative against Chills
Cellular Day Shirts.
Silk neckbands and soft wrists.
White and Self Colors, 4s to 7s 6d
Fancy Designs, 7s 6d to 9s 6d.
Cellular Neglige Shirts.
Soft fronts of plain or pleated
Cellular Cloth; wrists, French
Print, Linen, or Cellular. Recom-
mended for Golf, Cycling, &c.
White body, 7s 6d ; colored, 8s 9d
Cellular Dress Shirt.
Fitted best Belfast Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 0.8. or 0.F., one stud.
Cellular Cotton Body—
-6s 6d to 8s 6d
Cellular Lisle Body—
-9s 6d and 10s 6d
Cellular Short-Front Shirt
for every-day wear.
Open behind, 2in. linen wrists —
5s 6d, 6s 6d.
Open front or behind, square
cuffs— 6s 6d, 7s 6d
AERTEX
Cellular Combinations,
High or Low Necks.
s. d.
White Oottoti, trimmed
Lace .. .. ..56
White Cotton, trimmed
Embroidery .. 7 6
White Cotton, trimmed
Lace 9 6
White Lisle, trimmed Em-
broidery .. .. .. 10 6
AERTEX
Cellular Nightdresses,
White Cotton, trimmed
Embroidery .. ..90
White Lisle, trimmed Em-
broidery .. .. .. 20 0
W'hite Lisle, prettily
trimmed, fine Torchon.. 19 6
Sti'JfilS
as
■ i %
Aertex Cellular Chemises*
White Cotton, trimmed Embroidery,
Bs. White Lisle, heavily trimmed
Real Torchon, 14s 6d and 16s 6d.
Aertex Cellular Slip-Bodices*
Hijrh or Low Necks. All sizes
to 30i'n ; sizes, extra.
White Lisle, trimmed Torchon, 6s 6d and 8s 6d.
Send for Illustrated Price List—Post Free.
DAVID BRAHAM & GO.,
sole Agents. 73 & 75 King-Bt., Sidney.
Cellular Tennis Shirt.
With Collar and Tocket. The most
com'ortable for all out-door sports
of all kinds. A great variety of
patterns stocked.
Plain Colors, 4s. 6d. to 7s. 6d.
Fancy Designs, 7s. 6d. to 11s. 6d.
Aertex Cellular Corsets.
Fitted real Greerdand Whalebone.
s. d.
Cl Ecru 13in. deep .. .. 15 6
C 2 ~ long waist, 14Jin deep 16 6
M White Cotton, 14in., nar-
row spoon busk .. .. 21 0
G White Cotton, 14.Un., with
Elastic Supporter .. 24 6
F Ecru, Riding or Cycling.. 12 6
V Cycling, Boned French
Horn, Elastic Hips .. 15 0
D 1 same shape as Cl, Watch-
spring Steels .. .. 86
TATTERSALL’S
(Gsorge Adams, Hobart, Tasmania).
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
The Tasmanian Government having imposed a tax of One Penny
on every Five Shilling Ticket issued by Tattersall’s on and after Ist
January, 1903, clients will please forward Id. extra for each ss.
ticket applied for, or 4d. for every .SI, and so on.
NOW OPEN.
HOBART CUP—Elwick, Tas., Jan 21, 1903 ... 50,000 at 5/1
LAUNCESTON CUP—Launceston, Tas., Jan. 28 50,000 at 5/1
NEWMARKET H’CAP—Flemington, Vic., Feb 28 100,000 at 5/1
AUSTRALIAN COP—Flemington, Vic., March 3 50,000 at 5/1
DONCASTER H’CAP-Randwick, N.S.W., April 11 25,000 at 5/1
SYDNEY CUP-Randwick, N.S.W., April 13 ... 25,000 at 5/1
Subscribers will please note that GEORGE ADAMS (“TATTFRSATt ”\ q-t TTt
CONTINUES his business in HOBART, under LICENSE fom the TASMAN
GOVERNMENT, and that clients can send their subscriptions byTetter to anv Me d
acquaintance in HOBART, who will there have no difficulty in delivering the all 7 °-
securing the despatch of tickets and results direct to clients. ° PPI l ° n anC
Bank to advise GEORGE ADAMS of
DELIvLy CU


I Colds often hang on.
You try this thing and
that thing, every kind
of home remedy and
cheap cough mixtures,
and yet your cold con-
tinues to hang on.
You must not deal
lightly with these old
colds. You must get
rid of them just as
soon as possible. You
must take something to
break their hold.
Ayers
Cherry Pectoral
soothes irritable throats, heals inflamed
bronchial tubes, and quiets congestion
in the lungs. This is why it so quickly
controls these old coughs and pre-
vents pneumonia and consumption.
“I was troubled with a very hard
cough which I could not get rid of.
When I read of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
I sent to Johannesburg and procured
a bottle. It completely cured me, and I
have many comrades here who have had
hard coughs cured in the same way. ”
-Wm. Sessions, Company C, Second Royal
Berks. Reg., Nel’s Spruit. Transvaal, S. Africa.
There are many substitutes and imi-
tations. Beware of them! Be sure
you get Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral.
Two sizes. Large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Maas., U.S.A.
W. H.Wigzell.
FRINGES : Best Natural Curly
Hair, 3/6, 6/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each.
TAILS and PLAITS r 20in. long,
5/6 ; extra thick, 7/6; 24in., 10/6;
extra thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings worked up,
2/6 per oz. Don’t be misled.
Our Plaits and Tails are twice as
thick as sold elsewhere at the
same price. Send color of Hair.
Only one address: 110 WILLIAM-
-BT., cor. of Palmer St. BYDNEY.
Cable trams will stop at door. All work guaranteed.
Illustrated Catalogue post free. Prompt attention given
to country orders. Wigs made on shortest notice. All
Hairvvork sent to the other States free of duty. Transfor-
mations. entire covering for the head, 30/- each.
A GIFT for the LADIES.
We make tbia
SPECIAL OFFER
to Advertise our
Ostrich
Tips.
5/ The Bunch,
/ m Worth 10/6.
TWO VERY SUPERIOR TIPS, with
OSPREYS, in Black, White or Cream.
Post Free. Send Postal Notes.
Miller’s Feather Shop
Corner Bourke & Swanston Bte., Melbourne.
Mention Tub Bulletin.
FLUID
OIL
CRUDE FLUID
POWDER
EMBROCATION
SOAPS
DIBINFEOTORB
INHALERS
FUMICATORS
aim*
mwm
m
COLORLESS
FRAGRANT
NON.
POISONOUS
DOES NOT
STAIN
KILLB ALL
DISEASE
GERMS
OXYGENATES
THE AIR.
Sulphur Candles - \ KINGZETT’S
Formic Fumigators / PATENTS.
“HOW TO DISINFECT ” Book Free.
The “SANITAS” CO., ktcl.,
Bethnal Green, LONDON, E*
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when
every other remedy had failed. Price 4/6 and 11/*
Thousands of testimonials.
OF ALL. CHEMISTS, STORES, ETC.
WHOLESALE AGENTS'
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. NICHOLL, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
26 IUQU STREET, DELEAST, IRELAND.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free In/ post throutjliout
A astro H<t.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS BRISBANE.
Australian Mutual Provideivritocietv
— ■B I 'IBUEI> IS49 ' For Ufe Assurance on the Mutual Principle. *
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold city or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the securiiv nf
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
°* rwto « -p ■» «> •«•
General M a n a j; e r and Aetiuiry— Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F. A FS A * M » ksq., M.P.
HKAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ” ' ’ ROBERT B. CAMERON. Secretary.
Commercial
Busrgfy,
£l4 10«-
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
S3T Send for a
Catalogue.
Heat Shaft Sulkies,
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles.
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLI6R, i3o Sussex St., Sydney
Straight Shaft 3-Spring Sulkies, £8 10s.
Sarven Sulky Wheels Tyred, £2 4s 6d pair.
Discount to Wholesale Buyers. Send for Catalogue.
PLAYER’S
WORLD
FAMED
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
-
'Hill,
WHOLESALE
Distributing? Agents
Hew South Wales—
M. RUTTY & CO.,
SYDNEY.
Victoria —
J. E. Hunt, Melbourne
South Australia —
Hart, Lawrenoe & Co.
Propy. Ld., Adelaida
Western Australia —
Lionel Samson & Son,
Fremantle
Queensland —
Thoe. Brown & Sons, Ld.
Brisbane
Burns, Phlip & Co. Ld.,
Townsville
Tasmania —
Watchorn Bros.,
Hobart
John McKenzie & Co..
Launceston
Hew Zealand —
D. Benjamin & Co.
Dunedin, neilingion
and Chriatohuron.
all
mm
3
REPEATING RIFLES
repeat. They don’t jam, catch, or fail to extract.
In a word, they are the only reliable repeaters.
Winchester rifles are made in all desirable
calibers, weights and styles; and are plain, par-
tially or elaborately ornamented, suiting every
purpose, every pocket-book and every taste.
WINCHESTER AMMUNITION
made for all kinds of shooting in all kinds of guns.
Winchester guns and Winchester ammunition are
FOR SALE BY ALL IRONMONGERS.
WE STOCKS WINCHRg>TRP GOODS.
M'LEAN BROS. & RIGG, Ltd.
ELIZABETH ST., ITELBOURNE ; GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price Uet of Tricks—Free.
PLAYS
French’s Acting Edition.
W t
Rare Rooks
French Novels
Books the Married
Extra Special Catalot/ue of
Hooks h'vee.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
WILL ANDRADE
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE .
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne
GOOD
HAIR FOR ALL!
All Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
OS’ For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra-
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
m" For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
W'AsniNuros IC. Soul & (Jo.,
Pilt-atreet, Sidney.
CONSULT HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by WATKINS & MACKAY, Chemists, Queen Street, Brisbane ; Mr. GORDON, !)■’George
Street, Rockhampton, Queensland, and
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE,
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Sea That Was.
The green waves roll to the empty sand
As they rolled of old, and the minstrel wind
With its fair sea-savour still flits to land
Through our dead pale grass, that its salt has
thinned.
The keen wind shakes, in its long-drawn sigh,
My heart, like a faint flame blown upon ;
Ihe dull waves shudder, the grasses die,
Now you are gone.
The sky is bright where the wind’s feet shine,
As they shone ere our lives were blown apart,
But in hard waves breaking, long line on line,
Is the endless hymn of my broken heart.
The league-long beach is the cold path made
r For my heart to travel, till hearts are free ;
The sea is a motner in shine and shade,
No more for me.
As long-unvisited shrines grow cold,
Dead fires, lost incense, and faded flowers—
The hills wnere we dreamed in our days of gold,
The paths we trod when the world was ours.
Nothing is now as it once has been,
Save one dear deathless flower; it is
The memory of the last long keen
Immortal kiss.
The olden glamor is gone, my sweet,
Will it come again in a brighter sky ?
As the flight of a star, so Joy is fleet,
And time is the measure of one short sigh.
When all of my joy and my songs and sorrow
Are one with the night, and my lips are cold,
Will the sea reoover, in some far morrow,
Its ancient gold ?
H.L.
M. CORMAC.
The Land of My Desire.
The Morning set the sails a-fire
With flames that kindled all my blood,
As to the Land of My Desire
I sailed across a foaming flood.
Day after day the sun did turn
From east to west, from sea to sea ;
Night after night the stars did bum
Above the Ocean’s minstrelsy.
Till on the far horizon spread
Like some long cloud surprised in sleep,
I saw an island lift its head
A little way above the deep.
And there, in the cool shadow-time
I landed, weary of the sea,
Where maidens of the sunny clime
Gave draught on draught of love to me.
And, when I laid me down to rest
Tired of the dance, the feast, the wine,
And full red lips too closely pressed
Too often and too hot on mine,
One woke me in the night and said—
“ Receive the orown that thou hast won ! ”
And, placing it upon my head,
She called me her Beloved One.
And there I saw a harlot stand,
The lustre dead in eyes and hair,
Alone with me upon the land
Of my Desire and —my Despair.
M.L.
D. M. R.
The Exultant Lover.
“Hove you !” I said; and you laughed in my
face then,
Foolish with pride of your exquisite youth.
Look in your mirror. ... Was love out of place,
then?
Strange ! but for onoe, dear, a man spoke the
truth !
Hopeless my love seemed, presumptuous, fore-
dam ned,
Pitiful—gauged by your calm self-control;
You being you, with late sophistries crammed,
Cramped and respectable, body and soul.
I’ll not repine or regret, for my part;
I, who am dead for a season, was young.
Banished, I send you a word from the heart,
Broken and bruised by the jibes that you flung.
Though the years string on into endless time
Till the land is dust and there is no sea,
And the weary Pleiades cease to climb,
Should a soid survive, there's hope for me ;
However bitter the days gone past,
I shall get through the ice to your heart at last,
And have you to hold through eternity.
And so for a space I can bear with a grin, dear,
This bitter heart-hunger that gnaws and gnaws.
Baffled to-day, in the end I shall win, dear, . . ,
Never a joy yet was faultless of flaws.
Out in this wilderness, under the sky,
Keen is the pain, but the promise is dear.
Frown and protest as you will, Love and I
Have you fast bound to your destiny, dear !
You are most fair, and it’s tiresome to write,
Sweet —ah, how sweet, every inch of me knows !
Still, harvest is glad, though the harvest be late ;
Good is life lived, though but lived at the close.
When the weary Pleiades have ceased to climb,
And the rust of the ages blots out the sea,
Past the gates of Death and the verge of Time,
In glad surrender you'll come to vie.
The desolate days will be over and past,
And Love will be lord of your heart at last, . . .
And we shall be one through eternity.
TAS.
FRANK MORTON.


A Quiet
Nip"...
Whisky
o'”
-3SP
A DISMAL TIME.
Vitality Restored to
an Enfeebled System.
The Case of N|r. A. W. LYON
(by our special reporter.)
Among the instances in which an attempt
has been made to deal with questions attain-
ing a wide popularity is that appearing here-
under, and the facts tjiat have been adduced
by Mr. Alfred William Lyon, of No. 56
Brougham-street, Glebe, will enablea fairly
intelligent man to come to a definite con-
clusion upon those phases of the subject
about which he m ly now be doubtful.
“ I can trace the origin of my adve si ties
to a mishap which I encountered whilst in
the act of taking a stone from the hoof of a
horse,” said Mr. Lyon to our reporter. “ As
I stooped to raise his hoof I received a kick
on the head, and although 1 was almost
stunned I managed to pick myself up, and
was making my escape when the horse
again, but that time on my
libs.”
“It is a wonder you were not killed,”
inte rupted the writer.
“It is, indeed ; but I was not out of
danger fora long time, as I was laid up for
fourteen weeks and became quite a wreck.
When at last my injuries were repaired I
went back to work, although I was almost
too weak to do so, and on the 20th March,
1809, d again met with ano.her accident. I
was removing see .ery and effects to a
theatre, and whilst taking a heavy box to
the cellar I severely strained myself. Mind
you, 1 felt pains about the ki Ineys from the
time I was first injured, but I did not think
they were in any way diseased. I thought
the pains were the direct result of the heavy
blow I had received, but the acute torture
which now caught me across the back m ide
me realise only too bitterly that my kidneys
were greatly disordered. When 1 stooped
I could not get up again, and had to sit
there. Such terrible agony I had never ex-
perienced before. There was a sharp pain
in my side as if the flesh was being drawn
from me, and I could not remain in an up-
right position for the excruciating tortures
that were bearing me down.”
“ I suppose you were compelled to leave
your work agaiu ?”
“ Indeed I was, and war so helpless that
for three weeks I could not leave my bed. 1
really thought it was all over with me, my
parents also being deeply concerned at the
terrible condition 1 was in. You see, I fell
away in flesh so rapidly that at the end of
the third week after my accident 1 was two
stone lighter. There is no doubt that I was
just like a shadow, and so miserable at
being ill and unable to do my work'"that I
did not have a moment’s cheerfulne-s of
mind either day or night. I never had the
least desire for food, the smell of which
turned me sick, and if by any chalice 1
succeed in gett ng anything down, every bit
of it came back again, f r I hardly
remember a meal which was not soon
followed by a v olent fit of v,uniting. That
was the main reason why 1 become so fright-
fully thin, but another cause of the hopeless
tceling which weighed on my spirits was
that I could not get a quarter of the amount
of sleep I required. Through lying down
all day my body was so racked witli aches
that I could never feel comfortable, but
occasionally I became so overcome with
fatigue that I dozed off in spite of all my
tortures, and even then I was not much
better off, as I a 1 ways had horrible dreams
that woke me up with a trembling start;
W nit a dismal life it was to be sure ! My
head ached to such a maddening extent that
I could not bear the weight of my hair, so I
had it shaved off". If I stood up I felt top-
heavy and dizzy, and had to hold on to
something to steady myself, while the
swollen feeling about my eyes was so dis-
tracting that sometimes I could hardly see.
This dreadful state of affairs went on for
Seventeen or eighteen mon hs, increased
suffering being my portion from day to
day ; and I can tell you I was thoroughly
sick an I tired of it all. My stomach
bulged out with Mind, which also
gave me a lot of pain, and many
an anxious fear 1 have had through my heart
palpitating to excess. I ceased to care how
things would end, for I was almost too weak
to hope for a recovery, and everything
possible seemed to go against me. Why,
even my taste was destroyed by a sense of
bitterness which would not go away, and
my tongue was so rough that it was more
like a brush thau anything else. The
medicines I took to remove my painful
symptoms were not the least good to me,
and when there was nit a thread of hope to
cling to I realised what an awful thing it is
to suffer in despair. I gsive up asking
advice, but the best I had yet received came
when it was most urgently required.”
“ What advice was that? ”
“ It was to take Clements Tonic, and as I
was willing to take anything at all, 1 bought
some not that I thought it would cure
me ; but when I had drank one bottle I was
certainly no worse, so 1 purchased a couple
more. Then 1 seemed to liven up a bit, as
though Clements Tonic had put some
vitality into my enfeebled system, and in
another week 1 found that this idea was
right, sure enough. The suffering I had
endured all these months was undoubtedly
minimised, the pains in my back being won-
derfully relieved, and, to my utter astonish-
ment, my appetite came back. Very little
more time elapsed before the vomiting
troubles had entirely ceased, and from then
1 moved along quickly to the recovery of
my health, which uothing but Clements
Tonic could bring about. 1 felt as jubilant
as any man could be, and win would not
feel so at such a surprising liberation from
physical captivity ? A new and happy
existence came to me by using Clements
lonic, which rectified dizziness, headaches,
and stomach pains so surely that they have
never tioubled me since, and by soothing
an 1 quietening my nerves I gained so much
comfort from the use of that medicine that
I was soon able to sleep as soundly as I
could when a boy at school. My mouth
was treed from its nasty taste, my tongue
was cleansed, and in all respects I gained
by using Clements Tonic, even to being
released from the pains in my side and
chest and having my heart affections
abolished. 1 was soon able to go back to
work, but my employer did not know' me, I
had alter.d so ; but by sticking to Clements
Tonic the lines of suffering were obliterated
from my face, and my body again filled out
with flesh,’'
“ Di
ly?”
1 Clements Tonic cure you
thorough-
“ 1 cau conscientiously say it did, and as
i am sure Clements Tonic is the most
teliable medicine in the country, I alwa.s
recommend it to my friends, and you may
publish our conversation in any way you
want.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
~,b Alfkku William Lyon, of 56 Brougham-street
Olebe, in the State of New South Wales, Commonwealth
n A^ 4 '' ralla ’ ' solemnly and sincerely declare
lha I have carefully read the annexed document,
consisting of five folios, and consecutively numbered
from oil to five, and that it contains and is a
true and fait fnf account of my illness and cure
o.\ Clement* Tonic; and a'so contains my full per-
iling m to publish in any way my stalem mw—
wlncn 1 give volun.arily, without receiving anv
payment an 1 I make this solemn declaration con-
scientiously believing the same to bo true, and by
virtue of the provisions of the Oaths Act, 1900.
m
Subscribed and declared at Sidney this
day of April, one thousau.l nine hundred
before me,
th rtieth
and two,
W. P. L. BAILEY, J.P.
Second
Edition.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER:
Harry Morant
His ’Ventures,
and Verses.
Price 1/1
Pott
Fret.
V By FRANK RBNAR. y Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Sydney
FOR COUNTRY VISITORS.
The Sydney Coffee
Palace Hotel
LOWER DOMAIN
(Under New '
Management)
is the Healthiest and Cleanest
Hotel in Sydney.
TERMS—From 6s. per day, and from 255.
]>er week.
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITOR^
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trains. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF tor
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
WABASH
Business
Expansion
Systems*
Letter
Filing
Devices.
Card Index Systems*
For all
Businesses.
We Systematise your Office Free of Charge.
Write us for Illustrated Catalogue.
WOOLLEY, BERGIN & CO.,
269 George St., Sydney-
Sole Agents, Australia.
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
“ They come as a boon and a blessing to men,
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen.”
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEN made by Macniven & Cameron, Ltd is
separately examined by experienced hands
and any found defective are discarded.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.,
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAM!.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST—SUFFER.
DON’T MISS THIS
S^CONFi r nENT OTANIC (^“ EDIES wiil CURE YOU.
TRT»f^m,SU l, l|. t, " t w « wl “ to.n,
by the RESULT L ° f ohar^e > a "d abide
SsCERtS Address- yOUr ultimate CURE
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
DRUNK
ENNESS
CURED
Absolutely Conquered in 20 Days.
*P“See my proposition to the Government
November Bth, 1901, wherein I agree”o
*°® Te st Cases, and prove that my
Vegetable Cure for Alcoholism is a positive
and reliable remedy Home tril* *
within the reach of all. No”eslSSS? ,ent
hy «^i° nS - FUU P" tic^arsfree°
W * LANGSTON, m r.c.s. e n *
08 Russell St., Melbourne
Rescued
From Drink
looks on, the drunkL is ree Ltmt SlSter or
and without his knowledge or m atfai " st h 's will
and address to THE EIJPR aCv ?v? ra L 10n ' ® enc * name
SYDNEY, N.S.W and a.l 00 '’ 62 HUNTER ST.,
particulars free. ’ Wl sen d you booklet and
RUPTURE
CURED
without
operation or pa n
Thr»w away
jour Trail.
humane' streatmen 5 treatment 63 Hund reK
SURGEON LANGSTON,
M.R.C.S., ENG., *
Cor Russell 4 Collins Sts.
Melbourne.
Refreshing and Agreeable.
CALVERTS
CARBOLIC
TOILET SOAP.
A P lea ® a " f Antiseptic Soap (containing 10 <v
pure Carbolic Acid). Should be used regular!;
infection'' 6 thS skin and complexion and prevent
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng. j
MORRIS'S
IMPERIAL
.EYE,
°IHTMEHT
CURES
TOOTH-ACHE
CURED INSTANTLY BY
BUNTER’S
Prevents Decay, Saves
Extraction, Sleepless Nights
Prevented.
Neuralgic Head aches & all Nerve
Fains removed by BUNTER'S
NERVINE. Of all Stores.
NERVINE
“As a specific for Tooth ache it has no equal. I have
used it successfully for years."—Prof. W. Wilson, M.D,
The BEST FAMILY MEDICINE
KAYE’S WORSDELL’S PILLS
Ait a certain Cure for Indigestion, Biliousness, Head ache,
I>yspepsia, Constipation, Liver and Kidney Complaints, 4c.
Of all Stores.
papapussjfl
jowiiapi
WORDS
OF
WISDOM
This “ GRAND
BOOK” which is
sent Absolutely
FREE.
“Words of Wisdom,”a
wonderful book written
for the sole purpose of re-
vealing to sufferers the
wonderful system of Hom-
oeopathic treatment which
has cured so many cases
that were thought tc be
hopeless and incurable.
The book is written in a
plain and concise manner,
telling you exactly how
and where you can regain
perfect, health. In fact, it
gives you the key to the
grandest knowledge known
It reveals wonderful se-
crets and makes the impossibilities of yesterday realities of to-
day. No matter what your disease or how many have termed
it hopeless or incurable, you will indeed find it A MESSAGE
OF HOPE to you, for if you follow its dictates, you will, .**
thousands of others have, be entirely cured of your ailments.
Remember this book costs you absolutely nothing and you will
prize it highly. Simply sit down, write your name and address,
send it to the
IRVING HOMOEOPATHIC COY.,
c/r Hunter & Bligh Sts., Sydney, N.S.W.
also st&tiug your ailments, and they will send their opinion and
advice as well as this grand book without cost.
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELEC TRIO
ISELTS and
A EE LI A N CES
a trial of SO days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ IiLhC-
TRIO ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Eleotrio
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
fel - by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
eacli Electric Belt that it
ttill permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we sa}', and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free),
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH Sl£X“3i
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical
Address:
G-erman Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabkih Stkebx, SYDNEY.
ALL CHEMISTS
PROFFINSENX
An/emia, %
Poverty of Blood
and Weakness yjf,
from Whatever Cause. i
AT
3/6 PER BOX


THE HOTELKEEPERS’ FRIEND.
©
Soda. Water Id. per doz.
Lemonade and Ginger Ale, 3d. per doz.
Hotelkeepers make their own supplies of
Aerated Waters.
No skilled labor required. Anyone can learn to
operate the machine in ten minutes.
TESTIMONIALS.
“To the Daylesford Mineral Water Co.
“ Dear Sirs,—The machine purchased from you Is per-
fection. The Stuff turned out is Splendid. It is the best
speculation I have entered into since I joined the Licensed
Victuallers.—Geo. Niciiolls, Royal Hotel, Swan Hill.
Mr. P. Kennedy, Coolgardie, says Profits saved by
making my own supplies of Aerated Waters with the
Machine pay tiie rent op my hotel.”
Mr. Lewis, Heidelberg, Victoria, says “ I have made
thousands op-dozens of the best Aerated Waters with the
Machine, and it has not required sixpence worth of
repairs. No Hotelkeeper should be without one of
them.”
Mr. W. Atkinson, Hotelkeeper, Wentworth, N.S.W.,
says “It is the greatest money maker yet discovered
for hotelkeepers.”
Mr. Burk, Yalgo, W.A., says:—“Since getting one of
your Machines, and making our own soft stuff, I have
saved its price ten times over.”
W. H. Jones, Peak Hill, W.A., says:—“Machine great
success.”
E. Davis, Peak Hill, W.A., says :—“ Cannot speak too
highly of effectiveness and simplicity.”
G. N. Murdoch, Abbotts, W.A., says:—“Value of
Machine indisputable ; quality and cheapness of stuff
unquestionable.”
T. H. Williams, Mossman, Queensland, says :—“ Highly
successful, and recommend to all hotelkeepers."
J. S. Davidson, Bundaberg, Queensland,says :—“Great
saving compared to previous cost of stock.”
A profitable business awaits pushing men in many small
centres of population, where a deeply-felt want exists for
A GOOD QUALITY of AERATED WATERS. OBSERVE THE PROFITS.
Call and see these machines, or write for circular describ-
ng them, also Price List. Prices Reduced.
Daylesford Hepburn Mineral Water Co-
-407 COLLINS-STREET, MELBOURNE.
7$
MEN
If
you
are
suffering from
exhaustion, Vari-
cocele, Wasting,
Weakness, enclose 6 stamps (postage and
packing), and I will send a trial bottle of my
REMEDY, FREE.
IT COSTS YOU NOTHING
to try my Life Syrup Remedies, which
give back strength of body and brain, renewed
vigor, and development of the vital organs;
not a free prescription dodge, but a trial of
my wonderful remedy free for the asking.
PROFESSOR H. READ,
165 Collins street, Melbourne.
[pHs
VEGETABLE
THE ROAD
TO HEALTH IS
PAVED WITH
GOOD
DIGESTION.
Charcoal
Speedily cures Acidity. Flatulence, Heartburn,
Impure Breath, Indigestion, Diarrhoea, &c. It
destroys all disease germs, and,absorbing all impuri-
ties in the stomach and bowels,gives a healthy tone
to the whole system. Wards off all attacks of Typhoid
and other Fevers. Prevents many an illness.
BRAGG’S PURE CHARCOAL POWDER in
Bottles; LOZENGES and BISCUITS in Tins
(pleasant to take). Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
Having had complaints of the injury done by other
preparations,please see that each Bottle or Tin bears
the Trade Mark ‘J.L.B., in monogram.’on the wrapper.
MEDICAL GALVANISM.
“ M ESSRS - HALE AND SON’S FIRM has distinguished
itself in the development of ELECTRICAL
SCIENCE as a MEDICAL AGENT. By an entirely NEW
METHOD of application they have succeeded in produc-
ing an ELECTRIC BODY BELT, which for COM FORT,
EFFICACY and GENUINENESS is unquestionably far
superior to any previous invention. Yet the whole appli
ance is so compact that it only weighs a few ounces. In
this age of shams it is something to get an article that
has some power apart- from imagination.” —Medical
Monthly.
HALE’S IMPROVED ELECTRIC BELTS have con-
quered the most OBSTINATE cases of NERVOUS and
other DISEASES after all other remedies have FAILED.
OUR SPECIAL ELECTRIC BELT WITH SUSPENSOR
FOR GENTLEMEN HAS NO EQUAL. Catalogue and
Price List gratis. CONSULTATION FREE.
HALE & SON, Medical Galvanists,
44 CASTLEREACH-STREET, SYDNEY.
BALSAM OF
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
OLD’S BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
HOREIIOUND
For Coughs and Colds.
Every Dose Effective.
Will Cure when Others Fail.
For Pain in the Side. 1
Best for Influenza.
Bronchitis and Loss of Voice.
Whooping Cough and Croup.
For Children, Safe and Sure
K'
Mention
this
Paper.
Weals.
Men
AND
WOMEN
Can obtain strength and \ ‘ -or
by the use of DR. PIERCL 3
ELECTRIC BELT:' A Won-
derful Restorative. The most
Scientific Electrical Appliance
ever made. Drugs do not cure.
I This Belt does. Send stamp (any sort)
for “Booklet No. 2.” QZf* Write to-day.
Pierce Electric Co., 206 Post St.
B*n Francisco,U-S. A., W. H. Soul S Co.Agts. Sydney
WOOL. PRODUCE. CRAIN.
The New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency
Coy., Ltd., SYDNEY,
ACT As SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
Consignors ars absolutely protected under a Pause in the Memorandum of Association of this Company.
WOOL
COMMISSION FOR SELLING THREE-QUARTERS (f) PER CENT.
WAREHOUSING
(Including Receiving into Store, Fire Insurance,
Weighing, Lotting, Repacking, Sample Bales,
Advertising, Cataloguing, etc.) on Wool real-
ising over SIXPENCE per lb. the charges
will be
On Wools realising SIXPENCE and over Four-
pence per lb :
On Wools realising FOURPENCE per lb. and
under
3s. 9d. per Bale.
2s. Gd. per Bale.
Is. 6d. per Bale.
Perfect System of Weighing 1 .
Way Bills sent on Application.
PRODUCE
SALES of Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, Marsupial Skins, eto., HELD WEEKLY.
WHEAT.
AmrSltZ induc . eT «enfc Is offered growers to consign their grain for realisation by the Company
provided. 1 hree months free storage is allowed. Circulars are sent when
aesired giving cost of railage and full particulars as to Charges, Advances, etc., etc.
AGENTS FOR McDOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP.
J. BARTRAM & SON,
34 & 36 Market Street, Sydney
(Corner of
Clarence Street)
-*-®» 23 BZing Street, Melbourne.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES . . .
The ENGLISH DE LAVAL STEAM TURBINE CO. LTD., Leeds.
Makers of Steam Turbines, Turbine Dynamos, Turbine Puirps, Turbine Fans.
_ ■ - (Over 80,000 Horse-power in use.)
Messrs. GREENWOOD & BATLEY LTD., Albion Works, Leeds.
Machine Tool Manufacturers and Electrical Engineers, Dynamos, Motors, Pumps, eto.
Messrs. CONNOLLY BROS. LTD,, Manchester ~
lnsulated Cables, Wires, Tapes, eto.
•Vy*
ARE YOU WEAK ?
Low-spirited, Tired of Life, Have you utterly
failed in your efforts to regain Health?
Go to the Fountain Head
And consult Old Surgeon Langston, who will Cure
you. Forty years’ practice as a Specialist is sufficient
Guarantee of the doctor’s ability.
AVOID unskilled pretenders, flaming advertisements and specious
cure-alls.
Vigor and Strength £*.>o' £ ho
OLD SURGEON LANGSTON,
Member Royal College of Surgeons, England, located in Melbourne
since 1886, has so perfected his method of treatment that it can
almost be said there are no hopeless or incurablo cases.
Be the equal of your fellow man.
If you are a sufferer from any nervous, chronic Blood or Skin diseases, or interested in the subject of
Neurasthtnia and associated evils, write at once for book of information, blank forms, eta, and have the
old doctor diagnose your case.
Seolt tlie Truth, It; costa KTothing!
All communications strictly confidential. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, cor. Russell & Collins Sts,, Melbourne.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
UMBRA Cm 3
THE POPULAR “ PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 86 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1902 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
eloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy ; Is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d.
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is.
The Art of Wrestling, post Is. Hoyle’s Games, post 2/6
Love and Parentage, Sd posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), Is 3d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, Is posted. Camille, Is 3d.
Secret History of the Court of England, 1 6 post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history), Is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle's Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Ciievasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free. How to Plav Billiards, Is 3d.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted. Sappho, Is.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Botlers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want.
The Wife’s Handbook, Is 2d posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus. Leather bound, my price, 15s post paid
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is Cd.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic,
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is 3d.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s posted.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music comple e), Is 6d.
The Age op Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d posted.
Send for my Illustrated Big: Book
Catalogue - post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney.
Too Stout
I was for years ; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to 10st. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney
Sending, mention this paper.
OF INTEREST to MEN
TAEAR SIR, —I have been cured of weakness and De-
U bility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to
Mr. ROBERT E. PARKHURST,
p itreat, Sydney*
Dial A\EM
'iNDICEjTioM
BLAIR’S
GOUT 4 RHEUMATIC
FILLS.
The Great English Remedy for
GOUT, RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO & NEURALGIA.
The acute pain is quickly relieved and cured in a
few days by this celebrated Medicine.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, and sold at Is. and 2s. 9d.
per box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
For Asthmatic people who suffer from
OPPRESSION In breathing:, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault’s Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest.
GRIM AULT CO., Paris. Sold by all Chemists.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism, Sciatic*,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdestke & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy*
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. <fc Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN'S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdestre & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored In
Four Weeks by the use of
0* RI CORO’s
A B6^ ce °f V-* f
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled and
unprecedented success throughout the World.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Health and Strength
to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame.
In oases of 12s. or four quantities in one for 368. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope
Agents for Australasia —PERRY & CO., 47 Queen St. f
Melbourne ; Wholesale Agents for New South Wales —
F. H. Fauldingr & Co., 16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
dH3
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
I Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Arethesamo
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free. •
Addreat—A. M. HAST, 145 Collin* Bt, Melbonrn*.


We teach in 3 Lessons of 10 minutes
each sufficient for a pupil to write his
own notes, in a month to correspondence
speed, and in three months to Reporting
Speed. mm-
™NEW SHORTHAND
(REGD.)
21 Lessons for 2ls. to Completion to end of December only.
From January Ist, 1903, the fees will be 21 Lessons for 425.
See Page 23.
Payable ss. the first lesson, Is. each for the
next 16, and the remaining four lessons free.
The ss. fee may be paid by a Half-a-Crown
at the first and second lessons, then Is. a
lesson to follow.
HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
BRANDY
Hennessy’s
Old Battle Axe
Brand
Is
known
and
appreciated
all the
world
over.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
(b/4-SPMTi
v, v /m
s iitA^i
*
m:
n
'"4
6/
20.
1
3^B
Va
-r
m.
tiii
v
/?.
w
i
i
F
H
THE
‘PLUM’
THE
‘PLUM’
/?[_ ENTLEMEN.—This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easv shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7s. 6(L
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
Price
{Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, ?I*.
Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful oase, 335.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part oe the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney
&
Hotelkeepers, make your own
DERATED WATERS
THE “AUSTRAL” jERATED WATER MACHINP. Dficiipies
only Four Feet square, will produce 160 dozen BOTTLES
per day of Finest Waters (Lemonade, Ginger Ale, Sodawater,
&c.) at a COST BELOW FOURPENCE PER DOZEN. These machines
are now working in all the Australian States, New Zealand, and
South Africa.
Write for Prices and Particulars.
Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers—
ECKERSLEY AND SONS,
214-216 Queen Street, Melbourne.
DIRECTIONS FOR COVERING HAY STACKS.
Erect upright poles, with connecting ridge poles, around
which build your hay stacks. Next provide yourself
with sufficient P. & B. Building 1 Paper, 4-ply, or
P. & B. Ruberoid Roofing, 2-ply, to cover the
desired area, also as many yards of 12 in. x 2 in. x 19
gauge Galvanised Wire Netting as you require yards of
paper. Next drive stakes along each side of the stack,
near the eaves, sufficiently strong to support plates
(round or square), rest your plates on these, unroll your
P. & B. Building Paper, 4-ply, and pass the end
entirely over the stack to the plate on the further side to
which it should be nailed. Then go back and nail the
other side in the same way, and cut the Paper off
just below the plate. Take the remaining end of
the roll of P. & B. Paper and pass it over the stack
as before, lapping it three or four inches over the
edge of the first strip, and nail as before, continue in this
manner until the stack is entirely covered. Now pro-
ceed to secure the Wire Netting (over the overlapping
edges of the P. & B. paper) to the plate in the same
manner as you secured the F. & B. Paper, i.e., at each
end. This being done, remove the stakes which support
the plates and drive them into the stack about three feet
lower down, after which the entire covering may be
secured in position by lashing the plate to the newly
driven stakes. These lashings may be tightened from
time to time as the stacks shrink. Both the Netting and
Paper can be removed (as the stacks are used) and stored
away for future and oft repeated uses.
One roll of 4-ply P. 8c B. Paper will cover 900
square feet (this allows for a 4in. lap), and together with
the Wire Netting required will cost 425., F O 8., Sydney,
an average of sd. per square yard, the combined weight
of Netting and Paper being about 190 pounds.
E. RICH & CO., Ltd.
SYDNEY
BRISBANB
HAY STACKS
We have pleasure In handing yon
below the name and address of
our general agent in each State.
New South Wales
E. Rich & Co., Ltd.
Sydney.
VICTORIA
Brooks Robinson & Co., Ltd.
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
A. W. Sandford & Co.
Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA
J. M. Ferguson Ltd.
Fremantle.
NEW ZEALAND
James W. Jack,
Wellington
QUEENSLAND
E. Rich & Co., Ltd.
Brisbane
For Price List and fullest par-
ticulars send for
CATALOGUE
Extract from a private letter written by a
Pastoralist in Queensland to a friend:
“Dear George,—
“When here, if you remember, I was using your
P&B Ruberoid for roofing a hay-shed. After you left I
thought of another plan for covering a stack without
building a shed. I wrote to E. Rich & Co., Ltd., Bris-
bane, explaining, and got from them two rolls of 4-ply
Building Paper, each 336 ft. long. I will explain my
way of stack covering as I know you will find it
very handy and economical. I cut each roll into eight
pieces 42ft. long, then at 21ft. I mark a white line across
at a right angle. This line represents the ridge of the
stack At each end of each piece I put a 3ft. piece of
3xl batten on each side of the paper, then roll up from
eaoh end to. the white line and put a tie on the roll.
When the stack is ready pass up the first roll so that'the
white line comes fair along the sides, cut the tie and let
the ends with the battens drop on each side of the stack,
do the same with each roll, giving each a lap of 4in. until
donbUW* 18 C 0^ red ' , Bore a hole through each of the
double battens, through which put a loop of wire, then
the ride^rf 8 if driV i! ng a hardw °od stick into
the sides of stack catching the double wire loops, thus
opened the 1 P T F agamSt the Wind ‘ When the stack is
SE* h ] PIGCe t 0 g ° ° n should be the fir st to be
wlteT PaSS6d d T & £ * PUt Untilagain
“Faithfully yours,
“ E.R.R.”
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
E. RICH & CO., Ltd.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, tor Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. 24. No. 1195.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 10, 1903,
Price 6d
O' GAUNDEAMDS.
DUMYIYIMUS VIVAMOS
AVE-VALE!
i?
(s>mt& xsmsr
7AK3ID 0
©SIP EKD OT@ ®©&g> o - -rag
_ (?DP3Bt)CO@® Wffl SLf@H>
©to cgto® earaub©’
9 &KJ© ©©Klg.,
wm TOg uramPT TO&sfe
©&Dn<32C3(§ TO 1 l?0R1 j
OjpM©iai OK) £{p®©®tig§ °.
'WH9 6Cb@d -=-
<&®WE &£,©£)© OK) QMDCSg©
T&K)® TOlSgg ?
TOg ©Cmu lbEs®®Qg ! • -
X£3© §G3K&Ib Iffi ©g?
fp)
lira)
w ©t f ©m
C3WOIDQISID 25&3© <OTS© 2
®bß [?©@h! ¥’© q?(X)g
V®O 2
am TOgg K)g£j©n ™g
7i»E> TOg t&ODSFjp!-- -
Tfecro oo©? ®p
! TOMS t 2r l ® 0b§? (
3®PD GCD TOg b©£KSQK)(§ 3 -
Sr 1 © ®)(Eil3i -
£>Q, @®Ggg -KyjSCTi? UC3 v iSMKJg'PEgra
' eoraetss© •£«£> torus *.
K>&£> SPCJS aiSEb© b®X7ffi TOSB-'-KSew
OCOXS? go&bb «?©B?
TAS •
FRANK MORTON.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
" Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by W ilt.iam Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS AFTER
Ist NOVEMBER , 1902
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... & 9
Half-yearly ... ... ... 9 13 6
Quarterly ... ... ••• 0 7 0
NOTICE.
fly sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can hare Tub Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Maoleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the 11 Corr espondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, .Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
st ridly confidential.
Thu Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Ama tears in Made and White.
A nyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
.— e.. any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Got eh. Ludgate Circus.
South Africa — Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown;
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal; Solomon
and Wilson, 2d llnut St., Capetown ; Solomon and
Wilson, Commissioners Street, Johannesburg ; Granger
Bros,, Johannesburg ; Isaacs and Co., Durban ; Argus
l‘rioting Co., Rhodesia ; Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
Ceylon.— Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver.— Thonuo>i Stationery Co., Vancouver,
B.C.
Hong Kong. -Brewer and Co., 22 Queens Road, Hong
Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Wanking Road, Shanghai.
fite shtZZe£&9i.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 10, 1903.
The Contract Immigrant.
When the Australian Parliament meets
again the long-drawn-out question of the Six
Hatters—or rather the whole question of the
importation of contract labor which the
arrival of the Six Hatters stirred up —will
probably be brought to the front again ; un-
less something very large happens in the
interim to divert attention and to bury the
Six Hatters problem like an insect under an
avalanche. Then there will be a mighty
disturbance among the extremists who would
shut out nearly everybody, the cheap labor
crowd which wants to admit everybody
(niggers preferred) with a special view to
reducing wages, the silly Jingo crowd which
is shocked about the alleged wrong done to
British subjects and believes that somebody
has been throwing clods at “ the Flag,” the
reasonable men who think that each
case should be judged on its merits,
the individuals who care nothing at
all for the merits of the case, but wdio want
to drag down the Barton Government in
the interests of the importers, and the few
cranks who regard the proceeding as a
nefarious Victorian conspiracy, secretly
backed up, it may be, by the Jesuits and
the Pope.
* * • *
It is best to look at the situation calmly.
To begin with, Australia has comparatively
few manufacturing industries. Those it has
are mostly of the simple, crude, inferior
order, requiring little skill or inventive
power—wool-scouring, boiling-down, making
butter, cheese, beer, aerated waters, biscuits,
ice, gas, etc., flour-milling, sugar-making,
making boots, making up imported materials
into slop clothes, making the coarser kinds
of tweed, saw-milling, brick-making, smelt-
ing ores, etc. An immense number of
the finer, more highly-skilled and more
remunerative industries haven’t com-
menced yet, or are only pursued in a
small way which makes it impossible to
employ the best, newest, and most economi-
cal machinery, and for want of that it
becomes impossible to train the best class of
workmen. In order to start many important
industries, and possibly, also, to make a
fresh start with some existing ones which
have hitherto only existed in a small way,
~.nd are not run on the best and most im-
proved methods, it is necessary to import
skilled workmen. Also it is necessary, in
some cases, to import them even if
they know no more than Australian
workmen do. The Commonwealth, with
Protection against the outer world and free
exchange inside its own limits, hopes to see
some of its small industries grow at a rate
which will completely out-run the existing
supply of skilled labor ; it hopes to see them
grow faster even than new skilled labor can
be locally trained. Therefore it is impossible
to start any general crusade against the
importation of skilled labor—the right kind
of labour imported in the right circumstances.
• • m m
The Commonwealth requires new indus-
tries and enlarged industries ; it wants them
to be so numerous and so large that they
will supply local wants, if possible, in every
branch of manufacture. When they have
reached that point, the question of further
enlargement with a view to an export trade
may be considered, but the supply of
the local market comes first. If goods
hitherto imported to the value of, say,
£400,000 per annum can be made locally
by the importation of 1000 skilled workmen,
it is better to import the workmen than not
to make the goods locally. It means 1000
more taxpayers, and 1000 more customers
for the A ustralian farmer, dairyman, brewer,
bootmaker, brick-maker, house-builder, meat-
grower, sugar-grower, tobacco-grower, and all
the rest. It means more business for the local
soul-saver (which is the parson) and body-
saver (which is the doctor). It means more
custom for railways, tramways and ferry-
boats. It means 1000 more graves to be dug
some day, and 1000 more tombstones wanted,
and 1000 more orders for the undertaker. It
implies extra business for insurance offices,
banks, schoolmasters, newspapers, people
who make fishing-lines, theatres, hen-raisers,
policemen, banana-vendors, burglars and
other solicitors, tailors, and a host besides.
It implies a great accession to the ranks of
trades-unionism, and a great increase in the
voting power of the Labor party, whose
strength lies among the artisans, the miners
and the bush-workers, but certainly not
among the cookies, shopkeepers, clerks, im-
porters and professional classes. And, for
the general good of the people, it means
£400,000 a year less going out of the country
and £400,000 a year more spent in the
country.
• • • »
The Australian people’s share in the direct
employment afforded by the new industry
might at first be limited to the employment
of youths as learners and apprentices. But,
as these grew up and mastered their trade,
and as the industry expanded, the position
would be wholly altered ; and, in any case,
the indirect employment afforded by the
establishment of great new industries would
be a matter of profit to the Aus-
tralian people all the time. In decid-
ing when and where the importation of
skilled labor is justifiable, it isn’t even
possible to lay it down that no men should
be imported while men belonging to the
same trade are unemployed. There is an
unfortunate tail to every trade—the tail of
the inefficient. And the inefficient workman
is almost always among the unemployed
when there are unemployed in his particular
industry. There is always the disengaged
alleged actor, but merely because he is disen-
gaged, and is willing to play “ Hamlet,” it is
impossible to say that a manager must not
import a man who can play “Hamlet.”
There is also the alleged journalist, who is
fit for nothing better than writing a few
dreary platitudes about the suburban tea-
fight, but merely because he is unemployed
and is willing to edit the big city paper, it
is impossible to say that the paper must
not import an editor. Presumably there is
also the alleged hatter. What to do with
the incompetent man in any trade or art or
profession is a sorrowful mystery, but it is
impossible to force him on any employer
without doing grievous and permanent injury
to Australian industry. The injury to the
personal employer is a smaller matter. The
only adequate remedy seems to lie in a
systematic effort to raise a race of competent
workmen—if possible, the most competent
workmen on earth—by technical education,
a good apprenticeship system, and whatever
other devices will meet the case. An
apprenticeship system which compels an em-
ployer under heavy penalty to really teach
his trade, instead of merely using his appren-
tice as a messenger and rouseabout, would
itself do a great deal.
• * * *
On the other hand, only skilled white labor
should be imported under contract, and then
only when a sufficient supply of skilled w’hite
labor (as apart from the inefficient tail that
hangs on to every trade and profession) is
not locally obtainable. It should only be
imported on trades-union terms and con-
ditions. To decide definitely what are trades
union terms and conditions it is urgently
required that the whole question of Labor
legislation should be handed over to the
Australian Parliament, and that Wages
Boards should be created to fix a scale of pay
in all trades—especially those where no
union exists. (In fixing “that scale, it must
be borne in mind that no trade which is ex-
posed to the competition of the importers
can pay higher wages than are paid by its
principal foreign competitors, except in so
far as it is protected by the tariff and by the
cost of importation—unless, that is, local
workmen are skilled so fax beyond _
average that the extra quality an 1 ' „
of thf goods turned out in itself justifies
higher wages, and in the early days of a
new industry, in a country which doesn
manufacture on a large scale, skil
is likely to be below, rather than above
the average). The importation of unskilled
labor under contract should continue to be
utterly prohibited. The importation o
cheap skilled labor under contract should
also be prohibited ; Australia has no desire
to become a cheap country like China or
India. The importation of colored labor,
cheap or dear, skilled or unskilled, comes
under the same anathema ; no special skill
it may possess can make up for the risk or
race-adulteration. The Barton Govern-
ment was fully justified even in refusing tie
application of the colored gentleman who
wanted to import a colored cook on religious
grounds. Australia doesn’t take its own
religion very seriously, and a religion which
is so curiously constructed that it can only
live on condition it has its billy boiled by
a black non-unionist is taken even less
seriously.
* * * *
All this reduces itself to the fact that the
existing law on the subject of the importa-
tion of contract labor is about as good a law
as can be devised until all Labor questions
are handed over to the Australian Parliament
—always provided the law is well adminis-
tered. And so far it seems to have been
very well administered. As a matter of
course the Tory party —the pro-cheap-labor,
uro-nigger and anti-trades-union party—will
seek to secure its abolition or relaxation.
Also, the Jingo party (which is the same
party over again) will howl irrelevantly about
the “Flag” and the “rights of British
subjects,” and otherwise try to import a
shapeless slab of sentiment into a matter of
pure business—though neither of these
things is likely to affect the case very
much. It is over 50 years since the
people of Australia refused to allow a
large consignment of British subjects to
land here, and even threatened to throw
them overboard, and it is rather late in the
day to re-open that question. But it is
especially to be hoped that the Labor party,
on its side, does not make the great mistake
of trying to aim at a general prohibition of
the importation of contract labor. Australia
wants population—not more men to go on
the land where the land is dry and wretched,
and clothe themselves in bagging, and apply
to the Government for seed wheat; nor more
men to be employed on public works paid
for out of loans ; nor more men to go pros-
pecting, or to overcrowd existing industries ;
but men who will bring new and profitable
industries with them. There are six good
and sufficient reasons why it wants more popu-
lation of this kind : they will help to save us
a large portion of the £42,000,000 a year
which we now pay for imports and dis-
tribute the money locally instead ; they will
enable us to dispense to a great extent with
M‘Millan and the rest of the useless, inso-
lent and nefarious importing gang ; they will
furnish new trades for the rising generation
to learn, and thereby keep it from depending
too exclusively on loans for its wages and on
making new “ parks ” at Rose Bay, Sydney,
for its occupation ; they will furnish new
customers for the producers of the present
and future generations, and thus give a lift
to every branch of industry ; they will
diminish the burden of the disastrous public
debt—the more people there are to divide
it among the less is each man’s share ; and
they will give extra strength to the demo-
cratic cause in politics, for the trades-unionist
artisan is a reliable democrat in the main.
Probably six more good reasons could be
discovered with very little effort.
* • * •
In short, the qualifications for a contract
immigrant should be these : He must be
white ; he must be efficient ; he must come
here to create a new industry or to help to
expand an old one in which the local supply
of absolutely competent labor is too limited ;
he must come here to work for not less than
the current rate of wages ; and he must not
be a criminal. Within these limits, the
Commonwealth wants a million contract
immigrants—or more, if it can get them ;
without any question of nationality. If a
man can’t fulfil these conditions, the fact
that he is a British subject makes no differ-
ence. There are too many inefficient British
subjects here already including some
bishops and King Billy. Ap,opos , the im-
ported bishop should be brought under the
Act. He may not be a manual laborer, but
he calls himself a toiler in the vineyard, any-
how, and he also describes himself as a shep-
herd. The Kanaka at one end and the
bishop at the other represent two especially
superfluous varieties of the contract immi-
grant.
The Platitudes of Joseph, the Screw-
Maker.
* n the course of his address the Secretary of State for
the Colonies said that Great Britain recognised her
responsibility towards her oversea kinsmen. She was
w ‘! ' n S- a " d „ ready, to cherish them while they were
children but expected that when they attained to the
dl |'‘ lfc y° f * na ! lh oj )d they would help themselves
t ,J h e Motherland now bore almost the whole burden of
the Empire, but hoped that the colonies wn.miJL 01
exhibit a sense of their obligations. 0u d soon
The foundations of a grand Empire must Mr pu,.,
bkrlain declared, be based upon a system of mutual help!
— Cablegram.
Joseph Chamberlain is now making what is said
to be an absolutely triumphal progress through
South Africa, and discharging smooth platitudes
which sound well, and either mean very little or
mean a very great deal of the wrong kind. The
one above quoted is a notable sample. Britain,
according to Joseph of Birmingham, expects
that “ the colonies,” when they have attained to
tiie dignity of manhood, will help themselves. It
is a large resonant saying—a hollow brass ball,
dropped from a height on to a tin roof, would
make almost the same remark—but what exactly
does it mean? It is good for Joseph to urge
“the colonies” to cultivate the dignity of man-
hood, but what chance for any one of them to be a
full-sized man does the policy of Joseph and Co.
allow of? It is a tinkling and resounding thing
for Joseph to propose that “ the colonies” should
help themselves, but what kind of remarks do
Joseph and Co. make if anything of the kind is
attempted? Judging from past experience, the
dignity of full manhood and a fixed intention to
help ourselves would lead a shocked and excited
Joseph to call our proceedings insurrection and to
ask for the head of the originator. And Joseph,
by the way, in his statement that “the Mother-
land ” now bears almost the whole burden of the
Empire, is a patronising Ananias. Poor beggared
India carries, in ordinary peace times, almost as
much of the army expenditure as Great Britain
does.
* * « *
The Australian is as much a full-blown white
British subject as the Britisher himself. Very often
he is more so; the Londoner is much oftener a
Pole, or a German, or a Hungarian Jew, or some
other foreigner, than the resident of, say, Tasmania
is anything save pure Anglo-Saxon. Yet the Pole
or the German in London is often naturalised, and
has a voice in making the Parliament of the
Empire, and deciding the policy of the Empire ;
the Australian by birth and the pure-bred English-
man in Australia have no such voice. No British
sovereign nowadays dare veto an Act of the British
Parliament; the Acts of an equally British Parlia-
ment—equally British by descent—in Australia
are vetoed freely. This is done on the advice of
Ministers created by the United Kingdom only.
As we have no voice in the creation of the British
Parliament and the British Ministry, they are, in
respect of this alleged right of veto, simply foreign
despots; if the veto lay with the Czar or the
Sultan or the Shah it could not be more completely
an outrage on every principle of self-government.
We have just as large a share in appointing the Czar
or the Sultan or the Shah as we have in appointing
the British Ministry which claims to veto our Acts
of Parliament or to let them pass as an instance of
grace and condescension. If “ the Colonies” have
attained to manhood, then it is time to kick
against being treated like children—to say that
our Legislative Acts shall not be cancelled by any
extraneous power—that we will not be subject in
any degree to a Ministry which we have no voice
in appointing—that if the sovereign dare not veto
an Act of an English-speaking white Parliament
in London, he has no right to make any difference
as regards one passed by a similar Parliament in
Sydney or Brisbane, j
* * * •
Just as soon as “the Colonies” begin to help
themselves, too, there are other things to be
adjusted. If we are to have a share in the dangers
of the empire’s wars, we must have a share—just
as large a share as our population entitles us to,
and that may some day be a larger share than
Britain’s—in making war and in making peace.
At present the British Parliament and the British
Government, in which we have no more voice
than we have in the Government of the Sultan or
the Czar, does these things for us —just as the
Sultan does for the Turks or the Czar for the
Russians. In matters affecting war, peace, and
diplomacy we are under as absolute and degrading
a despotism, and are as utterly devoid of all self-
governing rights, as if we were Turks or Russians.
No Englishman can go to Australia, Maoriland,
or Canada without giving up a great part of his
rights as a free white British citizen. He loses
the claim to be part of the power which runs the
empire that Kipling babbles about; he loses
his share of control over peace, war, and
diplomacy, over the army and navy, and
over the empire’s foreign posssessions. He
abdicates his position as a self-governing citizen,
and gets instead a vote for a side-show Parliament
whose Acts are passed by the permission of an out-
side authority—or thrown into the waste paper
basket by an outside authority, just as British
Acts of Parliament might be if they had to be
sent to the King of Greece for his assent. He
comes to be spoken of in English almanacs as
“ Our Colonial Possessions ” —instead of being the
possessor, he becomes the thing possessed. The
smallest Bumble who has stayed behind in
England thinks himself entitled to make patron-
ising speeches about him, and about the duty,
gratitude and humility he owes to “us” — i.e.,
Bumble. No doubt Britain ha 3 devised the
most liberal “colonial ” system of modern times—
one that is far ahead of Spanish, Portuguese or
German methods. But the system is hollow and
rotten and lame and temporary all the same—
every “colonial” system is all these things;
and as soon as Australia or Canada comes
to approach Britain in population the system
must break down. If Britain wants to know why,
let Britain picture itself having to send its Acts of
Parliament to Washington to be assented to or
torn up—having its fleet officered by Americans—
having peace or war made for it by an American
Congress over which it has no control —and being
told by Secretary Philander Chase Knox, or
Secretary Elihu Root that he hopes it will awake
to a sense of its obligations.
* * • •
The most hopeless aspect of the case is that the
Britisher in the United Kingdom is utterly unable
to understand why any Britisher save himself
should want real self-government—should object to
having his Acts of Parliament vetoed, to having
his army and navy controlled by an outside
authority, to having war or peace made for him
by a person over whom he lias no control. If
Australia and Canada did assert that manhood
about which Joseph the Screw-maker babbles,
and did proceed to “help themselves,” Joseph
the Screw-maker would want to send an army and
a fleet to bring them to subjection. When Aus-
tralia proposed in a tentative sort of way to found
a navy of its own it was told that such grown-up
doings were intolerable; it should rather sub-
scribe to the British fleet, and get such protection
as Britain chose to give, from such ships as
Britain chose to send, these ships to be officered
from England, and the officers to receive their
orders from a power which might just as well
be the German Emperor for all the voice we have
in the. matter. When Australia wanted to
A s own nigger labor problem, it was
told that. Britain had fixed up a treaty with
Japan which was somewhat in the way. When a
new Governor is wanted, any Polish Jew who is
naturalised in England and has a vote is part of
the machinery which creates him, and the most
eminent Englishman who has settled in Australia
is part of the subject community which is sup-
posed to receive him respectfully and pay him
thankfully. All these things have to be altered
before “the colonies” attain to real manhood and
begin to “ help themselves.” How would Joseph
the bcrew-maker like the altering process? In
fact, the very first item in that process would be


the sacking of J oseph himself. For a free white
PLAIN ENGLISH.
“The Durbar.”
E? S'vlfiShneV'.? 1 d“,^‘
described «d,fn u ~ afc „ Delhi, which is
looked on h^ 633 *^ 81 ! 3 ’ and As,a 13 saicl to have
But Asia is T. utterly staggered frame of mind.
S»iTO SO «! V ! ry old ’ 30 inscrutable and im-
Konein ks^th; 1 att . erly from
for certain - cbat l3 impossible to say
ior certain whether it is really impressed or not
doubt S B atti^ Ol d ltB tW ° thi, .‘ bro^n legs, and no
K fct A tud u 13 r e v erential enough Is Europe
stalks by with the tail of the ostrich in its hit
and gems in its nose, and the bilf for
Asia isAt Sa l,/| n lts f , P° cket . but whether
Asia isn t really scoffing inwardly at tl«
sft ii’ffie-sfr v
Japhit'.thatsis. Til /lives of thJtwo tMeTfow
on side by side, but Europe makes very little pro
gress at really understanding Aria? and Aria
probably as little at understanding Europe
and Europe, at all events, never knows whetD
theDur£r ardly throvv,n ff mud at it or not. Still,
the Durbar was a great spectacle. There was talk
of thrones of gold and howdahs of silver There
were immense rows of elephants-it being impo 8
outrun 0 wd t h H W l l le f hore > was necessary to
put up with the elephant as the most pompous
Ked olit "To 6 ? btainable; T d ea °h of him was
decked out m trappings that would have
bought a year’s victuals for many Indiln
peasant families, and each of him his
nose simultaneously as the pageant went by.
Thousands and thousands of people left any useful
occupation they had to decorate the show by
tottering at Delia on those thin brown legs on
which Asia has never, since the days of Solyman
oou ;; i eT fiCent ’ - jeen u able to bustle fa st enough
to quite keep up in the procession of the nation
° f raJa - hs and other dubious characters
™Jed * he \ r , Provinces a little extra to raise the
S-oveT IST if- *?', 1 ' 6 of „ th ® ff reat compulsory
grovel. And behind it all lies India—a fertile
country, thinly peopled on the whole, for the
mill 1 ch em tp lr ! ‘I 8 i® 33 Population to the square
mile than Switzerland, and yet starving. A cen-
tury of British rule has only resulted in making
famines five times as frequent as they were
under the native princes. The usurer owns the
great mass of the people, body and soul, for
Britain decided that any restriction of him was an
undue interference with the liberty of the subject.
In latter years, since the merciless and ruinous
looting of India by the Company and its ruffians
was suppressed, Britain has meant well by India
but its rule has brought the curse of the absentee
with it, and of all curses that is about the worst.
India s existence is one long struggle to pay
interest on .£212,000,000 of debt, to ply pensions
to retired absentee officials, to pay the exorbitant
interest guaranteed by British officials to British-
owned railway companies, to pav for its huge
army, and to do this almost wholly out of the
miserable profits of agriculture, for it is not
allowed to establish manufactures on a large
scale by Protection as Canada and Victoria
and Maoriland have done. And so the
Durbar is over now or nearly over, and
there remain the memory, and the bill
and the empty bottles, and the cigar-ash,
and the broken victuals, and the viceroy who has
indigestion, and the bilious rajahs who are hasten-
ing back to screw their provinces a little extra to
make up their share of the cost, and the sick
elephant which over-ate itself, and the satiety,
and the weariness, and the wreck of the feather in
Europe s great aggregate plug hat—that hat that
was new and respectable until Europe went to
sleep in the midst of the revels with its head in
the gas jet. And doubtless there remain also the
inevitable divorce proceedings through important
grovellers getting socially mixed up during the
functions—but they will be heard of later.
♦ ■—
The Dirty Footprints of Insinuation.
On 2nd January, Sydney Telegraph interviewed
a newly-arrived captain—Captain Green of the
Eastern and Australian S.S. Co.—and got a
column of copy out of him. As Capt. Green’s
company trades with China, and part of its living
is made out of the conveyance of Chinamen to
these shores, he is probably a biassed witness so
far as alien-exclusion questions go, and as he was
cordially received in Sydney by a Chinese depu-
tation, he was evidently expected to be so. The
.Telegraph headed its article with a shout in
large letters, “Dissatisfaction with the Federal
Government.” This is part of the tale :
The methods of the Federal Government have not es-
capt-d criticism at the other end of the world. “ I met
hundreds of Australians," Captain Greex declares, “and
not one agreed with the manner in which things were
being done. The general remark was to the effect that,
I voted for the bill, but, if I had known that this was
Oto happen, I should have voted against it.’ On
ship X heard an educated Chinaman say that,
thanks to the Federal Government, Australia was now in
the same position as was China 4000 years ago, when the
Chinese built a big wall and kept everything and every-
body out."
The Telegraph is an adept at leaving behind it
the dirty footprint of insinuation without abso-
lutely committing itself in any way. It knows
when nob to say a thing, but when to get a
Chinaman to say the thing for it. The “edu-
cated Chinaman ” —if there was such a person
and if he said what is ascribed to him—was a
ridiculous and malignant slanderer. If the China-
man was educated he certainly knew this himself,
and as oertainly Captain Green knew it, and the
Telegraph knew it. Australia’s gates are open
so wide under the Federal law that 99 out of
every 100 arrivals come in without difficulty. The
Commonwealth, after losing population by excess
of departures for the last three years of the
separate State system, and in various earlier
years as well, has now commenced to gain popu-
lation again by excess of arrivals, and whereas
the last nine years of the State system showed
a net loss of 1022 people by emigration, the
first year of Federation saw a net gain of 1516.
Also the Federal gates are open so wide that
they admit £50,000,000 worth of imports per
annum. Any educated, or uneducated, Chinaman
who compares this vast liberality with the
hermit policy of China in the dim past, or even
with China now, when foreigners are only ad-
mitted at certain ports, and are occasionally fried
by Boxers when they go inland, is a person whose
education hasn’t done nim much good. Of course,
the Chinaman, as a general thing, speaks severely
against the country that has Chinese-exclusion
laws—but the Federal Government didn’t invent
these laws, though the Telegraph is careful no/
in nySSSd A " d 7h he " ‘l'.Chi^'iUke
TelforaphH-h g • ln i- he P rovinc ial days, the
»s d Sh r &,*
that iM»Ko j? d J b >’ lllfere, *ce, doesn’t mention
laws for rh« ba j d ma * e tbe Commonwealth’s
exclusive th fl nM ClUBl ° n of , Asiatic 3 much more
the Bar?on MinfJ T’ and sa X age] y denounced
exclusive fl! ry m beCaUSe the - v ™*en’t more
X ow UB to e -s a v Ar r e ; r , KLM ( ? 06Sn ’ t dare even
admitted ?7l i should be freely
admitted , though, if it isn’t prepared to sav that
Sn oM o??K hedirty °? tprint of insinuation
• „,/ o»e of them complains because his kind
A f f ? r th « alleged “hundreds”
Conduct of th d « A A U f al r rIS ho are ahocked at the
seem to be Government and who
the ‘‘ld b of the sanie P' e °e of cloth as
fuHv l / ated Chmaman,” their identity is care-
inin b dden ’ and wh en a man quotes, apparently
descrintimw f S A aS f rel J ab,e evidence, a Chinaman’s
description of Australia as a place which keens
exDeot e h!7 b ° d A y f an i d everything 1 ” he surely can't
out verv larmf t 0 be , takei } °n any subject with-
thLZTJ J * corroboration. It is a degrading
rung that any Australian paper or person should
become a retailer of the malignant lfes of any real
or lmugmary Chinaman as against its own Golem-
Governmn 6 /’ if 8 a j Can be seen - because that
Government has endeavored to promote Aus-
intoWH U n y< But local F reetrade devices are
intolerably degrading at all times.
— .
The Non-Paying- Railway*.
2”3££Zr? T ? M o Y Bent ann ounces that he
dL™! * g T r bout . doin ff something vague but
£7,7* £Z V‘» tori e ® n °n-paying branch mil
ways. Bast year, 29 of these didn’t even nav
n o H rkl , ng expenses, while 23 showed a profit ovel
and above working expenses, but didn’t fully pay
dW?,V • idea . Beems to lie chiefly in the
the rl^ 0f SaC v klng maintenance men and letting
opens g wA SineSS by °i ieap COntract > whicb
Ime X, R de P ro3 Pect for travellers on the
Bfv'p l * Bulletin reckons that it could tell
Bent how to make many of these unpayable lines
yield a splendid return. As a sample, it takes
the following group of railways:
Miles. Railways. Loss.
Ararat to Portland .. ill/ 187
32 Branxholme to Casterton ” 8,554
62 Hamilton to Koroit ~ . 5415
lli Koroit to Port Fairy .. .. 4539
90* Dunkeld to Penshurst (shut) .! l’ooo
Hamilton to Coloraine .. .. 4,562
mi 256 .. , £39,857
1 hese railways form a group which is supposed to
serve five counties-Follett, Normanby, P D U nda!s,
Ripon, and Vilhers. They traverse four of these
counties and touch on the fifth. The five counties
1f 6 th U I ? r th .®. fertde and well-watered region south
of the Dividing Range. They have an area of
8040 square miles, and a population of 58,128
nearly half of it in four towns. Roughly
speaking, there are seven people to each
vi I ,p of . .country, and a portion of
this decidedly thin population is served by
a cheap steamboat line. It is the land of cows and
huge estates and grass and great spaces and blank
wilderness. If the Irvine-Bent-Shiels Govern-
ment would pass the necessary law, and compul-
S °!a. y J? sume at a fair value—not a swindle value
the big estates 111 the five counties above men-
tioned, and re-sell them, or lease them at a
moderate rent, to the farmers who are hungering
for land and leaving Victoria in search of it
there might easily be 200,000 people in these five
counties, and with nearly four times as many
people as at present to patronise the railways they
would pay. The same logic applies to very many
other lines—in fact to most of them. But the big
™®P a u d cow raisers won’t sell voluntarily.
While they won’t sell population must remain
thin. And no expensively-built railway is likely
to pay where there are only seven people to the
square mile—not even if T. Bent howls from now
till the Day of Judgment and sacks everybody.
The Sunday Banana.
N.S.W. Parliament concluded its 1902 season
without laying to rest the vexed question of the
buuday banana, and that fruit is still a trap to the
feet of the unwary and a cause of backsliding to
the law. Premier See promised legislation on the
subject during last session ; but he also promised
to build a hospital for consumptives and many
other things, which he forgot in the flurry of
rushing to the pawnshop for another little ad vance.
Now that Parliament is gone into recess, the
Cl u y and sub urban fruit and hop-beer seller,
who had taken advantage of the hot weather
to timidly re-open his front door on Sundays, at
first “just for fresh air,” afterwards for supplying
drink to the thirsty, is being harassed again by
the law. Several police-court cases for selling
fruit on Sundays are reported in the Sydney
dailies side by side with a Baptist minister’s
protest against a member of the Commonwealth
Cabinet announcing that he intends “ to clear up
his arrears of work on Sunday.” In that coinci-
dence is shown the shocking hypocrisy of the
Government and of its clerical backers on the
Sunday Labor and Sunday selling question. The
Government is itself the greatest offender against
the Christian-Jewish observance of the Lord’s
Day, selling train and tram tickets and re-
freshments at the railway stations ; keeping at
work postal officers and various transit workers ;
organising special excursions to fishing and hunt-
ing resorts for the good of its revenue; while it
persecutes the miserable small offenders against a
Calvinist Sunday—the people who supply a real
public want by providing cool temperance drinks
and fruit. The vendors of intoxicating liquors
have very little interference with their trade on
Sunday, being rich and powerful and well organ-
ised. The Government having—as it professes to
believe—offended God by running trams and
trains on Sunday, seeks to propitiate Him by
kicking the smallest dog available—the smallest
and most toothless dog. It is a miserably mean
business, the cruelty of this invidious malad-
ministration of the law being equalled by its
hypocrisy. Nothing could be better calculated to
make the average citizen look upon the Law, from
its policeman up to its puisne Judge and its Pre-
mier, with whole-souled hearty contempt; and
that is not a healthy feeling to nourish in a
community.
+.
The Excluded-Hatter Myth.
Almost every day now one may meet with this
or some similar sneaking little jibe in Sydney
Telegraph—which, being no longer allowed to
cadge on the country for free postage, is just now
in an unusual state of irritation
But the Federal Act does not exclude colored aliens at
rigorously as it does British hatters, «c., 4c.
Would the mendacious Telegraph kindly explain
when, where and how any single British hatter
was excluded from Australia under the Federal
Act. Nothing of the kind ever happened,
ihere was certainly a case in which
the landing of certain British hatters was
delayed until the kiss who had imported them
under contract climbed down from his pede-
stal and condescended to show that they were
lawfully imported—imported according to the
erms and conditions of a legal proviso, which the
IKLEGRAPH cordially approved of when it was
passed. But no British hatters have been ex-
cluded under any law passed by the Australian
Parliament. Probably enough, if the Telegraph
keeps plugging away with a dull, incessant,
parrot-like repetition of the lie about “ the ex-
clusion of British hatters ” it will at last create in
the public mind a dim idea that certain suffering
martyrs who made hats were sent back or thrown
overboard. A great deal can be done by mere
sodden repetition. The “Dibbs deficit” myth was
thus created. So was the theory that M'Millan’s
tarm, which heavily protected most of N.S.W.’s
leading industries, was a Freetrade tariff. The
excluded-hatter myth is now in course of con-
struction and though it probably will never equal
the other two for the Telegraph’s reputation has
begun to smell too loudly of late years, no effort
is being spared in the matter.
♦
The Victorian Railway Situation.
The Victorian railway employees, finding it, as
they aver impossible to get the real facts about
their position published in the daily papers of that
btate, appeal to The Bulletin to publish the
following statement as to their grievances—
grievances which, they contend, “make a strike
almost inevitable ”:—
Mr. Thomas Bent is fast precipitating a crisis in Vic-
fhp't 7 h a h W u be f A ar more disastrous to the people than
the ate drought As Munster of Railways his actions are
so unjust, insulting, and tyrannical that the 11,000 em-
affected by them are being left with a strike as
grievances methoCl °* ohtainin £ redress for intolerable
Mr. Bent’s first step was to impose percentage reduc-
tions, which were so unexpected that some of the
employees made angry protests, and injudicious
remarks about striking were then heard. On realis-
ing the facts of the deficit, however, the men
saw the necessity of a sacrifice, and fell into
line in the matter. At that time Mr. Bent
at an interview with the employees, at which he shed
some crocodile tears, practically promised the staff that
even the percentage reductions would not be for long
His attitude soon changed. When, at the general elec-
tions, the Irvine Ministry was returned to power with a
large and servile majority, Mr. Bent at once entered upon
a crusade of vengeance against the men. Not content
with the stoppage of long-deferred increments and the
percentage reductions, he began to override the Acting-
Commissioner in the most extraordinary and illegal
manner. A peremptory ukase was issued by him that
the wages-sheet for the current year should be
reduced by £lOO,OOO. He was informed that this
could only be done by dismissing 1300 employees
or making thousands of the men work six davs a week for
five days’ pay. The latter alternative was adopted with
the wages men. Then Mr. Bent attacked the salaried
men who are forced to lose half-a-day’s pay weekly If
the department were over-manned there might be some
justification for this course, but in 99 cases out of 100 the
staff is working at high pressure. Men who are forced to
lose half-a-day s pay weekly are trying to keep pace with
their duties by laboring at night, and even on Sunday
for nothing. Wages men are either having the day per
week credited to them to take off as holidays (when the
Greek Kalends arrive !), or they are put off, to the detri-
public mainlenance and the danger of the travelling
The whole system is monstrously unjust and tyranni-
To rub it in, the percentage reductions are taken
off the sum lost by the compulsory “ holiday ” An
employee receiving in wages £156 a year loses £26 in the
course of the 12 months by the stoppage of the day’s pay
per week. He only actually receives £l3O, but the per-
centage is imposed on £156. The system is, in short, one
or defrauding laborers of their wages—one of the deadly
sins which cries aloud to heaven for vengeance.
Nor is that all. The privilege tickets at reduced fares
granted to employees for riding to and from work, were
stopped, and annual holidays were reduced by one-half
Not only were real hardships and galling injustices
inflicted, but they were attended by the grossest
insults. Mr. Bent publicly stigmatised the employees as
loafers and “conspirators.” He has afflicted the ser-
vice with spies. In short he has made the service so in-
tolerable that a strike is within measurable distance.
» ■
A Westralian Land Syndicate.
The We3tralian Government has had some
dealings with an English syndicate and has,
it would seem, fallen in horribly—as usual.
One of Westralia’s woes is the poison plant’.
On land infested with this vegetable it is
the custom to grant leases for 21 years at
£1 annually per 1000 acres, on condition that
the land is fenced, and that the poison plant
is wholly eradicated three years before the expira-
tion of the lease, and has been kept eradicated. If
these things are done the lessee gets a freehold
grant of the land. In 1885 a London syndicate
took up 545,000 acres under these conditions, of
which area some 108,391 acres were afterwards in-
cluded in the catchment area for the Coolgardie
water supply. Then it sat down and did
nothing, after the manner of such syndicates. Its
lease was to expire in 1906, therefore, the syndi-
cate having done nothing since 1885, all the
poison-plant required to be extirpated this year.
If in 1906 the ground hadn’t been absolutely clean
for three years the lease was forfeited. And as it
is practically impossible to eradicate the exceed-
ingly tough poison plant in the small space of
time remaining the syndicate’s leases were lost in
any case that much is about as certain as any-
thing in this world can be. The syndicate had
merely blocked settlement and progress for a long
term of years, wholly neglected the conditions of
its lease, and been a nuisance by allowing its land
to be a preserve for the spread of noxious vegeta-
tion. But the syndicate, instead of giving up the
ghost about 1901 or 1902, did a brilliant flank
movement. It stated that it had intended
to go in for pig-rearing on an immense
scale on the 168,391 acres of its nearly-expired
lease which were included in the goldfields
Water-supply catchment area—which was a very
brilliant flank movement indeed, for, as it had let
things slide for so many years that it couldn’t
possibly eradicate all the poison plant on this area
by 1903 and thus qualify to get the freehold of the
land, it hadn t the ghost of a chance, under the
terms of its agreement, to have any land there to
rear pigs on. Then it pointed out that regulations
had been made against keeping stock on the catch-
ment area, for fear of polluting the water, where-
fore it would be a great loser by not being allowed
to keep its alleged pigs on the land which, it was
now practically certain, it would never have any
permanent legal right to. And it asked for
compensation. The situation was so obvious that
the Government should have had no difficulty at
all. It should simply have informed the syndicate
that if it managed to eradicate the poison
plant by 1903, and thereby got its freehold,
it would either be allowed to keep all the
hogs it desired on the catchment area, or would
be fully compensated for the loss of its freehold
and its hogs. As it was practically certain there
could never be any freehold or any hogs the offer
was perfectly safe. Instead of which the W.A.
Government has given the syndicate unconditiou*
win w!tir!fu l(l^ 80met { ,ing ,ike 100,000 acres of
well-watered land in another district as compensa-
a the 033 ° f a lease whic h was already lost
of condUio a n“ atte / ° f Certa i nty . non-fulfilment
ot conditions, and as satisfaction for the alles-ed
hogs w hlch w to bQ 0Q th J
£i?»‘ >o t 'hT„ p, r t ,J ou ™ hea ° n **« *Xw,
itSml th, .SS' 1 ,° ‘ "??• Ind1 nd lhe syndicate is
spared the cost of eradicating it. The whole
transaction is a beautiful essay on the ways of
English syndicates, and the' way AuSian
Governments always fall in when they have
dealings with English syndicates.
-<►
?eaf” : trUthful and pointed remarks, by “Gum-
svv^%i C n C fc t mi 8 e C rly m fat r mri th th h t e I°' the
bulging waistcoat in a rnth ? that near] y burst its
Hb“ °i *£“»:, i.X-Sxs "“if*
rateVofduty o^the'larger est'f t 0 the
lords rose in their fatness—that 48 K ', ch Land '
] We ' l , in s
the frequency with whi?h h t £ u * um P.reposals. From
the education vote coTiws from down
one might fairly infer Thai »w h , Le ? lslatlve Council,
were jealous of the instruction thaVft? representatives
tion is getting a„d Z t " that tl ? e .younger genera-
te future in£hit an tO Of vOctm ° f keepin S
level of education. Emblino one n? ih the ! r ° wr ) low
Conservatives in a Hn,,l Vu of^, th ? mos t obstinate
gested that tOe oOvemment sh^mH T °T’ a^ ual, - v SU K'
pensioners’ dole if h wanted to c d re duce the old a ? e
ing the estates of weaTthy peopfe I?%' ° f taX '
Bill for an hour or -i i After discussing the
Councillors to debate anything for more th short - wlnded
a time—the Council adjourned thl 9O “ >°h *eh *
Government thaVthTJ^ 66 - ULs estimated "by‘the
the “try! delay means a loss of £lO,OOO to
les? 11 The splfiV hank ¥ aven - isn,t hope-
less. Ihe selfishness and unpatriotic greed of the
House of Landlords will yet drive thf peoplo to
rsatr House ° f r “ rwdSwS
a graduated land tax going up to 6d in the 4? if it
t W ax ntS anY nd and a net probate
tax, an d another income-tax, and anything
else it pleases. If the House of Landlords becomes
too incompetent and loathsome a time
Fed’eraT'Min'Srv f h ® people ' vill a PPeal to the
federal Ministry to impose direct taxation and
hand oyer the money to the State-to S as the
fords tfn h eCt °h - m f aCt - Then the 48 Rich Land -
ore s will be subjects instead of rulers— subjects
with no more voice in the matter than 48 five
shilling shopboys. Victoria stood its House of
Landlords very patiently when there wm „o
appeal from it. Now there is an appeal as soon
as the people get angry enough to use it • an
appeal to a Legislature elected by pure adult
suffrage, and which has power enouglf to stamp
the wafl d °The d| d their remaina over
thfsyet.' Th Landlords apparently don’t realise
■+
“Kiwi ” writes on the Maoriland Beer problem
Now that the smoke has cleared somewhat after the
much. To the we undoubtedly 8 ovveVur
present licensing law under whieh °'Y e °V r
“o? if"" 1 * 1 « t fh. t sl , ;,”K'r„ b s
ste? ,s.^r,Tj
Licensing Act'of iaq-' r P °°, r ’ h tools The
and “t i fe H B” ° h eXpress 'y prohibits “tied” houses,
anu mattes tied house contracts illeo-nl
Hii gspaas
Hie publican continues to take beer/, onlhlmilewlfll
“eS3 '*?, r S ? h nd “It? '**"«•” fS Xtu*^
remitting in their crusade, and they have undoubtedly
influenced many people bv mihlishin™ y
broadcast pamphlets and leaflets showing the effects ofthe
traffic Some of these are powerfully Written and welb
calculated to influencea large proportion of the electorate
tion g the , younger people, and a large propor-
tion of these are being enrolled for each election P Of
No U License bm, r th£ ir - eS ° t f hree - fl / thB ma J'°rity to
~ , e n se, but this is not a real disadvantage to the
pros because once No License is carried it requires
to l°th V fT J*?® Verdict - Hence the
wherever h° v,L No .L'cense will be retained
wnerever it has been carried. It has now heen
adopted in six constituencies, for the licensing dis-
tncts are co-terminous with the electoral districts •
and 31 out of the 80 districts in the State have voted No-
L,cense hy a majority. No wonder, indeed that the
brewers are alarmed. Instead of the battle being between
prohibitionists and thousands of publicans, as of obi it is
r ow Jurgely a contest bet ween the friends of clean goverm
mentandan unscrupulous coterie of brewers A State
liquor-monopoly, or a Fair-rent law for publicans might
weaken the prohibition cause ; otherwise No L cense
will certainly be adopted throughout the entire State ere
many years and even the next poll may see the aim of
the prohibitionists realised to the full.
-+
L, V wl da {. the b ne > npioyed question looms larger
!u p , ra ' a a T [ le place where the unemployed of
J r Ste u n b f fca 4 es us . ed to because it was the
Vnlo^ and | ° f P . r ,° m ' Se : KaJgoorlie Chamber of
Mines reckons that there are 2000 fewer men
employed on that field than there were two
months ago Reclamations at Fremantle have
been started by way of relief work. The Govern-
ment now gives the coastal unemployed free rail-
way passes to take them to the goldfields ; it has
qnnn l forlva^ d as a ser | ous estimate that there
are 8000 unemployed on the coast and 3000 on the
goldfields, so it seems like transferring the men
from one gridiron to another, but the Government
is on the coast, and it doesn’t want the unem-
ployed clamoring at its door-it prefers that
they should clamor at other people’s doors
300 miles away The Goldfields-Esperance
railway is talked of again, but now it is
put forward in great measure as a blessed
scheme which will ‘ afford employment.” (It is
suggested, by the way, that it should be built on
the mono rail principle—the first mono-rail line in
Australasia—so that trains might do the journey
in about two hours.) All this was only to be
expected. lhe Government is borrowing nearly
as much as ever, but the loan which made a boom
when scattered among 100,000 people doesn’t make
a boom when scattered among 200,000. And
though the gold output (the profits of which
mostly go to England) is increasing, employment
on the goldfields is diminishing through the


The EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
of the United States.
FINANCIAL STATEMENT
FOR YEAR ENDING 31sr DECEMBER, 1901.
ASSETS
INCREASE IN ASSETS
SURPLUS ..
INCREASE IN SURPLUS
ASSURANCE IN FORCE
INCREASE IN ASSURANCE IN FORCE ..
THE NEW BUSINESS EXCEEDED THAT OF 1900 bt ...
£68,966,608
£5,508,678
£14,797,717
£1,039,973
£245,682,651
£13,000,350
£8,088,718
Sir WM. M'MILLAN, K.C.M.G., Chairman; Hon. C. K. MACKELLAR MB MLO ■
F. NORTON MANNING, Esq., M.D. ’ *
C. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia.
F. 0. CWLEI, 3«or«mr>
S. W. D’AROY IRVINE, F.S.S.,
Manage ter N,a,W, and Quwulana
SAWMILL MACHINERY.
Single and Double Cutting BAND MILLS tor
hardwood logs, CIRCULAR SAW MILI s n ‘
p.et. o**. op „ lty A
Engines and Boilers. ’
WILLIAM FLEMING
24 •TR..T, *Y OH Vv'*’
Sydney Worker Newspaper hereby re-
tr acts the following statement published in a
cent issue : “ The notorious Jack Drayton wrote
inat W. A. article on which the Parker charge of
blacJtmail was founded.” The statement was
itrue, and on behalf of the Sydney Worker I
hereby apologise.
GEORGE BLACK,
Editor, Sydney Wobkkb.
abandonment of wild cats. An amazing amount
of labor has been employed on cats, but even the
most persevering body of shareholders throws its
cat overboard at last.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Lyceum .. “ Breaking of the Drought.’’
Royal '* The Thirty Thieves.”
Criterion “Cinderella.”
Tivoli Rickards’Co.
Palace “Paul Jones.”
Centenary Hall, York-st Jubilee Singers.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
J“ A Country Mouse.”and
rRiNCESS s \ “A Pantomime Rehearsal
Her Majesty’s “ Dick Whittington.”
Theatre Royal “ The Power and the Glory.”
Opera House. Rickard’s Vaudeville Co.
Athenjeum Hall British Biograph.
♦
The “ Thirty Thieves” have stolen nothing
extra at Sydney Royal since last reported upon,
but they have pursued the even tenor of their old
embezzlement with, all things considered, very
good results. The public is beginning to drop to
one definitely good point about Musgrove’s
comedy—or whatever it should be called. It is
profoundly disrespectful to the Lord Mayor. It
represents him as a bumptuous mercantile fraud, a
Podsnap and a bounder, a person with a foot-
man’s whiskers and a Legislative Council stomach,
with a wild cat in each pocket, and a swindle
and a fraudulent prospectus hidden down his
back. On first night, The Bulletin didn’t fully
realisethatthe “Thirty Thieves” wasagreat moral
play as well as a glittering spectacle, and that the
playwright aimed at elevating the rising genera-
tion by teaching it to be disrespectful to Lord
Mayors; so possibly it did the play less than full
justice. Sydney may just now have an excep-
tional Lord Mayor, but it will have plenty by-
and-bye that will deserve all the disrespect it has
about it, so it may as well get a disrespectful atti-
tude ready against the time when it will be
wanted. Therefore, the public is hereby urged,
with a sudden revulsion of feeling, to go unani-
mously to the “ Thirty Thieves,” and to go often,
and study Henry Hallam’s gaud mayor in all his
pomp and ignominy.
** * *
“ The Breaking of the Drought ” continues
to meet with large approval at Sydney Lyceum ;
the ’possum that coils round Bland Holt’s neck
and the two crows that dine on the deceased pro-
perty horse being in some degree responsible for
this. Local color is well laid on, from Act 1.,
when the curtain rises on Squatter Gallaway
reading this disreputable red paper, to Act
IV., when the Drought breaks suddenly,
and everybody’s honor is restored at Mos-
man’s Bay. The squatter’s aged wife con-
tinues to make so much money by giving away
coffee at Paddy’s Market as to get all her family
superior accommodation with a water frontage at
the Bay aforesaid. Arthur Styan, as the squatter of
many tribulations, is a specially interesting study;
and the scene where Miss Frances Ross enacts
a good girl, trying to seem a bad one for honor-
able reason-*, is quite above the usual melodramatic
level. The ladies of small reputation who give a
graceful dance at what is gently alluded to as a
Fashionable Flat in Sydney, may be commended
for excellent costuming. The audience is thrilled
hereabouts by allusions to Sydney as a city of
terrible and beautiful temptations and much
romance. The average Sydneyite has usually
regarded it as a place where he is liable to be run
oyer by tram-cars at any moment, and its really
high-class sins are not so well known as might be
expected.
** * *
The Sheridan panto, at Sydney Criterion
has proved a draw even with the children, and the
frequent bump of small Jimmy as he falis down
the dress-circle steps at matinees is a sound of
p easantness to the company all round. The
ballets are a refreshing feature, and the harle-
quinade is as endurable as such performances
generally are. The long bony sister and the little
fat sister are to continue being rude to Cinderella
till further orders, and little Tim Howard, who is
a nice page, calculated to bring discredit on any
toney family, will probably gambol round the
large kitchen of Pinchgut Castle for a considerable
period yet.
** * *
The F sk Jubilee Singers, now appearing
at Sydney Centenary Hall, have a number of
points about them. There is a quaint sort of
humor in their coon choruses, the music is
catchy and taking to the ear, and there is
a sort of spiritual democracy which is very
charming. St. Peter, Archangel Michael, and
other superior persons in the Heavenly Host are
addressed with a tuneful familiarity as brothers.
When Brother Michael is requested to hand
down that rope one almost expects to see the
end descend, waving gently to the tune. The
Salvarmy tried to go on the same line, but the
innate larrikinism of that institution spoilt the
effort. The Salvarmy became contemptuous.
Where the Jubilee Singers creates an im-
pression of respectful equality by addressing
the archangels as Brother, the Salvarmy made
itself disliked by talking of “Jack the Baptist.”
«* * *
“ Dorothy,” at the Sydney Palace, is one
of the few shows which is bearing up against the
hot weather and attracting big audiences. It will
be withdrawn this Saturday (Jan. 10), long before
its charm is exhausted, to give place to “Paul
Jones,” an opera which has not been heard in
Sydney for seven years, and which finds a place
for Carrie Moore. For these reasons, and others,
“ Paul Jones ” promises to have as warm a greet-
ing as “Dorothy.”
A new sample of the comedietta which is
becoming a favorite feature of variety shows is now
presented at the Tivoli by Miss Gracie Einmett
and co. It is inconclusive and over-farcical in
spots, but bright withal and very well presented.
Miss Einmett is the familiar Irish widow who has
married again in a bright green dress and a mood
of voluble confidence tinged with duplicity ; and
with her curious sample of a second husband
(played in the broadest spirit of farce by Le Roy
Wimmer) and her very attractive married
daughter (which is Miss Frances Gray, and she
is a Bright Spot) makes much fun. There is some
new American slang in the piece: a man of not
much account is “ not such a much.” Other
attractive features of the Tivoli are Marion
Meekla’s Juvenile Co., The Lamonts’ performing
dogs, and ventriloquist Winton, who is, however,
getting a bit too stale to be a draw. There are
some singularly unattractive features, but in a
New Year spirit of charity they won’t be men-
tioned this week.
*# « *
At Her Majesty’s (Melb.), the passable
panto of “ Dick Whittington ” supplies an annual
demand for something of that sort. The supply
doesn’t exceed the demand as regards gorgeous-
ness and extras. In fact, it isn’t the Grand Com-
bination Panto, of Melbourne's dream, but it will
do —for the present. Miss Rose Hamilton, who
was unable to appear on the first night, has taken
over the Dick part from Miss Thornton, and the
arrival of Rose upon the scene makes a welcome
difference, because she knows the business of a
principal boy thoroughly. Also, Miss T. is now
shining as an intelligent incidental fairy instead
of another girl, who was less impressive, so the
performance has gained a trifle in two places.
Otherwise, it remains exactly the same long-drawn-
out variety show as at first.
* * • *
The company, i.e., the principals, are few,
but their “turns” are many. The third act
introduces sundry irrelevant and absurdly in-
congruous items by Barney Fagan and Henrietta
Byron. Everything they do is a weak variation
of something they did more effectively at
Rickards’s a few months ago. Henrietta’s new
Dutch song is a poor substitute for the original
specimen; moreover her voice seems to have
diminished since she inclined her toes together at
the Opera House, and what passed for sprightli-
ness at the other theatre (where the stage lies afar
off) looks very like hard work when it comes
under closer observation. In her proper panto,
capacity of Alderman Fitzwarren’s daughter, the
aforesaid Henrietta sports a pair of socks and
plays the youthful frisker without the least regard
for the sentiment of the Whittington legend.
Matters would be improved by putting the
substantial damsel into stockings and longer
dresses, and desiring her to act accordingly. For
the rest Edward Lewis and the Bovis Brothers
would bear a little editing, although their work is
smart enough as a rule, and the pretty Buttercups
and Daisies Ballet would be all the prettier if the
painted hayfield didn’t have a pasteboard door in
it. The entrance and exit of a small ballerina
through a doorway in the middle of a paddock is
paiufully inartistic.
** * *
The Lazarusian lady who restores herself
to life in a village church, likewise the blind
cheeild, and the limp villain and the iniquitous
funny man are babbling along regardless of con-
sequences at Melb. Royal. One day, perhaps, the
Australian Government will appoint a Commission
to inquire into the alarming success of “The
Power and the Glory,” and explain what it all
means. Is the white matron on the coffin-lid an
accepted joke in Andersouian circles, or does she
rank as a legitimate drama apparition like the
ghost of Hamlet’s father? Out of respect
for the Commonwealth, this journal prefers
to think that audiences at the Royal re-
fard the solemn British inanity of “The
'. and the G.” with a roguish eye, and make
haste to laugh at the comic scenes lest they (the
audiences) should burst into tears. 1 here’s a good
deal of infant prayer and a strong odour of fried-
fish shop in Anderson’s latest, but neither of these
specialities is quite so full of human interest as
the haughty countess’s allusions to the great gulf
which divides the Classes from the Masses.
Though she struggles hard to maintain her family
pride, the haughty female eventually permits her
son to marry a fried-fish fairy, and then the
Masses and the Classes join hands across the great
gulf.
*# * *
Business is bright at the Princess’s, where
the moral and mental failings of Britain’s old
nooility are adequately set forth by Musgrove’s
double bill. “ A Country Mouse ”is a farcical,
cynical comedy with no good people in it, except
an aged butler (Harry Hill), and the butler’s virtue
doesn’t extend beyond a conscientious objection
to ping-pong on Sundays. Bowlby, M.P., the
butler’s employer, is apparently a dull, respect-
able person, but he is mostly not at home,
and when the middle-aged husband of a
giddy Lady Sylvia comes to feel like a
stranger within his own gates he presumably
seeks consolation from a little milliner, or a toy-
shop girl, or somebody in the suburbs. In one of
H. A. Jones’s comedies even the Chancellor of
the Exchequer stooped to a secret predilection for
a toy-shop girl. Such accidents are common to
members of Parliament. Leaving Bowlby and
the bucler out of consideration the plot of “ A
Country Mouse ” seems rather sweet in its sinful
simplicity. All the men in turn gaze tenderly at
Nellie Stewart and tell her that her society makes
them fell better than they ever felt before, conse-
quently the crafty innocent threatens to be a thorn
in the flesh of the female aristocracy, until she
puts everything right by capturing the wicked old
duke, who proposes to devote his declining years
to the task of keeping the other Johnnies off the
fresh young grass. Then the other ladies resume
friendly relations with their respective
pondents, and all is well. The hrst actof
Country Mouse” is the least sprightly of the three,
alsoß is the one in which Nellie. Stewart looks
less nice than usual. Her lank pinafore ro .
whatever its professional name is, doesn t become
her very well, and her blonde wig is too thick on
the top of her head. It give her the appearance
of an ordinary Marguerite in Italian opera.
The afterpiece, “ A Pantomime Rehear-
sal,” improves on acquaintance. The awful
scenery painted by dear Sir Chawles, harmonises
with the general imbecility of the exalted person-
ages concerned in the rehearsal. It is a wen-
turned bit of extravaganza, rather than satire, it
the company at the Princess’s made it more
satirical and less extravagant the joke would
probably fall flat. Even as it is the one little
cerulean satire escapes Me'bourne observation
every time. When Lady Muriel refuses to be
corrected in her line about “ the early cow, the
audience misses a chance to laugh.
** * *
The newest “ turn ” at Melbourne Opera
House is contributed by George Towns and
Harry Pearce, who scull a dry, but not a dusty,
contest for the Rickards champion belt and a
salary of sovereigns. The patent home-trainer
rowing-machine is an interesting subject for.®'!'
stout students of stumimck-reduction, whilst
Towns is the actual visible embodiment of a
“world’s champion,” so the two combined form
an attractive spectacle when in motion. Hunter,
the story-teller, likewise Brownlow, the Har-
becks, Spry, &c., are proceeding as before, and
somebody else will appear with immense enthu-
siasm on Saturday next.
** * #
On Saturday next, too, the British-Bio-
graph, flanked by conjuror Clive O’Hara, will
resume its comparatively flickerless career at the
Athenaeum Hall. Meanwhile, a rather fine dis-
play of British oil-paintings has been shifted from
the Exhibition-building to the Vic. Artists’
Rooms for inspection by every advanced citizen
who can afford the harmless necessary shilling.
** * *
The Circus has departed from Melbourne,
and the permanent zinc structure near Princess’s
Bridge knows it no more. The other morning
Dan Fitzgerald packed up the elephant and its
trunk and all the other belongings of the Circus
and went away somewhere, leaving word that the
Brethren would reappear in Sydney at Easter,
with a new company of imported astonishments.
sif * * *
At Adelaide Royal, Alfred Dampier ran
“The Bush King” through a singularly cool
holiday season. It contains one particularly
strong scene for himself, but “ His Natural Life,”
which has replaced it, contains several. A.D. has
told a local interviewer that there is a big future
for the purely local drama when someone shall
arise to write it. In Fitzgeralds’ Circus, Pagel
toys no more with a discouraged lion, the whole
show having gone West; but Cinquevalli is still
filling the Tivoli.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Revenue returns for December, 1902, so far as
information is available, with the usual doubt about
W.A., owing to the telegraph man’s habit of mixing up
State and Federal revenue : *
Revenue, Increase as com-
December, pared with
„ a 19(J2 - December, 1901.
New South Wales .. £991,172 .. £50,994
Westralia .. ... 333,090 .. 43,161
Victoria .. .. 578,506 .. 37,109
Tasmania .. ... 74,236 .. 871
_ , . Decrease.
Queensland .. .. 318,988 .. 104,113
In Queensland the railway revenue shows a small decline
which is more than made good by the increase in land
revenue and returns from dividend duty. But there is a
rece‘ khat vague item called 11 miscellaneous
So far as the financial year has gone, and sub-
ject to some small corrections which may be made later
° n ’ , W n en the accounts of one or two States are more
carefully audited, things are as follows (in the case of
Westralia there is the usual trouble in making the tele-
graphed figures for December fit in with the Statistician’s
printed return up to November, so only five months’
figures are here given) s
Increase com-
Revenue pared with
1902. corresponding
period of 1901.
New South Wales (i-year) .. 5,364,602 261*709
Westralia (5 months to 31/11/>O2) 1,592,240 lto.sn
South Australia«-year).. .. 1,062,624
Tasmania (year) 734,446 91 717
Victoria (i-year) .. ..3,296,770 128 864
Queensland (J-year) ; . .. 1,806,784
The expenditure returns of South Australia are
only known up to 30th September, and those fo
ralia to 30th November. N.S.W. and OopenuinnH* ’ VeBt "
to date. \ ictoria and Tasmania, after their usual slovenly
and nefarious habit, supply no expenditure information
Expendi-
Westralia (to November) £R592,240 £1,446d553 £145^587
Brwa D bS mber,i ®a
NdS.W. (to December) 5,364,602 6,070,21 706 *96
lai;VL\rronths, a lnd o etf aCCUmu ’
still to come in it wifi requhe aW
in addition, there is £118,147 of exDendii-.ir Q U £‘- And ’
pense ” and not brought into theaccounts ifVi". 8 - 3 '
Ai Uded U ‘ e fl deficit for the half-year is £894
Also, a deficit of £236 781 bmnirht *-824,443.
last year is supposed to be paid n ff ht, f h - forward from
purely State revenue (railways land**^ 8 jear .„ A The
less for the half-year just closed'than fnr iv, Was 2 ®9,975
ing half of 1901, and if the Federal <r,°rre^>o"d-
-an increase of £471,684, it is difficult to estima^wha?
size of a hole N.S.W. would hwr* beta la. The pMtMd
hole is large enough.
The deficits and surpluses shown above com-
pare with those of corresponding dates last year as
follows: —
1901. 1902. Improve*
Deficit. Deficit. ment.
S.A. (to 30/9/’O2) .. £115,915 £81,014 £31,901
Surplus. Surplus.
W.A. (to 30/11/’O2) .. 115,091 145,587 30,496
Deficit. Deficit. Det jerio*'-
ation.
Queensland (to date) .. 49,874 67,737 7,863
N.S.W. (to date) .. 640,156 706,296 166,140
Again N.S.W. shows up in a most remarkable fashion.
The only other item of importance is loan
expenditure, which is known as regards two States only :
Loan Expenditure.
£-Year to Year to
December, December,
1901. 1902. Decrease.
Queensland £609,658 £483,628 £126,030
Increase.
N. S. Wales 1,826,072 2,786,316 960,243
All along the line N.S.W. has every possible reason to be
proud of its See-Owe’Sullivan Government—not because
it is doing well, but because when any person or
institution decides to be an incompetent ass it is as well
to be a really memorable ass while it is on the job.
These (ye gods !) are some of the items to be
provided for out of loans in N.S.W. this year on the
ground that they are permanent and reproductive
Hospitals •• £22,000
Asylums for Infirm and Destitute ~ 20,000
Inebriates’Home .. .. .. ** 6,000
Fire Brigade Stations .. .. .. 26,000
Machinery for Govt. Printing Office .. 8,000
Prison works 6,000
Rabbit fencing «• 11,000
Court-house and police premises » 7,000
Law Offices, Art Gallery, Library „ 10,500
Bridges .. .... .. .. 42,425
Dredging, Snagging Rivers, &c. «. 189,900
Schools 76,000
Agricultural Colleges and Farms ... 25,000
£445,825
All these are doubtless necessary, but that doesn’t justify
putting them into loan charges and calling them repro-
ductive. It is just as fair to charge a prisoner’s victuals
to loans as it is to charge his accommodation ; or to pay
for a bobby's wages out of loans as his accommodation ;
or to pay for the teacher out of loans as to pay for the
place he teaches in. And John See has the gall to
describe, in effect, any complaint against these disgrace-
ful proceedings as a “ fouling of our own nest.” It isn’t
our nest now ; it is Cohen’s.
Some of the small details of the N.S.W. loan
votes are very beautiful: —“ Water supply : Erection of
new buildings, Bs. 3d. ; ferry punts, Woodburn, 2s. 6d. ;
Clarke and Shark Island jetties, £1 18s. lid. ; water sup-
plies at Smithfield, Liverpool, Camden, Campbelltown,
and Richmond, 10s. ; storm-water sewer, Rockdale
Creek, 14s. ; sewerage works generally, £1 3s. ; new
launch for the Lunacy Department, £1 17s. Bd.” When
half-a-cruwn can’t be raised from the revenue cash-box,
but has to come from a loan vote, N.S.W. seems to be
getting down to the position of the financial derelict vvho
pawns his shirt.
And in addition to all this there is an immense
mass of works that are almost equally unjustifiable. The
charging to loans of new wharves, railway stations,
grades and curves, sheds, and buildings of various kinds
which merely replace old ones that were never paid for,
is a putting of two mortgages, each of the full value of
the security, on to the one asset. And when a private
person mortgages the same lot of furniture to two Jews
he is put in jail—into an unpaid-for, permanent and re-
productive jail.
* • •* *
Manufacturing, comparatively 'little as it is
regarded by the press, which is accustomed to speak of
our “ magnificent natural resources,” and to decry
“artificial industries,” is now the boss industry of the
Commonwealth. Here is Mr. Coghlan’s estimate of the
value of the production of this country’s various branches
of industry during 1901
Manufactures £27,191,000
Pastoral Industries 27,150,000
Agriculture 23,835,000
Mining of all kinds 22,016,090
Dairying, Poultry and Bee-farming .. 9,740,000
Forestry and Fisheries 2,772,000
There are several good reasons why the best present hope
for Australia’s future lies in the extension of manufac-
turing. It is the most drought-proof of our
great industries—even more so than mining, which in
many districts is alarmingly hampered by want of
water ; manufactures can, to a great extent, be placed
where there is permanent water, while mining must
be carried on in any desert where the mineral
happens to be. It is permanent as well as almost
drought proof, while mining isn’t permanent. And it is
the only great industry which combines these two great
qualities ; we can expand it to an enormous extent, just
as we please (unlike gold-mining, which depends on the
luck of finding gold), and at the same time we can greatly
expand it and yet feel sure of a market for the product.
We may expand wheat-growing, wool-growing, meat pro-
duction, coal production, silver production—but Aus-
tralia in normal years already produces more of these
than it can use, and the expansion would only
be profitable according to our luck in finding
a profitable market for the extra output. The
local market is filled up. But there is still an
immense local market for manufactured goods—a market
we can be sure of if we like to keep it to ourselves. It is
no use producing more silver if foreign countries won’t
buy it from us at paying rates, and they seem less inclined
to do that every year. But it is perfectly safe to make
enough steel rails and enough clothes for our own use,
for as long as we use railways and clothes the market is
here.
• • i »
“Brother” Cox, Grand Something of the
M. has been making some curious remarks re
N. affairs:—“He severely condemned the adminis-
tration of the Old Age Pensions Act, which cost the
Government 20 per Cent, to carry out, while the friendly
societies could do it for 5 per cent. The Government
said that the funds of the friendly societies should earn
4 per cent., but they preferred paying outside investors
up to 5 per cent, to taking the surplus moneys of friendly
societies at 4 per cent.” As the world is full of
brothers” like this, it may be worth while mentioning
that the N.S.W. Government is this year managing the
payment of Old Age Pensions at a cost of rather less than
3 per cent, on the amount of the pensions—not 20 per
cent., or anything like that frantic hallucination. And
nobody can recollect when any recent N.S.W. Govern-
ment “ borrowed from outside investors up to 5 per cent.”
Brother” Cox should now explain.
• • • *
The Young Co-operative Roller Flour Mill
(* oun £> N.S.W.) issues an interesting balance-sheet
for the year ended 29th November, 1902. It arts forth that
the year’s net profit was £16,237, equal to £lOB 4s. lid. per
AA? er annum . on the shareholders’ paid-up capital of
Including £435 brought forward, there w'as
£16,6/-available for dividend. The shareholders receive
10 per cent. (£1500); £14,000 is added to reserve fund
(making it £20,000;; and £1172 is carried forward, so
tnat the total reserves are now £21,172. And as the co.
nas £15,806 in the bank, in addition to land, build-
ings and machinery, these profits are cash—not dubious
paper items. The farmer may have done badly enough
well 6 y6ar ° f droug ht, 1901 > but the miller conies out
* * * *
A “good parcel ” of Sydney Daily Telegraph
7?™ e Jin a l sold I . aat week at £5O per share. There are
rnio # oI\ areB ln the co -> an d the last div. was at the
f at .® °| 2b 4 P«/ cent. The div. for 1902 ought to be
jf er 1 ProfitB from the new scissors-and-paste weekly are


TraMWays for iviiimes.
in SYDNEY and MELBOURNE include-Steel Rails, Bridge Rails,
STO Steel Side and End Tip Trucks, Portable Tramway, Portable and Permanent
Switches Ball-bearing Turntables, Axle Boxes, Wheels and Axles, Jim Crows,
nni-Snikes etc etc. IN D E NTS. -LOCOMOTIVES from 10 to 400 h.p
including Compound Locos, and every description of Light Railway Material.
CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY A
trprv Wttvtfr St qydneY A. E. LEPL/STRiEH, Manager,
’ Representing Orenstein and Hopped, Ltd., London, Berlin and Paris.
Branches—Melbourne, Brisbane, Cairns and Zeehan (Tasmania).
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject toinspection. Cable address: “Option,”
Melbourne.*
* * * *
A. Kozminsky, 106 Queen-street, Melbourne,
having returned from his visit to England, is now pre-
pared to purchase approved Mines and Mining Properties
situated in any part of Australasia requiring Capital for
Development and Machinery. Only genuine and
legitimate ventures, capable of bearing the strictest
examinations, will be entertained.*
* * * *
A revolution in smelting furnaces seems pro-
bable. The aid of gasoline has not been recognised.
Ernest de Beer, 439 Bourke-street, Melbourne, supplies
forms to suit assayers, which are marvellous in their
efficiency.*
* * * »
Complaints of stagnation in the engineering
trade are as rife as ever, but, judging by the large stock
of Refrigerating and Ice-making machinery now at the
engineering works of Mephan Ferguson, Melbourne, he
must expect to do a large business in these machines
during the coming summer season. The prices for all
sizes have been greatly reduced, and purchasers are
invited to inspect and test these Refrigerators before
purchasing. This firm has also introduced up-to-date
machinery for manufacturing bolts and nuts, rivets, dog
spikes and every discription of ironwork.*
• * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
The Stock Exchange, London, writes of the
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society’s latest report
“ The Colonial Mutual is too well-known to be in need of
any recommendation either from the point of financial
stability or the attractiveness of its policies which
embody every clause of importance and value to their
holders.*
• * * *
In connection with the Penrith scheme for the
Sydney Water Supply, the New South Wales Government
made a contract with the Austral Otis Engineering Coy.
of South Melbourne for the supply of a Triple Expansion
Condensing Duplex Pumping Engine capable of raising
four million gallons of water per day to the height of 250
feet. As later on it is proposed to remove these pumps
to Sydney to supply the high levels, the engines have
been fitted with a second set of pumps with a capacity
of one and a half million gallons per day delivered to a
height of seven hundred feet. The contract time for
manufacture and delivery of the above plant was 14
weeks, but the whole was completed and delivered
within eleven weeks. The Austral Otis Company are
manufacturers of every class of water works pumping
plant and carry large stocks of pumps suitable for mines
and irrigation.*
m • * *
Many doubtful claims have been advanced on
behalf of duplex pumps. Some makers state that their
duplex pumps are “ double the capacity of single pumps
of same diameter and stroke.” An A. S. Cameron single-
acting pump can be run safely and comfortably at a speed
that would knock a duplex pump to pieces. But even at
a low speed, duplex pumps seldom attain even their
theoretical capacities, and the reason for this can be
readily explained. Apply to the Agents, Messrs. W. and
J. Lempriere, 506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, for
further particulars. The A. 8. Cameron pumps are noted
for their simplicity, durability, and absence of outside
valve gear.*
‘did pue/rasoifl nv
• «svaavw *- WVi *
MS
auvj
DUIII3Q WO ISISWI
i
i "Ti ’
es
Famous for over a Century- ♦.*
Supplied to Royalty for over 63 years.
said to run into thousands. Success of D.T. started
with its reorganisation, when journalists Gullett, Ward
and Brient, and manager Wynne were allotted par-
cels of shares. Messrs. Gu'lett and Wynne retain their
interests—have increased them ; Mr. Gullett, just retiring
from the editorial chair, which is to be re-filled by Mr
Ward, is the largest shareholder in the co.
* • • *
The Australian Mont dr Piete Loan and
Deposit Co. (Melbourne), which struck a large snag a year
or so ago by reason of embezzlement, is again doing pretty
well, and completed a prosperous half-year on 31$t
October, 1902:
Added
. . to Re- Re-
i „„„„ ” rn "ts. Dividends. serves, serves.
April, 1899 8 per cent. = £865 £1,580
Oet. £893 8 „ „ 805 £2B 1 608
April, 1900 799 8 „ „ 865 1.542
Oct., 1900 1018 8 „ „ 865 163 1,695
April, 1901 693 8 „ „ 865 1,523
Oct., 1901 597 Embezzled 16,022 13,902
Capital was written down at this stage of the proceed-
ings, so as to cover the deficit and leave a credit balance
of £826, so things start afresh :
Added
to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Oct., 1901 £826
April, 1902 £lOl9 8 per cent. =» £516 £603 1329
Oct., 1902 1156 8 „ „ 616 640 1969
The apparent remarkable increase in the profits for the
last two half-years isn’t really quite so remarkable as it
seems. In each case is included in the earnings a sum
which the management describes as “Surplus from
adjustment of several accounts by re-valuation,” which
may mean that certain sums previously written off
have been actually recovered, or that ‘certain assets
have been sold at more than hook value, or that they
have been written up on the supposition that they were
previously under-valued, hut that the amounts added
haven’t been actually realised. This is the exact state of
things for 1902 :
4-Year’s S « r P ,us . Total t
Earnings. Ee . val^tion
April, 1902 .. £B9l £l2B £lOl9
Oct., 1902 .. 1069 87 1156
Even if the “ surplus by revaluation ”is rejected, how-
ever, things look much better than usual.
One bad feature in the Australian Mont-
de-Pi6t6 Loan and Discount Co.’s method of presenting
its accounts is shared by it with other concerns. There
is a species of break in the accounts between October,
1901, and April, 1902—and some other companies, when a
large writing-down was effected, showed the same break.
The debit-balance of £13,902 at October, 1891. is not car-
ried forward to April, 1902, and the written-off capital
carried to profit, and loss account to provide for it. In-
stead, April. 1902, starts afresh with a credit of £826,
which merely shows that £14,728 was procured from
somewhere to make good the loss. Of course, it was
procured bv writing-down capital, and the figures balance
well enough on careful calculation of the amount of capi-
tal that has disappeared, but that is no reason why a full
and continuous account shouldn’t be provided.
• • • •
On its new basis the Australian Mont de Pifite
seems to be distinctly prosperous, but it wants badly to
start a permanent reserve fund, and also to pay off the
£l5OO mortgage on its own property. For a money-
lending concern to have its own premises in pawn may
pay well enough if it gets the money at a cheap rate, but
it looks ridiculous.
* * * •
If the Snow scheme for collaring tbe Adelaide
trams turns out a frost tbe syndicate will drop £30,000,
they say—mostly gone in “ argument.”
* • « »
Complications resulting from tbe recent libel
action against Mount Lyell Standard revealed that J. P.
Lonergan, mining speculator, is the proprietor of the
“ potted ” journal. Therefore, anyone seeking the truth,
the whole truth, and nothing but the truth about mines
in which Lonergan and Madden are interested had better
apply to Mt. Lyell Standard every time. By the way,
how is Lonergan getting on in London ? Rumor says that
that other lucky young Lvellite, the festive Langford, has
not been making millions in the Big Smoke.
* * * *
In regard to a paragraph which appeared in
Bulletin of January 3 to the effect that the Sulphide
Corporation was raising £lOO,OOO on preferential
debentures, this paper learns that the state-
ment was incorrect. The borrowing powers have
been raised, under legal advice, from £lOO,OOO
(already exhausted by the issue of debentures) to
£200,000 merely that there might be a margin of borrow-
ing power to cover any casual temporary liabilities in-
curred in the every-dav course of tbe business. So far as
is known, there is no intention of issuing further deben-
tures.
* * • »
India is going to cut in ahead of Australia in
the iron industry ; Mr. Jamsetjee Tata, or something to
that effect, has just placed in ’Muika orders for a two-
million-dollar plant.
* * • •
Metal prices:—
1890. 1900. 1901. 1902.
Average. Average. Dec. Dec.
Copper, ton £54 5 3 £73 12 6 £49 2 6 £52 5 0
Lead, ton .. 13 710 17 3 7 10 5 0 10 15 0
Silver, 0z... 42’72d. 28’17d. 25’46d. 22’25d.
Tin. ton ..94 3 6 133 11 6 105 10 0 120 10 0
Spelter, ton 23 4 6 20 5 6 16 17 6 19 17 6
The real extent of the unused stocks laid by in the years
of over-production and restricted consumption is still
the uncertain quantity in most of the markets —those
for copper and lead especially.
In the U.S. at the start of 1902 there were 210
million lb. of copper in stock against 93 millions at
the start of 1901; and that alone was a pretty hig
handicap to wipe out before prices could get to normal.
Consumption certainly has been large ; on the other
hand, the efforis to restrict output have not suc-
ceeded, and remarkable improvements have been made
in the extraction of metal. It is pointed out, neverthe-
less, that it took only five years after the Seeretan smash
for the price to recover from £39 (Jan., 95) to £7B (Feb.,
1909). Still the latter was not a legitimate price. (1900
was one of the boom years); so that large and rapid re-
covery isn’t a safe guide. And, anyhow, present price
isn’t actually low ; it is only low compared with the boom
price of a year or two back. In the last 20 years, 11 years
averages for Chili bars have been under £5l. The
market may be “worked” again; but apart from that
this writer, anyhow, cannot see much foundation for
those bright prospects of an early big rise lately a good
deal talked about.
Same as to lead. Present price of that metal is
certainly further under the normal, the market having
been knocked back by the competing ’Murkan and conti-
nental (mainly Spanish) producers. This past year the
American Smelting and Refining Co., which controls the
U.S. market, has been feeding the European market,
apparently with the object of squeezing suppliers into an
“understanding”; and, as present writer isn’t in the
secrets of either crowd, he doesn’t know when they are
likely to get tired of the game. Certainly the statistical
position is bad. Imports to and exports from the United
Kingdom in the first 10 months of the last three years
have been (figures for the full 12 months of 1902 not yet
available): —
Imports. Exports,
tons. tons.
Jan.-Oct., 1900 ... 164,760 43,281
» 1901 .. 179,135 42,665
i. 1902 .. 197,625 35,136
Which are not healthy figures, to say the best of them.
The most satisfactory feature is that the returns for the
later part of 1902 are better than for the earl}’ part. Of
silver almost everything that might be said would
be said -n the dark. The only observation that
is worth anything (and even that is probably not
worth much) is that production has eased off a
bit—it was 182 million oz. in ’95 ; it was 175 million
oz. in 1901. Gold production increased from 5,991,8770 z.
in 1891 to 14,900,1450 z. in 1899 (the last year of
normal production in S’Africa); and, as the inadequacy
of the gold yield formed the basis of the plea for the
remonetisation of silver, this recent gold boom has made
the position of silver hopeless, so far as any big recovery
1 » J! rlc t Luckily for silver-men, the yellow millions
of the East hang on to it, and that may, possibly, save It
from going much lower; already it has had a fall of 63
per cent, in 30 years.
* • * •
The tin-market is mostly a gamble. Statistics
are, however, favorable for high prices. Production
increases but very little, mainly because the conservative
yellow man has most of the known sources of supply in
his hands ; and stocks are low,
* » * •
Spelter (zinc) puts no coin into Australia’s
poeket yet; but she has hopes. On surface at Broken
Hill, crushed and stacked alongside the railway, is over
600,000 tons of it, and the dumps are growing at the rate
of about 100,000 tons a year. Completely satisfactory
laboratory tests have lately been made to get a zinc
product, and the big question now is, What about the
market? For years—centuries, in fact—the output was
controlled by Germany and Belgium, and they were a
happy family ; but now the U.S. are cutting in, and the
future is uncertain. In ’96 the U.S. output was 69,316
tons ; by regular jumps it had got to 132,578 tons in 1901
just doubled in six years, and still jumping. The
explanation is that the ’Murkan has found that he can
use natural gas fuel instead of coal and coke in the
retorts, and so save heavily. Work that was done by
coal fuel f0r.4d01., even where coal was thought dirt-
cheap, is being done with gas at l}dol. ; and this is
knocking out the old coal collieries altogether. One co.,
the New Jersey, was last year putting up a new gas plant
that is to turn out 60,000 tons zinc oxide and 30,000 tons
spelter a year, besides by-products ; and, with that sort
of hustler in the market, anything may happen. Still,
this has to be noted : it’s mostly zinc ore that the U.S. is
handling, and the zinc has to pay all charges ; whereas,
in the Australian cas”, the zinc ore (not as rich,
true, as the bulk of the ’Murkan) is not only mined, but
is already crushed fine, and the silver and lead have paid
everything thusfar. When, in 1901, the price got down
below £l7 about two-thirds of the U.S. co’s. that were
formed in the ’99 spelter boom were knocked out, and
even the better-favored producers squeaked in chorus
with the Europeans, and, it is alleged, showed a losing
business. Costs, no doubt, will be gradually whittled
down ; at present, it looks as though the market is pretty
safe to keep above £l7.
» • * »
After all, Broken Hill saved very little water
from the December rains. In each of the two water-
famine years the towns and mines started with a much
larger supply.
» * * •
Bendigo’s record for 1892 is Tons, 406.016 ;
ozs., 193,647; dividends, £207,990; calls, £131,631;
surplus, £76,359. The figures for 1901 were—gold,
193,0L50z. ; divs., £183,780; calls, £136,109; surplus,
£47,671. The number of mines which appeared in the
div.-list last year was 22, and their returns were 186,134
tons, 105,3050 z ; so that more than half the yield was
returned as profit. The non-div. mines crushed 219.882
tons for 88,3410 z. The principal divs. were : South New
Moon, £59,200; Hustlers No. 1, £31,372 ; Clarence,
£29,250 ; New Moon, £23,400 ; Great Northern, £16,500.
* • • *
The total production of Bendigo goldfield from
1851 to 1902 is estimated at 17,496,6750 z., valued at
£69,986,700.
* • * •
The New Moon group of mines saved the repu-
tation of Bendigo last year. The figures for the famous
trio were: Clarence, 21,542 tons, 12,2910 z., £29,250
divs. ; New Moon, 24,729 tons, 10,3060 z., £23,400
divs. ; South New Moon, 19,318 tons, 19,5870 z.,
£59,200 divs. Totals: 65,589 tons, 42,1840 z., £111,850
divs. The proportion of divs. to production is
about 11-16ths, which shows remarkably economical
working, more particularly so when it is considered that
the cost of development work (which has been extensive
in all cases) and additional plant (a large item with two
co’s.) has been defrayed out of mine production. The
prospects of the two Moons are much better now than at
the beginning of 1902, and there is every probability that
this year will return a largely increased profit. Clarence
may maintain its position, but it is not expected to do
more.
* • * *
In January, 1902, Clarence shares were quoted
at 625. 6d., S. New Moon at 80s., and New Moon 60s. On
these values the divs. paid during the year represent
respectively 32 per cent., 32 per cent, and 46 percent.
On current values of shares the same rate of divs. would
return 48 per cent., 30 per cent, and 30 per cent. It is
estimated that the two Moons have five years’ productive
work actually in sight. As investments these stocks look
like absolute certainties. It has to be borne in mind that
these mines—New Moon and South New Moon- are not
in the same category as the ordinary Bendigo mine,
which may be working a rich saddle formation one year
and then have to do years of prospecting to find another
payable saddle. The Moon mines operate on large
deposits overlying the saddle formations, and they have
to go much deeper yet to reach the anti-clinal country.
* * * »
The Bendigo plum for 1902 from a shareholder’s'
point of view was Hustler’s No. 1. It started the year at
the low value of ss. 9d. per share and ended it at about
355., having in the course of the year reached 455. Divs.
for the year, 15s. 6d., which may be repeated this year.
It is questionable whether the “ life ” of the mine on the
chute of ore which is now being worked justifies present
value. It is true that the splendid ore-body has been
located in neglected eastern ground, and it is certain thaj
other saddles wall be found in deeper ground in the
same channel, but the history of the Hustler’s line does
not warrant the expectation that the next ore-body will
be equally good The once phenomenal Extended
Hustlers—the adjoining'tnine—for example, has tested
several distinct formations below that now being worked
by Hustlers No. 1 without finding any Hung to correspond
in richness with the upper deposits. Hustlers No. 1 has
been made the gambling stock of Bendigo, and people
who may be inclined to dabble in it would do well to
recognise this fact.
Charters Towers (Q.) divs. for 1902 total £421,567,
being an increase over 1901 of £144,407, and beating the
previous record (£341,947 in 1892) by just on £BO,OOO.
Div -payers for year : Queen Cross, £116,666 ; Brilliant
Central. £75,000 ; St. George, £55,800 ; Day Dawn Wynd-
ham, £50,000; Vic. and Caledonia, £30,00) ; Brilliant,
£2 9 750 ’ Band of Hope, £22,500; D.D. Gold Mines,
£21’,200; Brilliant Ex., £6250; D.D. (P C.), £6125; Mar-
shall’s, £4BOO ; Victoria and Queen, Ruby, £3750.
The lucky 13 again ! In addition to these were liquidation
divs. of £1926.
Calls made by Charters Towers co.’s last year
amounted to £lOB,OOO, or £313,567 less than the divs.
paid.
• » • •
In 15 years Charters Towers cos. have paid
within a trifle of £4,000,000 in divs., the chief distributors
being :-D.D. Block and Wvndham, £755,390; Brilliant,
£663,083; Day Dawn P.C., £637,875 ; Brill, and St.
George, £607,800 ; Mills’, £292,500 ; Victory, £290.925 ;
Victoria, £559,800; Kellv’s Queen, £181,200; Queen
Cross, £155,966; Brilliant Central, £146,666; Band of
Hope, £80,400; Papuan, £80,000; Brilliant Block, £73,750;
Day Dawn Gold Mines, £56,376 ; Victoria and Caledonia,
£56,400; New Queen, £55,971; Victoria and Queen,
£21,600.
* * * •
The general prediction is that the current year
will show quite as prosperous a record for Charters Towers
as 1902, and it is certain that there will be much activity
in the share market, but it is not likely that there will be
a boom in the sense of reckless trafficking in stock or un-
reasonable inflation in values. While it may be assumed
that the splendid results of last year will induce more
speculation from outside, the mainstay of the market will
be in local transactions, and values will be regulated
approximately on mine merits. There are many Towers
people afflicted with financial paralysis as the result of the
boom of a few months since and, pending their complete
recovery, “steady” will be the local watchword. If
any wild speculation he displayed it will be on the part
of people further afield, and Towers’ men will not be slow
to take advantage of their rashness. If transactions in
mining shares may be rightly included in the category of
investments, the Towers mines ought to be in that posi-
tion. In this connection it is interesting to note that, on
latest quotations, the actual market value of the 13 div..
paying mines was £2,300,000, and on this amount last
year’s divs. represent a return of about 18 per cent.
This looks large, but it only accords with the
recognised law of averages in mining speculations,
in other words the present aggregate value is high
enough. The 13 co.’s are sure to figure in this year’s div.
list and it is expected that others will be added. Another
statement shows that the market value of shares in all
co.’s which are quoted is about £2,750,000, on which the
divs. would give a return of about 15 per cent. The moral
of the position for the investor is to make a judicious
selection of several stocks and to trust to a general
average giving the desired return ; it is distinctly a case
in which a serious mistake might be made in putting all
the eggs in one basket.
• * • *
Gympie established a record last year. The
comparative figures for 1901 and 1902 are :
Tons. Ozs. Divs. Calls
1901.. 112,100 117,062 £201,722
1902.. 140,776 140,510 263,874 £76,590
The “ record” previously wa5£255,134 divs. in 1884. The
leading producers last year were : No. 2 S. G. Eastern,
33,642 tons, 44,7510 z. ; £99,000 divs. Scottish Gympie,
57,789 tons, 35,6900 z. ; £50,250 divs. S. Glanmire, 19,215
tons, 30,4150 z. ; £79,500 divs. No. 4 N. Phoenix, 1973
tons, 71600 z. ; £18,500 divs.
• * * *
Gytnpie’s gold-yield to date is estimated at
2,750, OOOoz.
• * * *
The year has opened with a distinct revival of
interest on the London market in W.A. stocks. The
appreciation in values since the close of 1902 aggregates
about £1,000,000, substantial advances being recorded in
Associated, Lake View, Perseverance, Ivanhoe, Kalgurli
and Oroya. Strange to say, the mine which presents the
best prospects for regularity of output and permanence—
Great Boulder —does not appear to have participated in
the improvement.
Total W.A. gold-divs. for year amount to
£1,436,404, in which 17 co’s. have participated as follows :
Burbanks, £9090 ; Horseshoe, £270,000 ; Perseverance,
£350,000 ; Boulder, £218,750 ; Ivanhoe, £lOO,OOO ; Lady
Shenton, £BOOO ; Princess Royal, £16,000 ; Queensland
Menzies, £9900 ; White Feather Main Reefs, £BOOO ;
Associated Northern, £87,500 ; Cosmopolitan, £lO,OOO ;
Oroya-Brown Hill, £40,500 ; Island Eureka, £10,667 ;
Westralia Mt. Morgans, £48,537 ; Ida IL, £13,500 ; Kal-
gurli, £30,000 ; Fingall, £206,250.
• * • *
Position of North Kalgurli (W.A.), as shown
by annual report, anything but satisfactory. On Aug. 31
ore reserves were given as 7000 tons, against which
£18,137 appeared as a debit under deve'opment account.
In other words, the cost of development standing against
each ton is £2 lls. 10d., to which will have to be added
cost of stuping. Total cash in hand, £4644 ; uncalled
capital, less calls paid in advance, only £12,995. Manager
Nutman recommends the purchase of a 10-head battery,
which he estimates can be bought and erected for £5OOO.
If the mine cannot support anything better than a battery
capable of treating 500 tons a month, it should be aban-
doned, and be regarded as a good water-hole. The ore
reserves of alleged payable grade are now estimated at
nearly 15,000 tons, and, as there are two lodes under
development, the installation of an up-to-date plant with
plenty of surplus power for extension would seem
justifiable.
* * * *
The Golden Pole, Davyhurst (W.A.), which is
held by a Kalgoorlie syndicate, is probably one of the
best properties in the northern fields. It consists of 48
acres on a parallel line of reef adjoining the Waihi on the
west. Capital £20,000, in £1 shares, of which 9s. 6d. per
share has been called up. To date, 970 tons have been
treated for 25140 z., an average of 2oz. 121dwt. per ton.
The tailings go, say, 12dwt. lOgr. Levels have been
driven at 130 ft. and 200 ft., and all the stone treated has
come exclusively from development. Ore in sight esti-
mated at 36,000 tons, containing 69,0000 z. of gold, worth
£276,000. The ore reserves, rightly or wrongly, assumed
to be of the same grade as the ore already treated. The
main vertical shaft is down 310 ft., and a level
has just been started at 300 ft. A contract for a 10-
head batterv has been let, so that, early in the year,
the co. should join the regular gold-producers and div.
distributors of the State. The best-known prominent
holders in the show are “ Bob ” Gibson, Nat Harper, and
Jonathan Bray, and it looks as if their patience and pluck
are to be amply rewarded.
* * • *
Ivanhoe South Extended (W.A.), after three
years of J. Bull rigime, appears to be in a hopeless
plight. Main shaft down 820 ft., and at 800 ft. a lot of
exploratory work has been done without tangible result.
A diamond drill bore from this level hit a quartz reef at a
depth of 1500 ft., but it panned out only at 8 to lOdwts.
per ton Co. is now marking time, as it is regretfully
admitted that there is no hope of obtaining payable results
above 1500 ft., and it would involve an expenditure of
£lO 000 to £15,000 to get there. Negotiations with ad-
joining properties are said to be in progress for testing
the ground from them, -but this is absurd. On the ad-
joining working mines, the Ivanhoe and Horseshoe on
the east, the shafts are no deeper than this co.’s, and are,
moreover, situated on higher ground, so that the hope of
proving anything- from them must be remote. Kaufrnann
and C. D. Rose have resigned their seats on the board, so
they evidently don’t think much of the co.’s future.
* * * *
Doyle and Fynney liave cleared up a further
small lot of 9 tons from their sensationally rich leader on
the Kanowna (W.A.) lease, for 1350 z. gold. This crushing
brings up total for year to 81 tons for 21990 z., worth
£BOOO Doyle, ex-Mayor of Kanowna, made his first rise
from this leader. After winning a substantial amount of
~o l <i he sold the property to a Bull co., which failed to
make anything out of it, and it reverted to Doyle. The
leader is looking as well as ever.
* * *
Brown Hill Central has been shut down on the
advice of the recently-appointed consulting engineers,
Kingston and Brown, who regret that so much money has
been wasted on such an unpromising venture. Pity that
same firm is not consulted in re the Ironsides North,
Oroya East, and other unmistakeable cats.
. * * *
Waihi (M.L.) paid its first div. in 1893, Ainoe
when there have been 39 distributions totalling £l,OO -,8.• •
The product of the mine for 10 years has been £2,405,/DV.
• * * *
Waitekauri (M.L.) has fallen on evil days.
After showing a profit of £46,000 on two years’ working,
it meets with a sudden reverse, last year’s balance
revealing a debit of £25,188. It is reported that the
payable chute has been lost. The only hope of retriev-
ing lies in an unexplored area which may produce
an infinite deal of nothing ; and before this area can be
touched more cash has to be raised. English co.’s have
been so badly hit in Maoriland quartz ventures that there
may be serious difficulty in financing the Waitekauri.
* * * *
Otago and Southland dredges (M.L.) last year
won 106,3460 z. gold valued at £409,432, being an increase
of 41,0000z8. over 1901. The West Coast dredge returns
will show a much larger proportionate increase.
The S. Australian brandy-distillers, who have
been willing to wait for their harvest, and therefore have
been very jealous of the quality of their output, are
now building up a fine trade. In the last twelve
months the total reached 172,728 gallons. The local
product has in 10 years knocked down the State’s imports
from 250,000 to 127,000 gallons.
* * * *
Besides being the highest on record, the Ivan-
hoe (VV.A.) Nov. output was won at the lowest cost—
lowest for this co. and for the field. Items : Mining,
14s. 3d. per ton ; reduction, 10s. 4d. ; general, 3s. sd. ;
mine development, ss. 7d. ; capital, 7d. Total, 345. 2d.
Profit at this rate should be for the month about £22,000,
less the mouthful which the London managers take.
If you asked a Bourke (N.S.W.) man he
probably would say it is the Devil’s Year. On
Sunday last the thermometer there registered 121
in the shade!
As a New Year’s gift, a Toowoomba (Q.)
woman presented her hubby with an average-sized
family in one night—three girls and one boy. One
of the girls died, but all the others are doing well.
In Sydney, recently, on the premises of
R. Farrell and Co., was exemplified a new process
of “ thawing ” frozen meat. Some beef, after
removal from the refrigerating chamber, had been
encased for 48 hours in a waterproof bag, and
presented, upon extraction, so much the appear-
ance of freshly-killed meat that “it would have
required an expert to tell the difference between
the two.”
Cosine Colony, according to its own jour-
nal, now numbers 97 souls, of whom 51 are
children. The dietary scale is interesting :
Total meat allowed for the whole settlement for one
month amounts to 2101bs. (all pork), or about 41b. a week
p r head ; sugar, 1161b5., or sozs. per week per head ;
while 91bs. of flour per week has to suffice for the whole
community. The remaining diet is mainly beans and
galletas. No tea, but mat 6. Total milk supply
for the month, llOgals.—or about J-pint daily,
apiece, lib. of soap per month has to serve a whole
family. The journal tells mournfully that frost has killed
the maize and bitten the fruit-trees, while the sugar-cane
has proved a failure, having been eaten by deer and rats.
As several misguided Australians are just now
departing again for the Paraguayan Paradise, it
is just as well the public should have all obtainable
information on this matter. By the way, what a
time Hebrew converts would have in Cosme on the
all-pork dietary!


David Jones & Co.
“ORIENT” BOOTS.
Special Purchase of American-
made Boots, Black or Brown
Vici Kid,
Price
21/=
By Post
22/-
George & Barrack Sts,
SYDNEY,
fgrj
ApHj£— *
©l©
It |©t4&
7 0 v# CO
RRINC
■<^o
ft
KI"S
UINuT
fr-SL WHERE MAY BE HAD
' CAMERAS
Lenses,
Plates,
Mounts,
Papers,
Amateur and
Professional Outfits
Chemicals,
Accessories,
Albums,
Novelties,
OF
EVBRV WWBIVABLE AND UP-TO-DATE KIND
' Vri Catalogue, sent Post Free.
HARRINGTON & CO., LTD
Leading Photographic Merchants,
Agents in all the Principal Centres.
66 King St., Sydney
Branch : 93 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
SOCIETY
[?]
[?]
1903 : One and nine make ten, add three,
and you have 13. THIRTEEN, the Devil’s
Number. The Devil’s Year ?
• • * •
Sydney Morning Herald came out the
other morning flaunting a news summary on the
first column of page 1, where “ Births, Deaths and
Marriages” used to be. Bad policy, Mister Jan.es,
to thus limp after rivals in the path of progress ;
its quaint old-time conservatism is one of the
Herald’s charms. Worse policy to dethrone
the “Births, Deaths and Marriages,” from
pride of place, for that is the family
Bible fly-leaf of Sydney; if you are born
in Sydney, and not born in the B. D. and
M. of the S.M. H., you are a mere nobody’s child.
You may be married with all civil and religious
rites, but if you’re not married in the S.M.H. you
might as well be living in open shame so far as
the estimation of your neighbors is concerned ;
and as to any Sydney citizen going to Paradise,
he can only go to the Other Place—until his death
has been advertised in the S.M.H. Its chronicle
of all the Family Respectability of Sydney the
S.M.H. should keep ever in the forefront.
A strong point in the Herald’s favor with thou-
sands of women used to be that you could see who
had been married without having to open the
paper.
AN EXCEPTION.
WIFE (to lazy husband): “There's nothing worth
having to be got in this world, Torn, without
grafting, an' grafting HARD!”
HUSBAND: “ You forget yourself, Polly.”
The supply of Anglican parsons to work
the northern districts of S. A., which are very dry
and dusty and have but few contributors to the
plate, is falling off, and one object of Archdeacon
Bamuell’s visit to England is to round-up a group
of enthusiastic curates for service in those arid
regions. It will be fair to treat the Archdeacon’s
young men as inadmissible contract laborers; there
are any number of local applicants for any
parishes worth having.
“At Sandringham, the Princess of Wales
of a son, the fourth.” Four so soon ; four hungry
little mouths all crying to one small prince for
food and pretty clothes ! No wonder they robbed
us of our “ Wally, ” that he might shake a warning
nose and whisper “ Better not.”
* * * *
The Governor-General is taking matters
very quietly in Adelaide. He drove up to his
summer residence at Marble Hill, about nine
miles from the city, immediately after his arrival
from Melbourne, and during the Christmas and
New Year’s holidays did not make a single
appearance in Adelaide. Indeed, save the little
community of gardeners who live in the vicinity
of the vice-regal resort, the people of S.A. see no
more of Lord Tennyson than if he were in one of
the other States. Much of his popularity is due
to his lack of assumption of gubernatorial frill,
and in that respect the contrast with Chief Justice
Way is most striking.
• * * •
The chickens are coming home to roost
once more ! Victoria took on a good number of
its returned cohentingenters as policemen—it in-
vited a fresh batch of 30 last week—and now a
frequent heading in the dailies is “Police and
Civilians,” and nearly every metropolitan P.M.
has had something severe to say about “young
constables whose inexperience and petulance loses
them the respect of decent citizens.” And the
Melbourne police can’t just now afford to lose any
public esteem.
• • * *
Sydney, being now permitted to turn on its
bath-tap, prepares to thanksgive for “the break-
up of the drought.” But Wee Waa, on the
Namoi, which is sometimes a river but is
just now a dry ditch, sent along a wire of protest
—“Wait till the drought does break up.” Some
day, perhaps, we will realise what a big place
Australia is, and that even N.S.W. has its Wee
Waa as well as its Sydney; and when we
realise that, we will also realise that the
chances of every part getting wet at the
same time, with the very little wet that there
is to go round, are about a million to one. So far,
though, the majority which hangs on to the
coastal fringe holds up its umbrella with one
hand and waves the other, and says, “Been great
rains out back,” or “inside,” or something equally
vague, just as though the “out back” or the
“inside” was a handkerchief suburb to be
covered by any small shower that floated along,
instead of being many hundreds of miles or
so across. Only by the rarest run of good
luck and accident does the drought ever
break up everywhere at the same time ;
and that is why, for one thing, the camel
has come to Australia to stay—there will always
be work for him somewhere.
• * * •
Re The Bulletin’s statement, as to the
break-up of the drought, that—
No church had done anything special for months to
enable it to claim, with anv fair prospect of belief, that it
brought about the downpour.
Parson Fitchett, in the Southern Cross (Vic.),
issued the same day, wrote—
It is almost amusing to notice how the meteorologists
try to explain the sudden rainfall. . . . But where science
is dumb, let faith speak. “ This is the Lord’s doing, and
it is marvellous in our eyes.” That God would answer
no Christian man doubted. . . . And let all men give
thanks unto Him. . . . God has answered our prayer,
and our acknowledgment of His goodness should’ be
public, g'ad, and universal. The Federal Government
ought to invite all the States to observe some given day
as a Day of Public Thanksgiving to God for His goodness.
You have to be pretty smart to get ahead of the
churches on a question of prayer. But since, on
the kirk’s own statement, the whole of the drought
i* “the Lord’s doing,” why should the Federal
Govt, be called on to rejoice because the flocks
and herds were only half destroyed and a propor-
tion only of the inhabitants of the continent
ruined ?
• • • *
It is quite clear now ! One It. Birch
Roberts, a Rochester (Vic.) parson, being in-
timately acquainted with the Almighty, and
having a close knowledge of all His ways, ex-
plained, t’other day, that the drought was all
owing to the iniquity of the Australian Govern-
ment, “Had the Commonwealth Govt, been
sincere when a day of humiliation was set apart
lately it would have stopped Sunday work right
throughout the Commonwealth for one Sunday
only and stopped the accursed revenue-producing
drink traffic for one Saturday by closing all hotels.
Had this been done he had no doubt the rain
would have come,” &c. Also, Birch Rod is
amazed that Customs Minister Kingston proposes
to overtake arrears of work by grafting on the
Sabbath. But Roberts really ought to take his
deity to task. A deity that punishes good men
like Roberts for the iniquities of ruffianly
Sabbath-breakers like Kingston is—well, a dis-
crepancy.
♦ » * *
Rev. W. I. Carr-Smith, of St. James’,
Sydney, held a service in the local Domain on
Sunday afternoon, Jan. 4, as a thanksgiving for
the recent rain. The proceedings were abruptly
terminated by a terrific thundershower, when
nearly half-an-inch of rain fell on the thankers.
Recalls the U.S. parson whose similar attempt
was likewise interrupted. “We give thanks, O
Lord,” he prayed, “for sending these bounteous
rains ” when he was stopped by the bursting of
a fierce storm on the church. He waited patiently
for a lull for a time and then ejaculated, “Come,
good Lord ! this is positively ridiculous.”
HIS CHRISTMAS BOX.
KIND LADY: “Are you the man who usually
delivers the letters here? ”
POSTMAN (inwardly calculating the beers): “ Yes,
mum! Morning, noon and night; wet or
dry. ”
KIND LADY: “ Then, in future, be good enough
to shut the gate after you.”
N.S.W. railway commissioners should not.
in striving to cope with excursion traffic, under-
take more than they can perform. Xmas Eve
night a “special excursion” to Mudgee was
announced ; the only cars provided (for first and
second-class passengers) were suburban second-
class ones ; there was no lavatory accommodation,
no water-bottles and no luggage-van (boxes and
parcels were huddled up with passengers on the
seats), and, under these conditions, on a hot
summer night, a crowded train went on a journey
of over 12 hours’ duration. A private carrier not
providing at least lavatory accommodation under
such circumstances would be heavily punished.
Why 7 should the State railways be allowed to
offend against the decencies of civilisation ?
Senator Glassey, by the way, has been accused
of sybaritish luxury because, travelling in Queens-
land on a 50-mile journey just after recovering
from a serious illness, he asked for and obtained
the attachment of a lavatory car to the train.
The daily press in Q. and elsewhere seized on this
incident as another argument against Federation,
and “the luxuries of Senator Glassey ” figured in
their columns as a “scare-head.” Almost anything
does as an argument against Federation nowa-
days, even the request of a sick Federal poli-
tician to have civilised accommodation provided
on the railways— not alone for himself (Senator
Glassey didn’t monopolise the car), but for the
general public.
The struggle for a crust. In S.M. Herald
t’other day someone announced to 125 applicants
for a position of house-caretaker somewhere at
North Shore (pay, ss. a week) that the vacancy
had been filled.
In jSf. S. Wales witnesses, in criminal
cases, especially those who live out in
the mulga and have to
travel perhaps 200 miles
to court, have an ancient
but still hearty griev-
ance. They come in on
a subpoena, applied for
by the accused. Some-
thing happens (most
often it’s a jury dis-
agreement) and the
case is hung up till
next sessions. Then
the witnesses are
lined up and are
bound over to ap-
pear at a later
date ; but, if they
are witnesses for
the defence, the
Crown will not
undertake to pay
them. When
he heard that
the other day
one Mulga Jim,
who had just
ridden in 150
miles, fell out
of the line. “ 1
ain’t takin’ it
on at the price,”
he explained.
“ In that case,”
said ’s’Onah,
“we’ll have to
lock you up.”
• *
“ How to get
the people into
the churches.”
The Australian
Christian points
the way:—
, of Perth, make# a point of employing
members of the church when these are found suitable,
and as a matter of fact, but few others are employed in
his sho, s and factory. This is generally known in the
citv. A woman living next door to one of the S.S.
teachers in Perth told the said teacher that 6he very
much wanted to get employment in Mr. ’s factory,
and that she had been on the point of speaking to him
about the matter two or three times, but that she could
not quite make up her mind to be baptised yet.
* * • •
How like n meddling church committee,
having “ called ” a pastor, to buy his furniture
and hand him the bills on arrival ! Tremayne
Dunstan, who traces back some of his woes to an
action of that kind in Perth, got. off with a com-
paratively light handicap. It is not at all un-
usual, especially if there happens to be a dry-
grocer among the elders, for the new-coming
shepherdess to find safe and cupboards packed
with sugar and soap and things—and the bill
pinned to the table-cloth. Also in the sects whose
preachers have to move on every third year, the
“ parsonage ” is usually built and equipped on a
small-family basis; and when, as pretty often
h ippens, the shepherd turns up with a personal
flock of 10 or 19, they have to clean out the fowl-
house before they can find camping room, and at
meal times there is nothing for it but to work in
shifts.
A BLOKE ITEM.
BOY: “ Pyper, sir t"
OLD GENT: “ Yes, give me to-
morrow's."
BOY: “ Oh, you're one of them smart blokes; you
letter jest grease yerself and slide off the
bloomin' earth."
A NEW YEAR SONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
This is the time of year when folk
Make resolutions good,
But since they’re only made and broke,
I don’t see why I should 1
And so let all who know me hear
My purpose told in verse—
If I’ve been wicked all this year,
Next year I hope I’m worse !
For every drink in Nineteen-Two,
Next year I’ll toss two more,
For every girl I’ve kissed—mark you !
I’m going to fondle four 1
I don’t care whether this is right,
Or whether it is wrong,
I only think, each New Year Night,
“ Play up I You’ve not got long l ”
W.H.O.
O, FORGIVE!
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
Forgive me, Love, for this my strength,
Forgive me that I was not weak,
But hid the while in lying eyes
That answer his would seek,
And held in leash the tears, lest they
Too plain might speak.
Forgive me, Love, for this my strength,
Forgive the hands that wrenched them free
What time they fain had closed in his ;
Forgive the mouth of me
That mocked, afraid, lest it might smile
Too tenderly.
Forgive me, Love, for this my strength,
That gave me power to so defy
The break of heart, the brine of tears.
O, God ! most sweet, most high,
This day I have denied Thy name—
Forgive the lie 1
MAGGIE SULLIVAN.


jgr- In the Matter of Dress attention to Detail Indicates Breeding.
EVERY LADY KNOWS that—
KLEINERTS HOOKON
IS THE ONLY Correct Hose Supporter
To Wear with the NEW FORM CORSET.
Sold only at the Best Shops.
STARCH
THE
BEST
• N
THE
WORLD
BILE BEANSoI'
(0 US«S SI> I.IVER
tJ? anp Troubles.
The Maoriland Chinese are fishing, re-
gardless of cost, for the bones of their country-
men which went down in the Ventura, and for
the recovery of Sew Hoy in particular they are
prepared to spend thousands. Sew Hoy, the
Stafford-st. (Dunedin) tea merchant, was a decent
old fellow, and any respectable citizen liked well
enough to meet his bones when the flesh of Sew
was still on them. But he had cart-loads of
mining-scrip on his mind in his latter days, and
now that he is having a long, quiet rest at last
where the cat ceaseth from troubling, it seems a
pity that he should be disturbed.
Treasurer Waddell’s statement that he has
always considered the salaries of N.S. W. Supreme
Court Judges too high, and will, at an early date,
bring in a Bill to reduce them, is considered to
have substantial Cabinet backing. But if appoint-
ments to the Supreme Court Bench are to come
under a new law, something more than the reduc-
tion of salaries should have place in the Bill. The
principle of the appointments should be clearly
laid down. Legal eminence, not political eminence,
should be the corner-stone. And why not promote
from the puisne ranks to the Chief-Justiceship,
and from the District Court ranks to the Supreme
Court Bench? Chief-Justice Stephen and Chief-
Justice Dowling both served as puisne Judges.
Justice G. B. Simpson and Justice Cohen served
as District Court Judges. The Bill, whenever
produced, must aim at keeping politicians as far
as possible out of the business, and abolishing the
habit whereby a judicial appointment is a handy
means of rewarding for political services, or
shelving—as Parkes did Martin—a pugnacious
political rival. , * *
Now that the trustees of Melbourne Public
Library and Art Gallery have lodged a petition
with the Leg. Assembly in favor of opening the
institution on Sundays it will be hard for the
Sabbatarians to keep the door locked. All the
same the odds are against any immediate
alteration of the blessed Sawbath law. No-
body seems to
work with enthu-
siasm to over-
throw the powers
of Snuffle, and
Snuffle, for its
own part, never
m ikes one willing
concession to the
ungodly. Snuffle
doesn’t dare to be
reasonable.
AT THE ART-GALLERY.
FREDDIE : "He must have been a Yank-look at
his toothpick-boots .”
FREDDIE'S MATE (feelingly): “My word, I’d not
have liked to be a kid in them times !”
It was unfortunate that in this time of
financial stress Sydney’s sole remaining cable-car
system should break down—on Xmas eve. People
swarmed on to the standing cars, seated them-
-Bel\es comfortably, and then, after a few minutes’
wait, angrily demanded from the phlegmatic
officials when the blamed thing was likely to start.
Ihe officials usually replied in a nonchalant
manner, ‘ About two hours’ time, sir.”
The only time a Sydney tram-
man says “ sir ” to one of the
public is when the line
is broken up. He
seems to feel that io
is then what he
would call ‘ ‘ up
to him ” to be
a little apo-
logetic.
PUTTING THE BEST GIRL FOREMOST.
OLD GIRL : “ Glarsh (hic) beer, please.” BARMAN : “ Gerrout! you’re full now.”
OLD GIRL : “ Beg pardon — tain’t fur meself.” BARMAN: “ Who, then? ”
OLD GIRL : “ Another (hic) lydy.” BARMAN: “ Why doesn’t she come for it herself?”
OLD GIRL : “ She can’t (hie) shtand. She’s fallen down outside.”
It has been decided in Queensland that
Patrick Kenniff shall be hanged next Monday,
and that the sentence on James Kenniff, about
whose guilt Justice Real had the gravest doubts,
shall be commuted to imprisonment for life. The
friends of the Kenniffs think that there is good
ground for an appeal to the Privy Council on cer-
tain law points ; but the Queensland Govt, holds
out no hope that it will suspend execution
until then. N.S.W. Govt, had the unspeakable
gall to bang Morrison, the man convicted of
fatally shooting Constable Sutherland in Macleay-
street, Sydney, in face of an application for leave
to appeal to the Privy Council on a point which
such high authorities as Julian Salomons,
Edmund Barton and the late Crown Prosecutor
Healy agreed was distinctly arguable. A per-
son can appeal to the Privy Council in civil
cases with or without leave, and there is no visible
reason—except the general limitation of any
appeal in criminal cases —why a petition in a
capital case should not go to London without
the consent of an Australian Court. But there is
little good in having your appeal sustained after you
have been hanged by the neck until you are dead
The Bulletin doesn’t believe in the principle of
appealing to the P.C. We should provide our
own P.C. in Australia ; but whilst that body is
in the position of Caesar, there surely should be
as much facility for the man whose life is at stake
to call on it for a final decision as for the man
whose £5OO damages are at stake.
Brisbane takes its Kenniff case curiously. At a
concert to raise funds for an appeal to the Privy
Council, the father, sister and brother of the
condemned men were present, and, says the
newspaper report, “ were conducted to the stage
amidst cheers ” !
• * * *
In N.S.W. a pupil teacher in a State school
when first appointed gets a salary of £4O a year ; a
junior public service clerk gets £5O, and possibly
allowances which make his total salary nearly
double that of the pupil teacher. If a clerk is sent
to the country on “relief” duty he gets a first-
class ticket, a sleeping-berth (if required) and all
incidental expenses. The school teacher must be
content with a second-class ticket. Under such
circumstances it is natural that the better youths
should go to clerical rather than to teaching work;
and yet the latter is infinitely more important.
• * * *
Attorney-General Wise recently “muzzled”
the N.S.W. magistracy by vetoing all “extra-
judicial ” remarks. The action might be imitated
in Victoria. An item in the Argus :
ST. ARNAUD.—William Byron was lined £1 12s. and
48s. costs at the police court on Tuesday for assaulting a
Chinese named Chung Wee on Sunday, December 14.
The Bench said the fine would have been heavier but for
the fact of its being Christmas time.
To stoush a Chinaman on or about Xmas day is
one of the proudest heritages of every true
Australian citizen.
Rev. Dill-Macky’s sectarian campaign—
judging from the long and glowing reports in the
daily press—was exciting great enthusiasm every-
where, but it wasn’t the sort of enthusiasm that
expressed itself in cash, and a huge meeting, which
cheered wildly and resolved unanimously, was only
worth, on a dollar basis, an average of £ll7s.
So the campaign is likely to be abandoned. There
’s, perhaps, a lively fear in the com-
munity that “ the Pope of Rome”
is coming to N.S.W. with a
cargo of thumb screws,
racks and faggots,
but it isn’t a lively
enough fear to
draw thrup-
pence to the
plate for a de-
fence fund.
“The scarcity of skilled workmen in the
State,” which is now being deplored by N.S.W.
newspapers, is the natural result of many years
of partial Freetrade and its concomitant sweating.
It has its direct origin in the fact that it doesn’t
pay in N.S.W. to become a specially-skilled
workman. The effect of a Freetrade policy
has been to make the workman look forward
to nothing better than being a hewer of wood
or lumper of imported crates. The effect of
sweating methods and low wages in such skilled
industries as have carried on (mostly by virtue of
a certain amount of Protection, but always an
insufficient amount and always with a constant
fear that the Protection would be withdrawn) has
been to keep the standard of skill low. Ability
will never be evoked without an incentive. If
Australia desires to have such skilled workmen as
America, she must follow the policy and the
wages-rate of that country, where outside a big
factory you will often see hundreds of buggies
with decent trotting horses waiting for the ivoAc-
men to drive home to their cottages and villas.
“ HIP-HIP, HURRAH! ”
“Are my — er—back on straight?”
“Eiddall” on “the scarcity of skilled
workmen ” question :
In one (Vic.) engineering works an Australian appren-
tice, even if he shows unusual aptitude, is usually treated
little better than a yard-laborer of the firm, when he has
served his apprenticeship. Often 12 months before his
indentures are out another “lad'’ is taken on that his
place may be filled when he has refused the pittance
offered him to continue at his work as a journeyman.
There is a scarcity of watchmakers or jewellers worth the
name in this State ; most of the good men are of the old
school. The swamping of the Commonwealth markets
with cheap German and American clocks and watches is
perhaps responsible for this. Australian photographers,
bike-builders, tea-blenders, &e., &c., through the whole
category of trades, are either self-taught or half-taught.
A liquor-war item from Maoriland :
The amazing success of the Prohibition party at the
recent Local Option poll has stirred up Bung “ properly."
Organisation is the only thing that he talks about just
now, and he talks of it so seriously that the wonder is he
never thought of it before. I discussed the subject with
a publican who is the mainspring of Bungdoin in his
province. He argues that the day of the bottle-nosed
frump as organiser is done ; the trade, he savs, is going
to import some much-needed brains into that part of
its work. One undeniable truth was uttered by
my friend when he averred that a prime
necessity was the organisation of the women
supporters of the trade. As he said " Whv should the
women be neglected ? They so far care nothing for the
poll, although they would lose their ease and comfort in
the even* of Prohibition. They do nothing while the
other women talk of nothing else morning, noon and
night. In fact Bung has stopped his cart right on the
edge of his precipice, and is now backing into safety. An
outcry has been made in a spasmodically venomous way
against the employment of barmaids. Bung is so badly-
scared that he is ready (or that part of him which is in
the grip of the brewer) to fire out the girls forthwith, if
that will render his sacred self less liable to attack. The
chieftains, however, think that Brown and Jones and
Robinson, where they have hotels of their own, will invite
the Licensed Victuallers’ Association to go to blazes and
will run their pubs better than the men who do fire out the
ladies, and thus entirely neutralise whatever advantage
may have followed the strenuous eagerness of Bung to
crawl on his chest at the dictate of the swelling Apostles
of Water. Bung knows and doesn’t mind admitting that
the abolitionists are slanderous and offensive. As he can
reform and organise whether he employs girls or men,
hobgoblins, or Hottentots, he is making a mean and con-
temptible compromise, which will gain him not a single
vote and will alienate many* of his friends through sheer
disgust. If, of his own initiative, he dismisses Hebe in a
bunch, he will only have put a postage-stamp in the way
f armor on a small patch of himself, which, considering
that the Prohibitionists have all the rest of him to kick
at, won’t help him much.
* * * m
The Tory Argus made itself grotesquely
ridiculous by publishing a grovelsome certificate
to the Purity and Virtue of the Crown Princess of
Saxony from the pen of an “ Australian Lady,”
who wrote as “One Who Knows Her.” Said
this positive authority on the subject:—
To those who know her, it is beyond the bounds of
credibility* that the fascinations of an obscure French
tutor would weigh against the love of her children and
the family pride of one who can sign herself Louise
Antoinette Marie Therese Josephe Jeanne Leopoldine
Caroline Ferdinande Alice Erentrudis Stephanie, Arch-
duchess of Tuscany and of the House of the Hapsburg
Lorraines and the Bourbon Parmas !
Next day came the news that the obscure French
person aforesaid (perhaps he is an over-confident
young man) had claimed paternity of the forth-
coming child of Princess Louise, &c., &c. Also
that, prior to eloping with the fair representative
of the Hapsburg Lorraines and Bourbon Parmas,
he had posted her jewels to his brother at Brussels,
but the German Government had intercepted
them. From which it would appear that 12
Christian names administered at baptism are not
an irresistible antidote to the future feelings of
even a princess who has shaken hands with an
Australian lady. The heroine of the latest Royal
Scandal seems to have found fascination in the
shabbiest of consolers—a fellow who gratifies his
vanity by giving the woman away, and is seem-
ingly bidding for notoriety. The Princess with
the 12 names, and ohe young man, and his alleged
baby (when it arrives) will be getting taken in a
group by arrangement with speculative photo-
graphers.
* * * *
The Art Gallery of S.A. has agreed to
continue spending £250 a year on the work of
Australian painters, to be chosen from an exhibi-
tion held in Adelaide. It has done this for an
agreed term of five years, now ended, but will
continue the arrangement from year to year. Of
the (approximate) £1250 so far expended, fully
£lOOO has gone to Sydney or Melbourne artists.
* * • *
They have now a new servant-difficulty in
some of the seaside suburbs of Sydney—those
subtii bs where swimming*
baths have been lately
established. The diffi-
culty is in getting the
domestics off the top-
floors of the house.
• * •
The As N. A. in
N.S.W. has broken out
in a fresh gale as patron
of some process (in-
vented by a lady, who
is lecturing upon it) for
“the cure of consump-
tion.” Whether this is
part of the feud with the
medical profession or
not isnot stated.
Related of an
Australian miner in
Johannesburg that,
when war broke out,
he hammered £3OO
worth of gold into
olasps and efttTa.'s
and other
whioh he fastened to His
box and plastered over
with paint. Though
stopped and searched many times on Ids way to
Natal, he got safely through without the triek
being discovered.
* • • •
A plucky attempt to stop a runaway pony
and car, carrying two persons, by Father McEnroe
at North Sydney, cost the aged Jesuit priest his
life. Father McEnroe had passed his 70th year.
*991
Ramsay’s Bush, Sydney, so notorious of
late, takes its name from Dr. Ramsay, a kindly
old scientist who, many years ago, carried on a
nursery there.
Wild’s, in the Sydney Arcade, is the most
fashionable gentlemen’s hairdressing saloon in
Sydney. Every attention possible is paid to the
customers by six expert hairdressers. Address.—
30 Sydney Arcade, entrance from George-street
or King street, Sydney.*
AN AUSTRALIAN “RECESSIONAL."
A Now Year’s HYMN.
(With Abject Apologies to Kipling.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Loans of our Fathers, floated bold
With faith in future crop and mine.
And squandered (like most borrowed gold)
On public hall or wild-cat line—
The burden chafes our shoulders yet,
Can we forget ? Can we forget T
The Boom came on with blatant cries :
The “ Captains ” of “ Finance ” loomed large.
Some cried, “ See how the money flies ;
Shall we in time our debts discharge ? ”
But most on booms their minds had set,
And welcomed debt—they courted debt!
The boom increased, the crops were fair ;
“The Greatest Country in the South ”
This was the feeling in the air,
And this the phrase of ev’ry mouth.
Who then could think of curbing debt ?
(Did they forget ? Did all forget ?)
The bumper harvests melt away :
The land is scourged with famine dire;
The Croesus mine of yesterday
Is as the wealth of ancient Tyre.
Ah, will our creditors forget
That growing debt —that crushing debt?
If stung with fear, we seek to lose
Our thoughts of stress, and coming smash ;
And go upon a reckless booze
Ere yet we hear the awful crash—
Then Heaven help us with the debt
We can’t forget—which must be met.
ROY.


Dress faßßies
Are
Stocked bv the
Leading Drapers.
trade mark
THE VARNISHED BOARD
A SET OF TEETH ONE GUINEA
Beautiful and Lifelike in Appearance and Guaranteed Perfect Fit. Absolutely Painless
Extractions and Stoppings Guaranteed. ‘
Special Attention Given to Regulating Children’s Teeth.
Mr. J. SPENCER NOLAN, R.D.S., Surgeon Dentist, 43 Oxfod-st. Sydney
Sold by all Drapers and Hosiers
KNEIPP LINEN
UNDERWEAR
Porous. Cool. Clonn >•
woo., uean. Unshrinkable
Recommended by “ Lancet ”
It transpires that Boss Booth’s daughter
and her husband, Clibbom, went over to Prophet
Elijah Dowie on a six months’ trial. At the end
of that time it was the woman who wouldn’t; so
the pair have now gone to convert Brussels.to
something or other.
Federal Attorney-General Deakin is sup-
posed to be spending a well-earned holiday at the
seaside. As a fact, he is at Port Lonsdale sur-
rounded by papers and a law-library, where he
works off all Ins departmental duties, and keeps
himself up to-date by spending an hour daily in
the telegraph-room with the operator.
Vic. Railways Minister Bent’s “reduced-
time ” system having had the sole effect of
creating discontent everywhere and doing no good
anywhere, that stodgy blunderer next proposed to
abandon it in favor of another device —the sacking
of 1300 “casuals,” the remaining regulars to work
full time. But this time Premier Irvine fell on
Bent hard, and the proposed wholesale sacking
was abandoned. The present reduced-time sys-
tem, which means that the men work full time
and overtime, and are only paid for short time, is
to continue. Spite of Bent’s declaration of over-
manning, the sober fact is that most of the
branches are grievously under-manned. There
are 350 guards in the service, and at the present
moment another 40 are wanted to do the work.
In one country district 15 guards last month
worked 115 days overtime —7f days per
man! —for which they were not paid, and
probably never will be. (They may be
allowed time off to make this up—or they
may not.) Also the “reduced-time” system,
as applied to clerks, etc., is admittedly a fraud
an d a ’ f° r the circular enforcing it says —
lhe half-day off is to be taken between the
hours of 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. The staff will be
required to remain on duty each day until the
work of each day is completed.” The work is to
be done as before, the employee is to take a half-
day a week off if he can manage it, but whether
lie gets it or not he is only to be paid for 51 days’
work ! z
Ihe Lacte Remedies —What they are. How
to use them, and speedily obtain a beautiful
plumpness of face, neck and arms, and a perfect
ust. W rite for H. Westall Guest’s new pamph-
let, post free, 229 Bourke-st., Melb„*
t*EW
y *r
o
o
*
o
Q
Or
CASE
OF
-ft
ST
A
CHARLES HEIDSIEC
CHAMPAGNE
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
My Dear Arini—
Sydney, January 6, 1903.
A happy new year to you ! Just before mid-
night on New Year’s Eve I passed a soprano’s
house and through the open windows into the hot
night came her interpretation of someone’s senti-
ments in song. “Peace on earth, goodwill to men
from ’Eaven’s all-grycious King; the world in
solium stillness lay to ’ear the aingels sing.” Yet
our share of the earth was racked with discordant
noises ; on the harbor, steamers were letting go
their foghorns, sirens and whistles. On land,
penny trumpets blared, cracked dinner-bells of
suburban boarding houses rang, and a specially
objectionable noise invented by school-boys was
made by drawing a string through a perforated
salmon-tin.
Such a number of persons’ souls are required of
them at this holy season, and required of them,
too, in such appalling fashions ! This seems to be
the acceptable time for lonely misers to die
suddenly in their huts, or to be murdered. It is
the favorite period for the youth to look down
into the barrel of a gun and play with the trigger ;
his sorrowing relatives explaining he didn’t know
it was.loaded. Then there are the fallings over
cliffs of girls while picnicking, and the burnings
to death of .women whilst boiling the indigestible
plum-pudding, and thedrownings of small children
whilst paddling, and the lonely passing away of
the old identity, and the shocking outrage—nigger
or otherwise.
Cup day of Tattersall’s Club races brought out
green muslin and green linens in multiplicity.
“He had that love of green,” says Oscar Wilde,
writing of the poet - painter - poisoner, Wain-
wright, “peculiar to decadent individuals and
nations.” It is not true, but it makes one feel
thinky .when one sees certain shades of green.
Randwick’s course was green as Spring, and there
was a huge attendance of tired-looking women.
Excellencies Rawson and daughter came from the
Highland Sports Gathering and watched interest-
edly Postillion and Kinglock’s fine performances.
By the way, why doesn’t the wealthy, but mean,
money-grubbing haw-haw A.J.C. make, better
refreshment arrangements ?
Some items in the cable accounts of the Delhi
Durbar are perfect bits of French pastry. Here’s
one: “ The elephants in the procession provided
what was probably the most remarkable feature
the day. ” That’s honest, but unflattering to the
Curzons, Connaughts and Ranjitsinhjis. In a sense
they took the place, of the peacocks and apes of
Solomon’s ring-a-ring-a-rosy at the dedication
of his Temple. “Lord Curzon and his
Consort rode on the same gigantic tusker as
Lord Lytton used when, in 1877, he proclaimed
Victoria Empress of India.” This elephant is
probably a lineal descendant of one of those which
was in battle with Alexander the Great. In any
case, he is Some Trunks in his own country, where
the Very Best native people hate pig. So what
must have been his feelings when he found himself
sat upon by the Chicago pig-packer’s daughter ?
Later, all the other milords the elephants were
required to trumpet and toss aloft their trunks
whilst defiling past the Curzons and Connaughts.
Lady Curzon wore white and heliotrope, and her
elephant was gowned in a saddle-cloth literally
ablaze with gold. Cables make significant the
fact that the seats of the Duchess of Connaugh t and
Lady Curzon 4 ‘were placed slightly behind those of
their husbands.” Not so far behind, you know, as to
make the bone thrown over the shoulder fall short
of the squaw for whom it was intended. The
quartette sat on golden thrones, the tuskers wore
golden anklets; and the howdah upon which the
Viceroy sat when mounted on Rajahtommy was
of solid silver. Connaught did himself just as
brilliantly, yet the black princes’ display eclipsed
that of the Vice-regal part of the variety show.
Silver howdahs don’t amount to much now-a-davs
—there’s less.than fourpence-worth of silver in
the shilling.
Massed bands of 2000 performers accompanied
the elephants’ trumpeting, and “ enormous crowds
of natives,” say the cables, “ watched the pageant
with reverent curiosity .” The circus was our
0U know. Had it been another nation’s,
Oriental stolidity ” would have described the
natives’demeanor. The cablegrammer deserves
a free ride on Rajahtommy. <
Wives and widows of native rulers watched the
scene from behind lattices- real wisdom ; native
ladies, especially widows, are very plain. The bar-
baric splendor of the festival wouldn’t call for
any chortling; comment if left to the black princes,
but when white ones of this day, date, and genera-
tion take the leading roles to the noise of the
trumpeting of elephants and the tossing-aloft of
trunks, and the getting on golden thrones, the
Durbar is simply the funniest event—bar David’s
kangaroo-dance before the Ark—in all history.
King David, it may be remembered, took off some
of his clothing when the Ark arrived, and danced
backwards in front of it, and if he didn’t get his
foot accidentally through one of the top windows
of Jerusalem, it wasn’t for lack of energy.
Sydney Cricket Ground was a seething mass of
humanity, much of it feminine—why is the woman
eternally interested in the colored gentleman ?
on Saturday afternoon to see Major Taylor’s
Australian debut. The renowned cyclist is not
brown ; he’s black ; jet, shiny coal-black ; slight in
appearance, with peculiar bunchy calves. Bent
down over the handles of his machine, there is
something horribly reminiscent of a cockroach in
his attitude, but no cyclist is a thing of
beauty when he gets himself into sprinting posi-
tmn ; and this peculiarity of the Major’s aspect is
probably due to his Color and the style of his
racing garb. After winning the final of the
International Quarter Mile, he rode round the
track several times waving a small pocket stars-
and-stripes, and I couldn’t help thinking that it
was strange a negro should triumphantly wave a
flag under which colored men are socially treated
with such ignominy— to say nothing of being burnt
alive to the accompaniment of brass bands in
furnaces fired by women, special trains laid ’on,
and ‘ front seats reserved for ladies.”
On Sunday night at Wesley Church, Chippen-
dale, Major Taylor displayed himself in another
capacity. Pastor Colwell having dived into his
Bible Concordance spread himself over three texts
in which the word “ race ” occurred. “ Rejoiceth
as a strong man to run a race,” “the race is not
to the swift,” “Let Os run with patience
the race that is set before us.” Major arose
to ** make a few remarks,” and told the people
he was a Christian ; then he laid his hand on
his diaphragm and said he felt it there. He ab-
jured the young men to be Christians also, and to
abstain from cycling, lawn tennis, ju-ju worship
and other amusements on Sundays. He could
have made heaps of pelf by racing on Sundays
but had always refused. All of which proves
—several things.
Dr, G. H. Taylor, Government Pathologist,
who recently married Miss Sykes, a Sydney girl,
got a fine present of silver plate from the officers
and men of the city police force.
Our new Admiral and Lady Fanshawe will
arrive this month per Ophir. Their daughter
Winifred was married just prior to her parents’
departure to Mr. Rycroft, the rector of Highclerc,
Hants.
A fashionable Sydney wedding of last week
was that of the youngest daughter of Colonel
Mackenzie, Victoria Barracks, to Colin, a son of
the late Captain Charles Smith.
Newington Women’s Refuge is well worth a
visit, and the journey there gives you a lovely
two hours’ trip on the Parramatta. Some of the
inmates do very fine lace, knitting and Persian
embroidery. At Xmas some University girls
took up to the 800 puir bodies a large quantity of
different kinds of cookies, donated by the A.B.C.
Cafe. Sargent’s also contributed, and some tea-
merchants sent some of their wares.
As most ladies interested in church matters
know, it is customary for residents to offer hos-
pitality to the visiting clergy during the sittings
of Church Congresses. A lady wrote to offer her
spare room to a certain clergyman during a recent
Congress at , and the parson smugly replied:
Madam, —I shall be pleased to accept your hospitality,
provided that I can depend upon being supplied with hot
water in the morning; that I have breakfast on the table
at 10.30, a hot lunch at 1.15, and dinner sharp at 6.30. If
assured that you can fulfil the above, I shall be very glad
to make your house my home during the sittings of the
Congress.
Just look at that, now !
State Premier See has a most important engage-
ment next week. He opens a second-hand band-
stand at Ash field (the old thing was already opened
as a pavilion in some other parish). Gov. Rawson
wasinvited toperform “the interestingceremony,”
but, “owing to a prior engagement, had been
reluctantly compelled to decline.” Eye-witnesses
to the State Gov.’s grief say that it was most pain-
ful to behold. He has the nation’s sympathy. I
have a plate of oysters to be opened (some of them
have been opened before, and the beards of these
will be tied with the Rawson colors). Sir Harry
is to be invited to come down from Moss Vale and
perform the interesting ceremony. Also, Aider-
man Jobson’s scullery-door sticks since the recent
rains, and the State Gov. has graciously promised
to open it on Easter Monday.
There died, last week, at Canterbury House,
Sydney, the wife of Mr. J. L. Goodlet. This
charitable and unostentatious lady’s death will
leave a gap in philanthropic circles. She and her
equally charitable husband established, and en-
tirely supported for a long time out of their private
purse, the Thirlmere Home for Consumptives.
Latest news of Florence Schmidt is her engage-
ment to Mr. Derwent Wood, a successful London
sculptor. Kate Rooney is also to be married
shortly. Her fianci is very rich, and has no com-
pulsory occupation.
Captain E. R. (“Dick”) Connor, R.N., the
well-beloved commander of N.S.W. Naval
Brigade, expired most suddenly last week—was
found dead in bed after a day of over-exertion—
and was. accorded a naval funeral, which took
place amid Sunday’s great thunderstorm. “Happy
is the corpse that the rain falls on.” The deceased
had a varied naval career, and had long held
a N.S.W. civil service appointment. He was a
universal favorite, and he leaves a widow, two
daughters, and three sons.
Dr. Elsey Ross, who died last week in Sydney,
aged 45, of heart trouble, was a son of the late
Mr. Grafton Ross, once chairman of the Colonial
Sugar Co., and a nephew of the head of the S.M
Herald proprietary. Dr. Ross was hon.
physician to the St. Vincent’s and Lewisham
Hospitals, and was a well-educated physician and
a man of most amiable character, who had done
much benevolent work.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“The Distressed Actors’ Fund should feel
much fatter for the benefit matinee (Jan. 2nd.)
which crowded the Princess Theatre (seats ten
a u j * lv 1 e s u^ln £ s ) - Manager Musgrove went a
shade beyond the mark, one fancied, when he
came °ut to beg the gods to cease from clamoring
for more Melba and to settle themselves down to
a not-particularly-dainty ditty about a dentist,
wmch came next on the programme. Said
Mr. Musgrove in tones of wounded delicacy
reproach : ‘ Ladies and gentlemen,
a.ll the artists have given their services,’ etc. So
they had to the theatrical charity, not to the
audience, which, having paid for its seat plus half-
a-crown for its programme, had little compunction
in trying to coax an extra stave from Australia’s
Sweet-Throat.’
Roughly speaking, the matinee crowd was
made up of Somebodies and Nobodies. Betwixt
and betweeners stayed at home, rather than
compromise their standing by showing up in
town when they ought to be in Delhi,
Maonland Tasmania, Macedon, anywhere
but Melbourne. Dowager Clarke’s second
daughter, Vera pale and dark-haired as of
yore (this as of yore’ is really necessary ; hair
fashions and colors change so much), looked tall
and willowy, all m pale-blue. Her sister-in-law,
Mrs. rancis Clarke, seemed slimmer than for-
merly m deep mourning, worn for her brother,
Mr. Cyril Cotton, who died recently in S’Africa.
Ihe parental Cottons, in Daylesford, were just
rejoicing over the return of their daughter from
England, where her husband has been studying a
Oxford. The young couple brought their infant
son with them, a wonderful baby, the first grand-
child on both sides of the family, and, so far, the
only heir in the new generation to the Clarlte
baronetcy. Then the news came of young Mr.
Cotton’s death.
“The State-Governor Clarkes stole late into
their box, thus escaping ‘Gor’ Save.’ The Violet,
in brown rig-out and summery hat, appeared
much gayer for her Tasmanian trip, and laughed
merrily at all the matinee humors, especially the
jokes of Aide Browning.
“ Melba joined the Clarke group after her item,
and joined with Missie in giggling at the jour-
nalist in a ‘Modern Magdalen,’ such a horrid,
hypocritical, lank-haired, little scribe! Marie
Corelli, Haddon Chambers, &c., must mean to
avenge their grievances against the Press by pil-
lorying journalists on the stage. Of late, we’ve
seen pensters treated worse on the boards than
even curates.
“All Melba’s relations witnessed her matinee
triumph. Nice old Mr. Mitchell placidly declined
to buy portraits of Melba on the ground that he
had plenty already, His grand-daughter was
close by, little ‘ Nellie Melba ’ Patterson. People
say to the baby’s grand-dad: ‘Why don’t you
call the darling ‘Melba’ instead of Nellie?’
‘ Would ye have me advertise the child, at her
time of life?’ says ‘Caledonia stern and wild,’
severely. Little ‘ Nellie ’is a nice, brown-eyed,
smooth-haired mite, who, at the matinee, looked
like a fay in filmy white muslin and lace, and sat
as quietly as her gaffer, listening closely to every-
thing and drawing her own shrewd conclusions.
The Mitchells hold calmly aloof from Melba’s
fine friends, though not for lack of encouragement
to do the contrary. They make no attempt to
return the calls of suddenly-friendly Smartest.
‘ What’s the good?’ they ask unappreciatively.
Everybody, you see, doesn’t yearn to fulfil the
destiny of a shawl, which is doffed or donned,
discarded or prized, according as the wind blows,
hot or cold.
“ As Ophelia Melba looked a real girl, but her
voice was, perhaps, not at its best in the stifling
matinee atmosphere.
“ Nellie Stewart, in her Dolores role, showed
figure and garb both startlingly new. The former
was of the hour-glass build, aided to that effect by
a gaudy garb of gold (an ounce to every inch),
which was skin tight to the knees, and then
escaped over a borderland of piping into a wide
area of frills. The fair Stewart has never appeared
in anything so bizarre or more revealing. The
make-up inclined to paleness, the form to slim-
ness, the hair-dressing to moppy outlines, so that
the eternal youth of Nellie was sacrificed, and her
Dolores ’ sinned and suffered at a mellow period
of life. ‘ Rich and rare were the gems she wore.’
. *' It is interesting to watch the gradual manner
m which feminine Melbourne receives that
wicked play, ‘A Country Mouse.’ During the
first half-act or so the women maintain a solemn
demeanor of failure to understand the cynical
pleasantries of the female rakes and their spicy
male friends. Then the general expression turns
to one of shocked sniff, but ere the first act has
been played through, every patroness has aban-
doned herself to frank enjoyment of the spoken
wickednesses. Best of all, to observe a matron
who has unsuspectingly brought an ingenuous
18-year-old mouse of her own. She fidgets, and
makes deprecating remarks, and hints that they
will have to go home at the end of the first act.
But, when the fateful time arrives, she has con-
veniently forgotten the fact that her daughter is
a fc ? n j lnnoeent > and she sits on and chuckles,
and nudges the tender innocent when anything
particularly naughty seems about to occur.
“Melba accorded Kooyong and the hot, per-
spinng polo-players a sort of private interview
the other day. Lord Dick, who acts as general
social manager or nurse for Madame, made the
secret arrangements for the dress rehearsal.
Madame looked very well, but was noticeably
careful of her throat when the keen southerly
wind did blow. There was afternoon tea in the
beamin ag ° da ’ a ° d S °° n after tea Melba de P arted
“Tenor Kirby’s luck flourishes like the green
bay-tree. After all the benefits, he now gets a
fat engagement to accompany Melba on her
Maonhmd tour. Brother singers, who might as
well think of going to Heaven in a chariot of fire
a benefit ’ * ul P down th «r envy
S k ( . he troubadour) reckons he has
H ab k Ut k ?ot h u and adm 'ts he will begin
to think himself lucky when Melba propels his
wheel in the Big Smoke. Will she?
“Melba has also booked the Conservatorinm
contralto (Miss Elva Rogers) for the Seddon-land
Mar's h»n w p reckoned a pat on the back to the
Marshall-Hall circle. At the Conservatorium
high" S. contr * ltos « her voice U
“There is a foundation for the rumor that
George Musgrove shortly shakes the grit of Mel
bourne off his patent-leathers and makes for a
Err* fr,oost ' ln th ?- Blg Smoke - j - w - win
look after the Australian theatres, and Georo-e
who was born with the gold spoon in l,riS’
attend to his Shaftesbury, which has had an extra
hands?’ ° g ” d lu ° k sin “ il hU
“Senator Sargood’s sudden death in Maori
land shows once more that ailing, elderly people
are safest in their own comfortable * homes
Deceased will always be remembered gratefully
a rno f hospitable host. His splendid place
Rippon Lea-said, on good authority, to possess
the finest private gardens in possess
them with boating, conjuring, aG
ESS and Sir" 11,0 k "“ “«- SJSfi
‘Loo’ Chapman, daughter of ®Ee SS
remain seLrelVS^
recently run down to Melbourne and tlm V 6
ss S' -Ss
'Vha, it all
that it is part of a scheme to let Australians see
their paid-for ships occasionally, and is directed
by an astute Admiralty, which wants to make, at
this Imperial-subsidy stage, the Imperially-con-
trolled and manned squadron more popular.
“The starchy young tenor, Mr. J. Gregor
Wood, took to wife a sister in the profession,
Miss Allie Mattison, last month. Musical people’
mostly, looked on at the ceremony, in St. Paul’s
Cathedral. A Melb. weekly, given to poetio
patches at times, effuses in this style : ‘ The clerk
of the weather did not smile in too kindly a
fashion upon the nuptials. Certainly he withheld
the heaviest of his tears during the long drive to
and from Hawthorn, and struggled to give fleeting
smiles and little sun-kisses during the ceremony.’
A careless reader might gasp at the groom being
so precipitate, not understanding that it is ‘ the
clerk of the weather ’ that is having the fun.
“ Senator Best and his bride are just now con-
templating heaped-up trophies in electro-plate and
silver-ware. Legion is the name of these presents,
and as they arrive at a house which has been ‘ there
before,’ in a sense, the difficulty of spreading and
storing is a tremendous task. A politician always
gets a good start in house ornaments when he
marries. When he marries twice he gets a surfeit.
“ A young Melbourne matron, who recently
presented a daughter to the world, thus broke the
news by wire to her friends : ‘ Chin-Chin ! Can
now sport a medallion of my very own.’
“From a woman’s point of view Flemington
minus a V.R. party is like a salad without dress-
ing. The New Year’s meeting limped along any-
how with its hair out of curl. The Terrace was
almost deserted, a few smart souls taking out
time in gossip on the stand. It is always a
mystery to know where on earth all the chiffon
glories of the Cup carnival depart to. At no
subsequent race-meeting are they resurrected.
“ Lady Clarke had the effect of a subdued
moonlight sonata at the inter-State cricket match.
Her entire grey rig-out, crowned by the hair we
know so well, was a harmonious whole. The
Tasmanian trip, it seems, gave her the needed
rest, and restored the Gray Lady’s air of alacrity.
Her spouse confesses to be feeling braced up
again, and he looks it.
“Saturday’s M.C.C. gathering with one accord
faced the pitch in a wide candle-snuffler sun hat.
A notable exception was the much-pictured Miss
Geva Stanley, who extinguished her crown in an
immense cabbage-leaf of coarse straw, from the
loose brim of which a slack gossamer sail fluttered
in the breeze. She did not even pretend to be
following the wicket contest, and was absorbed in
a book. Hard-faced ‘barraekers’ glared at the
engrossed reader who was prominently perched in
the front seat of the pavilion. It was droll and
honest. The average girl at the cricket-match
might just as well be darning, or embroidering, or
manicuring her nails, for all she knows of the
game. It’s another sport she’s after.
“One dress showed wicket-stump trimmings on
a blue linen ground. The white stumps were not
placed for scientific but for sartorial effect. They
appeared on the back and sides of an Eton jacket,
and fore and aft the skirt. Such a device should
have drawn a wicket-keeper, but it didn’t.
“While the New Year crowd was bustling
through the streets of Melbourne, a pneumatic-
tyred hansom bowled silently along Collins-street,
taking Victoria’s convalescent Speaker and a
factotum. The face of poor Duncan Gillies peered
from the window with uncanny effect. The round
bald head wore a skull-cap, and the face, like a
pale preserved apricot, was set grimly. He
determined to get better, and he has done so.
There was a look in his bare, bleak countenance
that told of the fight.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


“WORN OUT.”
Fagged right out—you know that wretched Summer feeling !
Too weak to work—too weary to walk—too languid to take any keen pleasure in life.
No strength—no vigor—no snap—no ambition ! Always dull and drowsy—always
longing for a lounge ! J
To-day you’re tired and listless—to-morrow, headaches and backaches, nervousness and
indigestion will wreck your whole health.
You need Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People—and you need them at once. They’ll
brace you up and give you new strength, energy and health by enriching your blood and
toning your nerves. They are the greatest spinal tonic in the world.
They have saved others—they can save you. Read :
SYDNEY CURE.— “ Two years ago my blood became very poor, and as a result I was miserably weak and run-
down, says Mr. A. Mackin, 161 Bourke-street, Sydney. “I lost all appetite, and always felt weary and worn out
There were peculiar stinging pains all through my body. Sometimes I thought they were due to dyspepsia which
tormented me constantly. A doctor treated me for several months, and although I took a trip to Brisbane I sr’rew no
better. When there, a Queensland friend recommended Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. Even a few doses relieved me
Two boxes enriched my blood and made me feel ever so much better. Now! am strong and hearty mv appetite is
first-class, and I sleep as sound as a top.” j u
Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney. Price, 2/9 per box ; six boxes 15/3.
I
%
%
PERSONAL ITEMS.
N f w W ' fftr the first time for years, no
IN.b. W. Supreme Court judge’s son is his father’s
associate.
Another injustice to Ireland ! Alleged
by the Oriental interpreter in the Boulder (W A )
court, the other day, that O’Hara is good Japanese
Wlurroo! “** Y ° shima
take h ?S & i%> still some people who
take the J.P “honor” seriously. A Sydney
?av rve r Tn1 t Kr th^ pr ° ud eminence the other
hoLfofVe Jvent * 50 ° f hia £rienda
It is conveyed that Captain Wallington’s
euly hope of again officially holding the door of a
Government House in Australia lie* in the chance
a&ss&ar Boyai£amiij
there s a good deal of sniffing in Mel-
bourne legal circles over the appointment of the
solicitor-secretary to the Law Institute, which
“ry go°od rflS»» d ‘“‘ idod either by go ° d luCk OT
The Vie. Iceberg Cabinet’s pet diversion
w four- 0 clock tea, two public service messengers
eing monopolised two or three afternoons a week
m preparing the beverage and washing-up after-
" al 'ds- 1 he Afternoon Tea Cabinet!
N.S.W. is likely to have still another
btephen on the Supreme Court Bench. An
additional puisne judgeship is loudly called for
and this offer may go to the placid Mr. C. B.
Stephen half-brother of the Acting Chief-Justice
and a veteran at the Bar.
Told of N.S.W. Governor Rawson that
during a recent trip to Armidale he fraternised
with a warder from the local gaol, at which the
best families were deeply shocked. The warder
had been a midshipman with the now Admiral in
the iNavy, and his senior, too.
‘Paddy Perkins,” Queensland’s show
cultivated aborigine, has passed away near Too-
woomba. His wife, “Emma,” was also “cul-
tured. Baddy was known to most Q. public men
as he travelled about after them and liked to dis-
Trvfi p ° lltlea ll® had committed a deal of the
xSibie to memory and could recite numerous
passages from the English poets. He was an
aboriginal curio.
AN ACCOMMODATING ORGAN.
THE EMINENT TRAGEDIAN: “Dashed fellow
accuses me of roaring. Confound him, how
does he know there were no deaf people in
the house? ”
Mrs. Chapman, widow of Henry Samuel
Chapman, an early Victorian politician and
afterwards a Judge in Maoriland, died there re-
cently. She was the Judge’s second wife—the
first, with all the Judge’s family save one boy, left
at school, went down in the s.s. London, January,
1866.
Sydney D.T.’s ex-editor Brient has ap-
proached Fleet-street, London, in a proper spirit
of respect. A shaven chin and the glossiest of
silk hats point the moral when he says, “No, I
don’t smoke a pipe in the street. It’s not the thing.
A fellow finds here that he has to consider his
reputation—by Jove, yes ! ”
Edward VH., it is said, officially refers to
himself as “I,” the “We” which King John
introduced, and which his successors adopted,
being dropped. The innovation shows plain
common sense; also “I” is much the cleaner
expression of the two. The old plural term sug-
that the King had insects on him.
Quong Tart, Sydney’s Chinese Dooley,
relates that he got a letter from the Undertakers’
Society congratulating him on his escape from
deatli at the hands of a robber. And Quong
gleefully tells how he wrote back, thanking them
for their solemn solicitude, and reminding them
that he had “done them out of a job that trip.”
The marriage, t’other day, of C. H.
Reading and the daughter of President Carey
connects the S.M. Herald and L>. T. families.
Editorially they were more or less united when
editor Curnow’s assistant, Heney, became editor
Grullett’s son-in-law ; and, managerially, the select
committee on newspaper carriage also made
them bedfellows.
Premier Barton was present recently—so
the Sydney daily papers state, but perhaps it is
only part of their campaign of venomous opposi-
tion—at a public presentation to Alderman Isaiah
Reginald Cohen, who had organised a feed for
Mr. Barton, and was thus rewarded. The yarn is
just believable ; Barton as a public man is almost
everybody’s Toby.
W. T. “Billy” Jones, who stands to lose
£40,000 by the verdict against him and John
Blyth in the Montgomerie Brewery case, re secret
profits in the floating of a eo., recently tried in
Melbourne, is a successful retired broker now
living in England. Originally apprenticed to the
he tramped to Ballarat and was made a
present of some apparently worthless scrip which
turned out well. Going “under the verandah,”
he succeeded from the jump, and after many ups
ad downs made a pile in the Broken Hill boom.
1 te also won Melbourne Cup with Bravo about 12
rears aco.
CaWenews of the death of the Emir of
S n at 5® sableman$ ableman to mention
tne deaths of Camillo Urso and Aubrev de Vere
The secret is that the Emir is in some remoTe
way connected with the Hempire. If this sort of
oabhnff 0 t n o t th« e Tr T,18 .? U^ ETIN will rebate by
“* Ki/ *
Senator Syraon is resting from his leeal
bersoPthe^Ad l^^ 8 u Burnie - Tas - The mem-
-5 bfl i!i de ai^ e J bar , devout, y pray that he
released judge i the fees thus
ordbfarv K distribution would keep a dozen
briskpr y f b SterS L golng and litigation will be
enSd"/hl^k W Wh , en S^mon is known to be
engaged the Other side usually gives in.
T™ ar i? in . al , M(> , ran ’ s application of Father
m TtS Ur « keB * h “»PWg Saxon lie” to a state-
ly 4 ? eV> Ils Rutledge misses the point
Frond 1 ; ke v d r s ? gnafced a statement made by
Englishman, and, so far as Ireland
abl9 t°i;'an of Saxon proclivities-
hereas Woolls Rutledge is no historian, has no
anti-Irish proclivities, and is a native of Australia.
A yarn has been put about that Wm.
Jjyons (an old-time prosperous miner, who died
“J 51 a’larat Ilenevoient Asylum, t’other day,
?P d V:u* f f er escort,n B the Duke of Edinburgh
rnin o g i n® lr ’ wer workings of the Band of Hope
the hf,?of n at ’ m xr 6 - 8 ’. and . relatin ? that he saved
it, ku- Q ueen Victoria m Dublin bv stopping
Bv W°r I tj hor v Se8 l of h . er car riage, was “knighted’’
k-'R, •’ w ho, having commanded Lyons to go
“ Ar!L k a BeB ’w a P’ wi , tb a flourish of his hand,
Arise, Sir V nham ! ’ Present writer accom-
pameti the party, and knows that there is no truth
in the knighthood story. Alfred was the last
man in the world to indulge in such genial pranks.
One of the luckiest men in London is the
man who writes those nice little cables for the
syndicated Australian press. To him come all the
ir U o ? n girls who are anxious to get on in
the liig Smoke, and who are eager that their
frosty concerts be signalled to Cape York as
riumphs, and that their appearance in a Mount
Morganaires ball-room be reported to Oakey
Creek and that One-Tree Hill learn of the
magnificent reception given to their new book.
rp '*; 1 T) terVleWS occ , ur in camera, no doubt; and as
1 HE Bulletin reads those nice little cables it often
tiunKs that a phonographic-cinematographic
record of proceedings in the cable office would
torm a pleasant Sunday morning study.
John James Boyce, who lately died in
Bale (Vic.) Hospital, aged 84, was born in Tas-
mania, Ins father being a civil engineer, and son-
in-law to Lieut. Shorthand, who
accompanied the First Fleet to
Botany Bay, and discovered the
Hunter River, N.S.W. Boyce,
jun., went to Port Phillip in ’44,
and was with the Hentys at
Portland Bay for some time.
During the gold fever he was in
business for himself on Ballarat
and other diggings. He was
selected to accompany the Burke
and Wills exploring expedition
m ’6l, but the sudden illness of
his wife caused him to abandon
the trip. In the closing years
of his life he occupied himself as
a Gippsland prospector. The
typical history of a pioneer.
Henry Gullett, late editor
of Sydney D.T., when a young
man, made the acquaintance of
Edward Wilson, chief proprie-
tor of the Melb. Argus, in
Lancefield district (Vic.), where
the newspaper magnate ran an
experimental farm. Going to
London in ’64 to seek a literary
opening, Gullett met Wilson there
and accepted from him a nomination
. r _, to a . Position on the Akgus reporting
staff. Though Gullett entered the office by virtue
of this nomination, he made his way there by
virtue of hard graft, years of waiting and merit.
David Walker, who retires from Sydney
Y.M.C.A., after making the institution what it
is, is responsible for a good deal of the snuffle in
Sydney commercial life. In himself, however he
was hard-working and generous. He is a De’rrv
man and left Ireland to dig for gold, but gravi-
tated to religion. He worked awhile with Zion
City Dowie. Sydney’s was the first Y. M. C. A set
up in Australia, and was founded by John Fair-
fax, of the S.M. Herald— who, by the way
began Australian life as Librarian of Sydney’s
Public Library. J
N.S.W. ex-Auditor-General Rennie, when
presented by his officers with a testimonial, was
tempted to reminisce of his more than half-century
of Public servioe, but could not wander a hair’s-
breadth from his beloved figures. He was con-
temporary with Wentworth, saw Australia one
colony then the separation of various States, and
then the continent one again under Federation.
,t he has no recollection of persons or events
only of figures. Mr. Rennie has lived in his
ledgers only.
THE BEAUTIFUL, BEAUTIFUL
SIXPENCE.
‘ What did you buy with that sixpence I gave
you, I key?”
“I didn’t buy nothin'.” “ Why not?”
I seen nothin' I like better than mine thickpenth.”
A Sydney street newsvendor on the late
n ~ , emp e ’ Archbishop of Canterburyl
t llm Preach every Sunday at Reading for
twelve months, and lie never knocked his mouth
about with words the length of George-street, as
?,?^ any n Pa i SOnS £°* Tlle y w ere the little-est
, ft hout fresh air and trees and green
neJds, with a splash of religion thrown in just to
soberise a man like.”
Ex-Premier Cockburn, late S.A. Agent-
General, now a permanency in London, is one of
the moving spirits in the latest Northern Territory
syndicate which is taking up a vast tract of
countrybetweentteGLiK of Carpentaria and the
t rlle directors deny in their letters
the cabled statement of a month ago that they
intend to establish a community of Italian laborers
there to grow sugar. The Doctor has evidently
a mtentlon of retur ning to Australian
SolicitorDighton, of White Cliffs (N.S. W.)
who died the other day, was one of the founders!
and for some time edited, at Wyalong, a paper
which frankly called itself what the local people
generally contemptuously call the local sheet—
Ihe Kag A genuine, unlucky fellow, who put
on no side because he came straight from a
family which has often brushed the King’s clothes,
rerhaps it wasn’t by accident that, coming out of
that atmosphere, he lived here only in red-hot
radical communities.
Rumors are abroad of impending big
changes in Melb. Age staff as soon as David
Syme returns from a holiday trip in Maoriland.
Said that editor Schuler, a rich man (for a
journalist) will throw up work, and make way for
sub-editor Stephens, another man who knows the
policy of the paper backwards—as is sometimes
necessary. But Stephens, as sub-editor, has l>een
invaluable to David, and it would be almost
impossible to find another as competent and con-
scientious in all Australia. Other important
changes are spoken of.
Stephen Phillips, with whose poetical
work some English papers compare Maorilander
Adams, following The Bulletin’s lead, is a
typical clean-faced University man, with a tre-
mendously long chin. Old-fashioned physiolo-
gists used to say long chin meant large cere-
bellum, where they seated virility. Any-
way, Phillips married a luscious lady with no
obvious spiritual relation to poetry; and .
But he is the only English poet whose books sell
and his plays— “ Ulysses ” and the others—have
been fashionable London crazes.
Said that Premier Barton suggested to
W.A. Govt. Colonel Murray, of N.S.W., to fill a
vacancy on the Supreme Court Bench there. The
appointment went to an Englishman, and if he is
anything like as good a man and lawyer as Mr.
Murray he will be a treasure. Col. Murray, who
has been an acting Judge in N.S.W., has a’good
reputation as a scholar and a lawyer, and is
moreover, thoroughly skilled in sword-play, fisti-
cuffs—he was heavy-weight amateur champion of
England—holding his tongue, and other accom-
plishments which go to make a man.
Must have been the fun of the world to
hear Horace Tozervolublyexplaininghis connection
with Cohen’s “Article Club,” which Labouchere
exploded. “Well, your Honor’’—with Tozer’s
large, limpid eyes opened to their convincing
utmost—“of course 1 was aware that a Privv
Councillor was my fellow-member ; and ”•
shoulders shrugged up, deprecating palms thrown
down—“of course I asked no more.” Poor
Horace ! he has not been his own man since trust
in Oovt. House embittered his private life ; and
is own man, despite political time servings and
fellow prevancations > was a thoroughly good
In regard to a letter (8., 27/12/’O2) from
Rev. J. Brough, military chaplain, to the widow
contafniSrids? ( * Bushveldt Carbineers)
faull h of d ‘hJ« V = 0ng ~ I d ° not say that he did—it was the
smirinL » o Per '?^ B ’ and of those who appointed his
superiors and gave them orders.
thnn»R^ eneljan ’ffi f Sydney > wishea to state that,
though ho was officer commanding the Bushveldt
Carbineers, he had no command or control over or
connection with the detachment, officers of which
. ere accused of murdering Boer prisoners.
The just-deceased Randolph Machattie,
with another young sport, Battye, were the cause
of having Bathurst pillaged on one occasion.
a f. nt a challenge to the Ben Hall gang,
daring those knights of the road to go to Bathurst,
ihe gang took up the challenge, and on a Satur-
T~ v in sht entered the Sportsman’s Arms, kept by
Jack de Clouet. They made Mrs. de Clouet
hand over the cash-box, containing £5O, and
rdered De Clouet to hand over the key of the
stabie, but yells that Machattie was coming
interrupted the proceedings and the gang bolted.
The late Senator Frederick Sargood was
not in the least degree a “self-made man.” Heonly
Bimself one. As a lad of 15 he was
b ought from London to Melbourne by his parents
Sargood pere started a soft-goods business as soon
as he arrived, and the profits of soft-goods trading
were so enormous in those days that the merest
tool could make a rapid fortune if he didn’t take
to drink As a matter of fact the successful
fathers of the rag trade in Melbourne included
several very thick-headed persons. Old man Sar-
good, who went back to London after a few years’
residence in Melbourne and became buyer for the
firm, was a fairly intelligent draper, likewise his
son Frederick, who stayed in Melbourne with the
o* the^hree er ’ J ° m Kmg ‘ Klng was tlle cutest
COMFORTING.
OLD COUNTRYMAN (buying specs): “What have
you next to No. 2?”
OPPICIAN'S ASSISTANT: “No. 1, sir."
O.C.: “ And after that t ”
O.A.: “ After that, sir, you will need a dog."
“ E.” writes on Selina Sangal :
Setting aside the questions as to whether it was advis
able to hang Mrs. Sxngal after keeping her until her child
was born, or whether the interests of mankind are ever
advanced by the judicial murder of anybody whatsoever
one must object to the belated statement of the medical
man who told Vic. Governor Clarke that “ Mrs. Sam*al
was mentally unfit to be even brought to trial.” The
doctor said that he “could not publicly tell all he
knew, but was in a position to assure His Ex. that the
prisoner was irresponsible for her actions when she
worried paramour Tisler into slaughtering Sangal.
mysterious evidence w’hicb the doctor didn’t
publicly produce at the trial, or at the interview
between the reprieve-petitioners and Gov. Clarke, is none
the less called for now, seeing that Mrs. Sangal’s death
sentence has been commuted to one of imprisonment for
™ 8 " e °ughb not to have been brought to trial at
all, she ought not to be condemned to penal servitude.
But what does that Dr. know ? That a woman of strong
animal passions was lust-mad. That is not unique, or
even extremely rare. Pregnant women have been shame-
lessly lascivious in many more cases than Mrs. Sangal’s.
Nevertheless lust doesn’t carry a license to murder.
Wives of uncongenial husbands can be every bit as
mad ” as Mrs. Sangal was without being cold-blooded
wretches on the sane side of their characters. Murder is
murder whatever passion may have inspired it. Furious
jealousy, drunken savagery, nervous irritation—these
conditions are madness to the same extent as a preg-
nant woman’s lust is madness, yet they are not counted
as lawful excuses for murder. A medical man who
publicly expresses “ surprise” that Selina Sangal was
brought to trial is surely in duty bound to justify his
astonishment.


MACONOCHIE’S
TASTY KIPPEREB HERRINGS.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
The Genuine Linen Meeh
Underwear has arrived !
THE DR. DEIMEL LINEN MESH SINGLETS PANTS
in ill Sizes and in two Weights, obtainable from all the leading- Men’s Mercers at the fixed rate of lO 6 per
garment. Linen made in the form of a porous absorbent cloth possesses enormous advantages over the old-
fashion Woollen Garments. It does not become clammy or matted in wear. Is more absorbent than any other
material. Whoever heard of wiping one’s hands on a woollen cloth? Why, then, the body which is constantly
giving off moisture? IT NEVER SHRINKS. Ask for descriptive pamphlet, obtainable at all leading Men’s
Mercers throughout the Commonwealth. SOLE AGENTS—
ROCHUSSEN BRO CO5-7 Fiinde.-s Lane, Melbourne; The Strand Arcade, Sydney; Charles St., Adelaide
THREE STAR
BRANDY.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors. — In the ease of ethnological and
natural history items, etc., always give date and
place of experience ; or as nearly as possible. . Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific
value.
Crocodiles have not yet disappeared from
the Endeavor River (Q.) as many supposed. A
few weeks back, while several blacks were
camped near the water’s edge, at Four Mile, a big
saurian suddenly emerged, and seizing a pic-
caninny, swallowed it in the presence of its horri-
fied mother.
• * » •
“ Will J.” : As to the time sheep can live
without water (“ Bob R.,” 17/5/’O2). The feeble,
toothless old “yow” will beat anything else in
the flock. I have known one survive through
three of the hottest months, and then “ cavern
only because there was nothing else to beat. But
much depends on the nature of the country, the
season, and the feed. Given a light shower or
two, and shady, swampy areas (with no insects to
torture), and a sheep will get enough moisture and
nutriment from tuft-roots and such to keep it on
its legs; but water must always accompany
treacle and hay. A sheep will drink at any hour
of the day in December, and often perishes if
denied for more than a week; yet, strange to say,
will often “ hang out ” a whole summer on appar-
ently nothing.
“Ooloo:” Re the time animals can live
without water: A St. Arnaud (Vic.) trooper told
me that they lost a horse from the police-paddock
and only came across him accidentally three
months later. He had fallen down a kind of
closed gully and could not get up again. There
had been no rain to speak of since he had got
away, and everything pointed to his having been
down the gully for the greater portion of his holi-
day. The gully was bare of grass, but was tim-
bered with stringy-bark trees, the bark on which
was eaten off as high as the horse could reach. The
animal was poor almost to transparency, but after
being extricated quickly recovered health and
condition.
• • • *
He “Jaynol’s” stump-grubbing method
(8., 8/11/’O2), “introduced into Australia from
Maoriland alxjut ten years ago,” an old Singleton
burning-off pioneer complains bitterly that he
“ stooed ” 40 years back, and didn’t regard himself
as a first-discoverer either.
THE CAMERA AT JING ALONG.
VISITOR : “But, my dear sir ”
FARMER: “No ‘ but ’ about it. Take yer dom ferrits off
my ground, an' do yer rabbitting somewhere else!”
“ L.C.” : Was told by an old Flinders
squatter that at one time, in far N.Q., most of
the cattle-owners used to help themselves to each
other’s calves and kill each other’s bullocks in the
most unblushing fashion. Before there were any
fences out there, whenever a station “ mustered,”
the neighboring squatters used to go over them-
selves or send their stockmen, in order to get their
stray cattle. My informant once went to one of
these functions, and, arriving a day before his
other neighbors turned up, went out with his host
to run in a beast to kill. Presently they dropped
on a few beasts with, amongst them, a fine fat
heifer, which my friend at once recognised as his
own. The little mob was run into the yard and
the host fetched his carbine. “ What are you
going to shoot ?” asked my friend. “ That white-
faced heifer.” “Oh! no you don’t; she’s mine.”
“ By Jove ! is she ? ” was the unabashed reply, “ I
thought she was Gibson's.” Gibson was a neigh-
bor who hadn't arrived yet.
“Pome” by the ex-constable who is
alleged to be the writer of the anonymous confes-
sion of the murder of Dhalke and Doyle :
Story of a horse-deal submitted for com-
petition by a country paper: —
The buyer wanted a well-matched pair of carriage-
horses. Simpson, the selector, had a bay gelding of
exceptional type, and the buyer called to inspect.
“What do you want for it?” “Fort/s the lowest.
“ I’ll give you £30.” “ No, I won’t go any lower. Then
there was a pause, and Simpson casually mentioned that
Johnny Williams, who lived about 10 miles up creek, had
a good' match for his horse. “ A beautiful bay, with
black points, just such another as this ’un, and bred by
the same man. Johnny’s away, but he’ll be back before
dinner to-morrow, and you can see the horse then. So
the buyer determined to see Williams’ horse, and, if it
suited'him, to come back to Simpson and secure the
other The following evening the buyer returned,
bringing with him the bay that he had purchased from
Johnny Williams. He had to pay £5O for him—Johnny
wouldn’t take a penny less. At the gate Simpson met
the buyer. “ Well, I see you bought Johnny’s horse ?
“ He’s'a better sort than the one you showed me yester-
day ” said the buyer ; “ but I’ll give you £35 for yours, if
you like.” “ Too late,” said Simpson ; “ I sold mine
last night to Johnny Williams, and that’s him you re
leading now. He cal'led here on his way home, and I let
him have him for £38.”
“N.S.F.”: Re adaptability of
crows (B. 22/11/’O2). In Mackay (Q.)
district a chief item of crow-diet is
cane-grubs, and when ploughing is
being done, in the grub season, a
crowd of crows follow each plough,
picking up the grubs as they are ex-
posed. When one lot of crows have
had enough they go and spell on the
nearest trees and more crows take
their place. Tons of grubs are thus
destroyed, and the crow is therefore
locally valued. When the cattle
around there were attacked by ticks
the crows promptly acquired a taste
for tacks, and I have often seen a
mob of cattle lying down with half*
a-dozen crows or so prospecting on
each beast. The animal will turn
over when one side is picked clean.
It is, however, only the larger ticks
the crows pick—about the size of
half-grown grapes. Again, when we
had a plague of grasshoppers here at
the beginning of the year, and had a
gang of Kanakas driving them out of
the young cane, hundreds of crows
used to turn up every morning and
wait till the hoppers were near the
edge of the cane, when they would
draw up close, and, as the hoppers
flew out of the cane, the crows would
rise in a cloud and grab at them. By
the way, hardly any of the pigs here
can flourish a tail. The crows nip
them off and eat them when the pigs
axe young.
“R. Hap ” : Crows will follow the
traveller for miles, especially if he's
accompanied by a “poor” dog—and
has a limp and a black eye, and a
notice to quit hanging out of his
near-side pocket. The only way of
scaring them off is to flourish at
them a roll of bank-notes —fivers pre-
ferred. Tenners are even better.
In connection with the recent proposal to
license guns, as a preventive of accidents, in
Queensland it is worth noting that in those dis-
tricts where practically everybody carries firearms
accidents are almost unknown. Likewise, the
‘‘ settled districts ” are almost exclusively respon-
sible for “shooting affrays,” “tragedies,” &c.
♦ * » •
“F.S.”: Heard of a job near Camden
(N.S.W.), and bearded the lion (a portly fruit-
grower) in his den. Offered me Bs. a week for 16
hours a day ! Said he had already had 18 appli-
cants, but rather liked my style, and then had the
front to ask me (a swagman) for references. Of
course he got ’em !
* • • »
There are still some handy men knocking
about. A Chillagoe man recently undertook to
open a tin of jam, but, the tin-opener slipping, he
hit himself with the pot of jam, breaking two rite.
The animal men-
tioned bv “Prospector”
(B. 27/12/’O2), is a jerboa-
like rodent, probably the
little rat (Mut Nanus,
Gould), or Gould’s rat
(M. Gouldii), which
has white feet. They
are about the size
of a common
mouse, with long
hind legs and
short tore legs,
like ’roos, and
are common in
nearly all parts
of the continent.
The greyish-
white rat (M.
Albocinerous) is
found only in
W.A. Some of
the jerboa rats
(by some called
jerboa ’roos) are
also well distributed
from E. to W. coast.
The average size is a
little smaller than a
common rat, and they
are kangaroo-shaped.
• *
Scientific Ameri-
can describes a farmer’s
device for killing hawks.
Near his barn-yard he
set up a 50ft. pole, with
a scythe-blade tied to the
top of it, razor-edge
down. A black hawk
alighted on the scythe,
grasped it with its talons,
but suddenly released
its hold. “The bird
glanced down and at-
tacked the scythe
viciously. It was cut
again and again, but
never relented, mad-
dened probably by its
own blood, as most
hawks are. After a short struggle the bird fell to
the ground with its head split. This Louisiana
farmer has killed many hawks in the same
manner.”
* • • •
Old Jimmie McSlattery had been a carrier,
and in a lucky time took up a “ pasthoral lease ”
and grew rich. He was a fussy old fellow, and
acquired with his wealth a great hatred of swag-
men. One day a couple came to the “house” and
asked him for work. “Got none for ye,” he
replied, “an’ don’t be cornin’ axin’me, ye bring
the flies about, ye bring the flies about, be aff wid
ye!”
The little Scotchman said : “ Know old Rams-
wool of Scrap Eye plains? I did him a favor
oust.” “ What was it, Scotchie ? ” “Oh, I found
three of his horses in a dry corner and brought
them along to the station —thanked me very
hearty, he did —and then the mean ole devil
charged me 12 bob for a bag of chaff. But, my
word, I gave him what for.” “ Wonder he did not
kick you off the place, Scotchie ? ” “ Well, ye see,
he’s a bit deaf, and I was a long way down the
road when I spoke.”
• • * »
A farmer in Willunga district, south of
Adelaide, has sold his season’s crop of hay on 20
acres for £22o—more than the value of the land.
• • • *
In 1893 S. Aus. had million grape
vines in bearing ; this season the number has, for
the first time, passed 10 millions. In lemon-
growing, too, remarkable progress has been made;
the State has now 65,000 trees, and still is not in-
dependent of foreign shipments. Orange trees
have increased from 73,000 in ’93 to 118,000. But
bee-farming, which it was thought might be
worked in conjunction with fruit-growing, has
been a failure ; again and again bad seasons have
wiped out more than half the hives.
• * • •
Mr. Nicholas Krukoff, a Russian official
visitor, on Australian agriculturists :
The farming people of Australia are not so industrious
as those of England, Germany and America. They are
inclined to be lazy, especially the women, who, in many
cases, do not look after the poultry or the dairy, as is
done in Germany. In the country the young people seem
to do nothing but amuse themselves, and sport appears
to claim too much of their time.
Present writer has in mind a farm on Lane
Cove River, 20 or 30 acres in extent, with water
and road communication to Sydney, splendid soil
and facilities for irrigation. With good farming
(fruit and vegetable-growing mainly) it would
bring in £l5OO a year. With straggling, neglected
trees, overgrown with rank grass and weeds, no
water storage, but few poulti-y or other stock, it
supports only one struggling family. The east coast
lands (which are all fairly well watered) of Aus-
tralia, properly utilised, could support the whole
population of the continent at agriculture alone.
But there is practically no real farming in N. S.W.,
and very little in other States.
* • » •
“ Chass ” : Marsupial mice (B. 27/12/’O2)
are to be found in many places in Victoria. They
are larger than the ordinary fieldmouse, hair is
longer and rougher, and tail shorter and thicker,
and their head and ears are like a kangaroo's.
They are of nocturnal habits, and live in holes in
the ground and in hollow logs. A harmless and
interesting little animal, and, like all marsupials,
rapidly becoming extiuet.
TRUE TO NATURE.
REGINALD: “I say, Mary, you're wearing your
’possum-rug wrong -side-out ; you ought to keep
the woolly side in. "
MARY: “ Oh, you fool! Me wear him all same
ole man ’possum . Him know the best Side."
“ Twed ” : Be case of mule having a foal,
recently cited in Bulletin. The “throwing-
back ” alleged to have taken place involves the
theory of telegony, the possibility of which is
denied by most naturalists, though dog-breeders
stoutly maintain the contrary. It is asserted that
the champion ram President, although a pure Tas.
merino, showed many Vermont characteristics,
traceable to a visit of his mother to a Vermont
sire.
* * * *
“ Werrimee ” : Be snipe. “ Nymsie ” (B.
20/12/’O2) says that writer “repeats a too-readily-
accepted traditional notion that our Australian
snipe breeds entirely in Japan.” It was not said
they bred entirely in Japan. They may
breed in the Philippine Islands and contiguous
places as well. But they do not breed in
Australia. Gould, in his handbook on Aus-
tralian birds, states “it was said to breed in
Tasmania.” That has long since been proved to
be only a “ traditional notion.” Re statement
that Japs, take little interest in natural history,
“Nymsie” remarks: —“Yet no artists in the
world can more graphically than the Japs, depict
the whole tribe of long-legged, long-billed birds.”
Surely the little Jap. doesn't .require to be a
naturalist to be a bird-painter ! Any artist can
go to museum or gardens and paint a bird true to
life without learning anything thereby concerning
its habits. As a rule, artists don’t study that
sort of thing. Also, there is another snipe well
known in N.S.W. called the painted snipe (Rhyn-
chcea Australis), a much smaller bird, mottled
and spotted with brown. Whimbrels, godwits,
greenslianks, and marsh tringa are often mistaken
by bushmen for the true Latham’s snipe (Gal-
linago Australis).
• • • •
“ Bushwoman ” sends a drought-picture :
Dave Whiner is a married man, and has a large family.
He is a good shearer and a quiet fellow, but a terror for
drink. However, he is a bit cunning over it, and usually,
at a cut-out, posts his cheque to the better half, and joins
the crowd at the pub. knocking down their wealth.
Everyone shouts for him, and soon all hands are too
drunk to know whether he has paid his whack or not.
T’other day he came to our selection. “ Heard you was
shearing here, missus.” “So we are, in a bough shed out
on a well ; you can get on, as they are short-handed.
Walked far ?” “ Twenty miles; had no water since
dinner yesterday.” The man was ragged and footsore ;
I gave him a drink of tea, bread and jam, and he drank
cup after cup. “I tried to catch the coach here,” he
said ; “ I’ve walked 200 miles—earned ten bob a hundred
killing sheep down on the Richmond an’ skinnin’ them—
mud fat, they was, old ewes and wethers —the boss
couldn’t sell them and couldn’t drove them away, and
killed them to save the grass for the young ewes : 3500 I
killed.” " You’ve been drinking,” I said severely ; “ you
should think of your wife and children.” “ Biess you,
mum, she earns more than Ido ! I sent her one cheque,
and I'd ’a’ seut her another, only at the P.O. and railway
station over there (60 miles away) they don’t give no
money orders. I walked past the pub—l did, really, and
my billy was empty—but I turned back and I was done —
jus’ got one nip as I remember—that was the larst of me.”
“How big a cheque?“ I inquired. “Sixpounds. I tried
to go past—l did, really. I’d come nine miles from a
hole they told me had water, and when I got there it was
dry—a puddle with pigeons and galahs and them little
green birds dying all round, stuck in the mud. I don’t
think this drought’s never going to end.” “We are
shearing early’ to save ours all we can,” I replied; and
the footsore shearer picked up a swag, filled his billy
with brackish well-water from the red-hot tank, and
tramped off for the bough shed.
WHIFS BY THE WAY SIDE OE FACTS AN FANCIES.
A LOVER'S FAIR WELL.
Pair well to you my darling
Since we,ve been forced to Part
Since at a distance we,ve been Plased
I’ll still be your Sweetheart.
1
Its know but seldom we shall meet
To wander to and fro
But I’ll still be constant darling
And faithful unto you
2
For often, often do I think
Uppon those days goneby
And think upon those happy hours
Were spent by you and I.
Where we together used to roam
We were a happy pair
For in the town of Childers
Your equal was not there
But now my love weare parted
I hope that you’ll be true
For although the seas devoide ux
I often think of you.”


A Drink I A Tonic ! A Medicine I
Wolfe's Schnapps.
Call for WOLFE’S Schnapps pnd make sure that
you tr.kc nothing else.
Insomnia Banished.
Mr. Thomas Ryan, a bank clerk, residing at the
Star Hotel, Cootamundra, suffered considerably
for two years, the main cause of which was want
of sleep, and he writes thus : “ I am by profession
a bank clerk, and the weary of business so played
upon my mind that I could not obtain the neces-
sary am - unt of sleep. I may safely say that I did
not average three hours’ sound sleep out of 24.
This state of things played up with my constitu-
tion, and 1 soon began to feel the symptoms of a
disordered liver and other organic troubles, and
these were foliov. ed b> bilious attacks, indigestion,
headache, debility, &c. Matters began to look
rather serious, and I consulted several doctors in
the hope of bettering my condition, but to no
avail, and having also tried many so-called reme-
dies, I began to think I would be a confirmed
sufferer. But the 1 friend in need ’ came in the
shape of Bile Beans for Biliousness. I was in-
duced to try this valuable medicine through the
medium of a pamphlet I received, and will ever
bless the day I did so. A month’s trial of Bile
Beans proved to my satisfaction that I had secured
the remedy at last, as by that time I was com-
pletely cured, and, in gratitude to the proprietors
of the Bile Bean Co. and sympathy for my fellow
sufferers, I never lose a chance to recommend to
them Bile Beans for Biliousness.” Bile Beans
have now a world-wide reputation for curing
biliousness, headache, indigestion, constipation,
piles, debility, female weaknesses, nervousness,
bad blood, pimples and all skin eruptions, bad
breath, anaemia, loss of appetite, sleeplessness,
summer fag, &c. Bile Beans are obtainable from
all medicine vendors, price Is. lid., or 2s. 9d.
large box (contains three times the quantity of
the Is. l|d. size).*
AUSTRALIAN WORK
AUSTRALIAN GEMS
AUSTRALIAN GOLD
AUSTRALIAN DESIGNS
Australia is rich in Gems, wonderfully so—
Emeralds
Pearls
Rubies
Diamonds
Zircous Opals
Sapphires
We handle these in large quantities. We export them.
We cut them. We mount them. We set them.
Many of these gems are of wondrous beauty, and as we
only handle them from their rough state to when they
appear in all their loveliness as finished jewels, they are
cheap—much less than London Prices.
Brooch and Hair-Pin,
Opals and Pearls,
635. to £5 58.
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
T 23 HUNTER STREET.
9i
Pearl & Turquoise, £5 ss.
Shaker : When that milking-machine
comes into general use I’m going to pass the milk-
jug. i lie average agricultural idea of cleanliness
is scarcely equal to the demands of a common
bucket, and when it shall have come to an intricate
ariangement of tubes, receivers, connections, &c
the result will be phew!
• » • *
A correspondent of a M.L. country paper
lately reported that a well-known shearer in
Kangitikei district shore by hand 240 sheep, the
runner-up being handy with a tally of 215. N.Z.
Hicrald says that such a record could only be
made in Q. and N.S.W. out-back districts, where
tlie sheep grow tufts of belly-wool and so little on
any other portion of their bodies that they are
termed “rosellas,” after a parrot that fights so
viciously as to be generally devoid of neck and
back feathers.
* * * *
Nvnisie : Here (in Vic.) the ants are
storing supplies early this year; the fish, especially
the small ones, are hugging the weeds in the
creeks and rivers ; frogs are burrowing around the
swamps and river banks, and cormorants are
becoming very plentiful inland. These signs seem
to suggest a flood shortly.
* * * ♦
Several people lately gathered on the
banks of Merriwa Bayer (X. S. W.), and captured
a host of fish with ordinary rakes. An inflow of
thick, muddy water from a storm had driven
them to the sides in search of cleaner water, and,
being partly suffocated, they were easily raked
ashore.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin.— Years ago N.S. W. Govt,
set apart that huge area known as the National
Park for the preservation of Australian flora.
After a 20 years’ trial the experiment may be
classed as successful. This being so, why is no
effort made to preserve Australian fauna? The
emu, the turkey, the whole of the marsupial
tribes, the water-fowl and the platypus could find
a comfortable home in the areas of said park. If
keepers can prevent demolition of flora on the
reserve they could also protect fauna. — Banco.
“Chass”: “ Eiddal” (B. 20/12/’O2) is
wrong about the “complete harvester.” The
harvester, in the hands of a man who understands
his riddles and watches a 1 regulates his wind-
blast, will turn out a sample freer from cracked
grain and rubbish than either lie hand winnower
or the best threshing plant. The harvester, also,
is the only machine that can, in one operation,
harvest and clean grain fit to be sown through the
seed-drills. A complete harvester costs £BO in
Melbourne.
"FRED THOMPSON ” (FRED VERCOE),
artilleryman, who beat “Snowy” Sturgeon,
middle-weight champion of Australia, at
Sydney, on 30th ult.
Photo, by Brand, Park-st, Sydney.
“ J.C.8.” writesfrom Mungindi (N.S.W.).
Re recent discussion. Have a tame kangaroo
here who drinks from a billy and always laps the
water.
* * • •
“ J.F.D.'’ : The female wood-carter men-
tioned by “C.G.” (8., 27/12/’O2) is no novelty.
A Botany (N.8.W.) matron drove three horses
and hawked firewood for years round Botany and
Waterloo. Her husband and son cut the wood
and loaded her team, and she hawked and drove
good bargains. Her hands were as knotty as her
wood. I know about the wood. When I was a
kid I had to ohop it.
Thus “ Chasselas:
Miss Vida Goldstein, in the
Agb (20/12/’O2) heaps scorn
upon a miner because he
boiled his billy again after
putting in the tea. The
lady cannot understand a
method bush m e n have
learned and passed on to
each other for years. No tea
made under any other con-
ditions has the flavor of
“ billy tea,” and all who
have tasted it admit the
fact. But have never heard
or found a satisfactory
reason for it. Miss Gold-
stein should have compared
her brew, milkless, with
that of Mr. Simplicity, as
she was pleased to call the
billy-boiler, before she waxed
sarcastic.
To which another bush-
man :
But is it necessary to boil
the tea brew to make “ billy
tea ” ? This writer has made
thousands of billies of tea,
but never boiled the leaves,
for the reason that he likes
tea, not a solution of tannic
acid. But most bushmen
(and possibly the great ma-
jority of Australians) do like
tannic-acid solution, and
must have it; that’s the chief
reason why there is such
good business in pills in Aus-
tralia. Real tea, as it is
made by the Jap., Chinese,
and Russian, and an odd
few here and there in the
rest of the world, is an ex-
hilarating liquor, the color of
hock. You don’t put milk
and sugar in it, any more
than in fine wine. That sort
of tea is rare in Australia, be-
cause few know about it, and
those few can’t often get the
raw material really good
leaf. There is a half-way-
house kind of brew, made
by pouring boiling water on
a decent kind of leaf for two
or three minutes, then add-
ing to the liquor milk and
sugar. And there is, finally,
the great Australian beve-
rage of tannic acid solution,
which has the effect on the
stomach that a tan-pit has
on leather, and wrecks more
constitutions than alcohol.
You get that sort by boiling
the billy after the leaves
have been putin, and letting
the stuff stand from one to
24 hours, according to the
strength of your suicidal
tendencies. As to the dis-
tinctive flavor of billy tea, the fact that the average bush
billy is well-“ colored” through having had scores, or even
hundreds, of quarts of tea made in it, is doubtless an
explanation.
• • • •
“Tliula”: White Australia! Last July
I went to a dance in Longreach (Q.) and found,
out of 15 girls present, six half-caste Chows and a
half-caste Maori. At another dance there was a
half-caste Chow musician, an Assyrian M.C., and
a half-caste aboriginal doorkeeper.
WHEN GIRLS ARE ON THE BOARD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
By jackeroo attended, they stand and watch you shear,
Uh, fea'r° U bef ° re them ’ bended ’ are a-crimsoning with
\ou shear your sheep and smother an oath with an “O
Lord ! ”
You have to catch another, and girls are on the board l
\ on sidle off, inanely, toward the catching pen,
And pray to Heaven-vainly-they’d watch the other
men ;
I he “cobbler” makes you daring; what shelter sheep
afford
" he “ molesk ms need repairing and girls are on the
board !
FRANK BELLMAN.
OFF THE THACK,
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“ Why are you down in the world?" As I asked
He let down his swag in the shade of a gum ;
A big grave grin his bearded face masked.
“Pm here," he said, “for this reason—l come!
There wuz finger-boards plenty to point me the way,
But somehow, one day, about twenty years back,
In the mist of a passion that darkened the day,
I staggered on blindly and got off the track.”
IME BLODE.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
Mo notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany .
E.M.C. : We assure you enthusiastically that
we don’t know the name of “ Canadian firm corresponding
in position with A. Hordern or F. Lassetter here." If you
asked us the name of a respectable bootmaker in Central
Asia we couldn’t tell you that either. Write to J. S. Larke
Canadian Commissioner, 56 Pitt-street, Sydney
Woorawing : It is a perfectly safe co., but it doesn’t do
ordinary life business—only accident and sickness insur-
ance. ... W.W.R. :We knew all that—but where on earth
is the point ? Parson Isitt was a candidate in 10
electorates. Though he explained that he nominated in
order to secure a Local Option vote he didn’t tell the
people not to vote for him. And not one of the 10
electorates took the chance to do honor to the
great apostle by putting him at the top of the poll,
or even by giving him half the votes received
by the successful candidate. The public seems to
iV. 1 " 1 ? Is ' t * knows enough about liquor to run a Pro-
hibition movement, but they plainly don’t think he knows
enough about things in general to make a good M.H.R
Gum : The heart has not heavier work to do if you deliver
a speech sitting down than if you speak standing up. So
far as your heart is concerned, never stand up if you can
sib down, and never sit down if you can recline—especially
recline with your feet high up M. : The
scheme of “ G.W.” is good enough, but the story is not
well managed. You need to tell with much skill a yarn
the moral of which is the solemn fact that when once a
white woman has been familiar with a Chinaman she has
no more use for the white man J.E.D. : There’s surely
some difference between killing animals quietly and
decently for food and assembling hundreds of savages to
see pigeons shot and calling it “sport." N.G. :
Quite humorless; why do so many people think
that it is a rich joke merely to say dam or
draw the devil?.... iA.S.M. : Too thin a gag
C. : You are a stodgy, clumsy, self-advertiser. You
write reams to the papers, and some of them print your
stodge all the time, though it contains never even the
ghost of a bright idea. Please stick to the fool-rags that
print you ; give us a rest A.L. : But then S.A. cannot
get an alleged evil-doer whom it can truly hate—a real,
downright, repulsive alleged criminal. It whooped
itself hoarse when Mary Schippan “ got off.” Mary’s
naivetb was pronounced, her personality winning—there-
fore Mary was a little lamb A.W.‘: Considering....
R.S. : Ditto.. ..Tauma : One verse—
Do not think that the good in my nature is sleeping
While you offer your soul in each clinging caress ;
Though I take from you all the sweet gifts in you*
keeping,
If I loved you but little I’d ask you for less.
.. ..Vincent T. : Faintly pretty ; too faintly, unless more
finely phrased.... Percy W. : One of your “three peaces
of poetry ” begins—
Oh Muse, thou lovely God’dess fair
Come down to earth
And comb your hair.
In the other places she’s oombing yours W.J.O. :
Want both form and force J.M.S. : Flat, thin
Thompson: Doubtful.. ..Narranghi : “Dreams” un-
usable Lala : Received ; better write him direct....
Busby: Unusable Bindyi : “Ah, clinging anus,
entwine 1 entwine 1 ” This from a woman with a.
vote 1 H.E. : Squashed G.G. : No, not yet
E. :Itis in type, but matter often has to stand some
time before there is a chance of publication.... Louis
(Melb.): The sweet simplicity of nursery rhyims no
longer appeals to us. This paper is growing old and
tough Hilary :It was raffled, Heaven only knows how
many tickets being subscribed for. Lots of “religious"
raffles are like that —in fact, most church-bazaar raffles,
are—Republican : Well, doesn’t Joseph Ward “ deserve"
his “honors”? Your letter shows that a Republican
may be a very dull person H.S.R. : Yes; but that
English coroner was not quite correct; hydalids on the
brain are not so very rare T.O’K. : The Bulletin
doesn’t exist to please everybody ; but you’re wrong in
imagining any special “down” on Tas. ; Tiie Bulletin
loves Tas. —goes there itself when it can get a holi-
day. It is a green spot, where it rains often
Hermit: Chiefly a plethora of hyphens N.O.P. : Your
last word is “ afar.” And our last word is “ Afar !”....
T.B. : Your 60th poem received. The thought that we
have already survived 49 gives us courage to Biff 1....
F. : O what a lovely libel on His Wax. that would be !....
Adonis : A symbolic idea needs to be worked out with
some special skill; that is wanting in your copy.... D.E. .r
“ Surprise ” on absolutely common-place lines ; verse
under considerat ion P.O. D.C. : Same sort of incident
used already by Nat Gould W.T. : Merely Xmas pan-
tomime Paul Fabio : A chestnut, badly roasted
Caro : “ Vanquishing” not a bad yarn, but has such a.
pronouncedly artificial flavor Tetang : Rather flat,
though there is a story in it.. ..Yeli.imo : It follows too
closely (and inartistically) a story in Xmas Bulletin....
H.J. : Unsuitable.... W. J. : Not up... .Berriwil: No, old
man... .H.E.W.; Too like Eng. maga.-verse.. ..E. Mew :
Far too fluent; give us solids, not superficial
Thompson: Will print... .H. 0. Mac: We cannot throw
any light on the matter, but we have sent your letter to.
advertiser Rex: No; it wasn’t meant for sarcasm.
“Madman” has no particular merit Kiwi: But
ferrets and weasels are not “rodents.” Pippa:
Some grace of fancy, but not enough force or
vividness Jake: The stump-burning question
has burnt out.. ..Daphne: Good in form, but lacks
vitality.. ..Hubert 0.: Effectively put together, but
much too 10ng....W.M.W. : You “don’t think much of
our opinion.” Well, you asked for it, anyhow....
Marah : Will look it up Spinifex : For print....Q.N. :
“School-Days” won’t do....Karnie : Not well enough
worked out... .Nad Dyoll: Pudding-jokes are hard read-
ing nowadays. Some humor in the situation, hut you
have overdone the thing.. ..J.F.K. (M.): Thanks....
Australian Colonist : Subject already dealt with
J. J. M‘D.: None on the nail M.C.K.: (1) Has it not
been published ? (2) Can’t lay our hands on “ Leave the
Lady,” but you are sure to meet it again, as it has been
published all over the world Esmi: Not bright enough
sketch.. ..O.M.A. :We always welcome a good story in
which the lady doesn't run away with the man ; but
there’s not enough in your yarn R.L.J. : Material
pretty good, but “ working-up ” rather fails. Strive at
more directness and vigor. Sea-stories of a humorous
type need very good telling while Jacobs is still
at work A.A.G. : Thanks; but the inventor in
question probably didn’t suppose that he was absolutely
first in the field. Such contrivances are always of gradual
evolution A.P.R. : “Almost it persuaded us!”
A.F.M. : Worth consideration Fenian : Nothing in it.
They were in no way called upon to inform the parson on
the subject.. ..Wanda : A foolish and ill-tempered letter.
... .Mirumbeck: That English paper’s statement re Melb.
free railway-passes is quite correct Asheep : Appears
to be an allegory ; not too well done, and with no suffi-
cient key to it. Also, it is pencil-written and mostly
illegible... .Caro : “T.T.T.” will do....Poietes : Poor
stuff, despite your assumption of the title of poet—and in
Greek, too..Melbun: It has an unattractive 5me11....
Bill-Jim : Hardly bright enough.... Ava : The reference
is to the stinging-tree, common enough in various parts
of Australia, and the account of its effects is not exag-
gerated — Boroo : Broken-winded verse A.D.W.: We
fear not. You seem to lack all literary essentials....
Dugong: Threadbare theme and stagnant style
Mary G. : Lack of skill, but decided promise....
Yandila : An old Bulletin yarn re-hashed
W.O.S. : Style uncommon, but interest slack... D.H.R. :
Tale spoilt by its ending; verses weak.... Fred S. :
‘ Carew ” has some humor, but is strained and unna-
tural....Thula: Good incident, but the telling lacks
spirit and dash.... Almar: Flung together anyhow.
Manner should not oe entirely sacrificed to matter
"Old Farm” has an excellent central idea, but the setting
is bad and mostly superfluous.. ..Topaz : Flat and un-
original.. ..Willy-Willy : A mere swamp of words; no
standing-ground for an idea anywhere ;..8.M.8. : Send
address for return... .Gidya : Go, and sin no m0re1....
Peter B. : Too technical for u 5.... Scrooge: You
only scratch the surface of the subject, and you
pose as if you had settled the question for all
time L.M. D. : Has hardly enough in it
Horace H.; Shambles and crambles too much.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
F.R.S. : Excellent drawing, but legend incurably bald-
headed G.A.Y. : One as an idea W.J.D. : Over-
done and unnatural. Your grotesqueries aren’t in the
smallest degree humorous ; they are merely clumsy
Hetty R.B. : Two will serve as ideas for illustration
O.L. :We can’t acknowledge by post. Life is too short.
Unavailable : Alf. W., Les. W., S.P.K.
MISS F. TAYLOR, a rising Goulburn (N.S.W.)
pianiste who is shortly to appear in Sydney.
Photo, by Talma, Sydney.
Hopeful signs in Australia : the rivers are
rising and food prices are falling.
A frequenter of Brighton baths (Vic.) lost
a diamond ring in the water at the commencement
of the season, and searched for it repeatedly in
vain. Six weeks later, having taken his accus-
tomed jump off the diving board, he found the
gem staring him in the face.
E. W. Hilgard, Californian Prof, of Agri-
culture, points out in North American Review
that “the majority of the ancient civilisations
developed precisely where nature imposed the
onerous condition of artificial irrigation on the hus-
bandman.” He instances the oases of the African
deserts, the southern coastal districts of Spain,
Carthage, Asia Minor, Arabia, Palestine, Syria,
Persia, Northern India, and Central Asia ; and in
the New World, Peru, and the dry plains of
central Mexico, New Mexico, and Arizona. “Arid
soils are usually the richest in plant foods, notably
lime, potash, nitrates and phosphates. These,
being soluble, are leached out of the soil by the
rainfall and drainage of humid regions; but in
dry countries they remain, and, given irrigation,
put off indefinitely the evil day of artificial fer-
tilisers.” Here is a lesson for Australia. The
ancients did not settle their bush first and then
dump down the agricultural person in the desert.
They chose the desert first, then irrigated and
prospered.


A „o
Vr <£' °
V *. A"-
v
;*
&<s>* /'
v v e»
,o d o
v*
It is reported that last week 's heat/
wa v e killed a number of the imported
English plaice in the ponds at Port
Hacking ’*
And this despite the careful nursiog.
of Jack Want. '
1 ■
__ THE DEVILS YEAR
If you add together the figures 1903
the sued total is 13—the unlucky num-
ber- Cranks, croakers, and prophets,
take notice '
THE SILLY SEASON.
Adelaidb, Tburday.—Edgar ilari-
uers, fisherman, of Ticker*, made a big
haul on Monday last. He saw four
whales floundering in the shallows which
abound on the Tickera coastline, and
managed to drive them still further
aground. After some time, he succeeded
in despatching all the whales, the smallest
of which measured 18ft. long.”
lt is now up to the sea-serpent perjurer.
(Itrts officially announced that the water
in Prospect dam is now quite up to Jake
Garrard’s shirt collar, anjLtherefore some
«f the restrictions upon the use of water
in Sydney have been removed
TOB MAN WIT H THE HOSE
-r-Making up for lost tune
dOY OF THE GREAT UNWASHED
CARTOONLETS.


w /“
?crfc4 N<W ye&r
j H, j 5
l>a-t * J>i'<sjKS*’
D D
n<lW
D 0 °f
* Mow tjeij, Spo^c
Cuppy
U' y°»A °ne wi?ce<
ir7 cLy 16 -rfje **le
W r \VJ 17 I (7* 15
slip A' 2, T>«H»cK$
fcyo*<k 1o A
Slew 1o % njbr ok \>e
A VowtieA Je 5
pole S«73sj>J>*<^ — WOT Klt7« ;
O lv>£p*££ yea
employ it> a«ur^<pT
P'Joto V (A l ' Hlo/e. p
pofuW 'nA*f»
I?|c "> 4 " 1
Column lon^
Je f '> Wc^uvgT^
'jjoiX'
Jcides of 'iffc *T
orjcc
became {iVir;e, 5^
njsd*
'h . cos 1
ca,nt j>*y 1° r rrioTo j>
I or^
100
"fafe - —”Vf H*r do
yow did ?
Ifce €o'se •• H«
'jer ■vto/sbty -
Tjaf He ,00^ea Ver y
W "»* W ‘ 5V
of I
fy>m
?»>*
p
-joa ’
*fcof
/o/-^ 5tA
i«t *»
\-lfie 501. m.. ***=»>_
«■■&* *ZTr k«
•
*i _" iv«
s rW*"* 8 *
mi <°' C<L '
here 1 __
'/S' § l ' /|r >’ °‘j
, firsT 'fooTm -
D? v 'il ao you Wf-
MOSTLY MELBOURNIAN.


A. SAUNDERS
FOR JEWELLERY. WATCHES. CLOCKS, OPTICAL GOODS, LEATHER
GOODS, AND SILVERPLATE OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAD BOARD and KNIFE, Pure Silver-plated on Hard
Nickel Silver, beautifully Chased and Ornamented, 355.
Can be used as Cake Dish or Salver. Similar styles, 255,
30s, £2, £2 10s. A USEFUL PRESENT.
J. DIXON and SONS’ Famous English Plate.
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class 4-Bottle CRUET. Silver-plated, £2.
Similar, 255, 30s, &ss.
JAMES DIXON and SONS’ Famous
English Plate.
VV
-M-
-msmm
A. SAUNDERS.
PICKLE. First-class English Fancy Glass,
pure Silver-plated frame, £2.
Single Pickle, 255.
„ A. SAUNDEES.
Four o’clock CAKE FOEKS, Pure Silvei-plated
on Hard White Metal, 20s.
Simlar style, 12s 6d. A bargain.
JAMi.o DIXON and SONS’ Famous
English Plate.
iV. SVUNDERS.
LADIES’ (COMPANION.” pure Solid Silvei
mounted, 18s 6d ; smaller, 15s 6d,
A NICE PRESENT.
T A. SAUNDERS.
New PURSE, REFERENCE, and
TICKET BOOK, 10s 6d, pure silver mounted,
large size, 12s 6d.
Our own Special Design.
A. SAUNDERS.
0102—HOT WATER KETTLE and
STAND, Silver-plated on White Metal,
Extra Chased, £2los.
Similar Designs, £2, £3, £3 10s.
DIXON and SONS’ Eamous English Plate.
A. SAUNDERS.
EGG CRUET, very neat, effective, 4 Cups
and Spoons, Pure Silver-plated on White
Nickel Silver, 21s. Other styles and pat-
terns, 255, 30s, 355, £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
White China, silver-mounted, 10s.
Ail pure Silver-plated, nicely chased and
engraved, 15s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS,
New Design, A 1 Quality, Silver-plated'
BUTTER DISH, 12s 6d.
DIXON and SONS’ Highest class plate.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR SCUTTLE, square, pure
Silver electro-plated on White
Metal, beautifully hand-chased,
255 ; similar, 21s.
Childs Pure Silver-Mounti d
Nursery Rhyme CUP, 10s.
In case, with Pure Silver Spoon,
255.
First-class Gent’
SHAVING
BRUSH, 5s 6d;
extra mounts,
is 6d, 12s 6d, Jos
21s.
A. SAUNDERS.
CANDLESTICK.
Pure Silver-plated, I2srfid.
Leaf Pattern, Ss 6di
>-'SW
A. SAUNDERS.
CARVERS, KNIFE, FORK, and STEEL, Joseph Rodgers’ Sheffield make. In silk-lined case.
Will give every satisfaction, 20s. Other styles, 80s, £2, £2 10s.
GUARANTEED SATISFACTORY.
Specially made by JAMES DIXON and SONS.
Famous English Silver-plated 4 O’clock TEA SETS,
£3, £3los, £4, £4 10s.
KINDLY CALL AND SEE OUR DISPLAY SHOW ROOMS.
A. SAUNDERS.
FISH SERVER and FORK, in Silk-lined Case, 20s, 255, 30s, 35s to £2 10s
An Acceptable and Useful Present.
Pure PEBBLE SPECS, 4s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s ; American Gold, 12s 6d, 15s
Solid Gold, 255, 30s, 355, £2. Scientifically adjusted to suit you.
' y
CEUIUs:
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class English made. Pure Silver-plated on Nickel Silver,
CAKE, £3 3s.
Other styles, similar, 21s, 255, 30s, 355, £2, £2los.
A. SAUNDERS.
Double JAMS, Floral Ornamented China, 255, 30s.
In sin^’ e f'ss 6d. Pure Silver-plated Rims.
, C ‘SAUNTERS’ LATEST STYLE.
FRUIT <OR CAKE STAND,
Silve. '-p’ated Stand, with Fancy Glass, 30s.
Similar stand, 27s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
FLOWER STAND, Silver-
plated Base, 8s 6d per pair.
Larger styles. 19,s 6d, 15s 6d,
21s.
Choice Table Appointments.
r
a
is
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Crocodile Leather
WALLET and PURSE.
Silver mounted, 5s 6i ;
with shield, 7s 6d.
SPECIAL VALUE.
A. SAUNDERS.
8124.-Oak BISCUIT, Silver-plated
Mounted, 20s ; Shield only, 15s •
Fluted Rims, 25s ; Floral China
Mounted, 15s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM DISH, White or Fancy
Coloured Glass, Pure Silver Plate
on hard White Metal base,
Frame and Shield, 15s.
BUTTER DISH, White Glass, Pure
Silver-plated, £l.
Other Designs, 255, 30s, 412.
T ,„ A SAUNDERS.
HELD and OPERA GLASSES
, , * jrst-class Lenses, good effect,
l'2s fed, 15s, 20s, 255, 30s, £2, £2 10s £3
and £4 10s to £l2 10s. ’
A, SAUNDERS
LEADING ART JEWELLER,
€O9, Bfl 813, 815, & 817 GEORGE-STREET,
iJYDNEY, NEARLY OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION.
-m
A. SAUNDERS.
Eirst-elass Cabinet Striking CLOCK,
Lours and half Lours, 15s, 15s 9d, 17s tid, 20s, 22s 6d, 255.
Other styles, 25s to JE2 10s. Add 2s extra postage.
[WyHffmiifnßißnßSffiftssmKs
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class ENTREE DISHES, pure Silver on Hard Nickel,
£3. Will last a lifetime.
A. SAUNDERS,
TEAPOTS, very pretty aad useful, Pure Silver-
plated, Hand Chased and Ornamented, 255.
Other styles and Patterns, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s, £2,
£2 10s.
JAMES DIXON and SONS’ High-class English
plate.
A. BAUNDEKB.
Salad BOWL. Ornamented China, with Servers, 30s.
Similar, 255, 355, £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silve JAM SPOON, BUTTER KNIFE, and
BREAD FORK, in silk-lined Case, 355.
Simila , with Sifter instead of Bread Fork, ‘2ss.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR ana CREAM, Pure Silver-plated on hard
white Metal, Gold-plated inside, with spoon, £2 sa.
A. S YUNJDEKc.
First-class Silver-plated CRUET,
specially made bv
JAMES DIXOW and SONS.
Higli-class (Quality, 21s.


TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.
A SCIENTIFIC PICK-ME-UP.—“ No better
tonic and restorative for the victims of social fes :
tivities exists than a morning draft of Hunyadi
Janos. Sure, swift, searching, yet safe, and in
every respect salutary. The best and safest
natural aperient.*
CHRONIG
CONSTIPATION
can be cured by
Charrjberlain’s
Sionjacfj aqd
JCiver Jableis
Price, 1/6 JUST WHAT YOU NEED,
Chronic Constipation results from a lack of
moisture in the residual matter of the food.
It becomes so dry and hard that the muscular
coating of the intestines is unable to expel
it. Two of Chamberlain’s Stomach and
Liver Tablets should be taken to begin
with and after that one each day. When
taken just after supper they will insure an
operation of the bowels on the following
morning. In most cases this lack of moisture
in the faecal matter is caused by an insuffi-
ciency of water being taken into the system
and cannot be cured unless more water is
taken with the food or drink. If taken
with the food, unless in shape of fruits
(apples and bananas), it is apt to interfere
with the processes of digestion; but if a regu-
lar habit is established of taking a full glass
of water as soon as you get up in the morning,
about two hours after each meal, and just be-
fore o-oing to bed, it will in most cases correct
the disorder—not at once, but in time.
Chamberlain’s Stomach and Liver Tab=
lets are not intended for habitual use but
to give temporary relief until a cure can be
effected by taking more water into the system
and establishing a regular habit by having
the bowels move every morning immediately
after breakfast whether there is an inclination
0 r not.
NOTE.—If not able to obtain Chamber-
lain’s Stomach and Liver Tablets locally,
a package will be sent, post paid, upon
receipt of 1/6, or six packets for 8/-, by
addressing Chamberlain Medicine Co., 64
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. 121
EACH
ICE-MAKING MACHINES from 70/
Water converted into Ice in One Minute.
ICE-CREAM FREEZERS FROM 15/- EACH
Send for Catalogue .
BRANDT BROS. M S,3“ y * t "
and 422 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
Missing Friends.
IF this should meet the eye of ANDY MIL LON,
who left Taihape, Nortli Island, New
Zealand, some 6 years ago, or any friend
knowing his whereabouts, would I eor they kindly
communicate with the undersigned, who will
supply news of beneficial character.
G. N. JENSEN,
Taihape,
North Island, New Zealand.
Business, Robbery, etc.
The time-payment furniture trade still thrives.
Although the profit in selling time-payment goods
averages 75 per cent, of the cost that item is not altogether
relied on. It is when the buyer (hirer) makes default,
and the goods come back to the seller, that the latter
begins to smile visibly. Such goods are done up and sold
again as new articles to someone else. It frequently
happens that furniture is disposed of to as many as four
different purchasers, the cost being recovered at least
twice before the furniture has been called in the third
time. Some of those engaged in the trade work in a
legitimate and fair-minded manner, and are disposed
to extend terms rather than take arbitrary measures
against a customer who is temporarily pushed. Others,
again, are quick to seize their pound of flesh at the first
chance, and keep men who are wonderfully expert at
opening windows and shifting furniture.
* * * *
The time-payment curse is spreading, some of
Sydney’s very big shops having now adopted it. Those
who first started it began only in a very small way, but
have been enabled to build, fine premises out of the
business.
» * * *
An obscure and apparently humble profession,
in which there seems to lie much money, is that of
removing dead horses from where they drop in the street.
A Melbournite, who has simply worked behind the
prosaic sign—“ Dead horses removed,” has acquired a
fortune, and now swells it in some style in society. To all
appearances, the worried father, instead of making his
brilliant boy a barrister, should apprentice him to learn-
ing the art of dexterously and profitably shifting the
carcase of the prad which is overcome by the burden and
heat of the day.
* * » *
Early this year the Registration of Firms Act
will, it is hoped, be brought into active operation in
N.S.W. Similar measures are in force in some of the
other States, and are found of great assistance to the
commercial community. At present it is hard to get at
the principals of some alleged proprietary co.s and syndi-
oates. The sleeping or silent partner dodge will also be
fully exposed, and the man who trades under the name
of the So-and-so Manufacturing 00., or the fake name
partnership, will have to register his real name for the
information of such as want to know. Up till now it has
been found impracticable to recover moneys from some
concerns owing to the impossibility of ascertaining who
the real principals are, and then, when their names have
been discovered, finding their place of abode. It will,
under the Act, be impossible to have a no-account person
installed as “ resident partner” or “ State controller,” as
one foreign concern styled the man who signed its con-
tracts but not its cheques.
* * * •
A side-light not thrown on the Mallee question
by the big Vic. dailies. The easy-going cocky with a
litt'e money and a good team of horses starts cultivating
the mallee on shares, hires implements from a Melb. co.
and gives bills in payment for the machines. Crop fails,
and he has to renew bills at 8 or 10 per cent., running an
account at local store at the same time. 00. pays his
store bill, takes a mortgage over his stock, &c., and the
thing is done. If they leave the mallee they have to
leave their all behiud. The storekeepers and the machine
tlien ate in leagde, and they are keeping only the human
slaves ■ others are being weeded out. Govt, is thus not
helping one genuine cookie (“ on his own ”) in 50.
9 * * *
“ Chass ” : Noteworthy how, in Yic. agricul-
tural centres, American machine-makers have captured
the farmers’ trade. An English article is hardly ever
seen on the farms, and Australian-made implements are
becoming rare. Ploughs, harrows, hinders, drills, even
pitchfoi’ks, are all Yankee. While England remains
Freetrade, the Yanks grab her children’s coin under her
nose, and the Fatman of Freetrade is giving them a help-
ing hand to squelch the local manufacturers, at present
struggling against “ Murlcan ” combines. A good many
labor men—in Parliament and out of it—are also helping
to roll the chariot along and to reduce life to the cheap
Jap and Chow level. Despite frantic assurances to the
contrary, Australian agricultural prospects are not rosy.
Yankee firms hold nearly all the farmers’ bills, and, owing
to this year’s failure, they will own them also, body and
soul, as'the farmers will, as a rule, be unable to meet their
machinery-pavments. The fight between the Yanks and
Cohen for the husks left by the drought ought to be inte-
resting.
* • • *
“ Quex ” : Re “M. 0.” (in Bulletin, 22/11/’O2)
re storekeepers weighing-in bags. What I want to know
is: Did “M. 0.” bring a wheelbarrow, kerosene-tin, or
other suitable vessel to put his two-penn’orth of biscuits
in? If not, did he suggest that he could utilise his
trousers pockets instead of a bag ? Failing such sugges-
tion, did he expect the grocer to give him a bag for which
he (grocer) had paid, probably, 3d. alb., and, if so, does
he realise that he is asking charity from the grocer?
Bags are more expensive, weight for weight, than broken
biscuits, sugar, salt, potatoes, onions, &c. Why, then,
should “ M. 0.” expect full weight of such articles unless
he provide a vessel for carrying same? When “M. 0.”
pays an account, does he enclose the money in a silver-
mounted purse? If not, why not?
• * * *
“San”: The surgical-appliance maker’s busi-
ness is one that urgently needs strict Govt, supervision.
Even more than the dentist, the truss-maker has the
patient at his mercy, and a badly-fitting truss is not only
constant torture to the victim, but frequently causes
malignant growths. I know a man, suffering from
hernia, who was sent by his doctor to a truss-maker. to
be fitted. The latter simply jammed on an expensive
truss, and grabbed the coin. Within an hour the victim
was back to try another variety, having meantime
suffered agonies. Four times this w r as repeated during
that day, and then the salesman said there would have
to be a truss specially made to meet the case. A few days
later my friend was supplied w'ith a common leather
truss, which the shopman alleged had been made
specially for him. This also soon became unbearable,
and on calling on another maker, the sufferer was told
that the “ speciallv-made ” truss was a common factory-
made article obtainable anywhere. I know of another
case of such deception, so it looks as if the practice were
pretty common. t
Complained that the Federal Grovt. has para-
lysed” the perfume industry in Victoria by re-imposing a
duty' on the spirit used in its manufacture. The J? .
growers of scent-plants are said to have lost their
market, and inferior foreign articles are sold instead of
the Vic lavender water, &c., that made Cissie smell so
nice a year ago. All the same, certain Melbourne firms
appear to be persisting in the paralysed industry'.
“Adelaide”: G.P.O. here helped an English
remittance-man to get at me “ properly.” It was within
my knowledge that he received money from England
with absolute regularity, so I made no great objection to
givin him an advance. Obtained from him an order on
the Postmaster-General to hand me the next letter to
him from England, and even wnas careful enough to make
it contain a stipulation that it could not be revoked by
anyone but me. The G.P.O. accepted this order, but
when I went for the letter I found it had already been
delivered to addressee ! When I expostulated, they said
they QiUv accepted orders of this kind as a convenience
to the person giving them, in case of inability to call >
&c.-if the addressee did call in person he could get his
letter in face of any number of orders. Somehow my
man had learned this piece of home made P.O. >aw-
had got in the moment the mail was sorted. So now I
know -* new riddle : When i« an Order not an Order t
•
Ever since the Friedman case the “dealer/’ has
been a grim, hook-nosed spectre in every bI !T house m
Svdnev. Many firms have absolutely forbidden any
dealings with the creature, and the appearance of his
cart in the distance—even if it is half a stree-t dist
is sufficient to set departmental heads wondering which
of their employees is the thief. In one large place it was
almost understood that any one shooting a dealer on
sight could rely upon the firm finding the money foi his
defence. As was only to be expected, an employee was
presently found in the act of completing a most ptohtable
dea witil one of the fraternity. The boss of the bl £
porting business rose to the occasion. 1 11 a •
such as ours,” he said, “there must be extensive
leakage Vow, we’ve got you ; but if you can lay us on
to alUlte rest of the employees who have transactions
vv, h the dealers we’ll let you go soot free, and pve youa
good reference.” Then the trapped employee atso rose to
the occasion, lie made out a list, and the him -
the detectives and proposed a wholesale arrest. Ihe tecs
SCHEME FOR A TRANSCONTINENTAL RAILWAY.
The dotted line across Australia in this map represents the idea of Mr. A. E.
Moore, of Temple Court, Melbourne, as to what a transcontinental railway should be.
The advantage of his scheme, Mr. Moore points out, is that it would strike five days or so
off mail time to England. But The Bulletin is rapidly developing an heretical notion
that it’s not worth while building, at a cost of millions, a railway which will have for
its chief recommendation the fact that it will cut so many days off mail-time to Eng-
land. What solid bread-and-butter is there for the Australian community in getting
a letter from London in 25 days instead of 30? The Bulletin would be more
inclined to vote for a railway which would take five days longer in bringing K.C.M.Geese,
rabbits, thistles, machinery we should be making ourselves, military commanders, and
other evils from dear old Hingland. Moreover, the advantage of building a railway
which will traverse a region with a rain-fall of not much over five inches, only to end in a
region that gets a little over 10 inches, is hard to find. The Port Darwin line is at least
a line leading to a country with a 40-inch rainfall.
demurred. They suggested that the first one on the list
be dealt with, and the others be allowed to go along on
the even tenor of their swindle till the first man was
safely jugged. Accordingly No. 1 was called in. He was
pale and calm, and seemed to have a slight swelling in
the left cheek. He requested the ’tecs to go with him
and search his domicile. The ’tecs searched, but found
nothing that could be positively identified. Accused
admitted selling things to dealers, but asked how the
firm was going to prove they were its things. The firm
looked at the’tecs. They looked at the informer. He
looked at the accused, and the accused looked at the
firm, so that the parties formed a complete square. The
firm said, in a deep voice, that in a business like this
there must be extensive leakages, and it was necessary to
make an example. Then it said “hum” and “ha.”
Then all the parties concerned drifted out of the room
by degrees.
* • * •
Memo, for importers who wish to “fix up” in-
voices, etc. : Every individual type-writer has its charac-
teristics ; an expert can, with the aid of a camera or a
microscope, swear to the work of a particular machine
almost as surely as to personal hand-writing.
* * * »
The position of typewriter operators in Aus-
tralia is not very enviable. At one time the minimum
salary for a decent operator was 30s. to £2, and to one
who could write shorthand, £4. Now, owing to the
strong female sprinkling among typewriters, salaries
have grown much smaller, and a typist can be got for an
office-boy’s wages. Many of the unfortunates turned out
as finished operators at the typewriting schools have but
an indifferent knowledge of the mechanism of their
machine, and when in a private billet are helpless on the
merest trifle going wrong with the works. Mean
merchants can get plenty of girl operators for a month
for nothing—the girls being glad to take on work in ex-
change for the knowledge they obtain of office routine
and commercial terms.
• • • *
“Commercial” (just returned from a business
trip to Japan and China) writes as to the likelihood of
payable trade between Australia and these places :
“ Both countries are extremely poor, China particularly
so, and therefore, broadly speaking, exporters and not
importers. The native lives on native food only, rice
being the mainstay, and is much too poor to buy meat,
butter, jams, &c. The policemen in Japan get 245. per
month, and wages run from sd. per day for a field
laborer to Is. 3d. for skilled work, say porcelain decorat-
ing. Child-labor at 2Jd. per day is used everywhere, and
not many luxuries can be bought on such wages. As for
a trade in fodder, the horses in China or Japan can
almost be counted on the fingers, and nowhere are there
any fences—t.e., there is no stock to keep within bounds.
Men, women, and children are the beasts of burden in
Japan. Cotton clothing is in universal use, but a country
where the coolie has to be compelled to wear more
than a loin-cloth, and who evades the law with
persistency, doesn’t want much clothing anyway. In
not one instance did I ever see the male factory hand
with anything more than a loin-cloth, and the female rug
makers and porcelain workers leave off everything above
the waist. Another thing which will prevent business is
the unreliability of the Jap., for he will sell and not de-
liver, and buy and not take delivery'. He will sign any'
contract, but should the price be against him on arrival
of goods he simply repudiates. Stated briefly, China
will take soap, old metals, broken glass ; Japan, a little
wool and a few odds and ends. The N.S.W. agent may
be ever so capable, but he cannot do the impossible.
Have any orders came through his instrumentality, and
if so, to what amount?
* * * *
Some of the big London butter-dealing firms
complain of the dirtiness and carelessness of many of the
cow-farmers of Australia, and aver that, unless the in-
dustry is brought up to the cleanliness standard of some
of the European butter-making peoples, there must be
further heavy falls in the value of the Australian product.
In a word, some mean and dirty cockies under the
present lax supervision are being allowed to lower the
value of all Australian butter by from ss. to 10s. a cwt.
* » • *
Business, in shop and factory, is unusually bad
in Melbourne just now, and the Vic. employer has been
quick to take a leaf out of Minister Bent’s book. Instead
of sacking his superfluous hands, he gives batches a
week’s holiday in turn—of course without pay. This
move has the further desirable effect (from the employer s
point of view) of “ boosting ” the returns of factory hands,
so that, bv-and-bye, instead of having to admit—as is the
fact—that the lapsing of the Factories Act decreased em-
ployment as well as lowered wages, he will proudly point
to the equal— or possibly increased—number of employees
engaged as evidence that the dead Act was a great
restriction of trade and a hampering of private enter-
prise. ....
Melbourne Board of Health lately received
State Analyst Wilkinson’s report on 44 samples of
“raspberry vinegar,” taken from all over Victoria
Onlv one of the 44 was unadulterated. Of the
others, 5 contained coal-tar dyes, 23 cochineal dye, 35
salicylic acid, and 14 saccharin (coal-tar sweetening)
Yet raspberries are literally “ cheap as dirt ” in parts of
the Commonwealth. In Tasmania and Southern Victoria
they will grow almost without cultivation, and countless
tons of them rot on the bushes almost every y ear. A
pure, wholesome raspberry vinegar or raspberry syrup
could be made very oheaply, and what a remunerative
spec it would be! Scores of thousands of pounds are
spent every month in the summer time on soft drinks,
and manufacturers of American pure fruit-juices can send
them over to Australia and sell at a profit. Truly the
Australian is in many respects a shiftless creature, pre-
ferring to make a mucky mixture out of chemicals than
to take the trouble to prepare an honest one from pure
fruit. Perhaps the Adulteration Law will now take a
hand in the matter. It is going to take a big hand in
Sydney, where chief medical-officer Ashburton Thompson
evidently means to enforce the adulteration clauses of the
Act as remorselessly as similar provisions are adminis-
tered in Germany.
* • • *
Manufacturers sending capsules, labels, &c., in
huge packets, and their goods in bulk to retailers, at
first score in cheapness, but, as a rule, finally fall in.
The distributor almost inevitably begins to fake. Whole-
salers should make a religion of their labels, corks and
bottles.
» * * •
Pleasant for those Vic. tobacco-growers who
have stuck to the industry to hear from the firm which
sold the last 120hhds. of leaf, that most of the buyers
like it. Also that, with careful preparation of the leaf in
the future, the demand will be good and prices better.
* * * *
American Beef Trust (according to an official
report to the British Government by its consul at
Chicago) relies for its profits, not so much on raising
prices as on utilising every atom of the ox. A 12001 b.
steer divides up thus : Hide, 751 b. ; head, feet, and
knuckles, 451 b.; butter-fat, 801 b.; liver, heart, and lungs,
351 b. ; cheek-meat and tongue, 101 b. ; raw tallow and
entrails, 841 b.; liquid blood, 461 b. ; paunch and contents,
1061 b. ; lip and weasand meat, 41b. ; trimmings and
casings, 151 b. ; carcase, 7001 b. And everything is used.
The undigested food in the paunch goes to make a fine
quality of parchment; the blood makes buttons, extract
of meat, and albumen ; hoofs turn to cyanide of potassium
and fertiliser, and so on. In 1900, the balance-sheet
showed : Total expenses, £150,244,818 ; total receipts for
all meat, £124,263,968 ; loss on meat, £25,980,850 ; receipts
for by-products, £32,748,488 ; profit, £6,767,638. All the
profits come out of what is usually wasted.
• • * •
The conscience of some folks is evidently
becoming very tender. A remittance of 2s. 6d., which
reached the Customs Minister a few days ago was accom-
panied by a letter stating that writer was now “ saved,”
and his conscience was troubling him because, some
years ago, he had bought in Sydney a gamp for his wife
and hustled it through to Melbourne without paying
duty. Since he had “found grace” he had felt it right
to refund the money of which he had defrauded the
State. So far, £69 has been Minister Kingston’s biggest
“ conscience money.” The smallest sum under this head-
ing was received by the P. 0., forwarded by a frugal hut
honest soul, who had a newspaper ftanked through, and
forwarded the £d. of which he had unwittingly robbed
the revenue.
* * * *
The Salvarmy, with its myriad irons in the
fire, is feeling the pinch of bad times, and its leaders are
contemplating a great scoop of souls and shekels. The
Army’s latest trade-line, by the way, is in organs and
sewing-machines at cut prices.
• * • »
A recipe for Pandemonium! Vic. country
trader’s advt. :—“ We invite all the children of the dis-
trict to meet at our Warehouse, to-night, at 7 o’clock,
when each child will be presented with a musical instru-
ment, free of charge, providing the children play their
instruments in front of our shop for one hour only.”
* » * *
“M.S.”: Here (N.S.W. Northern Rivers) I
met, the other day, a clairvoyant (woman) who has been
at the game about a year. Her takings for one day were
over £5 at half-a-crown a “sitting.” She told me that
she often gets in £3O in one week.
* * • *
A chemists’ supervision Act is badly wanted in
Australia. Many make part of their income through
supplying medicines for a certain purpose to women.
Some of them have their places of busine-s and addresses
printed on the bottles and pill-Doxes, and in these cases
the medicine can generally be regarded as harmless.
Others insist on customers fetching their own bottles and
boxes, and caution them not to mention where they have
been supplied. They charge prices varying from ss. to
£1 per dose, and do a big trade, mostly among married
women.
• • • *
“Law-Clerk”: Boss sent me round to collect
from our respected clients. First tackled the wife (white)
of the boss Chow of this town. She cursed freely when
I presented the account, and threatened to break my
brain pan if I called at her place again. Next was
an Assyrian whose wife had taken action against him for
battery, and who had settled ere day of hearing. He didn’t
curse, but looked quickly up and down street, then he
landed me hard on the jaw and made tracks. So did this
scribe. £2 2s. was the amount of those two claims, for
trying to collect which I had to stand 10 minutes’ libel
and a knock-me-down.
The newly-enfranchised women voters of
N.S.W. should read The Bulletin’s “A Policy
for the Commonwealth,” by James Edmond.
Post free from Bulletin office for 7d.
The Bulletin has received from G. Hud-
son, Manufacturing Chemist, Ipswich, Q., a
couple of the “Eumenthol Jujube ” calendars —
handy in size, novel in design, and extremely
artistic in execution.
A Melbourne outfitter and haberdasher (of
all people) has addressed a poetic political appeal
to the Goddess of Mercy, and scattered it around
the district in the interests of his shop. The out-
fitter, seemingly, desires the goddess to introduce
a land tax and accomplish Australia’s salvation :
GODDESS OF MERCY.
For the welfare of the suffering and down-trodden
humanity
I have submitted my Royal diadem and Imperial
authority
To the illustrious Heavenly Kingdom of the Christian
Trinity
In whose glorious teachings I have reposed implicit
credulity,
That they will subvert cruelties and restore Peace and
tranquility.
I have entertained no suspicion ever to have any reason
to regret
For abdieting iny superiority to the Redeemer, Jesus of
Nazareth ;
Nineteen centuries full of convulsion have elapsed, but
the cruel rage
And enormities have not been repelled from this world’s
stage.
The masses the hard-earned fruit of their toil are be-
reaved
And to servitude at the discretion of their masters are
enslaved ;
Women, to provide food for their children, to sell their
honor are depraved,
Girls and boys in factories are pressed, regardless of
morals and health,
Aged and feeble are perishing for want of food in the
midst of wealth.
The “ Spiritual Guards” dine at the luxurious tables of
the rich
And to the discomfited poor of the blessings of Ileaven do
preach,
Whereas the Saviour from the tables of the poorest did
not abstain,
And the rich He confronted—their ferocities and vices
to restrain—
And the Fatherhood of God and Brotherhood of Men did
maintain
The law-maker, alluring the dismayed people with a
Protection Law.
Though in their inner heart —beyond a shadow of doubt
—they well know
That the Land Question is the Fountain whence from all
the miseries flow,
Whereas the Single Tax to all the injustice will give a
detrimental blow.
For the Single Tax will give the unemployed to arable
land access
By exempting improvements and commodities from
taxation ; will ensure to the Farmers success,
By placing a proper tax on cities' valuable allotments will
relieve the community from distress
And compel the Speculators to improve or dispose—will
procure to the Tradesmen progress, &c., Sc.
Progress for shopkeepers is what the bard appears
to be aiming at.


TO CURE SUFFERINC ANIMALS.
Amost useful Veterinary Book is attached
to every bottle of Gondy’s Fluid. This
Book contains instructions for curing most
of the ailments and accidents affecting
Horses, Dogs, Sheep, Cattle and Poultry.
In this Book eminent Veterinary Surgeons
recommend Condy’s Fluid as a certain
cure for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs,
Broken Knees, Grease,Thrush,and Cracked
Heels in Horses.—Scab, Foot Rot, Fly,
etc., in Sheep.—Hoove, Foul in the Foot,
Wounds and Sores in Cattle.
Condy’s Fluid is made by Condy and
Mitchelljr Ltd., of 65, Goswell Road,
London, England, and is sold by all
Chemists and Stores. Beware of Local sub-
stitutes. Insist on having Condy's Fluid.
AUSTRALIAN STAMPS
Bought, Sold & Exchanged.
Gibbons’ Philatelic Albums
and all requirements. Price lists gratis.
J. H. SMYTH & CO.,
88 KING ST., SYDNEY.
Before booking your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers’
Gazette & Sailing List, with map.
THOB. COOK & SON,
269 Collins st., Melbourne.
4 Hunter-at, Sydney.
SPECTACLES
■
~“FOR—
DEFECTIVE
VISION, to
COUNTRY READERS
who cannot visit us
personally, we send,
Post Free to any ad-
dress, with full in-
structions and Price List, our marvellously-accurate
and popular SELF SICHT-MEASURINCS PATENT
By its use you can Test your own sight and del
temune for yourself the style and quality of the
glasses you may need. Write for it to— * U
H, A* BARRACLOUGH» Optician,
J>7l Qeorge-st., Sydney, next A.J.B. Bank
Don’t shout\
I hear you. I can hear now
as well as anybody.
How ?• Ob some-
thingnew—The Wilson
Common-sense Ear-
Drum. I’ve a pair in my
ears now. you can't see them
-they're invisible. I wouldn't
know I bad them in myself,
only that I hear all right.
The Wilson Ear-Drum Is
really a substitute for the
.working parts of the
natural ear. Has no
wire. Invisible, easy to ad
just, comfortable Totally
different from any other de-
I vlc " Descriptive pamphlet sent upon request
CHAIHMK, «■ CoHtoa. M„ Hcto.j
POLITICAL
POINTS
Sydney D.T. in its anti-federal frenzy
announced that Minister Lyne had a “cool’’re-
ception at Adelong. Same morning S. M. Herald’s
correspondent reported a “ good ” reception. And
that’s the sort of thing the N.S.W. taxpayer is
asked to carry free.
Told by a N.S.W. civil servant that
Premier See ukased that the service was to vyork
on Saturday, Dec. 27th, and another Minister
said that he would “see the Premier to h
before he brought back his officers to work on that
day.” And so it was a holiday, and there was
peace.
Said now that South Australian Parlia-
ment will be approached next session for “more
liberal concessions ” to the tramway-grab people,
who, in view of the transcontinental railvvay
scheme, are profoundly shocked at the moderation
of their first proposals for exploiting the public
purse.
N.S.W. Premier John See displays a
London Daily Mail cutting, which quotes a Bul-
letin condemnation of the N.S.W. borrowing
policy, with the remark : “ It’s an ill bird that
fouls its own nest.” Not our nest, John ; your
nest. The Bulletin has never believed in a
Pawned Australia.
Joseph Chamberlain has fully explained
in S’Africa that the natives are not to have votes
or any share of political power under British rule.
It is reasonable enough, for a Parliament run by
an undressed Zulu majority would be unworkable.
But why does the Australian Tory howl so
bitterly about Exclusion Acts directed against
British niggers as an outrage on the British
principle of equal rights to all British subjects,
when there never was any such principle ?
Dry Dog Reid has got off a notable remark
about the need of a new Liberal party in N.S.W. :
The truly Liberal party will be that one which reso-
lutely faces the overwhelming necessity for drastic
economy.
Not one like Reid’s, that is, which came into office
when Dibbs had cut the borrowings down to zero,
and nearly doubled them in five years. And not
one led by Reid, who spends all his spare time in
savagely denouncing the only Government in
Australia —that of Premier Barton—which doesn’t
borrow a copper.
MR. CHAMBERLAIN’S MISSION OF CON-
CILIATION.
Scene, Oranye State. Mr. Chamberlain (loq.):
“ Well, there won’t be much trouble in con-
ciliating this lot."
N.S.W. Council is pleased at getting its
Jury Amendment Bill through without Arthur
Griffith’s proposal, made in the Assembly, that a
proportion of working men should be included in
the jury-lists. The way of compiling jury-lists
is certainly very unsatisfactory, and the method
of making up panels quite as much so.
Queensland spent £15,000 this year on
immigration, and of this £7OOO goes for rent,
printing, stationery, advertising and incidental
expenses, while salaries run to ,£2750 per annum.
Queensland at present has hundreds of men busy
at relief-stone-breaking or in receipt of Govt,
rations. And yet money is spent in immigra-
tion !
Vic. Railways Minister Bent is going to
do some circus tricks with South Australia, having
found out, he thinks, that S.A. owes Victoria
£40,000 over some matter that happened 20 years
ago or more. Bent is always biting off more than
he can chew ; now, by way of the largest bite of all,
he is going to try to get money out of Jenkins
Iscariot.
The anomalies in the scale of licensing
charges which Waddell’s new N.S.W. Licensing
Bill hopes to remove are strikingly illustrated in
the Treasurer’s own part of the count''} 7 . A large
hotel at Mount M'Donald, 10 miles from any
other, pays .£l5; another, four miles from Cowra,
with but a 10th of the takings, pays £3O ; £3O is
the general bush-town charge, while the big
Australia in Sydney pays only £3O.
Cabled that the Sultan of Kelantan has
signed a treaty with Siam which must have the
effect of checking British policy and influence in
that portion of the Malay Peninsula. This means
that very shortly the world will hear of indignities
and atrocities upon British subjects in Kelantan,
which will be rectified by invasion. There’s heaps
of tin in the Malay Peninsula, and, in the words
of Scripture, “Where the tin is, there shall the
Britons be gathered together.”
Australian Treasurer Turner has most
deservedly hit Queensland Premier Philp in the
eye—hard. Philp has been maundering once
more about the alleged increase in the cost of
running the Q. departments taken over by the
Australian Government since they were under
Federal control, and suddenly the worm turned.
Turner points out that the apparent increase in
1902 was owing to the fact that the departments,
when he took them over, were burdened with
nearly £74,000 of the Philp Government’s unpaid
accounts, and that, when every account is charged
to its proper year, the federalised Queensland
departments are being run for £lB,OOO a year less
than when they were under Pliilp’s control.
The other day Port Chalmers (M.L.) woke
up and found that it had voted itself Prohibition
by a majority of nine votes. The drink party
demanded a recount, and the authorities imme-
diately ordered it. Then it was found that the
returns from the Broad Bay polling-booth had
unaccountably disappeared. Meanwhile, in all
the other returns the recount increased the cold-
tea vote. The Broad Bay voting papers are still
missing, and no one is quite clear what the law is
on the subject, but the general idea is that when
any one at the Port, or in the district adjoining,
desires a casual drink of the real thing, he’ll have
to go to Dunedin to get it. The parcels traffic on
the local railway is expected to increase consider-
ably.
Since the hard - hearted refusal of Q.
Minister Dalrymple to oblige Brisbane
Courier that reliable
organ has found a num-
ber of reasons why the
Philp crowd should be
further half-soled-and
heeled, so to speak.
F’ rinstance —Pa-iu-law
Rutledge would make
an ideal Premier, and
Stevens, M.L.C. (chair-
man of Brisbane News-
paper Co.) would just
fill Dalrymple’s chair
to a nicety.
State Premier Jen-
kins, of S. A., continues
to bombard Australian
Premier Barton with
his grievance about the
S. A. water - supply.
Jenkins’ case is briefly
this : Queensland,
N.S.W., and Victoria
supply the waters of
the Murray-Darling;
S.A. doesn’t furnish a
single tributary. Be-
cause there has been
little irrigation here-
tofore, almost all the
water from three States,
except what evapo-
rated, has flowed into
S.A. Jenkins demands
that these three States
shall still let practically
all their water flow into
S. A., because they have
done so in the past.
Jenkins also says that
the proposal of the eas-
tern States to use some
of their own water for
irrigation purposes will
“shock the public con-
science of the Common-
wealth.”
On New Year’s Day, the second birthday
of the Coimnonwealth, there floated over the
Federal Houses of Parliament, not the Australian
flag but the English Royal Standard. And the
mistake was rubbed in by an infuriated English-
man who wrote to the Age to point out that the
Royal Standard is “ the King’s personal flag” and
shouldn’t be flaunted by any low Australian
Parliament. „ .
Attorney-General and Education Minister
Gordon (S.A.) protests that it is a gross libel to
suggest that he has any designs upon the integrity
°l the , free education system. It has been stated
that the department intends to save £15,000, but
no details of the proposed economies have yet
been published. Probably fees will be charged in
the higher classes, and some of the extra subjects
will be knocked off.
The black man also objects to mixing the
breed. Thus the editor of the Bechuanaland
native paper : —“We do not hanker after social
equality with the white man. If anyone tells you
so he is a lunatic. The renegade Kaffir who wants
to marry the white man’s daughter is a dangei to
his race. If his yearnings were realised we should
simply hurry down to become a generation of halt-
castes and to obliterate our race and color, both ot
which are very dear to us.” This Kaffir could
preach a few pregnant sermons in Mongreha.
Remarkable extract from a letter in Syd-
ney Telegraph denouncing the minimum wage :
Granted, that some industries can even now afford to
pay the minimum wage, and run full time for their lucky
employees, the question arises : “ How many mep must
remain unemployed, or only partially employed, owing to
the fact that agricultural and many other industries are
unable to employ labor at the minimum wage ! ”
From which it would seem that there is at least
one man in N.S. W. who actually believes, >or pre-
tends to believe, that there is somewhere in Aus-
tralia a minimum agricultural wage of 7s. a day
instead of 7s. a week 1
Ex-Governor of Uganda
Johnston to the Anglo-African
Writers’ Club in London :
The tendency, he thought, of the
colonies was ' towards independent
government. And the time was pass-
ing when 40 millions of white people
would be able to keep down by force
350 millions of people in India and
the millions in Africa. They all re-
cognised our justice, but something
more than abstract justice was
wanted to keep them under our rule.
We were perhaps the most snobbish
race in the world, and he thought
that if we were a little less British
when administering the affairs of
those,people who were not born in
these islands, and were not of'the
same color as ourselves, we should be
better liked by them. If we could
only make ourseives a little better
liked, and if we were only a little less
aggressive in forcing our prejudices
upon those peoples, our rule might
last many centuries longer.
Words of wisdom from
Barrier Miner
The Labor party needs to make it
plain that the loafer in moleskins is
as much its enemy as the loafer in
broadcloth. The Labor party has in-
finitely the best platform, the best
policy, of any political party. It
has an enlightened policy which
would appeal to thousands who are
not manual workers ; and those thou-
sands will come in if it is shown that
Labor men, after they are elected,
will remember that they are chosen
to advance the interests of all and
not to make things easy for any one
class. And they will make it far
easier for themselves if they drop
their present most wasteful disposi-
tion to do without expert and well-
paid supervisors. Here in Broken
Hill, where many thousands of pounds
have lately been spent in works,
we have not an engineer or respon-
sible overseer. Day labor under
such a lax system must almost in-
evitably he a failure; and if that
is a failure then the first plank in
municipal Labor politics breaks through.
Sydney D.T. lately published a statement
“that paragraphs in the report of the Political
Labor League executive show a grave difference
of opinion between that body and the Labor
party in Parliament over the Friedman case ” ;
whereupon P.L.L. president Lamond pointed out
(1) that the P.L.L. executive was unanimous in
agreeing with the Labor party oyer the Friedman
case; (2) that the report in which these alleged
paragraphs appeared hadn’t been, at the time of
the D.T. statement, drafted or even considered.
And, thus bowled out, the D.T. hadn’t the decency
to apologise.
A Westraliau ex-Minister has come back
from England with the shocking news that
the British investor is losing confidence in
Westralia owing to “legislation against capi-
tal.” In his own country, the British inves-
tor who puts his money into town property
pays from 4s. to 9s. 6d. in the £ of rental as muni-
cipal rates, and is then liable to Is. 2d. in the <£
income-tax on the balance. That looks pretty
steep, and it is strange how shocked the British
investor is about Australia’s “legislation against
capital ” when this country taxes him on about
one-fourth the British scale.
It begins to look very much as if the
Adelaide private-enterprise tramway grabbers
had failed to float their grab after all. The
prospective profits were very large, but the people
who float big grabs and cats in London want such
enormous pickings that it is hard to do business
with them. It is a fair chance that Jenkins’
railway grab won’t float either. Certainly the
90,000,000 acres offered, if it is worth half-a-crown
an acre, will represent twice the whole probable
cost of the railway ; in other words, the syndicate
will be paid for the railway twice over and keep
the railway all the same. But if S.A. has the
same experience as Canada had, all the good land
in Jenkins’ State won’t satisfy the shindykit.
Vic. Treasurer Shiels’s latest financial state-
ment should be known as the burglary-budget, so
many proposals does it contain for politically
robbing one trust fund or other. When Treasurer
of the McLean Sliiels Ministry Shiels proposed to
steal the money from the Land Transfers Act
fund to pay old age pensions. Now he proposes
to grab the railway accident fund provided for
meeting claims against the railway department
owing to accidents. £50,000 is to be annexed
from that fund, and another £60,000 is to be filched
from the railway stores suspense trust account.
Further than this he asks Parliament to give
him leave to steal the balance of the Mallee
land sales trust fund created by Turner
for the redemption of the 'Victorian loans.
Already Shiels has grabbed about half the
amount to the credit of that fund to wipe out a
deficit in one of his previous budget statements.
Had Shiels been working on private instead of
public funds the dullest policeman in the land
would have got on his tracks long ago.
There were some mistakes At the Delhi
Durbar, despite the general excellence of the
pantomime management. King Ned was pro-
claimed Emperor of All India, which he isn t, in
that France and Portugal still hold bits, how-
ever small, of the Peninsula. Survivors of the
Mutiny were paraded, and that’s a chapter wnioh
should be forgotten. Part of the celebration was
a gift to the Famine fund; and that skeleton
should have been kept in the closet.
South Australian M’s.P. have convened
themselves together and resolved that
In anv agreement arrived at in regard to the Murray
waters it is a sine qua non that the navigability of the
rivers should be maintained at least to the extent to
which navigability has been possible in the past.
This violent resolving on the part of Jenkins
Iscariot’s State, which itself supplies none of the
Murray waters, that Queensland, N.S.W., and
Victoria must continue to let practically all their
water-supply go down the river for S.A. to look
at, instead of making a fair division of the fluid,
threatens to become ridiculous.
THE REFORM SPREADS HOPEFULLY.
“ Whad’you want ? Be quick; don't keep me standing in this
draught. ”
"To come in, of course !”
“ Well, you can't! You're an Asiatic of an ‘wudesirable and
insanitary type, and Pm solid for a White Hell!"
It was reported quite seriously in the press
last week that men who served in the National
Scouts are looked upon coldly by their fellow
Boers, and are even refused communion in church.
Surely such a matter was hardly worth reporting.
The National Scouts were the gang of traitors who
abandoned their country in its hour of trouble,
and took service with the invaders, and helped
them to hunt down the patriots who were still in
arms. They will be a thing of loathing as long as
history lasts—-a thing for decent men to shun and
honest men of all nations to spit upon, and whoever
is seen along with one of them should feel unclean
iust because he is seen in such company. Even
ienedict Arnold was a respectable citizen by
comparison with the “ National ” Scouts.
From Sydney Telegraph (sth January) :
A missionary who has just returned from Norfolk
Island states that the people there would prefer to be
annexed to Maoriland than to the Commonwealth.
One of the arguments used by the Norfolk Islanders
against being placed under the control of the Common-
wealth is that they would be subjected to heavy taxation.
As a matter of fact, if the Norfolk Islanders were
to be annexed by Maoriland (or by England
either) they would strike a country where taxation
is some 50 per cent, higher than it is in the Com-
monwealth. But the Telegraph (whose policy it
is to represent the Government which protected
Australian industry and cut off the Telegraph’s
free postage as a rapacious cormorant of the worst
order) omits to enlighten its readers on that point
Bishop Frodsham, in a letter to the Delta.
Advocate :
The Chinese exist in large numbers in N.Q., and are
rapidly gaining wealth and influence. When the Chinese
people are again pushed from behind they will follow
once more the line of least resistance, and those who-
know the East best cannot doubt that this time the line
will lead to Australia.
Previous to Federation and the Alien Immi-
gration Restriction Act the line of least
resistance was probably where the bishop places
it. Now—it is probably a different matter. By
the way, the Chinese have been several times
vigorously pushed from behind, (as Dr. Frodsham
gracefully remarks) here in Australia. The
miners No. 10 hobnailed blucher was the pushing
agency on northern goldfields.
The bullying Vic. Railways Minister Bent
has suffered some sad sets-back lately. He has a
tongue which he must wag, and when Mother day
he found that the “ Reform ” Bill was leaving the
Assembly without any big red splashes of Bent
about »t, he rose lumberingly from his seat and
proceeded to make a few remarks, much to the
disgust of all his colleagues—especially Premier
rvme. When Bent sat down Irvine took him
away into the Ministerial room, and when they
emerged Bent looked most uncomfortable. A day
or tw6 later Bent itched to spread himself on the
minimum-wage question which had incidentally
cropped up. He had got as far as the table when
Irvme ordered him to sit down in a voice that all
the House could hear. Bent sab down, but the
look he cast on Irvine was not a healthy one.


Tbs Callagbai) Boot
VERY
SPECIAL
A Hard-
Wear
Boot
For
Hard
Times
I
i v
POST
AND
DUTY
FREE
Gentlemen’s French Calf Lace,
leather lined, pointed,
medium or broad toes
Delivered free to any address
in the Commonwealth, upon
receipt of
16/6
17/6
The real strength and endurance combined with the fine appearance of this HARD-TIME BOOT
assures us that we shall sell many thousands of pairs. WE KNOW its value.
Our system of exchanging boots or returning money enables you, without any risk to yourself, to
OUXT a. Pair at home.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 ceorce st„ Sydney.
7 i
Please remit by P.O. Order or Postal Note.
HYDATIDS
CURED BY
VITADATIO
After Eight Years’ Suffering.
Symond’s Place, Adelaide,
November, 7, 1900.
Mr. S. A. PALMER,
184 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Dear Sir, -About eight years ago I underwent an opera-
tion for Hydatids. I understood at the time there was a
possibility of a return of the disease, but all went very
well until last Christmas, when I became ill, a lump
forming in my side, where I had been operated on,
severe pains ensuing, together with great weakness. I
became at last so bad that I felt like giving everything
up and dying, life was such a burden to me. I am a
cab proprietor, and managed to drive to your head
office in Adelaide, and there decided to take a course of
Vitadatio. I began to feel better after a fourth bottle,
and after taking nine bottles the lump has entirely
disappeared, together with all pains and weakness, and I
now feel in splendid health, and life is worth living again.
I think Vitadatio would be cheap at £1 a bottle, when it
effects cures like mine.
I remain, yours truly,
j. McNulty.
Witness— Geo. R. Davie, Adelaide.
Mr. McNulty is a well-known Cab Proprietor and may
be seen daily on the stand, King William-street.
For {urlh.tr particulars,
$. A. PAL3IEII,
184 ritt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The Price of Medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
Do You
Wear a
Truss?
If so,
TRY
Denver's Elastic Truss.
7 IT IS THE VERY BEST.
No Discomfort to Wearer. Suits any Rupture.
PRICES : 17/6 Single ; 25 ■ Double.
Send Measure and P. 0. Order.
DENYER BROS.
281 CEORCE ST., SYDNEY
Opp. Hunter St.
AND AT MELBOURNE.
Newman’s
Antiseptic Pastilles.
The Best for all Affections of the Throat.
TRY THEM. PRICE —CHE SHILLINC.
S. HARRIS, M. P. S., Pharmaceutical Chemist,
Telephone 2288. 82 KING-ST., SYDNEY.
An aged gentleman named Newton, who
lived for many years in reduced circumstances
at horbes (N.S.W.), is reported to have inherited
over £1,000,000 which had been for many years
‘‘in Chancery.” Chancery is a large, vague, ill-
defined place like Gehenna, but immense sums
are supposed (on the worst authority) to be in it
and every now and then one is said to break
loose and come out. But, as- a rule, the story
fades away a good deal when the cold, hard
particulars come to hand, and many people begin
to have a dark suspicion that there really isn’t
very much money in Chancery after all. And
that’s the fact.
The Great Western lineof N.S. W.—in some
respects the greatest in Australia—has two weak
spots : a wooden viaduct just outside Penrith,
which threatens collapse one day, and the Glen-
brook tunnel, an old-fashioned hole through the
ground, built on a very heavy grade, up
which two engines can pull a train only
with great difficulty. Ventilation in this tunnel
is abominable, and passing through it is like a
spell in the smoke-room of a bacon-curing estab-
lishment. Many drivers and firemen have had
terrible experiences taking trains through, ard
during the last Xmas holidays two men narrowly
escaped death owing to a heavy train sticking up
in the middle of the tunnel.
The Veterinarian.
ALWAYS
.GIVES YOU
roRYOjuRTIQNEY
The
Standard
Preparations
of ... .
SALVITIS
FOR
RESTORING AND CONSERVING
THE HEALTH OF
Horses Pigs
Cattle Poultry
Sheep Dogs
SHOULD
BE TRIED
Used by Leading Stockowners.
SALVITIS INDEX of DISEASES
To be had of Storekeepers, etc.
Direct Agents for Netv South Wales—
E. RICH & COfIPANY, Ltd., SYDNEY
PHOTOS
Models from Life, Beautiful Stereo-
scopies, etc. List with 100 Minia-
ture and 3 Cabinet size photos.,
55., P. 0.0, or stamps.
S. RECKNAGEL NACHP, Munich, 1 Brieffach, Germany.
The NEW SHORTHAND (Egd).
COUNTRY PUPILS.
must be paid by pupil both ways.
Distance is no object, as the New Shorthand is wonderfully easy, and may
be taught by post. A Lesson Book accompanies each lesson, and postage
Letters of inquiry will not be answered unless the postage be prepaid
NEW SHORTHAND
is the simplest yet invented, and the great beauty of it is its legibility
to be read when written. No matter whether smart or dull, you learn
in 21 lessons. The Dull pays no more to learn than the Smart. Take as long as you choose between lessons
Master one, and then come (or send) for the next.
From January Ist, 21 lessons for 425, payable 2s 6d each for first 16 lessons, 2s for 17th, last four free.
Payment of £2 2s for Course of Lessons entitles Pupils to enter for our Great Speed Competition.
TYPEWRITING and the NEW SHORTHAND taught
for £5 ss. cash to completion. A saving of Pounds on
other methods of teaching. Each pupil thoroughly
trained in the NEW SHORTHAND, and provided with an
up-to-date Type Machine during Tuition.
In three months we can qualify pupils for positions.
Bankers— Adelaide : The Union.
Full Particulars from any Studio.
LOOK OUT FOR OUR GREAT SPEED OFFER ■
ALL DAILY PAPERS AND HERE
NEXT WEEK.
Branches: The Commercial.
Melbourne Studio ... 406 COLLINS STREET.
Sydney Studio .... 7 MOORE STREET.
W. Charlton Hubble, Chief Examiner for N.S.W.
Branches at Hobart, Launceston, Brisbane, Perth, and Adelaide.
Ir
f '*
+.''Ll
sQ
Th^
PD
CORSETS
The Recognised Standard
High-Class Corsets
LATEST SPECIALTY
STRAIGHT FRONT
NOUVELLE FORM
Obtainable from Leading
Drapers Everywhere.
; Avoid Inferior Imitations, and see that
each pair bears the Manufacturer’s “Trade
Mark ” on band inside, as above.
Almost before Senator Sargood's body
was cold, the Melbourne dailies were squabbfiftg
over the method of electing his successor. The
Argus, with all its eyes on Robert Reid, wanted
a successor appointed by the Gov. in Council,
for the unexpired portion of Sargood’s term ; the
Age —thinking of John L. Dow—reckoned that the
right of appointment was with the State Parlia-
ment. Both calmly ignored the rights of the
people. Yet section 15 of the Constitution Act
is plain enough, and enacts—
(l) That the temporary successor must be elected by
the State Houses sitting as one, if in session (which they
are).
’ (2) That he shall hold office until the first election,
either of Senate or Representatives. (A Senate election
happens in March, 1904.)
(3) A permanent successor is then to be elected by the
people.
For the billet of seat-warmer, probably Mr. Dow,
as seventh on the list at last election, has best
show; but then Mr. Robt. Reid was eighth, and
he is a Minister to-day.
Pastor Herlitz, who treated the diseased
souls of Tisler and Mrs. Sangal for the Dandenong
murder, has now written to the papers to say that
he “has every reason to believe Mrs. Sangal
deeply feels the heinousness of, and is truly
repentant for her sins.” He adds, “I have no
doubt whatever that she will fully prove the
sincerity and depth of her repentance by her
future conduct in prison.” Of course Tisler before
he was hanged wrote to the pastor stating
that he was “saved.” Mrs. Sangal’s child,
born in prison, has, the pastor says, been
well provided for through the State Children’s
department. Provision has been made to effec-
tually hide, and at the same time legally preserve,
the child’s identity, so that on coming of age it
may be able to establish its claims to part of the
Sangal estate. In the course of his letter Pastor
Herlitz makes the following reference to the
Dubberke family, and to Thekla Dubberke, of the
boot-box tragedy, in particular :
Many cruel opinions having been expressed with regard
to the Dubberke family ; allow me, in refutation, to state
that the parents, whom I have known for nearly 40 years,
are respectable, honest, and hard-working people, highly
esteemed and deeply sympathised with by all who know
them. There are also a number of grown-up sons and
daughters in the family who are living blameless lives;
and even that daughter who had formerly gained such an
unenviable notoriety as Thekla Dubberke has fully kept
her promise “that she would yet show the public that
she was not the bad woman they took her for.” She is
now, and has been for years, a faithful wife and a happy
mother.
The small boy, irreverent, uncontrollable
and übiquitous, is a nuisance in Sydney, and
Lands Secretary Crick showed much misplaced
sympathy on Xmas Eve by pleading for a young
rascal who had been caughtin theact of maliciously
throwing stones in a crowded city street. The
Minister succeeded in. getting a nominal fine im-
posed, which he paid, and sent the nipper
iiome rejoicing with a small tip. Same
paper which chronicled this set forth
the doings of four small boys under
13 years who broke into Paddington Superior
Public School, and wantonly smashed the windows
and destroyed the fittings. Some parts of Sydney
are quite given over to the small boy. The police
object to interfere. The magistrates dislike, under
the existing state of the law, to deal with unruly
urchins as if they were hardened criminals. The
spectacle of the huge bobby and the small boy is
also a time-honored joke, so the householder who
finds his windows broken, his fowls killed and his
flower-beds destroyed, has practically no redress.
The new State Children’s Bill with its special
courts will come as a boon to harassed citizens.
The Appeal to C[?]sar.
Somk years ago, one Morrison was tried at N. S.W.
Central Criminal Court for murder, and was con-
victed. A point of law was reserved as to whether
a statement made by him was “ evidence ” in the
case ; and if it had been held that the statement
was evidence, the conviction must have been
quashed and the prisoner discharged. The Full
Court held that the statement was not evidence.
Morrison was not satisfied with the decision,
and petitioned the Governor, Lord Carrington,
for a respite to enable him to appeal to the
Privy Council. There can be little doubt that
the decision of the Court was, to say the least,
open to very grave question, inasmuch as in the
case of one Chantler the same court subsequently
held that, though a prisoner’s statement is not
evidence, the Crown may give evidence in reply
to contradict such statement. These two naturally -
destruetive decisions are the law in New South
Wales to-day ! But it was thought that Morrison
was a man who ought to be hanged on the merits
of the case; and it must have been felt that
in appealing to the final tribunal of hw
(in theory) and thereby delaying, and, it may be,
defeating his own execution, lie was doing some-
thing which ought not to be encouraged,
bo while the words “I appeal unto Gesar,”
or their modern equivalent, were yet in his
mouth, the Governor signed his death-war-
rant, and the appellant was silenced by—stran-
gulation. It seems that it is the intention of
the Queensland Government to persuade its
Governor to follow this precedent; and it would
be interesting to know whether the Governor’s
instructions, as they now stand, would be held
sufficient to justify so flagrant a breach of the
prerogative of the King to exercise an appellate
jurisdiction in all cases, and the constitutional
right of a prisoner to present his petition to
the Crown. Whether appeal to the Privy
Council ought or ought not to be continued
is one thing. It is quite another whether
the law as it stands ought to be observed
by those whose first duty it is to guard
it from infringement. What the Governor and
Executive Council in New South Wales did, and
what the like authorities are understood to intend
in Queensland ought plainly to be understood.
They over-rode the prerogative right of the
Crown, as it is stated in many cases, and in
notably clear terms in Regina v. Bertrand, where
it is even spoken of as a “duty.” Thev usurned
the functions of the Privy Council, and' in euect
took upon themselves to declare what the Privy
Council would or would not do with regard to a
petition which had not even been presented.
They deprived an Australian subject of his constitu-
tional right. They constituted the local Supreme
Court the final Court of Appeal in criminal cases.
They created a precedent under which it must be
held that, while all subjects of the Crown have a
right to petition for leave to appeal in matters
affecting their pockets, they are impotent to seek
similar protection in those which affect their lives.
And why? Because there is any possible doubt
about the Privy Council being'in law the final.
Court of Appeal from an Australian Bench in
criminal, just as much as in civil cases? Because
there is any doubt about the prerogative of the
Crown and the right of the prisoner ? No;
but because the appeal would take time—
quite a long time ! Because the man was a bad
man, and bad law was good enough for him ;
because Cassar is a long way off—and meanwhile
Herod is handy.


Banking, Public Companies, fte.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.-
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
■&<*
&
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
ixr.srOT.
|||ontdepieteo.*f!i|.Co.,[td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74
CASTLEREAGH ST.,
SYDNEY
74
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
■> —'l'l IT5—.
Colonial Mutual Life
assurance society limited,
FOR
Mutual Lite Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Robbrts,
C.M.G., M.L.G. ; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,595,870.
Policies issued 88,299— assuring £26,826,380.
Amount s paid to Policyholders, £2,767,115.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—eouitably distributed.
Head Office:
*l9 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
The |ank of ||orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director-JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. I*. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... 250 900 ... £350,000
Royal Bank of Queensland
J hi MIT 1C 1). W
CAPITAL PAID-UP £451,307
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 181,859
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 56,000
£689,166
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Queensland Smelting Qompg.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
T3UYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
-D Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street, Melbourne.
H E S A V 7 N G S BANK
HAS MONEY TO LEND in VICTORIA
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £2OOO to £15,000, on Town
Properties ; £2OOO to £25,000 on BROAD ACRES, and
sums from £5OO to £2OOO at 4£ per cent, on Town
Properties FOR FIVE YEARS, WITH OPTION OF
PAYING OFF PART HALF YEARLY.
FARMERS’ CREDIT FONCIER.
Loans up to £2OOO at 4£ per cent. FOR 31 £ YEARS.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Market-street, Melbourne.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. W. Mbbks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Hon. John Skk, Lt.-001. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clynk ; Adelaide, W. N.
M‘Fardanb ; Brisbane, K. Wilson; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australia,
131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capitol payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £2,500,000
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourna.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) ... ... ... £9576 13 4
Directors: F. It. Godfrey, Eeq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROW MAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Managei
No. 56 ACETYLENE CAS Catalogue
Ifc.
b the MOST COMPLETE
and COMPREHENSIVE
ever issued.
Tells all about the Be3t
ACETYLENE CAS GENER-
ATORS, LAMPS, and
everything in connection
with ACETYLENE.
Nearly 400 of our
Reliable Automatic
Acetylene Gas
Generators
in daily use.
Large Stocks of the
Best
Carbide
of Calcium
Quotations on application.
James MARTIN & CO.,
161 Clarence Street,
Nr. King-st., Sydney.
Shipping.
3XT. D. L.
(NORD-DKUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OP
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
‘Twin-screw steamer.
Leaving MELBOURNE Wednesday after Sydney.
Interstate First Class Return Tickets are now available
for Return by the Steamers of the P. and 0., Orient
Pacific, or M.M. Co.’s.
TO SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. STETTIN, 18th FEBRUARY.
And Regularly Thereafter.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents.
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
THC AB€RP€€N LiNC.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
SALAMIS
ABERDEEN
DAMASCUS
A. Douglas
A. Robb
R. McKilliam
Noon, Jan. 16
Noon, Feb. 6
Noon, Feb. 27.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. £55 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. £3l 10s .. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £l2O.
SALOON Cabins large and.elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
Huddart, parker & (Jo’s tine
—TO —
MELBOURNE, HORART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST-A USTRALIA.
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Pares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
a jm n
ajNEV
via
San Francisco,
California.
FASTEST AHD BEST
ROUTE
TO
ENGLAND,
Via America and Canada*
THE GREAT { o ° v ™aND } HIGHWAY
TO THE UNITED KINGDOM,
Via NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH SEAS, and AMERICA.
The NEWEST, LARGEST (6000 Tons each), FASTEST,
and ONLY TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS engaged in
the TRANS-PACIFIC PASSENGER SERVICE from
Australia and New Zealand.
Round the World Itineraries compiled.
OCEANIC BTKAMSH.II> CO., KTD.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Managing Agents,
Pitt and Bridge Sts. SYDNEY*
Henry Skinner,
Olarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 10US.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
I’ll Try It.'
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Qapillarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
\
The Remit.
CRAIG &. AITKEN. N.S. W. Barber’s Supply
House, 680-682 GEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
SUITS TO ORDER.
A S a matter of comparison, before ordering- Your
SUITS, write to . . .
CHARLES GILBERT, the Leading Tailor,
Queen Street, Brisbane . . .
for Patterns of NEWEST SUITINGS and SELF-MEA-
SUREMENT FORMS, and compare the value of his 50s
SUIT TO MEASURE (carriage paid to any address) with
what you can get in either SYDNEY or MELBOURNE ;
and if you cannot see the advantages he offers, you must
be blind in one eye and deaf in the other.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
WONDERF'UL VALUE—A packet of Seven different
articles, comprising Ali Baba’s Disappearing Jewel Casket,
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 Coin and
Card Tricks), the Wizard Fish (gives the definition of your
character, very superior for parlor entertainments), the
Mafeking Grub (or Nerve Strengthener), the Vest Pocket
Tubular Microscope (very useful for examining small
objects), the Cinematograph (or book of moving pic-
tures), and, last of all, the great American Puzzle—
‘‘CAN U DO IT.” Instructions enclosed.
This splendid packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralia (Free) on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON,
XNEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket. 710 George-st., Sydney.
Legal Notices.
PURSUANT to an order of the Chancery Division of
the High Court of Justice in Ireland, made in the
matter of the Estate of THOMAS WILLIAM
RUTHERFORD, late of 134 Saint James’s Street, in the
City of Dublin, Tobacco Manufacturer, deceased, between
ELIZABETH ANNE KENNEDY, Plaintiff ; WILLIAM
JOHN RUTHERFORD and WILLIAM PICKERING,
Defendants.
All persons claiming to be next-of-kin according to the
Statutes for the distribution of intestate estates, of the
said Thomas William Rutherford, living at the time of
his death on the 4th day of January, 1902, or to be the
legal personal representatives of such next-of-kin, as
are now dead, and in particular the children (if any)
of James Pickering, a lawful brother of the half blood
of said deceased, are by their solicitors on or before
the Ist day of May, 1903, to come in and prove their
claims at the Chambers of the Right Honourable the
Master of the Rolls, at the Four Courts, Inns Quay,
Dublin, Ireland, or, in default thereof, they will be
peremptorily excluded from the benefits of said order.
Wednesday, the 6th day of May, 1903, at 11 o’clock in
the forenoon, at said Chambers is appointed for hearing
and adjudicating on claims.
Dated this Bth day of November, 1902.
EDWARD SALHON,
CHIEF CLERK.
O’CONNOR & DUDLEY,
Solicitors for Plaintiff,
St. Andrew’s Chambers,
40 Westmoreland Street, Dublin.
LADIES
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address— L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
STEAMERS SAIL-
Jan. 26, Feb. 23, March 23.
CHEAPEST ROUTE TO LONDON.
FIRST SALOON, £55 to £66.
SECOND „ £35 to £46.
BEST ROUTE TO AMERICA.
UNION BTEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passengei Agent.
TTSE
SPOONER’S
SPOONERS
] Sm%
IfATINT LEATHER BOOTS
CUZES T»0&>«
' '**
;> .03 y* ?&+ MW> m»* ~f*+ ***• ■
;« •
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning- and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressing's,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
Medical.
ROSE’S CELEBRATED
Eye Lotion
Sold Everywhere.
TAKE! INTO OTH ER,
Free for Asking.
W R l TE , to us anri "' e wiu forward you our scientific
w » book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong and visrorous—the envv of vour
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magic, and you will be filled with energy
strength and ambition once more. Posted free Write’
to Johk Wilson, Box 135, G.P.0., Adelaide S A ’
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and froiu
Wesi Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
POUT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BA?
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhippingrab Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Rockton,
Friday, January 9.
S.S. Woilowra,
Saturday, January 17.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Claims
S.S. Warrego, Sat., Jan. 10.
S.S. Rockton, Sat., Jan. 17.
S.S. Allinga, Friday, Jan. 23.
Best and Cheapest Jloute to Qoldflelds.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
P AND Q COMPANY'S
■ ■ ROYAL MAIL STEAMERB
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
* Via Hobart.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B to £77
Ditto Ditto Return, £66 to £ll5
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by P. and 0., Orient-Pacific,
Messageries Mari times and N.D.L. Steamers having room.
A. GORDON WESCHE,
63 Pitt-street. Acting Agent.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PAMS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE. FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India. China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter*
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and 0.,
Orient Pacific and N.D.L. steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydnev.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. . BY THE . •
“E. and A.” LINE
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
These steamers specially built for the Eastern passenger
trade are fitted with EVERY CONVENIENCE FOR
TROPICAL TRAVELLING. The Saloon Cabins con-
taining two berths only are all on UPPER DECK AMID-
SHIPS, and are large, cool, and fitted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Canada, United
States of America and Europe.
For handbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.,
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-st., Sydney.
DR. J. GOLDS BROWNE'S
rHLOROPYNE.
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyna.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BEOHOHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &<>•> bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—.
Pr.J.QOLLIS BROWNC.
IHE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS at
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
" If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, 1 should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forma
its best recommendation.”
ORNAMENTAL HAIR.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d bo 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers a. Wigmakers.
i>end to us for Price Lists of Anything you leant.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to
any Part of Australasia.
CRAIG & A.ITKBN,
N.S.W. Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 George Street, Sydney.
gents.
C
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE ROOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address. L.D.1., 300 Collins St., Melbourne.


A Fitzroy (Melbourne) lady named Smith
lately caused an intricate point to rage at some
length in the local Court:
She had bought a side of lamb from butcher Wardle.v,
to be paid for on delivery—price ss. Not having 55., she
gave the butcher’s myrmidon a half-sovereign to get
changed. The myrmidon—name of Bailey—went to milk-
man Hunt and asked him to change Mrs. Smith’s half-
sovereign, which he did in an unexpected way. He said
that Mrs. Smith owed him ss. for milk, and in exchange
for the half-sovereign gave butcher Wardley’s messenger
ss. and a receipt for Mrs. Smith’s milk bill.' Mrs. Smith,
when the transaction was explained to her, indignantly
kept her ss. change and sent the milk receipt to the
butcher in payment for the spring lamb, evidently hold-
ing that an unauthorised butcher-boy had no right to
interfere with her milk bill. Then the butcher sued
the milkman for his ss. The milkman, in defence, said
he never had the butcher’s ss.—only Mrs. Smith’s ss. The
court struggled with the case for two hours, and then
was so undecided that it dismissed (he matter without
costs. Result : The milkman has got his 55., but has lost
about a guinea in costs ; the butcher hasn’t got his ss. and
has lost about a guinea in costs : the lady has got the
lamb—at least, she appears to have. Now, if the
butcher sues her, the question will arise whether his
boy had any right to part with her money with which to
pay her milk-bill. And if he sues the boy he is probably a
minor, and will plead, besides, that he didn’t take the
money—it just went. Again, the question arises whether
Mrs. Smith, by impressing the butcher’s boy to run her
errand, didn’t make him (temporarily) her boy, for whose
doings she, not the butcher, was responsible. That side
of lamb should ultimately get to the Supreme Court.
“ Hermes ” : This was the park-tout story
told me by Senior-constable O’Mulrooney, a police-
man of tact and discretion, while blowing the froth
off a lengthy beer :
“ Yis, I have sympathy with the mahn who allows him-
self to be bled by the tahout, but, on this bate, at inny
rate, there’s no necessity fer it. I moind me, nvw, av a
case that happened a few weeks before that famous
Genuine EDISON PHONOGRAPHS
We always carry the Largest Stock of the Most Improved Model
Machines at the Lowest Prices, and the finest Selection of
NEW MOULDED RECORDS (no others now kept).
-Tm i Send for Catalogues and Lists of Records.
We Sell a Good Phonograph for £1 Is.
The “ New Gem,” 1902 Pattern
with Reproducer and Recorder
New
Moulded
Records,
2s. efich,
21s. dozen.
The “Standard,” with Reproducer
and Recorder, £5 Os. Od.
The “ Home,” with Reproducer
and Recorder, £7 10s. Od.
Send for Lists or Write
for fuller Particulars.
(stf-CUVO
tm|
fciqr\cJuK-c • uvitAlioUA C^~-vio w vw«-
(T '
aet'uxmfc.
£3?
flrmo& (X 6kvo«»-»
gram-o-phones
A Splendid Shipment of
the Most Improved
Machines and the New
VICTOR Records
has just come to hand.
KF’You ought to hear them.
OSBORN # JERDAN
393 George-st., Sydney
213 Queen-st., Brisbane
gintleman came to a sudden sthop on Sydney Common.
There was a tahout on this bate that ud made himself
moightv unpleasant, an’ I sez to meself, ‘ I’ll lay for that
individual.’ But he was cute —mighty cute. He passed
me in an ulster wid me arms round a polls probationer
got up for the occasion in a skirt and jacket, and whin
he was five yards away he coughed, respectful like, and
passed widout so much as turning his head. Sez Ito me
mate, the probationer : ‘Me mahn, ye are too awkward,
an’ the knobs o’ yer muscles is too apparent, an’ there’s
no chanst o’ yer deceivin’ the trained eye o’ the tahout.
Get down to Darling Harbor,’ I sez, ‘ and watch for coal-
thieves.’ He goes off wid me ulster and his own faymaie
apparel, and I wanders down the thrack. At the bottom
I meets a young chap wid the sweetest bit o’ muslin that
was ever seen on this bate, and I thinks o’ the tahout up
the thrack. I touches the young chap on the shoulder :
‘ A worrd wid ye,’ I sez; an’ I takes him across the
thrack. Sez I: ‘ It’s not meself that ’ud be afther
saying that ye and the purty little girl was not going ter
study the Scriptures by the light o’ the moon whin
she roises, or that the Kyardinal himself, God bless him,
could take objection to yer presence, but be careful av
appearances. Therez a tahout up the thrack ’(I looked
him up and down and saw he was a well-knit young
chap.) ‘ That’s a foine bit av a sthick ye have wid ye,
an’ listen, if the tahout makes himself onpleasant, don’t
be afther killing him entoirely, but GIVE HIM WAN.
If he shows foight, sing out, an’ I'll not be far away.
Dy’e moind me now? GIVE HIM WAN!’ Then I goes
down the thrack, an’ I was afther havin’ a bit av a shmoke,
leanin’ agin the fince, thinkin’, like, o’ the superannuation
fund an’so on. Suddenly, I hears a great squealin’, an’
some shouting an’ langwidge. ‘ Now,’ sez Ito meself, * I
wonder if that’s the young chap and the tahout,’ and I
strolls, quiet-like, up the thrack. Somethin’ passed me
wid a rush; it was the pretty little girl, too scared to
shriek. I hurries up. ‘ Bedad ! ’ thinks I, ‘ the tahout
must have got the bet.ther av it, an’ I draws me baton
and prepares for slaughter. Just round the corner I sees
a loight, and whin I gets to it I finds a mahn wid a loight
in his hand lookin’ at a bloke he was kneeling on. It
was the young fellow. Underneath was the tahout.
I feels for his heart —devil a flutter. * Begob ! ’
sez I, ‘is it afther killin’ him entoirely ye are?’
‘l’m afraid so,’ sez the young chap. ‘Well, phwat the
devil d’ye mane by it ? ’ sez I ; ‘ didn’t I tell ye only to
give him wan?’ ‘Devil take you,’ sez he, ‘I did give
him wan.’ I was perplexed. I thought of the sweet
little girl, an’, sure enough, it seemed to me the tahout
was dead, an’ good riddance. ’Twas a position requiring
tact; an’ ’tis that same procured me me sthroipes. So I
sez to the young chap, ‘ Well, Mr. Brown—Mr. James
Brown—it’s much obliged lamto ye for drawin’ me
attention to this foine young fellow what has evidently
been assaulted by a push. I hope your young lady
friend was not over upset by the find.’ Sez
the young chap, •Me name’s not Mr. James
Brown.’ ‘ Sir,’ sez I to him, ‘ ’tis useless tryin’
to avoid unpleasantness. I sympathise wid ye, but yer
name is Mr. James Brown ; I recognise ye, and whin I
furrst knew yez ye lived at Hargreaves-st., Paddington.
Pwhat’s yer present address, that I may call yer at the
inquest to testify to foinding this corpse on the thrack?’
He shmiled. ‘ It’s 2006 Crown-st.,’ sez he. ‘ I’ll make a
note of it,’ sez I, takin’ out me buke. 1 Now, Mr. Brown
—Mr. James Brown,’ sez I, ‘ would yez further oblige me
by spaking to the sergeant at the end of the bate, an’
ask him to sind a cab to remove the corpse ye found in
the thrack, to the hospital. As I’ve yer name and address,
Mr. Brown, ’twill be onnecessary for ye to return wid the
cab. Take the young lady home. Good-night, Mr.
Brown—Mr. James Brown.’ And that was the lasht I
saw av him. The tahout. I’m sorry to say, revived in the
hospital. The .voting chap gave him wan, right enough.”
Comparisons are Odious.
The old proverb is true, yet nevertheless every-
thing in this world is comparative. In comparing,
very much depends upon point of view. There
are millions who, if they were compelled to live
on £lO,OOO a year, would regard themselves as
little better than beggars. There is also a some-
what larger number of people who would regard
such compulsion, were it applied to them, with
more favor. The ultra-Socialist who demands
the equal division of property thinks of the
people who own more than himself, never of
those who own less. Some comparisons prove
little, others much. Here is one that proves
little. An Irishman who congratulated him-
self on being unable to afford a feather bed,
on being asked to explain, said that he
had once tried to sleep on a single feather
and was so desperately uncomfortable that he
could not even imagine the torture of lying on
thousands of them. Here is a comparison which
proves much. It is made by Mr. Thomas Martin,
of 91 Brougham-street, Sydney, N.S.W., in a
letter 2nd July, 1902, and relates to the compara-
tive value of various medicines. “ Six years ago,”
says Mr. Martin, “ I began to suffer from a com-
plication of complaints. I was both bilious and
dyspeptic, and suffered from a dreadful pain
in my back I could neither stoop, sit down, nor
rise from a recumbent position without under-
going dreadful agony. I tried many doctors and
many medicines,but gained only temporary relief
from the best of them. One doctor told me that
I was suffering from an enlargment of the liver,
and hinted at the necessity for an operation ; but
I would not listen to that. Bor three weary years
I remained in this wretched state, never free
from pain. Then I chanced to read an advertise-
ment in the Sydney Morning Herald, giving
details of a case somewhat resembling my own
which was stated to have been cured by Mother
Seigel’s Curative Syrup, The statement, which
was in the form of a testimonial from the former
patient, showed how he had been thoroughly and
permanently cured by that remedy, and made such
a deep impression upon me that I determined to
try it. I purchased a bottle from the chemist,
and was not long in discovering that it was the
right medicine for my complaint. I began to
recuperate before I had taken a dozen doses, and
in less than a fortnight I experienced great
benefit. I was soon able to eat, sleep, and move
about freely without pain. I continued to use
Mother Seigel’s Curative Syrup for nine weeks,
by which time I was permanently restored to
health. My only regret is that I did not resort
to it sooner.”*
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It dri\es away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, aud all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
m
m
mMmm
aw
m
m
m
M
m
m
m
a
i
■t
wm
■
“ZITA” (Regd.) ADJUSTER
GIVES that charming dip-front or long waist effect now so essential
to well-dressed woman. It can be put on instantly and adjusted
to any depth. There are no spikes. The wearer will be surprised
at the extraordinary difference lengthening the front of the waist makes
to the figure. Never have results so striking been achieved by a device
so simple. (T MAKES YOUR WAIST LOOK SMALLER.
Size 1 for waists up to 24 in. Size 2 for waists above 24 in.
If unable to obtain from your Draper, send Money Order or English stamps for 18d. to the Manufacturers
W. PRETTY & SONS, Ltd. (Dept. 2 ), Ipswich, England.
Oldsmobile
is the most practical automobile made, and is sold for the lowest price
consistent with good work. It is a runabout for either business or
pleasure, and requires no experience to run.
The construction is the simplest of any automobile —there is no
fire, no boiler to burn out, nothing to watch but the road ahead,
nothing to get out of order.
It will run over any passable road; climbs steep hills; has a speed
of over 25 miles an hour; is almost noiseless; will go 30 miles on one
gallon of gasoline. It is always ready for instant use and starts at
ease from the seat.
There are now over 5,000 in use. In America they sell for $650.00
and can be sold in this
country for only' a little more.
Write to us and we will quote
you a price delivered at your
nearest port, and will mail you
handsome illustrated book giving
complete information.
Agents wanted in unoccupied
foreign territory.
Olds Motor Works, Detro ™ ichm ’
The Tantanoola Terror.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ There’s a fellow up at Cooey, where the riding cracks
are found,”
Said the man who came from back of Teddy’s Dump,
“ w h° could sit a shrieking blizzard if the thing were only
bound
In a girth, and had a saddle on its hump.
He’s the Tantanoola Terror. He was cradled on a colt,
And at six he broke for Harrison and Heath.
He wouldn’t give a curse for a horse that wouldn’t jolt
All the filling out of Clancy’s double teeth.
“ Till a horse has killed a dozen he’s no use for him, he
says,
And he wants them full of infamy and guile.
They must buck in convolutions, bumping twenty dif-
ferent ways,
Throwing seven flying handsprings to the mile.
There’s the ljell-bred stallion Devil, he has eaten many
men.
lie was spewed full-grown from Tophet on the run,
And no breaker dared go nearer than a thousand fathoms
then,
So they shot the Terror on him from a gun 1
“ How’d he handle him ! He beat him, made him frolic
like a pup.
But next day he bucked the beard off Bill, the Yank.
Yet the Terror, down in Melbourne time of old Malua’s
Cup,
Rode him up the wall of a suspended bank.
You remember that sensation, how the people, wild with
awe
At the clatter and the thunder of the hoofs,
Ran in Collins-street like madmen, screaming loudly.
What they saw
Was the stallion racing breakneck on the roofs !
“ How he shivered slates and ridges, leaped the gaps
along the street,
And he cleared the lofty chimneys in his pride,
And the Terror whirled his stockwhip, sitting loosely in
his seat —
It was terrible to see the beggar ride !
Up the sloping roofs he rattled, raced his swiftest on the
flats,
And came down the blooming churches on a skid.
Then he finished, fresh and smiling, with a flying leap
from Tatt.’s, .
And was fined, for furious driving, half-a-quid.
“ It was not of simple trifles that I started out to tell,
But the Terror’s wond’rous feat at Whnngarat.
We were drinking at the shanty, going fairly strong and
well,
When we heard a woman screaming on the fiat.
We discovered, hack of Baldv, storm-clouds looming black
and hi rh.
On the peak, just like a bantam on a spire,
Stood the stallion and his rider sharply limned against
the sky.
And, as sure as Fate, the horse was breathing fire !
“As we gazed, the lightning darted. We could see the
nag was hit,
And in air the Terror hurtled like a squib,
With the lightning writhing round him, like a comet in a
fi ,
And its fire reflecting whitely on his jib.
Now the lightning squirmed and wriggled, but the Terror
sat it well
As it shot out straight, and bolted from the peak.
Then we understood, and cheered him with a great,
unholy yell—
He had straddled and was riding on the streak !
“ He was mounted on the lightning, and the heavens
caught its glare,
And we watched him, white and wondering and mute,
For he sat it like a statue, with the cloud-rack in his hair ;
And he raced it like a dumb, demented brute.
Then we missed him for a moment where the storm rolled
black and dense.
With a rush he came, a smile upon his lip,
And went riding at the mountain as a horseman at a fence.
We could hear the ringing rattle of his whip.
11 As a snake may twist and struggle in a kookaburra’s
clutch,
So the lightning writhed and twisted to be free,
But its wildest evolutions didn’t shake the Terror much—
He had g6t a mount to suit him to a T.
Of a sudden, like a scrubber that has found it vain to try
Any further shifts for getting rid of him,
With a whiz the lightning bolted straight across the
startled sky,
And it dived below the far horizon’s rim.
“ Well, we reckoned that the Terror now had run his
little course,
That he’d gone direct to glory by express.
While we mourned the finest rider that had fastened on a
horse,
Came a message from an African address.
‘ It’s ridden out! I’ve beat it! ’ That is what the cable
said—
‘ And I’ve got it fagged and docile as a kid ;
But right back unto Australia I will ride it, ’live or dead ! ’
And, by all the saints in paradise, he did ! ”
EDWARD DYSON.


FACILE PRINCEPS.
SEMPER IDEM.
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
gEND FOR PARTICULARS of our Latest Models for Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s
—RED BIRD BICYCLES.
ip %% pppzp* ycitras
the roughest roads, has been forgotten, and we are proud to say that RED BIRDS hZ
stood the test of time, and gained the reward in universal popularity BIRDS have
Branches in every State. GOOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 King-St., City.
Stomachs on Stilts.
The man who puts on stilts does not increase
his actual stature by the breadth of a hair. He
fells taller while he is on the stilts, but when he
*
is off lie feels shorter than
he ever felt. Stimulants
are the stilts of the stomach.
They make a man feel
better for the time being,
but he feels a great deal
worse for them afterwards.
The need of the man whose
stomach is “weak” is not
stimulation, but strength.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills perfectly answer that
need, they cure diseases of
the digestive and nutritive
systems which make the
stomach “ weak.” They
enable the digestion and
assimilation of food, so that
the body receives the
nutrition on which depends
its stiength. The letter of
Mr. Richard Murray, of
Green’s Road, Sydney,
speaks for itself. “I have
much pleasure in letting
you know the benefit I have
received from taking Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills.
I suffered for many years
from indigestion and bilious-
ness to such an extent that I
found life unbearable. Having
consulted doctors in every
State, I was at last induced
to try your remedy, and can
faithfully and truly say that I have found them a
lasting benefit, and can conscientiously recommend
them to anyone suffering from bilious attacks.”
Dr. Morse s Indian Root Pills cure diseases of the
stomach and other organs of digestion and nutri-
tion permanently. They purify the blood and
cure nervousness, irritability, and sleeplessness,
curing the diseases in which they originate,
and are a positive cure for biliousness, indigestion,
constipation, headaches, sallow complexion,
liver and kidney troubles, piles, pimples, boils and
blotches, and for female ailments. Put up in
amber bottles, and the full name blown thereon.*
sex
<3-0 TO H8T.1..
MiOIiAND for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred, Nageo,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
Iv uppers Elberfeld Lager
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Somebody—one of many— who disagreed with
the judge’s verdict for the Bagot Handicap at Flemington,
suggests that “ means should be taken to check ” fhe
decision of the paid official in the box. Juvenal, if he
were alive and cynioising to-day, would naturally ask —
“ And who shall check the checkers?” The. judge holds
the best possible position for viewing the finish of a race.
When his verdict as to the first horse past the post is
opposed to the evidence of people standing beside the box,
the stewards can only make a note of the objection,
without prejudice to the man who holds their certificate
of capability and integrity. One point to be noted in the
Bagot Handicap is the fact that the two horses, Annotate
and Seaport, were two lengths ahead of their nearest
follower, so it was an easy thing for the judge to place
them correctly. Annotate, a hot favorite, seemed to be
beaten on the post by the outsider Seaport, hut the
favorite got the verdict. Therefore the public were
mostly satisfied, and the bookmakers were unanimously
dissatisfied. How did it suit the stewards?
• * * •
Fishery, the slippery but unreliable winner of
the Standish Handicap when least expected, ought to
have been backed by the stable for the sake of Auld Lang
Syne. Trainer Higinbotham bred Fishery from Fishwife,
a particular favorite of his, who ran away with the
Standish Handicap ten or a dozen years before Fishery
was born.
• * • •
The extreme foolishness of anybody welshing
without havingahorse or hikeormotor-ear handy has again
been demonstrated at Oastlemaine (Vic.). The welsher
depvrted on foot, whereby he, to all intents and purposes,
backed himself to be the swiftest runner in an event
where there were about 200 entries. Of course he. lost.
He beat the bulk of the crowd badly, but the swiftest
backer caught him up and sat on him till the slow hackers
arrived. It took five policemen to rescue him, and even
then he had to part up with all the money in his posses-
sion—over £lOO. And with a £lO horse he could have
got away with £9O easily.
• • • •
Winner (Pendant) of Carrington Stakes at
Sydney “ Tatts.” meet first day hairged £4ouo for her
owner (“ Jim ” Brennan), who backed the mare down to
fours in the rooms the night before, and then took fives
fours, and threes on the course. Second day, in New Year
Gift, Brennan had a thousand about her, but was doubt-
ful whether she could stay the extra two furlongs, and
the result justified his fears, for, though holding a com-
manding lead at7fur., with punters tumbling over each
other to lay 2 to 1 on, the nag fell back and finished out
of a place. Pendant will be worth watching for big
things later. Pendant’s dam, Locket, came this way'
from M.L., 14 years ago, as a 2yr.-old. Subsequently she
was at Hobartville stud farm, then owned by Messrs.
“ Bill ” Long and George Long, and at the break-up of
that establishment became Mr. “Sam” Hordern’s pro-
perty.
* • • •
Of nine carded for Steeple at Sydney Tatt.’s
meeting, New Year’s Day, hut three lined up. Rising
Fund started first choice and won—the only horse to
finish. Satan II stuck up at the first fence, and Barton
shunted his rider at the last jump, otherwise he might
have upset the pot and done Mo. a good deal. Thames
(M.L.) J.C. had a somewhat similar ’chase on Boxing Day.
Three started, but only one. Evermore, finished without
accident. Stockman fell at the second leap, and Gipsy
Lass later. When Evermore finished, Stockman’s rider
remounted, and jock on Evermore bestr de Gipsy Lass.
Stockman’s lad lost his chance of second place through
missing one jump, and the boy on Gipsy Lass failed to
weigh in.
* * * *
Kinglock, winner of New Year’s Gift at
Sydney Tatt.’s meeting humped 10.6 to the front in 1.395,
although nearly last at the 3fur. post. Rather lucky for
Kinglock’s trainer that the nag got home, as his lease of
the horse expired next day. Kinglock, now top of the
weights at a mile, gives everv evidence that he owns stay-
ing qualities and should be heard of to much purpose in
that direction before long. He is by Lochiel from Lady
Kingsborough and was bred by Messrs. Readf ird and
Harris at Holbrook, Winden Creek.
* * * *
Postillion’s easy success in Sydney Tatt.’s Cup,
New Year’s Day, proved how unlucky he was to lose the
Summer Cup a week before. Postillion travelled faster
than any previous Tartersall’s Cup winner, though his
time is ljsec. in excess of Wakeful’s figures for last Syd-
ney Cup. He was bred by Messrs. W. and F. Moses, of
Combadillo, Moree, and is by the Neotsfield stallion Posi-
tano (imp.), from Citronella by Lochiel, from Abercorn’s
dam Cinnamon by Goldsbrough.
• * • •
Tote war rages furiously in M.L. Religious
section, egged on by Mo, has presented bunches of peti-
tions to Parliament urging abolition of the machine.
T’other side is coming in like manner, and to such pur-
pose that the country’s foolscap supply threatens to run
out. It is truthfully argued that those prominent in
urging the tote’s disuse are without practical knowledge
of it, that the machine restricts betting as ’tis a cash
system open only on the course ; also that its existence
shuts out other forms of betting impossible of control or
regulation, and that the State derives an entirely volun-
tary revenue of £20,000 yearly from it.
• » • •
M.L. turfite, Mr. G. G. Stead, had a royal time
at Auckland, Boxing Day. His two-year old colt, King
Log (Stepniak—Fairy Maid) was a hot pot for Great
Northern Stakes, and heat seven others. Auckland Cup
(1500g5.), over 2 miles, went to Mr. Stead through
Siege Gun, a four-year-old by Hotchkiss from Frailty.
Two years ago Siege Gun, as a yearling, cost present
owner 660g5., and the first money earned by him since
was Metropolitan Handicap last month. Subsequently
Stepniak- Sortie nag, Orloff, in same interests, accounted
for 15 in Railway Handicap, worth 400 sovs. Hewitt rode
all three, and, later, up on Belle Cole, pulled off the Pony
Cup Handicap. Concluding day of meeting brought
another pile to the Stead stable through King Log’s
success in Eighth Royal Stakes of 500 sovs.
• • * *
Marvellous how Mill Park stable (Melbourne)
scoops everything over battens or hurdles. After months
of quiescence Mr. S. Miller’s red and white ann bands
were seen out at Caulfield, Boxing Day, when Dreyfus
and Error closed on the double, and New Year’s Day at
Flemington saw Dreyfus and Kaimate do the trick. It’s
mostly always a case of pay for Mo. when they come any
way solidly from that quarter, which means that follow-
ing this lead is picking up money. Explanation to an
extent is superior advantages of Mill Park over other
stables in material for trying and privacy of attached
training ground. But extra good judgment is a big
factor. Error or Colonel Shillinski didn’t look well
bought, but they turned out gold mines. Latest good
thing exhibited, Dreyfus, is by The Inquisitor, and was
secured, after winning at last Sandown Park meet, for
125 gs. As evidence of what the public thought of
properly marked Mill Park goods, it is worth mentioning
that, though Error humped 13.4, 9 to 10 was taken about
his chance as freely as the “ books ” laid it, and the nag
shaped as well as ever.
«. * *
Metal mare Minerva (probably best of her
inches, 14 2J, on the continent) put up a fine performance
at Kensington by humping 10.3 over a mile in 1.45£, and
but for being blocked would certainly have won.
• * * *
Not since the Zimmerman boom of close on
eight years ago has a N.S.W. bike meet drawn such a
huge crowd as that at Sydney Cricket Ground, Satur-
day. Official estimate was something in excess of
20,000 ; this despite that everyone knew Major Taylor
could hardly be near his top form under the circum-
stances ; still, the colored marvel —in the quarter-mile
International Premiership—showed a flash of the bril-
liancy that landed him top of the world’s sprinters.
He fairly bounded away, and seemed t > m ike the
machine leap through the air. Taylor threw his semi-
final behind in 30 3-5, and the final in 32 2-5, beating
Walker by half a length only, while latter was barely in
front of Lewis. In the Walker Plate (5m.), the black could
get no nearer than fourth to Walker, Mutton and Gudgeon,
as named, though he was in front close to the finish.
Lack of condition tied him up. Last quarter-mile was
covered in 26 2-ssec.—a fraction faster than the pre-
vious lap record. The negro shaped in fourth heat of
Wyalong Handicap Gm.) from syds. behind scratch, the
first to be placed back of the starting-mark on Sydney
Cricket Ground. A 55yds. country rider (G. M’Leao)
won, Taylor heing just about his d stance behind scratch
in the rear, and even this would have been wiped out
very shortly, for near the end he travelled five yards to
the winner’s one. In the final, Walker was clear of all
others a dozen yards from the finish, mainly through a
charaoteris’ically marvellous dash, and crossed the line
an easy winner. Considering that Walker rode wide
throughout and had to streak round a big hunch in the
last lap, time (57 3-5) was phenomenally speedy.
• • * •
Monday night’s cycling saw 10,000 on Sydney
Cricket Ground. “ Major ” Taylor heat of the Half-Mile
Handicap was a revelation. Starting syds. behind
scratch he flashed along and won—unpaced at any stage
—in 56 1-s—a world’s competition record. Rosehill
Handicap (a Am. dash) saw Wilksch (S.A.) beaten by
Mutton (N.S.W.) in an exciting finish—s7sec. dead. Don
Walker (from “ five behind ”) only gathered up the next
with a very desperate effort —4-ssee. slower than
Mutton’s but a harder tussle. “The Major” shaped in
the third heat from the same mark as Walker. A crash
—and a rider shot into the air minus his wheel, while
two more were spread-eagled on the track. Drinkwater
had fallen, and Hardy, shooting over the prostrate man’s
machine was hurled against an overhead lamp, afterwards
falling heavily. Drinkwater was uninjured, but Hardv,
without having any bones broken, suffered much fron
pains round the loins and back. A splinter of the broken
glass cut a lady’s forehead badly. Taylor, who was
slightly in front of the bunch, hearing the crash swerved
in, and Larry Corbett finished first, bringing world’s
record figures (56 1-5) into existence. Taylor’s showing
was wonderfully good. Taylor and Walker caught half
the field together. Walker got hopelessly blocked and
Taylor also looked inextricably so, but he literally wedged
his machine through in a startling fashion. Fifty yards
from the end the race seemed a “ moral ” for Italian Boidi
but Taylor streaked up and won by inches amid wild
applause. Time, 57 3-ssec.
* • * *
Bike marvel Taylor is a full-blooded negro, about
average height, powerful, and cleanly put together. He
keeps low on his machine, and, through rolling some,
wants a bit more of the track than most of his calling.
He is as an ordinary every-day waterman was to
champion sculler Hanlan compared with Don Walker
in point of grace.
• • • *
The Sydney public’s distrust of professional
cycling is not yet allayed sufficiently to let it unques-
tioningly believe that the cracks are giving them an
unreservedly fair go. There is far t<">o much unconcealed
anxiety about the “gate” to please the rank-and-filp.
They would roll up far better if they did not know that
the first object of the carnival promoters was the re-
covery of the £l5OO spent in inducing Taylor to “ appear,”
even if this is a higher figure than Harry Rickards gives
his star performers. An exhibit with such a price on his
head must, of necessity, be treated gingerly. For
example: The official programme for the first day
of the meet announced that the Federal Cycling
Council of Australia had allotted to the N.S.W.
league the contest for the Quarter-Mile Inter-
national Championship. Now a championship is
an event in which all should start fair, with no chances
given in or given away. But the League's first idea was
not to find the quarter-mile champion of Australia. It
was to provide a draw for the public. So the League
kindly “invited” Taylor and Walker to take part in the
semi-finals, one in each, to secure their meeting in the
final. Not to enter for the qualifying heats, of course,
where either might be blocked or get tired. In con-
sequence the various competitors in the qualifying heats
were just dummies, prizes not even being given. Natu-
rally this series of events was a fiasco, ana might have
damned the first day's racing.
The crowd had to find most of its amusement
for itself on the first day of Major Taylor’s cycling
carnival. It got some fun out of one heat of the quarter-
mile event, when but two competitors started. One of
these only went 100yds. or so when his machine went
wrong, and he retired. The other, unaware of this,
gathered himself together half-way from home, and hit
her up. The crowd “dropped” and began yelling like
mad. The cyclist, thinking his rival was on his wheel,
put in a noble spurt to the accompaniment of great
cheering, finishing, with a fine sprint, a proud man.
• • a •
Some thousands of inquiring citizens rolled up
to Melb. Exhibition oval last Saturday night to see
the German champion, Robl, and his satellite, Piet
Dickentman, chase their blastiferous motors around the
asphalt track in competition with Australians Morgan
and Frank Beauchamp. The 12-horse power motors were
advertised to travel at the rate of 50 miles an hour. They
didn’t go as fast as that. Nevertheless, they put on a
fine, banging pace. The new motor is a monotonously
bangful affair. It discharges tumult like a feu de joie of
musketry, or a packet of Chinese crackers, and seems
calculated to soften toe brains of its riders and followers.
There are two riders—the front man bending forward to
steer the infernal machine, whilst the rearward man siis
bolt upright and takes pace instructions from the cyclist
who sticks close to his sheltering back.
Robl was matched against Morgan for £lOO,
Dickentman against B auchumpfor££o, each at 5, 10 and
15 miles behind motors. Beauchamp lost the 5-mile to
the foreigner, but was holding his own in the 10-mile
when his pedal touched grass at the side of the
asphalt and he came down smash when going
at a 44-mile gait. He pluckily came out for the
15-m.le, polished off the first five of them in
the best time for the night and the track (8.33 2-5), stalled
off half-a-dozen sprints, and won by six yards amid up-
roarious cheering. Morgan never had a hope against
R°m> and was actually lapped in the five-mile
event. Robl, who meanders about the ground in a
long white nightdress arrangement, smoking a cigarette
has already been christened the White Devil. “ White
machine would be better. Motionless except for the
rhythmically-revolving legs, he keeps alway s about 9in.
behind the rear motorman’s back. Go they fast or slow
Robl is always the same 9in. away ; apparently if the
electric machine spurted to 100 miles an hour the human
one would follow at the regulated distance. He never
“ lost his pace.” Dickentman dd, frequently. In fact
every time he tried to pass Beauchamp in the 15-mile his
pacers ran away from him ; but then Robl wasn’t put to
the test as his mate was.
* * * •
There are hopes that with the advent of another
cricketing - ground, football - field, and a new cycle
racing-track, the Sydney Cricket Ground will be
compelled to reform. As long as the present crowd is in
control there can be no confidence in it, and all athletic
bodies should do their utmost to encourage the new ven-
ture. Ihe N.S.W. League of Wheelmen deserves credit
for its enterprise in bringing out Major Taylor, consider-
ing that its own track would not be finished in time for
him to race thereon, and that the League stood to be
sweated by the Cricket Ground for all it was worth.
Apart from the financial aspect of the matter a new
cycling track is very necessary. The present makeshift
at the C.O. is far and away too narrow. The five mile
Walker Plate would have been a much better race than it
was had the crowd of riders had more room. Not on y
is the track too narrow (it ought to be at least as wide
again) but it is altogether wrongly shaped. The correct
shape for a cycling track is that of the letter D with the
corners properly banked. The straight side with its
long clear run gives the sprinter a much better chance of
knocking off the odd seconds that make up records. A
first-class sporting ground with proper accommodation for
performers and public would be a good municipal enter-
prise which should yield much pleasure to the people and
profit to the City treasury.
Lord Chesterfield to-day would spare his pen,
and direct his son to the polite mode's of Sydney cycle
track. Not so long since cycling lived in an atmosphere
of alleged bribery and undoubted blasphemy. We have
changed all that. Baggs races Boggs; beats him ; and
declares he doesn’t know how he did it, for Boggs is the
wonder of the world. The beaten Boggs asserts that
Baggs is the marvel of the universe. Both affirm that
Biggs is the champion of the infinite, and Biggs is lost in
admiration of the chivalrous prowess of both Baggs and
Boggs. The public notes that Baggs, Boggs, and Biggs
divide honors and boodle, a race to each, and envies
their politeness.
» * * *
Cyclist Walne had a new experience t’other
day whilst practising on St. Hilda (Melb.) track. He was
being paced by a motor, when it suddenly slackened
speed, and the follower banged into it. Twelve stitches
were required to bind up the wounds in Walne’s head,
but he is not likely to be permanently injured. The skull
of a cyclist defies permanent injury.
* • * •
There should be a boom in cycle-racing behind
motors in Australia, judging by the press accounts of R.
Walne’s accident: “He was being paced by a motor, the
valve of which got out of order. The speed at once
slackened, and Walne just touched the back wheel of the
motor. He shot up in the air as if fired from a gun, and
landed on his face. His cheek was laid open, his nose
cut, and the skin taken off his forehead and his arm.”
That’s better than a prize-fight.
• • • •
Resumption of Sydney local cricket competi-
tions, Saturday,introduced newrounds. First grade scores
were excessive in some cases, and mediocre in others.
Waverley gathered 374 against North Sydney. O.
Gregory made 122 of these—his second century this
season.’ Others that brought big contributions along
were Mackenzie 56, Stubbins 51, Sid Gregory 40, and
M’lntyre 43. Paddington made 257, opposed to Central
Cumberland, and towards this total Noble subscribed the
only other century of the day, the number, strangely
enough, being exactly the same as O. Gregory’s. Seven
of the side reached double figures, but none exceeded 29.
Sydney left 206 for Leichhardt-Balmain to go up against,
and, so far, L.-B. has made 49 for the loss of 2 wickets.
Leichhardt-Balmain trundler Duckworth bagged 6 Syd-
neyites for 62. Burwood met ’Varsity, and made 811.
Towards this, Kemmis (90) did best, then followed
Donnan and Brown (40 each), and Precious (36 not out).
Glebe got rid of Redfern very cheaply, for 60 ; Scone (13)
being the only double-figure scorer. When time expired,
Glebe had 9 down for 107. Stated that visiting Sydney
experienced a rough time on home side’s (Leichhardt-
Balmain) ground, the crowd hurling stones at men in the
long field. Suburban cricket is evident.y fast dropping
to the level of some suburban football. Umpires will be
flattened out next.
• • * *
Published that the returned Australian XI. is
to journey to Westralia for a short tour, after the inter-
state fixtures are over, probably about Easter. There is
no reason for this expedition but the monetary one.
Still, Messrs. Trumper and co. are amateurs, though the
professional cyclist co .Id not have chased the dollars
more remorselessly than has this cricket starring co.
* » * ■
Conclusion of N.S.W.-Vic. cricket match left
N.S. W. ahead by 136. Feature of the game was Howell’s
fine bowling. He got 14 wickets in all—7 of them clean
bowled. In the inter-State match against Queens-
land, N.S.W. was also victorious. Left with 262 to
get to win in the last innings, the home team succeeded
in exceeding that number with two wickets to spare.
Howard, in the second Q. innings, got 5 wickets for 77
runs. Close of the game was exciting, N.S.W. at one
stage wanting 100 with only four wickets to fall.
* • • *
Victoria-South Australia match resulted in
favor of Vic., largely through the merit of her colts.
Ellis (118) and Hastings (106 not out) in the
first innings put up 211 for the last wicket. Total,
472. S.A., in spite of a brilliant 124 by Clem.
Hill, who played faultless cricket, could only get 317.
Second innings Vic. made 164, Travers (4 for 57) bowling
well. South Australia then made 140, and left Vic. the
winner by 179. Armstrong bowled best with 4 for 80.
* * • *
The inter-State cricket fixtures between N.S.W.
and Vic. now total 69—36 having been won by Victoria,
and 33 by N.S.W. Out of the last eight matches played
N.S.W. has won six, and a few seasons at this rate will
very soon change the majority figures.
* • « *
Bill Howell and R. A. Duff were the heroes of
the N.S.W.-Vic. fixture. Duff batted very well in both
innings, and altogether scored 186 runs; and the form
shown so far this season demonstrates that he is a greatly
improved batsman for his trip with the XI. Howell’s
work with the ball outshone all previous records in
matches between the two States—no player having pre-
viously captured nine wickets for N.SAV. in a single
innings against Victoria. And he gathered in the
wickets on his birthdav.
» • • «
Bowler Tremble’s retirement leaves an opening
for the younger bowlers to prove their mettle. In recent
N.S.W.-Vic. inter-State match J. F. Collins, a young Vic.
right-hand trundler, captured eight for 81 runs. He is
the best of Vic. moderates ; but may yet do something to
be proud of. T. S. Warne, considered by many the best
leg-break trundler in Australia, got no wickets for 34
runs, and thereby lost his reputation.
> * • .
In Victoria-South Australia match Hastings
and Ellis (Vic.) put up 211 for last wicket in their first
innings-Hastings made 106 (n. 0.) and Ellis 118 This is
an Australian record. Previous best was 136, by J
O’Halloran (128 not out) and A. E. Johns (57) for Vic!
against S.A. in Melbourne, Jan. ’97. World’s figures are
230, accomplished by Nicholls and Roche (an ex-Vic-
torian) for Middlesex opposed to Kent at Lords, June ’99
* * • •' •
It has been left to the young players to create
the cricket records in Australia this season. Two Sydney
second-grade clubs recently put up, in separate matches
scores of 523 for seven wickets and 548 for five wickets’
each in 3| hours. This is something like scoring. Again’
at Moore Park, Sydney, a lad of but 17 years smote a ball’
to such purpose that 13 runs were scored for it—all run
while the ball was being chased by the fieldsman and
extricated from passing trams and vehicles. The actual
hit was 114yds., and rolling brought the distance un to
135yds. r
* * • •
With better judgment, Bananaland aboriginal
Henry would get near being champion “field” of the
world. Quick as lightning, he seizes a fast-moving ball
while running himself, and returns like a flash, but there’s
an almost total absence of head in his operations, including
his howling. Gate panned out better in recent Q-NS \V
match than ever before—£2oo clear profit was recorded. "
' • * *
At Auckland (M.L.), Sandow’s manager waited
on the Mayor, with a view to a public reception. The
latter was “ not having any,” and pointed out that
Sandow was a travelling showman, and not a public
visitor. “But he is the strongest man in the world”
piped the agent. “Quite so,” was the retort, “and ’if
the weakest man in the world came along he could fust
as easily claim a mayoral reception." J
Fight between “Snowy” Sturgeon (previous
hold ?r) and “ Soldier Jack” Thompson for middleweight
pug supremacy of the continent at Sydney National S.O.
last week was watched by 2000 people. Sturgeon
scaled about 10.8 and Thompson, in the buff, 10.13 J.
From end to end of six rounds the struggle was grimly
determined. Sturgeon threw all his science to the winds
after getting a heavy bump under the left eye, which
brought a flow of gore, and stood up to his younger
adversary, fighting just as that individual wanted it.
The thing fairly bristled with exciting situations and the
crowd cheered incessantly. Thompson forced all the
journey. Sturgeon evened the eye trouble i y bumping
Thompson’s left optic so hard that gore welled freely and,
later, it came from both to their bodies and gave them a
most sanguinary appearance. Sturgeon floored Thompson
only to be floored himself in return, while the onlookers
swayed with excitement and roared appreciation.
Tnompson had most of the fifth round all to himself,
spread-eagling the white-haired crack twice. In the
sixth, accidental ringing of the bell saved Sturgeon a
couple of times, but, ere “corners” came round, he was
so limp and broken that Nature would have no more and
he had, perforce, to remain down, though struggling hard
to rise. Thompson won well. Following morning they
were matched to meet two months hence, but as it is a
case of youth—vigorous and sound —against one older,
who has made the pace warm, this scribe doesn’t see how
a second meeting can result differently.
* » • *
Giant axeman Bill Heckenberg and Banana-
land heavy - weight Fred Booth clashed at Sydney
Gaiety A. 0., last week. Booth was favorite—3 to 1 on.
First punch from Booth (a stiff right hook on the point)
dropped the wood-chopper like a carcase of beef, and he
looked settled beyond all hope, but the sixth second saw
him on his feet staggering with body bent. Then Booth
swung a right on the back of the neck that would have
felled an ox and Heckenberg flopped on his face limp as a
dead eel and apparently as lifeless, but marvellous
vitality pulled him through, and he rose once more to
carry heaps of trouble the enemy’s waj'. He was sent
down again two or three times, and Booth was on the
floor himself as often, but before Heckenberg’s savage
onslaughts and mauling work t’other man’s strength
petered out. The third round brought the referee along
to stop further slaughter, and Heckenberg got the money.
It was fast, rough, and punishing all the trip, with
excitement at a high pitch. To an extent, the scrimmage
recalled the Goddard-Ohoynski slugging of perhaps 10
years ago.
* • * •
“ Splash ” : Must correct statements of
“E.D.” in The Bulletin (3/l/’O3) anent introduc-
tion of double-over-arm, or Trudgeon swimming
stroke, into Sydney. Writer has been swimming and
bathing 35 years, and remembers the method more or
less as it is now. Twenty years ago “Sid” Wilson,
prominent in Sydney sailing circles to-day, swam at his
father’s (“ Robinson’s ”) baths (Sydney Domain) a more
graceful double over-arm stroke than Lane, Cavill or
anyone exhibits at present time. In 73 Trudgeon intro-
duced this way of moving through the water into Eng-
land, bringing it from South America. Water-polo-
players have affected it since water-polo has been
known—possibly long before Newcastle sprinter
Trelevan materialised. It doesn’t matter what
“E.D.” heard “champion Leo” say ; neither he (Leo)
nor Paddy Gormly, nor any of their contemporaries, knew
anything about the ‘ ‘ crawl ’’—Gormly particularly, for
he was a side-stroke swimmer always. “ Turns ” Oavill
was the first to do the “ crawl,” and Dick has improved
it a bit. Remarks about “ now out-of-date side-arm
stroke ” are in keeping with the rest of the matter.
There’s no “side-arm” stroke—it’s a side-stroke and no
more. So much “ out-of-date ” is it that present champion
professional of the world, “Joey” Nuttall, the fastest
swimmer living over reasonable distances, swims that
way and no other. Amateur champion of England to-day
(Jarvis) is a side-stroke swimmer, and Percy Cavill, whose
world’s record stood till quite recently, was always a
side-stroke man.
• • * *
Turns out now that mishaps to crack swimmers
George Read and Dick Cavill are not so serious as
thought. Read is swimming again, ignoring his
“ floating knee cap ” (which still exists) and will win 500
yds. State supremacy this Saturday should he line up.
Cavill humps his maimed hand in a sling but is sanguine
about heing on deck for the “ hundred ” premiership at
Goulburn, Anniversary Day.


Frozen Fish
Has the same FRESH*
NESS and DELICACY
°/ FLAVOR as when
newly caught. * * *
©
It can be sent with safety during the winter
months to almost any far distant railway
station in the State.- -
SMOKED FISH (our own curing) forwarded
by Parcels Post to back*country districts
Please send for Catalogue of
the different Hinds and prices
N.S.Wo FresH Food Ice Co,
Head Office and Refrigerating Works, Harbour St.,
. Ltd.
■Sydney
MAJOR TAYLOR
Open
Saturday
Afternoons.
Rides a “MASSEY.”
What do you ride? Is your mount satisfactory? Is it comfortable, strong and easy-
running ! If not, call and see our latest models. We can guarantee you a “ perfect fit; ” we
can guarantee you perfect satisfaction ; we can guarantee you perfect comfort.
THE MASSEY-HARRIS BICYCLE Is the epitome of all that
is up-to-date In Cycle Construction.
CANADA CYCLE & HOTOR CO., Ltd.,
Branches In Every State. 357 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER. ....
YOU GET THE BEST VALUE FOR YOUR MONEY WHEN YOU
BUY A
REMINGTON
Double-Barrel . .
Hammerless Gun.
Thoroughly Guaranteed.
Kept n stock by the Largest Gun Stores in Melbourne and Sydney.
Remington Arms Company
Head Office: 315 BROADWAY, NEW YORK, U.S.A.
REMINGTON GUNS, £5 10s. to £u
REMINGTON RIFLES, 23/6 post free
McLEAN BROS. & RICO, Ltd., 107 Elizabeth-St., Melbourne.
A NIB,
A BOTTLE OF INK,
A SHEET OF PAPER and
A PEN CARBON BOOK
makes a complete outfit with
which any
MAN,
WOMAN OR
CHILD
can write a letter, and at the same
time make an exact copy without
leaving the slightest sign of copy-
ing on the original.
It keeps a duplicate of bills you send out, of orders, receipts, bank checks. It leaves no vague
uncertain mark, but a tracing that is often clearer than the original,
From its testimony there can be no appeal. It will save any hoiise or family much money by its
indisputable record.
There is no man or woman, professional or not, Who would not at some time or other find
THE PEN CARBON LETTER BOOK
A True and Valued Friend.
For fullest particulars, price, etc., write to the sole
Agents for Australasia : E. RICH & CO. LTD., SYDNEY Brisbane
*
?/
Obit. : George Dunderdale, a well-known
Melb. amateur dabbler in authorship, who wrote
three or four bush books in a homely but truthful
style. Mr. Dunderdale, 90 years old, was a veteran
public servant, and as Crown Lands officer at
Colac in the ’6o’s, was the humble instrument
through which Govt, parted, for next-to-nothing,
with the bulk of the richest Western District
land—since converted into fortunes for various
Fat people who now block legislation in the House
of Rich Landlords. Old man Dunderdale’s son is
the crack murder and sensation writer of Mel-
bourne Age.
"OOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is ‘'Ellis’ King Street Coffee Palace,’ ■'•l
situated at 50 KING STREET, and new- the General Post
Office. Proprietor — QßO. W. ELLIS.
11
" : if -«
‘"-•BHfliUtoPte.
~pOR NIGH A CENTURY
£ WILLIAMS’ BARBERS’ BAB
has been the FAITHFUL FRIEND of the
TONSORIAL ARTIST.
TO-DAY The Potent Phrase, “THIS SHOP USES ONIA
WILLIAMS’!” is a Sure PASSPORT TO PUBLIC FAVOF.
Send a Penny Stamp for Williams’ Changing Fao
Puzzle. Can you explain it? J. B. WILLIAMS CO.
Glastonbury, Conn., U.S.A. ; and 232 Clarence-st., Sydne;
SHARPSHOOTIN6
For Sport and War.
By W. W. GREENER.
HITS THE MARK!
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, 1/- nett.
Posted, 1/2.
The best 1/* worth ever Published.
IF you wish to get good work and valu
you should purchase W. W. GREENER’
World-Renowned GUNS and RiFLEf
a Large Stock of which are always kept o
hand. Catalogues and all particulars o
application to—
C. W. BUCKLAND,
817 Collin* Str**t, Melbourne
(Owner's Representors).
During a hearing at Clerkenwell (London)
County Court recently a witness stated that he
had 32 children. Again, in the course of a case at
Marylebone, it turned out that a female witness
had 18 children ; and, next day, in the same
court, a father deposed that he had 10 “branches.”
Asked if the 13-year-old boy before the
the youngest, the patriarch calmly replied, “No
—he’s only the seventeenth!” and everybody
gasped.
Holiday makers appeared to have the
usual hilarious time during the Christmas and
New Year intervals, despite rather sudden
alternations of heat and wetness. Moisture, how-
ever, is always acceptable in its popular form, and
one of the greatest abettors of cheerfulness at any
time, holiday or work a day, is D.C.L. Whisky.
One is made immune from any sort of worry—
climatic or otherwise—by regular but infrequent
appeals to D.C.L., The Whusky of The Wise.*
The Bishop of St. Albans died last week
at the early age (for a bishop) of 65. When a
bishop passes away on the sunny side of 70 it is
usual to think of him as one cut down like a
flower.
“N.Y.”: A par in 8., 6/12/’O2, about
Vic. Parliamentary orators, says that Max Hirseh
is hard to understand. Now, lam no admirer of
Hirseh or his methods, but I have found him (my
hearing being none too good) one of the plainest
speakers I have ever had to “ report”—and I have
heard most of our political windbags.
The break-down of Duncan Gillies imme-
diately his appointment to the Vic. Speakership
called for some unwonted hard work, should be
followed by a speedy change. The veteran
is too sad a physical wreck to keep on the
arduous duties of Speaker without grave danger
to himself, and he would be well-advised to resign.
The right man for the place is Chairman of Com-
mittees Beazley, at all times most capable and
conscientious in the chair. But Beazley happens
to be a member of the hated Labor party, and
Premier Irvine would do anything to jockey him
out of the Speakership. Although he had made
himself an almost indispensable Chairman of
Committees, Beazley would have been the victim
of a determined effort by the Iceberg crowd to
deprive him of even that position, had not a
number of Ministerialists put their feet down
upon the threatened injustice.
Notwithstanding that Britain’s naval fame
was built up by men who possessed only courage
and seamanship, the naval officer will henceforth
have to be artillerist, soldier, and scientist, as
well as sailor. Towards this end numerous
changes in the training system are being made—a
notable alteration being that the executive,
engineering, and marine officers will now ali
“start fair” as cadets, “with an identical system
of entry and training,” until sub-lieutenant’s rank
is reached. Cadets will have to do four years’
training-ship, three years’ sea-going service,
and short shore courses afterwards ; and marine
officers will in future do more general naval work
than hitherto. The British Admiralty—though
none too wide-awake—has never slumbered quite
so soundly as the War Office.
Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Agents for N. S. Wales: Sayers,
Allport and Potter, Sydney. Sole proprietor, W.
Martin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
England.*
General Brabant, of Cape Colony, in the
Monthly Review, has very severe strictures for
the “English Tommy officer”—as the haw-haw
persons were contemptuously nick-named during
the late war :
But we deliberately throw away our chance of getting
even our fair proportion of men fit to lead, because we so
narrow our choice that we are practically compelled to
take all who offer themselves, the sole qualification in-
sisted on being the possession of sufficient money to live
an extravagant and luxurious life, which is calculated
really to unfit them for the rough work of soldiering. It is
largely due to this that we saw officers carrying about
bedsteads and elaborate batteries de cuisine while in some
instances their men had only one blanket each, and were
on half or quarter rations.
Mr. CHA9. A. LAWRENCE, Montevideo,
Minn., writes :
“ I had A HARD COUGH that resisted the remedies of
our physicians. My brother, a druggist, seeing that I
was fast drifting into consumption, recommended Jayne’s
Expectorant, and I feel sure that IT SAVED ME FROM
AN EARLY GRAVE.”
N.S. W. Arbitration Court award in the
undertakers’ case was all in favor of the em-
ployees, Mr. Justice Cohen stating inter alia that
the object of the Court was to improve the con-
ditions of the workers when that could be justly
done. Whilst the undertakers’ men will not in
future get such pay as will make them jolly and
fat, as tradition says they should be, they have
secured shorter hours and better wages. At the
same time the system of “ tips ” has been
abolished, and the grim servants of the dead may
not in future legally take gratuities from sorrow-
ing relatives for treating the corpse with extra
special consideration. But they’ll get their tips
all the same.
Any stick to beat a dog ! T'other day
Melb. Argos voiced the raging complaint of some
picnickers up Kyneton way that the railway
officials had deliberately left women and children
on the station platform all night and, because
they missed their special, refused to let them get
home to Bendigo per “ ordinary.” It was very
plausible and pretty —until the railway men had
their say. Then it boiled down to the fact that the
62 grumblers had come down at the very cheapest
rate, in seated trucks, as a Sunday-school picnic,
and that they deliberately declined to return in
their “ Special ” of seated trucks although warned
that they wouldn’t be allowed to go back in the
“ordinary.” All of which is so characteristic of
Sunday-school picnics. You put a penny in the
plate now and you get a cushioned arm-chair in
the dress circle hereafter. But it doesn’t always
work out that way.
By Special
Appointment
6. H. SMITH and SON,
TROPICAL HELMET
with special air-space,
in white drill, dec. and.
in all colors in felt.
10/6 and 12/6
Hat and Cap Manufacturers
and Importers,
302 Ceorge-st. Sydney
Sombrero Soft Felt Hats,
All Shades and Sizes.
Boft Felt Hombergs.
In all Sizes and Colors.
Straw Hats. Stetson Hats.
Polo Caps, Military and Naval
Caps, Livery Hats, Clerical Silk
Hats, Etc., Made to Order
w
1
The
Vulcanised
Dunlop Tyres
are faster and more
reliable than any other
tyre procurable.
No Cyclist
can appreciate the difference between our
Vulcanised tyre and the hand made tyre,
until b.e has ridden them, and in 12
months time he will begin to recognise
their grand wearing qualities.
OUT Vulcanised tyres will outlast two pairs
of any ordinary hand made ones.
Roadster Tyres guaranteed for 18 months.
Beware of Imitations.
None Genuine unless Dover and Tube |
bear this . . • Trade Mark.
The Dunlop
Pneumatic Tyre Co* of Aus*, Ltd*,
150 Clari nce-st M Sydney.
Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane and Christchurch, N.Z.


Special Notice.
•• • •
We wish to bring under your notice,
in connection with GUINEA GOLD
CIGARETTES, that we have landed the
first shipment of 1901 Crop of Virginia
Tobacco.
It is reputed to be the Mildest and
Sweetest grown for many years, and we
have accordingly started right away to
use this fine new leaf in our Cigarettes.
Smokers of GUINEA GOLDS will
now find them SWEETER and JTILDER
than ever.
OGDENS, Limited,
45 York Street, Sydney.
Mqi
(>t
/\/\/
\t\/\
/\S\Z
\/\ / N
/\/\Z
\/\/\
/\/\y
\/\/\
/\/\/
N>\/\
Y\/'/
L-i
r'
3 H
‘ M
\ '
Wj
%
v, ■
gMf
§«
&83 ’
■
ms:
■
NOT LOST , BUT
GONE BEFORE _
*on Ogden’s “ Guinea.-
Cigarettes *
97
A book, selling extensively in the U.S.A.,
bears the title, “ The Negro, a Beast or the Image
of God ? ” Author’s aim is to show that the negro
is not human, but a beast, “ created with articulate
speech, and hands, that he may be of service to his
master —the white man.”
An old book, entitled “ Anatomie of
Abuses in the Realmes of England,” written by
one Stubbes, says of football, then played on
Sundays in England (as now in every mining
camp in Australia):
Lord, remove these exercises from the Sabaoth. Any
exercise which withdraweth from godlinesse, either upon
the Sabaoth or any other day, is wicked and to be for-
bidden. Now who is so grosly blinde that seeth not that
these aforesaid exercises not only withdraw us from god-
linesse and virtue, but also haile and allure us to wicked-
nesse and sin? For as concerning football playing I
protest unto you that it may rather be called a friendlie
kinde of fyghte than a play or recreation—a bloody and
murthering practice than a felowly sport or pastime. For
dooth not everyone lye in waight for his adversarie, seek-
ing to overthrow him and picke him on his nose, though
it be on hard stones, on ditch or dale, on valley or hill,
or whatever place soever it be he careth not, so he have
him downe ; and he that can serve the most of this fashion
he is counted the only fellow, and who but he ? So that by
this means sometimes their necks are broken, sometimes
their backs, sometimes their legs, sometimes their armes,
sometimes their noses gush out with blood, sometimes
their eyes start out, and sometimes hurte in one place,
sometimes in another. But whosoever scapeth away the
best goeth not scot free, but is either forewounded,
craised, or bruised, so as he dyeth of it or else scapeth
very hardlie ; and no mervaile, for they have the sleights
to meet one betwixt two, to dash him against the hart
with their elbowes, to butt him under the short ribs with
their griped fists, and with their knees to catch him on
the hip and picke him on his neck, with a hundred such
murthering devices. And hereof groweth envy, rancour,
and malice, and sometimes brawling, murther, homicide,
and great effusion of blood, as experience daily teacheth.
Is this murthering play now an exercise for the Sabbaoth
day ?
A Cooktown (Q.) girl sued her mother
recently for £5l 15s. for services rendered,
and obtained a verdict for the amount
claimed, with £2 ss. 6d. costs. This adds a new
terror to “ mothers of girls,” especially when said
girls are of the new-woman variety.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wouuds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you ot the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, lor I CAN
CUKE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured,
feend at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
housemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists. Stores,
Brilain ’ l/ljd. per b x. Prepared by
ALBERI 73, Farrmgdon-street, London, England.
Agents •• ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look lor the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on tach box. (Regd. copyright).
FREE! FREE!
/.
N.
\
//
Cut this out and send it to us, and we will send you
free, postage prepaid, in plain wrapper, a copy of the
New Edition of our splendid, invaluable and standard
illustrated medical work, “ Electro Therapeutics,”
which acknowledged medical treatise should be read by
every adult.
The Twentieth Century Belt
Our Improved Belt is the most modern and perfect in the world. It
is stronger than any other, and is a Certain Cure for All Cases of
Nervous Disorders, Weak Back, Lumbago, Rheumatism, Liver, Kidney
and Stomach Troubles, Come-and-Go Pains, and that Tired Peeling. It
will cure after all others fail. Our Belt gives a soothing, warm,
strengthening and delightful current of electricity into the afflicted
nerves and system while you sleep. It never blisters or burns the body,
because it is constructed to give electricity in a proper way.
NO CURE, NO PAY.
Others claim this, but I am the only one who will really send a
valuable belt absolutely free, on trial, for three months. If you are
cured I know you will willingly pay ; if you are not cured, you will not
have to pay one penny. Write at once, or call and test my Belt free.
No charge for persona) consultation.
The Dr. J. n. Austin Electric Co.
39 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.
HERR RASSMUSSEN
will guarantee to cure Nervous Weak-
ness, Blood Diseases, Piles, Rheuma-
tism, Corpulency, Liver and Kidney
Troubles. He will send his Book Free.
All correspondence will be held
confidential.
BRISBANE: 309 Queen St.
MELBOURNE: 150 Bourke St.
WEAK, NERVOUS MEN, WHY SUFFER
WHEN you can be quickly and permanently cured bv taking Herr Rassmussen’s ALP ALINE Vitality Pills which have cured so mmv
thousand sufferers from DEBILITY, POOR MEMORY, WEAK SPINE, DESPONDENCY, and all which robs Manhood of that
is dearest to it—Vital Strength Herr Rassmussen will guarantee this remedy to cure every case, no matter of how long standing and he will
• f Ve -!u\ S?a e( ? ? dviC !i P ersonall y to all Patrons of his remedies FREE OF CHARGE, either in his offices or by post Iso don’/desmir but
communicate with him without delay, no matter where you live. Treatment by Post a Speciality. Pamphlet sent Free P “ '
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS. Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d., posted.
Blood and Skin Diseases
Blood Disorders, Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, Stone in the Bladder
Impurities guaranteed to be removed and permanently cured by ’
ALF ALINE BLOOD PILLS. Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d. posted.
Anaemic Women
suffering from Wasting Diseases, Pale, Lifeless, and otherwise affected, should at
RASSMUSSEN. His lifelong experience is at their service, and his
once communicate with HERR
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL FILLS will cure them. Boxes, 6s; Courses, 23s 6d
LIVER and KIDNEY TROUBLES cured at once by the ALFALINE LIVER and KIDNEY PILLS, Boxes Is
ms d ER S never fail ; 6s. per box each.
The ALFALINE REMEDIES can only beobtained from .. . fm Muj
Herr Rassmussen s Head Office- (xeorge St., Sydney
AND HIS BRANCHES AS FOLLOW- ° fJ fj
ADELAIDE: 15 Pulteney St. W.A., PERTH: 481 Hay St. FREMANTLE: 117 High St
N-Z.: 91 Lambton Quay, Wellington. KALGOORLIE • 111 Hannan St. BOULDER CITY: Piesse St


The menu-card outside a George-street
(Sydney) restaurant bears, amongst other mar-
ginal advertisements, “ Teeth from one guinea
per set.
In the “Randomßeminiscences” of Charles
Brookfield, comedian, among scores of other good
stories, there is one about Lady Derwentwater,
whose only trouble at the age of 83 was a pain in
one knee. As her medical advisers could not cure
this, she continually changed them. Her sister,
Mrs. Chalmers, visiting the house, met at the
door an Indian general, an old friend of the
family, whom they had not seen for many years.
He muttered that her sister seemed a good deal
changed, and hurried away. When Lady Der-
wentwater saw her sister she said she had sent
for a new doctor, whose name she forgot. She
continued : “He called just now. You may have
met him in the hall.” (Mrs. Chalmers began
to guess at the cause of the general’s dis-
comfiture.) “He was a stupid little man,” the
elder sister went on. “He came bounding into
the room, and greeted me with all the effusion of
an old friend. I let him look at my tongue,
which seemed to puzzle him. And then I said,
‘ Perhaps you would like to see my knee and I
showed it to him. He stuck his eyeglass in his
«ye i. n . a most affected way, and exclaimed,
‘Devilish fine, ’pon my honor.’ I really don’t
know what medical practitioners are coming to.”
Harry Morant and his sorry fate, told of
in Bushman and Bucoaneer” (now in its second
edition). The history of the Breaker and his
verses and letters, including photo, reproduction
of the Pietersburg gaol MS. Price one shilling.
Booksellers and Bulletin office (post free Is. Id.)
A few of the duties of a Vic. policeman, as
set forth in sundry Govt. Gazettes : Collector of
imposts, officer of Customs, wharf manager, in-
spector of explosives, keeper of powder-magazines
assistant emigration agent, Crown lands bailiff,
education summoning officer, village settlement
land steward* inspector of fisheries, harbormaster,
inspector o! nuisances, inspector of vermin, in-
spector of factories and shops, acting clerk of petty
sessions, registrar of county courts, clerk of court
of mines, chief clerk in insolvency, clerk of
licensing oonrts, warden’s clerk, commissioner of
the Supreme Court, ditto for declarations, inspec-
tor of stock, electoral inspector, inspector of State
infants out at nurse. Now it is proposed to make
him a collector of agricultural statistics. In his
spare moments he is supposed to keep the King’s
peace and run-in the common or obstreperous
drunk. If these Kyabramites were in earnest,
they would order Irvine to appoint the aggregate
police force Governor-in-Council and Minister-in-
General—that would be something like retrench-
ment.
The Dark Room Dispensed With!
Write for Particulars of the Wonderful
kodak - -
DAYLIGHT -
DEVELOPING
MACHINE -
To be Obtained of all Dealers, or of
KODAK, Limited,
284 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Please Mention this Paper.
W, Oliver Richards,
Proprietor and Inventor of
*2NT WAIT
F2R THIS
Capilla Hair Tonic
lam a Specialist and the Hair and Scalp are my Specialities. I
have devoted years of my life to perfecting my knowledge on
these subjects and in bringing my preparation to perfection.
vm
ADVICE ON AND TREATMENT OF THE HAIR.
A fee of ss. is charged for advice in addition to the Capilla used, and if I undertake your case I guarantee
to cure baldness—no matter how long you have been bald—or refund the money you have paid me—in full.
W. OLIVER RICHARDS, Proprietor, Qty Bank Chambers, 164 Pitt Street, Sydney.
ARDATH TOBACCO
SMOKING MIXTURE, Mild, Medium, and Full.
WALDORF CIGARILLOS (Ardath Tobacco).
STATE EXPRESS - CIGARETTES
No. 555 (VIRGINIA GRADE) No. 999
fIY DARLING. ASTORIA (BILLIARD ROOT! SIZE).
QUO VADIS CIGARETTES
HIGH CLASS TURKISH TOBACCO.;
Manufactured by the ARDATH TOBACCO COMPANY.
S. HOFFNUNG & CO. LTD., Wholesale Agents,
“IT’S A MARVEL!”
EVERY WOMAN
mmk
Sflfe-^
♦* "'
is interested and should know
about the wonderful
Marvel Whirling Spray
The new FE dALc sYkInOE
Injection and Suction. The best,
safest and most convenient.
lt Cleanses Instantly.
If your druggist cannot
supply the MARVEL,
accept no other, but write us for
Illustrated Book, sent free
sealed. It gives price by mail,
particulars and directions invalu-
Endorsed by Physicians.
Times Building, N. Y*
SOLE AUSTRALIAN AGENTS-
THE MARVEL CO.
OF AUSTRALIA.
Camden Building, 418 George Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
LADY SPECIALIST IN ATTENDANCE.
Postal Address, Box 623, G.P.0., Sydney.
Write for Booklet. Sent free, sealed.
SMOKE
The Unrivalled
World
Renowned
BRIAR
PIPES
LARGEST DEPOT:
231 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY
What the PIANOLA does.
THE. . .
PIANOLA
enables you
to play your
piano al-
though you
may never
have played
one note in
your life.
This would
S'.
seem impossible, but nevertheless it is true.
If you will write us we will mail you free
a catalogue explaining how.
Ask for Catalogue “ B.”
The price of the Pianola is £65, on
moderate monthly payments, or £6O for
prompt cash.
HENRY M. BIRGE & CO.
SYDNEY: 323 GEORGE-ST. MELBOURNE: 185-187 COLLINS-ST,
The VOLCANIC
DERATING
MACHINE
w
a
u
A Great
Saving
..TO..
HOTELKEEPERS,
CAFE PROPRIETORS, ET „
CRATED WATERS of the Highest Quality
produced with the utmost rapidity
WITHOUT SKILLED LABOR.
Absolutely the best and simplest
Machine in the market. Price
£3O
TUBES CONTAIN 571bs. GAS.
CAPACITY OF CYLINDERS lOgals. WATER.
VALVE ACTS AUTOMATICALLY.
Smaller Machines on same Principle) £2O.
Write for Descriptive Pamphlets with Testimonials from
people who have used the Machine fur years.
W. JAMES, Proprietor
office : 101 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE.
Depot: 130 CECIL ST., SOUTH MELBOURNE.
There’s SECURITY in
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER
(FURRED TONGUE.
i
INDIGESTION
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
rhey TOUCH
the
Be Sure they are
•.mail Pill. Small Dose. Small Price.
Carter's


Waiter: “ ALOK ” FOR TEN. ,THANK YOU, GENTLEMEN.
Chorus of Customers : WAITER, BRING THE BOTTLE (they wish to
see it poured out).
Every Respectable Hotel In Australia
STOCKS AND SELLS
ALOK!”
The Recognised # National PICK-ME-UP.
WITH SODA WATER, THE GREAT MORNING DRINK OF AUSTRALIA.
BEFORE MEALS A REMARKABLE APPETISER.
ASK FOR “ALOK” IN THE “USUAL” OR “EXTRA BITTER” FORM; BOTH
CONTAIN THE SAME WONDERFUL and THERAPEUTICAL VIRTUES.
During- the Hot, Sultry Weather you can drink
nothing more likely to quench thirst and prepare
the Brain to make Money.
THE EFFECTS ARE LASTING.
MADAME ALBANI constantly drank “ ALOK ” when she had fatiguing work to do.
HENRY BRACEY, Esq., praises “ALOK” as superior to all other invigorators, and
invaluable to him when tired with rehearsals, &c.
Lawyers, Clergymen, Auctioneers, and Students of Every Class drink
MIGHTY “ALOK.”
CAUTION.—To avoid substitutes and worthless concoctions, insist on being served with
|
Registered Trade Mark,
“ALOK,”
AND YOU WILL BE CERTAIN TO OBTAIN
Fisher & Co.’s Famous Tonic
Freshly Prepared from the Celebrated
African Kola Nuts (Cola Acuminata).
Every Hotel, with Soda Water or Lemonade, 6d. per Glasa.
All Ch« mists, 2s 6d and 3s 6d per bottle.
Manufacturing -
Harmacy z
337 George St.,
Nearly
Opposite
G. F. Office
Sydney
When out of Sorts drink Mighty •• ALOXIt saves Doctor’s Bills
and ensures consta.nt Good Health.
'fr
FISHER & CO.’S
FAMOUS
PICK-ME-UP
and TONIC
Freshly Prepared from the Celebrated
African KOLA NUTS
(Cola Acuminata).
\
am-Gu/c
pr
I.M.77TVU
H SOOTHING BALM and EMBROCATION. Will be found
A a CERTAIN CURE for Cuts, Burns, Boils, Barcoo,
Eczema, Sprains, Ringworm, Sore Feet, Piles all
forms of Skin DLesse or Muscular Affections, elo.
From all Chemists, 1/6 per Tin. A FREE SAMPLE will
be sent you. Address the
ZAM-BUK COY.,
39 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Enclose Penny Stamp for postage, and mention this paper.
Amusements.
Lyceum
Lessee
Sub Lessee
THE ATRE, SYDNEY.
Mr. VVm. Anderson.
Bland Holt.
EVERY EVENING,
Up-to-date and Full of Local Interest and Color,
BLAND HOLT’S Australian Melodrama,
THE BREAKING OF THE DROUGHT.
POPULAR PRICES—3s., 25., Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
QrTtER lON THEATRE, SYDNEY.
SOLE LESSEE .. .. Mr. JOHN F. SHERIDAN.
Manager . Mr. Frank Weathersby.
3rd WEEK 3rd
C I 3XT 13 E FI E L L A.
Sydney’s Own and Only Pantomime.
THE COMEDIAN’S REVELS.
JOHN F. SHERIDAN as Baron Bounder.
MATINEES Every WEDNESDAY & SATURDAY, 2 p.m.
Doors Open, 1.15.
BOX PLAN FOR BOOKING,
WHITE ROSE CONFECTIONERY, ROYAL ARCADE,
269 PITT-STREET.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. 6d. and Is. Is. will be charged
for booking and early doors.
TH EATRE R OYAL, SYDNEY.
Lessee .. .. .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Under the Sole Direction of MR. GEORGE MUSGROVE.
Manager, Mr. T. P. Hudson.
Continued Triumphant Success of GEORGE MUSGROVE’S
NEW ENGLISH CJMIC OPERA CO.
in the Beautiful & Romantic Comic Opera,
THE THIRTY THIEVES.
Prices as Usual. Plan at Nicholson’s.
PALACE SYDNEY.
Lessees .. .. .. Messrs. Lee and Rial.
Under the Direction of MR. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
LAST 2 NIGHTS of Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON’S
ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY in
DOROTHY.
SATURDAY NEXT, JANUARY 10, PAUL JONES.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. &3T PRICES AS USUAL.
QENTENARY HALL, YORK STREET.
TO-NIGHT, and EVERY EVENING,
M’ADOO’S FISK
JUBILEE SINGERS.
BIGGER, BRIGHTER, BETTER THAN EVER.
Splendid Reception Accorded Another GRAND NEW
PROGRAMME.
POPULAR PRICES—3s., 25., Is.
IVAN JAMES, Advance Manager.
I V O L I T H E~A T R E, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor and Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
Brilliant Success Achieved by MASTER CLIVE COOK.
Splendid Success of MISS CRACiE EMMETT & CO. in a
New and Original Comedy,
“ MRS. MURPHY’S SECOND HUSBAND.”
MISS F. SPRY, MR. B. S. MONTI, JENNIE OPIE,
MALVENA MOORE. EILEEN BOYD, CLARENCE
SISTERS, ELSIE M'LACHLAN, ERNEST SULLIVAN,
and all our Great Tivoli Co.
ICK ARDS’ N EVV OPERA HOUSE,
MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager—Mr. HARRY RICKARDS.
EVERY EVENING, at 8 p.m.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS at 2.30 p.m.
CEORCE TOWNS, Champion Sculler of the World.
WALLACE BROWNLOW.
THE MONTROSE TROUPE.
A. C. SPRY. C. W. HUNTER. LES WARTON.
WELBY COOKE.
Prices—2s. 6d., 25., Is. ‘@2l Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE,
Sole Lessee
MELBOURNE.
Mr. George Musgrove.
ANOTHER DRAMATIC TRIUMPH
For MISS NELLIE STEWART and Mr. George Musgrove’s
New English Dramatic Co., in two Great London Suc-
cesses in One Performance, A COUNTRY MOUSE, and
THE PANTOMIME REHEARSAL.
USUAL PRICES.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
-THEATRE ROYAL.
f Lessee .
MELBOURNE.
.. Mr. Bland Holt.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. William Anderson.
Bus. Manager, James Hendy. Treas., Julius Grant.
WILLIAM ANDERSON'S Famous Dramatic Organisation
THE SUCCESS OF SUCCESSES,
THE POWER AND THE GLORY.
A STUPENDOUS ATTRACTION.
Re-appearance of MISS EUGENIE DUGGAN.
Prices—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan's.
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. Tallis. Treas., E. J. Tait.
Electric Success of the Greatest Pantomime
Australia has Ever Seen,
DICK WHITTINGTON AND HIS CAT.
Gorgeous Scenery, Costumes and Appointments
and Startling Novelties.
Entrancing Music rendered by an Opera Chorus and an
Opera Orchestra.
Pnce s as Usual, m Box Plan at Allan's. __
TcTn
G r EAT art EXHIB
NOW OPEN at the
VICTORIAN ART SOCIETIES’ ROOMS
(Oonservatorium of Music), Albert-st., East Melbourne,
Under the Direction of Mr. Geo. V. Allen.
A MAGNIFICENT DISPLAY.
350 BRITISH PICTURES, Selected from the Best-known
Painters of the Old World by Mr. E. W. CHRISTMAS,
leading Galleries of London, Edinburgh, Glasgow,
and Paris. Open from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., and from 7to
10 p.m. ADMISSION, Is. Illustrated and Descriptive
Catalogue, 6d. E. W. CHRISTMAS, Gen. Manager.^
yyT H E N/EU M HALL, MEL BO UR NE.
, . COMMENCING SATURDAY, JAN. 10,
Under the Management of Mr. John H. Teut,
THE BRITISH BIOGRAPH.
Biograph Entertainments on a Scale Never Befors
. Attempted in Melbourne.
Also, MR. CUVE O’HARA, the well-known
Illusionist and Conjuror.
MATINEES EVERY AFTERNOON at 2.30. *CJ
Popular Prices—2s. and Is. Plan at Allan's.
At Poverty Point.
Jacques Inaudi, the French “ calculating marvel,” is to
appear shortly at Sydney Tivoli. He is able to deal with
masses of figures without the aid of writing ; can, for
instance, raise a number to the fourth power, and give
the cube and square roots of numbers up in the
millions all ‘‘in his head.” You read the figures
out to him once and he does the rest. At least
he used to do it, but Inaudi will probably meet
his Marathon in Australia. Some one will ask him
to find out how much interest O’Sullivan’s new railways
are returning, and to add it to the profit of the resumed-
area of Sydney, or to tell how much money would make
Bent a gentleman. Then there will be the heavy thud of
a falling body, and the Calculating Man will be buried in
the pleasant Waverley cemetery, where his ghost can
look out at sea and watch the imported softgoods coming
in, and calculate the difference between their real value
and the value that the importer will declare at the
Customs House.
Dear Bulletin.— That story about a theatrical poten-
tate and his wife, and “ the third party,” and all the rest
of it, is a preposterous fable emanating probably from
some actor who was refused an engagement, or from a
pressman who has been snubbed. There’s a savour of
malice in its untruthfulness.—F.
The critics of the Melb. dailies were not lavishly eulo-
gistic in their notices of Miss Mabelle Morgan, the latest
soprano to come along with “boom” pretensions. The
Argos man, f’rinstance, said : “ Expectation concerning
Miss Mabelle Morgan ran somewhat high, mainly in con-
sequence of some extravagant panegyrics which have been
scattered broadcast. It is unfair to a young singer to
invite an audience to hear her, and, ‘ side by side,’ as one
may say, to peruse these glowing paragraphs which duly
appeared on the printed programme. They cer-
tainly did not appear to be altogether justified
by the event, for although Miss Morgan is a
nice singer, with a pleasant style, she is hardly fit to
tackle the ‘ Jewel Song ’ from ‘ Faust ’ —at least, quite so
soon after Melba.” The dailies haven’t always talked in
that strain about young singers of whom panegyrics were
scattered broadcast and reprinted on the programme,
and who appeared in the character of ‘pupils’ to prac-
tically challenge comparison with the greatest artists.
Miss Morgan will have to goon her solid merits, whatever
they may be. Some good judges think very highly of
her.
Miss Augusta Dargon (Mrs. Pierey), the tragedienne,
just deceased, was an ardent spiritualist, and took
mediums for her practical advisers re racing and other
speculations. She had a really dramatic nature, and in
private life blood-curdled her hearers (everyone liked
listening to her enthralling tales) by her recitals concern-
ing the Chicago fire in 1871 and her hegira from Sheridan
House clad in nightclothes only, at the command of an
invisible spirit guide.
The programme of the Williamson and Musgrove
“grand combination” panto, at Her Majesty’s (Melb.)
introduces Edward Lenis as “ the most popular lyric and
pantomime comedian in England.” W. and M. might
have left that sort of “ guff ” to smaller managers.
Tenor Dani, recently in Aus ralia, is about to appear at
the New York Metropolitan Opera House. Impresario
Grau says that J. O. Williamson called his attention to
Dani as “ one of the greatest tenors in the world,” and
that he himself, upon sampling the singer’s quality in
Paris, agreed with other experts in considering that Dani
had one of the finest old-fashioned silvery Italian tenor
voices they had ever heard.
Madame Melba’s bright eyes can manage a stony stare,
her captivating voice change to a dull monotony, her
perfect memory be sometimes at fault. A gushing
matron tried to recall madame’s knowledge of her family.
Matron: “This is little Elsa. Hasn’t she grown?”
Melba : I don’t remember Elsa.” Matron : “ Not remem-
ber Elsa? Why, she is Bob’s sister.” Melba: I don’t
remember Bob.” Matron :“ Not remember Bob ? Why,
he used to take you drives.” Melba : “ I don’t remember
drives.” Matron: “Don’t remember drives ! Not with
the cob? ” Melba: “ I don’t remember the cob.” Matron :
“ Not remember the cob 1 Not remember Bob ! Not re-
member the drives 1 Elsa, my dear, wish madarne good
bye.” And they went, murmurs of “ Cob,” “ Bob,”
“ Bob,” “ Cob,” floating in the air.
Sousa’s American band (60 performers) has been
engaged by J. C. Williamson for a short Australian tour
commencing at the end of this year.
“ K.” : A Pov. Pointer states that “ Nance O’Neil and
M‘Kee Rankin, undaunted by their London fiasco, have
gone to America.” They had to go somewhere to hunt
the oof bird, and where else should they go but to
America? It is their homeland, and starting point.
They returned to America.
All evil is rooted in desire to make boodle. The Cor-
poration of godly Geelong seems to have decided to con-
vert the local Exhibition Building into a bare-faced play-
house —a Geelong Municipal Theatre—at a cost of £4OOO.
The sop to the local Nonconformist Conscience consists in
a saving clause to the effect that only entertainments of
a “high-class” character will be permitted at the new
theatre. On this understanding it is predicted by a san-
guine alderman that managers will rush to secure Geelong
“dates” for their travelling shows, and the house will
yield £5OO a year in rentals. If the prayers of the
righteous ratepayers can effect the desired end, Geelong
is in a fair way to become respectably stage-struck. The
Corporation has a £49,000 debt, so the townspeople in
general are hoping for the best, and if the theatre—
under the blessing of Providence—turns out a successful
spec., they may, one day, petition the Mavor to buy up
the local racing club, and run that for the relief of the
municipal liabilities.
At New York, t’other week, the proprietor of a wild-
beast show offered a prize of SOOdols. to the first young
couple who would come along and get married in the
lions' cage. A German girl, named Berg, persuaded her
young man to take her and the 500 for better or for
worse ; so an aged parson, who stood outside the cage,
was hired to bind the holy contract. The ceremony was
performed ’midst the roaring of lions what time' their
tamer, acting as father to the bride, watched over the
proceedings with a revolver in one hand and a whip
in the other. The bridegroom, a Dane, showed
signs of fear when the lions came very near him, but the
bride was always “ quite cool and collected.” A resolute
spinster (or widow) is ready to brave any danger in pur-
suit of matrimony, whereas a man dreads the conse-
quences, and breaks out into a cold sweat at the squeak
of a church mouse. Everything sounds ominous of evil
to a thoughtful bridegroom.
Clement Wragge’s meteorological observa-
tory at Mt. Kosciusko is hard-up, and is being
persistently dunned by, among others, the guides
employed to see the men of science safely over
the glaciers and snow-fields.
The Wee Waa (N.S.W.) Progress Associa-
tion has telegraphed to Premier See: “ People
here will be grateful if you postpone thanksgiving
until the drought breaks up.” Australian version
—“ We’d better bide a Wee-Waa.”
The De la Rue robberies (best known as
giving rise to “ the Friedman case ”) in N.S.W.
have brought forth so many complications that
very few have a definite knowledge of the facts,
which are, briefly :
Harold Price was employed by the Sydney branch of
the great London firm of De la Rue and Co. as clerk at
something under £1 a week ; he was occasionally left in
charge of some thousands of pounds worth of stock.
In the absence of the manager on a trip to Maori-
land, Price stole the firm’s goods in wholesale
fashion, and sold them to various dealers and pawn-
brokers. Then he cleared out. Brought back, he
confessed to the robberies. Possibly it was thought
that there was no profit in prosecuting him ; he
had spent all the proceeds of his thefts. So he was
accepted as “ King’s Evidence ” against the persons who
had bought from him. Friedman was the first of the
dealers tried. The Judge formed the opinion at the trial
that there was no evidence against him, but the jury
convicted and Friedman was sent to gaol, but sub-
sequently, on the recommendation of the Judge, released
by the Minister for Justice. Levy, another dealer, was
next tried ; he was acquitted by the jury. A pawn-
broker with whom Price had pawned some stolen goods
was tried and found guilty of receiving. A charge made
against Price by Levy of obtaining money under falae
pretenoes resulted in an acquittal. That’s all so far, but
other cases are understood to be pending.


GOOD.
The treatment of serious compli-
cated BLOOD and NERVE DIS-
EASES involves a LIFE-TIME of
STUDY, ASSIDUOUS ATTEN-
TION, PERFECT KNOWLEDGE
and UNQUESTIONABLE SKILL.
The practiced physician SEES
THE WANING SIGNS and acts
promptly. To be completely eradi-
cated from the system a disease
must be taken in time. Delays
mean danger. A false or uncertain
step may mean a life lost.
rs
%
*
m
m
The SPECIALISTS of The
FREEMAN AND WALLACE
INSTITUTE, SYDNEY, have
been treating SERIOUS BLOOD
DISEASES in MEN for a quarter
of a century. By means of their
Electric “ INYIGORATOR ” they
rebuild the wasted tissues and
strengthen the weak parts that have
fallen into disuse or premature
decay. We cure VARICOCELE,
RUPTURE, WEAKNESS in
MEN, PROSTATIC TROUBLES,
and weakness of VITAL ORGANS.
Thousands of glad, cured men have
testified to this effect.
MR. PHILIP NEWBURY.
CAUTION.
Here are a few photographs of men the
SPECIALISTS have cured whose testimonies
of permanent cure are enclosed in special brochure
which will be mailed free on application,
case similar to your own. They each wore
READER!
you may find there a
THE SPECIALIST’S WONDERFUL ELECTRIC ‘ INVIGORATOR,’
And praise it. The electric current strengthened them and made them new
men. They found their VITALITY LEAVING THEM ; they grew weaker
day by day. They were growing OLD BEFORE THEIR TIME. The
SPECIALISTS have made
A SPECIAL STUDY OF ELECTRICITY,
which is Life, and restores Vigor and Strength. Their Electric “ IN-
VIGOR ATOR ” is the only Electric Belt which can combat a disease of the
nerves by the aid of sound medical treatment. There are legions of old-timed
alleged Electric “ Belts ” advertised but useless. Be careful when pur-
chasing. No “ Belt ”is of use in the curing of disease unless aided by medicine.
Electricity alone is often dangerous.
BIGNOR CARLO DAN I,
HEAD WHAT MR, PHILTP NEWBURY, THE POPULAR TENOR, SAYS
OF THIS “ IN'VIGOR ATOR ”
“ I suffered from Uric Acid in the blood for years. Thanks to
the wonderful efficacy of your Electric ‘ INVIGORATOR ’ I am
now completely cured.”
READ WHAT SIGNOR CARLO DANI (Royal Italian Opera Company) SAYS
OF THE ELECTRO-MEDICAL TREATMENT:—
“ I suffered much from inertia and lassitude, caused by
climatic changes. I wore your ‘ IN'VIGORATOR,’ deriving great
benefit to my nerve and muscular systems.”
What the Cured say.
They say that the SPECIALISTS of THE
FREEMAN and WALLACE INSTITUTE
are their best friends. The “ INVIGORA-
TOR ” is a wonderful Instrument, WORTH
ITS WEIGHT IN GOLD, and that they have
been cured to stay cured. Their hours and
their homes have been
Brightened and their Trials Lightened.
They are now as strong as in the days of youth,
ready to shout with gladness, strong and
vigorous with the fire of youth and energy.
They declare that in the Electro-Medical
treatment of the SPECIALISTS lie the cure
of all NERVE and BLOOD AFFECTIONS.
They were cured in a few months of IN-
SOMNIA, DYSPEPSIA, INDIGESTION,
RHEUMATISM, LAME BACK, SCIA-
TICA, NERVOUSNESS, and Kidney Dis-
orders. There is no known disease which
this “ INVIGORATOR ” will not benefit and
cure.
THE INSTITUTE,
SYDNEY.
The ~ Invigorator's" Use
The “IN VIGOR ATOR must be worn
around the waist for a few hours nightly. It
has a soothing, electrifying influence which
penetrates the weak parts. The sick man or
woman awakes re-charged with life-energy.
They are braced up ready for the day’s work.
The electric current, aided by reconstructive
remedies, goes straight to the seat of disease.
The “ INVIGORATOR ”
Is sold for £1 only.
Those sold for £lO by the SPECIALISTS
contain 2oz. 18ct. gold. Their £1 in-
strument is certified by local electricians,
modelled after those used by THREE IM-
PERIAL PHYSICIANS and BRITISH
SCIENTISTS, and is superior to any Belt
sold in Australia. It is the only genuine
Electric “Belt ” which has true non-conduct-
ing vulcanite insulation, without which no
belt can give a continuous current, useful in
medical practice.
100 GOLDEN
SOVEREIGNS.
NOTE. —The SPECIALISTS will give .£lOO to any Charitable Institution in Sydney
if it can be proved their Electric “ INVIGORATOR ” is not as truly electrical as it is
claimed to be. They stand behind a guarantee bond of £lOOO for the faithful performance
of all medical contracts undertaken. They have been established for over fifteen years ;
they have patients in all parts of the known world. They have treated and cured the most
eminent persons. The PHYSICIAN-IN-CHIEF, besides being registered by various AUS-
TRALIAN, ENGLISH, & AMERICAN MEDICAL BOARDS, is the only medical prac-
titioner so registered advertising Electric Belts in Australia. See N.SAV. Medical Register, 1900.
100 GOLDEN
SOVEREIGNS.
mA ,
1 /
MR. PETE HUGHES.
Me. PETE HUGHES,
theatrical agent for the
largest firm in Australia,
says:—
“ Your Electric
‘ INVIGORATOR ’
has cured me of
all my obstinate
kidney pains. It
has done me more
good than I ev,er
expected.”
PETE HUGHES.
This New Year’s Gift
The SPECIALISTS will
post you free for ONE
SHILLING IN STAMPS
their magnificent medical
work, “CLINICAL
EXPERIENCES,” 550
pages.
150 Medical Plates.
The edition of over 10,000
volumes is nearly out of
print; order early. It is a
source of great instruction
and fully explains the appli-
cation of Electricity to the
frame. It is elegantly bound
in blue cloth covers, fully
illustrated, and is a splendid
presentation book. Read
it, then lend it to your
friends.
Mr. CHAS. KENNING-
HAM, the famous lyric
composer and principal
tenor Royal Comic Opera
Company, Sydney, writes:
“I suffered from
insomnia for years.
I have worn your
Electric 4 Belt.’ I
am now sleeping
reasonably, and my
general health and
appetite are much
improved.”
CHAS KENNINGHAM.
MR. CHAB. KENNINGHAM.
FREEMAN * WALLACE
and SURGICAL INSTITUTE
ELIZABETH
HOWARD FREEMAN, Director.
Dr RICHARD WALLACE, M.D., L.R C.P., E., L.F.P.S.,
and BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
Medicines packed Free from Observation and sent to all parts of Australia.
E., L.M., Physician-in-Chicf. Letters treated with Professional Secrecy and promptly replied to.


Adelaide is the poorest place in Australia
for a criminal to work in. The “floating ” popu-
lation is so small that every stranger is watched
with interest till he settles down. On a recent
Friday night a city church was burgled ; on the
Saturday afternoon the police had the whole of
the stolen property, and the two men in whose
house it was. That same Saturday evening bad
money was passed in suburban Unley. Within
an hour a constable arrested three men, but they
shot him and fled. Next day the police took all
three, revolvers, coining-plant and all, away at
Hindmarsh on the other side of the city.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK
A Handsome Cloth-bound Volume of over 300 pages.
The Best Collection of Short Stories and Literary
Sketches yet produced in Australia. Price, 4s. Od.;
postage, 6c
Westralia begins to talk more things than
eold Its first shipment of early potatoes were
fatly landed in Adelaide; and a few cases of
early tomatoes came over a year before. Also,
liter looking round, Mr. Grose a leading S.
Australian tiour-miller, has bought a plant there
and will add to it. . , ,
Most policemen own two pairs of boots,
and they find it comes expensive to hire stabling
tor the spare pair. A S.M. Herald advertiser
sDreads a lure : ■
A NICE large front ROOM to LOT suit policeman.
A. 9 Catherine-st., Leichhardt.
Hearne’s Bronchitis core
roTTC HS BROraiTIS ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
COUGIIn, JilXUlM chect mjdicine in Australia.
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF
, „ ViUiq Couffh Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain oi
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
the Chest, experience delightful and .immediate relief!; and to those to become chroni c, nor Consumption to develop. Consump ion la,
and a Complete Cure is certain. - -p. TP QF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO COLDS BRONCHIAL
CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OF HEARNE S
CUKEL) u * BRONCHITIS CURE.
THU DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
“Orange, N.S.W.
“De^Sir',—l enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
of Lo ndon, England, from which you will glean that
o', medicine has been a perfect God-sendl to a martyr o
lolds and bronchial asthma. Ido not wish any names to
bementioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
r< “I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
land. You can see for yourself what an immense success
it was.— Yours faithfully,
Extract from letter alluded to above
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
arrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday,’ and it has quite cured me. Dr. -is very
much interested in ft. He came yesterday, and carried
off the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
from a chemist who is in a large way here.
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
supplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS’ TORTURE.
RUTTFVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE’S
R BRONOHLITS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“Dergholm, Victoria.
“ Dear Sir,—l wish to add ray testimony to the won-
derful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
months, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
X was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
advice and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
yours,’and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
first dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
am a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
may depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
wonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“ Yours faithfully,
“ JAMES ASTBURY.”
We the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
Undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
fffty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS-
»I used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
doses.—P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.
the mTdi^inr , 'yet! I 'but < lUamI U am sending tor anoth°"bottle
Quirindi, N.S.W.”
««Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.-A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renpy-st., Paddington, Sydney.”
«sAf, mm^tru.ss
Victoria.”
•< I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me.-(Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria.
•«I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.-JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria-
« I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone.-J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W.
■< My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two aoses.-C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor. Victoria Chambers,
Queen-street, Melbourne.”
“ I lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miraculous.-F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.
“Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria.
" Kindly forward another bottle of your famous. Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find It to be a most
valuable medicine. —(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at onoe.-
G. SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” • .
“Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle.—W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria.
“I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to everybody. S.
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” •
»i suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine,
but I can truly say that I am astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of my brief trial.—JOHN 0.
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Invereli, N.S.W.”
“Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
me any good ; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well.-H. HOOD,
Brooklands, Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne."
(i please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.
•
“ Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from you have pulled
me through a long and dangerous illness. —HENRY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoua.
“The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects.—CHAS. WHYBROW, Enoch’s
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.”
Gratitude and Appreciatioi
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
««The Scientific Australian Office,
“ 169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
"Dear Mr. Hearne,— The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne s Bronchitis
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three .years ago, was recom-
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ac-
countant, Collins-street, and the effect that it had was so
marked that he has ever since been continually recom-
mending it to others.
“ We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings cf hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
"PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO."
Queensland Testimony
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
" 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
"Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Please send us 36
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose our
cheque to cover amount of order.
“We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
“We are, faithfully yours,
• THOMASON, CHATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemists.”
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
«W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir,—Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“ I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUARRILL,
“ Editor Geelong Advertiser.”
“Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.”—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
nranch depot office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
TUB
SMELTING & REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
Works: DAPTO, LAKE ILLAWARRA (56 Miles from Sydney). 1901, Limited.
TTip-hest Price paid for Gold, Silver, Lead, and Copper Ores,
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay. Cyanide, Slags, and Jewellers’ Sweep, etc.
For all Information regarding Hates, apply to the Manager, Head Office, Dapto;
or, A. E. RUDDER & CO., 40 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Forwarding Agents.
“Retained when
all other Foods are
rejected. It is in-
valuable.”
London Medical Record.
“ ‘ Benger*s Food *
has by its excellence
established a repu-
tation of its own.”
British Medical Record.
GOLD MEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
Benger’s Food
For Infants , Invalids , and the Aged. Delicious, Nutritive , and Digestible.
Benger’s Food is sold by Chemists, &c., Everywhere-
Extracts from Private
Letters.
“ My last little boy was
fed entirely upon it from
birth, and a healthier
child it would be difficult
bo find. My wife sounds
the praise of ' Benger’s
Food’ everywhere.”
“If every mother knew
of its value, no other
would be used.


Martin’s Apiol and Steel Pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia, price 4s. 6d.
Agents: Sayers, Allport, and Potter, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor, W. Martin, Pharmaceutical
Chemist, Southampton, England.*
Bushman and Buccaneer.
A True Account of the operations of the
Bushveldt Carbineers, and of the sorry
fate of HARRY MORANT.
flll "Cbe Breaker’s” Uerses.
The first edition has now been almost exhausted,
and a second print of 5000 is in the press. Send
orders early, to ensure despatch.
PRICE ONE SHILLING.
FOR BABY’S SHIN
SCALP AND HAIR
Something for Mothers to Think About
EVERY CHILD bom into the world with an inherited
or early developed tendency to distressing, disfiguring
humours of the skin, scalp, and blood, becomes an object
of the most tender solicitude, not only because of its suf-
fering but because of the dreadful fear that the disfigura-
tion is to be lifelong and mar its future happiness and
prosperity. Hence it becomes the duty of mothers of
such afflicted children to acquaint themselves with the
best, the purest, and most effective treatment available*
viz., THE CUTICURA TREATMENT.
Warm baths with Cuticura Soap, to cleanse the skin of crusts and soales
and soften the thickened cuticle, gentle anointings with Cuticura Oint-
ment, to instantly allay itching, irritation, and inflammation, and soothe and
heal, to be followed in the severer cases by mild doses of Cuticura Resol-
vent Pills (see below), to cool and cleanse the blood, are all that can be
desired for the alleviation of the suffering of skin-tortured infants and
children and the comfort of worn-out, worried mothers. A single set is
often sufficient to cure when the best physicians fail-
Millions of Women Use Cuticura Soap
« perspiration, in the form of washes for ulcerative weaknpßßpß ami fnrmQnw
beyond question the most successful blood purifiers and humour cures yet compounded.
* r ® 6old th *> u gbout the world. Australian Depot: R. Towns ft Co.. Sydney. British
Depots Z/- 2 !. Charterhouse Sq , London. French Depot: S Rue de la Pail, Paria. Potter Dkug and Chkm.
Uobj\, Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A. •• All about the Skin,” free.
■ jv wm mmk m 2h.p« tO lOOh.p.
KING MARINE OIL ENGINES.
Launches built 20ft. to 80ft. overall.
mum
wm
Noiseless Uuderwater . . .
Exhaust.
Perfect Gas Generator.
Double Cylinder.
Automatic Oil Feed.
Simple Electric Ignition
with Dynamo.
J. F.
Telephone 2671.
WITH THE KING ENGINE— ONE LEVER CONTROLS THE WHOLE
McDermott & comfakty,
30 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The “Enterprise”
Rubber Massage Roller
Makes, Keeps
and Restores
Beauty in Na-
ture'sownway.
The cup-shaped teeth have a
suction efij.it oa the skin that
smooths out wrinkles, rounds out
the beauty m iscles, and gives per-
fect circulation of the blood.
It is so constructed that it treats
every portion of the face and neck
perfectly, even to the “crow's
feet ” in the corners of the eyes.
Price of Roller - ... - - /% /£*
Cwhh FREE Sample °
Jar o : “ SKIN -- Post
FOOD") rree *
Box 133,
THE ENTERPRISE CO.,
Q.P.O.
M E LB.
When ordering please mention this paper.
ROB ROY pens.
Hinks, Wells & Co. beg to draw attention to this new series of
turned up pointed and other pens, made of the same material, by the
same tools by the same process and at the same works, as the well
known series of Waverley Pens, which Hinks, Wells & Co. have for
30 years and upwards (prior to September 1901), manufactured for
and supplied to the proprietors thereof.
Sold by all
Stationers in 18
varieties in
6d., Is. & gross boxes.
HINKS,
WEIiLS CO., Birmingham, England.
THE PANAMA HAT CRAZE.
wh!L i? 86 ?’ Que©"-street, Bris.ba.nc, who,
. .J' J" Bt re tiirned from the centres of manufacture
lor these scarce lines, can supply either folding or Alpine
orderi see lB76 .’ 22 / 6 ' 25/-. 30/-, 35/- to 45/- (cash with
Southern t y pa ? ked ? nd carriage paid to any address.
SR srn States values simply not in it. A trial order
will convince you.
Melbourne
Musical
Magazine
The Music Book of
the Year.
No. *7
w 1
Contents
1. Absence Makes the Heart Grow
Fonder
As Sung by Miss Jennie Opie and
Sam Holdsworth
2. My African Queen
Barney Fagan’s great Coon Song
3. The Bismark Grenadiers
Miss Byron’s quaint lit tie Song
4. Whisper My Name to Nell
Sweetly pretty, a lover's Song
5. Terry, Terry
An Irish Song of great merit
6. Sweethearts Still
A pathetic Song, with a true ring
_ about it
The Sweetest Words
A sweet little baby Song, would
suit a little girl to sing
Good Night, Daddy
Sweetly pretty, of delightful simplicity
One Always Loves You, and
That One’s Me
The title suggests the style
The Huntsman
Something jolly, of the great Dan
Leno’s, a great thing for At Homes
or Concerts
Jack to the Fore
A fine, rollicking, breezy Sea Song
for Baritone
12. Fallen by the Wayside
By the Composer of
“ While the Dance Goes On ”
13. The Best of Friends Must Part
7.
8
10.
11
One Shilling.
posted,
1/2.
For Sale by all Music and Booksellers in
Australasia.
COLLINS ST., Melbourne,
this paper.
Engineer Electric Plant.
J?? e ifvi\ WOrk .’Kood pay. Wouldn’t you like
here t 0 help you ' Study by corre-
P deuce Electrical, Steam, Mechanical
Engineering,—
Plumbing, Heating,
Ventilating or
Mechanical Drawing,
These subjects are taught
at home by correspon-
dence ; also Steam,
ilechanical and Elec-
trical Engineering,
Mechanical Drawing,
etc. Write for informa-
tion and Handbook “ It."
American School of
Correspondence, at Ar-
mour Institute of Tech-
nology.
Sydney : Box 629, G.P.O.
Hypnotism
'S
Reader, why not be able to use the
most mysterious and powerful force of
nature? By my method you cau learn
to Hypnotize in a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home. You can per-
form all the many marvellous feat#
that are possible to the Hypnotist.
Through Hypnotism yon cau cure disease
conquer pain ; win reluctant affection,
gratify your ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I have
just issued in book form a mammoth
illustrated LESSON OT Key to
Hypnotism, which fully explains
the mysteries and secrets
|of the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is the most elaborate
and expensive thin it of the Kind
ever published. For a short
time I will send this magnifi-
cent work FREE, sealed oil
receipt of 6d. (stamps) to cover
postage. Order to-day and learn
to Hypnotize. It is a chance of J
a life-time. Address— l
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
A Distinct Advance in Infant Feeding.
tmrs
r m
Ttataa«i<S
& HanbaG 2
THE
The Allenburys Foods provide nourishment suited to the growing digestive powers
of the Infant, and constitute an altogether distinct advance on the mischievous expedient of trying
to make the child s stomach accomodate itself to a food essentially unsuited to its digestive powers.
Farinaceous foods of all kinds are totally unfit for infants under five or six months of age, such foods
being a potent cause of digestive troubles, rickets, and many disorders arising from mal-nutrition.
The Allenburys” Foods are especially valuable in hot
climates. They are in the form of powder and keep perfectly.
I^ 3
Pamphlet on “ INFANT FEEDING ” f#S free , from
•#95, Bourke Street, Melbourne.
ALLEN & HANBURYS, Ltd., London, Eng.
MILK FOOD No. 1.
From birth to three months.
MILK FOOD No. 2.
From three to six months.
MALTED FOOD No. 3.
From six months and upwards.
JAYNE S EXPECTORANT
CURES THE WORSTCOUGHtS.
Tales of the Penance Track.
THE DEATH MESSAGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The jmaon bill-of-fare did not agree with No. 48.
He had been used to a more generous diet: a
deficit of £4,000 in his accounts proved that
m w Ch ’ mi! 1 allowin S a hi « for things not eat-
able. Other ‘ silvertails ” contracted a liking for
hominy after starvation had given them a suflfi-
ciently strong introduction, but No. 48 always
treated it to a string of curses and returned the
tin untouched. Not that his curses were in any-
wise effectual, for the prison contractor continued
to nourish exceedingly.
. No. 48 saw the doctor— who was Scotch and
could not understand anyone disliking meal of any
sort. He prescribed cod-liver oil, which came in
bulk and had a full flavor, so 48’s soul again re-
volted and the case was hopeless. Then he took
to his hammock. The hospital was full, so he
remained m his cell and, being too tired to read
traced imaginary streets in the whitewash. The
door is always shut and locked on a sick man con-
fined to his cell. His cell was on the top landing
and as the doctor was gouty, 48 walked down to
the ground-floor daily. The 34 steps exhausted
much of his strength, but Warder Williams who
was in charge of “B.” wing, thought the doctor
of more importance than a sick “greycoat.” A
prisoner well is trouble enough to look after, but
being sick when all others are on the “works”
entails much worry and annoyance. Warder
Williams did not particularly like No. 48 who
was not communicative, and a “greycoat” who
held Ms tongue was never friendly with Warder
Williams. *ho things got bad for No. 48.
No. 48’s pal, “Gentleman Fred,” No. 63, living
in the next cell, supplied the stimulus that was
keeping No. 48 alive. Rumors were rife regard-
ing remission and No. 63, who had been areporter,
collected daily from all quarters information on
the nmttor, winch he transmitted nightly by a
crude telegraphic code to his sick friend. All the
tattlings overheard when two warders conversed •
newspaper scraps blown into the vegetable
garden and smuggled in by the “ Outside Gang ”
helped to form a nightly budget of entertaining
matter, and hope kept life in No. 48. Day and
night he prayed and hoped that the long-looked-
for remission would come ; fighting hard against
sickness and hunger, left the livelong day in the
sharp clutches of remorse, he waited. Not that
JNo. 48 wanted a new lease of the old life He
knew that Jie was dying—he didn’t mind'that
but he wanted to die free, and to be buried where
his death-clothes would not be numbered. And
two-days-a-month remission on his sentence would
put him “ out ’’—would bring him all he now had
to long and hope for.
Gentleman Fred’s cables generally fed his
hopes. Gentleman Fred was of an optimistic
turn. He had served four years, and had during
the past three and a-half years a daily presenti-
ment that he was to be released on petition. So
the “wires” were rather rosy-hued, and No. 48’s
consumption of hominy became microscopic.'
It was Commonwealth Day, and no news. No.
63 said it didn t matter—that the Executive would
not settle the affair till the day after ; but No 48
felt very weak and low. He refused to walk down
to the doctor, and when that official had carried
his gout-eaten frame up to the top landing, he was
not in an amiable mood. The cell, too, was hot
and stuffy, so he did not want to stay long
“ Malingering, that’s what it is—a pure case of
malingering,” and with Warder Williams’assist-
ance lie climbed downstairs again cursing sick
“greycoats ” whenever his gouty legs got an extra
twinge.
Warder Williams returned to No. 48’s cell, after
seeing the doctor out of the “wing,” to twit that
unfortunate on the medico’s diagnosis, but No. 48
turned his face away and refused to answer.
Iwo days after the Federal celebrations a war-
der told Gentleman Fred that it was all up-
nothing would be done in the way of sentence-
remission. That worthy took the matter philo-
sophically as far as it concerned himself—he had
heard it so often. But he thought of the sick
mate. Gentleman Fred knew what was in No.
48’s heart. However, he decided to let his mate
know the worst that night, so after “lock-up” he
signalled, and receiving a “go ahead,” started—
-14 raps, stop, 15 stop, 18, 5, 13, 9, 19, 19, 9,
15,14: it spelt, “No remission. Then he waited,
slate and pencil ready to take down the reply.
Back through the cell wall it came—2s, 5, 19—
20, 8,5, 18, 5—9, 19—9—11, 14, 15, 23. It spelled,
“ Yes, there is—l know,” with a double emphasis
on “I know.”
Gentleman Fred was astonished at the answer,
and rapped out, “ Who told you ? ” but no rap,
rap, rap, came in reply. He repeated the mes-
sage, but still silence in No. 48’s cell, and not a
sound through the great silent “wing.”
Gentleman Fred knocked louder, and again
louder—so loud that 3rd Class Warder Downey,
who was on night-duty, crept silently into the
wing and through the spy-hole in the door caught
the “ telegraph-operator ” red-handed. But when
Warder Downey opened No. 48’s door to charge
him with “communicating with another prisoner ”
he found No. 48 dead —the last inquiry of Gentle-
man Fred written on his slate.
• • • *
Gentleman Fred got three days’ dark cells
from the visiting Beak, and thus lost nine days’
good-conduct remission. Warder Williams, when
chatting with Downey next day, said it was a
pity No. 48 died that night, for otherwise he
(Downey) would have captured a double. Warder
Williams was a good hater.
The Wasp.


A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
cases in six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
only Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
Of Chemists, or from PARIS MEDICINE CO., 28, Shoe-
lane, London, England.*
One of Vic. Police Commissioner O’Calla-
ghan’s plain-clothes nocturnal bike policemen had
a chance to show his mettle lately. He was
pedalling easily along when, _ at 3.30 a.m., four
men standing motionless outside a factory roused
his suspicions. Riding by, three of the four put
handkerchiefs to their faces while the other
shielded his phiz with a large umbrella. On the
constable asking the meaning of this they dis-
dained answer and moved on. Then he
desired them to stop but they kept moving.
Then he went after them on his bike and
they moved more rapidly. Next he fired
over their heads and they, naturally, moved quite
swiftly. After this interesting game had con-
tinued for a space the constable fired at them,
whereupon three made across a waste paddock,
while the fourth shot at the bike, disabled it at
first attempt, and let the policeman drop into the
road. When the officer arose he had the locality
all to himself. This is the first time that the dis-
guised night bike-constable has come anywheie
near to capturing anybody.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other. Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance
is solicited.
r? -
“ Jfever nqind babyj Jt will soon grow now.'
I
FOR
THE
HAIR.
The very Finest Dressing.
Restores the Hair.
Promotes the Growth.
Arrests the Fall.
Strengthens the Roots.
Preserves the Hair.
Renders it Beautifully Soft.
Removes Dandruff.
Allays all Irritation.
Preserves, Strengthens, and Invigorates
Childrens’ Hair.
Full description afid directions /or use in
20 languages supplied with every bottle.
"I/-, 2/6,and (triple 2/6 size) 4/6 per
Bottle from Druggists, &c., all over
the World.
Edwards’ Harlene Co.
High Holborn , London, Eng.
4/2. GEORGE S: sydne
JR big Jewellery Store was never so superior, never so splendid.
Every beautiful thing from England, America and the Continent Is
here, and favourably priced for you. So quickly come and go the new
things that we could not enumerate them, but come In and see for
yourself what we have. We never press anyone to buy. We will gladly
show you the latest even if you come only out)of curiosity. Our New
Catalogue is free to all.
No. E44s9—The “ Oupid ” Card Case,
Solid Silver, Lady’s Size, £2 10s.
Silver-Plated on Nickel Silver
Base, Tankard, £-pt., 12s: 1 pt
15s.
No. F6127-A1 Quality Silver-Plated
Toast Rack, £1 Isg.
No. F9ss4—Heavy 9ct Gold Twist Bracelet, £2 10a.
No. E3oS2—9ot Gold Bracelet, set Pearls and Sapphire
Doublets, £2 2s.
No. F 9557
Set Gold and Beal Pearl
Bracelet. £2.
No. F9569—9ct Gold and Beal Pearl
Bracelet, £1 7a. 6d.
Set Gold & Tortoiseshell
Hairpin or Ornament.
£1 7s 6d.
No. F2lsS—Solid Silver Prize Bowl,
£8 10s.—8£in. x siin.
No. F9s72—Strong 9ct Gold Twist Tube
Brooch, £llos.
No. F247B—Silver Plated Butter Knife and Jam
Spoon, in a Case, 14s. 6d.
No. F999l—Silver Plated Satin Lined
Jewel Case, £1 sa.
No. P55B—Al Quality
.Silver Plated Butter Dish,
£1 12s. 6d.
No 163-18 ct Gold
Diamond and Ruby Ring,
£3 Ids.
No. F64BB—Solid Silver
Pepper Pot, 18s. 6d.
E7B49—Silver-Plated
Egg Boiler, £1 7s. 6d.
No. Fl342—Cut Glass and
Silver Plated Claret Juir,
£1 Is.
*
No. F47lo—Silver Plated Knife, Fork and Spoon
in a Case, 14s. 6d. * ‘
Cr
The Grand Old Gums.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We lay and watched the pine-knots blaze,
And heard the winds complaining;
Above a world of silent snow,
The winter moon was reigning.
She smote with scimitars of light
The black and barren ridges,
And over frozen drift and stream,
Laid down her jewelled bridges.
This day had brought the miners’ mail,
And every heart was yearning
With thoughts of love and home and kin,
And sad, sweet mem’ries burning.
A fire brand flamed and snapped. Beyond,
The shadows swayed uncertain ;
A breath of wind stole in and shook
The tent-door’s tattered curtain ;
And someone sighed, a homesick boy,
An English lad from Devon,
Who pushed the tent-flap back and gazed,
Where, ’gainst a stainless heaven,
The black firs, standing dark and still,
Sent down a voice of sighing,
We heard the grey wolf howl afar,
And night-birds faintly crying.
And, “O ! to walk in English lanes,”
He cried, “ when Spring is coming ;
To smell the scent of flowering may,
And hear the wild-bees humming.”
Up rose a Scotsman, tall and tanned
By wind and biting weather :
“ Gi’e me the heather on the hills,
The bonny Scottish heather.
“ Gi’e me the bumie swollen wi’ rain
And gushing like a fountain,
That leaps and foams, and pure bleak winds
That blow about the mountain.”
A Western rancher grimly smiled,
His pipe-stem idly chewing;
And by his twinkling eye we knew
Some merry thought was brewing.
“ I guess ye do not know the States
And the maples in September, ”
He said, and thrust his blackened bowl
Against a glowing ember.
A man from Darling-side was there,
Silent when all had spoken.
For him the miners’ mail had brought
No message and no token.
A drinking, desperate ne’er-do-wed,
Whom friends had oft forgiven ;
Then thrust him as an outcast, forth,
A sinner lost to Heaven.
He lay apart, as guest unloved,
To the fair feast unbidden ;
Face downward, with his burning eyes
Upon his crossed arms hidden.
But suddenly he raised a face
(And we had thought him sleeping)
That worked as when a woman strives
Against a storm of weeping.
“ Boast on,” said he, “of flowery lanes,
Your hawthorn and your heather,
Of maples reddening in the fall
And Scotland’s biting weather.
“ But give to me the tough old gums
That skirt the boundary-railing ;
When skies are brass and earth is dust
And all the creeks are failing.
“ To touch the cool grey pillars then,
And see the split bark peeling,
When all the land is parched with drought
And sickening herds are reeling ;
“ To feel the first fierce puff, that ti- 11s
Of tempest in the distance;
To see the saplings writhe and bend
And gaunt boughs groan resistai.ee.
“ A lull—and in the lull, the low
Of faint uneasy cattle,
While like the loose bones of the dead,
The stiff, dry, lean leaves rattle,
“And ragged clouds rise overhead,
Then comes the rending thunder ;
A roaring wind swirls through the gums,
The clouds are burst asunder.
“And lo ! the trampling march of rains,
Like glorious rivers rushing ;
The blighted earth drinks and revives,
The full-fed creeks are gushing.
“ But see,” his face grew rapt and soft,
As memory rang her changes ;
“ The sky at sunrise, barred with pearl
And rose, beyond the ranges.
“ A glow of deep’ning daffodil,
Broad, fan-like, upward creeping ;
And th’ softest wind that comes and goes,
Like a babe’s breath in sleeping.
‘ ‘ And the dark clustered heads of gum
Against the glory standing,
Against a fan of rosy flame,
Still deep’ning and expanding.
“I seem to see at noon-tide now,
Between the grey boughs burning,
Deep, windless gulfs of quiv’ring blue,
At sunset slowly turning
“ To rose and flame and purple, starred
With many a changing glory.
I see the gums in moonlight stand,
With silvered heads and hoary.
“ The grand old gums, the grey < Id gums }
The hardest heart might soften
To see them in the hush of dawn
As I have seen them often.
“ To see them at the rising moon;
To see one gum-tree only
Against the skyline far away,
One gum-tree growing lonely,
“It makes a man’s eyes blind with tears,
It sets his strong heart leaping ;
It makes him shout and sing and pray,
And then —it sets him weeping.
“ For all his boyhood wakes again,
With the great pure gum above him,
His stains forgot in thoughts of home
And—those —that —used to love him.”
Ho ceased, his knotted hands outstretched,
His deep eyes fixed and staring.
“ O God ! the gums on Darling’s banks,
The wattles round the clearing ! ”
His eyes were strangely soft and wet,
His troubled breast was heaving,
And from his trembling throat there burst
A single sob of grieving.
One sob, and then a bitter laugh,
A laugh, despairing, fearful.
He strode into the night alone.
And left us mute and tearful.
11. L.
MAUD PEACOCKE.


Nature’s Pleasant Laxative,
California Syrup of Figs
The Best Family Medicine.
a>%
Acts
Gently
on
Kidneys,
Liver
and
Bowels,
overcoming
Habitual
Constipation
WHY ITS FAME IS WORLD-WIDE.
The excellence of California Syrup of Figs is due to its pleasant
form and perfect freedom from every objectionable quality or substance,
and to the fact that it acts gently and truly as a laxative without in any
way disturbing the natural functions. The requisite knowledge of what
a laxative should be and of the best means for its production enable
the California Fig Syrup Co. to supply the general demand for a
laxative, simple and wholesome in its nature and truly beneficial in its
effects; a laxative which acts pleasantly and leaves the internal organs
in a naturally healthy condition and which does not weaken them.
The Good it Does is Permanent,
Ask for California Syrup of Figs, and look for the Name and Trade Mark of the California
Fig Syrup Co, Of all Chemists, is. i jd. and is. 9d.
LONDON: 32 Snow Hill. SYDNEY: 7 Barrack Street.
TRADE MARK.
NOW READY.
PEARS’ ANNUAL
Christmas, 1902
Published by the Proprietors :
A. & f. PEARS, Ltd., 71-75 Hew Oxford-st., London, W.C.
Containing an Old-Fashioned Romance, entitled—
MERRICHILP’S MILLION
By R. E. FRANCILLON
With 22 Illustrations in Black and White by FRANK DADD, R. 1., in Handsome
Colored Cover.
With the above are —
LARGE
PRESENTATION PLATES
Printed in Colors in the Best and Most Artistic Style
of the Chromo-Lithographic Art
1. A Breezy Day.
From the Original Painting by BIRKET FOSTER, R.W.S.
Size 28 by 191. Printed in 13 Colors.
2. impudent Hussies !
From the Original Painting by Miss M. GROVES.
Size 231 by 18. Printed in 13 Colors.
3. Spring Blossoms.
AND
4. The Ferry.
From the Original Painting by W. S. COLEMAN.
Size 161 by llj. Printed in 13 Color;.
THE WHOLE ENTIRELY PRINTED IN ENGLAND.
Sold by Booksellers and Newsagents all over the World.
Karise.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A LETTER FROM INDIA.
Sahib,—
“Do you remember the White Residency under
the mud walls at the Jat temple on the Delhi
Road ? After the Mutiny it was known as the
House of the Four Vultures, because long before
the Black year there came from the east and north
four monstrous carrion-birds which sat all day and
night on its roof.
Glynn sahib, the Australian minister, came to
live in the Vulture House to preach his gospel
and turn the native from his gods. If gods must
be, sahib, let ours stand, for have they not stood
longer than the Hebrew of Bethlehem ?
Glynn was, as you know, a big red-haired
preacher with a strange forehead and glittering
eyes. He is dead, and the manner of his death
was never recorded in the Gazette.
“ He preached daily from the steps of the Vul-
ture House, but his hearers were men of low
caste potters and herdsmen, for one never saw
Brahmin, Sikh, or Hindu among them ; they were
the wind-raff of the jungle and river—men who
worshipped the god with the biggest grain-sack,
and Glynn was fool enough to feed them at inter-
vals.
‘ About a month before the monsoon holidays
there came down the Delhi Road a tall Hillman
whose caste was neither Vogi, Jain nor Parsee;
he was the black Afghan Jew of the race that
runs back to the beginnings of humanity, and who
are so like the Christinenof some Italian painters.
“About his white girdle was woven a band of
gold. Nowhere in Hind have I seen such a man;
his face was gentle, his wide brow and eves were
full of beauty and love of mankind. His robe
was fretted with the fine crystal woof worn only
by the Sultan and Ameer ; his sandals were of the
perfumed wood which grows beyond the Kyber.
‘ ‘ Wherever he halted, in the flaring, crowded
road or in the bazaar, people of many castes drew
about him, saying, ‘ This is Karise. Let us listen
to him.’
“ And Glynn sahib, preaching from the Vulture
House, saw this man coming down the road, his
face uplifted, his hands crossed before him.
Glynn stopped preaching, and covered his head
like one afraid to look at the sun, and when
Karise passed the Fort gate he retired to his room
hastily.. His sais found him kneeling on the
floor, his head uncovered.
“Next day the people came in thousands to
see Karise go past the Vulture House, and at
the moment when Glynn was saying, ‘Christ be
with ye,’ the shining robe of Karise appeared com-
ing from the Fort gate, and, seeing him, Glynn
covered his face and concealed himself indoors.
“ The natives wondered at this, and some said
that Karise had cast a jadoo over Glynn sahib.
Glynn was a short-necked man, and the blood was
in his head at every heart-leap.
“ That night a mist gathered over the stars, and
the cattle in the fields scented the rains. There
was no light in the Vulture House. People said
that Glynn, having no wife or child to comfort
him, drank of forbidden wine. All about his
house was still: one heard a far-off cry, which
passed to the jungle slowly, and a potter’s child
said ‘What is that?’ The mother answered,
‘’Tis but a goat’; but the father knew it for the
cry of a wolf running from the scent of a tiger.
“This Karise was no mystery to me, sahib.
There are many such men m this land of religion;
men who watch you unseen to discover your
weakness, and who, for years, are content to pry
and ferret until the moment arrives when they
can rob you. Serene men are they, babbling new
creeds each year, but merciless at heart as the
Indian crow.
“Fora time nothing happened to Glynn, but
one night his sais saw Karise entfer the Vulture
House, and in a little while beheld Glynn kneel-
ing at the feet of this Afghan Jew.
•‘ It was next day that Karise came with a bul-
lock-cart, and into it piled many things belonging
to the mission-house —chinaware, linen, wine and
food, and even the books which Glynn possessed.
Every day he came to strip the Residency of
its choice furniture, while Glynn stood by, en-
couraging his servants to pile more goods into
Karise’s cart. And on the last day Glynn handed
to him his watch, his ring, and his beautiful
English clothes.
“The natives standing by said ‘This is jadoo.’
A Kashi man with the brow of a bull cried ‘ This
is sorcery ! Give not so much, oh sahib Glynn.’
Karise may have been to them a holy man, but
even a bairagi should leave to a man his bed and
his pots. And Karise, with the gentle face, went
towards Delhi with his last load, leaving Glynn to
the empty Residency.
“In the days that followed, when the rains
tore the- earth like a rake until dead men and
cattle rolled together down the Jumna, Glynn sat
sullenly on his verandah, awaiting the return of
Karise, but Karise came not.
“As men study law, Karise had studied the
Bible ; he drank in word by word the teachings of
your Christman, the rest he copied from English
pictures—the attitudes, gestures so kindly, loving
and pitiful, and moving as he did in the desert
places where the lonely missioner was ripe for
illusions, his success was phenomenal. He stripped,
robbed, and lied like a horse-dealer. But his
punishment, sahib, his punishment . , .
“Glynn sickened of jungle fever, and there
came an English doctor who sent him to an
asylum in the Hills. There is a drop of mad
blood in all men, and Glynn’s drop had grown
large in the Vulture House where the mugger’s
snout and the pariah moved across the shifting
sands of Jumna—such sights are not good for a
lonely sahib.
“Longafter the rains we heard that Karise the
Afghan had been arrested in Oude and sent to
Erison. A native lawyer pointed out that he was a
ypnotist.who played upon the feelings of the
lonely Christian sahibs in the villages of Central
India. It was proved that he took from them
their goods and money in the name of his I ather;
the goods he sold afterwards to the dealers in the
bazaars. So .. . the prison gates closed upon
him and he was not heard of for years.
“When Glynn came from the asylum he was
sent to a mission-station in the Punjab where, the
Grand Trunk Road curls like a brown sleeve into
the Himalayas. His bungalow was overrun by
lizard and squirrel; fat spiders watched him from
their looms between the dusty rafters. Sometimes
when the village was asleep a tiny ape would
peep in and chatter to him in the dawn, only to
vanish when he moved a finger or broke the
silence with his voice. .
“One, two years he passed in this Jehaitnum,
preaching his creed to the wily Punjabi farmer, the
workers in the pits and the carriers of salt until his
hair grew white, his clothes filthy. A native may
be without caste, a woman go naked, but there is no
shame in Hind like the poverty of a white sahib.
If a sahib does a wrong thing in Darjeeling you
will hear of it an hour later in Madras, and the
news goes like a forked tongue throughout the
Ah lj P eo P le seemed to have forgotten him
and he had sunk so low that a pariah might have
ea *fn from his plate undisturbed.
.. , e would sit half naked in the dark bungalow
listening to the sounds that slide up and down the
Himalayan valleys, the bark of the wolf, the howl
ot the jackal, until he in turn began to answer with
yelps and cries. Then the hillmen said, ‘Listen
i. r 6 .Preacher who has gone musth.’
, Ihe Pahareen woman was handing him a
bowl of rice, sahib, and as she knelt she brushed
in Jr * rom ace an d hands. A potter in
the held was singing at his wheel; far below in
the ghat came the song of the salt carriers as they
trooped across plank and bridge to the Govern-
ment trucks at the siding.
A tall man came down the hillside, his face
bent so that the light should not reveal his line-
aments. Now, an Afghan may hide himself in
the clothes of an Arab trader, or wear the high-
caste mark of a priest of Brahma, but a blue
turban, a few color stains, could not hide the
features of Karise of the Delhi Road.
. dlhe Pahareen woman with the rice-bowl
raised her eyes and said : ‘ Here comes a man
from the Pass, my lord.’
Glynn, eating from the bowl, looked up, and
the woman saw his neck bend like a tiger measur-
ing his kill. Now, Glynn had grown heavy, and
moved, like a sloth, but he stood up, his teeth
bared in his red beard. ‘ Come near, Karise !’ he
cried. ‘Ho ! my dear friend, Karise—come
nearer! ’
“ Karise, the gentle-faced, halted and shook like
a sick man. . He recognised Glynn with his bull
neck and shining, idiot eyes, and his hands fell
before him like a thief, for the thought of his
prison leg-irons was still upon him. ‘ Come
nearer, Karise,’ whispered Glynn, stooping for-
ward, ‘Come nearer till I kiss thee.’
“Karise looked back in despair and saw the
Himalayas rising like elephant shadows behind ;
no retreat but by the road that leads through the
Passes. He stood still as one who hears the
murderous slide of the avalanche.
“ Glynn moved towards him, soft as a deer, his
Dack humped, his fist clinched, and, coming eye to
eye with Karise, he kissed him on the cheek.
“The Pahareen woman, looking up, saw a
thick blood stain where Glynn’s lips had kissed.
“ Karise drew up his robe and covered his cheek,
put Glynn, with maniac strength, carried him
into the dark bungalow.
“The Pahareen woman seized the rice and
munched it in the terrible silence.
**• . .
“Karim Bakch, the potter, left his wheel to
isten at the bungalow door; he heard a sound of
hammering within, as though Glynn were tearing
planks from the floor. At midnight Ram Fez,
the water-carrier, passing to the valley with his
gourds, heard a cry in the bungalow'. He waited
long, but there were no other sounds.
“ At dawn, the potter, crossing from his hut to
the wheel, saw drops of blood leading from the
bungalow to the crest of the hill. Calling to his
brother Mahmud, they followed the blood-drops
into the hills.
“There was deep sorrow under the pines, sahib,
and coming towards them was a herdsman, who
had seen Glynn, an hour before dawn, whip in
hand, driving Karise, the Afghan, towards the pine-
covered spur. ‘Karise was carrying part of a
hurdle on his shoulder,’ quoth the herdsman, ‘ and
when he slipped in the ascent, Glynn laughed and
smote with his lash.’
“The herdsman passed towards the valley, his
flock bleating from ledge to ledge while he sang
to Bhumia, god of the Passes. And the potters
listened to his song of the morning star, his chant
of the wolf, for, being a herdsman, he sang only
of the things he knew—the slayers of his flock and
the white stars that were to him the half-closed
shutters of day.
“ The two potters knew little of the hills and
the silence of dead worlds reigns in our Himalayan
valleys. High above them a scared eagle flew out
against the rising sun.
“ ‘ Wah Allah ! Something has disturbed the
bird,’ quoth Harim, blinking at the sky. The
shadow of the eagle twisted like a torn robe across
the snow, and in the dark of the pines the two
potters came upon an upright cross facing the
east. As they crept nearer they saw the figure of
Karise the Afghan nailed upon it. His torn robe
hung about his Joins, and the shadow of a rock lay
upon his face.
“Fastened to the head of the cross was a towel,
and on it was traced in blood— ‘ This is Karise,
the Impersonator.’
“ The two potters told me the story afterwards,
sahib. They did not touch the body of Karise with
their hands, for the crying of the eagle had made
them afraid.”
N.S.W.
ALBERT DORRINGTON.
The Bush-Almighty and the
Soup.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I suppose I felt unusually superior. I know, as I
gazed at the long row of stiffened brownish
serviettes, a feeling of intense revulsion came over
me,. I wanted to un-fan those serviettes, to sweep
the vulgar cruets and stained eatiery off the long
table. The paper centre with the muslin cover !
—Ugh !it was all so hideous. And, by-and-by,
the men would troop in, vulgar and brown,
too. I asked myself, with an ill-used con-
sciousness, why I was there. I told myself I
was above this work. I was educated, intelli-
gent, refined ; and then I looked at my hands and
laughed. I was palpably meant to be a servant-
girl. Besides, I limped ; and appearances don’t
count for nothing in Australia. Somehow my
tastes didn’t match my hands.
The men gurgled their soup with a long
“ galloping ” swill ; their knives went into their
mouths, and they talked with two legitimate
mouthsfull. I waited patiently, smilingly, because
my mouth was large enough to express a smile and
contempt together.
“ Aff yer please, a bit more puddin
The “bit more” is supplied ungrudgingly;
pudding is plentiful to-day.
The door opens and our Bush Almighty comes—
two smooth-faced, well-dressed “commercials.” I
brighten. The chances of intelligent conversa-
tion are few. Still, “business first.”
“Soup?” I say. (I owe my inability to say
“sir” to a Scotch father.)
“ Er—yes; and, er—raise the blinds slightly.”
Only an ordinary request addressed to an
ordinary-looking girl—but instantly I hate him.
If you want to know why, be a bush pub. servant
and hear a commercial say “Er ” —also see him.
“Two soups,” I say to the cook. She is young,
cranky, and vile-tongued; and I notice the
accumulation of dirt, soot, grease and soap upon
her hands. She dips the soup with a cup. It
falls to the bottom, and the cook says “ Blast it!”
as she dips her hand to the bottom. I notice with
interest how this cleans her hand, and I smile at
the dirty surface on the soup. But she gives it a
twirl, and it mixes well.
The Bush Almighty drinks greedily, and orders
cabbage, potatoes and beef. That all gets dished
with the same hands, and the cabbage is hot, and
the cook says “ Dam yer ! ” Then she sucks her
fingers before dipping in again.
I stand expectant before my lords.
“ What’s the damage ? ”
ti I wonder if ray humility is visible as I say
“ Two shillings.” I tender the sixpence change
out of the half-crown. But the soul of the shorter
one is mighty—“ You keep that for yourself.”
Oh ! the desire to hit him with it —to tell him I
was better, better, heaps better than he. 1
wanted to scream it at him.
Then the Australian of me came on top, and I
laughed as they looked back. They looked so
well-fed and “full,” and I was thinking of the
soup.
N.S.W.
BARBARA SUTHERLAND.
Yic. Government has at length begun to
sewer some of the Melbourne public buildings. A
start has been made at the Training College, Carl-
ton. Though all houseowners throughout the
city and a majority of the suburbs were, two or
three years ago, compelled to sewer their premises,
not a State school in the metropolitan area is thus
far independent of the noisome nocturnal-cart
service.


A COMMON ERROR.
It’s a common error to plaster the hack, to rub with liniment the rheumatic
joints. And then to wonder why relief does not come.
The aching hack, the rheumatic joints, come from sick kidneys.
Plasters and liniments WON’T cure sick kidneys.
You’ve got to reach the kidneys from the inside. You’ve got to make them well.
Well, kidneys keep the blood rich and pure. Leave no excuse for backache and
rheumatic pains.
Doan’s Backache Kidsoy Fills
make well kidneys. Cure every ill of the Kidneys and Bladder.
Believe the aching hack and cure it.
They strengthen the kidneys and help them to perform that most important of
all functions—the filtering of the blood.
Loan’s Backache Kidney Pills cure dangerous urinary disorders.
Not a symptom in the Kidney calendar they do not reach, down to the borderland
of Diabetes, Dropsy and Bright’s disease.
They are endorsed by Sydney people. Your own friends and neighbors have used
them, and testify to their merits. You couldn’t have more positive proof than
this Sydney proof.
FROM LEICHHARDT.
Mrs. W. Grow, 31 John-street, Leichhardt, this
city, says : —“ For a number qf years my husband
has been bad with the kidneys. He had been
trying many remedies to get relief, but the only
remedy that succeeded in this way was Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills. For two years previous
to using these pills he did little or no work. He
is a wood-turner, and this labour is very severe
upon him. The first dose of Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills did him so much good that he said
he could have started work next day. Ido not
suppose that any medicine could absolutely cure
him, but Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills relieve
him at all times. When the cold weather comes
on he gets the pains back, and then a dose or two
of these pills send them all away again. They act
splendidly upon him, and enable him to do his
work. My son-in-law had pains in the back
brought on by fever, and the pills cured him.
Some of the neighbours I know swear by Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills. I might state that it is
over twelve months ago when my husband first
took the pills.”
FROM ULTIMO.
Mrs. Kate Helraka, 27 Ada-street, Ultimo,
states : “ About 173 years ago I contracted a cold,
which flew to the small of my back, and seemed to
affect my kidneys. In fact, my back was real
lame, and when cold weather set in the pain used
to be dreadful. When I worked the sewing
machine my back ached very much, and I would
have to give it over in a little time. Having a
large family to sew for made it hard for me. I
heard about Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills and
obtained a supply, and when I started using them
obtained almost immediate relief. I am pleased
to recommend these pills to kidney sufferers.”
The above statement was made some time ago.
Mrs. Helmka again states :—“ Although it is a
year ago since I recommended Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills, I still have the good opinion I had
of this medicine. It is splendid for weak backs
and disordered kidneys. I’ve had no return of
my ailment. I’ve recommended these pills to
numbers, and shall be always pleased to do so.”
FROM ERSKiRiE STREET.
Mrs. Hartley, Erskine Street, City, says :
—“For the past four years I have always kept
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills by me. I don’t
use this medicine much, just a dose or two occa-
sionally, and I find that they keep me in first-rate
health. I have given you a statement of the way
in which these pills cured me. I first used them
for pains in the small of my back. When I used
them I was very bad with those pains. They
always did trouble me, as I sit a good deal at my
work, but just then I was in such terrible pain
with my back that I was forced to do something
for it, so I got a supply of Doan’s Pills. They
cured me, and, as 1 have already said, I keep
them by me ever since. Knowing how wonder-
fully Doan’s Pills act in such cases, I am pleased
to speak these few words in their favor.”
Get what you ask for. Get DOAN’S. Don't accept something “just as good.” All Chemists sell DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, and will
give you what you call for. Some may endeavour to substitute an article they make more profit on. Insist on getting the genuine, and save money and misery.
Price, 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes 15s. 3d.), or will be posted on receipt of price by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney. J
BE SURE YOU GET DOANS.
The Song of the Golden Cow.
Lately, in Maoriland House of Reps., John Hutcheson
desired to know if the Govt, would take steps to protect
the children of Taranaki dairying district from the rapa-
city and callousness of their parents. Hundreds of
children in that wet, bush-clad, mud-cursed district, who
should be fast asleep in their beds, are roused out at 3
and 4 a.m. to milk cows, and thereby save their stingy
parents the cost of hired labor. The practice, Hutcheson
said, was resulting in stunted intellects and dwarfed
bodies, and its abolition was necessary for the good of
the community.— News item.
“Alone” sends to The Bulletin a “Song of
the Golden Cow ” :
They left God for a golden calf
In stupid days of old.
'—That old Jew bloomer makes us laugh ;
The calf took all their gold.—
We’ve made a god that pays us well
For sacrifices, now ;
O see her lovely udders swell !
Our golden god, the Cow !
Where’er fat grass grows green and lush,
There raise we up her thrones
On which to lay the sacrifice
Of children’s blood and bones ;
No storm can ever rage so fierce,
No cow-yard filth so deep,
But our shrill cries ere dawn shall pierce
And hunt them from their sleep.
We drive to church to deftly drop
Our threepence in the plate.
“ Not learn the Word ! ” We dare not stop :
The milkin’ might be late !
When we’re not by our watch to keep
Our victims doze and nod :
Their brains may wilt for want of sleep—
We’ll see they serve the god !
We feed and house in hovels vile
Her helot men and maids ;
The wages screw we screw the while —
They have no Union aids.
Leave us this freedom that we like :
We’ll breed you labor then
Too meek and mean to dream of strike,
Too brutalised for Men.
Die Intellect! Live Avarice !
Humanity be dumb!
From greed and ignorance and vice
Best sacrifices come !
Screw down the screw with deadly grip,
Dam back the Social Flood,
The while our separators drip
The sweated children’s blood !
• ••••*
Grind ! grind ! ye separator slaves,
Churn ! churn ! ye churners lean ;
0 heavy-eyed ten-shilling slaves,
Too weary to be clean !
Dog-mangy meanness is our plan,
So grind in humbleness,
Or else we’ll get another man
For one-an’-tuppence less !
With a Surveying Party.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Back to the main surveying camp after a month s
hard toil in the unknown country. Long, weary-
ing walks day after day, saturated to the hips in
the mornings with the dew-wet heath, the dwarf
mallee and the wait-a-wliile ; back to flying camp
at sunset, with empty water-bags and limekiln
mouths. An hour later, stomachs heavy-laden
with hashed “bully” and canned fruit (survey
parties fare well in the commissarwt), pipes aglow
and tongues wagging—what better is there to
offer in life ?
Astir with the blood-red sun glowing through
heavy banks of dark clouds. The horses are given
the dregs of the tank (their first drink, bar a bowl
of soapsuds, the last two days), and down with the
tent as the billy boils. The boss mounts the only
hack and starts for the main camp, some 40 odd
miles by way of surveyed lines, though many
miles nearer as the crow flies.
Sanderson (the assistant) resolved to cut across
country and roach the main camp same day.
“Better let me go with you in case anything
goes wrong with your works,” remarked young
Ross, the chainman.
“All right, come along ; but we’ll get nothing to
drink unless these clouds mean rain.”
Sanderson had been laid-up six weeks before
with a three-days’ lung-hemorrhage, and had
wondered at his immunity from further trouble
during the last month’s exhausting work. He
had never yet caved-in at a pinch.
Sanderson slung the compass-straps over his
shoulders, took his bearings from the plan and the
boundary line, and, with his companion, made for
a clump of mallee in the S.W.
The clouds banked-up rapidly, and m balf-an-
hour the travellers were crouching under a rapidly-
improvised shelter. But the rain kept steadily in-
creasing, so they pushed on. Gradually the sun
became obscured, and their direction more diffi-
cult to maintain, for the country had changed to
low, jumbly undulations, covered with dense
mallee, wiry bushes, and the everlasting spinifex.
Every few minutes Sanderson uncovered the com-
pass, and, as often as not, they found themselves
some degrees off the right direction. Ross swore
the instrument had gone wrong. The rain was
pelting down heavily by now, and the soaked
men, clothed only in shirts and trousers, were
beginning to feel the cold.
At 12 o’clock Sanderson had reckoned to strike
a pinery, where the party had worked months
before, but midday had long since passed when,
suddenly, they were into the burnt country.
Great, bare, white sandy hummocks loomed up to
the south and west. They had never seen this
desolate region before.
“ My God ! we’re bushed; we’re out for the
night! ” said Ross.
“ Don’t be such a d- squeaker ! ” growled
the other man, shivering. “We’re about five
miles out of our right direction, through my mis-
taking the angle on the boundary line by 25°.
Now we’ll travel due west, and should strike our
own country in an hour or two.” And to the west
they turned with the wind and rain in their
faces. Sanderson’s weak spot found him out
sorely as he puffed and struggled up the steep
sand drifts. How his thin legs chafed with the
wet and stiffened moleskins.
The pinery at last —a mile or two further on,
and the track to the main camp another eight to
the south ; or, for choice, a two mile trudge to the
north, where the team would camp for the night
at an old well amongst some pines.
Sanderson felt for his watch, but his hands and
arms (long since dead) refused to work. It was a
toss-up—camp or well, and they turned to the
northward, only to find they were too soon at the
well. Ross blasphemed, while Sanderson tried to
break off dry pine twigs; but it was no use, the
brittle wood seemed to cut his fingers like sharp
“ We can’t wait here in this condition without
a fire ; can you walk to camp, and we’ll make the
pace a cracker to bring a little circulation into the
blood.” _ ,
“ I can do it all right,’ replied Ross, who was
loth to confess himself beaten by the physically
weaker man. „ , ~ ,
Back over the same old sandhills, and suddenly
full tilt against a bare limestone hill, and a gale of
wind and sleet. And now came a bitter struggle,
it seemed ages to Sanderson, fighting that stony
ridge, as he gasped and staggered ; would he ever
reach the top? Never, he thought in his own
mind. His legs were losing all feeling, like his
dead arms. This experience was bound to finish
him, even should he reach camp after all.
A panting sigh of relief; and now another
seven miles of stony tableland, with an old
man ” fire at the end.
Two more miles and a dead stop i m para-
lysed in the legs, and done,” said Ross.
“Don’t be a fool: if you stop for a couple of
minutes the reaction’ll finish you.”
A half-minute of frantic pleading, and “Well,
I must have a drink ! ” As Sanderson dragged
at his arm, down he went with his chattering
teeth to the flooded limestone track.,
“Go on yourself ; I can’t get up.”
But he had to; and Sanderson pulled him
onward, babbling hvsterically, and cursing his
Maker ; while the pitiless sleet whipped their
faces.
Darkness slowly closed them in, and Sanderson
(with limbs and body up to the middle dead to
feeling), guided only by‘the glimmer of water in
the track, felt that his last minutes were at hand,
but he kept sayiug to himself, “ Another hundred
yards before we cave-in.”
Ross, when unhanded momentarily, reeled away
muttering incoherently, “Lost, my God !—-Lost ;
and lie tries to bluff me we’re on the track ! ”
They went slap into the old brush fence. Ho,w
well Sanderson knew the broken gate they’d
driven through scores of times ?
Ross suddenly burst into bitter sobbing. “ Been
naving me all the time ; I knew we were bushed.
Go on to hell by yourself—l don’t move another
step ! ”
But Sanderson was too near the goal for further
argument or cajolings. Ross, raving and cursing,
struggled despairingly, but Sanderson had become
strong with a sudden strength, and dragged him
outward. Off the track again, and down together
in deep pools where stone had been excavated for
the sheep yards.
A glimmering light—“ Are we bushed now,
lad ? Pull yourself together for the last hundred
yards.”
“Boss said you wasn’t coinin’till to-morrow,”
growled the cook.
“Put that billy on, and grill some chops in
double quick time, you old fool; can’t you see
these men are dead beat ? ” It was the boss.
Ross fell down on the floor, and while the chief
attended to him, Sanderson had just enough
strength to remove his slopping clothes and rub
new life into his chafed and deadened limbs.
A change of clothes, then the chops. A short
recital of their twelve hours, 35 miles walking in
two inches of driving rain, without a bite, a smoke
or stoppage, and then to bed. , , .
“ To-morrow. ” Sanderson muttered—and slept.
He waited patiently through the following day for
the attack of lung-bleeding ; but that s years ago
now, and he still waits. , . ...
Ross, sad to say, went to the dogs shortly after.
He was always fond of gnawing the bone.
S.A.
LOUNG-UN.
British war-office, tired of trouble about
army beer, has decided on a State brewery ; and
a State grocery department to deal with army
supplies is also mooted.
Acquittal in America of Roland B.
Molineaux, on a charge of poisoning, is an illustra-
tion of the reluctance of a civilised country to
convict a man of murder on circumstantial evi-
dence. Facts in the Molineaux case :
Boland B. Molineaux and Henry O. Barnett, fellow-
members of a club, were rivals for the hand, of Blanche
Cheeseborough, who had had a “ career before, of
which both men had knowledge, as also had Cornish,
the physical instructor at the club. Molineaux married
Miss Cheeseborough on Nov. 10, ’9B. Barnett received
by post a sample box of headache-powders , he
swallowed one and died ; the powders contained cyanide
of mercury ; there was no charge made against anyone in
connection with his death. Meanwhile Cornish and
Molineaux had a desperate quarrel. Xmas, 1898, Cornish
received as a present a bottle of bromo-seltzer ; he
brought it home, took some himself, and gave some to
his aunt, Mrs. Adams. He was taken ill, but recovered ;
Mrs. Adams died. The bromo seltzer contained cyanide
of mercury. After police investigation, Molineaux (who
was employed in a drug factory) was arrested. Chief
evidence against him at his trial was that in May, 1898, a
Cincinnati firm of druggists had received an application
signed “H. C. Barnett,” for a sample medicine, and in
December, 1898, another signed “ H. Cornish ” ; that the
handwriting was (apparently) the same in each case as
that on the fatal package addressed to Cornish, and a
handwriting expert claimed that that handwriting was
Molineaux’s (strictly speaking, this was not “ evidence,”
merely opinion). Molineaux was twice charged and the
cases dismissed on legal technicalities. In Nov. ’99, he
was tried a third time and found guilty. In Nov., 1902,
an appeal established his innocence, and he is now free.
But what chance would Molineaux have had before
an Australian hanging judge with against him
such a great mass of circumstantial evidence ! He
would have been sent to the gallows in short
order. Yet circumstantial evidence, if it is
capable of another interpretation, should never
find a man guilty, and under no circumstances
should it hang a man. But the chief moral of the
Molineaux case as it affects Australia, is that no
capital sentence is morally wortli a rap unless it will
stand the test of long consideration. It is safe to
say that not one in 15 of all the vast array of
criminals and lunatics who have been hanged in
this country would have been executed had the
public had time to take a good long, steady view
of their cases in cold blood. Mrs. Sangal
provides the latest proof of this. She was saved
from the gallows only by the fact that her child-
bearing made a wait for a month or two impera-
tive ; in that time it was found that in the light
of medical science to have hanged her would have
been plain murder. When you are tempted to
hang anyone, go slow. The other plan, our present
plan, only means in effect Lynch-law.


Reduced to a Shadow
Could Hardly Walk, Doctors Said Slow Recovery, Disappointed
Doctors and Myself by Getting Well Quickly.
a
® w
Mr. Wm. B. Mackie, of Dunedin, New
Zealand, sends us his photograph and
“Not long ago I was run over by a
wagon and severely injured. For weeks
I was confined to my bed. I was reduced
to a mere shadow, so weak I could hardly
walk. The doctors told me it would be a
long time before I could regain my health.
I felt I could not wait, so procured a
bottle of Ayer's Sarsaparilla. You can-
not imagine how quickly my health and
strength began to return. The first day
I felt an improvement. In a week I had
a better appetite, and was much stronger.
And only a few bottles wrought a most
marvelous change in me. I like your
medicine especially because it seems to
give just the aid nature sometimes
needs.”
“The World’s Createst Family Medicine.”
If you have been sick and are not recovering rapidly, just try a bottle of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. It is the strongest tonic you can buy, and it aids nature
wonderfully. The better way is to take the Sarsaparilla before you get really
ill. Take it when you first begin to feel poorly. It will cure you quickly
then and save you much suffering and large expense. Yet even when you are
sick, you cannot find a better medicine.
There are many so-called Sarsaparillas. Be sure you get Ayer’s, the oldest,
strongest, and best Sarsaparilla. Don’t experiment with imitations.
AYER’S i arsaparilla
Gives Strength to the Weak, Courage to the Depressed
Aysr's Pills cure constipation, biliousness, sick-headache, coated tongue.
Prepared by DE. J. C. AYEH Sc CO., Ziowell, Hass., U. S. A.
Zhe jYost Refreshing 2>rink in jfiusiralia.
“Montserrat’
Liroe-Frait Jaice
ai>s Cordials . . .
(TRADB HARK)
The LANCET says:—»• We
counsel the public to drink
Lime-Fruit Juice whenever and
wherever they list- it is a far
more wholesome drink than
any form of Alcohol.”
“ Montserrat” Lime-Fruit Juice, either with water or aerated water, is a
delightful thirst quencher.
Sole Consignees—evans, lescher & webb, London.
EVANS, SONS & Co., LIVERPOOL.
Agents:—Elliott Bros., Ltd., J. Connell & Co., Sydney; D. Cohen & Co., Newcastle.
SORE
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORB AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYELASHES'
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL BYE TROUBLES
NEVER FAILS
Ask youp Chemist fop the Little Book:
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES
CURED
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK
CLOTH, 300 PAGES.
BY SIXTY BULLETIN WRITERS. PRICE, 4s. 6d.; POSTAGE 6d.
Sole Distributing Agents—
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
IRISH MOSS
__ -The besf remedy -
DR— influenza,
COUGHS,
Ask for Banning ton's
and seetkatyou get it.
COLDS, _
BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA.
I
ome jeople on Joiroj
To bed jtill 3tick to tt\e
old filmed nijhk&p
m
♦ ~
4:
pur
TLU \
%Aist so!
t
thefj prefer wjhf-capj*
of a liquid nature.—
eft what?
r
adoubtedl/ when you j
_ have MM of sorfj \
leliaj lt\e besti\isl\tcapi3
0)1 »»■
ROBERTS’ HOTEL, you enjoy your lunch
George and Market Sts.,
SYDNEY.
APARTMENTS:
BEDROOM (single), 3s. per DAY.
BEDROOM (double), 6s. per DAY.
Single Room, with Full Board, 8s per
day, or JE2 2s. per week.
TERMS. The convenient
system of paying for the
room on arrival and
meals as they are had.
When you come to Roberts’ Hotel
Dining Rooms ; and you not only
enjoy it, but it does you good as
well. There is always a large and
tempting variety of excellent food on
our menu, and on Fridays there is a
special fish luncheon for those who
want it in addition to the ordinary.
Tlie luncheon is ready at twelve
o’clock sharp—from Is.—and there
is first-class attendance. Dinner and
tea from 5.30 to 7.3 o—from Is.
upwards. Silver grill at work.
Smith
u
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the East
THE BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
M.D., C.M., L.R.C.P.E., L.R.C.S.E
L.F.P.S L.M., etc.,
Registered by the Medical Boards of Grea
Britain, Victoria, New South Wales,
etc.,
May be CONSULTED DAILY
. . AT . .
ELMLEY HOUSE,
151 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Dr. MARTIN, during his recent European Tour, visited the Leading Hospitals of GREAT BRITAIN
and EUROPE, and has now at his CONSULTING ROOMS all the latest improvements in ELECTRIC
APPLIANCES, BATHS, etc., and all the most recent scientific methods of treatment for all NERVOUS,
LUNG, HEART, SKIN, and all CHRONIC DISEASES of Men and Women, including the BROWN-
SEQUARD, KRAFTT-EBING, and KNOX-MERCER TREATHENT for all ACUTE INFLAMMA-
TORY and CHRONIC COfIPLAINTS, in the treatment of which he has been so successful during his
14 years’ Australian practice, thus ensuring all Patients entrusting themselves to his care an accurate
diagnosis, together with prompt and effectual treatment.
COUNTRY PATIENTS treated by Correspondence (Fee, by letter, £1). Medicines forwarded to all
parts of Australasia. All communications confidential. Dr. MARTIN has treated over 20,000 cases during
the last 15 years—a success unequalled by any other Specialist in Australia.
Moderate Charges* Effectual Treatment. Absolute and Rapid Cures.
CONSULTATION HOURS—IO to 2 and 7to 9 Daily.


CELLULOID
COLLAR—
GOODNESS
We sell the good kind of Celluloid
Collars. Our Celluloid Collars
have a nice, white, clean appear-
ance. and stay white. They clean
well, and last longer than other
kinds. They save lots of money, be-
cause you can wash them yourself.
In all the latest styles and
shapes, at Lowest Prices
for Highest Qualities.
PERDRIAU & CO.
Rubber Merchants,
270 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
';r;£m
*8
i/t
sit omr urn HrrsiußHu
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles. Fully warranted.
Latest
Models
£2. 10t0£5.5.0
Dunlop Tyres, Steel or Wood Rims,
Free wheels, Mtid Guards and Brakes.
CARRIAGE PAID
To any Port in Australasia.
TYRES, ACCESSORIES,
Sporting Goods and Sewing
Machines Half Usual Prices.
Write for Catalogue and Special Offer
Using =Jd. Stamp. Address Dept 3460
Mead Cycle Co.
c 3.°'
60
TEARS DTEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W_ C. ZEIjIDIR-lIDGKE] & co.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
Conntry Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
SIMPSON
(Sole Australasian Representatives)
WORTH INGTO
TRADE MARK.
32 & 34 Clarence Street,
m
For all Services kept in Stock.
Bencl fox* Catalogue.
BENNIE, TEARE & CO., Representatives.
A
<4
&
stocks at Sydney, Melbourne, Perth, Coolgardie.
GREGORY & CO.,
e, for Sale and to arrive
74 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE: 345 Bourke St.
Dll uiiir MACHINERY of every description, Woodworking Machinery, English and American Engines, Boilers,
PUMPING MACHINERY steam Traps , Laurtdry Machinery, Painters* and Bakers'
Machinery, Engineers’ Machine Tools, Shafting, Plummer Blocks, Pulleys, Hangers, Couplings, Collars,
Lubricating Oil.
PARKE & LACY COMPANY LIMITED
Consulting Engineers on all matters relating to mining, hydraulic, and general engineering
nronositions. Manufacturers and importers of mining machinery, and steam engines and boilers
of all kinds. Mines furnished with complete plants—Milling, Concentrating, Cyamdmg,
Chlorinating, &e. Pumping outfits designed and supplied with all plans necessary for erection,
capacity guaranteed. All classes of pumps kept in stock and ready for immediate delivery ;
together with boilers, pipes, and other items of equipment. Correspondence invited from
pastoralists and others requiring plant for irrigating purposes. Brickworks designed and b-ick-
making machinery of the most modern and approved pattern supplied to order. Quotations
given for complete installation of any kind of plant whatsoever. Iron and woodworking tools
and all kinds of engineers’ fittings and supplies kept in stock. Agents for Ingersoll rock drills
and air compressors, Knowles pumps, Gates rockbreakers, etc., etc., etc.
A-DDFIBSSEiS :
60 Clarence St.,
Sydney
533 Collins St,
Melbourne
21 & 23 Fremont St,
San Francisco
£
m
r.
a
n
m
Deafness or Hei.- poises
desiring a complete and permanent cur®
should write to The L. R. VERNON CO.
CO HUNTER ST., SYDNEY, for pam-
phlet desc ibing an entirely new self-
applied method which we will send post
free on mentioning this paper.
NERVOUSNESS.
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
co- -ed a SIMPLE MEANS of SELF
Cur.E, will forward the same, free of
charge, to anyone interested.
Address: A. MINER. G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
II
AMERICAN
“HANN”
HAMMOCKS
Acme of Comfort.
Instant!',' copvertible tram Sitting to Reclining Position.
Holds its full width at all times. Has adjustable arms
and padded hfad-rest. A Swinging Arm-Chair, conform-
ing to the hodv, and rests one all over. Made of Fancy
Striped Ruck.' strong enough fof heavy people. Size,
7ft. x Slin. The “ Hann ” Hammock packs small enough
to lie sent by parcels post; we,- therefore, pay carriage to
any State in the Commonwealth and New Zealand.
PRICE—No. 1 (without fringe) .. .. ... 17/6
No. 40 (with handsome fringe) .. .. 21/-
No. 50 (with valance and fringe ... „ 25/-
Orders should be addressed—
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY,
229=231 Collins=St., Helbourne.
limit*:
The Universal Remedy for Aciditv of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
an d the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
The ‘Rapljn’ Hand Ice Machine
Ice* produced by simply turning handle. A decanter
of water made ice cold in 3 minutes. No risk, no trouble.
Invaluable in the country, where ice cannot be bought.
The ‘Abbott’ Filter
n mu mi mi .
Stops all disease germs. Makes the foulest water pure
and wholesome. Easily cleaned. Erom 22s 6d.
Full Particulars on application to
N. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd.,
Sole Agents . 71 Clarence Street, Sydney.
CURIOUS
BOOKS
ETC.
The Largest Catalogue of
ENGLISH and
FRENCH BOOKS,
with all novelties, 18.
Apply—
-116 Box Paris.
Trewhella Bros.
PATENT
LOG AND STUMP JACKS.
r .
-
If you have Stumps, Roots, Stones, or Logs to clear, or
Threshers or Machinery to move, try these Jacks. They
are: used by thousands throughout Australasia, and the
sales are rapidly increasing, which proves their value.
You can obtain them from the ironmonger with whom
you deal, or I will supply you direct.
The Melbourne and Sydney Prices are—
Lift, Tons Price
Double Purchase Jack 4 65-
»> » » ®75 -
Single „ „ 2i 40 -
With AUTOMATIC LOWERING CEAR, 5/- extra.
Full Information and Trade Discounts from
W. TREWHELLA, Trentham, Victoria,
os H. HINDS, 17 Loftus St., Sydney.
