

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
IRROY’S CHAMPAGNE
The Bulletin
VoL 24.—N0. 1226. ]
[Thursday, August 13, 1903
Registered at the Genera! Post Offioe, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
R. G. WATKINS &Z CO.,
107 Kent Street, S yaiiey,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining H»equisitea
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
McLAREN’S Compound
Traction Steam Engine
sd
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
WONDERFUL VALUE—A packet of Seven different
articles, comprising Yankee Rubber Baby, can be carried
in vest pocket and blown out to life size (causes roars of
laughter), Book of Conjuring'Tricks (containing over 100
Coin and Card Tricks), the Wizard Fish (gives the defini-
tion of your character —very superior for parlor enter-
tainments), the Vest Pocket Tubular Microscope (very
useful for examining small objects), the Cinematograph
(or book of moving pictures), the great Yankee Bicycle
Puzzle (very ingenious), and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Disappearing Coin Trick (instruc-
tions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australia (Free) on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
XNEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
710 George-st., Sydney.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° 85 m street, SYDNEY.
M 0 Agents for d. & H. MCLAREN, Leeds, England, Makers of Bteam Ploughing Taokle, Traction Engines for Haulage, General and Bpoolal Work.
We Stock and have to arrive McLaren’s Compound Traction Engines; RUSTON’B Portable Horizontal and Vertical Steam Engines;
BROABBENT’S Hydro Extractors; KIRCHHER’S Baw Mill and Wood-Working Machinery.
COMPOUND TRACTION STEAM ENGINES.
“HERVEY’S RACKAROCK”
17 Years’ Unbroken Record as a Standard Australian Explosive. Cor. CLARENCE & KING STS., SYDNEY
THORNE’S
Estbd. 1881. WHISKY.
3ECOBA.RT
urn
adley’s Orient ptel
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St, Sydney
faf/hTJtsa
0 y -
Writes Dr* Andrew Wilson, F.R.C.S.Eauthor of “Health Notes,” London.
SUCH IS LIFE I
SUCH IS LIFE!
SUCH IS LIFE I
Now Ready.
A new book in The
Bulletin Library.
A story of Riverina’s
early days.
In handsome cloth,
decorated: price,
4s. 6d.
Send postal note or
stamps to
The Bulletin office,
and the book will be
posted to any address
immediately on pub-
lication.
TOM COLLINS
TOM COLLINS
TOM COLLINS
O Q
B
Jt.
0.1 o
E ROOM’S
INDIAN
POLO STICKS
Are the BEST and
Cheapest in the World.
Well known in S. Africa,
Egypt, China and Ceylon
and used by all the best players in India. Agents wantad
in Australia, N.Z., and elsewhere. Sports dealers, saddlers
and merchants are invited to write for trade terms.
:: . '
4
EROOM&CO.,
CALCUTTA, INDIA.
Polo Canes
Polo Heads
Polo Balls.
0 ©
icA\ y/j •
OlU°
o.i o
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
E diswan • Lamp.
-
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
. BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
the mm & m
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch: 16 Carrington-street,
WYNYARD saUARE, SYBNJSY.
Queensland Depot—Commonwealth Buildings,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
and Dredging Plants. Engines, Boilers, &c.
Fowler Traction Engines.
3
The Clyde Engineering C?y, Lip
HP
Desiccating Plants.
Hopper Waggons, &o.
M ELLIN’S
FOR INFANTS FOOD AND INVALIDS
' Is adapted for use from birth.
Send for Pamphlet and Samples to GOLLIN & 00., Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide and 'Wellington.
BOOMERANG
BRANDS
ROYALTY DRINKS IT.
EXPERTS APPROVE IT.
DOCTORS PRESCRIBE IT
PATIENTS RELISH IT.
award it Prise Medals wherever exhibited
®
FREE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by that justly-
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
SPECIALIST,
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how thev may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.
s^riDisrzE^sr-
XT
SPOONER’S
SPOONERS
V
tm umm boots
1 mti*s mo* af
'^£mjjm*(* , i *!“!W
SS3
—^*M|)|it;
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning: and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and 18.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressing's,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.


THE RED RAGE.
EPITHELIUM
O royal Sun, haste quickly to thy setting !
Shine forth, 0 Hesperus ! the star of lovers:
Too long afar have we been lonely rovers,
And this new ecstasy that hastes and hovers
Will bide no letting.
My bride is wreathed about with eager graces j
My swelling arms are yearning for embraces
Go, garish Day ! and come the blissful Night ’
That brings the victor to his heart’s delight I
11.
Her, the banana on the topmost bough
That all the gatherers missed, 1 gather now:
For me she grew among her ma idens tall,
For me she donned her radiant beauties all:
Her eyes of hearted fire
Where all the loves of all the world conspire j
Her noble brow of bronze, broad set
Beneath her midnight tresses’ coronet;
Her breast, a ***** ** *** ****** ******
Where *** **** **** *** ****** ***** .
Her limbs **** ******* ******* ** *** ****
Whose ******* ******* *** *** ***** ** ***** *
And ***** ******** ****
***** ******* ******** ***** .
Go, garish Day ! and come, the blissful Night
That brings the victor to his heart’s delight !
[Osotera tacenda sunt.J
Recent Books.
The Aftermath—{“ or Gleanings from a Busy
Life, called upon the outer cover, for purposes of sale,
Caliban’s Guide to Letters ”)—by Hilaire Belloc, belongs
to the class of jeux d’esprit that would be very
humourous if they were written with humour. Of
humour, indeed, Belloc is not destitute; but it is a
humour not full and rich enough, not racy enough
to properly sustain his plan. The plan is excellent:
the work often ingenious : the general effect rather thin
and faded.
The book is a satire on London’s literarv methods
and performances, in the form of a series "of articles
„ « 10S «y reprinted,” and will pass an hour agreeably
Dr. Caliban, the portentous type of London reviewin'
w!nl r g "'fi r r ’ S i an , d for a Portrait of Robertson
Nicoll, with lights and shadows taken from other heroes
of the puff-paragraph.
A young radical of sorts was declaiming at his table
one evening against the Concentration Camp Dr
Caliban listened patiently, and at the end of the
harangue said gently, “Shall we join the ladies’”
The rebuke was not lost.
On another occasion, when some foreigner was
reported in the papers as having doubted Mr. Brod-
nck s figures relative to the numbers of the enemv
remaining in the field, Dr. Caliban said, with quiet
dignity It is the first time I have heard the word of
an English gentleman doubted.”
There is a good chapter on “ Reviewing ” ; and the in-
ml'r"'-!"? Kipling, written specially by Dr. Caliban for
Ihe British Weekly , has a touch of charm. The index
refers everything to “pulping”—the process by which
waste books are made into new paper. Perhaps the most
interesting pages are those containing instructions how
to write the short lyric ”of the magazines.
&
George Moore’s The Untitled Field may be
taken as his farewell to the dream of Celtic Renascence.
It is a sermon on the last clause of Ingersoll’s text that
the church has reduced Spain to a guitar, Italy
to a hand-organ, and Ireland to exile. Italy has
been the first to escape ; and art and letters' com-
mence once more to flourish there. D’Annunzio,
banned by the bishops, collects round him the
flower of Italian youth, and defies ecclesiastical
impotence. The reign of the priest in Italy is over the
women : the men have revolted. Italian hatred of the
black coat seems astonishing till you reflect how it has
been earned by centuries of oppression. The most out-
rageous gibes against conventional religion are those flunsr
every week by L’Asino, almost in the shadow of the
Vatican. In the Naples arcade I have seen two men
sitting outside a cafe, spit contemptuously as a priest
passed. In Ireland a more primitive people—a people
that drags the representative of British monarchv up the
Connemara Hills! what an ironical smile has the World.
Spirit, watching!—obeys, or goes. It never returns.
Moore pictures the stifling- narrowness of the old home as
seen by the expatriated Irish-American. And, despite
the devotion given to Ireland by Irish-Australians, the
space that the fond green isle fills in their thoughts and
their newspapers, we never hear that they return to take
up the burden of desolation. The air of freedom, once
breathed, can never .be relinquished.
Moore is fair to the priestly class in Ireland. He
honours the simplicity, the kindliness, the self-sacrifice
or .many among them. But he nevertheless shows how
religion and the observances of religion lie like a
blight over the island, quenching intellect, destroying
aspiration, strangling and killing the natural joy of
life.. Ihe entitled Field is a collection of thirteen
stones. These are written in Moore’s best manner-
fine,_ sincere, simple ; but the lesson of them all is vain
longing empty regret, the wail that has come out of the
heart of Ireland for many and many a year. The dream of a
renascence of Celtic art is vain, Moore teaches. The fact
that, in slaying progress, religion is slaying itself is
beside Moore’s main question. Yet he picture! an honest
priest looking at the point fairly. “ Ireland was passing
I,i five an d twenty years, if some great change
did not take place, Ireland would be a Protestant coun-
try. For it is the Catholics, not the Protestants, who
stream steadily away to America. “To America !” Is the
refrain of almost every story. “ They talk of Ouchulain,”
says another character ; « but they prefer an Arch-
bishop, and at every turn in their lives they are paying
the priest. The Church is very rich in Ireland. If
Ireland is the poorest country in the world, the
Irish Church is richer than any other. All the
money in Ireland goes into religion.” And Moore
quotes John Mitchel: “The Irish would be free long ago
only for their damned souls.” “The anecdote varies,
out substantially it is the same story : The interests of
Ireland sacrificed to the interests of Rome.”
It is only two or three years since Moore, a clever
writer and an earnest man, cast his lot with Yeats and
Martyn, and deliberately set to work to revive the
pnoernx of art and life from the Celtic ashes. The Un-
ited D laid rings the knell of his enthusiasm.
J*
nt-Jk ? S elevate Richard Marsh to his
!' " ■ As a writer of stories of sensation, to be
, ' re f d breathlessly, he is the best man in the English
rnaiaet. And he maintains his level. The Beetle and
I s ar . e eve " bettered by The Death Whistle-the
in of t be year. There are moments
mrp fi IVe f Jf f l when one has no vitality to
J I'? the high, serious emotions that exact
n-mvti 0 n aS they Jp ve — l moments when one needs,
maybe deserves, Disraeli’s relaxation of “a sofa
‘ , r , ete ? t ' lve story.” In those moments,
foWi„ ;^- At his best, he is nearly equal
D n ™V° O M nS:^ e . n . ev ® r fal,s below Pemberton and
smnp 15' , N °' V that Spring has come, wander down to
SnndaV ? ?nt W ? ter s ' ed « e in beautiful Australia next
read The a vvel >- s P en t Saturday night, and
bells. D th Whlslle t 0 the sound of distant church-
nnTvfr p r ' ns P e^^a^e Scot, re-issued at Is. net, is a
were his o e wn’L man 8 tooney ’ ( o,ie wonders if Orosland
be I fittinJ,Vsr d YmTO S C Ansus McNein ” : it would
new hook ’'/I V J heScot was an inspiration : Crosland’s
thoughts } Voman ' Is an afterthought; and second
Macavehanr & a !'- e worse ’ one regrets that Wee
not iLsnfd k e urbodiment of Scottish dullness, was
Sr i mp b e marked by Crosland’s scourge,
that J y Be 1 leaves the unreadable Doric, so
~ Q aC an .l body may measure his inanity. Bell is puffed as
Barr u **** ,o °-
Psw/ZolT^M 1 ™’ 8 third volurne of Studies in the
hnmilseTithes COm , pnses an analysis of the sexual
2 T th ssays on love and Pain and on the sexual
r ,"]'" 6 ' 1 ’ an a P endix of original histories,
S discussing the sexual instinct in savages.
becoine [denHfi H e “' with wll ioh bis name lias
in five vnl?, d ’ Whlch he wiU complete probably
thorough f HIS , method of investigation, is as
adonts frnm essay he
that the nhieet T i ler and Groos the conclusion
selection l» b in fc f° f c ° ul : tshl P ls not, as has been held,
and female 7 th female ’ but the excitement of both male
and” InlS, ° n L ° Ve and Pain is held that sadism
aouearbw ar ,f n °t opposed, biit complementary,
tion befwptn fc 7 0 sldes fche same impulse. “ The associ'a-
the osr nn,,!, Ve i a '. Kl ,P ai ] rl stlU P ersists even among
in® wpiZT / IVlllSe f men and women possess-
teudencv' d sexuai impulses. The masculine
tendenev In - lri domination, the feminine
the ancient d ? ln submission, still maintain
pursued the t / ad, ‘°;? s when the male animal
pursued the female.” “Pain is seldom very
itlsn O fW the ll6 ° f th is Phases of primitive courtship ; but
shin it t i t a h fi? ain t"l ! s the essential element in court-
wirh’ whfch h6 t State 0f lntense emotion, of tumescence,
pain m, in * ny moment > ln some shape or another,
connectfon l, another, be brought into
connection. So that we have come to see that in the
phiase love and pain ’ ?ve have to understand by ‘ pain ’
fn fc rhP °/' nt ; ense emotional excitement with which pain
stricter sense may be associated, but is by no
whb h ”® ce^ sa, r'b’ associated. It is the strong emotion
m b exerts the irresistible fascination in the lover, in
that > emI ler T?i« n rh o ? h ' Th ®.P ain is merely the means to
that end. It is the lever which is employed to bring the
oimsHon 3, Cf°f ce 6 ° 6ar ? a the sexua i impulse. The
emotional ’ S “ ftinly a question o(
As regards the sexual impulse in women. “ From very
possible to trace two streams of
opinion regarding women ; on the one hand, a tendency
to regard women as a supernatural element in life, more
or less superior to men, and, on the other hand, a tei -
deney to regard women as especially embodying the
sexual instinct and as peculiarly prone to exhibit ils
manifestations.” “ While, however, these two opposing
currents ot opinion are of very ancient origin, it is on y
th'!t i, r , eCe f times a nd only in two or three CQU y
nnfnicn ha 7,® led t 0 any marked difference of
opinion legardmg the sexual aptitude of women In
ancient times men blamed women for concupiscence
or praised them for chastity ; but it seems to have
been reserved for the nineteenth century to state that
women are apt to be congenitally incapable of experi-
encing complete sexual satisfaction, and peculiarly liable
to sexual anesthesia.” Ellis concludes that there is no
satisfactory proof of increasing frigidity in women, and
that on the whole, as between men and women, the dis-
tribution of the sexual impulse is fairly equal.
Ellis shows that, contrary to what is sometimes
declared, savage races are not especially licentious.
lf ? a s little a prolonged debauch as it is
a prolonged idyll. Indeed, there is apparently “a
fundamental weakness of the sexual instinct, which
craves less, and craves less frequently, than is the case
among civilised peoples, hut is liable to be powerfully
manifested at certain seasons.” y
Beneath the complex of civilisation,, with its agents of
law, politics, religion, trade and the rest, lies the tide of
life ebbing and flowing to the sexual impulse as the sea
to the moon. Ellis s enquiry is of the greatest practical
value. Jor every magistrate or judge called upon to deal
with sexual offences, for every medical man whose skill
is dependent upon his knowledge of sexual states, for
every jurist or statesman engaged in the problems of
national development, the importance of Ellis’s work
cannot be estimated too highly. rK
CORRESPONDENTS
xr usabde E.S. : Doesn’t illuminate
will opl ,Y e s n SF boo , k of verses, Hearts of Gold,
will be ready in November; price is. (id Jungle:
There is no popular-'hand-book to Q. botany, “giving
vernacular names and medicinal and commercial uses of
plants. We are hardly at the beginning of Australian
«n°- /fi **' 5’ Bail T ey ’ s Flora of Queensland is a
v l tr ? atise - J - H - Maiden’s Forest Flora of
N.S.W., at Is. per part, or 10,?. for 12 parts, refers to
many species of trees extending to Q. Interesting
fo'rination as to blacks’ use of plants is given in Dr
Eoths ethnological Bulletins (Q. Govt. Printer). The
book .you want is still waiting for a compiler BI •
Cannot use. r •*
MEMORANDA
There is to hand an “Epithalamium ”of twenty-
one stanzas, representing certainly the finest poetical
performance yet consummated south of the equator. Our
favourite writer r ses to heights unknown and unimagined
before. In the face of his transports, those of Joannes
Secundus seem tame and paltry. It is keenly to be re-
gretted, therefore, that the poem cannot be printed.
In the latitude of the Solomon Islands such a glorificati< n
of Hymen is all very well; but in Australia we have to
consider N.S.W. Legislative Council. Even in the
stanzas preserved, it has been found imperative to deploy-
asterisks. The remaining nineteen stanzas would be
substantially all asterisks.
Benjamin Leopold Farjeon, who died the other
day in London, was not in the habit of telling his age ;
but he had seen some seventy years. Born in London to
Jewish parents, he spent his youth in a printing office,
and came to Melbourne in the early fifties. For some
time he was a compositor with The Argus. Going then
to Bendigo, he slid into journalism, for which he had a
decided talent. In Maoriland he became better known.
He had a share in the first M.L. daily paper, The Otago
Daily Times, which he helped Julius Vogel to establish
in 1861; Vogel being editor and Farjeon manager. Far-
jeon’s first, novel, Grif, was published in London in 1870.
He sent a copy to Dickens, and received such an
encouraging letter in reply that he went to London ; and
never looked hack. Shrewd, energetic, and popular, he
worked hard and succeeded. In 1877 he married a daughter
of Joseph Jefferson, the American actor. Farjeon’s
novels are readable and unremarkable. In later years he
improved considerably on the workmanship of Grif,
which frankly imitates the style and sentiment of
Dickens, but wants Dickens’s vitality-. Its pictures of
Victorian goldfields life are not especially vivid or dis-
tinguished. The Sacred Nugget displayed better Far-
jeon’s Strong dramatic power. Bread and Cheese and
Kisses exhibits effectively his lesser talent for depicting
character. He wrote too fluently to write very well;
but he pleased his day and generation.
Even The Athenceum turns. Writing on June
27 of an exhibition of Punch drawings, the critic says :
“Possibly the aurea mediocritas of tone which any
popular print in England must keep if it is to keep
its circulation is responsible for this temperance. What-
ever the cause, there can be no doubt of the result. The
wit of Punch, while less trenchant and less brutal than
that of some of its continental rivals, is also less jovial
and less artistic. The public taste in England is, per-
haps, hardly prepared for such satires as we get from the
hand of Forain ; but a moderate infusion of the spirit of
Eowlandson or Daumier could hurt nobody, and would
certainly be a pleasant change from the disguised fashion
plate which so often passes current for a humourous
drawing. Where there is evidence of so much dexterity,
it is hard to believe that there is not also a little latent
genius, if only a proper guide could be found to direct it.”
In this view, the advertisement of Australians who
a drawing in Punch” seems ludicrous enough,
the fact is, of course, that no drawing really originator
powerful ever does get into Punch : Punch is fed on in-
fusions of stale tea-leaves and studio bread-and-
scrape. There are in Paris, Berlin, Vienna, and Munich
probably fifty journals that print weekly more artistic,
more entertaining, and more significant drawings than
Punch artists are permitted to print. The best ot them,
such as L’Assiette au Beurre and Jugend, are as high
above Punch as Kosciusko is above Surry Hills.
Writing to an Australian friend on June 14,
Tom Eoberts gives news of progress with his picture of
the opening of Commonwealth Parliament“ ‘ Will
you come down to Frogmore?’ Would I go!—Make a
study of the Princess in the garden sitting under a great
tree and she offered the next sitting to be at Marlborough
House.—They did me well. —Driving back to the Windsor
Station I asked the Eoyal Coachman if it were allowable
to tip him—he said it was ‘at the discretion of visitors,
Sir ! ’ I had just Is. 6 d. in silver, which he accepted, and
raised his Eoyal Hat as I descended in glory at the
station—and I chuckled for half an hour! Had a good
sitting since of the Prince at Marlborough House.
“ I press for all the time I can get. H.E.H. said he had
not been yet paid for the time he had given. One man
recommended by some nobleman had painted such a
thing of him for some great company—so bad that the
Prince could n’t have it put on a hoarding. I suggested
difficulty of the position for a painter with Ms nervous-
ness. ‘Well! if he was nervous, why did he undertake
the work?’—logical enough, eh !”
RECEIVED
The Law oj Mental Medicine , by T. J. Hudson
(Putnam ; 12m0., cl., 281 pp.; 7s. Gd.)
The Gospel of the Poor, by Morrison Davidson
(P. E. Henderson ; Bvo., sd., 162 pp. ; Is. net.) [David-
son is a learned collector of curious facts : his opinions
have ceased to be of interest. This book is an exposi-
tion of Christian Socialism on the lines of Tolstoyan
dogma.]
Public Control of the Liquor Traffic, by Rowntree
and Sherwell (Eichards; Bvo., cl., 326 pp. ; 2s. 6 d. net.)
[An effective review of Scandinavian systems of liquor
control, written as a counterblast to The Common-
wealth as Publican.]
Castle Omeragh, byF. Frankfort Moore (Constable ;
Bvo., sd., 388 pp. ; 2s. 6 d.) [There are only two kinds of
“ historical novels” : the admirable and the intolerable.
Moore’s belongs to the other kind.]
Park Lane , by Percy White (Constable ; Bvo.,
sd., 407 pp. ; 2s. 6 d.) [White wrote The West Pud, and
in Park Lane he borrows from himself—characters and
situations. His work is good : well-bred, agreeable,
piquant without being poignant. Somewhat in the
manner of Lawrence Oliphant ; but brighter on the
whole, though more superficial, omitting Oliphanfs
occasional uncanny flashes. London society is White’s
staple : he has especial claims upon clubmen in their
ninth lustre.]
The Book of Hitman Nature, ed. G. N. Landes
Syd., W. Howitt; 12ino. sd. 56 pp.) [Discussion of sex-
questions by a poetical “produce merchant.” “The
surface of the whole female form should be charac-
terised by the gradual and easy transaction between
the parts”— p. 12. “I, George, stand beneath the
infant night , besprinkled with dewy drops. And see the
crescent moon hang white above the dark hill tops
p. 65.
A.G.S.
Book trade Jfdperfisement
THE BOOK THAT EVERYBODY 15 TALKING ABOUtT
The wholesomest, helpfullest, j oiliest book of the year, and a tonic for any mood."
Enters from a self-||)ade merchant to ||is Jon
rr»?r?
son, Pieirepont, facetiously known to his intimates as “ Piggy.”
(WITH EIGHTEEN ILLUSTRATIONS.)
pAp ER COVER, 2s. 6d. ; CLOTH COVER, 3s. 6d. ; p OSTAQE, 6d. EXTRA.
PRESS OPINIONS: ~~~ 1 ~ " 1 =T
reader what every reader wanteto know— menlmve succeeded ’ 8 ’ a ? d in9pi . rin # > ifc tells the
trap, and it areals with its homely aphorisms and its quaint savings to the lettered and the u»Tet"ered & rl °" Clap '
“ They hit the reader right between the eves of hie . . , e u * J etoered alike,
doses the salt of success in business and in the world of men.” P ‘ ey administer to him in stimulating
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
BOOKSELLERS AND STATIONERS,
71 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doors South of King St.) & at Melbourne. Adelaide, Brisbane <So London
*J*O WRITERS. —The Critic, the premier
South Australian weekly, wants Christmas
Number contributions.
Send short stories, not exceeding 2500 words;
or interesting articles (those dealing with holiday
vacations, accompanied by good photographs,
will be particularly welcome).
Special remuneration for good matter.
Address, before October 31, “The Editor, The
Critic, Adelaide, S.A.”
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
Contain no Cocaine or
other Poisonous Drug.
COLDS,
LOSS OF VOICE,
BRONCHITIS,
and all Affections of
the Throat and Lungs.
K S
gjjgiiMW
The Great Antiseptic
Remedy for the Cure
of INFLUENZA and
PREVENTION of CON-
SUnPTION.
Invaluable for Singers j
and Public Speakers.
Sold by all Chemists, tins, 1/6.
Sole Manufacturer: G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Australia.
SYDNEY DEPOT : 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE. Agents in all the Australian States and New Zealand.
Melbourne and West Australia .. .. FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO.
South Australia
Launceston „
.. PAULDING & CO.
FAIRTHOIiNE & CO.
Hobnrt.. .. .. .. A. P. MILLAR & SON
New Zealand.. .. SHARLANO & CO., Ltd.
- .
73
■
■- m
■ymjs
74 GANZ
ELECTRIC
MOTORS
with a total capacity of
100 Horse-Power, will
operate the Government
Printing Office of Victoria.
Cans induction Motor. SOLE AGENTS :
The fluetra! Otis Engineering So., [td., South fffelb.
James Hartin&Go.
161 CLARENCE ST.
Near King St
SYDNEY
tr <
WE ARE PREPARED TO
ILLUMINATE ANY PLACE,
ANY TIME, ANYWHERE, with
ACETYLENE GAS.
Martin’s Reliable Automatic
Acetylene Gas Generator.
ALL SIZES, from 5 to 1000 LIGHTS.
OVER 500 IN DAILY USE. Send for our “No. 56
Acetylene Gas Catalogue.”
CARBIDE OF CALCIUfI at the BEST PRICES.
fgs
When you want MOTIVE POWER it vM
pay you to investigate the merits of
MARTIKT’S
Nonpareil Oil Engine
BURNS ORDINARY KEROSENE.
FULL SPEED AT A MOMENT’S NOTICE.
Strong-, Safe, Cheap, Economical. “S&
ALL SIZES, both HORIZONTAL and PORTABLE,
BSP Seiicl for Illustrated Descriptive Circular.


WOOL
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, and CO., Limited,
WOOL BROKERS AND PRODUCE SALESMEN
S YDNB Y.
FUR SKINS!
Kangaroo, Wallaby, Rabbit, Opossum.
sektd TO
WINGHGOMBE, CARSON & CO., uo.
—-i.i
THE MOST SUCCESSFUL SALESfIEN.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Wool Stores—PYRMONT.
Head Office and Produce Store—ll Phillip St.
SYDNEY.
Sole Wool-Selling Commission
to the Growers—
1
Per Cent
Trust Account.
Regular Sales of Wool & Produce.
Prompt Returns.
A GO-AHEAD FIRM
f
PATESON & COBCROFT, 231 s s Sv S,re£t ’
_ Aaranta.
Auctioneers, Commission and Live Stock Agents,
and Produce Merchants. m^-
Goods forwarded and received from this or any f ° r celebfated Corß C ° b BaC ° n ‘
THE LEADING HOUSE for SPORTING GOODS and TOBACCO.
Wi
leoJa.
SantiagOi
SINGLES BOX AT WHOLESALE PRICE.
GOODS EXCHANGED o? MONEY RETURNED.
Or-
N?/MANILA
No. 1 Manila*
fIUND
aOTW3CHU-££
El Mundo.
GUARANTEE. —EVERV CIGAR SOUND
AND IN PERFECT CONDITION.
Post Free Post Free
N.S.W. oth. States
Post Free Post Free
N.S.W. oth. States
ROMA QUEENS
LA PAROLA, Reliable Smoke ».
HIGH LIFE MENDOZAS .. ..
NIMROD REINA VICTORIA ..
LA SPECIAL, from Choicest Leaf
SANTIAGO LA FLOR, Fine Quality
“ LEOLA,” Borneo, Mild Smoking
“EL RIVAL,” Borneo, Full Flavor
HEAVY WEIGHTS (P. de Mendoza) 100
Per 100.
In box.
“ PERLA ” BOUQUET .. .. .. 50
“EL MUNDO” (Rothschilds) .. ..25
“MENDOZA” (Rothschilds) .. .. 25
“ PERLA ” (Rothschilds) 26
“MINERVA” No. 1 MANILA .. .. 100
“ WINDSOR LADY” (Manila Regalia) .. 50
“ PERLA MINERVA,” Manila, Fine Qual. 25
FLOR DE NAVES (Havana Reina) .. 100
HENRY CLAY (Havana Couchas, extra) 60
s. d.
18 9
21 0
25 3
25 3
15 6
19 0
25 0
29 0
36 0
s. d
19 2~)
21 8
26 2
26 2
16 2
19 8
25 8
29 8
36 0
*OOl
REVOLUTION ” IN THE TOBACCO TRADE.
“ RED SEAL” TOBACCO
AT MILLION PRICES
TO SUIT THE TIMES.
“Red Seal”
“Red Seal”
Dark Plug:
Strong & Ked u n
3/-
per lb.
Post Free
Bright Plug \
Mild Smoking/
3/6
per lb.
Post Free
“Red Seal”
“Red Seal”
Bright Cut
2oz. Packets
4/3
Bright Cut \
4oz. Patent Tins/
4/3
per tb.
Post Free
per lb.
Post Free
«• RED SEAL ” is a REAL GOOD Smoking Tobacco, guaranteed BEST VALUE in the States.
We RECOfirtEND Smokers to give “RED SEAL” Tobacco a TRIAL..an ______
Tvriolc Simmons, Haymarlset, Sydney.
I. Hollis
& Son’s
“THE RELIABLE.”
Price £6 12b- 6d.
df
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 gauge, top lever, bar action, real twist or steel
barrels, Greener cross bolt, le' ' ' ’ J
chambered for 2Jin. cartridges.
ilt^left 1 ' choke, rebounding locks snap fore-end,
Guaranteed for all Smokeless Powder.
Mick Simmons, Haymarket,
Sydney.
In view of the Large Increase of Business, both at our mbit?
Melbourne Houses, and on account of the New Zealand business becoming
too great to be dealt with here, we have decided to open a Branch
of the Dr. McLaughlin Electric Belt Co. in Wellington, New Zealand.
FROM all parts of Australasia we receive daily
hundreds of letters, a great many of which
come to us from those who are using our
Belts, expressing their appreciation for the good
that is being done them by its use, and in a great
many instances the cures made have been simply
marvellous.
From a host of others come letters asking us
to send them our Fre© BOOK, and all other
information regarding the use of the Belt; and
from others word comes to forward this Electric
Appliance. The popularity of this Great Remedy
is increasing daily.
dr. McLaughlin’s
Do not Buy an Electric Belt f you take Drugs.
If you wear the Dr. McLaughlin Electric Belt
you do not require Drugs. Medicine of any kind
is expensive and useless, and will not restore the
Vital Nerve Force that has been wasted in the
body. Electricity is the only means of restoring
the lost power to the system.
Mr. G. Mitchell, of Marrickville, N.S.W., writes:
Sirs,-In answer to your letter of inquiry re my condition, lam very
pleased to tell you that after a few nights application of the Belt, with
that wonderful leg attachment, the pain has left my leg a, together, as I
have not had the least sign of it since. My back was lame but thanks to
you, nothing like it used to be before I got your wonderful Belt. I must
sav that I feel much stronger In every way, and can go about my work
with something like interest. Wishing you every success.
mm
\*y.
€
I
m
l/'Jo
zpx'l
’j*22&?iA
ROW
TT**.
n
-3niit#
DURING the past few months the business
has increased at an enormous rate. Our
otherwise large Staff of Assistants and
Typewriters has had to be largely augmented both
in Sydney and Melbourne, the volume of business
compelling us to open a branch in New Zealand.
There is no question about the Wonderful
Merits of this Grand Remedy, seeing the vast num-
ber of Belts sold and the undoubted cures effected
by its use, proof of which is given every day.
For Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lumbago,
Weak Back, Nervousness, Indigestion,
Liver and Kidney Troubles, our Belt is the
only Sure and Speedy Remedy.
ELECTRIC BELT.
Send for our Free Book
which will give you very valuable information. If
you wish to be well and strong, to regain the life
and vitality of youth, you should send at once, as
delay may be dangerous. “ Electricity is Life,”
and, as applied, by our Belts, will restore the weak
and sickly to Health and Strength.
Mr. S. McGregor, of Kalgoorlie, W.A., writes:
Dear Sirs,—l desire to thank you for the relief you have given me.
The Belt has done me a lot of good, and I am confident of a cure being
effected with your treatment. I let all my friends know what good your
Belt has done me, and I am satisfied I will soon be my old self again.
Thanking you for the relief you have given me.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co.,
100 W. Market St., Sydney
Melbourne Office: 167 E. Swanston St.


ft
SMOKE
The Unrivalled
World Renownec
BRIAR
PIPES
LARGEST DEPOT:
231 Clarence St,
SYDNEY.
DINNEFORD’S
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician*#
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
( I
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
MAGNESIA
DRINK—
GARDNER’S SPA WATER
From our Springs at Helidon. OWEN GARDNER & SONS, Brisbane (Head office) & a t Helidon.
THE
‘PLUM’
gsdf
TH6
‘PLUM’
QENTLEMEN.— This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, p<
ede-e rpnnlr 0 H n f eVerre<lUireS P rac tic a l tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
tbfir merits. WE GUARANTEE & rlzor FOR US6 *" * nUmb6r °* year9 * ““ t 0
perfectly hollow ground, ring
~~ we know the exact kind of
Price
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7a Od.
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
/Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 2is.
I Single Razoi, in Ivory Handle, 15s, Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
___ Registered and sent Post Free to any part op the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Bole Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-sta*
Sydney.
Absolutely THE BEST.
KNORRS
Ready-Made Dried
PEA SOUP
ROOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, 50 engravings, 3/6 ;
posted, 4/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/-; Magic
Up-to-Date, 1/3 ; Metal Working, solder-
ing, brazing, 1/6; Camille, 1/3 ; How to
Play Billiards, 1/3; How to Vamp, 1/3;
Piano Tuning and Repairing, 1/6 ; Modern
Etiquette, 1/-; Card Games, 1/-; Great
Book of Wonders, Secrets and Mysteries,
1/-: Poultry K eeping, 1/-; Horse and
Cattle Doctor, 1/-; Parlor Magic, 1/- ;
Dream Book, 1/-; Every Man His Own
Builder, 1/6 ; Carpentry, 1/6 ; Lightning
Calculator, 1/2 ; Australian Doctor, 1/6 ;
Letter Writer, 1/3 ; Speeches and Toasts,
1/3; Kelly Gang of Bushrangers, 1/3 ;
Book of Dialogues, 1/-; Enquirer’s Oracle,
3000 subjects, 1/6; Self Instructor, 1/3 ;
gs
How to Dance, 1/3; Art of Boxino, 1/3;
Art of Wrestling, 1/3; Moll Flanders,
1/6; Tailoring for Amateurs, 1/3; Ven-
triloquism, 1/- ; Comic Reciter, 160 gems,
1/3; Irish Comic Reciter, 1/3; Little
Folks’ Reciter, 1/3; Nigger Stump
Speeches, 1/3; New Tricks with Cards,
1/3; That Rascal Gustave, 1/3 ; Plain
Home Talk, 7/6; Sappho (genuine), 1/6;
Fortune Telling Cards, directions, 1/6;
Advice to Women, 1/3; Midwives’ Hand-
book, 92 practical illustrations (better than
Aristotle), 3/-; Palmistry, chart and guide,
6d.; Clog Dancing, 1/-. Above prices in-
clude postage to any address. Stamps or
Postal Notes of any State will do. Free
Catalogues—Plays, Coniuring Apparatus,
Racy Novels, Useful Books, Private Books
for the Married, etc.
WILL ANDRADE,
IBOOK AND MAGIC
ARCADE, - - -
201 Bourke-sfr a Melbourne,
HAMMERLESS DOUBLE BARREL SHOT-GUNS
Arc made at all prices to suit every purse Each Gun Guaranteed.
ASK YOUR DEALER TO QUOTE YOU PRICE.
REMINGTON ARMS CO., ILION, new YORK, u.s.A.
ALL WHO DESIRE-TO HAVE
SOFT VELYETY
SKIN,
CAN OBTAIN
BY USING
&A f
to
0
aer
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
\ REFRESHED'
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d., 1/- & 2/6.
Sole Makers —M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND.
Felton, Grimwade & Go
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
*l*o DEFY COMFETIXIOKT.
WINES
The Best Brands Only o)
&c
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS. CORDIALS, to.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
r
Carter's
There’s SECURITY In
dfg
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER,
iFURRED TONGUE.
i
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price;
touch, he LIVER
They
Be Sure they are
TATTERS ALLS
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania).
IMPORTANT NOTICE
The Tasmanian Government having imposed a tax of One Fenny
on every Five Shilling Ticket issued by Tattersall’s on and after Ist
January, 1903, clients will please forward Id. extra for each ss.
ticket applied for, or 4d. for every J6l, and so on.
NOW OPEN
METROPOLITAN STAKES, Randwick, N.S.W., September 14, 50,000 at 5/1
DEMONSTRATION H’CP, Warwick Farm, M W., Oct. 5, 50,000 at 5/1.
CAULFIELD CUP, Caulfield, Vic., Oct. 17, 100,000 at 5/1.
MELBOURNE CUP, Flemington, Vic., Nov. 3, 100,000 10/2.
MELBOURNE CUP, Flemington, Vic., Nov. 3, 100,000 5/1-
MELBOURNE CUP (Special), Flemington, Vic., November 3 (Drawn Morning of Race), 100,000 at 5/1.
Subscribers will please note that GEORGE ADAMS (“TATTERSALL”) STILL
CONTINUES his business in HOBART, under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN
GOVERNMENT, and that clients can send their subscriptions by letter to any friend or
acquaintance in HOBART, who will there have no difficulty in delivering the application and
securing the despatch of tickets and results direct to clients.
Money can also be paid through any Bank in Australasia, to the credit of GEORGE
ADA Mb, Commercial Bank of Tasmania, Hobart. Clients when so doing will please request
Bank to advise GEORGE ADAMS of amount, with their name and full address.
Small Parcels addressed to me can be forwarded to Hobart through any PARCEL
DELIVERY CO. doing business with Tasmania.


Cockroaches I
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦
BUFFON’S
COCKROACH . . .
EXTERMINATOR
Clears houses of these pests very quickly.
Has been used for many years with
great success.
To be obtained of all Chemists.
BOSISTO’S
“ Parrot Brand ”
Eucalyptus Oil
For Rheumatism, Sprains, Bruises,
Wounds, Coughs, Colds and
Sore Throats.
CAUTION.—Ask for Bosisto’s
PARROT BRAND,
and Beware of Imitations.
sdf
vs
gsd
W. H.Wigzell.
FRINGES : Best Natural Curly
Hair, 3/6, 5/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each.
TAILS and PLAITS : 20in. lons,
5/6 ; extra thick, 7/6; 24in., 10/6;
extra thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
ting's and Combings worked up,
2/6 per oz. Don’t be misled.
Our Plaits and Tails are twice as
thick as sold elsewhere at the
same price. Send color of Hair.
Only one address: 110 WILLIAM-
ST.; cor. of Palmer St. SYDNEY.
Notice.— NO Branch Businesses. All work guaranteed.
Illustrated Catalogue post free. Prompt attention given
to country orders. Wigs made on shortest notice. All
Hairwork sent to the other States free of duty. Transfor-
mations, entire covering for the head, 30/- each.
F YOU WANT IT
GET IT WITH A
ODAK
iV . " 'if- ,; v SEND FOR
* r • ' CATALOGUE ,
OF ALL DEALERS OR .
0F KODAK Uf; 28 me C lboub s nl T 1
§ MENTION THIS PAPER. %
CLOSED.
OPEN.
SPRING GRIP DUMB-BELL
USE THE GRIP DUMB-BELL because
1. —Exercise is useless without will power. The grip
on the Dumb-bell compels the use of will-power.
2. —There is no danger of any strain on the heart.
3. —The heaviest Spring Grip Dumb-bell weighs only
31bs.; the Ladies’ and Youths’ Bells 21bs. ; the
Boys’ and Girls’ Bells ljlbs.; the Children’s fib.
4. An Athlete can do more with these bells than
any other kind whatsoever.
5. —They last a life-time, and no renewals required.
6. —As one’s development increases, pace can be kept
with it by adjusting the springs.
An Illustrated Chart of carefully graduated Home
Exercises is given away with the Dumb-bells.
S. HOFFNUNG & CO. (1902) Ltd., Wholesale Agents.
Obtainable from all Sports Depots, Ironmongers and
Storekeepers throughout Australia.
SANDOW’S
\ bade Mark. /
*
*
Oi
%
*
\ /
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Suzette.
Suzette slips off her conscious bodice and
Its sister skirt. Then knots her golden hair
With one swift movement of her shapely, fair,
Small dimpled hand.
She’s like a dream of Mendes standing there
Coy Psyche shrinking from the touch of Love-
All winsome in the pleasant mysteries of
Her underwear.
The veriest cynic breathing would approve
Her lips, with all deliciousness replete,
Her shy, proud mouth, and (perilously sweet)
The nose above.
Her luminous eyes, where all Spring’s wonders
meet
To wanton on the threshold of delight,
Are exquisitely soft; demurely white
Her dainty feet.
Thus semi-nude, like Beauty’s self bedight
With mere disfigurement of lawn and lace,
The magic of her so-appealing grace
Is infinite.
She moves half-shyly in that secret place,
Tossing aside the laces and the lawn,
A soft blush mantling as with glow of dawn
Her radiant face.
0, votaries of inches and of brawn !
My little love outshines your hoydens far
As Venus might, resplendent in her car
By sparrows drawn.
Poor sunny moths of every fleeting star,
How can you dream of sweetnesses like these
That in Suzette, whose slightest graces please,
Her weapons are ?
She steps into the bath. A happy breeze
Strays in and sighs. The water, audible
Of joy, enshrines her lissomness . . . we’ll pull
The curtain, please!
TAS.
FRANK MORTON.
The She-oak.
There is a slope by the sea, I know,
Ho man lives near, and there are no trees,
Save one—a she-oak —that’s bended low
By the wind, on the slope near the roaring seas.
The strong sea-wind has a harp down there,
He sweeps across it his master hand ;
’Tis made of strands of the she-oak’s hair,
And the music of it I understand.
Sometimes it rises from earth as high
As the blue of Heaven, and echoes there;
But often it throbs where the shadows lie
By the sea and makes for me music rare.
My heart goes back when my feet must stay,
When the sky is dark of the stars of hope,
To a glorious sea-scape far away,
And a she-oak out on a windy slope.
SPIX.
A Toggy Morning.
The Earth, a bride white-veiled in mist,
Is by the Sun, her bridegroom, kissed,
And straightway, as by magic wand,
She seems transformed to fairyland.
Where once was hill and vale and tree
There now appears a rolling sea
Of soft white billows. As I gaze
(The landscape by a golden haze
Pervaded, undisturbed by sound
Save dewdrops falling to the ground),
Hobgoblins, fairies, sprites and elves
Spring up and dance, disport themselves,
Weave filmy webs of slender thread,
Unbroken by their lightsome tread,
And laugh and sing, the moist air stirred
By sounds of music faintly heard,
And echoing up and down their dells
Sweet melodies of tinkling bells.
Intent, I watch and scarcely breathe
While they their garlands deftly wreathe
Of colored seaweed, coral, shell,
Of daisies and of pimpernel.
Then, with the fast increasing light,
They vanish, quickly out of sight.
Such tricks imagination plays
With people’s minds on foggy days.
TIC.
FRANCIS D'ELLESHOPE.
When. Maggie Calls.
Above the noise of tram and ’bus
That rattle through the street,
Above the bustle and the fuss
Of many hastening feet,
There comes an old familiar sound
Across the moss-grown wall,
The fluty notes that greet the dawn—
The magpie’s morning call.
I shut my eyes to bricks and tiles,
And all my senses close ;
And thro’ the mind’s deep inner sight
A western river flows ;
I see the gum-trees on the flats,
The gum-trees grand and tall;
And in between the logs and trunks
The piping “maggie’s” call.
Oh, busy, noisy, city streets !
Alive with souls to-day,
’Tis thus I shut your bustle out
And give my fancy play,
Till creeks and hills and scrub and plains
Upon my vision fall,
And daylight breaks across the range,
And “ maggie” starts to call.
N.s.w.
HUGH STONE.
mw ■
WILL CURE THAT
HackingCoa_
Troublesome Cold, •
Annoying influenza,
Asfhma, Bronchitis. Consumpfiorv
I ARGE& SMALL BOTTLES Yb&i'b.
fgs
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 109.
H. Hillier,
ISO Sussex-sb. f
SYDNEY.
tSS~ Send for a
Catalogue.
m
Wont Shaft Sulkies.
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE te
buyers of Light Vehicles.
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, i3o Sussex St., Sydney
Straight Shaft 3-Spring Sulkies, £Blos.
Sarven Sulky Wheels Tyred, £2 4s 6d pair.
Discount to Wholesale Buyers. Send for Catalogue.
/
HJT. SMITH
BRISBANE
*
%
21f
21 h
YOU WAWT^>
A Good Timekeeper
at a Reasonable Price.
HERE IT IS!!
A Solid Silver Keyless
Hunting Watch
Warranted 2 Years.
Posted Free to any part of
Australasia —
21/-
Send for my New Catalogue—FßEE
H. F. SMITH,
Queensland Leading Jeweller, QUEEN ST., BRISBANE.
IPSWICH and TOOWOOMBA.
rnmmm
.22 Caliber Cartridges
If you want to use .22 Caliber Rim Fire Cartridges that shoot
strongly and accurately, buy the time-tried Winchester make,
having the trade-mark “H ” on the head. They cost but a
few pence more a box than the cheap, unreliable kind, and
they are shillings better. Winchester .22 Caliber Cartridges
are furnished loaded with either black or smokeless powder, the
latter being loaded with the celebrated Winchester Grease-
less Bullets, which make them very clean to handle.
FOR SALE BY DEALERS EVERYWHERE.
Out Stock of WINCHESTER GOODS
Is unequalled in the Commonwealth. Catalogues Free.
PERRY BROS. - -
HARDWARE MERCHANTS.
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
ENO’S
“‘FRUIT
AND INVIGORATING. SALT.’
HEALTH GIVING,
REFRESHING,
THERE IS NO DOUBT THAT where it has been
taken in the earliest stages of a disease, it has, in
innumerable instances, PREVENTED what would other-
wise have been a SERIOUS ILLNESS.
CAUTION.—Soe Capsule marked ENO’B ‘FRUIT SALT/ Without It you have a
WORTHLBSS IMITATION.
Frepuod onlybj J. O. BNO, Ltd., • FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, HNQ.,
by J. C. UNO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere.


lunssrs
Hermessy’s
Hold the
Largest
Stock
on
Earth
of
Genuine Bottled
Cognac
Brandy.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
5 S
1
Jt.v-*
AARON’S
Exchange Hotel Co.,
SYDNEY.
The system of paying for Room only and
Meals as required is adopted here.
£3 3s. per Week
9s. per Day
W. W. AIKEN, Manager,
30 Years in the Establishment.
GORDON MARE, Secretary.
King Marine Oil Engines.
2i to 500 H.P. H 1903 MODELS.
Estimates given for Fitting Cargo Boats, Tug Boats, Fishing Boats and Trawlers, Auxiliary
Power or Pleasure Boats. Vessels of all sizes built and fully equipped.
PUMPING PLANTS. REFRIGERATING PLANTS. COLD STORAGE for Pishing Boats.
Information and Prices furnished by—
J. F. McDERMOTT & CO., 30 PITT street, SYDNEY.
Factory Agents for Australia and the South Seas.
The refinement of good taste
is shown in a preference for
Cameo Cigarettes
They cost more than “the other sort.”
SB
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and two minutes from
entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
Tariff, 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments may be
secured separately by the day from 3s. find upwards.
Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted on applica
tion to The Manager.
THE beautiful fabric.
I ouis’ Velveteen.
NOTE WELL!—Each Yard of Genuine “LOUIS” Velveteen
bears the name (spelled L-O-IH-S and in no other
way) and is stamped with a guarantee of wear.
dfg
The Flood of Thought,
And possibly the flow of Language, is aug=
mented by the discovery of a perfect negative
on a defective plate. The use of the
NEW “AUSTRAL” DRY PLATE
Can always be depended on, because it is ALWAYS FRESH FROM THE
FACTORY. Leading Photographers call it “ PERFECT.”
Send for list of Published Testimonials.
The “ AUSTRAL ” is CLEAN, RAPID, BRILLIANT,
and free from all Defects. Three Speeds. All Sizes.
MANUFACTURED BY
The Baker & Rouse Proprietary Ltd.,
375 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and BRISBANE.
Melbourne
Adelaide.
Brisbane.
To Smokers of High Class Mixture.
WILLS 8 ‘ ' m-p&t MIXTURE
(Registered.)
Choice Blend of High Class and Carefully Selected TOBACCO.
Packed only in patent air-tight tins.
Manufactured in two strengths—Medium and Full. Price, Is. per 2oz. Tin.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. 24.—N0. 1226.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 13, 1903.
Pnom 8a
THE BAD SAMARITAN.
Now, there was a thief who went down from Jericho, and it came to pass that he met with a strong honest man and tried to rob him, and the
state of that thief was something pitiful. And there were men who sympathised with the thief, and they made a great outcry, and the strong honest
man departed. Thereupon unto the thief came another bearing wine and oil and balm for his wounds. —Scripture brought up to date and adapted to
present day necessities.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ A ustralia for the 'Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, Qf
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 3 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 0
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
NOTICE
By sending direct to Tiie Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
tobe addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary communications to be addressed to the Editor.
Special Notice.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number, is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Blade and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
~-i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Qotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa — Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown ;
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal; Solomon
and Wilson, 22 Hout St., Capetown; Solomon and
Wilson, Commissioners Street, Johannesburg ; Granger
Bros,, Johannesburg ; Isaacs and Co., Durban; Argus
Printing Co., Rhodesia; Gwelo Neios Agency,
Rhodesia.
Ceylon .—Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver
B.C.
llong Kong .—Brewer and Co., 22 Queens Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai.— Brewer and Co.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 13, 1903.
The Immigration Question.
The simplest way of realising the vast importance to
Australia of a continual influx of desirable immigrants is
to imagine what would happen if there were a duplica-
tion of the gold rushes of the fifties and sixties.— Sydney
Morning Herald.
We want the best that the old country and other coun-
tries have to export; men of mental and physical capacity,
men of courage, men who are not afraid of hard work,
men who, like the pioneers of former days, will do their
duty by the country in the expectation that, like some of
these, they or their successors will reap abundant reward
for their labors. Unfortunately it has been the policy of
our rulers of late to do what they can to prevent the
addition to our population of persons of this desirable
kind. In our anxiety to keep out the cheap labor of
China we have essayed to build a Chinese wall round the
Commonwealth, with no open door through which people
may enter. We have aimed at keeping ourselves to our-
selves. The thousands of miles which separate us from
the rest of the world have not appeared a sufficient
barrier against the influx of population, and to these
have been added obstacles of various kinds. It is small
wonder if persons of the most desirable kind contem-
plating emigration from the old world, should at once
dismiss Australia from their thoughts, as being a country
which was determined to resist immigration. Other
countries welcome desirable immigrants, but there is no
doubt that the popular impression of Australia is that
she is a country which objects to them on principle. . . .
Nor has the Federal Parliament been behindhand, as the
memorable episode of the hatters reminds us.— More
Sydney Morning Herald.
So much has been written in a wild, shambling
way about the decline of immigration to Australia
owing to Labor legislation, and the Common-
wealth episode of the Six Blathers has been dished
up over and over again with such awful dreariness
of repetition, and so many ignorant and super-
ficial writers of trash such as the above have
ground out their imaginary facts to the order of
unscrupulous Tory papers, that it is about time
the position was seriously reviewed. A tendency
to overlay a plain business question with jim-jams
and hysterics has clouded the public mind, and a
statement of the case without hysterics is greatly
called for.
• * » *
To begin at the beginning, it is necessary to
define immigration. As a general rule, when
people speak of immigration they don’t really
refer to the number of arrivals in the country—
only to the surplus of arrivals over departures. If
20,000 people come to N.S.W. in a given period,
and 1000 leave it, there is, in the popular phrase,
a net immigration of 19,000 people, and the S.M.
Herald is glad. If 100,000 people come in
another similar period, and 99,000 leave in disgust
because good land is not available, because the
gold days are over, because the industries which,
might employ them have been systematically
repressed as injurious to the import trade of
M'Millan and his kind, and because the S.M.
Herald is a shocking advertisement for any
country, then, though vastly more people
are coming to the country, the net im-
migration, or surplus of arrivals, is down
to 1000. Then the S.M. Herald says that
the Immigration Restriction Act and the painful
episode of the Six Blathers have created such
a grievous distrust of us that people will no
longer come here. Yet the real case is that the
new arrivals still arrive, but apparently they read
the shocking drivel of the S.M. Herald on
landing, and look at what many years of the
S.M Herald policy has done for the country,
and then retire again in disgust. Or if they don’t
personally retire, their arrival is counterbalanced
by the flight of old settlers, dead tired of “going
on the land ” in a barren wilderness, and of relief
works, and of waiting for the “magnificent
natural resources of the country ” to assert them-
selves.
* * * „
lb is impossible to say, as regards all Australia,
how the immigration returns of to-day compare
with those of, say, 20 years ago. Until a year or
two ago Victoria only kept a record of arrivals
and departures by sea. New South Wales kept
similar imperfect returns till 15 years ago, the
other States till about five years ago. The com-
plete immigration returns of far-back years are, to
a large extent, guess-work ; the increase of popula-
tion (providing the previous census was accurate,
which in the early days it probably wasn’t) was so
much; the increase from excess of births over
deaths was so much ; the balance, checked in a
rough-and-ready way by the known arrivals and
departures by sea, was immigration. It is im-
possible to investigate very far back, except in
the case of New South Wales, so that State will
be here taken as a sample.
* * * *
As regards N.S.W. the arrivals by sea may be
accurately dealt with for 43 b years. That takes
them back 31 years before there was any Labor
party in politics, and more than 40 years before
the episode of the Six Blathers, which the weary
Tory paper alleges to have put an end to any
general desire to come to this country. Going
over these figures the remarkable fact appears
that the year when the rush of arrivals by sea in
N.S.W. was at its very highest was 1902—and
arrivals by sea account for the bulk of foreign
immigration. The following list shows the years
of largest and smallest influx by sea into N.S.W.
durihg each decade since 1860
Arrivals. Arrivals.
Highest record Lowest record
for decade. for decade.
11861 .. 13,421
\ 1868 26,564 ..
11870 .. 18,621
\1879 44,601 ..
11882 .. 45,106
1885 72,807 ..
1892 .. 62,197
1899 77,634 ..
1902 81,190 ..
This deals with the marine influx only. But from
the year 1888 onward N.S.W. kept a record of
the influx both by sea and land. The largest
inrush was in 1901, when arrivals numbered
163,614; 1903, with 77,684 arrivals for the half-
year (or at the rate of 155,368 per annum),
promises to be the year with the second largest
influx in N.S.W.’s history; and the third largest
influx was that of 1900 (151,313 arrivals). These
latter figures, moreover, are not swollen by the
inclusion of immigrants whose passage money
was paid by the State out of loan funds, as the
earlier returns were.
• * • •
The inference is, that the story about how the
Undesirable Immigrants’ Restriction Law, and
the episode of the Six Blathers, and all
the other stock bogeys of Toryism have made
people give up coming here, is a silly, malignant
and premeditated lie. There is not the least
difficulty about people coming —they are coming
in greater numbers than were ever heard of
before; the difficulty is that there is not much
nowadays to induce them to stay when they are
here. Still, they are staying now to a greater
extent than they have done for a considerable
number of years. The passing of the Immigration
Restriction Law and the advertisement Australia
got out of the episode of the Six Blathers, and the
abolition of the old Foreign-trade folly seem to
have made a small boom in the net immigration
to N.S.W., and things are looking up as they
haven’t done since the year of the infamous bank
smash swindle, when the Fat Man of this country
defrauded so many British people out of their
deposits. The last 18 months shows a gain of
7731 people, where the previous 10 years revealed
a loss of 7735. This is the record :
N.S.W.’s N.S.W.'s
Loss by Excess Gain by Excess
of Departures. of Arrivals.
1892 .. 3969
1893 1560 ..
1894 .. 919
1895 840
1896 3967 ..
1897 173 ..
1898 .. 1789
1899 .. ... .. .. 390
1900 1618 ..
1901 6744 ..
1902 .. 4561
1903 (J year to June).. .. 3170
But, even with all the great improvement which
has set in since the episode of the hatters and
the passing of the recent Labor legislation, things
are not what they might be. Why is it 1
* * * *
The answer is, on the whole, easy to find. The
old inrush of staying population to N.S.W. was
divided into certain well-defined sections. There
was the inrush of the seekers after alluvial gold ;
they have left off coming because the alluvial now
pays, on an average, only about the wages of a
German agricultural laborer. There was the
influx of the land-grabbers who got areas for a
song in the strip of well-watered coast country,
and saw an obliging Government build railways
for them with borrowed money, and multiply the
value of their land five or tenfold without an effort
on their part. They have left off because the best
land is all absorbed. There was the influx
of contractors and laborers to participate in
the scattering of the early loans and the boom that
came of them. That boom is dead, because all
the money that the Government can borrow now
hardly counterbalances the outflow of interest on
old loans, and where a 2J million loan once meant
2J millions more money scattered in the country,
now it simply means that the loan comingin about
equals the interest going out, and there is nothing
to scatter in the country. Then there was the
rush of settlers to the West, but the West has
turned dog and turned desert, and that rush is
also over. When all these booms began to be
about used up, the great bank breakage came, and
covered the country with disgrace, and made its
name smell like Sodom and Gomorrah. And then
the Tory robbers, sharks and incapables sat down
among the ruins, and said it was all the work of
the Labor party—then hardly even heard of.
* * * *
To put the case shortly, the reason why; people
don’t come to N.S.W. to stay in anything like
such numbers as of old, is that all the things they
came to stay for in those old days are about as
dead as Julios Caesar. A new influx of agri-
cultural settlers might be brought about by com-
pulsorily breaking up the big estates and supply-
ing accessible land to settle on, but that would
mean violent interference with the S.M. Herald’s
friends, and would be denounced as confiscation.
An influx of artisans might be brought about by
remorselessly suppressing a great part of the
importing industry, and manufacturing the things
we now buy from abroad, but that would also
mean violent interference with the S.M. Herald’s
friends. But to ask why the alluvial gold-hunters
don’t come as of old, when there is practically no
alluvial gold ; and why the old land-grabbers
don’t pour in as aforetime, when there is prac-
tically nothing to grab ; and why the old pastoral
settlers don’t storm the West again, when the
West is a great insolvency covered with the
bones of their predecessors; and why the bankers,
jobbers, and financiers don’t come, when the place
is still filled with the ruins of the old finance,
is sheer childishness. As for the statement of
the Tory press that the Immigration laws have
put a Chinese wall round Australia, and that the
Six Blathers episode has destroyed all tendency
on the part of outsiders to come here, these are
such obvious lies that they hardly need refutation.
People are coming in greater numbers than ever
before. And, thanks partly to the measure of
Protection that N.S.W. now enjoys, partly to the
assurance of the Australian Government that
undesirable characters will be shut out and the
place kept clean for tiie respectable immigrant,
the people who come to N.S.W. are now begin-
ning once more to stay. The awful disrepute
into which the country fell in the year of tiie bank
smash infamy is beginning to be repaired a little,
and Democratic and Protectionist legislation is be-
ginning to undo the evil which the S.M. Herald’s
arrogant and dishonest political friends brought
on Australia. But even if all the evil past of
the S.M. Herald’s disreputable friends could be
undone, immigration could never be quite what it
was 30 or 40 years ago. That class of the British
population which supplied the best of the old
immigrants is nearly extinct, or too dead-broke
to pay its passage out here. It consisted largely
of small farmers, and their sons, and with the
decay of British agriculture there isn’t much
left of this class now. The Britisher doesn’t
come here to any great extent to go on the land
for various reasons. One of them is that going
on the land is becoming a lost art with him.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Notable Military Proposal.
Representative Hughes did not get much sym-
pathy from the Australian Parliament when he
proposed as an amendment to the Defence Bill to
include in the militia forces
All male inhabitants, except those exempted, who have
resided in the Commonwealth for six months, and are
British subjects and are between the ages of 18 and 21
years. The male population liable to serve in the
national militia forces shall —
(1) Present themselves once in each year, at such times
and places as may be prescribed, for the purpose of
undergoing 11 days’ continuous training.
(2) Present themselves for detached drills on such other
days as may be prescribed, provided that it shall not be
compulsory to attend more than 32 of such detached
drills, aggregating a period of 112 hours. The period for
any one detached drill shall not exceed eight hours nor
be less than two hours.
Yet it was a truly national and democratic pro-
posal. There are two dangers to which a modern
democracy is liable: —(1) A neglect of its military
system, rendering it helpless to assert its rights in
an emergency; (2) the growth of a military caste,
reserving to itself all military knowledge, and, in
time, becoming the instrument or the instigator of
tyranny. There is but one really effective remedy
against both —the training of the whole male
population to the service of arms so that every
able-bodied man can at need help to defend his
citizenship. The full strength of the people is
then available to resist aggression, and, at the
same time, no danger of a dominant military
caste is created. When the army is the people
and the people the army, one cannot oppress the
other. The amount of training to be given to
each citizen would have to be slight —just suffi-
cient to give him an idea of discipline and a good
knowledge of the use of his weapons, and make him
fit for the rank and file. The tax on the
industrial wealth of the Commonwealth under
such a system would not be unduly burdensome.
Under Mr. Hughes’ proposal something like
100,000 men would be removed from work for
a fortnight each year; that would be equal to the
loss of between 4,000 and 5,000 men’s work to the
nation yearly—a loss which could be easily met
and which would be more than compensated for
by the better standard of physique which military
training would give to the population, and
the greater security against foreign aggression
or domestic despotism. It is not an encouraging
fact that the Australian House of Representa-
tives barely gave a thought to the proposal—
rejecting it almost contemptuously. It was one of
the most important as yet mooted in the Legis-
lature and was worthy of at least careful con-
sideration. But no sympathy could be expected
from a Defence Minister whose past experience
has been of a Crown convict colony and whose
future hope is of London social life. Defence, in
John Forrest’s idea, isn’t simply the creation of
a serviceable force—a force with a good gun,
though‘possibly with no uniform, and with a good
fighting capacity, though possibly with only a
dim idea about how to salute. The clash of brass
accoutrements, and the clatter of dangling bits of
metal, and the glare of big bearskin hats costing
several pounds each are essentials in the Forrest
ideal.
4
The Orange Pup Programme.
The combined forces of Yellow Pupism have
issued their programme for the coming elections.
The following are the six points on which a
candidate must be solid, and if he is solid on
these he is a fit person to look after the manage-
ment of Australia’s public affairs, debts, finances,
lands and all the rest:
(1) That a Protestant cleric must have precedence at
the feeding table of the ungodly when the Governor
gives an entertainment; and must walk, blown out with
worldly pride, in a front place at public entertainments.
(2) That all State aid must be withdrawn from
orphanages, old age homes, etc., run by the churches.
(3) That the existing State school system must be
maintained. (This is mere supererogation, for there
isn’t a ghost of a chance of it being interfered with.)
(4) That all religious institutions where labor is per-
formed must be made subject to the provisions of the
Factories Act._ (This is an exceedingly wise idea adopted
apparently with the malicious purpose of getting the
rival sect into trouble, but it is so wise that it is welcome
however bad the motive may be.)
(5) That an effort must be made to prevent people en-
joying themselves on Sundays.
(6) That public service jobs and billets must be
equitably distributed among members of all denomina-
tions. (This is probably not meant to be taken literally,
for to carry it out it would be necessary to appoint more
Catholics than at present, and Dili, and Co. certainly
don’t intend that.)
And in all the Federal and State programme of
the Orange Pup clan there isn’t a word about
economy, about paying our way out of revenue,
solving the unemployed problem, establishing
new industries, about colored-labor questions,
irrigation, transcontinental railway, arbitration
problems, about getting the best men, apart from
all religious questions, for the public service—
about all the hundred and one really urgent
matters that make up the political situation to-
day. To the parson—dozing among old legends
and superstitions, pottering away in a little side-
show world of his own, where the problems of life
are vestments, positions, ceremonies, bazaars,
collections, churcli traditions, and such-like dust
and lumber, always in danger of being run over
by the live present while he stands on the tram-
line to argue about the correct reading of a comma
or semi-colon that happened 1900 years ago—all
these matters of to-day are things of little or
no account. To his mind the whole world hinges,
first and foremost, on the question of
some parson’s or priest’s squalid little claim to
walk first when a useless Governor holds a useless
public function for the entertainment of the most
useless section of the community. Yet this matter
seems to have been put first in all honesty of pur-
pose. Parsoridom in general doesn’t really know,
it would seem, that there is anything more urgent
on hand. And, apparently, it never will know.
The great political problems of the day blow past
it like dead leaves while it broods over its little
vestry troubles and its little Sunday-school
anxieties. And it has no adviser competent to
explain to it that Australia is not at all likely to
hang its politics on the claim of any expounder to
sit in a higher place than another expounder at a
rich man’s feast; and that in putting that speck
of petty personal vanity in the front of its political
creed it was making a pitiable revelation of its
unfitness to be anything but a stuffed relic put
away on a shelf.
♦
The “Argus” Land Policy.
There is some fear in Victorian Tory circles that
Lands Minister Taverner has an ambition to be
the John M'Kenzie of Victoria, and that he is
converting his Iceberg colleague to the Maoriland
idea of the compulsory resumption of large estates.
Taverner isn’t much of a statesman, but he seems
to have received instructions to ‘ * settle the people
on the land, ” and in his pathetic struggles to find
land to settle them on lie is suspected of being
almost driven into unavoidable sagacity. Under
these circumstances the Argus _ has broken out
into a series of feeble articles in which it flaps
Maoriland faintly with the dishcloth of dis-
approbation and smites it with the feather of
reproach. It is driven to admit that the Maori-
land policy of compulsory resumption has been a
financial success, that it has helpedon land settle-
ment, that it has been accompanied by a great
increase of wealth and production, and so on.
But it complains in this fashion
It should be remembered before inferences are drawn
from the financial results of the Maoriland experiment,
that its time of trial has coincided with the rise of the
dairy and frozen meat industries, that the markets for
the products of these industries have been favorable,
that Maoriland has been passing through a period of
almost unparalleled prosperity, and that land values have
been steadily rising. Had adverse conditions prevailed,
there might have been a heavier tale of unlet lands and
arrears of rent. The experiment in its financial aspect
has still to stand the test of hard times. An unfriendly
money-market might bring operations to a standstill,
while a serious decline in dairy produce and meat, or
even in wool, might convert the present financial guccess
into financial failure.
That argument begins to grow a little tired.
There has been an all-round rise in pastoral
products, and Maoriland, with heavy Protection,
and with its policy of buying up big estates to
make room for close settlement, has prospered
exceedingly. And the same rise hasn’t made
Victoria—which has less Protection and no such
land settlement policy—prosper worth twopence:
and Great Britain, with the same rise in prices,
and Freetrade, and with the big estate disease in an
even worse form than Victoria has it, sees its
land going almost entirely out of cultivation.
The Maoriland system of breaking up the big
estates, and the Victorian system of not breaking
up the big estates, have both had the advantage
in some recent years of a rising market, so that
they might show their excellence. One has led to
prosperity ; the other has led to slump. Probably,
as the Argus says, the Maoriland system will not
show up so well in a falling market—no system
does. But the Victorian system isn’t likely to
show up so well in a falling market either, and if
it shows up much worse than it has done of late,
heaven help it.
4.
“Passive Defence.”
An extract from Federal Commandant Hutton’s
annual report: —
The principles governing defence cannot be limited to
measures of a purely passive kind, and history has shown
that the best and surest defence is by a vigorous offence.
It is strategically and politically unsound to restrict the
operations of any defence force to “passive” defence
within a given geographical limit. It would be difficult
to point to any single instance in history in which a
purely passive defence has been successful. It is, mili-
tarily speaking, one of the first principles of successful
defence that the power of offence should be recognised.
The defence of Great Britain, which in its geographical
position as an island may be considered as analogous to
that of Australia, has never been successfully effected by
the passive defence of its shores. In every instance in
which British arms have been successful, and invasion
has been averted, it has been by offensive, combined
with defensive, operations, and by forcing the enemy to
fight on territory other than that of Great Britain and
Ireland. The strategical policy governing the defence of
Australia is not different in this respect from that which
has been held to be practical and sound by naval and
military commanders in all ages.
This is Hutton’s miserable and unconvincing con-
tribution to the literature of the Imperial con-
spiracy for placing Australian defence solely in
the hands of British officials, and as an argument
in that direction it is so supremely silly that
Hutton should get three months’ leave for the
express purpose of swearing at himself. Granted
that certain rules have been recognised by
tlie military and naval commanders of all ages,
Hutton doesn’t know that a purely Australian
naval force —if there were one—would disregard
these rules. He simply assumes it. Britain keeps
a naval force of its own to protect itself according
to certain rules; Australia, according to the
Imperial doctrine, should keep no naval force at
all. and have no guarantee that it will be
defended according to these or any other rules.
If Hutton could show that the military and
naval commanders of all ages had laid it down
that a country, approachable only by sea, should
have no naval force of its own at all to protect it,
either offensively or defensively, and should
depend wholly on a fleet, the first business of
which is to protect a country at the other end of
the globe and the food supplies of that country,
there might be some point in his remarks. As it
is, they are unspeak ibly stupid.
Tho Vanishing Victorian Citizen.
A number of alleged “representative citizens”
met at Melbourne Town Hall last week to con-
sider the why and wherefore of the alleged over
frequent departure of desirable young men from
Victoria. The meeting made a false start by not
being quite sure whether the thing it had met to
consider really existed at all, and one citizen
strenuously assured the assembled inhabitants
that there was no evidence before them of any
excess of departures. The Victorian Government
Statistician supplies the evidence right enough,
but the meeting was so accustomed to having


its natural diet of thistles before it that
it had forgotten to confront itself with any
other substance. It was at last decided,
however, that the well-known and well-proved
exodus of Victorian citizens really exists, and hav-
ing considered pros and cons for about t wohours the
meeting concluded that it was desirable to establish
a Society for the Promotion of Land Settlement in
Victoria, and went home to think things over. As
to the causes of the exodus, and the remedy
therefor, there was no hint of any rational sug-
gestion whatever, except the rumbling ebullition
—as of an exploding boiler—of one Embling, of
the House of 48 Rich Landlords, that the exodus
was all owing to “ socialistic legislation.” The
Bulletin was much soothed on hearing of this
interjection. No Victorian public meeting is
complete nowadays unless some flabby individual
jerks in a remark about “socialistic legislation.”
Possibly, however, Embling was thinking of the
swindling irrigation trusts and hinting hi 3 inten-
tion to put a stop to further State aid to the
fraudulent landowner. As for the beautiful
Society for the Promotion, etc., etc., it might
just as well form a society for the promotion of
beer-drinking. There is no lack of would-be
land-settlers, any more than there is of beer-
drinkers—the eternal trouble is to get the beer
and the land. At this blessed meeting, which
seems to have been really called for the
Better Burking of a Great Question, no
mention was made of the fact that “Socialistic
legislation ” hasn’t touched the Victorian man on
the land yet, except in the way of taxing the city
worker to pay for his irrigation works. The mini-
mum wage has never been applied to his industry;
trades unionism hasn’t reached him ; he has never
been touched by the eight-hours movement, or by
any employers’ liability law, and the Vic. farmer,
except in very rare cases, doesn’t even pay land-
tax. If, with this complete freedom from
Socialistic legislation he can’t get along, then the
absence of Socialistic legislation doesn’t seem to
be all it might be. Anyhow, the Melbourne Town
Hall meeting formed a Society for the Promotion
of Land Settlement, and said nothing at all about
any scheme for providing the land to promote
settlement upon. And seeing that the supply of
Crown land is about exhausted in Victoria, and the
great landlords won’t part with their private areas
for settlement, the Melbourne Town Hall meeting
might just as well establish a Society for the Pro-
motion of Settlement on the Ceiling—head down-
wards.
The “ Blithesome ” Larrikin.
Joseph Cook, M.H.R., one of the soured and
cranky pietists of the House of Representatives,
struck an unexpected note last week. The
question on deck at the moment was Hughes’s
Eroposal that every able-bodied Australian should
e put through just enough military training to
prevent him being an utterly raw and confused
and almost useless person when called upon some
day to defend his country. Incidentally it was
suggested that even a few days’ training per
annum might be good for the larky and rowdy
youth of the community —might instil some idea
of order and discipline into the football barracker,
the street corner larrikin, the window-breaker,
the expectoiator, the cigarette fiend, and the
kicker of his species. And thereupon Joseph
rose to object to these deafening inhabitants
being subjected to the gloom and rigidity of mili-
tary discipline; and the remarkable reason of
Joseph was this: —
What was called larrikiniam was to some extent the
rebound from the dull grey industrial existeuce of the
older countries. “ I like to see this blithesomenes r , and
this gaiety, this display of animal spirits, that v? find in
Australia, but what is all this militarism for? For dis-
ciplining it out?”
This is probably the first time that the Australian
larrikin has been taken for a blithe and cheery
creature. The only possible explanation seems
to be that the man who made the remarkable
error is himself a miserable-looking local preacher
with strange and improbable ideas as to what
constitutes mirth. Surely no one but Joe Cook
could mistake the Australian larrikin for a happy
and frivolous citizen ! He looks like a Calvinist;
he spits with an air of defiant misery; he yells with
a mirthless note; he doesn’t even seem to enjoy
kicking the casual stranger, but kicks him in a
wretched, perfunctory way as if he had to kick
him, yet didn’t really care whether he kicked him
or not. “Blithesomeness” is the last word any
sane and intelligent citizen would apply to the
larrikin ; it is as utterly inappropriate as a Cardi-
nal standing on his head or a Pope in a threepenny
bar. The word suggests innocent happiness, and
the larrikin is about as depressed-looking a person
as one can meet out of gaol. The keynote of his
character is a tendency to step gloomily but
promptly onto the grass when the notice tells him
to keep off; to expectorate sadly when the ticket
tells him not to do it; and to prod the animal with
a changeless face when the notice on the cage says
the animal must not be prodded. No one save old
Sitting Bull, the Red Indian, or a hardened
American poker player, ever had a more emotion-
less countenance. Almost the saddest thing in
the way of mirth this writer ever saw was a
crowd of larrikins leaning over a pond at an
aquarium trying to knock pieces oft the shark
with a clothes prop. They toiled at it for half-an-
hour with the gloomy countenances of convicts,
and though they damaged the animal a good deal,
they didn’t laugh once. The only thing that
resembles the larrikin is the rich American of
such alleged musical comedies as the “Stranger in
New York.” He is mostly toiling miserably over
the labor of enjoyment at balls and such like, and
saying to his friend every now and again, “Aren’t
we having a great time?” And his friend says
they are. The larrikin suggests a stunted and
purposeless human woe, who is always ready to
stop and fiercely ask a brick wall if he isn’t having
a great time, and to hit the wall a deadly and
fatal whack if it doesn’t corroborate him. His
loud and doleful clamor about a horse, and his
defiant and metallic swear about a footballer, and
his discordant bellow about a double, all suggest a
person whose whole life is a vain struggle to believe
that he is happy. And Joe Cook calls this
person’s frame of mind “ blithesome ! ” “ Blithe-
some ” of all things !
The Fawned State Bank.
The N.S.W. Assembly has at last expressed the
opinion, so far as the mere passing of a resolution
can do it, that the present Government Savings
Bank and the present Advances to Settlers
Department should be amalgamated to form a
State Bank. The new bank is, presumably, to
issue notes; it will also, as a matter of , course,
receive deposits and carry on all the business of a
Savings Bank ; and it is to lend out money to the
“man on the land.” In fact, one of the chief
reasons put forward for its existence is that it is
to provide cheap money for “the man on the
land.” And, in order to do this, as the'Govern-
ment has got most of the Savings Bank funds
that are immediately available, and has given
State securities in exchange for them, it is
proposed to float the good old loan. That
is an invariable item. Now, to begin with, The
Bulletin approves cordially and unreservedly
of the State Bank idea. Just as soon as the
Owe’Sullivan is politically dead it believes such
an institution should be established, but at the
same time this paper doesn’t think that the bank
would have any decent chance with the Owe’Sul-
livan within ten miles of it, and it doesn’t want
to see another great democratic principle dragged
in the mud by the Owe’ person’s incapacity.
Assuming the Owe’Sullivan to be politically
dead, the other principal points that srg;;est
themselves are these:
(1) The present Advances to Settlers Department, i
rumor is anything like true, has been run on charitable,
easy-going, muddled, unbusiness-like, vote-catching
principles, till it has got into such a condition that no
State Bank which intends to be honest and respectable
can be expected to take it over.
(2) The State’s credit is now so bad that it is difficult
to see where the money can be borrowed at a price which
will enable it to be lent very cheaply to the “ man on the
land.”
(3) It is an absurd and circuitous process for the
Savings Bank, if it goes extensively into the Land Bank
business, to lend its deposits to the Government, and
then borrow money to carry on its own business.
(4) The tendency to make everything the excuse for
floating a new loan has already been carried a great deal
too far. The capital of the new bank should be supplied
by instalments out of the State revenue. N.S.W. wants
to own a bank, yet, at the same time, it is proposed that
N.S.W. shouldn’t put a penny of capital into it—that, in
fact, it should be a State Bank in which the State hasn’t
a single copper of interest. And if the State Bank’s
capital is raised in London it may be fairly argued against
it that a private bank, largely owned by Australians, is
really a great deal more of a national institution than an
alleged State Bank, every stick and stone of which is
owned by foreign money-lenders.
(5) The’re is, right at the beginning, too much tendency
to regard the proposed institution as a philanthropic
affair for the benefit of the man on the land whose
security, in a general way, is about the worst in N.S.W.
Such an institution should lay itself out to do town and
city business just as much as country business —to do
any business which is profitable. Its first aim should be
to shift, as far as possible, the grip of the foreign mort-
gagee on this country. Its second aim should be to make
money—the money it makes will belong to the people of
N.S.W. collectively, and they deserve money ; Heaven
knows they haven’t seen very much of it of late. And the
third aim should be to help the people of N.S.W. indivi-
dually by lending them money at as cheap a rate as is
consistent with the duty of making money for the people
collectively.
(6) And just because it should be the aim—though it
may be a very far off aim—of the institution to make the
State the sole mortgagee in N.S.W., therefore it is
especially important that the new State Bank should
start with funds supplied out of the State revenue. To
oust the private mortgagee, who is sometimes an Aus-
tralian, in order to replace him by a purely foreign
money-lender (i.e., the person in London who puts up the
loans to run the bank with), is only, under the pretence
of State enterprise, pawning the country a little extra.
The Bulletin hasn’t much hope of seeing a State
Bank which is really a State Bank (that is,
a bank which is owned by the State) started in
N.S.W. until Owe’Sullivan is politically dead.
Still it makes these suggestions. Australia has
already three State Banks of some size. The
Maoriland one at present belongs wholly to
Cohen in London, though there is hope that it
may one day pay off Cohen in London and become
a real State institution. The Victorian and S.A.
institutions belong almost wholly to Cohen in
Australia, though the State owns a small and in-
creasing interest in them—the interest represented
by the reserve fund —and there is hope that they
may yet be able to pay off Cohen in Australia.
The N.S.W. Advances to Settlers Department
began by being wholly owned by Cohen in
London, and now it is reputed to be more in his
hands than ever; the State owned no part ol it to
begin with, and now it is alleged that the only
part the State owns is the deficit. This isn’t the
sort of State banking that any sane community
is looking for.
The Enemy Rejoices.
A great advantage is that the personality eliminated
has not been replaced by one as truculent or imperious.
Mr. William Lyne was loth to leave the Home Office tor
the Customs House. In the latter, however, he will have
the chance of a lifetime. He can prove that a great de-
partment may be administered successfully and without
friction, and he can bind up many wounds caused by Mr.
Kingston’s autocratic administration. —S.M. Herald, ex-
pressing the fraudulent importers’ joy at the accession of
Mr. Lyne to the Customs Department.
Mr. Lyne is a different kind of man. He understands
the philosophy of never using the iron hand when the
velvet glove will serve the same purpose. It may be ex-
pected, therefore, that he will inaugurate a new adminis-
trative regime in the Customs Department. The most
satisfactory thing about Mr. Kingston’s retirement from
the Ministry was that it opened the way to that very
much needed change.— Sydney D.T., ditto ditto.
There could be no clearer indication to Premier
Baeton —if he were in a state of mind to receive
such an indication—that he has made a serious
mistake in sending William Lyne to the
Customs Department, than the warm approval
the appointment elicits from the Sydney
Foreign-trade newspapers. They have no
friendliness for the Australian Government, and
what they agree in approving must almost cer-
tainly be wrong. But it ought not to have re-
quired this, so to speak, posthumous evidence to
have warned him against a fatal error. Lyne’s
reputation is well-known. Personally he is the
best of fellows. Politically he probably imagines
himself honest enough. But he suffers from a
curious incapacity to understand what political
honesty means; and, as an administrator, his
methods have always been those of a New York
ward boss. As Premier of N.S.W. his idea of
keeping power was to placate enemies with conces-
sions and keep them as friends by an expansive
and, to the public, expensive generosity, Lyne
never wilfully made an enemy even of the worst
enemy of his country; he never allowed a
man to be an enemy when a kindness, however
undeserved, would attract his friendship. His
dealings with the Freetrade Daily Telegraph,
subsequently exposed by his colleagues, would
have been sufficient, in any country with a
proper conception of political honor, to have
ended his and the paper’s careers as pub-
lic leaders. The office to which Lyne has
been appointed has just been exalted in the
public eye by an administrator whose courage
and passionate regard for the public interest
made dishonesty—no matter how highly placed,
rich, or influential—suffer shame and pun-
ishment. It is an office in which there
is a constant temptation to complaisance, in which
the path of duty is a bitterly hard one, and the
path of wrong is decked with flattering smiles, with
press approval, and with influential gratitude.
There was only one member of the Australian
Cabinet in any way fit to step into Kingston’s
shoes and maintain the austere regime of Customs
honesty which he inaugurated, and that was
Turner. There was one member utterly un-
suited by character and training, and that was
Lyne. Lyne has been appointed, and the im-
porters’ journals rejoice. There are not likely to
be any Customs prosecutions of influential firms in
the future. Thus the benefit to the importers’
cause will be twofold ; the faked invoice will have
a better chance, and the semi-Protectionist Aus-
tralian Government will lose in prestige by the
falling away in its traditions of honest adminis-
tration.
■■■■ » 1
The Game is Up.
If a citizen of Sydney searched through his great
daily papers with a fine-tooth microscope on
Thursday, Aug. 6th, he would have found these
items, hidden away among the police-court news
of drunks and petty thefts and licensing cases.
From S.M. Herald :
CUSTOMS PROSECUTIONS.
In the Summons Division of the Water Police Court,
yesterday, before Mr. G. H. Smitiiers, S.M., Ernest
Brady was fined £5 and costs, for having made a wrong
statement in a Customs entry ; Sargood, Butler, Niciiol
and Ewen were fined £5 and costs, for having presented
what it was alleged was not a genuine invoice ; and a
similar penalty was imposed on R. M. Hahn, for unlaw-
fully having possession of blank invoice forms.
From Daily Telegraph :
CUSTOMS PROSECUTION.
At the Water Police Court, Messrs. Sargood, Butler,
Niciiol and Ewen were fined £5, and £3 16s. costs, for
having unlawfully prepared a document which was not a
genuine invoice. For unlawfully having possession of
blank invoice forms, R. H. Hahn was fined £5 and costs.
Ernest Braby was fined £5 and costs for making a false
statement in a Customs entry.
But the search would have had to be very thorough,
for as much effort as possible was made to conceal
these tiny paragraphs. And no wonder ! They
show that a big game is up. “ The importer of
high standing and noble integrity, against whose
character there cannot be cast the slightest breath
of suspicion,” has, with the help of his daily
papers, carried on, since the inauguration of the
Federation, an impudent game of bluff. He has
shrieked of his honor and snorted at the indignity
of being prosecuted for dishonesty in a common
police court; he has engaged expensive counsel to
argue that his thefts and his fakes and his swindles
are not in the least degree culpable ; and he has
evoked great warm tears of sympathy from his
subservient newspapers over the brutal tyranny
of tfje Customs Department in prosecuting him
in cases of glaring fraud. Now, all that game is
up. The importer found out with a faked invoice
no longer engages a herd of K.C.’s, and fills the
land with detailed accounts of his tricks. He
trots unobtrusively down to the common police
court and submits tamely to his fine ; and his
daily newspapers put a tame, unobtrusive record
of the incident in the police news “among the'
drunks ; ” and there is not a word said about his
innate honesty or his inherent nobility of char-
acter, or the infamous brutality of the Customs
Department in making extraordinarily rich and
influential firms conform to the common vulgar
rulqs of straight dealing. The rich importer’s
bluff was splendid in its impudence. If it
hadn't run across a player like Kingston it
would probably have won. But it is all over now,,
and air smells a little more healthy in
consequence.
From a daily paper
Premier Barton stated : During the last few days:
misrepresentations have constantly appeared in the press,
that I intend to appoint myself Chief Justice of the-
Commonwealth. I desire to say that no such idea is in
my mind, and no one knows better than the Attorney-
General that such is not my intention. (Much cheering.)-
Why should the House cheer to see an elderly
gentleman without wealth throwing away a com-
fortable job that he has fairly earned ? Barton
would be a much greater success as Chief Justice
than as Premier; and he isn’t so young as he was
and it is about up to him to make for some shel-
tered spot where he can take steady sitting
exercise and yet be of use. If Barton doesn’t
take the Chief Justiceship he is making the
mistake of his life. Australia in general wouldn’t
grudge him the billet—in fact, it would probably
rather see Barton have it than anyone else.
Moreover, cheers aren’t bread and butter.
Dr. Ham (Q. Health Commissioner) recently in-
vited a number of Brisbane traders and manu-
facturers to attend a little lecture, whereat he
produced the following- lovely specimens of Bris-
bane commercial morality:—
(1) Two bottles of sauce, bearing the brand of a well-
known manufacturer, which, notwithstanding the cost of
ingredients, bottles, corks, and freight, were sold in Bris-
bane at 2d. a bottle.
(2> A tin of alleged plum jam—so per cent, sugar, 30
per cent, water—the rest pie-melon and aniline dye.
(3) Specimen of raspberry syrup that was “ nothing but
aniline dye—and stained the glass.”
(4) Bottles of pickles made in Brisbane, and adorned
with Champion’s labels.
It will be comforting to Queenslanders to know
that most of the above were manufactured in
N.S.W. One Brisbane trader waxed indig-
nant at the disclosures, and informed Dr. Ham
that “poor people must have jam.” Dr. Ham
remarked that, if a poor man must have jam, that
was not a good reason for giving him dye. How-
ever, the news of Kingston’s retirement caine
that day, and the Brisbane traders felt somewhat
comforted.
»
A few days ago the steamer Kybara brought to
Brisbane 126 assisted immigrants. If Queensland
Labor Bureau reports and newspapers are any
guide they have only landed to swell the ranks of
unemployed. Every town has its batch of hungry,
homeless workers, despite the owl-like boast of
Premier Philp that “he didn’t see any genuine
unemployed.” At Mackay 700 men are camped
waiting for the cane-cutting to start. At Lake’s
Creek 500 youths and men, starving and in rags,
sought work, in vain, some five weeks ago, when
there was a rumor of vacancies. An advertise-
ment for 26 cane-cutters on the Lower Burdekin
was answered by 150 men at the Townsville
agent’s office (in Philp’s electorate). In Brisbane
last month hundreds besieged the Minister for
Railways, and all that Leahy could say was that
he would endeavor to give the married men work
(some got it at 4s. a day), and on the Gladstone
Extension line they are working for 3s. 7d. a day.
These people can’t get work because every year
nearly £7,000,000 worth of the goods they ought to
be making are imported. And in the face of
all this the blind Queensland labor leaders
talk of “sinking the fiscal issue” at the coming
Federal elections. Sinking their own bread and
cheese in fact.
+
Is there any moral difference between a man who
breaks a law and a Judge who calls it absurd and
otherwise holds it up to contempt on the Bench,
and thus encourages people to break it? Also,
can a Judge consistently punish a person for
breaking a law he has himself denounced in his
official capacity? Judge Noel, of Queensland,
while trying the damages case of the widow of
miner Milne, killed in the Charters Towers Bonnie
Dundee mine, remarked about the law which
provided for compensation in such cases: “He
had his own opinions about the Act; it was one
of those absurd attempts to interfere between the
employer and the employee.” Isn’t it time some-
thing sudden happened to prevent Judges from
insulting their employers in this public fashion,
and unloading their private political opinions upon
the public, and generally throwing absurd and
spiteful and irrelevant remarks off their judicial
chests in their boss’s time?
♦
On the inside of a shirt cuff sent out to his friends
for washing by an accused awaiting trial in
Darlinghurst gaol, the following scribble was
intercepted and deciphered by a warder :
“Paddy W., Henry H., Polly, Tom, and Mar. I cam
home about 9 p.m. with Paddy and Henry. The rest of
yous was there. We had a consert till about 20 to 11,
and then Polly and the rest left, and when Paddy and
Henry was leaving, at about 10.45, they asked me to go
to the corner and have a drink. I did not go, but went
to bed. Mr. S. and I went up about the same time, 11.
He awoke me next morning. Yous must remember—it
was Thursday night, the 9th of July. Yous know it
was Thursday, becaus I had an interest in Brighton races
on Friday, the 10th, and was talking about them.”
The inference, and perhaps the correct one in
this case, was that the accused was endeavoring
to manufacture an alibi. But it might very well
be otherwise. When a moneyless person, who
cannot get bail, is committed for trial he is wholly
at the mercy of the prosecution. He cannot fee
legal defence. He cannot talk to his friends to
remind them of points in his favor, except in the
presence of a warder, an agent of the prosecution.
(The influential or rich person, who can get bail,
is allowed to communicate with his friends
as much as he likes.) In the meantime, the
prosecutor is at large, with both money and
time, zealously building up supports for the
indictment. An innocent man would naturally
do his best to refresh the memory of friends
as to his whereabouts at the time in ques-
tion. A legal defender would enable him to
do this openly. Without a legal defender or
clandestine communication with friends many-
accused persons are victims of the prosecution.
♦
A few months ago Victoria found that more
revenue was absolutely necessary, and as tjb*
Bent-Irvine Government still adhered grimly to
the theory that there must be no land-tax on the
valuable ground areas of Melbourne, Bendigo,
Ballarat and all the other Victorian towns, and
that the blessed farmer’s soil must not carry an
impost, there was nothing for it but to tax
banking profits. And at the Bank of Victoria’s
meeting several wealthy but apparently insane
shareholders said it was “ a shameful impost
and the work of the Labor party.” It is difficult
to know what to say or think of the mental state
of the people who mistake the Bent-Irvine
Government for a Labor party. The idea that
such crazy individuals should have a vote, when
what they obviously require is kind but firm
medical treatment, is painful. A vote is of no
use to a mind diseased.
• +
At every town and village on the Darling, from
Wentworth to Bourke, O.A.P. (Old Age Pen-
sioners) are to be found. Numbers live on home-
made house-boats, which have various ingenious
contrivances for propulsion. Many dwell in tents
on the banks of the river. The extreme cleanliness
of most of the tents and their immediate vicinity
is a pleasing and characteristic feature. It is not
unusual to find tiny, well-cared-for vegetable, and
even flower, gardens round the tents —the en-
closures being neatly fenced. If some bitter,
unreasoning opponents of Old Age Pensions could
spend a couple of months on the Darling they
would learn to esteem the humane legislation that
is doing so much to make comfortable the declin-
ing days of these battlers out back. In certain
townships the O.A.P. form camps in the police
paddocks, and, according to police reports, give
little trouble.
«.
There is still plenty of work for the
Ballances, M'Kenzies, and Seddons to do in
Maoriland. According to a report made to Par-
liament by the Land and Income Tax Depart-
ment, 861 persons or institutions own land with
an unimproved value of £22,083,426—0n1y a shade
leas than a third of the Sta te’s total.
The Statesman.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I am a Statesman sent of Heaven
To make the land atone
For all the days it riot ran
And lived upon the loan ;
My purse is paunchy, and my paunch
Is big my purse below ;
And wide beneath my double chin
My spreading whiskers flow.
I square the cost of silly war
By cutting down the dole
That holds the ag&d body close
About the agbd soul ;
The price of many a regal feast
When feasts were all the rage—
I make it good by grinding down
The Public Servant’s Wage.
’Tis true the people leave the land
And seek another clime,
For here their hunger malei them beg,
And begging’s made a crime ;
But soon I hope to rush the Jew,
And pawn the State again—
And Plenteous Cash shall fill the fist
Of My Beloved again.
Tis mine to push the nation’s nose
Against the grinding stone ;
’Tis mine to pare the living flesh
From off the living bone ;
’Tis rrrne to lift a strident voice
Within the Council high,
And build the nation’s 1< gd life
Upon the Legal Lie.
With iron nerve and cheek of steel
I smile on Freedom’s frown ;
I early learnt ’tis safe to kick
The battler when he’s down ;
The legions of plethoric Fat
Are clam’rous in my rear,
And whensoe’er I smite the poor
I’m championed with a cheer.
I bear a gaud of British tin
Upon my front of brass ;
I greet with calm and callous grin
The evil days that pass ;
By treach’rous trick and devious dodge
I ’scape the theatening hour,
And still retain a cunning grip
Upon the reins of power.
With help of old Beelzebub,
With craft of Belial’s crew,
With wit and wile and grit and guile
I’ll see the drama through ;
And when I go, the lying Press
Will tell, with many a moan,
How all the nation seeks my grave
And weeps upon the stone 1
Q.
L.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “My Lady Molly.”
Royal “A Midsummer Night’s Dream."
LyceujM “ Greed of Gold.”
Criterion “ The Price of Sin.”
Palace “ Brother Officers.”
Tivoli ' Rickards’ Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “Dolores.”
Her Majesty’s “ San Toy.”
Theatre Royal “ Going- the Pace.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
♦
Jeremiah, the tearful prophet, somewhat
over-prophesied when he said that the heart of
man was desperately wicked. He might have
qualified it, saying, “Also it is desperately soft
when hardness would more become it.” Why
should an audience of close upon a thousand per-
sons have its collective heart turned fluid within it
for pity of a ragged boozer, a humorous vagabond,
lazy as a drone bee, who signs away his property
piece by piece, and leaves his wife to support her-
self and child by washing? Why? Because it
has a human sympathy for human frailty, especi-
ally for the frailty that makes for extreme thirst.
Rip Van Winkle is a chronically dry person, as
dry as a salt patch in a desert land, and although
he is always putting the enemy into his mouth it
does not quite steal away his brains, as a land sale
transaction proves. When a sly dramatist wishes
to capture our sympathies for an irresponsible,
he makes him a man whom children and dogs
instinctively follow. Children and dogs never
yet followed a vicious man, and the fact that Rip
is mostly surrounded by a horde of both tells
more in his favor with an audience than an arch-
bishop’s certificate of excellent character. Dogs
know a. great deal more than archbishops in some
matters,
* * » *
“ Rip Van Winkle/’ revived by Mr. J. C.
Williamson, last Saturday, at Her Majesty’s,
with the revivalist himself in the name-part, is a
fine opportunity for him to display his genius as a
character-actor. The graceless, lovable scallywag
of Washington Irving's story lives again. Rip
has a good hard-working wife, but for whom he
would long have been in the Catskill Home for
Inebriates, yet when she nags at him because
he comes home drunk again, after having shot
the bull whilst aiming at a rabbit, we sympathise
with him and call her a vixen. After his 20 years’
sleep in the enchanted “Hollow” on Catskill
Mountains, he arises stiffly, with snow-white
haif and beard, and w>th rheumatics, his rags
frescoed with weather stains, and his face
wrinkled and creased like an antediluvian bank-
note. And, after he has struggled back home,
the actor in his. pathos is so effective that we
really feel that his wife has worked out her
salvation when she assures him, in effect, that he
need never be sober again—that she herself will
see to it that he is always idle, drunk and happy.
Miss Susie Vaughan, as the wife, looks and acts
her part with great success. There must have
been a Married Women’s Property Act in the Cat-
skills during the reign of George 111. because
Gretchen turns Rip out, saying, “This is MY
house.” Miss Mollison and other subsidiary
characters play up to the awakened sleeper most
honestly. But there is ho appearance at any part
of the play of “ My dog Schneider.’’ He is always
the subject of allusion, and you can hear the row
in the cottage when Gretchen hunts him out, but
he is as much a myth as “the grouse in the gun
room ” was in “ She Stoops to Conquer. ” For the
rest the Catskills must be, judging by the scenery,
the site of the Garden of Eden.
*** & '
“In Paradise,” presented at the Sydney
Palace on Saturday, is an entirely objectionable
farce adapted from the French. It has neither
wit nor humor nor clever construction to relieve
its unpleasant picture of a tom-cat’s kind of
Paradise. That it is very well acted gives it
some claim to consideration, but it is a pity to
waste good acting on such pitiable stuff. Pont-
bichot, an old country resident, comes up to Paris,
with a virago wife, to marry off his daughter.
I hat’s the ostensible business ; a more important
purpose with him is to get into loose society, and
he intends to pick on a son-in-law who has some
little “affairs ”on hand. The young man is to
get his daughter, conditionally On transferring the
“affairs” to the old man. An arrangement of
that sort, as unnatural as it is disgusting, and
almost as uninteresting as it is disgusting, is come
to with Delacroix, an artist. This person intro-
duces his pa-in-law-elect to a pretty dressmaker,
who, as a matter of fact, has not had an “affair”
with him up to then —probably merely from
pressure of business (not in the dressmak-
ing line), for there are others. With this
plot, the farce rushes through three act's
of bedroom scenes, deceived and deceiving
husbands, pandars and- cocottes; to an ending
which is made a happy one by hard lying. In
parts—notably when the great bed, around which
centres one whole act and countless indelicate
allusions, holds the stage —the piece is almost
objectionable enough to be able to pass, with
a little cant thrown in, as a religious drama. It
is certainly the broadest as well as the stupidest
farce that the writer can recall for the moment.
* * * *
The acting of “In Paradise” is worthy
of a better subject. Miss Van Buren, in the ■
roysterous comedy part of a dressmaker whose
customers are mainly men, plays with
merry brightness which does a little to relieve the
unpleasantness of the character. Pontbichot, as
the dotard satyr from the country, is very cleverly
presented by J. Amory. In a cast which has no
weak points others who show out well are Wallace
Shaw as Baron Flechard—a good piece of char-
acter impersonation; Daniel Frawley as Dela-
croix, and Miss Christine Hill as, Madame Pont-
bichot. Next Saturday the co. will return to
sanity and present “Brother Officers.’’
*# * *
The artistic success of the Shakspearean
season at Sydney Royal was assured the first
night; its financial success was assured the first
week, and the guarantees go on increasing. Last
Saturday night the house was filled by 7.30. A
week ago it was remarked here that the next
advance in the staging of “ The Dream ’’ would
have to be the equipment of Puck with a flying
machine. Miss Marsden has been anxiously
waiting all the week for the inventor to turn -up;
for the second time—the first time was in Mel-
bourne—her “spiritings ” have damaged the only
limbs she at present has to fly with, and it has
THE LATE SIGNORA MAJERONI IN HER GREAT
CHARACTER AS “ QUEEN ELIZABETH .”
Photo, by Johnstone O’Shannessy, Melbourne.
been a very lame Puck that has been girdling the
earth in 40 minutes. Apart from the scholarly
rendering of the parts of Hermia and Helena by
Miss Brooke and Miss Milton, nothing has been
more enjoyable than the songs of Miss Rignold
(Oberon) and Miss Nora Kerin (Titania), and the
latter’s tuneful fairy attendant. Miss Ure. There
is no sign yet of a change of bill, and none seems
necessary,
** * *
In “The Shadows of a Great City”
Charles Holloway, at Sydney Criterion, has a
melodrama which has already lived 20 years or so,
and deserves to live a good while longer, for it is
almost beyond comparison superior to the present-
day pot-boiler. While sensational enough to
please any “god,” it is not grotesquely impos-
sible ; its dialogue has some literary merit; its
story is coherent; and its comedy is not tire-
somely obtruded. Holloway’s company, more-
over, plays it, on the whole, well. J. P. O’Neill
makes the part of Biddy Roonan—the massive,
good-hearted Irish American—the most conspicu-
ous. Without being obviously created for the pur-
pose, Bridget supplies most of the comedy. While
she is merely rollicking one can believe that she
is Bridget; when she becomes sentimental it is
recalled that her name is John P. O’Neill. Never-
theless, it is a performance of far more than
average quality. So is Grattan Coughlan’s Jim
Farren—the part that J. C. Williamson used to
take in the long ago. Practically, Farren is two
people—a young incorrigible at the outset; a
hardened gaol-bird towards the end. Coughlan
succeeds in both. Beatrice Holloway, Vivian
Edwards, Miss Conroy, and, in fact, all
the rest of the co. do reasonably well. Though,
by the way, 15 years elapse between the 2nd act
and the 3rd. several of the people don’t in the
meantime add a wrinkle. It is evidently healthy
round New York. “The Price of Sin” will
follow “ The Shadows ” next Saturday night.
** * *
“ Greed of Gold ” is not one of the best
things in the Sydney Lyceum play-bin. The
incident on which it is built is the loss of speech
by an epileptic ; but so poorly are the possibilities
of that situation realised, that one begins to wish
that half the characters were afflicted the same
way. The performance is, in fact, mainly notable
for two things—Willard isn’t a villain, and Stirling
Whyte isn’t killed at the end of the first act.
Willard will, however, probably repent; no sooner
does he leave the bumpy path of vice than he is
struck with dumbness and accused of murder, and
that isn’t much encouragement to go on. There
is hot the usual opportunity in “Greed of Gold”
for that garish magnificence of spectacular effect
which is the speciality of the Lyceum. Still, it has
a “ thrill ” or two. For instance, one of the heroes
is tied to the fly-wheel of some mill machinery and
the engines are started; and there is also a
new way of killing Chinamen in which one
part of the house takes a keen interest. The best
part of the show, however, is one which hasn’t
anything to do with it—a “floral ballet ” dropped
in casually while the villain is deciding whom he
will kill next. This is an excellent performance.
Also, the Lyceum has been re-decorated in blues
and greys and gold, and re-upholstered in blue,
and Shakspeare has been painted over the stage,
with Bert Bailey on one side and Willard on the
other—if it isn’t Bailey and Willard it ought to
be. In fact, the only old, familiar thing about
the place is the advt. drop, which tells you who
will bury you with neatness and despatch.
** * *
Wirths’ Circus, which is no slouch of a
circus, is at present doing Newcastle, and when it
has finished there and blown the coal-dust out of
the camel’s ear, it will come on to Sydney, open-
ing in Phillip Park ori the 22nd. This show is the
biggest the Wirths have ever got together, and is
understood to be something beyond ordinary
human computation. It includes the Howard
Brothers (a blindfolded Howard sits on a
stage and describes any article that may. be
handed to the other Howard by. members of the
audience), boxing poiiies, performing lions,
baboons, and other poor relations of the human
species, a footballing dog, and all manner of
people who risk their lives in uncanny ways with
no more clothing on them than is absolutely neces-
sary.
** # #
Sydney Tivoli announces the last nights of
Rudinoff, who has held the public so long by his
mimicry, his whistling, his singing, and his
sketches. This afternoon (Thursday) a special
matinee will be given in aid of
the widow and orphans of the
late Michael O'Connor who
used to be the Tivoli’s janitor;
those who can attend will get
the usual good value for their
money, and will feel at the same
time as if they were doing, a
large and reckless act of charity.
** * *
Miss Florence Menk-Meyer
gives her first recital at Sydney
Centenary Hall, Saturday, 15th.
*
Miss Sylvia Blackston’s
concert eventuates at Sydney
Y.M.C.A. Hall, August 19th.
** * *
Signora Majeroni, whose
photo, appears in this issue,
died at Melbourne on Saturday
morning. It is so long since
she was c mpelled to retire
from the stage owing to the
disease which finally killed her,
that the younger generation of
playgoers barely knows her
name. Yet she was among the
half-dozen best actresses that
Australia has seen, and there
are a number of characters in
which she was almost unsurpass-
able. She was certainly the
finest Fedora this country ever
knew. At the same time, if Sig-
nora Majeroni were alive to-day
and in the flush of her superb
talent and beauty, Australia
would probably only be able
to offer ner an engagement for a
short season sandwiched between
the musical comedy with the
Blinky Bill in it and the melo-
drama with the beaked lunatic in
it.
The course of comic opera at Melbourne
Princess’s did not run smoothly last week. T’other
Wednesday night _ the massive, heavy-weight
figure of Slapoffski didn’t pop up as usual to
conduct the orchestra, but on the perch from
which Slap, had ofttimes made an awe-inspir-
ing demonstration the unaggressive personality
of H. Weinberg appeared. Also, the part
that Madame Slap, formerly played in “ The
Serenade ” was taken at brief notice by Miss May
Beatty, whilst Miss Lilian Boanas filled Miss
Beatty’s other pair of shoes. The story goes that
the two emergency performances were studied
whilst the opera was proceeding on the Wednes-
day night, one or other Miss B. receiving
instructions in the music from Lempriere
Pringle, behind the scenes, whenever oppor-
tunity offered. Presumably they had a fair grip
of their responsibilities before the curtain went
up. Anyway, the changes in the cast were an
improvement from the very first, and on Satur-
day night “The Serenade” had shaken down
into a much brighter opera than it seemed
three weeks previously. May Beatty must have
recovered her lost self in quickest time on record.
She not only looks and acts the character of a
wandering columbine far better than her pre-
decessor could do it ; she also is more pleasing
in some of the music, notably the “Cupid”
ballad, for her voice is young and tuneful, whereas
Madame Slapoffski’s warble at its best consisted
mainly of a loud operatic style and a hard-working
top-note. And now that the well-worn warble is
no longer at its best, its treatment of light, sweet
music is apt to be heavy and uninteresting. This
doesn’t deny the fact that Madame’s strenuous
top-note at the finish could usually command an
encore. Weak humanity is ever susceptible to
“bluff,” and a final, high soprano shriek, intelli-
gently assisted by an orchestra, is the dead surest
means of bluffing an audience into unpremedi-
tated enthusiasm.
* * * *
Miss Boanas, as the Duchess, is only a
little lacking in the vivacity she showed four years
ago, when she was an amateur Germaine in
“ Cloches de Corneville.” She sings well and cuts
an uncommonly graceful figure in boy disguise.
Her former character of an enamoured nut-brown
Lopez fell to Miss Katie Schafe on Saturday, but
the change in this case was saddening, for Misa
Schafe is a distinctly female bandit with a Con-
servatorium sort of voice, wherein a very little
natural music has seemingly been cultivated be-
yond recognition. The cultivation which can’t
prevent a nervous novice from singing horribly
out of tune is a waste of labor. After all, the
managerial promise to resurrect Donizetti’s
“Daughter of the Regiment,” and close the
season with that old-fashioned opera bouffe, is to
be duly fulfilled. One lonesome performance of
“ The Daughter ” will happen on Friday.
*** * ,
On Saturday the only Nellie Stewart
returns to the Princess’s with the dramatic co.
for the purpose of playing a farewell season,
limited to 12 nights. The bill for the first six nights
is “Dolores,” which highly flavoured domestic
drama, by Haddon Chambers, has not yet appealed
to Melbourne’s moral sense.
** * *
At Her Majesty’s the last fortnight of the
Williamsonian No. 2 (or No. lb) musical comedy
company is passing away in a rush of revivals.
Three performances of “A Runaway Girl”
started last Saturday, and if they were intended
to awaken charitable memories of a certain
“ Amateur Runaway Girl” co. which played the
comedy on a small stage at Prahran Town Hall,
then these recent professional efforts achieved
their purpose. On the other hand, if they were
meant to compare favorably with work of
the first Williamson co. on the same musical,
job, the result was an all-round success.
A remarkable back-fall by Fred Leslie is
something that wasn't excelled, or equalled, or
attempted in the original “ Runaway Girl” show.
Olive Lenton is preferable to Carrie Moore in
several respects (so was the amateur Alice at
Prahran); also, the humor of the Carmenita char
f£ ter ll aS a - etter chance when Miaa Kelton is
there than it could possibly get from an ordinary,
sized lady comedian. But with few exception!
the performance is comparatively wealth One
member of the No. 1 company—Bantock— appears
under the No 2 conditions in his old partcK
quently he looks less weak than before. The most
aceeptab e thing Bantock does is the stolid man
damn m “ San Toy, ” and he will be doing thatfe
the next few days. ‘‘San Toy ” was advertised to
take the floor on Wednesday of this week and
IIOTg n ther6 Untll * he Sherlock Ho lmes co. comes
** * *
At the Opera House the “Lady of the
Cockatoos wins the enthusiastic admiration of
every Melbourne person who loves birds for
taming or eating purposes. The town talks of
Madame Marzella and her prettily staged show
And the cockatoos talk. The big white and red
j a Malay—that occupies the cage of honor
on Madame s right makes a point of ordering the
cage door to be opened. An ordinary parrot
merely talks for his own gratification, but this re-
markable specimen wants the door opened because
he is burning to do his turn. When he has duly
achieved a series of backward somersaults down the
length of the operating table, he just bows to the
audience, and returns to captivity in silence.
Wonderful to see the alacrity with which Madame’s
pupils go to work. Their discipline is even more
wonderful, considering the professional jealousy
that exists among the company. The principal
performers would be fighting all the time they are
off the stage if they were not kept apart by the
non-performers—members of the chorus—who as
yet have given no cause for jealousy in any
quarter. The gaudy Indian parrots show a good-
natured contempt for any white Australian chorus
bird, whereas they hate the “star” cockie who
works the alphabet blocks. Also their feelings
towards a pair of educated ravens are warlike in
the extreme.
** * #
The Bland Holt pradrama is still going
strong at Melbourne Royal, but Blandolt himself
is not “ Going the Pace ”as freely as at first. In
the ordinary course of business, that indefatigable
manager broke a tendon in his foot the other
night, and although little things of that sort don’t
keep him off the stage, he has lately been repre-
senting a circus clown with a limp.
** * *
Writes a critic from Adelaide :
The Comic Opera co. ran five operas into its eight-
nights’ season at the Adelaide Royal. The singing was
the best part of the performance. Thorley has not the
wicked eye and the regal manner of the lamented Brown-
low, but he rolls out the music in fine style ; and the
wonderfully clear intonation of Florence Young does
much more than justice to the deadly libretto of “Ma
Mie Rosette,” mated as it is with music which it doesn’t
fit. The words of “ Dorothy ” are almost as bad, but
they have some kind of connection with the tune.
Gilbert’s clear-cut and witty songs were sand-
wiched in on other evenings as if to show what
good libretto can be. George Lauri’s Koko is a pleasant
surprise ; either he has toned down the low-comedy
business a good deal or the critics in the other capitals
maligned him. The co. will be in Sydney shortly. The
Boissetts have knocked each other down for the last
time at the Tivoli, and the small house, after a brief
holiday, is being tenanted by Grace Emmett and other
“ American comedy sketch artists,” assisted by a
Bioscope, which is also of U.S. origin. The A.N.A. is
coming out strong as an entertaining body, having
packed the Town Hall tight on consecutive Saturdays
with an evening of popular hymns and another of
national airs from all countries. It is difficult to say
which better suited Adelaide taste.
*# * *
From a moderately-moral correspondent :
“Dolores” and “A Country Mouse,” recently pre-
sented in Sydney, illustrated respectively the squalor
of a middle-class and an aristocratic entourage. The
comparison was all in favor of the middle-class. In
“Dolores” (which is a vulgarised “Iris,” with touches
of “Zaza,” “Camille,” and “Quex” —a hotchpotch of
all the unpleasantness of all the problem plays, with
only one genuine character in it, the drunken reprobate
of a father, who is a convincing study in moral squalor)
some of the middle-class characters have small touches of
human feeling. They’re ready to break half-a-dozen
Decalogues, but one or two show an atom of honor.
Uncle Beddington, for instance, is quite a decent shark.
In “A Country Mouse” the dukes and lords and ladies
and honorables are all mean little beasts without
honor, honesty, or the dog elements of decency: They
aren’t satisfied with stealing one another’s wives, but
prig one another’s flowers and trespass in one another’s
rooms to carry on their amours. There isn’t a single
character in the whole show morally fit to associate with
a tom-cat. The dear old mother-in-law country ought to
stop the export of such pieces to “ the colonies” ; it isn’t
good for the people here to be told by a drama that the
English duke, etc., is such a mean little beast; it takes
away' from us the respect we ought to have for the House
of Lords and the Privy Council.
#* * *
Some reflections from a silent, weary
town :
Geelong, also well-known as Victoria’s “ Sleepy
Hollow,” has now ready for use a municipally-owned thea-
tre, which is just about the first public-owned theatre in
the English-speaking world. Geelong has, in fact, done
what all the dramatic enthusiasts of London have been un-
successfully agitating for these last few years. But there
the glory ends. An advertisement appears in the papers
asking for tenders for a 10-years’ lease of the theatre.
Which means that the sole purpose of building the
theatre was to secure a fairly regular supply of theatrical
entertainment for the Sleepy Hollowites and also to
augment the municipal revenue. In England the agita-
tion for a publicly-owned theatre is to secure a stage
which will be free from the theatrical speculator, so as to
put dramatic art on a non-commercial basis, as it is in the
French, German, and Russian State-subsidised and
people’s theatres. It is admitted that there can he no
great national drama while the drama remains a “ com-
mercial proposition,” whose success depends upon booms
and long runs. Results are eloquent. France and Ger-
many have playwrights far superior to those of England.
Similarly in Australia we shall have no great national
•drama until we have in every city of importance a theatre
whose purpose is, not to bring in profit, but to serve the
highest aims of Australia as far as drama is concerned.
Geelong had a chance to distinguish itself by handing
over its theatre to a director, such as Ibsen was at
Christiana, to mount the very best plays that have ever
been written, and also to stage the best suitable efforts of
local playwrights. Geelong, with its theatre, would then
have been doing the nation a service that would in time
have made the “ Sleepy Hollow ” the centre of Australian
dramatic art just as Bayreuth is of German music. But
they are sleepy down on Corio Bay.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per. Hal/'-clozen, free by post throughout
A ustra.Ha.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUMTOASTLE & S 3 JS BRISBANE.
u
•>*)
L
WHISKY
RABBITS!
ARE THEY TO BE
A PROFIT OR PEST?
It rests entirely with our settlers whether it shall cost them and the State a large amount
annually to continue the war which has been waged against “ bunny ” for years past,
whether they will take the trouble to turn him into an asset which will bring a steady
revenue to the country and provide employment for THOUSANDS of its people. The
Rosewarne Packing Company, Ltd., is now receiving rabbits at its works in Young, ■
Narandera and Sydney. The highest market price is given in return for freshly-killed
rabbits free of any commission or charges. For fuHher particu i ars , address-
THE ROSEWARNE PACKING COMPANY, Limited
HEAD OFFICE— NARANDERA
70 PITT ST., SYDNEY or YOUNG.


The Wild Cat Column.
Only N.S.W. and Queensland expenditure
figures are available; and the results in both cases are
shocking'. Dealing first with N.S.W., and including in
the revenue the rents from resumed properties (not all
vet paid for), the figures compare with those of the
previous two years in this way :
N.S.W. N.S.W.
Revenue. Expenditure.
July, 1901.. £718,735 £757,861 Deficit, £39,126
July, 1902.. 855,100 804,282 Surplus, 50,818
July, 1903.. 898,300 1,013,488 Deficit, 115,188
It is an almost ghastly beginning to the year. In two
years the revenue has increased 26 per cent., while the
expenditure has increased 34 per cent ; and even two
J’ears ago the expenditure was out of all proportion to the
revenue.
* * » *
Queensland’s position is as follows:
Nominal
, Revenue. Expenditure. Surplus.
July, 1901 .. £291,809 £200,863 £90,946
July, 1902 .. 285,345 154,081 131,264
July, 1903 .. 268,853 171,557 97,296
The surplus is purely nominal. The State’s interest bill
amounts to about £125,000 per month, and this is not
included in the expenditure here shown. The real deficit
for the month is, therefore, about £28,000.
* * * *
The State revenue returns, so far as available,
for July (except as regards Westralia, whose authentic
figures for June are only now to hand):
July, 1902. July, 1903.
New South Wales .. £855,100 £898,300 Inc. £43,200
Victoria .. .. 652,959 589,817 Inc. 36,858
Tasmania .. 69,733 76,917 Inc. 17,184
Queensland.. .. 285,345 268,853 Dec. 16,492
Westralia (June) .. 388,119 362,747 Dec. 25,372
The Westralian figures for July, received on this side
by wire, don’t balance with the official figures for
July, 1902, and are postponed pending further in-
formation. Stamps and land revenue are respon-
sible for the increase in N.S.W. ; the railway revenue
is £10,046 less than for July, 1902. In Victoria there
was an increase of £58,153 in the balance returned
by the Commonwealth ; but for that the result would
have been serious, as the railway revenue was £22,679 less
than m July, 1902, and £38,292 less than in July, 1901.
Still, with regard to railways, Queensland can show
worse results even than that; the slump between July,
1902, and July, 1903, amounts to £27,780, which is equal
■ lne a, i )ou t 23 per cent. Tasmania has gained
chiefly in the matter of balance received from the Com-
monwealth.
* * *
Tasmania, about the most shocking example on
this earth of the misappropriation of loan funds, publishes
a statement of how it disposed of £175,076 of borrowed
money during 1902. Railway construction and railway
surveys, which may be classed as more or less permanent
and reproductive, absorbed £59,281. The other £115,795
was just swindle, fraud, lie and steal ; it was all used for
revenue purposes, in the construction of roads, streets,
tracks,_ bridges, and other works which, though neces-
sary, yield no direct revenue whatever. Tasmania has
used much more than half its aggregate loans in this
fashion, and, on the whole, it is growing worse instead
of better. The amount of interest which it has to
meet out of taxation is now almost the biggest thing
per inhabitant on this earth. Even the country
with the biggest war debt on earth doesn't carry
such an unremunerative debt-burden as Tasmania does,
solely through the cowardly policy of shirking taxation.
Ex-Premier Neil Lewis began to dimly realise that his
island was sliding down the road that leads to repudi-
ation, and tried to straighten things a little. Whereupon
Tasmania threw him out with such a crash as Australia
hasnt heard for a long time, every Minister in the
Assembly losing his seat; and sent in Premier Propsting
on a Reduced Taxation ticket.
* * * *
Th® tendency to muddle things along anyhow
with a general understanding that solvency doesn’t
matter, because there is always the loan money to fall
back on, characterises many things in N.S.W. besides
the Ditzroy Dock. Judging by some recent statements
made in Parliament, it begins to be suspected that NSW
Advances to Settlers’ Department (established, of course,
out of loan funds) isn’t regarded under the See-Owe’Sul-
livan regime as a bank at all—as an institution, that is,
which is run on business lines, and is supposed to pay its
way like the State Banks of Maoriland, Victoria, and
S.A. Rather, it seems to be a charity and a thing that
lends money on dubious security to oblige voters, or out
of general friendliness, and in time, probably, the loan
funds sunk in it will have to be written off as a bad debt.
It really begins to look as if nothing could be run on
plain business lines in shiftless, borrowing N.S.W.
*** * '
Bank of New Zealand issues a report
which is of particular interest in view of file 1 discussion
with regard to the future of the institution. The whole
concern really consists of the bank and the Assets
Realisation Board, the latter having taken over the most
hopeless-looking of the bank’s assets when the State had
to go to Its assistance. Taking the bank alone the results
have been as follows
How Disposed of
f _
Old Losses Paid towards Interest
and Colonial Losses on money
Bank Pur- of Assets Advanced Re-
chase Written Realisa- by State, & serves
- , Profits off tion Board Dividend
Balance £384 _i_ -P93 qkq
1897 " 136 89? ~ £35,709 £84,376 23*,474
1897 .. 136,891 39,391 97,500 23 474
1898- 182,532 £10,132 74>)0 5474
1899 .. 191,420 43,920 50,000 97 500 23 474
1900 .. 242,520 95,020 50 000 97 500 23 474
1901 .. 300,242 160,665 50,000 89,577 23,474
1902 .. 289,602 {f .j 15151361 5 136 80,0001 „„
l 5 p.c. dividend .. 21,366/ 23,474
1903.. 290,591 -B 5 * 001 ,. .. 17 ¥ 10 80,000\
15 p.c. dividend .. 21,180 J
The private shareholders’ capital now stands at £429,688 •
but only £423,590 (representing the shares with the full
call paid) ranks for dividend.
* * * *
The Assets Realisation Board shows con-
smerable improvement. In the previous year properties
which were sold for £139,899 showed a net loss of £18,365 •
this year properties sold for £129,073 showed a net loss
of only £7117. The Board, back at the beginning of
things, commenced with what may be regarded Is a
visible deficit of £54,507, that being the amount at which
it took over properties in excess of the latest valuation,
lor the first time, as the result of the very fine profits
lately made by the bank, this deficit and the subsequent
losses on realisation and business are turned into a
surplus. The progress year by year is shown hereunder:
Loss on Loss on Less received
Busi- Property. Total from Deficit,
ness. sold. Loss. B.N.Z.
1896.. £43,860 £43,860 £85,709 *62 658
1897.. 41,814 £45,231 87,045 39 391 110 312
1898.. 56,629 55,924 112,553 74 900 147 965
1899.. 53,010 28,355 81 365 50 000 179 330
1900.. 6,623 28,463 35 086 50 000 164 416
1901.. 22,185 22,530 44,715 50 000 159 131
1902.. 62,286 18,365 80,65? iglSB K
1903.. 30,340 7,117 37,457 174,410
The board made itself liable at the outset for £2,680 285
of debentures, and at the end of its year (March 31) it
had redeemed £610,285, leaving a balance of £2,070,000
The progress of the liquidation has not been rapid but it
has been much more rapid latterly than it was
*“““*?• In fact - £610,285 altogether redeemed,
£280,000 was accounted for during the past year. Of the
outstanding debentures the bank is steadily extending
its holding, which now amounts to £1,754,600, no less
than £154,000 having been acquired during the past year
at a small discount. The total, therefore, in the hands of
the public has been reduced to £315,400. The board’s
business itself is, as shown, still unprofitable. While its
earnings were £46,547, it had to pay £76,887 in interest.
(Strictly, its earnings were probably somewhat less than
this, because £7627 was paid in land tax for 1901 and 1902
on account of debenture-holders, and has since been
refunded, and the amount of the refund is now credited
against last year’s taxes and charges. As, however,
refunds will probably be made in respect of taxes
charged to this year, it may be as fair to debit
the year with only the net amount paid as it would
be to debit it with the gross amount.) But, though
the board’s own operations are still unprofitable, the
steady reduction of the load of interest (thanks to the
highly profitable nature of the bank’s business) is making
the task of escaping a deficit easier every year.
The private shareholder must still regard the
two concerns as one, because his prospects depend upon
the successful liquidation of the old business as much as
upon the successful management of the new ; and the
successful liquidation of the old has been shown to
mainly depend upon the management and results of the
new. Taking, then, the two businesses together and
deducting from the combined or net profits the amount
payable as interest on the capital borrowed from or
guaranteed by the State, these results show up
Board’s
Combined Loss on Written Dividend Visible
Result of Property Off. (5 p.c.) Deficit.
Business. Sales.
Balance £384 £30,649
Loss.
1896 .. 8,535 89,184
1897 .. 2,423 £45,231 86,838
Net Profit.
1898 .. 28,403 55,924 £10,132 124,491
1899 .. 40,910 28,355 43,920 155,856
1900 .. 138,397 28,463 95,020 140,942
1901 .. 188,480 22,530 160,665 135,657
1902 .. 147,216 18,365 37,001 £21,366 65,173
Nominal
Reserves.
1903 .. 180,251 7,117 15,001 21,180 71,780
The amount written off includes £75,000 applied to the
purchase of the Colonial Bank of N.Z. With State capital
and under State control, not only has the losing
business of the Bank of N.Z. been turned into a
highly profitable business, but £595,537 of the old losses
have so far been actually provided for. Moreover, £42,546
has been paid to the private shareholders. Further,
in appraising the services of the State in the matter, no
doubt great gain has come to the public through a nursing
of securities which would otherwise not have been pos-
sible. The net earnings of the combined institution
(£180,251) were equal to £4l 19s. per cent, of the share-
holders’ capital, as against £34 9s. per cent, in the pre-
vious year. If, however, all its capital ranked equally
for dividend, as it does in the ordinary bank which is not
working on State capital advanced without direct profit
to the State, the return would be £lO 14s. 3d. per cent.,
against £9 7s. 3d. per cent, in the previous year. In
other words, the State’s £2,000,000 is earning £lol4s. 3d. ;
the State is receiving 4 per cent., and the balance is being
used to wipe up the awful mess in which private control
landed affairs. The general progress of the bank is satis-
factory ; deposits are now over 10J millions, having in-
creased half-a-million in the 12 months.
* * * *
Ajax : Think the investment is just about good
enough Subscriber: It is a dangerous stock to have
anything to do with. Still, the chances are that the
market will improve temporarily, even if the mine doesn’t.
J.H.M. : Try the Dapto Works, N.S.W C.L.:
Don’t know any Australian buyer for mica. Claims can
be held under mining lease, 40-acre blocks Wild Cat:
If you mean Plant’s, it will be a long, weary wait. Local
people hang off them, and that is a pretty straight tip.
* * * *
The Victoria Life and General Insurance
Co. (Melbourne):
Funds
Income. Claims. p f n x g ' es _ Dividends, &c. (£££*
June, Capital).
1894 £20,256 £8,616 £2458 15 p.c. = £6OOO £319,274
1895 19,813 12,251 1985 15 „ „ 6000 318,851
1896 16,995 11,868 1922 71 „ „ 3000 319,056
1897 17,244 7,443 2024 12J „ „ 5000 321,833
1898 15,899 12,132 2219 12£ ~ ~ 5000 318,381
1899 15,298 11,244 1615 15 „ „ 6000 314,820
1900 14,062 8,735 1594 25 ~ ~ 10,000 308,553
1901 14,050 11,506 1484 25 „ „ 10,000 299,613
1902 13,068 9,179 1419 25 ~ ~ 10,000 292,083
1903 12,434 10,146 1535 25 „ „ 10,000 ( 9 „ 0 „„„
Written off securities 20,000/ Z( “’ BSD
The unusually large reduction of funds is mainly the
result of the writing-off of £20,000 from the contingency
fund. This co. does not now do, and has not for many
years past done, any new business ; it is waiting for the
last policy-holder’s executor to call round with proof of
age and death, and while it is waiting it is profitably
filling in time drawing a 25 per cent, dividend. Its
position is something like this : During the year its
liabilities were reduced by £10,146, the amount of the
claims ; but its income met all olaims and expenses, and
left £753 over. Thus the huge 25 per cent, dividend
appears to have been fully earned. And even after
paying these large dividends it looks as though the co.
will have £lOO,OOO to distribute after the last claim is
met. .
* * * *
The Victoria Insurance Co. (Melbourne):
Added to Re,-
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1893.. £34,085 45 per cent. = £22,468 £11,617 £78,602
1894.. 24,400 45 „ „ 22,468 1,932 80,534
1895.. 20,741 40J „ „ 20,221 520 81,054
1896.. 17,058 36 „ „ 17,974 80,138
1897.. 18,010 36 ~ „ 17,974 36 80,174
Loss. /Depreciation of assets) MOOO
1898.. 23,336 (Written off £20,000/ ~ db ’ 838
Profits.
1899.. 14,597 9 per cent. = 4,494 10,103 46,941
1900.. 19,046 22J „ ~ 11,234 7,812 54,753
1901.. 17,374 27 „ „ 13,481 3,893 58,646
1902.. 23,923 27 „ „ 13,481 10,442 69,088
1903.. 28,195 36 „ ~ 17,975 10,220 79,308
And so the reserves get back to approximately where
they were 10 years ago, or, rather, to where they were
thought to be then. The reign of abnormal, crazy
dividends seems, however, to be setting in again ; so
there is no telling what may happen in the future,
in spite of the teachings of the past. The Bulletin
wants to see the Victoria and other purely Austra-
lian concerns get into a position in which they will
command the Australian fire insurance business in
just the same measure as the A.M.P., the National
Mutual, and the other Australian offices command the
life assurance business. But, so long as there is this mad
rush after dividends (this co. actually reduced its poor
little reserves once or twice in order to'pay 100 percent.!),
there isn’t much hope of it. And it makes this paper
sad.
* * * *
The Victoria General Insurance and
Guarantee 00. (Melbourne)
Added to Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. serves.
1894 £6477 20 per cent. = £4OOO £2477 £16,199
1895 5629 20 ~ ~ 4000 1629 17,828
1896 4988 25 „ „ 5000 17 816
1897 3689 20 „ „ 4000 17,’505
Loss.
1898 5011 10 „ „ 2000 10,494
Profits.
1899 4511 15 „ „ 3000 1511 12,005
1900 3233 20 ~ „ 4000 11 238
1901 4741 20 „ „ 4000 741 11,979
1902 4301 20 ~ „ 4000 301 12,280
1903 3957 20 „ ~ 4000 12,237
The high-dividend disease was apparently bred in the
bone of this institution. In the past 10 years it has paid
away in dividends actually £1485 more than it has
earned ; and for a shorter period than that its
record is a great deal worse. Possibly the situation
is a good deal worse than it looks in either case,
because the debenture investments are taken in at cost
and the real estate at “book values.” Formerly it used
to be stated that “ depreciation, if any, has been allowed
for in contingency account,” part of the reserves being
maintained in that form. Now, however, both that note
and the contingency account have disappeared ; the con-
tingency account (which stood at ,£4000) hasn’t been
written off, or any part of it—the whole thing has been
lifted bodily into the formal reserve fund, which stands
at £9OOO. Nor, in encroaching on its reserves, has
the co. the excuse that it is simply discounting the bright
promise of the future, for the sufficient reason that its
future hasn’t any bright promise to speak of ; not only is
its gross premium income less than it was 10 years ago,
but the past year shows a considerable decline as com-
pared with its immediate predecessor. In 1902, premium
income was £11,398 ; this last year it was £10,435 ; ten
years ago it was £12,702. Generally the remarks made
with regard to the Victoria Insurance Co. may be taken
as said with extra emphasis regarding this offshoot also.
* * * *
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power
Co. (Sydney):
Carried
Written to
Profits Dividends off Reserves Deficit
1894 .. £13,635
1895 ..£6,537 6| p.c. =£5,063 £1474 12,061
1896 .. 7,209 8J „ 6,562 647 11,414
1897 ..10,016 10 „ 7,500 £1260 1266 10,148
1898 .. 11,531* 10 „ 7,500 1250 2781 7,367
1899 .. 11,614 10 „ 8,438 1250 1926 5,441
1900 .. 16,498 10 „ 11,250 1000 4248 1,193
1901 .. 10,058 10 „ 11,250 2,385
1902 .. 13,140 10 „ 11,250 1890 495
i-year Nominal
to June Reserves
1903 .. 6,585 10 „ 6,626 960 465
In the foregoing statement the goodwill item, “ Parlia-
mentary rights and concessions, £15,000,” is not reckoned
an asset. Ever since the company was formed this item
has stood as it stands now, and it is about time a start
was made to wipe it off. The only part of
these intangible assets that has disappeared so
far is a small amount which used to be
represented by “Parliamentary Expenses.” If the
paper value of the rights and concessions were wiped
off there would be a surplus, as shown, of £465 ; but as
plant, mains, buildings, &c., are taken in at cost, and as
they almost certainly must have depreciated in value, a
deficit instead of a surplus really ought to be shown. In
short, the co. has a reserve of £465 less the depreciation
in value of plant, &c., since the latter was acquired—and
there are not any means of telling what that deprecia-
tion is. (The amount, £4750, shown as having been
written off was written off the small Hay-street property
—nothing has come off the cost of the main power plant,
water supply, &c.) The present book value of plant,
water supply, &c., is about £110,000; and the undivided
profits during the past 2£ years (that is, the period since
the engineering business was disposed of) have been
equivalent to a sinking fund of a small fraction over
£ per cent, per annum. Even for the last half-year, when
the profits were considerably better, the surplus was
equal to only a little over 1£ per cent, per annum ; and
that isn’t much of an allowance for wear and tear. The
10 per cent, dividend has, probably, better justification
now than it had two years ago ; but it is hardly justified
even now.
• * * *
The Sydney Hydraulic and General Engi-
neering Co. (Sydney):
Carried to Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1902.. ..£4400 .. 15 p.c. = £2200 ..£2200 \ £mg
New share premiums .. 579 /
1903.. .. 2264 .. 10 p.c. = £l5OO .. 764.. 3543
“ General depression ” is the enemy blamed by the
directors for the slaughter among the profits. Still, a co.
that can show a return of 13 per cent, on capital and re-
serves combined, or something over 15 per cent, on
capital alone, can’t reasonably complain much.
» » * »
The Theatre Royal Proprietary Co. (Mel-
bourne) :
Added
Profits. Dividends. to '
Reserves.
June, 1901 £B4B 2£ per cent. = £6OO £248 £2469
Dec., 1901 1090 2£ „ „ 600 490 2959
June, 1902 1210 2£ „ „ 600 610 3569
Dec., 1902 1365 3| „ „ 800 565 4134
June, 1903 1188 3J „ „ 800 388 4522
By comparison with its predecessors, the half year’s
business has been a little better than it looks, since it
has had to carry £l3l income tax, of-which the others
were free. The net profits are a trifle under 5 per cent,
per annum, which, considering the extremely small
allowance made for depreciation, cannot be regarded as
anything magnificent.
* * * *
The Brighton Gas Co. (Victoria)
Carried
Profits. Dividends. Written to Re- Re-
off. serves, serves.
Dec., 1900.. £2294
June, 1901.. £1729 5 p.c. =£lll7 £378 £234 2528
Dec., 1901.. 1686 5„ „ 1117 39i 178 2706
June, 1902.. 1462 5 „ „ 1117 465 2586
Dec., 1902.. 1524 5 „ „ 1117 324 83 2669
June, 1903.. 1525 6„ „ 1117 407 1 2670
A bare 5 per cent, is again earned after the writing-off.
The whole of the reserves are used in the business.
» * * *
The metal markets, for which a substantial
recovery was generally predicted a few months ago,
persistently refuse to recover, and continue very sick.
Copper, at £57 2s. 6d., is a little better than it was a few
weeks ago, but much of the improvement of the early
part of the year has gone. This time in 1900 it was up to
£75 ; by the end of 1901 the market had swung back to
£47. No two reports as to the prospects of the metal
agree ; but the most hopeful of them don’t look for any-
thing better than £6O. The tin market remains the
steadiest. The sources of supply are extremely limited,
and no new discoveries of importance are being made. A
steady market is probable for some time to come. Lead
is the most erratic metal of all. After the boom of
1900, when the price touched £l7 17s. 6d , there was the
expected reaction to £ll by the end of 1901. Quotations
went even lower, but that was the least the Broken Hill
mines sold at. Instead, however, of a steady recovery
from that point, the market has dragged ever since ; and
the average net price obtained by the B.H. Proprietary
in the latter half of last year got down to £9 17s. 6d.
The normal price at present is about £ll, and in that
neighborhood the market is very sensitive. On the
announcement of the stoppage of the Broken Hill mines
there was a spring of nearly £1; but all that has been
lost again. After the silver-lead mining boom of 1888-
1889-1890 the bottom of the market (£9) was not touched
till 1894, and it was not till 1897 that the price passed
£l2; and there is nothing in the present instance
to lead one to expect a much more rapid solid
improvement than there was at that time. The
market for spelter (zinc) is, however, firm ; the price is
even higher than it was during the metal-boom of 1900.
It used to be generally believed in Australia that there
wasn’t much hope for a zinc industry—that if any new
producer went on the market there would be a mighty
crash. It is pretty certain that there vvas nothing in that
yarn. The European spelter producers are keen buyers
of Australian zinc concentrates; and the American zinc
production has been disappointing. The Joplin output
was lately reported to have reached the lowest point for
five years. Silver moves little nowadays. When Aus-
tralia started out as a large producer of this metal, the
price averaged about 3s. Bd. per oz. ; now it moves
round about 2s. Yet, in spite of this appal-
ling slump, the world’s output has moved on
steadily; last year it was estimated at 178,866,0000 z., or
41,000,0000 z. more than it was 12 years before. Further,
many of the old outlets for the metal have been closed
up. When other metals get cheaper the demand for them
is soon increased ; but as silver, used mainly for currency
purposes, gets cheaper, there is less and less inclination
to use it. Only the almost hopeless conservatism of Asia
saves the silver situation at all; Asia has used silver for
countless years, and it will go on using silver.
* * * *
Eleanora gold mine, Hillgrove (N.S.W.), is on
its last legs, the whole of the extensive plant being
advertised for sale by auction in lots to suit purchasers.
It has been a mine of great expectations at different
times, but it has consistently failed to realise them. The
only divs. which it ever paid were earned out of the
treatment of old tailings, but the initial cost of the plant
must have been in excess of the amount distributed
among shareholders. For several years past, mine has
been owned by Adelaide s\ ndicates, and a big lot of
money they have dropped in it. In the boom days of
Hillgrove, when Baker’s Creek was a regular div. payer,
the Tom Barnfleld syndicate acquired the Eleanora,
hoping that there would be a repetition of the success of
Baker’s Greek. After several reconstructions.this syndi-
cate abandoned the show, and it was taken in hand by
the late Walter Griffiths, from the Northern Territory,
whose energy and enthusiasm were worthy' of a more
hopeful proposition. There is not much chance of the
mine ever being worked again. It cannot be said that it
has been abandoned without a fair trial.
* * *
Great Cobar (N.S. W.) liquidators have declared
a dividend of £4 per share, equal to £320,000, and there
is more to follow.. It is only a few years since that
shares were sold in large parcels at a few pence, the
assertion then being that the mine was worked out.
How the Reid-Longworth syndicate had the good luck
,^ e j hold of the mine and treat the ore by new
methods at an enormous profit is common history.
tV-m? ™ ,ave . wor l £e< l it on a scale second only to Broken
•vi i opnetary, and now the old, “ worked-out mine”
is likely to be taken in hand by an English corporation,
which will deal with an output larger than that of
Broken Hill.
* * * *
Some Ballarat speculators have been inspecting
alleged mines in Gundagai(N.S.W.) district, and the reli-
able local correspondent states that they expressed ex-
treme surprise at the magnificent mineral resources of the
district being so utterly neglected. They would have occa-
sion for surprise if they were told how many tens of thou-
sands of pounds have been spent in fruitless efforts to
establish a payable mine in the district. It is a field of
squibs and patches.. The Ballarat visitors were headed
by Alec. Lamb, an identity in Victorian mining circles.
Ballarat, the home of “ smart” men, knows no cleverer
man in a mining deal than Lamb. It may be true, as
reported, that he has bought some properties in the Gun-
dagai district; if so, he will require better luck than
dozens of other speculators have had if he is to score a
success.
* * * *
Broken Hill Consols are being boomed again.
This is an outside show, just off the main Broken Hill
lode, with which it probably has, or at some time had, a
connection. The veins are small and irregular ; and the
ore, when there is any, is phenomenally rich. There are
596,419 shares of £1 each in the co., which has not paid a
dividend for many years past, and is not likely to pay
another on that capitalisation for many years niore. ft
isn’t a wild cat; but it isn’t a mine for a co. of that
tonnage.
* » * *
Paringa, Kalgoorlie (W.A.), is still pursued by
bad luck. The last crosscut at the 1300 ft. level has pene-
trated to the boundary without encountering any payable
lodes. To further test the property, boring from the
bottom workings has been started, and the ground will
be explored to a much greater depth. Manager Thomson
has worked hard to bring the property to the front, but,
unfortunately, the lease seems to be right, off the run of
pay ore, although the properties on either side are fair y
in it.
* * * *
Zoroastrian, Bardoo (W.A.), is still being
boomed for all it is worth. Scrippers are seriously in-
formed that, in the winze below the 400 ft. level the reef
is Ift. wide and worth soz. to the ton. So far as John
Bull is concerned, the mine is an absolute wild cat; it is
suitable only for a party of working miners, or a small
syndicate. As to paying divs. to Bull after forking out
for consulting engineer, attorneys, directors, &0., the
thing is quite out of the question. Some time ago co.
absorbed the Hope’s Hill at Southern Cross. Why, it
would be hard to tell. Latter mine is equipped with an
old battery of 30 head, a splendid new battery of 40 head,
and four Griffin mills, the latter erected seven years ago,
and never even started. The mine is all right, only
nature forgot to furnish it with gold ; and man improved
on nature by furnishing it with iron in the shape of
machinery. The Zoroastrian-Hope’s Hill combine is cer-
tain to land in the ditch.
The productive little Cathcart (Vic.) gold mine
has had to shut down, owing; to the shaft twisting and
going to pieces, thus throwing another body of miners on
the glutted labor market. A new shaft is being sunk,
but it will probably be six months ere things are in full
swing again.
(Continued on page 28.)
m
TRAMWAYS FOR MINES.
Y IM HAULAGE.— Horse and dray is cheaper than a wheelbarrow, but an
SPsHll^nrJIramway: 1 ramway : w } th suitable rolling stoclc for manua l , horse or loco, traction,
is stilt more economical and expeditious. Large Svdney, Melbourne and Brisbine
Stocks of Steel Rails, Mining Tip-trucks, Portable 0 Tramway, Switches TiZtablTs fe
iNUcNTb.—< -Dog-spikes to Compound Locomotives— i.e EVEßYTHlNG.
A££T Out CATALOGUE is yours for the asking.
CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY APPLIANCES
Prop. Ltd., 40 Hunter St., SYDNEY. A. E. LEPL.ABTRIER, Manager
Representing Orenstein and Koppel, Ltd., London, Berlin and Paris. ’
Branches—Melbourne, Brisbane, Cairns and Zeehan (Tasmania).
The merits of the Wilfley Ore Concentrator are
now fully recognised throughout the Commonwealth,
and its use is extending every day. The New No. 4
pattern is doing excellent work at the many mines on
which it has been installed. Recent additions to mining
plants comprise : 4 tables to the Great Fingall, 6 to the''
Oroya Brown Hill, 4 to the Ivanhoe Company, 4 to the
Sons of Gwalia, 3 to the Queen’s Cross coy., Charters
Towers, 3 to the Long Tunnel Extended, 1 to the South
Moon, Bendigo, and many other mines too numerous to
mention. Upwards of 600 of the Wilfley Tables are now
in use in Australia, giving excellent results on gold,
silver, lead, tin, and copper mines. Full particulars and
a useful pamphlet on concentration can be obtained from
the Sole Manufacturers in Australia, The Austral Otis
Engineering Company, South Melbourne.*
» * * *
The Policy Holder, July, 1902, writes:-
“ Established in 1873 the Colonial Mutual from the outset
has had a surprising amount of energy and enterprise
infused into its management. In all 88,299 policies
covering £26,826,380 have been issued.”*
« * * *
A. Kozmmsky, 106 Queen-st., Melbourne,
having returned from England, is now prepared to
purchase paying mines, and mining properties (not
merely surface shows), situated in any part of
Australasia requiring further capital for development and
machinery. Only genuine and legitimate ventures,
capable of bearing the strictest examinations will be
entertained.*
* * * *
With a constant sensibility of l/3000th. grain,
assayers will welcome the “Galopin” Assay Balance
(price, with weights, £21.) “It is all you. claim for it,”
writes a customer to de Beer, Silberberg and Co., of
Gasoline furnace fame, Bourke-street, Melbourne.*
* * * *
H. Brandon Skertohly, geologist, mining engi-
neer and assayer, is prepared to furnish scientific reports
and plans to British and Australian investors. Assays
undertaken, and inquiries re mining properties, promptly
attended to. For fuller information apply to H. Brandon
Skertchly, Norman Chambers, Creek-street, Brisbane.*
* * * *
George Morrison, Stock and Share broker
(member Brisbane Stock Exchange), 377 Queen-street
opposite Stock Exchange, Brisbane. Agents all parts of
the World. Correspondence invited.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S. W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, of Melbourne, reports
that there has been a great improvement in the general
outlook of the engineering business since the new year
started, and that his pipe making works in Melbourne
and Perth are working full-handed. Amongst the orders
now being executed at Footscray works is one for 7 miles
10 chains of 18in. diameter light steel spiral-riveted pipes
for the Victorian water supply ; and at Perth works a
contract is in progress for over 6 miles of lOjin. diameter
spiral-riveted pipes, flanged joints, for the Greenbushes
Tin-Mining Syndicate. About two miles of these pipes
are to stand a test pressure of 8001 b. to the square inch.*
* * * *
About the best Brand for Sheep now in the
market is Kemp’s Branding Liqr. : d. It goes further and
is considerably cheaper than any other. It will dissolve
in the scour, and should certainly be used by those who
hope to get a good price for their wool. E. Rich and Co.,
Sydney and Brisbane, hold stocks.*
* * * *
Hedley Hawkins, sharebroker, Queen-street,
Brisbane (member, Brisbane Stock Exchange), has agents
every important mining centre and cities of Common-
wealth. Correspondence invited.* .
sd
SUN
HIGHEST
QUALITY
fgs
BRAND
SOLD
EVERYWHERE.


Society
The discovery of a leper of long-standing
in business in Melbourne has roused some liighly-
respeotable citizens to repeat the assurance that
leprosy is not contagious, and that the Chinaman
is quite a safe and desirable citizen. Some of
these religious people evidently know a great deal
more about leprosy than Jehovah did. His views
on the necessity for isolating the leper are ex-
pressed very firmly in Leviticus 13 and 14.
* * * *
Victoria discovered another of its casual
Chinese lepers, the other day. He gave a history
of his disease dating back 15 years, and for most
of that time he had been keeping a fancy shop in
one of the chief city streets, where the local
youngsters bought the racketty Chinese cracker
and the hot brown Chinese ginger.
THE AUSTRALIAN POSTAL ACT—A
VIEW IN ENGLAND.
THE BOY OF THE BULLDOG BREED: “ Cheery?
Why, yes. The Horsetralian crowd are going
to give us a charnce of a job against the
Chinkies and niggers.”
Melbourne Age this time :
Lady, 35, undoubted character, pleasing appearance,
good home manager, and musician, would like to house-
keep for honorable, trusted, Protestant gentleman,
under 60, view matrimony.
What a number of advertisements there are
nowadays in which housekeeping comes before
matrimony ! The fact that the lady is of
“undoubted character” is of minor importance.
The advt. doesn’t say what kind of person it is
who has no doubts about her character, nor what
kind of character she undoubtedly possesses.
This writer remembers a case when it took four
policemen to get a lady of undoubted character
to the lock-up, and she bit one of them on the
way.
* * * *
“Klimo” from Adelaide*.—
Zexcellency, South Australia’s new Governor, Le Hunte,
unveiled the statue of Thomas Elder in front of the Elder
Conservatorium, the other day, at the request of Sammy
Way. The Private Secretary (Hon. Victor Nelson Hood)
accompanied the Governor in case he hadn’t learnt his
speech properly, or forgot to mention how pleased and
honored he felt at being asked to come out in the wet
and take the sacking (I think it was sacking, it was
pretty coarse) off Mr. Elder. The statue looks very nice,
standing on a pedestal of marble 12ft. high, and depicts
Mr. Elder in a morning suit and, as the Register report
would have it, “ with one hand on his hip and the other
clutching the flap of his coat near the shoulder ” ! The
University students rolled up in force as per usual and
sang “ God Save the King,” “ Australia,” and “ Ta Ra
Ra Sammy Way ” (which seems to annoy his Honor) to
the accompaniment of sundry tin whistles. When the
students kindly permitted the Governor to speak, he
gave a brief outline of the good works of Mr. Elder, and
said he wished someone else had had the job of unveiling
it (it was awfully wet, and almost anybody could have
had the job on a day like that).
* * * •
The Adelaide University hoodlums some-
what ungratefully created a great disturbance at
the unveiling of the statue of Thomas Elder, and
one ribald undergrad, yelled out a direction to
Governor Le Hunte to sit down when he was
delivering the dedicatorj' speech. Yet but for
Elder, who gave J}loo,ooo to the funds, the
Adelaide University would be a very one
horse show indeed. Brought to a sense of their
offence, the gownsmen marched off to the
Governor a day or two after to apologise. That
was something. Yet the fact remains that the
high-toned and generally more or less wealthy
University student is about the only rowdy in
Australia who would yell ribald bosh at the
statue of a dead benefactor. The workman who
would do such a thing isn’t born yet.
* * * *
The first mile-stone, erected in 1820 (or
thereabouts) to mark mile No. 1 from the obelisk
in Macquarie-place, at the corner of George-street
and Liverpool-street, has been removed in order
to have the inscription re-cut, 80 odd years of
wind and weather having obliterated the old
letters. Of late years the stone has been only
useful for the unemployed to lean against.
• * * *
“Trib.” : In a Bulletin story of a few
months back the heroine masquerades as a boy
but is finally discovered by the hero who kisses her
passionately while she is still wear-
ing the pants. I remember, when
a youngster, the centre of my affec-
tions dressed as a boy for some
theatricals. I kissed, but it was
no good. All the electricity had
gone out of her. I could not per-
suade myself it was a girl. A few
years ago I dressed in my sister’s
contraptions and called on a girl
next door. When the joke had sub-
sided I put my arm around her and
kissed her. She laughed uneasily.
“It does feel funny.” “ Doesn’t it
feel like a boy ?” I asked. “ No,
it is the same as kissing a girl.”
The sex instinct appears to be quite
deceived by the change of dress,
and it is impossible to reassure it. I
should think with a little ingenuity
it would be possible to cure love.
If the young couple, instead of
being prohibited one another’s so-
ciety, were allowed to be as much
together as they liked on condition
they changed clothes the game
would be up. On the same prin-
ciple, one of the reasons why a
woman in tights is not so alluring
as one in petticoats is that when
the fact of her possessing two legs
becomes too apparent she is not
convincing enough as a woman.
* * *
J. T. Toohey’s exclusion of
the Sydney hospitals and all deno-
minational charities, except a few
R.O. ones, from benefit by his
will, is having the effect that such
narrow - mindedness always has.
Already a wealthy Anglican has
hunted up his six-and-eightpenny
man, and ordered him to strike
out of his will all donations to R.C. institutions.
And the R.C. Church loses a lot more there than
it gained by Toohey’s scanty benefactions.
* * * »
Sydney tramway authorities lately ac-
cepted the application of a young backblocker for
employment as a tram conductor. Later on, the
local member of Parliament wrote congratulating
the young fellow on his splendid luck, but added
that there were 1200 accepted applications already
on the books, and that these would take priority
as vacancies fell due.
* * * *
“Tika” : In comparing the healthfulness
of a town and country the lower death-rate in the
country can be partly accounted for by the fact
that the country feeds the town with its more
delicate youths. The really healthy run to muscle
and content; those with a weak spot in them
develop brains and discontent, go to town, and
help to raise the death-rate.
"ASK, AND YE SHALL RECEIVE."
HER: “ And one time you said you could [?]fase
me nothing.”
HIM: "Fes, and womanlike it is the one thing
you've never asked me for."
Pius X is the first Pope to be elected under
the close scrutiny of the modern newspaper, and
possibly he is the last Pope to enjoy the full cere-
monial of the complicated process. Next election
there are bound to be several Cardinals or Cardi-
nals’ attendants who are special correspondents of
this or that rag, and, exposed to the full glare of
publicity, the picturesque mummery of the show
will wither away. Even from this Conclave the
newspapers seemed to have got an atom or two of
gossip—that, for instance, about the Spanish Car-
dinals smoking cigarettes incessantly whilst the
short-winded Italian Cardinals coughed their un-
availing protests. The yarn, however, may be
only an ingenious fake, suggested by a Spanish
peasant story. When the Spanish saints, the
story runs, achieved Heaven they considered that
they had had enough of self-denial in getting
there, and a little harmless pleasure was in order.
So they smoked perpetual cigarettes as they wan-
dered down the golden streets of Heaven (taking
care not to expectorate on the pavement). The
French lady saints found the smoke irritating and
protested to St. Peter. But the janitor could do
nothing. Out of Heaven there was no redemp-
tion, and he couldn’t kick the Spanish saints to
Hades. Finally, moved by the ladies’ complain-
ings, St. Peter asked counsel of St. Franci ,
who rose to the occasion. He borrowed Peter s
keys for two flicks of an angel’s tail, opened tl e
gates of Paradise, and did a quick mile around
the wall waving a red cloak and crying out :
“Bull-fight, Bull-fight.” The Spaniards trooped
out to see the spectacle, and then Francis shut the
gates with a clash and refused admission to his com-
patriots until they foreswore the cigarette.
Either that yarn was the basis of a smart fiction,
or the newspapers got more messages from the
ohimney than the assembled Cardinals imagined.
* * * *
After all, the Cardinal seems to be a very
human sort of person. The Ram poll a and Gotti-
Vannutelli factions, at the election of a Pope,
struggled through five ballots. Then, satisfied
that neither could get the necessary majority,
two “transition” candidates were put up—Pietro
in the Rampolla interest, Sarto in the
other. Sarto gained the next advantage ; then
the Rampolla side gave way, and cast for Sarto
enough votes to elect him. Much the same thing
happened in connection with the late Leo’s pre-
decessor, the ninth Pius.. Sarto’s age—he is in
his 69th year—was in his favor; the “transi-
tion” Pope isn’t wanted to livelong. Rampolla
is not 60 yet; he can wait. But, then, there are
others who can wait, too ; Svampa, for instance
he is only 52.
Highly interesting cable in connection
with King Ned’s tour in County Galway during
his recent trip to the Ould Bod :
Waiving formalities, their Majesties allowed the peas
ants in some of the districts to push the motor-carriage
up hills.
Presumably the 16-stone monarch should have
been shoved up hill by the Lord Chancellor and
the Archbishop of Canterbury, but he waived
formalities and let the common herd push behind.
There is a tremendous amount of tawdry
show about the average funeral. It sets one
wondering if a corpse, clothed in a gorgeous
wooden overcoat, and taken along a crowded
street in a hearse with glass show-case sides and
two ghouls on the box, feels any happier than one
that is just taken in a common deal coffin by the
shortest cut to the place where it is to be grassed.
The other day writer noticed a funeral
leave a house that stood about GOO yards
from the cemetery. A road ran right past
the house to the gates of the burying
ground, but instead of following it the out-
fit turned off into a business street, pro-
ceeded half a mile, turned* into a more
crowded street, fairly blocking traffic, went
along proudly for some distance, and then
regretfully proceeded in a circuitous fashion
to its destination. The average funeral pai ty
is proud of its corpse, and hangs on to him
as long as it can.
A leading Broken Hill mine-manager
has been getting himself well-advertised lately.
First he drew on himself the wrath of the miners
by asserting that they spent most of their wages
in beer. This led to a warm newspaper
correspondence, and, anyhow, in the hot weather
Broken Hill offers little else than beer to live for.
The second advt. was when he led, the other
Sunday night, a strike of the church choir which
he has conducted, and well conducted, for many
years. An Adelaide solicitor-evangelist, preaching
in connection with a Christian Endea\or Conven-
tion, announced a hymn, and said he wanted no
one to sing it unless he or she could sing it from
the heart. He pointedly addressed his remarks
to the choir. The manager-conductor replied
aloud that he couldn’t hold himself responsible
for the Christianity of his singers, and laid down
his hymn-book. Then he and the choir marched
out of the church. The congregation had to be
searched for an organist before the service could
proceed. For the rest of the night the male por-
tion of the choir smoked the ungodly pipe outside
the church door and carried out strict picket duty
on all late-comers.
DONE.
FOREIGH PERSON : “I cannot onderstan’ de Aus-
tralian langwich"
AUSTRALIAN-BORN (politely): “ M'm?"
F.P.: “ Na. Dis roomin' I take a man a bill,
an’ ’e say I dam well dun ’ im. Den ’e read
ze bill, an' ’e say I done 'im bad. Vat ’e
mean? ”
A.B. (grinning): “I dunno.”
THE SEA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The past is a sullen sea,
And the grey mist on its breast
Is in the East forgetfulness—
Death waits us in the West.
Memory is its flowing tide,
Tears a tributary,
Sighs and laughter are its winds,
Rue the scent they carry.
Our pleasures deep within it lie,
Our sorrows on it rest,
The spars of foundered Love drift by,
Death waits us in the West.
Misfortune is the storm that swept
This sea ; and destiny
The pilot that will steer the boat
Into Eternity.
N.S.W.
MARY HOLLAND.
LITTLE RED-SHOES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Two little shoes were tripping o’er
The passage of an open door,
Eager the unknown world to greet,
Their happy, childish, careless beat
Falls, Home’s sunshine, on the floor.
Not mine to read the future's lore ;
I can but pray ; could I do more ?
Not many troubles you would meet,
Two little shoes!
Ah! Red-Shoes, that great world holds store
Of journeys, sometimes long and sore,
But may you find your journey sweet,
May Love smooth out the s ony street
That lies your wand’ring steps before,
Two little shoes!
N.B.W.
S. ELLIOTT NAPIER.
David Jones & Co.’s
CELEBRATED «* ORIENT TO fIEASURE ”
SAC SUITS
In Tweed
or Serge
Send for
Patterns and
Self-
Measurement
Forms ...
TO MEASURE
Delivered Free to any Railway Station or Seaport in the States.
George and Barrack Sts., Sydney.
miHL i
ALL THE
LATEST
IJTPROVED
STYLES
IN STOCK.
at Prices
from £1 up to £5O
Harrington & Co., Ltd.
PHOTOGRAPHIC MERCHANTS.
WE select for description here the PONY
PREMO, No. 2, being preferred by
the beginner because of its simplicity
of manipulation and on account of the variety
of work it will do. It is compact, and suitable
alike for taking Portraits, Groups, Views and
Snapshots. Size, sin. x 4in.
SPECIFICATION :
Built of Mahogany, covered with seal-
grained leather, brass and nickel metal posts,
leather bellows, R.R. lens, automatic shutter,
brilliant hooded view-finder, spirit level,
focussing glass screen, reversible back, rising
and falling front, 3 double plate holders, and
carrying case.
Price, complete £4
Write for free copy of our New Illustrated
Catalogue, containing full description of all
styles of Premo Cameras.
66 King Street, Sydney,
and 93 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.


Yoliva, the American person who acts as
Melbourne agent for “Elijah” Dowie of the
Purple Wings, has got religion down to the time-
payment oleograph level. It is a hustling, nasal
Bile Beans sort of creed (with apologies to the
Beans), and painfully worldly. Lately the sub-
agent who hawks samples of religion at Adelaide
decorated the front of the local office with a
picture representing Edward VII. rushing to
embrace Leo XIII. in a doorway labelled “Pri-
vate Entrance to the Mother of Harlots.” The
local loyalists were riled at the suggestion of
Edward VII. entering a place with such an in-
scription ; the local Catholics were aggravated,
especially as Leo was then on his death-bed ; and
other people were angry at the coarse, vulgar
silliness of the affair. A letter signed “ Anti-
Bigotry ” fixed the attention of the Corporation
(which owns the premises) on the flaring horror,
and the comic sect was requested to take down its
sign—which it did. Then Voliva seems to have
lost his head and telegraphed from the local head-
quarters of the Bile Beans religion in Melbourne
to this effect:
Mail objectionable cartoons. Ascertain the cost of
plates and printing 25,000 of each. Zion takes no non-
sense from apostate churches. Let city fathers decide
which they prefer—cartoons in the window or thousands
in the city. Invite “ Anti-Bigotry ” to crawl out of his
hole. Read this message publicly.
This sort of thing is altogether too sudden and
telegraphic. Other sects have sordid rows, but
even Macky and Moran at their worst are grave
and respectable compared to this gaunt, rushing,
eager sect, which keeps its religion in an office,
and saves your soul by collect telegram, and
floats the Decalogue into a company. One day, it
will re-write the Bible in its haste and start the
Epistles with the words: “And Paul rang up
the Ephesians on the telephone,” or will represent
Jacob as taking the 10.40 train into Egypt. The
Bulletin sometimes wonders if a race which
builds twenty-storey steel houses and invents
machines that kill 40,000 hogs in a minute can hope
to be saved—just by reason of its haste.
* * • *
“Adelaide” : “Akenehi,”of the “Woman’s
Letter.” is a better judge of art than Le Hunte, of
Government House. Said the former (B. 16/7/’O3),
“Striving beginners deserve encouragement, of
course, but not to the point of admitting their
praiseworthy little attempts into a show of
alleged pictures.” Said the latter on July 23, in
opening the Society of Arts’ new show : “ He was
pleased to notice that there were evident signs of
increasing talent, and that the hanging committee
had happily decided to give encouragement to all
whose efforts showed indications of painstaking
and care.” Even the newspapers could not stand
this, the fact being that there is an immense
amount of really bad work hung this year. The
Register mildly remarked that “if carried too
far, the principle might become dangerous,” and
that undue leniency “might be” mistaken kind-
ness. The Advertiser boldly said that there are
“ many exhibits of little or no merit, which a
skilled and fearless selector would have absolutely
and positively rejected.” It will be a pity if the
new Governor catches Acting-Governor Way’s
trick of indiscriminate adulation.
• » * * *
An Australian religious paper solemnly
publishes this:
It.appears that twenty men would have been at work
in a quarry near Adelaide when a great fall of earth and
stones took place, which must have killed them, but for
the fact that it took place on Sunday. If these men
never before saw the advantage of keeping the Sabbath,
we think they must see it now. They have to thank God
for the fourth commandment, and for His gracious
Providence in causing the fall to take place on that
particular day.
The Bulletin begins to understand why religion
is fading away in Australia—it is because of the
religious papers. The statement that Providence
arranges one quarry accident so that it may
happen on a Sunday and kill nobody, carries with
it the implication that Providence carefully
arranges other quarry accidents so that they may
happen on a week day and kill somebody. Once
you start the theory that Providence personally
directs quarry accidents, then it becomes a
malicious and devastating thrower of rocks —
something after the nature of an enormous small
boy with a shanghai.
* * * *
A lady in a state of great anxiety rushed
into Melbourne Hospital, the other Sunday, and
besought the surgeons to fish for her lost set of
false teeth, which she averred was among her
contents. A powerful course of treatment brought
up a couple of loose molars, but nothing could be
seen of the plate—even the Rontgen rays dis-
closing merely the ground plan and elevation of
an ordinary woman —and she finally departed
half convinced she had only fancied she swallowed
the plate, though she said she still felt a sort of
inward gnawing. She should hire herself out to
the Salvarmy or a healthy church. If there is a
plate on her premises, so to speak, they’ll speedily
relieve her of it.
• • * *
The police at Broken Hill are humorous
beggars. A man was killed the day before the
Broken Hill Cup was run—nearly always a man
is either killed or maimed before anything else
happens out there. And the police, getting a
jury, roped in the whole tribe of bookmakers.
But Moses wasn’t beaten —he simply hired a sub-
stitute for the jury, left 40s. to pay his own fine,
and went out to lay shorter odds to make up
for it.
N.S.W. Government has appointed a
Royal Commission to inquire as to the decreasing
birth-rate. It is an excellent commission includ
ing Statistician Ooghlan and several leading
doctors—Mackellar, Maclaurin, Nash, Jaton and
Foreman—but what it is going to do, a »d how, isn t
at all plain. Probably its main result will be to
swell the circulation of the evening papers. Most
people have a fairly accurate notion of what has
caused the decline in the Australian birth-rate, a
decline which is common to most civilised coun-
tries—unwillingness rather than inability to bear
children. The Royal Commission will not be able
to enlighten much as to the cause; if it can
suggest a remedy it will succeed where many very
notable sociologists have failed. Something in
the way of alleviation of the evil may be found in a
betterment of employment conditions, such as
would follow a scientific fostering of industries,
but that the question is not wholly one ot
economics is shown clearly by the fact that in the
United States—the most prosperous country on
earth--the native American population is actually
dwindling.
* * • *
After a week’s trial the jury failed to
agree at the inquest on the body of the slaugh-
tered passenger who was jammed to death
between the Mosman and Manly ferry steamers.
Nowhere is hard swearing more diametrically
opposed than in a collision case. The only point
before the jury was “which was the overtaking
vessel,” and each side did its little best. Ihe
Wallaroo for Mosman and the Narrabeen for
Manly were supposed to both start at 7 a.m. In
dodging a collier a few minutes after the start
they bumped. Now, which boat left first, or did
they depart simultaneously? The Court relied
mostly on disinterested outside testimony, and
that outside testimony was so bewildering that
after a week’s wrestling with the problem, the
jury gave it up and called it a draw.
* * * *
“ Harrie N ” writes thus :
I am rather interested to know whether intensely
religious people (I mean people who attend church on
every possible occasion, teach in Sunday school, and keep
Bibles and Psalm Books by their bedsides) always keep
the members of their household on a very meagre diet.
If so, why ? I have had several experiences of the kind ;
in fact, being the possessor of a good Australian appetite,
have at various times been literally starved out of three
large, well-appointed homes. I have also lived_ with
several families which did not make a practice of
attending church, and with some that were decided
Agnostics All of these kept a well-filled larder, and
were generous to their dependents. My last experience
was with a family of the saintly order. One Sabbath,
when preparing for evening service, I dropped a heavy
Bible and some hymn books on my favorite corn, which
catastrophe caused me to give vent to my feelings in a
prolonged whistle. The disciple of Calvin who owns the
house rushed into the bedroom corridor, and demanded
to know who dared to whistle in his house on the Lord’s
Day. I can’t whistle much, but this query compelled me
to retire to the garden, where I went through my
repertoire. In that house they are ardent admirers of
the Kanaka, and would be greatU elated if some modern
Guy Fawkes were to blow up all the Labor members.
They indulge in good “ Auld Scotch ” occasionally, and I
can" imagine it was joyfully passed round when they
heard of Kingston’s resignation. lam out of a billet
now. Do you know of any pagan family where a
governess is wanted ?
* * * »
In Wellington (M.L.) recently two mem-
bers of the working dame-hood brought cross-
actions for 14s. and 16s. respectively, at the S.M.
Court, and hung about the premises all day wait-
ing their turn. The magistrate endeavored to
point a moral by explaining that even the winner
was a loser—in time, etc. “Oh, I dunno,” re-
plied one in a self-satisfied tone, “ it’s the first
’oliday I’ve ’ad for two years.”
HE WAS ONLY ALLUDING TO THE
ORATORIO—NOT TO HER AGE.
HE: “Ah! were you present at the Creation,
Miss Olden? ”
SHE (indignantly): “ Sir! What do you mean ?”
OBVIOUS.
MAMMA: " How rude of you, Tommy, to stare so
at Mrs. Lazarus .”
TOMMY: “I know now why rings and brooches
and bracelets are called jew-elry.”
At N.S.W. Arbitration Court, during the
hearing of the Cooks’ and Bottle-washers’ case, a
chief cook at a 6d. restaurant said “only two
lots of pudding were allowed, but a regular cus-
tomer might get three. They would not turn a
customer away for a pudding. The cooks were so
busy serving up the luncheons that they became
giddy, and perspired so much that they became
like a wet sock.” Another, who had been in turn
book-keeper, sailor, groom, cook, and now plate-
washer, said “there was no doubt there was a lot
of rabbit called chicken in Sydney. . . . Meat
was served at luncheon as roast; what was left on
the plates was put in the soup pot at night, and
next day it became ‘chicken and ham cutlets.’”
A chef, who sometimes cooked for the swaddies,
when engaged at a Middle Head camp, had the
assistance of four artillerymen to provide meals
for four or five officers. This seems to have been
the only easy spot in his hard-working career.
While employed by the Board of Health he was
allowed a bottle of English ale a day, also three
plugs of tobacco and four boxes of matches weekly.
The laundry-woman was only allowed a half
bottle of beer —the sort of thing that Spruce Myth
would call “injurious differentiation.”
* • * *
“Scutum”: Re the question of “going
with ” a girl. In one class of Society if a noble-
man hankers after a lady fair he makes a formal
proposal to her pa who sees his pa—at least, I
believe that is how they do it. In another
stratum, if a young fellow takes a fancy to a girl,
he buys a new suit of clothes and gets introduced,
s. In the course of a few days he is asked to come
up some night. This done he plays ping-
pong with her and sings sentimental songs
to her accompaniment, After about a week
of this he sits out on the verandah with
her. Also there is a different section in
which “a bloke” gets “shook on a
piece.” He makes her acquaintance
somehow, if it’s only by catching her
eye in the park some Sunday after-
noon He then starts to “go
with her.” She goes with him and
he goes with her to ’bus picnics,
dances, a bob’s worth of hang over,
etc. Sometimes he calls at the
house, most times he doesn’t. If
he does, the old man takes hardly
any notice of him; except when
he has had a few drinks, and then
he’ll talk politics by the hour, much
to the disgust of the bloke —and
the girl. The bloke invariably
meets his girl on Saturday night
“down the road” or “up town,”
and sees her home. He has a row
with her about once a fortnight,
and if they don’t make it up in a
day or so he “ goes with ” another.
In a few instances he buys an engagement
ring, but in the majority of cases they
simply get spliced, the bloke remarking
in a casual way that he thinks they’ve
been“ going together ” long enough.
“B.” ; Sydney will soon see its first dog-
trough erected, the Animals Protection Society
making the presentation. Governor Denison
mooted the idea 50 years ago. Things move
slowly in a country that takes 50 years to decide
on a dog-trough.
“ Ne’er-do-Weel ” : Some years ago I was
living in an hotel in a western township, and the
best bedroom in the house was occupied for
months by a man slowly dying of consumption.
In due course he died —in the beginning
of December. The day after his funeral
I came back from my office to lunch
and found my room upside down—bed
taken down and so on. My landlady
met me and informed me she had
shifted me into the best room—“the
one poor dear Mr. T. had.
You’ll be hever so
much more comfertabble
there.” “But,” I said,
“has the room been
disinfected, fumi-
gated or anything?”
“ Lor bless yer, no,”
she replied, “ the
pore dear didn’t
die o’ nothink hin-
fecshus—’eon’y ad
ther pleurer.” I
was as ignorant as
most people about
consumption in
those days, but I
had a vague sort of
idea that a room
which had been
tenanted for months
by a man dying of
consumption was not
the most desirable
place of abode for a
man who was not
quite tired of life. I
would not mind so
much now, but then I
had only been a few
years in a bush town-
ship. I said : “ Have
you put clean mosquito
curtains on the bed?”
“Cleancurtings! Hi’msuah!
An’ these only washed lars
Jooly ! Whodjer tyke me for ?
We’d ’ave ’nuff to do if we
wuz alwiz changin’ the curtings.
We washes ’em in Jooly an’ Janooary, an’
that orter be ’nuff fer ennybody.’’ I decided
not to change my room, and was looked upon as
an imbecile. The “best room in the house” did
not lack a tenant long. I fancy the man who took
it is dead now.
The enforcement of quarantine regula-
tions in Tasmania is an absurdity when it is not a
pretence. Very tardily the Propsting Govern-
ment decided that the smallpox patients and
contacts should be isolated. On this, patients and
contacts, backed by local medicoes, and advised
by the curious local Officer of Health, refused
point-blank to go. Propsting stood aghast. What
was to be done now ? Attorney-General Nicholls
pointed out that if infected persons would not go,
they could be made to go. Whereupon, after due
delay, Propstingmade a dreadful threat, that if the
infected persons didn’t go into quarantine soon, he
would be reluctantly compelled to use force. The
persons were still stubborn, and the local doctors
struck a new dodge for the evasion of decent pre-
cautions, declaring most of the patients too ill to
be moved. But finally, in a typically Van-
demonian fashion, the infected persons began to
trickle out to isolation. Some still wouldn’t.
One Musgrave, for instance, defied the authorities
and met the police with curses. Also, while
Musgrave stood by with an axe, Mrs. Musgrave
threw sundries and hot coals upon the police,
whereupon the police retired with considerable
loss of dignity. Next day Musgrave graciously
consented to go. Musgrave is greatly admired in
Launceston now—you just can’t beat Launceston.
And no one has so much as suggested that the
Musgraves should be punished for defying the
Board of Health and assaulting the police.
• * * *
Apropos John Tawell’s chapel in Mac-
quarie-street, Sydney. In the same street the
Wesleyan body first held service as far back
as 1820. In 1853 the Unitarians purchased their
building, which was large, of the barn order, with
immense windows ; and stood right opposite the
Rum Hospital. In the sixties it became the Ger-
man Evangelical Kirche. In or about 1878 the
kirk made way for a terrace of boarding-houses.
Macquarie-street has, since it became toney, ob-
jected to “ dissenting ” chapels. Three on the
street, between Hunter and King streets, were
wiped out. In 1873, three doors north of the
Unitarian chapel, there lived and traded one
William H. Beech, a chimney-sweep, and four
doors away from him lived Cupid Burdett Smith.
THE BEST KISS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The tempting fruit of rosy lips
Ne’er pleads to me in vain,
The bee from ev’ry blossom sips,
In ev’ry honeyed flow’ret dips,
I kiss and kiss again.
But easy kisses quickly pall,
Aught easy wearies—yet
One kiss I crave, and, craving, call
It sweetest, dearest, of them all,
The kiss I cannot get.
J. M'CLELLAND.
MR. JOHORE’S TEETH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We had never a fear of collision or wreck,
Though, when held at arm’s length, a man saw not his hand
For we knew that as long as his Nibs was on deck
We were safe as if padding the hoof overland.
For his front teeth were dazzling with jewels most rare,
And the gems on his gums put to shame ev’ry light,
And his smile penetrated with all-seeing glare
All the darkness that hangs on the dirtiest night.
There’s a hole in our bow, ’twas a terrible crash,
But ’twas very much more of a terrible blow.
To think that we might have avoided the smash
If his Nibs with the teeth had not shifted below !
THE POSTMAN.
Mr. DAVID BARKER, Deputy, Ind., writes :
“ A SEVERE COLD, contracted during February,
caused me to cough almost continuously. Jayne’s Ex-
pectorant gave me instant relief and soon effected
COMPLETE CURE.”*
Wild’s, in the Sydney Arcade, is the most
fashionable gentlemen’s hairdressing saloon in
Sydney. Every attention possible is paid to the
customers by six expert hairdressers. Address.—
30 Sydney Arcade, entrance from George-street
or King-street, Sydney.*
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It dri\es away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dia-
.ngurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin,
'is. bottles. Made in Uuid'>n
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Re sell’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
SILVER
STARCH
THE
BEST
WORLD
THE
IN
•r**
WOLFE’S
FOR COLDS AND INFLUENZA TAKE
HOT WITH LEMON AT BEDTIME
SCHNAPPS


A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, August 11,1903.
My Dear Arini.—
I have wasted half-an-hour scratching my oat’s
ear with the unprofessional end of a pen and
pondering the reasons that make some women
display their shoulders. If the shoulders (I
am using great restraint in limiting myself
to shoulders) were as those of Miss Van
Buren, who is lavishly generous with hers,
I wouldn’t ponder. Miss Van B. serves
the cause of Art and Beauty by decollette gown-
ing. It’s—well, it’s this way: At a concert
in a Sydney hall last week a debutante singer
came on to the platform in a—well, in a section of
a gown. She was rather good-looking as to face
and stature, but her arms and shoulders and—and
the rest, were not as fine as she evidently
thought. She wasn’t fat; she wasn’t thin; but
she was not formed for such publicity. She hadn’t
a thread of shoulder-strap, and her section of
bodice was either a triumph of boneing or a testi-
monial to the stickiness of stickphast, or some
such adhesive compound. No one really listened
to her singing. All, after a simultaneous gasp of
shocked surprise, settled down to stare. And
they hadn’t the sense to look as Mark Twain did
at the can-can—through their fingers.
What a cult the motor car is going to be in
Sydney ! Know of nine persons who are expecting
arrival of motors by incoming steamers. I have
often spoken to an automobile and have even
stroked its blunt nose, but I cannot make coffee
strong enough to give me courage to ride in
one. The Rose Bay Kellys have a dandy auto-
mobile, and the Horderns’ and Dr. Marks’ “ chug-
chugs ” are not to be scorned. But the finest I
have seen belongs to a Mr. Armytage, of Launces-
ton. The first ’bile to come to Sydney, over three
years ago, belonged, I fancy, to Mr. Gillet (Mr.
Hordern’s manager). It was a three-horse-and-
one-foal power machine, and its owner claims to be
the pioneer motorist up the Blue Mountains. A
’bile doesn’t know a hill when it comes to one.
Four years ago, the machine was a rare curiosity,
even in New York—now the place is dizzy
with them. The worst effect of motor
rides upon women is that it makes them
tell fables about the speed. Perhaps the
fox-chauffeur stuffs the green-goose rider, saying,
we are going 50 miles an hour” when the pace
is really 15. As a matter of fact, our Australian
roads don’t admit a speed over 30 miles an hour.
On an American mag. authority, King Edward
has 60 automobiles. I think that statement
should be subject to discount for cash.
Marjorie, J. C. Williamson’s little daughter,
made her first stage appearance last Saturday.
She was Rip Van Winkle’s child, Meenie, in the
play, and had to say several sentences and to
assume some emotion, and she did both with
great intelligence and absence of self-conscious-
ness. Possibly the fact that she was playing with
her father aided her. Marjorie’s appearance is
familiar to many through Lougstaff’s portrait of
her. As Meenie, she wore a little Dutch bonnet
and a grey frock and pinafore, and looked a smart
little Quakeress. Her trophies were floral and
wmged, and books, and chocolates. A cage covered
with flowers and holding several birds was handed
up. Nellie Stewart sent a ladder, its topmost
rung holding a huge spray of fine blooms, its
lowest step garlanded with white violets and
snow-drops, and all the other rungs bound in pink
and blue ribbons. It was a pretty and significant
conceit.
Talking about child actresses, that one' who
took the part of “ Trouble,” the Japanese baby in
“ Madame Butterfly,” was barely two years old,
but she showed an awful lot of human nature.
Nothing but the presence of her understudy
would induce her to “goon” either at rehearsal
or during the run of the piece, for she was a most
unwilling performer. On the stage she behaved
like an angel, waving the U.S. A. flag and saying
“Goo goo!”—all the time with a jealous eye on
another infant standing in the wings. She didn’t
want the part at any price until she found that
another lady did. No doubt about that child
being born in original sin.
The violet is losing its reputation for modesty.
“As aggressive as a violet” will soon, if
growers go on developing it at present rate, be
more appropriate than remarks about its shy-
ness. Some growers have also added another
hue (red) unto the violet, which addition, on
Shakspeare’s authority, “is wasteful and ridicu-
lous excess.” To see a man who has violets
(instead of rats) in his upper storey, pluck you
a bloom of his own growing, and solemnly
flatten it out on a crown-piece, then skip with
joy if the petal tips lap over, is a balmy sight.
Do you know Pennant Hills—l 6 miles from
Milson’s Point, 18 from Redfern? Green-belted
with gums, and deep-gullied, and a-twitter with
birds, boasting a bland, caressing atmosphere
and clear-aired heights, from which you may
see vast distances—it is the kind of place in
which you feel the heart of silence throbbing with
a wordless prayer, and from which the city is no
more than a pin-point memory. Well, in a
Pennant Hills nursery—a scrap of a garden about
five times the size of a door-step—l gathered, last
week, some violets that were so big, so violet, so
fragrant that I thought their equal avas not to be
found, save in the same doll’s garden. I showed
them to a violet maniac in the city, and he made
two deep ruts between his eyes and wanted to
start ‘‘ measuring ” and ‘‘ wagering ’’ against some
of his own, grown in a tub somewhere in a
George-street attic window-sill. From that little
P.H. nursery a lot of Sydney men get violets
almost daily for their offices, counting-houses,
lairs, or studios. A well-known teacher of the:
pianoforte has tri-weekly big bunches delivered
at his crash-bang parlor.
I hear that an up-to-date young Australian has
built a drama round the recent royal tragedy in
Servia. The great scene in Act V. shows the
palace at Belgrade, The howls of the royal pair
can be heard within, while outside Edward VII.,
Joseph Chamberlain, Christian de Wet, Leo XIII
and Alexander’s faithful dog are frantically trying
to hew down the palace gate with axes that they
may get to the rescue. I don’t know yet where
the piece will be produced, but whenever or where-
ever it is, I am going to be there on first night.
The beginnings of art in this young country ought
to be encouraged.
Mining man and Mrs. Scantlebury have taken
Ada Crossley’s London flat for the period of the
contralto’s absence in Australia. Concerning
singers, a San Francisco authority says our dearly-
beloved Dolores sang to small audiences in that
city. “Her voice was too small and thin” for
the’Friscans, “but it was splendidly managed.”
Same authority speaks of her being billed some-
times under her married name. Either our
charmer has got a husband, or the San Francisco
paper is mistaking her for her mother, dead some
years.
The portraits of Florence Menkmeyer (she
begins her Sydney season next Saturday) are all
over the town, and give the idea that she was
camera-ed within the Arctic Circle in a get up
borrowed from a Polar bear (at a time, of
course, when the bear had lost interest in every-
thing—his own skin included). Florence wears
a white fur head-piece the size and shape of a
raspberry bucket, and a great white fur mantle.
She looks most unpicturesque, and, viewing her,
one feels inclined to make kindly inquiries after
the Aurora Borealis. All the same, I hope she’ll
wear those clothes here in Sydney.
Miss Donaldson, who was here with Melba and
who, it seems, has a considerable banking account
of her own, is about to marry a Captain Byrne, of
the Connaught Rangers. She is a St. Kilda
(Vic.) girl.
Signora Majeroni lived so retired a life for
many years that the news of her death at Mel-
bourne last week came as a surprise to most, only
in the sense of learning that the distinguished
actress had been still amongst us. For quite 12
years she had been suffering from consump-
tion of the throat. It is some six or seven years
since I saw the Signora, and she then looked as if
she had not a week to live, but she spoke hope-
fully of the good she was deriving from the
“Sulphur Cure.” Her husband had suffered
from a like disease. Signora and Signor Majeroni
were members of Adelaide Ristori’s company
(Adelaide Ristori was the Signora’s aunt) at the
time of their marriage. Two sons, who both
married Australian girls, and who are on the
stage (at present in Maoriland) survive.
A grand ball—fancy and evening dress
—will be held in aid of Waitara Foundling Home,
on September 4, in Sydney Town Hall. Tickets
seven-and-six each. Gallery 2s. Special attrac-
tions for gallery visitors. Entertainment from
7.45 to 8.45. Mayoress Hughes is president, and
Dames Barton and See are on the committee.
Hon. treas., Misses Keane. Hon. secs., Messrs.
H. G. Quinlan and C. G. Hepburn.
Mummers and singers who have visited Sydney
always cable out, after their going hence, when
the stork taps at their window. Signor Dani
submarines the event of a bambino soon after the
return to Italy. And Sandow rejoioes by cable
at the advent of another daughter.
All who saw that lately staged tragic idyll,
“ Madame Butterfly,” must have been struck with
the use the Jap ladies make of their wide hang-
ing sleeves. Maid Sukuki drew the housekeeping
money from the lower corner of her sleeve;
Madame Butterfly transferred it to her sleeve,
where she also sometimes thrust her fan. The
corner is sewn up a certain distance to make a
pocket, We are wearing rather Jappy sleeves at
present; let us sew up the left one a certain dis-
tance, and thus have a pocket. Our dressmakers
decline to put pockets in our frocks.
Countess of Lonsdale has Melba’s suite of rooms
at the Australia, and will inhabit them when her
Lord joins her in Sydney ; at present she is stop-
ping at Gov.-General Tennyson’s.
A countrywoman of mine has been to see me.
Maggie Papakura is she named, the half-caste
Maori maiden guide of the Rotorua Hot Lakes
district, M.L. Unlike any other half-caste Maori
I have met, Maggie is intensely patriotic— to her
mother’s people. The Maoris are her mother’s
people. She is of the famous Te Arawa tribe,
and all her own immediate division, called
Tuhourangis—after an ancestor older than Hine-
moa—4oo in number, live two miles from Rotorua,
at Whakarewarewa, where the thousand-feet-
high geyser squirts. Maggie and her mother
live in a nice whare, surrounded by their
numerous relatives. All these held public
meetings and made speeches in vain effort to stop
Maggie’s journey to foreign parts. The mother’s
one consolation is that her daughter is guarded by
the charm she wears suspended from her neck.
It has already aroused curiosity in our streets, for
it is a greenstone god, large as the palm of a
man s hand, carved with a far away grotesque
resemblance to tho Buddha, with rod wax eyes.
Tenoro is, I believe, the deitv’s name, and he has
fiv T e , tunes buried with dead ancestors.
W hen I left home,’’saysMaggie, speaking perfect
English in a soft contralto voico, * 4 mother was busy
scraping bones—those of a relative who had been
buried for 40 years. A European had bought the
land where he had lain, so we had to disinter him.”
You would scarce know that the guide was of
mixed parentage. In coloring, she looks to have
merely the brown of sunburn, her eyes are hazel,
and her features European. “ What worries me,”
she explains, “is this European clothing’’ (a
loose blouse and skirt), “ for, excepting the time
1 was at school and on my visits to Auckland I
wear our native dress.” In her black hat, Maggie
has a huia feather, which looks just like a hen’s
black wing feather tipped with white.
Sophia the Maori guide, of whom Froude wrote,
still abides at Rotorua. She is aged 74 years,
ihe tourist traffic is huge, and includes people
from all parts of the globe. “My favorites,”
says Maggie, “are the Australians and Arrieri-
(a rapturous sigh) “I do love them.
And if I live to be a thousand I’ll never forget
the Duchess of York. Of course I had already
guided scores of English ‘Lords’ and ‘Sirs ’ but
not one of these ever deigned to shake hands
•with me. Now the Duchess ” and
Miss Papakura enlarges upon that lady’s
graoious words, brilliant smile and warm
handclasps. Talking of her home : “We
never light a fire—there being no need, for we
have a boiling spring and just-warm springs close
to our whare. In these we cook our food and do
our washing.” Maggie says, “I’ll never leave
it again, and I do not care to marry. My
work is my life. I can’t imagine any interest
greater than what that is to me. . . . When you
come over I’ll show you my library. Lindsay
Gordon and Banjo Paterson are my favorite poets,
but I could talk to you all day about Dickens and
Kingsley.”
As we must have a Governor-General, I’m
saving up a horse-shoe for the new one. Per-
sonally 1 think the greatest attraction in a
Governor-General is an attractive consort. There
is plenty of corroborative evidence that Lady
Northcote will suit. She is rich, and a local
authority who knows her says she has a most
eclectic taste in dress. That’s Something
All her vouchers report she is a brilliant conversa-
tionalist. H’m ! Who will she brilliantine with
in Sydney and Melbourne ! “As iron sharpeneth
iron so does a man the countenance of his friend.”
Well, we can’t promise to sharpen Lady North-
cote’s face, but we’ll gladly lend her some blunt
countenances we know of to practise on.
The commissionaire who paces, stately as an
emu, the footpath outside a certain big drapery
store in Oxford street is a fervent 11. C whose
heart beats to the air of the “Wearin’ o’ the
Green.’ A cheerful Cherokee of Sydney Univer-
sity, who knows the old man’s faith and politics,
stepped up to him the other day excitedly with
A new Pope has been elected,” and in response
to an interested and reverent gasp from the old
man added: “ Yes, they’ve elected—Dill-
Macky! ” Then he fled, but not before certain
words had hit him.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“.I’here is an effort—recalling late Sydney Bur
dekin’s idea of monopolising Sydney Centennial
Park ‘ for the naicest people to meet in the naicest
way’—to add tone to the Yarra. The notion is
to wrest the river for a period from the ordinary
wayfarers and institute a fashionable Henley.
The river, or rather the creek, is on certain days
to be cleared of its floating debris and its boat-
loads oi Harries and Harriets, and a regatta
established on ’Ome lines. The swagger ones of
Toorak are with the idea, and at one or two meet-
ings, rallied for the consideration of a practicable
scheme of fashionable river races, the Melbourne
Club element predominated. Sydney society had
a most disquieting time with its Centennial Park
enterprise; all the bottle-oh element rolled up to
the gathering of ‘ the naicest ’ and hustled them
as they took their naice tea. The Henley proposal
may meet the same fate.
“Sport is not always the wholesale leveller.
At a prominent Melb. Golf Club only the richest
need apply to pay the exorbitant subscription fee,
and members-elect have to submit to the ballot,
and the result is often a black-balling. A quite
decent and moral Melbourne resident was
‘ pilled ’ by this club, the other evening, and he’s
going to push the reason home. No hanky-panky
tricks for him. Others have taken their ostracism
meekly.
“A big, breezy crowd filled Caulfield last
Saturday with more life and bustle than that
course has known this year. It was a day of re-
surrections. Mrs. Andrew Chirnside, after a long
absence, re-appeared in an advance Spring turn-
out, the most telling part of which was a cream
sac coat, looking rather military with its march of
brass-buttons up the sides and along the shoulder-
straps. Mrs. George Russell, new to the maternal
role, looked fresh and frankly joyous in a cinnamon
frock, well-built, and a three-cornered hat of a
slap-up shape. Miss Rita Kiddle arrived fresh on
the scene in a scutty grey box-pleated frock. It
was the briefest skirt of the meeting—quite an
inch above the ankles. She wore it with the con-
fidence of the neat-footed.
“Several of the coming season’s chiffon hats
with chin knots had a day out at Caulfield. In
every case it was a naive and demure young
person who favored the fashion—the sort of
charmer who wears kiss curls about her snowy
temples. The summer girl had better settle her
mind at once about the adoption of this crowning
piece of coquetry. The chiffon chin scarf can
only be sported by the type denoted. No others
need apply.
“ The broad-sided of the sex should have a look
in at a certain bright show any of these nights to
see how a ponderous beauty shapes in her forty-
guinea corset and a sumptuous gown modelled by
the local Worth. She shines, by virtue of her ex-
pensive accoutrements, as a superb figure with
majestic deportment. Seeing her the corpulent
may take heart. The dressmaker with her whale-
bone can triumph over the too too solid flesh.
“Annette Kellerman has retired from all tank-
dip shows for the nonce and attends school. She
is preparing to polish up her voice as well, on the
advice of friends who reckon there’s more money
in singing than in dipping. In the summer Miss
Annette will figure in a few big salt sea races,
for which she is already booked. But school and
voice cultivation are to follow unless a Yank tour
comes off. Negotiations for this have been on foot
for some time.
“The rank vandalism is being committed at
Melbourne Treasury Gardens of laboriously con-
verting the place into a pretty-pretty series of
gardens on Cockney suburban lines. The pride
of the Gardens consisted in the fine clumps of
trees beneath which it was a delight to walk even
in the hottest midsummer days, but for the past
couple of years the employees have been engaged
cutting down the best of them, and replacing them
with flower-beds, and notices to passers that they
mustn’t touch, and grass for people to keep off.
The reason is said to be that there is no love lost
between the curator of this park, and the director
of the Botanical Gardens, who have set up a
rivalry, and what one does the other doesn’t. The
Treasury Gardens man is the man who doesn’t.
“ Ihe return ball to the Mayor of Prahran and
Mrs. Densham was a live, sociable hop. Decora-
tions, floor, music and refreshments were all up to
enjoyment level. ■ The Mayoress, whose gown
was like a dream of Spring—all mauve lisse and
violets—was presented during the evening with a
silver salver, the gift of the 'buds’ who came out
at the Mayor’s recent ball.
“Some fascinating frocks were on view. On
the other hand, there were a few frightening ones
—the sort of insecure garments that keep be-
holders on tenterhooks. It makes one sigh for
the interference of some self-constituted censor,
like the rough-and-ready northern politician, who
caught up his partner’s sweeping train and
flung it over her shoulders with the remark:
“ When the rag does burst no one in the set might
have a hand to spare to do the decent thing by
yer.’
“Madame Marzella, the bird-lady at the Opera
House, treats audiences to a really pleasant little
show. The feathered folk seem quite at home,
and when not doing their ‘ turns ’ stand together
in a fussy little crowd at the end of a table and
quarrel, cackle and peck like so many spoilt chil-
dren. The star actors are cockatoos, which fact is
not surprising to anyone who has ever had a pet
‘cookie’ and knows what a lot of quaint idiosyn-
crasy perches under that yellow top-knot. I knew
one of the family, who fell in love with a hen.
She was hatching at the time, and all through
the hot weather of those three weeks, Cookie
stood by her side and said all the prettiest things
he knew, such as ‘ Pretty boy ’ and ‘ Scratch
lovey’! He constantly kissed his Juliet, too, in
the way he had been taught by humans, and alto-
gether nearly killed poor ‘Frizzle ’ with kindness.
When the chicks came out, and Cockie saw that
they were the wrong color and lacked top-knots,
he raised the most awful row and killed' two of
the supposed changelings before we could get him
under a tub. Ever after, whenever he saw that
hen. he raged and tore ‘something dreadful.’
When sympathisers petted and soothed him dur-
ing these melancholy moods, he would lay his
beak to one’s ear and tell his woes in small,
whispering songs without words. Wilson Barrett,
in the ‘ Manxman,’ dictating that bogus letter to
false Kate in pre occupied babblings of his own
sad thoughts, was awfully like ‘Cockie,’ and I
always wept bitterly throughout said scene—for
‘ Cookie’s ’ sake, not for Barrett’s. Mdme. Mar-
zella’s birds are fond of ' kissing,’ too, and their
lady has coaxing little ways of refreshing them
with billings and cooings during their stage graft.
“Judge Molesworth, his wife, and the whole
flock, rallied to the final Toy recital. There is in
this rubicund Judge, as in most of the Benchers, a
disposition to encourage the love of music. The
Molesworth girls, even in their teens, play
brilliantly. The Hoods are most musical.
The Maddens delight in showing off their
dimpled digits on the piano-keys. So with all the
daughters of Justices.
_“ Charles Rose, the operatic tenor, is back to
his old condition of health and eye-glass, after a
heavy term of sickness.
“If what one hears along the Toorak route is
true, we shall have an influx of fashionable
milliners and massage women before the Summer
flies are buzzing. Several Melbourniennes who
started abroad this year are acquiring the latest
secrets of the toilette and the skin in London and
Paris. The treatment is expensive on that side of
the world, for every woman with a husband (of
her own, or somebody else’s) swears by the beauty
cult, and the skin agents charge what they like.
Hereabouts it is easier to draw up a scale of
charges than to draw a crowd to pay them.
“Walter Kirby fires pictorial postcards at tile
girls he left behind him by every mail. A
scribbled line or two in the margin tells of his
triumphal tour to date. Nothing is said, so far,
of Melba looking after him in the Big Smoke.
But she made that impulsive promise before
Walter sang and platformed in a way that made
the stormy star rage. {' " \ C
“Mark Hambourg’s remarks re piano plaTying
are dropping into print and quotation marks.
‘Bach exercises every faculty one possesses,’
‘The musician must possess general knowledge,’
‘The greater the artist the greater the indivi-
duality ’ (a liberal interpretation of this equals
‘the greater the artist, the weightier the mane,’
or ‘ the wilder the aspect ’). For the tired and
nervous Mark prescribes a dose of Bach. .
“ A Titian-haired nurse, who took a spell from
her post in a very fashionable private hospital,
and made for the Big Smoke, a few months ago,
has just landed a prize catch in the military line.
She was a game little girl, whose laugh was as
good as a tonic to a depressed patient, and whose
tricks and jokes are told to wakeful sufferers to
this hour.
“ All the elderly dames at a certain swell hotel
have broken out into a poodle mania. Met three
of the tribe, the other morning, going off on a
jaunt with their poodles on string. The pro-
prietary does not encourage the idea, for various
reasons, and unless the pets are kennelled with
the owner a high rate is charged for their de-
tached bedding. Collins-street is familiar with
bne dog-cart dasher who takes her poodle into a
cafe and feeds him with almond pasties, while she
regales herself with what is now styled a ‘ per-
suader.’ It is such an up-to-date saucy poodle
that presently we expect to hear him bark direc-
tions for a change of diet.
“For the hot season, the racing clubs had better
provide shady seats for femininity in the Bird-
cage. The sex has elected to spend most of its
raee_ time in that quarter. It scorns the old-
fashioned lawn saunter, and the Terrace tiles are
only favored for a friskish quarter of an hour
before each race.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.
Cb°
K
o
r -S .o .
IV ft"
S’
e*\ V°
V
Women ! why be thin and undeveloped ?
Lacte, the wonderful skin-food, plumps the flesh
where thin and undeveloped, gives a beautiful
roundness to face, neck, bust, and arms. A
quick, sure and safe home treatment. Jars
75._6d., post Bs. 2d. Thousands of women using it
daily, all of whom testify to the wonderful results
from its use. Write for pamphlet to H. Westall
Guest, Vice-regal chemist, 229 Bourke-street,
Melbourne.*
WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW
WT WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT W WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW
A Reliable Glove
which you can depend upon to give
you satisfaction—hard to get we
know, but just try a sample pair of
The Royal Kid Glove
to be obtained in every color, and
every pair carries a guarantee.
Price o /
PAIR.
W. T. WATERS & CO. LTD.
“ The Leaders of Fashion,"
King & George Sts., SYDNEY.
|~SEM PER jDEM. ~| %
) FACILE PRINCEPS. |
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
- ‘‘eRA V* E M ETT cs
'o-fV^ S K
RAINCOATS.
Are the Ideal Fabrics
for


PERSONAL ITEMS.
An unimportant person named Northcote
is to be Australia’s new Governor-General.
Mr. Holman, M.P. (N.S.W.) has been
admitted to the bar; he should develop into an
eloquent advocate.
“ David Harum ” . Ex-Minister Kingston
. neither drinks nor smokes, so no one can say he was
drunk when he threw up his job.
There are at least three ex-Ministers in
Adelaide whose anxiety to. borrow half-a-crown,
even on very short acquaintance, is something
pathetic.
According to one of the papers, N.S.W.
Minister Crick has again sworn off alcohol and
tobacco. It’s one of Mr. Crick’s favorite diver-
sions—teetotalism.
Said Governor Le Hunte, in one of his first
speeches after landing in S.A.: “Mr. Premier,
may I ask you always to speak the truth .
what had Le Hunte heard about Jenkins Iscariot '
A certain politician who divorced his wife
a few months before her father’s decease now
finds that the lady has been left property, present
value £20,000. And the ex-husband is not a rich
man.
Stated' in R.C. circles that it is quite
possible that the new Pope will keep Moran of
the Red Hat in Rome, and that Archbishop Carr,
of Melbourne, may, in that case, be made Car-
dinal.
Some country papers are shockingly pre-
vious. Waihi (M.L.) Daily Telegraph came to
the bright conclusion one afternoon that Pope
Leo would pass away by the time it went to press,
so it gravely recorded his death. He died four
days afterwards. Another paper unaccountably
alluded to the deceased prelate as “the late Mr.
Pope.”
When a certain sovereign, or half-
sovereign, person had been staying at a certain
Australian hotel for a few weeks the manager
remarked to somebody, in an ordinary way of
business, that had he known what sort of com-
pany his Nibs was going to bring to the dinner
table he would have told his Nibs on arrival to
take his trunks and his “ tarts ’’ to another pub.
Although Sheriff Boothby is dead, there is
still a Boothby, C.M.G., resident in Adelaide.
This is brother Josiah, who represented. S.A. at
the Paris Exhibition, years ago, and received the
tag referred to, as well as the Legion of Honor.
He was then Senior Under-Secretary. Although
an old man, he is still vigorous in the dis-
charge of his duties, which now consist of com-
piling State statistics.
EMPTY .
“There was a Victorian loan of £5,600,000 falling due
early next year, and it would be necessary to renew that
loan, as he understood that the State would not have the
money by it just then.” — Reid.
IRVINE: “I believe lid’s right! I don’t think I
have got it by me for the mo ment.”
Adelaide Council of Churches asked R.C.
Archbishop O’Reily to give thanks for rain in
S.A., and to pray for showers at Broken Hill.
The Archbishop replied that although he believed
in both prayer and thanksgiving, he declined, in a
religious matter “at any time or on any subject to
take any suggestion from the Council of Churches.”
Which, for sulky, low-down and unchristian can-
tankerousness, about takes what bun there is.
An autopsy on the body of the recently
butchered Alexander of Servia brought to light
the interesting fact that the dead monarch’s skull
was nearly twice the ordinary thickness. The
brain was in an advanced catarrhal state, and the
liver unusually large and smothered in fat,
showing that the royal owner was an excessive
eater and consistent and heavy drinker. Sum-
marised, he was a thick-headed monarch full of
victuals.
A police pensioner has been found dead in
his room, in Melbourne, surrounded by cash to
thevalueof <£2l2sand thousands morein securities.
He had been living on a pension for 17 years, and
retired from the force worth about £30,000. Beside
this, the legendary sergeant with his terrace or
two and a gold watch tapers off to a very mild
joke. But drunks were drunks in Melbourne 20
or 30 years ago, and they had money and jewellery
about them.
“ 6 K.” : I wonder whether any portion of
the “ National Defence Fund.” now being raised
by invoice fakirs and their friends, will be used to
help the further continuance in his political job of
M‘Donald Paterson, when that politician returns
from his triumphal trip round the world . M Pat.
has not put in an appearance at Parliament this
session, and he had the habit of absence before
that. Socially, he is a cheerful fellow, with a
collection of breezy and bounceable yarns ; poli-
tically, he is a garrulous old man, who can neither
think logically nor speak coherently, and can t
even wave his arms in a consecutive sort of way.
Kingston, though he has utterly neglected
his law practice for the last six or eight
vears and gave it little time for another six
or eight years before that, still has a shingle
hanging out in Adelaide- “Kingston and
M‘Lachlan.” M'Lachlan, though a coin-
parative junior, is a Caledonian chief, or
something of the sort.
Recently-deceased Mount Morgan-
aire T. S. Hall, was a firm believer m the
life insurance policy as an investment. As
far back as 188(3 he took out, m Meibourne
two £20,000 policies with two different Ameri-
can firms, and a £lO,OOO policy with the A.M.P.
Society. .
Some alleged birthplaces of members of
the Federal' Parliament Ireland : H. B.
Higgins, W. M'Millan, M‘Cay, Kirwan, Glynn,
Mahon, Harney, Gfassey Queensland E., .
Groom, Wilkinson, Dawson. Tasmania. Lyne,
Cameron, G. B. Edwards, A. C. Groom, Hartnoll,
Cameron, Clemons, Dobson, Keating O Keefe.
Westralia: John Forrest. Maoriland • Hume
Cook. Canada: King O’Malley and Fraser.
Chili; Watson.
Barrister Colonua-Close writes S.IViT.
Herald deprecating the apathy in New South
Wales on the matter of Reform. Apropos,
Colonna has tried “ reform ” several times. 1 irst
he was a Foreign-trader, then he became a Pro-
tectionist, and now he is a Reformer. ihen,
again, he was a barrister, and getting disbarred
became an attorney, and next he got struck on the
lower roll where the 6s. Bd. is, and again became a
wearer of wig and gown. Next reform ?
“ Jimmy ” Thomson, who founded the
late lamented Melbourne Evening Standard,
and recently gave Fremantle its first daily paper,
will be 50 on September Ist. He joined the Aus-
tralasian 35 years ago, and set up, as an appren-
tice the copy of Marcus Clarke, Dr. Neild, Henry
Kendall, Dr. Maloney, Adam Lindsay Gordon,
and “Orange-blossom” Chapman, who was m
those days a comp, himself on the old Daily Tele-
graph, then edited by Howard Willoughby.
An example, from the Argus, of the kind
of all-round man that Australia used to produce :
Oasterton. —John M‘Sheehy, a resident of this neigh-
borhood since the sixties, died on Tuesday morning. He
was an extraordinary example of the ‘ handy man.
He could clean or repair a watch, clock, or sewing-
machine, build a house or bridge, do all kinds of farm
work, and in his prime was able to shear sheep with the
fastest men at the shearing-sheds. He was also an
excellent violinist, and was at one time a player in the
Glenelg brass band. He leaves a widow and seven
children.
The late Sheriff Boothby had the narrowest
of escapes from the historic Gothenburg wreck:
As Sheriff, he was bound to accompany Judge
Wearing to hold the Circuit Court in the Northern
Territory ; as returning officer, he was wanted to
preside over a general election just coming on.
The Government of the day decided that he
would be most useful over the election. So it ran
a short special Act of Parliament through, to
enable a substitute to go to the N.T.; and the
substitute duly went and was drowned.
A woman, over 80 years of age, who had
been receiving the old age pension since the pass-
ing of the Victorian Act, intimated to the Rich-
mond (Melb.) postmaster, the other day, that she
had just received a legacy of £3OOO, and desired to
at once be taken off the pension roll, and to repay
to the State the total of her pension money to
date _ a matter of over £6O. Did anyone ever
hear of a £lOO-a-year, or a £l5OO-a-year State pen-
sioner refunding the sum total of the pensions
received when he was in a position to do so .
Sailor “Bob” Guthrie, M.L.C. (S.A.),
who is credited with having led Kingston to pledge
himself that sailors would be brought under the
Arbitration law, has been a Labor Member in the
Vegetable State for 10 years. He is the most
active and the shrewdest of the legislative Labor
partv there, and is usually credited with being
the engineer of all the successful schemes they
organise. He is a boss temperance advocate, and
of stature small enough to go into Kingston s side
pocket. “Bob” is the King of Port Adelaide,
where he has made his home ever since he became
a longshoreman. -
“Tom” Arnold, brother of Matthew and
father of Mrs. Humphrey Ward, has lately died
in Dublin. In the forties, Governor George Grey
found Arnold farming a scrap of land in M.L.,
and not raising bread (without butter) from it.
He offered him a billet as private secretary to
himself, which Arnold refused. A few years
later Governor Denison, of V.D.L., asked Tom
to come over and set up a school system m his
island and thither Arnold went. He was inspec-
tor of schools in the Flyspeckfor some years, and
Mrs Ward was born in Hobart. While on his
rounds one day, Tom came across, in a wayside
cabin, a life of St. Brigid (not of Ireland, but
of Sweden), and thereupon he wrote to J. H.
Newman, asking him to help him on the road to
Rome. But Tom ’verted back to Anglicanism,
and then ’verted again to Rome, and died a
Catholic. He and Rev. Addis, late of Melbourne,
compiled a big “ Catholic Dictionary now a
classic. Addis also ’verted back to Anglicanism,
and up to date has not shifted.
AFTER LONG YEARS.
MULGA JOE (just back to town) : “ Why, blow
me, I ain’t changed, a bit this three year."
Apropos McManamny’s blotting paper (B.
23/7/’O3), there was a parliamentary incident con-
nected with a piece of blotting paper which
created much scandal at the time. .Mr. <l. S.
Smith, who represented Wellington in N.S.W.
Assembly, in addressing the House, spoke of a
matter which was known only to two members.
Being challenged as to his knowledge, he ad-
mitted that when one of the parties had written a
letter in the library, he had secured the blotting
paper and so learned the secret.
District Court Judge Backhouse is again, in
the congestion of business, mentioned for election
to N.S.W. Supreme Court Bench. District Court
Judges are an easy-going set, or long ago they
would have insisted on their right to promotion,
other things being equal, to the higher Bench.
If Backhouse, Murray, Rogers, and others. re-
signed and went for politics they would, in a
Parliament or two, be regarded as qualified for
seats on the Supreme Court. Bench.. So far as legal
knowledge is concerned their title is as good now.
“ I wish I had your way of saying ‘ No,’ ”
was Phil May’s remark to “ Hop” on one occasion
when the elder artist had declined to be led off to
liquor with somebody or other. There was no
such word as 44 No’ where Phil was concerned.
In after years he made a jest of his easy com-
plaisance,' and declared that no one could say he
had ever been known to refuse a drink. Took
his refreshers with casual indifference to their
quality, as some other nervous men take their
tobacco. Jack Longstaff once said he had never
found a cigar so bad that he couldn’t smoke it.
“ J.A.C.” : Be Donald Dinnie (Bulletin,
23/7/’O3). Donald is not “comfortably off,” other-
wise he would not, probably, be issuing challenges
in his 66th year. He lost nearly all his money m
the Melbourne land boom and bank failures. He
may have been canny, but not canny enough for
Melbourne sharks. His last venture there a
livery stable—was also unsuccessful. He was
born in the Dee-side village of Aboyne, Aberdeen-
shire and did not take up athletics as a profession
until he was 30 years of age. Previously he had
been a building contractor in the Balmoral
district.
It is advertised in the West Australian
that the partnership hitherto existing among
Peter Chung Fanggett, Timothy Chen, Tong
Coon. Pon Cheoy Dick, Pon Mun, and Mattew
Chew Sike, under the style of The Australian
Fruit Company, has been dissolved. The Aus-
tralian Fruit Company —all these Fangs and
Tongs and Coons and Chews! For the future
the Australian Fruit Company is to consist solely
of Mattew Chew Sike. And this rearrangement
of the Australian Fruit Company is witnessed
and countersigned by Charlie Yack On. Poor
Australia !
Governor Le Hunte has been going to
functions in Adelaide with terrible frequency
since his appointment, and has fired off a speech
at every one of them. This, save that Le Hunte
speaks grammatically and coherently, is very
reminiscent of poor old Fowell Buxton, who
slopped over into muddy eloquence on every
possible occasion. Tennyson, on the contrary,
seldom went to public gatherings of the City
Mission, Salvation Army, or Boys’ Brigade type,
and, when he did appear on a platform, usually
kept his mouth shut. Wherefore the reporters
loved him.
“C.E.T.” : Perth Representative Fowler,
who has just been nominated without opposition
by the Laborites for the Federal Parliament, has
very little to thank the local press for. His
speeches, when presented at all by the Perth
newspapers, are given in about three sentences —
more or less incoherent. This is rather rough on
a thoughtful, forcible speaker who, like Lord
Roberts, “doesn’t advertise.” In spite of all
misrepresentations, Fowler will certainly go back
to the Reps, in preference to any of the small
wobblers who have been the curse of W.A. politics
in the past. '
The late Walter Watson Hughes gave
£20,000 long ago to found Adelaide University,
and his nephews (both of whom are in the S.A.
Parliament) are giving £2OOO for the erection of a
statue in the University grounds. J. H. Angas
gave £15,000, and the late Thomas Elder £lOO,OOO
to the same institution. The Bulletin often
wonders how the rich men of this country would
respond.to an appeal for subscriptions to start,
however humbly, a Public Debt Sinking Fund to
which no Government would have access. 1 here
seems to be much money available for teaching
dead languages, but mighty little for shifting a
dead horse.
A prominent Adelaide surgeon has various
little eccentricities, one of which is
to give lessons —with explanatory
drawings on the pavement in
anatomy to pupils whom he may
meet in the street. The sketches
are sometimes a little more than
interesting to passers-by.
One of the best known Brisbane (Q.)
identities is a tall, grey-bearded old man with a
white apron and a basket of sheep’s-trotters, h or
27 years the old fellow has stood nightly on the
corner of Albert and Queen streets in ram, hail,
storm, or moonshine. For 27 weary years each
night between 8 and 11 his loud, sonorous
“Sheep’s trotterrrrrs ! ” has been heard everv two
minutes with deadly regularity.
“F.” writes :
Apropos Dr. Angel Money’s house. The old building in
Hunter-street dates from the very early thirties, and was
at one time the property of Robert Campbell. It has
housed some notable people. For many years Justice
Roger Therry lived there, it being his last residence in
Sydney. John Hubert Plunkett, Imperial Attorney-
General, also lived in it. In the sixties peorge Thornton
dwelt there, followed by G. A. Lloyd. In 1870 Dr. J. C.
Cox went into residence and remained there 20 years.
The additions visible from Macquarie-street were made
bv Dr Cox, who therein stored his wonderful collection
of shells, etc. In a cottage still standing opposite the
doctor’s house lived John Tawell, Sydney’s notorious
Quaker, though as one time he lived at No. 1 Macquarie-
street, now the site of the Australian Club In his
«Reminiscences ” Judge Therry mentions Tawell as
living opposite to him in Hunter-street in the thirties.
Quite a number of more or less dis-
tinguished folk have birthdays this month:
Alfred Deakin, 47 on the 3rd, and R. E.
O’Connor, on the 4th ; Rolf Boldrewood 77,
and Isaac Isaacs 48, on the 6th; Agent-
General Grainger (S.A.), 56 on the 7th ; Baris
Nesbit 51, and George Turner 52, on the Bth;
Bleeds-that-Won-the-Empire Fitchett, on the
9th : Governor-General Tennyson, on thellth;
Governor Ranfurly, 57 on the 14th ; \Yorks
Minister Foster (S. A.), 47 on the 20th ; Senator
Fraser, 68 on the 21st; John Forrest 56, W.
Moore (Tas.) 80, on the 22nd ; Ex-Premier Cook-
burn (S.A.) 53, J. L. Purves, K.C., 60, and James
Cassius Williamson 58, on the 23rd ; and Graham
Berry, 81 on the 28th.
When a certain important politician visited
his home for a short period recently, one of the
two local dailies sent a man down to interview
him. The pressman knew the politician’s wife
was a difficult woman to make friends with, but he
did not anticipate any very untoward behavior
on her part. He accordingly came up the garden
path, leaned his bicycle against the verandah post,
and inquired of the politician’s wife if he could
interview Mr. . But the lady, without more
ado, smote him with a big stick she had held con-
cealed behind her back, and beat him from the
doorway. Continuing the attack she forced the
newspaper man down the path, and the latter was
about to flee when he bethought himself of his
bike. Accordingly he manoeuvred to recover it,
but the lady was too much for him and defeated
him every time. At length he began to run
round the house, the political man’s wife in hot
pursuit. Thrice he careered round, and then the
distance between himself and his pursuer was
appreciable enough to allow of him mounting his
machine and scorching officewards. The daily
said, next morning, that Mr. was very re-
ticent.
LOCOMOTOR ATAXIA.
I was so crippled with Locomotor Ataxia that it took mo oxer a hour to hobble on two sticks fromthe.Post
l w pp „ __-j r\ Williams miner Kapunda, and now you see how strong and
Office here to my house 300 yards awayo. BW 11 , with I„fl„e„sa. A relapse crippled
active Urn-thanks enttrely toDr WdUams Ataia shot through my hack, ribs and shoulders.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills steadily. The new blood they made tingled
in my veins and wakened the dead nerves and muscles of my para-
lvsed legs. Soon I ate well, slept well, and gained in weight At last I actually dressed
myself and walked out without my two sticks. I have worked for two years now without
having a day’s illness. Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills completely cured me of Locomotor
Ataxia after the best doctors failed.”
Don’t take bulk pills or any Pink=dyed Substitute.
From retailers and the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney. 2s. 9d. per box ; six boxes, 16s. 3d., post free.
The genuine are always in boxes —never in bottles.
Great
Kapunda
Cure,
D* WILLI AMS *
VS
Dr. Williams Pink Pills for


Aboriginalities.
To Contributors. —ln the case of ethnological and
natuial history items, etc., always give date and
place of experience ;or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific
value.
THE DISABLED ’ROO.
“Maoriland football team won all matches played in
Australia to date, and scored 112'points to 10.”
THE 'ROO ( sorroiufully): “ Well, that moa can
kick a bit.”
“ Uloola”: My casual countrymen ! Over-
taken recently by night and rain, I camped in the
bush, about a hundred yards from a dwelling.
When I was packing up in the morning, an
inmate of said dwelling appeared—a young fellow
about 25: “ Y’bad a wet camp, mate.” “Yes;
not too comfortable.”. “When I see you campin’
last night, I was afraid it might come on to blow.
Me and th’ ole man’s been grubbin’ a tree just
over here” (he pointed a few yards away), “and
if it ’a’ blew, it’d ’a’ fell right on your camp ! ” I
told him it was extremely thoughtful of him to
have let me pass the night in blissful innocence of
my danger, while he had courageously borne a
load of anxiety on my behalf.
ANOTHER KYABRAM MOVEMENT.
Nagambie— which is in Victoria—has formed a league to
oppose the idea of building a Federal Capital “in the
bush.” Nagambie considers that one of the existing
centres of enlightenment should be chosen.
NAGAMBIE ORATOR: “Em agin this wastin' money
in building a new Federal Capital. Wot I
say is, why not build it closer to hand where
the people are? Wot about Nagambie? Wot
about keepin' it in touch with our Mechanics’
Institoot? ”
Dear B ulletin. — Re gaol slang (B. 16/7/’O3).
It rarely follows that a person who is versed in,
and uses the lingo of, “limbo” has been there.
The slang term “smoodger” is extensively in use
in the back country, where its meaning is the
same as in gaol, and, as “B.B.” correctly says,
its sound instinctively conveys the meaning.
“Snout,” a gaol-slang term for tobacco, is also
commonly used by bushmen; so is “screw”—in
gaol it means warder; out back it signifies station
overseer. Navvies invariably call the ganger the
“gaffer” or the “screw.” “Dust,” in the Em-
peror Edward’s free hotel, means the tobacco dust
accumulated in the pocket. Remand prisoners,
who wear their own clothes, are, on admittance,
often requested to feel their pockets for “dust.”
Out-back the same term is used for flour. Many
other gaol-slang terms and epithets are in vogue
in the bush. Most of them are Oockney-bred, and,
no doubt, carried out of gaol into common circu-
lation. A man who picks his tobacco with his
fingernails is often suspected of having “done
time.” This, too, is a popular fallacy. Want of
pocket-knives teaches many bushmen to use their
thumb-nails instead. Prisoners, of course, are
compelled to dislocate smuggled-in tobacco in that
manner, hence the belief that anyone doing so
must have been there.—6 x 8.
» * * *
“ B.” : It was show-time in an Out-back
town. Bill (who reckons he can use his hands a
bit) with a few admirers was standing outside the
tent in which were some professional bruisers.
The manager of the show came out and asked if
any gentleman could stand up for three rounds to
the Rocks’lad—“There’s a quid for the man as
can do it! ” “Blow me,” said Bill, “he carn’t
kill a cove anyhow, an’ I fancy that ’ere quid’s
mine.” Bill went in, put on the mittens, and
stepped into the ring to the accompaniment of
loud cheers. Round 1: Bill doing famously;
great excitement, and his friends backing him
vigorously. Round 2: Bill holding his own and
rather more; his friends still staking their money
and certain unknown individuals taking all they
can get. Round 3 : Dead Bill. Conclusion: Bill
being escorted home by his ruined admirers, who
tell him unanimously that he can’t hit hard enough
to_ knock a fly off the butter. It is a common
trick, succeeds most of the time.
“ J.P.C.” on lodges :
This is certainly not the Land of the Languishing
Lodge. This is the country where that institution
flourishes like the green bay eucalyptus herb Every
second man you meet belongs to the Indiscriminate
Order of Beer Stumblers, or the Ancient and Magnificent
Lodge of Unfettered Rock Cod. And the cause of this
great prosperity is mainly flim-flam. Plain John
Smith is initiated as a common or barn-door
Brother with no ornamentation worth mentioning After
a while he is given the appellation of Somewhat Im-
portant Tadpole and enough colored rag to make him
look like an animated jam label, and if the aforesaid J.S.
has plenty of hide and patience he eventually reaches the
very acme of bliss, the zenith of human endeavor and
is installed as Uttermost Incomprehensible Toad with the
right to wear a whole softgoods establishment. He gets
this only if he has hide and patience. Ability doesn’t
count in lodges. Brains are right enough in their wav •
they re ornamental but they ’re not colored. Why not
run these institutions on common sense lines right
through, and come down with large feet on the idea that
makes a lodge gathering look like a poster picture out
for an airing ?
“ Yanco ” :
The life of a N.S.
Wales country
school-teacher is
full of joy. Met
one during the
mid-winter vaca-
tion who hailed
from the boun-
dary of Hades.
He told me he
exists year in,
year out—through
drought, heat and
dust on “ sodden
bleater ” (other-
wise boiled mut-
ton), rarely seeing
milk, butter, jam,
or vegetables. He
had to do a coach
journey of 210
miles during his
holidays (?) to
reach the nearest
examination cen-
tre to try and
qualify for pro-
motion. If suc-
cessful, the De-
partment pays his
ex’s.; if he fails,
he pays his own.
After exam, he
has to catch the
first coach back,
in order to be
ready to open
school at termin-
ation of vacation.
An attempt to
pass an exam.,
with absolutely no facilities for study, involves
the loss of hard-earned holidays, and the risk of
sacrificing about £l5 in coach fares, etc. For
this, £BB per annum !
* * » *
“ Sansleson ” writes re the much-debated
comparative cleanliness of different nationalities :
Stayed recently at a bush pub. for 24 days, and for 22
nights of my stay 1 had a different room-mate each night
—the nationalities being three Scots, four Englishmen,
one Belgian, one Swede, one German, and 12 Australians.
Two pnly of all these (a Scot and an Englishman) changed
their underclothing on retiring ; indeed one man (the
Belgian) turned in “ all standing,” bar the boots. Then,
as regards morning ablutions, I purposely allowed each
one the chance of first wash, so as to make mv observa-
tions. Only three—a Scot, a Swede, and an Englishman
—stripped to the waist to wash ; 11 (two Scots, one
Englishman, and eight Australians) dressed completely
before washing their hands and faces ; and four Aus-
tralians and the Belgian didn’t wash at all. Generally
speaking, in my travels, pretty well the world over, I
have found amongst men of white race but little differ-
ence in the matter of personal cleanliness. The English
upper-class man makes a lot of noise in his bathroom of a
morning, but that may not mean all it is intended to
convey. The Yank and the Frenchman, who do not
make such a splashing, probably have just as good a
swill ; while as for the German, he simply doesn’t pretend
to take a matutinal bath.
* * * *
“ Nym ” : Cod-haulers on the Murray
never catch a fish of any size between 8 a.m. and
12 p.m. When fishing in lagoons, however long,
broad, and deep, you will never catch catfish at
the same end as cod—either angling, netting, or
with night lines. Drum-nets will probably exter-
minate the harmless, mystic platypus at no dis-
tant date. Following their prey into the nets,
with the current, they, soon drown, and the quest
of a lone platypus up and down the stream looking
in vain for its defunct mate is sad enough even for
the saddening solitude of the big stream !
* * * *
“ Thurla ” : Re peculiar growth of trees
(8., 20/6/’O3). In the Ghvydir (N.S. W.) district
there is a freak of nature. A gum and a yellow
box have combined from the ground and formed
one tree to a height of eight feet, where they
branch off as two distinct institutions. Both are
well grown, and the yellow box has become firmly
embedded into the trunk of the gum.
* • » *
“ Itan ” : Surely no insect is more tena-
cious of life than the fowl tick. A small card-box
containing eight of them was sent to a Sydney
newspaper office 18 months ago for identification
by a Condobolin resident. The receptacle was
laid aside at the time, and the other day found.
On being opened four of the ticks were still alive ■
of the defunct quartette nothing but shells re-
mained.
• * * •
“ Nardoo : “ Elmore ” (27/6/’O3) wants
rabbiting records. In the year ’96 five men caught
70,000 rabbits in five months. The rabbits were
caught in wire yards, which were shifted about
every second day, and were sent alive to the
Menindie Boiling Down and Meat Preserving
Works. The work was done on the north side of
Pamamaroo Lake, near the Darling River, and
about 10 miles from Menindie (this country is
next door to Boake’s Never-Never country). In
the nineties, when rabbits were thick, traps were
too slow, and wire yards and poisoned water were
used, and by either of those ways a couple of men
who were used to the work could easily get 2000 a
day for a while. A good rabbiter was asked in
my hearing how many rabbits the average man
ought to skin in a day—that is skin, bow and
paint, having first to take his bows from the
previous day’s skins. He said 500 was a fair thing
for the average man, but if he got an early start
he could do 1000 by 4 o’clock.
• • • •
: Re “ Spin’s ” snake-gohanna
inquiry (B. 9/7/’<>3). Have been told by abori-
gines that the only part of gohanna not snake-
proof is the tongue ; and that the snake in a
combat with the “ go ” always endeavors to inflict
a stroke there.
“ War E.” : A sign of the times is the
absence from the “local papers ” of a record per-
centage of lambs on the “ Squire of Deadbroke’s ”
property. The jumbuek owners haven’t pluck
enough this year to trot out the hoary old lie of
big percentages. Though the season is good in
most places the lambing is almost a total failure,
owing to the manner in which the ewes were
knocked about travelling in the summer for grass.
S. BARROW, winner Maoriland Dunlop Road-
Race, Timaru to Christchurch, 112 miles,
July 25.
Photo, by F. B. Hughes, Christchurch (M.L.).
“Argo”: Talk about folding beds!
Riding along the road lately I came across an
animated piece of bark, from which came some
words which will not bear publication. On in-
vestigation I found a swaggie inside. It appear.
he had cut the bark for a mattress, and during the
night the heat had caused it to curl up.
* * * *
“W.”:A Mallee councillor-cocky lately
called tenders for a mile of fencing. Posts and
stays (Gin. at the smaller end) had to be split,
barked, and carted from a creek five miles away.
Boring for seven wires was worth a tenner in
itself, the posts being green. Yet the £l2 for
which a struggling neighbor offered to undertake
the whole job was considered too much, and the
councillor’s sons are now plugging away at it
instead. The ordinary mean man hasn’t a look
in hereabouts.
SAGGY FLAT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Saggy Flat State School and Residence—Erection of.
Plans and specifications at office.— Tas. Department of
Works advt. for Tenders.
I’ve drunk a draught from Roaring Meg,
I’ve traversed Sailor Jack,
On Flanigan’s I’ve sunk a peg,
I’ve tramped the Pieman track ;
But where I’ve been, or walked, or sat,
I never yet struck Saggy Flat.
On Rocky Hills the stones are rough,
’Tis smooth at Bowling Green ;
Of Break-me-neck I’ve had enough ;
To Sally Peak I’ve been.
Still here, and there, and this, and that,
I can’t locate this Saggy Flat.
The grade is stiff up Burst-me-gall,
It’s bleak by Crooked Tree.
’Twoukl break your heart where pack mules crawl
In mud and misery.
Perhaps thq badger and the cat
Pegged out the lots on Saggy Flat.
I’ve clambered over Owen’s Slope,
I’ve footed Howard Plains ;
I’ve seen the place called Charlie’s Hope,
And also camped at Mayne’s.
But still by all that’s fit or fat
I’m bothered by this Saggy Flat.
By Water Holes, and Frying Pan
To Eggs-and-Bacon Bay,
And Bullock Point, —a hungry man
Might reach the Break O’ Day—
With Hollow Tree to shelter at
When looking round for Saggy Flat.
Black Charley’s and Red Mick’s I know,
Snake Banks and Roaring Beach ;
Brown Mount, White Marsh, and Holy Joe,
Red Hill and Brady’s Reach.
What but a coot or water rat
Would pitch a camp on Saggy Flat?
The grass grows green on Ragged Tier,
None shoots a-top Bald Head ;
Round Weedy Hills the gums star d sere,
Frost-bitten, gaunt and dead.
’Gainst all queer names I ply my bat
Yet cannot hit this Saggy Flat.
TAS.
TAHUNE LINAH.
THE DREAMER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He kept a public-house out back,
And gladly faked the beer all day ;
But now his rueful brow is black,
And all the world is hodden grey.
But yesterday, in merry mood,
He watched the boozers breast the bar,
And served in large beatitude
Strange draughts of what he called Three Star.
One task-worn traveller held aloof
With gentle sorrow in his gaze ;
Perhaps his diffidence was proof
Of having lived in better days.
A reminiscent spirit played
About his ancient drapery ;
His old kid gloves were more than frayed;
“Matilda” stood beside his knee.
A sordid man from o’er the way,
Who dully peddled boots and shoes,
Had gathered in some cash that day
And came to celebrate in booze.
The publican with cheerful smiles
Did pour the muddy liquor out
(His mouth was like a crocodile’s),
And said, “ I guess you’d better shout."
At this, like an old battle-steed
That heard again the fife and drum,
That traveller old and gone to seed
Spoke up, and said his drink was rum ;
And then, without a hint of haste
(He was as gentle as a lamb),
He clasped around the tumbler’s waist
A hand just like a large brown ham.
Perhaps the olden days came back
Like golden bubbles in the cup ;
And he, a dreamer of the track,
Forgot, and tilled the tumbler up.
So one man looked on in surprise,
And one looked on in horror dumb,
As slowly there before their eyes
He drank two-shillings-worth of rum.
lie keeps a public-house out-baclc,
And sadly fakes the beer all day ;
But now his rueful brow is black,
And all the world is hodden grey.
M. M. HASSETT.
To Play your Piano
L
>!*
The Pianola will aid you*
Would you believe there are nearly one
hundred thousand pianos lying idle in
Australia ?
Did it ever occur to you how very little
your piano is being used ?
Do you know the Pianola will enable
you to play your piano at once, although
you may never have played one note in
your life ?
If you will write us we will mail you
free a catalogue explaining how. Ask for
Catalogue “B.”
The price of the Pianola is £6O prompt
cash, or £65 on moderate monthly pay-
ments.
&
HENRY M. BIRGE& CO.,
Sole Agents for Australasia,
SYDNEY : 323 George St.,
MELBOURNE: 185-187 Collins St.
MR. J. SPENCER NOLAN, R.D.S.,
DENTAL SURGEON, 43 Oxford-St., Sydney
nptJTTCTOv n . „ (between Mark Foy’s and Riley-st.). HIGH-CLASS
ujiiN iioiKi at lowest prices. Guaranteed absolutely painless extractions by latest American system—a great
success. Beautiful and perfect-fitting atmospheric suction sets of American teeth, giving the wearer ease,
comfort and natural appearance. Coraline gum plates, without springs or wires. Elastic Gum Coraline is the
most recent, up-to-date plate for mounting teeth. All wrinkles and hollow cheeks disappear. It is so natural
that it denes detection. For comfort, strength and lightness it surpasses everything previously introduced.
Coraline is perfectly tasteless, and remains wholesome and pure. Badly fitting plates remodelled on this new
system. Up-to-date gold crowns. Call and see specimens of latest methods. Upper and lower sets from £1 Is.
Single teeth from ss. Teeth filled, scaled and bleached. Country visitors fitted in one day if required.
DAVID STOHjEB* & SONS’ ln Three ColorB -BIACK, RED and BLUE
Registered
Trade
Mark.
TATTOO OIL
Is the Only Absolutely
i SAFE Wco ’“
1 o#irt Marking
The Perfect Sheep-Marker. SHEEP BRANDING OIL
Kept by ALL MERCHANTS and STOREKEEPERS.


“ Blackbutt ” : Have you ever noticed
that, on sloping ground, among logs that have
lain soire time, those which have fallen uphill
burn much more readily than those lying head-
downwards. Surprising how few, even among
bush-workers, are aware of the fact, which is
easily capable of proof. Possible explanation is
that there are more pores in the butt than the
top, thus allowing of better drainage when in the
first indicated position.
H. BERTHOLD,
Sydney's Premier Worker in Precious Metals .
Photo, by Creelman, Sydney.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sappliires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par
eel, which will be followed by direct remittance
is solicited
PHIL MAY IN AUSTRALIA, 1888.
Arthur K. Syer, Alfred-street, N. Sydney.
Henry Berthold.
Australia’s premier worker in precious metals,
who celebrated his artistic jubilee last week, is a
native of Wurttemberg, on the Rhine. But
though he is a foreigner by birth and education, he
is an Australian by adoption and an artist of whom
this country should feel proud. He came to Aus-
tralia in 1863, when schnapper could be caught m
Parramatta River, and people went exploring in
the wilds of Rose Bay. He was of an artistic
family, his father being an architect, while other
members of it were sculptors or art jewellers. In
Berthold himself the hereditary instinct was very
strong, and at the early age of six his mother was
about to use her slipper to impress upon him that
drawing the likeness of the family cat on the wall
was not Art. Fortunately for theyoungsterthehead
of the household interfered on the ground that the
likeness was excellent. After that baby x3erthold
modelled men and animals in putty and drew the
cat’s portrait on a slate with such excellence that
even his parents were interested, and wisely edu-
cated him in accordance with his talents. When
he left school at 14 he had a room full of prizes
for modelling, draughtsmanship and designing.
From school he went to spend 12 months with a
die-sinker, and thence to his uncle’s jewellery
factory in Geneva, where he became famous as a
builder of crowns and coronets. The year 1859
France, Italy and Austria were in a state of war,
and as Europe’s cash was being spent on arms of
precision instead of crown and other jewels, most of
the jewellery factories in Geneva closed
down. It made no difference to Berthold ;
he was immediately commissioned to carve
designs in the stonework of many of the
big buildings of the city, and be became
a sort of craze, with the result that it
took him two years to complete his com-
missions. Then he decided to take a holi-
day in London and Paris. His manner of
spending it was characteristic : he wan-
dered round the workshops of the big
jewellery firms. In those days every man s
mouth was full of Australia the land of
•gold, the Ophir of the South. Berthold
caught the fever, and in 1863 found himself
in Svdney.
The ladies of Sydney had collected £lOOO
to be spent on a golden casket for presen-
tation to the then Princess of Wales. The
work was in the hands of Hogarth, of
George-street, Sydney ; and Hogarth laid
violent hands upon Berthold, declaring
that he should go to the goldfields only
when he had at least designed the casket,
if he didn’t actually build it. Berthold
worked out the design and some of the
preliminaries, and then, casting down the
instruments of bis art, fled down the street
to buy a shovel and a tent, and away to
the goldfields. But in a few months he
was back in Sydney —disillusionised. He
called in at Hogarth’s to see how the casket
was progressing: it was as he had left it;
and as the ladies of Sydney were just as
impatient in those remote days as they are
at present, Berthold had to finish it quickly.
With the exception of a few months on
the goldfields, and two years in Melbourne
and Adelaide, Berthold has spent his Aus-
tralian life in Sydney. He went to Mel-
bourne to take temporary charge of a
factory, and then on to Adelaide to build
another casket to be presented by the
people of Adelaide to the Princess of Wales.
It was a lovely creation : richly embossed with
scenes from Australian life, glittering with jewels,
and though a comparatively small affair, was
valued at £2OOO.
At the Sydney Exhibition in 1867, the inter-
national Exhibition of 1879, the Melbourne,
Adelaide, Chicago, and Indian and Colonial
Exhibitions, Berthold exhibited magnificent speci-
mens of his work, all emblematic of Australia.
Silver panels of Australian scenery, and waving,
feathery gum-trees etched on the same precious
metal, birds and animals cast in solid silver and
of life size. His model of a duck-billed platypus
broke up even the Yankee judges at Chicago, and
Berthold »,m,wly escaped beiep labelled » a
degenerate genius. But of his woikmanship
they all spoke in terms of unstinted, praise,
At the Indian and Colonial Exhibition the
judges declared that his silver statuette of Gordon
of Khartoum gave its maker a place amongst the
foremost of living metal-workers. This statuette
can now be seen at the establishment of Messrs.
Llewellin and Co., art jewellers, Castiereagh-
street, Sydney, with whom Mr. Berthold is
associated. His design for the Baden-Powell
sword of honor brought him a special prize—but,
then, there has been hardly a piece of high art
executed in Sydney for the past 40 years without
his having participated either in its designing or
making; and the gold and silver he has decorated
and worked upon runs into tons weight,
His repousse work, his representations of
the human figure, his animals instinct with life,
and his land-and-waterscapes combine all that is
best in mediaeval and modern art. Some connois-
seurs have favorably compared his work with that
of Cellini himself, the giant metal-worker of the
16th century.
So much for Berthold the artist. Berthold the
man is a genial, vigorous gentleman, of 64 years
of age, who will talk pleasantly to you in five
languages. In his young days, he was a great
oarsman, but now, in the days of his maturity, he
contents himself with fishing, shooting and walk-
ing. To Berthold’s genius ’ Sydney largely owes
the honor of being, as far as art jewellery is con-
cerned, the capital of the Southern Hemisphere.
’ 1 r
Phil May.
The news of the death of Phil May
is heard in Australia with sincere
sorrow. As an artist in pen drawing,
he was, in some respects, the most
talented of his generation; but those
who enjoyed his acquaintance valued
his heart even more highly than his
art. He was a thorough good fellow
■ —too good, too kindly for his own
welfare. In his heyday he earned a
large income, and was surrounded by
parasites on his high spirits, sponges
on his purse. He died in sad circum-
stances, after a long and distressing
illness, at the early age of 39.
Phil May was born at Wortley, near
Leeds (Eng.), in 1864. His father died
when he was nine years of age. Two
or three years later he was taken from
school to earn his own living. “I
never had a drawing lesson in my
life,” he said ; “ but I can’t remember
a time when I didn’t draw.” To begin
life, he was placed as a pupil in an
architect’s office, where he stayed only
a fortnight. Then followed several
years of hardship, during which he
developed his talent by painting small
portraits, sold usually at a shilling.
At fifteen he was given twelve shil-
lings a week as “useful boy” with a
small company of actors, and for two
years he played trifling parts and
painted posters. At seventeen he
went to London, and after a hard
struggle found a footing with St.
Stephen’s Review. He was twenty-
one when he joined the staff of The
Bulletin in 1885; and he returned
to London in 1888, with the expressed
intention of “trying to do some-
thing as a painter.” All his life, indeed, this was
his unrealised ambition. In the ten years 1890-
1900 he did a great deal of work, though “no one
ever saw him working.” He was eniployed on
Punch and The Graphic; and Lis drawings
appeared in a dozen other papers. Since 1892 he
has published Phil May’s Annual. His col-
lected work in Phil May’s Sketch-Book, The
Parson and the Painter, Gutter-Snipes, &c.,
has been circulated everywhere.
In person Phil May was of medium height and
slender build. His face was a peculiar one,
‘ ‘ because of the heavy shock of hair that came
well down over his forehead, the long nose, the
very light eyebrows, and the amused smile that
hovered perpetually about his lips. ” In later years
he grew stout, and the fleshy features of his latest
portraits are in strong contrast to the fine, keen
face that was seen in Australia. Phil May leaves
a widow, but no children. “If I had a son,” he
said once, “I would not like him to go through
the struggle that I have had.”
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken in any case re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted, whether sent by post or handed in ; and in
no case will MS. be returned unless stamps (of any
State) accompany.
Fosco : Sorry still below the mark D. J.F. :
It’s the kind of matter that only powerful handling could
make interesting, and your touch is feeble—as yet....
J.y. ; “Wattle Flat” doesn’t call for such extended
treatment Tartan : None very bad, though they don’t
reach print-level Periwinkle : Rather mechanical
humor A.G.A. : “Rainmaker” has some points, but,
taken all round.it doesn’t fill the bill Scinde :“A
Trip” is confused and unsatisfactory....N.S.F. : Good
material, but you are too long-winded and prosy
Dugald M‘G. : Hardly merit enough for print Exile :
Rejected after some hesitation W.0.D.: Story feeble ;
and, as for the other, we advise you to let verse severely
alone The Tribune : Too flimsy for use St. George
L. : You haven’t the gift of narration Geo. M. :
“Blinker” is rather foolish and feeble Roma:
“Country P. 0.” is still very crude and awkward
Hidalgo: Lacks power and movement Nipper:
“Pipe” a very old idea; “Mailboi'” has some good
lines, but about seven different metres. Letter cost us
id. throughinsufficientstamping.. . .J.E.A.F. : Declined.
The Southerner : A good yarn—good in a large,
slow, gentle, lingering way, but too vast for our space.
. .Pax : “ Dampers” will just about do Y : “ Bacon
—a Tragedy” is too gruesome R.R. : “ The Mother”
rather cheap meloscreamadrama Beta Phi: Pretty in
a mild way, but there is only room for a limited amount
of wattle poetry Falder : “ Pinkey ” rather good.
No address S.Z. (Sydney): Declined.......Rel-
ton: Conventional in conception and prosy in style.
M. Forrest: Empty of all vigor and dramatic force.
\[. .Yarrum : “Skunk’s Yarn” is flat and feeble K.
Johnson: Not well enough worked-up .Luke K. :
Comic Irish stuff is so common that it requires a first-
class workman. You are about third-class Rei Panes :
“ Waratah” will do. But don’t stick too persistently to
one form of metre Fantastic: You have some gift of
humor. Pity you can’t spell. “ Agurn ” for “ adjourn ”
is a truly noble effort.... J.U.P. : Hardly worth print....
Eunella : Same to you E.A. : “Protest” is about
nothing definite and leads nowhere in particular.....
Stron : Will print prose item B.C. : “Rider” is a
labored sort of thing... .Maorilander : “ Wail ” interesting
in a way, but not in a publishable way.. .C.M.S. : The
Bulletin pays for what it prints, but it won’t print you.
No literary skill Sim: Headed out well for print,
but took a bad turn and made straight for the basket....
Loco : Too sapient and technologic... W.W.A. : Elegantly
inane... - Uiphen : 11 Out of the Ruck ts a little off the
beaten track, but not quite good enough.. ..Syd. M.:
Rather thin and incomprehensible Bill Mill: Under
the Postal Act newspapers in Australia now pay for
carriage throughout the Commonwealth Oxhide :
Your budget cost us Bd. deficient postage, and we
couldn’t find Bd. worth in it to balance things... .
A W.S. : Cannot trace “Jones’s Dream” in Bulletin
fifes H.W.O. : Cannot find that a solicitor named
Borlace ever practised in Sydney Graham Mar : Your
MS. would have been returned long ago if you had put
your address on it. No good sending stamps without an
address . .. W.A.S. : Some verse skill, but no sequence in
your screed.... Racy : Alas, it isn’t, this time. Try again.
.. Vul.: Doesn’t prove anything. If Mr. Stead can show
that he told some disinterested person, it will prove—
well, a fairly good guess on the part of the spiritual hum-
bug. A great row in Servia was predicted as soon as the
Draga honeymoon started Eheu: Pretty good jingle,
but built round an old, dolorous pun Helen D. : Glow-
ing and gorgeous, but, withal, a shade nonsensical
Tybalt: Trying to write verse is absolute waste of time
on your part. You have no ear whatever for metre
S.I.S. : Unequal and slovenly. Still, there’s stuff in you,
if you’d take a lot more care Dooboo: Top heavy kind
of thing. Words too big for ideas Willie Mac.: Promis-
ing ; but flounders a bit towards end A. Mack : Well,
isn’t it time some paper got “ loan disease,” when we have
accumulated, in half-a-century of peace, such a debt per
head as there is no record of in the world’s previous his-
tory, and this despite the fact that we have enjoyed,
and spent, a land revenue which was sufficient
itself to build all the public works in Australia?....
Railwayac : Interesting American lie to hand Junior
Clerk : Poem seems to have been composed on a camel at
full gallop T.H.L. : Slab of dead language received....
J.A.H. : The less said about those verses the better
E.M.C.: Treatment not strong enough to carry the well-
worn theme....G.F.P. : Falls rather flat Elmore:
Lacks graphic power... .Euroka : Style pretentious, but
very confused and sloppy. You simply can’t write
English C. Chester: A good tragic “ situation ” and
some effective touches otherwise, but the bulk is inferior
work Widower : Some of it is fairly good, but it
doesn’t average up to print level Chuz : Mere inarti-
culate yowling.. ..H.F. : Cheque for that yarn returned
unclaimed by P.O. Send better address.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
J.L. (Melbourne): Neither joke new enough Bridge:
Very poor G. A. Y.; Not an A 1 lot this time X. X. X.:
Suggestion declined : R.M.L. : Drawing no good, and gag
only a pun and not much of that....J.P.0.: One we
kno ' v . , be stale, two may be. Send something dis-
the scarecrow?.. ..O.M.E. : Eight pencil sketches useless
for reproduction.... Miner: The joke isn’t much, and the
drawing isn’t anything at all.. ..M.C.T.: Draw on good
white paper in Indian ink ; we pay for anything we use.
y-- M ,® lb : : Yes > Premier Irvine has a little hair, but he
“rwnT“’‘nT ifc in
able . draMng shows’some promise,’ but one
well from a pencil sketch. Use Indian ink to draw with,
Unavailable: Bessie I.
MR. T. H. RAINFORD, the Veteran Aus-
tralian Basso.
Photo, by Grouzelle, Sydney.
The number of men in Westralia “ chasing
’weights” (as they call the search for alluvial
gold out there) has got down now to 2651. On
the other hand, reef miners have steadily in-
creased year by year until they total 17,825 -
nearly all, of course, wages men.
THE UITLANDER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“200,000 Chinese coolies can be procured from
Hong Kong to work in the "Rand mines at the
contract price of £3 17s. 6d. each per month, in-
cluding therein food and wages.”—Cablegram.
They are coming, Father Milner, two hundred thousand
strong ;
We waited for them patiently, we plotted for them long.
The sons of old Mongolia, the Uitlanders of fate,
They are coming in battalions to stir the white man’s hate.
The Uitlander who suffered was dull as sodden clay ;
He fought “to win the franchise” and cast his bread
away.
He must leave the field of riches to the yellow motley
throng
Of fawning brother Britons who are coming from Hong
Kong.
Aside with all hypocrisy ; let’s speak the truth at last;
Gold is our God for ever, the past is ever past.
Grime and disease and bloodshed let dotards name as sin,
We merely fought to conquer, and they may laugh who
win.
They are coming, black and yellow, to gain the gold we
seek,
We will treat them all as freemen, being Britons mild and
meek;
But if they get high notions of the share which they
should take
We will have to use compulsion for our weaker brother’s
sake.
Oh ! memory of William Tell, of Wallace and the rest
Who died for home and country, yours was but a sorry
jest;
Had ye but lived in our day ye might have learnt the
creed—
That heroes are but instruments to serve the Tyrant’s
need.
They are coming for their cheapness—the black and
yellow throng—
The white man is not wanted, he has been with us too long.
The gold to us who gather ; the want to those who fail.
Light on the sons of Lucifer 1 Triumph of hell, all hail!
M.L.
D. McLAREN.
Born. Tired.
, , vr «ino' man who
Most people have heard of the young ma ,
when writing to his father, declared ne was
we ll i except that he “had a strange aversion to
every spe cies of exertion.” In this respect he is
means singular ; there are tens of thousands
D Y “ nt tho nrespnt time For
similarly conditioned P . l
the most part they are dyspeptics, ™.PJ
need a course of Mother Seigei s Syrup to tit tneir
stomach, liver and kidneys, for the work nature
ass i £med them, the extraction of strength and
u^s i iraen t from food—the great and only
• r,. r , lir( , f i tvTt. Henry Gleeson of
strength giver. It cured Mr. Y • „ Tlf i
chronic indigestion, constipation, dizziness
headaches. Writing from lelaw Main, near
West Maitland, N.S.W., he says“ After eating,
j would f ee i as if I had a ball of fire in my chest,
and f ood would turn sour on my stomach. I tried
£ friend* ScTmmendfdMoS
Seigel’s Syrup. The first bottle afforded me great
relief and by the time I had emptied the third
bottle I was cured of all my complaints. *
FOR TABLE & KITCHEN.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
SALT
From Grocers and Stores.
Wholesale Agents:—Harrison & Attwood, Sydney.
Spoons
AND
Forks
df
gsd
The “ Fx&R” Spoons and Forks are the MOST HEAVILY PLATED of all those made
in England.
They are plated on a white hard nickel silver base.
They are the Cheapest in Australia.
“ Fx&r ” No. 1 Quality.
TABLE SPOONS and FORKS, 32s DOZEN
DESSERT SPOONS and FORKS, 26s Cd DOZEN
TEA SPOONS and FORKS, 14s 6d DOZEN
“Fx&R” No. 2 Quality.
TABLE SPOONS and FORKS, 24s DOZEN
DISSERT SPOONS and FORKS, 19s DOZEN
TEA SPOONS and FORKS, 12s DOZEN.
They will be good and look like Silver after 40 years’ continjQUß wear.
London Prices
Plus Duty
Strictly Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter St*


“ The responsibility of the work, and the fact that
they are recognised as being more suited for it than
Europeans, gives them a sense of self-respect ; and in
this way the duty elevates them.” Argus (drivelling °»
the colored seamen question ) :
“ Yah ! common whit© ruck.! ”
“Two women candidates are announced'
tor the Senate in Victoria.” —News item.
“Should men give up their seats to
women in the trams?” —Heading of an l
excited newspaper corresjjondence. f
“The tram seat, madam, but not
just yet.”
Tim Commonwealth : “I reckon I’ll get up and do-
'something.”
The Argus ; “ Goodness gracious ! —No. What do you
r mean ? The pawnshop won tbe open for a long^
X while yet ; and you can’t work until you have"
borrowed something.’
The Conclave of Cardinals was much ,
disturbed by the Spanish Cardinals in-"
cessaptly smoking cigarettes.” —News |
item. 1
One of these days we’ll have a Pope
who smokes a clay pipe ! i I ft
: The Government commences the
erection of a capital at a time when our
credit is so low that we cannot obtain
at reasonable rate the loans we want
from England.”— Argus.
“ While the Conclave was sitting the smoke
from the burned ballot papers let the public
know periodically that a new Pope was not
yet elected.”— News item.
There is, unfortunately, no such sipi when
the New South Wales Labor caucus is trying
to decide whether it will upset the Govern-
ment. So a Labor member once came out of
the caucus suddenly and fell over an anxious
Minister listening at the keyhole.
“New South Wales State Governor has been
entertained at a smoke concert at Forbes.
News item.
It used to be a banquet and champagne and
cigars ; but the status of State Governors is not
what it was.
SUCH A HAPPY FAMILY '
Argued against the Judiciary Bill that,
though there may be inter-State troubles
by-and-bye, it is not needed now.
IN AUSTRALIA, ITALY, AND THE WORLD GENERALLY.


“ An influential deputation waited upon
the Prime Minister yesterday morning,
and requested that subsection 1 of section
16 of the Post and Telegraphs Act of 1901
prohibiting the employment of colored
labor on mail steamers, should be re-
pealed.”— A rgus*
“ By objecting to the employment of
colored labor wo should offend our good
triends the British Government.
X
v \\'*y •
n cot^ 6
- „\J.ei» Yvete- QCPI t-
- a A a \«vO^° S V V
i \US \, \ie <Y \>\& c * t,Yie s<& /
0^° C
He’s “ planted in the land,” right
enough ; novf he has only to go on grow-
j ing till the water and the market ara
I within his reach.
The Women's Federal Political Association
has decided to brim? forward a female candi-
date for the Senate next election.
< “ The Home Secretary says he has no doubt
< that women are eligible. The Constitution
provides that the qualification for a member
| of ihe Benatc is eligibility to vote, and women
hare voters for the House.”— Age.
was thoroug a J v^ced
sentative, and the ar |^ m a Prime
should have b?P roBß °t, r e „! saying that
Minister with the dango , j JO ein .
35,000 British subjects shou
ployod in carrying British mails. __
\dC HI were A
\ Vjosl e<3rnea"r~in (A
\ddv'ocdTin<| bldcU mdil.®
%
%\ e 9% V°*
V J&\
S.'ZKs
*A Wv
v%V
V'
' So much talk about our discolored fellow-
subjects conjures up a picture of the true
John Bull in the bosom of his family.
Shocked Elector-” , Bat "here «• >'° Ur
I’ve got them on.
stupid 1 ”
11 Within recent weeks a gang of house-
breakers in and around Melbourne havo
been devoting their attention to the sub-
urban clergy, a dozen of whom have had
their houses raided.”
George Reid and his friends have been
making ‘ earnest appeals” to the women
voters of Victoria to take a friendly interest
in freetrade.
/ AtpWmo a Pear Vafcorer k,s
-
THE GOOD OLD GAG.
George —True, ma’am, he's an awful
wreck ; but the elevating influence 0 f a good
woman might work miracles.”
FEDERAL AND OTHER ITEMS.


A. SAUNDERS FOR WEDDING PRESENTS.-SEND DIRECT TO 818 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. BATTNDIIHS.
First-class Hohrail Cut, 6-Bottle CRUET, Tvue Silrw-
plated, on hard white metal, £3 ;
4 -Bottle, £2, without shield.
Send for 111 is tinted Price List*
V':
m
A. SAUNDERS.
TEA SETS, Consist: of 3 Articles, Te\ Pot, Sugar Basin, and Milk Jug. with lids, gilt inside, pure Silver-plated,
making a most useful and handsome present, £1 is. bimilar pattern, 4 o’o. size, Hi 15s, £2, £3 10s.
Mend far Complete Illustrated List of Tea Sets.
3&3S^!*Sfiv
<***
siSS
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ CARD RECEIVER, newest design, nicely chased
and embossed, pure Silver-plated, 20a.
A. SOUNDERS.
£H AVER’S FRIEND, highly polished nickel silver
mounts, bevelled edge Mirror, Shaving Brush,
Soap Basin, Paper Clip on Black Base, 255.
A. SAUNDTCR3.
Pure Silver-nlatod. PICITLBI
JAR, square-cat glass,
A, BAUNDER’
SILVER PLATE
IB THE VERY BEST.
WE BELL ONLY HIGH-CLARS
QUALITY.
Post Tree to any Special Address
Required.
SEND FOR OUR
1903
Illustrated Catalogue.
Post Free.
A. SAUNDERS.
Floral CrowD Derby China BISCUIT
BARREL. Silver-piatel mounts, 255.
Similar styles 20s, 22s 6d. 80s.
A. SATINDEES.
Highly engraved, extra quality.
Silver-plated CAKE BASKET 25s-
Other styles 21s, 30s, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-plated on hard white
metal BUTTER DISH,
Chasedand Ornamented, 30s, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Parc Silver plated on hard white metal,
Oval-shaps.d BUTTER DISH Ss 6d,
Round 10s.
A. SAtJNDERS.
Silver-plated Nickel Silver TO AST RACK,
12b 6d, Other styles, 10s 6d, 15s, 20s.
CANDLESTICK, Silver-plated,
Ss Cd ; oilier Btyles, 12s 6d f 15s (id.
Breaktast CRUET, pure
silver, on hard white metal,
beat quality, 10s 6d ;
very best quality, 12s GcL
'ire Silver-mounted Hob-
nail Cut Glass Cerebus
SALT CASTOR,
5s 6d, 6s 6d, 7 s 6d.
8
a®
SKSB
£&afla«sc£*
- •• •
a
si
1 I®
■ ■;■':■ ■.: ,
mask : - * :i
A. SAUNDERS.
Handsome Presentation WALNUT CLOCK, 14 day, J hour
Cathedral double chiming gong, £5. Similar design, £5 ss, £5 10s.
Without Chimes, striking hours and half only, 35i, £2, £2 10s, £3.
Send for Illustrated Book of Clocks,
A. SAUNDERS.
TEAPOT, Pure Silver-plated Nicely Chased, 27s 64’
Similar patterns, 17s 6d, 20s, 30s, £2.
Jas. Dixon and Sons’ Famous Silver-plate.
liilliSliil
YsSr
V TV
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-mounted Cut Glass KNIFE
BESTS, in Site-lined Case, 15s 6d.
Extra ornamented cut gla' « 21s.
9
A. SAUNDEBS.
SXJGAB SCUTTLE, beautifully chased,
pure silver electro-plated on white
metal, 255. Similar 21s.
A. SAUNDERS
EGG CRUET and SPOONS 2D,
pure Silver-plated. Other styles 2os, .O.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-plated Nickel Silver BUTTER
DISH, AI quality, 12s 6a.
“TUBS
A. SAUNDERS.
Combination TOAST RACK and EGG
FRAME, Silver-plated, 2os.
m
W
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-plated Hobnail Cut Glass Trifle or
FRUIT DISH, £2, £3 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Si ver-plated on hard white metal 4 o’clock
TEA SPOONS and TONGS, nicely embossed handles,
12s 6d, 15s 6d.
Draff
r
r-
A. SAUNDERS.
Heart-shaped SALTS, Pure Silver-mounted,
■with Solid Silver Spoons, in Silk-lined Case, 13s 6d.
Four-bottle Lunch or Dinuer
CRUET. Pure Silver Electro-
plated, 17s 6d.
Other styles, 21s, 255, 80s.
Send for price list.
A. SAUJN DERS.
Latest Improved Rapid Focusing- FIELD GLASSES, very sharp and
effective, and most reliable, £2 10s.
Other Similar Styles 12s fid, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, 80s. 355, 40s,
up to £lolos.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-plated JAM SPOON and BUTTER KNIFE,
nicely engraved and beaded, in Silk -lined case 12s 6d.
Similar 7s 6d, 10s, 15s, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Two SERVIETTE RINGS, in Silk-I’ned Case, pure Silver-
plated on hard nickel silver, 12s 6d, 15s.
Pure solid silver, same design, 20s. Extra heavy 255.
smnni
life
an
ini-i
%
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-plated BREAD BOARD and KNIFE
complete, 255. Other styles, 30s, 355; £2.
A. SAUNDERS,
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER AND
SILVERSMITH,
809, 811, 813, 815, 817 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE REDFEBN
RAILWAY STATION.)


Long and Weary Suffering.
Rheumatic Fever and a Torpid Liver.
An Eight Years Permanent Cure.
Tho case of Mrs. H. R. LAWLER.
(BY A SYDNEY REPORTER).
Every scientific discovery means the
introduction of some commodity for tho
purpose of rendering a service to the
multitude of its users, and as the public’s
ready appreciation of everything possessing
in iisputable merit is observable on all sides,
as will be noticed by the remarks of Mrs.
Ueater Rose Lawler, of No. 4 I’roadstairs*
street, Balmain, it is considered necessary
to place the following narrative before the
general reader.
Mrs. Lawler’s introductory statement
was :—“ Several years before I married I
was taken ill with rheumatic fever. All my
joints swelled up and were most painful, my
knees being particularly bad. My head was
also terribly swollen, besides being so
afflicted with severe pains that I scarcely
knew what I was doing half my time. The
doctor gave me some medicine which caused
a burning sensation in my chest, aud I felt
so distressed after taking each dose that I
asked him to change it, hut he said it was
the best medicine he could give me.”
Reporter : “ Was there no ease whatever
derivable from the treatment he gave you?”
Mrs.» Lawler: “Not the slightest.
Previous to my attack I was an unusually
strong woman, capable of working hard all
day without showing any signs of fatigue,
hut for four years afterwards I was subject
to such sudden seizures of interne pains and
fain 1 ness that in the middle of any light
task I was often compelled to leave the
work undone and lie down for the rest of
the day. With my rheumatism came a
complete collapse of the system, ever) thing
seeming to go wrong at once. The terrific
agonies running through my body kept me
awake at nights, so that when I ought to
have been getting up I felt so doad beat and
depressed that I had no ability or desire to
do anything. Thus the days and months
dragged wearily on, and my condition was
getting worse all the time. My appetite
was in a very bad way too, for I seldom wanted
any food, and if I took a little it did not do
ne any good because it would not digest.”
Reporter : “ How could you tell that ? ”
Mrs. Lawler: “Because I felt almost
btifled through having a heavy pain in the
chest for one thing, and my stomach felt as
unsettle I as if I had drunk a cupful of
yeast. Sometimes the food turned positively
sour and came up again, but before it was
vomited I always suffered acutely from
internal pains. Biliousness gave my mouth
such a nasty taste that retching used to
eon e on, and what an awful time I had with
sick headaches ! They made my eyes feel
swol en, and my sight was bad. The
swollen state of my ankles and feet often
prevented me from putting my shoes on,
yet, in a way, this did not matter much, as
I was generally too weak to walk about.
There was also something radically wrong
with my shoulders, as I could feel a sharp
paiu between them which gave me more
annoyance than enough, and the aches in my
h ins were even worse. Suffering so long
and seeing myself going down hill year after
vrar at la*t made me utterably miserable,
and fears about the future were constantly
thrusting themselves upon ir.y mind.’’
Reporter: “Are you naturally of a
nervous temperament?”
Mrs. Lawler: “Not by any means; but
when I was ill my nervous system was
greatly weakened, and if anything startled
me I could feel them jumping as though
they had been cut loose. People say that
ife is sweet on er any circumstances, but I
used to think I would rather die than live
'-“is lur-earably' painful existence any
longer L) to tins time I could never
understand why peop'e should look at the
oiack side of evert thing, and allow them-
selves to think of all sorts of things that are
going to happen ; but that is exactly the
frame of mind I was in, so it must be ill-
health which accounts for such unhappiness.
Anyway, I was too weak and weary to
trouble much about anything, but, thank
God ! all that has passed, and for eight ye irs
I have been free from all the tormenting
symptoms which were bearing me down to
the grave.”
Reporter: “ You had a change in your
treatment, I presume ? ”
Mrs. Lawler: “ You may depend I had,
or else I would not be able to speak to you
as I have done, and it was a friend who
gave the advice which resulted in the
obliteration of my maladies. He was a
friend of my husband’s, and he said he could
recommend something that would do me
good. ‘lt is Clements Tonic,’ he said, ‘ and
you cannot go wrong if you take it, because
it cured me when I was in the same state
as you are in now.’ Dubious as I was
through losing confidence in previous medi-
cines, I purchased some Clements Tonic,
and before going any further I would like
to state that it was the only medicine which
did me any good at all. The revivifying
effects of Clements Tonic were nothing short
of miraculous, as two or three bottles set
new vigour coursing through my weakened
system, and I passed from a long period of
melancholy hopelessness to a life of comfort
and cheerfulness. It took a little time, of
course, but the fact remains that Clements
Tonio gradually braced me up and started
to ease my pains very quickly. «sMy people
got a surprise when I started to eat, because
it was so long since I had experienced the
sensation of being hungry, and my appetite
became more vigorous as the days went by.
I am positive that nothing in the world
can equal Clements Tonic for producing
refreshing and peaceful sleep, as it made
me sleep shortly after retiring to bed,
dreams never troubling me, and when I
awoke there was no bitter taste to sicken
me, and the aching sensations had left my
head and limbs.”
Reporter. “ Your rheumatic pains—did
Clements Tonic affect them ? ” ©
Mrs. Lawler: “ Affect them ! Why, when
I could take plenty of food without vomit-
ing or retching, or feeling any pains in the
chest or stomach after meals, I was nearly
as well as ever, because by that time the
swellings in my limbs had gone down and
the rheumatic pains were hardly noticeable.
All I wanted was another bottle or two of
Clements Tonic, and you may be assured
that I got them. The end to my sufferings
was assured in the tone and steadiness which
Clements Tonic imparted to my nervous
system, and in due course there was
nothing in my appearance to indicate that
I had gone through the serious illness which
had set at defiance all other medicines
excepting Clements Tonic.”
Reporter: “ may I bring your statements
before the public ? ”
Mrs. Lawler: “ You are at liberty to
publish them in any way you think best,
as I cannot speak too freely or too gratefully
about Clements Tonic for giving me the
splendid health I now enjoy.”
' STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Hester Rosa Lawler, of 4 Broads'airs-street,
Balmain, in the State of New South Wales,
Commonwealth of Australia, do solemnly and
sincerely declare that I have carefully read the
annexed document, consisting of five folios, and
oonsecutively numbered from one to five, and
that it contains and is a true and faithful account of
my illness and cure by Clements Tonic; and also
contains my full permission to publish in any way
my statements which I give voluntarily
without receiving any payment; and I make this
solemn declaration conscientiously believing the
same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of
the Oaths Act, 1900.
Subsoil bed and declared at Balmain, this eighteenth
day of February, one thousand nine hundred and
two, before me,
WILLIAM B. SIMPSON, J.P.
S. FREEMAN # SONS Limited
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER.
FREFMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
head OFFICEJ WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Second
Edition.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER:
Harry Morant
His ’Ventures
and Verses.
Price 1/1
Post
Free,
Y By FRANK RENAR. \f Edwards, Djglop & Co., Sydney
' FOtt THE WOHKEB
-Bu/c
am
A SOOTHING BALM and EMBROCATION. Will be found
a CERTAIN CURE for Cuts, Burns, Boils, Barcoo,
3 Eczema, Sprains, Ringworm, Sore Feet, Piles all
j forms of Skin Disease or Muscular Affections, etc.
From all Chemists, 1/6 per Tin. A FREE SAMPLE will
jbe sent you. Address the
i ZAM-BUK CO., 39 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
’ Enclose Penny Stamp for postage, and mention this paper. I
JJOTICE TO MHELBOURNR VISITORS,
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
Henry Skinner,
OJarendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. IOMt. '^.CATERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OP TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCIiM 3 FLOODS
ot various sizes suppiied.
Study Evenings
Morelmowledga /\T HOME . More' Pi*y
Courses offered by mall:
IHochanical. Marine. Civil.
Electrical. Sanitary.
Stationary* Locomotive.
Telegraphy. Architecture.
Sheet Metal Work.
Mech. & Perspective Draw’g
American School
AT
Armour Inst.ofTechnology
Chicago, 111.
1 Write for Handbook.
160 VICKERY’S CHAnBERS,
BOX 629, 0.P.0., SYDNEY.
Mr. Andrew Carnegie says: “The secret of
American industrial success is emphatically the
application of brains and knowledge to work, even
in the smallest detail ; and the influence of the
Correspondence Technical School in furthering
America’s advantages in this regard deserves
universal recognition.”
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
“ They come as a boon and a blessing to men,
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen.”
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEN made bv Macniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
separate y examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
83T - BEWARE OF IMITATIONS. ~m
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAM.
THE MOST NOTE IT JOTS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL-COMFORTINa
COCOA
BREAKFAST—SUPPER.
DEBILITATED
TtTEAK, NERVOUS SUFFERER. Let us send you .a
trial course of our CONCENTRATED BOTANIC
REMEDIES FREE OF CHARGE. You will be more
than pleased with the result, and you will show your
appreciation of our valuable treatment by persevering-
in its use for a few weeks until you are PERMANENTLY
CURED. Address-
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
DRUNK
ENNESS
CURED
Absolutely Conquered in 20 Days.
®S" See my proposition to the Government,
November Bth. 1901, wherein I agree to
accept 100 Test Cases,, and prove that my
Vegetable Cure for Alcoholism is a positive
and reliable remedy Home treatment
within the reach of all. No restrictions no
hypodermic injections. Full particulars free
W. LANGSTON, M.R.C.S.. Eng..
129 Collins-st., Me bourne.
RUPTURE C V? ED
without opera-
tion or pain, no detention from work,
or dependence upon Trusses. The
ONLY humane treatment. Hundreds
cured. Write to-day for illustrated
Treatise No. 10. Address:
SURGEON LANGSTON,
M.R.C.S., ENG.,
129 COLLINS STREET
MELBOURNE.
g£
Fhrew away
JAYNE’S EXPECTORANT
CURES THE WORSTCOUGH*.
ALL CHEMISTS
fg
%
sdf
, FOR
Anemia,
Poverty of Blood
and Weakness
from Whatever Cause.
TABLETS
PER~BOX
“Swan” Pens are investments:
others—speculations.
W Fittinqr
Pens
To Writers’
"M
s-
Hands
is our specialty.
No matter what
sort of a pen you are
accustomed to using, we can match It ex-
actly. This most famous gold pen fitted to
figvfabf
JfoutfrAiN jg£K
gives you the best writing instrument made.
Sounds large, doesn’t it? None too large. We
are always ready to back up these statements
with, Your money back if not satisfied.”
MABIE, TODD & BARD,
London and Manchester, England.
Said by Stationers, Jewellers, and importers.
LARGEST SALE OP ANY DENTIFRICE.
CALVERTS
CARBOLIC
Tooth Powder.
A unique and efficacious preparation for
cleansing the teeth and strengthening the gums.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
£fer&u,tet /lights
cfCeattlvy Jrgfcsnts
TRY s *
/Fisa
>J&esL
Refuse a//' Am/faf/ons
Saljs/yintJ. Strengthening Soothing for Infants
Agreeable. Digestible. Nourishing
AGFJVrS FOR SYDRFV.
SAYFRS AURORA & POTTFR
iIDGES FOOD MILLS. LONDON.Enc
30 Days’ Trial.
gsd
We grant every purchase*
of our
ELECTRIC
KELTS and
A EE LI A NGES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELKO-
TRIO ERA." Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can lie
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that is
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address
German Electric Appliance Agency
Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
WEBSTER’S
CARBOLIC
DENTIFRICE
HAS MANY FINE POINTS.
FOR QUALITY, FLAVOR AND PRICE
HAS NO EQUAL.
Sold all over Australia.
LARGE TINS, 6d.
INSIST ON GETTING IT.


POLITICAL
POINTS
Victorian Government gained an unjust
£60,232 by repudiating compensation rights of
certain “offenders” in the late strike.
Commonwealth Parliament has resolved to
enforce liquor prohibition in New Guinea —on the
principle of trying it on your dog or your nigger.
N.S.W.’s Joseph Carruthers spends most
of his time assuring Government employees that
he is not like Irvine, and reform parties that he is
like Irvine.
It is formally announced that the two
N.S.W. “Reform” parties, Stinson’s and Carru-
thers’, are again not speaking to each other when
they meet in the street.
In all, 182 men have been sacked from the
Victorian railways by Bent-Irvine. Petty malig-
nity was carried about as far as possible in deal-
ing with individual cases.
N.S.W. Government should be asked to
lay on the table a return showing the total rent
per annum paid by the Government for office
accommodation, and the names of the landlords.
The death of P. L. C. Shepherd leaves 58
members in N.S.W. Legislative Council, many of
them only nominally alive. So few are really
politically alive that on. that account alone the
place should be shut up. • ; . - . '•
The South Australian Labor party is saying
plainly now that it would prefer Darling and
Duncan to Jenkins Iscariot and his Works
Minister Foster; but Darling hasn’t the time,
and Duncan hasn’t the inclination, y
“To close up the State Parliaments at
once would be but to anticipate by a few years
what must more slowly be brought about by a law
of obsoletism. Nature destroys what it has no
use for.”— Murray Independent
THE CHEERY LARRIKIN.
JOE COOK, M.H.R.: “ What is called larri-
kinism is, to some extent, the rebound from,
the dull, grey industrial existence of the older
countries. I like to see this blithesomeness and
this gaiety—this display of animal spirits—
that we find in Australia ; but what is all
this militarism for? For disciplining it out.”
A. correspondent to one of the Tasmanian
dailies, whilst deploring the alleged indignities
heaped upon the Queensland sugar-cane niggers,
says: “The Kanaka is a good, kind person . . .
and sings beautiful.” After that the subject is
obviously closed.
Stinson, of the N.S.W. “Reform” crowd,
says that in Walgett district people are living on
boiled thistles and pollard owing to the ‘ ‘ para-
lysis of private enterprise”—arising, of course,
from “Socialistic legislation.” Presumably it is
also Socialistic legislation that makes the Sahara
so dry ?
The most objectionable clause of the
Hutton-Forrest Defence Bill, that making soldiers
of the permanent forces liable for compulsory
service abroad, has been out out by the House of
Reps. Thus vanishes the last vestige of General
Hutton’s great scheme of organising here an army
corps for Imperial service.
The officer appointed to divide Victoria
into new Federal electorates has completed his
work. In Melbourne, where the democratic
vote is strong, there is to be one member to every
28,200 electors. In the country, where the Kya-
bram influence is most powerful, one member is
allowed to every 23,750 electors.
In his opening Queensland State Parlia-
ment speech Gov. Chermside spoke of “female
sheep.” What’s the matter with ye good old
English “ewes”? Recalls a Mossman (N.Q.)
central mills’ Japanese interpreter who applied,
in writing, to the mill manager for the “flesh of a
female fowl ” for a sick Jap laborer.
The Brisbane Holy Joes are clamoring
for a Bill to prevent the sale of Sunday news-
papers on the Sawbath morning owing to the
desecration of the day of rust. Also they are
clamoring for an earlier tram service on the same
day to take people to church, and consequently
longer hours of Sunday toil for the tram men.
Just now, there is a violent rush of letters
to the Sydney press, the general burden thereof
being that no gentleman can do otherwise than
give up his seat to a lady. Apropos whereof,
Miss Vida Goldstein proposes to stand for the
Senate at next election. Will old Simon Fraser,
as a gentleman, give up his seat when he sees a
lady standing ?
Urged on by the example of Kyabram,
another backblocky Victorian town, Nagambie, is
starting a League. Nagambie wants to upset the
Federal capital arrangements embodied in the
Constitution, and fix the Federal centre at either
Melbourne or Sydney. But though the cow-
prodders of Kyabram had some luck, that experi-
ence isn’t likely to be repeated.
Sydney Telegraph says the Freetraders
have seriously neglected the West Coast of Tas-
mania, but that “ Mr. Reid’s visit there some
months ago gave a fillip to the Freetrade move-
ment.” Considering that it was in that district that
George of the Dry Dog talked rank Protection,
promising to support an iron bonus and artificial
“coddling” to the steel industry, presumably the
D.T. means that his visit gave Freetrade a fillip
in the eye with a brick.
Minister Perry’s N. S. W. Factories and
Shops Act Amendment Bill includes a much
needed provision for inspecting the laundries, and
so on, run in the name of charity by religious and
semi-religious bodies. Nothing is more needed in
this country. The Salvarmy and other Protestant
bodies which run a washtub for the “benefit” of
poor and forsaken women, and the R.C. “re-
fuges ” which wield the flat-iron in the interests
of Magdalen and her sisters all call for close
inspection. If they are not sweating establish-
ments the inspection will do them no harm, and
will clear them from a base and slanderous
suspicion.
S.A. witnessed the starting of a new in-
dustry the other day—the manufacture of pottery
of the white
and finer sorts,
for which there
is said to be
suitable clay
in practically
unlimited
quantities in
the hills at the
back of Ade-
laide. Just at
present the in-
dustry has a
chance under
the Protection
of a duty of
from 15 to 20
percent.; but,
then, S. A.
takes no
trouble to as-
f, sure itself that
the duty will be
continued. It
doesn’t sort out its
Parliamentary can-
didates into Pro-
tectionists and Free-
traders ; all it cares
about is that they
are “experienced
men of good moral character.” If they are Tory
Freetraders like Sudden Solomon, or shandygaff
Freetraders like Glynn, it sends them in just as
cheerfully as if they were nationalist Protection-
ists. A country like that can’t depend much upon
keeping its new industries, even after a Protec-
tionist majority has made them possible.
J. H. Carruthers in a fog ;
He could not understand why New South Wales, with
its vast resources, coal mines, gold mines, silver mines,
copper deposits, immense pastoral areas, and a climate
which, despite its droughts, was unequalled in any part
of the world, was only populated with 1,250,000 inhabi-
tants.
Come to think of it, it is rather curious. Perhaps
many, years of the great Carruthers policy of
encouraging imports, which don’t supply much
work for the people, instead of manufactures
which do, may have caused the trouble.
In connection with the seamen and the
Arbitration Bill, Kingston’s real trouble was
this: A deputation from the maritime unions,
some little time ago, waited on him, pointing out
their troubles, especially with regard to foreign
vessels in the coastal trade. Kingston replied
that, though a Navigation Bill was impossible
this session, they could rest assured that the sea-
men would be covered in the Arbitration Bill.
Kingston regarded that as a pledge from the
Government and believed that he had authority
to give it; and he resigned rather than break it.
Lord Lansdowne, as British Foreign Minis-
ter, has decided to send a mission to Thibet, and
it will be under way by this time. There is some
outcry in the British press. The hitherto impene-
trable region about the World’s Roof is considered
to be a barrier to defend India in the north-
east, and some papers object to sending anyone to
inspect the barrier. Thibet is subject to China,
much as Albania is to Turkey, in a sulky way.
This is the first foreign mission to Thibet that the
Chinese have sanctioned, and the Thibetans, who
are alleged to number 6,000,000, will probably kill
the fatted calf for it under protest. Thibet is the
Buddhist headquarters, and whatever mystery
there is about that creed is supposed to be located
there.
ABOUT TIME.
COMMONWEALTH (writes
advt.): “I will not be
responsible for any further
debts contracted by my sons,” &c.
The Tory crowd running N.S.W. “Liberal
and Reform ” League peeped from behind its
disguise last week, when a “public” meeting,
held at the league’s rooms, drew up a petition
to the Leg. Council praying that body to veto
the very mild instalment of Reform embodied
in Waddell’s Land and Income Tax Bill—the
only measure which has so far got through the
Assembly this session. A party which relies on
the House of Nominees to carry out its policy,
as against the House elected by the people, can’t
go on posing before the electors as a “ Liberal ”
party much longer.
Maoriland has just been reminded of its
drunken days by receiving from the widow of
Julius Vogel a claim for £2OOO for services alleged
to have been rendered in connection with certain
conversion juggles away back in 1881. The lady
reckons that she has a claim, barring the statute
of limitations, for tens of thousands more; but
she promises not to say anything about the rest
if Parliament will send her along the £2OOO.
Vogel’s later days were filled with trouble about
commission, and the stone-broke Jew clamored
incessantly at Maoriland’s gate for his something
and a half per cent.
Ex-Speaker Steward (M.L.) has introduced
a Bill to save the elector the trouble of even
putting a line or a cross on his ballot-paper. He
proposes, instead, to provide a separate box for
every candidate; then, if the elector wants to
vote for Steward, he will simply drop his voting
card into the box marked “Steward.” What’s
going to happen if the papers in the “ Steward ”
box get accidentally mixed with those emptied
from some other box isn’t explained. The cards
being exactly alike, no separation would be pos-
sible, and a recount wouldn’t do any good.
Steward had better think of something else.
Besides, it isn’t good to be too tired even to make
a mark on a paper. Tiredness can be carried
too far.
Minister Taverner’s policy of stealing
Victorian reserves on the plea of closer settle-
ment has aroused all the
cupidity that lurks under
many a bloated waistcoat.
Victorian papers are full
of the waistcoat’s sugges-
tions for getting land and
other pickings. The very
latest move is to urge
Government to sell river
frontages to the owners
of adjacent lands at ori-
ginal selecting value,
viz., 20s. an acre. As
some of these frontages
are leased from Govern-
ment for 10s. an acre per
year, and are on an
average worth £lO an
acre, the brassiness of
the idea is colossal. In
old times the land was
sold righ t down to water’s
edge, but later Govern-
ments were wiser, and
reserved a chain on both
sides of all rivers. Past
dry season has emphasized the value of wattr,
and many burnt paws are stretched forth to grab
whilst Kyabram is yet in power.
There has been a general unsatisfactory
shaking up of Federal portfolios. Lyne has
Kingston’s old billet; Forrest nas Lyne’s billet;
Drake has Forrest’s billet; and Philip Fysh has
Drake’s billet. Fysh’s old billet was to do no-
thing, and it is suggested that he may be suc-
ceeded by Langdon Bonython. Fysh is a kindly,
honest old man who is pretty well past his useful-
ness. Bonython is a bumptious person who never
had much usefulness. The general effect is that
things look a little worse than before. The ill-
fitting peg has come out of the hole he knew to go
to the hole he doesn’t know. The honest and
capable spectacles of George Turner still gleam
over the cash-box, which is the best item of infor-
mation amid the general hurry-skurry.
At the meeting of the Bank of Victoria,
the other day, there was great weeping over the
“poor widow.” Chairman Miller, M.L.C., one
of the wealthiest men in the State, almost fainted
on the subject. He said the income tax now took
Is. sd. in the £ of the bank’s profits, which was an
outrageous impost. “The poor widow,” he said
with globes of moisture rolling down his face,
“has to pay this high rate as well as the wealthy
man.” The Bulletin is glad to find a wealthy
man like Miller so interested in the poor widow.
If he really cares a straw for her, and isn’t hypo-
critically using her as a stalking horse with a
view to further bloat his own riches, Miller,
M.L.C., must be glad to hear that she is getting
an old age pension now—thanks to Socialistic
agitators.
The sleeping accommodation provided for
the blacklegs who are prolonging the cruel strike
at the Jumbunna (Gippsland, Vie.) colliery is in
the company’s stables. The horse and the ass
crib together. And the health officer at Jum-
bunna declares it isn’t a clean stable, either.
All through the lamentations of papers
an 1 politicians about the alleged exodus from
Australia runs the refrain, “Look at
Canada!” George Reid says, “Look at
Canada ! ” The Courier, Telegraph,
S.M. Herald, Argds— they all
say, “Gaze on Canada, with
its huge influx of popula-
tion, and see the differ-
ence j” It is a pity the
Foreign-trade press can’t
find some other place than
Canada, with its efiormous
Protective tariff, to point to.
In its partially Freetrade
days, population poured out of
Canada into the United States
wholesale, and Canada’s exodus
was worse than ours. Then Canada
decided to find work for its own people at its own
industries, and the rush outward became a rush
inward. Let us look at Canada, certainly !
Carrubhers holds it a blessing that Condi-
tional Purchasers have not in the past been
allowed to borrow on their land, as, had they
been allowed, few of them would have any land
to-day. Would it not be possible to similarly
inhibit Ministers and Parliaments, who are really
only conditionally in office, from borrowing on
the security of the country ? The inhibition, if a
blessing when applied to the conditional selector,
should be equally a blessing when set against the
conditional politician.
The S.A. Government is hard up and
rapacious. Recently it collected th rough its rail-
ways £2O for the carriage of a rich man’s corpse
from Melbourne to Adelaide, and then, in its
Succession Duties Office, refused to allow the £2O
to be deducted from the estate on the ground that
it was not a reasonable item in the funeral
expenses. The residuary estate passed to a
stranger-in-blood and was liable to 10 per cent.,
and, by refusing to allow the £2O as a charge on
the estate, the Jenkins Ministry made it liable to
duty and collected £2.extra. j
George Reid’s Yes-Noisrn has become so
incurable that even his one-time slave, the
Sydney Telegeaeh, now jeers at its fallen joss.
This is its description of Reid on the Arbitration
Bill: —
The speech of Mr. Reid was divided into about eight
parts— ;
That the Bill should be accepted.
That in other countries, the United States particularly,
the working classes had no faith in compulsory arbitra-
tion.
That it, at least, was a doubtful principle.
That workmen in the United States would not have it,
because they could not trust the Courts.
That in Australia the faith in the judiciary is so strong
that the Courts can be trusted.
That voluntary agreements arrived at between the
parties are incidentally preferable to legal compulsion.
That compulsion may be accepted as a weapon to be
used in the last resort, but that it should be preceded by
overtures for a conference and by efforts at conciliation.
That the Bill itself shocked all his instincts of personal
liberty.
ABOUT DOG-FIGHTS.
“Mr. Reid, in one of his recent speeches, said that he-
would fight the cause of Freetrade once more at the next
elections, and, if beaten, then he would abandon it
altogether.”
MR. REID (to his dry dog): “ Come out of that,
you cur, and have another go at him; and
if you don’t kill him this time I’ll drown yer."
West.ralia proposes to amend the State
Constitution by making the Parliamentary
numbers, Assembly 48, Council (elected on a t
household basis) 24; by abolishing plural voting,
and by providing a double dissolution m case o
deadlocks between the two Houses.
WE WILL GIVE CASH TO YOU
for any old. Gold Watches, Breast Bins,
Chains, Rings, Lockets, Brooches, Diamonds,
Pearls, Sapphires or Rubies; in short, any old
Gold Jewellery or Precious Stones, whether
broken or not. We will send you a liberal
money order the same day the goods are re-
ceived. If our offer is not acceptable your
articles will be returned immediately.
Pack your articles in cotton wadding or tissue
paper in small box, write our name and address
plainly on package, and send by registered post,
and we hold ourselves responsible. We refer you
to the London Bank of Australia, Ltd., Broken Hill.
SHAW & CO., Jewellers,
(Also at London.) ' BROKEN HILL.
N.B.—We sell 15ct. Gent’s Gold Alberts (double or
single) at 75, - per ounce —Cheapest in Australia.
fg
GrO TO HCET.T -
I POLAND for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hageo,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Prioe-Llsts gratis.
AUSTRALIAN STAMPS
Bought, Sold & Exchanged.
Gibbons’ Philatelic Albums
and all requirements. Price lists gratis.
J. H. SMYTH & CO.,
88 KING ST., SYDNEY
rsjTZSXB
'3®
“Don’t shout”
I hear you. I can hear now
as well as anybody.
“'How?' Oh some- '
thingnew— The Wilson.
Common-sense Ear-\<
Drum. I've a pair in my
ears now. you can't see them N
they’re invisible. I wouldn't
know I bad them in myself,
only that I hear all right."
The Wilson Ear-Drum is
really a substitute for the
jyorking parts of the
natural ear. Has no
wtre. invisible, easy to ad
just, comfortable * Totally
different from any other de-
'vice Descriptive pamphlet sent upon request
CH At news. 229-831 CoWw* MelP^
dsf
%
W. N. Willis, M.L.A., as a land agent
needs no black-tracker to guide him throug t e
devious paths of the Land Acts. He fig s
Lis cases, and the harder the task the
like it, and wins all the time. 21 Bligh-stree .
A SCIENTIFIC PICK-ME-UP.—“ No better
tonic and restorative for the victims of social tes;
tivities exists than a morning draft of Hunyam
Janos. Sure, swift, searching, yet safe, an
every respect salutary. The best and safest
natural aperient.*
Every dog will have his day,
And life its ups and downs ;
The face may wear a smile to-day,
To-morrow, perhaps a frown.
When things run smooth we little guess
What we may yet endure,
As coughs and colds—-’tis then we bless
Wood’s Great Peppermint Cube.
SPECTACLES
—FOR. —
DEFECTIVE
VISION, to
IiOUNTRY R2ADEBS
who cannot visit us
personally, we send,
Post Free to any ad-
dress, with full in-
structions and Price List, our marvellously-accurate
and popular SELF SICHT-MEASUHINO PATENT.
By its use you can Test y ur own sight and de-
termine for yourself the style and quality of tne
glasses you may need. Write for it to
H. A. BARRACLOUGH, Optician,
385 Ceorge-Bt., Sydney (opposite StrancLArcade)^
gsd


&f)e
Estey
Organ
Is produced in the best
equipped factory in
America.
Made in Vermont, close to
the Adirondack Mountains,
where “ good *’ timber is
plentiful.
The rough material is
growing close to the
factory. This saves
transport and cheapens
the cost of production
very much.
If you want the best
Organ made,
Buy an
ESTEY. J? &
Remember, Esteys have
50 years’ experience at
their backs.
Over 325,000 Estey Organs
made and sold.
Easy Terms if you wish.
Sole Agents—
PALING’S
338 George-st.,
Sydney.
G7?e *
UPP
iV/ye Genuine)
PIANO.
LJPP PIANOS are the leading
Pianos of German Manufac-
ture. They have been in use
all over Australia for over
40 years —long enough to
prove their merits.
fell
Old Pianos taKen in Exchange.
New Pianos Sold on Easy Terms.
Catalogues Free.
W. H. Paling' <& Co., Ltd.
338 GEORGE ST.. SYDNEY.
A Fine
Violin
£1 :11 : 6
\
©»e "STUDENT’S"
MODEL.
Complete with Bow,
Case, Resin and Set
of Extra Strings.
Post Free to any
town in N.S.W.
£1 : 11 : 6.
Write for handsome
illustrated catalogue
post free.
PALING’S
338 GEOROE ST..
SYDNEY,
A WONDERFUL CURE!
Inflamed and Granulated Eyes
Cured by
VITADATIO
Read fir. H. E. Neville’s Testimony.
Eocky Point Road, Kogarah,
January 14, 1902.
S. A. PALMER, Esq.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
Dear Sir,— l beg to tender my testimony as to the
marvellous healing power of your famous VITADATIO.
Eighteen months ago my daughter Clarissa had an
affection of her eyes. The lashes and brows fell out, the
lids became inflamed and granulated, and her sight
became affected that much she could scarcely see, in
addition a discharge was also prevalent. I tried many
remedies which were recommended but without avail. I
then had her attend the Ophthalmic Branch of the
Sydney Hospital, which she did for about six months.
After four or five months’ treatment there was an
improvement, and I hoped a cure was effected, but it was
only temporary. I then purchased her spectacles and
tinted glasses, and for a short period she was able to read
by their aid; but her eyes eventually became worse. Then
I resolved to test the VITADATIO as a last resource.
With that object I obtained a dozen bottles. When two
bottles were used, the lashes and brows commenced to
again appear, and the sight grew stronger, and before
the sixth bottle was finished, a cure was apparently
effected. She could see well, and the spectacles were
discarded. I have waited till now to ascertain whether
the disease would return, and I am happy indeed to say
there seems to be no likelihood of its doing so. As I am
anxious that any one suffering as my daughter has done
should know what I can declare to be a cure, I feel it my
duty to forward this testimony for their information, and
m conclusion wish it to be understood that I am willing
to answer any enquiries concerning the matter either
verbally or by letter. I am well-known in Sydney and
suburbs, and am an Inspector of hoardings, etc.
I remain yours gratefully,
p Q ... . t (Signed) H. E. NEVILLE.
P.S.—Make what use you please of this.—H.E.N.
For further particulars,
S- A. PALME It,
Head Office: Clarendon Street N. %
South Melbourne.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The price of medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
MESSRS. ELLIOTT BROS., Q’Oonnell-street, Sydney,
Sole Agents N.S.W.
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
The representative book of Australian humor—
STEELE RUDD’S
“ On Onr Selection.”
fg
Truss
Comfort
■ s only assured when trusses
u-e properly fitted. We sell
the finest trusses made and
have expert fitters on the
premises.
Elastic Trusses— Single, 155.; Double, 20s.
DENYER BROTHERS,
Medical Supply Depot, Surgical Instrument and
Truss Makers ,
281 George Street (opp. Hunter-st.), Sydney.
And at Melbourne.
Brisbane Exhibition Visitors.
MY SUBJECT is clothing. If this has any
interest for you, call on me when in Bris-
bane ; I'll satisfy you that my Cash Values for
anything in Men’s wear and Juvenile Clothing
are at least as good as any, and better than most,
whilst our salesmen will be found civil and
obliging.
My Speciality is a first-class suit to measure at
505., Satisfaction guaranteed, or your money back.
I shall be pleased to send patterns and Self-
Measurement forms anywhere at any time, and
guarantee a fit. If you are not satisfied let me
know, and I will willingly return your money if
you want it. I mean to please you. CHARLES
GILBERT, Queen Street (near bridge),
BRISBANE (Only).
iJSi:
a.
o
II
HOTEL DANIELL
(Late IHPERIAL),
Corner oi GEORGE & ADELAIDE STS.,
BRISBANE
Dohv
U5eS
IT’S
UNSIGHTLY
THAT
THE ELECTRICON
RESTORES LOST HEARING.
A New Scientific Discovery, worn for two or tliree hours
asily, anyone can wear it. Book that tells all Posted Free.)
,L. R. Vernon Coy., 60-64 Hunter St., Sydney
“Steele Rudds” second book, “ Our New
Selection ! ’’—will be ready before Christmas.
Better than the first book, if possible: with many
illustrations.
The CALLAGHAN BOOT
POST
FREE
16/6
FOR
LADIES
:
I
SsKSI
Ns
I:
M
WE CAN
FIT YOU
EXACTLY.
MONEY RETURNED
IF YOU ARE
NOT SATISFIED.
Ladies ordering from the
country can quite easily get new
and stylish Boots BY POST; they
can get all the advantages in value
that keen city competition affords ;
they can, by following the instructions we
give below, get an accurate, comfortable fit.
1. State size of Boot worn, and, if necessary,
send an old one as a check.
2. Place the foot upon a piece of paper and,
firmly pressing it down, draw a pencil line
closely round it for shape of tread.
3. State if your foot is narrow, medium, or broad, as we
have different widths in every size of boot.
i. State whether broad, medium, or narrow toes required.
15/11; Post Paid, 16/6,
(AMERICAN GLACE
i. Toe-cap.
KID, with Dressy Patent Leather
FULL OF WEAR.
CALLAGHAN & SON. 39s ceofce sir., sydhsy.


Banking, Public Companies, tee.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.—-
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
&
BILLS
DISCOUNTED-
nxr.s.'w.
H)ont deplete |. Co., Etd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
7 A CASTLEREAGH ST. f *7^
1 SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
'—THIS—.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOB
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - • 105 Pitt Street, Sydney. '
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. O. J. Robirts
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruch Smith, Esq., M.H.R.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,706,830.
Policies issued 91,305 —assuring £27,614,218.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,981,398.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—eauitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE*
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
The Bank of north Queensland
limited.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director - JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250 000 ... £350,000
Royal Bank of Queensland
LIMIT ISIK
CAPITAL PAID-UP £457,354
RESERVE LIABI LITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 175,997
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 60,000
£693 351
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Queensland (Jompy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
"DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
■D Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, the Branch
Office, 54 Market-street. Melbourne, or IRWIN HINDS,
Branch Manager, 6 Spring-street, Sydney.
The savings bank
HAS MONEY TO LEND in VICTORIA
at 4.’ per cent., in sums of £5OO to £15,000, on Town
Properties; and £2OOO to £25,000 on BROAD ACRES
FOR FIVE YEARS, with option of paying off part
haif-yearlv.
FARMERS’ CREDIT FONCIER.
Loans from £5O to £2OOO at 4£ per cent, for 31£ years.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
29 Market-street, Melbourne.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors —Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Hon. John She, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farquiiar. «l. J.ALLEN, General Manager for Australia
131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 8,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital - .. £2,500,000
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) ... ... £10,494 16 9
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M L C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manage!
EPILEPSY
TRENCH’S
REMEDY
Immbdiate
Relief.
IS
Permanent
Cure.
Valuable
Pamphlet
Posted Free
CURABLE
THE UNION M’F’G & AGENCY CO.
359-361 Collins St., Melbourne.
Beat
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
t Completely overcome Deafness
sand Head Noises, no matter of
j how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
A Policy for the Commonwealth:
A Handy Manual of Politics. By James
Edmond! Price, 6d. ; post free from The
Bulletin Office, 7d.
Shipping.
3XT. D. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Four-Weekly Mail Service
OP
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin-screw steamer.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO SINGAPORE,
Via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. TANGLIN, 16th SEPTEMBER.
And Regularly Every 6 Weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent-
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents.
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
WHITE STAR LIME
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
PERSIC, to Sail on or about 21st AUGUST,
RUNIC, MEDIC, AERIC, and SUEYIC
to follow.
FARES-Capetown .. .. £l6 16 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 27 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 33 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation*
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
i LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company , Ltd.,
AGENTS.
' VISITORS TO MELBOURNE ‘
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. HILDA.
milE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
J- the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, 1-hour
by tram. Billiards, etc.
Oceanic Steamship Company,
-A.. cIjXIC3L j^. a 3L.I3XTEI,
TWO GR A.3VD EXCUFISIOKTS.
YOSEMITE VALLEY and CALIFORNIA BIG TREES,
UP IN THE HEART OF THE SIERRA NEVADA MOUNTAINS.
Travellers of note who have visited Switzerland say Yosemite surpasses even the grandeur of the Alps.
£72 (including everything).
HOTEL DEL MONTE (Monterey).
ALL-THE-YEAR-ROUND HEALTH AND PLEASURE RESORT.
£65 (including everything).
Through Passengers to London and American centres may participate in these excursions.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., flanaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
Bank of New South Wales .
Established 1817.
Head Offlce-GEORGS STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital 2,000,000 0 o
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,300,000 0 0
Reserve Liability 2,000,000 0 0
Total 5,300,000 0 0
Directors:
Hon. Ciias. K. Mackellar, M.L.G., President
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.G.
Senator James Thomas Walker.
Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L C.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors :
Harrington Palmer, Esq. Frederick W. Uther, Esq
I,ondon Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies, New Zealand
and Fiji; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
T.ae Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
64
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
w_ c. zeuzdiriidg-iki & go.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
L onntry Orders by post from, all the colonies promptly
attended to.
w
“Til Try It"
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
(apillarine
Posted (under cover
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 10s. 6cf.
SOLE AGENTS.
CRAIG &. AITKEIM. N.S. W. Barber’s Supply
House. 680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
GS
The Resuit.
FOREIGN STAMI>S_
("IHEAP SETS.—4O Japan, Ls 6d ;
47 Spain, ls 6d ; 6 British
Guiana, 6d ; 8 Egypt, 6d ; 16 Heli-
goland, ls; 11 Canada, 6d : 15
Roumania,6d, 6 United States War-
ships, 3d ; 8 Java, 6d ; 5 Costa
Rica, 4d ; 6 Guatemala, 6d ; 12
Indian Telegraphs, 6d ; 20 Brazil,
ls ; 12 Cuba, 9d ; 11 Portugal, 6d.
sdf
gsd
New Catalogue of Stamps, &c., Gratis. Stamps purchased.
CHARLES DONNE, 346 Little Collins st., Melbourne.
WOOLLEN UNDERWEAR
.. . 0F...
7ERTEX_ CELLULAR
FABRIC
is the healthiest, most comfortable to even
the tenderest skin, and most hygienic of all
materials for Winter.
It is, in its construction, a copy of Nature, and
acts as a supplementary skin, regulating the heat of
the body, and allowing the exuded vapours and
deleterious gases to dissipate without hindrance.
It is economical, most easily washed, and does
not felt up or thicken as a result of that operation.
Stocked in Under-garments of every kind for
Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s wear. Special garments
made to order. Fabric by the yard.
Call or write for full Illustrated Price List—post
free.
PAVIP BRANAM * CO.,
73 & 75 King St., Sydney.
Sole Agents for the Cellular Clothing Co. in N.S.W.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
Cheapest Route to America
and Europe via New Zea-
land or Queensland.
Saloon Fares from £35.
Illustrated Pamphlets Posted Free on
Application.
UNION BTEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
Unrivalled Position in LONDON
(England),
The LanghamHotel
PORTLAND PLACE
And REGENT STREET, LONDON, W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con>
venient and Healthy Locality.
flodern Appointments. Moderate Tariff.
“The Challenge”
Latest Scientific
Punching Machine.
A new World’s Record of 12251b5. was established on
the above machine at the Royal Agricultural Society’s
Show, Sydney, 1903, by Mr. T. W. Aulsebrook, of Messrs.
Aulsebrook and Sons, Ltd., the previous World’s Record,
held by Mr. Robert Fitzsimmons, champion pugilist,
being 10851bs.
The “ Challenge ” is an Automatic Penny-in-the-Slot
Machine, and is especially suitable for Hotels, Billiard
and Refreshment Rooms, Tobacconist Shops, etc.
It is a great attraction to any place, a first class money-
maker, never gets out of order, and requires no attention
whatever.
All other kinds of Automatic Slot Machines kept in
Stock. Illustrated Catalogue posted on application.
J. LANDES,
108 PITT ST., SYDNEY,
Sole A(/ent for Australasia.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK :
By Sixty Bulletin writers. Cloth, 300 pages ;
price, 4s. 6d. From all Booksellers, or the
Publishers, The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
214 George Street, Sydney, Australia.
. Shipping,
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE \
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhippingat Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Rockton,
Friday, August 14.
S.S. Marloo,
Saturday, August 15
(Without Transhipment^
BRISBANE
MACIvAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oatrns
S.S. AUinga, August 14.
S.S. Rockton, August 22.
S.S. Innamincka, August 29.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tiokefcs are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office. ''
G. 8. YU ILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
P AND Q COMPANY’S
* " ROYAL MAIL STEAMER 3
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B to £77
Ditto Ditto Return,,666 to £ll5
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by Orient-Pacific, Messageries
Mari times and N.D.L. Steamers having room.
7
A. GORDON WESCIIE,
63 Pitt-street. Acting Agent.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with til*
French -Government,, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY,SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows: -
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing t'heir luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company Office*
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
L. BRICARD, Acting Principal Agent.
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
* „ BY THE . .
“E. AND a.” LINE.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Steamer. Tns Commander. ILeaveSydney.
♦AUSTRALIAN .. 3000 W. G. McArthur.. 'September 2
EMPIRE .. 4500 P. T. Helms ..September 30
♦EASTERN .. 3600 Winthrop Ellis .. October 28
AUSTRALIAN .. 3000 W. G. McArthur.. November 25
♦Does not call at Port Darwin.
EVERY CONVENIENCE FOR A TROPICAL VOYAGE.
Che Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
itted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Europe via Canada,
LJ S. America, or the Trans-Siberian Railway.
Forhandbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
GM3BS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-st., Sydney.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
sate*
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyna
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGrHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BftOHOHITIS,
DIAKRHCEA, beara oa
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
IHE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS at
Sept. 28, 1895, eaya:
«if j W ere asked which single medicine I shoal'l
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of al
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
LADIES 1
HAIR
DRESSERS
CRAIG &
AITKEN.
Tel, 1198.
'HE most charming ai.d stylish
Transformations and semi-
Transformations you ever
saw from 21/- each. Switches of
hair from 5/6. Your own Comb-
ings made up into Switches at
2/6 per oz. Specific Lotion, an
unfailing remedy for falling hair
and eradicating dandruff, 3/6 per
bottle.
Supply stores wholesale, human
hair merchants, assistants en-
gaged and sent anywhere.
Mail orders receive special
attention.
Price Lists on application.
680-682 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
At Dawn and Dusk:
By V. J. Daley. In handsome cloth,
with portrait. Price ss.


AS AN INVESTMENT.
fgsd
READ WHAT
AN AUTHORITY SAYS.
fg
PEOPLE cannot understand why Diamonds do not come down in price.
Unless some new Diamond fields are discovered they will never come
down, and I think that proportionately they will go as much higher
in the next ten years as they have in the last ten years, lhe reason
is this: Ten years ago it took less than one-third of the effort to produce
Diamonds as it does to-day. In other words, the strata of blue ground in the
Kimberley Fields that were then worked were so prolific that Diamonds
were found practically on the top of the earth. After the very prolific strata
were worked out and it was necessary to go down a little deeper into the
earth Diamonds were not quite so plentiful, and to-day jt takes at least three
times the effort to produce the same amount of stones it did ten years ago.
Pearls are also going up in value at a rapid rate.
A
UNIQUE
INVESTMENT.
sdf
AS an investment, Diamonds afford advantages offered by nothing else.
/jk For years they have increased in value at about the rate of 10 per
, cent, a year, which makes them as an investment about three times as
good as any bank. When you put your money in the bank someone
else has the use of it; when you put it in Diamonds you yourself have the use
of it, and the pleasure and satisfaction of wearing Diamonds are worth as
much as the returns from the investment. This is no idle statement, written
only with the view of selling our Diamond goods, but actual facts which you
can easily prove to be correct.
We are the only Australian firm having a Warehouse in Hatton Garden,
which place, as everyone knows, is the Diamond Mart of the world. Our
long and careful study of the Stone Market has placed us in the unique posi-
tion of being able to buy more favorably than almost any firm. These
advantages are shared with our customers, while others, if they could buy as
cheaply, would probably retain them as extra profit.
1 S?
Investment No. 1
Is a very handsome Drop .Style NECK-
LACE for evening weir. 74 Fine Diamonds
and 27 pretty Whole Pearls. Price, £5O,
worth more now.
Investment No. 2
Is an exceedingly handsome Festoon NECK-
LACE, for evening wear, set with 117 bright
Diamonds and 26 fine color Turquoises. Price,
£75, worth nearer £lOO.
Investment No. 3
Is a NECKLET with 11 pendant pieces
set with 163 fine Diamonds, 12 large Pearls,
and 29 pretty Whole Pearls. Price, only
£135.
Investment No. 4
This is the Gem of the Collection— a
magnificent DIAMOND and PEARL COM-
BINATION NECKLACE and TIARA. Set
with 296 Exquisite Diamonds and 15 lovely
whole Pearls. Were we to mount one to
match, the price would run to about £5OO.
This one costs £385.
Investment No. 5
Is an Exquisitely Designed NECKLET, in
the form of 7-leaf Pendants and diamond
set square pattern hack, t ie whole containing
225 Diamonds. Price, <£so.
Investment No. 6
For lovers of OPALS and DIAMONDS this
should prove attractive. A beautifully
designed NECKLACE. Set with 211 Dia-
monds and 31 rain bow-tin ted opals. Price, £l2O.
Investment No. 7
Superb Turquoise and Diamond NECK-
LACE, beautiful in design and finish. Set with
163 Diamonds and 37 lovely blue Turquoises.
Price, £135, but worth quite 15 per cent, more
to-day.
Investment No. 8 '
Is a row of Single Stones—beautiful blazing
DIAMONDS, pure in colour and free from
blemishes. Each stone set in a separate
Collet, so that only the least particle of gold
shows round the edges of the stones; 59 stones
in all. Price, £250.
DIAMOND
JEWELLERY
Is like a coat of arms, it fixes the
standing of the wearer. It is the
only tiling you buy to. wear that does
not wear out.
gsd
DIAMONDS.
Nothing that you might select for a
wedding-gift would be more accept-
able or sensible, for Diamonds —such
as we sell—increase in intrinsic worth
with age, and never deteriorate in
beauty.
Although we give particulars of the NECKLETS only we have lovely things set with Diamonds,
such as Rings, Brooches, Bracelets, Pendants, Pins, Studs, from a few pounds upwards.
It is not necessary for you to be wealthy to possess a piece of Diamond Jewellery.
412 GEORGE S^SYDn ey
fg
L
Our Latest Styles of
GRAMOPHONES
ARE FITTED WITH THE
NEW PATENT “SOUND ARM.”
IT APPEALS TO YOU
HERE
.^ilC^awmiuiiwuiu
PURER,
LOUDER and
SWEETER.
One of the many advantages which this attach-
ment possesses is the ease with which
the born can be turned in any direction.
PRICES.
“ Monarch,” single-spring machine, 22in. Brass Horn, and " Concert
Sound Box,” fitted with new “Sound Arm” £ll 15 O
“ Double=Spring flonarch,” 22in. Brass Horn and “ Concert
Sound Box,” fitted with new “Sound Arm” ... ... £l4 15 O
“ Triple=Spring Monarch,” 22in. Brass Horn and “Concert
Sound Box,” fitted with new “Sound Arm” £l6 5 O
Other Styles, 30S to £3O. All “ Monarch ” styles play 7in. or lOin. records.
Agents all over the World,
4
RECORDS
IN ALL LANGUAGES.
Send for Catalogues and
Price Lists.
♦
Australasian Agents
Victoria—
A. P. Sykes, 227 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne.
South Australia—
Messrs. S. B. Hunt & Co.,
94 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
Queensland -
Messrs. Heindorff Bros.,
210 Queen Street, Brisbane.
West Australia—
Messrs. Nicholson & Co.,
Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand—
Messrs. H. Gentles & Co.,
9 Strand Arcade, Auckland.
Tasmania—
Me ars. Wertheimer & Benjamin,
71 Collins Street, Hobart.
™ GRAMOPHONE & TYPEWRITER, ltd
163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.


SPORTING NOTIONS.
Revenue and Kinglike are now off the minds of
punters for the Melbourne Cup. Mr. Leslie Macdonald
scratched them both, but for the present he has left the
black gelding’ in the Caulfield Cup. Three years have
rolled away since that same Kinglike won a race at high
pressure and immediately afterwards went to pieces, and
as he wasn’t worth a Melbourne Oup acceptance he is not
a tempting outsider for the Caulfield race. Scottish
King, a 3-year-old own brother to Kinglike, in the same
stable, may, perhaps, revive the fortunes of the family,
but there can be nothing much known of Scottish King
at present, beyond the fact that he shaped rather badlv
in private (and public) as an early 2-year-old. Macdonald
gave him an outing at Flemington last month, when he
was bigger than the proverbial bullock. A handsome,
commanding-looking animal with all the flesh on him
the brother to Kinglike may be one of the best, or one of
the duffers, when he’s trained fine.
* * * *
Frank Madden, the stodgy old opponent of the
tote was turned out of the V.R.O. Committee on last
week s ballot, but this fresh evidence of the fact that
V.R.C. members and the general public are dead against
Madden will hardly serve to nerve the Iceberg Govern-
merit to a Tote Bill. The totalisator is a democratic
institution, and Premier Irvine has natural objections to
anything of that sort. Shiels talks of what a boon the
tote might be to the charities, but he doesn’t propose to
create the boon. And Chief-Secretary Murray, its wild
rampageous champion before he turned serious and
entered into Tory company, affects to have forgotten that
he ever posed as the punters’ friend.
* * * *
First forfeits (due Monday at 4 p.m.) for Caul-
field and Melbourne Cups reduced eligibles for former to
101 and latter to 113. Caulfield Cup scratchings totalled 61
and among the withdrawals were Sojourner, Strata
Florida, Cyarude, Orphan Boy, Sport Royal, Progredior
the M.L. nag Siege Gun. Melbourne Oup eliminations
numbered 56 and the most prominent of those who
came out were Malster, Revenue, Cyanide, Strata Florida.
Siege Gun, Progredior and Ivan.
**■ * •
It seems that Scobie will fare no better with
“ crack ” colt Emir than he did with the beautiful
Dreamland in days of yore. Dreamland, the best 2-year-
old of his season, was reckoned a good thing for the
Derby until he contracted the “ strangles,” after which
his name was long time a bye-word for failure. Emir
last week pulled up sore as the result of a sharp gallop,
and if a colt shows signs of amissness in the very begin-
mng of his third year, it looks bad for his chance of
standing a Derby and Cup preparation. Anyway, part
of a stable commission to back the young champion was
indefinitely postponed. Some of the money had been
placed before the trainer’s warning telegram came to
hand.
* * * *
The Victory, thus far, appears to have a fair
chance of repeating his Melbourne Cup achievement with
even an extra 101 b. on his back. The big little horse is
stronger than ever he was before, and the weight may
not stop him if he gets fit to the post. But anything
really brilliant would be too good for The Victory.
* * * *
Mo. had a bad time at Moorefield, Saturday
last. Favorites gathered every one of the six races pro-
grammed. Hurdles saw Taiwan (even money) win easily.
Fireclay (6 to 4 on) appropriated Tramway Handicap.
Muffler and Alto (2 to l) shared first choice in Kogarah
Stakes, and former scored with lengths to the good At
6 t 0,4 against (in Stewards’ Mile) Gratia made hacks of
the rest. Offers of sto 4 Lord Cardigan were freely closed
with, and he duly won big event of the day, though very
narrow!}'. Last race (Mile Welter) saw Soldene and
Scots Guard in equal request at 2’s, and latter proved a
good thing.
* * * •
N.S.W. Lands Minister Crick shore a few fat
Hebrews at Moorefield, Saturday, with his Scots Guard
from fives down to twos. Earlier in the day his Oblivion
narrowly missed the big handicap won by Lord Cardigan.
At S.A.J.C. annual meeting on Friday it was
stated that 22 years ago committee guaranteed a bank
overdraft for £4OOO and since then £109,907 had been
paid over in stakes, and £24,091 went for improvements
to the course, while totalisator cost £3161. Assets now
exceed liabilities by £22,589, equal to £9O per member.
Association was almost clear of debt. Separate fund for
impoverished or disabled jockeys totalled £lOOO.
* * * •
Opening (Saturday) of Adelaide G-.N. meet
brought a couple of substantial tote dividends. Backers
(whose accumulated investments totalled £35) of Bay
Lavender got £5O, and supporters of Discussion (in
Mayor’s Mile) £l7 17s. for each pound. Had second (Dis-
tiller) in the big lepping event won (and ’twas a fluke he
didn’t) he would have paid a much bigger whack than
Bay Lavender, for there was only £l9 on him. Day’s tote
biz. reached £8210—£892 less than on same occasion last
year.
* * • •
Four (each 25,000 at 55.) “Tatt.’s” sweeps on
Adelaide Grand National Hurdles on Saturday induced a
much bigger field (16) than anticipated. lan and Gun-
bower were favorites at barrier rise, but rank outsider,
five-year-old Bay Lavender, closed on the prize and the
usual “bit” of the sweep, with, if anything, a bigger un-
expected (Distiller) second. None of the well-backed
ones showed prominently at any stage. Bay Lavender is
by Carlyon from Water Lily, by Guinea from Solitude, by
Robinson Crusoe, and was bred in the Wheat State by
J. H. Aldridge. Saturday’s success was Bay Lavender’s
first since her two-year-old season. But for portion of
last lep collapsing sensation might have been even
greater, as winner ran through the obstacle while Dis-
tiller jumped it; otherwise, l&tter would have won, as
margin at the post was only a head.
* * * •
The life of the average jockey isn’t a bright one,
but in S.A. it is a great deal worse than in the other
States. 'So bad has it become, in fact, that a petition,
signed by 41 jockeys, has been presented to the 5.A.J.0.,
asking that rules might be framed “ for the collection of
fees for losing mounts at scale, and the deduction of fees
for winning mounts out of stakes.” The only satisfaction
they got was that “consideration of the matter was de-
ferred.” S. A. J.O. is considering the request with a cold,
unsympathetic, prejudiced optic, and a jockeys’ union is
about the only thing that will infuse a little warmth into
that stare.
* * * *
Crack Pilgrim’s Progress—Felicitas mare Felici-
tous (talked of as more than a possibility for something big
during coming Spring) ruptured a blood vessel during
exercise at Randwick, Saturday morning, and died almost
immediately. Owner Frank M'Grath gave 300 gs.
for Felicitous a few months ago, and she had only been
two or three weeks in work after a spell. At four years
defunct nag ran six times, winning thrice, viz., V.A.T.O.
Moora Trial (£150), V.R.O. Autumn Handicap (£618) and
V.R.O. Place Handicap (£498).
• * * *
Ballarat believers in My Mistake got their
money back last Saturday, when the aged gelding took
the four-mile Steeplechase at Caulfield. Little sticks
and big sticks seem co come alike to the jumpers that
Alec Taylor prepares. Last year he brought along
Colonel Shilinski to win the' G.N. Hurdle Race at
Flemington, and after the “good thing” had been most
unluckily beaten by a head, he let it go at auction
Albert Miller bought it, and duly won the double at
Caulfield. This year veteran Taylor seemed to have gone
astray in his judgment re My Mistake. The nag was much
fancied for the big Hurdle Race at Flemington, but he
ran like a soft-hearted one, and failed again in two sub-
sequent tries at the V.R.O. meeting. The Caulfield
“ form,” however, proved that there was nothing wanting
in “ old Alec’s ” candidate as regards stamina. Perhaps
he curled up a little when tackled bv Marmont at the
business end of the Hurdle Race, but, then, they all
seem to stop when Marmont is thereabouts. In the
Steeplechase, where the pace was milder, the same old
My Mistake got the 4 miles comfortably enough. Won
by half-a-dozen lengths, in 8.7|, the record time.
• * * »
Owner J. N. M'Arthur is experiencing a
remarkable turn of fortune. For years he was the un-
luckiest of speculators in thoroughbreds, and now,
on top of his Marmont successes, he is beginning to score
with his flat-racers. Last Saturday at Caulfield he won
handicaps with Verne and Billali, the latter a promising
probability for the Caulfield Cup. Verne (6 years) and
Billali (4 years) are own sister and brother to the flying
Bobadil, by Bill of Portland—She, but their form last
season was mostly bad.
* * * *
Well-known stallion Postmaster (by Panic
from Midnight by Touchit [imp.]), sire of brilliant
lepper and great stayer Freedom and other good
jumpers, was destroyed t’other day at Bolinda Vale,
Victoria. Postmaster, owned by Rupert Clarke, was
foaled in 1874, and for some time past had been in
a very used-up condition. He was about the last of the
sons of Panic. Among Postmaster’s get were V.R.O.
G.N. Steeple winners, Royal Oak, Fearless 11., and
Freedom.
* • * •
Melbourne suburban racing clubs have given
tote shops a big knock by arranging for “ private ” tele-
graph offices, so that all wires will pass through club
secretaries hands. Idea is to stop tote shops receiving
information regarding scratchings, &c., and profiting
thereby. Similar action in Sydney would prevent a deal
of cold-blooded robbery, and do a heap of good in other
respects. City totes are freely patronised, and those who
run them reap a rich harvest by the manner in which
they “ work ” horses scratched on the course.
* * * *
T.M.S. looks like lapsing into his old ways
again. At Canterbury Park, t’other day, owner (whose
initials are also T.M.S.) and public generally, backed him
to win a goodly lot of coin down to 13 to 8 on, but he
could get no nearer than third.
* * * *
M.L. forefronter Cruciform, in Sydney for
Spring engagements, has proved a capital investment
for her owner, Mr. G. O. Stead, who secured his crack
mare for 325 guineas four years ago. As a 2-year-old she
gathered in £1515 stake money alone, and at 3-years
added £3765, and, though incapacitated through an
accident in January last for rest of season, she had pre-
viously won £lO4O. Up to time of writing Cruciform’s
haul totals £6370.
* « * *
“ Westerner ” writes : “At the Boulder Racing
Club’s (W.A.) July Handicap seven horses started, and
brothers Jack, George and Sam Anwin rode the three
placed horses. Later in the day, in the Farewell Handi-
cap, which also had seven starters, the three brothers
again piloted the placed horses, the order being George,
Sam and Jack this time. The third horse in the July
Handicap, piloted by Sam, was ridden to victory by
George in the Farewell Handicap.
* » * *
G. C. Stead’s record in turf matters in Maori-
land is unequalled. In the last eight years, he has—
with but one exception, in 1899-1900—been on top in the
list of winning owners, the total prize-money falling to
his credit being £52,709
• * » *
Marmont’s six successive lepping victories con-
stitute a record far ahead of anything ever previously
accomplished in this country, as far as number of races
won and value of prize money are concerned. Events
appropriated were one at Warrnambool, then the Toolam-
bool Hurdles at Caulfield, Hurdle race at Williamstown
V.R.O. G.N. and Doutta GallaHurdles and Caulfield G.N,’
Hurdles—last mentioned was the most trying test of
all and crowns his reputation as a hurdler.
• • • •
An irate patriot snorts: Those absurd ping-
pongers, not content with instituting competitions
amongst themselves, have just held an inter-State match.
An inter-State ping-pong match—ye gods of sport 1 Some
half-dozen grown men have had nothing else to do but
come to Sydney all the way from Brisbane to play at the
match and swagger round King-street corner with straw
hats labelled with a big Q. Australia has not much
chance of defeating Maoriland at football while its young
men gad about from State to State after the ping-pong
championship.
* • * *
Now is the time of the annual “ review ” of the
different branches of sport. There’s the inevitable back-
scratching, and the usual balance-sheet; but the
strangest part of the N.S.W. sports’ bodies adjustments
is that absolutely no provision is made for the future.
The sport can go to the dogs for all the promoters care
so long as they raise enough cash to scrape along with a
few miserable shillings as a stand-by. There’s no thought
of a sinking fund to purchase a ground—that’s left to
posterity. A few unencumbered enclosures like the new
Sydney Sports’ Ground should be the aim of every
athletic body.
* *» » »
Split in N S.W League of Wheelmen’s camp
continues. Mr. Branagan’s executive called a meeting
Monday night this week to adopt rules, but Mr. M’lntosh’s
ditto were taking none of it. Matters waxed warm, and
the chairman had a lively time till he vacated in favor of
another. New chairman’s ruling, that the meeting was
competent to deal with the business before it, met with
opposition, and, during a division on the question, he
succumbed to a fit. Then things were torrid. Ultimately
the “ business ” (what business?) was declared closed, but
’tis understood the “ situation ” will be “ considered ” at
another meeting Friday this week.
* * * •
Maoriland Dunlop Road Race, which happened
on Saturday, July 25th, over a course of 112 miles from
Timaru to Christchurch, was probably the greatest test
of endurance and pluck ever set cyclists on this planet.
For three days previous to the event, snow, rain and hail
fell over different portions of the route. Maoriland is
not famous for its roadmakers, and the bad weather had
rendered the un-macadamised roads almost impassable.
When a start had been made experts opined that not one
man would complete the journey. Out of 160 entered,
49 men, including one crack (Calder, scr.), faced the
starter. The limit men (50sec.) left Timaru at 7.30 a.m.
To Geraldine (21 miles) the roads, though wet, were good,
the back-markers getting over the distance just under
70min. Then every man of the front division went to
pieces in attempting to ride over the snow-covered,
unformed roads of the Rangitata district. When the
back-markers came up they found one stretch of road
covered by four inches of snow, and strewn with
damaged cyclists and their broken mounts. The
back-markers carried their machines for upwards of ten
miles, and it rained cold sleet, the men suffering terribly.
Two men (Barrow, 25min, and J. Arnst, 15min) reached
Ashburton at 12.27 p.m., having taken 4h. 32min., and 4h.
22min., respectively, to cover the first 58 miles. The
cold was intense, and the leaders were expected to finish
the journey by rail. However, Barrow and Arnst, after
2min. spell and some refreshment, started for Christ-
church. Helped by a sou’-west wind they hung together,
and, tearing along over bad roads through rain, hail and
slush, put up a fresh record for the last portion of the
course. Barrow reached Christchurch 100yds. in advance
of J. Arnst, at 3.29 p.m., having covered the last 54 miles
in 3hr. 2min., an average of over 17 miles an hour on
roads inches deep with mud. Fastest time for the whole
journey was accomplished by J. Arnst (second man in),
7hr. 25min. for the 112 miles. He comes to Australia to
represent Maoriland in the Warrnambool to Melbourne
race on 22nd inst
* * * *
Goulburn-Ashfield Dunlop road race, Saturday,
excited greater interest than any previous like event in
history of N.S.W. bikedom. Distance was 131 J miles.
Of 75 acceptors, 68 started. Strong-tip Cook came a
heavy cropper through colliding with R. Wayne at Moss
Vale, and injuries compelled both to retire. The most
fancied competitors were, through various causes, ousted
early, and the race left to comparatively unknown men.
Up-country riders gathered all the honors, and did some
big things. Ere reaching Moss Vale, Goulburn rep.
Brook (35min. start) shot to the front, and had the lead
to himself over the rest of the journey, finishing at 5.23,
and occupying 7h. 28min. in the task—an average
verging on 18 miles an hour for 7£ hours—with the going
mostly execrably bad. A. M’Fadzean (also of Goulburn)
was second, 6min. behind Brook’s time beat record
established last year by 24min. Speediest performance
was that of D. Cupples (Victoria), who, from smin mark,
covered distance in 7h. 24£min.—the best yet done from
Goulburn to Ashfield. C. A. Melrose put up 7h. 33min.j
Dotzauer (scratch) 7h. 38fmin., and M’Fadzean 7h. 34min.
As some sections of the road looked impossible to bike-
riding, times accomplished were good. Previous
winner (L. Littlejohn) had no hope in Saturday’s tussle,
and 11 men passed the post inside of his time—7h. 52min.
* • * *
Winner (O. H Brook) of N.S.W. Dunlop Road
Race on Saturday sprang a big surprise. He hails from
Goulburn. Though riding alone foraconsiderable distance,
most judges thought him sure to be overhauled ere the
end. Brook is but 17 years old, and has only been biking
15 months. His achievement is all the more astonishing
since he was unpaced during a big portion of the journey,
while those behind him were riding in bunches to catch
him. The lad is a fine stamp of an athlete, whose appear-
ance suggests unknown possibilities as he matures.
Brook will represent N.S W. in the Warrnambool to
Melbourne event.
• • • *
S. A. annual 50m. Dunlop Road Race, contested
in the hills near Balhannah, Saturday, attracted four
from each of seven clubs, with the result that Sturt B.C.
(80pts.) won, Ariels (62) being second, and Southern Dis-
trict (60) third. Individual supremacy fell to E. O.
Russack in unexpectedly slow time of 2h. 42Jm., though
all attendant conditions were favorable to speed. Rus-
sack will be the State’s rep. in Warrnambool to Mel-
bourne race.
• * * *
The walking craze has grasped Adelaide more
severely by the heels than it has any other city. Port
Adelaide has arranged a match for its unemployed ; some
Adelaide waitresses (probably working till late on Satur-
day night, and having to rise early on Monday) did an
eight-mile walk t’other Sunday. Said that one competitor
in a recent match hasn’t been able to leave his home ever
since, and that his case is serious. Dozens of dead faints
after reaching the winning post have been recorded, and
the cabmen have been doing good business taking home
busted competitors. Probably when some untrained,
whisky-eating sharebroker drops dead, the craze will fall
along with him.
» * * *
Maoriland A. A.A. has answered Queensland
Association’s query : “Should aboriginals be allowed an
amateur status?” in the affirmative, but in doing so it
remarked that Maoris are considered to be different from
Australian niggers. They are a better class of colored
person, no doubt, but why should they be considered
different from any other type in regard to athletics ?
However, it’s consoling to know that each State stands
by its own nigger.
• » * *
They breed pluck in the North. At Charters
Towers (Q.) recently, a 12-year-old totally-blind lad
gamely rolled up to enter himself for the boys’ foot-race
at a sports meeting. When the entry-taker refused to
book his name, the plucky youngster indignantly swelled
out his chest: “ But I play football, and scored two tries
the other day.” He was allowed to start, and kept the
lead for a time. When overtaken he ran among the others
without colliding, and to onlookers his absolute lack of
sight was n«t perceptible.
• • * •
The objection of the Melbourne Cricket Club
to umpire Phillips accompanying the coming Marylebone
combination has raised a deal of objectionable criticism
in England. The irreconcilable papers propose that, in
revenge, on a future visit of Australians, Phillips be
chosen as umpire (the English body to insist on their
right to choose an umpire). They argue that Phillips’
only fault has been a rather too hasty putting of pen to
paper, which he afterwards repented when he failed to
no-ball Australian players. All the same, Phillips has to
go. The promoters of next Australian XI. should, by
agreement, secure the annihilation of Phillips from
international umpiring.
* * * *
Nineteen, from whom Australian football 15 to
meet M.L. on Sydney Cricket Ground on Saturday
will be picked, have been named. They will provide
as strong a Rugby combination as it is possible to get
this side of the Tasman Sea. Choice can be picked to
pieces some, but, by and large, there’s no room for a
legitimate kick. Personnel of backs indicates defence is
considered of paramount importance, as all chosen are
eminently reliable in that connection. Inclusion of
cracks Hardcastle and Walsh is generally applauded.
* * * *
Carlton (Yic.)-N.S.W. football match (Austra-
lian rules), at Sydney' Cricket Ground last week, was
an exceedingly dull exhibition. Carltons were plainly
lenient, evidently desiring to give the home team a
chance. Play generally fell much below that of Carlton-
Geelong match, previous Monday, and N.S.W.’s was not
nearly as good as in-the N.S.W.-Fitzroy match three
months ago. Only flashes of good work were seen, and
absence of combination and want of coolness left N.S.W.
men very much second-best, despite that they were only
beaten by 20 points—69 to 49. Australian game doesn’t
show, any' signs of “catching on” in Sydney, as, with
weather all that could be desired, only a few hundreds
looked on.
• • * •
“Adelaide”: None of the papers do anything
like justice to the curious nature of the match, S.A. and
Vic., under Australian rules. After the Adelaide men
had rushed a goal in the first three minutes, they were
for the rest of the half mostly looking on—and that not
in any figurative sense either. When anv Victorian got
the ball, every man on his side within kicking distance
seemed to get clear of opponents, and so it could be
transferred anywhere at will j on one astonishing occasion
it was neatly dropped into a clump oi four blue-and-gold
men (each of whe/u had somewhere lost an opponent
whose sole duty was to look after him), and so at half-
time the points were 46 to 15. After that, S.A. watched
their men—and had all the best of the game, though some
say that the others were taking things easily. Anyway,
Vic. went through one quarter without scoring a point,
and the final difference was only that of 60 to 42. But
for three or four ridiculously easy kicks missed, it might
have been anybody’s game. The score tells its own tale
—S.A., 17 shots near enough to be counted, 5 of them
goals ; Victoria, only 15, 9 goals. But nothing like the
Melbourne men’s science for the first 50 minutes was ever
seen in Adelaide before.
* * * ♦
M.L.-Q. return football match at Brisbane,
Saturday, before 12,000 people, was won by M.L.—2B to
nil. Queenslanders averaged 11.9 and M.L. men 12.8.
First half saw M.L. 11, with Q. nothing. Two of the
tries were simple ones. Greater portion of play during
second term was in home territory, and, despite good
tackling, infinitely superior all-round work of the Maori-
landers completely crushed Queensland. Such one-
sidedness is painful.
* » * «
Bantam bruise at Sydney National S.C., last
week, between lean and lank darkie Joe Thomal and
abbreviated white Ted Green, didn’t reach expectations.
Green had the black badly puzzled from the start, but
couldn’t do much harm, as Thomal stood all he got as if
iron encased, and he was so long Green couldn’t get a
good punch home on the jaw. Now and again, after act-
ing the drum for Green to bang freely, the black would
land a left hook or jab, and while he did this he had the
better of things, but a second or two later that tired feel-
ing would supervene till opportunity or inclination struck
him once more. Then Green would experience a rough
time. Condition of both was remarkably good, but the
thing dragged wearily ; only one man was fighting. Had
Thomal mixed things, he might have won, but as it was
he didn’t look a winner at any stage, and when the 20th
round closed Green got the money on points. -
• * * *
A packed bouse watched the second struggle
for Australian light-weight pug supremacy at Sydney
National S.C. Monday night between holder (Bob
Turner) and Tim Hegarty. Hegarty hasn’t fought better
for years, and Turner never showed worse since reaching
the premiership plane. While Hegarty was all vigor and
force, Turner considerably lacked his usual dash, and
seemed to have fallen away physically. Hegarty indulged
in considerable clinching and holding, and, while in this
position, sneaked in many a punch. He clung like an
octopus to a rock, and defied all Turner’s efforts to shove
him off, and as soon as forced from one hold he'd secure
another. Between whiles, however, Hegarty pounded
away at the enemy’s left ribs and kidneys until a big red
splurge showed from shoulder to waist and spread
half away across the back. Occasionally he hurled
several rights for the jaw, getting some home, but
finding most stopped by Turner’s protecting glove. Now
and again the champion scored, and once or twice very
effectively, for he had his man rattled, but cling and
cuddle tactics saved Hegarty, who showed too much cun-
ning. The thing was so wearyingly overdone and its
necessity (to save himself) so obvious, that the referee
cautioned Tim it would weigh in the ultimate summing
up. Still Hegarty embraced and hit the while. At the
end the contest was declared a draw. The crowd hooted
its disagreement with the referee, but he was none the
less right. Had Hegarty fought properly he might have
been beaten (he evidently thought so), and had Turner
adopted the same methods, or not shoved his opponent
off frequently', the match would have degenerated into a
maul pure and simple, and Hegarty would have had no
chance, of scoring. The referee took all this into con-
sideration, as also the foul work in holds.
* * * »
English champion swimmer Billington’s win of
mile supremacy of the Gold Country in 24m. 56 2-ssec.
is not a record. Official timekeepers in connection with
Australasian championship meeting"ar Wanganui-(M.L.)
last year made Dick Cavill cover the mile in 21.11 2-5,
which was so remarkably fast that swimming people
generally doubted its accuracy, though Cavill did some
wonderful things subsequently. Australian George Read
occupied_24m. 46 4-5 swimming the distance in Sydney
2 years ago, and again, some months later, was 5 4-ssec.
slower getting through the same task.
* * * *
Those who dote on cricket records will find
satisfaction in a recent Strand (London) article anent
“ big hits.” Whilst an Englishman named Fellows claims
the biggest-hit record, the stroke from which the greatest
number of runs were scored is put down to an Australian,
who drove the ball into the fork of a jarrah tree, there to
remain until shot down—2B6 runs being scored from it.
Somehow this reads more like a Yankee lie than an
Australian “fact.”
* * * *
S.A. lacrosse season came to a finish so far as
interest is concerned when Sturt again beat University-
on August 1. The latter team has been almost un-
challenged for years past, but the former has gone
through this season unbeaten. The deadly nature of the
S.A. attack was again shown by the scoring in this
match. The losers threw 10 goals—and lost by 3.
* * * *
Queensland Turf Club has followed in the wake
of Maoriland, and adopted a very necessary rule to cope
with the glaring changes of “ form ” which have latterly
grown so common. The new law gives the stewards
power to wipe out the winner or placed horse in cases
where inconsistent “ form” is shown in comparison with
previous running. All the same, if the rule doesn't act
more strictly than the A. J.C. stipendiary stewards, then
it had better be dropped before it becomes a burden on
an already suffering people.
sdf
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SCRUBB’S °f°u,o'AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites
ox .. Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
gsd
Are you Bilious ?
There are few complaints that go to make life
not worth living, worse than biliousness. The
coated tongue, bad taste in the mouth, belching
of wind from the stomach, yellow complexion,
jaundiced eye, all testify to the disordered con-
dition of the stomach caused by the bile not being
properly carried away. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills touch the liver as no other remedy does,
cleansing the system of all impurities, making the
stomach clean and pure. They assist nature in
the discharge of all her functions, increase the
appetite, produce sound sleep, and give elasticity
to the spirits. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are
a permanent and positive cure for all liver and
kidney ailments. Packed in amber bottles with
the full name blown thereon.
ACCEPT NO SUBSTITUTES.*
CHAMBERLAIN’S STOMACH AND
LIVER TABLETS
are indispensable to all medicine chests. They
aid the digestion, promote the appetite, stimulate
the liver, keep the bowels open and restore all the
internal organs to a natural, healthy condition.
‘'Just What You Need” Price Is. 6d.*
Patents for Inventions. —Arthur Griffith
and Allen, International Patent Agents and Con-
sulting Engineers, University Chambers, Phillip-
street, Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyright
throughout the world..
Martin’s Apiol and steel pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia. Not genuine
without the signature. Be sure you get Martin’s.
Sole proprietor, W. Martin, pharmaceutical
chemist, Southampton, England.*
RESCH’
Absolutely Pure.
i SELECT STOCK ALE ... LAGER
No Preservatives. BREWERY and OFFICES: DOWLING ST., REDEERW SYDNEY.


H. E. Holland writes re Ethel Herringe :
“John Oarew” (B. Aug. 6) misrepresents the facts
altogether. Lie No. 1; “ She was a young woman of
rapid susceptibilities. While wearing mourning for a
dead cohentingenter she accepted the clandestine atten-
tions of a live cohentingenter." She was not wearing
mourning for a dead lover ; Lee was the only cohentin-
genter she had been engaged to. Lie No. 2 : “ Without
any apparent conventional reason she sprang a marriage
ceremony,” &c. When dying, Lee admitted his promise
4o marry Ethel Herringe. Lie No. 3 : “ The subsequent
Grenfell petition for her release was coolly received in
Oowra.” Practically every adult resident of West Cowra
(where the girl lived) signed the petition. _ About 1000
persons in and about the township likewise signed it, and
a public meeting, convened at less than 24 hours’ notice,
had a larger attendance than the average Oowra meeting,
the only dissenter from the resolution carried being a
weary old disturber. Lie No. 4 (concerning the “ tardy
infant ”) is proclaimed by the fact that the authorities,
influenced undoubtedly by the release movement, caused
the girl to be removed from prison in order that the
child should not be born there.
William Robinson, ex-M.L.A., who died
a few weeks ago in the Victorian Home for the
Aged and Infirm, aged 82, had been five years
there and three years in Melbourne Benevolent
Asylum. At the beginning of the seventies
Robinson was one of a small knot of ultra-
democrats, years before their time, who met at
Belvidere Hotel, Fitzroy. The late Henderson
African us was one of them ; so was old William
Forsyth, a stonemason, who built Wesley Church
in Lonsdale-street. Francis Longmore patronised
and chummed with the crowd. In ’7O David
Syme wanted to sell the Evening Herald, and
Forsyth made an offer and got it. One of the
Belvidere party (J. B. Hickson, a homoeopathic
doctor) was made editor and Robinson accountant
and business manager. But Forsyth, who was an
illiterate man, ruined the paper, and then Sam
Winter came in.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Loclryer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.
A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
casesin six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
only Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
Of Chemists, or from PARIS MEDICINE CO., 28, Shoe-
lane, London, England.*
Dean Rolland, who died in M.L. recently,
was a greatly respected West Coast cleric, who
made himself conspicuous when acting as chaplain
to the forces operating under General Chute
against the Maoris in ’65. In his “ Heroes of the
War ” Major Gudgeon has something to say about
the chaplain, who first appeared on the scene
when 300 men set out to attack the stronghold of
Te Ngutu-o-te-Manu. He took part in the
long, weary march and kept up with the best,
and 4; he re was a warlike cock in the “sit”
of his broad-brimmed old felt hat, and some-
thing in the self - confidence with which he
leaned on his walking-stick that said, “Here
stands a man without fear.” When disaster
thinned the ranks Rolland didn’t discrimi-
nate between those of his own flock and any
other; he afforded consolation to all alike.
Religious wrangles had no particular joy for him ;
he merely shrugged his shoulders whenever they
were mentioned.
Sydney Evening News rose last week to
point out that the privately-owned Deniliquin
and Moama (N.S.W.) railway earns 4 per cent,
dividends, and said, sadly, “ What a private
company can do the State should be able to
accomplish.” The News might have gone a little
further and explained the reason of the private
concern’s 4 per cent. The writer has before him
a waybill for a parcel of goods which did a journey
over the Victorian State railways and the D. and
M. Co.’s private line. Rates charged : State rail-
ways, £2 7s. Id. for 117 miles; Deniliquin and
Moama Co., £2 ss. sd. for 16 miles. There are
no starving stock rates, free carriage of seed
wheat, gratis newspaper trains, or such like
charitable hash, either, about the private co.
With the present management the State lines, if
they adopted the scale of charges of the private
co., could earn about 15 per cent, instead of a
miserable four.
BLOWN TO ATOMS.
The old idea that the body sometimes needs a
powerful, drastic, purgative pill has been ex-
ploded ; for Chamberlain’s Stomach and Liver
Tablets, which are perfectly harmless, gently
stimulate liver and bowels, expel poisonous
matter, cleanse the system and absolutely cure
constipation and sick headache. “ Just What
You Need.” Only Is. 6d.*
Adelaide Quiz sees in Treasurer Turner’s
cautious estimate of the customs revenue a dismal
conspiracy
to keep up the present shamefully high tariff by under
estimating the revenue, and thus give Protectionist
monopolists a bigger share of fiscal plunder than they
otherwise would get.
Which is a fairly good sample of Freetrade tommy-
rot. Turner last year estimated the customs
receipts almost to a pound, with the exception of
the unexpected revenue from forage and wheat
and flour duties; of course, he couldn’t foresee
the drought. This year he may err a little on the
side of caution, but, in view of the frenzied rush
of the State Governments to put in pawn every
possible future penny, he is right in not leaving
himself in the position of having half-a-dozen
hungry State Premiers at his heels next year
explaining that their deficits are due to his mis-
calculations.
King Solomon’s Mines, that fabulous place,
Heaped up the precious stone.
Poor Avarice, even, cannot trace
Or claim it for her own.
There’s something wanting more than wealth
To happiness secure :
Cure your cough, enjoy good health—
Take Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
A witness named Hyde testified last week
before N.S.W. Arbitration Court that bank
managers, barristers, and doctors, “down on
their luck,’’ take service in the kitchens of
Sydney restaurants and hotels. Then he was
badgered by lawyer Wade, who wanted to know
if the establishment of a minimum wage for cooks
and kitchen workers would not shut out these
derelicts. Question and answer ran thus:—
What are you going to do with these people? What
chance of living have they?—l would leave it for the Bar-
risters’ Union, if there is one.
The answer could not have been better. Is one
trade to be deprived of the right to organise and
work up wages merely that it may serve as
a dropping-place for another trade’s wrecks ? If
Wade and his friends won’t keep the fallen learned
brother, why should they expect people of another
trade to sacrifice themselves on his account ?
f ESTABLISHED 1847.
AlleockS
POROUS
PLASTERS
Arc a universal remedy for Pains in the Back (so frequent in the case of women).
They give instantaneous relief. Wherever there is pain apply a plaster.
1
m
XD*
For Pains in the region of the
Kidneys, or for a Weak Back,
the plaster should be applied
,as shown above. Wherever
is pain apply Allcock's
Plaster.
L’iuumatism,
Golds, Coughs,
Bronchitis,
Weak Chest,
Weak Back,
Lumbago,
Sciatica, etc., etc.
Allcock's Piasters are
superior to all other
Plasters.
r
For Sheuma-
tlsm, or Pains
In Shoulders,
Elbows, or else-
where, or for
Sprains, Stiff-
ness, '"etc., and for Aching
Feet, cut plaster size and shape
required and apply to
affected as shown above.
shape
partJ
TENNIS AND GOLF
are in full swing just now, and bo is FOOTBALL and CYCLING-. Please note
we keep full stocks of
HIGHEST GRADE SPORTS GOODS
FOR EVERY GAME.
Our prices are very low, as you will find if you ask us to quote, and we guarantee
the quality of everything we sell. Write for what you require, or call and
evumine our stocks.
CANADA CYCLE & HOTOR CO., Ltd.,
Branches in Every State. 357 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
T ATYTTiC A TUT) GFNTT FTVFFIM who take a rational view of Cycling and desire positive comfort,
bni/LU; vTHI 1 comparative speed and superlative bike, should call and examine
our new model
RED BIRD BICYCLE
RED BIRD BICYCLE
It is superbly built, and will give you every
possible satisfaction as a Roadster.
Branches in every State. GOOLD BICYCLE CO., LTD., 64 King St., Sydney.
WOMEN cure DRUNKARDS
The Remedy can be given in Tea, Coffee, or
Food, thus Secretly Curing the Patient
without his Knowledge.
rPHIS CURE FOR DRUNKENNESS has shed a
■7 radiance into thousands of hitherto desolate fire-
sides. It does its work so silently and surely that,
while the devoted wife, sister, or daughter looks on,
the drunkard is reclaimed even against his will.
BTTCRA.SY SAFE AND SURE.
Mrs. J. HATTON, who cured her husband with
EUORASY, now writes us that she has also cured a
near and dear relative, and makes a most earnest ap-
peal to all other women to save the drunkard. We will
post free books and testimonials from hundreds who
have been cured, and everything needed to aid you
in saving those dear to you from a life of ultimate
poverty and disgrace. Write or call at once, and
address— THE EUCRASY COY.,
62 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY
THREE OF OUR NEWEST DESIGNS
Lovely Gold Brooch, Pearl Set, 21a.
The "FianceS” Heart and True Lover’s Knot
Brooch, in Solid Gold and Pearls, &c., 255.
Please Send for
Illustrated Slips.
1000 Others to Select from.
Generally supposed that the Jew stands
out of the army with great enthusiasm and
equanimity. The general supposition is about
half true —rather more than half, in fact. In
Great Britain the Jews number 17 in every 10,000;
in the army of Britain, 7 in every 10,000.
The latest invention hailing from the land
of hustlers is the “ cheering-up lady,” whose duty
it i 3 to read, _ talk, look pleasant, and be a little
ray of sunshine in the house while the spell of
depression lasts. She undertakes, in fact, to he a
source of happiness at so many dollars. If her
money isn’t forthcoming, her cheerfulness drops off
like a garment, and she is just as great a source of
misery as anybody else.
Hi
"tjlOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
•E ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “Ellis’ King Street Coffee Palace,” TKS
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor—GEO. IF. ELLIS.
Free for Asking.
\AI RITE to us and we will forward you our scientific
* * book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magic, and you will be filled with energy,
strength and ambition once more. Posted free. Write
to Armand Gouhaud, 82 Little Flinders St., Melbourne.
SHARPSHOOTINg
fgsd
For Sport and War.
By W. W. GREENER.
HITS THE MARK!
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, 1/- nett. ;
Posted, 1/2.
The best 1/- worth ever Published,
IP you wish to get good work and value
you should purchase W.W. GREENER’S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to—
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
(Greener’s Representative).
fgs
HAND-IN-HAND
forEIGHTYYEARS
Williams'
Barbers' Bar.
WILLIAMS' Traveller's Shaving Stick,
You may worry thru a face
scrape on most “Any Old
Soap.” To enjoy the Luxury
of a Perfect Shave you must
use Williams’.
If youdoubt it, send a penny
stamp for Williams’ Changing
Face Puzzle. Tells you why.
J. B. WILLIAMS CO., Glas-
tonbury, Conn., U.S.A. Also
232 Clarence Street, Sydney.
dfg
Superfluous Hair.
~Vjrr E have a permanent, quite harmless and never-failing
remedy. Ladies who suffer from hairs upon the
face, arms, neck, etc., will find this remedy a great boon.
3s. 9d. per packet.
AMERICAN TOILET COMPANY,
91 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
THE - BULLETIN" STORY BOOK:
Price, 4s. 6d.
Cyclists
cjs
>l*
V
NV
t\ I v 7
LOOK
OUT!
There's trouble ahead
If you ride Cycle Tyres of
the cheap and nasty order.
Specify VULCANISED
when purchasing your machine, and
you can then rest assured that you have
The Best that Money can Buy.
None genuine without
this Trade Mark
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. j
of Australusia, Ltd.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth,
Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.
sdf
Sydney Depot:
150 Clarence Street*
ARTISTIC
BOOKLET
44 All Aboot Dtmlop Tyres
for \mr
Gratis on Application*.


.LJ>
%
\
m
ii
/y
S'
/
i
»igY,
ogW
i
OGDEN’S w GUINEA-GOLD 1 ’ Cigarettes soothe the
troubled spirit
MILDNESS -
J
The great charm about GUINEA GOLD CIGARETTES is their delightful mildness. They are mild, and yet at the same time possess
a satisfying—although delicate —flavor. This combination is obtained through the selection and use of the best of thoroughly-matured
leaf and the care taken in manufacture.
BRITISH-AMERICAN TOBACCO CO., LTD, (OGDEN BRANCH), 45 York Street, Sydney.
A R.C. priest is called a Father because he
isn’t supposed to be a father. If it is proved that
he is a father then he ceases to be a Father.
Nicolas Holtze, who is in charge of the
Botanical Gardens at Port Darwin, states that
both rice and cotton are indigenous to the Terri-
tory and grow wild there. And Private Enter-
prise has just let them grow.
Go on the land, young man ! While at
Condobolin (N.S.W.) Premier See was given an
interesting experience by a Mr. Reardon, de-
scribed by the S.M.H. as “a fine stamp of
settler. Mr. Reardon arrived in the district 12
years previously worth £21,000. He had a large
family of boys who were anxious to settle on the
hind. Land was bought ; they had slaved for 12
years, and had spent in improvements over
£12,000, conserving water, cutting scrub, erecting
rabbit-proof fences, and improving land to grow
wheat and hay. “What is the result to-day?
If my financial backers were to close upon me
and my family, we would have to walk into the
road simply with the clothes we are wearing.”
In N.S.W., at all events, “the great natural
industries of the country" don’t seem to beai
close inspection.
NERVOUSNESS.
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS of SELF
CURE, will forward the same, free of
Charge, to anyone interested.
Address: A. MINER. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
RfINZ JOSEF,
the best natural
I Aperient- wafer.
RfIHZ JOSEF
i the best natural
I Aperient' water.
RfINZ JOSEF
i the best natural
|| Aperienl- wa Yer.
RfIMZ JOSEF
(the best natural
Aperient- water.
PAY WHEN CURED
We want everybody suffering from Rheumatism,
Lumbago, Dyspepsia, Varicocele, Nervousness, Weak Back,
Liver, Kidney or Stomach Troubles, or from any weaknesses
of vital organs, to try our Latest Improved High Grade
Belt, Free.
5,000 FREE!
We have just completed our Medical Treatise, “Electro
Neuro Therapy,” a copy of which we will send free, prepaid,
to all writing us. It is invaluable to every weak man and
woman. It is fully illustrated, and can be had for the asking.
A post card will do. Write for it to-day.
No Cure, No Pay.
We will cure you free if you will let us, and if we fail it
will cost you nothing. You can have our latest Improved
Belt on Trial Free. One does for eight persons. If you need
treatment write to us, and we will send you this splendid new
Belt. Free on trial. We want every weak man and woman
to write us to-day. Delay no longer, as we can cure you free.
The Dr. J. n. Austin Electric Co. (Dept. M.)
49 ELIZABETH STREET, fIELBOURNE, VIC.
gsdf
£
HERR RASSMUSSEN
will guarantee to cure Nervous Weak-
ness, Blood Diseases, Piles, Rheuma-
tism, Corpulency, Liver and Kidney
Troubles. He will send his Book Free.
All correspondence will be held
confidential.
BRISBANE: 309 Queen St.
MELBOURNE • 150 Bourke St.
WEAK, NE
SUFFER
HEN you can be quickly and permanently cured by taking Herr Rassmussen’s fIiLFALINE Vitality Fills which have cured so many
thousand sufferers from DEBILITY, POOR MEMORY, WEAK SPINE, DESPONDENCY, and all which robs Manhood of that which
is dearest to it—Vital Strength. Herr Rassinussen will guarantee this remedy to cure every ease, no matter of how long standing, and he will
give his skilled advice personally to all patrons of his remedies FREE OF CHARGE, either in his offices or by post. So: don’t despair, but
communicate with him without delay, no matter where you live. Treatment by Post a Speciality. Pamphlet sent Pree.
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS. Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d., posted.
Blood and Skin Diseases
Blood Disorders, Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, Stone in the Bladder, and Blood
Impurities guaranteed to be removed and permanently cured by
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS. Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d. posted.
Anaemic Women
suffering from Wasting Diseases, Pale, Lifeless, and otherwise affected,
R ASSMUSSEN. His lifelong experience is at their service, and his
should at once communicate with HERR
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS will cure them. Boxes, 6s; Courses, 235. 6d.
LIVER and KIDNEY TROUBLES cured at once by the ALFALINE LIVER and KIDNEY PILLS, Boxes Is.
His RHEUMATIC PILLS are World-famed, and his PILE POWDERS never fail ; 6s. per box each.
The ALFALINE REMEDIES can only beobtained from ... t" A §•? CA J 1
Herr Rassmussen's Head Office- 547 George St., Sydney,
AND HIS BRANCHES AS FOLLOW-
ADELAIDE: 15 Pulteney St.
N-Z. • 91 Lambton Quay, Wellingto
W.A., PERTH - 481 Hay St.
KALGOORUE: 111 Hamm St.
FREMANTLE: 117 High St-
BOULDER CITY: Pitsse St.


If Philp gets the slightest bit of encourage-
ment he will shelve the Redistribution of Seats
Bill this session. It will be a peg to hang on to
at next Queensland State elections; and pegs are
awfully scarce.
N.S.W. Public Service Board claims to
be statutorily independent of Premiers and
Ministers —as much so as Supreme Court Judges.
But' members of the Board are not appointed for
life, and when the eve of re-appointment or dis-
missal arrives, are they not m much the same
position as junior clerks? If they offend mighty
men, what saves them from a kick out.
Britain has 66,000,000 acres of land ; of
these, 32,000,000 are put to some agricultural use,
for grass or grain crops; but only 14,000,000 acres
are cultivated in the sense of being ploughed for
crops, and the amount intensely cultivated reaches
to 340,000 acres only. These figures, showing a
practically uncultivated country, represent the
price paid for Preetrade.
The Laborites reckon that Queensland
will return at the next Federal elections hardly a
member who is not a Labor nominee, for Queens-
land hae the most perfect Labor organisation. for
election purposes in Australia. On some stations
if there are ten unionists and Labor gets less than
ten votes, the men all pack up and depart rather
than work with a blackleg. The blackleg gener-
ally goes with the rest as a protest against his
own conduct^
Suggested that the Federal Government
should institute a Public Archives Department,
and so preserve the records of the genesis. of the
Australian nation. The previous geneses in Aus-
tralia were of such a nature that people enthusi-
astically decided to forget all about them, and to
destroy the proofs of what could not be forgotten.
Now that we’ve got a nice new Genesis, to say
nothing of a considerable Exodus, and interesting
Customs Revelations, by all means “ Yes ” to the
archives proposal,
A German critic (Admiral Livonius) on
the British navy:—
The old British tactical and seamanlike superiority is
gone. We can unhesitatingly claim it for ourselves.
Ships do not fight, but men ; and to multiply ships with-
out the men is futile.
The criticism points to an undoubted weak spot
—the increasing difficulty of getting men for the
British navy. Australia, by suggesting preferen-
tial treatment for the Boy of the Bulldog Breed,
shows a way out of the difficulty, but Chamber-
lain is blind to it.
“ Chass ” writes :
The way citizens of reform tendencies work the oracle
to secure choice allotments in Victorian inland mining
towns. They obtain miners’ rights, peg out the required
allotments, and then build expensive villa residences.
The Act stipulates that a freehold can be got after two
years’ residence by putting the land up for sale by public
auction. Of course, they take care to value the improve-
ments so highly that no one has a possible chance of
bidding for the block, and it is passed over to them at
their own price. Know a farmer recently retired from
clod-hopping who has dummied two choice mining lots
on which to build his villa.
“ Ed.” writes :
The public service gets back on the Kyabrammer now
and then. In my district, soon after the last day for
Income Tax returns, the police had lists sent to
them of persons who had not supplied returns,
and were asked to mark the names of those
whom they believed to be in receipt of £125 a year.
All “ reformers ” named were marked, and they wonder
at the threatening letters of Prout Webb (tax com-
missioner). Railway line repairers are extra particular
about keeping the line free of wandering stock. “Take
those blanky reformer’s sheep out of this” I heard one
ganger say, and the reformer’s sheep left in haste. Life is
not all gloom even in Victoria.
Williamson Wallace, Yic. Agriculture-
Director, hits a large nail on the head when he
points out the necessity for recouping irrigation
outlay by a rate on the land instead of by payment
for water used. This would do away with such a
piece of folly as that seen in the Goulburn Valley
to-day, where one man holds, idle, useless, and
unirrigated, a block that Wallace says would
support 100 families. If the land-owner had to
pay an irrigation-rate proportionate to the
amount of land he held he would take care that
the land was irrigated and used. But first of all
the Trusts must be compelled to collect their
rates and pay their debts—not repudiate them.
“ C.P.” : At the house of a mutual friend,
who is a shipping clerk, 1 occasionally meet a
State politician, and an employer of labor. The
clerk and politician agree that Mr. Kingston was
brutal and indiscriminating in his administration ;
the employer and I agree on the Protection
question; the employer, clerk and politician agree
that the Labor party and “paid agitators” are
the ruin of the country, and the clerk and I agree
on a graduated land tax. But since the Naval
Subsidy Bill has been before Parliament we have
become unanimous on one subject—that each of
the three others is a born idiot, and our little
games of cards are things of the past.
A scene in the House :
When Smith and W. D. Oruickshank, the two lay
member* of the N.S.W. Arbitration Court, were in Mel-
bourne lately, on their way to Broken Hill to settle a dis-
pute about wages and contract conditions, they went up
to the Australian Parliament House, and took seats in
one of the galleries; and, although they were not aware
of it at the time, alongside them sat Zebina Lane, who
was the Broken Hill companies’ chief executive officer
during the bitter strike of 11 years ago. In view of the
pending Arbitration Bill, the opportunity was not thrown
away by a Laborite or two who noticed the circum-
stance. Here, on one side, were two quiet-looking
middle-aged men going up without any fuss to settle
issues quite as large as were involved in 1892 ;
not a ripple of excitement anywhere; not a line
in the papers ; not a workman idle. And, on the other
side, a man who recalled a desperate struggle with starv-
ation, four months’ idleness for between 30,000 and 40,000
people, troops of armed police, special trains rushing
hither and thither, special Courts to try all manner of
offences committed during the heat of the fight, excited
pages of newspaper talk (mostly untrue), hatred and
malice, which were to show themselves months and even
years after the uneven struggle was over. And just as a
Laborite was asking one of the most benevolent Tories of
the House which he liked best, Sam Smith and Cruick-
shank reached for their hats, and moved off calmly to
•catch their train.
N.S.W. Agent-General Copeland’s report
for 1902, just printed, covers 17 large pages, and
is designed throughout to show what a very busy
man the State Agent-General is, and how neces-
sary his office must be even under Federation.
The desire to give much bulk to the report shows
•out most prominently in this par. :
Nuts for the King.
I received a box of Australian nuts (Macadamia
’Temifolia) for presentation to His Majesty the King.
As, however, no information was supplied as to whether
the nuts were to be planted or to be used at the Royal
xable, I requested to be informed jvhy they should be
presented to His Majesty. To this the Secretary for
Mines and Agriculture replied that if there should be
any difficulty in getting the presentation made, the
matter might be allowed to drop.
Etc., etc., for many lines on the same subject.
\ • What was the Printing Committee about in
• ordering such stuff to be printed ?
Be Dowie : There is no fool of a prophet
so foolish as to be unable to get a bigger fool of a
disciple to follow him.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wound* that Diicharge or otherwise, perhaps tur-
rquutled with inflammation and swollen that when you
pre»s your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the lmpr**-
•ion ?If ao, under'the akin you have poiaon that defies alt
the remedies you hava tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on Buffering till death releases
you Perhaps your knees are swollen, the Joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the akin
may be diacoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the povrer to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAW
CUKE YOU. 1 don’t say perhaps ; but 1 WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not how being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and FILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, .Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
4c. lb ice, In Great Britain, l/ljd. per b-'i. Preparedby
AI BERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents : .ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers shoujd
louk'toi th “registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
gteen label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
8
THE 48th ...
-Hour Qemonstration
and ]|rt Union
( Urider sanction of
the Attorney-General)
Monday, sth Oct., 1903.
Prizes value £1250.
First Prize, value £5OO ; Second Prize, value £100;
Third Prize, value £5O ; and 150 other valuable Prizes
The Prize Drawing is open to the public and the
press, and every purchaser of a ticket has an equal
chance whether present or not.
Last year a number of applications for tickets were
received too late for participation in the drawing, (
and their moneys had to be returned. People from a
distance should apply early and avoid this disap-,
pointment.
Tickets to be obtained from
A. McDougall, Secretary,
Trades Hall, Sydney,
or from Local Agents everywhere.
The First Prize (a Golden Emu valued at 500 sovs.)
was last year won by Mrs. Swadling, of Edden-street,
Leichhardt, Sydney.
Buy your Tickets Early.
Only One Shilling.
THE CONSUMP-
TIVES’ CHANCE.
The great gift of the 19th and 20th cen-
turies, the largest boon mankind has received
from science during all the centuries, is the
great splendid fact that we of the 20th century
know it to be certain that, if treated in its
early stages, there is a cure for Consumption.
Consumption is so called because consuming
goes on rapidly at the expense of all the
tissues of the body, and cannot be counter-
acted by ordinary means. The most effective
thing with which to combat Consumption in
its early stages is Scott’s Emulsion, the most
perfect preparation of pure Cod Liver Oil in
the world. What Scott’s Emulsion does in
cases where Consumption has begun, is to
check the consuming which is going on so
rapidly at the expense of the tissues of the
body. By the use of Scott’s Emulsion this
consuming may be stopped. t
THE CONSUMPTIVE'S
CHANCE. What anyone threatened'
with Consumption or in whom Consumption,
has developed, has to choose, is, the right
remedy. His chance of life depends on this.
It is not necessary for us to dwell upon the
symptoms of Consumption. Do not wait until
the symptoms have turned into the full-
developed disease. The message we have tO'
convey is, that if the signs of Consumption
have been already recognised, begin Scott’s
Emulsion to-day ; it will bring immediate
improvement. There is no “if "nor “and”
about it.
SCOTT’S EMULSION -
help you from the first dose. You may be
offered a substitute when you ask for Scott’s-
Emulsion. The “ just as good ” is never the
best. Scott’s Emulsion is the best —the best-
by every test. You have only one condition
to fulfil, and that is to see that on the wrapper
of the bottle there is a picture of a man
carrying a big cod-fish; if that cod-fish is
not there, you are not getting what we pro-
mise you—a cure ! You can obtain a sample'
of Scott’s Emulsion and the choicest chijjren’s
booklet of the year, “A Bunch of Kses,”
beautifully printed in colors, by sending
sd. to Scott & Bowne, Ltd., 483 Kent Street,
Sydney, and mentioning this paper. All
chemists sell Scott’s Emulsion.
MIDDLE ACL
Joints grow stiff — Twinges of Gout —Rheumsttic Pains
—Digestive troubles—Disinclination for exertion-
Backache.
THE CAUSE. THE CURE.
xN the majority of cases when a person gets to be over the age of forty, asome thing”thsdi
subtly makes itself felt. Nothing particular to grumble about, t - * t *JL fc «!^rtlSS t £iß£iices t
forces him to admit to himself that he is not as young as he was. In g The ioints become stiff,
however, the advance of middle age is heralded in a manner, rhe jwnto becom
twinges of Gout are felt, Rheumatic and Neuralgic pains begin to theconsciousness that
in the back when rising from a stooping posture, a good meal eate although there is,
presently they will be sorry that they ate it, the bladder becomes . _ » _ . fcs ffects f or a
unfortunately, no means of preventing the advance of age, it is possib
long period if adequate care is taken to see that
THE KIDHEYS AND THE LIVER
are fa goo d working order. When these vital organs are efficiently performing their office the
encroachments of age are always gradual and painless. . _ .
The Kidneys.— lt is the duty of the kidneys to rid the body of certain P^° nS 'i n
kidneys of the average person filter from the blood about t ree pui s o & t j gsueSi t 0 the extent
water should be dissolved waste matter, produced by tb 6 wea,r an y other animal and mineral
of one ounce of urea, ten to twelve grains, in weight, of uric acid, and‘ 0 “ diaeaBed a
matter varying from a third of an ounce to nearly an ounce. j causes us to suffer from
certain proportion of this waste urinary matter remains m the'systemai Tjeuralffia Anaemia,
Rheumatism, Gout, Lumbago, Sciatica, Persistent headache Neuralgia
Debility, Gravel, Stone and Bladder Troubles. When the kidneys are properjijc &
work none of these complaints can exist, as the causative poisons are t y
People approaching middle life are very prone to suffer from kidney disease, the commonest
symptom of which is
PAIN IN THE BACK.
A simple test to make as to the condition of the kidneys, is to place some urine, - cfoiudy*
thing in the morning, in a covered glass, and let it stand until the rmx morning. & j t ] ien n 0
shows a sediment like brick-dust, if particles float about in or Diabetes or some other serious
time should be lost in adopting remedial measures, or Brights Disease, Diabetes or soi
illness will be the result.
Warner’s Safe Cure
It is nearly thirty years since scientific research, directed specially to diseases of the Kidneys and
Liver, was rewarded by the discovery of the medicine now known throughout the worid j Warn
Safe Cure. It was realized, at the outset of the investigation, tnat it was necessary a curative
agent which would act equally upon the kidneys and upon the liver, these two organs Deing
fmanediately Tsoiiated in the work of dealing with the waste cmnplaints
discovery of Warner’s Safe Cure it is not necessary for anyone t° f f rom any T au nSe Sick-
mentioned above as resulting from uric poisoning nor frotrf
headache nor Blood disorders, which are all caused by the retentionof Biliary poisons due to disease
or inactivity of the liver. Warner’s Safe Cure cures all diseases of the kidneys ana liver
and all complaints produced by inefficient action of those vital organs.
Mr. Chas. Brown, of 5 Rule Street, Richmond says For quite ten years* IC
kidney and bladder complaint, and, although I consulted doctor after doctor and spent
tune in medicines, I obtained no relief whatever until I began to a w , a Cure the
to get up four or five times in the night. As soon as I started taking Warner s in
difficulty grew less. I continued to take the medicine regularly, and soon a marked
my health took place. lam now as nearly in perfect health as can expect to be. Cure and
rise more than once during the night. lam very thankful that I ,t, n
more thankful still that I gave it a trial, as I despaired of ever obtaining reliel.
A treatise setting forth full particulars relating to Warner’s Safe Cure, and
will be sent free on application by H. H. Warner and Co., Limited, Australasian Branch, Mel
bourne, Vic.
.
CENTURY THERMAL BATH CABINET
is equal to A DOCTOR IN EVERY HOME,
THOUSANDS OLADLY TESTIFY TO THIS FACT!
Hot-air and Vapour Baths administered by this Cabinet are
a speedy cure for RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA, BRONCHITIS,
GOUT, LIVER and KIDNEY TROUBLES, INFLUENZA,
COLDS, FEVERS—in fact, there is no disease which can resist
the power of heat as applied by this Cabinet. 300,000 now
being used in Great Britain weekly.
PRICES, delivered, 30/- to 84/-.
Write to-day for descriptive Booklet—FßEE.
I Century Thermal Bath Cabinet Co. Ltd.( DBPT 8 >
I (Sole Agents Wanted for Sydney.)
1 ALEX. TROUP, Manager,
Royal Arcade, Elizabeth-st. Entrance, MELBOURNE.
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
gsd
HIS MAJESTY
THE KING.
MOIR’S
“MAYFAIR”
TABLE-JELLY
■‘Made inhalt
a-minute by
the mere ad
dition of boil,
ing -water-"
’• ,/P
\h
IN PINT
PACKETS.
CRYSTALS
Manufacturers— JOHN MOIR * SON, LTD., LONDON, ABERDEEN and SEVILLE
Head Office: 9 & 10, Great Tower Street, LONDON, E.C.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize IVleda.ls.,
Works s Birmingham, England.
fg
These series
of Pens neither
scratch nor spurt
iThey glide over
|the roughest
paper with the
ease of a soft
lead pencil.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.


There has been a shrinkage of' £200,000 in the
market value of Associated Northern (W.A.) since the
beginning of July.
* ♦ * *
Ever since the completion of Coolgardie Water
. raln ha 9. been fal ling all over the Westralian
goldfields, and instead of the consumption of water
reaching 5,000,000 gallons daily, as estimated by John
orrest, the Government pipes barely average 500,000
gallons. It will require a daily consumption of 2,500,000
gallons at 6s. to make the scheme pay, and Westralians
are satisfied that they have a white elephant of the
largest proportions to support. Rason, Minister for
Water Supply, dolefully told Parliament that even if
Government supplied the water for nothing it could
not get rid of 5,000,000 gallons daily.
* * * *
_ -^- n example of economical mining at Bendigo.
QAQoi 81 ® Co :* half-year, crushed 9337 tons for
. ■, an ,d -£670 was realised on pyrites. The average
yield was less than 6dwt. per ton, and the total value
was about £B5OO, out of which £3600 was paid in divi-
nenas, and a * considerable amount of prospecting work”
was done. Shareholders spoke enthusiastically of
manager Jewell at the general meeting, but didn’t offer
him even a drink.
* * * *
Another “discovery” ia reported at Mount
Hoaxley or blessed memory. Otherwise mining in the
fly Speck is as unexciting as Slowbart’s Great Western
Railway. Notwithstanding the slump and the smallpox
tbe Launceston serippers still support the local ’Change
oy leaning up against the verandah posts, which now
FiTthecity polish ’ and are about the brightest things
* * * •
The llingarooma, an alleged Tasmanian gold
mine, largely owned in Sydney, is in difficulties ; and the
directors are looking for somebody to take it off their
hands. In eight years it hasn’t paid a dividend : but it
and the shareholders between them paid quite a lot in
directors fees and other costs of management. Appar-
entiy the co. did no work on its own account in the past
12 months, and its only revenue was £74 royalty received
from tributors ; yet it cost the co. £799 to earn that
much. This, however, includes interest; at 31st May it
owed the bank £1428 and other people £699, while its
liquid assets reached about £25. Purely office manage-
ment probably cost about £350; and there are a lot of
P e^Pje w bo would have got the co. into almost as bad
hopeless a mess as this for a quarter of the money.
Why the shareholders should have allowed matters to
drift so long Heaven only knows.
* * * .
Herberton (N.Q.) tinfield looks like having
another run. Excellent ore is being won at the Great
Northern; some hundreds of tons have been paddocked.
Ihe erection of a lCbstamper battery will soon commence.
* * ♦ *
ree k> the N.Q. tin show, held mostly
in Adelaide, continues to be an unequalled gambling
counter. Within three weeks shares went from 14s. 9d.
to 6s. 6d., then recovered to Bs. 2d., and went back again
to about 6s. Down to now the co. has been pottering
about at and above 100 ft. ; the present bad slump follows
a report that in a winze below that level the tin-stone has
disappeared It has been a ridiculously over-valued
show , still it can’t be said that the lode has gone because
it has pinched in one working. Nearly all tin lodes are
lenticular, continually pinching and making.
*** ° *
still not up to 1902 figures, Croydon
(N.y.) returns for the April-June quarter were ahead of
those for Jan.-March ; for the three months 93360 z. gold
was won from 7787 tons crushed, besides 36720 z. bullion
from tailings. Rogers’ Golden Gate easily leads (23290 z.
16 } 1 tonB >. though Golden Gate 9 South Block
(15120 Z. from 590 tons) shows a better average. Wateris
running short at the outside mills.
• • • *
“ Platman”: More genuine prospecting is going
on in Ravenswood (N.Q.) now than at almost any other
u? e i_ slI ? ce I^S discovery. The Grand Junction, shares of
which jumped from ss. to 255. on the cutting of the
Sunset hanging-wall reef, has stopped sinking, having
through what is believed to be the footwall formation.
Ihe bottom is in hard red and grey granite. Directors
intend to open out on the hanging-wall reef, and (a proof
of lively faith) have erected a hopper to hold the stone
yet to be mined. The London should soon be a div-
payer. An air-compressor will be speedily on the ground,
when more attention will be paid to sinking the shaft.
Last crushing, 30dwt.; sands and concentrates to come.
Leases are pegged out for miles, many of them wild-cats
that can t live beyond kittenhood. A slump is inevitable,
although if the Grand and Sunset Extended bottom well
prices may reach a higher figure first. Should this
happen it will add to the value of the New Ravenswood
(shares now sold at £8 10s.) as it will prove that the
of°the reefs 63 ” 0t ,nterfere with the gold-carrying quality
* * * *
Results of preliminary tests of alleged oil-
bearing matter taken from the “oil country” in S.
Australm, near the Murray mouth, are disappointing.
No trace of oil ’ is the report of the Government analyst
-merely water mixed with vegetable detritus. Even
the Murkan oil expert, on whose report the country has
been taken in hand, attaches no importance to this sur-
face ooze, though that has been what the enthusiasts
have sworn by lip to now.
* * * •
Floated with no working capital to speak of,
even the largest of the Arltunga (S.A.) cos. are already
within cooee of financial trouble, and, in view of all the
adverse reports, there is very little hope of getting in
more coin. The original co., the Reward, has only £4OOO
left, and its two neighbors about £3OOO each. Practically
no real exploration has yet been done ; and the only
present hope for the field lies in the amalgamation of the
concerns. A scheme with this end is now being knocked
into shape in Adelaide. During the brief boom these
three main shows were valued by the market at £l7O 000.
Present valuation is £21,000.
* * » »
The Distilleries Co. Limited (D.C.L. whisky)
of Edinburgh, the people who make more whisky than
anybody else in the world
Written Total
.. „ _ Dividends, less off R e -
May, Profits. Income Tax. Property, senes
IQOO 10 p.c. = £85,810 £30,000 £234,326
*9OO ” 134,775 10 ~ ~ 85,587 30,000 253,514
1901 .. 124,253 10 ~ „ 84,235 20,000 273 53?
1003 " 14? ’9Qi in ” ” 86,697 20,000 293,783
1903 .. 141,291 10 „ ~ 110,000 30,000 295,074
This is a huge concern, with a trading capital now of over
two millions and a quarter. Its plant and utensils alone
independent of buildings, are set down at £251,304 • and
its stock now runs to £915,246, so that it doesn’t’seem
likely that the people who call for D.C.L. will have to
change their brand yet awhile.
“War E.”: The season is now near at hand
when the indefatigable collector of statistics goes forth
amongst the cockles of this State to look for “prospects”
of the approaching harvest. Every cocky being “ well-in”
to the local storekeeper, and wanting more, has “great
prospects --it's about the only thing he has. Every
crop he has is at least a five-bag one. The collector sends
in glowing accounts, and the daily press publishes column
reports of the bountiful harvest” to come. The Sydney
millers then regulate prices for the ccming season on the
prospect of a glutted market, and the cocky-crowd
winders why the price is so low! Let the cocky for a
change, take a stiff pull on his “ prospects,” and perhaps
the prices won’t be so low, and the Income-Tax man so
excited, and the Lands Department so surprised at its
inability to collect the instalments. P 6 lta
*_* * *
Seddon’s English officers are licking his meat-
shop proposals into shape. To make a net profit of 6?
per cent, on capital outlay it is reckoned they will have
to charge up to 7d. per lb. for mutton and Bd. or 9d for
lamb according to season ; from October to March" the
price for lamb will be a penny cheaper all round than in
the other half. Each shop, it is thought, will cost about
£2OOO before the shutters can be taken down.
The South Australian Co., the most oppressive
absentee in the alleged Wheat State, levied enough
tribute during the past 12 months to show a profit of
£32,184. Yet, though it did absolutely nothing to earn
this money but simply sat down and waited for the man
who was doing something to call in and pay up the
tribute, the co. has the face to pass severe remarks
regarding the poor little land and income taxes which
the State collects, and to express the pious hope that
Iscariot will remember his friends and reduce these taxes
as speedily as possible.
„** * - *
“ Rhaupo”: “Con” inquires about half-mile-
one-man-30-years tunnel in Monkerai (presumably)
Ranges. The half-mile tunnel is there right enough,
about half-a-mile off the Dungog-Stroud road, on the
Oherry-tree Creek, and may possibly have been worked
on and off for 20 or 30 years, but by dozens of men. It
was one of the mines of the feline species, and constant
persecution has made it wholly undomestic. There is
as much Government money as private swallowed in it.
In the same locality, last year, a man made over £lOOO off
a quartz lode, with only a hand dolly and his son. He
now talks of forming a co.
No sooner was Kingston out of the road
than all the Chambers of Horrors in Yiotoria
swooped down, with a hooray, upon Barton and
requested the prompt repeal of the law prohibit-
ing the making of mail contracts with companies
employing colored labor. But. Barton “ bitterly
disappointed ” them, they said afterwards—
though he wobbled, and talked about his “ ad-
hesion to the principle of Imperial unity,” he
nevertheless said No. He didn’t say it in a very
emphatic way, certainly; rather, he laid the
blame upon Parliament, remarking that “the
hope of carrying a repeal would be not only
shadowy, but non-existent.” Of course, if he
openly reversed the Government’s policy, King-
ston would fall upon him at once; and that would
be awkward. So Kingston remains a force, even
though he is outside the door.
Although the Victorian railway revenue
for the first month of last financial year was the
worst experienced for a long time,' the receipts
for the first month of the new financial year have
fallen away another £23,000 —another beautiful
proof of the efficacy of Bent and the roaring-bull
policy. This loss has been .chiefly occasioned by
the dishonest attempt to placate the country dis-
tricts by outrageously curtailing the metropolitan
train services. It was the Melbourne and subur-
ban traffic that always had to pay for the cheap
grain freights, the carriage of starving stock, and
other concessions. But suburbs a mile or two out,
which used to benefit by the junctioning of trains
from various lines, and thus had eight or ten
minute services, have now only a train half-hourly
or at even longer intervals. Therefore the cable-
trams are gaining customers, and the papers can’t
account for the “ remarkable decline in revenue.”
TOO HARSH.
Most people find pills too harsh in their effect
on the bowels, and prefer something more mild
and gentle in its action. Such are certain to be
pleased with Chamberlain’s Stomach and Liver
Tablets. They are easy to take and pleasant in
effect. “Just What You Need.” Only Is. 6d.*
The Victorian political game mostly con-
sists of setting up things for the purpose of
knocking them down again, and a persistent
agitation is therefore in progress to have the
Railways Standing Committee wiped away, and
“Ministerial Responsibility ” restored. The rail-
ways committee, composed as it is of guinea-
hunting politicians, is not much of an institution,
but it is at least a shade better than the present
kind of “responsible Minister.” All the most
detestable public works jobs which have been the
destruction of that State, date from the old days
of Ministerial responsibility. The non-paying
railways which Commissioner Tait now finds it
necessary to abandon were all constructed when
there was no Parliamentary committee to decide
and the whole business of railway making was
left to the sweet will of the Tom Bent type of
Minister, as Thomas was before the boom broke.
Also,.it was in the good old days of Ministerial
responsibility that £1,250,000 was spent on
irrigation schemes in the dishonest Kyabram
locality, under such lax conditions that the
Government got “left” for over £1,000,000,
which the benefited farmers had promised to
pay in taxes. Ministerial responsibility means
that the Minister is responsible for all dishonest
jobs, but what’s the good of him being responsible
when nothing happens to him ?
Ping Pong ifc is all the go,
Learn to play it—don’t be slow ;
Lots of fun you’ll find indoors,
While outside the tempest roars.
You’ll gladly think you’re snug and warm,
And not out in the raging storm,
To catch a cold, for which be sure
To take some Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
At Poverty Point.
Bowral will charge Is. a head to hear 0. H. Reid there
on the 17th. George is coming on as an entertainer.
Soon he will want Is. 6d. But that is a long way of! the
prices charged by George Darrell and Harry Rickards for
front seats.
* Theatrical pirates who appropriate other people’s plays
and stage them “ with brilliant scenic effects ” will get
short shrift in M.L. if a Bill now before the House
becomes law. As many of the thieves are men of straw,
and injunctions have little effect (when Straw Smith is
injuncted the name of Straw Brown appears as boss,
and so on), it is proposed simply to put the pirate in a
large and much disliked public building. That is better
than many injunctions.
A certain theatre has been convulsed by the regula-
tion row between two leading ladies. It resulted in the
absence of one of them from the bill. The papers next
day came out with the usual paragraph about illness, but
promptly received letters (which they didn’t publish)
saying she was quite well, but couldn’t stand the other
cat. Meanwhile the manager has used up all the re-
marks he knows.
“ Hamlet": At Adelaide Tiv., an adaption of “ Uncle :
Tom’s Cabin ” is (or was) being given in five minutes by
the corner-men. The man with the gruffest voice im-
personates Little Eva, and two others appear as Uncle
Tom and Simon Legree respectively. When Legree rants
thusly : “ I’ll thrash the life out of your black body,"
Uncle Tom replies, “ My body may belong'to you, Massa
Legree, but my so-o-u-1 (looking Heavenwards) belongs
to Harry Rickards.” At conclusion, with a chorus
behind singing “ Little Eva’s clim’in’ the golden stairs,”
a curtain rises, and there is Little Eva in a nightshirt,
candle in hand, climbing a stepladder, and in a 100-fathom
deep voice bidding Uncle Tom and Mr. Legree good-
night.
The price (£l2 each) at which the first four seats for the
opening performance at Sydney Her Majesty’s were sold
by auction was pretty tall; but it slinks into a corner
when set up against the tariff for the gala performance at
the Royal Opera, Covent Garden, when lately King Ned
and President Loubet turned up. Grand and pit boxes
60 guineas, others 40 and 25 guineas, orchestra stalls 12
guineas and so on down to the gallery, where you had to
part a sovereign at the door and take your chance of see-
ing the back of your neighbor’s neck.
The deceased novelist, B. L. Far jeon, had a very
Hebrew-looking brother on the Australian stage. He
played under the name of John Howe, and died in
Melbourne Hospital a few years ago.
“Top": Remember meeting Capt. Thos. Chanter,
R.N. (who died the other day in a Victorian Asylum for
the Insane at the age of 70, after 22 years’ detention),
when he first arrived in Australia with his wife, Mr o .
Scott-Siddons. A pleasant, good-looking, gentlemanly
man, quite free from any disposition to beat the big
drum. Next time I saw him, he was one of the patients
at a Yarra Bend Asylum picnic in Studley Park. In
borrowed clothing, and wearing coarse and heavy boots,
he was dancing with an ungainly female patient of the
domestic servant species, to whom he was properly
attentive. While at Yarra Bend Chanter chiefly occupied
himself with a new system of musical notation, and a
plan for constructing warships out of cabbages.
“ X.”: “ A.D.” (Bulletin, 14/3/’O3) says that par. of
14/2/’O3 re Kyrle Bellew’s multitude of clothes seems “ a
bit apocryphal.” Let me tell “ A.D." that I worked in
the same newspaper office in Melbourne with Bellew, and
was sometimes at his house at the time I speak of, and
can vouch for the accuracy of the first par. This had
reference to 1873-4-5; “ A.D.” is talking chiefly of London,
years after. At the period mentioned in first par., Bellew
was living in a cottage in East Melbourne with his cousin,
and the late Aoe critic Telo, and he had even more clothes
than the par. accused him of.
CONSTIPATION THE FATHER OF
MANY ILLS.
No one can reasonably hope for good health un-
less his bowels move once each day. When this is
not attended to, disorders of the stomach arise,'
biliousness, headache, dyspepsia and piles soon
follow. If you wish to avoid these ailments, keep
your bowels regular by taking Chamberlain’s
Stomach and Liver Tablets when required.
“ Just What You Meed.” Price Is. 6d.*
Missing Friends.
fiE JAMES FRANCIS DOYLE, late of Bris-
• * bane, Freeholder, deceased, who died at
Brisbane on the twenty-second day of December,
One thousand eight hundred and seventy three.
If JOHANNA DOYLE, the widow of the above-
named deceased, and MARGARET LAMPH,
MARY ANN McDONALD, and ELLEN
DOYLE, three of the daughters of the above-
named deceased, or their personal representatives,
will communicate with ROBERTS & ROBERTS,
Solicitors, Queen Street, Brisbane, they will hear
of something to their advantage.
Brisbane, the fifth day of August, 1903.
GOOD KA.IR FOR ALL!
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY' IT. If it ia
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES’. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’.S NATURALINE.
t For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
„ . „ _ CONSULT HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by WATKINS & MACKAY, Chemists, Queen Street, Brisbane ; Mr. GORDON 92 Gcore-e
Street, Rockhampton, Queensland, and ’ s
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE
AUi Chemists.
4
Washington 11. Soul. & Co.,
Pitt-street. S.vduer.
%
%
¥
A WORD IN SEASON.
This is the time when Coughs and Colds are abundant and PNEUMONIA and
JrLiliiUKio Y_ are about. If you have a dry, hacking cough, which if neglected
may be the Herald op Consumption, send at once for that great cure,
Fincham’s Pectoral “Gough I Cure” Syrup
a few doses of which will relieve the worst Cough or Cold afflicting man. In bottles,
sent free from breakage to any address in Australia. Prices on Application.
Dr. Steel’s Celebrated Indigestion
Cure.— The enemy of Indigestion & Dyspepsia.
Dir. Hughes’ “Fits Epilep.”— A certain
remedy for Epilepsy and Fits in all forms.
Wonderful cores are registered from its use.
Dr. Steel’s Influenza Cure.— Sure relief
is given in a few hours in severe and serious cases
of Influenza, &c. A few spoonfuls is sufficient.
Price 2s. and 2s. 6d.
Fineham’s “Fearline” Face Bleach
For beautifying the Skin and Complexion.
Make' the face, neck and hands as white as a
lily. Sure Cure for Blackheads, Pimples, and
Sallow Skin, &c.
Pyramid Pile Cure. —A certain remedy.
Fincham’s “ Gout and Rheumatic
Cure.” —Takes certain effect in cases of Acute
Lumbago, Sciatica, Lame Back, Headache,
Shoulder and Muscular Pains.
Fincham’s May Blossom Herbal Liver
Tonic. —Made from original recipe of the late
Dr. Fortesque. Corrects all derangements of
the Liver, Bilious Headaches, Sourness of the
Stomach, Bad Breath, Lassitude, Despondency.
Pincham’s Capaline.— A Nursery Hair-
Wash invaluable for Children’s Use. Destroys
Vermin speedily. No mother should be without
a bottle.
All these Invaluable Remedies will be mailed free on application to
fir c. P. FINCH AM, M.P.S.,
She jwl §rug Store, 227 Elizabeth Street,
Hyde Park, SYDNEY.
T H £
Amusements.
_ , NEW HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE,
Sole Lessee & Manager, Mr. J. 0. WILLIAMSON
LAST 2 NIGHTS of RIP VAN WINKLE.
SATURDAY NEXT, AUGUST 15, by Mr. Williamson 1 )
Famous and Ever Welcome
. ROYAL COMIO OPERA COMPANY,
ana First Production in Sydney of the New English
Comedy Opera,
„ my lady molly.
Box Plan at Paling’s. OS' PRICES AS USUAL.
QRlterion theatre, Sydney!
Under the Direction of Mr. CHARLES HOLLOWAY
TO-NIGHT, TO-NIGHT,
_. and Every Evening Until Further Notice,
The Great Sensational Drama, in Four Acts, Illustrative
ox Life in New York, entitled the
SHADOWS OF A GREAT CITY.
POPULAR PRICES.
Box Plan at Paling's.
T HEAT RB ROY At, 8 Y DNTy,
Under the Sole Direction of MR. CEOROE MUSCROVE.
EVERY EVENING, EVERY EVENING,
Mr. GEORGE MUSGROVE’S
Shakespearian Company
in Shakespeare’s Delightful Comedy,
A MIDSUMMER NIGHT’S DREAM.
Prices as Usual. Plan Nicholson’s.
DA LACE THEATRE, SYDNEY. "
■ Lessee and Director .. Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Evenings, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
LAST NIGHTS of
... MR. DANIEL FRAWLEY
ana ms Company of American Players in the Screamingly
Faroical Comedy, IN PARADISE.
“ An Avalanche of Wholesome Fun.”
SATURDAY NEXT, AUGUST 15, First Time in Aus-
tralia of the Charming Play,
BROTHER OFFICERS.
Box Office Now Open at Paling’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
I YCEUM THEAT RE, SYDN E V.
«=? Lessee .. .. .. Mr. George Musgrove,
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
TO-NIGHT, TO-NIGHT,
and Only 7 More Performances of the Thrilling Dramatic
Narrative,
GREED OF GOLD.
Interpreted by WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS
DRAMATIC ORGANISATION.
Prices—3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Box Plan open at Elvy’s Music
Warehouse, George Street.
o. a. h a. l l.
WEDNESDAY EVENING, AUGUST 19,
GRAND CONCERT^
Miss Sylvia Blackston
(THE GIFTED CONTRALTO).
Miss CONSTANCE BRANDON USHER, Hiss EVELYN
SELIG, Mr. W. A. ROBYNS, Mr. BRYCE CARTER,
Mr. J. EDWARD SYKES.
m- Box Plan at Paling’s.
QPENINC SATURDAY, AUG. 22, ON PHILLIP P/RK.
BIGGEST ENTERTAINMENT ORGANISATION IN
THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE.
WIRTHS’ HUGE SHOWS.
A COMBINATION NEW TO SYDNEY.
Oldest, Largest, and Most Advanced Australian Circus,
with a Great Performing Zoo.
Tickets — 3s., 25., Is. Matinees Wednesdays & Saturdays.
OPENING AT NEWCASTLE, 13th inst. _
THE MUT 0 S C OPE.
WONDERFUL LIVING PICTURES.
KING STREET ARCADE
and 400 GEORGE STREET*
Always on View.
Admission FREE.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney*
Sole Proprietor and Manager— Mr. Harry Uu rards.
NEW FIRST PART-LAWN TENNIS.
Great Enthusiasm aroused by
"W. G. FIELDS,
America’s Eccentric Juggler.
LAST NIGHTS in Sydney of RUDIhIOFF.
Miss MAUD PERMAN, THE TWO COLLIERS,
Miss ELLA WELLINGTON, Miss MAGGIE FRASER,
Mr. HUGH HUXHAM, Mr. FRED. RIVENHAI.U, Mr.
SAM WILSON, Mr. GEO. SCOTT, Mr. GEO. WALLACE,
Mr. GUS FRANKS, and all our Great Co.
PERA HOUSE, ME LB OU RNE
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. H. Rickards.
A Furore Created Nightly by
MADAME MARZELLA,
Queen of the Feathered World.
FREDERICK
HALLEN
and
MOLLY
FULLER
DAN CRAWLEY, London’s Quaint Comedian.
WILL WHITBURN, RUBY CRAWFORD, LILIAN
BISHOP, CLARENCE SISTERS, ERNEST SULLIVAN,
MAUD FANING, LES WARTON, ARTHUR ELLIOTT.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBCURF E.
Sole Lessee .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
TO-MORROW (FRIDAY), for ONE NIGHT ONLY,
Mr. Musgrove’s Comic Opera Co. in Donizetti's Famous
Comic Opera, THE DAUCHTER OF THE RECIM2NT.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 15, Miss Nellie Stewart and
Mr. Musgrove’s New English Dramatic Co. in DOLORES,
for Six Nights Only.
USUAL PRICES. Box Plan at Allan’s.
HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Lessee .. .. .. Mr. Bland Holt.
Business Manager . . .. C. Simonsens
EVERY EVENING,
Bland Holt’s Famous Dramatic Company in the Sensa-
tional, Domestic & Equestrian Melodrama,
GOING THE PACE.
By Arthur Shirley and Ben Landeek.
Prices —3s. 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan's.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, ME-3 O U IN i,
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Wiu.iaMsox.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of SIN TOY.
For 3 WEEKS ONLY, Commencing SATURDAY,
AUGUST 22, Cuyler Hastings and" the Sherlock Holmes
Dramatic Co. in
IF I WERE KING,
For the First Time in Melbourne.
CUYLER HASTINGS as FRANCOIS VILLGH^
Concert Grand Records
For Phonographs and Graphophones, 60s. perdoz.
Send for Catalogues.
_ Adelaide Depot for Edison Phonographs and
Gold-Moulded Records, Gramophones, Grnpho-
phones, &c.
NEW YORK IMPORT CO.,
34 KING WILLIAM STREET, ADELAIDE.
A M.ERICAN HAT STORES,
** 335 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
“Lady Molly” Panamas, Smart, Elegant, Obtainable
ONLY at above Stores. For Golf, Tennis, Yachting,
Riding, Garden, Deck, and Shade.
With Puggaree, 11s. 6d., 13s. 6t*., 158. 6c?., Pest Fiee.
Deck and Motor Caps, 4s. 6d. to 12s. 6d.
No Cheap Imitations Stocked. '
Ladies’ Travelling Hats and Topees.
Stores, 245 Collins Street, Melbourne, 49 Queen
Street, Brisbane.


Something near akin to belief in witch-
craft is. still flourishing in parts of England,
seemingly. At the ancient cathedral town of
Exeter a man named William Thomas (how
prosaic !) was lately convicted of obtaining money
by false pretences of “ magic and spells.” He ran
the business of a herbalist in conjunction with the
sale of remedies for ill-luck and “ ill-wishing.”
Thomas’s most popular cure for the ills of unlucky
or ill-wished persons was a powder which he pre-
scribed in a religious form. The afflicted patient
was told to scatter the powder around his home-
stead between nine o’clock and midnight, reciting
the Lord’s Prayer the while. Five cases of similar
humbug were proved against the magician, and
the Bench fined him £2O or a month on each
charge.
“An Australian” writes from Sc. Louis,
TJ.S.A. :
Have just read an item in your paper (14/3/’O3) by
“ H.P.,” re the Charlton (Vie.) farmers going to Salt
Lake City, persuaded by some Mormon teacher. It seems
to me a pretty foolish proceeding on the part of the
farmers. What “ H.P.” says is correct in this case
anyway, about *' distant hills being dreadfully brown
when you get there.”. I have been all through that part
of the States, and anybody to go to Utah with the
intention of farming seems to be ridiculous in the
extreme. Let them go to the North-West of Australia,
or better still, to the Sahara, for it’s just as good.
Taking the country from Sacramento (Cal.) to Denver
(Col.), it’s one monotonous waste of about 1600 miles
They would do better to go to the State of Oregon,
Washington, or to the Alberta district (British Col-
umbia) ; in fact any other part in the north, excep
Nevada, Utah, or Colorado.
Australian
Established 1849.
Mutual Provident Society
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New Zealand.
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per
cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors— Thomas Littlejohn, Esq.,Chairman; The Hon. A.W. Meeks, M.L.C., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin Short,
Esq.; Senator J. T. Walker ; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C. ;F. E. Winchcombe, Esq., M.P,
General Manager and Actuary— Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Hearne’s Bronchitis Core.
THE FiLMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEWARE OP COUGHS!
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
CONSUMPTION.
$OO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BEA
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. —Dear Sir,—l am writing to tell you
about the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
my case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my ease to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effeoted a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks. —Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir;—l suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good atonce,
and “can’t be licked.”—Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OP HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
rmall bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronohitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
hag not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
um for bronohitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Vlotoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE GOLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
“ Llenwellyn,
“ Katunga, Vio.
“Mr. Hearne.—
“Dear Sir,—l am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to my mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
ohitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“ JOHN S. MORTIMER.’’
The Relative in England, who is
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
80 years old, also
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then onty every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus—as walking caused me such pain and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
“Yours very truly,
“M.' MORTIMER.
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE'S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Tht extract run* as follows: —“ As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. 1
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of ifc, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and wag always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night’s rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Tears’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“ Sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried;
but I atn happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure.—l remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
“WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker's Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Five Tears’ Case,
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. O. Hearne.— Dear Sir, —Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. I am more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
email bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be withou
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES T. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Seven Tears’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“ Dear Sir,—Your medicine has cured me of bronohitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write yo* this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as I am now, quite well.—Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.'*
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS' CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charlevllle,
Queensland, writes : —"After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I wag induced to try Hearne’s
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then,
which was in the beginning of 1883— 16 years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.”
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states" I
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma."
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR*
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist* Geelong, Victoria.
dranoh omrar. Qffi ce: jj 0i First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size* 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally .
THE
SMELTING » REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
Works: DAPTO, LAKE ILLAWARRA (56 mhos from Sydney). 1901, Limited.
Highest Price paid for Gold, Silver, Lead, and Copper Ores,
Prompt ash settlement on Agreement of Assay. Cyanide, Slags, and Jewellers’ Sweep, etc.
For all Information regarding Rates, apply to the Manager, Head Ofeice, I)apto;
or, A. E. RUDDER & CO., 10 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Forwarding Agents.
“ Retained when
all other Foods are
rejected. It is in-
valuable.”
London Medical Record.
“‘Benger% Food’
has by its excellence
established a repu-
tation of its own.”
British Medical Record.
GOLD MEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
Benger s Foo
For Infants, Invalids, and the Aged. Delicious, Nutritive, and Digestible .
Benger’s Food is sold by Chemists, &c., Everywhere
Extracts from Private
Letters.
“ My last little boy was
fed entirely upon it from
birth, and a healthier
child it would be difficult
tn find. My wife sounds
the praise of ‘ Benger’s
Food’ everywhere.”
“If every mother knew
of its value, no other
would be used.


v
PILLS.
FOR GOUT,
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO.
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Pjrout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.
Hypnotism
49
Render, why not he able to use the
most mysterious and powerful force of
nature? By my method you can learn
to Hypnotize in a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home. You can per-
form all the many marvellous feats
that are possible to the Hypnotist.
-Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
conquer pain; win reluctant affection,
gratify your ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I have
lust issued in book form a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or Key to
[Hypnotism, which fully explains
the mysteries and secrets
|of the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the kind
ever published.. For a short
time I will send this magnifi-
cent work FREE, sealed on
receipt of 6d. (stamps) to cover
postage. Order to-day and learn
to Hypnotize. It is a chance of i
a life-time. Address—
sdf
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
gsd
MEN
II
you
are
suffering from
exhaustion, Vari-
cocele, Wasting,
Weakness, enclose 6 stamps (postage and
packing), and I will send a trial bottle of my
REMEDY, FREE.
IT COSTS YOU NOTHING
to try my Life Syrup Remedies, which
give back strength of body and brain, renewed
vigor, and development of the vital organs;
not a free prescription dodge, but a trial of
my wonderful remedy free for the asking.
PROFESSOR H. READ,
165 Collins Street. Melbourne.
Charcoal
THE ROAD
TO HEALTH IS
PAVED WITH
GOOD
DIGESTION.
Speedily cures Acidity, Flatulenoe, Heartburn,
Impure Breath, Indigestion, Diarrhoea, <fcc. It
destroys all disease germs, and,absorbing all impuri.
tios in the stomach and bowels,gives a healthy tone
to the whole system. Wards off all attacks of Typhoid
and other Fevers. Prevents many an illness.
BRACG’S PURE CHARCOAL POWDER in
Bottles; LOZENGES and BISCUITS in Tins
pleasant to take). Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
Having had complaints of the injury done by other
P re j ions, please see that each Bottle or Tin bears
the Trade Mark ‘J.L.B., in monogram/on the wrapper.
OF INTEREST to MEN
T)EAR SIR, —I have been cured of weakness and De-
bility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to
Mr. ROBERT E. PARKHURSI,
v Pitt street, Sydney.
TuE ballet girl
-
fg
Her Theatrical and
Domestic Histor3'.
Post Free, 1s
The Life, Adventures
and Confesssions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, is.
lend stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties.
Madame Panza,
BOX 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
A Moment's thought should convince
you that it is very unwise to take no
heed of a cold and cough. Serious com-
plaints often follow.
A MOMENT’S
THOUGHT
Be wise and take HAYMAN’S BALSAM
It is a certain cure for Coughs and
Colds. Safe and pleasant for Children.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
FOR BABY'S SHUN
SOUP AND HUD
Something for Mothers to Think About
EVERY CHILD bom into the world with an inherited
or early developed tendency to distressing, disfiguring
humours of the skin, scalp, and blood, becomes an object
of the most tender solicitude, not only because of its suf-
fering but because of the dreadful fear that the disfigura-
tion is to be lifelong and mar its future happiness and
prosperity. Hence it becomes the duty of mothers of
such afflicted children to acquaint themselves with the
best, the purest, and most effective treatment available,
viz., THE CUTICURA TREATMENT.
Warm baths with Cuticura Soap, to cleanse the skin of crusts and scales
and soften the thickened cuticle, gentle anointings with Cuticura Oint-
ment, to instantly allay itching, irritation, and inflammation, and soothe and
heal, to be followed in the severer cases by mild doses of Cuticura Resol-
vent Pills (see below), to cool and cleanse the blood, are all that can be
desired for the alleviation of the suffering of skin-tortured infants and
children and the comfort of worn-out, worried mothers. A single set is
often sufficient to cure when the best physicians fail.
Millions of Women Use Cuticura Soap
Assisted by Cuticura Ointment, for preserving, purifying, and beautifying the skin, for
cleansing the scalp of crusts, scales, and dandruff, and the stopping of falling hair, for
softening, whitening, and soothing red, rough, and sore hands, for baby rashes, itchings,
and channgs, in the form of baths for annoying irritations and inflammations, or too free
or offensive perspiration, in the form of washes for ulcerative weaknesses, and for many
sanative, antiseptic purposes which readily suggest themselves to women, especially
mothers, and for all the purposes of the toilet, bath, and nursery.
Cuticura Resolvent Pills (Chocolate Coated) are prepared to meet the wants of
delicate women, and sensitive children, and are pure, sweet, and tasteless. They are
beyond question the most successful blood purifiers and humour cures yet compounded.
Cuticura Remedies are sold throughout the world. Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co., Sydney. British
Depot: 27-28, Charterhouse Sq., London. French Depot: 5 Rue de la Flux, Paris. Potter Drug and Chem.
Com*., Sole Props-, Boston, U. S. A. *' All about the Skin," free.
m
ARE YOU WEAK ?
Low-spirited, Tired of Life! Have you utterly
failed in your efforts to regain Health?
Go to the Fountain Head
and consult OLD SURGEON LANGSTON, member of the Royal
College of Surgeons, Eng., who will cure you. Forty years’
practice as a Specialist is sufficient guarantee of the doctor’s
ability. I do not seek to demonstrate a theory. I have no time for that,
for I am accomplishing facts. I am curing thousands who have
given up all hope of life. I am bringing joy and happiness
into hundreds of homes. If you suffer from kidney and liver disease,
lung, stomach or heart trouble, consumption, debility,insomnia, blood
poison, Varicocele, headaches, backache, nervousness, or any disease
or weakness of the vital organs, come to me and I will cure you
and make you well. The people whom I have snatched from the very
jaws of death and have lifted up and given strength and health are
living witnesses of the everlasting power of my treatment. It
matters not how long you have been afflicted; it matters not how
hopeless or helpless you may be ; it matters not what doctors have
said or what remedies have failed to cure you ; it matters not whether
you have faith.
E3T X WILL CURB YOU.
A NEW TREATMENT AND GUARANTEED CURE FOR VARICOCELE WITHOUT OPERATION.
Be the Equal of Your Fellow Man.
If you are a sufferer from any nervous, chronic Blood or Skin diseases, or interested in the subject of
Neurasthenia and associated evils, write at once for book of information, blank forms, etc., and have the
old doctor diagnose your case.
All communications strictly confidential. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, 129 Collins Street, Melbourne
Established In Melbourne 1886.
i
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
KMBKACnro
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 86 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1902 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy ; is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d.
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is. ’
The Art of Wrestling, post Is. Hoyle’s Games, post 2/6
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), Is 3d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, Is posted. Camille, Is 3d. '
Secret History of tiif. Court of England, 1 6 post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history), Is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted. Sappho, Is.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want.
The Wife’s Handbook, Is 2d posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post.
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus. Leather bound, my price, 15s post paid
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic,
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is 3d.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s posted.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music comple e Is 6d.
Tiie Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d posted.
Send for my Illustrated Big Book
Catalogue—post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney,
SORE
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORB AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
restores eyelashes-
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES.
NEVER FAILS.
Ask youp Chemist for the Little Book: (
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
CURED
A NOVEL PRESENT.,4^
m
■B
IA
(~)N receipt of P. 0.0. or M.O. for 6/- we will forward to
any address in Australia one of our Handsome
9ct. Gold-filled Round Wire Brooches, with
either Bell, Heart, Anchor or Cross Pendant, guaranteed
;he same quality as brooch ; and without pendant, 3/6.
In 15ct. G.F. Twisted Wire, 8/6 ; without pendant. 6/6.
illustrated Catalogues sent Free. All letters carefully
addressed to R. SIMS, Gold Wire King/, Cole’s
3ook Arcade, Melbourne, Vic.
sdfg
“ ACTS I.IKK A CHARM.”
JONES’
Rheumaticuro
The great South African Remedy
NEVER FAILS TO CURE
Gout, Rheumatism,
Rheumatic Gout, Lumbago,
Sciatica and Neuralgia.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
2 S . 9d. PER BOTTLE
SOLE PROPRIETORS—
THE RHEUMATICURO CO.,
Cape Town,
aad 29 Niagara Lane, Melbourne
EVERY WOMAN
is interested and should know
about the wondeiful
Marvel Whirling Spray
The new FEMALfc SYRINGE
Injection and Suction. The best,
safest and most convenient.
It Cleanses Instantly.
sc%
If your druggist cannot
supply the MARVEL,
accept no other, but write us for
Illustrated Book, sent free
sealed. It gives price by mail,
particulars and directions invalu-
able to ladies. 5 Endorsed by Physicians.
Times Building, N. Y
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGEN'JLS-
THE MARVEL CO. OF AUSTRALIA,
CAMDEN BUILDING,
418 George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
LADY SPECIALIST IN ATTENDANCE.
Postal Address, Box 623, G.P.0., Sydney.
Write for Booklet. Sent free, sealed.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by using
V)* RXCORO’S
cS SE.fI c£ °? f g-
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS, DEEIUTY,
VARICOCELE, etc.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life affords relief and permanently
cures all who suffer from wasting and withering of the
nervous tissues; restores Energy, Strength and
Vitality to the most weak and shattered constitutions
(no matter from what cause) and regenerates all the
important elements of the human frame.
Price 128., or four quantities in one, 365. Freight extra,
Is. and Is. 6d. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope.
Agents for Australasia —PERRY & CO., 47 Queen St.,
Melbourne; Jf.S.W.— Paulding & Co., 16 O'Ccnneil
St., Sydney ; Newcastle, Adelaide and Perth.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy*
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by PoingdeSTke & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
SOI.D IN TWO SIZES, 9d. <fc Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdestre & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
Kef crenels' throughout Great Britain and Colonitt.
taken from the System.
Nothing remains which can
I produce an attack. You can
eat, sleep and stand exposure without slightest return of
symptoms. Cured to stay cured, by elimination andre-
■construction. Appetite improved; blood enriched, nervea
rstrengthened; whole system built up; life made enjoyable.
Beliefs, or cbange of climate no longer ueedod. We have
-treated over 62,000 Asthma and Hay Fever palientjnE*-
tablished 1863. Explanatory BOOK 32 c. post FKEEL
Address; DB. P. HABOBD HAY!*’ASTHMATIC iMBTITUTB.
Buffalo, N. Y., U. 8. A.
ASTHMA
ASTHMA CURE
For Asthmatic people who suiter from
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESa
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault’s Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, and remove toe
feeling of tightness across the chest.
ORIMAITI.T Sc Co., Paris. Sold by ail Chemists.
ENGINEMAN’S MASTER KEY. -All subjects
relating to Examinations for Certificates of com-
petency in all the States. 365 Pages, 106 Illustrations ,
ft. 6d. posted, by L. F. It. SCHNABEL, Consulting
Engineer, 443 Bourke-street, Melbourne. Also OUL* "•
Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney.


The Tapestry of Song.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It must be long ago,
So much since then hath perished
Of all the simple joys
That we together cherished ;
It might have never been,
The Winter air is teeming
With scents of flowery Spring;
I might be only dreaming !
Go, gather up the threads
Of memory, and fashion
A tapestry of song;
Go, soul, pour out thy passion !
Love bums, and leaves, when we forget,
Its ashes in a vague regret.
How beautiful her life,
It only now unfoldeth ;
The heart that mourns the bud
The perfect rose beholdeth ;
My heart hath tender strings
Love strikes with trembling fingers,
The soft, sad music thrills,
And leaves a pain that lingers
In yearnings, like bird notes
In lonely wildernesses;
In glimmerings of light;
In darkness that oppresses—
But oh ! that musio is as sweet
As ’twere the patter of her feet.
Alone, out in the night
I seek a glimpse of Heaven,
The earth might be asleep,
Weary through aeons driven;
The stars their courses run
In silence, chill, appalling,
I listen, and I hear
.Dead leaves, like dead hopes, falling.—
Oh, Sky ! thou mockest me,
In travail thou art ever,
Thy myriad eyes are blind
And speech thou givest never;
The heights eternal as we climb
Tower higher, and are more sublime.
Of all we know not much,
Far more is past our knowing,
The salt sea waves of doubt
Swell in their ceaseless flowing;
Deep down lies black despair—
I have had my soul blindness,
And yet, my daily bread
E’en now, is loving kindness;
I own ingratitude ;
What is this common sorrow ?
A night when love must rest
And wait the sure swift morrow;
The clouds but sweep across the sky,
And oft I smile, though oft I sigh.
More than the wish, the thought
That she will give me greeting,
And bid me welcome home
At our awaited meeting.
That she, with radiant face,
Will tell a strange, sweet story,
Of love surpassing love,
And glory paling glory;
Earth’s many voices cry,
A sanctuary lies open—
The chamber of my heart,
There God to me hath spoken }
Thus, dreaming, I can not forget
Nor love shrink to a vague regret.
Vio.
ANDREW SARD.
The Day of Bildad.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Three months ago—before I finally settled down
to being ill in earnest—l wandered, between-
trains, in the Little Street of the Beautiful Ladies
at Pisa, and found the poorest-looking “anti-
quity ” shop in Italy. There was some ancient,
worm-eaten, ugly furniture at fearful prices; a
dozen newly-manufactured, antique sculptures—
which had been good copies until treated with
acids to make them look like bad originals; a
cwt. of Florentine mosaics, a peck of cameos and
some engravings. Among these was a book of
engravings of all the frescoes in the Campo Santo
at Pisa—of all the horrors of hell; hell being
shown as a place where were practised most of
the cruelties known later to the Inquisition.
But what interest me most now are the engrav-
ings of the Troubles of Job, or, as the Italian
spells him, “ Giobbe.” I had seen all the frescoes
many times; but Job is faded almost to extinction,
and the old engravings gave me the detail the
actual frescoes have long lost.
In the first frescoes are shown devils, with
spikes like rose thorns on their legs instead of
hair, killing “Giobbe’s” cattle and slaying his
servants; in the second “Giobbe” is sitting,
naked, in the ruins of an outhouse that seems to
have been half burned down and then shelled by
large artillery. “ Giobbe ” has a great collection
of broken crockery around him, and is scraping
himself with a large sherd ; and his friends, with
Bildad the Shuhite, very much in the foreground
—are busy telling him that they told him so.
Meantime, Job attends strictly to business with
the sherds.
And now that I have settled down to the occu-
pation of being really ill, all my friends come to
me. My Eliphaz is my stricken interior, and my
Bildad the Shuhite is my hip-bone that sticks
out as sharply as Wilson’s Promontory, and
threatens to tear holes in the bedclothes. All my
hard fat gone, by reason of that chill which I
found in the Apennines, and which began to be
permanent in Florence, and decided its fixity of
tenure in Corsica. It has taken three months of
illness to assure me that my bones are turned to
water, and if I were certain that I must die of this
illness, there would be but one thing remaining to
be done—to find the scoundrel who wrote “ Beau-
tiful Snow ” and rub it in his whiskers slowly till
he died. Further, I would exterminate all his
breed, from the artist who paints Scotch mists
with two small red "-attic staring mad-eyed from
a heap of weeds the artist calls heather; to
the idiot who wins a tin mug for climbing Mount
Blanc; and the Swiss oretin who says she loves
singing “ Tira Lira ” on a glacier.
I hate cold and snow as I hate death and cold
is death. It is the people with the greatest
capacity for enjoyment who love the sun—the
man who hates heat is half-dead already. _ There
is but one sensible animal in snow countries and
that is the bear —he sleeps all the winter.
Here am I reduced to the things that make
a sick man’s world. A powder for disinfecting,
a linseed meal poultice, a belladonna ointment,
and a mixture of castor oil and opium, are more
important to me now than money; for they
represent life, and the chances of catching health
in this long stern chase. I used to marvel at
the care invalids take in arranging their little
valuables. One, a consumptive I knew, had an
old trunk full of rubbish. He went over every
article daily ; he almost wept if a newspaper
cutting or an old postage-stamp were out of
place ; and he made a will regarding that rubbish
as if it were consols.
On dull days my world is my room. A cabinet
by my bed —with all the medicines stacked, eaoh
in its place on the cabinet—is my Mount
Kosciusko; the opening of the door is night or
morning ; the foot-rail of the bed is the Equator.
On sunny days the windows are opened wide, and
my sky is six feet by four. The Contadini garden
opposite goes down steeply grassed as of green
water flowing, and rises quickly to the viale
Galileo —also grassed as of green fire running up
hill. Everywhere the sap-green flames run to the
boles of cypresses—dark-green feather and dark-
green spear-head together, and always beautiful.
At dawn and at sunset come merry bands of
workmen to and from the Gate of San Giorgio
singing from all the operas they know—“ Faust,”
“Trovatore,” “Carmen,” “La Boheme,” “La
Tosca,” and “Otello.” They sing like trained
choruses—the ’prentices piping in shrill, half-
female voices. What marvellous facility of ear
these Italians have ! The climate of Australia
makes for good voices, but the people have not
yet shaken off English influences, and as yet the
Australian workman learns only simple and
hideous screams like “ Boyser th’ bulldog breed
what med ole Englan’s naaim.”
My Bildad recites to me all the verses about
the tomb he can remember; he tells me of all
my by-drinkings and alarums and excursions,
which I know well enough already; of all my
whirlwind and extravagant energies, and my
romps up and down the earth.
Bildad is right. I used to eat a rick of straw so
that I might not miss one grain of the wheat of
pleasure.
I wonder have intestinal troubles yet been
credited with their full share of the cause of
cerebral troubles? For instance, if I suffer a set-
back of the improvement which the doctors say is
apparent to them , hallucinations come for the
waking hours, and dreams of terror for the hours
in which they say, for want of a better word, I
sleep. The waking illusions made me afraid of
them at first; and being afraid and very ill and
not knowing illness —never having seen it before—
I brooded on those illusions until they became
almost feasible, and looked like remaining as fixed
ideas. And I don’t like being ill —I’m not used
to it. And then I would get on to good tucker
and tobacco again and have rest, and the illusions
were gone as dew goes in summer mornings.
The dreams were all the more terrible because I
actually awoke before they were completed, and
finished the most troublesome part of them while
half awake. Soma could not even be hinted at,
but here is one.
I walked down the Via San Leonard through
the Giorgio Gate. I was 25ft. high and corres-
pondingly broad and strong. Every one of the
28 joints of my ten fingers were of steel—not
muscle as strong as steel, but steel; and the metal
had the consciousness •of a hand of flesh. As I
walked towards the city, millions of doll-children
swarmed from the poor quarter about the Via dei
Bardi; millions more from the Via Guiccardini.
They were perfectly proportioned children, but not
more than a foot high any one of them. I trod them
down in thousands and not one wailed —they still
smiled, thinking I had injured them by accident.
Then I became enraged, and caught some, and
dismembered them, and they tried to run away,
shrieking that death had come into their world.
In the next quarter mile of that steep flagged
street I killed thousands of them. Then I came
into the Via Guiccardini, and was alone. I had
not seen one grown-up all this time.
A little naked child —his body white and
glistening, his head covered with long yellow
hair —came down the Ponte Vecchio and turned
into the Via dei Bardi; and the light of his body
and of his hair lit the darkness of that dull arch
as if moonbeam and sunlight had struck it at the
same time. From his body came the light the old
painters give to the child Jesus, and his head was
in nimbus like the child Jesus’ also. But all
healthy children have this light—especially golden-
haired children ; and so do many young women.
It is not the halo of Innocence, so much as it is
the light of youth—of energies yet unburned.
The child smiled and beckoned, and I followed
through the dull arch and between the old palaces
to the embankment of the Arno by Serristorri.
Then he turned and smiled again—his face
pale, but full of health, steady blue eyes, and the
only blood mark in his face was in the geranium
of his lips. It was my son Florio ; the baby we
buried in Gelsomino cemetery last October.
And as I awoke I caught that child and killed
him.
A dream like this, had I not been really ill,
would have fretted me for days, for I am not a
very cruel man at heart; now, half-an-hour after
recovering the shock of the awakening, I said :
“There is still exudation of the exterior surface
of the intestine.”
To-day, being alone —my most beloved nurse
having given me the regulation spoonful of jelly,
with some opium and castor oil as a second course,
and having gone to the garden to walk in the
Spring ; and I, hearing a most priestly lamenta-
tion below my window—l did hop from the bed
and look out upon an insult to the season.
A priest, droning like a great wasp in trouble,
went before a crucifix, which was followed by a
flower-laden black coffin borne by men clad in
rusty black gowns from head to foot, and masked
in black also. They carried pine torches that
threw a red glare and an acrid black smoke
against the sunlight, and dirtied that divine air.
Corpse, and crucifix, and masked men of the
Misericordise, and buzzing priest—all insults to
the sun and the Springtime.
All day the children clatter up and down the
stairs and into my room, and out again bringing
field-flowers—wild, red tulips and anemones, and
violets and iris. They tell me that the 70-year-
old rose tree that almost covers this 100-year-old
villa is abloom with thousands of buds, that the
flowers of the Judas trees are bursting, that the
white blooms of the Marone D’lndie are coming
out, and that the grass is full of red and purple
lilies, narcissi, daisies —not the Bobby Burns
kind, but the big, white, Marguerite daisy—
kingcups, ladvsmocks, and anemones* that the
contadina who was married with much pomp and
circumstance yesterday is at work afield this
morning in her old clothes, and that the dining-
room and drawing-room are beginning to be
warm.
The same dining and drawing-rooms have pro-
bably much to do with my malady. These cen-
tury-old rooms are big and high and vast-the
ceilings of groined and pointed arches; and in
winter we could not warm them. A bonfire lit
in the middle of each room might have done it—
but you can’t have a great fire in the middle of a
room unless you have a revolution and behead a
king or two. The drawing-room is the size of an
Ebenezer church, and has the atmosphere of
Westminster Abbey; the dining-room is the same
B i ze and is the original mausoleum of Thothmes. It
does me good to hear that these sepulchres are
beginning to thaw. A good 100 in the shade oan-
not be far off.
I am further pleased to hear to-night that in a
fortnight or three weeks I may go out; but there
is to be neither saddle-horse nor bioycle for six
months. And I will not go out in three weeks if
the improvement halts by the way ; and improve-
ment will halt by the way if I am not continually
cheerful.
Christian resignation might kill me; but there
is little fear of Christian resignation supervening.
[Resignation is merely drugged despair, and by
nature I am far off either.
But now I am offered a premium to be cheerful
—and my most dear nurse brings more powders,
and poultices, and milk and toast as earnest, and
I drink my own health in castor oil and opium.
RANDGLPH BEDFORD.
<
mm
■■ySßKi
wm
PD
CORSETS
.AAAijAAAi
The Recognised Standard
High-Class Corsets
LATEST SPECIALTY
STRAIGHT FRONT
NOUVELLE FORM
Obtainable from Leading
Drapers Everywhere.
Avoid Inferior Imitations, and see that
each pair bears the Manufacturer’s “Trado
Mark ” on band inside, as above.
FOE P.D. CORSETS
IN ALL THE BEST SHAPES, AND ALL
Regular Sizes, send to
Finney, Isles & Co., Brisbane.
At the same time ask for samples of any Drapery and Clothing Goods you may require; also for
copy of their General Catalogue and fashion Book, and satisfy yourselves that—
“AFTER ALL, YOU CAN’T BEAT FINNEY’S!”
HARDY BROTHERS,
13 Hunter Street, SYDNEY;
and at 118 Queen St., BRISBANE.
Vice-Regal
Jewellers*
Silver
Manicure
Sets
in Great Variety,
from 40/- to £lO.
NEW DESIGNS in Silver
TOILET REQUISITES re-
ceived by every mail.
Goods sent without delay
to all parts of Australia.
IBW
Large Sized SILVER HANICURE SET, in Case, 90/-
GUARANTEED THE HIGHEST QUALITY
TOBACCO
DARK.ndLIGHT plug
ALSO
SNlJ. 2o *™'' z ?Z N 'XfO


Snow-Star!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The snow on the hills is pure and cold,
But you Snow-Star,
Ace per, i Tenth. .nd yonr bear, ie gold,
I hold your love as wealth untold.
Yet better for you if that love turned cold —
For you, Snow-Star.
When you lift your glorious eyes to mine,
My queen Snow-Star •
I laugh to think that the stars dare shine,
And your heart-beats sing thro my veins like
wine.
You would gladly share such a life as mine ?
My queen, Snow-Star.
I stretch my arms in the night and call
Tn von sinnnr St«» •
m T , ’ . T ’ . «.
For I know to you I am all in
When sea-gales blow and the breakers fall
I dream of you, and, in dreaming, call
To you, Snow-Star.
You come to me and you laugh and speak
Sweet words, Snow-Star.
Your soft lips rest on my haggard cheek
.“., 1 , * r i
And bid me turn from the wealth I seek.
I laugh and wake when I hear you speak
Sweet words, Snow-Star.
I have fought for you ; I am striving still
For you Snow-Star;
Your lingering kisses burn and thrill,
. , _ ° D „ , , c ,i
And I see your grey eyes flash and n l
With tears of pity. I’m striving still
For you, Snow-Star.
I would hide my grief if you did not care
For me, Snow-Star;
But your heart would quiver in dumb despair,
You would bow your hood withdte hair,
If I said twere better you should not care
For me, Snow-Star.
. , . , , , , . ....
When sea-winds howl on the lonely hill,
You come, Snow-Star.
Your big eyes, pitving, flash and fill.
I have striven for you, I am striving still,
.. T , . . , T , -n
lor I love you, girl, and I always
Snow-Star! Snow-Star!
M.L.
WILL LAWSON.
Circumstantial Evidence.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Hallo ! Bob ; that you ? ” I cried, delightedly,
pulling up my horse. “What are you doing
here ? Thought you were married ? ”
“ So I am, old fellow. But hang me if I could
stand town life. So I cleared out,”
“ And the missus ? ”
“ Oh, I didn’t leave her. She’s a brick ; and
takes to the bush like a duck to water. I’ve got
on to a very decent patch of stream tin in this
creek, and am doing pretty well. You’ll camp at
my place to-night, of course? Just a couple of
miles further up. You can’t miss it, I’m off to
the store, but I’ll be back for tea. So long, old
fellow.”
And so Bob was back in the ranges ! I vaguely
wondered what sort of a girl his wife might be,
for he was an old mate of mine, and, I thought,
deserved better than matrimony.
A bend in the creek brought me in sight of a
straggling bark-humpy ; and a clothes-line hung
with a collection of feminine clothes assured me
of the identity of the camp, I rode up to the hut,
and jumped off my horse. The door was open ;
and as I approached to knock, I saw a man hastily
vanish through the partition that divided the
house into two separate apartments. He was
clad in a light suit and white moleskin trousers
that had been patched in the seat with a con.
spicuous piece of some dark stuff.
I stood stock still, staring after the apparition.
There was a stir and a bustle in the next room,
and before I had gathered my wits a pretty young
woman emerged and came to the door. She was
flushed and breathless, and her hair wasin disorder.
But she asked me with apparent unconcern for
my business.
I was staggered at my unpleasant discovery,
and instead of introducing myself, as I had
intended, I muttered some question about the
road and, scarcely waiting for an answer,
scrambled back on my horse and made off.
“ Poor Bob ! Poor Bob ! ” I kept saying to my-
self. “ What hard lines on a straightforward,
decent young fellow like him. I wonder whether
he suspects ? ”
When I had got out of sight I stopped once
more, and, after some cogitation and a glimpse at
the setting sun, decided to camp. Mechanically
going about my work, it was quite dark before I
ad finished supper, and I slowly strolled up to
the hut to see Bob.
He was back, wondering where on earth I had
vanished to. My explanation was not very lucid,
and at last he laughed outright.
“ He was afraid of you, Maggie. He’s bashful!
Only look how he blushes.”
I felt very indignant at the brazen equanimity
of the girl. No wonder poor Bob was deceived !
She was a born actress. Absent-mindedly I
answered the many questions regarding my
travels and adventures, wondering all the time
where that strange man I had seen slip into the
bedroom had got to. At last I asked casually :
“Anybody camped around here?”
“ Nobody nearer than the store, and that’s ten
good miles.”
“ Are you sure? ” .
“ Why, of course! ” asserted Bob in some
astonishment. “ Did you see anyone about ? ”
I glanced at the woman. But she kept her
countenance marvellously. “No-o,” I answered
81 G^ea^Heavens! There, behind Bob’s chair,
lay that very identical pair of moleskin pants
with the effective blue patch on the seat! I could
not mistake it. So the stranger was in the house
yet. The guilty wife’s glance had followed mine,
and now at last her composure forsook her and
she blushed crimson, turning her face away from
Iter husband, who was too busy uncorking a
bottle to notice the by-play. I met her beseech-
ing eyes sternly. But I said nothing. Under
the feint of looking for some pannikins the lady
cleverly managed to pick up the incriminating
garment and smuggle it safely out of the room.
I was furiously angry with that innocent-
looking huzzy. The whisky, that in me never
creates a mood but only intensifies a previously
1 tent feeling, made me morose. And after a
t horoughly miserable evening I walked off to my
lonely camp in the worst of tempers. Long I sat
smoking at the fire, debating whether I should
tell Bob of his wife’s infidelity or not. I suppose
it was simply moral funk that made me abandon
the idea of disillusionising that fond husband.
Anyhow, next morning I continued on my way
without even saying good-bye.
It was quite a month later that I passed on my
return journey. I had mapped out my day’s
stages so as to pass the hut during the forenoon,
when my old mate would be at work and out of
sight of the road. And, indeed, there was no-
body about the place, and from the creek I could
hear the rattle of stones and their voices. I
listened. Yes, somebody was talking. Cautiously
I made my way to-the bank, peered down into
the creek, and nearly fell off my horse from shock.
There was the mysterious stranger, clad in the
self-same pants, hard at work shovelling tailings
from the bottom of the box, while Bob stood at
the head, forking out the stones and occasionally
feeding. They were keeping up an animated
conversation, but I could not catch the words.
I pulled back and considered. This was a
trifle too strong. I must interfere at all hazards.
I called myself a mean coward for not having
warned Bob before. But what a marvellous ami
unmitigated ass this same Bob was making of
himself ! He must be absolutely stone-blind.
Resolutely I got out of the saddle and hung up
my horse. Bob heard me stumble over the loose
river shingle and looked up. Then he put his
finger to his lips, with a grin and a significant
nod in the direction of his unconscious mate, and
although I did not understand the purpose of the
manoeuvre, I obeyed and skipped gently over the
boulders. The man with the patch had his back
turned to me, and was still working away with a
will. His pants were rolled up to the knees, and
his muscular arms were bare.
Suddenly I slipped on the treacherous pebbles,
and came down with a crash. The stranger
wheeled around nervously, and Bob exploded
into a wild guffaw of laughter.
“No good running away now,” he shrieked,
addressing his mate. “ It’s too late ! He has
caught you, fair and square. Oh, my eye, you do
look a powerful pair of fools, you two ! ”
I dare say, to the unprejudiced observer, my
facial expression would have conveyed a very
poor opinion of my intellectual resources
just then. I was sitting as I had fallen, my
mouth wide open, staring stupidly at the impu-
dent deceiver I had run down at lasb.
It was —Mrs. Bob !
VON KOTZE.
The Comforts of Home—At
Night.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dick’s latchkey grates in the lcck, and the solemn
stillness of the midnight hour is broken by the
noise of his entry.
“ Is everybody in ? ” he bawls.
None of us is properly awake, and everybody
waits for somebody else to give Dick the informa-
tion he requires.
Receiving no reply, he proceeds to bolt and
double-lock the door, and seems to make as much
noise as a traction engine in doing it, till a shrill
chorus from mother and Flo brings him to a sud-
den stop:
“Don’t lock the door; Bob’s not in yet!” they
shriek.
‘ ‘ Who isn’t in ? ” yells Dick.
“Bob—you thundering, noisy idiot!” shouts
father, now properly aroused.
Then Dick proceeds to make more dreadful
noise unlocking and unbolting the door again, and
when he has finished he once more shouts :
“ Are the front windows fastened ?”
“Go to blazes !” roars father.
“ No ! ” shrills mother, in an anxious tone.
“Yes, they are ; I tried ’em,” squeals Nell.
Dick goes into the front room to make sure, and
falls over a chair just inside the door, uses bad
language, and comes out without troubling about
the windows. As he proceeds to noisily climb
the stairs, the voice of Flo pierces the gloom and
silence like a lance :
“Themilk can isn’t down, Dick.”
“All right,” replies the energetic Dick;
“ where’s the key of the gate ? ”
“ On the kitchen shelf,” volunteers mother.
“ On the nail over the troughs,” bellows father.
Then for the space of ten minutes there is com-
parative peace as Dick strikes matches and
wanders round looking in vain for the key.
“ Can’t find it! ” is wafted up the stairs in his
gentle tones. “Who unlocked the gate this
morning ? ”
Father is the culprit, and after being thoroughly
awakened by mother he hands the key out of his
trousers pocket and expresses violent wishes that
several people had never been born.
I turn over and try to think of nothing.
The world swims drowsily, but the returning
steps of Dick sound like thunder through
the shadowy silent chaos, and once more the
awful voice of Flo inquires if the canaries are
in. I’m quite certain my sisters will never get
married. Their metallic voices would scare
Belphegor himself.
Dick turns to go downstairs again to ascertain
the whereabouts of the canaries, when Nell
informs him, and also the man at South Head,
that she took them in at 4.30. Then Dick con-
tinues his noisy way to the top of the house, and
drops both boots on the floor as if they were pig-
iron.
Once more the world swims peacefully, and a
delicious sense of nothingness steals over me, and
I drift on the illimitable waves of drowsy con-
sciousness—
“ Is everybody in ? ”
It is the voice of Bob. The chorus is starting
again, but there is a sound of heavy, unshod feet,
and father roars down the stairs :
“Bobby! Everybody’s in, canaries included.
The blasted milk-can is down; the windows and
gate are locked; and please shut up and go to
bed, or school, or anywhere.”
* * * *
About 6.30 next morning I am recalled to con-
sciousness by the sweet voice of one of my sisters;
J* Dick, where’s the key of the gate ? ”
GERALD.
m
B
ILE
&
UO
BOX
OF
HEALTH
SPRING
TONING.
IT is well to remember at this season of all
others the human strength is to be toned
up and put in thorough condition to withstand
the change of the season.
BILE BEANS FOR BILIOUSNESS are the very
best medicine that can be taken for this purpose, as they
cleanse and regulate the liver, an organ to which may
be traced nearly all the minor ailments so many people
suffer from. If the liver is not in thorough working
order, the blood is impure, the circulation sluggish,
the digestion impaired, the sleep disturbed, and the
complexion sallow, the consequence is that there is a
lack of energy, and the sufferer becomes a victim of
that tired feeling. To be out of sorts in the Spring is
most trying, as many people know. If you are feeling
“ run down ” and without energy for work, take BILE
BEANS FOR BILIOUSNESS, and they will put you
in a condition that will withstand the changeable
Spring weather.
. The following case of Mrs. Ellen Moore, of 12 Bray-street, Erskineville, Sydney, is a
fitting illustration of the marvellous efficacy of BILE BEANS in curing the most severe
forms of liver disorder, and the multitude of ailments arising from such. This lady says:—
“ Some seven years ago I was troubled with very severe pains in the small of my back,
accompanied by constipation, a poor appetite, and a worn-out feeling, making me feel very
miserable, and unfitted entirely for my household duties, and in time my system became
completely debilitated. For some time I was an out-patient at the hospital, but I was told
that I could only be patched up, as I had a congested liver. It was then I decided to give
Bile Beans a trial, having heard of their efficacy for liver disorders. The first few doses
made a great improvement in my condition, and, continuing with the course, the.pains
quickly left me, I regained my lost appetite, and was quickly restored to health and vigor.’'
BILE BEANS HAVE BEEN PROVED TO BE AN UNDOUBTED
SPECIFIC FOR BILIOUSNESS, INDIGESTION, CONSTIPATION, PILES,
BAD BLOOD, PIMPLES AND ALL SKIN ERUPTIONS, BAD BREATH,
DEBILITY, FULLNESS AFTER EATING, NERVOUSNESS, DYSPEPSIA,
SICK AND NERVOUS HEADACHES, DIZZINESS, LOSS OF APPETITE,
INSOMNIA, ANAEMIA, IN-
FLUENZA, AND A HOST OF
OTHER AILMENTS THAT
OWE THEIR ORIGIN TO
DEFECTIVE BILE FLOW,
ASSIMILATION, AND DIGES-
TION. BILE BEANS ARE
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL
CHEMISTS. PRICE, Is. lid.,
OR 2s. 9d. LARGE BOX (CON-
TAINS THREE TIMES Is. lid.
SIZE.
ONE BEAN— ONE DOSE.
1
n
B
a
Rhymes with
■» i
k
a.
>
/
and so does
PEARS


A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
mm
FOR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headaches
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Gold Oh ills, flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Costiveness, Bldtchra, on the Skni, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. UlJi Jilitol hUbt
WILL GIVE .RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no Action. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be W Git -‘•BA
GUINEA A BOX.” , v
BEECHAM’S PILLS, taken as directed, win quickly restore females to complete health, lhey
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing hack the keen edge of appetite, an
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame, ikes
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beer,ham’s Bills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Mediemei
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, EMLANB.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, Is lAd, and Us 9d each.
“On Onr Selection.’ 3 By “ Steele Rudd.”
Price, 6s, The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Ltd., Sydney.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
Corner George & Market Sts., SYDNEY
The Best Luncheon in Town from ONE SHILLING, served from 12 sharp till 2.30;
Dinner from 5.30 to 7.30, same price.
The Most Convenient Place for Ladies and Gentlemen visiting the Theatres to dine at.
N.B.—Visitors oi)ly pay for wbat tfecy actually baYe.
TERMS.—The Convenient and Modern System of paying for a
room on arrival, and Meals as they are had.
Apartments: BEDROOM, Single, 3s. per day ; Double, 6s. per day.
ENGAGE ROOMS AT ROBERTS’ HOTEL, SYDNEY.
NOTE -Send to ROBERTS’ WINE and SPIRIT STORE, MARKET ST., next GEORGE ST.
for REVISED PRICE LIST. COUNTRY ORDERS PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO.
N.S.W. Carriage &
Saddlery Man
193 to 195 Cieveland-st
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY 1 If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5 ; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the b*»f and strongest in Australia. £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and made
to Order' HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE. —Do not be
misled by any firms wlic say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
->ent. more for your requirements.
OUK SPECIAL Ko. 2
£8 18/6
SSW
IP
4
I»«lf rered at an, Wharf er
K.B.W. ttnilwayn, Siutio*
APPENDICITIS PREVENTED
Liver, Kidneys and Bowels Regulated.
IT is now common knowledge that the
term Appendicitis is applied to in-
flammation of that portion of the
bowel known as the appendix, and is
generally caused by the accumulation of
faecal matter, which in course of time
becomes hardened into a concrete mass.
Every stage of life, every condition of
existence, is susceptible to this disorder.
The infant, the adult and the senile,
the rich, the middle class and the poor,
the King and the peasant, are all subject
to imperfect nutrition, faulty assimila-
tion, and the ailments arising therefrom.
The Court Chemist to
His Majesty King Edward VII,
And to the late German Emperor Frederick, King 1 of Prussia, and to
other Foreign Courts, Mr. Frank R. Squire, of San Remo, while
on his holiday in England, writes:
“London, July 9th, 1902.
“Messrs. S. Kutnow & Co., Ltd. . ,
“Gentlemen,—l thank you for your promptitude in sending your Kutnow s
Powder asked for; it is one of the most useful remedies I know, and I never like to be
without it. “I am, Gentlemen, yours faithfully,
mttlOUC “FRANK R. SQUIRE.
Success in business or the profession,
or in any walk in life, depends very
largely upon the state of health.
All who work with the brain value
health, and all who value health take
Ivutnow’s Powder.
To be brief, the chief merit of Kut-
now’s Powder is the remarkable power it
possesses of effectivefy cleansing the
bowels, stimulating the liver, clearing the
kidneys, irrigating the organs, and ex-
pelling all poisonous and putrefying
deposits which may have accumulated in
the system.
Beneficial Effects in
Appendicities.
GALLOWAY KYLE, Esq., F.R.S.L., &c., Editor of The
County Monthly and The British and Northern Magazine,
writes: ~ “July 3rd, 1902.
“ Sirs, —I have used your Kutnow’g Powder after an attack of
appendicitis, and as a preventive to further attacks have found it
beneficial and satisfactory. In regulating stomachic disorders inci-
dental to a sedentary life, too, it nas proved most useful, and the
preparation is agreeable and does not cause any discomfort.—-i aitn-
fully yours, “ Galloway Kyle. 5 ’
And again , on July 10th, 1902, writes :—
‘ * X believe the Powder saved me from a further attaok of appendicitis
lately, and has rendered me less liable to attacks. —Faithfully yours,
“Galloway Kyle.”
Accept no
Fraudulent Substitutes*
CAUTION.—There are some unscrupulous
dealers who, for the sake of extra profit, try to
sell substitutes of Kutnow’s Powder. These may
be offered for a few pence less, but are worthless,
and consequently dear at any price. Firmly insist
upon having Kutnow’s Powder, and do not allow
yourself to be persuaded to accept any substitute.
Accept only the Genuine
KUTNOW’S POWDER.
The International
Journal of Surgery
SAYS :
“Despite the great progress in medical science, especially in sur-
gery, the most skilful operator has yet to combat with the distressing
nausea patients are subject to after the use of anaesthetics, which often
considerably retards recovery.
“Our readers will, therefore, be pleased to have their attention
called to a very simple remedy to overcome this difficulty, which they
will find in Kutnow’s Powder, a prophylactic and antiseptic aperient,
which was extensively used and highly valued by the late Lawson
Tait.
“ Should the physician desire a peristaltic action within 24 to 80
hours, the doses should be repeated about every two hours, yielding
most gratifying results without any danger or discomfort.”
KUTNOW’S POWDER can be obtained from all Chemists and Medicine Stores throughout the World*
Proprietors: S. KUTNQW & CO.. Ltd., 41 Farrlngdon Road, London, E.C. Proprietors in U.S.A.: KUTNOW BROS., Ltd, 853 Broadway, New York.
[2—si „
. ■
9
9
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the Eas
THE BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
ASTHMA and BRONCHITIS CURED
By using CASE’S ASTHMA CURE, made -from the Queensland As*.hrria
Plant. Relieves instantly, eventually Cures. 4s. 6d. large bottle;
Posted to any State, ss.
<J. W. CASE, Chemist, 140 Wickham-st., Brisbane.
Pl«ase mention Bulletin when writing
sdf
M.D., C.M., L.R.C.P.E., LR.C.S.E.,
L.F.P.S.G., L.M., etc.,
Registered by the Medical Boards of Great
Britain, Victoria, New South Wales,
etc.,
The Eminent Specialist, whose unparalleled success in the Treatment of Blood and Nerve
Diseases has earned for him a reputation unequalled by any other Specialist in Australia, may be consulted
daily, personally or by letter, at “ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 Elizabeth-st., Sydney. Old and Obsolete
Methods discarded. DR. MARTIN’S latest treatment has proved absolutely effective in all cases of Blood
Disease, Nerve Affections, Paralysis, Loss of Energy, Lung, Heart, Skin, and all
Chronic Diseases of Men and Women. His Consulting Rooms are replete with all the
latest and most scientific improvements in Electric Appliances, etc. Country Patients
treated by Correspondence at their own homes. Advice arsd Medicine, One
Pound. All Sufferers should write for a copy of Dr. Martin’s Latest Medical Work,
“THE ‘ KNOX-MERCEIt’ TREATMENT IN DISEASE.” This work should find a place in every
household, as it contains a full and explicit account of the Most Wonderful Treatment of the Present
Age. It has been the means of Curing Thousands who followed out *the instructions contained
therein This Marvellous Treatment Cleanses and Rejuvenates the Whole System, and is the Cheapest
Treatment in Existence, as nothing but the Book is required.
Cheap) Edition, Is. ; by post, Is. 6d.
“Press Extracts” posted free throughout Australia.
CONSULTING HOURS: 10 to 2 and 7 to 9 Daily.
«r “ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.


WATERPROOF COATS
RUBBER BOOTS M/e to 20/..
GOLOSHES 2/6 to 4/6.
Carriage Free
to any part of
N.S.W. if this
advertisement
is cut out and
sent with re-
mittance.
Made to wear—to
give satisfaction—to
look well to the end
of their long service.
PERDRIAU & CO.,
RUBBER IVIER HANTS,
Only One Address—
-270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
I
CURIOUS
BOOKS
PHOTOS.
The Best Address for
English, French,
German
Books and Photos.
Apply—
-116 BOX, PARIS.
21- tor Oatal. and Miniat.
gsd
WE SHIP ON APPROVAL
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles. Fully warranted.
to t0£5.5. 0
Dunlop Tyres, Steel or Wood Rims,
Free Wheels, Mud Guards and Brakes.
CARRIAGE PAID
To any Port in Australasia.
TYRES, ACCESSORIES,
Sporting Goods and Sewing
Machines Half Usual Prices.
Writ* for Catalogue and Special Offer
Using eid. Stamp. Address Dept 346 D
Mead Cycle Co,
Chicago m
U.S.A.
SIMPSON BROTHERS
32 & 34 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Australasian Representatives for
James Simpson & Co., Ltd. London and Newark.
Worthington Pump Company, Limited, London
Warren Webster & Co. New jersey
, Enquiries Invited for «
Worthington Pumps
Webster Feed Water Heaters & Purifiers
Cincinnati Air Compressors
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK.
Boiler Feed Pump.
pr- SEND FOR CATALOGUES,
II
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissors
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
GOQ00O
•40U
WOLF
J. & J. MAXFIELD, Pboprs., SHEFFIELD.
At the Shewrooms—
EMPIRE CHAMBERS, 93 YORK-ST,
SYDNEY
Alee »t-
-“TKOT BLOCK,”
Collins-St., MELBOURNE
P. GREGORY & CO
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE,
Engineers & General Machinery Merchants.
Sole Agents in Australia for — Blake’s steam Pumps, Dempster Moore & Co., Ltd., Engineers’ Machine
Tools, “Atlas Works” Engines and Boilers, Fay-Egans’ Woodworking Machinery, Empire Co.’S Eaundry Machinery.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.,
60 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
■
ALL KINDS OF
ENGINES & BOILERS
PUMPS,
MINING MACHINERY
And APPLIANCES,
ENGINEERS’ TOOLS & FITTINGS,
WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY,
BTC., ETC.
fg
. M. GOODALL & CO., ™ hay st., Sydney
"~ E,W BTOCK AMP T P-^ R Portable, Traction, Vertical & Horizontal Boilers,
sdfg
Engineers and Mining: Tools, Saw Mill Machinery, Pulleys, Belting, Etc.
and Pumping Plants a Specialty. * New and Second-Hand Machinery always available.
r<m
Size, 51" x 3J" x 5".
SIT We are; Direct Importers
AND HAVE FOB SALE—
Snow Duplex Pumps
(all sizes for all purposes),
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling
and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shaft-
ing, Hangers, Bearings, Collars, etc.
Engineers' Tools and Fittings, Valves,
Cocks, Gauges, etc. Cast, Tool and
Mining Steel, Wire Ropes and all Requi-
sites for Contractors, Engineers, Saw
Mills and Mining Proprietors.
R. L. Scrutton &Co. Ltd.
97 Ciarence-st., Sydney.
Deane Patent Sinking Pumps
Crlton Pumps
Double Standard Centrifugal Pumps
Carye Donkey Pumps
Puisometer Pumps, with patent Crel, which
effect large saving in steam.
Manufactured by
PULSOMETER ENGINEERING CO.,
READING, ENGLAND.
Agents—
N. GUTHRIDGE, LTD.,
71 Clarence Street, Sydney.
STOCKS KEPT.
TAt^ e
*♦
0^
<7^r-
jfcte Compf n f
o F *Lt CHEAMSTS
_V'_,
THROUGHOUT GREAT dRI I4IN
A THE COLORfES ,
Linum Cathorucum Pius purA-vlywm
° se COACULINE •
iRAHSPARfHT CFMEHT>ORA!LBROKEH ARTICLES
