

McEWAN’S ALE. GAELIC WHISKY. Reid’s London Draught Stout,
m
B. G. WATEZNS & GO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS AND GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
- V
SYDNEY.
_ BROADBENT’S HYDRO-EXTRACTORS.
These machines have been successfully introduced throughout the Australasian colonies or :P*!ying *l3 tq J QTnpKffT) 00
Salt, Chemicals, the Production of Meat Extract, etc. All sizes in-stock or arriving. SPARE PARIS SIOCKER. bend to-
Testimonials and full particulars.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C°-m
Pitt Street,
ARE
BOLE AGENTS FOB
Over 8700 Hydro-Extractor* Sold and at work
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
WONDERFUL VALUE —A packet of Seven different
articles, comprising Yankee Rubber Baby, can be carried
in vest pocket and blown out to life size (causes roars of
laughter), Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
Coin and Card Tricks), the Wizard Fish (gives the defini-
tion of your character—very superior for parlor enter-
tainments), the Vest Pocket Tubular Microscope (very
useful for examining small objects), the Cinematograph
(or book of moving pictures), the great Yankee Bicycle
Puzzle (very ingenious), and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Disappearing Coin Trick (instruc-
tions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australia (Free) on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON,
y NEW YORK
Box 3, P. 0., Hay market.
NOVELTY CO.,
710 George-st., Sydney.
“HERVEY’S RACKAROCK”
f? Years’ Unbroken Record as a Standard Australian Explosive. Cor. CLARENCE & KINC STS., SYDNEY fl
THORNES
Estbd. 1831. WHISKY.
keobart.
— tffcT — —
Sadleg’s Orient fjotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
SYDNEY—
Royal, April, 1903,
CHAMPION CUP
and
FIRST PRIZES.
w
Ii
MELBOURNE—
August, 1902, Grand
Championship of
Australasia.
ADELAIDE —Champion
Cup & 8 First Prizes.
SUCH IS LIFE!
SUCH IS LIFE I
SUCH IS LIFE!
Now Ready.
A new book in Th*
Bulletin Library.
A story of Riverina’a
early days.
In handsome cloth,
decorated; pries,
4». 6d.
Send postal note or
stamps to
The Bulletin office,
and the book will be
posted to any address
immediately on pub-
lication.
TOM COLLINS
TOM COLLINS
TOM COLLINS
4.
E ROOM'S
INDIAN
POLO STICKS
Are the BEST and
Cheapest in the World.
Well known in S.Africa,
Egypt, China and Ceylon
and used bv all the best players in India. Agents wanted
in Australia, N.Z., and elsewhere. Sports dealers, saddlers
and merchants are invited to write for trade terms.
CP
a.
EROOM&CO.,
CALCUTTA, INDIA.
Polo Canes
Polo Heads
Polo Balls.
o,
o
THE
—
WORLD-RENOWNED
'
E diswan - Lamp.
r 'A ; '
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Save no Worthless
Imitations.
THE mm & SWAN
United Electric Light
'Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch: 16 Carrington-street.
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Qusengland Depot—Commonwealth Buildings,
Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
THE
‘PLUM’
sgd
mM, - .
* PLUM
p ENTLEMEN.—ThI* razor i» superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfeotly hollow ground, ring
like a bell, and never require* grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kina of
edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM" RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7a fld.
“RAZOLES” LICHTNINQ RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
_ /Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10a 8d; Pair, in beautiful Morooco Leather Case, 2|s.
FMOB gi ng i 8 Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30a.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the World.
pg~ Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
M ELLIN’S
FOR INFANTS FOOD AND INVALIDS
Is adapted for use from birth.
Send for Pamphlet and Samples to GOLLIN & CO., Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide and Wellington.
BOOMERANG -
is Distilled under the supervision
of the Federal Excise Department
which i« a Guarantee of it. Purity.
ďsgsd
FREE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by that justly-
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST,
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, CastJereagh St.
SYDITEY.
USB
SPOON
« »
as
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (In
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressing's,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
The Bulletin
Vol. 24.—N0. 1228. ]
[Thursday, August 27, 1903.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


dvertiscmetit.
THE LATEST BOOKS AT-
Geo. Robertson &
Ltd..
Wisdom on the Hire/System, Bd,postage 2d.
Coates and Bell, Marie Corelli, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Halrgard (Andrew), Sporting Yarns, 7s, p. 8d
Clifford, Free Lanoe of To-day, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Tyndall, lectures and Essays, 6d and Is 3d, postage -
Wallace (Rob.ert) t Life and Last Leaves, 19s, p. Is 8d
Bobley, Coronation of Edward !xtl» 255, p. Is Bd.
Please Write to us for any Book or Magazine you Want.
. We are always pleased to answer Inquiries.
71 CASTLEREAGH ST.
** V v» • V |/vv<*uvu> VV t>VO«
SYDNEY (4 Doors South of King St.) & at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane & London
the LXJWGS,
For
the THROAT,
. . THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
o
to -tots
A. The Larynx, or organ of
voice.
The Trachea or windpipe.
The Bronchial Tubes- of a
dissected lung.
A lobe of one of the lung
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG
and
Invaluable to
bINGBR
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered).
““ w _ Contain NO cocaine or other poisonous druff . . W
.... rv ail CHEMISTS, n Tins, 18 6d j from the Proprietor, G. HUDSON Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland—po
80 ° eeonreceipt ofatkmps. Sydney Depot: 5 and 7 QUEEN'S PLACE, and FELTON. GRIM WADE & CO.,
Melbourne, Agents. "•
THE RED PAGE.
Phil May: His Work and Methods.
WHAT should we think of Phil May as an
artist—his place in black-and-white art ?
Speaking as a student whose chief feeling
towards May is one of gratitude, I think that
he had wonderful technical skill and a power
of illustrating for us certain phases of life not surpassed
even by Hogarth—a power too of depicting various
nationalities (see his marvellous drawings of Chinamen in
Bulletin, his Americans in The Graphic, and so on) suqh
as plaoes him alongside Renouard and De Neuville in that
respect.
With Gibson and Partridge, and one or two other pen-
draughtsmen, he was at the very top of the tree ; while,
taking black-and-white men generally, see what brother
artists say of him—men like Herkomer and Whistler and
Gibson. Millais too, in a conversation with M. H. Spiel-
mann (as given in Black and White, 17/9/’92), must surely
have been referring _to May when he said, “I’ve seen a
little paper called Pick-Me-Up, containing really wonder-
ful work.” .
That by the way, however. We were going to see what
Herkomer and Whistler and Gibson have said about May
As to Whistler, The Idler writer put it thus : “ Mr.
Whistler was once reported to have said: ‘Black-and-
white art is summed up in two words—Phil May’.” The
writer in Munsey’s Magazine (6/’97) varied this. Tie
wrote : “It has been said that Mr. James McNeill
Whistler, on being asked ‘ What may be the future of
British art?’, instantly - replied :, ‘ Phil May’.” The
Munsey writer adds : “ I don’t think that Mr. Whistler
ever really said that, because it usually takes him at
least twenty-four hours to evolve one of his so-called
* repartees ’ on which his fame as a wit rests."
In other articles about Phil May you will find versions
about Mr. W.’s remark differing from both of the above.
However, luckily for those who care about knowing
just what Mr. Whistler thought, in' the catalogue to
the May exhibition, 1895, this letter from him was
printed : “The exhibition you are going. to have will
certainly be most interesting, and I wish I could see it ;
for-I take a great delight- in Phil May. Certainly his
work interests me far more than that of any man since
Charles Keene, from whom he is quite distinct. There is
a brightness and daintiness in what he does, combined
with knowledge. These, together with the fact that in
his drawings the wit is the artist’s, make a vast difference
between him and his contemporaries.”
Now, as to Herkomer’s opinion. About a series of
drawings by Charles Keene on exhibition in the East End
of London, Herkomer, in his opening speech, is reported
to have said : “In his own day Keene stood alone.
He has been followed by a great rival in his own par-
ticular line. Phil May has gifts as great as those of
Keene. He is the greatest living master of expression in
a few lines. I don’t know Phil May—l have never met
him—but I think his art is marvellous.” The R.A. then
goes on to refer to the Xmas Annual drawing of Mr.
Gladstone as “ simply great.”
Herkomer’s letter, printed in thecatalogue just alluded
to, together with that of Whistler, is a rather long
one. He expressed the opinion that “although Mr.
May has so far surprised us with his line, I feel
that his whole nature leans to colour and tone, and
thathis full expression in colour and tone is yet to come.
It should spur him on to greater efforts to know that his
admirers await with keen interest this consummation of
his talent.” This is the close of the letter, though—he
begins thus: “It has been suggested to me to write a
letter giving some expression to the delight that I, an old
1 black-and-whiteist,’ find in hi 9 (May’s) work. To one
who has struggled for 26 years to express complex nature
in line, such work as Mr. Phil May’scomesas a relief, as a
thing to be thankful for. His ‘ line ’is incomparably the
most remarkable of any we have had.”
Coming to what the water-colour painters—the Royal
Institute artists—think of P.M. We have only to remem-
ber that, on the appearance of Guttersnipes, they elected
him R.I. But now let us see what a brother “ Biack-and-
whiteist- ” (as Herkomer put it) has to say. According to
Munsey's Magazine, Charles Dana Gibson remarked : “ If
a man’s bad, I can tell you why he’s bad ; but when he’s
as good as Phil May, I can’t.tell you why he’s good,
because if I could, I could do just what he’s doing, and I
can’t. All I can say is, that his work is just st.icley with
human interest, and that’s all there is about it!”
The same, of ccurse, might be said with regard to the
work of Leech and Keene, and ditto in some directions,
at all. events, with regard to the work of Cruikshank,
“ Phiz,” Tenniel, Du Maurier, Abbey, Partridge, Gibson
himself, and many others. But who shall place them in
order of merit? Stay, though. May, of course, has his
limitations, like every other illustrator, and we can at all
events, by comparing his work with that of others,
attempt to decide what these are.
Mat, Hopkins and Othebs.
"TVyATURALLY we first think of Livingston
IXI Hopkins— “ L. Hop” of The Bulletin—seeing
1 that he and May worked side by side for so
long. The most striking difference in their work,
it seems to me, was that “Hop’s” gave you
the idea at once of the born “ cartoonist”—that, as we
have seen it put, “He reads the daily papers, readilv
catches the queer side of things or detects shams, which
he then treats with all the power and humour of a Cer-
vantes.” In May’s work, on the contrary, there was
precious little evidence that he knew very much of
what was going on in political and other circles. Also, if
a story was to be told in a series of sketches, May was not
above borrowing considerably sometimes. “Hop” in a
pictorial story, on the contrary, strikes one as original to
a degree. Certain of “ Hop’s ” cartoons have become
historical, as it were ; whereas—although May, too, did
some wonderful ones while at Sydney it is his portrait
work-the “ things he saw when he had n’t got a gun,”
and soon, that he seems to be recollected by.
There seems to be a sort of idea among certain art
lovers and others in Sydney that “ Hop s work before
May came here and since that clever young Yorkshireman
left shows less excellence than that he turned out during
the time they held the fort, so to speak, together. Surely
when this is said, the wit,- humour nnd drawing in
“Hop’s” work from the middle of 1883 to end of 1885,
and from end of 1888, is a bit lost sight of. What about
that “Bulletin Primer ” series ?—and the numerous car-
toons at the Soudan Contingent time? Those funny
pao-es just when Lord Carrington was coming to Sydney,
too—or suppose we go right back to the very first number
of the sixpenny series of The Bulletin, May 19, 1883.
What splendid work by the genial “Hop” there is in
that number! What feeling for colour in his “Inland
Sea” page!
The artist May is most often coupled with is, without
doubt, Keene. ‘Take Whistler’s opinion and Herkomer’s
already quoted. Then,, too,Spielmann puts it—“ For the
backgrounds pains are taken in the glimpses of landscape
or scrap of street such as would have satisfied Chas.
Keene himself.” Yes—but he might have added : when
there i s anv background or scrap of street in the drawing ;
for very frequently, in a street incident by May—“ the
scrap of street you cannot see, because it is n’t there.”
This applies chiefly to the drawings made for Sketch and
reproduced in P.M.’s Sketch Book. In his Guttersnipes,
and in much of his Punch work, backgrounds are
attended to—much more wonderfully put in sometimes—
though certainly he has not made us feel the locality
and the weather as Keene did.
Also, the sort of life Du Maurier illustrated in such a
masterly manner seems as, much out of May’s line as it
was out of Keene’s. But Bernard Partridge can show us
drawing-room scenes and so on admirably—and, indeed,
there is a refinement about B,P.’s handling generally that
pleases some artists (The Bulletin’s B. E, Minns, for
instance) infinitely more than does May’s.
May once had an idea of illustrating Pickwick. One
regrets that he did not carry out the idea. We should
then have been able to compare him in that line with
Cruikshank, “Phiz”—and those later illustrators —Fred
Barnard, J. Mahony, Ohas. Green and Fildes, whose
delightful work is to be seen in the household edition of
Dickens’s works. It is the fashion just now to speak
slightingly of Cruikshank and “ Phiz,” and no doubt, as
a writer in The Art Journal put it when Keene died,
“ Gilray and Rowlandson after their probationship, the
Cruikshanks, Seymour Aiken, and ‘Phiz’ when the
brief eras of their apprenticeships were over, seemed to
lirouble models as little as possible. To this circumstance
is attributable the marked and rapid decadence of their
work—when the prime of their powers was past. . . .
The definition of genius as “ The power of taking pains ”
was fully exemplified in Keene’s instance, since all his
sketches are thoughtful studies from life. ... In this
way his art improved up to the end.”
The Elder Draughtsmen and May.
BUT about the work of George Cruik-
shank and “ Phiz,” that did not improve after
a certain time. The former’s illustrations to
Sketches by Boz and Oliver Twist, and the latter’s
to the other earlier books of Dickens, were
done when these illustrators were in the prime of their
poyvers._ The results they obtained caused Du Maurier to
write-in that delightful article he contributed to The
Magazine of Art (Aug., 1890) about “The Illustrating of
Books from the Serious Artist’s Point of View ” —“ What
does not the great Dickens himself owe to Cruikshank
and Hablot Browne, those two delightful elders who
understood and interpreted him so well ? Our recollec-
tions of Bill Sikes, and Nancy, and Fagin, and Noah
Olaypole, and the Artful Dodger, and Pickwick, and the
Wellers pbre et fils, Pecksniff, Mrs. Gamp and Mrs. Prig,
Micawber, Mr. Dombey, Mr. Potts and the rest, have
become fixed, crystallised and solidified into imperishable
concrete by those little etchings in that endless gallery,
printed on those ever-welcome pages of thick yellow
paper which one used to study with such passionate
interest before reading the story, and after, and between.
One may have forgotten much that Mr. Pecksniff has
thought, or said, or done in this world ; but what he
looked like, ! And no new portrait of him, by the
hand of howsoever consummate an artist, can ever displace
the old one for such of us as are in the middle fifties.”
If May had attempted Dickens, and had succeeded as
well as did Barnard, Green, Mahony, and Fildes, some of
his warmest admirers would perhaps have been a little
surprised. Many who take great delight in Gibson’s
work as a rule, were considerably disappointed with his
drawings of six scenes from thebooks of Dickens. Yet
what a splendid black-and-white artist Gibson is. Com-
paring his work with May’s, how different! The splendid
series of drawings illustrating G.’s visit to London show
this specially. He barely touches on the life May so
delights in ; but in his drawings of society functions, how
far ahead he is of anything l\lay could do.
Put May, again, to illustrate some of the things Abbey
has succeeded with so splendidly, and how far behind that
wonderfully clever and'refined artist he would have been.
When Abbey goes at an old comedy like She Stoops to
Conquer, or at old ballads, one recognises that he is as
much at home in illustrating them as he would be out of
it in attempting P.M.’s favourite subject—that is, bits of
street life in the poorer quarter of modern London.
Compared with Leech, May, though a much finer
draughtsman in some respects, hardly proved himself
such an “ all-round ” man. For as Linley Sambourne once
wrote: “ Leech was surely by far the ablest‘all-round*
delineator of force and character the century has pro-
duced. No matter what the subject—the human or the
brute creation, beauty or braggart, vulgarity, the sea,
sport, life in all its forms, natural or artificial —all alike
were rendered by him with a truth and fidelity, and
wrapped in a humourous gracefulness, which will be a
joy to untold generations to come.”
This statement by Linley Sambourne is particularly
interesting, as May undoubtedly in his earliest pen-and-
ink work brought himself under the influence of that
Punch artist. M. H. Spielmann tells us so ; and we
Sydneyites know that, when on The Bulletin, May was
heard sometimes holding forth with considerable vigour
about certain disparaging remarks made re Linley Sam-
bourne and his work. Comparing their technic nowadays,
Black and White put it capitally when it said, “ whereas
Linley Sambourne’s line and colour are merely engineered,
May’s seems brilliantly improvised.” At the same time,
when one looks back to those drawings full of Invention,
fun, and fancy, that L.S. used to do for Punch in the
fl'wpnfies, one feels that May could never do anything
like them.
May’s Method of “Leaving Out.”"
IN various interviews, May stated (to “men
who wanted to know, you know ”)- how he
managed this, and describedthe evolution of such
a drawing as the celebrated Gladstone one, for in-
stance. In The Sketch interview (March 29, 1893)
he entered into full details, reprinted as an introduction
to his Sketch Book (1897). He put the facts much more
briefly to The Idler interviewer (December, 1896) “My
ordinary method is to draw my sketch very carefully,
putting in all the details, light /and shade, and so on.
When that is quite finished, then I knock away the
scaffolding, so to speak, and in my final sketch I put in
nothing but what I regard as the essential lines of the
picture—that is to say, the lines which in the original
picture I fbund to be necessary. This, in a sense, doubles
my work, but even then I don’t suppose I should be
called a slow worker.”
This “ leaving out ” method of May’s (this “ synthetic”
method is, perhaps, as good a phrase) exactly illustrates
Whistler’s remark in VEnvoi (1884): “ Industry in Art is
a necessity—not a virtue—and any evidence of the same
in the production is a blemish, not a quality a proof
not of achievement, but of absolutely insufficient work,
for work alone will efface the footsteps of work.”
This method of “ leaving out ” made May’s work
appear to have been done with consummate ease. Or,
as a writer in Black and White put it, it suggests the
apotheosis of the sketch book.. .. His line-system is so
succinct and bold that it gains little by good, and loses
less by bad, printing—in a word, it is the very thing for
Art in the newspapers.. .. Whether he intended it or
not, in this he triumphs where many, if not all others,
have failed. May’s method as just described reminds one
of what Hamerton, in his Graphic Arts, said about
Calderon’s painting : And now we come to the most
essential principle of his practice—each part is painted
solidly and at Opce. If the artist is not pleaded,with it,
he removes it entirely and begins again. A head may be
painted 12 times, but the 11 attempts before the final
satisfactory one have been entirely scraped out, and what
the public sees is always one decided piece of straight-
forward painting.”
Now as to M. H. Spielmann’s persistency in stating that
the defectiveness of the printing machines of The
(Sydney) Bulletin forced May’s brilliant technic upon
him. After stating it elaborately in The Magazine of Art
(Aug., ’94)— such a capital article on the whole—he has
another go at the Sydney printing machines in the
preparatory note he wrote to the Catalogue of May’s
Collection of drawings exhibited at the Fine Art
Society’s in 1895. Says Spielmann—“ To meet their ina-
bility to print fine lines and elaborate drawing, to
compound, so to speak, their felonious incompetence”
(confound M.H.S.’s captious inaccuracy !), he “insisted
more and more upon pure line, and less and less upon
light and shade.” This is absolutely contrary to fact.
May was just as ready to use the finest of lines—when it
suited him—in 1.888 as he was in 1886—more so apparently.
Drawing after drawing could be pointed to as proof. He
was wonderful in “suppressing all lines not absolutely
necessary to his design ” (to quote M.H.S. again) in 1886,
and still more so in 1888 when he left Australia, for
month by month he gained skill in that particular ; but it
was not on account of printing machines, for he went on
improving in his fine line work with equal certainty.
At the same time, though, some of the work May did in
his Bulletin days is quite different from almost all he
did afterwards, seeing that he hardly touched politics in
England. If these cartoons were exhibited, in London,
the critics and May’s brother artists would probably be
astounded at his power as a “ caricaturist” in the more
generally accepted meaning of the word.
Phil May and Photographs.
PHIL MAY, unlike Sambourne, but quite
like illustrators in general, certainly did not
take those who have interviewed him into his
confidence regarding the use he made of photo
graphs in his work. . ,
Whether he used them much or otherwise however-
and there is evidence that at all events he held with
Sambourne the view expressed by that artist in the short
lived Minster magazine, “ that not to malre us
man’s most marvellous inventions (for photograp y
such) is akin to our friend the ostrich, who pokes his
head in the sand, or an indmdual who prefers tp walk
instead of saving his legs by pttiliganto an exprffis
train ’’-the fact remains that he undoubtedly mana_ ed
to avoid in his figures that obviously posed look so often
seen in ordinary photographs ; and equally did n „i e *sant
that look of suspended motion, which is the unpleasant
characteristic of many snap-shots. , f
It will be enough to compare just a couple oi
photographs with a couple of drawings by May-
drawings which contain very dear evidence of re-
ference having been made to those photographs. The
photographs are to be found °" P a g e ® 15
of Boxing, by R. G. Allanson-Winn (G. Bell and
Son); while the two drawings appeared, one in me
Daily Graphic (20 April, 1891), the other lh. Black and
White (25 April, 1891). May only used the photographs,
it is plain, in connection with abundant study from me ;
in fact, turned to them as he might to the living model,
after making numerous notes, or observing closely with
his wonderfully-trained eye the actions and expressions
assumed by the men during the actual contests he was
illustrating. Referring to that Sambourne article again,
these drawings capitally illustrate the remarks : ‘ Photo-
graphy is an impossible master, but a very' useful slave,
at any rate in black-and-white work.” " '
It may be interesting on this subject to see what
Leighton and Millais said in writing to the editor of The
Studio (April, 1893). The former put it thus : “ Photo-
graphy mav be of great use or the reverse to the artist,
according as it is used with or without judgment and
intelligence. I am afraid you will consider this very
vague, but in reality it sums up the whole question. *
Millais merely wrote, “No doubt photography has been
beneficial, and is often of value to the artist.” Again,
going hack thirty years or so to when photography was so
much less common than it is to-day : here is what Fred
Walker (and if ever anyone went direct to Nature closely
he did) wrote to his friend North (now A.R.A.) : “Can
you do me a service by going to the London Stereoscopic
Co. (Regent-street, for instance), near the Quadrant, and
get me a photo, or two of dogs such as might help me
with the one I’m painting. They publish some very fine
things in the way of dogs ; and it is the one thing I
might be helped in by a photo.”
Herkomer said in his Oxford lectures on Etching ana
Mezzotint Engraving, 1892 :—“The often-asked question,
Should an artist use photography ? can be answered in
these few words : Photography' can only be used well by
a first-rate artist, and his art will ih .no way be jeopar-
dised by the use of it as a suggestive adjunct. I should
like to know how many artists there are in the world at
the present time who have never attempted to make use
of photography. Not many'. But although I think it
can be of the greatest use to the strong artist, I think it
has done infinite mischief to some of the younger genera-
tion of painters, and has given a peculiar and often
offensive turn to the Art of our time.”
After all, it is perhaps John Ruskin who put the case
most clegjjy, in his lecture on “ Light” (Oxford, 1870) —
“Let me assure you, once for'aH, that photographs
supersede no single quality nor use of fine Art, and have
so much in common with Nature, that they even share
her temper of parsimony, and will themselves give you
nothing valuable that you do not work for... . They are
invaluable for record of some kinds of facts, and for
giving transcripts of drawings by great masters ; but
neither in the photographed scene, nor photographed
drawing, will you see any true good, more than in the
things themselves, until you have given the appointed
price in your own attention and toil.”
May’s Various Styles.
I TAKE it that when the phrase is used with
regard to certain work by other illustrators, that
“ their work is drawn in the Phil May style ’’—the
“open style’’ is meant. It is somewhat extra-
ordinary how people in general seem to lose sight
of the amount of work May did that did not consist in
“ suppressing all lines not absolutely necessary to his
design.” Why, even in drawings in which the figure is
expressed in very few strongly drawn lines, there may be
found scores of little lines in the face—lines put-down
with a lightness of touch that Vierge himself could hardly
surpass—a lightness of touch that reminds one of a
brilliant musician’s rendering of a difficult piece of music.
Take the Gladstone drawing, for instance. How easy
to count the lines the figure is expressed with. And yet,
in the head—only about J of an inch square in the repro-
duction—there are between 50 and 100 lines. A great num-
ber of May’s drawings—his.heads particularly—recall what
Ruskpi wrote in his “Elements of Drawing’’—“a few
well-put pen lines, with a tint dashed over them or under
them, get more expression of facts than you could reach
in any other way by the sahje expenditure of time.”
May expressed the features, say, in “ a few well-put pen
lines ’’—and, then over these lines or about them added
any number of much more lightly drawn lines, which
give just the effect of a grey tint.
It doesn’t follow that May for a moment bothered
himself about what Ruskin has written in the “ Ele-
ments of Drawing ” or elsewhere—he got there just
the same. To quote Ruskin again, “A chiaroscurist of
Lionardo’s school, drawing a leopard, would take no notice
whatever of the spots, but only give the shadows which
expressed the anatomy —and it is indeed necessary to he
able to do this, and to make drawings of the forms
of things as if they were sculptured and had no colour.”
In much of May’s Bulletin work he showed he could do
this to perfection—and we may set that down as another
of his styles.
Not often, when on The Bulletin, though sometimes
even then, he would handle the pen almost as if it
were an etching needle. Here and there in the Annuals
you may find this sort of work. In contradistinction to
this “etching” style, which May used now and again in
his drawings for publication—and constantly, apparently,
in his preliminary studies—he employs sometimes a
method which, when his less intelligent followers try it,
gives them away badly. He sweeps his lines which sug-
gest shade and local colour across the drawing (at an
angle of about 45°, mostly), but with such, skill that he
manages to express all sorts of modelling, while at the
same time the work suggests masterly brush handling.
Again and again was this to be noticed during bis Bulletin
days. And, indeed, in his first year on The Bulletin,
what Pennell (in that splendid volume of his, Pen drawing
—so useful to the pen-draughtsman if taken as a whole)
said about Du Maurier and his early work is exactly
applicable to May— Pre-eminently a technician...
possessed of what Mr. Kenyon Cox calls the executive
talent; and this talent, the talent of the technician, is
as he say's, in its highest forms as rare as any other...
almost impossible to analyse it. .tried in his early draw-
ings to render daylight and nightlight, and even to work
in all sorts of styles.”—Or, again, to quote Pennell
about Vierge—“ In looking over the pages of Pablo de
Sdgovie, one is struck with tlje entirely different methods
used in the many drawings.” Substitute for Pablo de
S&govie all the various publications May has worked for,
and that sentence fits May to a nicety.
Pennell, by the way, is very much set against cross-
hatching, as a rule. In some of May’s drawings not a
scrap of it is to be found—in others there is any amount,
just as he felt inclined. This applies to his early
Bulletin work just as much as to that he did afterwards.
W.[?]
MEMORANDA
Some of the authorities consulted for the note
on Whistler seem to have been misleading. C.B. point*
out that Ten O’Clock was published first in London A
McClure's article and the Beerbohm caricature were
credited to 1886 and the eighties, instead of 1896 and the
nineties. B.Y. writes that the lithograph of Whistler’s
mother was done by Wade, and not by W. himself.
“ Wade did so much for modern lithography that I feel
any tribute we can pay him is well bestowed. Whistler
admired the reproduction (reservedly, of course), and it
must be admitted that in such subtleties as the hand in
the handkerchief it is dumb.”
B.Y. adds suggestively: “It seems that Whistler’s
higher claims to fame are threatened with an eclipse of
anecdotage of his mots.” This touches our Australian
lack of opportunities to see good pictures. In literaturs,
it is our own fault if we are not abreast of the best: books
are multiplied and portable. In music and the drama
we may make shift to knowledge by the aid of scores,
reviews, and occasional performances. But in painting:
where are the pictures ? where are the Whistlers?—even
etchings ? N. S. W. Gallery has—three or four etchings and
sketches? and it has £lOOO not-worth of Queen of Sheba.
Melbourne Gallery has—how few?—and how much did it
pay for Herkomer’s Queen Victoria ?
Even if our Art Galleries were filled with discretion, it
would still be impossible to criticise fully from a
dozen scattered examples the life-long work of a Whistler.
You need collections for comparison and reference. And,
with a man of that magnitude, the judgment that does
not comprehend his whole performance is unsure,
indecisive. So we are perforce driven back upon other
people’s ’opinions—hearsays and side-lights that, in
fixing the personality of the man, may help to give an
impression of the artist. '
The German joke against Belgrade insists that
Alaric Watts’s “ Austrian army awfully arrayed” is a trifle
to the army of vermin that besiege it. So “ Peter
Schlemihl ” writes for Simplicissimus this simple song of
Servian heroes—
SERBTSCHES HELDENLIED.
Proud King Alexander sat within his hausz,
Oh, within his house !
And beside him sat there lug and lausz,
Bug and lausz.
And the Queen she sat before the bed,
Sat before her bed,
Plastering the goose-fat on her head,
On her head.
Suddenly came Aivakumowitsch,
Gentschitsch, Atanazkoicitsch,
Christitsch, Mischitsch and Welilcoicitsch,
Schiwlcowitseh.
Spake each one: A Servian spurns the yoke,
Spurns the yoke ;
Haughty Alexander, you must croak,
You must croak!
So they slaughtered him, also his frau,
Him, also his frau,
Just like any fat old Serbenszau,
Serbenszau.
Now King Peter sits in kingly pride,
Sits in kingly pride,
And the lausz and bug they sit beside,
Sit beside.
W. E. Henley died at Heatherbrae, Woking,
London, on the night of Saturday, 11th July : of heart
failure following* on inflammation of the kidneys. Accord-
ing to his own desire, his body was cremated. Francis
Thompson writes of Henley in The Academy : H. a.
Marriott-Watson in The Athenaeum. Each leaves a good
deal to be said. The Daily Express account concludes
with a story of how Henley met with Robert Louis
Stevenson, and found his friend distressed because he
was not a Voltaire or a Dumas, though he had an equip-
ment which ought to have made him their peer. Steven-
son put his “ failure ” down to the weakness of his hmRB-
- you are right, Lewis,” said Henley; I'e
always felt that, if I had not been a blessed cripple, I
could have taken the earth in my hand and hurled it
into the sun.’’ _ ,
During July an exhibition of Phil May s litho-
graphs was given in London. There were also hung a
number of pastels—the first time he has shown his work
in colour,” wrote the Daily Chronicle. The greater
number of his subjects have been found in Bruges its
little gabled houses and sluggish canals—and in London
—its blue dusks and bluer nights, and once at least, m
the ‘Coronation Illuminations’ that made a sudden
golden splendour in the darkness. With pastel, as with
lithographic chalk, he still betrays a certain hesitation
not in technique, but in treatment—a pre-occupation, as
it were, with fact. But he is always careful in
drawing, always appreciative in his selection, ills n o
or three portraits are no less sound and careful in
draughtsmanship.”
RECEIVED .
Color phobia, “an exposure of the White Aus-
tralia fallacy,” by “Gizen-No-Teki (Syd., K. 1.
Kelly ; 12mo:, cl., 252 pp.). [A tract adcaptandum.. .
Dives, apparently : since the vulgar Australian fool
though he be, is not likely to look favourably upon the
dream of a mongrel proletariat slaving towards the ldeil
of sixpence-a-day. One wonders from what secret
service fund, if any, the anonymous pamphleteer was
paid—or how ?or how much ?]
Colliery Explosions : their Cause and Prevention
by Jon. May (Syd., W. Brooks ; Bvo sd., 19 ppjith
3 plans, Is. [Discusses explosions at Bulli, Dudle.i,
Burwood, and Ketnbla, N.S.W. ; suggests amendments
in colliery legislation and working ; charges A-S;'V.
Mines Dept, with neglecting, in the interest of mine
owners, to support plans for the prevention of explo-
sions, and with permitting the persecution of men
active in the work of prevention.]
Docs Municipal Mand/iement PuyJ by
Suthers (Lon., Clarion Press ; 12mo. sd. 56pp.; 6 d. net).
[Facts and figures useful for advocates of m.m.J
A Critical ' Revision of the Genus Eucalyptus,
Part HI, by J. H. Maiden (N.S.W. Govt. Printer:, «
sd., pp. 76-90, with four plates; 2s. bd.).
praiseworthy author discusses E. caUcogrona-atough
problem. The typical variety grows in W.A.,, S. A., ana
Vic.; but there are other two varieties fairly well
marked, one of them ranging into N.S.W.-ano a
doubtful variety is claimed for Q.]
CORRESPONDENTS
L.B.E. : Uninspired T.F.D. : Ditt0.......
G.T. : Is your letter for publication? If so, it sl )° uld b ®
addressed to the editor.... F.L.C.: Worthless • •
What date had the notice? Rebd: Write out 99
times, “ I must not be improper.’ ... .EM
says the admirers of Burns may be classified into
who are on thinking and those who are on drinking
with him.”.. ..O. : The precise figures, given m Lond.
Publisher s’ Circular as from an Eng. blue-book, a .
Exports to Australia for 1901, under heading MOlcs-
N.S.W., .£142,000; Vic., £160,000; S.A., '
£32,000; W.A., £23,000; Tas., £9000; tot® l ,. £4o3 ’£*';
Add M.L., £97,000. Total, £500,000. Note the curious
Vic. preponderance... .Jocular : Thanks ;but youh
mentioned our best titles to fame. In New Aus ■
the ladies use the R.P. to dye with. Three boiled c
will make one white blouse blush pink. Also, we
Boulia, a fine intoxicating liquor has been made irom
this page stewed with ration sugar and spmitex.....
Dudley : No space.
A.G.S.


WOOL
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, and CO., Limited,
WOOL BROKERS AND PRODUCE SALESMEN
SYDNEY.
, CARSON & GO., Ltd.
WINGHGO
Are by far the mast successful Salesmen
OF
Kangaroo, Wallaby,
' *w—i TPMI—B HIIIIWII I II 111 I 111., ■WI'II.MI
Babbit and Opossum
SHIS
The Co-operative Woo! & Produce Co. Limited
Wool Stores—PYRMONT.
Head Office and Produce Store—ll Phillip St.
Sole Wool-Selling Commission
to the Growers—
SYDNEY.
Trust Account.
Regular Sales of Wool & Produce.
Prompt Returns.
1| Per Cent.
A GO-AHEAD FIRM
t
PATESON & COBCROFT,
231 Sussex Street,
SYDNEY.
Auctioneers, Commission and Live Stock Agents,
and Produce Merchants. -
Goods forwarded and received from this or any State. Agents for celebrated Corn Cob Bacon.
.. AUCTIONS ANYWHERE.
THE LEADING HOUSE for SPORTING GOODS and TOBACCO.
lleo
■
CA
tv
Lcola.
G 5
WJ&sm&LiWj
Santiago.
nUf^
(y
N?l MANILA
No. 1 Manila*
cm’
rtUNDa
Sfi3
ROTHSCHILDS
mok
366
El Mundo.
Post Free Post Free
N.S.W. oth. States
ROMA QUEENS ..
LA PAROLA, Reliable Smoke ..
HIGH LIFE MENDOZAS ..
NIMROD REINA VICTORIA ..
LA SPECIAL, from Choicest Leaf
“ LEOLA,” Borneo, Mild Smoking
‘ 1 EL RIVAL,” Borneo, Full Flavor
HEAVY WEIGHTS (P, de Mendoza) 100
Per 100.
Post Free Post Free
N.S.W. oth. States
In box. s. d. s. d.
“PERLA” BOUQUET 50 18 9 19 2'l
“EL MUNDO” (Rothschilds) .. ..25 21 0 21 8
“MENDOZA” (Rothschilds) .. ..25 25 3 26 2
“PERLA” (Rothschilds) .. .. .. 25 25 3 26 2
“MINERVA” No. 1 MANILA .. ..100 15 6 16 2 [
“WINDSOR LADY” (Manila Regalia) .. 60 19 0 19 8
“ PERLA MINERVA,” Manila, Fine Qual. 25 25 0 25 8
FLOR DE NAVES (Havana Reina) .. 100 29 0 29 8 J
HENRY OLAY (Havana Oouchas, extra) 50 35 0 36 0 box
Per 100.
REVOLUTION ” IN THE TOBACCO TRADE.
“ RED SEAL” TOBACCO
AT MILLION PRICES
TO SUIT THE TIMES.
“Red Seal”
Dark Plug:
Strong- & Medium
3/-
per lb.
Post Free
“Red Seal”
Bright Cut
2oz. Packets
4/3
per lb.
Pest Free
“Red Seal”
Bright P.'ug
Mild Smoking
■} 3/6
par lb.
Post Free
“Red Seal”
Bright Cut
4oz. Patent Tins
}4 3
per lb.
Post Free
“RED SEAL” is a REAL GOOD Smoking Tobacco, guaranteed BEST VALUE in the States.
We RECOnriEND Smokers to give “ RED SEAL” Tobacco a tpiai
Mick Simmons, Haymarket, Sydney.
I. Hollis
& Son’s
“THE RELIABLE.”
Price £6 12s. 6d.
N
n
m
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 gauge, top lever, bar action, real twist or steel
barrels, Greener cros3-bolt, left choke, rebounding locks snap fore-end,
chambered for 2fin. cartridges. Guaranteed for all Smokeless Powder.
SINGLE BOX AT WHOLESALE PRICE.
GOODS EXCHANGED or MONEY RETURNED.
GUARANTEE.-EVERY CIGAR SOUND
AND IN PERFECT CONDITION.
Mick Simmons, Haymarket, Sydney.
NACKARA, S.A.
Dear Sirs,—l am pleased to let you know
that lam in the best of health. I have not
worn your Belt for about six weeks now, and
I think lam all right. The suspensory did
what you promised, and now I feel a heat all
through my body. I got wet through, and did
not feel the ill effects from it that I used to.
You may book me as cured, and the Belt is as
good as the day I got it.
I am, dear Sirs, yours truly,
CHARLES DICKSON.
Cures Every Tine.
Further Convincing* Proof of the Merits of this Great Curative
Agent, Electricity, as applied hy Dr. McLaughlin's Electric
Belt, is shown by the testimsny of these two gentlemen
who have written expressing their warmest
appreciation and sending photos.
are only two from thousands of a similar nature we have
received, and are receiving, from men and women who have been
stricken down with such maladies as NERVOUS PROSTRA-
TION, WEAK BACK, RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA, LUM-
BAGO, KIDNEY and LIVER TROUBLES, INSOMNIA, INDIGES-
TION, DYSPEPSIA, and other complaints, and in every case under-
taken by us we have given almost immediate relief, and a certain cure
within a month or two.
There can be no doubt, seeing the vast number we cure, that Elec-
tricity is the only remedy for a worn-out, wasted constitution (from which
so many ailments owe their origin) for it gives back the Electric Power
that has been wasted, and produces Strength, Vitality and Health. It
is wonderful, this appliance of ours, seeing the wrecked constitutions we
have brought back to physical activity and health. If you are in an
advanced stage of nervous breakdown we can, by the aid of our Belt,
give you back the fire, the vim of life. Evei’y man or woman should
have one of these Belts whether ailing or not, for if worn occasionally for
MORTAT, VIC.
Dear Sirs, —A few lines in answer to your
letter of inquiry. lam glad to say that my
health has improved since I got your Belt. I
feel well in every way. My back is much
better, but I am glad to say I am very
different now than before I got the Belt, as I
had to lift myself up by the head of my bed
every morning, but now I can spring out
of bed and feel well always, thank God for
that.
I am, your well-wisher,
C. FLACK.
hour or two while you sleep it will prevent you from ever getting such ailments as Headache. Neuralgia, Nervousness, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lumbago, &c.
DO MOT BUY AM ELECTRIC BELT UNTIL YOU HAVE DECIDED TO TARE NO MORE DRUGS.
FREE
BOOK.
If you will call, we will be glad to give you a Free Test of the Dr. McLaughlin Electric Belt and explain our method
to you. We use no Drugs. Drugs are no good, except to the man who sells them. If you can’t call, let us send you
one of our Free Illustrated Books, which will give you very valuable information, and show you the thousands of cures
we have made. If your health is at stake, don’t delay ! Hours—9 a.m. to 8 p.m.
FREE
TEST.
Mr..M. Bonrke (ex-M. L.A. for Tamwjrth, N.S.W ) of 100 Albion 1 trset, Surry Hills, writes under date July 27t!i, 1903: “Dear Sirs, —Eight years
ago I was stricken down with pneumonia, and so bad was I that for two years I never laid my head upon a pillow. The pneumonia left me with asthma and bronchitis, and for
eight years I suffered the greatest agony, and have been unable to work during all that time. I saw your Belts advertised in the paper and came down and saw your expert, and
purchased a High-Grade Belt in April last. I have received constant and consistent recovery ever since, and I will gladly at all times recommend it to others. Thanking you
for your courtesy to me.”
Mi’. Hans Anclreasseii, of s.s. Gabo, writing' from Brisbane, Queensland, says: “Dear Sirs, —I have worn the Belt as duected for Indigestion, &e., and
I can truthfully say that in about three weeks’ time T had no occasion whatever for using any purgative medicines. At present 1 feel quite at ease on that account. What all
the medicine used by me this last three years could not do this Belt I purchased from you has done. It was a High-Grade one if you remember. I never had any real sleep
from medicines, but your Belt has cured me practically. You may use tins wherever and whenever you like.”
CAUTION • —Owing to the wonderful success and the great cures effected by the Dr. McLaughh'n Electric Belt, naturally envious people try
to imitate it, consequently we caution the public to beware of all imitations. We offer a valuable and indispensable appliance on business
terms, and no keen sensible man or woman will believe that they can get something for nothing. We do not advertise Belts “ Free.” as we
cannot afford to make anyone a present of a genuine Electric Belt.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co.,
ICGW„ Market St., Sydney
Melbourne Office : 1678. Swanston St.


&
V
SMOKE
The Unrivalled
World Renownec
BRBAR
PIPES
LARGEST DEPOT:
231 Clarence St,
SYDNEY.
B
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
vsmisazl&m
gds
DRI N K mi—ir
GARDNER’S SPA WATER
From our Springs at Helidon. OWEN GARDNER & SONS, Brisbane (Head office) &at Helidon.
Absolutely THE BEST.
KNORRS
Ready-Made Dried
PEA SOUP
£1
Speeches and Toasts read.y-marte for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking- made easy • is cd nosfc
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d. '
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards illus
Is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted’
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk Is 9d
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is ’
The Art op Wrestling, post Is. Hoyle’s Games, post 2/6
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.) Is 3d post
Every Man llis Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor Is
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book op Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, Is posted. Camille, Is 3d
Secret History of the Court of England, 1 6 post free
Art op Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., is fid posted
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history)" Is 3d
Sandow’s Book op Strength, 3s 3d post.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle's Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old,°but about
winch they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. ' Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
m its covers. The new 1902 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE
How TO Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6:1 posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs
Is 3d post free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted. S u>i>no Is.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want.
The Wife’s Handbook, Is 2d posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post.
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages
1600 illus. Leather bound, my price, 15s post paid’
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance. Is 3d.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s posted.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music comple e Is 6d.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d posted.
Send for my Illustrated Big: Book
Catalogue post free anywhere.
SSR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st,, Sydne
m
m
HAIMERLESS DOUBLE BARREL SHOT-GUNS
Are made at all prices to suit every purse. .... Each Gun Guaranteed.
ASK YOUR DEALER TO QUOTE YOU PRICE.
REMINGTON ARMS CO., ILION, NEW YORK, U.S.A.
King Marine Oil Engines.
2\ to 500 H.P. 1903 MODELS.
Estimates given for Fitting Cargo Boats, Tug Boats, Fishing Boats and Trawlers, Auxiliary
Power or Pleasure Boats. Vessels of all sizes built and fully equipped.
PUMPING PLANTS. REFRIGERATING PLANTS. COLD STORAGE for F.shing Boats.
Information and Prices furnished by—
j. f. McDermott & co., 30 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Factory Agents for Australia and the South Seas.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL *900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
*X*O rjEJT'Y COMPETITIOIsr.
WINES
Best Brands Only of
&c
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS. &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
m
t
There’s SECURITY in
ARTER
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
> FURRED TONGUE.
I
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
They TOUCH
the
LIVER
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price.
Be Sure they are
Carter’s
TATTE RS ALL’S
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania).
IMPORTANT NOTICE
The Tasmanian Government having imposed a tax
on every Five Shilling Ticket issued by Tattersall’s on
January, 1903, clients will please forward Id. extra
ticket applied for, or 4d. for every .£l, and so on.
of One Fenny
and after Ist
fox* each ss.
NOW OPEN
METROPOLITAN STAKES, Randwick, N.S.W., September 14, 50,000 at 5/1.
DEMONSTRATION H’CP, Warwick Farm, N.S.W., Oct. 5, 50,000 at 5/1
CAULFIELD GUP, Caulfield, Vic., Oct. 17, 109,009 at 5/1.
MELBOURNE GUP, Flemington, Vic., Nov. 3, 100,010 at 10/2.
Ml LB OUR, WE CUP, Flemington, Vic., Nov. 3, 100,000 5/1-
MELBOURNE CUP (Special), Flemington, Vic., November 3 (Drawn Morning of Race), 100,000 at 5/1.
Subscribers will please note that GEORGE ADAMS (“TATTERSALL”) STILL
CONTINUES his business in HOBART, under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN
GOVERNMENT, and that clients can send their subscriptions by letter to any friend or
acquaintance in i LOB ART, who will there have no difficulty in delivering the application and
seen.ring the despatch of tic'.cets and results direct to client**..
-i'-
Money can also be paid through any Bank in Australasia, to the credit of GEORGE
A JAMS, Commercial Bank of Tasmania, Hobart. Clients when so doing will please request
Bui.k to ad vise GEORGE ADAMS of amount, with their name and full address..
Small Parcels addressed to me can be forwarded to Hobart through any PARCEL
DELIVER ST CO. doing business with Tasmania.


That hard
cough of
yours
what are
you doin£
for it? Look
out, or it
will bind
you with
all the
strength of a powerful chain.
Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral
cures coughs and colds, even hard
coughs and old colds.
Mrs. A. White, of Fitzroy, Victoria,
says: “I had a very hard cough night
and day. I tried many remedies, but
without relief. I thought my lungs
were nearly gone. I then tried Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral. I began to improve
at once, and only one and one-half bot-
tles completely cured me.”
There are many substitutes and imi-
tations. Beware of them ! Be sure
you get Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral.
Two sizes. Large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
Cockroaches!
BUFFON’S
COCKROACH . . .
EXTERMINATOR
Clears houses of these pests very quickly.
Has been used for many years with
great success.
To be obtained of all Chemists.
BOSISTO’S
“Parrot Brand”
Eucalyptus Oil
For Rheumatism, Sprains, Bruises,
Wounds, Coughs, Colds and
Sore Throats.
OAUTION. —Ask for Bosisto’s
PARROT BRAND,
and Beware of Imitations.
fdhfd
W. H.Wigzell.
FRINGES: Best Natural Ourly
Hair, 3/6, 5/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each.
TAILS and PLAITS : 20in. long,
5/6 ; extra thick, 7/6; 24in., 10/6;
extra thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings worked up,
2/6 per oz. Don’t be misled.
Our Plaits and Tails are twice as
thick as sold elsewhere at the
same price. Send color of Hair.
Only one address : 110 WILLIAM-
ST., cor. of Palmer St. SYDNEY.
M,
Notice. —NO Branch Businesses. All work guaranteed.
Illustrated Catalogue post free. Prompt attention given
to oountry orders. Wigs made on shortest notice. All
Hair work sent to the other States free of duty. Transfor-
mations, entire covering for the head, 30/- each.
SANDOW’S
CLOSED,
OPEN.
GRIP DUMB-
USE THE GRIP DUMB-BELL because
1. —Exercise is useless without will power. The grip
on the Dumb-bell compels the use of will-power.
2. There is no danger of any strain on the heart.
3. —The heaviest Spring Grip Dumb-bell weighs only
31bs.; the Ladies’ and Youths’ Bells 21bs. ; the
Boys’ and Girls’ Bells ljlbs.; the Children’s Jib.
4. —An Athlete can do more with these bells than
any other kind whatsoever.
5. —They last a life-time, and no renewals required.
6. —As one’s development increases, pace can be kept
with it by adjusting the springs.
An Illustrated Chart of carefully graduated Home
Exercises is given away with the Dumb-bells.
8. HOFFNUNC & 00. (1902) Ltd., Wholesale Agents.'
Obtainable from all Sports Depots, Ironmongers and
Storekeepers throughout Australia.
"Superfluous Hair.
TYrE have a permanent, quite harmless and never-failing
’’ remedy. Ladies who suffer from hairs upon the
face, arms, neck, etc., will find this remedy a great boon.
3s. 9d. per packet,
AMERICAN TOILET COMPANY,
91 PITT BT. ( SYDNEY.
BELL
SPRING
TteCw^oirlLsiiiglnlsinibip
BONNINGTON’S
BONNINCTONS
CARRAGEEN
OR
IRISH MOSS
George efONNiNcroh
CHRISTCHURCH
CARRAGEEN
on i
IRISH MOSS <
c/Ms mvaluatle medicine Tihft .j
the extraordinary property op
immediately relieving the c/zest :
op the congealed phlegm.,conse-
quently causing apree ex. hector— 1
ation without straining, up pro— 1
moling healthy Tespira.lion,preeing
the air lubes, andgivirig strength
to the muscular organs*
Y'
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 10 b.
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
Send for a
Catalogue.
hfd
Went Shaft Sulkies,
£lO 15 a.
IMPORTANT NOTICK H
buyers of light Vehicles,
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, i3o Sussex St., Sydney
Straight Shaft 3-Spring Sulkies, £8 tOa.
Sarven Sulky Wheels Tyred, £2 4s 6d pale.
Discount to Wholesale Buyers. Send for Catalogue.
2V-
SMITH
21 f
YOU WAfflL^
A Good Timekeeper
at a Reasonable Price.
HERE IT IS!!
A Solid Silver Keyless
Hunting Watch
Warranted 2 Years.
Posted Free to any part of
Australasia —
21/-
Send for my New Catalogue—FßEE
H. F. SMITH
Queensland Leading Jeweller, QUEEN ST„ BRISBANE.
IPSWICH and TOOWOOMBA.
zA
*WwchbsteA
RIFLE AND PISTOL
CARTRIDGES.
“ It’s the shots that hit that count.” Winches-
ter Rifle and Pistol Cartridges hit, that is,
shoot accurately, and strike a good, hard, pen-
etrating blow. They are loaded with great
care and precision, and made in calibers
suitable for all kinds of game, from rabbits
to grizzly bears. If you want reliable ammu-
nition, buy the time-tried Winchester make.
FOR SALE BY ALL DEALERS.
w.
Our Stock of WINCHESTER GOODS
Is unequalled in the Commonwealth. Catalogues Free.
PERRY BROS. -
HARDWARE MERCHANTS.
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
ENO’S
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
HEADACHE
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION.
salt:
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.-Sm Capsule marked ENO’B 'FRUIT SALT;' Without It you hav a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd., ‘ FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, HNG„
by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Vagabond Heart.
There are vagabond lovers a-wander
Out there where the stars seem to ponder,
As they shine in the sky’s curving dome ;
There are hearts that have strayed from their
keepers,
There are watohers, and waiters, and weepers,
Who repeat in their breasts, “He will come !”
And there’s joy, and lip-lifting, and gladness
O, there’s ending of tear-flow and sadness —
When a Vagabond Heart cometh home /
When a heart cometh back from the far world
There’s a flush and a gleam in the star world,
And the winds murmur soft in the gloam.
And the fern-fronds and trees grow them greener—
O, the creek babbles onward serener
When an old face returns from the foam 1
There’s a shining of eyes and a glisten ;
O, the flowers seem to sing if you listen
When a Vagabond Heart cometh home l
vxo.
GRANT HERVEY.
Aspiration.
Once on a night far distant
When half-awake I lay,
Came strains of music swelling,
Now softly sad, now gay ;
In ecstasy I listened
To tender rise and fall:
Its notes, so full and mellow,
Held me in mystic thrall.
Fainter it grew, still fainter.
In dying, sweeter still,
And to its notes supernal
My whole soul seemed to thrill.
Waking, I strove to echo
Its cadences sublime ;
Where should flow song immortal
Behold a faltering rhyme !
Ah me, my lyre is tuneless,
My hands but discords make,
Yet in its strings lie sleeping
Sweet notes I cannot wake.
But still I keep on striving,
Although I know to me
Can never come the glory
Of perfect harmony.
N.B.W.
WILFRID MAILLER.
The Wedding Bing.
The blind man sang upon the wharf,
O loud and strong sang he ;
His eyes up-rais4d to the sky
Like white stones of the sea.
When through the crowd that hemmed him round
A woman pressed her way,
And, weeping, put her wedding-ring
Upon his empty tray.
“This very night ” —’twas thus she spoke—
“ My body shall be rolled
Beneath the waves ; so you may take
This band of purest gold.
“ My children twain they both are dead,
And lie a-mouldering ;
My husband cares no more for me—
O, take my wedding ring.”
And he had ta’en the wedding ring—
The blind man strong and tall—
And held it in his nubbly fist
Against the reeking wall.
“ For sure,” he said, “ some Jill-flirt blythe,
Tired of her wedding band,
Has plucked the gewgaw from its place
And set it in my hand.
“ Ah, well and well, may God be thanked—
It is a blind man’s way
To take whatever folks will put
Upon his begging-tray.”
For shame the woman’s tears fell down
In drops of bitter salt
To hear her called by evil names
Who never did a fault.
The blind man sang upon the wharf,
O loud and strong sang he:
I thought he was a happy man
To have no eyes to see.
N.S.W.
HUGH MOCRAE.
Daffodils.
They lay upon her bosom, pure and sweet,
Pale yellow daffodils,
And fluttered to the music of her feet
Like rippling rills.
Softer than down from water-bird’s curved throat
Or snugly-feathered nest,
They rose and sank, as does the fisher’s float
On billow’s crest.
So bright and fresh they seemed, without a stain,
Fit type of maiden dear—
No truer image of the mirrored plane
Of sky-lit mere.
And all the maiden’s freshness brimmed to flow
In tenderest harmony;
And all her sweetness rich as sunset glow
They sang to me.
While ever and anon their lustre threw
Bright gold upon her face,
As sunshine floods earth’s canopy of blue
With lambent grace.
O gentle face of maiden sweet and true 1
O joyous daffodils !
For all the waste where erst the wild weeds grew
Her presence fills!
N S.W.
JOHN MARDEN.


y GOUT V
PILLS.
FOR gout.
rheumatism.
SCIATICA.
LUMBAGO.
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent thett
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Pbout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.
Hypnotism
hfd
Header, -why not be able to use the
I meat mysterious and powerful force of
nature? By my method you can learn
to Hypnotize in a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home. You can per-
form all the many marvellous feats
Ithat sure possible to the Hypnotist.
Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
conquer pain ; win reluctant affection,
gratify your ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I have
Just issued in hook form a mammoth
illustrated LEBBON or Key to
Hypnotism, -which fully explain.
the mysteries and secrets
lof the Art. It contains
'hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the kind
eve* -published. For a short
time I will send this magnifi-
cent work FREE, sealed on
receipt of 6d. (stamps) to cover
postage. <Order to-daj and learn
to Hypnotize. It is a cbanco of I
;a life-time. Address— *
&
Prof. R. H. BARR ADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
MEN
i?
If
you
are
suffering from
exhaustion, Vari-
_ cocele, Wasting,
Weakness, enclose 6 stamps (postage and
packing), and I will send a trial bottle of my
REMEDY, FREE.
IT COSTS YOU NOTHING
to try my Life Syrup Remedies, which
give back strength of body and brain, renewed
vigor, and development of the vital organs;
not a free prescription dodge, but a trial of
my wonderful remedy free for the asking.
Professor h. read,
IBs_ COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
THE ROAD
TO HEALTH IS
PAVED WITH
GOOD
DIGESTION.
f?RAGC‘£f;-i
«casiEm©^H
Charcoal
Moodily euros Acidity, Flatulence, Heartburn,
Impure Breath, Indigestion, Diarrhoea, &o. It
destroys all disease germs, and,absorbing all impuri-
ties in the stomach and bowels,gives a healthy tone
to the whole system. Wards oflt all attacks ol Typhoid
and other Fevers. Prevents many an illness.
BItAOG’B PURE CHARCOAL POWDER in
Bottles; DOZEHGES and BISCUITS in Tins
(pleasant to take). Sold by all Chemist? and Stores.
Having had complaints of the injury done by other
preparations,please see that eaoh Bottle or Tin bears
the Trade Mark ‘ J.L.8., in monogram,’ on the wrapper.
OF INTEREST to MEN
T\EAR SIR, —I have been cured ol weakness and De-
bility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to
Mr. ROBERT E. PARKHURST,
pi *» street, Sydney.
THE BALLET GIRL
hfd
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, is
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Fras f is.
lend stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties.
Madame Panza,
BOX 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Refreshing and Agreeable.
CALVERTS
CARBOLIC
TOILET SOAP.
A pleasant Antiseptic ooap (containing 10%
pure Carbolic Acid). Should be used regularly
to improve the skin and complexion and prevent
infection.
F. C. CALYERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
SAVE YOUR HAIR
With Shampoos of Cuticura Soap
and Light Dressings
of Cuticura.
This treatment at once stops falling hair,
removes crusts, scales, and dandruff, soothes
irritated, itching surfaces, stimulates hair folli-
cles, supplies the roots with energy and nourish-
ment, and makes the hair grow upon a sweet,
wholesome, healthy scalp when all else fails.
MILLIONS USE CUTICURA SOAP
Assisted by Cuticura Ointment, for preserving, purifying, and beautify-
ing the skin, for cleansing the scalp of crusts, scales, and dandruff, and the
stopping of falling hair, for softening, whitening, and soothing red, rough,
and sore hands, for baby rashes, itchings, and chaflngs, in the form of baths
for annoying irritations and inflammations, or too free or offensive perspi-
ration, and for all the purposes of the toilet, as well as by millions of women
in the form of washes for ulcerative weaknesses, and many sanative, antisep-
tic purposes which readily suggest themselves to women and mothers.
COMPLETE TREATMENT FOR EVERY HUMOUR,
Consisting of Cuticura Soap, to cleanse the skin of crusts and scales, and soften the
thickened cuticle; Cuticura Ointment, to instantly allay itching, inflammation, and
Irritation, and soothe and heal; and Cuticura Resolvent Pills, to cool and cleanse the
blood. A Single Set is often sufficient to cure the most torturing, disfiguring, itching,
burning, and scaly skin, scalp, and blood humours, with loss of hair, when ail else fails.
Sold throughout the world. Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co., Sydney. British Depot:
27-28, Charterhouse Bq., London. French Depot: 5 Rue de la Paix, Paris. Potter DRUG
AND Chem. Corf., Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT PILLS
(Chocolate Coated) are a new, tasteless,
odourless, economical substitute for the cele-
brated liquid Cuticuba Resolvent, as well as for all other blood purifiers and humour
cures. Put up in screw-cap pocket vials, containing 60 doses. Outicura Pills are
alterative, antiseptic, tonic, digestive, and the purest, sweetest, most successful and
economical of blood and skin purifiers, humour cures, and tonic-digestives.
i!
:
ARE YOU WEAK ?
Low-spirited, Tired of Life, Have you utterly
failed in your efforts to regain Health?
Go to the Fountain Head
and consult OLD SURGEON LANGSTON, memberof the Royal
College of Surgeons, Eng., who will cure you. Forty years’
practice as a Specialist is sufficient guarantee of the'doctor’s
ability. I do not seek to demonstrate a theory. I have no time for that,
for I am accomplishing facts. I am curing thousands who have
given up all hope of life, lam bringing joy and happiness
into hundreds of homes. If you suffer from kidney and liver disease,
lung, stomach or heart trouble, consumption, debility, insomnia, blood
poison, Varicocele, headaches, backache, nervousness, or any disease
or weakness of the vital organs, come to me and I will cure you
and make you well. The people whom I have snatched from the very
jaws of death and have lifted up and given strength and health are
living witnesses of the everlasting power of my treatment. It
matters not how long you have been afflicted ; it matters not how
hopeless or helpless you may be ; it matters not what doctors have
said or what remedies have failed to cure you ; it matters not whether
you have faith.
I WILL CURE YOU.
A NEW TREATMENT AND GUARANTEED CURE FOR VARICOCELE WITHOUT OPERATION.
Be the Equal of Your Fellow Man.
If you are a sufferer from any nervous, chronic Blood or Skin diseases, or interested in the subject of
Neurasthenia and associated evils, write at once for book of information, blank forms, etc., and have the
old doctor diagnose your case.
All communication* strictly confidential. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, 129 Collins Street, Melbourne
Established in Melbourne 1886.
QADC SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
n t FOR SORE AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYELASHES- I?" \X f“ ALL EYE TROUBLES. -
A CERTAIN REMEDY L T LO f'Vi EVER FAILS.
Ask your Chemist for the Little Book:
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
CURED
A NOVEL PRESENT.
receipt of P. 0.0. or M.O. for 6/- we will forward to
any address in Australia one of our Handsome
Oct. Gold-filled Round Wire Brooches, with
either Bell, Heart, Anchor or Gross Pendant, guaranteed
the same quality as brooch ; and without pendant, 3/6.
In 16ct. G.F. Twisted Wire, 8/6; without pendant. 6/6.
Illustrated Catalogues sent Free. All letters carefully
addressed to R. BIMS, Gold Wire King;, Colo's
Book Arcade, Melbourne, Vic.
hfd
“ ACTS UKE A CHARM.”
JONES’
Rheumaticuro
The great South African Remedy
NEVER FAILS TO CURB
Gout, Rheumatism,
Rheumatic Gout, Lumbago,
Sciatica and Neuralgia.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
£2&. 90 . PER. BOTTLE
SOLE PROPRIETORS—
THE RHEUMATICURO CO.,
Cape Town,
sod 29 Niagara Lane, Melbourne
EVERY WOMAN
Is Interested and should know
about the wonderful
Marvel Whirling Spray
The new FEMALE SYftINCE
In jection and Suction. The best,
safest and most convenient.
It Cleanses Instantly.
hfd
If your druggist cannot
supply the MARVEL,
accept no other, but write us for
Illustrated Book, sent free
sealed. It gives price by mail,
particulars and directions invalu-
able to ladiea. ** Bndoned by Physicians.
Times Building, N. Y.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS-
THE MARVEL CO. OF AUSTRALIA,
CAMDEN BUILDING,
418 George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
LADY SPECIALIST IN ATTENDANCE.
Postal Address, Box 623, G.P.0., Sydney.
Write for Booklet. Sent free, sealed.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored In
Four Weeks by using
£2 (U CORO'S
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS, DEBILITf,
VARICOCELE, etc.
Dr. Eicord’s Essence of Life affords relief and permanently
cures all who suffer from wasting and withering of the
nervous tissues; restores Energy, Strength and
Vitality to the most weak and shattered constitutions
(no matter from what cause) and regenerates all the
important elements of the human frame.
Price 128., or four quantities in one, 365. Freight extra,
Is. and Is. 6d. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope.
Agents for Australasia— PEßßY & CO., *7 Queen Bt,
Melbourne; N.S.W.— Faulding & Co., 16 O’Connell
St., Sydney ; Newcastle, Adelaide and Perth.
ASTHMA CURE
&o
CLP
CP
cc
CD
Fop Asthmatic people who suffer from
OPPRESSION in breathing:, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
. Grimault’s Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the cneat.
GRIM AULT & Co., Paris. Bold by allChemliti.
WILL ANDRADE’S list of BOOKS
h
Book of Nature and Il-
lustrated Marriage Guide
by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated
with over 50 engravings,
3s 6d ; posted, 4s. Maqic
Up-to-Date, Easy Conjur-
ing Tricks for ' Beginners,
illustrated, Is; posted, Is
3d. Ned Donelly’s Art of
Boxing, new enlarged edi-
tion, 40 engravings, Is ;
post, Is 3d. How to Dance,
Is ; post, Is 3d, How to
Wrestle, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Moll Flanders, a rare book
by De Foe, Is 6d posted.
Tailoring for Amateurs,
Is; post, Is 3d ; Zola’s Nana, etc., 2s 6d each posted.
V ENTRILOqUISM MADE EASY, Is. UP-TO-DATE COMIC
Reciter, Irish Oomic Reciter, Favorite Reciter,
Is each; posted, Is 3d. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s (id ; posted, 4s ; Little
Folks’ Reciter, Popular Reciter, Humorous Dia-
logue Book, 6d each ; posted, 9d. Nigger Stump
Speeches, Is ; post, Is 3d. Window Ticket Writing
Explained, Is 3d ; post, Is 6d. Mechanic’s Workshop
Handybook, Is 6d. Dog Keeping, Is 3d ; post, Is 6d.
My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d. Georgette,
Is; post, Is 3d. The Ouckold, Is ; post, Is 3d. Tom
Collins’ Such is Life, 4s 6d. All The Bulletin series.
Letter of a Self-made Merchant to His Son, 2s 6d
and 3s 6d ; postage 6d. Wee Macgregor, Is 3d;
posted Is 6d. Ethel, by same author, Is 3d. How
to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is.
Metal-working for Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing,
Gas-fitting, etc., Is 3d; post Is 6d. Howto Play
Billiards, illustrated, Is ; post Is 3d. That Rascal
Gustave, Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is ; post, Is 3d.
How to Vamp on Piano, Is ; post Is 3d. Piano
Tuning and Repairing, Is 3d ; post Is 6d. Modern
Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Great
Book of Wonders, Secrets, and Mysteries, Is.
Horse and Cattle Doctor, Is. Poultry Keeping, Is,
Is 6d and ss; posted. Parlor Magic, Is. Dream
Book and Fortune Teller, Is, 2s and 3s posted.
Every Man His Own Builder, Is 3d ; post Is 6d.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready
Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, Is ; posted Is
2d. Australian Doctor, cures for all diseases, Is 3d ;
post Is 6d. Letter Writer Up-To-Date, Is ; post Is
3d. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking Made
Easy, Is ; post Is 3d. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by
Dr. Warren, Is ; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post Is 3d.
Model Plays and Dialogues, Is ; post Is 3d.
Enquirer’s Oracle : What to do and How to do it,
3000 subjects, Is 3d ; post Is 6d. Self Instructor :
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Cabinet Maker’s Handybook, Is 6d. Cabinet Making
for Amateurs, illustrated, 3s 6d ; post, 4s.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage
by Old Pro, Is; posted, Is 3d. New Tricks with
Cards, Is; post, Is 3d. Dr. Foote’s Plain Homb
Talk, Twentieth Century edition, very latest. 1248
pages, over 400 colored plates and engravings, 7s 0d
posted. Sappho, genuine, Is 6d. Stackpoole’s
Advice to Women, Is; post, Is 3d. Dr. Milford’s
Midwive’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d;
post, 2s lOd. Aristotle, 8s od. Cloo Dancing Mads
Easy, Is. Practical Palmistry, Is 6d. Dove and
Parentage, Bd. Secret History Court of England,
Is 6d, post. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is. Photo-
graphy for Amateurs, Is 3d. Morgan’s Frbb-
MASONRY, Is 6d post. LATEST SONG BOOKS, Bd, od,
and Is. Tokology, 10s 6d post. Webster’s Dic-
tionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 16s post. Volta M’s
Romances, 2s. Age of Reason, Is Bd. Ingbrsoll’s
Works, 2s 6d. Wannan’s Engine Driver, 6s fld.
Rockliff’s Engineer, 4s 6d.
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Zing\ra Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love,
Business, Futurity, etc., with full directions, Is;
posted, Is 3d.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do. .Free
catalogues No. 1: Plays, Reoiters, Make-up, etc.
No. 2: Conjuring Apparatus and Books. No. 3:
French Novels in English. No. 4: Books for Pre-
sents. No 6 : Useful and Mechanical Books. No. 0:
Books for the Married. No. 7: Advanced Literature.
508 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE VICTORIA MARKETS)
AND
201 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE -—-
JAYNE’S EXPECTORANT
CURES THE WORST COUGHtS.'


A Doctor’s Present.
A Thrilling Story of Suffering
A Silver Lining to the Darkest Cloud-
The Case of Mrs. A. JOSEPHS.
(BY A SYDNEY REPORTER.)
There is no suburb that has changed its
Btatus as completely during the past twenty
years as that of Woolloomooloo. Facing
the bay bearing that name, with its
picturesque walks along the foreshores, and
with Hyde Park, the botanical Gardens,
and the extensive Domain recreation
grounds in close proximity, Woolloomooloo
is one of the most attractive localities
around Sydney, and in it, at No. 18 Wood’s
Lane, lives Mrs. Annie Josephs, whose in-
terview with our reporter is reproduced
below.
“ I lived at this address,” said Mrs.
Josephs, “for the past eight years, and
when I had been here about half that time
I thought I was going to die. It was after
a confinement that I suffered from blood
poisoning, besides which I lost a great
quantity of blood, and became so weak
that I could not put a foot to the ground
for nearly twelve months. For almost a
year I was in bed, being nothing but a
helpless and hopeless invalid, for I must
tell you that all the treatment I had
received did not lead me to believe
that I would ever get better. There
seemed nothing for it but to lie and
wait patiently for death to relieve me of
my sufferings, as I kept on wasting and
wasting away, and I was almost paralysed
with agony.” (
“ Where were' the pains principally
located ? ” enquired the pressman.
“ They were in every part of my body,
and my head swelled till it was about twice
its natural size, besides aching so intensely
that I scarcely knew what was going on
around me. Sometimes I became quite
stupefied with pain, and as I never could
sleep at night it is not to be wondered at
that I got so worn out that I used to lie
like one in a trance. All my limbs were
swollen and terrible pains afflicted them as
well, and when the severity of my aches
became so intolerable that a change in my
position was necessary, I had to have a
l hoop bound round with wadding put under
my legs, because I was too weak to keep
them bent for a second without having
something underneath to support them.
There was no doubt that the longer I lived
the worse I got, for my nervous system was
frightfully strained, as I could not keep my-
self from shaking, and my mind was always
in a state of fear and anxiety. By some
means that I cannot explain, because I was
not enlightened on the subject myself, my
vision became very dim, and I nearly lost
the sight of my right eye. As an operation
was indispensable, I went under it, and
although my sight was saved, yet the strain
on my feeble constitution was almost too
great for me to bear. I got more nervous
than ever, and could not be left alone in the
house. The shaking of a window or the
creaking of a door sent a thrill of terror
ri»ht taiough me, and the next sensation
that I usually experienced was giddiness,
as though things were moving about in the
room. And you would hardly credit how I
felt if I ate any food, although I should say
‘ drank * instead of ‘ ate,’ because I was
only allowed the lightest of diet, and it
was invariably liquid. All the same, my
stomach could not digest it, and the way I
used to swell out with wind was something
awful, my chest also being troublesome
with a feeling as if a weight was inside me.
My skin was as yellow as a guinea, owing
to my liver being diseased, the doctors said,
and my face was so thin and disfigured that
many of my friends did not know me.
Having previously been very stout, they
could not realise it was me when they saw
nothin" but a shadow before them, and the
ominous shakes of their heads made me feel
very downhearted. It was evident they
thought I was dying, and some of them
have since told me they felt sure I could not
live.”
“ You mentioned something about doctors
just now What did they say about your
prospects ? ”
“ For a long time they tried to cheer me
by uttering kind and encouraging words,
but they did not do me any practical good
with their medicines, so then I submitted
myself for treatment at several hospitals.
The physic prescribed at those institutions
took no effect, eo I sank down to the lowest
depths of despair, because I thought my
fate was sealed. Later on I thought I
would make a final effort, and I sent for one
of the doctors who had been attending me
before, but he said that he could not do
any more for me than what he had
previously done, excepting to advise me to
take a course of Clements Tonic. He said
it was an excellent medicine, and soon after-
wards he good-naturedly made me a present
of two bottles.”
“ How did you feel then, Mrs. Josephs ?*
“ I felt as if my whole life depended
upon Clements Tonic, and in doing bo I am
sure I did not exaggerate the seriousness
of the situation, as every other treatment
had failed. When those two bottles of
Clements Tonic were finished there was
more life in me than there had been for
twelve months. I could then take a Little
food and enjoy it. Before taking Clements
Tonic everything I tasted was as if I had
put a penny in my mouth, which left a
coppery flavor behind ; but that unpleasant-
ness was soon remedied, and, besides, the
coating over my tongue was cleared away.
Constipation had troubled me, but Clements
Tonic soon remedied that, and all the time
I was getting more light-hearted than ever,
because my pains were decreasing. These
improvements gave me a renewal of hope,
and, as was prudent, I clung tenaciously to
Clements Tonic. The next thing to cheer
my drooping spirits was to observe the
swellings in my head and limbs were being
reduced, and the pains were much less
severe than they had been. It was a very
unusual thing for me to wake up in the
night, but if I did I soon went to sleep
again, and rested peacefully till morning;
and another great benefit that I derived
from the use of Clements Tonic was that
my nerves were toned to their normal con-
dition. Those of my friends who had daily
expected to hear of my death could haidly
realise the fact that I was being carried
further away from the grave every day by
Clements Tonic, and although four years
have passed since then, yet we often have a
chat about the narrow escape I had, and
Clements Tonic is the household remedy of
us all. I was trying to tell you how 1
progressed. Well, in a week or two more I
was able to eat solid food without the least
compunction, as my digestive organs were
as healthy as they could be, for there was
no flatulence or chest pains to inconvenience
me, and there was not an ache in any part
of my system. When my strength and
health were completely restored I devoutly
thanked God for my happy release, and as
there is no doubt that Clements Tonic saved
my life you are at liberty to publish my
story in any way that the public may hoar
of it.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I Annie Josephs, of 18 Wood’s-lane, Woolloo-
mooloo, in the State of New South Wales, Com-
monwealth of Australia, do solemnly and sin-
cerely declare that I have carefully read
the annexed document, consisting of four folios,
and consecutively numbered from one to four,
and that it contains and is a true and faithful
account of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic ;
and also contains my full permission to publish m
any way my statements—which I give voluntarily,
without receiving any payment; and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the
same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the
Oaths Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at East Sydney, this
nineteenth day of February, one thousaud nine
hundred and two, before me,
EDWARD W. BUTI.ER, J.P.
f e
Montserrat
f§p3
ca&m
///".
Vi
The basis of which is “ Montserrat ” Lime-Fruit Juice.
Far Superior to
all otHer Sauces*
AGENTS —Elliott Bros. Ltd., J. Connell & Co., D. Mitchell Sc Co., Sydney.
D. Cohen Sc Co., Newcastle.
fi On Our Selection.”
By “ Steele Rudd.”
Price, 6a, Tub Bulletin Newspaper Co, TjUL, Sydney,
FOft THE^BUSHTWOHIIKir
Z
idJAVDjm
A SOOTHING BALM and EMBROCATION. Will be found
a CERTAIN CURE for Cuts, Burns, Boils, Barooo,
Eczema, Sprains, Ringworm, Sore feet, Plies all
forms of Shin Disease or Muscular Affections, etc.
From all Chemists, 1/6 per Tin. A FREE SAMPLE will
be sent you. Address the
ZAIVI-BUK CO., 39 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Enclose Penny Stamp for postage, and mention this paper.
jgOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS,
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. MS.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OP TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered tor
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
Study Evenings
HOME __WoreJPay_
Courses offered by mall:
Mechanical. Marina. Civil.
Electrical. Sanitary.
Stationary* Locomotive.
Telegraphy. Architecture*
Sheet Metal Work.
Mech. So Perspective Draw’s
American School
AT
Armour (nst.of Technology
Chicago, in.
1 Write for Handbook.
160 VICKERY’S CHAfIBERS,
BOX 629, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Mr. Andrew Carnegie says: “ The secret; of
American industrial success is emphatically the
application of brains and knowledge to work, even
in the smallest detail; and the influence of the
Correspondence Technical School in furthering
America’s advantages in this regard deserves
universal recognition.”
Macniven & Cameron's Pens
“ They come as a boon and a blesaingr to men,
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen."
THE WAVERLEV PEN.
Sold by all Stationers, throughout thaliCarltik
EVERY PEN made by Macniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
esparate y examined by experienced hands,
and any taund detective are discarded.
tar BEWARE OP IMITATIONS* TKS
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.,
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAM
the host nutritious.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
'DEBILITATED
■WEAK, NERVOUS SUFFERER. Let us send you a
VV trial course of our CONCENTRATED BOTANIC
REMEDIES FREE OF CHARGE. You will be more
than pleased with the result, and you will show your
appreciation of our valuable treatment by persevering
in its use for a few weeks until you are PERMANENTLY
CURED. Address—
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
DRUNK
ENNESS
.CURED
Absolutely Conquered In 20 Days.
SIT See my proposition to the Government,
November Bth, igox, wherein I agree to
accept ioo Test Cases, and prove that my
Vegetable Cure for Alcoholism is a positive
and reliable remedy Home treatment
within the reach of all. No restrictions, no
hypodermic injections. Full particulars free.
W. LANGSTON, M-R.C.S.. Ene.,
129 Collins-st., Me bourne.
RUPTURE cured
tion or pain, no detention from work,
or dependence upon Trusses. The
only humane treatment. Hundreds
cured. Write to-day for illustrated
Treatise No. 10. Address:
SURGEON LANGSTON,
M.R.C.S., ENGL,
129 COLLINS STREET
MELBOURNE.
rhr»w »w*y
ENGINEMAN’S MASTER KEY. -All subjects
relating to Examinations for Certificates of Com-
petency in all the States. 565 Pages, 106 Illustrations ;
6s. 6d. posted, by L. F. R. SCHNABEL, Consulting
Engineer, 443 Bourke-street, Melbourne. Also COLE’S,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney.
-Hour Demonstration
and J|rt Union
I ( Under sanction of
the Attorney-General)
i Monday, sth Oct., 1903.
| Prizes value £1250.
First Prize, value £5OO ; Second Prize, value £100;
I Third Prize, value £5O ; and 150 other valuable Prizes
I The Prize Drawing is open to the public and the
press, and every purchaser of a ticket has an equal
• chance whether present or not.
I Last year a number of applications for.tickets were
received too late for participation in the drawing,
I and their moneys had to be returned. People from a
distance should apply early and avoid this disap-
i pointment.
: Tickets to be obtained from
A. McDougall, Secretary,
Trades Hall, Sydney,
1 or from Local Agents everywhere.
The First Prize (a Golden Emu valued at 500sovs.)
was last year won by Mrs. Swadling, of Edden-street,
Leichhardt, Sydney.
Buy your Tickets Early.
Only One Shilling.
sforZlusLel flights
j£ca.LUufJnfaxits
TRY U '**
RIDGES
FOOD
Refuse af/f/n/faf/onz
Satisfying, StrenjJfhenmfc Soof bmg forlrnfanfs
Agreeable .Digestible. Hcumhing
Atiftirs FOR SYD/VfV:
SAYFRS A UPofir & POTTFR
t
RIDGE'S FOOD MILLS. LOND,ON.Enc
JhesL
WEBSTER’S
CARBOLIC
DENTIFRICE
HAS MANY FINE POINTS.
FOR QUALITY, FLAVOR AND PRICE
HAS NO EQUAL.
Sold all over Australia.
LARGE TINS, 6d.
INSIST ON GETTING IT.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica, i
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or ;
Limbs. (
The Old Reliable English Remedy. *
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstke & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick (
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists 1
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy* 1
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. <fc Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstke & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
Trial
30 Days’
Free
EVERY Weak, Nervous, and Enfeebled Man or
Woman will find ELECTRICITY as supplied by our
Perfected and Patented ELECTRO-GALVANIC BELT
a wonderful restorative to robust health and vigor.
TEST IT, FREE OF CHARGE. We ask the readers of
this paper to remember that this offer is made by a firm
with twenty-five years’ reputation in Australia.
We desire that every sufferer should wear this mar-
vellous Belt and test its healing virtues for thirty days,
as we are certain that it will cure, .and that the,wearer
after the month’s trial will then prefer to keep rather
than return the Belt. Do not miss this opportunity to
regain your Health, for Health mean Wealth, Health
and Strength means Happiness in mind and body.
Enjoy a full measure of life by being strong and robust
to a vigorous old age.
Remember, we give a WRITTEN GUARANTEE with
each Electric Belt that it will permanently cure you. If
it does not we will promptly return the full amount paid.
Send for our ELECTRA ERA and Price List (post free),
explaining our different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also TESTIMONY, which will convince the most sceptical.
ADDRESS :
German Eleotric Appliance Company
63 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.


lEiiissn
IKUIT.
Hennessy’s
Hold the
Largest
Stock
on
Earth
of
Genuine Bottled
Cognac
Brandy.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
f
m
AARON’S
Exchange Hotel Co.,
SYDNEY.
The system of paying for Room only an
Meals as required is adopted here.
£3 3s. per Week
9s. per Day
W. W. AIKEN, Manager,
30 Years in the Establishment.
GORDON MARE, Secretary.
S. FREEMAN <f SONS
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S
FREEMAN’S
BAKING
PRIZE
POWDER.
PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE : WTNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
PREFERENTIAL TREATMENT
has always been meted out to
Cameo Cigarettes
They are preferred before other brands on account of their unfailing and consistent evenness
of* quality, which makes them the most reliable cigarette you Can smoke.
■xr.-.fy^rZ^'?X
€P:jB'V.£Qi£l«
1:®
%' si
• i f i- if J. ( J.i_ •!!
UM
yftlil
sSiliifi!
\h i,
mam
. <! )(?},
HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and two minutes from
entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
Tariff, 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments may be
secured separately by the day from 3s. and upwards.
Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted on applies
tion to The Manager.
THE
A BEAUTIFUL FABRIC.
lOUis* Velveteen.
NOTE WELL! —Each Yard of Genuine “ LOUIS ” Velveteen
bears the name (spelled L"0"U“l“S * n no other
way) and is stamped with a guarantee of wear.
dh
The Flood of Thought,
And possibly the flow of Language, Is aug-
mented by the discovery of a perfect negative
on a defective plate. The use of the
NEW “AUSTRAL” DRY PLATE
Can always be depended on, because it Is ALWAYS FRESH FROM THE
FACTORY. Leading Photographers call it “PERFECT.”
Send for list of Published Testimonials.
The “AUSTRAL” is CLEAN, RAPID, BRILLIANT,
and free from all Defects. Three Speeds. All Sizes.
MANUFACTURED BY
Sydney.
Melbourne
Adelaide.
The Baker & Rouse Proprietary Ltd
QEORQE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and BRISBANE.
To Smokers of High Class Mixture.
s.stiim
(Registered.)
MIXTURE
Choice Blend of High Class and Carefully Selected TOBACCO.
Packed only in patent air-tight tins.
-•- • •
Manufactured in two strengths—Medium and Full. Price, Is. per 2oz. Tin.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. 24.—N0. 1228.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 37, 1903.
Price 6d.
COME IN AND UNITE.
David Evans an ex-Mayor or Beadle or other unimportant person from London, has been explaining in recent interviews that be is shocked
narrow mindedness of Australians who shew no desire for closer union. If Australia is narrow Evans’ own crowd is cettainly wide enough.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Auslrnlians. ,f
Printed and Published by William Macleoh, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... OIS 0
Quarterly ... ... ... RIO
NOTICE.
By sentfiny direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed To William Macleod, managing Director.
Literary communications to be addressea to the Editor.
Special Notice.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number, is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in JilacTc and White.
A nyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and, interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa— Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown;
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal; Solomon
and Wilson, 22 Hout St., Capetown; Solomon and
Wilson, Commissioners Street, Johannesburg ; Granger
Bros,, Johannesburg ; Isaacs and Co., Durban ; Argus
Printing Co., Rhodesia; Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
Ceylon. —Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver
B.C.
Hons Kong. —Brewer and Co., 23 Queens Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai. — Brewer and Co.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 27, 1903.
Gerrymandering—and Top-doggery.
G. H. Reid himself supplied the criterion by
which to judge his public actions when once, in
the recklessness of his impudence, he confessed
that he “wanted to be top-dog,” and that was
why he had acted in a certain way. The top-dog
motive was apparent enough to many before that
confession, but the admission set the seal of
validity on what was already the intelligent, if
not the popular, verdict. Entering politics from
that academy of garrulous insincerity, the
debating club, G. H. Reid first sought prominence
by his eye-glass, his flippant Toryism, and the
elegance of his clothes. The Reid of those days
was minded to be a dandy, when comedy in the
drawing-room seemed to be a more promising role
than his later buffoonery in the kitchen. But that
was soon dropped. For one thing, it didn’t fit
Reid physically. Nor did it fit the times. G. H.
Reid, the pseudo-radical, with jolly fatness in
his knapsack for every working-man voter, and
a conviction that, after all, the gallery was
the paying part of the house, then came
on to the stage. There was in him urgent need to
get on —to be “top dog.” Drawling out Govern-
ment House cynicisms promised nothing. Cul-
tivating the Labor vote, and joking about his
own obesity in a familiar way on the hustings,
showed as a better game. It was played for all
it was worth. What a humble fellow was the
Reid of those days; how studious to disavow
and repudiate any disloyalty to Parkes whilst
he was strangling the old man politically;
how proud to invite a Labor member to tea ;
how strenuous and unscrupulous to use the
working-class dissatisfaction with George Dibbs’
strike policy as a means to power! The reward
came, and G. H. Reid was at last top-dog,
Pakkes pushed aside (in time his death-bed to
be placarded with Reid’s posters), Dibbs ousted
from office, G. H. Reid Premier. He was a
sort of Premier on sufferance at first; a stop-
gap expedient until Parkes was ready to lead
again, or Wise, or M‘Millan, or Bruce Smith
stepped into his shoes—a Premier who had
to pray humbly to that worthy and dull
cow-merchant Brunker to join his Cabinet
and lend him aid. But when a man of
great acuteness and no principle, except that of
being top-dog, gets to power, he holds it for long.
So it was with Reid. He gerrymandered the
finances and the civil service, popular moves both,
especially the former. A Premier who could
reduce taxation, take burdens off “the stomachs
and the backs of the people,” was a fine fellow
indeed to the common eye, which saw nothing of
the honest effort of Dibbs to keep down the bor-
rowing curse, or the reckless indifference of Reid
to the nature of the expedients by which he could
reduce taxation and still show a surplus. And so
on until the end, when the top dog lost his balance
from too much elevation, forgot some of his cun-
ning, thought that he had become strong enough
to dispense with fawning, and learned in what
estimation he really was held. Trace it from the
beginning until this day, and throughout his
whole-political career George Reid has had but
one motive—to be top dog, and never a scruple of
generosity or of principle has smirched his fidelity
to that ideal.
Now that Reid has come before the electors of
East Sydney on the highly honorable, incensed-
virtue ticket, the facts as to his past must be kept
in mind. The best witnesses as to a man’s present
purpose are his past actions. On that principle
(and it is one which is accepted as an axiom in
judging men’s motives) it is not too much to say
that—supposing a great preponderance of the
surrounding facts suggest that George Reid is
acting in this case from motives politically honor-
able and straightforward, but some out-of-the-
way circumstance, some strained and improbable
argument, can justify the contention that his
purpose is selfish and unworthy—that contention
should be unhesitatingly accepted. George Reid
has fully earned that he should be considered
always as being a little apart from even the worst
of ordinary politicians. His Yes-No on the great
national issueofFederation, and his calm confession
subsequently that it was based on his desire to be
top-dog, warrants criticism of him as a man who
simply could not take up an honorable and sincere
stand on any political matter. It is necessary,
therefore, when considering the action of Reid, in
resigning from the Australian Parliament and
coming before his electors “as a protest against
the Government manipulating the electorates,’’
to dismiss at once from the argument any idea
that an honest indignation or a righteous desire
to protest against a wrong is in any way respon-
sible.- - George Reid may vow that it is so—he is
not often frank in his political knavery—but, if he
does so vow, that only increases the probabilities
in the other direction.
• * * »
George Reid might harbor in his mind a
grudging envy of another politician who had
gerrymandered electorates, or he might view with
some disdain an effort in that direction, thinking
with disgust of how much better he could have
done the work himself. But of any higher
feelings in such a matter he is simply in-
capable. His whole political career has been one
of chicanery and manipulation.- His gerry-
mandering of the finances of the State of N.S.W.
was as serious a scandal as the public life of Aus-
tralia affords. An incident of his career in N.S.W.
when he acted precisely as Minister Lyne has done
in the present case—burked a redistribution of
electorates because it did not suit him or his party
—is so small compared with his other political
crimes that it is hardly remembered now. For
him to act the virtuously indignant over such
a matter is, therefore, reminiscent of Boccaccio’s
mock penitent, who, after committing every
crime in the complete calendar, professed a fury
of remorseforhavingaceidentally eaten on. aFriday
a herring which had a slight flavor of bacon. The
probable circumstance is that G. H. Reid is
now faced with certain unpleasant facts—that
M ‘Millan does not intend to do his work for him
any longer ;• that the Freetrade party is tired of a
leader who never leads; that he must do some-
thing uncommonly big and noisy to draw to him-
self the attention which he has lost by neglect of
his political duties. A resignation on a decent
pretext is just the thing under the circumstances.
It gives G. H. Reid a great advertisement,
the cost of which the country pays. It draws
off attention from his constant neglect of his
political duties during two sessions, At the
same time it allows him to remain in Sydney,
attending to_ his private business, for a month or
so, freeing him from all obligation to go to Mel-
bourne. Some admiration for Reid’s acuteness is
compelled. A resignation looks like a wonder-
fully self-sacrificing move. Under the present
circumstances it is exactly otherwise. Reid gets
the credit for sacrificing his personal interests to
the public good, not merely at a cheap rate, but
actually at a profit.
* * * *
The actual political result of the resignation
and the return of G. H. Reid, without opposition,
or with such opposition only as may be entered
upon to show contempt for his trick, will be, of
course, nil. The electoral position is this: The
growth of population in some districts, and the
changes effected by the granting of the franchise
to women, have to some extent altered the voting
power of the N.S.W., Victorian and Queensland
electorates. The work of re-distribution was en-
trusted to independent officers, and the altera-
tions suggested found favor neither with the
Government nor with the majority of the House
of Representatives. Accordingly the alterations
were vetoed, in the case of Victoria, with
the eonsent of a majority of the Victorian
representatives; in the case of N.S.W., with the
State’s representatives about equally divided.
It was contended by the Government that the
redistribution had been effected in such a way as
to show an obvious blindness to the fact that the
depopulation of the drought-stricken areas was
likely to be only temporary, and to create some
needlessly unwieldy divisions. Further, it was
maintained that time would not allow of referring
their work back to the officials, and that the new
elections must consequently be held on the old
basis. It is more than probable that the first
argument was not wholly sincere and the second
not wholly true. At any rate a reasonable sus-
picion is suggested by the fact that Minister
Lyne has been in charge of the matter. But it is
absurd to say that the Federal Government pro-
poses to gerrymander or manipulate the elec-
torates. What is intended is to stand by the old
divisions, which were as fair as was reasonably
possible three years ago when made by the State
authorities. They may not, probably are not, as
fair as is reasonably possible to-day and would
be much better for modification. Still it
is not proved that the proposed new electorates
were much of an improvement on the old, and
the very big majority in the House of
Representatives affirming otherwise casts a reason-
able doubt on that contention. There is, of course,
a deal of top-doggery in other politicians than
Reid, but nevertheless some good faith is to
be credited to Parliament, and Parliament has
been, to a very marked extent, of one mind in con-
demning the proposed re-distribution. Consider-
ing a position in which it is not possible to come to
a decided opinion, this much is clear —however
strong is the suspicion that the Federal Government
has wilfully delayed a re-distribution of seats to
which Parliament was opposed, there is no ground
for charging it with gerrymandering in its own
interests, for at the worst it proposes to leave the
electorates unchanged, as they were defined by
State authority a few years back. The gerry-
mandering charge is on a piece with Reid’s not-
yet-forgotten “ Melbourne conspiracy ” fiction.
* * * *
The East Sydney bye-election should be treated
with contempt. It is really a Reid trick to excuse
himself from attendance at Parliament for a time,
and to secure a cheap advertisement. Whatever
its result it would prove nothing on the gerry-
mandering issue. If Reid were defeated it
would be an indication, not that East Sydney
approved of Mr. Lyne’s manoeuvrings over
electoral redistribution, but that the electors were
tired of a buffoon, an insincere preacher of Free-
trade and practiser of Protection, and a degraded
politician whose only idea in politics is to be
top-dog. If Retd is successful (as is more
probable) it will simply show that the importers
still find him a useful enough tool, and that the
general body of the electorate is not yet awake to
the scandalous estimate it gives of itself in being
represented by such a man. No direct vote on
the electorates question is possible. George
Reid might just as well have taken his holiday
by resigning some months ago on the last ques-
tion about which he became excited —the prosecu-
tions of his importing friends. The idea didn’t
occur to him then, or perhaps he didn’t want a
holiday arid an advertisement. Now that he
does, the country must resign itself to paying the
bill for the election with as good a_ grace _as
possible. The bill is really the only serious thing
about the incident. >
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Letter from Nagambie.
J. A. MTntyre, secretary of the anti-Federal
Capital League, which recently started Kyabram-
ming at Nagambie (Vic.), writes in remon-
strance :
The Bulletin, as well as the rest of the Sydney people,
appears to have mistaken ihe feeling which has prompted
the opposition in this State to a Federal capital being
built in the bush The people here, as far as I can judge,
are simply opposed to the waste of money that will be
involved in the building of a Federal capital. And if it
can be shown that they cannot honorably withdraw from
the compact entered into, they say, then let the Constitu-
tion be amended to allow the seat of government to be in
Sydney. This, at any rate, is the feeling here in
Nagambie, where the first anti-Bush Capital League wag
formed. We feel that it is a matter of bread and butter.
And this is one of the most solvent little towns in the
States. There has never been an insolvency here, and a
bad debt is an unheard-of thing The Shire here which
contains 3000 people (and not a couple of gohannas, a
poverty-stricken goat, and a horse looking for an easy
grave, as your caricature in a recent issue would lead
people to believe) is about the only Shire in Victoria which
is out of debt. In fact, every institution here is out of
debt, including a rowing club with £6OO worth of assets,
so that we are not the backblocky town you depict us as.
And we never repudiate our obligations. The Bulletin
is read here and paid for, and your able articles on bor-
rowing and wasting money have had something to do
with the opposition here to more money being spent.
The whole thing is summed up thus : Our total popula-
tion is about 4,000,000, our total indebtedness £200,000,000,
our interest bill £8,000,000. This averages £2 per head
of population. The adult tax-payers are about one-fifth
of the population, so that we pay on an average about
£lO per annum each of the interest.
So Nagambie’s remedy for everything is to let the
Federal capital be in Sydney. But if it is in
Sydney it will be necessary to put up a Parlia-
ment House (Sydney’s State Parliament House is
an old and desperately over-crowded structure
which is always threatening to fall down,
and it won’t hold two Parliaments). It
will be necessary to build offices for the
Federal Departments. The State Government
offices have already overflowed into hired
premises, and they can’t be utilised. And land in
Sydney costs about as much per foot as it would
per square mile on Monaro; The Bulletin
knows of a nice block, about large enough for
a Parliament House, that can be had for perhaps
£250,000. The expense of settling the Australian
capital in Sydney would be, probably, as much as
that of settling it on Monaro with the cost of
acquiring a large Federal territory thrown in.
And there would be this difference: In Sydney
all the expenditure would go to increase the value
of adjacent privately-owned properties; not a
copper of the increased land values would be
available to reduce the taxes of the people of
Nagambie. In the bush, where the Australian
Government would own the land for miles around,
the expenditure of £2,000,000 in starting a new
city would probably add £5,000,000 or
£10,000,000 to the value of the Government’s
adjacent land. That would be leased for building
purposes, gardens and farms, and the income de-
rived from it would help to save Nagambie paying
taxes. If Nagambie can’t see a small thing like
that, then it has more cows than intelligence. It
starts on the theory that if the Australian Parlia-
ment settles on Monaro it must live in a palace ;
while if it hangs out in Sydney it will put up in
the common lodging house—which is a fool of a
theory. Nagambie is just cutting its own throat.
As regards the cost, no sane person proposes to
borrow a copper The money could be raised as
a perpetual loan without interest by adopting the
Canadian banking system, whereby the banks are
required to hold 40 per cent, of their cash
reserves in Government notes. That would
create a fund which would supply the Federal
capital either in Sydney or in the bush.
But if the capital were in the bush, where the
Government could be sole ground landlord of a
large area, there would be a huge profit—all the
rents derived from the Federal territory would be
so much to the good, and these rents could be used
as a sinking fund to reduce the public debt. In
Sydney there would be no such profit. And now
the best thing the Nagambie anti-Federal Capital
League can do is to give a loud bray, and dissolve,
and go out and brush its ears against a tree.
♦
The Cheap Workman and the Cheap
House.
Just before leaving the Victorian Treasury Raven
Shiels is said to have declared that men in Aus-
tralia would yet be glad to work for 30s. a week.
The statement may not be strictly true of Shiels,
yet it probably is true ; in any case, it certainly
represents the Tory dreamer’s ideal. And if that
ideal is realised the thud of falling rents in all
directions will sound like the Customs Depart-
ment falling on the head of alleged Senator Reid.
It is impossible to get blood out of a stone, or £1
a week rent out of a man who only earns =£l 10s.
Just as soon as the wages of masons and brick-
layers come down to 30s. there will arise the rows
of cheap houses built on thirty-shilling principles.
They will be let at thirty-shilling rates to the thirty-
shilling workman, and the big landlords, who have
streets and streets of property built on a wage rate
of £3 or £4 or £5 a week, will have to lower their
rents to correspond, and will find their incomes
reduced by one-half. At present, just because of
high wages we have high rents and high property
values —the values are so high that Sydney and
Melbourne are valued at twice as much per inhabi-
tant as Leeds or Sheffield, and three times as high
as Dublin. When once the really cheap workman
comes along to build the cheap house all that will
be altered. The present landlords, with their
thousands and thousands of dear houses built by
dear workmen, may write off half their for-
tunes as a bad debt. The thirty-shilling
workman, when he can go and build a
house on thirty-shilling principles, won’t pay
the old rent simply because the old house
was built by a four-pound workman on four-
pound principles, and either rents must drop
or the old houses built on four-pound principles
will be deserted. Then there will be a glorious
time for the financial institutions which lent money
on property values which were fixed on the basis
that it cost so much to build a house with the aid
of four-pound workmen and with bricks made by
three-pound workmen. The spectacle of the
landlord class trying to cut down the income
of its own tenant so low that he won’t be able to
pay the rent is calculated to make the gods
laugh, if the' gods were in the property-owning
business.
♦
The Meddlesome Australian.
The S.M. Herald is not a vigorous paper as a
rule ; it is rather mild, grandmotherly, and out of
date. But it has bursts of energy, and when it
finds somebody doing something brave, sensible
and patriotic, the rage in its rheumy eye and the
clatter of its antiquated feet are considerable.
The most angry moment it has enjoyed of late
years was that in which it produced a leader, the
other day, about the iniquity of those Australians
in South Africa who oppose the influx of Chinese
labor. A sample of its profound indignation
follows:
Not long ago an advertisement, in a South African
paper, calling for skilled laborers, ended with the signifi-
cant words, “No Australians need apply.” One would
suppose that the moral and material help which Aus-
tralians gave to their fellow-colonists when they were
assailed by the Boers was calculated rather to dispose the
minds of South African employers of labor in their behalf
How comes it, then, that this predisposition- has been
converted into an unfavorable prejudice? How does it
come about that the opposition to the introduction of
Asiatic labor into the Band is attributed to Australian
agitation ? The second question almost answers the first,
and it gives, at least, some ground for the coldness with
which employers of labor regard the applications of Aus-
tralians for employment. Our cables of the other day
reported that a meeting at Johannesburg, packed by
those who favored Australian labor for the mines, passed
resolutions recommending the postponement of the intro-
duction of unskilled labor from Asia or elsewhere until
after the establishment of responsible government.
Meanwhile—mineowners and other employers will be
disposed to ask—what is to become of our industries?
And another item from South Africa stated that Aus-
tralians were not in favor there, inasmuch as they were
regarded as the fomenters of industrial trouble.
The paramount question : If we don’t get China-
men, what is to become of our industries—the
industries of the mostly-German Jew, who lives
in London ? True, the Chinaman isn’t a nice
neighbor. The mine-owner admits that by not
living close to him —he only proposes that his
workman should be driven by necessity to live
close to him. The Jew in London will send him
to Africa to serve his (the Jew’s) turn, and
won’t take him away when he is done with
him, but will leave him there to be a
nuisance to respectable British subjects; and if
the German Jew can’t blight a British colony
by flooding it with objectionable heathens
what’s the good of being a German Jew? The
industries must be considered. Of course, the
industries would get on without the Chinaman or
the Hindoo either. They would get on more
slowly, no doubt, and the gold would take perhaps
three generations to exhaust instead of one, and,
instead of the Moses of to-day being bloated out
of all human shape with wealth, the bloating
would extend over three generations of Moseses.
But if the present Moses wants to flood a British
state with thousands and thousands of heathens,
and get the gold out all in a heap, and then go
away and leave these heathens to pervade the land
and destroy for ever all prospect of it being a place
where a British person can make a living, why
should any meddlesome Australian object? The
Australian is part of the Anglo-Saxon community
certainly, but the London Jew, and his desire to
get out all the gold at once and leave none for his
descendants or anybody else’s descendants, is the
first consideration. And the S.M. Herald, as a
religious paper, owned by a religious family whose
creed says that wealth isn’t the first consideration,
recognises that at the first glance.
— ♦
The Next Proposed Repudiation.
J UST before Federation came along Victoria waved
its hand in a lordly way and said, “Do the thing
properly! ” Among other matters it resolved that
its public servants who would be taken over by
the Commonwealth should have rights equal to
those enjoyed by officers in other States holding
corresponding positions. It had miserably under-
paid these servants for years; now it was going
to be just, if not generous, towards them —with
the Commonwealth’s money. So, at least, it
thought. But, unfortunately, this plan of being
liberal with somebody else’s coin had one flaw in
it. The Act was assented to on December 28th,
1900 ; it was not till February 28th, 1901, that the
officers were taken over. Between those dates
the Australian Government was obviously not
responsible for any portion of the officers’
salaries ; and the Victorian Government, though
it had passed the officers on to the Com-
monwealth at, say, £l5O a year, refused to
pay more than the old £l2O or so, even for those
intervening two months. The matter was referred
to the Victorian Full Court, which decided that
the Victorian Government was liable; and, though
Irvine talked of taking the matter to the Privy
Council, the idea was abandoned on English
legal advice. Yet, in spite of the Full Court’s
decision, the Victorian Government has not paid
up its debt to the transferred servants, and the
only satisfaction that can be got out of Irvine is
that claims which may be sent in will be con-
sidered. It is admitted that what the State’s
own Full Court has decided is a liability was
disregarded by the Treasurer, when recently
he made up his year’s accounts —in other words,
that he faked his surplus by shutting his eyes
to this liability. Irvine, however, it is now
announced, refuses to regard the claims (even
though endorsed by the Full Court) as liabili-
ties at all, and “contemplates repealing section
19, and making the Amending Act retrospective.”
In plain English, this means that he proposes to
ask the Parliament of the State to repudiate cer-
tain' of the State’s debts. The Full Court says
the State owes certain money; Premier and
Treasurer Irvine is, it is stated, going to ask the
Parliament to declare that it doesn’t. If Vic-
toria is willing to adopt heroic measures of that
sort to free itself from troublesome debts,
then the future may be quite free from worry.
Five-and-a-half millions will be due in
a few months, and the repayment of it
has been worrying the Treasury But, as the
Castlereagh-street loan-man says: “Why worry
about money ? ” The plan is simple—pass a Biil
repealing the law under which the loans were
raised, and make it retrospective. Bull-Cohen
will then present his small account; Irvine will
meet him on the doorstep, and explain to him
that it is all a stupid mistake on 8. -Cohen’s part
—that Victoria doesn’t owe him anything. There
are several large ways of paying small debts ; but
Irvine’s, or what is alleged to be Irvine’s, is
quite the largest and most comprehensive. There
is, however, still some hope that even a Kyabratn
Parliament may hesitate to adopt it. And, any-
way, if it is going to begin a policy of repudiation,
let us hope it will have the pluck to start on some-
thing about its own size. If it isn’t going to pay
its debts, let the news be broken first to Cohen ;
it will be an unspeakably mean thing to fir>t
practise the trick on a poor post-office clerk,
too feeble (through the Victorian policy of slow
starvation) to hit back.


The Disappearing Government.
Another large slice of the Australian Govern-
ment disappears this month, when Senator
O’Connor retires from the Ministry. The Cabinet,
when first formed, consisted of Kingston, Turner,
Deakin, O’Connor, the old Barton reputation,
and some ballast. Now two of its four big men
have gone, and the Barton Ministry is much less
easily visible to the naked eye than formerly. R-
E. O’Connor was the skilful politician of the
team. The harm he has done to Australian
nationalism by muzzling the Radical party in the
Senate and persuading that House “not to em-
barrass” Premier Barton by being too democra-
tic, has to be set against his good services in saving
the tariff from further mutilation and in piloting
through such measures as the White Australia
Act against the Freetrade opposition. And The
Bulletin does not know whether to be deeply
sorry that he is going out of politics or not; but it
is quite sure that it is very sorry for Premier
Barton, for he loses in O’Connor a most valuable
colleague. Conspicuously able in debate and in
the lobby, markedly loyal to his leaders, and
gifted with an ingratiating manner, Senator
O’Connor was of the type who can do anything
in politics. Rumor indicates that he will shortly
take on again the harness of Federal duty as
Chief Justice of the Commonwealth ; it would be
difficult to suggest a more suitable man.
♦
The N.S.W. Land Bill.
“Lux” writes very convincingly on the above
subject:
.ReN.S. W. Land Bill and the remarks of Wagga’s political
warrior, Gormly, that he would appeal to the House to
defeat the measure unless the Government consented to
include a provision to extend the per cent, rental
period on homestead selections to 28 years. This brings
into prominence the illogical attitude taken up by men of
the Gormly class, who also advocate resumption of
private lands for closer settlement. In the name of
common-sense, can any country seriously think of
resuming land for closer settlement, if the only return it
can get is a rental of 1J per cent, on its capital value?
The same Gormly is earnestly entreating the Government
to resume Mimosa estate for closer settlement, and yet
the figures show that, if resumed, it could not be leased
to selectors for less than 2s. per acre per annum. This
estate is in a less favored district than the one which 1 e
represents, and yet he claims that, in being asked to pay
6d. to 9d. per acre per annum, homestead selectors in his
own constituency are being imposed upon. But the thing
is ridiculous. Everybody in the Wagga district knows
that the homestead selector has a good thing on, and
that even at a rental of 2J per cent, on capital value he
can do well. The fact "that some homestead selectors
have sublet their holdings for three and four times the
rental they are called upon to pay the Government clearly
indicates that- there is “ something rotten in the state of
Denmark.” I know of one man who is getting £75 per
year from an unsuccessful land-seeker for his farm, and
his Government rental amounts to £l2. Other home-
stead selectors, again, are having their land cultivated on
the half-share system, and this, in ordinary seasons,
means a rental of from 10s. to 15s. per acre
at least, whilst they pay the Government at the
outside 9d. per acre. In the same district no land can be
got from privately-owned estates for less than ss. per
acre rental per annum. Truth of the matter is, this cry
for “ the man on the land ” is uncalled for. It is for the
unfortunates who can’t get land that something should
be done, and the fact that, if the Mimosa estate were
resumed and thrown open, it would be rushed even at an
annual rental of 2s. per acre indicates the number of land
seekers there are in New South Wales, and at the same
time proves that the “poor homestead selector,” in
getting his land at such a ridiculously low rental, is a
most fortunate individual. The profit being made in
sub-letting and half-share farming is nothing short of a
public scandal. And when the man who is already
getting his land at a fraction of its value bails up the
State, through the medium of such persons as Gormly,
for further concessions, it is a public swindle.
4
Three Alternatives.
South Australia has apparently broken abso-
lutely with the old slap-dash, borrow-and-build
railway policy. The first of the Government’s
works proposals—the Angaston line —has been
thrown out with extraordinary emphasis. Labor-
leader Price announced that he was, in the
future, not going to vote for a single railway
which would not pay from the start, and that
practically means that he isn’t going to vote for
any railways at all, and probably for hardly any
public works of whatever kind, for many years to
come. Price’s resolution has something to re-
commend it, yet it is a very ineffective and
unfinished affair at best. Australia doesn’t
want to knock off building railways and other
public works and sit down to stagnate; it
only wants to leave off building railways and
other public works out of loans , which is quite a
different thing. The loan habit is so chronic in
Australia that when anyone speaks of a railway
“ that will pay,” he means a railway that will pay
the current rate of interest on loans. Everything
in the way of public works is measured now by
the foot-rule of Cohen’s nose. There are plenty
of public works urgently wanted in Australia,
which would yield l| or 2 per cent, profit if built
out of revenue, and improve the country as well,
but which would represent a loss of or 2 per
cent, if built out of loans, and injure the country,
because the loss would outweigh the improvement.
The South Australian Labor party, if it is to do
any real good, must get away from the habit of
measuring everything by Cohen’s nose. It isn’t
enough to vote against public works that won't
pay on the Cohen’s nose principle. To do that is
merely to prepare the way for a great reaction in
favor of Private Enterprise and the land-grant
profligacy. Australia, like every other civilised
country, requires a continuous public works
policy, and there are only three ways of getting
public works:
(1) By building them out of loans.
(2) By building them out of revenue.
(3) By making extravagant and disastrous concessions
to Private Enterprise to induce it to build them.
Some day a Reform party must needs arise which
will set its face against No. 1. But if, through
sheer force of habit and chronic old rut, it won’t
adopt No. 2, then No. 3 will come in the end.
And No. 3 is about the worst thing that can
happen to any country.
♦- —t ,
The N.S.W. Squatters’ House.
New South Wales Government, at time of writ-
ing, had given no indication of what it intended
to say in reply to the contemptuous “No ” which
the squatter section of the Upper House gave to
the Amending Arbitration Bill of Attorney-
General Wise. As before pointed out, the Bill
was not of very great intrinsic importance; it
embodied no new feature of law, but was rather
declaratory and interpretative of the existing law.
But the squatters in the Upper House, and the
managers and directors of financial institu-
tions with big squatting interests, rallied
up and secured its rejection. Of the New
South Wales Upper House membership almost
an absolute majority consists of squatters
and bank and finance co. directors, so this stupid
bit of class polities was easily enough effected.
The actual point at issue as regards the Bill is,
perhaps, not worth the price of a Parliamentary
crisis. But the principle of democratic politics—
that the Nominee House of Cast-Off Politi-
cians must not interfere with the P° IC J
Government which represents the electors is,
worth anything and everything, and must be
maintained at all costs. The mciden g
Premier Seb a splendid opportunity. S: l " ce
took office as Premier a, great weary lethargy has
fallen upon N.S.W. public life. The Tired Feel-
ing has spread over Parliament as a pall, and
with the exception of loan measures and
little routine matters the Legislature has
done practically nothing. The demand ot the
hour is for something big, something exciting
John See and his colleagues and his Parliament
are gradually fading out of public view, appear-
ing only in comic and spasmodic fashion to say
something violent about Bieljim’s dirt money or
Tomjack’s drinks. Now Fortune casts into See _s
hands a chance to come on the stage in a digni-
fied role. There is a general impression abroad
that it is foolish to maintain the full panoply, ot
the old State Government, now that Federation
has given to Australia a supreme Parliament.
And the Upper House, like a foolish tortoise,
takes this opportunity of putting its head from
under its shell and inviting a summary reduction
of the Legislature by a whole Chamber. Let
John See draw his sword against that head, and he
will find a refreshing awakening of public interest
in his actions. The Nominee House has put itself
is an absolutely indefensible position, for it is
impossible to ascribe to any other cause than class
prejudice the summary rejection of a simple little
machinery measure; if it were otherwise possible,
the fact that the squatters and the squatters’ hired
agents practically monopolise the list of those
who voted to destroy the Amending Arbitration
Bill, would betray the fact that it was purely
a piece of squatters’ spite. If the country is asked
to say whether it is content to be governed by
a little coterie of squatters and the managers of
the Jew institutions which hold so many squat-
tages in their grip, the answer will be unmis-
takable. Premier See is now in the happy
position of being able to ask that question, and
to demand the abolition of the Upper House
as a necessary measure of reform and
economy. It’s a noble opportunity for See to
save his own political neck. He has peddled with
small things till he is likely to meet his political
end through the country forgetting his existence
—to die through becoming too small to be any
longer visible. If he set fire to a large building or
broke a large window it would be better than the
present state of things. The public begins to
mistake John See’s Government for an errand
boy. And now the chance to do something
large yet simple and cheap is delivered into his
hand.
The Senate Which Didn’t Clean Itself.
The Australian Senate showed a vast inability to
realise what was due to itself when it failed, last
week, to expel alleged Senator Robert Reid on
his disgraceful public ear. Robert Reid’s career
in the Senate has been short, but all through it his
presence has been an insult to political decency
and an outrage on the public intelligence. In the
first place he was elected to the Senate, being at
the time a member of the State Parliament, in
defiance of a law which says that no member of a
State Parliament is eligible to be so elected. His
election was wholly illegal; his presence in the
Australian Parliament is wholly illegal. The
chief reason why no move was made to throw out
the bumptious interloper when he first appeared,
was that he was then in trouble with the Customs
and there was a feeling against treading on the
worm when it was down, no matter how much
it deserved to be down. Robert Reid’s other
qualifications as a Senator are that he was a
tenth-rate failure as a State politician; that he
never in all his life said anything worth listening
to, or did anything worth reporting in the Parlia-
mentary news ; that he is a person of limited in-
telligence, and apparently, judging by things he
said in Parliament, of very narrow” education;
that he is an importer—one of the class which
acts on behalf of foreign manufacturers to repress
Australian industries lest they should interfere
with the importing business ; and that he is the
head of a firm which ranks simply as a convicted
swindler of the worst kind—the kind that robs its
own country. And this same Reid recently had
the effrontery to tell a meeting (Melbourne Age
report) something to this effect:
The men returned to the Federal Parliament were not
a credit to t.he race from which they had sprung. Some
of them did not even pay their debts.
Australia has met the bumptious bagman on many
occasions and in many aspects, but. it is diffi-
cult to remember when it met him in a meaner
aspect than this. Robert Retd’s own firm
had just paid its debts, when it was dragged
into the court and made to. pay them, and
had also acknowledged its guilt, and admitted
that it had been treated very moderately,
all things considered. Reid himself is a more
utter discredit to the Australian Parliament than
anything else that has befallen it up till now.
And being asked by the House which he infests
to specify the members who didn’t pay their debts,
he didn’t even show the common virtue of courage,
which might have done something to make up for
his utter want of other political virtues.. He told
the Senate that he didn’t refer to it, which left it
as a self-evident fact that his unmanly insult
referred to the House of Representatives the
House which has no chance of getting redress and
which can’t get at him by any known lawful
means to make him prove his words, or make him
admit that they are of the same nature as his firm s
late invoice. And the Senate let the matter go at
that, instead of ejecting the humorless and
inflated bagman, as he deserved. Unless the
Senate shows more anxiety to keep itself clean in
the future than it has done in the past it isn t
likely to be much of a Senate.
The Cable Agreement.
The Senate —which, in some respects, has shown
itself more radical and more Australian than
the House of Representatives—has given a very
close consideration to the proposed Federal agree*
ment with the Eastern Extension Cable Co.,
moved thereto by Senators Higgs and Stani-
fokth Smith. There is not the least doubt that
the agreement is unfavorable to Australian
interests. The Commonwealth, as the largest
shareholder in the Pacific cable, should strive to
give all possible preference to its own cable, and
consequently to limit the business of the Eastern
Extension Co. But the isssue is confused by the
fact that the Eastern Extension Co. already
possesses interminable agreements with N.S.W.
and South Australia, giving it big business con-
cessions, and that the Commonwealth is asked to
give an agreement of its own as a substitute for
these, which it is bound to carry out. The
question is whether it is good policy or not for the
Australian Government to give the Eastern
Extension Co. an agreement for 12 years covering
the whole of Australia, in exchange for the present
eternal agreements which that co. possesses with
certain of the States. Senator Staniforth Smith,
who is something of an expert in regard to cable
business, argued in the Senate last week that the
exchange was a bad one, and he seems to have
made out his case. If the Commonwealth
allows the existing agreements to stand, it will be
able, Senator Smith points out, to still secure for
the Pacific cable, by levying heavy charges against
the E. E. C. Co., a monopoly of V ictorian and Queens-
land business—amounting to about one-half of the
total cable business of the continent. With that
fact as a lever, the Commonwealth can surely
extract a better concession from the Eastern
Extension Co. than an agreement binding it for
12 years to treat that co. on absolutely equal
terms with the Pacific cable, and to grant it full
facilities for an undercutting competition as re-
gards private business. The Commonwealth un-
doubtedly can, in one sense, but perhaps not in
another. The E.E. Cable Co. is a well-
managed private monopoly, and treats its em-
ployees, from the lowest clerk to the highest
manager, with wise generosity. Its salaries,
compared with those paid by any Australian
Government for the same class of work, are
exceedingly high. Naturally the big money
attracts the big talent, and whenever the E.E. Co.
has negotiated with an Australian Government in
the past it has scored—not always perhaps by
mere force of talent, sometimes possibly also using
persuasive means. But whatever the means, it
has always been able to “get round” a State
department; and there are other private cos.
which are able to do the same. That’s part of the
penalty which Australia pays for its traditions of
Kyabramism (which didn’t begin with Kyabram
at all, but can be traced back easily to theN.S.W.
Owe’Sullivan and back from him to scores of
others who sought ignorant radical support with
denunciations of “high salaries”). In this
Eastern Extension cable matter, the best course
seems to be to reject the agreement altogether,
and then to take the steps in favor of the Pacific
cable suggested by Senator Smith. It is fairly
certain that the Commonwealth Government has
been bamboozled into treating the E.E. Co. far
too kindly. When there are such good methods
of competition open to Australia, a far more
favorable agreement could probably be secured.
The E.E. Co. is in no way to blame for doing the
best it can for itself ; but the Australian Govern-
ment should follow its good example.
♦
The Lamentation of a G-aud Mayor.
A more or less important person named David
Evans, who was once Gaud Mayor of London
and head of the rotten corporation thereof, is now
in Australia, and getting much undue considera-
tion for his crude and insular views on various
matters. Evans comes from a country which
doesn t require to make laws against the influx of
undesirable niggers, because its climate alone is
sufficient to keep the undesirable out. As his
own country doesn’t require any such laws, Evans
is allowed to say at great length how shocked he
is that any other country should find them neces-
sary, and holds that the proceeding is “un-
English.” Evans’ own country holds that its
Hindu subject is an inferior wretch who must be
debarred from all control over his own political
affairs, who has no right to own his native country,
and to whom the alleged British principle that
taxation and Parliamentary representation go
together doesn’t apply ; yet he is much broken up
when Australia takes the British nigger at
Britain’s own valuation. But probably the most
remarkable evidence of the average Bi’itish visitor’s
inability to get out of his own rut is revealed in
this remark, gravely reported as a pearl of ex-
Mayor Evans’ wisdom by a Sydney paper:
There is danger ahead in regard to class legislation in
the colonies. If I may be allowed to express an opinion,
the tendency is to legislate too much for labor. It may
succeed temporarily, possibly for a number of years, but
it cannot last. It does not require a genius but only an
ordinary mind to predict what the outcome will be—it
WILL EXCLUDE CAPITAL FROM ENTERING THE COUNTRY.
The English visitor almost invariably runs on
these lines. The rock of assumption on which his
brain is founded is that there is no capital except
British capital, and that if it doesn’t “enter the
country ” then the country can’t have any capital.
As a matter of fact, such an enormous amount of
capital has already entered Australia that
we hardly know how to pay the interest
on it, and if much more comes we will prob-
ably “burst.” Foreign capital coming here
almost invariably wants to take the interest or
profits or rent out of the country. Already
£13,000,000 a year is going out of the Common-
wealth in this way, which, in proportion to
population, is the same as if the United Kingdom
had to send away ,£130,000,000 a year to pay
interest to foreign investors. It is time, and
more than time, to stop this entry of foreign
capital—otherwise the importation of debt. If
Australia can keep its exports on about . the
present level, and cut down its imports (princi-
pally from Evans’ country) one-half, then it
will begin to accumulate capital of its oim, even
after paying its interest bill, at the rate of about
£14,000,000 a year. Then there will be no influx
of foreign capital, for all the good opportunities
for local investment will be taken hold ot by
local capital. Also foreign capital will be driven
out of the country, for its investments will be
bought up by the local capitalist. And then,
perhaps, England will cease to export to us fat-
neaded Gaud Mayors, to warn us solemnly lest
we lose the opportunity to get deeper in debt
than we are already.
The Necessity for Getting 1 Rid of
Bill Lyne.
The necessity for throwing Bile Lyne bodily out
of the Australian Ministry is becoming a very
urgent necessity indeed. There is hardly a rumor
or accusation of any public job, shuffle or scandal
in the Federal sphere but Bill Lyne appears to be
the centre thereof. The scheme for placating a
horde of members by taking them on a cheap trip
round Australia was Lyne’s. The row about
the attempt to appoint Bill Lyne’s friend
Martin to the Australian public service centred
wholly in Lyne. The Federal Capital Com-
mission enthusiastically selected two unsuitable
sites in Bill Lyne’s electorate, and again nasty
things were said. The shindy and scandal about
the proposed Federal electorates again finds
Lyne well in the front. The public begins to
recognise that Lyne can no more learn or realise
that there is anything in politics except a constant
buzzing around to placate this man, to breathe in
the ear of that one, and to pat the other, than a
Chinaman can become white. Also that he can
no more conceive the idea of holding office
simply by a large, brave, intelligent, statesman-
like policy, which placates no politicians with
flattery or drinks, but which compels politicians to
follow simply because an outraged country would
throw them out if they did otherwise, than an
aboriginal can conceive the higher mathematics,
It is Lyne’s misfortune, probably, that he is what
he is, but the country can’t afford to entrust its
affairs to any man because of his misfortunes. It
should be a large item of every democratic creed
that Bill Lyne Must Go—and must remain Gone.
♦
Premier Irvine of Victoria has declared that his
policy will include the compulsory resumption of
large estates to make room for closer settlement.
If he carries out that good idea as completely as
he has carried out many bad ones, in the past
well, it will cover a multitude of sins. Certainly
circumstances are forcing the resumption policy
on Irvine. The most fertile parts of Victoria
have about four persons to. the square mile yet
just because big landlords insist on keeping the
country as a mere sheepwalk the farmers’ sons are
leaving Victoria wholesale, driven away by sheer
inability to secure land. This departure of tax-
payers, and people who would share the debt
burden, and people who would patronise the
railways and reduce the railway deficit, is turning
Irvine’s hair white as he struggles to square the
finances, and the necessity for shifting some of
the dreadful Clarke and Chirnside and Mani-
fold curse can’t be shirked much longer.
•
Our old friend, the precocious girl-child with the
vivid imagination and the story of the dreadful
things done to her by the imaginary villain
whom she identifies first try, duly turned up at
Brisbane Criminal Court last week. Her police
court story was a fine piece of fiction with an eye
to local color and minute detail. At the higher
court, however, she hopelessly entangled herself
in the plot of her story, and under cross-examina-
tion by barrister Blair made a string of hair-
splitting contradictory statements, and after the
lunch adjournment altogether failed to appear,
leaving the mystery to be unravelled by the Court.
Chief-Justice. Griffith directed the jury to bring
in a verdict of “not guilty,” but, as usual, refrained
from making any remarks whatever concerning
the vile behavior of the vicious little prosecutrix,
whose perjury will, presumably, pass unpunished
as usual.
After receiving sentence of five years’ penal
servitude, the other day, at Brisbane Criminal
Supreme Court sittings, convicted gold-coin-
diminisher (quite a novel criminal profession, by
the way, in Australia) Willow asked : “ Will you
grant me a favor, your Honor? May I petition ? ”
Whereupon his Grim Honor, Chief Justice
Griffith, exhibited palpable ignorance or
bitter prejudice by throwing these loose,
nasty, and absurdly illogical remarks off
his judicial chest:—“lf you had asked me
that earlier I would have given you a longer
sentence. It shoius that you are an experienced
criminal, and have been in gaol someivhere where
the leave of the Court had to be obtained to petition.
It is not necessary to obtain leave in Queensland.”
The ridiculous and totally groundless assumption
that, because a person has gathered some vague
idea of the legal technicalities of some other State,
therefore he must be an experienced criminal and
have served terms of gaol there, would be un-
pardonable in a layman, but in a Supreme
Court Judge it is nigh criminal in ad-
dition to being intolerable bigotry. If a
man has lived in a State where that question
is constantly being asked in the courts and re-
ported in the law intelligence, he must, if he reads
the papers, have come across it frequently.
Griffith might as reasonably say that if a man
has a knowledge of the burial customs of many
lands, that shows that he has been frequently dead,
and is a hardened and inveterate corpse—and that
would be a ridiculous thing for even Griffith to
say. Also, Griffith’s own knowledge in.this
matter, according to Griffith’s own distinct and
emphatic statement, proves that Griffith has
himself been in gaol in some other State. And
that is a very silly thing for Griffith to prove.
Tasmania’s lingering Propsting Ministry has at
last faced Parliament. Its first act is to oblige
the Tory crowd which wants reduction of taxes
first and foremost, no matter what happens.
Premier Propsting proposes to sacrifice over
£30,000 of revenue by cutting down the income-
tax imposed by his predecessor, Neil Lewis, and
after doing so he expects to have a surplus of
£7Bl. He doesn’t charge the cost of the smallpox
outbreak to the year’s revenue, but puts it away
in a suspense account, else he wouldn’t be able to
show, even on paper, anything but a huge shortage.
The new Government really expects to have a deficit
of about £IOO,OOO, which will be disguised by
charging ordinary expenses to loans. Pkopsting,
in fact, totally abandons the policy of his prede-
The Hustling Apostle.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To-day the Yankee prophet comes to town,
And all the saintly world begins to bustle,
And clergy staid who walk in decent gown,
Must step aside to hear the Yankee hustle ;
He mends your broken spirit while you wait,
And leaves you duly washed and cleansed at the
Gate.
No solemn chant Gregorian doth he lift
What time he goes to save the sinful laic;
No faith hath he in penance sharp and swift;
No trust in pilgrim peas and ways prosaic.
He smiteth Satan ’neath his jaw of grime,
Then takes a breathing spell—while backers
murmur “Time!”
Doth not the Land of Wooden Nutmegs breed
A furious brood who run the race diurnal ?
The Goal is sometimes Grace and sometimes
Greed —
But run they must—amid a crush infernal.
They save you wholesale—rush you down the
Fold
And sell you haloes cheap—beside the Gates of
Gold.
Oh, sweet the story falls from Yankee lips
(As sweet as dews that fell on ancient Hermon)
The nasal twang—how lovingly it trips
And lends a subtle charm to all the sermon,
Until Redemption comes with rush and roar
And drops the softening dews on every callous
c re.
It seems we weary now of rite and form
Of storied shrine, of nun and novice kneeling,
Of windows gleaming all with colors warm,
Of far cathedral chime and glorious pealing.
An auction bell must sound the Sabbath toll,
A stop-watch tell the time it takes to save a soul.
So now, when nasal accents fall and rise,
The tender souls that love must fly affrighted ;
The flower of Reverence sadly droops and dies
As droop the roses which the worm hath
blighted;—
And hark ! above the stupid listening train,
We hear the Hustler hoarse with bawling “Saved
again ! ”
PHILANDER ELAM.


SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Strips
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application
B. MOUNTGASTLE & S0)IS B3ISBAME.
u
L
WH
S
K
V
RABBITS!
ARE THEY TO BE
A PROFIT OR PEST?
It rests entirely with our settlers whether it shall cost them and the State a large amount
annually to continue the war which has been. waged against “ bunny ” for years past,
whether they will take the trouble to turn him into an asset which will bring a steady
revenue to the country and provide employment for THOUSANDS of its people. The
Rosewarne Packing Company, Ltd., is now receiving rabbits at its works in Young,
Narandera and Sydney. The highest market price is given in return for freshly-killed
rabbits free of any commission or charges. For f urt ] ier particulars, address—
THE ROSEWARNE PACKING COMPANY, Limited,
HEAD OFFICE-
-70 PITT ST., SYDNEY
NARANDERA
or YOUNG.
cessors, who aimed at reducing the great accumu-
lated deficit every year, and when he throws even
that small amount of financial prudence over-
board, any idea that he will exert himself to
abolish the iniquity of using more than half the
loan funds for revenue purposes may be given up.
Propsting got his billet largely by pandering to
the advocates of the meanest kind of public dis-
honesty, and Lewis lost his because he didn’t
pander. This unfortunate land is full of people
like Propsting.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ My Lady Molly.”
royal “A Midsummer Night’s Dream.
Lyceum . “ Worst Womanin London.”
Criterion “ The Price of Sin."
Palace “ Secret. Service.”
Ti voli .■...' Rickards’ Co.
Phillip Park Wirths’ Circus.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK
Princess’s “ Are You a Mason?”
Her Majesty’s “If I Were King.”
Theatre Royal “ The Golden Ladder.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Circus Building Fitzgerald Bros. Circus.
(off Princes Bridge)
«
“The Girl I Left Behind Me,” an Ameri-
can melodrama staged at Sydney Palace on Satur-
day, shares with the London-manufactured article
the feature that it might have been named almost
anything else—“ The Worst Redskin in Indiana ”
or “The Soldiers’ Revenge.” In all else it is
different. There are no impossible situations,
no machinery sensations, but a brisk story
of love and adventure, full of manly sentiment
and fine courage. Not of so high a type as “ Ari-
zona,” which had some character studies sugges-
tive of good comedy, “ The Girl ” is more exciting
in its incidents, and it rouses the audience
to very eager interest —especially at the close
of the second and third acts. The stoiy runs
on fairly familiar lines. There is the heroine who
is loved by the good soldier and is going to marry
the bad one ; an attack by Indian braves and, in
its illuminating light, a revelation of the true
character of everybody ; and a happy sorting out
of the brave men and fair women, with wedding-
bells in the near distance. A feature of the drama
which is notable is the effective and reverent way
in which a fine bit of the English language, usually
monopolised for religious services, is used. Fort
Kennion is besieged by Indians, who threaten to
massacre the men and to make the women slaves.
The defence is at its last gasp and the soldiery are
on the point of killing their daughters, sisters
or wives, to save them from a worse fate ; when,
very impressively, two verses of the Burial Service
are declaimed, beginning “ Man that is born of a
woman.” Religion has been frequently introduced
into dramas, such as the “Sign of the. Cross,”
with the result of degrading both the piety and
the drama. In this case the effect is wholly good.
* * * *
The Frawley co. has already proved itself
one of merit, and in this piece it adds something
to its reputation. Miss Van Buren succeeds in
a role requiring some dramatic intensity, and
Misses Blanche Douglas, Eva Dennison and
Valerie Brenton alike do well in various
character parts. Of the men folk, Daniel
Frawley and Jeffrey Williams show best;
but Reynolds, Plimmer and Shaw are also
good features of the play. In fact, there are no
bad features. The Frawley organisation is a good
stock co. which can’t play such pieces as “Sans
Gene” with very conspicuous success, and can
give a horrible impression in French farce, but
which knows all about American drama. And
American drama seems to be good, judging by
samples, and not constructed on wooden nutmeg
lines. “Secret Service” is to be staged on Satur-
day next, though, judging from appearances,
“ The Girl ” ought to be good for a month.
* * #
At Sydney Lyceum the alleged “ Worst
Woman in London ” is playing the deuce in four
acts and 14 scenes. Probably it isn’t fair to the
lady to expect her to do all her worst things in
four acts and 14 scenes ; she won’t get a chance to
show what she really is capable of till the British
melodrama is reformed on Chinese lines, and the
play is continued in a prolonged row of crimes
from day to day, like one of “Mr. James’s”
thrilling stories. Still, in the time, Frances Vere
does pretty well. She marries a rich old man
and murders him ; drives another man mad ;
makes awful fools and wrecks of some more ;
fastens crimes on to a few extra men (including
’ero Inman); and tries to grill her step-daughter.
She is still going strong at 11.15, when it becomes
necessary to hurriedly kill her off so that people
may catch the last tram. Miss Linda Raymond,
who has been out of William Anderson’s casts
for a couple of years, is the Worst Woman,
and looks handsome enough, and wears enough
beautiful clothes, to be a very bad lot indeed.
Still, she would be a much better Worst Woman
if she were a good deal less self-conscious. On
the whole, her rendering of the part is not con-
vincing. She leaves you with the impression that
she isn’t half such a hard, cynical syren as she is
represented to be. Miss Guildford, who, as a
rule, plays villainy better than virtue, is this time
the good step-daughter whom the bad step-mother
wants to cook, but who escapes along a telephone-
wire while the delighted gallery shouts itself
hoarse; and she plays no heroine’s part better.
Inman, the fair hero ; Willard, the dark villain;
Bailey, the person who makes the jokes; Carey,
in a character part, very well done indeed ; Stir-
ling Whyte, as old-man James Milford, who
has money, and is therefore killed —all are in their
old familiar places, doing, some of them as well as
usual, and some of them a little better. Finally,
the mounting is very attractive (much better than
when the same piece was staged in Sydney before),
and the orchestral music is bad enough to call for
remark.
** * *
The beautiful “ Midsummer Night’s
Dream” is nearing its end at Sydney Royal.
The advertisement sets forth that it must shortly
be withdrawn in order that George Musgrove
may “submit to the critical taste of Sydney”
(which is a really nice way to put it) further
Shakspearian plays on a scale of gorgeousness
which will break the city up with amazement and
knock it all of a heap.
## # *
The Westminster Abbey Glee and Concert
Party, already mentioned in this paper dur-
ing its visit to Melbourne, will commence a
season at Sydney Town Hall on washing day
(most well-regulated families seem to wash that
day) 7th September. It will also hold forth on
the 10th, 11th and 12th. What it will do after
that will be announced later.
** * *
The tents of Kedar, which were black,
were not a circumstance beside the great green
waterproof variety in which Wirth’s circus faced
an enthusiastic Sydney audience on Saturday
night. A feature of the Wirth show is the
scientific arrangement of the shocks. The spec-
tator isn’t overwhelmed. When the writer
entered the show his remaining hair rose at the
spectacle of the headless body of a small child
revolving rapidly upon a sort of horizontal spike.
When it unfolded and disentangled itself from
several knots it turned out to be little Masinga,
the contortionist, who had turned seven just a few
minutes before the show opened. The taste of
this exhibition is taken out of the mouth by the
hilarious entry of the football dog, who plays a
fast forward game, and runs rings round the
clowns till they make a scrum of it. Wild
animals play a big part in the show, and they
have an irreverent way of snapping at the human
occupant of their iron-clad ring that suggests
sensational possibilities. The beasts are kept to
their own ring, which is surrounded by a high
fence of iron spikes. There are points about that
ring: first, the audience can watch the trainer
being eaten without any worry, and secondly
it prevents any possibility of the animals suffering
from over-indulgence in audience should they
mutiny any night. The same artistic order is
observed with the animals. Their exhibitions are
worked up like a short story, in paragraphs, to a
fine climax. Mons. Ragoul, having shown his
ability by making his animals walk tight ropes,
do bounding jockey acts, drive chariots, and so on,
Pagel steps into the ring and, seizing his lion,
flings him down on his side, falls upon him, and
with his gigantic hands opens the lion’s jaws and
exhibits the teeth of the cantankerous object. It
is not a full-grown lion, but it is sufficiently grown
to make the game dangerous. Some night Pagel
may miss his grip, and there’ll be a sensation for
which the management might charge extra if it
could only fix the night. Between these violent
acts are others that are merely pretty and cheer-
ful, such as the serpentine dance on horseback and
the human butterfly of Miss Phyllis Wirth. The
lights turn low suddenly and reveal a draped
figure dancing in the gloom. She gyrates and
floats from the ground to the back of her pony and
gallops round the ring, and then suddenly the
pony gallops on and leaves her floating in mid air.
The Howard Brothers, though marvellously
clever, are not picturesque. The powerful Yankee
accent, which ought to be cut out with an axe,
makes half of what they say unintelligible, but the
trick is done most accurately. Their skill is almost
as good as their taste in tobacco. Everybody who
gives the visiting Howard a case containing good
cigars, so that the other Howard may guess what
the object is, receives back fewer cigars than he
gives. Howard doesn’t even say “thank you,”
but merely intimates how many he has taken.
Next time this writer visits the circus he’s going
to hand that Howard with the awful accent some
cigars which look good, but which will make him
wish he had died young.
** * *
“ Lady Molly,” at Her Majesty’s, Sydney,
wear ? her riding habit gracefully and the beauti-
ful y-fitting court-suit elegantly, and sings “Kiss
Lad, but Never Tell ” and other frolicsome songs
as freshly as ever. No one is ever seen to grow
tired of love-making, or heavy footed in the
dano'3, or grey in the hair, or dim in the eyes in
comic opera. Lauri’s grin is as head-girdling as
usual, and his wild dance with Marietta Nash
in which they swing each other over the lady’s
train rouses the sport-loving community of Syd-
ney to enthusiasm. Betting as to whether Lauri
will get entangled in the train and fall in a heap
is heavy. Celia Ghiloni causes some persons con-
siderable anxiety when she comes on as Lord
Tomnoddy, and these same persons do hope that
the material in his lordship’s tubulars is strong.
Celia ought to forego cream, potatoes, chocolates,
and the like, for if she grows better nourished she
will cease to adorn a Virginia-creepered landscape,
and be only fitted for the rolling hills of the dairy
farm. Evelyn Scott, who was a stranger to Sydney
audiences till she appeared as Alice Coverdale in
the opera, is an attractive ingenue with a light,
bright soprano voice, which she uses neatly
in the songs she sings to the man she won’t
marry, and to the man she wishes to marry.
The clash of swords in the unseen duel between
Thorley and Roberts has a realistic tinsmith-shop
sound, but because of their songs immediately
after one forgives them for not shedding each
other’s gore. Color arrangements in the ballets—
the reel and rush and rout of orange, rose and
gold—are nearly as well managed as those of a
first-class sunset, and are much better than those
of a plain sunset.
** * #
“ The Price of Sin,” at Sydney Criterion,
is higher than it is at most places. The Cri.
sinner doesn’t even start to have a good time. He
is “broke” when he turns up from the races in
Act 1., and he is dead when he leaves in Act IV.
Most of the time in between he is plotting to
get married to Beatrice Holloway, who won’t
have him at any figure, and planning rob-
beries that don’t come off. The way to de-
struction is said to be broad ; but still Godfrey
Cass isn’t able to dodge the stumps, and he falls
over one every few yards. The piece itself is a
curious but by no means uninteresting mixture of
melodrama and pure farce. When you go to see
melodrama you are supposed to tie your sense of pro-
portion to your umbrella, and leave it in the cloak-
room. If you do that, you don’t see the absurdity
of it when the hero, on the way to gaol, after con-
viction, has an affecting love passage with the
heroine at the gates, the warders discreetly stand-
ing back for a quarter-of-an-hour while an early
marriage is arranged. If you take all your senses
with you—well, you get shocks; and in “The
Price of Sin” even a few more violent shocks
than usual. Shutting the eye to these in-
congruities, however, the story is interesting
and rather pretty. Moreover, good work is put
into it. Miss Beatrice Holloway, as the usual
persecuted maiden, is a rapidly improving young
actress, who does he,r part quite as well as any-
thing she has done in this season ; and Godfrey
Cass, the bad young man who travels the thorny
road, does a good deal better. Albert Lucas, as
an old soldier, makes a small part stand out very
The Late CAPTAIN JOHN BROOMFIELD,
of Balmain, Sydney.
Photo, by The Crown Studios, Sydney.
conspicuously ; J. P. O’Neill has a character that
doesn’t fit him very well; and Miss Deorwyn,
Miss Conroy, John Hesford, and Vivian Edwards
do satisfactory work. The “Price” will be paid
till further notice.
** * *
Miss Sylvia Blackston’s concert in the
Y.M.C.A. hall, last week, exhibited the contralto
in good voice after her provincial tour. She was
assisted by soprano Selig, and pianists Constance
Usher, and bass-singer Robyns.
** * *
In a varied bill at Sydney Tivoli just now
the Brothers De Wynne, athletes of great
strength and agility, a clever serial turn by Miss
Addie Fredericks, and W. C. Fields’ juggling are
the chief features. Fields has an exceptionally
clever way of eking out his juggling skill with
comic business. As a juggler he probably wouldn’t
last 10 minutes : as a juggler and a funny man
he keeps the house a-laugh for half an hour. If
he and George Reid travelled together, and Fields
balanced the quart of loose boiling water on his
nose while George balanced the great moral prin-
ciple on his ear, they would both be Premier of
Australia after next election.
** * #
“If I Were King,” which rattled its tin
armor at the Sydney public last December, and
again last month, came as a Melbourne novelty to
Her Majesty’s on Saturday night, and was rushed
in an encouraging manner. Also, the crowded
house warmed up to the difficult narrative as soon
as its meaning was understood, and although a
favorable first-night verdict on a romantic,
fabulous drama doesn’t ensure the support of the
outside world, the prospects of “ If I Were King”
are pretty fair at time of writing. Considered in
comparison with the monotonous sensation dramas
of modern Cockney foolishness, Justin M'Carthy’s
high-pitched fiction is a worthy effort. Its faults
are frequent and very glaring, but its merits are
considerable. The story strives to excite some
interest in matters whereof football bar-
rackers, as a rule, are profoundly ignorant.
It reproduces for their instruction a caricature
of Louis Onze, the cunning, genial, superstitious
French monarch, who trimmed his cap with
leaden effigies of the blessed saints, but was
nevertheless a sufficiently business-like person to
burst-up the rival kingdom of Burgundy, where
the wine comes from. And, above all, McCarthy’s
romance is designed to find favor with the multi-
tude by making them feel Good. A drama that
appeals to the deteriorated human capacity for
feeling nine feet high in noble sentiment is, at any
rate, a deserving production, which the average
theatrical show is not. Unfortunately M'Carthy’s
poetic intentions are marred by his lapses into the
language of to-day. American expressions and
up-to-date sentences crop up among the soliloquies
and conversations of French characters dated 500
years ago. As a work of art “If I Were King ”
is a poor outcome of Rostand’s “Cyrano de
Bergerac.” The French dramatist, even in
the bald English translation, gave a more
medieval color to Cyrano’s surroundings than
M'Carthy gave to his setting of the white-
washed criminal, Francois Villon. The one
play was the inspiration of the other. This
can be felt and seen (though it is not easy to ex-
plain) by anyone acquainted with both works.
* * * *
Cuyler Hastings is a likeable Villon, the
verse-maker and brawling taverneer of old Paris,
and equally likeable when he attains the position
of Constable of France on a seven days license.
He’s not everything an actor might be in so heroic
a part, but he is several things that the average
actor couldn’t be. There’s a force and earnest-
ness in his declamations and his love-making, and
perhaps he represents the impossible more natur-
ally than a more finished and flexible artist could
do it. The performance of Miss Chevalier leaves
a similar impression. Her vibrating intona-
tion, which sounds like a borrowed trick of
speech, is peculiarly effective in situations
the most unreal. She walks, as a Maid
of Honor, into a disreputable pub, and desires
the adoring Villon to kill another fellow for her
convenience. Subsequently, she loves Villon in a
violent hurry, without knowing him for the man
she had met overnight; then she scorns him for
revealing the truth about himself, and at last she
offers to be hanged for him, and all the time one
is disposed to take the unreal lady somewhat
seriously. Atholwcod as Louis XI. is a disap-
pointment to the present writer—just an old man
with an old bronchitis voice doddering around in
the character of a terribly humorous autocrat.
Miss Mabel Lane shapes well as the reckless, im-
proper female, masquerading in the tights and
cloak of a comic-opera Hamlet; and Edmund
Gwenn is a representative drunken citizen and
leader of uproars. “If I Were King” contains
an exceptional quantity of uproar, and the spec-
tacular effects are well managed.
** * *
The brief Nellie Stewart season at Mel-
bourne Princess’s is a triumphant blaze of busi-
ness, terminating on Friday (28th). “Dolores"’
had a magnetic attraction for the sex that seems
to be vastly giddy in theory, though mostly other-
wise in practice, and therefore the expensive,
spotted spinster was billed for one more “ fall ”
a farewell matinee “ fall ” —on Wednesday of this
week. Sweet Nell, the bright, honest heroine who
falls without a snivel, had three revivals, the all-
round performance of the dramabeing rather weaker
than of yore, especially on last week’s matinee
occasion, when an uneasy young novice under-
took the part of Rochester and took it further under
than could be wished. On the next occasion the
name of the original young man remained on the
programme, but his place was taken by Westma-
cott with much better results. Two nights of
“ Mice and Men ” will have been registered on the
silent slate of Time ere these passing comments
come to publication. Two performances of “ The
Country Mouse, ” plus “A Pantomime Rehearsal,”
carry Australia’s best Nellie to the point where
she will be expected to make a short speech, and
utter thirty-five grateful curtseys in response to a
farewell demonstration. The sweet sad perfume
of Friday’s mass of floral tributes can be sniffed in
advance.
** * *
On Saturday comes “ Are You a Mason ”
to the Princess’s. The smart comedy co., which
plays the “Mason” under J.C.W. management,
has earned the proverbial golden opinion of many
cities and places hereabouts, and is about to repeat
the proceedings in Melbourne on the threshold of
its annual Agricultural Show.
** # *
Bland Holt, at Melbourne Royal, has
rather strangely decided to close his horsiest of
dramas —“Going the Pace”—this present week
and mount “The Golden Ladder” on Saturday.
The “Ladder” in question is noway related to
“The Ladder of Life.” It came from the factory
of G. R. Sims; it is solemnly described by
Bland as a “ melodomestic play,” previously pro-
duced on a scale of realism which the forthcoming
production will outrival.
* # -* *
Melbourne Opera House is getting a full
share of the new prosperity enjoyed by Melbourne
shows in general. This week’s programme draws
attention to another extra matinee on Saturday,
also it brings glad tidings of Madame Marzella’s
educated eagle who shames all his subject birds of
the air by looping the loop on a cycle. First
loopearance of the Eagle was due on Wednesday.
The advt. said it would be a thrilling sensation.
He is an American Eagle, captured in infancy
from the nest of the national Bird of Freedom
and reduced by Madame’s tender influence to the
ignominy of travelling on wheels.
** * &
In the musical world of Melbourne, the
returning figure of Mark Hambourg casts a long-
haired shadow before, and the prospect of a con-
certo, with Mark at the piano, against a back-
ground of Marshal Hall Orchestra, is like unto a
glimpse of Heaven. Meanwhile, the Saturday
concerts at the Exhibition Building supply a more
humble want, and Fitzgeralds’ Circus will start a
10 nights’ season at its permanent iron building
on Saturday (29th). Fitzs’ Circus is not a
musical item in the strict sense of the word, but
it includes a vigorous brass band, which plays all
the time, and it harmonises with Melbourne’s
prevailing spirit. In the spring, the local fancy
loudly turns to thoughts of Horse.
** * *
“ Time ” sends this justifiable lament;—
“ There was an element of pathos in the cast of “ The
Serenade ”at Melb. Princess’s. The character of a has-
been operatic tenor, who still believes in his voice and
dreams of reconquering the public with his jagged top-
note, is played by Clarence Leumane, and Leumane, as
the younger generation doesn’t know, was longtime the
tenor for the Firm, and the Australian original of leading
parts in several Gilbert and Sullivan operas. Off the
stage the well-read veteran is the very antithesis of a
battered operatic relic, like the man in “ The Serenade,”
nevertheless the lines he has to speak must hurt him a
little in the utterance. And O 1 it was too cruel of a
Bulletin notice to mis-print the word Lemmone for
Leumane, in allusion to the latter’s performance. Time
was when a comp, coming across the name of flautist
Lemmone in any par relating to a musical show would
have been apt to take it for that of the better known
tenor. Not such a very long time ago, either.
Leumane’s engagement with the Firm extended on and
off from 1887 to ’9l or thereabouts. He was imported
for the part of Hilarion in “ Princess Ida ” (the Gil. and
Sul. Opera in which Aggie Kelton made a hit) and he
appeared with Charles Ryley in the first production of
“ The Old Guard.” It was he who played name part in
the historical performance of “ Faust”—March 3 1888—
when Federici, as Mephistopheles, fell dead oil the
“ trap ” whilst descending with Leumane to the infernal
regions beneath the stage. And now that historical
tenor is so far forgotten as to be easily disguised under
another fellow’s name—in The Bulletin, of all papers.
** * *
At Adelaide Royal, Dan Barry has finished
his drama of the clergyman who was casual enough
to let both his wife and his daughter go astray iu
turn, and good-natured enough to take them both
back home when they had done with “Gilded
Sin”; with the comic interlude of an elderly
spinster who was induced to get drunk in full view
of the audience. He has now entered upon a
week in which the “Sea Gives Up its Dead.”
Barry, by the way, carefully refrains from naming
the authors of his plays. At the Tivoli, Grace
Emmett is still the chief attraction, but has
exchanged her Irish-American sketch for one of
the German-American type popularly known as
“Dutch.” Hill and Sylvainy, with their trick
cycling, now help to make up a strong programme.
One of the characters in an Australian
story in Macmillan’s goes to Sydney to see the
Caulfield Cup.


rtutr
TRAMWAYS FOR MINES.
ECONOMY IN HAULAGE.— Horse *ljd (lray is cheaper than a wheelbarrow, but an
up-to-date Tramway, with suitable rolling stock for manual, horse or loco, traction,
is still more economical and expeditious. Large Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane
Stocks of Steel Rails, Mining Tip-trucks, Portable Tramway, Switches, Turntables, &c.
INDENTS.— Dog-spikes to Compound Locomotives— i.e., EVERYTHING.
SSt Our CATALOGUE is yours for the asking. fS3i
CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY APPLIANCES
Prop. Ltd., 40 Hunter St., SYDNEY. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager
Representing Orenstein and Koppel, Ltd., London, Berlin and Paris. *
Branches—Melbourne, Brisbane, Cairns and Zeehan (Tasmania).
City Leader, July, 1902, writes re the Colonial
Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited: —“ The Directors,
with their characteristic foresight, always place security
before interest. Notwithstanding the difficulty in
obtaining remunerative rates the interest rate has slightly
increased as compared with the previous year”*
The Pioneer Tin Mining Coy. of Bradshaw’s
Greek, Tasmania, which has had a most successful career,
have decided to increase their plant, and have placed an
order for a very large and powerful Suction Dredge and
appliances with the Austral Otis Engineering Company,
South Melbourne, who built their original plant. The
new Dredge will be fitted with a 15" Sand pump, and a
compound condensing vertical engine of 450 horse power,
and two boilers of the marine type, for a working
pressure of 1601bs. to the square inch. The pontoon ,to
carry this plant will be 60ft. x 50ft. by a depth of oft.
The plant will be capable of raising 100 cubic yards of
tin drift per hour to a height of 80 feet into sluice boxes.
The new plant is very similar to the older one but con-
tains improvements in detail suggested by the two years
experience of the older plant. _ The latter has done
excellent and continuous service since its first start. The
average cost of raising tin drift to a height of 70ft.
during the period above mentioned, including cost of all
repairs and renewals, has been less than 3d. per cubic
yard.*
• * * *
A. Kozminsky, 106 Queen-sfc., Melbourne,
having returned from England, is now prepared to
purchase paying mines, and mining properties (not
merely surface shows), situated in any part of
Australasia requiring further capital for development and
machinery. Only genuine and legitimate ventures,
capable of bearing the strictest examinations will be
entertained.*
* * * *
With a constant sensibility of l/3000th. grain,
assayers will welcome the “Galopin’* Assay Balance
(price, with weights, £21.) “It is all you claim for it,
writes a customer to de Beer, Silberberg and Co., of
Gasoline furnace fame, Bourke-street, Melbourne.*
* * » *
H. Brandon Skertchly, geologist, mining engi-
neer and assayer, is prepared to furnish scientific reports
and plans to British and Australian investors. Assays
undertaken, and inquiries re mining properties, promptly
attended to. For fuller information apply to H. Brandon
Skertchly, Norman Chambers, Creek-street, Brisbane.*
*.• * *
George Morrison, Stock and Share broker
(member Brisbane Stock Exchange), 377 Queen-street
opposite Stock Exchange, Brisbane. Agents all parts of
the World. Correspondence invited.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd,, 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
Hedley Hawkins, sharebroker, Queen-street,
Brisbane (member, Brisbane Stock Exchange); has agents
every important mining centre and cities of Common-
wealth. Correspondence invited.*
* * * *
About the best Brand for Sheep now in the
market is Kemp’s Branding Liquid. It goes further and
is considerably cheaper than any other. It will dissolve
in the scour, and should certainly be used by those who
hope to get a good price for their wool. E. Rich and Co.,
Sydney and Brisbane, hold stocks.*
* * * *
British manufacturers have been beaten in an
open competition by an Australian engineering firm. We
have ascertained that the Mond Gas Co. of Staffordshire
have accepted the tender of Mephan Ferguson, of Mel-
bourne, for the supply of about 13 miles of Ferguson’s
Patent Lockingbar Steel Pipes, from 18 inches to 36 inches
diameter. The machinery for manufacturing these pipes
has all been made at Ferguson’s General Engineering
Works, Footscray, and shipped to Tipton in Staffordshire,
where the branch works are being erected. The same
firm have also erected engineering and pipe works at
Wanganui, New Zealand, and have contracted to supply
the Wanganui Borough Council with 17 inches of Spiral
Riveted Steel Pipes for the town water supply.*
* * * *
E. Garland Abell, Registered Patent Agent,
159 Queen-street, Brisbane. Inventions patented. Trade
Marks registered throughout the world.*
• * * *
Broken Hill South Blocks occupy the mostly-
flat country immediately south of the South mine ; the
latter holds the extreme south end of the main outcrop.
Work has been purely developmental so far, and has been
confined to shallow levels ; 125,000 tons of ore, fairly rich
in lead, but very poor in silver, have been blocked out
above the 200 ft. level. The mine would pay if lead were
at £l3 per ton, or if some way were found of getting out
a great deal more of the metals from the ore than they
know how to at present, but not otherwise. The co. i 9
handicapped by having no concentrating plant; and its
cash balance has been reduced to £22so—utterly in-
sufficient, of course, to purchase any.
o#^
SUN
HIGHEST
QUALITY
BRAND
SOLO
EVERYWHERE.
By Special Appointment to His Majesty the King.
The Wild Cat Column.
Tasmania stands in a particularly wretched
position with regard to its public debt. When the last
official figures were issued it owed £52 4s. Id. per head,
which is a pound or two under the Australian average ;
but its proportion of debt spent upon things which
yield no revenue is far greater than that of any other
State of the Commonwealth. All, indeed, that it could
ever show was £23 Os. 7d. per head for railways and
16s. 4d. for telegraphs. The following list shows the
amount per cent, of total debt represented by revenue-
yielding works which have been built out of loans in each
State
Loans Spent on Works Loans Spent
Yielding Revenue. Otherwise.
Victoria .. .. £B6 7s. percent. £l3 13s. per cent.
N.S.W 80 Is. „ „ 19195. „ „
Westralia.. .. 72 Bs. „ „ 27125. „ „
S. Australia .. 71 Is. „ „ 28195. ~ ~
Queensland ... 61135. „ „ 38 7s. ~ ~
Tasmania.. .. 45 12s. „ „ 54 Bs. ~ ~
And that is not all. Not only has Tasmania spent so
vast a proportion of its loans on things which yield no
revenue, but even the works which are supposed to yield
revenue do so to only a microscopic extent. Practically
the whole of these works are railways ; yet the railways,
though they are improving materially, pay less than half
of the interest on cost of construction. The annual
report of Tasmanian railways for the past year, lately
issued, shows that, notwithstanding the State’s unusual
prosperity during this period, the expenses mopped up
74 - 30 per cent, of the gross receipts, leaving only 25-70
per cent, to pay interest. The New South Wales posi-
tion was thought to be bad enough—certainly it
was much worse than for many years past—
yet here nearly 32 per cent, was available for interest.
The net receipts represented 1-56 per cent, of the
Tasmanian capital expenditure, while the interest is 3'76
per cent. In other words, the railways (the State’s best
asset, apart from the unsold estate) paid £llls. 2d. of the
interest; and £2 4s. had to be made up out of taxation.
Even that is a better result than the average. And
Tasmania can’t blame “socialistic legislation,” or the
Labor party, or “ interference with private enterprise ”
for these ghastly results. It did not know what a Labor
party was till the other week, and hardly knows now.
• * • •
The best that can be said of the bulk of past
loan transactions in N.S.W. is that most of the money was
spent on railways and tramways. Certainly these rail-
ways and tramways did not always pay ; but, on the
whole, given capable management, they were at any rate
capable of yielding some direct return, and in a few cases
actually earned their own interest. Down to 1898 the
N.S.W. loan expenditure had amounted to £60,188,041,
of which £40,693,272 had been put into railways and
tramways ; that is, £6B of every £lOO borrowed had gone
into these more-or-less satisfactory revenue-producing
works. By 1902 the total borrowings had reached
£72,011,847, of which £45,414,483 was represented by
railways and tramways, or only a few pence over £63 in
every £lOO. In these four years, instead of 68 per cent,
of the loans going into these works, only £4,721,211 of a
total of £11,823,806, or slightly under 40 per cent., was
thus spent; and instead of 32 per cent, being frittered
away in “ other services,” over 60 per cent, was got rid
of in that way. Since 1902, instead of improving, the
position has been getting worse. In the Supply Bill
introduced to the Assembly on July 30 authority was
sought to pay £251,744 on loan account, of which only
£79,694 was for railways—the balance was for bridges, and
river improvements, and mooring accommodation, and
water supply (which ought to pay, but doesn’t), and sewer-
age, and additions to the University buildings, and to buy a
lift for the Crown Law offices, and other trifles. This, then,
is the record : Before 1898 N.S.W. spent 68 per cent, of
the loans on railways, and 32 per cent, on trifles which it
ought to have paid for out of revenue ; from 1898 to 1902
it spent 40 per cent, on the railways and 60 per cent, on
the trifles ; at present it is spending 32 per cent, on the
railways and 68 per cent, on the trifles.
» * * •
The Union Bank of Australasia
Profits. Dividends.
£ £ £ £
Aug., 1897.. 37,436 5 p.c. = 37,500 1,024,503
Feb., 1898.. 47,696 5 „ ~ 37,500 10,000 1,024,699
Aug., 1898.. 42,579 5 „ ~ 37,500 1,029,778
Feb., 1899.. 42,071 6 „ ~ 45,000 1,026,849
Aug., 1899.. 48,514 6 „ ~ 45,000 1,030,363
Feb., 1900 .. 92,002 7 „ „ 52,500 50,000 1,019,865
Aug., 1900.. 79,825 7 „ ~ 52,500 25,000 1,022,190
Feb., 1901 .. 86,628 8 „ „ 60,000 25,000 1,023,818
Aug., 1901.. 95,681 8 „ ~ 60,000 35,000 1,024,499
Feb., 1902 .. 96,714 8 „ ~ 60,000 25,000 1,036,213
Aug., 1902.. 93,931 8 „ ~ 60,000 50,000 1,020,144
Feb., 1903 .. 109,649 8 ~ ~60,000 50,000 1,019,793
On the total shareholders’ funds—capital and reserves
combined—as at the commencement of the last half-year
the ordinary profits were equal to £8 14s. per cent., as
against £7 13s. 3d. for the corresponding half of the pre-
vious year. Deposits amount to £15,949,227 as against
£15,418,748 twelve months ago ; and bills and advances,
&c., £14,371,229 as against £14,498,978. The bank has
investments totalling £1,458,239 ; but hardly any of this
is in Australian stocks —Australian Government and
municipal stocks are bunched together, and even then
the bunch represents only £88,355.
• • •
The appendices to Treasurer Butler’s Budget
speech show that the S.A. public debt on June 30, 1902
(inclusive of the Northern Territory), was £27,828,370, or
£76 Bs. Bd. per head for the population. The annual
interest charge is £920,768, or £2 Us. 2d. per head. When
S.A.’s public debt reaches £lOO per head it is intended to
hold a centenary celebration.
* * * •
Broken Hill Water Supply, Ltd. :
Carried
Profits. Dividends. to Deficit.
Reserves.
June, 1897 13,365 {wnttenoff = 4485} ~ 1( >.507
Dec., 1897 15,705 10 per cent. = 9,325 6380 4,127
June, 1898 11,779 10 „ „ 9,325 2454 1,673
Nominal
Dec., 1898 15,760 10 „ „ 9,325 6435 4,762
June, 1899 16,161 15 „ „ 13,987 2174 6,936
Dec., 1899 16,845 12J „ „ 11,656 5189 12,125
June, 1900 19,557 12J „ „ 11,656 7901 20,026
Dec., 1900 17,923 15 „ „ 13,987 3936) 97
Premiums on 13,500 new shares issued 3379/
June, 1901 14,116 15 per cent. = 15,000 26,457
Dec., 1901 10,250 10 „ „ 10,000 250 26,707
June, 1902 11,386 10 „ „ 10,000 1386 28,093
Dec., 1902 13,200 10 ~ „ 10,000 3200 31,293
June, 1903 12,893 10 „ „ 10,000 2893 34,186
In the foregoing, the paper asset —“Water rights,
leases, Parliamentary- Bills, &c., £25,194” —is disre-
garded. And even a good part of the rest ought pro-
bably to be likewise disregarded, because, though the
co. takes in its works at cost price (something over
£160,000), it has now only about 14 years’ rights in that
property—at the end of that time the whole concern goes
to the State without compensation. If the co. gave up
possession of the works now, it would have, in addition
to the purchase money, a surplus of £48,366 after paying
current liabilities. The highest price which, it is said,
the Government is prepared to even consider is £150,000.
If the works are only worth £150,000, and the surplus of
liquid assets over liabilities is £48,366, then, as the paid-
up capital is £200,000, it is obvious that a deficit of £1634
instead of a nominal surplus of £34,186 should be shown.
The co. is of course earning practically nothing at
present; and, though it has had a remarkable amount of
luck in escaping opposition hitherto, its prospects just
now are gloomy. Even if it should still have the field.to
itself, the mining companies’ demands for water- will be
probably considerably reduced as the result of the new
condensing system. _t.
T Carter • You seem to be under the strange im-
prtHseionthat this paper was complaining because-that co.
only paid 10 per cent,, whereas it l earned on paper
not writing off goodwill items. *
The Mutual Store, Ltd. (Melbourne)
Added
Written to Re- Re-
Profit Dividends Off. serves, serve.
July, 1900..£1967 3J p.c. =£1875 74 l 7
Jan., 1901.. 2448 U „ „ 1875 - 7604
July, 1901.. 2062 3| „ „ 1875 7812
Jan., 1902.. 2083 3i ~ ~ 1875
£12,500 capital written off.
July, 1902.. 2583 5 p.c. = £2500 £5054 28 1
Jan., 1903.. 3214 5 „ „ 2500 00,
Julv. 1903.. 2584 5 „ „ 2500
Profits for the half-year ended January, 1903, were
Profits for tne nan y _ ece ived by way of bonus on
E ra£f t^KbSpS
the past half is the best fOTseveral^year.
agofnthe reduclion of the heavy debt has not been main-
tained. The movement lately in this matter has bee .
Owing on Mort- Interest Paid
gage & Overdraft. during i-year.
Juiy, 1900 .. .. £64,713 .. £lB^
July’, 1901 .... 73,101 ... 1924
Jam, 1902 72,853 - J™ 7
July, 1902 .. ~ 72,445 ... 1079
Tn n 1 • 69,371 • • 1681
T ?** iqaq " 69 920 .. 1636
It is aZeavy swag for aco. with a paid capital of £lOO,OOO
to carry - the interest for the past 12 months, the lowest
for yeZs’, has been equal to very nearly 3* percent on
this latter amount. The last half-year’s profits have been
equal to £4 19s. lOd. per cent, per annum on capital and
reserves. „ *
There is a great storm—in the N.S.W. Free-
trade daily press-about the ‘‘ ridiculously low pnce at
which tea for Government institutions is bought, ine
trouble, however, is not that decent tea cannot be pro-
cured at the price, but that the atlyerGsing of sevenpence
a pound as a rate for tea exposes the great
swindle. The tea trade is mostly carried on on the lines
of selling for a shilling what is fairly worth fourpence,
and as the newspapers get a very large slice of the exor-
bitant middlemen’s charges, they are willing to back up
any efforts to keeD the truth from the public. A tea of
the average quality of some of the “special blends in
the market could easily be sold at sevenpence, and allow
a reasonable profit.
* * * m
The Castlemaine Brewery and Quinlan,
Gray and 00., Ltd. (Brisbane): .
Added Nominal
Written to Re-
July Profits Dividends off Reserves serves
ss r <*554 Sgi
1900 .. 10,981 7,757 3224 14,575
1901 .. 9,538 - . 22,863 - 1. 250
About £90,000 capital written off.
1902 .. 9,026 9026 10,27 b
1903 .. 7,498 5 p.c. =£3750 3748 14,024
The business in which the co. is engaged is a very risky
one : and it would probably have been better had the
reserves been further strengthened before a dividend was
declared, more especially as the co. is still working to a
great extent on borrowed money. Certainly the progress
which has been made in wiping out this debt has been
satisfactory so far. In 1898 the two biggest liabilities—to
the Q.N. Bank and to the former proprietors—amounted
to £107,691 ; by the end of the past half-year they had been
got down to £42,929. Still, even the latter amount, on
top of ordinary trade debts, is pretty considerable for a
co. whose paid capital is only £77,106. More than half
the assets consist of “ freehold properties, buildings,
goodwill and rolling stock, &c.,” lumped together ; and
as it is impossible to tell how much the paper item of
goodwill stands for, the reserves are described above as
««nominal.” This habit of lumping in the paper asset of
« goodwill ” with the real assets, so that the amount of
the paper asset is concealed, should be suppressed by Act
of Parliament, It makes the document which professes
to state a company’s position a mystery and a joke.
• * * *
The New South Wales Fresh Food and Ice
0o - Added Nomi-
Profit. Dividends. Written to Re- nal Re-
off. serves, serves.
June 1899.. £9256 8 p.c. = £6120 £3OOO £136 £32,726
Dec ,’ 1899.” 7327 8,, „ 6120 1400 - 32,533
June 1900 . 5465 6 „ „ 4693 1500 31,805
Dec 6 ,’1900.: 2587 2000 587 32,392
June, 1901.. 4510 - 4510 36,902
Dec., 1901.. 4541 - - 4541 41,443
June, 1902.. 5340 - 5340 4 6,783
Dec 1902 . 727 2500 45,010
June, 1903.. 5906 - 5750 156 45,166
For some time past 5000 N.S.W. Creamery Butter
Oo.’s £1 paid shares have stood in the books at £2500 ;
these are now written down to £5OO. This special
writing-off accounts for the extra-large size of that item
in the last half-year’s figures. As to profits, they are
better than for some years past, being equal to £7 3s. Id.
per cent, per annum on the paid-up capital, as against
17s. 7d. per cent, for the previous half-year. The “ best
previous” since dividends were suspended was just under
61 per cent, for the term ending June, 1902. But though
a very considerable improvement is thus shown on paper,
it is not yet absolutely realised, for the co. has £29,906 of
debts on its books now as against £23,810 six months
ago. The result of this is a further increase in the over-
drafts. Deducting the cash and credit balances, the
overdrafts have moved in this way for the last few
years:—
June, 1899 .. .. £8,106 Dec., 1901 .. ..£15,054
Dec. 1899 .. .. 12,643 June, 1902 .. .. 20,839
June, 1900 .. .. 22,149 Dec., 1902 .. .. 22,057
Dec., 1900 .. .. 21,394 June, 1903 .. .. 22,222
June, .1901 .. .. 26,540
In 41 years, though profits amounting to £45,659have beeu
shown on paper, and though only £16,933 has been paid
in dividends, and though £12,114 capital has been called
up, the co’s. net debt to the bank has increased by £14,116.
This may be progress, but it might easily be mistaken for
something else. Certainly there has been on the other
side large additions both to plant and to stock ; but so
far these things don’t seem to be earning anything.
Moreover, the assets still include a “ Goodwill ” item
bunched with other things ; and being thus bunched it is
impossible to say whether it is big or little, and by how
much this paper asset swells the other more-or-less
material assets. For this reason the reserves above are
described as nominal, as the handiest way of casting a
certain amount of suspicion upon them.
* * * *
Treasurer Cribb, of Queensland, in his financial
statement, told with charming simplicity how his Govern-
ment, before attempting to float the last issue of Treasury
bills, asked its London agents if the said issue would in
any way damage the State’s credit in London or imperil
chances of successfully floating future loans. And the
agents said “ No.” Thereupon said bills were issued and
subsequent loan realised a net price of 93J —which brings
out the interest to nearly £3 15s. per cent. ; also only 30
per cent, of said loan was taken up by the public. Cribb
is still satisfied that the credit of the State is as good as
ever.
* * * *
The Bulletin is informed that an individual,
or certain individuals, claiming to represent the Indepen-
dent Order of Foresters (that remarkable Canadian life
assurance concern which is run by a Red Indian, and
whose balance-sheet seems such a scarce document in
this country), allege that this paper refused the society
space in its columns to refute the strictures therein passed
upon it. The yarn seems to be that when The Bulletin
showed up the absurdity of the dreadful 1.0.F.’s preten-
sions, it was first asked to publish a reply, and refused ;
that it was then offered £5OO for a half-column of space
in which the 1.0. P. might state its case, and again
refused; and that it thereby showed a malign desire to
basely smother the Red Indian institution. Certainly Tub
Bulletin knows of no life assurance institution which
seems to deserve smothering (or State auditing which, in
its case, should be the same thing) more than the 1.0. F.;
still when it published its first column or so on the sub-
ject it offered a very angry-looking person who called to
remonstrate a similar space gratis in which to reply.
When the irrelevant and very confused reply spread to
about twice the space in question, this paper declined to
co beyond the original offer, and the negotiation then
snapped suddenly. The 1.0. F. didn’t offer £5OO or any
other sum, or show any such lavishness-—it just closed
the door rather suddenly. It had a fair opportunity
gratis to refute this paper’s statement that its alleged
remarkable cheapness was bogus; that its alleged
remarkably low expense rate was a delusion ; and that its
literature was mostly unreliable ; and the enormously
long answer which its representative offered didn’t refute
any of these charges.
* * * •
The Standard Life Association, Ltd.
(Sydney), so far as it has gone
Total Added
Total Ex- Out- to
June, Income. Claims, penses. goings. Funds. Deficit
£ £ £ £ £ £
1900.. 9,193 216 12,998 13,214 4,021
1901 .. 24,593 453 23,833 24,286 307 8,714
Assur-
ance
Fund.
1902 .. 31,481 1,081 25,838 26,919 4,662 848
1903 .. 36,960 2,618 28,162 30,780 6,180 7,028
To this assurance fund is to be added the paid capital,
£12,500, making the total available £19,528. The co.
claims, instead of that figure, £25,028 ; the difference is
represented by an item of £5500, covering portion of the
earlier expenses, and charged by the co. to suspense
account. The argument is that future business, worth
£5500 at least, may be expected to follow the
money spent in organising the concern, and
hence that that much of the expenses should be
charged to future business; but this is not the sort of
asset which can be regarded seriously—it has, in fact, no
real existence whatever. The expense rate is, of course,
still high ; that is a necessity of the industrial system.
Unfortunately, the expenses of the two classes of business
are bunched together (in fact, very little in connection
with the two classes of business is shown separately), and
so the rate represents the expenses of the whole estab-
lishment :
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
1900.. £l4l 7 10 percent. I 1902.. £B2 1 6 per cent.
1901.. 96 18 2 „ I 1903.. 76 311 „
There is a steady reduction, but it does not amount to so
large a reduction during the past year as might reason-
ably have been looked for. Assuming that the
ordinary business is costing even 30 per cent, (last
year’s A.M.P. rate was £8 14s. per cent.), then the
industrial business is costing about 19s. 2d. of every £1
collected. This means that, even assuming that the Stan-
dard’s ordinary policy-holder contributed over three times
as much to the association’s expenses as the A.M.P.
policy-holder does to the expenses of that society, then
the Standard’s industrial policy-holder still gets only
about lOd. worth of insurance for every £1 that he
pays in. The other 19s. 2d. goes to the directors, medical
officers, superintendents, canvassers, and other people
whose business it is to prove that this is a very fine invest-
ment indeed for the working man. And all this isn’t any
serious reflection on the Standard, which is, no doubt,
honestly managed, and is struggling to do the business at
the lowest possible rate. The serious reflection is on the
industrial system itself.
* * * »
It has not been a good year for anybody, and
the Standard’s prospects probably can’t therefore be
judged by the very little progress made since the last
report was issued. Premiums in the industrial branch
were £27.774, or £3467 more than in the previous year ;
but new premiums collected in the ordinary department
were only £3969, as compared with £4060 for the previous
year. The best feature disclosed continues to be the
maintenance of the bulk of the assets in Government
securities ; this policy may not result in big profits, but,
in view of the uncertainty about the future value_ of
Australian real property, it seems to be the safest policy
for some years to come.
* * • •
The Australian Deposit and Mortgage Bank
(Melbourne):
v Added
Dividends on to Re-
Profits. Preference Shares. Reserves, serves.
Dec., 1897.. £lO5l £lO5l £2,941
June, 1898.. 1207 1207 4,148
Dec., 1898.. 1400 1400 5,548
June, 1899.. 1257 1257 6,805
Dec., 1899.. 1575 1575 8,380
June, 1900.. 1521 1521 9,901
Dec., 1900.. 1640 1640 11,541
June, 1901.. 1222 1222 12,763
Taken from
Dec., 1901.. 1634 1 cent. = £2793 1159 11,604
June, 1902.. 1522 1 „ „ 2793 1271 10,333
Dec., 1902.. 1959 1 „ „ 2793 834 9,499
June, 1903.. 2199 1 „ ~ 2793 594 8,905
This is the best profit made since June, 1894 ; yet it is
equal to only 9s. sd. per cent, per annum on the share-
holders’ nominal funds (capital £922,294 and reserves
£9499) as they stood at the commencement of the half-
year. This compares favorably with Bs. sd. earned six
months ago and 6s. 7d. earned 12 months ago. The
progress is satisfactory, no doubt—so satisfactory that, if
it continues, it will be only 29 years more before the
institution will be earning 4£ per cent. Presumably the
directors, instead of writing down the capital, are wait-
ing for the 29 years to wheel around. The past six
months’ profits are equal to 3 per cent, per annum on
£146,600 ; and to get the capital down to that the whole
of the ordinary share capital (£363,639) would have to dis-
appear as well as very nearly £3 13s. per £5 share of the
preference capital. The assets consist almost wholly of
mortgages taken over from the liquidator of the old bank;
and the process of realising these is painfully slow. They
still stand at £1,158,930, the realisations totalling only
£46,041 during the past 12 months. The directors say
they cannot see what good object would be gained by
writing down capital and values ; but directors who can’t
see the impropriety of issuing a document which might
be mistaken to mean that assets that are really worth £1
are worth £6, ought to consult somebody about their
vision. Where these directors expect to get to if they go:
on depleting the obscure little reserves to pay dividends
with is a further problem.
* * * *
The Land Mortgage Bank of Victoria
(Melbourne)
Apparent
Loss on Loss by Apparent
Busi- Discount Loss on Total Deficit,
ness, on Pre- Property Loss,
paid Calls. Sold.
Dec., 1900 ..£2263 £459 £2722 £2722
June, 1901 .. 1049 565 1614 4336
Dec., 1901 .. 1792 169 1961 6297
June, 1902 .. 1023 36 £772 1831) m
£7957 profit on repurchase of bank’s debentures /
Dec., 1902 ..£1217 £3426 £4643 4814
Profit.
June, 1903 .. £6O 700 640 6454
During the half-year some profit was apparently made
through the repurchase of the bank’s debentures having
a face value of £10,160 ; and in that case the loss on pro-
perty sold was greater than is stated above. As the
gross profit (apart from the business) is set against the
gross loss, it is, however, impossible to do more
than show the net loss. At the half-yearly meet-
ing the chairman'• stated that the property sold had
resulted in a loss of £1069; and on that basis the
extra profit derived from something or other, but
presumably from the repurchase of debentures, was £369.
This, however, is not disclosed by the balance-sheet and
other statements of account. The result of the business
is better than tor years past; this, it is explained, is due
to increased rentals. Nevertheless the liquidation ot
assets continues exceedingly slow ; in the half year only
£6474 was realised, while properties held by foreclosure,
etc., are still valued at £348,082. The bank has a paid
capital of £272,197, and £608,020 debenture stock is still
outstanding ; but whether the whole of the capital, and
more, has not been lost is very doubtful. Something may
be saved out of the wreckage by patient waiting and the
recovery of freehold securities ; but they will have
to make a larger recovery than now seems
probable or than the directors seem to expect,
judging from the fact that they are willing to
realise now even though they add slightly to the visible
deficit by every transaction. So long, however, as they
can buy their debentures at a good discount, it is no
doubt better to put up with that slight loss in order to
raise the necessary cash. To decide which is the better—
the debenture at a discount or the sale of a property at
less than its book value—calls for very careful manage-
ment, with very little glory to be got out of it no matter
how good it may be.
* * * *
A small row which is going on in the Sydney
papers between Pitt, Son, and Badgery, woolbrokers,
&c., and the Perpetual Trustee Co. of Sydney (if it can
be called a row in which one party does all the publica-
tion and the other makes no reply) is not likely to do the
latter much good. The complaint of Pitt, Son, and
Badgery is that the business of one of its oldest clients
(who had died and left his affairs in the hands of the
Perpetual Trustee Co.) was transferred from it to Harri-
son, Jones, and Devlin, a rival firm in the same line of
business. This might not be much in itself, but the last
balance-sheets of the Perpetual Trustee Co. and of the
woolbroking firm which now acquires the business in
question show that the directorates are largely identical
—that is to say, the Trustee Co. directors, who gave the
business, are to a large extent identical with the directors
of the wool-broking firm which has had the luck to get
the business. This unfortunate coincidence lends an in-
terest to the case that it wouldn’t otherwise possess. It
is better for a Trustee Co. not to run against coincidences
like that.
(Continued on page 21.)


David Jones & Co.’s
\ j .
CELEBRATED “ ORIENT TO fIEASURE ”
SAC SUITS
In Tweed
or Serge
Send for
Patterns and
Seif-
Measurement
Forms ...
TO MEASURE 63s
Delivered Free to any Railway Station or Seaport in the States.
George and Barrack Sts., Sydney.
CENTURA
RIGHT UP=TO=DATh
RIVALLING ALL OTHERS.
HAND CAMERA.
For Ordinary Daylight Loading Roll Films,
Slips easily into the
Pocket.
Will take Portraits,
Groups, Views, and
Snapshots.
Pitted with all Latest
Improvements,
Yet Folds Compact and
Neat.
MODEL A.
As here shown, takes photos. 4£ x 3J
inches. Perfect results.
Price £3 10s,
Full Description of many other
Style Cameras from ss. up to £5O.
See our New Illustrated Catalogue,
over 300 pages, sent Post Free.
HARRINGTON & GO.
93 Queen St.
Brisbane, 1
..AND..
66 King St./
Sydney.
urt
as*
*• llimmiiilili
iiWW 1,
SOCIETY
“SHE WAS TAKEN INN
TRAGEDY KING (to erstwhile land-
lady): “And are you still
taking in hoarders, Mrs. Perkins?”
MRS. PERKINS (theatrical lodging-house keeper,
icily): “Oh no, quite the contrary."
Victorian Education Department is appar-
ently acting under orders from the Boarding-
house Government—lrvine (landlady), Shiels
(waiter), Bent (cook and hired gal). In the July
Gazette appears a list of 22 schools, arranged in
pairs, to be worked on the half-time system.
Amongst them are Morass Creek and Omeo
Swamp, 12 miles apart ; Narrung and Youngeira,
14 miles apart ; Glenaladale and Castleburn, 24
miles apart. Fancy the lot of the poor devils
who have to run these ! They will be riding half
the week, and the munificent allowance for horse-
feed and other exes, incurred in travelling is 14s.
per week. In Victoria now it takes that merely
to feed a horse that is being worked regularly.
As to getting the horse and covering other travel-
ling expenses—well, the Lord only knows.
There used to be a system in Victoria of
occasionally taking before the court the children
of destitute widows, making them pensioners on
the State, and then passing them back to their
mothers with the blessed little allowance for
maintenance attached. The bloodless Irvine,
Shiels and Bent are now going to stop that.
Recently a couple of small infants were committed
as neglected children and then boarded out to
their mother at 4s. 6d. per week. The Irvine
Government has drawn the magistrates’ attention
to the fact that the youngsters were not legally
“neglected,” and this sort of abuse was to stop
immediately. The case of the mother in question
was bad enough—-she had to keep herself and four
children on 14s. a week ; but a day or two after
Irvine’s order an even more pitiful case occurred.
Here the wage-earner had died after but three
days’ illness, the widow had undergone two oper-
ations in the last year, and there was but 7s. 6d.
between four small babies and starvation. Even
the honorary beaks recognised that something
must be done, but they weren’t game to defy
Irvine and force him to take the consequences of
over-riding their decision ; so they gave the widow
enough to buy bread for a week, and weakly
obeyed the brutal Government orders. Being a
Victorian, nowadays, to any man of decent mind,
must feel a good deal like being a hangman.
* • • •
Within a couple of miles of Fremantle
(W.A.), which has now a population of about
30,000, there are a dozen unprotected iron shanties
in which is stored an immense quantity of explo-
sives. Any wanderer can make his camp and boil
his billy in. the immediate vicinity of these primi-
tive magazines, and it is surprising that Fremantle
has not shot into the Indian Ocean long ago.
Recently an explosion did take place, and one of
the caretakers was subsequently gathered up in
small pieces. He had gone on the land. At the
inquest it was shown that there was a lot of
friction among the men employed at the maga-
zines, and that dynamite detonators and other
frisky preparations pretty well drifted round as
they pleased. Several business firms owned sheds
and possessed keys, so that any drayman could
enter when he felt so inclined with his pipe in his
mouth, and kick the dynamite in a friendly way.
Now that a man has. been killed the authorities
intend to turn over in their sleep and shift the
magazines a bit further away from the town and
shipping.
* * * *
Somebody stole the prosecutor’s hat in a
Sydney court lately while he was proceeding
against a thief for stealing some other property.
Some day the eye of the law will be stolen out of
its head while it is reading the depositions.
* * • *
“ Ivan ” : Strange the lively interest some
people take in a casual funeral. Was a visitor
one afternoon at a house in the suburbs. There
were several others in the drawing-room partak-
ing of tea and chat when I arrived. Noticed
the hostess (wife of a member of Parliament
for an outside constituency) go over to a win-
dow several times and gaze anxiously down
the street, remarking “No sign of it yet.”
Presently she made another journey win-
dow-wards, and a look of eagerness broke
over her face as she exclaimed excitedly,
“ Here it comes ! Here it comes ! Out
on the verandah quickly, girls. Take
your tea with you.” Everyone rose
hurriedly. I asked if it was a wedding
party, but was told to bring my chair
to the verandah, and that it was a
funeral. Thinking it might be an im-
portant military or masonic funeral I
complied, and waited for the imposing
procession to roll up. And it was just an
ordinary, sombre, one-horse burial that
crawled sadly past. Inquiry proved that
the company didn’t even know whose burial
it was. They had seen the murky outfit
standing before a house up the street, and that
was all they knew. The knowledge that some-
thing dead had gone by in a box was a joy
in itself.
A form of newspaper advertising
which has no thought of the future is
that of the biscuit man and infants’-
food fellow whose favorite method of
publishing his wares is the picture of
a naked child—girl preferred—labelled under-
neath “Juliette Jorkins, Parramatta Road,
Moore Park, reared on our products.” A photo,
of Juliette is sent in—sometimes by a grasping
parent for the sake of a few shillings, sometimes
by a fatuous parent out of foolish pride—and the
atrocity appears. Juliette may grow up a shy
and modest girl, and the production of the ad vt.
in after years be a serious shock to her. It is an
unmanly thing to wave Juliette’s naked form
before a coarse public without that young lady’s
consent.
* * * *
Mary Mabel Jackson, charged with bigamy
at Melbourne, the other day, pleaded “ I had to
get my living somehow.” Times must be getting
harder. Formerly a lady could get a living out of
one husband ; now she seems to need two. It
was in regard to this case that Waxellency Mad-
den got off a rather good phrase. Said Madden :
Thinking marriage would decorate her misconduct
with him, she married him.
“ Decorate her misconduct ” is good, but why not
put a frill round her sin ” or “hang a banner
outside her iniquity ” ?
A CONCESSION.
GHOSTLY COMFORTER: “Em so glad to hear you and your husband have made it up."
S HE: “ Yes , directly I realised I was wrong I accepted his apology.”
The licensed mendacity of the gospel
monger ! One Hosking, who seeks to fill the
place in Yellow Puppery vacated by the
vanished Joseph Nicholson, the other day
declared that French and Italian priests were
crowding into Victoria. “Labor members,” he
went on to remark, ‘ ‘ were recently crying out
against the entry of six hatters. Why didn’t
they try and keep out the French and Italian
priests? The latter would do more harm in a
country than all the hatters in the world.” Apart
from the opinion last given, to which, after all, the
wild and woolly Hosking is thoroughly entitled, if
he feels sufficiently foolish, the whole statement
seems to be fictitious. There is scarcely a French
or Italian priest in Victoria, and beyond a small
hrench community with one church in Sydney
amd a small assemblage of Italian clerics in
Westraha, there are only something like half a
dozen stray priests of Latin nationality round
Australia. The same Hosking, only a few weeks
ago, alleged that the Collingwood charity com-
mittee had to break its doles of bread into small
pieces to prevent the recipients bartering the
whole loaf for beer. When this statement was
denied by the charity committee, the Rev.
Hosking kept a merciful silence for fully a week,
but then broke out with his new fiction.
* * * *
“L.W.” : President Hart, of the N.S.W.
Caterers’ and Restaurant-keepers’ Association,
denies that there is any need to bring
t| ie Sydney eating emporiums under
the n actories Act, as they are already
inspected by the City Council and
Board of Health.. Well, they are
not inspected sufficiently. Last time
writer had ham and eggs in a Sydney
restaurant he kept a tasty-looking
bit of ham for a last tit-bit. When
he got it on to his fork he found half a
cockroach reposing peacefully beneath
it. Another time he found a small
mouse. There are some things they
do better in the city of the unspeak-
able Turk. In the vilest slum in Con-
stantinople you’ll get first-class coffee.
The inspection is carried out by
official infidels, who go two and two,
carrying the bastinado tools with
them. They enter a shop and go
straight to the kitchen, and watch
the cook make them coffee from all
the samples to be found on the pre-
mises. They are expert coffee-tasters, and if
there is anything wrong with that coffee the
offender is gently led to the front of the shop
and whacked on the soles of the feet to such
extent as the official whackists think his
coffee deserves. It seems a crude system,
but there _is no bad coffee in Constan-
tinople ; if you don’t believe me, ask
Ahmed Norton Pasha. i=i
* * * .
It is one of the curiosities of modern
civilisation that the average public, which will
view unmoved the destruction of scores of lives by
more or less gradual starvation, and will not be in
the least disturbed by the sacrifice of hundreds by
infectious diseases due to landlord greed and
Government carelessness, is stirred to its depths if
a man starved m life, is mutilated after death.
Adelaide is just now violently excited at the alle-
gation that corpses of hospital patients have been
disrespectfully treated, but the preventable deaths
ot thousands from scanty food and unwholesome
dwellings pass absolutely unnoticed. A poor man
nowadays is of much more importance dead than
alive.
* * * *
/TT Th ° Shire Council of Poowong and Jeetho
(vie.) has dealt with the scathing report of the
local health officer m regard to the typhoid out-
break after the simple Australian municipal
fashion. After pointing out that the rates could
not be raised and a loan couldn’t be floated to
clean up the Council passed a resolution that the
health officer s report was “exaggerated and not
justified. If a resolution of that sort doesn’t
stop the typhoid outbreak it’s not the fault of the
shire council.
A prophet’s forecast in Melbourne Argus :
T)ROPHEOY.—Traffic will be obstructed in one part
of the shire of Portland by a large heap of fire
from heaven, which shall be a sign from the Lord,
before twelvemonth.—WlLLlAM R. BELL, Hey-
wood, Victoria.
William, quite forgets to mention what that heap
of fire will be a sign of. It is an unfinished way
that prophets have.
• • * *
The wrath of the uninvited, or some rela-
tive’s pleasant way of remarking that he disap-
proves of the match, or what ?
"WANTED KNOWN, that neither myself or any of
my family at Yarra or Goulburn were present
at the Wedding at Woodhouselee, or took any part
whatever ; neither did we send any presents or con-
gratulations.—JAMES OIIANNELL, Yarra.
* * • •
N.S.W. Judge Heydon did a good thing
in sharply rebuking police-court attorney Abigail
for needlessly insulting a police witness in the
box. .The Attorney-General would do a better
thing if he were, to memorialise the stipendiary
magistrates, insisting upon them maintaining
some decorum in their courts. A police-court
hearing in Sydney is often marked by lewd
joking, disorderly bickering, and general Billings-
gate. Yet it is to be expected of every court of
justice—high or low—that it conduct its business
with decency.
THE PRIDE OF THE FAMILY.
FATHER: “ Tell me q'uick, if yer ’ ad a tousand
q'uid , vot vould yer do vith it? ”
LITTLE SOLLY: “ Insure it for two thousand,
father.”
The M.L. maiden who pours whisky into
the short glass and poetry into the long ear of the
short young man is doomed. A new clause in the
Government’s Shops and Offices Bill provides that
she must not be employed behind the bar except
between the hours of 9 am. and 9 p.m. A
deputation of Bungs told Premier Seddon that if
the clause came into force they would employ
only males, as they couldn’t keep a he for morning
and evening work only ; and, as the Stout Gentle-
man held out no hope, the girls will have to change
their names from Flo and Dot to Mary Jane and
Saxab, flatten out the kiss-curl with hair oil, and
toil with the domestic whisk and scrubbing-brush.
A publican has very little left to live for in Maori-
land now, and he’ll very soon have less.
THE SHOCKED SENATOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Alleged Senator Robert Reid made a venomous hit
back at the Federal politicians who cold-shoulder him, at
a Melbourne meeting the other night. He declared that
t^ I ? en , returned k° the Federal Parliament were not a
credit to the race from which they had sprung. Some of
them did not even pay their debts.”
A horrible shadow is cast
O’er our dream of a noble ideal,
For Senator Reid is aghast
At the future of our Commonweal;
There are opportunities vast
For a fellow to “ chizzle” or steal
Or to have a poor man for his shirt,
But it’s wrong to amass any
Debts, for the assignee
Waits at the door, for a cert.
Now this is the essence of things
As they’re understood down in “the Lane,"
That an odor of purity clings
To the merchant who’s had to explain
His commercial relations with Kings-
Ton, and forfeit unmerited gain.
He’s a hero of blemishless fame,
A god of high Barterdom
Dragged to foul martyrdom
In the political game.
And this is conclusively shown
Re the Federal Parliament,
That it’s higher morality’s flown
Like prosperity under Tom Bent,
And it isn’t the shop, we will own,
For a mercantile innocent
Of good Scotchbyterian breed ;
The highly delectable,
Moral, respectable,
Senator Robert Reid.
T.D.


WATSON’S WHISKY
• ■ :f Reach’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
I suppose you shave ! or, if not, of course
you require your hair trimmed. The most
fashionable, gentleman’s hair dressing saloon in
Sydney is Wild’s, at 30 Sydney Arcade—the
Arcade that runs from George-street to King-
street.*
STARCH
WORLD
THE
THE
BEST
IN
INFLUENZA
TAKE
AND
COLDS
HOT WITH LEMON AT BEDTIME
SCHNAPPS
A cursory person, who seems to have had
a cursory sort of way with him, and didn t care
tuppence whether he fought or paid, transpired at
Collingwood court lately. Though he took a wife
some 14 years ago, he had never provided a home
for her; they drifted about in lodgings for a little
while, and then he informed her casually that he
had an idea of “housekeeping” with another
woman, whom he liked better. This idea he
carried out. Then for eight years he paid his wife
10s. a week, on a magistrate’s order. At the end
of that time it suddenly struck him that respect-
ability would be a pleasant change, so he returned
to the wife. After a month, he wandered away
again, but still kept up the 10s. a week mainten-
ance. Lately, however, this fell into arrears, and
the wife sued, only to learn that her temporary
forgiveness had nullified the original order. (It
took several magistrates and a Supreme Court
Judge to decide this—with costs, of course.) Last
week, the intermittent wife sued for a fresh order,
and got one for 10s.; though, as the husband
assured the court he was only earning £1 a week,
and had two “ irregular infant ” orders of 7s. fid.
each to pay out of that, besides himself and the
other lady to keep, it looks as if someone will be
liable to go short. Anyhow, this is a tough world
for the deserted wife. Also, it is none too easy
for the other lady. Moreover, it is by no means a
soft tiling for the rest of the parties concerned,
including the two seven-and-sixpenny infants.
* * * *
The Kanakaland police are beginning to
discover a murder or two between drinks. Charges
set down for hearing at Brisbane Criminal Sit-
tings of the Supreme Court, on August 10th,
included—Henry Corbett murder; Henry H.
Kiel, manslaughter; Alfred Taylor, manslaughter;
Wilhelm Kettner, attempting to unlawfully kill;
Thomas Steward and Alfred Josephson, attempted
murder. For a small place Brisbane seems to
enjoy its murder with considerable frequency.
• * * *
Besides its Fever Hospital Victoria has
just discovered it has another completed, but
never opened, edifice of that
class in the Warragul Hospital.
This was built 12 years ago, and,
of course, the blessed trus-
tees -or committee of sub-
scribers splashed all
their available capital
on the building. When
it was finished, the
Board of Health or-
dered a decent system
of drainage to be car-
ried out before patients
were ' admitted. The
fearsome committee had
forgotten all about the
drainage, and nobody ~
would subscribe any
more money, so the
sweet but insanitary
structure was given over
to the dog and the crow
and the loud, irritable
blue-bottle. Now, it
would cost as much as it
is worth to repair the
collapsed charity, so it is
likely to stop empty. But:
the trustees still pervade
it at times and glower at
tbe emptiness of things.
There can’t be much profit
in this trusteeship; per-
haps people take the job
for the honor, though this
paper reckons there is
more honor in being trus-
tee for a full dog-kennel
than an empty hospital.
“ T.S.” ; When Aus-
tralia gets a proper Adul-
teration Act will it deal
with the adulterated fe-
male4-the one who is mixed with hair-pads
and bust-elevators, and devices for making
her look round where she is.angular*’.and straight
where she is ramshackle ? When a man pays for
a woman the article certainly ought to be
delivered free from the admixture of any foreign
substance. Clothes, of course, are not included
in the list of foreign, substances. They are sup-
posed to cover and contain the woman. But any
attempt to make it appear that they cover and
contain a different kind of woman from the one
really-there, should be, classed as adulteration, or
the sale of goods under false pretences, or some-
thing, of the sort, and it should be lawful to return
the artiole.
*'* ' * ♦
Since the Melbourne Hospital sold its
fever, tents there is in Marvellous Melbourne
absolutely no institution where poor patients
suffering from infectious diseases, such as scarlet-
fever, measles, &c., can be treated. The fact
that, -whpn they can’t be treated at home, the
sick -and dging poor are put into an expensive
gaol .doesn’t make the niean ’Pootra-bred economy
of the Irvine Government any less despicable.
One Kronheimer is just now getting con-
siderable publicity out of an offer to give £5OOO
towards the establishment of a Melbourne home
for consumptives. One condition of the gift is
that the institution shall be called “The Jvron-
heimer Home,” and another is that the donor s
firm shall have a representative on the board of
management. Owing to the jealousy that exists
among some of the so-called charity societies m
Melbourne, those concerned cannot get to a
determination as to where the institution shall be
established or who shall have the handling of the
money. No doubt there are some truly philan-
thropic persons engaged in the dispute, but to the
cynical it seems that there are a lot of people
willing to advertise themselves even if they have
to tag their advt. on to the cough or the hectic
flush of the unhappy consumptive. This desire to
get an advt. out of the sick and infirm has landed
the charities of Victoria in a miserable condition.
Figures recently published show that institu-
tions have been multiplied to such an extent
that 27 out of the 89 charitable institutions m
Victoria drawing subsidies from the Government,
closed the year in debt to the extent of over
£lOOO each
THE CUSHIONY LADY.
HOSTESS (patronisingly) : “ Yes , professor, music
has always been one of my 'Weak, points .”
HER C ANTO: "Surfaces! Surfaces! my dear
madam—you have no points."
A quiet tragedy has chanced at Reefton
(M.L.). An old couple used to jog into the town
once a week in an old cart drawn by an old hotse,
do their little business, and plod home again in
the evening. The old horse knew every step of
the road, so the old people used to doze in
the vehicle and let him do the rest. Probably
the old-horse dozed too, the old road being so
familiar to him. On a recent occasion when the
outfit was crossing the river, the old lady seems to
have dropped over the tail-board in her sleep.
She : wasn’t missed till the old man and the old
horse woke up at home. Then there was a gather-
ing of all the old inhabitants, and a search, and
the old lady’s body was found on a shingle beach
a mile down the river. About as quiet a way to
drop out of life as could be imagined.
DECADENCE OF CHIVALRY.
“If the men do not behave properly
they will not be admitted in future to
our meetings.”— MISS ROSE SCOTT at a meet-
ing of the Women’s Political Education League.
A recent Melbourne burglar, evidently
a Dill-Mackyite, liad just begun to ransack the
house when he found on the mantelpiece a ticket
for the Pope’s requiem mass. He jumped on it
with such fervor that the family was aroused, and
he escaped with difficulty, closely pursued by two
big, coarse Catholics, who smote on his legs with
the poker as he vanished over the wall. Religious
fervor doesn’t always pay.
» * * *
One genuine case of hard luck has occurred
to Bung in one quarter of Maoriland. In Port
Chalmers prohibition was carried at the poll m
November, mainly, it is alleged, because the
wharf lumpers of that port insisted that Bung,
who charged 6d. for a pint of beer, was an ex-
tortioner. So the lumpers voted “no license.’
Anyway, a number of irregularities were dis-
discovered, such as the going astray of a large
quantity of voting papers, and Bung applied to a
magistrate to hear evidence and declare the poll
void. Bung had a clear case apparently, but he
applied to the wrong magistrate, and while he
was arguing the point, and slowly realising it, the
Pump party applied to a Judge and got an order
restraining that particular magistrate from ad-
judicating. In the meantime the month within
which Bung could lodge a protest had elapsed. So
he applied to the Supreme Court to upset the
Judge’s decision ; and the Court wouldn’t. Then
he appealed to the Appeal Court for permission
to carry his case to the Privy Council, but that
court concluded that it had no power to grant the
leave, and so Bung is finally bumped out. A
striking thing in all the litigation of the past few
months has been the skill with which the Pump
party found precedents and things, and the able
way in which it won every case. Things are
looking as hopeful for Pump as they are black
for Bung. The old day, when Pump’s arguments
consisted mainly of references to wine being a
mocker, is gone. The temperance people realise
that ten minutes’ study of law books is worth all
the miscellaneous conclusions of the Scripture.
* * * *
Korumburra (Vic.) rejoices in the posses-
sion of a medico and a man, and naturally the
local Bumbles are wrath with him. Reporting on
the recent outbreak of typhoid fever at Jumbunna,
the local health officer (Strahan, M. 8.), it may be
remembered, hit out thus :
There are no drains worthy of the name in Jumbunna )
and the wonder is that there are not more cases of
typhoid in the township. The callousness of the council
for the health of the people in this shire is appalling, &c.
The council refused to accept this report,_ and
referred it back so that the doctor could revise it
and say that Jumbunna was a nice clean town and
a credit to all parties concerned. And instead the
report returned with a statement that the place
was even dirtier than at.first alleged. Thereupon
the council rose in its wrath to avoid levying a
sanitary rate, and said things, stating in concln
sion that “the shire was the healthiest portion of
the State,” and characterising the report as
“exaggerated and not justified and the worst
report ever sent to any council.” After which it
breathed heavily amid its dirt and offal.
* * * *
The heavy sentence of 12 months’ suspen-
sion passed by the Court of Marine Inquiry on
both masters involved in the recent Sydney har-
bour ferry collision was probably dictated more
by the dread of what might be in the future than
by anything in the present. The intention of the
Court was to again warn ferry-boat masters of
their frightful responsibilities. The pay of the
ferry-boat master is small and the hours long.
The daily responsibility is threefold that of some
posts with three times the salary and half the
work. A moment’s distraction may easily cause
a blunder which will throw away a means of live-
lihood that it has taken a lifetime to acquire.
Circular Quay has been allowed by muddling
authorities to become so crowded that accidents
must happen. And as the muddle of incompetent
people in authority grows worse, the idea seems to
be to increase the punishment of the people who
fall victims thereto. When the slipshod marine
authorities have brought about a dozen more ferry
lines to the Quay, collision will probably be made
a capital offence.
* * * *
This advertisement appeared last week in
a Sydney paper:
YOUNG Man, 21, requires position as Clerk, little
experience, satisfied with train-fare.
After many years of hard borrowing to develop
the “inexhaustible natural resources of the
country ” the rising generation is “satisfied with
tram-fare.”
Dr. Cleland, for many years past medical
superintendent of South Australia’s one lunatio
asylum at Parkside, scouts the common idea that
open-air country life leads to a sound mind in a
sound body. It doesn’t, in his long experience,
he declares, lead to soundness in either quarter.
On top of the premature decay which naturally
follows exposure to wind and weather, there are
“ the frequent privations and mental anxiety
arising from the uncertainty of obtaining employ-
ment” in a country whose crops have an incurable
habit of failing, and whose flocks have an in-
curable habit of starving. Not only, then, does
Dr. Cleland get most of his patients from that
section “whose daily associations are of the nature
of outdoor life and laborious employment,” but he
finds them the most difficult to deal with after he
has got them, because of their very small surplus
of vital energy with which to build up the ex-
hausted brain centres. In short, Dr. Cleland
says, in effect, that the “great natural industries”
of the country give such precarious results that
they drive an extraordinary proportion of people
to the lunatic asylum, and that, moreover, they
are so exhausting that when they have driven
their victims mad, those victims have less than an
ordinary chance of recovery.
One of the bodies with which the Ade-
laide Coroner and Board of Health Chairman was
charged with tampering was that of Berth i
Schippan, the girl-victim of the Towitta murder.
But, though it was admitted that part of the
body was taken away, that particular charge has
been withdrawn; for the Coroner wasn’t the.
■ Coroner in that case—he was the chief medical
witness; and the removal of part of the body is
admitted to have been probably necessary for
purposes of examination. Most of the charges
against the officer are in connection with the same
sort of thing.-
GEORGE REID PREPARES FOR HIS
ELECTORAL CAMPAIGN.
The way in which an innocent-hooking
jury can upset the whole pot with contumely
was demonstrated in M. L. t’other day, and made
some persons very wild indeed. A Maori was on
trial for kauri gum embezzlement, and, following
an antiquated system, the Crown Prosecutor
added » second count charging accused with
receiving the stuff knowing it to have been stolen.
But this count wasn’t even alluded to, either by
counsel or Judge—it was understood to be there as
a mere dead ornament; and when the jury found
accused not guilty on the charge to which all the
evidence was directed, and guilty on the charge
that hadn’t even been mentioned, the court
gaspedin consternation. “If prisoner had received
the gum knowing it to have been stolen, where
was it supposed to have been obtained from,”
asked the flurried Judge, who quickly ordered
accused’s discharge, and peremptorily refused to
listen to the Crown Prosecutor, who wanted the
point reserved. The charge of receiving is put in
from force of old habit in Maoriland, but this
habit will probably leave off now.
TO A WARATAH.
[Fob The Bulletin.]
My Waratah, with stately mien,
In regal ruby robed, serene
Thou standest in my garden-side
Enthroned there, the dignified,
True sovran of thy world of green!
In flowers, perchance, may lurk unseen,
Pale ghosts which once have mortals been
If so, whose spirit dost thou hide,
My Waratah ?
Does in thee dwell some Imogen,
Some “patient Grizel,” meek and mean?
Nay, rather one who, spurr’d by pride,
In high aloofness liv’d and died :
For such art thou, my mountain queen,
My Waratah !
N.S.W.
S. Elliott Napier.
YOU.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Some day I’ll sing a golden tune
And you
Will sing it softly too.
It may be late ; it may be soon ;
But it will turn our night to noon
As soaring meteors do.
Some day we ’ll sing a splendid tune—
We two.
We ’ll lie and laugh by summer seas
That woo
(And I ’ll be wooing too)
Caresses from the lazy breeze,
Down where the drowsy, solemn trees
Whisper against the blue.
We ’ll laugh and love by summer seas—
We two.
Your lips will smile to me again
(Ah, you !)
As cheerfully as do
The roses through the summer rain.
And I will sing a lover’s strain
With kisses woven through--
A warm and laughing lover’s strain
To you.
Some day I’ll sing a splendid tune,
And you
Will croon it softly too,
Resting in summer meadows strewn
With golden flowers (God send it soon)
Beneath the cloudless blue.
And no one else shall hear my tune
But you.
M.li.
WILL LAWSON.


Wl^
*
*
/ft
*
v.es
ec*
c
\o s '
VAC-
wip
OO
ST
\t*°
vO
CB
| FACILE PRIIMCEPS. |
| SEMPER IDEM."(
WHISKY.
$
. ‘e Ra\i.'iLrrr,.s
iSn Rubrics
RAINCOATS.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, August 25,1903.
My Dear Arini.—
Lady Northcote’s portraits show a strong facial
resemblance to Princess Beatrice, the Batten-
berg widow ; but if these same portraits don’t
fib, she has a beautiful figure. A good figure is
a much more uncommon attribute than a pretty
face. I have always wondered why Apostle
Paul put long hair before figure as the glory of
a woman ; but, of course, an apostle isn’t much
of an authority on such matters (by the way,
he wanted the same long hair covered). Aus-
tralian society would rather have liked a duke
for its new Governor-General. Duke, Duchess
and Ducal are such soothing sounds ; and as
one has got to make obeisance before a figure-
head, one would not grudge the dip so much if
the dipped-to were a duke. On the other hand,
the Northcotes will scarcely put on airs of long
descent. His father is the first ennobled branch
of the parent tree, and the books show that
Lady Northcote was adopted by Mr. Stephen
(now Lord and Mount) in the year of his first
marriage, 1853, when he was a very plain canal
man indeed. The juvenile old gentleman, by
the way, married again, six years ago, a Colonel
Somebody’s daughter.
Someone has written commenting on the remark
that the principal attraction of a Governor-
General was his wife, saying that it really does
not matter what either is like so long as the vice-
regal staff is wisely chosen. ’Spose there’s con-
siderable truth in that; a private sec. with no
Solomonity might cause the withdrawal of a
Governor within a month of his landing, and a
soured aide-de-c. could set on edge the teeth of
Society and start it biting at his chief.
Talking of dukes and such-like: Our late G.-G.
Hopetoun (Linlithgow) has evidently a keen and
greedy eye to business. To establish a naval base
on the Forth, land had to be bought from Lord H.,
and the British Government paid him 75J years’
purchase on the gross rental of his land. The
land was let at an annual rental of 225. 3d. per
acre, and it has been bought at £B4 per acre. So
H. got £122,000 for land which was paying him
£l6OO a year in rent. The deal has been described
in the House of Commons as a “ monstrous job.”
And it looks like it. Yet here in Australia every-
body was “ so sure ” that Lord Hopetoun did not
resign from a mercenary motive. It seems as
though he would do worse than resign for the
same motive.
That well-known Sydney firm of solicitors,
Minter and Simpson, felt the hand of calamity
heavily last week. First Mr. Wiseheart, their
accountant, lost both his legs in a tram accident.
A splendid constitution and the fact that the
tram-guard was able to render “ first aid ” saved
his life, and he successfully got through a double
amputation. Then Mr. Randolph Simpson, the
only brother of Mr. E. P. Simpson, died suddenly
through the bursting of an aneurism. Mr. R.
Simpson was just on the point of being admitted
to the firm as a partner. Like his brother, a
thoroughly good fellow, and a fine athlete, Mr.
Simpson will be mourned in many quarters. He
married some three years since a Sydney girl,
Miss Lethbridge. His wife and two infant
children survive him.
Emily Soldene is evidently getting about again,
and getting her appetite in going order also.
Emily is one of the rare persons who can wax
reminiscently sentimental over the memory of
something she has eaten in bygone years. Last
budget from her to a Sydney paper gloats over the
eels stewed in brown gravy with port wine sauce
which she consumed “ years and years ago” at the
Star and Garter. You may hear the Soldene lips
smack in a rich, fruity smack all these miles from
London !
The Lonsdales—Earl and Countess—were at
Rosehill races on Saturday. She is a tall, dark,
slight woman, with a reputation for saying smart
things in dull moments. Also she has some
superb rose-point lace, which got an airing at one
or two balls in Sydney. Lord Lonsdale came a
good deal into the society press awhile ago
through the visit of the German Emperor to
his place in Scotland. He is a great lover and
collector of old books.
Captain Broomfield, who died, at Balmain, last
week, aged over 80, was to the last a cultivator of
roses and a chivalrous admirer of pretty girls.
One might frequently see him bound
carrying flowers, to give to some nice-looking girl
along with a fatherly pat on the cheek.
Mr. Dan O’Connor is to be a Knight of St.
Gregory—decoration coming direct from Rome,
and not through any ecclesiastic here. It is neces-
sary to explain this, I am told, though why I can't
say. If you get your gaud through an ecclesiastic
is he likely to steal some of the frilling ? Last week
Dan compromised his trouble with Crick.
The marriage of a certain fashionable Sydney
physician to a widow was quietly celebrated a few
weeks ago. This makes the doctor’s third matri-
monial venture. His second wife died not many
months ago.
Pity that Arthur Rosenthall and A. J. Walker
had their courageous effort frustrated by the sub-
sequent death of the woman whom they rescued
from the water between Sydney Heads on the way
to Manly. It was a brave deed, and the more
notable because there is not much glory in being
brave down Manly way. Do you recollect Mr.
Smalpage, who lost his life trying to save a
woman from drowning on Manly Beach ? A
collection was made for a monument to him,
and the sum garnered was five pounds and
tuppence.
District Nursing Society will hold a two days’
fair at “Cranbrook” early in September. The
masked ball in aid of Waitara Foundling Home,
on September 4, promises to be a great and
humorous success. Is the following useful, as a
hint, to charity-entertainment promoters ? It is
copied from an English parish magazine:—
We shall be glad of all kinds of help—prayers, in the
first place, and then artists, performing dogs, cats
canaries, fleas, cyclists, salesmen, and women.
I hope you admire woman’s place in the list.
Medallion-wearing has gone to the dogs at last.
Have just seen a woman with a pug-dog’s head in
a mock turquoise frame. A local bride-elect wears
* ier face on her erect figure, and as the
medallion is a big one and the original generally
by her side, it is interesting to watch the tram-
folk on the opposite seat spot the likeness
and alternately study man and picture. He
bears the scrutiny badly, and, after three blocks,
his expression is not that of the portrait. All the
half-grown girls—emergency shop-hands— at re-
cent cheap sales were wearing medallions. A
P. lc ‘ u «> of “’im” for choice, or “the biby sister
that died young,” or some other relative. The
fashion has spread as did that of wearing beads,
and will probably die as quickly.
Wonder what is the cause of the boom in the
elocution industry in Sydney? A year ago we
were quite lightly stocked with elocutionists;
now, within the last few months, there is a heavy
crop in sight. Typing and tea-rooming and
massaging must be overdone, and the superfluous
hair-removal industry cannot offer the financial
field it once did. The new crop of elocution
teachers are mostlynice-lookingyoung women who
dress their recital displays prettily ; but the trail
°tV -x. x?. er “ over them and their pupils.
Do it this way, you can imagine the teacher
saying, and up go the hands describing an Indian
club movement, and descending with an undulat-
ing sweep to the level of the waist. Then there’s
the same would-be-Madonna-like droop of the
face and eye-lids, and the same sudden lifting of
thfi Wl mu the - long side-glance from under
the lashes. The voice, also, is too often the voice
of someone else—Lillah Macarthy or May Cheva-
iier, for instance—and consists of two tones and
dreadfniw 10118 ' J he , ma i orit y of reciters are
dreadfully conventional or imitative.
Maggie Papakura, the Maori guide, still per-
vades Sydney to Sydney’s great delight, but she
looks travel-worn and blase with much sight-
seeing, beauty-spotting, and dining-out. In addi-
SEL n her green .-i ton ,° i css she now wears a
silver kangaroo with the tail down-a delicate
OUr mu ddied oafs who were beaten
contest. Maggie spent an after-
noon at State Government House with Excel-
lenmes Rawson. The vice-regal carriage was
sent for her, and Lady Rawson gave her a
ba ?£ le^ and th ® sleek alabaster aides
showed her the West African horror curios. All
S, 0 ™ 63 "' , be ; ng of a race-a race in
mats and blankets—who put up a good fight
against the British and frequently dined off
their conquerors. I am trying to remember if
1 ever met his majesty King William Barak,
an Australian potentate lately deceased, at any
Government House. Probably not: he never
beat and ate the British troops.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:
** lodging by Spring hats, hair is going to be
Z° r l Io , W- , new top-pieces dip far down
the back of the head, and then turn up in a sort
of wall-garden, where the prize artificial blooms
of the season are to be seen blowing and grow-
mg Below this parterre, a knot of hair droops
* A ne< r k : na pe, but the head must still be
padded out in front and at the sides, to avoid
extinction by the drooping early-Victorian brim,
lhat sort of thing takes a lot of hair even to
cover the fnzettes, and, so far, all the wearers
of really modish millinery whom I have recon-
noitred have been coiffured with horsehair with
just, a faint intermittent sheen of human thatch
on the surface. The new hats are flat on top,
but theres so much trimming underneath one
would need to inspect crown-effects from a
balloon. Flat plots of daisies, sprays of maiden-
hair glued to the straw, and similar samples of
tableland dSCaPo ' gardening variegate the u PP er
Evening-skirts fall from a hip-yoke to the
ltnees. Thence, shaped flounces set out round
the feet and encumber the surrounding floor
Dr apings, drooping off the shoulders, suggest the
Jtarly-Victorian idea.
“ Petticoats are super-fine for the Spring. As
the knack of showing them is everything, the con-
scientious and zealous dress-builder gives her
customers lessons in the art. The wrinkle is to
clutch a handful of skirt in such a neat and nimble
fashion that it is hoisted clean off the heels and
the petticoat frills make passes in graceful fan
fashion as the wearer walks. Ribbons are run
through the foamy lace, and all the machine in-
tricacies of the present-day dress art are used in
the maze of these alleged ‘ under ’ garbs. The
smart girl is often satisfied to ‘run-up’ a half-
guinea skirt for herself and sport a petticoat cost-
ing exactly six times as much, and the valuable
garment is flaunted with desperate energy.
“ One of the romances of Melbourne is recalled
v°ervw7i JU f n r* , The had an a
fiS&W u e °l matnm °ny. and then for years
fought for her freedom. She secured it. A
warrior of old acquaintance was awaiting this
release. When it came he was ill-very ilh He
made_a dash for health and strength, and enjoyed
both for a short while, the lady rejoicing exceed-
ingly. Then the old trouble returnedf and he
became almost a cripple and hopelessly ill. But
the lady remains attached. She is his companion
whenever he is well enough to talk. 1
Anglo-Australians who had received
kindnesses from journalist Agnes Murphy,
both in the Big Smoke and here, showed appreci-
ation in a very tangible manner on her departure
from London-a weighty bag of sovereigns and
count on thefingers. 61 ° ne COuld
hungry crowds a rather humorous patter can be
heard. It ran briskly, the other night, when the
f gu n r = e .° tbeplump Jo of the Thistle Regiment hove
into sight, his heels clanking, his claymore shining,
his cushioned knees gleaming beneath the kilts.
stuff i Th*\l b° W W V 6d , him ! Saveloy’s the
stuff ! I hat s how we turn ’em out.” A boiling—
b4rsting -young man surged on with as
good an air of haughty contempt as possible.
“A sad sight in a Collins-street bank, the
other day, was poor old Dunky Gillies, his
dipper-shaped hat swamping his ears, and one
gouty foot swathed high in rose pink flannel-
ette bandages. He was cross about something
or other, and talked to the point with the
teller. Even now Dunky’s spirit is bright and
his business sense keen. Another old Melbourne
and Collins-street identity has been on the sick
list for some time—Mr. Pat M‘Caughan. He
has made several remarkable rallies and re-
appeared in his old haunts, as handsome and im-
posing as any ripe dandy of the day. Then fol-
lows another sick spell, and Melbourne again loses
sight of the gaitered and perfectly-groomed old
beau.
“A University Conservatorium star has been
engaged by Manager Musgrove for the comic
opera boards—Miss Aggie Thorn. The engage-
ment _ is clinched, and Miss Thorn goes to
Maoriland to take her first stage strut there.
Conservatorium records place the name of lVHsw
Agnes Thorn high. She has a taking mezzo-
soprano warble, with much aroh expression
thrown in.
“ A rush of hops hurries on the end of the
season. On Friday, heel and toe were kept busy
at two big balls—one in Brighton, hosted by the
matrons, the other by the Melbourne Scotch
Regiment. All the kilted of the State and their
friends rallied to the swirl of Friday’s bagpipes
at Prahran. Malcolm M'Eacharn had the
Federal Forrests in tow. There was no rush for
sitting-out corners, for the Prahran Hall niches
are eerie these cold nights, and the kilted cannot
relish a brisk draught. The safe course w*s
pursued by one pert charmer of providing an
emergency cloak for the freezing knees of Sandy.
“ There are no pockets in the poetic ‘ creations ’
of Spring apparel. Womankind once more starts
the season prospecting her accoutrements for the
purpose of stowing away the ’kerchief. It always
finds its way to hat or gamp, sleeve or pouch,
while tram change and the powder chamois are
thrust into a metal or silver satchel girdled to the
waist. When the summer comes, fans and salts-
bottles are also to be disposed of somew here.
The ‘ Russian blouse ’ was a useful thing for the
pocketless. I know one woman who boasted of
stowing away there on one occasion a dozen of
fruit, a chicken, two small drapery parcels and
a small saucepan. Her generous figure was much
admired.
“ Now that Society goes shopping in its newest
Spring humor, precaution should be taken to see
that the partitions of the fitting-on rooms are
sufficiently stout to prevent talk-leakage. It was
in such a blythe Spring a year or two ago that the
hottest scandal of the season got birth. Hap-
pened this way: Two women of fine plumage were
being pinned-up in adjoining fitting-rooms at a
leading chiffon store. The partition separating
the parties was slight, so the conversations of the
two clients and theirdressmakers met and mingled.
The revelations were of an alarming character.
One was the wife, and the other the—er, well,
protegee—of a certain prominent turfite. That
turfite knew all about it ere many hours had
elapsed. The wife saw to that. It is a wife’s
special privilege to see to that.
” Incessant bridge play goes on morning, noon
and night at a Collins-street club devoted to the
second sex ’ —as the bilious Schopenhauer dubbed
us. Smart women, who wouldn’t set their kitchen
wenches a bad example by card-playing in the
daytime, congregate here and settle down to
gamble-graft. For hours the cards flash round, the
additions go on, the coin circulates, then there is an
interruption for a necessary snack. Thereat bridge
is talked as feverishly as it was previously played.
If engagements permit, play is resumed and con-
tinued steadily till the next refreshment break,
inis scribe encountered a typical champion—a
colossal winner the other day. Her face was
grey and her eye dull and heavy till bridge was
broached. Then—how keen she waxed ! There
was something almost drunken about her ecstatic
tones, her lustrous eyes, her bright glow. Card
enthusiasm is certainly hcv best rouge.
. -^- n amusing feature of these sunny noons
is the march of competitive Spring charmers
down Collins-street—short-skirted, enmeshed in
complexion webs, and sporting large flat hats, re-
versed from the face and slashed boldly with
bright ribbon lengths. There’s a certain frisky
of the tail, counting for sauciness, that goes
with the short-skirted. If one wants more
amusement than this promenade will afford, there
is the competition in mixed couples going on from
o to 5, to serenade strains, in an under-ground tea
and scone-room. Such interesting mixed couples—
solicitors with their clients, masseurs with their
patients, brokers with their dummies, financiers
with their type-writers, doctors with their ‘ con-
sultants, politicians with their pets.
“A cable has come verifying the news of the
marriage of Miss Jean fielpman to Captain
•Surge o n-&c., &c„ Duka, D. 5.0., whom the
bright, litian-haired Melbournienne met on tour.
Bocal relatives have been looking up the Duka
records and are satisfied that the lineage is as long
and old and undiluted as early report said. The
marriage came off in London last month. The
bride had a rich aunt with the high-sounding
name of Chichester to see her through. The
Helpman family are connections of the John
Murrays, the many-acred Laidlaws, and a legion
of other pleasant families of large banking credit.
When the Dowager of Cliveden is booked for
any kind of a solemn function, a churchy confab
or a social ceremony, she garbs accordingly. The
other night, at the Dante Society’s new season
christening, when she was billed to present the
prizes, she wore ceremonial white satin of classic
cut, just owning a soupyon of coquetry in some
pale purple flowers that suggested the line, * The
leaves of Memory seem to make a mournful
rustling.’
Local Society no longer talks of presenting
one to someone * awfully nice, ’ or ‘ really good
sport, or ‘very chippy, don’tcherknow.’ The
latest alludes to social desirables as being ‘ good
value.’ °
Some people seemingly can never get enough
notoriety to satisfy them. One would suppose,
for instance, that the Bent must be sick and tired
of the sight and sound of his own name. Not a
bit of it ! T’other evening lie labored wearily
round to Rickards’ show, after his day’s work
just to see the performing birds pick out the
letters which spell ‘Tommy Bent.’ He never
smiled once during the act—perhaps he was
piqued because pretty cocky described the other
celebrities as Mr. Peacock, ’ etc. Bent alone was
dished up m the rough.
“ Fritz Muller, who ran over from Germany
lately to let friends and subscribers judge of
“ ls musical progress, looks less the genius than
1-? U as a small with a big Beethoven-
like head. Physically, there’s not much of Fritz
yet—never will be much, maybe—but he has
grown of course, during his years of absence,
while his head (to its owner’s satisfaction) has
not gone on enlarging in disproportion. Little
rit z always was an outspoken mannikin, and
when first exported to Sausageland he wrote to
Melbourne friends that if ‘the committee
couldn t see their way to let his mother con-
J* nue share his exile, he wished to goodness
they had let him stay in his own little Australian
back-room, as life millions of miles away from a
follow s mother would be rotten.’ Nowadays,
• err ' s independent little ways creep out
/u > P* atform deportment. His boyish face
(he s only just seventeen and looks young for
that) says plainer than words that if he gives
hearers his best musical endeavors, they should
not demand airs and graces from him, in the
shape of grateful bows and grateful smiles. At
his own recital, Mdme. Wiedermann rapped
him good-humoredly on the shoulder more than
once before he saw the force of jerking a curt
nod towards the audience in response to its
applause, as he sat playing the accompaniments
of songs, Oomposed by himself, and sung by
Mdme. Wiedermann.
“Gordon’s grave in Brighton cemetery seems
an ideal spot for a poet’s resting-place, just at this
time of year. The one wattle-tree is golden with
bloom, which scents the air with honey. The
baby-buds of the laurestinas are pink and creamy,
and even the stiff wreath of immortelles, the gift
of a branch of the A.N.A., looks well in the tender
light of Spring. On the column itself, someone
who loved the poet and craved for some testimony
to his power (other than the bald inscriptions on
the tomb) has written in pencil, ‘ His were the
first great songs our land can claim her own.’
“Golfers are preparing for a ten days’ tourna-
ment starting at Sandringham in early September.
The Royal Melbourneites always get a big muster
for their matches, though other clubs in the State
have little liking for the swagger spirits who pre-
side at the sea-salt links. Still, all prejudice is
put aside on the principle of getting good sport.
The list of trophies is an imposing one, but I can
recollect casting an amused eye on an alleged two-
guinea scoop by an Eastern Clubbite last year.
It took the form of a pair of silver candlesticks so
microscopic that they should have been swung
side by side on a neck chain.
“Auditor-General Israel has a great taste for
afternoon tea-parties. Never a corroboree comes
to pass but the plain, sharp-eyed, cadaverous
Tasmanian is there with his wife and a following
of skirt-trailers. There’s no sign of enjoyment
ever in his face. You wonder what on earth he
bothered to come for, unless it is to get some facts
to reckon on the receipts from a tea duty. Very
different is long Philip Fysh, who strolls round in
the train of grace and beauty, articulating aloud
his thanks to the gods for the benefits received at
the social tea tables. Senator Dobson, too, is con-
fessedly a woman worshipper and burns the
incense publicly—such incense as a respectable
churchwarden can bum.
“ Some unwedded girls clubbed together a week
or two ago, took affairs into their own hands and
gave their pals a dance and spree. They styled
themselves ‘ The South Yarra Spinsters,’ hosted it
better than some marms, and didn’t oare the
proverbial fig for Grundy.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.
Johannesburg Stak reports that six native
prisoners recently escaped at Pretoria, cutting
their way out of gaol with a tin opener.
Women ! why be thin and undeveloped?
Lact6, the wonderful skin-food, plumps the flesh
where thin and undeveloped, gives a beautiful
roundness to face, neck, bust, and arms. A
quick, sure and safe home treatment. Jars
7s. 6d., post Bs. 2d. Thousands of women using it
daily, all of whom testify to the wonderful results
from its use. Write for pamphlet to H. Westall
Guest, Vice-regal chemist, 229 Bourke-street,
Melbourne.*
If Haddon Chambers wants to write a
play a great deal more squalid than “Dolores”
he ought to take for his raw material a mainten-
ance case heard at the Melbourne District Court
last Friday, when a young white woman sued her
husband, a Chinese catechist, or missionary, who
gets £8 Is. Bd. a month salary, with an extra ss.
a week to keep a horse and trap. One choice
extract from the press report reads like this: —
Witness, continuing, said a girl-child was born. De-
fendant went to the bed and said, “ What have you got
there?” and when he found out said, “You have got a
dirty girl; you will be punished.” He lifted his hand to
strike the infant, but she caught his hand. Then he was
going to turn her out of the bed. She refused to go back
to him. She was too ill, and only wanted maintenance for
the children. He had beaten her with a stick and
injured her back.
The irony of it! The Chinese was garbed in
clerical broadcloth, and said he was a Christian 1
George Reid, while spanking the air
wildly at his meeting in Sydney last Monday,
pointed out that if the Federal elections were held
on the old rolls as proposed, there would be seen
the weird spectacle of one electorate with nearly
twice as many electors as another. He also said :
If ever I shall be remembered in the history of this
young nation in the days to come, it will be by this step
I have taken.
George needn’t worry himself; he will be remem-
bered for much more than that. He will be
remembered as the gerrymandering political hypo-
crite who rejected the scheme for readjusting the
electorates of N.S.W. and held the election of
1898 under such conditions that one electorate had
2J times as many voters as another. He will be
remembered as a person who held office for five
years by the grace of the Labor party—a policy
he now denounces; as the man who said “ Yes,
Mr. Chamberlain! ” when Joe of Birmingham
threw his Nigger Exclusion Act back in
his face, and humbly brought in a new
measure on the lines Chamberlain laid down ;
as the person who had the £600,000 deficit of 1896,
and denied that it existed; as the Freetrader who
bought the support of the Sydney dailies with 50
per cent. Protection ; as the man who tried to
charge a lot of cups and saucers to loans as a
“permanent and reproductive’’ work; as the
man who never failed to betray a political friend
if it paid, or to crawl to an enemy if it were profit-
able ; and as the worst degradation that has
fallen on Australian politics for many years.
George Reid will be remembered right enough.


Great Thumping Throbbing Headaches
“Few women have suffered more than T,” says Miss Maud Raynor, the talented Australian actress,
living at Russel Street, Rosatala, near Alberton. “ When I was sixteen my blood seemed to turn to water.
Of course, my whole system suffered. I lost every particle of strength and my heart began to grve way.
Often I couldn’t move with a terrible piercing pain right between my shoulder blades The bad blood soon
upset my stomach too, and I suffered untold tortures from headaches that throbbed as if my skull would
split. Belching wind and scalding heartburn showed that all my digestive organs were out of order. Some-
times I was burning hot, and the next moment I was shivering. All this ill-health told on my nerves and I
fell a victim to palpitation and hysterical attacks. I had to fight against terrible odds on the stage Doctors
said it was a hopeless ease of persistent pernicious amemia. Certainly no medicine seemed to do me any
good. Then friends urged me to take Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills because they actually made new, pure rich
red blood. I tried thpm-and almost from the first box they gave new strength to my stomach and braced
up my nerves. Then those terrible pains in my back and the
thumping, throbbing headaches went away. I ate and slept
well and a rosy color came into my cheeks. And all my
present good health I owe to Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People.”
Do not allow any shopkeeper to tell you he has something just as good
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
Get the genuine—alwavs in a box like this—2s. 9d. a box ; six boxes, 15s. 3d.
Miss Maud Raynor.
X WILLIAMS
"£ J‘BIJ
zdsj*
40
“ Hi
<2O
r
in
PERSONAL ITEMS.
“W
Australia’s new Gov.-Gen. measures about
sft. nothing.
Ex-Premier Salisbury, of Great Britain, is
dead, at the age of 73.
C. C. Kingston tells that his wife was the
first woman to vote for a Parliamentary candidate
in Australia. There were two members to be
elected and she voted for her husband and Labor
man Batchelor.
Senate-President Baker’s sister is said to
have been the last Australian to have had an
interview with the late Pope. The ancient hadn’t
met her since he presented her with some sort of a
decoration a few years back, but he was still
mentally fresh enough to remember her and her
’version. '
Governor-General Northcote has, in a
sense, a personal interest in the Commonwealth
Navigation Bill and shipping laws generally. A
Northcote of the 17th century was a kind of Cus-
toms Collector, and was tried by the Star Chamber
for being remiss in collecting the “ship money.”
He was able to prove, however, that he was a
violent, callous, and remorseless collector, and
emerged with honor. This old gatherer’s son
became the first Baronet Northcote.
The Hon. “ Charley” Mills, M.L. Minister
of Customs, has great sympathy for the ill-paid
school teacher. Charles
started his career as a
pupil teacher at £7 a year ;
in four years he was getting
£lO, so he “chucked” it.
PUSHING SALES.
ENTEPRISING BOY: “Here y'are ,
Mr. Kyabram, all about how you've robbed
the country .”
According to Melbourne Tocsin, Tom
Mann has decided not to let any more obliging
mayors and shire councillors preside at his meet-
ings. These kind and large-hearted men take
so long introducing Mann and stating that they
admire him but don’t agree with his views, that
Mann hasn’t time to say much.
Quartermaster Sergeant Joseph Bissell,
who died the other day at Hawthorn (Vic.) aged
84, served in the Afghan campaign of ’42, the
Sutlej and Punjaub campaigns of ’45-’4B, and the
Indian mutiny. During the later part of his life,
till 11 years ago, when he emigrated to Australia,
he was a drill instructor in England.
A new Tichborne Claimant is on the
horizon, and he seems to spell even worse than the
previous Claimant. Apparently the Persecuted
Nobleman lost his dictionary overboard on that
famous voyage from South America over a genera-
tion ago. He now writes in pencil from New
York to an Adelaide paper, and his struggles with
the British language are awful.
E. B. Cargill, the old Maoriland shipping
man who dropped out suddenly a week or two
back, was the best-known member of the family
of Captain Cargill, the dour old Covenanter who
founded Otago. E. 8., the son, took a spasmodic
interest in public affairs ; and, at the jubilee of
Dunedin some years back, they made him mayor
for a year in his father’s honor. He was one of 17
children.
Memories of the Dandenong murder case
were revived t’other day when Melbourne Practice
Court, at the instance of the Neglected Children’s
Department, made an order for the payment of
£l5 12s. per annum from the estate of the
murdered Sangal towards the support of Mrs.
Sangal’s child —born in Melbourne Gaol after the
mother’s conviction. Sangal’s estate was valued
at £lB3l.
Phil May seemingly “ verted ” to Rome a
little before his death. In this he followed
Aubrey Beardsley, who sent for a priest when he
was dying. May was brought up a Protestant,
but had some Irish R.C. blood in him. His
maternal grandmother was a M‘Carthy. As like
as not Burnand, the editor of London Punch, who
is a solid R.C., helped to enlist Phil May in the
cause of “ Holy Church.”
Ralph Brown, the ex-Methody Rev. who
died lately, was a several-sided parson. For
years he was stationed in Victorian up-country
“ circuits,” where he put up a bigger reputation
as a vet. ttian as a vicar. Often when he was
summoned hurriedly to the house of a member of
his flock he went prepared to talk about her soul
to some almost-persuaded sister, but found that
he was wanted to prescribe for the brindle cow
or the poley horse.
Edward Braddon, infirm Lnight of Tas-
mania bids fair to equal Bruce Smith, h. R.
M'Lean and G. H. Reid for non-a tendance
record at House of Reps. The grand old man is
getting very feeble and his absence is due entirely
to ills of the flesh. He has many llls and not
much flesh. Some time ago he put in an appear-
ance at the House but was stopped by a new
messenger who failed to recognise the ancient
legislator. Since then the messenger is known as
Braddon’s Block.
The first Premier of Bananaland, Robert
George Wyndham Herbert, who took office 44
years ago, still flourishes in the flesh. The other
day, at Marlborough-street Police Court (London),
he proceeded against Francis Ledlow Holt for
threatening to slay him m his old age. Holt said
he didn’t really intend to slay Herbert; he had
merely mentioned the possibility of doing so to a
friend, and the friend had blabb ® d - Tbe oa , rt
bound Holt over in the sum of £5OO to keep the
peace for 12 months, so if he slays Bananaland s
ex-Premier within a year he will be hanged and
lose his £5OO. After that he will only be hanged.
Thus T. P. O’Connor on our expected
visitor, the mighty snuffler, “Elijah ” Dowie :
But the one incomprehensible element in the man’s
gigantic success is the personal luxury in which he lives,
and his superb refusal at the same time to account for
anv of the sums of money entrusted to him His horses
are worth a fortune in themselves; his carriages are
emblazoned with armorial bearings; his wife is said to
dress with the gorgeous extravagance of an empress.
When he travels, hemmed round with a little army of
liveried servants, the prophet of humility and self-denial
has a special train chartered, and whenever spiritual
burdens become too great a tax there is a delightful
country residence belonging to him in which to retreat
from the clamour and importunate appeals of the
faithful.
When Henry Downer was S.M. of Ade-
laide local court, his brothers —John, Harold,
and George—were young lawyers, and public
opinion ran high as to whether or no Henry
Downer should occupy such a position
when he had three brothers practising.
One day C. C. Kingston—then a young
law student —and several others of
that tribe, and also a sprinkling of
solicitors, were in the court
awaiting the appearance of the
S.M. Kingston, then a clever
mimic, climbed on to the
bench and, gazing around
the court, asked in a
voice imitative of Down-
er’s : “Where are George
and John, and where is
little Harold from the
Port ? What-not here !
Then I declare this court
not properly constitu-
ted.” The S.M. just
dropped in in time for
the joke.
An Upper House of
life nominees is the re-
ceptacle for old, cast-off
or worn-out politicians
from the Assembly ;
when the people will no
longer appoint a man to
legislate for three years
he is appointed over the
heads of the people to
legislate for life. In the
N.S.W. Assembly list
for 1879 appeared the
names of R. R. S. Bow-
ker, Samuel Charles,
John Davies, George
Day, Edward Greville,
James Hoskins, A. H.
Jacob, Andrew Kerr,
John Lackey, W. A.
Long, John Lucas, John
Macintosh, Henry Moses,
C. E. Pilcher, W. H.
Suttor, James Watson,
and Edmund Webb They.
were all lingering in an obsolete
sort of way in the Council 20
years later, and others had been
there but had passed on to the other tomb,
which isn’t much deader, but which has no re
freshment-room attached.
An Australian with a heart trouble, who
went on a pleasure and health voyage to America
the other day, was accompanied by a friend who—
at the request of the traveller’s wife took
among his effects a leaden coffin to bring the corpse
home “in case anything happened.” What a
jewel beyond price is an affectionate and thought-
ful wife !
Senator Tom Playford never could keep a
secret, and was always an easy prey for the
astute reporter when be was in State politics.
So it was inevitable, when he was asked to take
the place of O’Connor as leader of the Govern-
ment in the Senate, that all the story should come
out. Adelaide Advertiser published the first
announcement of the change. Play-
ford received his sobriquet of “Honest Tom
from his bluff ways and his habit of blurting out
facts which his colleagues considered ought to be
regarded as dark mysteries.
Councillor Lavington Bonython,
eldest son of the Adelaide Adver
TISER knight, will stand for the city
seat at the next State election
He is about to marry a daughtei
of ex-Speaker, ex-Premier, ex-
Agent-General Bray, who sat
for an Adelaide constituency
for 20 years, and who was the
first native-born Premier and
knight raised by the Wheat
State.
David Lindsay, the Ade-
laide sharebroker and explorer,
'who has his name spattered
about more than any other man
in South Australia, once rode from Port Darwin
to the M‘Donnell Ranges accompanied only by a
black boy. He went to map out the field where
the valueless rubies were found.
Sinclair Blue, stepson and aide-de-camp
to Lieutenant-Governor Sammy Way (S.A.), was
recently up on two unsatisfied judgment sum-
monses in the Adelaide court, the hard-hearted
creditor in each case being a tailor. Which is
reminiscent of the fact that the Earl of Euston
(then Colonel H. J, Fitzroy), when Chief-Justice
Way’s associate in Adelaide, 25 years ago, was
summoned by tailor George P. Doolette, now a
mining magnate in London, and ordered to pay
so much a week off his clothes account.
Among the luxuries N.S.W. pays for is
the setting up and machining of awful Parlia-
mentary stuff like this :
Mr. J. O. L. Fitzpatrick : It would be a good thing for
the hon. member if he lost a little.
Mr Norton : I do not know. I shall have a happier
death as a fleshy, full-blooded man than I should as a
skinny, bloodless individual like the hon. member, who
will have his life twisted out of him ten times over when
I shall be already dead. The hon. member will have an
awful death. I shall die suddenly from the bursting of a
blood vessel. The hon. member will be in such agony
and torture that he will wish that he had never been
born before he is half dead. What will happen at his
death, God only knows. I shall be in Heaven, and the
hon. member will be elsewhere.
“Pressman ” writes:
Nine years aero I was guest of the late Quong Tart at
dinner—given to certain unsuccessful candidates at the
general election of 1894. It was an odd idea, and the col-
lection of rejected politicians was, Heaven knows, a
study. I can remember only one of them, the late Ninian
Melville—so they must have been a parcel of nobodies.
They were the men who had had seats in the House, but
had lost them at the election—the culls, rejects, has-
beens. The spread was given at Quong’s place in King-
street, and Tart himself presided. He made a speech.
Quong was in a philosophic mood, and dwelt on the
uncertainty of all human projects. He might have quoted
Wolse.v, but he relied on Tart, and, said he, “ We often
lay out great dings for ourselves, and we fawnsy we have
dem fixed up right enough, and den over goes d’ apple
cart! ” (Applause and laughter.)
J. L. Parsons, who died last week in S.
Australia, was an erratic person, whom the State
tried for years to “ place,” but without much suc-
cess. Originally in the pulpit, he passed into
politics ; and J. C. Bray gave him first the port-
folio of Education, and then sent him up to Port
Darwin as Resident. After he came back, 12
years ago, his position was in no doubt; he was an
unmitigated Tory and colored-labor advocate;
and, being one of the most effective platform
speakers in S.A., he was usually put up against
Kingston when the latter was in State polities.
He was the local consul for Japan, and tried to
engineer a scheme for establishing a big .Tap
colony in the N. Territory.
Writes a man from Yokohama :
Mr. E. W. Cole, of Melbourne Book Arcade, and family
are at present in Japan. E.W.C. carries a pocketful of
aluminium medallions which he hands about ad lib. On
one side is the inscription :
“ Acquaintance only required. If all men throughout
the world were acquainted with each other there would
be little or no war, for then only the very wicked would
have to be kept in order by the world’s police. Federa-
tion of the World Medals issued by E. W. Cole, Book
Arcade, Melb.”
And on the other side
“ All men are brothers. The people everywhere that
you do not know are as good as the people that you do
know. Made in France.”
“ Made in France” sounds bathetic in that con-
nection.
Maoriland has of late been much harassed
over “Soapy Tom,” a curious-looking figure, in
marvellous raiment, who sojourns at Gisborne.
The census describes him as a “ connoisseur in
glassware ; ” his enemies say he is an insanitary
bottle-gatherer. Relations between Thomas and
the authorities grew so strained that the latter
officially burned down Thomas’s 3ft. high resi-
dence and laid waste his backyard with fire and
sword. Then “Soapy Tom” became a public
character, and got his face in the papers. He set
up another packing-case house with all the
universe for his backyard, and the authorities
arrested him “on the vag.,” and threatened to
burn down his new residence for sanitary reasons.
But “Soapy Tom” is now roused, and when he
is roused he fights his law points so ably that it
has become doubtful whether there is enough law
in all Maoriland to burn his new packing-case.
The matter will probably end in the Privy
Council, and it begins to be doubtful if it
wouldn’t be cheaper to appoint the defendant
Maoriland’s commercial agent in China.
A QUESTION OF MORE OR LESS
WAGES, &c.
THE BOSS : "Don't appeal to him, you fool; let's
settle it ourselves; he might be biassed!”
N.S.W. Agent-General Copeland, it is
tearfully announced by S.M. Herald, has had to
abandon an idea he had of bringing out to Aus-
tralia some skylarks and other song-birds. And
Mr. Copeland is so fond of skylarks 1 It was
when he had been skylarking at a public banquet
that the Herald meanly printed a verbatim
report of his speech, with never a “ hie ” left out.
John Haynes was at that time in the bad graces
of the party which he had once served as a
chubby altar-boy, and, rising to speak in the
Assembly, was greeted with cries of “Tij;us
Oates.’’ “Perhaps,” said John, with a grin,
“but not as tight as Copeland.” It is a pity
for the joy of the community that Mr. Copeland
has had to leave the skylarks. '' K '
Monsignor O’Hea, better known as‘“The
Dane,” from the title he held so long in the R.C.
Church, is reported to be on the verge of death at
his residence in Coburg (Vic.). He was one of
the characters of Melbourne until a few years ago,
when increasing age kept him to his home. Phy-
sically powerful, and with the Celtic temperament
that a lifetime of godliness could not eliminate,
O’Hea took his part in many a willing “dis-
cussion.” On one occasion, when a blacksmith
concluded a round of abuse by asserting what he
would do if it wasn’t for O’Hea’s black coat, the
latter was doffed in half a second, and the priest
was left in the background for the “bhoy.’’ And
that bhoy always stripped with an air of extreme
unction. Rather O’Hea attended Ned Kelly
after his conviction and “saw him off.” After
the hanging, he had dinner with the Government
medical officer of the day, Dr. Barker, and the
writer, who was seated at the same table, has
lively recollections of being thrilled by O’Hea’s
vivid descriptions of this and other executions,
his reminiscences of the guillotine in Paris, illus-
trated with a rolled serviette and a carving knife,
being so realistic as to prove a satisfying meal in
themselves.
A MONUMENT
OF VIRTUE.
“They had only to
look at the class of
men sent into the
Federal Parliament.
('Hear, hear.’) Why,
some of them did not
even pay their debts.
(Laughter).” —Alleged
SENATOR REID.
But, then, Robert is
apt to forget that even
his own lily is, after all, nothing but a stinking
arum.
Cardinal Vaughan, apart from the ordi-
nary Church revenues which came to him as
Archbishop of Westminster, owned the London
Tablet and the Dublin Review. Yet we are
told by cable that he has left only £7OO. His
brother, Ro'er Vaughan, managed to pile up
more than £30,000 during the six years that he
was R.O. Archbishop of Sydney. Old Arch-
bishop Polding, who brought Vaughan out as his
Coadjutor in 1873, had nothing to leave when he
died in 1877. Vaughan’s .£BO,OOO was left to his
successor in the see of Sydney. Cardinal Moran
came to Sydney as Archbishop in 1884, and before
the end of 1885 he had “ melted ” the whole of it.
On St. Patrick’s College, Manly, £OO,OOO was
spent, and on the Cardinal’s palace £12,000. The
land at Manly was an old Government grant.


To Play your Piano
ms® 1
NS
ULL
The Pianola mill aid yoa.
Put a Pianola on your piano, and
you will be repaid a hundredfold.
Anyone can play any kind of music
just as an accomplished artist would
play.
Call and see this wonderful instru-
ment or write us for Catalog “B.”
Price £6O prompt cash or £65 on
moderate monthly payments.
You do not have to buy the
records ; they are supplied from our
Circulating Libraries.
Note. —A few second-hand instru-
ments in stock at reduced prices.
HERRY M. BIRGE & CO.,
Sole Agents for Australasia ,
323 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
185-187 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
DAVID STOHEH, & SONS’ Three Color °-*'-n*> red and blue
Registered
Trade
Mark.
TATTOO OIL
Is the Only Absolutely
SAFE Wo ° -
Marking
The Perfect Sheep-Marker, SHEEP BRANDING OIL.
Kept by ALL MERCHANTS and STOREKEEPERS.
Aboriginalities.
MISS BOSE SCOTT.
Photo, by T. Humphrey & Co., Melbourne.
“ D.B.” sends this curious letter from
Kirk (Queensland): —
Just arrived here (4/8/’03) after a nine years’ journey
from Port Augusta (S.A.)- a teamster and family with the
usual goats, poultry, &c. Would have arrived several
weeks before only for the annoying, unavoidable delays
caused by the births of several youngsters en route.
It is annoying when you are taking a little trip to
be bothered with family affairs of that sort.
* * * *
“ Dryblower” writes re the atrocious treat-
ment of coach horses outback :
The cut-throat competition amongst the mail con-
tractors, plus the disastrous drought effects, have made
coach-travelling in the Lower Darling districts a dreadful
ordeal. In many places, two horses and a shanghai take
the place of a four-horse covered coach. Many of the
horses are miserably poor, and worked out. They are
fed on chaff, with a scanty supply of oats. Corn is an
unheard-of luxury nowadays. Two horses often run a 40-
mile stage, over heavy sandy roads, without a bite on the
way. Frequently the horses have to be flogged almost
continuously in order to punch them along the last 10
miles or so of a stage. I have seen overworked, underfed
horses forced to do the work of double their number—
and fairly belted to utter exhaustion. I had never before
seen such atrocious flogging of “ dumb driven cattle,”
and I’ve seen much bullock-driving, too. To a man who
can feel for animals, such coach-travelling is infernal.
The Government should fix a minimum contract price,
and then insist upon faithful observance of contract
conditions j and in the event of two or more contractors
tendering at the State-fixed (statute-fixed, if you like)
minimum, the successful tenderer could be chosen bv
lot, land-ballot fashion. AnythingWould be better than
the present barbarous state of things, which is a disgrace
to Australia. "
“Bunny”; The paddocks in and about
Bourke are wonderfully picturesque now. One
sees hundreds of acres covered with deliciously
green herbage, splashed with golden patches of
yellow-blossomed weeds, and starred with minia-
ture marguerites. So marked is the fresh beauty
of the fields that even folk with the T. F. (tired
feeling) drink in the sweetness of it all. What a
marvellous magician is the capricious rain ! It
turns the dreary, dusty, desolate regions of out-
back into a paradise.
“** * •
“Cecil Poole”: Up north, some years
ago, a man won £9OO in a sweep. He banked his
money and then got on the booze in a one-pub
hamlet, and after playing up £3O or £4O, he
walked away, one night, in a state of modified
jim-jams to another pub, which he also com-
menced to streak with scarlet. Bung No. 1,
discovering his absence, started off, per buggy,
and confronting Bung No. 2, demanded his
property (the cheque-man) back. The said drunk,
he pointed out, was just shouting for the four-
teenth time for a crowd consisting of two
squatters, three boundary riders, five tank-
sinkers, nineteen swaggies (hourly increasing),
the publican, and a travelling blind man and
his dog. “ Luk here, Murphy,” said the second
robber, “ Oi’ll give yez me cheque for fifty quid
if ye’ll lave the creatur wid me.” “I’ll be
dahmmed if I do, Ryan,” said Murphy; “Give
him back to me, ye thafe of the wur-r-rld ! ”
And Ryan, being an honest man who respected
the rights of property, surrendered his prize.
The latter got so far that, finally, he would crawl
into the bar on his hands and knees. But Murphy
did not get niueh the better of the deal, for he
was so largely shouted for by his captive that he
ultimately drank his reason away for ever. The
drunk, himself, was ruined for life—as far as the
desire to work was concerned. He sits most of
his time in the bar, waiting for some one to
shout. He is not treated with contumely as a
common sponger would be; a dim halo of glory
still hangs around his head. And when the
subject of cheque melting is mentioned: “Pooh,”
he says, “blewed sixty quid, did he? Look at
me—/ smashed nine hundred ! ”
* * * *
“Myall ’: “Blow me,” muttered the
Sniffler in a tone of utmost scorn, as he
pondered over the latest tooth extraction
story, “ some of these blokes what spout
about gettin’ their teeth out ought a bin
out here 20 years ago, before them dentist
coves were ever heerd of. I remember a
chap on the station here—a young feller
we used to call Mick—what nearly ‘ threw
out’ through trying to get a tooth out.
Mick had4llo toothache somethin’ terrible
for about a fortnight. The blacksmith had
three goes to get the tusk out, but couldn’t
budge it, an’ then he wanted to burn it out
with a hiron bar, but Mick couldn’t stand
the hiron toucbin’ on his tongue. Then
he struck a hidea of his own. Joe, the
yardman, had to go out on the run with
the cart for something, and while Joe was
harnessin’ the mare Mick was hitchin’ his
tooth on to the tail board with twisted
copper wire. When things were ready for
a start he told Joe to go like hell till some-
thing broke. Mick gets back in his
britchin, Joe gives the mare a cut with the
whip, and away they goes. Blow me, it
was orlright fun to see the capers Mick
cut behind that cart until we couldn’t see
’em for dust. A couple o’ hours afterwards
Mick comes back to the hut with a jore
on him bigger than that billy-can, and a
lump of the tail-board draggin’ behind him,
but the tooth was as solid as the day it
grew. It took Mick nearly a month to
get over the shock to his system. The
coves nowadays knows nothing about tooth
extraction.”
“ Cecil P.” : Generally thought that
eels are not to be found in Western waters.
Yet one, quite 6ft. long, was caught near Emma-
ville (N.S.W.) some months ago.
* * * *
At the bidding of the Age, Victorian
Lands Minister Taverner has just decided to grab,
if he can, a big slice out of the few acres which
have been left to the Victorian aborigines. Chief
Secretary Murray, who controls the aborigines
branch, has persistently refused to close up any of
the stations, experience in his own electorate
having shown that you can shift an aborigines’
station, but you can’t shift the aborigines, who
keep round their own locality and die on other
people’s doorsteps, and become a half-fed and pil-
fering burden. But Taverner, in his anxiety to
placate the farmer and give him more land with-
out breaking up any of the big estates (and saying
nothing of the fact that David Syme owns two
magnificent properties abutting the best of the
blacks’ stations), is not likely to enter into any
humane considerations of that sort. And if
Murray is not too plethoric to raise his voice in
protest, he is hardly likely to obtain a hearing in
a Cabinet chiefly composed of Irvine and Shiels
and Curved Thomas.
* * * *
Sydney Kidman, the S.A. stockman,
affirms that during a recent trip round the
stations in S.W. Queensland he met many natives
who claimed that the heavy rains that had fallen
in their parts of the Commonwealth were entirely
due to their efforts as rain-makers. Singularly
enough, they didn’t propose to take up a special
collection on that account.
ON THE SELECTION.
Dad gets fixed in a hollow white prospecting for
’ possums, and is rescued with difficulty.
The discoverer has a hard struggle to win
fame these times. Lately somebody who writes a
good deal of the alphabet after his name unearthed
a new tribe of blacks on Mornington Island ; and
on describing his find he remarked that lie was
probably the only white man who had landed on
the island since Flinders’ day. Whereupon
Meston sent along to the discoverer some extracts
from a report which he published about the
Mornington blacks 22 years ago, with the ad-
dendum that the island is so much in the way of
civilisation that even Governor Lamington has
been there.
* * * *
“ Cecil P.” : In spite of 42in. of rain in
less than 12 months, the trees near Emmaville
(N.S.W.) are still dying. The explanation is that
the rain has not reached the subsoil, the water
running off stony and hard ground. Many trees
put out leaves, but they have died. During the
drought, the oaks in the creek beds died.
* * * *
A Bulletin correspondent:—
The department con-
trolling the Victorian
asylums for the insane
have provision made for
“ boarding out ” the
harmless cases amongst
the unfortunates com-
mitted to its care. That
may be a beneficial
arrangement for the
State, but the advan-
tages to the patient
seem to be question-
able. Writer saw a
woman the other day
carrying a huge bag of
small firewood an d
chips over her shoulder.
She struggled over a
mile or more of rough
country—including the
old workings of a gold
rush and various water
courses. Pained to see
a woman, and an appar-
ently aged one at that,
toiling so hard, I made
inquiries as to her iden-
tity. Pound that she
was a patient from the
local asylum and was
“boarded out” to the
people for whom she
was carrying the fire-
wood. She did all the
heavy work—including
the family wood-cart-
ing—and was treated
practically as a slave.
And the people were
paid a few shillings a
week for keeping her !
They got her clothes,
boots, &c., from the
asylum free of charge.
The “ lady ” of the
house uses many of
these articles herself,
the unfortunate patient
having, of course, no
idea of claiming her
rights. The general
public, from whopi in-
quiries weremade relat-
ing to this specific case,
seemed to regard it
quite as a matter of
course. In fact, it was
looked upon as a mere
business affair, and the
chief concern seemed
to be for the people
boarding the patient,
as it was a debatable
point whether “ the
game was worth the
candle ! ” A good deal
has lately been heard
of the treatment of
patients in asylums.
Some attention might
also be given to those out of them—under the conditions
above given.
* * * *
“Tost”: Be wood adder (B. 16/7/’03).
Saw a man bitten by ; one of these lizards on the
finger while loading old rails on a dray. He said
it gave him great pain for about ten minutes but
did not do any other injury to him. A space
round the bite about the size of a shilling piece
went a blue black color. If the animal is annoyed
it will spit a sticky saliva at the object of its
anger.
“Cecil P.” : Excellent specimen of in-
flated nomenclature is that ! of “Stonehenge,”
Glen Innes (N.S.W.). It consists of a number of
boulders and slabs left standing by the process of
denudation. They show, as do the rocks of New
England, the enormous age of some of our moun-
tain ranges. Crumbling and weather-beaten
Mount Lindsay (M’Pherson Range) is another
capital example of such.
* * * *
“B.”: Can some aboriginal tell me if
the crushing at Krohman’s claim in 1872 of 16
tons quartz for 56120 z. per ton is correct ? If so,
is it a record for Australia ?
* * * *
“Rol”: Reading of that winze accident
V B. 9/7/’O3) reminds me of a man who was working
in a rise single-handed. He had some ground
to gad out, and the gad kept falling down
the pass. So he got a piece of lashing and
made it fast to the gad at one end and the
other end round his neck. He must have
got the gad fast in a crack, and stepping
back to hit it, slipped ; for when we found
him he was stone dead, hanging from the
gad.
* * *
Society item from the West Aus-
tralian (Perth, W.A.)
A Marble Bar telegram states :—No business
was transacted on Monday while Mr.
, was being married at the Registrar’s office
to an aboriginal woman named . Such
an event was unique in the Nor’-West. After some
trouble the bridegroom obtained the services of two
old prospectors to act as witnesses to the marriage.
J At the conclusion of the ceremony the happy couple
drove away midst showers of flour. The bride was in
a picturesque hat, a floral muslin blouse, and a white mus-
lin skirt, with patent-leather shoes, and also wore flowers
in her hair.
AT PENT RIDGE.
THE BLACK SHEEP : “ Oh, I was sent here for robbing a church
REV. ALISTER M‘ALISTER: “Robbing a church! Ma conshuns, that's a
terrible crime! But the Loord is merciful. He will forgive
Man, it's a mercy it wasna a kirk!"
“ D.H.R.” : Phenomenal rains have fallen
in some parts of the out-back; and the country
looks splendid. The situation now, is—country
covered with feed, and no stock to eat it. The
Walgett district has had 12J inches of rain in
about four months ; the usual rainfall is more like
4J inches in 12 months. Other districts have
fared as well, and many of them better. Natdre
in some places seems working up for floods, and
then, presumably, another drought.
“ YV.H.” tells this cheerful yarn of the
white man’s honesty and gratitude :
It was at the Saltwater Creek tram line. Chow store-
keeper wasn’t a bad sort ; he let us have tucker and paid
for our licenses. Two or three had tried to slope him—
they were unsuccessful —and we were on the same lay.
First month, no timber in. Second month, ditto. Third
month, all sleepers passed and paid for. Got ourselves
and cheques as far as the Little Mossman, when up came
our Chow ;he fancied himself with his props—old hands
on the railways will remember him. Said he :
“ You owe’e me eighteen pong ten. You payee me
now ? ”
“ We’ll pay you by the mile,” said the Long ’Un.
“No blurry fear,” he says. “You payee now.”
The Long ’Un woke up, and then the fun began. He
took the Chow by the ankles and held him in the creek
for half a minute. Chow was landed spluttering.
“ How much your bill now ?” said the Long ’Un.
“Eighteen pong ten.”
The Chow went figurehead under again, and (after a
longer spell this time) was withdrawn.
“ How much now?”
“ Me takee ten pong—squaree bill.”
“In you go again ! ” said the Long ’Un : and this time
he gave him a ducking that would have drowned a Bap-
tist.
“ How much now ? ” said the Long ’Un ; and when the
Chow had got his scuppers clear—“ You go blurry hell,”
he said. “You owee me nothing.”
And the Long ’Un hoisted his swag and took the track
again.
IN THE NIGHT-CAMP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bright stars twinkle,
Horse-bells tinkle,
Far away across the flat;
Winds are sighing,
Night-birds crying,
Overhead a circling bat.
In the scrub a wakeful wagtail, heedless that the hour is
late,
With—“ Sweet, pretty, little creature!” serenades a
sleepy mate.
As the glowing
Logs are throwing
Fiery shafts into the night,
Good old faces
And old places
Linger near the cheery light.
City men may find a pleasure in the noise and glaring
lamps,
But we love the peace that settles o’er the rivers and the
camps,
Eldorados
In the shadows
Rise to give us courage still;
Stars are gleaming
In our dreaming—
Comrades’ forms the vistas fill.
All our kindly deeds before us in their brightest forms
we see,
While we sigh for meaner actions though of small import
they be.
In this season,
When we reason
Out the path we mean to go,
Recollections
And reflections
All our by-gone errors show.
Oftentimes those days were hard ones, but all good times
are not dead,
So we’ll keep a grin that’s cheerful for the better days
ahead.
N. S.W#
RIVERINA.


FOR TABLE & KITCHEN.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
From Grocers and Stores.
Wholesale Agents Harrison & Attwood, Sydney.
SALT
A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
cases in six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
only Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
Of Chemists, or from PARIS MEDICINE CO., 28, Shoe-
lane, London, England.* \
‘Fx. & R/ Watches.
“ Are the most extraordinary
Watches of the Age.” . .
THE movements are on the Lever Principle.
THEY have Brequet Overcoil Balance Springs.
THEY have com .ensated and adjusted Balances.
THEY have Jewel Kuhy Rollers.
THEY are Dustproof and Watertight, as their
cases screw together.
THEY are specially made to stand ROUGH
RIDING and KNOCKING ABOUT, and go
with Profound Accuracy.
THEY are guaranteed for 15 years, and kept in
order (breakages excepted) for 2 years.
With 15 Jewels, in Oxidised Case, 30/-; in Solid
Silver Case, 42/-.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 HUNTER STREET
Gent.’s Full-size f-plate Lever, 30/-; 15 Jewels,
15 years’ guarantee.
THE SANCTITY OF HOME.
BLACK THAKER (much concerned about the waywardness of his beloved lubra, to
her male white admirer and would-be-spoiler of his camp comforts): “Look
’ ere, ole man; s’pose you run away with my missus, I have you up for
perjury. No gammon! I been long time longa p’lice force, a n’ I know
all ’bout it. Berrer look out.”
“D.H.R.”: Re dynamite handling. Not
long ago visited scene of reported opal discovery,
near Angledool, and saw a man descending a shaft
by a rope with his pockets full of dynamite. He
was going to lay the explosive in a cutting, con-
nect a piece of kerosened string, and light ; then
ascend. I tried to dissuade him, but of no avail,
and after blaspheming him, left. Met him a
fortnight after. “Can’t understand some blokes,”
said he ; “they’re as frightened of dynamite as if
it was a dead Chinaman. D’yer know what I
does, man ? Come up to the ’umpy. I
and he took me inside. D yer see this door .
Well, the wind blows that open o nights, an it s
very uncomfortable. Thet’s me bolt —it was a
plug of dynamite, tied to a string fastened on the
side of a door-post. Opposite was the hole into
which it fitted. The man picked up the plug and
rammed it into the hole, tapping it with a hammer
to make it fit.
* * * *
Tommy Walker (native name Pollpalin-
gada Boobooiowie), one of the best known of
Adelaide aboriginals, had a troubled career in
life, and in death he is causing quite a stir. Out
of respect for a well-known identity, the stock-
brokers subscribed money to buy a coffin in which
Tommy’s bones might be decently interred, and
they also put a headstone to his grave. But
whispers were circulated recently, and on the
coffin being exhumed, it was found that most of
Tommy had been utilised for scientific purposes,
and that there was much extraneous matter m
the urn to make up weight and give an air of
versimilitude to a bald and uncouvincing remains.
An Adelaide undertaker, in chatting concerning
the matter to a reporter, said “You see, the
men of my trade, when they go to a hospital to
bury a body, fix it up in the coffin and
screw it down if so requested ; but if they
find a coffin-lid on already they just pick up
the thing and carry it away. They don’t ask
questions.” All the same, one undertaker, years
ago, finding a body given to him for burial to be
in many pieces, informed the relatives, and the
surgeons who had been practising on it had to put
it together again. When Tommy Walker was
buried, a number of aboriginals (including his wife
Ada) gathered together with the object of attend-
ing his funeral, but a misunderstanding arose as
to the time, and they went away and got drunk
instead, afterwards creating such a rumpus at the
grave that a shocked sexton turned them out of
the cemetery. Tommy was a general favorite in
Adelaide, and used to collect many coppers from
select audiences to whom he rehearsed scenes from
the police-court proceedings in which he figured
from time to time. Quite a popular song, which
he chortled himself, and which the juveniles of
Adelaide yelled after him, ended with this re-
frain :
Tommy Walker, walk up here,
You are charged with drinking beet;
Eighteenpence you’ve got to pay—
Ta-ra-ra-ra-boom-de-ay.
* * * *
The faithful starve-by-the-side-of-his dead-
master dog story received a hard hit at Esk (Q.)
a while ago. The remains of an ancient black-
fellow were discovered surrounded by the familiar
horde of blackfellows’ mongrels. The faithful
tykes had already devoured part of the nigger’s
corpse, and were desperately defending what re-
mained. Several of the curs had to be shot by
the police ere access could be gained to the relics
of their late master.
“Olmo”
writes from
the warm
regions on
the barmaid
question:
Leaving out
Cairns and
making a
start at Ma-
reeba, there
are five pubs.,
in three of
which the
proprietor
and his wife
attend to the
bar. The
other two are
kept by
widows over
45. Yet the
drinking
done is a
glad some
thing for the
publicans.
Atherton has
four pubs.,
one kept by a
Syrian, the
others by
married men,
and the men
do nearly all
the drink dis-
pensing. Still
the people
drink. Her-
berton has
eight pubs.,
four kept by
widows with
grown fami-
lies, and in
none of them
is the female
element a n
attracti on.
Yet the
traffic is im-
mense. Wat-
sonville has
four pubs., all
kept by
people of
fairly good
age. Irvine-
bank has four
pubs., and
either the
proprietor or his wife deals out the liquid supplies. At
Stannery Hills there is one pub. run by two men. At all
these places the drinking done would make Rev. Boyce’s
hair stand on end unless it was gummed down. In North
Queensland a barmaid is very seldom seen, though the
daughter of the house may serve occasionally. Yet there
is more solid drinking done up here than in most places.
If a teetotal deputation would come up here and drink
its way steadily from Rockhampton to the Gulf I fancy
its view's about barmaids would be much upset.
A practical parson on a goldfield once
prayed (in the early days of gold recovery pro-
cesses) for blessings upon his
congregation, their wives
and families, and the stran-
gers within their gates.
“But,” he added, earnestly,
“above all, O Lord, bless
the cyanide process.”
* * *
“Wiljar”: A clean-
ing-out gang on a Mallee
channel recently saw a fox
in pursuit of a healthy kan-
garoo. None of the shovel-
men —most of them bush-
bred—had seen a fox tackle
a ’roo before.
* * *
“Scallywag”: Very
rarely does a bird meet with
accidental death, but I saw
a pee wee, t’other day, hung
by the neck in a small fork of
a tree which was a few inches
over a branch, on which the
bird had evidently intended
to. alight. *
“ Wurrym ” writes :
“ E.D.” (B. 23/7/’O3) has evi-
dently never been in Canton,
where the one-wheel device he
describes has been in constant
use for centuries. Two men can urge along over half
a ton on a rig-out of this kind. The larger the wheel
the easier to trundle.
Miss Rose Scott, who made womanhood
suffrage popular in N.S.W., has just returned
from an organising tour in Victoria, where she
addressed several meetings and had a glowing
reception at each. Miss Scott comes bade
from her first trip to Victoria filled with
contempt for its Upper House and its Govern-
ment, and with admiration of its library and its
trams. Her impression is that the abolition of
the Upper House in Victoria is necessary, but
that no measure of progress can be expected from
the Irvine Government. Still, with women exer-
cising the Federal franchise, Miss Scott thinks
that they cannot long be kept from the State
suffrage. —.
PICKING UP AND BURNING OFF.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We were out of work and watching every billet advertised,
And we tried our luck at nearly all the “ offices” in town,
And they fleeced us and they fooled us, for the most of
them advised
That they’d “just the job to suit ye” till we’d hardly
half-a-crown.
But at last we struck an “office” that apparently was
straight.
The man that ran it told us there was graft of which he
knew—
Twas in the bush at clearing, but there wasn’t long to
wait;
Then he took our “ half-a-caser ” with a smile and thanked
us, too.
So we found the place he mentioned (to our minds he was
a “ toff ”),
And we took a blessed contract picking up and burning
off.
We were mugs, of course, at bush work, but we though
we were in luck,
And we felt a bit important as we hopefully began ;
But we hadn’t cleared an acre ere the solemn truth we
struck,
That a comprehensive liar was that labor-office man.
The long-cut scrub was withered, and it covered all the
ground; , ,
And it wasn’t hard to light it, so we soon put up a smoke.
Then we dragged the burning bushes and we wildly
rushed around,
Till the smoke and strange exertion made us feel as it
we’d choke ;
And we had to crawl to windward of the fire to breathe
and cough, _ ,
And ponder on our “good thing,” picking up and burning
off.
The fire was fierce and sudden and the leaves were mostly
burned.
But it left the blessed saplings only blackened or
a-charred;
Then we had to lug and heap ’em, and we pretty quickly
learned
That the graft was grim and dirty and was wearisome
and hard.
Our clothes got torn to ribbons and we lost a lot of skin,
And we soon were black as niggers from the murky char-
coal dust;
But we didn’t like to chuck it though we had been taken
in,
So we settled down determined that we’d hustle for our
crust.
And it was a blessed wonder all the tucker we could scoff
While we grafted at that contract, picking up and burning
off.
We started every morning at the first grey streak of light,
And we dragged them blessed saplings and we piled ’em
all the day ;
And we lit the heaps at sundown, and we poked the fires
at night,
And pottered round and raked ’em as the dashed things
burned away.
But when the job was finished and the settling day came
round,
We slunk away in silence—we were too full up to speak ;
For though we “ sloped” the butcher and the grocer-man,
we found
We had earned—for all our toiling—only half-a-quid a
week.
Now when we hear of good things in the bush we jeer
and scoff—
We know; our oath! we’ve been there, picking up and
burning off.
VIC.
BEN SUN.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will betaken of
communications insuficiently stamped. A ame and
address must appear on MS. A o liability is under-
taken in any case re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted, whether sent by post or handed in ; and in
no case will MS. be returned unless stamps (of any
State) accompany.
John S. Allday : Will use part of it. Snap :
Can’t stand “ Memories.”.... Jack Thynne: Declined
Penny Warbler: Pretty well versed, but sentiment too
cheap and obvious.... Deane St. C. : “Mention what we
require.” Well, we require the literary skill which your
story grievously lacks. Even the spelling is very faulty.
Banda : Has no organic unity. A slab might be cut
out of it anywhere without injury to the rest... .E.E.C. :
Idea not bad, but syntax too sloppy... .Polemon;
“Dashed off,” was it? Well, it’s dashed bad !... ,K. :
Fairly well written, but runs on too conventional lines..,
Gay : Hasn’t enough in it.... Borax; Style pretentious,
without being accurate or forcible W.B. (Tas.): Yes,
The Bulletin has had that before.. ..Sol G. : A weak
solution of Shelley.... Brigida : It’s so unequal as to raise
a suspicion that the good part has been cribbed...,
p.M’S. : Good in essence but not in form. You grievously
lack metre-ear.. .. A.L.D.M. : Verses declined, after much
hesitation B. (Moama): Not of much interest.....
J.P.O. : Will print your immoral poem... .The Prince :
Not much ijood Re)ton : Just received much better
set of verses on same subject... .X.Y.Z. : Both promising
for first attempts. Send address for return..... Boro
Belle: Not bad, but too slight for print.... Sabina: Too
straggly and shapeless.... A.W. : Begins rather brightly,
but fizzles-out towards the end... .Mary O’B. : Too closely
modelled on Kipling... .Dicken : Mere fantastic rubbish.
C. Mac. : A drearv disquisition on a well-worn sub-
ject.. ..Hoodoo : How can we tell, when you don’t give
the title ? Komai : Not much good J. O’B. : Can t
locate the incident at all, but the lady has just come
from Europe, after a long absence.. ..Australian : Yes,
the Maorilanders have a mighty opinion of themselves,
sure enough.. .Taiwa : “ Ballade ’’very good; “ Evening
a worn subject... .Total Wreck: Very ordinary love
verse. .. “ Lovers of The Bulletin” : May your shadows
never grow less... .Zola (Toorak): Thanks for your well-
meant and insufficiently-stamped communication.....
Michod (Casterton, Vic.) : Poem, which cost 4d. for in-
sufficient postage, declined... .Urania : Inferior... . Phn-
garlic: Verse poor; story 01d....R.H.P. : If the par
appeared, and vou included it in your account, it would
be paid for... ,'W.M. : “ Conversion ” firmly declined..
Pompey: If you showed those verses to Julius Caesar
it is no wonder the old friendship burst up......
Ishmael: Your eloquence is very disjointed. (1) II
Maoriland had joined the Federation, the iniquities and
follies of State politics in N.S.W. and Victoria and Queens-
land would have had nothing at all to do With it. (2) The
Australian Parliament (which M.L. might have made a
little better and more democratic) is, on the whole, far
superior to any Parliament M.L. ever had or is likely to
have : it hasn’t regenerated Australia in a session and
a-half of work, but it has done very well—all things con-
sidered--and it is going to do a great deal better soon.
If M.L. Parliament w'ere to follow in the tracks of the
Australian Parliament it would be at any rate a good
deal more honest. And honesty is something even in
politics.... Long Tom : You don’t keep your personages
distinct enough from each other. Otherwise, a pre tty
fair yarn... Jas. B. : Bulletin has already (23/7 03) dealt
with the subject... .Lucinda : Small prettiness of style
unsuited to such a big theme A.W.W. :It gave us a
bad pain in our intellect. S.vd. : Can’t stand such go-
as-you-please metre.... J.C. (Tas.) : Just missed the mark.
Have another 5h0t..... Alone : “Off the Chain viewed
with doubts... .S.V.M. :No can’t. We don’t keep a
record of murders, especially in the nigger-infested
North... .Rory : “Bacchanalian” has some grace but a
familiar smack about it with its Tokay ; we want the
Bacchanalian of our own wines, and Queensland rum as
yet lacks a bard.... Balmoral: Getting profoundly tiled
of that fiction of the gum-tree picture in the cod s
innards ; the “ picture ” is only the natural branching of
the blood vessels....R.M. : Sawmill poem is just plain
prose hardwood sawn up into sleepers—Alex. W. : We
AUSTRALIAN MADE.
OUTBACK: “I want a pair ov boots fer the kid.”
SHOPMAN: “Yes, sir. French kid, I s’pose?”
OUTBACK: “Not exactly. Though her mother was
a Dutchy the kid herself was born in Gun-
dagai.”
said all that last week.... J.F.D. : Walking match was
among comps., not reporters, which takes all the points
out of your poem.... Celt: There must be a lot to be said
on the other side of the Hector Macdonald controversy
when that timorously ultra-respectable person, the Duke
of Argyle, brother-in-law to King Ned, is not afraid to
preside over the committee to give Hector a memorial.
T T. : It would be nearer the mark to describe drink
as’the result rather than a cause of misery.. . .H.D. :
Poem, dated from Hades, Cairns, is the sort of poem
that we imagine lost souls have to read eternally....
Vinco : They nearly reach the mark, but not quite.....
M Alston : “ Australia for Australians has a wild s t£ eak
of'humor in it, but, on the whole is too rugged Moa :
Will print... .Alan M. : Nogeneral interest.. ■ F.G.b. . A
lamentable display of ignorant self-sufficiency. Why, you
can’t even write decent English yourself.... .Marian !>• •
No • vour name should be pronounced Mayrian,
though “ Marion ” (with an o) is pronounced like
“ clarion.”... .Ju-Ju :It is extremely well put. Pity the
subject is so venerable N.G. : Lacks vitality and
point....Wirra : Send it along for consideration
H W. O’K. : Of some promise, but not of quite good
enough performance A.Y.Z.: Versei remark-
able for the persistent statement that _ it may
be clam to-night.” Possibly _ “ calm ” is meant,
possibly oysters S.A.: “Voices of the bhght
declined A.M‘D. : Trout-tickling is a very old
device. There were some letters about it in Bulletin
long ago... M.E.J.P.: Descriptive part of Yellow
Dog” excellent, but it is necessary to invent a better
ending. Apparently the pub-man sold his mine
without the buyer seeing it, which is rather a thin
climax ...Doctus: Humorous with the unpublish-
able kind of humor.... Unsuitable : A.F.M., Hammy,
A.8.F., Homey, Tom D., H.W., Reeton Melb. : Yes >
“ Senator ” Reid has paid his debts to the customs....
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
John S.H.: Very aged gag....01m0 (Q.): Some very
good items Plymouth Sound: Declined.. . .H.O.H. :
Mild joke Kenny Mac: One suggestion will do
H.R.R. : Disgusting joke.... J.H.C. (Mackay) : Drawing
declined. Cost us 4d. through insufficient postage
D.O’R. (Sydney): Out of date Dualisms: Nothing
in it M.B. : Picture not up to mark H.J.D. :
“Kyke” and “gripes” joke very old O’K. (Graf-
ton) : Will probably use one of the suggestions
J.S.H. : Drawings show some humor, but far too crude
.... Bert R.: Sketch shows some idea of humor, but
drawing far too Crude for publication....J.A. : “Aus-
tralian Woman” picture has nothing to recommend it
save a faint flavor of immorality.


At a Melbourne meeting Mr. John Norton ‘ hoped he
would say nothing to hurt the feelings of any of the con-
stables present.” FN //'V
IF HE HAD !
AN EXPLANATION.
“ Fact is, Doggie, by resigning I get a
good advt., I avoid a lot of awkward
questions in Parliament, and I won t
have to go down to Melbourne for a
month. As M’Millan won’t do my work:
now, that’s an advantage. I'm the dogj
for a hard road.”
The Yes-No artist is jflst now
•doing a great Gerrymander turn,
Further startling novelties may
be looked for. ,
XT & v
£ '
if
«*° *P >
V / O')
J Here we have a Cohentingenter
whose heart has been touched, and,
who returns all his war trophies.
/* Mr. W. E. Abbott proposes, in
'the press, the appointment of
another Birth-rate Commission,
to consist of ladies only.
THE OTHER COMMISSION.
“ Can you tell us why the—er—dnfants . >
do not—er—arrive?” < (//6
[ . a Queensland/
’\ VI 7« en « r al Hutton/
rebuked <* e troops fori
Peering him.” P \
AT •. ft
WWf//11/l////llinnitiin/nn % * em - y
“ Itev. W. H. Cooper : ‘ln order to
.get a certain class to attend church, feat
of the consequences of non-attendance
be brought home to them.’ ”
—Daily paper.
**Jf the other bird won’t fight, we
must try this one."
cai } ma ke ail theefl
f cited noises necessarv fv,
[running this for |
° HI i MISSY, JPlt'LI, UP you© scene:-
11 Latest fashionable craze is for ladies •
Xp wear item.
AN AY T PUS, fEQSPEGT.
CONCERNING A DOG-AND OTHER MATTERS NOT SO DRY.


Mf o his v many other "official T positions
Mr* Bent, Minister of Public 'Works, ha*,
added that of Mayor of Brighton,
fellow councillors having elected him
that position yesterday.” Argus.
The Matok and Corporation or
Brighton.
And now the Bulletin believes in predos-
tination ,
Union 6 I —
Sirs'}
» ■ s ““«»$
anaertM.i»P^feh-
[ to the Gofer™ .*ll be fatal'
country districts shnnM i larm lest the
■CftU's
■"“rK'iSSS- *».
tlc; 'l disabilities f° u [, sham eful p o]i . '
must folios ny, but *
tx That this council of tho Victorian Em'
Dloyers’ Federation, having observed that
Senator M‘Eacharn, in his speech delivered
on the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill,
has changed the views upon whicji the
electors returned him, calls upon lmn
retire and test the question whether he
still possesses the confidence of )iis con-
silium in “ —Resolution of the E.F
j rr ThS’ Women s Chnßtian Temperance
Woman’b Rights body r is laboring/
under a misapprehension, no doubt /
‘ Id the * Criminal -’Court, yesterday an J
ordinary man prisoner toas asked if bo had
a vpfce on un) electoral roll. Chiel Justice
inquired if, under the Federal Electoral
Act, ‘ that -woman who was first arraigned
should have been asked the question * v ”
-42£-
His Honor.— ** Prisoner at the baiydbave
you a vote ? '*
The Convicted.---“No, your Honor, 1 had
one, bu: J gave it to Senator Goodnuft -
last election . * *_
V.E.F. (with horror)*— u Oh f S'Mal-l
coim, helping that dreadful rneyn ? *
And that s a rod foi our backt» you vo
-got there !"
S’ Malcolm. ■ Fact is he’s going to help
me to carry that, other log later od ”
(Slyly i ’ And I'm really not lifting .
an Mince, you know.
h-A' ',
S N
°-vx>
%>.*/
r
“It must tto as ’patent't° Mr. Irvine as r
to everybody else that if Victoria goes in
January into the London market for a
£5,500,000 loan, shorn as she now is of her
Customs revenue, she will appear as a bor-
rower under severe disadvantages."— Age .
* *f^ Uy ° 'f t £°yaV
»“ |0 V llsl! F^vkuerP atk -
ViOUI ' ?
ţr
Senator - Reid.T did try toget"a little ■
v of this off my hands, but you’ve uo
. idea how the beastly stuff sticks.
' s * x ’4‘ l x
' V 'M
MOSTLY IN MELBOURNE.


I
A. SAUNDERS.
Two Gent.’s Solid Silver Hair BRUSHES and COMB,
in Silk-lined Case, £2 10s, £3.
t rturt
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Morocco Leather CIGAR CASE,
Sterling Silver Shield, 10s 6d ;
other styles, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255.
urt
A. SAUNDERS.
Fare Silver-plated Silk-lined JEWEL, CASE,
beautifully carved and embossed, 255,
very effective.
utr
A. BAINDEKS.
6 ent.’s Pure Silver CIGAR-0 DTI EB,
4s 6d, 7b 6d.
® ■'* -
A. SOUNDERS.
Gteut.’s Leather ROLL, containing ‘2 lioilow ground
Razors, Corn Knife, Nail Scissors, anil Tweezeis, *2cs, "2js
similar, with one Razor only, 15s, 1 7 s (id.
;
&
ra
a
:< A.
■
s?sk
s
m
Black Morocc
PUUSE,
Me" is
Strap Wallet
lid Silver
, 8s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS
Ladies’ Crocodile Wallet
PURSE, Sterling Silver Mounts,
special value, 10s tid.
Ladies’ Seal Leather,
Sterling Silver-
mounted
PURSE, 13s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
A. SAUNDERS.
Silver Cedar PENCIJ,, 8s 6d, 5s 6d, 7s 6d ;
other styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d ; gold, 20s, 255, 80s, 355, £2.
‘kmSm
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Solid Silver-mounted SALTS
and SPOONS, Fancy Cut Class,
in Silk-lined Cate, 15s 6d, 20s ; heart-shaped, 13s 6d,
urt
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-mounted LADIES'
COMPANION, 18s 6d ;
smaller, 15s 6d.
\f
X
-
,L
talk
:
A.. SAUNDERS.
TRAVELLING- CASE, containing Hair Brash, Cloth Brash,
Scent Bottle, Soap Box, Mirror, and Manicure Set, ‘2ss ;
other styles, 21s, 27s 6d, 30s, 355, 40s.
'"V:
age
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Pure Solid Silver-mounted TOILET SET, Hair Pin Holder,
Scent Bottle, Puff Box, and Pomade Pot, £2 10s ;
larger size, £3 10s.
urt
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-mounted Cabinet PHOTO.
FRAMES, 5s 6d ; other styles, 7s 6d,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255, 30s, 355, 40s.
u
A. SAUNDERS.
Presentation Child’s CUP. Pure
Silver-plated, in Silk-lined Case,
similar 12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255, 30s,
m
liSiaMe
11
IBSfeS^jS.
A. SAUNDERS. —Puie Solid Silver JAM SPOON,
BUTTE Li KNIFE, and BREAD FORK, in Silk-lined Case,
Embossed and Ornamented*, 40s.
ill
8/6
A. SAUNDERS.
Exceptional Value, Pure Silver Cut Glass HAIR-PIN BOX,
full size, 8s 6d.
8/6
B
9
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Pnre Silver first-class HAIR BRUSH, beautiful
white bristles, in silk-lined case, 30s ; other styles, ‘2ls, 255.
M
m
A. SAUNDERS.
Bterliug Silver SMOKERS’ COMPANION,
Cigarette Case, Matchbox, and
Cigar-holder, 455.
I
A. SAUNDERS.
Puce Silver-plated NUT CRACKERS
and PICKS, in silk-lined eai e,
Ivory Handles 21s, Pearl 255.
rurt
&ilver HATPINS, initials,
Is dd ; stone set, Ss 6d, 4s 6d,
urt
Pure Silver-mounted Swan
PIN CUSHION, 7s 6d.
r St
SSSSS*:
J.v \
m
l -L>
»r 3
10/6
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver Large Size BRUSH, Extra Long
Hair Drawn Bristles,
Beautifully Chased and Ornamented, 10s 6d ;
other styles, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255, 30s. Post Free.
u
A, SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver R ATTLE,
Ivory Ring’ and Whistle, 7s 61;
other styles, 4s 6d, 6s 6d,
8s 6d, 10s 6d.
V’C/<L 1 ,W. 1 ' _ T'»V -0
simm
■'.j- ■ ■ ’
c •
’ *>v».
gag
A
•r^£>
■-C3
A. SAUNDERS.
Nicely Chased MANICURE SET, 6 useful articles,
very best quality and full size, in silk lined eaue, 30s,
other styles, 15s, 20s, 22s 6d.
B
’
■: :
fmfriiafeifiSifiSg
BiQ
„ „ A. SAUNDERS.
Gent, b WALLET and POCKET BOOK, all improvements,. Silver-in mnted,
as above, 12s 6d, without Shield 10s 6d. Initials nicely chased, Is extra ;
other styles, 15s, ‘2os, 255, 30s.
tr
A. SAUNDEES.
Pure Solid Silver GIGA RET PE CASE,
with Matchbox and Sovereign Purse
combination, £2 10s.
V
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-mounted SHOE DIET and HOOK,
in silk-ined case. 7s 6d ;
similar styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
o-S^-p’
'
O
m
A. SAUN DEES.
A LADY’S PRESENT.-Pure Silver-Mounted Glore
Stretcher, Shoe Hook, Glove Hook, and Shoe lilt,
in Nice Leather Case, 255.
as
Pure Silver PUFf) BOJv,
beautifully embossed and engraved, 30s.
Gilt Top only, 12s 6d, iss, 20s.
i
i§§|gf|
(
‘^•—~, .r.^rr^y-jT. ,.
&== . ,-,
SSiir: ; ; 1^1, : . w" V
A. SAUNDERS. -5 doz. Pure Silver-platsd 4-o’clock TEA
SPOONS, with Tongs and Sifter, in silk-lined case, 25s ;
other styles, 15s 6d, 17s 6d, 30s, 355.
LON DON 8«. SYDNEY
A. SAUNDERS. — Cake or
Dessert FORKS,Ivory Handles, 25s ;
Silver-plated, in silk-lined case, 12s 6d, 15s,
hurtsjh
g
htr
A. SAUNDKRS.
Pure Silver MATCH BOX,
12s 6d ; similar, 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s,
h
A. SAU DEES.
Solid Silver Pair HAIE BEUSHES and COMB, in silk-
lined leather case, £3 10s ; similar styles, £2 10s £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Sydney’s Leading Jeweller
and Optician^
i For Jewellery, Watches, Clocks, Optical Goods, Leather
1 Goods, and Bilverplate of Every Description.
809, 811, 813, 815, 817
George-st., Sydney,
Opposite Kail way Station.


ESTABLISHED 1847.
AM Icocli^
POROUS
PLASTERS
Arc * ” niversal « medy for Pains in the Back (so frequent in the case of women).
i he VB lve instantaneous relief. "Wherever there is pain apply a plaster.
A¥
x*
s
For Pains in the region of the
Kidneys, or for a Weak Back,
i the plaster should be applied
las shown above. Wherever
Lthere is pain apply Allcock’s
Plaster.
Rheumatism,
Colds, Coughs,
Bronchitis,
Weak Chest,
Weak Back,
Lumbago,
Sciatica, etc., etc.
Allcock's Plasters are
superior to all other
Plasters*
r
For Rheuma-
tism, or Paine
In Shoulders,
' Elbows, or else-
where, or for
Sprains, Stiff-
ness,"'etc., and for Aching-
Feet, cut plaster size and shape
required and apply to part
affected as shown above. A
Industrial Warfare.
By this is meant not the unending conflict be-
tween Capital and Labor, but the artisan’s battle
with material forces, the subjection of which takes
a heavy toll of human life. A return that
accurately exhibited the number of lives lost
annually in the working of the world’s railroads,
the erection of buildings, and in workshops where
machinery is employed, would be startling
intelligence indeed. When the Forth Bridge was
being constructed, fatal accidents were so common
that they came to be regarded as a matter of
course, and were no longer reported in the Scotch
newspapers. And it is the same with many
another great engineering work. A roll-call of
the martyrs of England’s industrial army would
alone fill a volume. But the unthinking world
heeds not, because for every man killed three
others stand ready to take up his task. Alas, that
it should be so !
Among trades, carpentry stands well for the
safety of its workers ; yet it is by no means with-
out victims. In a declaration made 24th January,
1903, at Newton, N.S.W., before Mr. Francis J.
Anglin, Justice of the Peace, Mr. Thomas J.
Hastings, of Bombowlie, Tiimut, N.8.W., says :
“ I desire to give my unsolicited testimony to the
great benefit I have derived from the use of
Mother Seigel’s Curative Syrup. I suffered from
constipation and indigestion, accompanied by
giddiness and pains in the head. This was in part
constitutional, but principally the result of an
accident while learning my trade of carpenter,
when I fell from the roof of a two-story building,
striking my head upon an upright piece of timber.
A portion of bone at the left side of my head was
crushed in, and the shock and loss of blood rendered
me unconscious for eight hours. After that event I
was continually taking either doctor’s or patent
medicines ; but never with any better result than
temporary relief, until one day a friend strongly
advocated a trial of Mother Seigel’s Curative
Syrup. More to please my friend than from any
expectation of benefit, I obtained a bottle, and
was rejoiced to find before I had finished it that I
was greatly relieved. After a little perseverance
in the use of the Syrup I obtained freedom from
the complaints which had so long troubled me,
and was restored to health and strength such as: I
had not known for many years. lam now in my
fifty third year, in buoyant health and of cheerful
spirits.” What we have called industrial warfare
kills and maims more men in a month than
collisions of armies in a year; and would be
responsible for even more suffering but for what
brought relief to Mr. Hastings.*
From early May to late September,
These are the chilly months, remember,
When coughs and colds do most prevail,
And all humanity’s coughing and sneezing,
And bronchial tubes are stuffed and wheezing,
It’s time to get that mixture, pure—
W. E. Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
The abolition of the barmaid is not re-
garded as a success in Glasgow, and the departed
vision of loveliness is being allowed to drift back
to her old job. Lady Francis Balfour, sister-in-
law of the British Premier, has always championed
her cause, holding that a public-house may be
made as proper a place for a girl as an ordinary
shop.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
t
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
m
yh
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Prize Medals.
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Works s Birmmginam, England,
These series
of Pens neither
I scratch nor spurt
They glide over
the roughest
paper with the
ease of a soft
lead pencil, f ' v
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
The mineral phosphate deposits in S. Australia
are promising to establish a new and important Aus-
tralian industry. Already the stuff, of which only a
year or two ago nobody this side knew much, is being
worked in a commercial way in two places—at Clinton,
on Vorke’s Peninsula, and near the Burra, in the lower
north. The former, or a large interest in it, has been
sold within the last week or two for £5OOO ; it is under-
stood that the buyers are the present owners of the long-
idle Dry Creek smelting works, who will use part of the
old plant to prepare the phosphate for the market. The
product is used as an artificial fertiliser ; already the
South Australian consumption (mainly of German-made
stuff) is large, and the longer the agricultural lands
are tilled and pauperised, the greater the demand
grows. Samples of the phosphate rock lately taken from
the deposits near the Burra are shown by Government
analysis to contain from 23 to 35 per cent, of phosphoric
acid, equivalent to, say, from 46 to 70 per cent, tricalcic
phosphate, by which the commercial value of the mineral
is measured. Buyers give about 6d. per unit for it. The
mineral occurs in much the same form as ordinary lime-
stone, and is quarried in the same way. How it was de-
posited has not been determined. So far it has only been
found either near the coast, or where the coast once was,
and so it may be the product of pre-historic bird-life. Or
the phosphate may have been leached out of the sur-
rounding rocks; or it may be due to hydrothermal
action. Anyhow, it is there. .
* * * ) *
from Yodda Valley, British Papua :
The store prices (Yodda Valley, British Papua), pub-
lished in 8., 31/3/’O3, were correct at the time of pub-
lication, but were reduced after that issue appeared to
the prices quoted by “Shopki” (20/12/’O2). But there
isn’t gold enough here or in any other place on earth,
except in a very rich mine or gully, to pay the average
man £5 a week, and at “Shopki’s” prices £5 a week is
quite little enough. After paying for the necessaries
of life in a place like Papua there isn’t much left-.
Flour, £162 per ton ; rice, £l5O ; and other items of food
and small articles a lot dearer in proportion ! When the
diggers have to pay wages to carriers and feed them at
these prices they' want to be on good gold all the time to
keep up, let alone have anything for themselves. The
storekeepers are satisfied to hobble along in the same old
rut so long as they are sure of getting paid sometime.
They give unlimited credit, and don’t push men for
money so long as they remain in the country to work for
them ; but neither the storekeepers nor the Government
has ever tried to make a track for pack-horses, so that
store goods could be sold at reasonable prices! Nobody
here, or any other place, can point out anything that the
Papuan Government has done for the diggers; it has
completely ignored them, and the reason is obvious: it
believes in “opening up the country” by giving the
country away in large land concessions, and it doesn’t
want the diggers at all. The Federal Parliament should
insist on knowing more about how the Papua vote is
spent.
* * * «
Of 9f millions sterling received by South Aus-
tralia from the sale of public lands, 9| millions has gone
into ordinary revenue. So S.A. raised money on its
lands, and then sold the lands and didn’t pay off
the mortgage, or any part of it. If a private person
“ financed ” on this plan he would probably find himself
in gaol; and if he managed to escape that, he would cer-
tainly find the pawnbroker’s door closed with a bang next
time he called round.
* * * *
“ O.”: Regarding tunnel driving by one man.
An old and eccentric individual named Stone (since
deceased) started driving a tunnel in the early sixties in
the hope of cutting the Pioneer reef, Bright (Vic.), south
of the old workings. The old fellow, who had a little
property, a good fruit garden, and a large assortment of
Poultry, received a little financial assistance at times from
neighbors and friends of earlier and more successful
times. After driving about 900 ft. he bore away south for
some distance, but, feeling sure he was getting off the
track, he decided to work back until he got on the
line. Twenty-one years after commencing the work
Stone broke through his own tunnel at the point where it
bore to the south, and the workings now resemble a
tennis racquet in shape. The drive is so small in places
that a man can only get through by crawling on hands
and knees. Stone must have carted hundreds of tons of
airt out to the tip in a leather apron which he invariably
wore.
* * * *
Premier Irvine is alleged to have done one
sensible thing—he has told the people who are interested
in the matter that it is no use looking to the State to
-nuf'u^ be Sebast °Pol Plateau, outside Ballarat, for them.
The basalt has poured out over Sebastopol, and under-
neath is believed to be rich gold-country—practically it is
certain that it is so. Yet, in the expectation that the
miners would some day, when work was slack, bring
enough pressure to bear on the Government to compel it
to do the necessary preliminary work of drainage, the
owners have done nothing—they have simply waited.
Mostly the holders are wealthy people, of the class that is
always protesting against interference with private
enterprise ; and in all the years that they have had full
liberty to be as privately enterprising as they liked, they
haven t had more than enough enterprise to whine round
the Treasury for a grant of £30,000 or so. Irvine has now
told them that it is no use whining any longer. No
Irvine Argus be S* lls to have its suspicions about
* * * *
South Australia will shortly have a pretty con-
siderable new copper producer in the now amalgamated
Telta and Parramatta. The co., which is about quarter
English and three-quarters French, is vigorously de-
veloping underground while it prepares its own hauling,
crushing, and smelting works ; and good progress has
been made with the latter—most of the new plant is
f rotn Queensland. So far, while it owned only
the Parramatta, the co. did all its smelting at custom
works. Its own works should be ready by the end of the
year ;it is estimated that the output will be 200 tons
metallic copper a month, and the cost £35 a ton.
* * * *
Among Australian mining stocks the largest
rise during the past 12 months has been in Great
Boulders (W. A.). A year ago the market estimated the
r»AA Ue n}, „ £1 ’ 772 > 000 > present value is about
III?’00°> or £603,000 more. Associated Northern has
had the most serious relapse
* * * *
Tasmanian Government Geologist, reporting on
the discovery of kerosene shale in the north-west of the
riyspeck’ says the quality is good, but that the mineral
trame alone would not justify the heavy expenditure on
a railway to connect with the coast.
SLOW AND FAST.
MAN WITH SWAG: “ Any tucker, John?”
CHINESE C OCK: "You like flish?”
M.W.S.: “ Yes, fish will do.”
C.C.: “Call Fliday.”
Latest Queensland project is the production of
rubber from mangroves. The white, or silky, mangrove,
which is found in most places along the north Australian
coast, from Bundaberg upwards, is about 60 or 70
per cent, rubber ; and rubber is worth from 2s. 3d, to
2s. 6d. per lb.
* * * •
The firmness of the tin market and its good
prospects have again sent agents of Adelaide and Bull
buyers fossicking round Euriowie (far west N.S.W.).
There are undoubtedly good bodies of tin-stone there,
though for the most part irregular; but the want of
water stands in the way of treatment.
• * • •
Bewick, Moreing & Co. are in. future to adopt
the short, or 20001 b., ton for the returns of all W.A. mines
controlled by them with the commencement of each co.’s
financial year. This will apparently reduce costs and
averages by nearly 11 per cent., but will give a fairer
comparison with Transvaal costs, where the short ton
has always been in vogue. With this innovation it will
be found that the working costs compare very favorably
with the Rand’s, in spite of the alleged highly paid and
inefficient Australian labor. Lake View Consols’ July
yield is expressed in short tons, as co.’s new financial
year commenced with July.
* * * •
Brisbane photographers are just now at war
and cutting each other’s throats. A while ago one firm
reduced the price of 12 cabinets, including one enlarge-
ment, to 12s. 6d. Another immediately brought it down
to 10s. 6d. The former then blazed out a big cap. advt.
of Bs. 6d. a dozen. While the two were throat-cutting a
third firm came out with a half-page advt. and a reduc-
tion to 6s. a dozen ! Brisbaneites will soon get their hard
countenances taken for nothing!
* * * *
The amount which the different States spend on
telegrams and telephones varies in a rather remarkable
fashion. Tasmania hasn’t got into the habit of using the
wires to any extent; the Flyspeck trains are slow, but
they carry the mails quite fast enough to answer its
purposes in the matter of communication. Per head of
population its telegraphs and telephones revenue
amounts therefore to only about lid. a year. Queens-
land is almost as bad ; its figure is Is. 2d. Usually the
State with the large area spends the most ; but that rule
does not apply in this case. Victoria spends Is. 4d. and
New South Wales Is. lOd. per head ; while, no doubt
chiefly because there is no overland postal connection
with the other States, Westralia collects no less than
3s. Bd. per head. S. Australia stands absolutely at the
head of the list, with a telegraph revenue equal to Bs. 4d.
per head ; but most of that is due to this State’s posses-
sion of the overland (Port Darwin) telegraph line.
* * * *
The last was heard a day or two ago of the
Menindie Meat Works. Established on the Lower Dar-
ling, 10 years ago, to absorb the surplus stock, they had
hardly got steam up when the long drought began, and
soon there wasn’t anything but dry bones and sand to
absorb; and the Menindie Meat Works, in spite of a
plucky struggle, fizzled ingloriously'. It has taken about
10 years to realise and liquidate the portentous concern ;
and last week, the business being completed, the Court
pronounced the benediction.
There are two or three good reasons why Canada
can borrow money at a lower rate than
Australia, and why Canadian stocks are
thought more of than Australian ; but
the chief of them is that, while Aus-
tralia makes no attempt to pay its debts,
and even seizes every little sinking
fund that is accidentally accumulated,
Canada provided for the extinction of
the debt as a matter of ordinary busi-
ness and common honesty, and uses the
money for no other purpose. Victoria
has a debt of 5J millions falling due in
a few months, and not a penny saved
up to pay it with. The State thus has
to borrow the full amount again, no
matter how bad the market may be,
or else do something desperate. It
might choose to do something des-
perate, only it knows that in that case
it wouldn’t be able to borrow any more
for a long while to come, and that is
too horrible a prospect to be thought
of ; so it has to accept the other alter-
native and put up with whatever terms
the money-lender likes to name. That
is the Australian way of doing things.
On the other hand, Canada has also
loans amounting to £6,300,000 maturing
within the next 12 months,; but, instead
of facing the money market empty-
handed, it has a sinking fund of
£2,199,000 against these loans. More-
over, instead of having either a deficit
or a faked surplus, last year it had a
real surplus, and in this current year
it has planned to pay off out of revenue
at least £500,000 of the balance of the
debt which has not been provided for
otherwise. It hopes to be able to pai r off
more, but certainly that much. Instead,
therefore, of being compelled either to
raise the full £6,300,000 or repudiate,
it will only have to provide for
£3,601,000 at the most. And as a
country that hasn’t acquired the ex-
traordinary idea that it isn’t the usual
or proper thing to pay off public debt,
Canada will, of course, get the money
on easy terms—will, in fact, be rushed
with the money, as it has repeatedly
been in the past. With a public debt
of about £73,900,000, some of it bor-
roweed for as little as 2.J per cent.,
it has a sinking fund of about
~ £17,965,000, which is being added
to at the rate of £545,000 a year ;
and to all this has to be added the
further fact that Canada is striving to
extinguish the debt, notwithstanding
that the whole of it, less £lO 4s. 9d. per head, is repre-
sented by revenue-producing assets.
* * * *
Perhaps a shower of rain meant more to Wes-
tralia ten years or so ago than all the rain M’Carthy
didn’t bring means to Broken Hill now. Southern Cross
was at its last gasp. All the tanks were dry, and a roll-up
was held one night when it was decided to abandon the
town next day. At daylight the population was astir.
The three or four available drays were loaded up with
the absolute necessaries of this flight from the
promised land. More than one poor creature
carried a clumsy swag across her shoulders, wherein
lay “ the album ” and one or two of the home
treasures that money could not replace—and every
man carried a water-bag. They took with them the last
drop of mnd left in the district. By 3 in the afternoon
the pilgiims had covered 12 miles —and the sky had
become overcast. The rain began to fall in drops, then
in streams, then in sheets, and in an hour the sun shone
again. The majority decided to send a man back on a
horse to see if the shower had reached “ the Cross.” He
was at the camp again by half-past seven. “ Tanks over-
flowing,” he reported ; “ had it heavier’n we had.” The
pilgrims did the back trip in four hours, the women being
ahead at the end of the journey. Two of the men who
thus nearly abandoned gold seeking were Bailey, of Cool-
gardie, and Paddy Hannan, of Kalgoorlie.
Said the Man with the Van :
I get rum jobs sometimes, but furniture-moving is the
worst. People seem to have no consoienoe when it comes
to moving. They ask me to move a few things for them
—won’t take me half-an-hour. When I go I find about
two loads, piano included, that’ll take me four hours to
do—and they want it done for three-and-six. But the
very worst time I ever had was when a woman about 25
stuck me up and asked me to come and move some
furniture for her. I was pretty slack at the time, so I
went. When I got to the place I found my customer and
an old lady, who turned out to be her mother.
Well, they told me that they had a couple of rooms
in the house, and being back in their rent, had to
be out of there by 12 o’clock. Of course, there was a
piano. “ How do you think lam going to get that in the
cart?” I asked them. The answer was so very much like
a sob that I just buckled to and said no more. When the
first load was ready I said : “Now, Madam, where am I
to take the things?” “We don’t know,” said the
daughter. “ Don’t know,” I repeated ; “hang it, did you
put the furniture in my cart just for change of air, or
what? I have to be in town by 1, and its 11 now.” The
tears began to flow again, and the daughter informed me
that she would go and look for a house, and off she went,
leaving me with the loaded cart standing in the street. I
got out the rest of the things as it was nearly 12,
and the old lady sat minding them on the foot-
path. After a long time the daughter came back,
and no house found, Would I store the furniture,
she asked. I said I couldn’t; I didn’t possess a store.
Off went the younger woman again on the hunt, and,
after a couple of hours, came back with the good news
that she had got a house. When we got to the new place,
there was a long way to drag the piano, and then up five
steps. However, I managed it in time, but it was a
treat, I tell you. When I got through it was five o’clock,
and the daughter came out with seven-and-six, saying that
she knew it was not enough, but it was every penny they
had. More tears. “Oh, dash it all, missus!” I said,
“give me the five bob and keep the half-crown. I’m full
up.” And, my word, I was full up, I can tell you. After
that I was very careful about furniture jobs.
A DEEP SEA MERCHANTMAN
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The sails are bent, the gear all rove,
We’re off when day is breakin’ ;
We’ll see the last o’ Sydney Cove
Ere dry land folks are wakin’.
There’s one night more for us ashore,
We’ll take it while we can ;
For we’ve signed away to sail to-day
In a wool ship, full ship,
Lime-juice, wind-jammin’
Deep-sea merchantman.
There’s life ashore for us to-night,
There’s work aboard to-morrow ;
To take your fun is always right—
We’ve ninety days for sorrow.
There ain’t no girls nor golden curls
Around by Magellan—
And we’ve signed away this blessed day
In a waddlin’, rollin’,
Taut-weather-bowline
Deep-sea merchantman.
There’s some will preach, an’ some will pray,
An’ some, they call us sinners ;
But every dog must 'ave ’is day,
An’ every shark ’is dinners.
By best an’ worst a seaman’s cursed
For livin’ as ’e can,
Till ’e signs away an’ sails away
In a coffin-plated,
Stiukin’ freighted
Deep-sea merchantman.
So let them be, we’ll go our way,
They’ll take what we are leavin’;
For we must go, but they can stay
An’ keep our girls from grievin’.
But you an’ me, we use the sea
—So ’ere’s to Mary Ann,
Then off away at break o’ day
In a Dutch built, blasted,
Paint an’ putty-masted
Deep-sea merchantman.
(’Ere’s one pint more
—The last ashore I)
A deep-sea merchantman.
IVAN P.


WE WILL GIVE CASH TO YOU
for any old Gold Watches, Breast Pins,
Chains, Rings, Lockets, Brooches, Diamonds,
Pearls, Sapphires or Rubies; in short, any old
Gold Jewellery or Precious Stones, whether
broken or not. We will send you a liberal
money order the same day the goods are re-
ceived. If our offer is not acceptable your
articles will be returned immediately.
Pack your articles in cotton wadding or tissue
paper, in small box, write our name and address
plainly on package, and send by registered po3t,
and we hold ourselves responsible. We refer you
to the London Bank of Australia, Ltd., Broken Hill,
SHAW & CO., Jewellers,
(Also at London.) BROKESI HILL.
N.B.—We sell 15ct. Gent’s Gold Alberts (double or
single) at 75 - per ounce—Cheapest in Australia.
t
GO TO HBLL-
KiOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagel),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
AUSTRALIAN STAMPS
re
Bought, Sold & Exchanged.
Gibbons’ Philatelic Albums
and all requirements. Price lists gratis.
J. H. SMYTH & CO. r
88 KING ST., SYDNEY
SPECTACLES
SI
—FOR—
DEFECTIVE
VISION, r.
COUNTRY READERS
who cannot visit us
personally, we send,
Post Free to any ad-
dress, with full in-
structions and Price List, our marvellously-accurate
and popular SELF SIGHT-MEASUaiNC PATENT.
By its use you can Test v Ur own sight and de-
termine for yourself the style and quality of the
glasses you may need. Write for it to —
H. A. BARRACLOUGH, Optician,
385 Crprge-st., Sydney (opposite StrandArcade)^
POLITICAL
POINTS
A prominent Q. politician says Philp and
Co. will have another motion of censure on them
within the next few weeks, and it will be from a
dissatisfied follower this time.
“ Even his leader, Mr. Reid, had, after
a speech three-fourths of which was in denuncia-
tion of the Bill, announced that he would vote for
it.”—M‘M ill an, on Yes-No, in House of Reps.
S.M. Herald was very anxious that Long
Bill Lyne should oppose G. H. Reid at the East
Sydney bye-election for the House of Reps.; but
Lyne isn’t taking any needless and unsafe jobs.
A semi-editorial writer to Sydney D.T.
suggests in its columns that if the Federal capital
isn’t located in Sydney it ought to be in Hell—
which suggestion represents accurately a certain
body of Sydney opinion.
Kingston won kudos by resigning his
Ministerial position. “Ha ! ” cried George Reid,
“I must get equal with that. Mr. Speaker, I
resign my seat.” But there is a difference
between popularity and limelight.
A plebiscite of members of both Maori-
land Houses resulted in a large majority in favor
of liquor continuance in the Parliamentary refresh-
ment room. Only four of the fossils and 17 down-
stairs believed in leaving off the drink.
The delivery of Maoriland’s last financial
statement by its long-winded Premier occupied
two hours and three-quarters —a record. _ And
even then Dick Neverseddonuff paused ere sitting
down, wondering if he had forgotten anything.
The choice of a Freetrade leader in the
Federal House of Representatives vice M'Millan
(Reid is only nominal, as he is mostly away), is
said to lie between Joe Cook and Pumpkin Smith.
When a party gets down to having Cook and
Pumpkin Smith for its strong men, what kind of a
Government would it make ?
THE STAR.
G. H. Reid in his great new tragic impersonation of Anti-Gerrymander.
Things move on in Australia. Senator
Josiah Symon referred to Britain, in the
Senate the other night, as “a foreign power,”
and only Senator Dobson protested. For apply-
ing that term to England not so very many years
ago a N. S. Waler was removed from the Com-
mission of the Peace.
Now that the N.S.W. man on the land is
to get the interest on the money he owes the
State reduced from 4 to 2£ per cent., is not pressed
for the principal, is allowed to apply whenever he
feels so inclined for a reduction of the principal
and generally gets it, has money lent him, often
on very dubious security, by the State’s Advances
to Settlers Department, and has his roads made
for him by the general taxpayer, there doesn’t
appear to be very much left for the man off the
land.
There is a probability that William
M‘Millan will seek a seat in N.S.W. State House,
just to keep himself before the public eye till he is
ready to resume advocating the destruction of
Australian industries in the Australian Parlia-
ment. His old party in the State Assembly badly
wants to get rid of Joseph Carruthers.
That dismally cheeky body, Vic. Employers’
Federation, has called on Malcolm M‘Eacliarn to
resign, because, in supporting the Federal Arbi-
tration Bill, he has “changed the views upon
which the electors returned him.” If M'Eacharn
is anxious to be a serious consideration in politics,
he couldn’t have arranged a better push-along.
During the lifeless debate in the House
of Representatives on the Arbitration Bill—
M'Millan : Why should individual liberty be curtailed ?
Certainly. M‘Millan is only about sft. 4in., and
wears a gold watch. Why shouldn’t the man who
is 6ft. 2in. and hasn’t a gold watch, but wants
one, be curtailed of his liberty to take M'Millan’s?
Tommy Bent, in his capacity of Victorian
Minister of Health, the other day told a deputa-
tion from the Association for the Prevention of
Tuberculosis that the charities received twice as
much money as they ought to, that he would not
have another penny spent on the Austin hospital,
and that he would not pay income-tax to support
fads. In the mind of Coarse Thomas, healing the
sick is a fad.
It is a curious thing that George Reid
should be the one man to throw himself over-
board in his excitement because the Federal
electorates don’t contain equal populations. He
never used to worry about such things when
he was Premier of N.S.W. Under Reid 1663
N.S.W. electors returned a member in one
constituency, while it took 3912 to do the same
thing in another.
The number of parsons, Tories, importers,
Freetraders, and such-like small beer who hang
round Miss Vida Goldstein and cadge for the
women’s vote in the cause that wants to suppress
Australian manufactures is a pathetic sight.
There has been nothing like it since Codlin sur-
rounded another lady of about the same size, in
one of Dickens’ books, and assured her that he
was her only reliable friend.
Public Health (Leprosy) Bill, which passed
N.S.W. Assembly almost unanimously, was
quietly shelved in the Legislative Council. Main
provision of the Bill was to prevent isolation of
suspected lepers in any place other than a
lazarette. Popular notion is that leprosy is very
infectious, but, according to Dr. Maclaurin, the
danger of contagion is very small, and this opinion
was not disputed by the other medicos in the
chamber.
Presumably
the real reason
why the M‘Bil-
lion proposes to
resign his chief
offieership of the
European and
American Manu-
facturers’ Agency
in the Australian
Parliament is that
under the Federal
tariff his shirt-
making business
is going ahead so
fast that all his
time is required
to draw up cir-
culars to prove
that his firm’s
goods are cheaper
than ever. Also,
people are in-
clined to regard
the M‘Billion’s
circular as a fake
when the M‘Bil-
lion himself, from
his place in Par-
liament, gives his
word, as an honor-
able member. that
Protection raises
the price to the
consumer.
N.S.W. Min-
ister of Works
Owe’Sulliv an,
early in the year,
went to that cen-
tre of civilisation
known as Bogan
Gate and turned
the first sod of a
railway to Bul-
bodney. A few
days ago a depu-
tation waited on
the Ministerwith
an elegant silver
tea and coffee ser-
vice in one hand,
and a delicate re-
mark in the other
to the effect that
the turned sod
looked very
lonely out in that big wilderness, and the depu-
tation wanted to know when the construction of
the said railway was to start. The Owe’S.
accepted the pots, and promised to have the rail-
way commenced as soon as the money could be
borrowed.
What a lovely Select Committee it is that
N.S.W. Assembly has appointed to inquire into
the use of preservatives in food —all the old
committee hacks and most of the fools of the
House, with a sprinkling of a better sort, but not
a man capable of giving an intelligent opinion on
a scientific question. The Bulletin forecasts
that the committee will endeavor to intimidate
the Board of Health from its campaign against
food adulteration; and hopes that the effort will
be unsuccessful.
HIS END HATH ALMOST COME.
“Mr. Reid has thrown out a challenge to the Govern-
ment, which has been accepted, to fight the next
elections on the fiscal issue. He said that this was the
only thing dividing him from the Protectionists of Vic-
toria. If beaten again he says that this will be final.”—
Daily Paper.
The above picture is intended to represent the
situation, showing Mr. Reid’s anticipation of
final results.
A Queensland legislator told the Assembly
recently how the Queensland deficit is being grad-
ually reduced. One of the aforesaid legislator’s con-
stituents knew of certain unoccupied country and
asked that it might be surveyed, so that, if not
included in an occupation license, it might be
applied for. Handed in £2O, which was duly paid
to the Department as survey fee in case the land
proved to be unoccupied. The land was found to
be unoccupied; was surveyed and given to a neigh-
boring magnate. And the first man’s survey fee
of £2O was promptly forfeited.
Great is Kyabram. After 25 years of
waiting and much fighting, south-west Victorian
landlords have at last got titles for quite a number
of roads given away to each other on various pre-
texts by squatter shire councillors. A good
deal of this country is at present being let out
in small farms, and the settlers are demanding
more roads from the shire, whilst the landlords
and the Kyabram string-pullers are collaring
titles for every available acre. In a short time all
these roads will be required again, and will, of
course, have to be bought back at vast expense
from the boodlers.
That tiresome person who is always dis-
covering that sub-clause BJ,
clause 125£0f This Bill “clashes”
with sub-section A, section r L\
of That, has turned up again.
He has found that clause 47 of
the Commonwealth Defence Act
“ clashes ” with the Constitution
Act, under which the various
federating States are promised
the use of the Federal Permanent
Forces to quell internal violence.
The point boiled down is : Sup-
posing the Amalgamated Society
of Boot Clickers is firing cannon
at society in general and the
person for whom they boot-click
in particular, is the State Gover-
nor to send a note round to the
Governor-General and ask for
the aid of the military, or is the
Governor-General to take it up-
on himself to offer to send the
soldiers to prevent the boot-
clickers firing cannon at the
person for whom they boot-click ?
The answer to which is “ Rab-
bits ! ” It isn’t much of a point,
yet it is being very seriously
argued in some quarters.
Australia was color-blind.
It thought it was painting more
of the map of S’Africa red.
Instead, it was helping to paint
it yellow.
When so crusted a Tory as the Van Dob-
son begins to talk about the “iniquitous freedom
of bequest,” the days when soured old wretches
will shock humanity by leaving fortunes to prig
associations like the Salvarmy and sacerdotal
bodies such as the R.C. church, and let their
widows eke out the rest of their existence at the
wash-tub, are surely numbered. “Freedom of
bequest” is as iniquitous as “freedom of contract.
Queensland Ministry wailed fearsomely
during the financial debate over the terrible
falling off in the Customs revenue, due to the
lower tariff now in existence and also to the loss
of inter-State duties. Meantime Premier Philp
goes abroad and openly proclaims his intention of
supporting George Reid in the approaching
Federal campaign. Under a Freetrade tariff
Queensland’s troubles would be multiplied mani-
fold, but Philp has never thought of that.
A refreshingly vigorous public document
is the blast of N.S.W. Federal Capital Commis-
sioner Oliver against the report of the three
Commissioners appointed by Bill Lyne and co.
Oliver’s original recommendation of Bombala was
backed up by such solid evidence that it was the
best available site, and the report of the other set
of Commissioners looked so like a hard struggle
to recommend some site, however unsuitable, in
Bill Lyne’s electorate, that Oliver’s present strong
anguage is wholly justifiable.
The Willoughby (N.S.W.) bye-election
finds the “Reform” parties all at loggerheads.
North Sydney has always been a strong importers
centre, and the importing fetish seems to still
cling to all opponents of the See Government.
The Reformers consider it impossible to lose
the seat to a Ministerial candidate, and so the
People’s League and the Carruthers party each
proposes to run a candidate. This should about
end all chance of a coalition between the obscure
Stinson and the rather obscure Carruthers.
The House of Reps, is be-
ginning to hear C. C. Kingston at
his best. As a Minister, he was
fettered, and he moved like a man
in hobbles —cramped, hesitating,
jerky. Now that he can move
freely, the House gets the natural
Kingston, and begins to realise
something of what he is like as a
critic —t e role in which he did
his most effective work in S. Aus-
tralia. No Ministry there ever
lasted long with him pounding
against it. The first Downer
Ministry lasted less than two
years, the Cockburn Ministry a
‘year, the Holder Ministry less
than four months, the Downer
second Ministry a year, the
Solomon Ministry a week. It
isn’t a pleasant record for
Barton to consider.
No one expected that Bill Lyne would
keep to Kingston’s trail in his administration of
the Customs department. Bill apparently intends-
to break an easy trail for himself. And it goes-
without saying, almost, that Bill’s track will also-
be easier for the respectable merchants whose
honesty and respectability has been so amply
demonstrated during the past two years. Bills
idea is to appoint a board, which will investigate
breaches of the law by merchants and report to
him whether the said merchants should be prose-
cuted. It is doubtful whether such a board can
be legally constituted under the Customs Act,
but all the same Bill is determined to have it;
as! it will shield him and at the same time help
the honesty and respectability of the merchants
to shine more brightly,ip the community than did
Kingston’s methods. ( }
Bit by bit the reasons for Kingston a
retirement from the Australian Government are
coming to light. From the first Kingston must
have felt very uncomfortable with a majority of
his late colleagues. He is a thorough-paced
Radical, while most of his associates were either
Liberals from political necessity, Tories by train-
ing, or just plain, undisguised Tories by nature.
Forrest and Fysh belong to the last-mentioned
class, Barton to the second, and Lyne to the first.
One bit of feeling that Kingston has towards this
hotch-potch crowd was shown during his speech
on the second reading debate of the Arbitration.
Bill. Forrest kept asking him to what extent
the oversea shipping came into competition with
the purely Australian shipping, when Kingston-
rapped out: “If the seamen of Australia look to-
the hon. member for a single vote or word of
assistance in this matter they will be greatly
mistaken.’'
THE REID MONOTONY .
At the meeting of comic artists to protest against the in-
trusion into Commonwealth politics of any more politicians of
the name of R id, several very inflammatory speeches were made.
The Democratic party in N.S.W.
needs a daily paper. A full report of the dis-
cussion in the Leg. Council on the Industrial
Arbitration Act Amendment Bill would be better
argument than any editor could compose for the-
abolition of that Chamber of Bigots and Dod-
derers. A crowd of children could not have dis-
played greater ignorance of the subject under
discussion ; and for gross partisanship, for class-
prejudice, and malignant disregard of truth, some-
of the speeches of the ancient dodderers stand in
lonely pre-eminence. The same thing applies to
the reports of the proceedings of the Arbitration
Court. A Democratic daily, with a few good
descriptive writers on its staff, could make the-
hair of the public stand on end with a straight-
forward, graphic description of the sweating that
is brought to light in that court. The present
daily press tries to create an impression that the
proceedings are mostly comedy instead of tragedy.
HOLY MACKY’S PRAYER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Rev. Dill Macky complains of the lack of interest
shown by young men in his speeches upon the necessity-
of the Australian Protestant Defence Association.— Daily*,
paper.
O Lord ! I fear that, at the next election,
Some fools may vote Freetrade and some Protection
And, in the selfish cause of White Australia,
May vote for men who sneer at my regalia.
Blind fools, who see no cause for creed dissensions,
Ignore my voice, and shout for Old Age Pensions.
So, help me, Lord, to stoush our ancient foeman—
That subtle child of sin, the Holy Roman.
For all in vain I get the daily papers
To stuff their columns with my loud, wild capers
In vain I scold them in my own Trade Journal,
And threaten them with sulphur flames eternal.
Old men, well schooled in older lands, may listen.
With rheumy eyes that with the old hate glisten ;
But young Australia, though I rave and bellow,
Declines to mix his vote with Green or Yellow.
A graceless scamp, O Lord, with whom to grapple f
Whose face is seldom seen at church or chapel ;
He’d rather bat all day before a wicket
Than walk ten yards to vote the Oiange ticket.
Enlighten him, O Lord, and make him zealous
In guarding all those rights of which we’re jealous ;.
Teach him to sing the song of “ Boiling Water,”
And nerve his arm for Twelfth of J uly slaughter
(For Thy command, O Lord, “ Love one another,”
Should surely not include a Papist brother).
Imbue the youth of this fair land with terror
Of all the evil deeds of Popish error';
For if, 0 Lord, they vote for Dick O’Connor,
They’ll light once more the fires of Bishop Bonner ;
And, though Thy humble servant’s spirit’s willing,
His flesh feels creepy at the thought of grilling.
So hear my prayer, O Lord, and help the Yellow
To top the polls—and down the other fellow 1
C.C.


&/>e
Estey
Organ
Is produced in the best
equipped factory in
America.
Made in Vermont, close to
the Adirondack Mountains,
where “ good ” timber is
plentiful.
The rough material is
growing close to the
factory. This saves
transport and cheapens
the cost of production
very much.
If you want the best
Organ made.
Buy an
ESTEY. jz?
Remember, Esteys have
50 years’ experience at
their backs.
Over 325,000 Estey Organs
made and sold.
Easy Terms if you wish.
Sole Agents—
PALIN G*S
338 George-st.,
Sydney.
Uhe * (@/>e Genuine)
LIPP PIANO.
leading
the
PIANOS
LIPP
are
Manufac
of
German
Pianos
have
been
They
use
ture
in
for
Australia
all
over
over
enough
to
long
40
years
their
merits
prove
I
z
7
Old Pianos taKen in Exchange.
New Pianos Sold on Easy Terms.
Catalogues Free.
IW. H. Paling' <& Co., Ltd..
338 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
A Fine
Violin
£1 s 11 : 6
tre
£%e “STUDENT’S**
MODEL.
Complete witH Bow,
Case, Resin and Set
of Extra Strings.
Post Free to any
town in N.S.W.
£1 : 11 : 6.
Write for Handsome
illustrated catalogue
post free.
PALING’S
338 GEOROE ST.,
SYDNEY.
INDIGESTION AND BILIOUSNESS
CURED BY
VITADATIO
Oxford-street, Lyttleton (N.Z.)
„„ June 10,1901.
MR. S. A. PALMER.
Dear Sir,—This is to testify to the great benefit I have
received from Webber’s Great Herbal Remedy VITA-
DATIO. I have been a great sufferer for about 13 years
with Indigestion and Biliousness, and have tried all sorts
of remedies, with only slight relief. After having heard
about the wonderful curative powers of VITADATIO. I
decided to try it, and after using three large bottles I
can honestly say it acted like magic; I began to feel
relief after taking the first bottle. Before I took it I
sometimes had to have hot flannels and turpentine applied
for 12 hours at a time. It is now five months since I took
it, and I have not had any return of the complaint since.
I feel much brighter and in spirits than I have felt for
years. Hoping these few lines will inspire some fellow-
sufferer with hope. You are at liberty to use this
testimonial as you think fit.—l remain yours truly,
MRS. F. GILLARD.
Witness, her Son— Fred. Gildard.
For further particulars,
S'. A. PALMER,
Head Office: Clarendon Street N» t
South Melbourne.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The price of medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
MESSRS. ELLIOTT BROS., O’Connell-street, Sydney,
Sole Agents N.S.W.
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
X
a
i
I
HOTEL DANIELL
(Late IJIPERIAL),
Corner of QEORQE & ADELAIDE STS.,
BRISBANE
Government Notices.
General Post Office,
Sydney,
15th August, 1903.
TTENTION is directed to Commonwealth.
-nL Gazette notice inviting TENDERS for the
performance of a large number of MAIL SER-
VICES. Tenders, addressed to the Deputy
Postmaster General, Sydney, and endorsed
“Tender for Conveyance of Mails,” will be re-
ceived at this office up to noon on the 21st Sep-
tember next.
J. DALGARNO,
Deputy Postmaster General.
In Queensland Chief Justice Griffith and
Justice Real have been at loggerheads again. The
last time was over the conduct of the Kenniff
case ; this time it was over the question whether
a Judge should “ read up ” a case before he goes
into Court. Griffith always does this—lie gets
the papers, goes through them, studies law points,
and goes on the Bench prepared to talk to counsel.
Real, on the other hand, won’t look at the papers,
and says it isn’t fair for a Judge to even begin to
make up his mind before he has heard the parties.
The Chief replies rather nastily that it is un-
fortunate that, when a case begins, the Judge
should know less about it than anybody else in the
Court. Justice Harding used to take up the same
position as “brother Real” does now. “Yes,”
replied the C.J. ; “I always regarded it as an
amiable eccentricity on my late brother Harding’s
part. There is a Judge of my own acquaintance
who never sits down upon the Bench, but always
stands up ; and I regard my late brother Harding’s
rule as an eccentricity of the same kind.” The
Judge who never sits on the Bench, but always
stands, is best known in the N.S. W. Equity Court.
A STANDARD OF PROTECTION.
rrHE following is a copy of Guarantee given with every
■*" Garment that is sent out from my Store, and I mean
every word it contains:
No. 9869. CHECK. Dept. I.
If the bargain is not satisfactory return the clothes
within ten days and you shall have your money.
If they do not wear well I shall be glad to pay for the
loss at any time.
The prices the same to everybody and as low as it is
possible to sell such clothing for ; and the quality
is as represented.
This Check identifies the transaction —Keep it!
Queen Street,
Brisbane.
CHARLES CILBERT,
Suppose you give me a Trial on these Terms.
New Spring Samples and Self=neasurement Forms
mailed upon request.
yr
theDEAF
Sufferers from Deafness or Head Noises
desiring a complete and permanent cure
should write to The L. R. VERNON CO.
60 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY, for pam-
phlet describing an entirely new self-
applied method which will be sent post
free on mentioning this paper.
WE MAKE
ARTIFICIAL LIMBS
ALL LIMBS WE MAKE ARE FITTED WITH
THE CELEBRATED “ MARKS ” AMERICAN
PATENT RUBBER FEET OR HANDS.
SKILLED WORKMEN ARE EMPLOYED,
AND FIT, COMFORT AND WORKMANSHIP
ARE GUARANTEED.
Send for Free Book about Artificial Limbs.
DENYER BROTHERS,
Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 George Street (opp. Hunter-st.), Sydney*
Also at Melbourne.
Order by Post a Pair of
THE CALLAGHAN
SHOES FOR LADIES,
POST FREE
DUTY FREE
FOR
13/6
All over the States
except W.A.,
V
OUR
COLLARETTE
SHOE
at 12/11 a pair; or, post and
duty paid, 13/6 per pair. We
have it in pointed, medium, or
broad toes, or to lace or button.
OB, WE CAN SEND YOU ANY
OF THE FOLLOWING :
French Patent Vamp Shoes, Vici Kid Backs, button or lace, on modish lasts, 17/6
post and duty free, 18/3.
Black Vici Lace Shoes, patent tips, pointed, medium, or wide toes, 12/6, 15/6.
post and duty free, 13/3 and 16/3.
Glace-Kid Evening Shoes, fancy steel buckle, narrow toes, military heels, 11/9.
post and duty free, 12/6.
Shoes Exchanged or money refunded.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 ceorce st„ Sydney.


“ 6x8 ” : Brisbaneites are decidedly not
bookworms. While Sydney’s Castlereagh-streefc
alone owns eight secondhand bookshops, only two
small secondhand book-dealers are struggling for
a crust in Bananaland’s capital. One of them
recently told me that Kanakalanders not only
refuse to buy books instead of beer, but also
seldom patronise circulating libraries. Talking
of books : At Brisbane Public Library, t’other
day, someone inquired for Steele Rudd’s “On
Our Selection,” many thousands of which are
circulating in Australasia. “Don’t know the
book ; never heard of it,” snapped the attendant.
“ But wait —I’ll see ; it may be in the ‘ Agricul-
ture ’ branch.” Fact. And Steele Rudd resides
in Brisbane.
y
rey
COON - COON - COON,
I’YE MADE UP MY MIND
TO SAIL AWAY,
The Honeysuckle & the Bee,
I Skedaddled, It’s the Man behind the
Gun, Sweet Ivy May Jerry Co,
Melindo Loo, Sometimes, When the
Harvest Days are Over, also Two
Hundred other Oricina ICoon and
Love Sonq’s. A ll f he LATEST II ITS.
Posted for ONE SHILLING 9
anywhere. Stamps or Postal Note.
B.P. C0.,T30x 404, G.P.0., Sydney
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTJEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
I &
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
3xr.s,-w.
|||ont deplete O.^I.Co.DW.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74
CASTLEREAGH ST.,
SYDNEY
74
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with*
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - • 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Robmrts
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruce Smith, Esq., M.H.R.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,706,880.
Policies issued 91,305— assuring £27,614,218.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,981,398.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
The gank of Rertb Queensland
LI |\| ITEM.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director-JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... ... *700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share- „„„
holders 250 900 ... *350,000
The
Royal Bank of Queensland
J LIMITED.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. .. •• ..£457,354
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 175,997
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 60,000
,£693,351
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE : 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World .
Queensland Smelting Qompg.
** (LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
■OUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
-D Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. Y. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, the Branch
Office, 54 Market-street, Melbourne, or IRWIN HINDS,
Branch Manager, 6 Spring-street, Sydney.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Svdney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M-L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Hon. John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jbssop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, vv. N.
M‘Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar. J. J.ALLEN, GenemlManager fo^rAustealia
Bank of Neiv South Wales,
Established 1817.
-GEORGE STREET, SIDNEY.
Head Office-
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund. .
Reserve Liability
2,000,000 0 o
1,300,000 0 0
2,000,000 0 0
Total .. .. .. 5,300,000 0 0
Directors:
Hon. Chas. K. Mackbllar, M.L.0., President.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLatjrin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator James Thomas Walker.
Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L C.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors:
Harrington Palmer, Esq. Frederick W. Uther, Esq
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies, New Zealand
mid Fiii • and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
Tie Bank allows interest on fixed deposits , collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
, debentures' and invests money on their Denali in
£ *. o**f »'• yss;
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
b^heßanfa]so S ‘issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America
or in General Manage r.
Shipping.
3NT. 13. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Four-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
"•Twin-screw steamer.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. TANG LIN, 10th SEPTEMBER.
And Regularly Every 6 Weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents.
WEBER LOIIMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
RUNIC, to Sail on or about 18th SEPTEMBER,
MEDIC, AFRIC, SUEVIC, and PERSIC
to follow.
PARES—Capetown
London
New York, &c.
£l6 16 0 to £23 2 0
19 0 0 to 27 0 0
25 2 6 to 33 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables , and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaoonsfield Parade
ST. HILDA. v
mHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
J- the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, J-hour
by tram. Billiards, etc.
Oceanic Steamship Company,
A. and. A.. LINE,
T W O Gr R A. 3V D EXOX7RSIOW9.
YOSEMITE VALLEY and California BIG trees,
UP IN THE HEART OF THE SIERRA NEVADA MOUNTAINS. ... Alna
Travellers of note who have visited Switzerland say Yosemite surpasses even the grandeur of ine Alps.
£72 (including everything).
HOTEL DEL MONTE (monterey).
ALL-THE-YEAR-ROUND HEALTH AND PLEASURE RESORT.
£65 (including everything).
Through Passengers to London and American centres may participate in these excursions.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., flanaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 600,000
Total Capital .. .. £2,500,000^
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) £10,494 16 9
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq. ;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M L C.
JAMES BOItROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manage!
64
TEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
w. G. & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
rey
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
(Japillarine
Posted (under cover
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand.
3
ril Try it:
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
The Result,
CRAIG & AITKEN, N.S.W. Barber’s Supply
House, 680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
geenoea
FOREIGN STAMPS.
iSMncaaal
fsnmm
m
amm a
pHEAP SETS.—4O Japan, Is 6d ;
47 Spain, Is 6d; 6 British
Guiana, 6d ; 8 Egypt, 6d ; 16 Heli-
goland, Is; 11 Canada, 6d : 15
Roumania, 6d, 6 United States War-
ships, 3d ; 8 Java, 6d ; 5 Costa
Rica, 4d ; 6 Guatemala, 6d ; 12
Indian Telegraphs, 6d ; 20 Brazil,
Is ; 12 Cuba, 9d ; 11 Portugal, 6d.
New Catalogue of Stamps, &c., Gratis. Stamps purchased.
CHARLES DONNE, 346 Little Collins st., Melbourne.
EPILEPSY
TRENCH’S
REMEDY
Immediate
Relief.
IS
Permanent
Cure.
Valuable
Pamphlet
Posted Free
CURABLE
THE UNION M’F’G & AGENCY CO.
359-361 Collins St., Melbourne.
DEM
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Are the same
' to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne,
Free for Asking.
WRITE to us and we will forward you our scientific
book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magic, and you will be filled with energy,
strength and ambition once more. Posted free. Write
to Arm and Gouraud, 82 Little Flinders St., Melbourne.
A Policy for the Commonwealth:
A Handy Manual of Politics. By James
Edmond. Price, 6d. ; post free from The
Bulletin Office, 7d.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
Cheapest Route to America
and Europe via Brisbane
or New Zealand.
FARES TO LONDON—
SALOON £55 to £66.
2nd SALOON ... £35 to £4O.
STEAMERS SAIL-
Oct. 5. Nov. 2. Nov. 30.
Illustrated Pamphlets Posted Free on Application.
UNION BTEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
Unrivalled Position in LONDON
(England),
TheLanghamHotel
PORTLAND PLACE
And REGENT STREET, LONDON, W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality,
flodern Appointments. Moderate Tariff.
“The Challenge”
Latest Scientific
Punching Machine.
A new World’s Record of 12251b5. was established on
the above machine at the Royal Agricultural Society's
Show, Sydney, 1903, by Mr. T. W. Aulsebrook, of Messrs;
Aulsebrook and Sons, Ltd., the previous World’s Record,
held by Mr. Robert Fitzsimmons, champion pugilist,
being 10851bs.
The “Challenge” is an Automatic Penny-in-the-STofc
Machine, and is especially suitable for Hotels, Billiard
and Refreshment Rooms, Tobacconist Shops, etc..
It is a great attraction to any place, a first class money-
maker, never gets out of order, and requires no attention
whatever.
All other kinds of Automatic Slot Machines kept in
Stock. Illustrated Catalogue posted on application.
J. LANDES,
108 PITT ST., SYDNEY,
Sole Agent for Australasia.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK :
By Sixty Bulletin writers. Cloth, 300 pages ;
price, 4s. 6d. From all Booksellers, or the
Publishers, The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
214 George Street, Sydney, Australia. ■
SUpplng.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE!
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORT'S
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhippinga.t Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Gabo,
Friday, August 28, at 5 p.m.
(Connecting at Melbourne
with S.S. Wollowra, for
' Adelaide and Fremantle).
S.S. Allinga,
Friday, September 4.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oatrns
S.S. Innamincka, August 29.
.S.B. Gabo, September 5.
S.S. Allinga, September 12.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tiokefcs are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office*
G. 8. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
P.
AND
o.
COMPANY’S
ROYAL MAIL
STEAMERB
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
to an
to £ll5
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B
Ditto Ditto Return, £66
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by Orient-Pacific, Messageries
Mari times and N.D.L. Steamershaving room.
/
A. GORDON WESOHE,
63 Pitt-street. Acting Agent.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY,SUEZ, and
PASSENGERS DOOKea
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77.
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every oasistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney*
L. BRICARD, Acting Principal Agent.
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
, . . BY THE . •
“E. and A.” LINE.
EVERY (JOIN V V v/jn. XX ~
he Saloon Cabins containing two berths only areal lon
iPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
tted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Europe via Canada,
nd the U.S. America, or the Trans-Siberian Railway.
For handbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
DR. J. GOLLIS BROWNE'S
sate*
Caution, —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Kemedy for COUGrHS, GOLDS,
ASTHMA, BROBOHITI4
DIARRHOEA, **> beara °“
the Government Stamp the nainfl
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ot
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
•• If I were asked which single medicine-I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion o l
othersf I should say Chlorodynel J . ever travel
without it, and its general, applicability to the
relief of a large number of j simple ailments for
its best recommendation.
LADIES'
HAIR
DRESSERS
CRAIG &
AITKEN.
Tel, 1198.
THE most charming and stylish
Transformations and semi-
Transformations you ever
saw from 21/- each. Switches of
hair from 5/6. Your own Comb-
ings made up into Switches at
2/6 per. oz. Specific Lotion, an
unfailingremedy forYallingbair
and eradicating per
bottle. -
Supply Stores wholesale, human
hair ; merchants, assistants en-
gaged and sent anywhere. -
Mail orders receive special
attention.
Price Lists on application.
680-682 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
At Dawn and Dusk:
By V. J. Daley. In handsome cloth,
with portrait. Price ss.


J. H. Carruthers, t’other day, published a
reply to comments alleged to have been made by
Kelly and M‘Neill, M’sL.A., at Ultimo. Then
Andy Kelly scored one by pointing out that he
was not at that meeting, and consequently did
not make the. alleged remarks; also, that the
public had quite got Mr. Carruthers’ measure,
and were not to be “hoodwinked by brazen
denials or weak quotations of inappropriate
poetry.” Then, alas ! Andy himself drifted into
poetry, and thus misquoted Othello: “Never
more shalt thou be officer of mine.”
HAVE you
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
J? u * .Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
wa ii- , Yo . u . ma y have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
V i , s < VSr , , ub 7 ,lt to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
S5 RE w t L°? t iaY per haps ; but I WILL. Because
orners nave failed is no reason for not how being cured.
Send atonce for
ALBERT'S GHASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad I.ee«,
Housemaid ■ Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
hands. Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
ai ovdS?'Britain, 1/lJd. per box. Prepared by
Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents : itLLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers snould
look for th tregistered trade mark of the Grasshopper on •
green label on each box. (Kegd. copyright).
HAYMAN’S
If you have a Cough or Cold
HAYMAN’S BALSAM WILL CURE IT.
BALSAM {
Gives Rest and Sleep. Pleasant to
take. Invaluable in the Nursery.
Sold by all
CHEMISTS
and STORES.
CURES.
DO YOU GET THE
RIGHT RESULTS ?
Edith
Annie
Emily
W
A
L
T
K
E
Morris Street, Evandale, St. Peter’s,
Adelaide, October 10th, 1902.
Dear Sirs: My little daughter suf-
fered from measles and bronchitis at
the same time, and became so much reduced
m strength that we had very grave fears for
her safety. The doctor attending: her said
we could not do better than give her Scott’s
bmulsion, and we have been very thankful
to him for the advice that led to our trvintr
your preparation. From the first the result
was remarkable ; she gained flesh and strength
rapidly and was soon restored to her usual
good health. Faithfully yours
(Signed) Mrs. R. Waltke.
Messrs. Scott & Bowne, Ltd.,
433 Kent Street, Sydney.
DO YOU GET THE RIGHT
RESULTS when your child suffers from
measles and bronchitis, or from either? If
you do not, you are not doing credit to your
judgment, because there is an aid in cases of
measles of very greatest importance, as all
medical men know; this aid is Scott’s
Emulsion. In the above letter one who has seen
the cure performed has just proved to you
how to get the right results, and that, na-
turally, is all that you want to know; the name
of the remedy is
SCOTT’S EMULSION. You need
not concern yourself with anything fur-
ther. If measles or bronchitis attack any
member of your family you have an admirable
safeguard against the wrong results in Scott’s
Emulsion. It has cured measles and bron-
chitis in every known land; it will do so in
Australia. You have one precaution only to
take ; and that is to see that on the wrapper of
the bottle there is a picture of a man carrying
a big cod-fish ; if that cod-fish is not there,
you are not getting what we promise you—a
cure! You can obtain a sample of Scott’s
Emulsion and the choicest children’s booklet
of the year, “A Bunch of Roses,” beautifully
printed in colors, by sending sd. to Scott and
Bowne. Ltd., 483 Kent-street, Sydney, ai d
mentioning this paper. All chemists sell
Scott’s Emulsion
TO WOMEN
WHO SUFFER FROM
KIDNEY... LIVER DISEASE
to ll re* GS Thfi f rffrlfJnt pX- 6 u! B a l e . tile pain ai ? d suffering which many women are called upon
assume the WHer. nf h dayS gl J^ bood have scarcely passed ere the immature woman is forced to
oerfeethLlth and U 1 . mar V she never again knows the enjoyment of
Dosteritv The of woman, too, is of supreme importance. Upon it depends the vigor of
ment wife a!!™?* llf e of husband and children is based upon the cheerfulness and content-
eTntinues to nresen? Tllr T ? the Cr ° dlfc - 0f woman - be ifc said, she carries her troubles, and
nervous svstpm nf e th a tf Smi ln f faCe ’ u -£ d f r circumstances which would strain to breaking point the
„ stJnrl tVm be sfcron ff es t m ? n - . But even woman, with all her wonderful power of endurance,
wShiS X P T S f^° f S l ,ffer ] m F without aid. Thousands of women have cause to
fnllowXcr d l«ffS firSt they tned the beahn £* health-restoring effect of Warner’s Safe Cure. The
how to riLair. kojuf* w e men are quoted m order that other women, who similarly suffer, may learn
tho nrnarJLf of && nd str ength even though they may have resigned themselves, in desperation, to
the prospect of never being thoroughly well again.
IVIfSa R. La Head) Vine Cottage, Second Street, Port Pirie, S.A., says:—
from theof wvfillliXcfVP^ asur ® that I write to tell you of the great and lasting benefit I derived
„ T l. . i ers Safe Cure, for i feel that, but for that medicine, I should now be in my
f wfis lnsnno- floaifo+ SU^e i lng or a v f tone from a complaint common to women of middle age.
use Wnmpf’Q qnfo a n an a a ri rate- r The doctors could do nothing for me, and I commenced to
hiwmi tm'mnmXruu a V , e , r - V forlorn hope. Greatly to the surprise of myself and friends, I
•nd j health from the first bottle. I continued to take the medicine, and gained health
stout and m good^eafth.” 111 & f<W W6ekB 1 Wa3 UP &nd aboufc niy household work, and am now quite
IVIrSa Ea Bade, Oamrock, Elwood Street, North Brighton, Vic., says ;
lano-.n'H ota o^ pr( !7f d arner s i^ a^e ure be a moBt wonderful medicine when suffering from that
a .T ed mos * women are subject to, and which makes one unfit to attend to one’s
u les. In my case Warner’s Safe Cure had an immediate and lasting beneficial effeot.”
Mrs. M. A. Cherry, Lake Street, Perth, W.A., says :
some time I had been gradually declining in health, suffering from nervous exhaustion. My
WOr . k beca,l)o a burden to me. I had to sit down and rest after the slightest exertion.
Bnrv „ S a 6 ? on '™ eA u - n , b became quite prostrated. I was advised to take Warner’s Safe Cure by
• ne w .'° iad received great benefit from it. When I had taken three bottles of the medicine I
r,nr.t ™ <P >f stron ff a gain, my energy and vigour returned, and my work became a pleasure to me
one© mop©.
Mrs. Emma Darvell, Ladies’ Nurse, 8 Carlton Street, Prahran, Vic
says:—
pnia Aft P^ eased to report the benefit I derived from taking Warner’s Safe Cure and Warner’s Safe
fi'j, e . r ™ n y years of pain and suffering from kidney and liver complaint, I, who Was aocus
!, hl , niBter t 0 ° th ?- rB J W , as brought to a bed of sickness myself, and the doctors could give me
Cnr« P -pv^ C <°k er / 0 /, reb f f ’ T t i hey ff lvin g me but a short time to live. At last I tried Warner’s Safe
rn t«ir« i r fi °”i h ?- firSt f bottle 1 * began to \ m . prove in health. Gradually the pain left me. I continued
have f ° r 1 ? 6 untll , l was perfectly cured and sound in body and in mind. I
futhlS , d * keep well ® ver Slnce >. though some years have elapsed since that time. I may state
durLXmt ?°™ than ,? u . r P u nsed to see me up again. I have heard of many othe/case*
during my professional career which have been cured by Warner’s Safe Cure.”
Warner’s Safe Cure
I»ains tt wh . lch most women are subject. Warner’s Safe Cure cures all Rheumatic
rf! ersi £t en t Headache, lame Back, Sciatica, Neuralgia, Anaemia Debilitv
Indigestion, Torpid Liver, Gravel, Stone and Bladder Troubles, simply because it rids the
system of the urinary and biliary poisons which produce these diseases.
186 conta J nln ff full particulars relating to Warner’s Safe Cure, and accounts of many
nch, Meltoum? Vio! fm ’' * Co., LimS.X.tISJ
9
THE
CENTURY THERMAL BATH CABINET
is equal to a DOCTOR IN EVERY HOME.
THOUSANDS GLADLY TESTIFY TO THIS FACT!
Hot-air and Vapour Baths administerrji bv this Cabinet arp
gSuT r J^ M ’ SOIA l bronchitis!
FF^fQ , Kl f l S Ey troubles, influenza,
COLDS, FEVERS—in fact, there is no disease which can resist
the power of heat as applied by this Cabinet. 300M00 now
Being used in Great Britain weekly.
PRICES, delivered, 30/- to 84/-.
Write to-day for descriptive Booklet—FßEE.
Century Thermal Bath Cabinet Co. Ltd. (Dbpt. 8)
(Sole Agents Wanted for Sydney.)
ALEX. TROUP, Manager,
Royal Arcade, Elizabeth-st. Entrance, MELBOURNE.
ASTHMAamd BRONCHITIS CURED
;By using CASE’S ASTHMA CURE, made from the . . "
J. W. CASE, Chemist, 140 Wickham-st., Brisbane.
Please mention Bulletin when writing.
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manuf. Company,
When m town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY ? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5 ; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Sprmg Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia. £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaatons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms whc say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
-*ent. more for your requirements.
193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
OUB SPECIAL No. a
£8 18/6
rey
’ lit any Wharf « r
K.B.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10 /-
GOOD HAIR FOR A T.T. t
All Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustra
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss, Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
m- For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
m- For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d. ; postage, 9d. extra.
±> e
G/?
Washington H. Soul & Co.,
Pitt-sCreet, Sydney.
» M h„ ... ® < ? NSU >T HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE
Sold by all Chemists, and by WATKINS & MAOKAY, Chemists, Queen Street, Brisbane
Street, Rockhampton, Queensland, and
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-streat
hair.
Mr. CORDON, 92 George
, MELBOURNE
The Compartment.
“Ime Blode,” who is in a position to know,
writes about the compartment disease in the
Victorian education system :
For a concentrated essence of stupidity it would be
hard to beat the system of promotion and classification
that is in vogue in the Victorian Education Department.
Pedagogues are classed in eight compartments, with
subdivisions in each of these. The open sesame from
subdivision to subdivision is the report of the district
inspector. There is no road but one from compartment
to compartment. There may be twenty excellent
reasons for this, but writer, with nearly 20 years’ experi-
ence, has never heard one, and there is at least one solid
argument against it. The indifferent teacher may obtain
promotion from one class to another, whilst a mute,
inglorious Frcebbl, Salomon, or Pestalozzi may remain
in one class for the term of his natural life. If he hap-
pened to be, as he would be, in the first subdivision of
his class, and the average attendance at his school
increased beyond a certain standard, the classification of
that school would be raised, and the teacher would be
promoted a class. That is, he would be rewarded
because irrigation works were being carried on in
his vicinity, or because the percentage of ille-
gitimates in his district was higher than in
other, or because mining ventures were being tried,
or because of some other thing that had no more
to do with his teaching capacity than horticulture with
politics. A teacher of exceptional merit can not, under
the present hide-bound system of classification, be taken
and put to a job somewhere near his size, nor can the in-
different senior be put correcting exercises or sharpening
pencils or doing some work for which he is often more
adequately fitted than the work he is at. These remarks
are inspired by the recent issue of the Triennial Roll,
showing that Victorian teachers, good and bad, stand in
about the same relative positions in which they did 12
years ago. The exodus of population through drought
and other causes has not been favorable to the general
raising of the classification of schools. Hence the Vic-
torian teachers are barred promotion—even the un-
deserved promotion that follows an increase in average
attendance. This, with disfranchisement and general
howling-down of civil servants, has left them about the
most lack-lustre, down-trodden, discouraged crowd of
crushed idealists that could be found in any corner of the
continent. The compartment has got them down and
trodden on them. They can’t breathe because of the
compartment.
“Chass ’’: J. L. Dow’s remarks anent Bulletin
article on so-called closer settlement south of
Ararat (Vic.) emphasises the fact that a flying visit
through a district, and a talk with the landlord
does not qualify a man to write intelligently on the
subject. The land monopoly in these parts
did not come about to any extent through selec-
tors selling their holdings to present owners. The
pure merino crowd had other and shadier methods
of acquiring their huge areas. Mr. Dow omitted
to mention that 12s. 6d. per acre rent is charged
for land close to the railway stations. Further-
more, he is guilty of misrepresentation when he
states that “sturdy Mallee farmers are raising
heavy crops of wheat,” considering that the bulk
of the settlers have their holdings under crop for
the first time this year, and the few who had crops
last year did not average more than 10 bushels per
acre. Estimating the cost of fodder, seed-wheat,
manure, and rent, growers must realise £3 per
a ®F®,f° r a h land cultivated before they will have a
shilling to call their own. Under the accursed
system which the travelling boomster palms on
the gullible Age and Leader readers, the tenant
cannot keep a dog, or even a few sheep for mutton,
as the landlord has the right to graze the stubble.
Kecently a farmer, whose crop had grown too
rank, turned in some sheep to eat it back, when
the landlord swept down on him in a fury and
ordered their instant removal. For pure tyranny
the S.W. Victorian landlord system is only one
remove from the brass collar of the old English
j er J'j a reeen * ; Melbourne meeting of ancient
dodderers wanted to know what is driving young
men away from Victoria.
♦
The Westralian Government has now gone so far
as to permit its representative in the Legislative
Council to announce that the proposed north-west
(Fort Hedland) railway is “ essentially a work for
private enterprise,” because it is never likely to
be connected with the rest of the railway system—
the same argument that was used in similar cir-
cumstances in connection with the Silverton.
1 ram way, in N.S.W., 12 or 15 years ago.
And the chances are that, when they find that
they cannot get the State to rush on the work,
the people who are interested in this project will
yell for “private enterprise”; and if they suc-
ceed they will probably fall in badly. For once
the “ private enterprise ” crowd gets its railway
line, it has as much private enterprise as it
wants; it sets to work then to tax private
enterprise to the last farthing that it can stand,
lhe Silverton Tramway Co. has in this way been
making profits of from 40 to 80 per cent., taxing
and necessarily discouraging all other private
enterprise in order to do it. The reason why, on
the other hand, so many State enterprises fail is
simply because they are a better friend of private
enterprise than private enterprise itself is ; the
State often—perhaps far too often—is willing to'
lose money in order that private enterprise may
be promoted. Private enterprise isn’t built that
way ; it isn't its business to promote anybody’s
private enterprise but its own. So the barracker
for private enterprise who applies his theorv to
railways, waterworks, and things of that sort", is,
in most cases, really doing private enterprise the
worst service he can.
The Anglican Synod of the Transvaal has made a.
vam appeal to the British Government to put an
end to the immoral native-marriage licensing
system. A Kaffir in the Transvaal may not
marry unless he can pay a fee of £3 ; provided he
has enough for fees, he can marry as many women
as he pleases. The idea is to force the blacks to
work in the mines to find the wherewithal for
connubial bliss. It works out that way in some
cases ; in others the native just has his connubial
b. without fee or ceremony. It’s a curious sort of
law for England, which conquered the Transvaal.
in the name of the New Testament,” to enforce,
but Cohen says it’s necessary to him as a mine-
owner and Cohen’s troubles whether it fits in
with the New Testament ! It takes Cohen all
his time to fit in with the Old Testament—that
part of the book where the tales of loot and
annexation are.
Touching the physical decadence of the
town-bred Englishman, and his increasing patro-
nage.of “sport,” provided by other people, London
.Referee says:
Amongst the thousands of onlookers who yell their
applause or discouragement, it is probable that not 3 per
cent, could row 50 yards at racing speed, or find wind,
weight and courage to endure a fast five minutes between
the goal posts. Kipling's “ flannelled fools ” and
muddied oafs are the only people who get any prac-
tical advantage out of the sport. If the enthusiasm of
the crowds which gather at these exhibitions were anv-
thing but spurious, we should not have to face a falling-
off of six inches in the standard stature of our army.
A quotation from Lord Rosebery deserves to be remem-
bered— It is no use having an Empire without an
Imperial race. What sort of an Imperial race is it which
includes among its defenders hundreds upon hundreds
of men who scale a trifle over 7st. and measure sft. in
height, and thousands who die like flies under the pres-
sure of very moderate hardship ? In the S’African war
no less than 87 per cent, of the deaths which occurred in
hospital were due to sickness alone.


Saved a Leg'.
A Queensland man suffering from Blood
Poisoning narrowly escapes losing his leg.
Mr. Arthur F. Muston, suffering from blood
poisoning which would not yield to external
remedies, and who feared he was going to die,
tells of the benefit he derived from taking JJr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills. He writesA
consider it a duty that you should know, also
the public, of the benefit I have derived from
taking Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, some
two years ago I was in Townsville, Queensland,
suffering from blood poisoning that caused a
running sore to develop in my right leg which
would not yield to external remedies. I was in
the Rockhampton General Hospital, and later in
the Mackay Hospital, and had an operation per-
formed, and at one time feared I would lose
my leg. About this time Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills came under my notice, and I began
taking them regularly. I was very weak, an
thought I was going to die. After taking them
for about three weeks I noticed a great improve-
ment. I became more cheerful, and felt quite
another man, the sore rapidly healed, and to-da>
I am as sound as a-belli I can safely recommen
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills. In my state
tried several doctors and numerous other remedies
without getting substantial benefit; There seem®
to be something about the pills, that drove t
poison entirely out of my system. I am ' er -,
thankful that the pills came under my notice, an
I cannot speak too highly of their blood-puritvm„
and healing properties.” Dr. Morses I 11 ” 13
Root Pills purify the blood and cleanse the system
of all its impurities. They are a permanent an
a positive cure for biliousness, constipation, an
all liver and kidney disorders. Packed in am
bottles, and the full name blown thereon.
ACCEPT NO SUBSTITUTES.*
RESCH’S SELECT STOCK ALE - LAGER
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives. BREWERY and OFFICES: DOWLING ST., REDEERN^^SYDNEY^,
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Melbourne Speedway Club will formally open
its trotting track at Albert Park on Saturday afternoon
(29th). When the Speedway project was first mooted
some of the Albert Park and St. Hilda people thought
they saw a danger of the district being invaded by the
rorty habitues of trotting meetings, but the terms on
which this club has obtained a “permissive occupancy"
of a hitherto waste portion of the Park seem to guarantee
most intense respectability for the Speedway. The
moving spirits in the club are mostly business men.
Timber-merchant Sharp is president, Allen Tye is hon.
sec., and the names of Craig, Duckett, Gibson (Foy and
Gibson), and others—including some Sydney patrons of
the movement—spell weight and substance and all the
mercantile virtues. The'club (membership fee 3gs.) pays
£4O a year rent for the track. It runs 1640 yards long
and 60 yards wide, and is reserved to clubmen with the
proviso that no trotting sulkies will be permitted
on the ground. The prohibition of sulkies practically
silences the suggestion that a Speedway is akin to a
trotting racecourse. Any sort of light buggy will be in
order, but the gambling machine which consists of two
spidery wheels and a perch for the driver is strictly
tabooed. Moreover, the surroundings of the track, open
to the public like all other parts of the park, are calcu-
lated to attract the “ nicest” people and repel the greasy
red-faced bloke who chews a straw. Some £6OO has
already been spent in smartening the thereabouts. On
one side of the track there is a 30ft. sweep of lawn with
seats on it, pro bono publico, and another 20ft. of grass
divides the track from the return drive. The club, of
course, reckons itself a benefactor to Albert Park for
doing what is usually done by the municipality, at the
ratepayers’ expense, in America and Canada, where every
town has its Speedway.
» * *
W. E. Dakin, handicapper to the Westralian
Turf Club for the past two years, has joined his brother,
F.F., in the place where the good sports go. The death
of F.F. (the V.R.O. handicapper), which happened some
months back, had a very depressing effect on W.E., and
it was heart failure that carried him off. The Dakin
brothers had equal claims to the respect of Australian
turfmen ; their integrity as handicappers was unquestion-
able and their judgment was likewise.
* * * »
Lato Westralian handicapper, W. E. Dakin,
years back trained horses for the late Mr. W. Pearson, of
Ltilrnany Park, and at break up of that stud went into
handicapping business for many Victorian clubs until
accepting post of handicapper to Kalgoorlie and Westralia
R. C.’s. Said that deceased was a cavalry officer in
England before coming Australiawards 32 years since.
First nag he owned in these parts was Clodhopper.
Protos (second in Melbourne Cup) also belonged to him.
Dilke, the Diver, Lurline, Aldinga, Le Loup, Darriwell,
&c., were horses prepared by Mr. Dakin in the long ago.
Then came (in 1880) Guesswork, Bassanio, Tyropean,
Baron Von Mueller and others owned by Thomas
Elder, whose establishment deceased had charge of.
Later tasks were his own Ooningsley, as well as Quintin,
Matsep, Tranter, Whakawai, Escutcheon, and, last of all,
Bel Giorno.
* * * *
A Melbourne Ikey Mo was fined the other day
for obstructing Lilly Buk-stleet by making a penny
book therein, his clients being mostly small boys. The
parsons should get hold of this man and strenuously
rebuke him. They have always represented the tote as
being the corrupter of childhood. And herein the tote
has another advantage over Ikey : If the fine can’t be
squeezed out of it, the State at least doesn’t have to
maintain it while in gaol ; and if a disreputable tote so
far forgot itself as to make penny wagers with small boys,
it could be destroyed with an axe. You can’t destroy
Ikey with an axe —not if you hit him on the conscience,
anyhow.
* * Jfc *
Some remarkable tote divs. have been paid
during the last few weeks at Adelaide’s Old (Victoria
Park) racecourse. Orphan Boy paid £59 Is. in the Birth-
day Cup, Corizann £53 4s. in the L.V. Handicap, and the
same mare £2l 16s. in Tattersall’s Handicap. But these,
though far ahead of Jeremiah Jerusalem’s prices, don’t
reach the highest. Twenty years ago D.O.D. paid £836 ;
and even within the last two or three years Antarctic and
Ranfurly have paid over £lOO.
**. * *
Eight A.J.C. Derby aspirants figured at Rose-
hill, Saturday, but didn’t impress over much. Belah,
Dumont, Bassini, Kilfera, Cherson, Kitty Grafton, Jaco-
bite and Postulate were the nags. Cherson shaped sore,
while none of Kilfera, Bassini, Jacobite and Postulate,
who sported silk in Tennyson Stakes, threatened winning
at any stage. Dumont was a great deal in Rosehill
Handicap for a mile, though equally as much out of it
subsequently; but he’s a nailing good colt, and is coming
on rapidly. Belah’s Lyndhurst Stakes’ display topped the
lot in that he fought the favorite Marvel Loch and rank
outsider Whiting and survived by a head. Belah has
capital breeding—by Havoc from Wilga.
* * * *
Paucity of support accorded A.J.C. Spring meet
by Victorian nag-owners is marked. Though entries
were numerous, only Florin and Sweet Nell remain in
Epsom and Metrop. Were that pair and M.L. Orloff, as
well as Queenslander Bridegroom, to go, the two biggest
events would be left to N.S.W. alone. Finding a reason
for this is difficult. Malcontents have not all gone wrong,
and excess of weight can hardly be the excuse in every
instance. Prizes are in the thousands, too.
* * * •
A couple of very dangerous Caulfield Cup can-
didates were in evidence again at the Victorian Club
meeting last Saturday. Scottish King, unfancied, ran a
respectable third in a six-furlong race, and the fine
appearance of Leslie M'Donald’s well-bred colt was
generally remarked. Scottish King still has a lot of
superfluous beef to get rid of, but he seems to be taking
kindly to work, and good judges like him much. If
nothing goes wrong with this imposing animal between
now and Caulfield Cup time, he is certain to be a popular
pick, on account of his pedigree, looks, light weight (6.7
in both Cups), and stable prestige. All the same, his
recent gallops in public suggest that the stable doesn’t
regard Scottish King as another Revenue. Macdonald’s
good things have not hitherto been raced into form at
minor meetings, where accidents may happen to the best
regulated schemes. # ,
Mac Donovan, another that is in no danger of
being over ripe by Oct. 17th, won the seven furlongs
Hartington Welter in a masterful style. Some people
swear bv Mac Donovan. The five-year-old goes faster as
he fines down, and is probably' capable of great improve-
ment. Moreover, the handicapper has given Mac’s
people a great inducement to go for the Caulfield Cup, in
which he is placed 81b. higher than the Melbourne Cup
weight. Victory in the shorter race would leave him
with a great chance to capture the double, if he is a two-
miler, and the horse that is good enough to back with
confidence for the C.C. must be very nearly a two-miler.
* * ♦ *
The much-talked-of Hauturier, from Scobie’s
stable, made a first appearance in public at the Vic. Club
meet. Backed down to 4to 1 for a sprint-race, the son of
Haut Brion-Trieste went away with the lead, but
appeared to collapse at the end of five furlongs. A dis-
couraging failure, yet not quite convincing.
» * * *
Hitherto base deceiver, T.M.S., has been going
great guns this season, and looks like doing better at
coming A.J.C. Spring meeting. At Rosehill he missed
Lyndhurst Stakes, but saddled up again, ljhrs. later, for
principal thing of the day (Rosehill Handicap) and, lining
up favorite at twos, had a great finish with Fireclay, who
was very narrowly beaten. T.M.S. has 7.3 in Epsom, and
6.13 in Metrop., and looks to have more than a chance of
scooping the latter. t
The progress of Westralian racing. W. A. T. C.
committee t’other night drew up the programme for
New Year’s meet, and is giving £6040 away—£looo
better than last year. Value of Perth Cup is increased to
£l2OO.
POLLPALINGADA BOOBOOROWIE (other
wise TOMMY WALKER), deceased Adelaide
aboriginal.
Peculiar that while Moses has had a particu-
larly good time in Melbourne during past winter,
things have been, the reverse with Moses in Sydney.
Days when none but outsiders got home in Melbourne
’twas the other way about in Sydney. Common property
among those who know, that there are tew Sydney
“ books ” who could settle if struck for four-figure bets.
Writer could put his hand on several whose existence as
bettors is of a hand-to-mouth nature, and will be till a
“skinner” oomes along—possibly in the Epsom or
Metrop., if at all.
* . * * *
Apropos Lord Cardigan’s prospects in Metrop.,
given serious consideration since his fine display in
Tennyson Stakes, at Rosehill, Saturday. Though the
big Spring mile-and-a-half has been in the fixture-list for
verging on 40 years, only three three-year-olds—Bylong
(1866), Amendment (1887), and Lamjnd (1888)—have won
it. Lord Cardigan looks the nag for the occasion this
year, and will (deservedly) find heaps of support if he
keeps well between whiles and goes to the post fit.
Interesting that the horse Highflyer) that beat Lord
Cardigan, at Randwick, a month or two ago, also scored
at Rosehill, Saturday. Going out at 12 to 1 against, he
headed a well-backed field of good ones early, and won
all the way, which means that, with 6.12, his Metrop.
chance is none too bad, a view borne out by the fact that
he has been left in the Caulfield and Melbourne Cups.
* * * *
Mr. Leslie M ‘Donald’s latest successful per-
former, Scottish King, is a talked of possible Derby
winner, and something worth giving a little thought to
in Caulfield or Melbourne Cups. He is brother to King-
like and Bonnie Ohiel, and a big fellow, slow to begin but
owning heaps of pace and stamina. Barring one or two,
none of Wallace’s get so far have taken kindly to long
races, but appearances indicate that Scottish King may
prove an exception and more like his great sire. Whether
up to Derby requirements or not it is certain he (at the
minimum) is well in the two Cups. Those who go on
“ the office ” are sure to have something about Scottish
King for one or other or both Cups.
* » * *
Already Sydney touts are nursing the opinion
that Maoriland champion Cruciform will give Australia’s
top-notch nag Wakeful a great shaking in coming w.f.a.
races. The other morning Cruciform accomplished one
of the fastest miles seen at Randwick. Hurdles were 9 or
10 yards out on the course proper, and it was outside
these that Cruciform got over the ground in 1.45 J, cover-
ing first sfur. in hair-raising time of 1.3 Gallop was 2sec.
better than next best of the morning, Sir Leonard’s.
Cruciform has not been overtaxed, despite that her
winnings have materially enriched her owner. She has
only started 27 times in three seasons, and won 18 races
—three out of four last year.
* * * *
Old Sydney turf identity, Joe Kean, succumbed
to paralysis on Monday. Thirty years since he was a
forefront jockey, and won the Mayor’s (now Tatt.’s) Cup
on O’Meara for “Tom” Ivory, A.J.O. Derby (’7l) on
Javelin, and the Champagne Stakes on Kingsborough
(’74), then Sir Hercules Robinson’s property. Subse-
quently Kean acted as starter at Carrington running
grounds in the boom days of Australian pedestrianism ;
and, later, as clerk of the course at Randwick.
* * * *
‘‘ Plung”: The punter’s trouble is mostly inability
to sort out the “triers.” According to the gospel of George
Clifford, at M.L. Racing Conference—that, although he
won £4400 in stakes during the season, it required an
outlay of £42oo—the owner is very little better off.
Lavishness in horse-racing never did pay, and even with
close, business-like methods the sport has not enriched
many of its patrons.
* * * *
Disclosed at A.J.O. annual general meet last
week that net gain for year was £5,407. Revenue was
£52,728 of which £27,185 came through the gate. Added
money reached £26,475. Statement shows £28,136 excesß
of assets over liabilities exclusive of grand stands, <fec.,
erected at a cost of £BO,OOO.
* * * *
Macaroni 11, full brother to once fine performer
Paul Pry, fractured his near fore leg in Lyndhurst Stakes
at Rosehill, Saturday, and had to be shot. He was by
Lochiel from Busybody and cost his owner, Mr. J. W.
Hillas, 500 gs. as a yearling.
* * * ♦
Positano gelding May King, winner of recent
Boulder Cup (650g5.), who had previously gathered
Coolgardie Cup, was bred at Neotsfield (N.S.W.) by Mr.
R. H. Dangar and bought as a yearling in 1901 for 130 gs.
Racing at 2yrs. he did no good, but subsequently won
eight times in succession, and last season appropriated
Junior Handicap, humping second top weight.
* * * #
Debenture’s narrow win of Victorian Club Han-
dicap at Plemington, Saturday, calls to mind that Mr.
Murray gave 575 guineas for him at same time as Mr. O.
L. M'Donald bought Wakeful and Revenue each for very
little more. But while those nags have repaid their pur-
chaser to the extent of thousands over and above the
outlay, Debenture’s latest was only his second win in
three years. Mainly because it is extremely difficult to
get him fit.
* * * *
Most successful Bananaland jock last season
was P. Mullen, who brought 85 winners home—a record
for that State.
* * * *
Queensland turf affairs are on the up grade.
Though prize money at recent Q.T.O. meet totalled
£lOOO, profit was £3OO.
» * * *
The field for the M.L. Grand National Steeple-
chase (£750 ; 3 5- miles) this year wasn’t brilliant. Eleven
started, three fell by the wayside, and Awahuri (Kaiwhaka
—Mute mare) made pastime of the rest. With 11.3 up he
cut out the course in 7min. 20sec. Favorite Hadyn, last
year’s winner, could do no better than third under a
burden of 12.4. The two mile G. N. Hurdle Race saw a
star performance put up by Waiwera (Gipsy King—Star-
water), whose Hibernian owner made no secret of the
fact that “ figures would be roughly used.” Smothering
his 14 opponents with pace, and taking the obstacles in
his stride, the horse won anyhow in 3min. 47sec. The
field tailed home in very tired fashion. Time is nearly
ogee, quicker than Record Reign’s record for the race
three years ago, but latter carried 221bs. more. Waiwera
humped list. 41b. * *
Famous old sire Gozo, blind and unable, through
rheumatism, to rise unaided, was mercifully bulleted at
Tucka Tucka (N.S.W.) recently. Gozo had been atTucka
Tucka over 17 years. Got in England, but foaled at
Bathurst, the property of late Mr. W. Kite, he was by
Wild Oats (sire of Oatcake) from imported Maltese Cross
(dam of Brazenose and of Cuisine, the dam of Djin Djin
and Tripos), by Oxford from Stockwell from Meeanee, by
Touchstone from Ghaznee, by Pantaloon. Gozo only
raced as a 4-year-old, then he won A. J.O. Maiden Stakes.
His progeny have been more numerous and successful
generally than that of any other Australian sire, and, ’tis
stated, their winnings total upwards of £100,090. Gaulus
and The Grafter (successive Melbourne Cup winners) were
Gozo’s. The Chief, Alemene, S.verla, San Fran (Sydney
Cup and Metrop. winner), and dozens of other cracks owe
their origin to him.
* * * *
Mons. Victor, the old opponent of expatriated
Professor Miller, grew tired of life last week and was
found dead in his room at a Melbourne hotel with a
bullet in his brain. The late Frenchman was a respect-
able all-round athlete at the time when his huge rival
overshadowed him. He could wrestle, box, fence and
play the gladiator gracefully. The “boys” regarded
“Mons” as something of a joke and gave him every
encouragement to overrate himself. His belief in his
powers once led him into the drollest absurdity. Kennedy,
the showman mesmerist, was at that time a recent sen-
sation, and a conspiracy of artful flatterers easily per-
suaded poor Victor that he could hypnotise a choice
assortment of weaklings in the Kennedy way. The
“ subjects ” having been coached up to the deception
Victor invited his friends to come and witness a trial
display of his hypnotism at St. George’s Hall. For a
while the unsuspecting “Professor” seemed to have all
his subjects at his mercy. One after another they fell
asleep or played the goat at command, Victor gravely
assuring the audience that he was only beginning to
develop his wonderful controlling powers. But presently
the fraudulent performers started to mob the hypnotist.
The more he snapped his fingers and told them they were
“ all right ” the more wildly they danced around him, and
at last the dupe understood that his entranced “ sub-
jects ” had been merely pulling his good, solid French leg.
* # * *
“Claude”: Kalgoorlie (W.A.) has lately de-
veloped the walking-match disease. Local drapers,
bankers and bagmen are arranging walks. Also the
Kalgoorlie Miner men have held a twelve-mile jaunt to
Kanowna, the town of the sacred nugget myth. En-
thusiasm was great at starting, but gradually cooled
along the publess road. Half-way out a benefactor in a
buggy dispensed liquor gratuitously, and while most of
the staff was drinking a teetotaller meanly went ahead
and won a lame, blank and uninteresting trudge.
* * * *
“Anna Nyasse”- remarks: —“As a rule a
returned Boer-baiter says nothing worth recording, but
there are exceptions to every rule. I met this particular
exception breasting a bar, and between drinks he said :
• Some fellers ’ll bet on anything that’s goin’, from first
into heaven to last out of gaol; but the queerest gamble
X ever saw was when I was down with enteric, way over
in South Africa. It was a hot time, for at the start there
must have been fully 40 men stretched in my ward, about
half of theqi our chaps, and half Imperial Yeomen. Every
night we used to put a coin—any coin from half-a-crown
to a quid—into a basin. In the morning we used to
count up the survivors, and share the pool fair and square
amongst the live ’uns; the stiffs were counted out, of
course. I had a lot of luck ; four times that we went a
quid in the basin there were three poor devils who had
lost the number of their mess, so the sharing panned out
bigger than usual. One morning we all answered the
roll and there was darned near bein’ a fight over that.
Someone oughter died as per usual, but we couldn’t say
who, so we pooled the lot with the next night’s money.
I must have won £l4 in all, but I can’t say it was a
game I liked.’ Same agen, please.”
* * * *
The first athletic sports of the Adelaide
University, held on August 14, brought out nothing
special in the way of performances, and all the events
were made handicaps, to catch entries. The remarkable
thing was their being held at all. For years past,
amateur sports have been absolutely dead in Adelaide,
except in the schools, and they stick to short-distance
events ; so that probably not for 15 years had anyone
run a mile on the track without the incentive of being
paid in cash for it. In the long ago, sports were fre-
quent. C. C. Kingston and Chaffey Baker were both
noted athletes in their time.
* * * *
One of the forwards in the M.L. Rugby team
recently touring Australia, while playing against Auck-
land a couple of years ago, landed a dirty left, on a big
Northern forward. Next time the offender got the ball
the Northerner streaked after him with war in his eye,
and, realising the circumstances, the pursued hurriedly
unloaded the ball. No use ; the Northern man came
straight for him, and both parties abandoned football
and fled for the far end of the field. The referee saw
nothing; the play was in an opposite direction. Near
the gaol posts the Aucklander caught his enemy, and
enthusiastically plugged him on the nose-bone.
“'Struth," he said, afterwards, “I’d have caught the
cove if I’d had to chase him to Palestine.”
* » * »
Jim Carson, one of the finest forwards Austra-
lasian Rugby has known, passed away, in M.L. t’other
day — a victim of lung trouble.
* * * *
Sydney first grade football scramble closed
Saturday, when Eastern Suburbs secured supremacy,
with Glebe a good second—one point to the bad (a drawn
game where a victory would have placed it top of the
lot). Winners were first or thereabouts all the way, and
throughout showed remarkable consistency, which rose
to brilliancy on occasions. Forwards were the pillars of
the combination, though backs exhibited sound defence
every time. Very much rearward position of last year’s
premiers (Western Suburbs) and ’Varsity surprised fol-
lowers of the game. Though Newtown opened up poorly,
it came very strongly later, and, two or three rounds
before the end, looked sure to finish first. As evidencing
how close Eastern Suburbs and Glebe were, the difference
was only through Glebe having 7 points more scored
against it than were notched against Eastern Suburbs.
The other way about figures were equal—B9 each. The
biggest compilation against all clubs met is Newtown’s
(116 to 65), which gives that side the best credit balance
(51) of the lot concerned. Only side that beat ultimate
victors all through the rough was North Sydney. South
Sydney made a bold showing near the close by accounting
for North Sydney and Newtown in succession.
* * * *
Melbourne football ructions are so willing now-
adays that they frequently end up in the police-court.
T’other day the Palmerston-street Methodists and the
Millswyn-street dittos argued the merits of their case
be.'>re the beak, one extra strenuous player being fined,
and the rest cautioned. The arresting constable said the
language used was quite unparliamentary—possibly they
learned it at Sunday school.
* * * *
Rugby football does not have all the rowdyism
to itself. At a recent match at Wallaroo mines (S.A.),
under Australian rules, a player was attacked by a spec-
tator for alleged rough play, and the game adjourned
for ten minutes while they plugged each other. At the
end of the game the goal umpire got into disfavor, and
had to put up a fast quarter-mile with the mob at his
heels. .
• * * *
“Doko”: The great sport now in many 8. A.
country townships is shanghai shooting. There are two
classes of shooting—rabbit shooting and bird shooting.
The unfortunate bird or rabbit is tied by the leg to a peg
at a certain distance from the shooters, and they take it
in turn to shoot. A hit counts 25 points ; if the miser-
able object is maimed it counts 50, and a kill 100. After
each hard hit the bird is removed and another is put in
its place. Compared to this, for a kind and Christian
sport suitable for children recommend me to pigeon-
shooting. Another style is to turn the competitors loose
in the wood and at the end of an hour, or whatever time
is specified, a bell is rung and all shooting ceases. Then
the competitor with the largest butcher’s record wins.
Some extra interest would be lent to the sport if a lion
was borrovved from a menagerie and also turned into the
wood, the arr ingement being that the lion should leave
off eating competitors when the bell rang and should
have a chance for the prize.
* * * *
M.L. football team finished up in Australia last
week by completely wiping out N.S.W. country districts’
combination on ’Varsity Oval, notching 32 to nil. Only
right to say that game wasn’t quite as one-sided as would
appear (though ’twas bad enough), for, on occasions, the
country players held their opponents well, but latter
passed too brilliantly.
* * * *
M.L. football team’s 10 Australian matches
produced 63 tries and 37 goals to opposing sides’ two of
each, which means 276 points against 13.
*.* * *
Nineteen-year-old Bert Murphy, who came to
Sydney from M.L. to fight any 9.6 bruiser, is brother to
famous “ Torpedo ” Billy, once feather-weight premier of
the world. Lad looks very promising, but whether he
can fight or not has yet to be determined ; he will
probably be tried out in a day or two.
* * * *
At Sydney Golden Gate hall, Saturday night,
heavy-weight Tucker (11.5) and Fray (12st.), champions
of big local centres, put up five rounds of the bull-dog
order. Tucker made the pace, and Fray (aptly named)
cheerfully responded. Tucker punched anyhow, any-
where and everywhere. Fray often took a lot while
warily watching to see the point exposed. He got there
in the second round, spread-eagling Tucker, who stag-
gered to his corner, but came out all ginger, and rushing
in again made it a toe-to-toe fight that set the house
roaring. Excitement was remarkable, and the punish-
ment the pair gave and took more so. His inhuman
seconds sent Tucker up for the sixth round when he had
already cried enough. Police interference stopped
further butchery, and the thing was declared a draw.
But as Fray was much the more fit to go on, he was an
undoubted winner.
* * * *
Fight between featherweights Paddy ‘ ‘ King ”
(Morgan), of Newcastle, and Charlie “ Young” (Best), of
Newtown, at Sydney Gaiety A.C., Monday night, ended
unfortunately. Both had been preparing weeks before,
and were expected to supply an uncommonly vimful
encounter, but it turned out tame, mostly. Exciting
situations only came in flashes, for things no sooner
seemed to be getting warm than they cooled
again. King was aggressor generally in the early
portion of the infliction, but, later, his attacks, like those
of Young’s, were desultory. The 16th round opened to
slow music, and many people, full of the weary length of
the thing, got up from their seats to go, when suddenly
King’s right and left made impact with each of Young’s
jaws, and to the boards he went for nine seconds.
Assuming the perpendicular again, Young got a promis-
cuously-hurled right on the point, and fell on the back of
his head with force. Result: a fractured skull (at the
base), death at 4 o’clock next morning, and the anti-
boxing crowd in its usual hysterical condition. Winner of
the match (a more than ordinarily decent, well-reared lad)
cried bitterly, and vows he’ll never fight again ; his first
act next morning was to send the £25 posted by him as a
weight-forfeit to the dead boxer’s
Sydney Dunlop inter-club premiership compe-
tition is at its concluding stage. Semi-final was got rid
of on Saturday over Gore Hill course, 21 miles Newtown
and Northern Suburbs triumphed, former easily (as it
has done in every heat), but latter had a stiff task with
Redfern ; only 4 points separated the two teams at the
end. Final ia to be decided Saturday this week.
* * * *
A crowd of 5000 or so, largely composed of
weedy youths with their socks outside their pants and a
hump on their shoulders, leant against Melbourne Hay-
market wall on Saturday afternoon what time Maori-
lander J. Arnst was leading the 102 other riders over the
heavy roads from Warrnambool in the big Dunlop Road
Race. The news correspondents said the roads
were heavy, but the time and the appearance of
the winner’s machine—promptly exhibited, in a cycle-
shop window —didn’t bear out that assertion. Arnst
covered the 165 miles from scratch in 7hr. 43min—record
time. Skehan, of Vic., was second, 31min. 45sec. behind ;
Gee, third. Previous best was J. Carpenter’s, in ’96, also
from scratch ; but he had the advantage of pace—the
only year it was allowed. Bill of fare provided by the
Dunlop Tyre Co. is interesting: At Camperdown each
competitor got 2 oranges, 2 bananas, Jib. muscatels, Jib.
chocolate, 2 sausages and celery ; at Mount Leura, lib. ol
hot bread and milk ; at Winchelsea, J pint egg flip ; at
Geelong, same as at Camperdown ; at Little River, warm
milk, and at Werribee a cup of Bovril. It looks a satis-
fying amount of tucker to put away in 8 hours, and the
average healthy, but untrained, lumper daily does a
quantity of continuous work on' less. The motor race,
arranged to be run simultaneously, was postponed on
account of the alleged greasy roads, which was a grievous
disappointment to the public which recollected the
cabled accounts of the continental motor races and was
anticipating disasters, wrecks and gore ad lib. on the
cheap.
* » * *
The splendid speed and stability of the Red
Bird bicycle were never better proved than by Maori-
lander J. Arnst, who rode the same machine from end to
end of the 165 miles in the Warrnambool to Melbourne
road contest, and finished alone in the world’s record
time of 7 hours 43 minutes.*
* * * *
The anxiety to get Lilley for the next visiting
team suggests that the Englishmen are weak in wicket-
keepers. Lilley is presumably still a good man, though
not a wOnder, behind the sticks. But his batting m
Australia, when he came with Maclaren’s team, was quite
contemptible.


a
MMITKO
®° *INg ST.SVP^ e
EARRINGS and EAR-HOOPS*
There Is nothing: that enhances the beauty of a pretty face more than
these Fashionable Ornaments. We are now showing: an immense
assortment in ail the VERY LATEST DESIGNS.
No. 1. In Pearla, Turquoise Coral and Parisian Diamonds, mounted with
Solid Gold Wires or Screws, 3/6, 4/6, 6/6, 8/6, 10/6.
No. 2. The Fashionable Drop Earrings, for pierced ears, in Pearl and
Turquoise, Pearl and Parisian Diamond, 6/6, 7/b.
For unpierced ears-Pearl, 8/6, 9/6; Turquoise and Parisian
Diamonds, 17/6. All mounted in Solid Gold.
No 3 In Pearl Turquoise, Parisian Diamonds, mounted in Metal and
’ ’ Silver Gilt, 2/6, 3/6, 4/6—for pierced or unpierced ears.
PLEASE SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SLIPS.
WOMEN CURE DRUNKARDS
The Remedy can be given in Tea, Coffee, or
Food, thus Secretly Curing the Patient
without his Knowledge.
rpHIS CURE FOR DRUNKENNESS has shed a
radiance into thousands of hitherto desolate fire-
sides. It does its work so silently and surely that,
while the devoted wife, sister, or daughter looks on,
the drunkard is reclaimed even against his will.
ETJCRA.SY SAFE AND SURE.
Mrs. J. HATTON, who cured her husband with
EUORASY, now writes us that she has also cured a
near and dear relative, and makes a most earnest ap-
peal to all other women to save the drunkard. We will
post tree books and testimonials from hundreds who
have been cured, and everything needed to aid you
in saving those dear to you from a life of ultimate
poverty and disgrace. Write or call at once, and
address- THE EUCRASY COY.,
62 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY
re
yhre
An Absolute Proof of Speed, Stability, and Easy Running of the
RED BIRD BICYCLE.
J. Arnst, on his Bed Bird, won the Warrnambool to Melbourne Road Race, 165 miles, in 7hrs. 43mins.,
riding the one machine throughout without mishap, and beating all World s and Australian Records.
GOOLD BICYCLE CO., LTD., 64 King St., Sydney.
N.S. W. Assembly this session seems only
able to progress a little by voting “ that the hon.
member be no longer heard.” Then there is a
yell of execration about “gagging,” yet the
gagging seems necessary. Without it the business
of N. S. W. would be snowed up under extraneous
matter. Recently, when the House wanted to
get at its own work it was blocked. by John
Haynes, who desired to spend the evening calling
attention to the way the Federal electorates were
parcelled out. The State Legislature has nothing
to do with Federal electorates, yet when it
decided to stop brother Haynes and get at its own
affairs the wails about the “ suppression of free-
dom of debate ” were heartrending.
W. N. Willis, M.L.A., as a land agent
needs no black-tracker to guide him through the
devious paths of the Land Acts. He fights all
his cases, and the harder the task the better he
like it, and wins all the time. 21 Bligh-street.*
The N.S.W. Farmers’ and Settlers’ Con-
ference, which has just finished its sittings at
Narandera, unanimously passed a resolution to
urge Parliament to purchase for the settlers, by a
special appropriation, sufficient wire-netting to
enable them to keep the rabbits off their lands.
The next resolution viewed with alarm the increas-
ing public expenditure, and urged moderation in
all future dealings. The country is full of persons
who “ view with alarm ” the spectacle of Govern-
ment money going to other people, and who want,
themselves, to lean up against the Government
post while the Government shoos away their
rabbits, or digs up their weeds, or does anything
else they are too lazy, ignorant or incompetent to
do.
Patents for Inventions.— Arthur Griffith
and Allen, International Patent Agents and Con-
sulting Engineers, University Chambers, Phillip-
street, Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyright
throughout the world..
At a recent meeting of Sydney City Coun-
cil (alleged to be “reformed”) it was announced
that “it was the duty of aldermen to do their
best to obtain employment for their constituents.”
That is to say, it is their duty to find employ-
ment for the worst class of constituent —the one
who haunts the alderman for jobs. And, as the
natural result, it is the duty of the alderman to be
a mean and corrupt persecutor striving to keep out
of work the better class of men who don’t recog-
nise his greatness as the fount of employment, for
every time he shoves his own constituent into a
job he keeps somebody else out. That is, of
course, leaving out the possibility that he may
only be a thief who finds a sinecure for his con-
stituent, and so robs the municipal funds.
Mr. T. S. SPARKS, Waddill, Mo., Feb. 11,1901, writes :
“ I have the stongest reasons for my belief in Jayne’s
Expectorant. Twenty-five years ago IT CURED ME OF
A COLD ON MY LUNGS, WHEN I SEEMED TO BE
COUGHING MY LIFE AWAY, and I want every sufferer
from like trouble to know about it.”*
In connection with George Reid’s highly
indignant and virtuous throwing-up of his seat in
the House of Reps, over the Barton Government’s
action re the redistribution of seats, Federal
Labor-leader Watson pertinently points out that
the Yes-No person’s sudden assumption of high
moral shock reads rather humorously in the light
of this same person’s action in 1896. Then, as
Premier, he flatly refused to carry out a new dis-
tribution of seats recommended by the Commis-
sioners under the Act—though, under the terms
of the said Act, he was supposed to see them
through in their entirety—and held the elections
under the old order of things, just as Lyne pro-
poses doing. Curious .that the dodge which now
drives a horrified political hypocrite to such
strong moral protest should be exactly his own
dodge of a very few years ago.
CHAMBERLAIN’S COUGH REMEDY
will soothe and heal the irritation of the mucous
membrane lining of your throat that is caused
by continual coughing. It always cures, and
cures quickly. Is. 6d.*
“ Honest Tom ” Playford, who, though he
would not step into the shoes of his former protege
in the Australian Ministry, C. C. Kingston, will
probably succeed Senator O’Connor when the
latter goes to the Federal High Court, has had
pretty constant Ministerial experience during the
last 27 years. The present judge Boucaut, by
many regarded as the strongest Minister S.A.
knew before Kingston, gave the market gardener
his first lift, sending him to the Lands Office ; and
he made such a success of it, that he had the
curious experience of being Lands Minister in
four out of next five successive Governments. If
nothing goes wrong, Barton’s will be the tenth
Ministry Playford has been in.
“Pat, me bhoy, will yez buy me a chape book
at Will Andrade’s New Book Arcade, 508 George-street,
opposyte the Quane’s New Market?” “ Sure, Moike, Oi
will, and—rade it meself 1 ”*
A man who always thinks of the morrow
has too much to think of.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholme developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
The death of that fine old gentleman,
Captain Broomfield, is a further thinning out of
the venerable captains of Balmain (Sydney). In
older days Balmain was full of captains who had
retired and settled down there to enjoy a com-
petence and smell their old friend, the sea, at the
same time. But Australia doesn’t seem to grow
captains now, and the Balmain waters smell
differently now, and in a very few years it will be
possible to throw a brick at any part of Balmain
without hitting any retired master mariner worth
mentioning.
Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Not genuine without the signature.
Be sure you get Martin’s. Sole proprietor, W.
Martin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
England.*
French law is a thrifty animal. It has
found the two Humberts guilty of the biggest
fraud of the age, and has sentenced them to five
years solitary confinement and a fine of £4. Why
the £4 ? On second thoughts, probably it is the
newspaper cable slipping. A French criminal
court generally adds a big fine on to a sentence if
the prisoner can pay. That helps the revenue.
REFORM WITHOUT REVOLUTION.-
The great and particular merit of Hunyadi Janos
is that it relieves without discomfort, in other
words, it effects reform without revolution. This
is because it is the best and safest natural
aperient.*
M
HAND-IN-HAND
forEICHTYYEARS
Williams'
Barbers' Bar*
WILLIAMS' Traveller's Shaving Stick*
You may worry thru a face
scrape on most “Any Old
Soap.” To enjoy the Luxury
of a Perfect Shave you must
use Williams’.
If you doubt it, send a penny
stamp for Williams’ Changing
Face Puzzle. Tells you why.
J. B. WILLIAMS 00., Glas-
tonbury, Conn., U.S.A. Also
232 Clarence Street, Sydney.
yre
SHARPSHOOTINg
y
For Sport and War.
t By W. W. GREENER.
HITS THE MARK I
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, 1/- nett.;
Posted, 1/2.
The best 1/- worth ever Published,
■ Fyou wish to get good work and value
■ you should purchase W.W. GREENER’S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to—
C. W. BUCK LAND,
817 Collins Street, Melbourne,
(Greener’s Representative).
the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
x ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “Ellis’ King Street Coffee Palace,”
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor — GEO. IF. ELLIS.
To
Housewives
Washing
HADE EASIER when your Wringer Rollers are
in good condition- You should note
that we Arc now rc-rubbenn£ Rollers
at the /ollowing Prices.
10 * I 4' ea II • I 4&ea
12 *. 1 3 4"<® 5 / ea To these paces
must be added carnage botK ways -
Or i/ you prefer it we writ forward yam
Rubber tube & instructions for filling
same yourself, without loss of teme
at the above Prices.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co of Aus tfd ra&FTmd'ers \t ffclft
,150 Clarence it Sydney It?Grenfell 5t Mzl&tde 28A<tfrla»dcS
I Brisbane. 154 Barrack. 5t Perth U&LidvfieJd 5f CkcJk M 2
Sydney Depot:
150 Clarence Street*
The Westralian law has decided that there
is nothing in it which forbids an ancient of 65,
who has been in gaol, from marrying a girl of 12£.
Which isn’t saying very much for the law of
Westralia.
“ F.C.’s ” parable :
There was once a Oity where the Bats became so
frequent that the Citizens decided that the Council
should supply Cats, and, as there were hardly enough
Cats to go round, they demanded that each House should
have one Cat. Thereupon the Mayor ordered the Rate
Collector to take a Census of the Houses and the Cats,
but, as many People were a-moving just then, the tally
didn’t turn out quite correct; whereupon the Council
decided to leave things as they were for a time and take
another Census later on. At this a Councillor, who had
great Hopes but small Probabilities of succeeding the
then Mayor, and who was Himself a Brief Rotund Man
with a Glass Eye and a Dog, grew greatly enraged and
demanded that, as One House One Oat was the Law, the
Rate Collector’s scheme should be carried out forthwith.
As the Council declined to do so, the Would-be Mayor—
whose own House was to have two Cats because it con-
tained some extra-large Rats—immediately vacated his
House and dwelt with his Goods and Chattels in the
Gutter. And when he sat there he let off a cracker,
saying it was a deadly bomb, but it was only a Chinese
cracker after all.
The ears and tail of Conroy of the Gap
were elevated for nearly four hours in the House
while that individual brayed forth that all efforts
made by the British Parliament to regulate
wages, fix prices, and prescribe work had failed.
Which was mostly deliberate misrepresentation if
Conroy has been correctly reported. The efforts
referred to were not to fix a minimum wage, but
a maximum wage. And they didn’t fail; they
were dreadfully successful while the laws con-
tinued in force. They failed in the sense that
changed conditions brought about their abroga-
tion. They failed in the same way that the efforts
of the Romans to build a permanent empire
failed. That empire passed, but for nearly two
thousand years the world regarded it as permanent
enough for all practical purposes. The Labor
party of to-day doesn’t want to establish a per-
manent minimum wage which will last till the
continent crumbles into the desolation of waters;
one that will last till it is superseded by some-
thing better will suffice. Nobody is asking for a
permanent minimum wage law any more than for
a permanent Conroy.
During its infamous career the Kyabram
movement in Victoria has kept mostly to the
back lanes and by-streets of Victorian politics,
along with the lost cat and the decayed cabbage.
But the other day Kyabram ventured out in the
open at Melbourne Town Hall, and cut a sorry
spectacle. Of all the leading men of the com-
munity who have attached themselves to this
wonderful movement, the only ones who could be
got to acknowledge it in that public place were
men like back-number J. L. Purves, extra-back-
number David Gaunson who was a Minister for
24 days 22 years ago, nigger-labor preacher Bevan,
and the obscure Maxwell, who isn’t a back-
number—only a proof. The meeting was called
by Kyabram to advocate the repudiation of the
Federal capital site contract, but those present
were ppposed to the sentiments of the speakers,
and made their opposition so obvious that Purves,
Bevan, Gaunson and co. couldn’t make themselves
heard. Then amendments were carried to all the
motions proposed, and the meeting went to pieces,
and John Norton danced like a dervish on the
lacerated tail of Kyabram.
Thebe never was a sillier farce than Reid’s idea
of resigning his seat and having a new election at
East Sydney solely on the question of the Aus-
tralian Government’s action on electoral matters.
The importers and bagmen of East Sydney, whose
interests are all for Freetrade, are supposed to
honestly vote against their own interests, and
honestly cut their own throats, and honestly help
to throw away their own profits, by casting out
Reid, if they think the Federal Government’s
conduct over the new electoral boundaries is a
matter of no importance after all. Most of them
don’t know what the Australian Government has
done or left undone, and don’t care ; and the
supposition that they are going to lay aside all
question of their own interests, and throw out
their commercial friend, and put in their fiscal
enemy, merely in order to state clearly their
opinions on something regarding which most of
them have no opinion, is too humorous for words.
+
The Queensland Parliamentary refresh-
ment room has been threatened for many years,
but it nearly went this time; a heavy cut at the
item on the Estimates was only saved by the
Chairman’s “No.” The voting was 31 on each
side ; and the “ Ayes ” included the Speaker, who
made one of his extremely rare visits to the floor
of the House to make a speech and record a vote.
Ryland, who moved the reduction, figured it out
that every eighteenpenny meal cost 3s. 6d,—the
member paid the eighteen pence; the State the
other 2s. Next time he threatens to move that
every member, on feeling hungry, should be en-
titled to draw on the Treasurer for a “bob,” and
sent out to choose his own hash-shop. Presum-
ably he would have to bring back a voucher; if
the hash-shop didn’t give vouchers, waist measure-
ments might be taken before and after, and the
expenditure checked that way.
Great, but unsuccessful, efforts were made
in the Westralian Assembly to liberalise the
amending Constitution Bill with regard to the
Legislative Council. The alleged Opposition
voted almost solidly with the Government; only
Nanson, its late leader, with Diamond, Oats, and
one or two more, joined the little group of
Laborites, making up less than a dozen against an
immovable two dozen. Seeing that they couldn’t
get anywhere near the abolition of the Unneces-
sary Chamber, the Liberals tried to reduce the
voters’ qualification, hitherto standing at £lOO for
a freeholder and £25 a year for a leaseholder. The
Bill proposes £5O and £l2 ; the latter came down
to £lO, and that was the only change that was
made. Even £5O for a freeholder, though it is the
same as the South “Australian limit, will block
out thousands of well-qualified people on the
outer goldfields, where the dwellings are largely
tin and bag, and surface land values are one penny
per square league.
N.S.W. Liquor Bill, now so swollen by
amendments and suggested amendments that it
will take a dray to carry it to the printer, exem-
plifies what a risk the Minister who consults every-
body runs of doing nothing. A Minister should
have and hold the essential principles of a Bill in
his own head, and should fight for those principles
or drop the Bill. Lyne, when Premier, killed a
fairly sensible Sunday-Closing Bill by handing a
draft of his measure to one after another conven-
ticle ranter and inviting suggestions ; and out of
the same weak desire to please everybody many
other things go to wreck.


A*. A; ■*
•i- •''"I! ■'•m «t/ iui‘ mini
? >//.
mu. i'i'iMii(ilili',"i'i'in unitimm'uuu iu(MfllUuuutii/iudlii^/ji^ui• "•"" iinPnmiiilifu
y ' >-,\V
xwwxmwwwwwv
<t=?
'CjC
c Jen.
I
A\a
c
GARETTES
\W
<r
Beware
Imitations
of
>
o
&
era
f.
Mi **» •li-'vlU
fac/iaMna ffTO^n(((/ii(in((i
trrUHtffim
UCU
un
cult
r^y
A Straight Statement,
GUINEA GOLD CIGARETTES smoke cool and sweet to the very end. That’s the statement —it’s a fact, and anybody can prove it by smoking one.
In doing so it will also be found that they also possess another virtue—and that is “ delightful fragrance.”
BRITISH-AMERICAN TOBACCO CO., LTD, (OGDEN BRANCH), 45 York Street, Sydney.
“Spring” : When I was a boy a hard-
faced youth met me, in Hyde Park, early one morn-
ing, and sold me an 18-carat gold ring for 5s., as
he had to go to a good job somewhere. I always
remembered that black-hearted scoundrel, and,
the other morning, I saw him strolling in front of
a burly coal-lumper. Suddenly he stooped and
picked up a ring, and casually remarked on his
luck to the man of coal. They both thought it
valuable, and were about to strike a bargain when
I interviewed the coaly one. As the Law wasn’t
near to ask tiresome questions, something just and
sudden happened to the cheat, and coaly and I
had a drink together.
“Tartan”: While Captain Hixson was
O.C., local naval forces, I was for some time
a handy man in the force. On the occasion of an
annual inspection by that ancient mariner, I had
given my scabbard a coat of Brunswick black. It
wasn’t dry when I left home for the parade
ground, but hoping for the best I went. Passing
down the rank the ancient was attracted by its
superior shine. After congratulating me on its
“ get up ” he grasped it in his white-gloved hand
for a closer view. Then he swore some; it was
wet, and stuck.
NERVOUSNESS.
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS of SELF
CURB, will forward the same, free of
charge, to anyone interested.
Address! A. MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
»- .r
' - -0; ♦
J'
HERR RASSMUSSEN
will guarantee to cure Nervous Weak-
ness, Blood Diseases, Piles, Rheuma-
tism, Corpulency, Liver and Kidney
Troubles. He will send his Book Free.
All correspondence will be held
' confidential.
BRISBANE: 309 Queen St.
MELBOURNE: 150 Bourke St.
the best natural
Aperient water.
JOSEF
RflflZ
natural
best
the
ter
Aperi
wa
s
RfllHZ JOSEF
c
the best natural
Aperient water.
RfINZ JOSEF
the best natural
Aperient watei
FREE TRIAL FOR 50 DAYS
reyh
Not a penny down. Simply drop us a post-card with your
name, and we will forward you at once one of our latest Im-
proved High Grade Electric Belts free. You can use it three
months then pay us if cured, and the price will be only half
what others ask for their inferior belts. If not cured, you re-
turn the belt to us at our expense and your word will decide.
We are whiling to trust you entirely, knowing that we have the
best and most perfect belt ever invented, and nine men in ten
always pay when cured.
WE WILL TRUST YOU.
This modern Belt is the most perfect and complete ever
invented. It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varicocele,
Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back, Kidney, Liver and
Stomach complaints, Nervousness, and all weaknesses of
men and women.
WE WILL GIVE FREE
to each person writing us one copy of our beautifully illustrated Medical Book which
should be read by all men and women. Drop us a post-card and we will send it to you
Free in plain wrapper. If you are weak in any way delay no longer, but write to-day for
our splendid Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr. J. H. Austin Electric Co. ( De P t.M.)
49 ELIZABETH STREET, fIELBOURNE, VIC.
WEAK, NERVOUS MEN, WHY SUFFER
WHEN you can be quickly and permanently cured bv taking Herr Ttassmnssen's ALPALINE Vitality Pills which have cured so many
thousand sufferers from DEBILITY, POOR MEMORY, WEAK SPINE, DESPONDENCY, and all which robs Manhood of that which
is dearest to it—Vital Strength. Herr Rassmussen will guarantee this remedy to cure every case, no matter of how long standing, and he will
give his skilled advice personally to all patrons of his remedies FREE OF CHARGE, either in his offices or by post. So don t despair, but
communicate with him without delay, no matter where you live. Treatment by Post a Speciality. Pamphlet sent Pree.
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS. Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d., posted.
Blood and Skin Diseases
Blood Disorders, Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, Stone in the Bladder, and Blood
Impurities guaranteed to be removed and permanently cured by
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS- Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d. posted.
Anaemic Women
suffering from Wasting Diseases, Pale, Lifeless, and otherwise affected, should at once communicate with HERR
R ASSMUSSEN." His lifelong experience is at their service, and his
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS will cure them. Boxes, 6s; Courses, 235. 6d.
LIVER and KIDNEY TROUBLES cured at once by the ALFALINE LIVER and KIDNEY PILLS, Boxes Is.
His RHEUMATIC PILLS are World-famed, and his PILE POWDERS never fail ; 6s. per box each.
The ALFALINE REMEDIES can only beobtained from . .
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office
547 George St., Sydney,
AND HIS BRANCHES AS FOLLOW-
ADELAIDE: 15 Pulteney St.
N Z. = 91 Lambton Quay, Wellington.
W.A., PERTH: 481 Hay St.
KALGOORIJE: 111 Hannan St.
FREMANTLE: 117 High St-
BOULDER CITY: Resse St.


A “ ship on fire ” is a fearful thing,
All helpless on the deep,
No vessel near her help to bring,
Whilst flames about her leap.
A cough or cold is bad enough,
Though we can help procure,
And never fail to drive them off
With Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
Is not Northcote, the new Governor-
General, as a person arriving under contract, an
undesirable immigrant, unless it can be proved
that there is no one in Australia qualified for his
job ? The Customs should hold Northcote till the
point is settled.
MOTHERS OF CHILDREN
affected with croup, or a severe cold need not
hesitate to administer Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy. It contain’s no opiate or narcotic in
any form and may be given to a baby with as
much confidence as to an adult.
James Martin & Go.
161 CLARENCE ST,
Near King St
SYDNEY
fd
WE ARE PREPARED TO
ILLUMINATE ANY PLACE
ANY TIME, ANYWHERE, with
ACETYLENE GAS.
Martin’s Reliable Automatic
Acetylene Gas Generator.
ALL SIZES, from S to 1000 LIGHTS.
OVER 500 IN DAILY USE. Send for our “ No. 66
Acetylene Gas Catalogue.”
CARBIDE OF CALCIUH at the BEST PRICES.
h
When you want MOTIVE POWER it will
pay you to investigate the merits of
MARXIKT 'S
Nonpareil Oil Engine
BURNS ORDINARY KEROSENE.
FULL SPEED AT A MOMENTS NOTICE.
Strong - , Safe, Cheap, Economical.
ALL SIZES, both HORIZONTAL and PORTABLE.
&3T Send for Illustrated Descriptive Circular.
I*
'
n
74 GANZ
ELECTRIC
MOTORS
with a total capacity of
100 Horse-Power, will
operate the Government
Printing Office of Victor®.
Qanz Induotlon Motor. SOLE AGENTB:
The Austral Qtis Engineering £•., [td., South [|)elb.
ALL WHO DESIRE- TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
CAN OBTAIN
BY USING
m
&
v
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED'
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d., 1/- 4. 2/6.
Sole Makers—W. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND.
Felton, Grimwade & Co
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
i
PODR MAN’S
FRIEND .
HAS STOOD THE TEST OF TIME.
In over 100 years’ world-wide use it has proved itself the best Heal-
ing Ointment extant. It is particularly recommended for the cure of
Ulcerated Legs, Piles, and all long standing and painful
wounds; also for Blotches on the Skin, Pimples Eczema, Cuts,
Burns, Bruises, and all Skin Affections. Prices (in England) 1)1 V,.
2/9. 11/-, and 22/- pots.
Dr.ROBERTS'ALTERATIVE PILLS
Purify the Blood. Cure Skin Disease.
A Gentle Aperient and Perfect Liver Pill.
40 in a box, 1/I ; 3 quantities, 2/9.
0/ all Drug Stores and Patent Medicine Vendors, and made only by —
BEACH & BARNICOTT, Ltd., BRIDPORT, ENGLAND.
G. L. ROBERTS, K.n.
Bora 1766. Died 1234.
A WORD IN SEASON.
This is the time when Coughs and Colds are abundant and PNEUMONIA and
PLEURISY are about. If you have a dry, hacking cough, which if neglected
may be the Herald of Consumption, send at once for that great cure,
Fincham’s Pectoral “ Cough I Cure ” Syrup
a few doses of which will relieve the worst Cough or Cold afflicting man. In bottles,
sent free from breakage to any address in Australia. Prices on Application.
Dr. Steel’s Celebrated Indigestion
Cure. —The enemy of Indigestion & Dyspepsia.
Dr. Hughes’ “Fits Epilep.”— A certain
remedy for Epilepsy and Fits in all forms.
Wonderful cures are registered from its use.
Dr. Steel’s Influenza Cure.— Sure relief
is given in a few hours in severe and serious cases
of Influenza, &c. A few spoonfuls is sufficient.
Price 2s. and 2s. 6d.
Fincham’s “Pearline” Face Bleach.—
For beautifying the Skin and Complexion.
Makes the face, neck and hands as white as a
lily. Sure Cure for Blackheads, Pimples, and
Sallow Skin, &c.
Pyramid Pile Cure.— A certain remedy.
Fincliam’s “ Gout and Rheumatic
Cure.” —Takes certain effect in cases of Acute
Lumbago, Sciatica, Lame Back, Headache,
Shoulder and Muscular Pains.
Fincliam's May Blossom Herbal Liver
Tonic.— Made from original recipe of the late
Dr. Fortesque. Corrects all derangements of
the Liver, Bilious Headaches, Sourness of the
Stomach, Bad Breath, Lassitude, Despondency.
Fincham’s Capaline.— A Nursery Hair-
Wash invaluable for Children’s Use. Destroys
Y ermin speedily. No mother should be without
a bottle.
All these Invaluable Remedies will be mailed free on application to
C. P. FIIMCHAM, M.P.S.,
227 Elizabeth Street,
Hyde Park, SYDNEY-
Pg JN @™£ <§tore,
F YOU WANT FT
GET IT WITH A
I3KODAK
I u
SEND FOR
CATALOGUE
OFALL DEALERS OR
HAKT O2B * COLONS ST
1/AIVL., MELBOURNE
JM E NT lON THIS PAPER
VERTEX CELLULAR UNDERWEAR
VOU need to take particular care at this time of year
x against colds and chills, more especially when throw-
ing off Winter Underclothing for lighter Summer Wear,
and the only material which may be relied upon as an
absolute safeguard from the effects of sudden climatic
changes is /ERTEX CELLULAR.
When one wears underclothing of this fabric, he or she
is safe from “ taking a chill” as, owing to its peculiar
structure, it operates to retard a too rapid evaporation
of the body’s natural heat in its insensible vapour —the
cause of the “ chill ” —allowing simply ahy excess of over-
heated vapour to disperse gradually and imperceptibly.
In its functions it resembles in this respect the true
epidermis and acts, in fact, as a supplementary skin, and
for this reason so many medical men order it for invalids
and delicate children, and recommend it to all their
patients for general wear all the year round.
In addition to men’s singlets, pants and drawers, we
stock linen-fitted Dress and Day Shirts. Soft-fronted
Shirts of every description. Pyjamas, Hosiery and
Sundries.
For ladies—undergarments of every kind, Corsets,
Hosiery, etc. Children’s garments and Special orders
made to instructions.
Garments stocked in Cotton, Lisle, Wool, Merino, Silk,
etc., in white, self colors, and patterns, and in various
weights of fabric. Any fabric by the yard.
Call or send for full illustrated price lists—post free.
DAVID BRAHAM & CO.,
73 & 75 King: St., Sydney (3 doors from Geo. St.)
Sole Agents for .Ertex Cellular in N.S.W.
You will never regret buying a ‘SWAN.’
Z MILES
TO THE
INKWELL.
Foufttaia Pen
MABIE, TODD & BARB, Manchester. Ene.
How far I r
does y our hand travel
In a day when using
the old style pen ?
Save time and temper by using
Figure
it
out!
Sold by Stationers, Jewellers, and Importer t.
■MORRIS'S 1
IMPERIAL
.EYE
ointment
Mm amis pi
fdh
ft
Wll/IB
#'
fd
ghf
“Don’t shout"
%
I hear you. t can hear now
as well as anybody.
dgh
•”How?‘ Oh. some-
thing new— The Wilson.
Common-sense Ear—.
Drum. I've a pair in mr
ears now. you can’t see them ,
-they’re invisible. I wouldn't
know I had them in myscifc,
only that I hear all right."’
The Wilson Ear-Drum ts
really a substitute for tbae
..working parts of the
natural ear. Has no
wire. Invisible, easy to ad
just, comfortable * Totally
different from any other de~
vice Descriptive pamphlet sent upon request I
'■>. CH At HCPS. 229-231 Collins fti.,
ASTHMA'
Ktftrtnees' throughout Great Britain and COlonitt.
L taken from the System.
Nothing remains which can
I produce an attack. You can
eat, sleep and stand exposure without slightest return of
symptoms. Cured to stay cured, by elimination and re-
construction. Appetite improved; blood enriched; nerves
strengthened; w r hole system built up; life made enjoyable.
Reliefs, or change of climate no longer needed. We have
treated over 52,000 Asthma and Hay Fever patients. Es-
tablished 1883. Explanatory BOOK 32c post FREE.
Address; Dr. P. HAROLD HAYES’ASTHMATIC INSTITUTE,
Buffalo, N. Y., U, 8, A,
What enfranchised woman has to realise
is that there is very little difference between
choosing a politician and a cook. One is
employed to cook and the other to legislate, and
why should the woman who never troubles about
inquiring as to the private morals of her cook
worry about those of her legislator ?
Already the Westralian Government,
which is being plagued by every cadging society
in the State for the free grant of a site for a hall,
has to pay dearly for rented office-accommoda-
tion. It threw away its city land so gaily in
earlier days that the Savings Bank, the Board of
Health, the Agricultural Department, the detec-
tives, the Public Service Commission, the Rail-
way Commissioner, and half-a-dozen others are
all more or less in rented quarters.
Spence, M.H.R., on the tricky ways of the
Pastoralists’ Union:
He had seen a confidential circular sent by the
Pastoralists’ Union to ail of its members, and replies were
supplied by squatters giving details of the fitness of all
the men employed in the various sheds, with a particular
reference as to whether they were active unionists.
General reports were then drafted and circulated, with
the result that many of the best men were boycotted.
Federal Arbitration will, it is hoped, make such
tricks offences at law. They are a mixture of con-
spiracy, boycott and lockout, and wholly objection-
able all round. ' ,
Echuca (Vic.) Shire Council, which haa
tried to run its finances on a sixpenny rate,
is landing in Queer-street. After general
expenses are paid, little remains to repair the
main arteries of the Shire, which are in a
disgraceful state after the recent rains, and there
are nine months of the financial year to run, and
a heavy wheat-carting traffic in view. Where
£lOOO will be required to put the “formed”
roads in ordinary repair, less than £lOO is avail-
able. From sheer refusal to pay taxes the Echuca
farmer stands a fair chance of nof* getting his crop
to market at all.
A few remarks by “ H.S.” :
Thus Seddon, in B. 6/8/’O3 : “ If this sort of thing had
been foreseen, no contingents would have gone from hero
to S’Africa.” There is no excuse for ignorance on the
subject, Richard I Even W. T. Stead, whom you affected
to despise, knew better. This is his answer to a question
on the subject in ’99 : “ You imagine this war is English
against Dutch. It is nothing of the sort. It is the
attempt of the international syndicate of a great financial
trust to throttle the little republics in order to make the
Transvaal a great Kimberley compound, where blacks and
coolies will earn huge dividends for the Jews. There
will be no room for white men in the Transvaal if they
succeed .” And does any sane person believe Seddon
didn’t know this even better than Stead ? Many a man
who earned his £1 per day under Kruger now thinks him-
self lucky to have that much to his credit at the end of a
month.
The decision of Vic. Premier Iceberg not
on any account to “fiddle with State socialism”
seems likely, after all, to settle disquietingly near
the doorstep of the Victorian farmer. That
person has been loudly clamoring for the State to
get him more cold storage accommodation in
Melbourne, so that he may hold his produce ready
to put it on the English market at a favorable
juncture. And Irvine would, no doubt, have
done it, but just here blessed Private Enterprise
stepped in with several proposals to build cold
stores of its own, portions of which it was willing
to let Irvine have at a high price. Then the Ice
berg Premier apprehended dreadful possibilities
of State socialism, and announced his intention to
scrupulously refrain from any competition with
Private Enterprise. Therefore, the farmer will
have to put up with the kind of prices that will be
imposed by the only company which has any cold
storage immediately available, and the advantages
of Private Enterprise will be patent to him at a
glance
There is nothing new under the sun.
Even the ‘ ‘ socialistic legislation ” of the Victorian
Wages Boards is 100 years old. The first Aus-
tralian Wages Board was appointed by Tasmania’s
first Lieut.-Governor, Collins, and consisted of
the civil and military officers and three settlers.
It fixed what it called a fair wage, though, as the
employees to whom it applied had no hand in
making it, they doubtless considered it a “gross
interference with the liberty of the subject.”
A nyhow, it reckoned wages were too high, and
lowered them vigorously : Mechanics were to be
paid 3s. 6d. per day of ten hours; laborers, 2s. 6d.;
breaking new ground, £2 an acre ; reaping wheat,
10s. an acre, etc. The General Order appointing
this board was dated Ist June, 1804, and as beef
then fetched 9d. a lb., salt pork Is. a lb., and flour
Is. alb., the blessed board evidently intended to
get its labor cheap. This “ labor ” was, of course,
free, not convict, and as its sum total comprised
13 men and 7 women, it had evidently taken ad-
vantage of its scarcity to put up its price. Any-
how, it will please the Victorian House of 48
Rich Landlords to learn that as long ago as 1804
the Tasmanian Tories had legislated to suppress
the blessed law of supply and demand.
Dr. Lang, writing in 1&34 on Government
extravagance, hit the nail of to-day fairly on the
head. “ The demoralising influence indirectly
resulting from the gratification of Governor
Macquarie’s taste for public buildings cannot be
more completely illustrated than in the plan he
pursued in the erection of a general hospital in
Sydney. An hospital of small dimensions would
have been sufficient at headquarters ; at all
events, a plain, substantial edifice was all that
was wanted for the purpose till the expense of
erecting ornamental buildings can be borne by
the revenue of the colony. ” The words fit most
of the Public Works projects of the present.
Commissioner Bigge reported on Macquarie’s
extravagance, and the British Government,
which then audited N.S.W. accounts, sent out a
rebuke, with directions that ordinary revenue was
to be taken as the means for providing public
buildings. Pity that rebuke has been mislaid.


HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE,
Under the Direction of Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING, First Time in Melbourne,
Mr. CUYLER HASTINGS and THE SHERLOCK
HOLMES DRAMATIC 00. in
IF I WERE KING,
By Mr. J. H. M'Carthy,
OUYLER HABTINQI. ......a*....-. ~ FRAHOOIB VILLON.
Amusements.
T OWN hall, sydnly.
Mr. EDWARD BRANSCOMBE’S
WESTMINSTER ABBEY
GLEE AND CONCERT PARTY
(from London)
in a Unique Programme of the National Music of England
Scotland, Ireland and Wales, comprising *
GLEES, MADRIGALS, CATCHES & BALLADS.
FIRST CONCERT, MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 7
SECOND CONCERT, THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 10.
THIRD CONCERT, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11
FOURTH CONCERT, SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 12.
Matinee, Saturday Afternoon.
Entire Change of Programme Nightly.
POPULAR PRICES I-3 s., ls. Plan at Paling’s.
T H t E , NEW HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Sole Lessee & Manager, Mr. J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
Mr. J. 0. WILLIAMSON’S Famous and Ever Welcome
ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY,
in the New English Comedy Opera, entitled,
my lady molly.
Box Plan at Paling’s. m- PRICES AS USUAL.
QRITERION THEATRE, 8Y D N EY.
Under the Direction of Mr. CHARLES HOLLOWAY.
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY) TO-NIGHT
and Every Evening until Further Notice,
THE PRICE OF SIN,
Written by W. Hill-Mitchelson, Esq.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Paling’s.
■|" HEA T R E ROYAL, 8Y D NEV,
Under the Sole Direction of MR. CEORCE MUSCROVF.
EVERY EVENING, EVERY EVENING,
Mr. GEORGE MUSGROVE’S
Shakespearian. Company
in Shakespeare’s Delightful Comedy,
A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM.
Prices as Usual. Plan Nicholson’s.
DA LACE THEATRE, SYDNEY. '
■ Lessee and Director .. Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Evenings, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
LAST NIGHTS of
MR. DANIEL FRAWLEY
and his Company of American Players in the Famous
Indian Frontier Drama,
THE GIRL I LEFT BEHIND MF.
SATURDAY NEXT, AUGUST 29, SECRET SERVICE.
Box Plan at Paling’s.
YC E U IWI THEATRE, S YD NEV.
Lessee Mr. George Musgrove.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
BRILLIANT SUCCESS.
TO-NIGHT, and EVERY EVENING,
THE WORST WOMAN IN LONDON.
Interpreted by WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS
DRAMATIC ORGANISATION.
Prices—3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Box Plan open at Elvy’s Music
Warehouse, George Street.
pb; illip park,
EVERY NIGHT at 8.
GREATEST AMUSEMENT INSTITUTION IN
THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE,
WIRTHS’ HUGE SHOWS.
Vast Tents Crowded Nightly by Enthusiastic and
Delighted Audiences.
A few of our World-Famous Performers—
Mysterious BROS. HOWARD.
PAGEL, the German Hercules.
RAGOUL, King of Tiger Educators.
PONSOLLE, Unique Lion Trainer.
FLYING EUGENES.
MASINGA, Marvellous Contortionist.
Mr. P. WIRTH, King of Horse Trainers.
Miss MARIZLES, Graceful Horseback Juggler.
GEORGE YORKS, Continental Clown.
CANTONS, Chinese Comedians.
PEDROS, Agile Acrobats.
WEST and CARL, Champion Riders.
PRICES—3s., 25., Is. ; Boxes, £l. Plan at Paling’s.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
THE MUTOSCOPE.
WONDERFUL LIVING PICTURES.
ONG STREET ARCADE
»d 400 GEORGE STREET.
ways on View.
|3r~ Admission FREE.
■| VO LI THEATRE, 3YDN3Y
Sole Proprietor and Manager— Mr. llaurt ltrc •
lphaticSuccessof ADDIE FREDERICKS, HENRY DAVIS.
Splendid Success of THE DE WY.4NE BROS,
Great Enthusiasm aroused r»y
w. C. PIBT- H> s,
America’s Eccentric Juggler.
Miss MAUD PERM AN, THE TWO COLLIER 1,
ss CONNIE HAMILTON, Miss MAGGIE FRABk
. HUGH HUXHAM, Mr. H. lf
M WILSON, Mr. GEO. SCOTT, Mr. GEO. WAUJW,
Mr. HENRY DAVIS, and all our Great Co.
>PE R A HOUSE, MELBOURNE
’ Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. H. Rickards.
A Furore Created Nightly by
MADAME MARZELLA,
Queen of the Feathered World.
FREDERICK \ and f MOM/f
ALLEN ) a \
DAN CRAWLEY, London’s ,n nN
LL WHITBURN, RUBY CRAWFORD, hU-C.
mOP, CLARENCE SISTERS, KR NEST ,
AUD FANING, LES WARTON, ARTHUR KLLL__
iRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee .. Mr. George Musgmv
arewell to Melbourne of MISS NELUE STEWARY
NIGHT, THURSDAY, AUGUST 27, TOjKtRKt
RIDAY, AUGUST 28, A COUNTRY MOU&
CURDAY NEXT, AUGUST 29, Mr. J. O. WUlia® 900 '
English Comedy Co. in
are you a mason?
JAL PRICES. Box Plan
HEATRE ROYAL. MELBOURNE.
Lessee .. .. .. Mr. Bland Holt
Business Manager .. ’
LAST NIGHTS, LAST NIGHTS of
nd Holt’s Famous Dramatic Company in the -
tional, Domestic & Equestrian Melodrama,
GOING THE PACE.
By Arthur Shirley and Ben Landeek,
>«• —So. 2a 6d, 2s, la Cd and la. Bo*
Mount Boppy gold mine, near Cobar (N.S.W.),
maintains an average yield of about 2100 oz. gold per
month. There is certain to be a marked increase in the
immediate future, when the mill power is added to.
Private reports indicate a continuance of splendid
developments in the deeper ground, one level, it is
said, showing over 60 feet in width of ounce stone.
00. has paid in divs. this year 3s. 3d. per share on
111,000 shares. Scrip is now worth £3—an advance of
nearly 100 per cent, on the quotation at the beginning
of the year.
* • • •
Cobar Gold Mines (the old Fort Bourke), which
for a time was running a heel-to-heel race with Mount
Boppy, may still be in the running, but a new policy of
secrecy has been inaugurated. To all outward appear-
ance the mine is in full work ; the belching volumes
issuing from the smoke stacks are still discernible from
the train half-an-hour before its arrival at Cobar. It is
rumored that a careful survey of the mine workings
shows that there is only sufficient ore available to keep
the 100-stamp mill at work for two years—that is, ore
amenable to amalgamation and cyanide treatment.
After that it will become a copper-gold mine—a smelting
proposition of immense possibilities. Hundreds of thou-
sands of tons of 6 to 7 dwt. rock have been crushed, and
no dividend has been declared. Perhaps the directors
are pursuing the wise policy of reserving profits to make
provision for the extensive concentrating and smelting
plant which will be required in the near future ; they
will require all the profits which they are likely to make
from the stamp-mill.
• • • •
There is much speculation in mining circles as
to the position of the Great Oobar (N.S.W.) deal. Many
people in ignorance of the exact conditions assume that
the £4 div. paid by the Great Oobar Co. indicates that
the sale to an English syndicate has been completed.
Nothing of the sort; it only signifies that the tribute
syndicate has bought the mine. The prospective English
purchasers have to part with £1,000,000 odd by the end
of this month to acquire the allied properties. Mr.
Joseph, who has been in Sydney for over a year past en-
gineering the scheme on behalf of the London option
syndicate, left for the Great Smoke a few days since. His
sudden disappearance is construed both ways ; by some
it is assumed to signify that the deal is off and by others
that it is practically consummated. This writer will give
odds that the latter is the correct view and that the
astute Joseph is determined to be on hand on syndicate
settling day. The £2,000,000 flotation ought to represent
a profit to the option syndicate of at least £600,000. It
may elect to take the greater part of this in shares, but
on Mr. Kendall’s estimate of profits—£4so,ooo a year-
scrip for £500,000 ought to be worth more than that
in cash. Several Sydneyites, now in London, are share-
holders in the syndicate.
• * • •
Lloyd copper shares had a drop of 2s. between
June 11 and July 9, the date of the last quotation to hand.
Since the beginning of the year they have fallen from
13s. 9d. to 10s. This decline is quite incomprehensible ;
certainly it is not reconcilable with production results
and reports as to the appearance of the mine Shipments
of copper in June were 186 tons, and in July 189 tons.
On this output there ought to be a profit of not less than
£2500 per month ; the late Lewis Lloyd would have netted
over £4OOO out of it. It may seem strange, but neverthe-
less it is true, that Mr. Lloyd was grievously disappointed
at the sale of the mine ; it gave him a shock from which
he never recovered. He had pocketed so many forfeited
deposits that he never supposed that the last negotiations
would get beyond that stage. When he named £lOO,OOO
as his price it was more in joke than in earnest; had he
any thought that business was seriouslv intended he
would have asked considerably more. Writer well re-
members how he scoffed at cable messages intimating
that the deal would be completed. He was doubtful until
the Bank of Australasia advised him that there was
£lOO,OOO to his credit. From that moment he was an
altered man ; he had lost the faithful friend of 20 years,
and was left to an aimless life, which soon came to an
end. He was buoyed up at times by the notion that he
would regain possession of the property, and certainly
there were occasions when it seemed not unlikely that
his cherished wish would be realised.
• * * *
White Feather Main Reef, Kanowna (W.A.),
which has been looking dicky, has had a slice of luck.
At 1800 ft. south of the main workings at No. 2 level the reef
has been located assaying 25dwt. for a width of 4ft. This
part of the property has been practically neglected. Co.
has in all four 12-acre leases, having 60 chains on the
reef, and the main shaft and equipment are on the
northern blocks. For a long time past shares have been
quoted at the rubbish price of 7s. to Bs., although co. has
paid divs. pretty regularly. Of course, insiders had
little confidence in the mine, as the bottom levels have
not been looking too well, but this new development
may alter the
Associated, Kalgoorlie (W.A.), is developing
so well that it has been practically decided to add another
10 Krupp mills, in addition to a 20-head mill, to treat the
low-grade ore now dumped. This ore runs about 7dwt.
per ton, and, it is estimated, would pay well by battery
treatment. Shares have had some very wild fluctuations
of late, according as the bulls or bears temporarily
became top-dog, and should prove good buying whenever
markets generally become normal. Nothing has been
heard of the Oroya-Brown Hill chute, but it is possible
that Mr. E. Lidgey, who is now exploring the Hampton
Plains with his patent electric ore-finder, will take a
hand shortly in tracking the elusive lode to its lair.
• • • •
Cosmopolitan’s div. of 2s. a share, payable on
25th instant, brings up the August Westralian total, so
far declared, to £225,860 against £20,248 only, for August,
1902. This very marked advance looks like being main-
tained to the end of year.
» * * •
Hannan’s Star, Kalgoorlie (W.A.), has again
joined the producers after an interval of 18 months,
during which the mill was hired to Oroya-Brown Hill and
Brown Hill Extended. During a six weeks’ run the mill
treated 2861 tons for 25100 z., which, both as to quantity
and average, is a vast improvement on previous efforts.
This co. is estimated to have 18 months’ ore in sight, of
15dwt. average, but the lodes are so uncertain that
prospects are not particularly good. It has now been
proved that the drill put down some four years ago, and
which was said to have cut very good ore, was deflected,
hence the subsequent failure to locate either the borehole
or the lode. A fresh effort is to be made to locate the
missing lode. At the recent annual meeting of the co. a
suggestion was made to amalgamate with the adjoining
G.B. Main Beef and Chaffers. Such a co., if formed, will
probably fall into the control of Bewick, Moreingand Co.,
who now handle the Main Beef.
* * * *
G.B. Main Reef (W. A.) is doing a lot of pros-
pecting in the deeper levels, but with little real success.
The lode going south appears to lose its gold contents and
its strength, and it is hard work for the mine to maintain
its output. In fact, it is said that the bulk of the gold
conies from the re-treatment of the tailings of the rich
ore put through some years ago, and from which a
confiding public used to be told not less than 95 per cent.,
or thereabouts, of the gold was being extracted.
* * * *
Golden Horseshoe, Kalgoorlie (W.A.), has been
rather under a cloud since it was confidently asserted
that the rich No. 4 lode had made back into the Great
Boulder Prop, at 1000 ft. Immediately the rumor got
about, manager Sutherland went to work with the drill
to refute or verify it. He now states that the bore has
located the lode at a vertical depth of 1263 ft., 475 ft. from
the boundary. The lode is solid quartz, 10ft. wide, but
averages only Bdwt. per ton where intersected, though
portions of the core assay as high as 34dwt. The bore
was put down 630 ft. from the north boundary, and, as
the lode slews eastwards going south, the Great Boulder
may have it in its southern extremity.
* * * *
Great Boulder Prop. (W.A.) continues to open
up in a highly satisfactory manner at all levels. The
main shaft is being sunk to 1800 ft., and will be pushed
ahead. The next level will be at 1750 ft. ; intervals of
150 ft. will be left in future, as in the Perseverance. This
will expedite matters considerably. The drill has already
proved the lode to be strong and rich at this level, so
prospects are rosy. The drill from the 1300 ft. level of
Edwards’shaft passed through ore at 1282 ft., fully sft.
wide and worth 62dwt., while a second lode was met at
1300 ft., worth 18dwt., for a width of 10-Jft. The lodes are
only 50ft. and 35ft. from the Horseshoe boundary. During
Hamilton’s absence in Europe George Boberts, of the
Associated Northern, will look after both mines. Possibly
Hamilton may not return, in which case Roberts will bo
his successor.
• • » •
Golden Link’s Eclipse, Kalgoorlie (W.A.), is
showing a marked improvement, and the yield is rising.
For some time after the mill started the average was
12dwt., but, during July, it was 17'44dwt. —19190 z. from
2180 tons. As the cyanide plant is being extended to
treat the whole, instead of barely half of the tailings and
slimes, the returns should show further increase. As the
ore is very cheaply mined, and the mill is treating 8'73
tons per stamp daily, the costs are low, and the profit
must be quite£sooo, possibly nearer £6OOO, for the month.
The ore is all coming from above the 100 ft. level, and, if
it goes down of the same width and value, the Eclipse
will rank as one of the best.
* * * *
Cumberland, Norseman (W.A.), after years of
waiting, interspersed with calls, looks as if it would
shortly give patient holders a run for their money.
Recently the co. bought for a song the Mt. Benson pro-
perty, together with a mill, rock drills, cyanide plant,
&c. These are now being transferred to the Cumberland,
and, when erected, the co. may' not only come perman-
ently on the producing list, but on the div.-paying list as
well. _ At long intervals co. has had small crushings,
but, like most Adelaide-bossed shows, has been so badly
handled, that it has been long regarded as a wild cat.
The co. is in 80,000 shares, of which 60,000 have a liability
of sd. per share ; and, including the Mt. Benson leases,
which still have possibilities, it owns 110 acres in all. The
area is of small account unless it contains a gold mine,
but apparently Cumberland has the making of one if
properly handled.
* * * *
Queen Cross Reef (Charters Towers) pays 2s.
for August (£20,000), and will then still have over £25,000
in hand. It looks as though the mine is good for 2s.
monthly till the end of the year.
• • * •
Jubilee, Scarsdale (Vic.), report for past half-
year fully justifies statements made by The Bulletin
as to sound systems of working adopted. These
systems may well be cited as models for other
Vic. cos. to copy. The secret lies in keeping
development well ahead of productive work. Thus,
although the lode is almost intact at the 10th level, and
there are years of work in sight, a start has already been
made to deepen the shaft 150 feet. Manager reports that
No. 10 level is the best yet opened up in the mine. Dur-
ing the half-year co. crushed 15,865 tons for 70470 z, value
£28,482, out of which £lO,BOO were paid in dividends.
Jubilee, at present quotation, looks like a safe invest-
ment.
• • • •
The petty wrangles and jealousies between the
Long Tunnel and Extended cos., Walhalla (Vic.), still
continue, and the infection seems to have spread to the
rival managers, who cannot agree as to an easily demon-
strable fact—the width of the lode in the 22nd level of the
Extended. There are no other two mines in Australia,
amalgamation of which is so justifiable on every practical
THE TWO SIZES IN VOTES.
MRS. METROP: “ His compliments, indeed, ! He can keep 'em; an’ I'm going to have that
silver snuff-box back!” MRS. BACKLOCK : “Lor’ !—just lovely.”
and financial consideration which can be suggested. It
is a wilfully wicked waste of money for two extensive
plants and' two sets of workings to be continued, but
apparently a new generation of shareholders will have to
come into existence before the combination will be
effected.
* » * •
Tasmania, Beaconsfield —the only gold mine of
any note in the little island —had not as prosperous a
term as usual last half-year. Returns totalled 75360 z.
from 13,026 tons, or lldwt. per ton, which shows a great
falling off. Costs amounted to £llBs. per ton. To date
co. has won 570,8430 z. from 497,850 tons and paid £772,071
in divs. Property is now nnder offer to the usual English
syndicate.
Victorian mining statistics for 1902 tell the tale
of a glory that is fast fading. The total gold production
was valued at £3,062,028, and divs. paid amounted to
£472,135, or less than 15J per cent, of the product;
Bendigo, with the lowest average yield per ton, is
credited with nearly half the divs. Calls paid are not
mentioned, but they must have run close to the divs., so
that the profit on capital must have been very small.
Viewed in this light, the figures are anything
but cheering; they supply an unmistakable answer
to the army of correspondents who occasionally
inundate the Melbourne papers with letters asking
why mining is becoming so unpopular with in-
vestors. Still there is a brighter side to the picture.
Assuming that divs. and calls were equal, there would be
the solid fact that labor in one form and another had
£3,000,000 to represent the div. on its capital. Victoria
to date has produced £263,551,229 worth of gold.
* * * *
Maoriland’s successful dredge, the Hartley and
Riley, has just put up a record with a win of 5580 z. for a
week. The co.’s total is 22,0000 z. since December, 1898.
A letter from “ Jeright
I can trump all said by “ Jerong ” (l/8/’O3), concerning
the real facts of the great “roll up” at Lambing Flat.
But Australian history is chockfull of cases in which the
men who did the bullocking got nix (except now and
then, when they got gaol), while the men who did the
Mafficking got the glory. Spicer, Stewart and Cameron
did the hustling, and Torpy did the talking in the
Lambing Flat affair. Baker didn’t do even as much as
Torpy. Diggers have ever been ready to trust their
claims to men who had the “ gift of the gab," and it was
their selection of Torpy and Baker to take their case to
Sydney that helped that pair of opportunists to climb
into the political arena. I did more than either, even as
a boy, for I pelted the Chows with blue metal as they
rode on their way to the Flat, until they came after me
with long-handled shovels, when I at once saw that was
no place for me. Many of the Chows were frauds too,
and hacked themselves a little and daubed their faces
with mud so as to pose as “ victims of diggers’ brutality.”
Long Joe scruffed one Chow, who looked awful, to a
creek, washed the blood off his jowl, and the fellow
couldn’t then show a single scratch. Another Chow was
lying on the ground—“ Got ’em broke leg, digger’s axe.”
Two kicks from Joe sent him running like a black from
the debil-debil.
At Poverty Point.
George Rignold, back in Sydney, told an interviewer
the other day that, while in London, Ellen Terry wanted
him for Sigurd the Strong in Ibsen’s “ Vikings,” but it
was lucky he didn’t accept, as the piece failed. Also
that Gordon Craig’s new system of lighting only from the
top—no footlights nor sidelights—placed the artists’
faces in shadow, and would have ruined anything. And
now we know it’s the same old George : “ Throw the
limelight on me, d you 1 ”
Some venturesome Melbourne amateurs are now
assiduously studying the “ Sign of the Cross,” with a
view to early presentation. To get over the copyright
difficulty, if possible, one of their number has dramatised
a version from the book. This writer, with complete
knowledge of the people concerned, and a solid apprecia-
tion of the humors of the original “ Sign,” intends to be
present. An amateur version of the legs of Superbus and
the epileptic jumps of Nero ought to be the joke of ages.
At Melbourne Royal, the other night, Albert Norman’s
coat was found to be blazing away in the dressing-room,
and the fireman on duty extinguished the conflagration.
It is Norman’s lot in melodrama to smoke a cigarette
on all occasions when his calm, cool wickedness needs
emphasising. The vengeful seducer and all-round villain
is known by his cigarette and his rolling eye, but he
isn’t generally suspected of stowing his lighted “ smoke ”
away in his pocket when he goes off to change his coat.
On this occasion Norman’s wicked habit cost him a
garment. His sin had found him out.
Related that when Beerbohm Tree, some time back,
produced Stephen Phillips’ “ Herod,” the piece was most
magnificently mounted—a temple with solid brass steps
right across the stage being a prominent feature. After
the performance Tree asked Henry Irving, who had been
present, what he thought of it all. “My dear fellow,”
replied Irving, “ those steps were fine. Monstrous fine.”
“Q.”: When are our energetic legislators going to bring
in a Bill, taxing the moving picture fiends. Already the
country is overcrowded with these jumping abominations.
To my knowledge there are already four Wonderscopes in
Australia, besides numerous Bioramas, Biotableaux,
and Bioscopes, to say nothing of the Flicker-
graph and the Dazzlegraph and the Jumpygraph and all
the other accursed ’grafts.
“Doxo”: Can you tell me what is the attraction in
seeing two colored gentlemen making unearthly grimaces
singing—for want of a better word—in loud, husky voices,
ana acting generally in a way which would make an
inmate of a padded cell blush for very shame ? Pope and
Sayles drew bumper houses for Rickards in Adelaide
every time they visited the sainted city. When they
left Rickards and started on their own account, touring
the various Adelaide suburbs, and played every night to
packed houses. They left recently for Broken Hill, and
had magnificent houses. Their methods for mirth pro-
voking are easy. Pope comes in, takes his hat off, bows,
and makes a hideous grimace, and the audience smiles
largely. Savles comes in and makes a hideous grimace,
and the smile broadens. Then comes the climax ; Sayles
looks at Pope and says, “ Hullo, you black nigger.” Here
the audience howls with laughter.
An Edinburgh (Scotland) circus has an elephant
which plays Association football with “ wonderful skill
and judgment.” What an exponent of Rugby he should
bo 1
A conjuror, performing at the Adelaide Tivoli lately,
required the loan of a pound note, to show forth one of
his tricks. He asked two or three times, without success,
and at last said, “Hasn’t anyone in the audience gota
pound note?” A deep voice replied, “ There ain’t one in
Adelaide.”
George Rignold has returned to Australia, and it is
now up to some manager to engage him at a big salary to
play three characters again—Othello, Nicholas Bottom,
and the big Flemish patriot in “ The Flesh and the
Devil,” with Harry Diver in his old part of the Duke of
Alva.
“ L.W.” : I rise to drink the health of J. O. Williamson
for his sensible distribution of the profits of the first
night of Her Majesty’s Theatre receipts. The awful
Salvarmy hasn’t a copper, and Ardill’s Home of Gloom
institutions have also been left where they should be. As
was only right, the theatrical charities got the largest
individual sum, £123105., and the rest (with the exception
of a donation to the precious Charity .Organisation
Society) was distributed among meritorious bodies. How
on earth J.C.W. came to give a useless body like the
C.O.S. a whole £5O can only be accounted for by the fact
that such a busy man hasn’t time to inquire into the bona
fldes of every begging institution that comes to him for
cash or kind. Still the C.O.S. is not quite such an
accursed fraud as the Salvarmy.
When Musgrove was last in Wellington (M.L.), with
“ Sweet Nell,” a row arose between him and the directors
of the Opera House co. over the latter’s privilege—pro-
tected by a clause in the leasing agreement—of each being
allowed a double ticket for every performance. Mus-
grove blocked them the first night, and, business being
phenomenally good, continued to do so during the whole
of the season, though six-and-eightpenny letters flew
between the parties at great expense. At a subsequent
meeting of the directors the chairman stated that the
actual cause of the trouble was Musgrove’s attempt to
put the pit barrier back to increase the stall accommo-
dation, and so further tax the playgoer. Musgrove wrote
to the papers saying that the pit barrier incident was a
fabrication—it was the first he had heard of it; and a
further thing that he had been accused of—ordering the
custodian out of the house-was basely untrue. George
Barnes, representing G.M., has fixed up dates at the
Opera House for “The Fortune Teller,” and, as he had
instructions not to fix if the vexed clause were insisted
upon, it is safeto conclude that the directors have climbed
down and will pay for their drama—which they won’t,
anyhow, and which they should in any case.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.


HYDATIDS CURED.
PERSONS living in country parts, in centres remote from the services and advices of a reliable medical man, would
do well to read of this great curd from HYDATIDS, the scourge of all Australian country districts. In case of
any such fearful affliction they should write at once to the Medical Staff of
The Freeman and Wallace Medical Institute, Sydney,
who are medical experts in this disease and all others afflicting the NERVES, BLOOD and STOMACH. Any suffering
person far from professional aid, may by the Specialists’ system of Home Treatment be treated in their own homes as
well as if personal visits were paid. Mr. Dyer, who has been permanently cured of HYDATIDS by the Specialists,
was a sufferer for years, and had been in many hospitals. Read his testimony. We publish also his photograph
shewing the healthy man he is to-day since he regained his health. It will do anyone good to read his letter.
SPECIALISTS IN DISEASE.
Mr. Dyer’s cure of Hydatids is but
an individual proof of a general fact
thatin all classes of MEN’S DISORDERS
they are pre-eminent in the treatment
and cure. If it were necessary thou-
sands of testimonies could be produced
from suffering men in proof of this
great truth.
The Most Singular Success
has attended the Specialists during the
quarter of a century they have prac-
tised in Australia. They are
Experts in Men’s Diseases
by reason of special facilities afforded
them in studying continuously by
virtue of their extensive practice many
classes of disorders which are only met
with occasionally by the average medi-
cal man. Skill, Experience, and Perfect
Knowledge is backed up by
A £lOOO Guarantee Bond
which is a proof to the patient that all
medical contracts undertaken will be
faithfully performed.
v.
'
Mr. C. F. DYER
MB. DYER’S TESTIMONY.
Writing from No. 2 Little Barcom Street,
Darlinghurst, Sydney, on the 20th June, 1903,
Mr. Dyer tells his story of affliction and re-
covery :
“ Through, the treatment I received
from the SPECIALISTS of your IN-
STITUTE, I speedily recovered from
HYDATIDS, which disease was fol-
lowed by inflammation of the bowels.
“ I have been a patient in two Sydney
hospitals, getting no relief in either,
and, being without sleep for seven
nights, I consulted DR. R. WALLACE,
the Fhysician-in-Chief of the Insti-
tute. The pain I suffered up to this
time was almost unbearable, but from
the time of beginning your remedies I
began to mend, and soon I was com-
paratively a new man.- Although I
still continue under treatment, in order
to build up my strength, I consider
myself well in every respect, and
willing to testify and gratefully
acknowledge the skill and success
attending the labors of your Specialists.
“ (Signed) C. F. DYER.”
Full particular* of this wonderful cure will be
forwarded to any applicant, with special pam-
phlet of reliable testimonies from cured persons.
The FREEMAN & WALLACE MEDICAL INSTITUTE
This splendid institution, the most scientific in the Southern world, is the professional centre to which thousands
of suffering men gravitate yearly. Men who have suffered from Prostatic Troubles, Varicocele, Indigestion, Dyspepsia,
Loss of Vital Power, Sciatica, Eheumatism, Blood Diseases arising from a Specific Blood Poison, and other Serious Ailments,
have testified to the Specialists’ wonderful skill. Testimonies are daily received from the most reputable sources. All
letters are replied to with professional privacy, each letter receiving the direct supervision of the Physician-in-Chief, Dr.
E. WALLACE, M.D., L.E.C.P., E., L.F.P.S., E. L.M., who is registered by Australian, English and American Medical
Boards. (See N.S.W. and Victorian Eegistered Practitioners’ List.) Consultations and Advice are Eree. One of the
finest medical works, favorably reviewed by over 150 Australian journals, “ CLINICAL EXPEEIENCES,” 750 pages, 150
medical plates, of which the Specialists are the authors, will be posted free to any address for Five Pence in Stamps*
CAUTION!
Beware of Persons
who imitate the
Specialists’ methods
of advertising: and who pretend to offer for
sale for 10s. their £1 Electric “ Invigorator ”
Belt for which they have special Australian
patent rig:hts : This is only a trick to secure
trade. These are only base imitations. The
Specialists employ no Ag:ents or Canvassers.
The FREEMAN and WALLACE
Electro-Medical and Surgical Institute,
Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts., Sydney
“ Cleo ” : The public loves to learn the
earnings in a phase of life of which it
knows little or nothing, so the evidence
filtering out from cooks and kitchen hands
in a claim for arbitration is being widely
read. The chief cook at the Australia gets
£6 a week, the second £4, the night cook
£2 15s. Then there are the “roast cook,” the
“grill cook,” a sculleryman, ten plate washers at
from 245. to 275. each, two men cleaning vege-
tables, and a potato peeler at 225. 6d. per
week. One of the witnesses for the claim
argued that when they saw a restaurant-
keeper owning house property and driving
about in his own buggy, he reckoned
the restaurant was paying, and he obliged with a
list of names of those who had these possessions.
All the witnesses involved were men. One “chief
cook ” stated that he got one afternoon off in five
weeks. This would never do for a woman cook !
I know a young woman cook (in a private family),
“quite a superior character in her way,” as Mrs.
Carlyle would remark, who gets 255. a week, and
she is the most independent person in the house.
She went to a fancy dress ball lately in a historical
character, but was very angry that there was “no
time to remedy a mistake in its historical accu-
racy.” When really competent women of fair
education enter domestic service, then domestic
service will have its stigma lifted, and the
housemaid and general and cook will be no
more ashamed of their calling than nurses are of
theirs.
N.S. W. Premier John See is piling up
b j B offences against the daily newspapers. . He
announces now that the proceedings of the Birth-
rate Commission are not to be open to the press,
Many a manager had been smacking his lips over
the healthy-stimulus to be given “gelation by
“ full reports ” of medical and lay theories on the
v*. .
J _ ‘
Australian soldiers who stole Boer family
Bibles as trophies of the late war are being
petitioned now to return them. The stolen Bible
figured pretty frequently in the “Letters from
the Front ” published by the patriotic newspapers
during the early stages of the campaign. There
wer e also other trophies. The Bulletin treasures
this extract (published) from an Australian
warrior :
l have gome of hig clothes and a little lump of his flesh
a s a keepsake, and will bring them home with me if all
goes well.
it is to be hoped that that trophy is not demanded
ba ck.
„ ~ . ~ ,
T.D. : Re the lax precautions where
there are lifts in hotels, coffee-palaces and other
public places. I lived for a time in a Melbourne
residential building where the man in charge went
off duty at 6 p.m., what time the offices on the
lower floors were emptied for the day, and left the
lift to be worked by the upstairs residents. No-
body was actually killed, but that was not alto-
gether the fault of the lift patrons. There was
one old sport who used to get home always after
midnight with mixed drinks aboard, and every-
body in the building lay awake until his arrival
in the dread that his corpse would leave itself on
the premises. He could be heard stumbling in
and muttering strange injunctions to the cage to
get a move on whilst he lugged at the rope. Then
the concern would travel up at snail’s pace for
what seemed a small eternity. Next, if the drinks
were not altogether too mixed, the old gentleman
would give another haul or two at the rope and
probably send the machine whizzing up its final
stage at the pace of a Parisian motor-car, and
bring the whole of us out in weird-looking night
costumes to see the crash and collect the remains.
But the dreadful old personage bore a charmed
life and used to step out sound in limb, if not in
wind, commenting upon the necessity for giving
the lift a feed of oats or something. At other
times, the cage would crawl for half-an-hour
or so, everybody listening until on its journey
past the third floor the ancient drunk’s heavy
sleep and loud breath could be heard minus his
wakeful imprecations, and we knew that he had
bunked in the lift for the night. This saved us
from catching chills, or, as occasionally happened,
getting mixed up so in our endeavors to find the
right bed-chambers that there was a good, healthy
scandal on the premises. There were also a pain-
ful old lady who used occasionally to faint away
with the fright engendered by travelling per lift,
a boy subject to epilepsy who always had fits
between the third and fourth floors, and a spoony
couple who took an unconscionably long time
between the seoond and third, but they need
merely be mentioned.
From reporfc of the Qarew will case in
Melbourne the Mirthful:
T . , . _ .
toStoS"!'? .“iZ gSd Se^Sl
managed his farm well. s ’
Mr °Purves : If he was such a good master why did you
leave him ?
Witness: I had cold feet and a cold nose as well,
And then Purves gave her up.
m-,
-Lhe Licly iamily which seems to be an
institution—still keeps on advertising its untidi-
ness and general disreputability in the Melbourne
courts. The lady has by now apparently
reduced her fourth husband to a becomi
fltate of humility . but her method o{ sooth g
j him be i n g somewhat rigorous, she was
latel i nvite d to explain an allegation that
she had uged the fai £ ily axe when B the broom .
handle and the pot-stick were handy. After an
explanatory flow of eloquence, like unto the out-
pourings of a convicted importer, the Bench gave
up the dispute as a bad job, and dismissed the
cbar g e whereupon the lady turned and glared at
her meek “ bos3( » and rema rked, “O, you bad
mail ,» Then she went a step or two towards
oor> b u t returned to observe, “O, you bold,
b a( j man ,>> g} ie g ot ag f ar ag
w hen she thought of something more, and again
re t urned to remark, “O, you dirty, bold, bad,
wicked man , Wait till j gefc you home.” Then
a constable urged her outside. Tidy also went
out> CO git a ting.


The alleged shrinkage of Rockefeller's oil
and railway fortune by 20 millions sterling leaves
that unhappy citizen with a beggarly 40 or 45
millions. His income has been reckoned at
£10,512,000 a year, so that it will be a couple of
years or so before he gets square again. Next to
Rockefeller and Alfred Beit, the S’African shark,
who are supposed to run about level, the Czar of
Russia is alleged to have the world’s largest
income; his figure is about millions a year.
The French “Whitaker” has, by the way, been
refused circulation in Russia because it printed
this last-named figure, and compared it with the
£570,000 with which King Ned of England has to
try and make ends meet.
Re windy Wellington (M.L.)
in Bulletin (30/7/’03): The only city, that I am
acquainted with, where it blows harder is Trieste,
on the Adriatic, where the bora lifts people off
their feet, and life lines are stretched along the
streets. When a Wellington man’s hat blows off
he never thinks of running after it. He just waits
and collars the next one that comes along. At
Trieste he doesn’t try to collar the next hat; he
would as soon try to interrupt a cannon-ball. [At
Port Hedland (North-west Australia) it blows so
hard that all the houses—wooden —are anchored
down.]
Order from Bulletin Office, or any bookseller
Such is Life ! Just published ; 4s. 6d.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and O.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New Zealand.
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our now Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per
cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors— Thomas Littlejohn, Esq.,Chairman; The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.0., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin Short,
Esq. ; Senator J. T. Walker ; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.O. ; P. E. Winchcombe, Esq., M.P.
General Manager and Actuary—Richard Teece, P.1.A., P.F.A., F.S.S. „
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Hearne’s Bronehltis Cure.
THE FA.MOXJS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption ia9
never been known to exist where “ Coughs ” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufncien ,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEWARE OF 1 COUGHS!
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
CONSUMPTION.
100 ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir;—l am writing; to tell you
about the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
my case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my case to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cotig'll.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir. —I suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at onoe, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at onoe,
and “can’t be licked.”—Yours sinoerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLBN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
um for bronohitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Victoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE GOLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
" Llenwellyn,
“ Katunga, Vio.
“Mr. Hearne.—
“ Dear Sir,—l am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to my mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“ JOHN S. MORTIMER."
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus —as walking caused me such pain and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
"Yours very truly,
“M. MORTIMER.
Extract from a Utter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows:—“ As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night’s rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Tears' Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“Sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried ;
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure. —I remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
“WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker's Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Five Tears’ Case.
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. O. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. lam more than
pleared with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
•mall bottle oured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be withou
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Seven Tears’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY OURED.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“ Dear Sir, —Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as I am now, quite well.—Your»»incerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.”
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS’ CASK
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, writes :—“After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then,
which was in the beginning of 1883 — 15 years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.”
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states:—“l
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma.”
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
bhanoh D«wT. r office : No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3582.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally .
i" ' ■ « THE
SMELTING * REFINING GO. of AUSTRALIA
Works: DAPTO, LAKE ILLAWARRA (56 Miles from Sydney). 1901, Limited.
l+N 'Myy V I|Q|l' "W W" 111 HP M»i—iijS HP
Highest Price paid for Gold, Silver, Lead, and Copper Ores,
Cyanide, Slags, and Jewellers’ Sweep, etc.
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay.
Eor aU Information regarding Hates, apply to the Manager, Head Oeeice, Dapto;
or, A. E. EUDDEE & CO., 40 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Forwarding Agents.
“ Retained when
all other Foods are
rejected. It is in-
valuable.”
London Medical Record.
“‘Bengep*tf Food*
has by its excellence
established a repu-
tation of its own.”
British Medical Record.
GOLD MEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
Benger’s Food
For Infants, Invalids, and the Aged Delicious, Nutritive, and Digestible,
Benger’s Food is sold by Chemists, &c., Everywhere-
Extracts from Private
Letters.
■ “My last little boy was
fed entirely upon it from
birth, and a healthier
child it would be difficult
to find. My wife sounds
the praise of ‘ Benger’s
Food’ everywhere.”
“ If every mother knew
of its value, no other
would be used.


THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to tlieir advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance
is solicited
The Judge on the bench, the lordly M.P.,
The man on the stage, whoever he be,
The lawyer so grave, the jolly Jack Tar,
The stern-visaged soldier who’s been in the war,
The hard-working man, the knowing M.D.,
All happen on this one point to agree—
That for very bad colds the thing to procure
Is W. E. Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
MANY MOTHERS OF A LIKE OPINION.
Mrs. W. F. Mitchell, Broadford Vic., says:—
“ In my family of eight, all of whom are subject
to colds and coughs, I have tried many cough
mixtures, but found nothing as good as Chamber-
lain’s Cough Remedy. Even in whooping cough
it makes the attack very much lighter. In fact,
I have used nothing else since first trying it, for
its value was proved. I always recommend it.”
No one who uses this remedy and becomes
acquainted with its good qualities will consider
the matter of using any other preparation, no
matter how much may be claimed for it. The
quick relief afforded by Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy, the fact that it contains no injurious
substance, that it is perfectly safe to give to small
children, and that it is pleasant to take, is enough
to convince any mother that no other should be
considered. Sold everywhere. Is. 6d.*
Martin’s Apiol and steel pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia. Not genuine
without the signature. Be sure you get Martin’s.
Sole proprietor, W. Martin, pharmaceutical
chemist, Southampton, England.*
Exquisite New Goods^
NOT one of these things we illustrate to-day has been shown before. They are all new—some of
them have hardly got the wrappers off as we write. They are pretty and serviceable—suited both
for personal wear and gift giving. There is not a common style in the lot and the make and finish are
quite equal to our usual high-grade goods. If you are particular as to what you buy in our line then
nowhere else can you go if you would select from a stock so large—so varied that it is an uncommon
thing for us to have to say, “ Sorry, but we have not got it.” Remember that, although we illustrate but
21 articles, we have hundreds of equally dainty, equally good, and equally low-priced new lines to show
you if you call. Our
catalogues, “Attractive
Things at Attractive
Prices ” and “ Honest
Watches,” will be sent
free on request. We
deliver all Goods free
and safe by post or rail.
fdh
f
No. F 8935. —Exquisite Gold Pearl
and Turquoise Necklet and Pendant,
£3 ss.
drawn *£ sise
No. F 2376. —Lovely Saw-pierced Belt Clasp,
Heavy and Handsome, 21s.
No. Fl76o.—This size Gold Mounted Pen Knife
—Fluted Pattern only, 10s 6d.
No. Cl32o—Solid Gold Fashion-
able Photo Pendant, 8s 6d.
Exact size.
Catalogues Free .
m i
No. F 8936.— Gold and Fine Pearl
Necklet, with Pendant, £2 12s 6d.
V
£
No. G 1970. —Solid Silver
Mounted Toilet Bottle,
patent pull off top, 4Un.
high, 15s 6d.
No. P 9297. —Dainty
Gold Pearl and Tur-
quoise Pendant, 265.
No. F8731.—15ct. Gold
Engraved Cross, exactly
as shown, 18s 6d.
No. F7539.—2£ x 3 in.
Solid Silver Bag Purse,
32s 6d.
No. F7OM. •<yish Pendant, Gold, and Greenstone
from Maoriland, 22s 6d.
No. F9oo2—Rustic Inkstand, Silver-plated,
£>£in. high, 9s 6d.
1
ms
m
m
No. F2966.—A Magnificent Cruet, the highest
quality of Plate and Out Glass, £4 15s.
No. G1414.—A1 Quality Exquisitely Engraved
Hot Water Kettle, £2 15s.
No. FB966.—Handsomely Chased Hair Brush,
man’s size, fijin., 22s 6d.
No. F729B.—Choice Fearl and Gold Brooch, Sis
No. F 33^ —Baby’s Oan.
Engraved and Hall-marked Solid
Sterling Silver, 3in., £2 sa.
No. Fs6s.—Solid Silver
Glass Lined Powder Jar,
2Jin. high, 22s 6d.
No. F 3849.— Solid
Silver Milk Jug, 3iin.
high, £2.
No. Cool.—lsc. Gold
Brooch, set with Pearls
and Turquoise, £1 15s.
No. GBlB.— Heavy Gsld
Mounted Solid Silver
Match Box, l|ln. high,
22s 6d.
No. FB439.—Cluster
Ring, 18c. Gold, 8
Rubies, 6 Diamonds,
£3 ss.
Business, Robbery, etc.
What looks like a very crude swindle, fraud
and delusion, now beginning to be heard of in Australia,
is the “ Parisian Inventors’ Academy.” Whenever any-
body in any part of the world invents anything, from a
new sin down to a movable glass tear for emotional
orators, he is liable to receive a letter from the Academy
—which apparently consists entirely of “ E. Charon,
Director.” This letter informs him that he is elected (by
whom not stated) a member of the Academy ; that he is
entitled to put “M.P.1.A.” after his name (just as a
retriever that has been lost for three cold days and nights
is entitled to put “ M.D.”—for Miserable Dog—after its
name); and that the diploma and the big gilt medal of
the institution (worth, probably, lOd. or so) will be
forwarded on receipt of £2. On the back of the swindle
document are printed copies of alleged letters from
grateful inventors who sent the £2, and got the medal,
and found it so comforting that they wouldn’t be
without it on any account. The letters are apparently
composed on the premises, and those which profess to
come from English inventors are wild and weird and
wonderful. One sample is as follows :
“ Dear Sir: Almost respectfully I beg you, kindly to
accept the following Lines as a Testimony from me, in
regard of your Self and the worthy ‘ Academie Parisienne
des Inventeurs.’
“In 1891, I had the pleasure to git acquainted with
your Academie ; —And since, always was in friendly and
often very business like Correspondence with you as
President of the Academie :—I confirm here with Pleasure
that the Academie have me, as Inventor, promoted to the
Rank of a Honorary Member of said Institution.
“ The Academie Parisienne des Inventeurs should be
recognised as the almost worthy and best one in the whole
World ! —lndeed I don’t testify so in acount of have
geting acquainted to the Academie once, either is and in
acount of having received Gold, Medal and Diplom, o no,
it is not the Goldmedal make me testify so, no matter
how proud I am about’m, a great deal more was the
Inspiration I have received there, I was in a short time
quiet an other Man, as i was befor, I could say the
Academie did (in 1891) lay the Cornestone for my Luck
afterwards for Lifetime Once a Member of the Academie,
the friendly Acting of the Members towards any Inventors
will make them improving from Day to Day, the wouldnt
let any one doe like the Grandfathers did 60 years ago, o
no the want to see any men smarter next morning as the
was he Day before indeed exactly so was with myself, the
■O strickty and lawfull Acting of the Academie towards
me was just licke a Spring put in to my whole Body, with
nearly the same Effect like a Spur in the Priders Heel
towards the Horse.—As i said before: It was the Inspira-
tion, received from your Self and the Academie, that I
git up to the point where i am now, only for this i might
would not be in Possession of two other Gold, Medals
from the Exhibition at Paris, in 1897, because i may was
not able to have any Invention to place there —nothing to
say about, that i am able to bring 4 other new Inventions
to the Exhibition next year 1900.
“Now 3 Cheers for the Academie ! And my Sincerely
thank for all the Goodness of you all."
This shocking institution with its craving for £2 has
already sent its circular to a number of Australians, and
its demand that the money shall be sent to 101 Boulevard
Richard-Lenoir, Paris, is loud find insistent.
* * * *
The up-to-date burglar has arrived, and the
other night visited an Adelaide office. Instead of
immediately dynamiting the safe he lit the gas and
took down the firm’s books. Finding that £5O had been
paid into the office that day and all of it banked, he
concluded the safe was not worth tackling. The petty
cash book registered next to nothing in hand, and so
Sykes replaced the books, possessed himself of some
stamps, and taking some of the firm’s business cards
with him went away. Next day he collected several
outstanding accounts for the same firm on the strength
of the card and on his knowledge of the correct amount
due.
• * * *
“J.F.D.”: A lolly and fruit shop near my
“diggings” displays a small assortment of women’s
stockings amongst the bananas and apples. I asked the
fussy little fruiterer if he ever sold any. “ Oh, yes,” he
said—“on Sunday mornings; young girls, you know,
want good stockings of a Sunday. Sell none all the
week, but often get rid of two or three pairs of a
Sunday."
* • * *
The Federal Public Service Commissioner has
been compelled to warn all candidates who were success-
ful in passing the service exams, in April last that they
are not compelled to assure their lives till six months
after their appointment, and that telegraph messengers
are not compelled to assure until they have reached some
higher position. This, it appears, was necessary, as the
wily canvasser was at large whispering into the can.
didates’ ears that if they assured their lives at once,
and notified the Commissioner of the fact, they would be
appointed right away ! And the majority believed it.
The down-at-heel assurance man’s commission is hardly,
earned, surely.
* * * *
“Periwinkle”: Some years ago an individual with
abroad smile “went through ” Vic. country townships
soliciting orders for, and distributing samples gratis of,
Blather’s cocoa. Nothing dismayed if he failed to
“ place ” an order, he politely asked permission to affix
some china letters he carried on the window of the shop,
as much for ornament as anything, he said. In most
cases the request was granted, and the shopkeeper
thought no more about the matter. But the aftermath
is now ! Take an instance—in the main street of my
town the letterings about the blastiferous cocoa that
this plausible fellow fixed up decorate the windows of a
chemist, a jeweller, a bike agent, a greengrocer, and a
hide merchant. None of them sell Blather’s cocoa, but
the grocers who used t) occupy these shops have
removed ; the advertising fiend’s letters proved to be
unshiftable, and in these hard times no one cares to
break the windows to get rid of them. So all this free
advertising of Blather’s cocoa goes on indefinitely.
An indiscreet Melbourne butcher gave the show
away pretty badly, the other day, by informing the local
Director of Agriculture that fat bullocks were so low in
price that it would pay to export beef if freezing accom-
modation could be obtained. The long-swindled local
consumer immediately rose to ask why there hadn’t
been a sympathetic fall in the retail price of his
meat. While bullocks had fallen £3 or £4 each in
value, there was actually no decrease in the exor-
bitant price the suburban housewife had to pay her
butcher. But the “trade” rushed in with the beautiful
explanation that it was only making up for what it had
lost when prices were at their height, and when, by
raising the retail price out of all proportion to the whole-
sale, it made extra profits instead of losing. Right
through the alleged meat famine, the butchers protested
that they had no “combine" among them, notwith-
standing the automatic general increases which they
made in prices. Now, apparently, they admit that there
is some such arrangement. Otherwise, there would be a
rich harvest for the man who determined to make up for
his recent alleged losses by bringing his retail prices
dowri to the level of his wholesale purchases, and scoop-
ing the trade ; the only trouble is, no doubt, that carcase-
selling philanthropists would get him set, and his supply
would be cut off altogether. The unanimity of the Mel-
bourne butchers on this point, likewise the unanimity of
the milkman and the baker, are admirable examples of
brotherly love. Also, they seem to suggest the trust,
combine and boycott in its worst form ; and to embody
all the bad and none of the good features of trades-
unionism combined with conspiracy.
* * » •
“ N.R.G.” : About 18 years ago was engaged
well-sinking on a station in North Queensland. It was
very cold weather at the time and the men employed
used to have a good fire at night on the top of the
mullock heap surrounding . the shaft. We had often
observed a strong smell of kerosene in the well after
blasting operations, but took little notice of it until one
night, when the weather was bitterly cold, we had an
extra large fire burning on the mullock heap. We had
built a protecting wall around it against the prevailing
high winds, the wall being of rook excavated from the
well. About midnight the stones composing the wall
ignited and burnt brilliantly for a considerable while,
emitting strong fumes of kerosene. That co. which is
boring for oil down south might, perhaps, find the fluid
up this wav.
• • • *
“ Chasselas ”:—
The big land-ovvners in S.W. Viotoria must be getting
scared of the power for good of the Australian Parlia-
ment, or they are pandering to the mad rush for land to
establish a debt-ridden tenantry, and so stem the
socialistic tide sweeping over the State. Half-a-dozen of
the big estates are on the market at present or will be
shortly. The letting terms are becoming better and the
land cheaper, but they are still far above legitimate
value. Victorian farmers are mad for land. Good prices,
arising out of exceptional conditions, have sapped them
of their sanity, and they are paying a figure per acre
equal to present boom prices of produce. The chances
are against any living farmer again selling wheat at
6s. 3d. a bushel, or other class of produce at present
year’s rates. With the inevitable return of reactionary-
low prices S.W. Victoria will become a vast inebriates’
home of land-drunks on their uppers.
* * * *
“ J.F.D.”: Saw a second-hand furniture dealer
exchanging some bedsteads fora couple of dirty chests
of drawers at a suburban Invalids’ Home, the other day.
The chests, microbes and all, will be taken to his shop
and, almost certainly, without being disinfected, will be
re-sold. A law is needed to compel second-hand clothing
and furniture dealers to thoroughly disinfect all goods
passing through their hands —though how the frowsy
trade would be kept up to the collar I don’t know. The
average second-hand dealer and Johnny-all-sorts doesn’t
seem to disinfect himself, and he wants it badly enough.
Dr. Frank, of Charlottenburg, Germany,
claims to have solved the secret of obtaining by elec-
trical means nitrates from the free nitrogen of the
atmosphere. If the process proves of commercial value—
».e., if it can be carried out so economically as to
make these nitrates cheaper than natural deposits
of nitrate—agriculture will be made easy in worked-out
tracts. And, since the amount of nitrogen in the
atmosphere is not unlimited, and the nitrates stolen
would not be immediately returned by the soil,
a fine international problem might arise, by the
side of which the water-rights discussion would be
paltry. A possible complaint of the future—by France
against Germany: that the huge chemical works on the
frontier are robbing French air of much of its nitrogen,
thereby depriving French agriculturists of its use, and,
by leaving an undue proportion of oxygen in the
atmosphere, rendering the French nation more feverish
and excitable. By the way, if the thing is done on too
large a scale and a vast amount of nitrogen removed from
the air at once, isn’t there danger that almost everything
on the face of the globe might blaze up ?
* * * *
The Flax Spinners’ Association of Belfast pro-
mises to do itself and the public good service by prose-
cuting—under the British Merchandise Marks Act —all
firms which attempt to trade cotton goods as linen. At
(he present time, the Australian drapers and hosiers
have pretty well banished the word “ cotton ’’ from their
vocabulary as regards “ white ware.” The ha’penny
hankercher that can be shattered at a blow is called fine
linen.
* * * *
There is a world of pathos in the advertisement
of a Scottish draper which runs thus :
How Hath the Mighty Fallen.
Notice : There will be offered to-day for Dusters
3,000 dozen Mafeking Flags, hemmed and ready. These
sold in Mafeking times at 6d. each ; now for Dusters.
One Shilling per Dozen.
* * * *
“Ed.”: Was in a crowded race-train, after a
country meeting. When nearing the terminus one of the
standing men said, “ Say, gents, these porter-blokes have
a lot of work. I’ll collect all the tickets.” There were 13
in the carriage. When “ Tickets, please,” came he said,
“ Here y’re, sir,” and handed him the lot. “ Only 12
here,” said the collector. Each man, including the stand-
ing man, swore his ticket was in. Only 12 tickets,
though 1 I had my doubts about the standing man.
» * * »
Ten cedar trees, standing in a scrub, were
recently sold at Atherton (Queensland) for £175. Writer
remembers, not many years ago, when cedar logs were
left rotting on the banks of the Richmond River. Scores
could be counted in the scrubs between Wooroowoolgen
and Mt. Lindsay, and no one bothered to go after them.
In another century, or less, one big cedar tree will be
worth a small fortune.
“ANOTHER PALL OF EARTH."
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Another heavy fall of earth occurred yesterday in the
western cross-cut of the Golden Cat Proprietary Mine,
killing three men who were stoping there.” — Mining
fatality item from any issue of the daily paper.
Just another fall of earth—
Nothing to disturb the mirth
Of cheerful speculators lolling in their spacious chairs ;
Just a ton or two of dirt,
Just another few men hurt—
Just another corpse-battalion rolling down Gehenna's
stairs 1
Naught to cause the least alarm,
No directors came to harm,
- They possess a special Charm—
They are never standing under when the rook falls
unawares 1
Just another accident—
Merely two or three souls sent
Down the track that leads past chaos to the tailing-
dumps of Hell—
Where the mighty roaring stamps,
As they thunder on their ramps,
Pound the hearts of fat shareholders and director-men
as well !
Just another fall of earth—
Caused by cursfed timber-dearth,
Really nothing that ’tie worth
While to mention unto Divfes as he dines at his hotel 1
GRANT HERVEY.


Our Latest Styles of -
GRAMOPHONES
ARE FITTED WITH THE
NEW PATENT “SOUND ARM.”
IT APPEALS TO YOU
HERE
if#
ill i
|| 111.. V
/"-"v
_ /
-----c -
PURER,
LOUDER and
SWEETER.
One of the many advantages which this attach-
ment possesses is the ease with which
the horn can be turned in any direction.
PRICES
“ Monarch,” single-spring machine, 22in. Brass Horn, and “ Concert
Sound Box,” fitted with new “Sound Arm” £ll 15 O
“ Double=Spring flonarch,” 22in. Brass Horn and “ Concert
Sound Box,” fitted with new “Sound Arm” £l4 15 O
“ Triple=Spring Monarch,” 22in. Brass Horn and “Concert
Sound Box,” fitted with new “Sound Arm” £l6 5 O
Other Styles, 30s to £3O. All “ Monarch ” styles play 7in. or lOin. records.
Agents all over the World,
*
RECORDS
IN ALL LANGUAGES.
Send for Catalogues and
Price Lists.
«
Australasian Agents
Victoria—
A. P. Sykes, 227 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne.
South Australia—
Messrs. S. B. Hunt & Co.,
94 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
Queensland—
Messrs. Heindorff Bros.,
210 Queen Street, Brisbane.
West Australia—
Messrs. Nicholson & Co.,
Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand—
Messrs. H. Gentles & Co.,
9 Strand Arcade, Auckland.
Tasmania—
Messrs. Wertheimer & Benjamin,
71 Collins Street, Hobart.
GRAMOPHONE & TYPEWRITER, ltd
163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
A GRAND REMEDY FOR THE LIVER
PLAIN QUESTIONS.
Do you wish to have a clear skin and a healthy
complexion ?
Do you wish to be free from Sick Headache, Depres-
sion, and Nervous Exhaustion ?
Do you wish to feel that your food is properly
digested, your body properly nourished, and
new strength, vigor and health is infused into
your system ?
Do you wish to have your stomach cleansed and
strengthened, your liver properly stimulated,
ms your bowels regulated, your kidneys freed from
deposits, and your blood purified ?
All this is quite possible; and, to accomplish the
object, you are asked to send at once fora bottle
of Kutnow’s Powder, and it is as certain as pos-
sible you will be convinced that at last you have
secured an invaluable remedy for all derange-
ments of the digestive and excretory organs.
W 5
KuTNOW’S i
Improved effervescent carlsbad
POWDER.
m
fUlschensprung or Deer Leap
m
41 FARRIMGDOII ROAD. LL.c
ftNTEREO AT STATIONER'S
CAUTION!!!
PLAIN FACTS.
The Liver is the mainspring of the system.
When active it is the great purifying organ.
When sluggish it easily develops a poisonous ten-
dency and contaminates the other organs.
The Liver both secretes and excretes.
It secretes about three pounds of bile daily.
It excretes the impurities and waste materials.
The Liver is the sewage farm of the body, and since
it is the sieve it must perforce be kept clean,
otherwise it becomes sluggish and cannot expel
its refuse, which, consequently, is absorbed back
into the blood, and is tne cause of biliousness
and other distressing maladies.
The absolute, incontestable remedy for all derange-
ments of the Stomach, Liver, Kidneys and
Bowels, and the one which never fails,is Nature’s
Great Restorative, KUTNOW’S POWDER.
The popularity of Kutnow’s Powder has now spread over the four quarters of the globe ; consequently amongst the
many medicine vendors there are some who do not hesitate to palm off closely imitated substitutes for the genuine Kutnow’s
Powder. These yield to the dealer an extra profit, and because he may tell you they are “ just as good,” we have to caution
you against these counterfeit productions which bear the same relative value as the spurious metal does to the sterling coin.
If you would avoid disappointment, accept only the sterling article—Kutnow’s Powder.,
ACCEPT ONLY THE GENUINE KUTNOW’S POWDER.
KUTNOW’S POWDER can be obtained from all Chemists
and Medicine Stores throughout the World.
Proprietors—B. KUTNOW & GO., Ltd., 41 Farringdon Rd., London, E.C. Proprietors in TJ.S.A.: KUTNOW BROS., Ltd, 853 Broadway, New York.


The Bar of New South Wales must have
been in a parlous state in 1835, if an advertisement
in the Austkalasian of February of that year be
any criterion. “Tenders for Briefs: Tenders
will be received for about six briefs—the causes
will most likely be tried during the first week in
April. Application to be made at Wentworth
Place. N.B.— No Government official need apply,
nor any insolvent debtor or other person not regu-
larly called to the Bar of England.” Wentworth
Place stood where Wentworth Court now stands,
ran from Elizabeth-street to Phillip-street, _up
some steps with eight small cottages on each side.
At one time the cottages were occupied by
lawyers and law writers, but before their demo-
lition in the early eighties they were the abode of
working people, waiters, laundresses, etc.
Money lenders’ advts. are full o umor
for citizens who have been there. _The funnies
thing appearing just now is a three-line mvi a ion
as follows “Any amounts asked for are a 1 way!?
granted immediately, from £1 upwards. Buckley.
The name of the capitalist beautifully expresses
an applicant’s chance of getting whatever he aska
for. Also it reminds one of the growing tendency
of Isaac Moses to disguise himself under a
Christian alias. Moses now-a-days is_ represented
by a despondent person with a huge mndel I nose,
who solomonly protests that his ‘ principal, Bister
Jones, vill have to borrow the monesh from Bister
Brown before he can advance it at a moderate
forty per cent, interest.” Abrahams, Jacobs and
Nathan are understood to have died in extreme
poverty as the result of accommodating their.
Gentile friends with small loans.
• ' V .• '
m
ft
111
i
V
n
PD
CORSETS
The Recognised Standard
High-Glass Corsets
LATEST SPECIALTY
STRAIGHT FRONT
HOUVELLE FORM
Obtainable from Leading
Drapers Everywhere.
Avoid Inferior Imitations, and see that
each pair bears the Manufacturer’s “ Trade
Mark ” on band inside, as above.
FoE P.D. CORSETS
IN ALL THE BEST SHAPES, AND ALL
Regular Sizes, send to
Finney, Isles & Co., Brisbane.
At the same time ask for samples of any Drapery and Clothing Goods you may require : also for
copy of their General Catalogue and Fashion Book, and satisfy yourselves that—
“AFTER ALL, YOU CAN’T BEAT FINNEY'S!”
HARDY BROTHERS,
VICE-REGAL JEWELLERS. N
Diamond Jewellery.
Visitors to Sydney are invited to inspect
the magnificent Stock oi Diamond and
Qem Ornaments, Pearl Necklaces,
Rings, &c., on view in our Showroom.
ht
'.i
eP'
if
GUARANTEED THE HICHESTQUALITY
TOBACCO
DARK.kdLIGNT plug
ALSO
mm
When Minahs say Good-Night.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Just beside our garden wall,
Keeping watch above a park,
Grows a pine tree, grim and tall,
Sombre as the night, and dark.
And its needles, wet with May,
Shed a misty morning tear,
Weeping for the sunlight gay
Of the Spring of yester-year.
And its knotted branches fold
Ghostly shades within their arms
That, like ghostly stories, hold
Nameless fears and strange alarms.
And the strips of sky between
Lighter fronds of foliage
Are like eyes with lids of green—
Giant eyes grown dull with rage.
Sullen faces come and go,
Though, no wind is in the tree,
And the lips love used to know
Are all vile with treachery ;
And, all day, the wraiths of pain
From the pine tree old and grim
Haunt me like the dull refrain
Of a doleful Sabbath-hymn.
But, at even, when the sun
Goes to seek his western bride,
And the lifted clouds, in fun,
Show the blush of Eventide,
From the fields of fern and grass,
From the fruit-tree and the vine,
Lo ! a hundred minahs pass
To their camps within the pine ;
And I watch them from afar,
With my eyes and heart aglow,
For like kindly deeds they are—
Coming from the long ago ;
And the gloom that reeked with fear—
Peopled by that feathered throng—
Is a setting old and sere
Of a hidden evensong ;
And the wraiths of olden pain
Spread their fancy wings in flight,
And my heart grows young again,
When the minahs say Good-night.
VIC.
MILKY WHITE.
Phoebe’s Picnic.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Phcebe had no right to be there ; she was what
the children call “a picnic shark” —that is a
designing sinner who attends Sunday-school for
two or three weeks previous to “ the anniver-
sary,” with no desire but to qualify for a picnic
ticket. It was plain to be seen that Phcebe was
no Sunday-school scholar; she was obviously a
confirmed Bohemian at 16, and her larrikin in-
stincts were flaunted in her large hat with its
superabundance of cheap black feathers, in her
high-heeled shoes, her very short skirt and her
flaring purple blouse. But the influence of
“ Push ” antecedents showed as legibly in her
face, with its firm chin, its hard line of jaw, its
thin-lipped mouth, irregular nose, and small,
beady, dark eyes, covert under the straight thick
fall of fringe. Phcebe was short and broad, deep-
bosomed, and firmly planted; she had well-
marked biceps, and tough, ugly hands, and looked
a battler all over. The “Push” saw this latter
quality at a glance, and respected it instinc-
tively ; the picnic did not see it at all, but it
marked the rest and resented that with all the
insolence of respectable femininity, an insolence
that displayed itself in the long, critical stare, in
curled lips, and that contemptuous manipulation
of draperies which even the smallest girl can
make so effective.
Phcebe was rather a pathetic figure throughout
the earlier part of the day, being so evidently
anxious to conciliate the girls and break down
class barriers. The elders had pitched their tent
on the bank of a pleasant creek in the bush, at a
distance of about three miles from the railway
platform, and here kiss-in-the-ring and other
amorous frivolities dear to the Elect in their
weaker moments were already in full swing.
Phcebe did not join in any of the games ; she
stood under a tree, watching the osculatory dissi-
pation with abashed approval, but her shy ad-
vances met with no encouragement, and nobody
addressed her, although she was the object of
occasional pert criticisms uttered by haughty and
exclusive young ladies of fifteen or thereabouts.
She wandered to the other groups, but the
superior ‘scholars, playing ‘‘The Jolly Miller,”
ignored her with labored ostentation, and the
noisy group gathered about the swing soon made
it plain even to Phoebe’s rather dull sensibilities
that she was considered an impudent intruder.
Phcebe hardened visibly under this treatment.
At first she was deeply impressed by the pretty
dresses and the vast superiority of the young
ladies, and somewhat awed by the dignity of the
rotund superintendent and the portliness and
deportment of the various elderly gentlemen in
black who had complete control; but the little,
supercilious speeches that reached her ears at
every turn, and the superb contempt she pre-
sently discovered in the eyes of the matrons and
the misses ate into her heart. Her face darkened,
her eyes narrowed to black specks under her
lowered brows, the line of her jaw sharpened to
a bony ridge, her gait developed an aggressive
roll, and at length she moved about amongst the
merry-makers, with clenched fists—an open
enemy, glaring savage defiance at her accepted
fees.
All the fighting instinct in the girl was aroused,
she longed for an opportunity to strike and
scratch and tear, and would have loved to run
amuck amongst the elegant young ladies of the
first class, and lay waste their fine frocks and
feathers, but, no opportunity of immediate ven-
geance offering, she went apart to nurse her
grievance. Phoebe sat under a lightwood at a
distance and glowered darkly at the happy groups.
When the others went to the first meal Phoebe did
not budge from her retreat, and the young naan
who tried to persuade her to join the gay throng
found her sullenly tearing up the grass.
“Won’t you come to dinner, Miss ? ” he said.
“No; won’t.”
“ But you must be hungry.”
“ Do’want none ! ”
“Shall I fetch something to you?” persisted
the young man.
“Go t’ ’ell!” snapped Phoebe, fiercely.
The well-intended youth left her at that, and
Phoebe continued viciously plucking at the grass
and building miniature hayricks. She might have
occupied herself in this way for the rest of the day
had she been left alone, but it happened shortly
after the meal that a dozen ladies of her own
age, finding, other delights beginning to pall,
started to bait the pariah. Standing well within
earshot, they exchanged scathing criticisms of her
dress, her appearance, and her general behavior.
Phoebe caught the word “larrikiness,” and
springing to her feet confronted the foe with a
flushed face and tumbled hair, her hat hanging
by a wisp at the back, and her eyes darting with
forked lightnings.
“Who ’re yer chuckin’ off at?” she said.
“Who? who? who?” she cried, raising her voice
to a yell, and pushing herself amongst the girls in
a fighting attitude.
Phoebe was now an incarnate fury, but the other
lady knew no discretion; she turned up her tiny
nose, already impertinently tip-tilted, and screwed
her face into a veritable mask of scorn. “Pooh ! ”
she said, at the same time swinging her skirts,
which hissed again with the sibilant rustle of
silk. lam of opinion that it is the eloquence of
silk at a crisis like this that makes the material
so dear to the hearts of women. A woman in
silk can, by subtle movements, express sentiments
galling as vitriol to her rival in cotton. That
rustle implied to Phoebe all the sting that is in
the contemptuous assumptions of class, and broke
down her last frail bond of restraint. She dashed
at the lady like an infuriated cat, clawing wildly,
and then began the work of desolation.
The other girls fled screaming, Phoebe’s victim
uttered piercing shrieks, and Phoebe beat and
tugged and tore with terrific energy. Matrons
gathered up their skirts and ran to the rescue,
and elders in black followed with more delibera-
tion and dignity. The larrikiness was dragged
from her prey, but not before a brace of bonnets
had been wrecked and two matronly coiffures
scattered to the winds, and not until the
destruction of the offending girl’s beauty was quite
complete—her blouse hung in strips, her hair was
thinner by a handful, and her face bled freely
from the furrows made by Phoebe’s nails.
The fat superintendent confronted the young
virago, his face purple with righteous wrath ; he
blew himself up, and glared through his spectacles
over his distended vest, breathless, tremulous,
utterly scandalised.
“You shameless minx, you!” he gasped. “You
—you ” .
The superintendent got no further with his fine
moral lesson, for at this point Phoebe broke from
her captors and, dashing at him, sent the beautiful
glossy belltopper that shone above him like a
benediction flying from his head with a left-hand
drive that was intended for his nose. For a
second, the termagant faltered in her choice
between the superintendent’s nose and his im-
maculate hat, and then, with a wild Indian
whoop, she went for the belltopper, and kicked
it. She chased it, and kicked it again. She
kicked it all the way to the creek, and started to
kick it back, furious still, venting the hate within
her on the godly hat. Two or three youths,
eager to appear well in the sight of their spiritual
master, ran to the rescue, but at that moment
Phoebe jumped with both feet on the roof of the
belltopper, and it exploded with a loud pop, and
t.hev fell back while she danced a mad jig on the
ruins.
Phoebe returned to the dumbstricken picnic,
flushed with victory, bub not nearly appeased.
Her hat dangled down her back, skewered to one
long braid of hair; she was dusty and hot and dis-
hevelled, and bursting for further conquests. An
unfortunate lout of about 16 attracted particular
attention by a loud snigger. The rest of the
Picnickers were hushed, anxious, and expectant.
n an instant Phoebe was at the ironical youth,
confronting him with ready fists, thrusting her
hard, square chin into his face.
“ D’yer wanter fight ? ” she asked fiercely.-
The youth backed away; he was inclined to be
apologetic, but Phoebe followed him up.
“ Cos if yer wanter fight take that, y’ swine ! ”
She struck him full in the mouth, and in an
instant the thin veneer of civilisation fell away
from that boy, and he hit out with sincerity,
promptly blackening Phoebe’s right eye, and then
they fought. The unregenerate boys of the
second-class pressed about the pugilists, barrack-
ing with a fine spirit of partizanship, happy as
untrammelled savages, everything forgotten in
the excitement of the conflict. The girls gathered
in awed groups, the women uttered foolish little
cries, and the men earnestly advised each other to
do something.
Phoebe hit straight and struck hard, blood was
flowing freely, she felt she had her man beaten,
and class two was with her to a boy, when suddenly
she was seized from behind and dragged from the
ring, her heels trailing on the ground. Mr. Henry
Divvy, a very important church official, had
taken her in hand. Mr. Divvy was dark and
slick, and had the distinction of being considered
a perfect gentleman. He combined a certain
sternness of demeanor, which he considered a
becoming attitude, with a well-planned system of
Christian behavioy, and performed every func-
tion with the same method of exactitude as he
displayed in the parting and combing of his
straight, black, oily hair. He intended to deal
with Phcebe in his character as the stern and
dignified but just churchman.
“Now, young woman,” he said impressively,
holding her at arm’s length, “ listen to me. This
disgraceful conduct must cease. It must cease.
You hear me?”
“ Shu t yer head ! ” said Phoebe, threateningly.
“ I will do nothing of the sort. I am going to
make you behave yourself in a decent and orderly
manner.”
“ You le’ me go, see ! ”
“Not till you have promised me ”
Mr. Divvy, to his great surprise, was entrapped
into a personal struggle with Phcebe. He had not
reckoned on that, or consideration for his dignity
might have deterred him. The girl was hanging
on to his shoulders, and kicking his shins. He
exerted force, and his hat fell off and his collar
burst. He became dimTy conscious, too, at' this
moment that he had received a-blow on the nose,
and that the blood was running down his chin,
and trickling on his shirtfront. Phoebe seemed
strangely elusive and ungraspable. His coat
ripped, and he received an injury to his ear. He
could not tell how exactly. It was all so con-
fusing. He was so distressingly hot, and this
fearful girl wound herself round him like a python.
He struggled still to hold her, but she was at his
back now, biting his shoulder, he imagined, and
presently she was gone, leaving the sleeve of her
blouse in his hand. Mr. Henry Divvy came out
of the struggle, shockingly dismantled, and with


CONSTIM
AND
h
fri#
W
“If evidence is wanting of the existence of a
remedy that will cure the splitting headaches that
women are sometimes troubled with, I am the person
who can give that evidence,” says Mrs. A. Moon, of
164 Regent-st., Redfern, Sydney. “ I have had most
wretched times with my head, being quite knocked up
and unfit for my work, havingsometimesto liedownall
day. I was also troubled with constipation, which,
I expect, was the main cause of my headaches and
the untold misery that followed. I had heard of your
Bile Beans, but had little faith in medicines, so many
had failed to afford me relief; but, in the end, 1 was
persuaded to give them a trial. Their beneficial
effect was marvellous, and a short course sufficient
to restore me to health. That was some few years
ago, but I still use Bile Beans as our family medicine,
and find them satisfactory in every respect, differing
from many medicines I have tried, in that they do
not leave behind them that nauseous or griping
feeling, and I can always depend on them to tone up
the liver and restore energy to the whole system.”
BILE BEANS FOR BILIOUSNESS are the product of a modern scientific
research, and therefore thoroughly up-to-date. They do not merely
purge, giving temporary relief only and leaving the patient weakened,
like the out-of-date, so-called remedies of forty or fifty years ago, which
contain probably aloes, mercury and other harmful drugs. Bile Beans, without
the slightest discomfort, prompt the liver and digestive organs to act in Nature’s
normal way, leaving those organs strengthened and stimulated to continue the
performance of their duties without further assistance. They produce a gentle
action of the bowels, curing or preventing constipation, cleansing the stomach,
and ridding the system of all impurities. Do not be misled by claims of half a
hundred pills in the box, where probably four to six constitute a dose, and the
doses cannot be discontinued. ONE BILE BEAN IS ONE DOSE. They
can be discontinued after the cure is effected ; they are purely vegetable ; they
do not contain any harmful drugs, and they are the safest family medicine.
BILE 1
4
BEANS
I rO<*
BILIOUSNESS
BILE BEANS have now a world-wide
reputation for curing Biliousness, Head-
ache, Indigestion, Constipation, Piles,
Debility, Female Weaknesses, Nervous-
ness, Bad Blood, Pimples, and all Skin
Eruptions, Bad Breath, Anaemia, Loss of
Appetite, Rheumatism, Influenza, and, in
fact, all ailments that owe their origin to
a disordered liver. BILE BEANS are
obtainable from all medicine vendors,
Price Is. ljd., or 2s. 9d. large box (con-
tains three times the quantity of the
Is. l|d. size).
mwm
vm
m
4m
m
mat
m
mm
i!
m
m
m
u
a
m
m
m
IB
RSI
m
m
SBS
m
m
m
i
M
isi
H
m
—% \ : JH
" s 1111
I
jaHHp
M ‘WiM i
;V ''.iw-
1 1
S
M
■
m
mm
3 i
not a scrap of dignity left to comfort him, and he
stood before the Sunday school he had so often
overawed with the mere motion of a fat white
hand, a limp caricature of his former self, vaguely
endeavoring to staunch the blood from hiB
wounded nose with the fragment of Phoebe's
apparel.
Phoebe was now a sight to be seen. Her face
was stained with other people’s blood, and her hat
had been completely ruined in the battle with the
boy ; she had one bare arm, having left the sleeve
of her blouse in the hands of Mr. Divvy, and one
bare leg, her stocking having broken its moorings
and fallen over her boot; her thick black hair
was in a hopeless tangle, and littered with dry
leaves, grass-straws, and scraps of bark. In this
disgraceful condition, with her hands on her solid
hips, her head well up, and swinging her tail in
vulgar triumph, she passed through the crowd,
exulting—heaping scorn upon her sex in the
idiom of the back lanes, and breathing defiance
for all. She invited trembling young ladies and
large, commanding matrons out to fight; drew
lines, and dared proud mothers of families to pass
them, _ and danced inanely before her victims,
shrieking derision, and revelling in her tyranny
like a mad imp. She made no attempt to improve
her appearance, conscious, seemingly, that the
sweets of her victory over the “ toffs ” were doubly
sweet by reason of her tatters.
Presently she wearied of these manifestations,
and it occurred to her that she would eat. March-
ing straight to the table specially erected for the
elders and the office-bearers, she planked herself
at the head and gave her orders :
“ Gi’ me me dinner, d’yer see.”
The two matrons in charge turned away, mask-
ing their timidity with a poor show of contempt.
“ Gi’ me me dinner ! ” cried Phoebe. She stood
back, with her hands twisted in the tablecloth. A
tug would have brought half a hundred of crockery
and glassware to rack and ruin, and a dire resolu-
tion shone in the hussy’s bad black eye.
Phoebe was attended to with alacrity. They
brought her tea and cake, sandwiches, tarts, buns,
jellies, and all the most delectable edibles of the
first table. She wanted cream with everything,
and at length the demand became exorbitant, and
the waitresses were inclined to revolt, but the
superintendent hissed orders from the cover of a
clump of scrub:
“ Give it to her ! Give her all she wants; she
will make herself sick ! ”
And so while Phoebe ate, the elders watched
and prayed, trusting that she would be very ill
presently, and no longer a disgrace and a danger
to the assemblage. But Phoebe ate all she could,
and was not ill; on the contrary, she arose from
the feast like a giant refreshed, and turned in
search of further adventures. Whilst she was
eating, the hopes of a few of the picnickers had
risen, and confidence had been restored in some
measure. About a score had gathered up sufficient
courage to join in a game of ring, and the larri-
kiness bore down upon them. In her heart
passion had given place to a spirit of impish
devilment, and, lowering her head, she charged
into the ring like a wild steer. Instantly and
with much squealing the girls broke, and fled for
cover behind maternal skirts. Wherever two or
more picnickers were met together for diversion,
Phoebe bore down upon them with savage whoops
and scattered them like chaff in the wind. Ten
minutes after she had finished dining all the
little arrangements were broken-up, and the
girls and the women were gathered in unhappy
clusters under the trees, watching the gyrations of
the terrible little larrikin with terror, and
wondering what was going to happen next.
The elders and rulers were sitting in council, con-
sidering how best to overcome this emissary of
Satan, and save the picnic from complete disaster.
Phoebe had the picnic under the whip. She domi-
neered over the assemblage, and all eyes in the
party were upon her as she paraded the open space
between the trees, flushed with power, and still
eager for mischief. Only the ungodly boys were
happy. They had never enjoyed a picnic more.
The sight of the small ragged blackguard of a girl
domineering over their tyrants and intimidating
a whole church filled them with a forbidden joy and
a kindred spirit of insubordination. As boldly as
they dared they lured the girl to further flights,
covertly they hurled insults at her, employing
much strategy in keeping her in a condition of
moral revolt. One boy, whose favorite fiction
was that Phoebe’s father and mother had been cast
into prison for stealing goggles off a blind horse,
goaded her so with his stupid iteration of the faille
that she darted at him. He fled ; the girl followed,
and a desperate chase ensued. In and out through
the trees, over logs and stumps, and through the
clusters of picnickers, scattering the women in
noisy alarm, Phoebe ran like an infuriated
banshee, her tangled mane flying out behind,
kicking up her knees in such desperation that she
was blindfolded in her own petticoats half the
time. But the boy was the better stayer, and got
clear away, and Phoebe vented her chagrin by
challenging his comrades to fight. To lure them
on to battle she offered the most tempting induce-
ments, promising at last, in the very madness of
generosity, to fight six of them at a time. There
being no takers, Phoebe had to resort to other
methods of working off her apparently inexhaust-
ible exuberance, and vanity moved her to display
her accomplishments as a tumbler. For five
minutes she turned wonderful “ Cat’en-wheels ”
to the delight of the boys and the horror of the
ladies, who cried aloud at the shameful spectacle
of a member of their own sex legs uppermost in
the air. And all this time the elders saw and
groaned in dismal consternation.
The council was at its wits’end by this time.
One good man had suggested the advisability of
the elders falling upon the. turbulent girl in a
body, and reducing her to oxder by the sheer
force of numbers, but Mr. Divvy sadly pointed
out the probability that the girl would not be
overcome in this way whilst a rag remained on
her back, or on theirs. Mr. Divvy himself
thought it would be advisable to send for the
police, but as nobody had the slightest idea where
to look for police protection in that locality, and
as the reputation of the church must be preserved
from scandal at any cost, this proposal was
abandoned, too. It was felt that a strong opiate
would about meet the case, but they had no
opiate, and had they possessed the drug there
would have remained the serious difficulty of
administering it. The council was in extremis,
and meanwhile Phoebe was revolving rapidly in
the air to the continued frantic delight of the
boys and the shame of all good Christian people.
At this stage George Ford came forward with a
rational and business-like suggestion. George
was the young man who had endeavored to induce
Phoebe to go to dinner earlier in the day. He
was suspected of over-worldliness, but he had
money, and was engaged to the superintendent’s
daughter, and consequently commanded respect.
His suggestions gave the sensibilities of the
churchmen a great shock, but this was no time for
maintaining a nice observance of the proprieties.
It was felt that the end justified the means, and
George’s scheme of subduing the rampant larri-
kiuess was countenanced with gloomy satisfaction.
'so whilst George approached Phoebe in a careless,
casual sort of way, with his hands in his pockets
and his hat rakishly cocked, the superintendent
explained to his daughter that her young man was
immolating himself on the altar of duty, and
meditating a long and absorbing flirtation with
the youthful Jezebel in the interests of peace and
quiet and public decency. The young lady
accepted the explanation with the delightful ex-
pression she might have been expected to assume
when sucking fresh lemons, and sat throughout
the rest of the afternoon glaring at her fiance
with a stony glare of frozen bitterness.
George Ford applauded Phoebe's acrobatic per-
formance most heartily.
“Encore! encore!” he cried; “good on you,
Sis ! Let her go again !’’
Phoebe ceased suddenly and regarded him sus-
piciously. In her eyes he was a “dood,” and con-
sequently an enemy.
“ What yer givin’ us?” she muttered, edging
away and making sure of her ground in the event
of an attack.
“ It's all ri’buck, Sis,” said the young strategist.
“I’m with yer.”
As a manifestation of good faith George made
a. sudden dash, and captured the author of the
libel on Phoebe's parents, and delivered him up
to the larrikiness, a martyr to the principle of the
greatest good for the greatest number, and while
she pommelled the miserable youth and uprooted
his hair, the gay deceiver offered every encourage-
ment, and expressed deepest sympathy in all her
devilment.
“You’ve got ’em all wet, Sis,” he said, later.
“My oath, you’re a bit of all-right, you are ! I
like you.”
“Oh, dicken ter you!” answered Phoebe, but
not without a hint of coyness.
s’help me!” said the betrayer.
“ Look here, I’ll deal it out to anyone that lays a
finger on you.”
It took George Ford some time to break down
the push prejudices, and even when this was
accomplished it was quite ten minutes before the
girl would permit him to put his arm around her
waist. At the end of that time however, they
were sitting together on a log, and she allowed
her head to rest upon his breast with a peaceful
little sigh. But at the same moment Phoebe
became conscious of the condition of her attire,
and she actually blushed before retiring behind a
clump.of scrub to perform her toilet. That was
Ford’ssignal of victory. When she returned Phoebe
resumed her seat with the placid confidence of one
who had pegged-out a claim, and for the rest of
the day there was peace at the picnic—peace, but
not comfort, for the consciousness that thefianefi
of the superintendent’s daughter was sitting there
in the full light of the sun, with his arm about
the waist of a depraved creature of the larrikin
class with a shocking black eye, had a depressing
effect upon the spirits of the picnic, and all the
grown-ups assumed to some extent the frigidity
that had fallen like a curse upon Ford’s intended.
Phoebe retained possession of George Ford for
the rest of the day, and in the crowded railway
carriage in the evening they occupied one corner,
she witli her head upon his shoulder, he with his
arm about her waist, and in the far corner oppo-
site sat the superintendent’s daughter, frozen
solid and still. There would have been no
other incident worth mentioning had not the
latter young lady suddenly slid out of her con-
dition of acidulated stolidity, and engaged in a
violent fit of hysterics on the floor of the com-
partment. This unfortunate affair threw the
other occupants of the carriage into a state of
deep concern and confusion ; but Phoebe and
George never stirred, and the girl, with her head
comfortably pillowed, presented a picture of pro-
found peace and seraphic heedlessness of all
terrestrial ills.
EDWARD DYSON.
Requiescat.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When I at last with life am done,
When dulls the sky and fades the sun,
When I am tired of work and play,
When I and Nothingness are one,
I want one boon—to lie Unknown-
Death is no king to need a throne !
Not palisaded round with rails,
Nor crushed beneath a wordy stone.
When I from life am hardly free,
Would you witli words still shackle me?
You cannot prize what I have won—
This endless ease from memory.
Ah ! this wide silence is the best !
You do not dream the peace unguessed,
To feel the nagging nerve of self
Die slowly down and throb to rest.
For, drowned for ever in a sea
Of dim impersonality,
One with the ocean and the night,
What need of name is there for me ?
I shall have stripped me from the stress
Of life, and feel about me press,
Like cooling hands upon my brow,
The death-bands of forgetfulness.
I shall not take with me despair,
Regret, nor memory, nor care.
They are for you ; for my shut eyes
A lingering shelter from life’s glare.
I shall be friends with praise and shame,
And day and night will be the same,
And over me the Spring will surge—
And I shall have forgot Spring’s name !
kor you the birds in clamorous throng
Will bravely sing ; but I shall long
Have journeyed past the need of them—
Beyond the unrest of their song.
Lo, from the graves that are your care
Dim, listless eyes may sometimes stare.
And wonder why the flowers you strew,
And whose the names the grey stones bear !
Yet this above me you may say:
“Some years he from the earth did stray,
And now, with death long reconciled,
Remembers not he was away.
“ He played the trivial drama through—
A little wearily, ’tis true !
Yet with Fate prompting in the wings
He strove to follow each vague cue.
“ He from the stage could not divine
Whether an audience malign,
Or friendly, judged him from the dark ;
He never khew ; they gave no sign.
“The futile farce, the bitter mirth
Of this poor pageant of the earth
He saw too clearly—and he played
His part as if it were of worth !
“ Blindly within a blind design
A little while he groped.” In fine,
Only this epitaph I ask—
“ He did his part ; he didn’t whine ! ”
ENG.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.


A Stringof Complaints
languor, Depression, General Undoing, Loss of Appetite, Weakness,
A String of Complaints Due to Hot Weather.
fljpq
Mr G. J. Plenty, of Bowden, South
Australia, sends us his photograph
and says:
“ I have a regular string of com-
plaints every summer. The excessive
heat prostrates. me. I feel languid
and depressed and have a general un-
doing of my health. A great many
of my friends complain in the same
way. Lately I have found that Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla overcomes all these bad
effects and enables me to go through
the hot season without any trouble.
It revivifies my system, purifies my
blood, and gives me an unusual de-
gree of strength. lam sure no one
will be disappointed with this medi-
cine, for it is not only a preventive
but also a powerful cure of dis-
ease.”
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
Keep your blood in good condition, keep your digestion strong, and keep
your nervous system vigorous. Then you will not suffer from the weakening
effects of hot weather. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla was made for just these purposes.
It cools the blood, tones up the digestive apparatus, puts force into the
nervous system. And it fortifies you against hot weather, cold weather, or
changeable weather. It gives strength to ward off disease.
Don’t be deceived by trying some other Sarsaparilla. Don’t experiment
with imitations. Hold fast to the tried and tested Sarsaparilla Ayer s.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
A Tonic for All Seasons of the Year
dyer’s Pills are a purely vegetable laxative for the whole family.
BILIOTJNESS.
When you have a severe headache, accom-
panied by a coated tongue, loathing of food, con-
stipation, torpid liver, vomiting of partly diges-
ted food, and then of bile, and perhaps pains
in the bowels, you may know that you have a
severe bilious attack. While you may be quite
sick, there is much consolation in knowing that
quick relief may be had by taking three of
CHAMBERLAIN’S STOMACH AND LIVER
TABLETS. They cleanse and invigorate th®
stomach and liver so that when th© attack is over
you feel better than ever. Chamberlain’s stomach
and liver tablets are “Just What You Need.”
Sold everywhere. Is. 6d.* ,
AUSTRALIA’S—-*•
•*. SWEET SINGER.
Victor J. Daley’s “At Dawn, and Dusk,”
handsomely bound, makes a fine presentation
volume to friends abroad. Post free from Bul-
letin office, ss. 4d.
Works by Francis Adams:
(Publisher? Remainders, offered, as Second-Ha nd.)
Poetical Works, complete edition, printed
» in Brisbane by Muir & Moreom. Paper
oovers; 4to. Only a few copies remain.
Price, ss. ; postage, 4d.
Australian Essays, printed in Melbourne
by ffm. Inglis & Co. Paper covers, Bvo.
Only a few copies remain. Price, 2s. 6d. ;
postage, 3d.
Songs of the Army of the Night, printed
in Sydney. Boards, Bvo. Only a few copies
remain. Price, 2s. 6d.; postage, 3d.
THE BULLETIN BOOKS.
Sole Distributing Agents :
Howards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd., Sydnhy and Brisbane.
Special Wholesale Agents :
New South Wales ... Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd.
Queensland .. .. Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd
Victoria George Robertson Proprietary.
Tasmania .. .. .. Georoe Robertson Proprietary.
South Australia .. E. S. Wioo & Son.
Westralia .. .. E. S. Wiqq & Son.
Auckland and district Wildman, Lyell, & Aret
Others to be appointed.
Sold by All Leading Booksellers.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
214 George-st., Sydney, Australia
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
La* w » *■ a i
PILLS
iIOR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headaches
Jj Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
inns of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Costiveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
used Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, fee. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer ia
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
GUINEA A BOX.” , , , , . liV
BEECHAM’S PILLS', taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—<p, few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ■; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, ana
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. Ihese
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to tne
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medietnem
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, Is IJd, and 2s 0d each.
ly Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
ty
HIS MAJESTY
THE KING.
M GIFTS
“MAYFAIR”
TABLE-JELLY
■I
“Made in half-
a-minate by
the mere ad-
dition of boil-
ing -water-"
IN PINT
PACKE * S.
CRYSTALS
Manufacturers— JOHN MOIR * SON, LTD., LONDON, ABERDEEN and SEVILLE.
Head Office : 9 & 10, Great Tomer Street, LONDON, E.C.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
Corner George & Market Sts., SYDNEY
The Best Luncheon in Town from ONE SHILLING, served from 12 sharp till 2.30;
Dinner from 5.30 to 7.30, same price.
The Most Convenient Place for Ladies and Gentlemen visiting the Theatres to dine at.
H.B.—Visitors ofyly pay for wbat tbcy actually ba^€.
(TERMS. The Convenient and Modern System of paying for a
room on arrival, and Meals as they are had.
Apartments: BEDROOM, Single, 3s. per day ; Double, 6s. per day.
ENGAGE ROOMS AT ROBERTS’ HOTEL, SYPNEY.
NOTE.-Send to ROBERTS’ WINE
for REVISED PRICE LIST.
and SPIRIT STORE, MARKET ST., next GEORGE ST.,
COUNTRY ORDERS PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO.
Dr-kb.Smith,
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the Best
THE BRO WN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
Nimvpo
M.D., C.M., L.R.C.P.E., L.R.C.S.E.,
li.F.F.S.Cr., L.M., etc.,
Registered by the Medical Boards of Great
Britain, Victoria, New South Wales,
etc.,
The Eminent Specialist, whose unparalleled success in the Treatment of Blood and Nerve
Diseases has earned for him a reputation unequalled by any other Specialist in Australia, may be consulted
daily personally or by letter, at “ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 Eli2abeth-st., Sydney. Old and Obsolete
Methods discarded. DR. MARTIN’S latest treatment has proved absolutely effective in all cases of Blood
Disease, Nerve Affections, Paralysis, Loss of Energy, Lung, Heart, Skin, and all
Chronic Diseases of Men and Women. His Consulting Rooms are replete with all the
latest and most scientific improvements in Electric Appliances, etc. Country Patients
treated by Correspondence at their own homes. Advice and Medicine, One
Pound All v Sufferers should write for a copy of Dr. Martin’s Latest Medical Work,
“THE ‘ ENOX-MERCER> TREATMENT IN DISEASE.” This work should find a place in every
household as it contains a dull and explicit account of the Most Wonderful Treatment of the Present
Ace It has been the means of Curing Thousands who followed out the instructions contained'
therein This Marvellous Treatment Cleanses and Rejuvenates the Whole System, and is the Cheapest
Treatment in Existence, as nothing but the Book is required.
Cheap Edition, Is. ; by post, Is. 6d. j
“Press Extracts” posted free throughout Australia.
! CONSULTING HOURS: lO to 2 and 7to 9 Daily.
“ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY. j
Miss Mollie Fuller, who appears with her husband in
American comedy sketches at Rickards’s, is another
large and plump specimen of the Yankee feminine, physi-
cally and artistically reminiscent of Mrs. Drew, who, in
her more imperious way, suggested Nance O’Neil. No
finesse about the acting of these substantial ladies from
the Land of the Burnt Nigger. They speak the lines and
tear around, suiting the action to the word more or less,
but have no by-play to speak of.
That was a wonderful performance of the “ Merchant
of Venice” that Irving gave for the funds of the
Actors’ Association. Alexander and Charles Warner
were with him in the leading parts, Ellen Terry played
Portia, and nearly every great player in London crowded
into some small character. Extreme examples—Oscar
Asche as the Prince of Morocco, Lionel Brough a gaoler,
and Dion Boucicault clerk of the court! Nina Bouci-
cault, with Dorothea Baird (the,original Trilby)and many
others, went on in “ thinking parts,” and thought
brilliantly.
“ Haresfoot” : Williamson plays the revised “ Rip Van
Winkle,” prepared by Boucicault for Jefferson in London.
Some think the old version the best. It was acted in
America by Hackett and Burke (Jefferson’s cousin). Jef-
ferson said Burke was a genius. This old version was
acted by Jefferson in Sydney and Melbourne. A few will
remember his joy, turning to sorrow, on hearing of the
death oi the Old Voman.
“ Attrillian ” : Re your par a few months back with
reference to the marble memorial in the Melbourne
General Cemetery over the grave of Ellen Mortyn, the
unrivalled (before or since) Hester Grazebrook (the “ Un-
equal Match ”). The account of the benefit and the funds-
obtained leaves one under the impression that the marble
memorial is still standing. This, I regret to state, is not
so. The slabs are there, truly, but they are lying in a
heap—fortunately the one on which the inscription is cut
is on top, and the words are just readable. Perhaps
some old-time admirers of the favorite actress would raise
a few pounds to set her tombstone in order. By the way,
the “Unequal Match" has, I think, been played in
Melbourne but upon one occasion since Ellen Mortyn’s
time, and that was at the Duke of Edinburgh Theatre,
formerly the Haymarket, and now the deserted Eastern
Arcade.
Beerbohm Tree, not much of an actor, but a wonderful
artist in “ make-up,” is said to have beaten his record
with his picture of “ The Man Who Was ” in a dramatisa-
tion of Kipling’s short story. The M.W.W.—a resurrected
British offieah tottering back to memory 20 years after
his supposed death—is only another version of our old
friend John Stofel. But the re-appearance of John with
a gory handkerchief tied round his head is never a hor-
rible sight. The Tree Who Was is described as an object
to shudder at.
The complete break-down of Dan Leno recalls that th«
strain on the successful comic man is much greater than
on the tragedian. Fred. Marshall, in Melbourne, was
another case in point; also, in far-off times, Joe Grimaldi.
Complete nervous and mental collapse followed on a few
years of success.
“ Vui ”; See it stated in print that London manager,
Beerbohm Tree, has withdrawn Tolstoy’s “ Resurrection ”
from Her Majesty’s stage. It is also alleged that when
the Queen originally witnessed the play she hurriedly
left the box in the middle of the act, indignantly declar-
ing Tolstoy’s work to be brutal and sacrilegious. Next
morning Tree received a note from the Royal person
commanding him to take off the piece forthwith, to
which he replied that,' m consequence of the large
original outlay incurred in staging the production, he
didn’t see his way to withdraw it at so early a stage, but
promised to do so as soon as some of his outlay was re-
covered. If the story is true, the spectacle of Royalty
thus coming into unsuccessful collision with a little,
perspiring Jew is interesting.
Dan Leno, England’s leading variety artist, is so com-
pletely broken down that he has had to be put under
restraint. His case is judged to be quite hopeless. Like
others who have suffered mental collapse through pro-
fessional overwork, Leno passes his days now under the
delusion that he is still giving performances, each appear-
ance being by special royal command before the King.
He commenced as a step-dancer at the ’Alls at 18s. per
week, but for the last five years at such pressure did he
work that he earned an income running into five figures.
“K.K.": Miss Isabel Webster has been appointed
soprano soloist at St. Francis’s Church, Melbourne, vice
Minnie Waugh, who is off to Westralia. This is a suitable
moment for mentioning to Miss Webster that her accent,
Which was not very superfine in the old days when she
helped largely to make the success of Antoinette Sterling’s
concert tour, has become painfully Cockneyfied by contact
with music-hall people in England. A few weeks ago she
appeared,as the singing fairy, in “Midsummer Night’s
Dream,” and some people complained that she gave
Over hill, orer dale” as “Overill, over dyle.” She
certamly altereVi the meaning of “I know a bank "by
adding an sto tlie “ sometime.” The necessity for
mor ? attention 'to her ' diction will 'do Miss
Webster’s bright [sopranoi warble a world of good.
Soma of Australia’s comic opera girls are a boon and a
blessing to the local jewellers, anyhow. One or other of
these wily tacticians is always striking a young chappy,
or an old chappy, or a chappy of uncertain age, for a
valuable diamond souvenir, such as would purchase a
vastly superior smile in the open European market. A
visiting personage lately got “potted” in the easiest way
imaginable. Desiring the pleashaw of an introduction,
he was told that the rules of dramatic and lyric art re-
quired him to send along a “little present,” and he sub-
sequently paid his footing with a shining token priced
£l5O.
Alfred Austin, who may be called a poet laureate on
sufferance, seems to have fairly “ asked for it” in his first
attempt at the drama, “Flodden Field.” Just as the
house was getting decidedly tired, a ballad, beautifully
sung, relieved the situation for a bit. But the heroine
had to take up the dialogue with the curious remark, “ X
like the singer better than the song.” And the house
stated so unanimously that these were its views also that
Alfred ought to have gone home right there.
«0.G.” writes from the Cold Country London has
had quite an invasion of French actresses, no less than
four well-known ones running at the same time. There
is one of the younger school, Jeanne Granier, and three
old stagers—Jane Hading, Bijane and the ever-young
Sarah. Of course, amongst the lot the subtle Sarah,
despite her sixty-odd years, easily leads. She’s still won-
derful. Saw her at the Adelphi last week—the place
where Nance O’Neil slumped —in “La Dame aux
Camelias." Her emotion is not worked with a treadle,
like Nance O’Neil’s; she does not drag it from her side-
combs, like weepy Maud Jeffries; neither is she for ever
squeezing the tip of her tearful nose with a filmy lace
handkerchief. The Armand wasn’t a patch on Thomas
Kingston, and the rest of the company ought to have
been more or less dead. The mounting of the piece was
nowhere ; never saw anything so poor in any single pro-
duction of Williamson’s.


WATERPROOF COATS™
RUBBER BOOTS 18/6 to 20/..
GOLOSHES a/e to 4/e.
Carriage Free
to any part of
N.S.W. if this
advertisement
is cut out and
sent with re-
mi ttatioe.
Made to wear—to
give satisfaction—to
look well to the end
of their long service.
See our Stock.
PERDRIAU & CO.,
Only One Addre SS - RUBBER « ERC HANTS,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Self-Inking Rubber Stamp
Pen & Pencil Oomblned, with any name in first-class
hgdf
style,
x/e
post free.
RUBBER STAMPS
made to order in any style. Send rough
sketch, and we will send you our Reduced
Price. PHILLIPS & CO.,
(Successors to Gardiner &C00I), Rubber Stamp
Manufacturers, 91 Market St., Sydney.
WE SHIP OH APPROVAL
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles. Fully warranted.
rt
Latest
Models
.<£2. lO t0£5.5.0
r, ||PP .~y,w«vw.* (vuua,
tree Wheels, Mud Guards and Brakes.
CARRIAGE pyi/o
7b awv / J in Australasia.
TYRES, ACCESSORIES,
Sporting Goods and Sewing
Machines Half Usual Prices.
Write for Catalogne and Special Offer
Using cjd. Stamp. Address Dept 348 D
Mead
Chicago,
U.S.Am
SIMPSON BROTHERS
32 & 34 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Australasian Representatives for
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK.
Boiler Feed Pump.
sm~ SEND FOR CATALOGUES.
James Simpson & Co., Ltd. London and Newark.
Worthington Pump Company, Limited, London
Warren Webster & Co. New Jersey
Enquiries Invited for •
Worthington Pumps
Webster Feed Water Heaters & Purifiers
Cincinnati Air Compressors
S.UVWNVW
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissors
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
MARK.
gfjp&§f^l§fD
J. & J. MAXFIELD, Proprs., SHEFFIELD.
woi.r
At the Shswrooms-
EMPIRE CHAMBERS, 93 YORK-ST,
SYDNEY
Also at-
“ T3SE3BI BLOCK,”
Collins-St.| MELBOURNE
■
P. GREGORY & CO.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE,
Engineers * General Machinery Merchants.
Sole Agents in Australia for— Blake’s steam Pumps, Dempster Moore & Co., Ltd., Engineers’ Machine
00 Sj Works nes toilers? Fcty-EgaHS* Woodworking Machinery., ElUpirS Co/S Laundry Machinery.
New Forms of Vise.
11
Th© Utopia V! SO holds work of any shape, at
any angle. It has every advantage that could be gained from a dozen
Vises in as many different positions. It swings round and over at the
will of the operator and the work swings with it. There are two
forms of the “UTOPIA”; one for Joiners and Pattern Makers
(dimensions 7 x opens 14in.) and the other for Fitters, Both
ean be seen in operation at
60 Clarence St., Sydney,
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.
Manufacturers and Importers of Mining Machinery,
Steam Engines and Boilers, Engineers Tools and Supplies, etc., etc.
~[[J:
Hi
sn
m
y
t
T. M. GOODALL & CO.. 129 hay st., Sydney
* """" ■hiimimhl'iililH 1 it T
HAVE IN BTOCK AND TO ARRIVE— -v- - _ .. .. _ _ _ _ . . _ ..
. Portable, Traction, Vertical & Horizontal Boilers,
Engineers and Mining Tools, Saw Mill Machinery, Pulleys, Belting, Etc.
Irrigation and Pumping Plants a Specialty, New and Second-Hand Machinery always available.
M
Sin, x5 ff ,
We are Direct Importers
AND HAVE FOB SALE—
Snow Duplex Pumps
(all sizes for all purposes),
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling
and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shaft-
ing, Hangers, Bearings, Collars, etc.
Engineers’ Tools and Fittings, Valves,
Cocks, Gauges, etc. Cast, Tool and
Mining Steel, Wire Ropes and all Requi-
sites for Contractors, Engineers, Saw
Mills and Mining Proprietors.
R. L. Scrutton & Co. Ltd.
97 Clarence-st., Sydney.
DODGE STANDARD
WOOD SPLIT PULLEY.
LIGHTEST and STRONGEST.
25 per cent, to 60 per cent, advantage, with
same belt, over any iron pulley.
70 per cent, lighter than cast iron.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED.
N. GUTHRIDGE, LTD.,
iLG-SSiTTS,
71 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
.! 'Wi
gj@3@9t
«♦»*
M
till
«•
ttrdMAT&WSMttttCOtOSKS
C*WMa*cua ha M^l/S
COACULINC
