

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
LAMB’S RUM.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet
X£.
Mining
107 Kent
Street, Sydney,
—FOR— m ...
and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXP] OSJVES, El ELDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
290
PRIZE
MEDALS
AND
GRAND
PRIX
PARIS
1900
m
mm
v
mgm
26,000 Steam Engines Sold.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
WONDERFUL VALUE-A packet of Seven different
articles, comprising Yankee Rubber Baby, can be carried
in vest pocket and blown out to life size (causes roars of
laughter), Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
Coin and Card Tricks), the Wizard Fish (gives the defini-
tion of your character—very superior for parlor enter-
tainments), the Vest Pocket Tubular Microscope (very
useful for examining small objects), the Cinematograph
(or book of moving pictures), the great Yankee Bicycle
Puzzle (very ingenious), and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Disappearing Coin Trick (instruc-
tions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australia (Free) on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
XNEW YORK NOVELTY CO., |
710 George-st., Sydney.
BATTLE & C°- 85 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
SOLE AGENTS FOE '
Ruston, Proctor & Co., LS
HAVE IN STOCK and TO ARRIVE—PORTABLE,
VERTICAL, FIXED and SEMI-FIXED
STEAM and OIL ENGINES, BOILERS
Eccentric Motion Tb.rasla.iiiS Maclaines, Saw
Send for Price* and Particulars.
AND PUMPS.
Benches. &0., &c.
“HERVEY’S RACKAROCK”
17 Years’ Unbroken Record a 3 a Standard Australian Exp'osive. Cor. CLARENCE & KING STS., SYDNEY
Estbd. 1831.
KOBAHT.
7-sfa, —■
Ijadleys Orient fjotel.
DUMEDIN, N.Z.
CITY HOTEL
(First Grade).
J. A. TURNER - - Proprietor.
SYDNEY—
Royal, April, 1903,
CHAMPION CUP
and
SIX FIRST PRIZES.
MELBOURNE—
August, 1902, Qrand
Championship of
Australasia.
ADELAIDE —Champion
Cup & 8 Pirst Prizes.
DIGESTION
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELfING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty. Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300
pages; price, 4s. 6d.; postage, 6d.
A Policy for the Commonwealth :
A Handy Manual of Politics. By James
Edmond. Price, 6d. ; post free from The
Bulletin Ofl’ce, 7d.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
E diswan - Lamp.
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
the edisTh m
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch : 16 Carrington-street,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Q’nsland Depot—’Central Buildings, Edward-st., Brisbane.
Mining and Dredging Plants. Engines, Boilers, &c.
Fowler Traction Engines.
The Clyde Engineering C?t, Lip
Desiccating Plants.
Hopper Waggons, &c.
m
PROOF
Pa/eYJS
Head Office:
10 BLICH ST., SYDNEY
Rapidly Gaining in Public Favor.
A Splendid Spirit of Undoubted
Quality at Moderate Cost.
a
FREE
BY POST, A MEDICAL
TREATISE by that justly-
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST,
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they jna3' CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.
TTQTCTi -
SPOONERS
IHU
SPOONERS
V
*
*
#*** •»*' *»•••••
4TENT LEATHER BQofs
CUZEE RIOS ti
Pmm <M«
»*••*» *•».»**
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Era
Sold by all Storekeeper t,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, ete.
The Bulletin
Vol 24.—N0. 1212.]
[Saturday, May 9, 1903.
Registered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Book trade Advertisement
~~ 7 the LATES'F BOOKS AT .-r
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
atifford (Bertram),Dorrien ot Cranston, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
McGrath Arms and the Woman, 2s 6d & 3s €d, p. 6d
Urk edere Public Opinion in Ireland, 30s, p. Is 6d
Lang (V) Prince Charles Edward Stuart, 9s, p. Bd.
Makgill, Outside and Oversea, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Prescott, Knit by Felony, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Burns, Electrical Practice in Collieries, 7s, postage Bd.
Mazarin by Hassell (Foreign Statesmen Series), 2s 6d, p. 4d.
' " ' Write to tin for any Boole or Magazine yon Want. . .
" ' We are always pleased to answer Inqmnes.
11 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doors South of King St.) & at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane &
Hudson’s Eumenihol Jujubes.
For
COUGHS, GOLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
and all
AFFECTIONS of th*
THROAT and
LUNGS.
(REGISTERED).
b^svTb\[s\l
so' 4
COrSStS
*> >g
Is. 6d.
TINS,
The Great
Antiseptic Remedy
for the Cure of
INFLUENZA and
Prevention of
CONSUMPTION.
Invaluable for Singers
and Public Speakers.
SOLD BY AT.T- CHEMISTS, OR POST FREE FROM THE PROPRIETOR,
G. HUDSON, CHEMIST, IPSWICH, Q-
SYDNEY DEPOT : 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE ; and FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO., MELBOURNE, AGENTS.
They ease a Tired Throat, and are helpful in Indigestion and Dyspepsia.
THE RED PAGE.
QUEST 10 XS.
By the sea, by the desert mid-
night sea.
Stands a youth.
His heart full of anguish, his head
full of doubt,
And with sullen lips he questions
the waves :—
" Oh, solve me the Riddle of Life,
The painful primordial riddle,
Which already has racked so many
heads,
Heads in hieroglyphic caps,
Heads in turbans and blackberrets,
Heads in wigs, and myriad other
Poor perspiring human heads :
What is the meaning of Man ?
Whence comes he ? Whither goes hef
Who dwells there above in the
golden stars ? ”
The waves murmur their everlast-
ing murmur,
The winds sweep, the clouds scud,
The stars glitter indifferent and
cold.
And a fool awaits an answer.
—Heine, trans. James Thomson.
THE POOR RELATION.
WE. ROTH, Q. Northern Protector of
Aborigines, is named a member of the new
Order of Merit instituted for Australian
• State servants. Roth’s work in guarding
our poor relation is wholly admirable. Q. legislation for
the aborigines is more humane and enlightened than that
of any other State ; and in Roth the responsible Minister
has found an enthusiastic administrator. The Northern
Protector’s Annual Report for 1902 (Govt. Printer, Bris-
bane ; 10 d.) may teach a lesson to Australian Govern-
ments. When will Premier James systematically protect
Westralian aborigines ?
Roth supervises mission stations and land reserva-
tions, but he has not sufficient reservations. It is
clear that the best that can be done for the
aborigines is to treat them as the U.S.A. treat the
remnant .of Indians—segregate them entirely from the
whites oh considerable areas of land devoted to their
use, where an attempt can be made to civilise them
slowly. Mean whites are among Roth’s greatest
obstacles. The Northern aborigine has clearly-defined
white uses. He is often a valuable servant—on a stock
station, on a pearling schooner, or attached to an hotel;
and it is easy to cheat him of his wages. She is useful in
the kitchen or to mind the children, or for prostitution.
The Northern white takes all the profit se can from the
Northern aborigine, and, aided by the Northern J.P.,
bitterly resents the efforts of the Protector to abolish
black slavery. One trusts that justice between blacks
and whites will be done mere faithfully in' 1903 than it
was done in 1902.
BINGHP’S LITTLE JOKES
“ Justice "—no more : our black brother is a jolly
chap, and deserves fair play ; but, under semi-civilised
conditions at least, he is no paragon. He acquires our
vices easily, and easily relinquishes his pristine virtues.
There is a certain humour in his misdeeds —perhaps
Binghi is “ the missing Australian humourist” that The
R. of Reviews is looking for. When he is coddled he
grows cheeky. Last year 1 ‘ one had the impertinence to
offer Rev. Schwarz to do some stealing of other people’s
cattle on the Cape Bedford Reserve for him ’’—Schwarz
being his missionary guide and friend.
And Binghi is not always to be browbeaten or back-
beaten. Twice, last year, he attempted to steal his
employer’s beche-de-mer lugger. “ On 23rd February two
Japanese were thrown overboard from the lugger
Hiroshima, but they managed to swim to the Piper
Island lightship.” “On 13th March, while the ketch
Specie was getting under way near York Island, the
aboriginal crew, six in number, threw overboard the
Japanese master, Tomita, and a Japanese passenger,
Wakamatou.” This shows what you might call a proper
naval spirit. Binghi could go looting in China with the
worst of us. Like ourselves, he is true Australian :he
would thrust forth the Jap.;—and why should he not be-
come “ the nucleus of an Australian navy ” ?
When it is added that at Yarrabah mission station,
Cape Grafton, there is a seventh Australian Government,
consisting of twelve aboriginals elected annually by adult
suffrage, “the only qualification of the candidates being
that they must be church communicants” ; and, that
Cabinet meetings are presided over by the “ King,” who
is by hereditary right chief of the local tribe : “ it is he
who signs the minutes ” I—food is given for deep philo-
sophical meditation.
ABORIGINAL LEGENDS
Then, Roth has another side —the scientific.
No more valuable contributions than his have been made
to aboriginal ethnology. Superstition, Magic, and Medi-
cine (Govt. Printer, Brisbane; 3«.) is the title of
his fifth “ Bulletin.” There the aboriginal is studied
in his downsittings and his uprisings, and is asked
“Why?" He responds with myriad local legends
which, we regret to say, display rather shallow fancy
than high imagination. Yet our brother is quaint
and interesting in his primitive way. He does not bother
much about the Causes of Things : the first explanation
to hand will satisfy him : like a sensible fellow he
troubles himself chiefly about the pleasing or troubling
Effects “Felix qui potuit,” in his notion, is an exploded
notion ; and at the head of this page we quote a verse of
Heine’s for the pleasure of saying that it does not apply
to the Australian aboriginal. His simple faith ends with
the Final Worm, as his simple diet depends upon the fat
one. Roth says that, generally speaking, he does not even
believe that he will “jump up white fellow. What he
explained to “ Durrumboi ” and others was probably not
that after death his actual body would become white,
but that the vital principle or spirit is re-incarnated
in the white man. And Roth adduces seven aboriginal
dialects in which the same word does duty for a Euro-
pean and a deceased aboriginal’s spirit or ghost.
But you do not know why there is a new moon every
month 9 Well, in the Boulia district, a long time ago,
the blackfellow was a turkey and his wife was a cockatoo.
And he hurt his foot. The foot swelled, and poor turkey
was in great trouble. He asked the green parrot for
medical assistance, thinking that the parrot might l&nce
the swelling with his beak and relieve the pam, but the
parrot was no ambitious unlicensed practitioner, and
declined to undertake the operation. Then turkey
applied in turn to the crow, a medicine-man, an eagle-
hawk, the moon (“a whitefellow doctor, said the
humourous aboriginal narrator), and even to the Evil
Spirit; but they all refused.
THEREY'S EXTREMITY
Poor turkey was desperate. As a last chance,
he 'begged the earth-worm to see what he could do ; and
fortunately the earth-worm was Barkis. He bit into tne
swollen flesh, bored his way deep into the diseased part,
sucked out all the putrid matter, and cured the patient.
Hooray! ...
So there was held a great corrobboree of rejoicing ; and
the Governor Carrington of the epoch said, “ Let ’em all
come ! ” There was none of your nonsense with blue and
white tickets. The galahs came, and the storm-birds,
white cockatoos and black, butcher-birds, magpies, and
bower-birds, opossums, bandicoots, and porcupines—
they all came. The clouds and skies came too, for at
that time they lived on the surface of the ground
like everybody else. (Of course, it was a long time ago.)
“ And while the turkey and the earth-worm, together
with the clouds and skies, shifted their position . . . the
whole party began singing, ‘ There goes our brother
up !
(It might have been a modern pantomime, though it
did happen such a long time ago.)
And, of course, when they got up, they stayed up, says
the aboriginal story-teller. “ But so that the people
should always remember what a good medicine-man he
had proved himself to be, the earth-worm sends a new moon
regularly every month to bear him in mind ; for the moon
is a brother of his, and, like him, bores his way out of the
ground, rises up on high, sinks once more and dies. As
he has plenty of brothers he sends along a different one
every month.”
(Naturally these brothers have varying dispositions,
and thus it'is that Russell is enabled to base a drought
theory on the different inclinations of the moon.)
MORE MOON STORIES
But the Australian aboriginal, like the gum-
tree, hates the rut of habit. The great aboriginal moon-
myth includes a whole series of little moon-myths—you
might almost say, one for every district. Round Princess
Charlotte Bay the moon became our moon qhite other-
wise. As at Boulia, he used to live on the ground (he was
a masculine, German kind of fellow). Then... a long
time ago, two brothers—sparrow-hawks, they were—
went out hunting for “ sugar-bag.” They came across a
likely tree and one of them cut a hole, put his arm in—<
and got jammed! The deuce! He pulled, and his
brother pulled, but the arm was stuck as tight as a M.P.
in his seat, and the tree strongly opposed any deduction
of members. The perplexed brother went to look for
help, and fodnd out what rotten reeds friendship and
relationship may be in trouble-time. One after the other
made excuses, and the sparrow-hawk was just about to
express his contempt in primitive gesture when he spied
his mother’s brother, the moon, sitting on the ground
some distance away.
A GOOD NATURED LUNATIC
Ha! the moon vras a good fellow. On the difficulty
being explained, he immediately rose and accompanied
bis sister’s son back to the place where brother was
stuck. He climbed the tree, and reaching the top, bent
bis head well down into the hollow, a.n&—a-TISH-oo!
gave a very violent sneeze ; the pressure on the air from
the inside thus releasing the poor fellow’s arm below,
which was now easily extricated.
The released sparrow-hawk was, however, determined
on revenging himself upon the crowd of people who,
through their callousness, might hare allowed him to
perish. So, having first of all buried the moon under*
ground to keep him out of harm’s way, he set fire to the
grass with the intention of burning the whole camp out,
but some of the occupants managed to make their escape.
He thereupon started another fire, and this time put the
moon on the topmost branches of a high tree ; and again
some of his intended victims got away in safety.
But the sparrow-hawk was not going to be thwarted,
and having placed the moon high up in the sky, out of
all danger, he made such a tremendous conflagration that
on this occasion none of the camp-blacks escaped. And
this is how the moon regularly comes to take up his abode
in the heavens—out of the way of the bush-flres.
’T is the most ingenious aboriginal legend we have seen.
But there are many, many others.
At Cape Bedford the moon is the husband of the sun,
and at new moon he is starving, so he goes Ashing. And
he has luck and no lies : see how his belly is gorged at
full moon ! But his wife is always travelling westward—
she’s after the green ants ! You can see her start; but
at night she circles round by the south. There are really
two suns : in the cold season the frigid elder visits us,
and in the warm season the amorous younger.
Our delightful poor relation!
THE VOLATILE SEX
A story of domestic trouble, from the Normanby river :
“ A long time ago two women—a parrot and a water-
snake—were sitting at the water’s edge in a very discon-
tented state of mind. The fact is, they had got tired of
their husbands, two big eels, and wanted a change. In
response to their solicitations, a big eagle-hawk accepted
all responsibilities, and gratified their wishes. In course
of time each woman bore a boy, which was duly brought
to the hawk’s camp for the father to fondle and caress.
But when he looked at them, and recognised their hybrid
constitution, he could not refrain from exclaiming,
‘ Piccaninny no belong me,’ —though all inquiry amongst
his friends as to whether any of them had been tampering
with his two women proved fruitless.
“ He therefore sent the ladies away on a yam-hunting
expedition, and in the meantime took the two boys with
him for the ostensible purpose of catching opossums.
Coming to a likely tree—a comparatively hollow one—
the hawk sent the llads up and told them to climb into a
certain hole, which he pointed out to them some- con-
siderable way up. As soon as they had disappeared, he
took a tomahawk and made a hole low down in the butt,
and stuffing grass therein, set it alight, and roasted the
poor boys to death. So that suspicion should fall upon
the shoulders of others, he stuffed their bodies with
native onions to give them the appearance of being plump
little opossums ; and then, putting the corpses into dilly-
bags, hung them on a branch well out of sight.
“By this time the mothers had returned, and, in reply
to their inquiries as to where their children were, the
eagle-hawk told them that they were playing behind the
trees with their grass-spears. The parrot and snake
naturally went to see for themselves, and to their grief
and dismay recognised all that was now left of their
offspring. But they got their revenge that night: they
made a big nest for him, composed of sticks and leaves,
and as soon as the hawk fell asleep set it on fire. The
snake then took to the water permanently, only stretch-
ing her nose out occasionally to get the news from the
parrot, who is still poking among the holes in the tree 3
in the hope of getting tidings of her dead children.”
A RECIPE FOR WHISKERS
Roth’s bulletin has scores of similar legends : it
is a mine of golden lore. On every page we see what a
quick eye our aboriginal brother has, how truly he
observes, how just are his epithets. Into his pharma-
copoeia we cannot enter : he has specifics for most of the
ills his flesh is heir to. Yet one remedy from the Pros-
erpine river will be useful:—“Young men can make their
whiskers grow quickly by rubbing over the surface the
teeth from a carpet- or black snake.” There 1
♦
“The Tired Australian” who aaks “Is Aus-
tralian Humour Extinct ? ” in April if. of Reviews shows
no sign of fatigue in his style. The hairy hands of
anonymous Esau do not avert suspicion from the editorial
Jacob. The article reads as if written less in sincerity
than f o’-sensation. “The Tired Australian” professes
not t have read the books included in his sweeping
negative. “He is told” that On Our Selection almost
succeeds in being amusing ; but, of his own knowledge,
he knows nothing. “He has a vague notion ” that Ethel
Turner makes valiant efforts in the direction of humour ;
“ but, then, he has never read one of her books.” Was it
worth while displaying this statue of Condemnation on a
pedestal of Ignorance ? “ There are no snakesin Iceland.’
“ There is no humour in Australia.” Easily said ; but to
what end ? If the writer’s inquiry was made seriously,
why supply an answer admittedly lacking evidence!
If it was made humourously, why was the humour
omitted by this apostle of humour?
“LADY DOSE’S” DULLNESS
In Lady Rose s Daughter Mrs. Ward conjures
up a set of British patricians wedded to high concerns of
literature and art; neglecting court gossip, balls, Hyde
Park, the opera, cricket ; indifferent to house parties,
grouse shooting, fox hunting, betting, whist, billiards,
the play of the season ; thoughtless of the next “ drawing-
room,”' the latest “fad,” the worst divorce case; for-
getting tenants’ rents, bye-elections, Henley, the Derby,
walking tours on the Continent, charitj' concerts, bazaars,
The Morning Post, and Punch. It would be untrue to
say that none of these subjects is alluded to ; but they—
and others germane—are all treated as unvital. To say
that is to say enough.
Besides—a salon in Mayfair under the sceptre of a
“ lady’s companion ” ! A gathering of gifted, clever
people—as the authoress reports them —whose conversa-
tion is dull and mostly confined to family affairs ! ’Tis a
peculiarity of this book : at Lady Henry’s house the talk
is alleged notable for “ brilliance ” ; there is “ a thrill in
the air,” as well there might be if Mrs. Ward’s per-
sonages kept Mrs. Ward’s promises. But they do not.
Their reputed erudition, their knowledge of the insides of
books, their understanding for art, their experiences of
travel, their acquaintance with important events, their
brains, their tastes, their temperaments, their tongues
would presumably demand vent. Yet they keep all their
wisdom and wit locked up in their bosoms. Though Mrs.
Ward would persuade us that her people think like
Chesterfield and Madame de Stael, we discover that they
talk like poor Poll. Montresor’s few bright sallies near
the beginning of the book, Lord Lackington’s brief
observations on pictures at Burlington House, and the
two dozen lines about Shelley in Chapter XII, are
exceptions proving the rule. In fact, the people in
Lady Rose’s Daughter are much more serious and solemn,
given far less to pleasant raillery and playful repartee,
than the real inhabitants of Park Lane, Baton Square, or
“ the demesnes that there adjacent lie.” This novel
wants editing by Anthony Hope.— Lionel Strachey, in
The Lamp.
[Which touches the spot. But Strachey’s misapplication
of Rosaline’s famous “demesnes" (Rom. and Jul., ii, 1
reminds us that if Edward Lloyd had quoted correctly
the point of his mot would have been blunted. Gray, ir
the “ Elegy,” wrote “the noiseles| tenor of their way’
—and one can scarcely conceive a leading tenor noiseless
for thirty years.]
THE AESTHETIC PULSE
There is some quality for which we have no name,
whose essence pervades all true art, whether it takes
the form of music, painting, or poetry, and the ®sthetic
sensations aroused by the contemplation of these works
of art havs this same undefinable quality common to
them all. . . . Perhaps it is not altogether fanciful to say
that through various works of art the same pulse of
esthetic life may be traced, and if this is the pulse which
beats in the contemplator himself, the same quality of
thrill will be felt in the case of each symphony, poem, and
picture. ... .
As an example of what is meant, the same quality of
ecstasy is given to me in reading the final lines of
« Othello,” in hearing the third movement of Beethoven’s
“ Fifth Symphony,” «*d in looking upon lionardo’s “ La
Gioconda" in the Louvre.
What person, knowing thoroughly the work of Swin-
burne, could fail to see that the spirit of his poetry has
been thrown into musical form by Tschaikowsky ? The
Andante Cantabile of his Symphony in E minor is the
very wordless expression of the chapter “ Iseult at
Tintagel ” from “ Tristram of Lyonesse,” while the wailing
downward sweep of the violins in that heart-rending
passage in the opening Allegro is a musical transcription
of the impassioned lines beginning
Dear, dost thou see now, dost thou hear to-night,
Sleeping, my waste wild speech, my face worn white,
Speech once heard soft by thee, face once kissed red !
And the sombre and stately Polish death-march which
appears in every movement bespeaks the love of this
luckless pair—the love which has its fulfilment in death.
None shall say,
Here once, or here, Tristram and Iseult lay :
But peace they have that none may gain who live ,
And rest about them that no love can give,
And over them, while death and life shall be,
The light and sound and darkness of the sea.
There is the same passionate rebellion, the same tropical
luxuriance of phrase in the musician and the poet. . .
I do not insist upon the correlation of musical and
poetical passages ; in the case cited of Swinburne and
Tschaikowsky the resemblance was so palpable that it
would be impossible to forego mention of it. What Ido
insist upon, and feel convinced of, is the fact that similar
“ esthetic pulses ” which give rise to the same quality of
ecstasy in sympathetic observers are frequently to be
found in many works of art; a great proportion of the
art of Swinburne possesses the same quality or aesthetic
pulse as that of Tschaikowsky, much of the art of
Beethoven the same as that of Shakespeare...ln the
feeling wrought upon the reader, in the aesthetic atmo-
sphere created by Keats’s “ Hyperion ” and “ Endy-
mion ” and more by “ The Eve of St. Agnes,” we recognise
that of Schubert’sjjnfinished symphony in B minor, the
colossal work in C major, and the ,l Rosamunde” music.
In the case of Brahms, the first movement, as well as
the scherzo of the I) minor symphony, has the aesthetic
pulse of Tennyson rather than of any other writer, but
the atmosphere of his work as a whole is that of Words-
worth. There are the brilliant flashes of genius shining
out of a dead grey level of monotony ; there are whole
pieces of the highest merit, such as the clarinet quintet
and the Requiem, reaching, and sustaining, a level almost
exactly in harmony with parts of The Excursion and
of the immortal “ Ode.” —E.L.A., in St. Jamess Gazette.
BOOKFELLOW’S MOMORANDA
Booksellers in Cootamundra have fine sport at
the expense of innocent reporters who run round in
search of “the best-selling books.” The interviews
usually happen like this— , T
Mr. Boggs, of the popular firm of Boggs, Coggs &
Doggs, said that they found the three best-selling books
at present were first,' A Seventeenth-Century Sentiment,
which was really a remarkable novel, and was causing
great excitement among local readers ; second, G. W.
Puddock’s Kylie Kailyardie ; and third, The Red
Hair of Queen Elizabeth, by an anonymous author.
(You can get A Seventeenth-Century Sentiment from
Boggs, Coggs & Doggs only. Their agent has pur-
chased a thousand copies at an extra discount of ten per
cent.; and Boggs, Coggs & Doggs are booming them
in order to unload the stock.)
The genial and courteous librarian of Messrs. Foggs,
Goggs, & Hoggs mentioned particularly The Red Hair
of Queen Elizabeth.
(He said nothing about A Seventeenth-Century Sentiment,
because, that being a third-rate novel which fell rather
flat in the land of its birth, Messrs. Foggs, Goggs, &
Hoggs, ignorant of the petard of advt. to be exploded
by Boggs, Coggs & Doggs, had omitted to stock it.)
Among standard work 3, he said that The Mammoth
Cydopcedia was selling splendidly.
(Messrs. Foggs, Goggs, & Hoggs were tempted five years
ago to buy a publisher’s remainder of three hundred
copies of The Mammoth, and have regretted it ever
since. But, with the aid of the innocent reporter, they
may palm oft another copy or two upon the innocent
public.)
Messrs. Joists, Loggs, & Moggs had not experienced
any special demand for The Red Hair of Queen FIiZT
heth. They found that the best-selling LoW atpS
w&s A Chinese Centipede , by that dashing author n
V. X. Quawker, of which they had disposed of an’im
mense number of copies. Blue Ruin and On the Truk
of a Grey Gehenna were also in good demand
(These three books being issued by the pet publisher who
gives Messrs Joggs Loggs, & Moggs a special discount
ll l e -v nauirally seize the opportunity of advertising them
afforded by the innocent reporter ) K 6nem
0 ! they are up to all the tricks of the trade in Conte
mundra, where the thunderbolts go to. Coota.
America’s Isthmian Canal is now to be under,
taken seriously. The U.S.A. are concluding a t,W
with the State of Colombia, by which they wiif construct
ana own a canal,
as shown in the
annexed plan.
Colombia isto re.
ceive *10,000,000
cash ; and an an-
nual payment of
$250,000, begin-
ning in 1912. The
U.B.A. get in re-
turn a renewable
leasefor 100 years
of a slip of terri-
tory extending
three miles on
each side of the
canal. Colombia’s
titular sovereign-
ty of this strip is recognised, and she has the right of
transit of troops through it.
The Mercure de France recently sought opinions
as to Germany’s current influence on thought and art—
and found, even in England and America, little but dis-
paragement. Quote Ugo Ojetti as fairly representing
the mass—
Goethe, Heine, Nietzsche are admirable because they
have ranged themselves in opposition to their own
environment —because they have felt or declared them-
selves anti-German, in an intellectual sense at least.
For the rest, look at Art in Germany. Alas! in
Goethe’s country you findjihat Emperor William is tie
dull arbiter of public taste. What contemporary
German novel has gained the world-renown of any
volume whatever written by Tolstoy, by Anatole
France, by d’Annunzio, even by Kipling—not to men-
tion dead authors such as Flaubert, Maupassant, or
Zola?
On the stage, Sudermann is a mediocre Augier whom
the ostentatious display of a cheap philosophy has
made heavy and presumptuous. Hauptmann, when he
is not a realistic dialectician as in Fuhrmann
Hentschel, is a plagiarist of Ibsen.
In painting, whom can you see to fill the place of
Boecklin and Leibl—dead ; of Mentzel—old ; of Lenbach
—who is sick? In any international exposition the
German galleries are without illumination and without
a public.
We Latins can shake hands in looking to the future.
In another half-century, the Latin genius will still
dominate the world. Work !
“In Ireland,” wrote a Saturday Review-vv in a
flashing apothegm, “ all vitality is vocal.” One might
almost say that in France all vitality is literary. Thanks
to the inheritance of a refined language, the aid of a
thorough system of instruction, the stimulus of the Latin
intelligence, nearly everybody writes, even those who
are not writers. We speak of Paris, naturally, and as if
Paris were France —which it is not. Yet the comment
applies to France, when France has the opportunity.
Even in Brittany, France's most illiterate, most drunken,
most religious province, the alien Celts react to neigh-
bourhood, and grow towards kinship.
This is by way of explaining why a sculptor like Rodin
talks and writes interestingly. Writing is not his busi-
ness ; yet when he writes he says things, and says them
deftly. Recently he was discussing the public ignorance,
the decadence of public taste in matters of art, and advo-
cating the remedy of a return to Nature, and especially
of a return to Work :
We no longer know how to work. Work to-day,
whatever its nature, really tends only to the diminu-
tion of effort. But the Beautiful discovers itself only
at the price of persistent toil.
People no longer love, no longer comprehend the
Beautiful, because they no longer know how to labour.
To remedy the general ignorance of the fine thing,
the thing to he desired and extolled, we must restore
to every individual the sense of Work, the love of
Work. Through labour deliberate as the Earth’s own,
through patience as long as hers, we shall one day
come to a Spring of Art as glowing and spontaneous as
the Spring which her slow toil is always preparing.
Moral: The so-called Australian “artists” never work,
in the sense that they make work their recreation, their
sole occupation. When they begin, we may get an
Australian Rodin. Until they begin, we shall get the
Australian Court ”at N.S.W. Gallery sacred to framed
feetuses of Art!
A goodly number- of Lady Cook’s (Tennessee
Claflin’s) sixpenny books of essays, mostly on sex-
subjects, have been sold in Australia. Before Eng. Chief
Justice last month, the lady’s secretary gained an action
for slander against her, the verdict carrying
damages. Then Lady Cook rose in eruptionl am a
sorrowful woman. I have trusted myself in the hands oi
judge and jury. T have done more for England and
America than anybody else has ever done, and my repu-
tation is ruined. Oh, cruel, cruel men !
Re-oorrection. Publisher Blackwood’s list says
that life of W. W. Story is by Henry James, after ail.
This is the last intimation we shall make on the subject,
even if it turns out that Story has written the life of
James.
Melb. Book Lover says a woman unnamed has
been masquerading in Victoria as “ G ® or S® , p ™f°that
and as vet (April 1) no contradiction of the report that
G.E. lias revisited us “has been made either by %
reputable newspaper which set it afloat.or byte la y
who herself gave authority for it. If there have W
imposture, it was certainly hazardous
where “ George Egerton” was born some forty ago
as Mary Chavelita Dunne, eldest daughter ofl Capt. John
Dunne, who must still be remembered by a wp »
Victoria and Maoriland. He went through the Taang
campaign in the third Maori war under General Came
and Mary, then an infant, went along with mm
From Maoriland, at three or four years of age,
went to her mother’s uncle, James George, j .
Admiral Don George Beynon, commanded the Chflia
fleet in the war with Spain. Since then her life has Men
set apart from Australasia. Shehas been tbnc
—in 1888 to H. W. Melville, who died a year aftenvar s,
in 1891 to Egerton Olairmonte, who died in 19fl,
1901 to R. Golding Bright. r, a „nnfi and was
(Admiral George, who called himself Beynon, andw^
titled Don, was a great man in Chili in 1 d & “ploic
the whole a very creditable relative. His ar .
was the capture, with his single vessel, an( j
ships which thought to take him y P
some of these days I hope Fl . tc^ '7'the fact that he
My personal interest in him anse ® J ro ?? r r „. e Ep-erton”
happened to he my father’s uncle : £ hus ». r( j er t 0
is my second cousin. I obtrude these deta she
suggest that, if the Melb. woman sticks to her sto ft at \
be sent along to Sydney under proper escort, so tnai
may examine her birth-marks.)
A.G.S.


WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, and CO., Limited,
WOOL BROKERS AND PRODUCE SALESMEN
S YDNB Y.
FUR SKINS!
Kangaroo, Wallaby, Rabbit, Opossum.
SB3XTD to ,
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & Co.,ud.
o "y" "i" \ tvt "|F[ "y*
THE MOST SUCCESSFUL SALESfIEN. ’
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Stores: PYRMONT.
Sole Commission 3 Per Cent, to tlie Grower
011 Large and Small Accounts Alike.
S. FREEMAN + SONS L!!S!JEE
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
“ SPECIALTIES;
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES,
EXTRACT OP SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAjboFFicEj WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
L».
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections,
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA,
NEITHER CRACK
NOR BURN.
5806
CBB
6807
•5808
SHILLING BRIAR PIPES
QUALITY NOT BETTER
IN A GUINEA PIPE. . .
GUARANTEE.—ShouId
New On*
Sold by
ony •• our Celebrated CAN’T-B-BEAT Briar Pipes Crack or
will bt Exchanged for it iamediptcly on Application.
all Tobacconists* By Post, Is. 2d,
Bara a
Quality not better in a Guinea Pipe.
RICHMOND,VA
TOBACCO
Dark and
Bright
IS THE BEST.
Price, ss. lb., Post Free, all States.
A Perfect Pipe Tobacco.
HAVING secured the Sole Agency for the
above brand of AMERICAN TOBACCO, we
have vety much pleasure in recommending
same to our Clients and the Smoking Public.
“SOLID SHOT” TOBACCO, Splendid Aroma,
does not bite the tongue. With the ordinary
smoker this Tobacco is in great demand.
Save “Solid Shot” Tobacco Tags.
For Each 100 you will receive from the
A gents, -free, one only C.B. B. Briar
Pipe and Pocket Knife.
Sole Agent for C. 8.8. Briar Pipes.
Send for Whole sale Price Lists.
“Arkansas” Mixture
A Blend of the very highest grade Tobaccos.
Packed in Jib. Tins, 7s. 6d. lb.
Sample Jib. Tins, 25., post free.
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney, n.s.w.
BILIOUSNESS, INDIGESTION, and HEADACHE
are Permanently Removed by the use of KUTNOW’S POWDER.
* JNQUESTIONABLY the necessity of vigorous health is seriously personal to everyone, and therein lies the value of
Kutnow s I owder, which is superior to any known remedy of the age. It’s purity, its painless action, its prompt
alleviation of suffering, and its strengthening, refreshing, invigorating virtues entitle it to the splendid tribute to its
merit which was paid when
The Court Physicians prescribed Kutnow's Powder for Members of the Royal Family.
On taking Kutnow’s Powder in the morning, an improvement in energy is instantly felt, and a joyous feeling of
vigorous health pervades the whole system. Business difficulties disappear under shrewd solution; in fact, like all compli-
cated and delicate machinery, the cleansing operation at once produces the perfect contributory working of all the functions
which go to make a perfect man, who thus becomes himself again, eats well, sleeps well, and works well.
General Approval.
“Care of National Bank (Ltd,),
Boshof, Orange River Colony,
South Africa, 19th July, 1902.
“Deak Siks, —Although I have only used
your Kutnow’s Powder for a week, I find it
has a most beneficial effect, and shall gladly
recommend it to anyone suffering. Knowing
now that it can be obtained at Lennon’s I
shall not be without a bottle. The more
your Powder is used, the more benefit to
the public.
“ Yours very truly,
“L. MORGAN.”
HOLD FAST TO THAT
WHICH IS GOOD.
CAUTION.—There are some unscrupulous dealers who for the sake of extra
profit try to sell imitations of Kutnow’s Powder. These may cost a few pence
less, but are worthless, and consequently dear at any price. Insist upon having
Kutnow’s, and do not allow yourself to be persuaded to accept any substitute.
There is only one
Genuine Kutnow’s Powder.
Sir MORELL MACKENZIE, M.D., wrote:
“I have tmd it and find that it answers particularly well.”
As a painless and agreeable antiseptic aperient, it thoroughly cleanses the
bowels, kidneys and bladder, promptly stopping ail fermentation and germ
action — cool, refreshing, palatable, safe, thorough and never gripes.
Medical Approval.
“ Dear Sirs, —I am constantly prescribing
Kutnow’s Powder, with invariably good
results. I also use it myself in order to
regulate the inactivity of the digestive and
excretory organs. It is especially beneficial
in stimulating a sluggish liver, preventing
biliousness and dyspepsia, and permanently
removes the baneful effects of chronic con-
stipation.
“ Yours truly,
“ W. R. JONES, M.D.,
‘‘Professor of Medical Chemistry and Toxicology,
“University College, June 3, 1901.”
KUTNOW’S POWDER can be obtained from all Chemists and Medicine Stores throughout the World.
Proprietors: S. KUTNOW & CO.. Ltd., 41 Farringdon Road, London, E.C. Proprietors in USA. : KUTNOW BROS., Ltd., 853 Broadway, New York.
[l-7]


SMOKE
The Unrivalled
World Renownec
BRIAR
PIPES
LARGEST DEPOT:
231 Clarence St.
SYDNEY.
The Owl Cut-Rate Drug Co.
Manufacturing and
Dispensing Chemists.
We have special remedies for the correct and effective treatment of Nerve and Blood Diseases. Testi-
monials from all sources proving their efficacy. Write for Printed Price Lists ; they will be mailed free.
NOTICE.-Our ELECTRIC BELT, price 10s., usual price £l, is infallible in the cure of WEAKNESS and
STOMACH DISORDERS. Electricity re-invigorates the vital nerve sections, governing the processes
of digestion and nutrition. It effects a sure cure. DR. CLARKSON’S “ RE-INVIGORATOR,” a
VITALISING, NERVE, BRAIN, MUSCLE, and BLOOD STIMULANT. We still offer £lOO for
any case we cannot cure. Price, 7s. 6d. per bottle. Three bottles, £l. Post Free to all parts of
Australia.
Pyramid Pile Cure.— A certain remedy.
Fincham’s Face Bleach. —Clears the skin from Spots, Redness, Roughness, Freckles, Tan,
Sunburn. &c. Invaluable for use in the country.
Fincham’s Infallible Worm Powders. —Specially suitable for children. A certain cure for
worms.
Fincham’s Celebrated Pectoral “Cough I Cure,”— lnvaluable for children. A Reliable
Remedy for Croup, Asthma, Whooping Cough, and all Throat and Lung Affections.
Fincham’s “Gout and Rheumatic Cure. ’’--Takes certain effect in cases of Acute Lumbago,
Sciatica, Lame Back, Headache, Shoulder and Muscular Pains.
Dr. Hughes’ “Fits Epilep.” —A certain remedy for Epilepsy and Fits in all forms.
Dr. Wilson’s “ Neuralgia Mixture.” —One Dose Relieves, One Bottle Cures the most
agonising Face Neuralgia.
Fincham’s “Capiline.” —A Nursery Hair-Wash for Children’s Heads. Unsurpassed. One Bottle
Sufficient.
All these Invaluable Remedies will be posted to any Australian address, secure
from breakage, on application to—
Note the Address : THE OWL CUT-RATE DRUG CO.,
C. P. FINCHAM, Pharmaceutical Chemist. 227 ELIZABETH ST., Opp. Hyde Park, SYDNEY.
STATE EXPRESS Cigarettes.
Made from the
FINEST
VIRGINIAN
TOBACCOS
HAND MADE r
FREE FROM DUST,
HARMLESS to the
THROAT.
' V' r
“My darling,*
“ASTORIA,”
“QUO VADIS,”
“ WALDORF,”
NO. 999,
NO. 555.
UNEQUALLED
for
FLAVOR and
AROMA
MANUFACTURED BY THE ARDATH TOBACCO CO., LONDON.
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300 pages ; price, 4s. 6d. ; postage, 6d.
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, 50 engraving’s, 3/6 ;
posted, 4/ 'flow to Mesmerise, I/-4 Magic
Up-To-Date, 1/3 ; Metal Working, solder-
ing, brazing, 1/6 ; Camille, 1/3 ; How to
Play Billiards, 1/3; How to Vamp, 1/3;
Piano Tuning and Repairing, 1/6 ; Modern
Etiquette, 1/-; Card Games, 1/-; Great
Book op Wonders, Secrets and Mysteries,
1/-: Poultry Keeping, 1/- ; Horse and
Cattle Doctor, 1/-; Parlor Magic, 1/. ;
Dream Book, 1/-; Every Man His Own
Builder, 1/6 ; Carpentry, 1/6 ; Lightning
Calculator, 1/2 ; Australian Doctor, 1/6 ;
Letter Writer, 1/3 ; Speeches and Toasts,
1/3 ; Kelly Gang of Bushrangers, 1/3 ;
Book of Dialogues, 1/-; Enquirer’s Oracle,
3000 subjects, 1/6; Self Instructor, 1/3 ;
How to Dance, 1/3; Art of Boxing, 1/3;
Art of Wrestling, 1/3 ; Moll Flanders,
1/6 ; Tailoring for Amateurs, 1/3 ; Ven-
triloquism, 1/- ; Comic Reciter, 150 gems,
1/3; Irish Comic Reciter, 1/3; Little
Folks’ Reciter, 1/3; Nigger Stump
Speeches, 1/3; New Tricks with Cards,
1/3; That Rascal Gustave, 1/3 ; Plain
Home Talk, 7/6; Sappho (genuine), 1/6;
Fortune Telling Cards, directions, 1/6;
Advice to Women, 1/3; Midwives’ Hand-
book, 92 practical illustrations (better than
Aristotle), 3/-; Palmistry, chart and guide,
6d. ; Clog Dancing, 1/-. Above prices in-
clude postage to any address. Stamps or
Postal Notes of any State will do. Free
Catalogues—Plays, Conjuring Apparatus,
Racy Novels, Useful Books, Private Books
for the Married, etc.
WILL. ANDRADE,
BOOK AND MAGIC
ARCADE, -
201 Bourke-st., Melbourne.
HEBjI
i
AERTEX CELLULAR FABRIC
is the ideal form of body covering, possessing all the neces-
sary hygienic qualities, and being also most comfortable and'
of attractive appearance, and for those reasons is recom-
mended by the Medical Faculty wherever introduced.
Aertex Cellular Underwear Is a. Sure Preventative against Chills
Cellular Neglige Shirts.
Soft fronts of plain or pleated
Cellular Cloth; wrists, French
Print, Linen, or Cellular. Recom-
mended for Golf, Cycling-, &c.
White body, 7a 6d; colored, 8s 9d
Cellular Day Shirts.
Silk neckbands and soft wrists.
White and Self Colors, 4s to 7s 6d
Fancy Designs, 7s 6d to 9s 6d.
Cellular Dress Shirt.
Fitted best Belfast Linen Fronts
and Ouffs, 0.8. or 0.F., one stud.
Cellular Cotton Body—
-6s 6d to 8s 6d
Cellular Lisle Body-
Os 6d and 10s 6d
Cellular Short-Front Shirt
for every-day wear.
Open behind, 2in. linen wrists—
-6s 6d, 6s 6d.
Open front or behind, square
cuff* — 6s 6d 6d
m
i " i.: vf
wi
AERTEX
Cellular Combinations,
High or Low Necks.
s. d.
White Cotton, trimmed
Lace 5 8
White Cotton, trimmed
Embroidery .. ..76
White Cotton, trimmed
Lace 9 6
White Lisle, trimmed Em-
broidery 10 6
AERTEX
Cellular Nightdresses,
White Cotton, trimmed
Embroidery .. .. 9 0
White Lisle, trimmed Em-
broidery .. .. .. ’2l 0
White Lisle, prettily
trimmed, fine Torchon.. 19 6
Aertex Cellular Chemises.
White Cotton, trimmed Embroidery,
Bs. White Lisle, heavily trimmed
Real Torchon, 14s 6d and 16s 6d.
Aertex Cellular Slip-Bodices.
High or Low Necks. All sizes
to 30in ; large sizes, extra.
White Lisle, trimmed Torchon, 6s 6d and 8s 6d.
Bend for Illustrated Price List—Post Free.
DAVID BRAHAM & GO.,
Sole Agents.
73 & 75 King-St., Sydney
Cellular Tennis Shirt.
With Collar and Pocket. The most
comfortable for all out-door sports
of all kinds. A great variety of
patterns stocked.
Plain Colors, 4s. 6d. to 7s. 6d.
Fancy Designs, 7s. 6d. to 11s. 6d.
i**!
m
WfWmmw
<<:>■
K
A Piece of
Aertex CeDular Fabric.
Fabrics by the yard or piece—ln
Cottons, Bd. to Is. 9d. ; Lisle
Thread, Is. 3d. to 2s. ; Silk and
Cotton Mixture, 3s. 6d. ; Merinos
and Wools, 3s. 3d. to 4s. 9d. ; Silk
and Merino Mixture, 4s. 6d.
Send for Full Price List,
Aertex Cellular Corsets.
Fitted real Greenland Whalebone.
s. d.
01 Ecru 13in. deep .. .. 15 6
02 ~ long waist, 14£in deep 16 6
M White Cotton, 14in., nar-
row spoon busk .. .. 21 0
G White Cotton, 14Mn., with
Elastic Supporter .. 24 6
F Ecru, Riding or Cycling.. 12 6
V Cycling, Boned French
Horn, Elastic Hips .. 15 0
D 1 same shape as Cl, Watch-
spring Steels .. .. 86
>5
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
\ FURRED TONGUE.
)
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
There’s SECURITY In
ITTLE
IVER
PI LLS
SALLOW SKIN.
They TOUGH the
LIVER
Be Sure they are
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price.
Carter’s
(George Adams,
Hobart, Tasmania).
IMPORTANT NOTICE
The Tasmanian Government having imposed a tax of One Penny
on every Five Shilling Ticket issued by Tatter sail’s on and after Ist
January, 1903, clients will please forward Id. extra for each ss.*
ticket applied for, or 4d. for every £l, and so on.
NOW OPEN
PRINCE OF WALES STAKES, Randwick, N.S.W., June 3, 50,000 at 5/1.
GRAND NATIONAL HURDLE RACE, Flemington, Vic., July 4, 100,000 at 5/1.
Subscribers will please note that GEORGE ADAMS (“TATTERSALL ”) STILL
CONTINUES his business in lIOBART, under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN
GOVERNMENT, and that clients can send their subscriptions by letter to any friend or
acquaintance in HOBART, who will there have no difficulty in delivering the application and
securing the despatch of tickets and results direct to clients.
Money can also be paid through any Bank in Australasia, to the credit of GEORGE
ADAMS, Commercial Bank of Tasmania, Hobart. Clients when so doing will please request
Bank to advise GEORGE ADAMS of amount, with their name and full address.
Small Parcels addressed to me can be forwarded to Hobart through any PARCEL
DELIVERY CO. doing business with Tasmania.


Danger ahead!
The engineer
doesn’t see the
broken rail.
There is sure
to be a terri-
ble wreck.
There’s a
wreck
ahead for
i
m
you if you pay no attention to your
weak throat and lungs.
Ayers
Cherry Pectoral
Weak throats and weak lungs easily
give way. Some extra strain, as a
fresh cold, and you are down with
bronchitis or pneumonia. Better
strengthen these weak places before it
is too late. Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
heals these irritable throats, gives tone
to the relaxed membranes, and imparts
strength to the lungs.
There are many substitutes and imi-
tations. Beware of them! Be sure
you get Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral.
Two sizes. Large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
W. H.Wigzell.
FRINGES : Best Natural Curly
Hair, 3/6, 5 6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each.
TAILS and PLAITS : 20in. long,
5/6 ; extra thick, 7/6; 24in., 10/6;
extra thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combines worked up,
2/6 per oz. Don’t be misled.
Our Plaits and Tails are twice as
thick as sold elsewhere at the
same price. Send color of Hair.
Only one address : 110 WILLIAM-
ST.", cor. of Palmer St. SYDNEY.
Cable trams will stop at door. All work guaranteed.
Illustrated Catalogue post free. Prompt attention given
to country orders. Wigs made on shortest notice. All
Hairwork sent to the other States free of duty. Transfor-
mations, entire covering for the head, 30/- each.
THE
BROWNIE
DEVELOPING
MACHINE.
:
Price 12s. Only.
Full Particulars of all Dealers and of
KODAK LTD.,
284 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Please mention this paper.
S€ND US
YOUR PHOTO6RAPH.
JF you send a Photograph of yourself (or frien
Mr. Mark Blow, Crown Studios, Sydney,
he will reproduce from it a very beautiful and
Artistically Finished
Permanent Enlargement
In Black and White, equalling a rich Steel Plate
Engraving, handsomely mounted on an Indian-tinted
Plate, sunk mount, and as good in every way as Enlarge-
ments now being supplied at from. 30/- to 50/- each, and
will carefully pack it and send it Carriage Paid to any
address in Australia, Tasmania, or New Zealand for 10/6.
Your Photo. Returned with Order.
Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Producor.
Qapillarine
Posted (under corer)
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
Th* littuil.
CRAIG &. AITKEIN. N.S.W. Barber’s Supply
House, 680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The representative book of Australian humor
STEELE RUDD’S
“On Our Selection."
The besr remedy-
• - "W w
INFLUENZA,
COUGHS,' r , .
COLDS,
BRONCHITIS, .
ASTHMA.
Ask for Bonn 1 ng ton’s
and seethatyou get it
Commercial
Buggy.
£l4 10*
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-sb.|
SYDNEY.
tST Send for a
Catalogue.
r
Wont Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE tC
buyers of Light Vehicles.
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, i3o Sussex St., Sydney
Straight Shaft 3-Spring Sulkies, £BlOB.
Sarven Sulky Wheels Tyred, £2 4s 6d pair.
Discount to Wholesale Buyers. Send for Catalogue.
21/-
21/-
HOST MARVELLOUS VALUE
A SOLID SILYER KEYLESS
Hunting Watch.
Heavy Case, Sound Movement,
Perfect Timekeeper
GUARANTEED FOR TWO YEARS.
21 j-
Posted Duty Free to any part of Australia.
Send for my New Illustrated Catalogue.
QUEENSLAND LEADING JEWELLER
H. F. SMITH,
Queen Street, Brisbane
and at IPSWICH and TOOWOOMBA.
“New Rival ” and “ Repeater ”
WINCHESTER
Shotgun Cartridges
“ito Rival ” loaded with Black powder, and “ Repeater ”
loaded with Smokeless powders. When buying, always
insist upon having them, take no others, and you will get
the best Cartridges for the price that money can buy.
NO TROUBLE TO GET, AliL DEALERS KEEP THEM.^
WE WINCH ESTER GOODS.
M‘LEAN BROS. & RIGG, Ltd
ELIZABETH STREET, fIELBOURNE.
GOOD HAIR FOR AT.D l
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has trained a World-wide Reputation tor Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If vour Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it 19
Thin, TRY IT. Price —35., 45., ss, Postage, 9<L extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATUR ALINE.
gST For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
r'r»wdilLT HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
. bv chemists tnd by WATKINS & MACKAY, Chemists, Queen Street, Brisbane ; Mr. GORDON, 92 George
dby all Chemists, ana ny wax gtreet) Rockha mpton, Queensland, and
HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE 1
AliL Chemists.
Wabhingtoh H. Soot & Co,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £.900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
I'O TiFliny COMiPBTITIOKT.
WINES
The Bed Brands Oidtj >/
&
SPIRITS.
M AjSCI’ALTURERS 01’ MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Lulu.
Lulu, my queen,
Fairer than waters strewn
With pearls and stars and sea-flowers pale
between—
Child of the Moon.
Rest your tired head upon my shoulder — so,
And let the red fire’s sheen
Make changing glories in your proud eyes glow,
To fade, and light, and blaze, and pass, and go—
Lulu, my queen.
You laugh so low.
With you all sounds sigh “ Peace.”
The sea-winds gather strength to thrash and blow,
Then, sighing, cease.
The world rolls on ; the clock-bells chime and toll
To tell the hours that go.
I hear no bells ; the world may spin and roll.
There are such songs of beauty in my soul —
Sung low—so low.
Yet this I know :
You love in earnest jest;
And you speak low since love-words spoken low
Win kisses best.
Your heart beats true so long as it is true.
Your fancies flit ; and so
I crave no lasting favors as some lovers do.
The struggling truth ; the laughing fickleness in
you—
Ah ! yes, I know.
Your soft, red lips
Make whispering voices sigh.
The sea-storms leap to flog the plunging ships,
Then, moaning, die.
The world rolls groaning ; but I hear it not.
Eacli hour stalks past and slips
In silence to the land of things forgot.
I only know your lips are sweet and hot—
Ah ! cruel lips.
Lulu, my queen,
Sweeter than morning skies;
What jests and tragedies have I not seen
In your dark eyes ? . . .
Outside, the rain and tempest scream and blow-
inside, the red fire’s sheen
Makes love-lights in those proud eyes gleam and
glow.
Oh, God ! that I should come to love you so !
Lulu, my queen.
M.L.
WILL LAWSON.
Sleep.
Bring blossoms, red and gold,
That I may wreathe her hair;
Also a rose-red shroud,
That I may swathe my Fair.
Bring blossoms, red and gold,
That I may warm my Sweet ;
And fold in rose-red shroud
Her little, clay-cold feet.
Midst blossoms, red and gold,
Lay her warm and soft away
In waves of rippling sunlight—
She hated shade and grey.
Midst blossoms, red and gold,
She sleeps ; she did not die.
One kiss—the last—my Sweet,
My own flower-love, good-bye !
N.B.W.
ELISE ESPINASSE.
Love Repulsed.
Love came knocking at my heart,
Tapping—softly, gently tapping.
But I heeded not the smart
Of the saucy urchin’s rapping ;
Closed the entrance to my heart.
“ Run away 1 ” I said, “ I’m napping.”
But he paused. “ Begone !” I cried,
“ Saucy imp ! Seest not I’m sleeping ?
Cease thy clamor ! Hast no pride,
That a beggar thou comest creeping ? ”
But still he tapped, and I denied,
Till Love turned slowly, sadly weeping.
Then, repenting at his grief,
‘ ‘ Come back,” I cried, ‘ ‘ Grieve not so sadly.
Come fill my empty heart, sweet thief!
Ah, truth to tell, it’s aching badly !
Come back. I’ll hold my heart in fief
For thee, O Love ! I want thee madly ! ”
“ Alas 1 ” he sighed, “ Too late, too late !
Love, once repulsed, comes not again.”
“Yet stay 1” I pleaded. Ah, sad fate !
“ I may not stay !” he so! bed in pain.
“ Farewell, farewell! ” He closed the gate
And vanished. “ Love comes not again ! ”
JILL.
Song.
Such sets of sun, such dawning days
To struggle through ; such weary ways.
Such weary ways 1 The ways are drear
When lovers part. How creeps the year 1 . .
How burns the sun ; how chill’s the dew ;
How cold’s the moon ; how mocks the blue.
How mocks the blue ! The blue mocks me,
It is so dark, apart from thee.
I only know one song, one tune ;
I sing one song from June to June.
From June to June ! Such dawning days
To struggle through—such weary ways !
Such weary ways / The ways are drear
When lovers part —how creeps the year !
V.
THE GIRL.


QWINO to increased demand for THE
HIGHEST CLASS OF SCOTCH WHISKY
’ THE PROPRIETORS ARE NOW PLACING ON THIS MARKET THEIR
“EXTRA SPECIAL” QUALITY
FOUR RED CROWN WHISKY,
OLD AND MELLOW,
the nine as supplied under ROYAL WARRANT, and sold largely in Great Britain.
IN BULK AND BOTTLE.
From all Hotels and Spirit Merchants.
Wholesale Agent, NORMAN SHELLEY, YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Morbid Months of Misery.
“A DESPAIRING WRECK OF HUMANITY."
A Great Friend in Time of Need.
Tf\e Case of l/|r. H. BARNETT,
(bt a special reporter. )
lb is worthy of note that the interviews
which have from time to time appeared in
these columns are singularly free from mere
theorising about the subjects dealt with,
and are entirely confined to practical, though
none the less interesting, details, an addition
to which is made by Henry Barnett, of No.
212 James-street, Leichhardt.
“To show what important events some-'
times arise from trivial causes,” said the
gentleman mentioned, “ I must inform you
that one day I scratched my elbow with a
piece of zinc, which was hanging loosely in-
side a waggon. It was nothing to grow
alarmed about, I thought, and 1 took no
notice of it until the next day, when my
arm appeared to be slightly inflamed, but I
did not take any precaution to stop it get"
ting any worse. Not till a week afterwards
did I bother myself, and by that time my
arm was so much swollen, and the pain was
so intense, that I could not go any longer
without seeking some advice.”
“ Where did you go for it I” ths repor-
ter enquired.
“ To the hospital, and on three successive
visits my arm was operated upon. It was
then that I realised the great disaster which
had overtaken me, as the doctor said I had
just come in time to save losing my life from
blood poisoning, so by that you will know
thkt I was in a dreadful state.”
“ Were you able to attend to your busi-
ness ? ” ■
“ Work of any description was beyond
my powers for nearly four months, for my
constitution was fairly broken up and I was
almost helpless. This being the first illness
I ever had, you may depend that I felt my
misfortune very keenly, and the thought
that I would never be able to use my arm
again nearly drove me frantic. I sat and
brooded over my troubles till my mind
lapsed into a chronic state of despondency,
and although the doctor said I had come
‘ just in time,’ I did not feel so sure about
it, as I felt so generally weak and wretched
that I doubted if I could survive the terrible
calamity which had occurred. For five
days and nights I did not eat a morsel of
food, although I tried hard enough to take
a little nourishment, but I could not swal-
low what I put to my mouth, and this, to-
gether with the agonising pains I was
suffering, made a thorough wreck of me.
My cruel tortures would not allow mo to
sleep, neither did I know which way to lie
for ease, so that when daylight came I was
glad to get up in spite of having scarcely
sufficient strength to walk about, for if I
aid Tysake an attempt my head turned so
giddy that J. st;t>n had to sit down again.
My wife was kept going riyht and day bath-
ing and bandaging my arm, but even the
great care I received and the doctor’s medi-
cines combined could not succeed in elimi-
nating the poison tivhich prevented the
wound from healing. 1 was completely at
the mercy of my original complaint, which in
time made my recovery more improbable,
because of the ruin it wrought on my in-
ternal organs, and as ailment after ailment
was piled up I saw that my prospects were
more gloomy than ever. My nerves were
always on the quiver, which showed that
the strain on my system was too great for
them, and I felt particularly nervous on
hearing any noises, which also grated on my
ears and made me extremely irritable. I
could see that it was no good taking any
more doctor’s medicines, as I was getting no
benefit from them and they made me feel
sick; besides, they did not help me in re-
gard to my appetite, so I decided on pur-
chasing some Clements Tonic.”
“ How did that idea originate ? ”
“Well, I had taken Clements Tonic to
give me an appetite once before when I was
feeling a bit jaded, and it made ms eat like
a, horsa ; and now that I was bo feeble, and
run down a* low as I could be, I thought
Clement* Tonic might do the same again.
And, upon my word, it did ; but for a while
I was sorry that Clements Tonic made me
eat so heartily, as my digestive organs were
in such a shockingly bad state that all food
disagreed with me. My stomach always
got filled with wind, and my chest pains
were so weighty that I could scarcely get
my breath, while the awful pains 1 had
hitherto been maddened with were added
to by something going wrong between my
shoulders. The taste in my mouth and the
furred condition of my tongue testified to
the disordered state of my liver, but the
aches in my limbs and across my loins told
the direful tale that my vitality was per-
fectly exhausted. When I come to look
back upon those weeks of abject torture and
misery, when I could not even read for the
swollen feeling in my eyes, with no anima-
tion in my body, and with no hope left, I
consider it a of
Providence which influenced me to perse-
vere with Clements T,onic, by the aid of
which came a delightful experience that
broke the morbid monotony of all those
months. When the first bottle of Clements
Tonic was finished I was sleeping more
soundly than I had done for some time past,
the reason being that there was a decrease
in the pains which had kept me awake so
consistently, and how thankful I was for
the rest, too ! To find that I could obtain
relief from Clements Tonic gave me a fresh
interest in life, although I did not antici-
pate throwing off my afflictions altogether,
as they had held out so obstinately against
other medicines ; but I was grateful for all
mercies, and when the discomforts following
my meals were lessened you can imagine
my great surprise. Little by little my
strength returned, and the vitalizing pro-
perties of Clements Tonic came in evidence
by the gradual healing of the wound in my
arm, and now there is nothing but a scar to
show where it was opened. I had lost a
considerable amount of flesh during my
illness, but in a few weeks it >vas all re-
stored, so it is needless to say that Clements
Tonic put my digestive organs in thorough
order, besides infusing so much power to my
nervous system that you could not have got
a tremble out of my nerves no matter how
you might have tried. Before long I had
shaken off every pain that had tormented me,
and with the full complement of strength
which Clements Tonic restored to my sys-
tem, I went back to work none the worse
for the terrible trials I had undergone.”
“ Are you sure you were quite cured ?”
“I have not had the least thing wrong
with me since, and I feel as hearty as though
my constitution were made of iron, so
Clements Tonic did its work well. I was
a despairing wreck of humanity when it
was called into requisition, and for saving
me as it did I owe my life—long thanks to
Clements Tonic —an admission which you
can publish in any way that may do good.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Hbnrt Barkrtt, of 212 .lames-street, Leich-
hardt, in the State of Now South Wales, Com-
monwealth of Australia, do solemnly and sincerely
declare that I have carefully read the annexed
document, consisting: of four folios, and consecu-
tively numbered from one to four, and that it
contain! and is a true and faithful account of my
illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also contains
my full permission to publish in any way my
statement* which I five voluntarily, without
receiving: any payment; and I make this solemn
declaration conscientiously believing the sarae to be
true, and by virtue of the provision*of the Oaths Aot.
1900.
Subeoribsd and dsclarsd at Leictihardt, this sscond
day of April, ons thousand nine hundred and two,
before me,
H. R. STEWARD, J.P.
Second
Edition
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER
TTa. *jr
Kis ’Veniuro,
and V^rgsß.
Price 1/1
Pott
Frot.
Y By PRANK RPNAR. Y
Edwards, Duql»p k C t„ Syiscy
WORKE*
am-Gu/c
OItiTMtNT
n SOOTHINC BALM and EMBROCATION Will be found
A a CERTAIN CURE for Cuts, Burns, Boils, Barcoo,
Eczema, Sprains, Ringworm, Sore Feet, Piles all
forms of Skin Disease or Muscular Affections, etc.
From all Chemists, 1/6 per Tin. A FREE SAMPLE will
be sent you. Address the
ZAM-BUK CO., 39 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Enclose Penny Stamp for postage, and mention this paper.
JJOTICB TO MELBOURNE VISITORSL
WIMPOLETS GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne,
TiUph** Jfo. 10IA
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
•elected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and oan with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Catered for
on Most
Banquets and
Private Balls
Reasonable
Terms.
Dinner Parties
MARQUEEB, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
“ They come as a boon and a blessing to men,
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen."
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEN made by Macniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
separately examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
tYT" BEWARE OP IMITATIONS. -»fl
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAM
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
DEBILITATED
T*7'EAK, NERVOUS SUFFERER. Let us send you a
' ’ trial course of our CONCENTRATED BOTANIC
REMEDIES FREE OF CHARGE. You will be more
than pleased with the result, and you will show your
appreciation of our valuable treatment by persevering
in its use for a few weeks until you are PERMANENTLY
CURED. Address—
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Vlotoria Chambers, Ellzabeth-etreet, Sydney.
DRUNK
ENNESS
CURED
Absolutely Conquered in 20 Days.
See my proposition to the Government,
November Bth, 1901, wherein I agree to
accept 100 Test Cases, and prove that my
Vegetable Cure for Alcoholism is a positive
and reliable remedy Home treatment
within the reach of all. No restrictions, no
hypodermic injections. Full particulars free,
W. LANGSTON, M.R.c.s . Bn*..
129 Collins-st., Melbourne.
RUPTURE
CURFD
withosil
operation or pain.
no detention from work, or depend-
ence upon Trusses. The only
humane treatment. Hundreds
cured. Write to-day for illustrated
Treatise No. io. Address:
I SURGEON LANGSTON,
M.R.C.S., ENG.,
129 COLLINS STREET,
f MELBOURNE.
RESCUED from DPK
By a new discovery, odorless
and tasteless, which any lady
can give in tea, coffee or food.
It does its work so silently and
surely that while the devoted
wife, sister er daughter looks on
the drunkard is reclaimed even
against his will and without hie
knowledge er eo-operation.
Miss Edith WILLIAMS, who
cured her father after rears of
misery, wretchedness and almost
unbearable suffering, eays:—“ I
Shall be so glad if you publish my
experience, for it will reach
many others and let them know
about the wonderful EUCEA BY.
I will de all I ean te help any
suffering sister who will write me.” Bend name and
address to THE
Eucrasy Co., 02 Hunter-st, Sydney,
tad thejr will *»n4 j»w Bo*kUt ud putirulan FREE.
The Australian Bailonnan’s Book—
E. J. BRADY’S
“the Ways of many Waters.”
A rattling collection of Sea Ohanties. Pric*.
bs. Bd. post free frwtn lu Bulletin offioe.
Always use at Bedtime
to prevent Mosquito bites
CALVERTS
20 per cent.
Carbolic Soap.
A delightful soap for toilet purposes. *
Most useful to prevent or cure in.~» K 5,
or stings, itch, piles, ringworm, eta! ‘ bltes
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
morris's
IMPERIAL
ftI EYE„
oihtment
CURES
TOOTH-ACHE
CURED INSTANTLY BY
BUNTER’S
Preyenti Decay, SaTet
Extraction, 81eeple«» Nightl
PreTented.
Nenralgic HeadachestallNerve
Pains remorad by BTJNTER'S
NERVINE. Of aU Stores.
NERVINE
“As a specific for Tooth ache it has no equal, I have
nsed it successfally for years.”—Prof.. W. Wilson, M.D,
The BEST FAMILY MEDICINE
KAYE’S WORSDELL’S PILLS
Are a certain Core (or Indigestion, Biliousness, Head ache,
Dyspepsia, Constipation, Liver and Kidney Complaints, Ac.
Of all Stores.
Rupture
Free Cure.
Wonderful Home Treatment That Cures
Without Pain or Loss of Time.
Dr. W. S. Bice (Dept. 268), 8 & 9, Stonecutter
Street, London, E.C., has invented a method tha»
'cures rupture ■without pain, danger, operation, o>
an hour’s loss of time from the day’s work. T«
avoid all questions of doubt, he sends free to ever
MB. JOHN WESLEY.
sufferer a free trial of his method, and there can be
no earthly reason why anyone, rich or poor, s o
not avail themselves of this generous offer. As an
instance of this remarkable method, the cure 01
Mr. John Wesley, Castle Lachlan, Inverary. Argyle,
is a welcome intelligence. Mr. Wesley isi a w
preserved and highly respected gentleman, Ti ye
of age. After a short use of the Bice method
Tupture healed entirely. To-day he’s soun ]d
a bell. If you know anyone ruptured you sh
tell them of this wonderful method, which w
be sent for trial free of all costs.
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every purchaser
of our
KLECTJtIO
KELTS and
appliaeces
a trial of 80 days before
payment, which is ™iy
explained in our "““V'
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore t
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can b
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee "
each Electric Belt that t
trill permanently cure you. If it exactly
iromptly return the full amount paid, "e
vhat we say, and do precisely what we pro i«t gend
NOTICE. Before purchasing, we P "“ yo ,
or our Electric Era and Price List (P° B £i^ggxEa,
Bust rations of different appliancesforliOTHshA
dso Testimony which will convince the most seep
Address:
jerman Electric Appliance Agency
Elizabeth Street. SYDNEY-
ALL CHEMISTS
4T
!>*'%
£
FOR
An/emia,
Poverty of Blood
and Weakness
from Whatever Cause.
TABLETS
AT 3/6 PER BOX


xyE SPECIALISE in but one direction, i.».,
VV EQUIPMENT OF OFFICES
on an UP-TO-DATE SYSTEM
the
No Business cau
succeed without
METHOD.
This METHOD
we supply.
WABASH
EXPANSION
Business
Systems.
Letter Files.
Document File 9
Card Index
Systems
For ale
Businesses.
Write for
Catalogue.
I i—- Jm ■
Uii-ti:-
WOOLLEY, BERGIN & CO-,
269 George St., Sydney.
Sole Agents, Australasia.
AN EDUCATION
IS PROVIDED by the American
School of Correspondence,
at Armour Institute of Tech-
nology, Chicago, who conduct
Engineering Tuition by corres-
pondence, and aim to extend, at small cost, a valuable
technical education to the great wage-earning classes
everywhere. The courses are especially practical,
and are adapted to the needs of working people who
are willing and anxious to advance. Electrical,
Steam, Mechanical, Civil and Sanitary Engineering,
Drawing, Mathematics, Architecture, and Textile
Manufacturing, Mining. Catalogue “ B,” describing
Courses, Methods and Terms, sent on request to
R. N. FERGUSON, Electrical Engineer (Manager
Australia), P.O. Box 629, Sydney, N.S.W.
Hypnotism
*9
Reader, why rot be able to use the
most mysterious and powerful force of
nature? By my method you can learn
to Hypnotize in a few liourß time, with-
out leaving your home. You can per-
form all the many marvellous feat*
| that are possible to the Hypnotist.
Through Hypnotism you can curedisease
I conquer pain ; win reluctant aflectiou,
[gratify your ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs you
' nothing to find out all about it. I have
just issued in book form a mammoth
l illustrated LESSON Of Key to
Hypnotism, which fully explains
I the mysteries and secrets
lof the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is ihe most elaborate
and expensive thing of the -cind
ever published. For a short
time I wi,l send this magnifi-
cent work FREE, sealed on
receipt of 6d. (stamps) to cover
postage. Order to-day and learn
to Hypnotize. It is a cl-ance of
a life-time. Address—
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
MEN
II
you
are
suffering from
1 exhaustion, Vari-
cocele, Wasting,
Weakness, enclose 6 stamps (postage and
packing), and I will send a trial bottle of my
RESVIEE3Y, FREE.
IT COSTS YOU NOTHING
to try my Life Syrup Remedies, which
give back strengthof body and brain, renewed
vigor, and development of the vital organs,
not a free prescription dodge, but a trial of
my wonderful remedy free for the asking.
PROFESSOR H. READ,
165 Collins street, Melbourne.
VEGETABLE
Charcoal
THE ROAD
TO HEALTH IS
PAVED WITH
GOOD
DIGESTION.
Speedily cures Acidity, Flatulence, Heartburn,
Impure Breath, Indigestion, Diarrhoea, Ac. It
destroys all disease germs, and, absorbing all impuri*
ties in the stomach and bowels,gives a healthy tone
to the whole system. Wards off all attacks of Typhoid
and other Fevers. Prevents many an illness.
BRAGG’S PURE CHARCOAL POWDER in
Bottles; LOZENGES and BISCUITS in Tins
(pleasant to take). Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
Having had complaints of the injury done by other
preparations,please see that each Bottle or Tin bears
the Trade Mark ‘ J.L.8., in monogram, on the wrapper.
OF INTEREST to MEN
■PkEAR
-U him
£AK SIR I have been cured of weakness and De-
— bilitv by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to a 1
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to
Mr. ROBERT E. PARKHURST,
Pitt street, Sydney.
PHOTOS
Models from Life, Beautiful Stereo-
scopics, etc. List with 100 Mima*
ture and 3 Cabinet size photos.,
55., P. 0.0. or stamps.
8. RECKNACEL NAOHF, Munloh, 1 Brieffaoh, Carm&ny
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Frso, is
The Life, Adventures
and Coalesssiona of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Frse, is.
lend stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties .
Madame Panza,
BOX 913, G.P.0., BYDN«Y.
BAD COMPLEXIONS
Dry Thin and Falling Hair and Red
Rough Hands Prevented by
CUTICURA SOAP
MILLIONS use Cuticura Soap, assisted by Cuticura Ointment,
for preserving, purifying, and beautifying the skin, for cleans-
i ing the scalp of crusts, scales, and dandruff, and the stopping
of falling hair, for softening, whitening, and soothing red,
rough, and sore hands, for baby rashes, itchings, and chafings, in the
form of baths for annoying irritations and inflammations, or too free
or offensive perspiration, in the form of washes, for ulcerative weak-
nesses, and for many sanative, antiseptic, cleansing purposes which
readily suggest themselves to women, especially mothers, and for all
the purposes of the toilet, bath, and nursery. Cuticura Soap com-
bines delicate emollient properties derived from Cuticura Ointment,
the great skin cure, with the purest of cleansing ingredients and
the most refreshing of flower odours. No other medicated soap is to
be compared with it for preserving, purifying, and beautifying the
skin, scalp, hair, and hands. No other foreign or domestic toilet soap,
however expensive, is to be compared with it for all the purposes of
the toilet, bath, and nursery. Thus it combines in One Soap at One
Price, the best skin and complexion soap, and the best toilet and
baby soap in the world.
COMPLETE EXTERNAL AND INTERNAL TREATMENT FOR EVERY HUMOUR,
Consisting of Cuticura Soap, to cleanse the skin of crusts and scales, and soften the
thickened* cuticle; Coticura Ointment, to Instantly allay Itching, inflammation, and
Irritation, and soothe and heal; and Cuticura Resolvent Pills, to cool and cleanse toe
SsSrsas dV.°Vbul fessrsft
Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT PILLS
(Chocolate Coated) are a new, tasteless,
odourless, economical substitute for the celc-
vT pttttpttt?a Rfsolvent as well as for all other blood purifiers and humour
digestives, yet compounded.
-Ss>
ARE YOU WEAK ?
Low-spirited, Tired of Life, Have you utterly
failed in your efforts to regain Health?
Go to the Fountain Head
And consult Old Surgeon Langston, who will Cure
you. Forty years’ practice as a Specialist is sufficient
Guarantee of the doctor’s ability.
AVOID unskilled pretenders, flaming advertisements and specious
cure-alls.
Vigor and Strength
for a.ll who
desire it.
OLD SURGEON LANGSTON,
Member Royal College of Surgeons, England, located in Melbourne
since 1886, has so perfected his method of treatment that it can
almost be said there are no hopoloss or incurable cases*
Be the equal of your fellow man.
If vou are a sufferer from any nervous, chronic Blood or Skin diseases, or interested in the subject of
Neurasthenia and associated evils, write at once for book of information, blank forms, etc., and have the
old doctor diagnose your case.
geek the Truth, it costs KTothing!
All communications strictly confidential. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, 129 Collins Street, Melbourne.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
BUBKAOna
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
Br Da. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Chroxnos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1902 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy ; Is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d.
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is.
Tiib Art of Wrestling, post Is. Hoyle’s Games, post 8/6
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Lov«, Dress, etc.), Is Sd post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, is posted. Camille, Is 3d.
Secret History of the Court of England, 1 6 post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history), Is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
Up-To-Date Comic Reciter (newest), 1* 3d post free.
How to Bead Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevassk’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted. Sappiio, Is.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want.
The Wife’s Handbook, Is 2d posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post.
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus. Leather bound, my price, 16s post paid
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic,
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance. Is 3d.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s posted.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music comple e Is 6d.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d posted.
Send for my Illustrated Big: Book
Catalogue - post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney.
ASTHMA and BRONCHITIS CURED
By usingCASE’S ASTHMA CURE, made from the Queensland Asthma
Plant.
'Relieves instantly, eventually Oures.
Posted to any State, ss.
Is. 6d. large bottle;
J. W. CASE, Chemist, 140 Wickham-st., Brisbane.
Please mention Bulletin when writing
USES
Insecticide
Kills
ALL
INSECTS
,o**
K
°f
ATtOt^S
B e^ R
/r
,S Ifagg.
GOUT
PILLS.
FOR GOUT,
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO.
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Trout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
For A’sthmatic people who suiter from
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault’s Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest.
ORIMAULT & Co., Faris. Sold by all Chemists.
EVERY WOMAN
is interested and should know
about the wonderful
Manel Whirling Srray
The new FEMALE SYRINGE
Injection and Suction. The best,
safest and most convenient.
It Cleanses Instantly.
If your druggist cannot
supply the MARVEL,
accept no other, but write us for
Illustrated Book, sent free
sealed. It gives price by mail,
particulars and directions invalu-
able to ladies. ** Endorsed by Physicians.
Times Building, N.Y.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS-
THE MARVEL CO. OF AUSTRALIA,
CAMDEN BUILDING,
418 George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
LADY SPECIALIST IN ATTENDANCE.
Postal Address, Box 623, G.P.0., Bydn*y.
Write for Booklet. Sent Iree, sealed.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
'I he, only Infallible Remedy for W EARN ESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled and
unprecedented success throughout the World.
Dr Ricord's Essence of Life restores Health and Strength
to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating all the
important elements of ths human f rains*
In cases of 128. or four quantities in one for 368. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope
Aaentsfor Australasia-PZRM * 00., 47 Queen Bt,
Melbourne ; Wholesale Agents for Reu South Wales—
F. H. Paulding & Co., 16 O’Connell 8t«, Sydney.
Hat
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
I Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M, NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbeurae.


Safeguard
Your
Health
See
that your
Brandy
fis
Bottled
in
Cognac.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
■*» :
TSS
TSSStJ
■am l
itia
Ml I]
m
mt
AARON’S
Exchange Hotel Co.,
SYDNEY.
The system of paying for Room only ftad
Meals as required is adopted here.
£3 3s. per Week
9s. per Day
W. W. AIKEN, Manager,
30 Years in the EstablishaiMt.
GEORGE MARE, Secretary.
Visitors to the Old'Country
BAILEYS
-OVAL
GLOUCESTER ROAD,
SOOT// KENS/N G TON,
EON DON. S.W.
THE NEW LOUNGE: ONE OF THE FINEST IN LONDON
self-cof\tairved suites.
PLEASANT PRIVATE GARDEN.
THE MOST COMFORTABLE HOTEL IN LONDON
ft
»#> V
m
m
'-‘A'i.'A
I- I
Ur
as
[ r*kb/i
r. t
l.rjr „K
m
vj/r
**s•l
V
\u
!!
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and two minutes from
entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
Tariff, 10s. 6d per day, or apartments may be
secured separately by the day from 3s. and upwards.
Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted on applica
tion to The Manager.
THE
‘PLUM’
Hf
THE
‘PLUM’
—This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, ring
like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7a. Od.
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
{Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, Ha
Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful Ouse, 33*
Registered and sent Post Free to ant part of the World.
IW~ Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
No Rivals.
The three new “ AUSTRAL ” Cameras,
built for Australia to order of the
BAKER & ROUSE PROPY., LTD., are
the best and cheapest yet imported.
“AUSTRAL” Nos. 1 and 2 are roller films, loaded In
daylight Pictures 2\ x2\ and x 2\. PRICE, 6s.
'
and 10s. respectively.
“ AUSTRAL” No. 3 is a J-plate magazine of great
excellence.
■aptniapY
guicioqpLf
■kauphs
These Cameras are beyond all comparison for strength, finish, and
accuracy of fittings in every detail.
The Baker & Rouse Proprietary Ltd.
375 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and BRISBANE.
To Smokers of High Class Mixture.
WILLS 8
66
(Registered.)
MIXTURE
Choice Blend of High Class and Carefully Selected TOBACCO.
Packed only in patent air-tight tins.
Manufactured in two grades—Medium and Full. Price, Is. per 2oz. Tin.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. 24.—N0. 1212.
SATURDAY, MAY 9, 1903.
Pricw 6d.
JllKs
" Sljt oiA
I I Fit f
1| #, i f i \ I
s^a § $ i *
flflfif K 1 IfJSli
i| SS ?J fllitt §Bs&*>
Xt * * i||f Jr.' '" "
■ *'■■■■
A WANDERING MINSTREL.
Owe’Sullivan has made a hit by singing “The Old Folks at Home.” Here is his version as sung by him at banquets, &c.
Oh! Ikeys how the Works grow squeaky —
Oh! for some more Cash from ’Ome.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians
Printed and Published by Wit.ltam Maoleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS AFTER
Ist NOVEMBER , 1902
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 6
naif-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 0
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
NOTICE.
r>t/ sending direct to Tun Bulletin O/flce Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to yon every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts , etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Maclkod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number, is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the " Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other A rticles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian mbjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, 8000 words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
ftnctly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Am.ate.ura in. Jllach and lVliite.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a qood idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa — Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown;
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal; Solomon
and Wilson, 22 Hout St., Capetown; Solomon and
Wilson, Commissioners Street, Johannesburg ; Granger
Bros,, Johannesburg ; Isaacs and Co., Durban ; Argus
Printing Co., Rhodesia; Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
Cevlon.— Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
B.C.
Hono Kon a.—Brewer and Co., 22 Queens Road, Hong
Kong.
SATURDAY, MAY 9, 1903.
The Victorian Railway Crisis.
The purpose of Thomas Bent —and of the Irvine
Government which for some reason stands at the
back of Bent and endorses his brutal bluster and
blatant bully-ragging—is palpably to force the
Victorian railway employees to a strike. Behind
that purpose there may be some deep motive of
policy, such as a plot against State control of the
railways, or there may be only the reckless resent-
ment of a man whose public career is such as to
make it possible to believe him capable of any folly
and any political crime ; but the purpose is plain
enough. The position is not merely that the con-
temptible Bent, and the equally contemptible
Irvine who countenances him, have taken up a
firm attitude—or even a brutal attitude—on a
matter of principle. If it were so, the action
might be excused if not pardoned. Were Bent—
with Irvine at his back —to declare that trades-
unionism is a pernicious principle which, since it
interferes with the right of the employer to grind
down the worker, must be put down ; and were he
accordingly to set himself to its suppression, such
an attitude, however cruel, however extraordi-
nary in this 20th century, would be at least
capable of some sort of explanation. But
that does not represent the Bent attitude at
all. The Bent attitude is a deliberate effort
to outrage the feelings and sentiments of
the Victorian railway workers; and the demand
that these workers shall cut themselves adrift
from the central trades-union organisation is only
a feature of that attitude. The demand is made
primarily for the purpose of being offensive. It
is flung at the men with savage malevolence and
with all the coarse invective of the enraged cab-
bage-huckster whose continuance in Victorian
public life is such an ironic commentary on demo-
cracy. The men are threatened with brutal down-
rightness that “the sack ’ will follow a refusal
on their part to accede to the demands of Bent.
What better way to insure that they will refuse?
Were men to be asked to go to Heaven in such
terms as Bent uses, their manhood would urge
them to say no.
* • * *
It seems certain that, if the railway men do not
join issue with Bent on this point, he will shortly
find another cause of quarrel. Whether it is from
motives of deep-seated policy (and the backing
given to this disreputable political bully by men
who pretend to a conventional respectability seems
to suggest that he is the lowly instrument of some
noisome scheme), or from mere private malevolence
and the reckless desire of a certain class of upstart
to be arrogant and insolent, certain it is that
Bent wants trouble. If the railway men, with a
consideration for the public good that their
tormentor so conspicuously lacks, give way on
the union point, sacrifice their right of indepen-
dent action in private life, and accede to a demand
which no other civilised country would make, and
which in N.S.W. would be a criminal act if made
by a private employer— Bent, it may be fore-
casted with absolute certainty, will soon find a
fresh humiliation to inflict. Ever since he took
office as Minister for Railways in the Irvine
Government Bent has bellowed “sack” and
| strike ” ; has set himself to pile insult, humilia-
tion, and loss on the railway servants of the
State. Wage reductions, spying surveillance,
sweating, pot-house language—have all been tried,
and, having failed, this latest demand is seem-
ingly relied upon to inflame the men to a point at
which resentment smothers caution. Since it
seems to be evident that there must be a battle,
the railway men had better fight on the high
ground of principle than abandon their union
entrenchments to be forced to a conflict over some
meaner issue.
• • * *
There could be no grander principle for a working
man to fight for than that of trades-unionism, of
the Fraternity of Labor. The right of the worker
to band into a union with his brothers of the same
occupation, for mutual benefit and for mutual
resistance to oppression, the further right of such
unions to federate into more highly-organised
councils of unions, is the very keystone of social
reform. Trades-unionism is the one proved bul-
wark which the worker has against the tyranny,
the selfishness and the folly of capitalism. It has
so vindicated its claims to be considered a power
for good that even such dour and extreme in-
dividualists as Herbert Spencer have been com-
pelled to give it a reluctant benediction. Without
it, the worker in England would have been a
helot until, by some such upheaval as that in
France at the time of the Revolution, he shook his
chains off amid the ruins of society. With it, the
process of industrial and social readjustment, ren-
dered essential by the expansion of human pro-
duction by machinery and the expansion of the
human intellect by education, has been able to
develop on peaceful lines, which promise one day
to lead to a happy issue. Abolish trades-unionism,
or even seriously diminish its power, and the
subsequent oppression of the worker would be
quickly followed by an outburst of anarchy. It
is the safety valve of society. To join issue, then,
with the unspeakable Bent on the question is the
wisest course for the Victorian railway men to
follow. Every worker (in the broadest sense of
the term) in the Commonwealth is vitally in-
terested in the successful maintenance of trades-
unionism, and everyone with an intelligent ap-
preciation of the situation will make all possible
effort to support a firm championship of that
principle, which is as well worth fighting for as
Australia is worth fighting for.
* * » •
And that will be the real issue. There is no
other Sophistry may strive to represent Bent as
an administrator struggling(with much regrettable
but excusable “blanky”) to make the Victorian
railways pay. But, as a matter of fact, the
humiliation of the Victorian railway workers, by
denying to them the right which most private
employees have practically, and all have theoreti-
cally, of combining in unions, can have no
possible effect, direct or indirect, on the financial
results of the railway administration. Bent has
already enforced his reductions of railway wages.
His Government has already disfranchised the
railway men, as far as it says it wants to do, so
that they may. not have a chance of securing
redress by political agitation. Bent has already
successfully inflicted upon them a swindling
system by which they are compelled to work one
day a week for nothing, under a system analogous
to the tribute of a day’s slavery a week for the
State which is imposed in some Oriental countries.
If Bent is now able to force the railway
men to give up their trades-union privileges it
will not put a penny piece into the Treasury.
The humiliation of the men may be grateful and
comforting to him, and more precious than gold
or a share in a land swindle ; but its effect on the
revenue, or its value when brought to Cohen as
security for advances, will be absolutely nothing
The proposal is an entirely unprofitable bit of
Bent malignancy.
* • * *
Still the true reasons why the Victorian rail-
ways don’t pay—though really foreign to the issue
whether the Victorian railway men should be
deprived of their union rights as well as their
votes—should be kept in mind at this crisis.
Bent himself doesn’t argue to any material
extent in defence of the attitude he has
taken up ; with him a curse and an
ugly threat and a blustering insult take the
place of reasoning. But Bent’s backers, the men
who stand by him as he blasts and blithers through
the land, profess to be filled with a patriotic
desire to make the Victorian railways pay, to re-
move from the taxpayers the burden of the rail-
way deficit; and they pretend to find in Bent an
uncouth but efficacious instrument of Providence
to secure that happy end. It is well, therefore,
for the public of the Commonwealth to know why
the Victorian railways don’t pay and be able to
judge from a knowledge of the facts whether the
wild yells of Bent are likely to be a remedy. The
Victorian railways don’t pay mainly because—
They were never assisted in the first instance, as
almost all private railway enterprises in “ new ” countries
were, by free grants of land. The private enterprise
railways of Canada had huge subsidies of land and money
from the Government and now do not pay on their
private capital as much per cent, as the Victorian lines
The lines of the U.S.A. had the assistance of big land
grants, of money grants from the towns which they
touched, and even then, in spite of the great population
of that great country, rarely pay an honest dividend on
their original capital, though they may yield high
profits to “ wreckers ” of the Jay Gould type after much
of their cost of construction has been written off as lost.
The South American private railways were largely
propped up by Government guarantees and Government
cash, in some cases the fool-Government guaranteeing
no less than 7 per cent, dividends. The Victorian rail-
ways do remarkably well, and a reasonable Government
looking forward to their prospective value, would be
fairly well satisfied with the present state of affairs
They are burdened with finding the exorbitant interest
on some of the earlier construction loans ; they have to
find interest on the cost of lines which are now closed
down and on the cost of surveys of lines which were
never built; and they have to carry a load of in-
terest on the ridiculously high price's paid to Tory
landlords and swindling land-sharks for resumptions.
They are used, justifiably in some cases, unjustifiably in
others, as the great State relief department. If there'is a
drought, the pastoralists’ starving stock is carried on the
railways at a loss. When there is not a drought, the
Kvabramapootra crowd, who have already taken the
country down with irrigation-trust swindles, get their
produce taken to market on the railways at unproductive
These are the main reasons why the Victorian
railways do not pay, and they may be expressed
in one word Bentism. It is Bentism which
keeps the Victorian railways off the dividend-list—
the howling ignorance which is typified in Bent
the reckless disregard of facts which is Bent, the
sacrifice of the revenue’s interests to gratify land
swindles, Tory landlords and influential consti-
tuents which is Bent, the extravagance of build-
ing unnecessary lines which is Bent. Those bad
features of Victorian politics, those follies and
crimes that culminated in the disaster of 1893,
which find their lowest expression in Bent, are
the true reasons of failure. And failure is only to
be turned to success by dealing with those causes,
and is not in any way to be affected by further
Bentism—by sweating and swindling the •em-
ployees, by exasperating them to revolt, by
letting the lines go to pieces for want of
repair and the engines to fall in their tracks
for lack of attention, by granting free passes
to people who build houses in or around Bent’s
district, and by cursing generally and making a
railway man feel that to work under such a
master at even a high wage is a humiliation and
a degradation.
* * * •
All this is really foreign to the issue, which is
that Bent demands that the Victorian railway
employees should abandon an integral part of
their civic rights, and demands it in such a way
as to show that obedience to the. ukase —tyranni-
cal as it is—would not end the matter, but
would be the signal for the infliction of fresh
humiliations. But still it is well to bear it in
mind, to remember that the pretexts which
the contemptible Victorian Government advances
as its reasons for supporting Bentism show as lies
on a very little examination, and that the real
causes of any failings of the Victorian railways
are to be found in the political ignorance and reck-
lessness of which Bent himself is the supreme
example to date. If the Victorian railways are
to be made to “pay,” it will be by putting them
under skilful, humane, and reasonable manage-
ment; by eliminating the element of “blanky”
from the control (an employer who treats his
men on principles of “blanky ’’ must in the end
pay for his cursing, either in higher wages
or in getting poorer work); by encouraging a
spirit of cheerful emulation in the employees ;
by shutting down on the exactions of Tory
landlords and prosperous ’pootras, who can well
afford to pay a (reproductive rate for railway
service ; by frankly recognising that some railway
work is charitable relief, and should be charged
to the charity vote ; and, most important of all,
by splitting up, with a progressive land tax, the
big estates which smother land settlement along
some of the trunk lines. The Bent policy, which
is to ruin permanent way and rolling stock by
inattention and to ruin the morale of the men by
too much “blanky” attention, is on utterly
disastrous lines. Incidentally, then, the Victorian
railway men, by taking the firm stand which as
free men they must take on the question of trades-
unionism, are acting in the best possible way
to secure railway reform. Reform can only come
by a negation of all that Bent stands for; and
the fall of Bent would be the probable outcome
of a struggle. To defend a sacred principle and
to kill Bent politically—it is a glowing prospect
which demands any sacrifice.
The Same Old George.
George Reid, the ancient owner of the fatuous
smile and the Dry Dog and the joke that was
borrowed from Comic Cuts, is pervading Tas-
mania on a Foreign-trade mission. According to
his own admiring organ, Sydney Evening News,
he is paid £5O for doing this, a previous offer of
£25 having proved insufficient. It isn’t every
man who can boast that he is paid £5O to damage
the industries of his own adopted country for the
benefit of British, German, Yankee and Jew
importers, and for the profit of the foreign manu-
facturers whose goods they sell, but George
Reid has attained that remarkable, not to say
loathsome, distinction. As the stipendiary hack
of our business rivals —the people who want
the work which is also so badly needed by
Australians George Reid has, so far as
reports go up to date, said nothing very new,
and the old dull things that he said were, most of
them, flatly untrue. The quotations which follow
are all taken from Reid’s other admiring organ,
Sydney Telegraph, which, presumably, wouldn’t
go out of its way to misrepresent its own fatted
joss. Therefore, in taking it as an authority, the
importers’ remunerated hack can hardly complain
of not getting a fair deal.
• • * »
This is G. H. Reid at Hobart, with his vast
waistcoat overhanging the Derwent and his back
jostling Mount Wellington:
The Ministry began with a magnificent manifesto, and
they were now arraigned before the public to be judged
as to whether they had carried out their promises. The
selection of the capital site was to be the first thing done.
It had progressed through two picnics and into one Royal
Commission. The judicial bill of pre-eminent importance
had not yet been passed. Then there was the Inter-State
Commission Bill, promised but not touched. The old-
age pension scheme which the Barton Government
promised, and which would cost a million to administer,
was chimerical, because it would mean extra taxation of
four millions.
Mr. Edward Braddon : Through the Customs.
Mr. Reid : That was so, and that reminded him that the
Prime Minister had branded the Freetrade party as the
party that was going in for direct taxation. (Hear, hear.)
He did not think Mr. Edmund Barton would have pur-
posely made a misstatement. In living the life of a public
man it was impossible for him to remember everything
and Mr. Barton forgets a good deal. (Anplause.) It was
a clear and sacred bond that the Federal Government
should only tax through the Customs, leaving direct
taxation as much as possible to the States. That was the
deliberate policy of the Opposition as it was of the Minis-
terial party. Regarding the old-age pension scheme,
seeing what would be necessary in the way of taxation’
it was a cruel and wanton act on the part of the Govern-
ment to hold out to the electors such a bribe as that, for
it was nothing else.
That was the beginning of the first speech of the
“campaign,” and it was a beginning of which
Ananias might have been proud. For, in the first
place, it is wholly untrue to say that the Barton
Government promised that the selection of a
Federal capital was to be the first thing done. It
is a gross and shameful untruth to allege that the
Barton Government promised to grant old
age pensions, and though George Reid has
repeated that malevolent lie most persistently, he
most carefully avoids stating when, where, how,
or by whom the alleged promise was made—-
because no such promise having ever existed, he
can’t do so. And it is absolutely untrue to say
that there is any “clear and sacred bond,” or any
other kind of bond, to the effect that the Common-
wealth Government shall tax only through the
Customs. The only bond in existence on the
subject is the Federal Constitution, and it gives
the Commonwealth Government absolute powers
to levy taxes of any kind. Therefore, in say-
ing that the Barton Government, by making
the promise regarding old age pensions which it
never did make, was well aware that it was pro-
mising what couldn’t come to pass because the
“ bond ” which doesn’t exist made it impossible
to raise the money, George Reid did something
extra in the way of misrepresentation.
Further, George Reid lays it to the charge of
the Barton Government as one of its special sins
that if it did provide £1,000,000 a year for old
age pensions it would, under the Braddon clause
have to levy £4,000,000 in customs and excise
taxes to get the said million. If the Braddon
clause is so nefarious Reid should certainly not go
round with its nefarious author as one of his chief
supporters. Also he shouldn’t have refixed the
Braddon clause in the Constitution when the
Premiers’ Conference was called in 1899 for the
express purpose of taking it out and putting in
something better. Premier Barton was not a
member of the Premiers’ Conference which finally
decided to keep the Braddon clause in the Con-
stitution, while Reid and his friend Braddon
were members. It is beautifully characteristic of
Reid to thus blame his own act on the man who
wasnt there. u
* . * * *
And here is some more Reid :
He did not propose to rip up and destroy the whole of
this Barton tariff (Applause.) He had no such enter
prise. Every duty in that tariff which was a revenue
w- y wT U i < l probab,y Btay where H was - but those dudes
which had been exaggerated in order to destroy revenue
to wither the tree which is to give the fiscal fruits would
he reduced (applause) to a sound revenue limit to a
limit which would not forbid importation ’
Certainly George Reid, as a man who is
Pa n r y A e ? oreign m ‘P or ting interest, can’t
well forbid importation. So the situation
B ta„d, .th",, R e ,d. a, the US °‘
office m N.S.W. on the direct taxatfon
ticket, denounces direct taxation and is not
going to resort to it. Also Reid, who savs that
customs duties, make things extravagantly dear
states that he is going to depend for the Federal
revenue if he becomes Premier of Australia on
customs duties, and thus makethingsextravagantly
dear. But-and this is where the sole difference
between his policy and that of the Barton
Government comes in-he gives his solemn
and brutal promise that his duties won’t heb
to create any Australian industries wherebv
the Australian people may find employment
and wages. He gives his callous oath and
covenant that they won’t help anybody to a iob-
that they won’t interfere with the British
German, Yankee and Jew importers-that they
fvon t tend to raise any local production that will ’
compete with his political friends Robert Reid
and Leah Abrahams and limit their extortions
Incidentally, by promising not to levy direct
taxation, he undertakes not to tax the absentee or
do anything to break up the huge estates of the
A. A. Go., and the Peel River Co., and the V D L
Co., and the S.A. Co., which stifle progress and
block settlement. In other words, George Reid
is with the Fat Man, the rack-renting landlord
and the absentee all the time.
• • *
Further, this is Reid and his Dry Dog on the
White Australia question:
Afterwards he went on to deal with his attitude last
session on the Alien Exclusion Act. The Governmenf
proposed an educational test under which, if they would
learn it, tens of millions of Hindoos and Japanese could
land in Australia to-morrow. What he proposed was
that these people should, on the grounds of integrity of
race, be for ever absolutely excluded. The Ministry had
been led by Mr. Chamberlain, and all the ingenuous
sophistical explanations could not disprove that evident
and glaring fact. No man would be more ready to listen
to Mr. Chamberlain’s opinions than he would but no
outside man on earth should have the right to interpose
his view to influence the deliberations of the Australian
Parliament.
Who would imagine on reading that fieri
denunciation that this same George Reid was
the political crawler who introduced into
Australia the educational test as a means of
keeping out undesirable aliens? Jn 1896 Reid
then Premier of N.S.W., passed an Act for
the shutting out of the unpleasant Asiatic.
That Act wa3 contemptuously torn up by Joe
Chamberlain, who dictated the educational test
instead, whereupon George Reid abjectly
climbed down, and said “Yes, Mr. Chamber-
lain,” and passed in N.S.W., at Chamberlain’s
dictation, the same law which the Barton
Government has since applied to all Aus-
tralia. But for the precedent which Reid’s
cringing to Chamberlain thus established, the
Australian Government might have met with
better fortune than it did. Jf the present Aliens
Restriction law is good, then Reid’s denunciations
of it are mean calumny’. If it is bad, it was
Reid who first introduced the nefarious thing to
Australia, and he is the responsible party.
• * * »
And here is another casual sample :
When the world was waiting for our grain, metals, and
all our vast products, was it not madness to induce young
Australians to go into factories and compete with the
Blums of the old world ? (Cheers.) AVe could not hope
yet to compete with the old world.
What a grim and heartless satire ! The world is
waiting for our grain when we have just had a
two-bushel harvest and have failed to grow enough
for our own consumption ; and when all Aus-
tralia has averaged less than seven bushels per acre
annually for the last 10 years, and the farmer
is half the time a beggar asking the State for seed ;
also, the world is waiting for our metals
when our copper, lead and silver mines are
shut up in all directions because the prices won’t
pay for working ; and for our wool when the last
sheep seems as if it was likely soon to perish out
of the land; and for our meat when there is a
howl for the abolition of the meat duty, so that
cow-beef can be imported. We are not to compete
with the factories in the old world slums—only
with the peasant in the cold Russian bogs, and the
gaunt little nigger in the Indian jungles, and the
poisoned miner in the Austrian lead mines. And
this is because, according to Reid, we can’t com-
pete yet with the Old World. It is a strange
doctrine that because a man iemoves into a new
country, or a new town, or a new street, or a new
house, he must at once lose all capacity for being
a skilled artisan, and degenerate into a hewer of
timber, or a primitive individual running after a
bullock.
• * • •
Also, here are some casual Reidisras all lumped
together:
What a commentary on the utility of Protection in
strengthening industries ! There was some squealing in
New South Wales, but he was deaf to it, and forcibly
weaned the struggling young industries, which thence-
forward became strong and lively as kittens.
There was a flourishing local industry in Tasmania
called Tattersall’s sweep. (Greatlaughter.) The Gover-
nment set themselves to put a stop to it. He did not
blame them ; in fact, he was with them on principle, but
Tasmania questioned the legality of the action of the
Government, and asked them to stav their hand until an
appeal could be made to the High Court. If he (Mr.
Reid) had been Prime Minister, and the question of
constitutional legality arose, and he had been asked by a
State Government to wait for a decision of the High
Court, he would have had the generosity and respect to
grant the request. ' ,
The harrying of importers by Mr. Kingston must go.
(A voice: “ He is quite right.’’) No: if the importer
made a mistake he should be punished, but not dragged
before a police court.
He alluded to the tea and kerosene duties, the loss of
which had been a source of disappointment, and was at
one time, at any rate, a source of apprehension to the
people of Tasmania. Mr. Barton had endeavored to
throw the blame of the loss on him. Mr. Reid explained
the actual facts, which were that the duty on tea was
defeated by only two votes, and that a large number of
Protectionists and Ministerial supporters voted for it.
The Government, if they had been sincerely anxious for
the duty, could have re-proposed it. There was no
sounder Freetrade duty in the world than a tea duty.
In other words, George Reid again tries to brush
away the well-known fact that he, as Freetrade
Premier of N.S.W., heavily protected Free-
trade newspapers, beer, wine, sugar, tobacco,
cigars, and many other things, and that
his alleged Freetrade was a lie and an im-
posture all the time. And for the rest, lie
says that he believes in passing the anti-
Tattersall law, but if he had been Premier he
would have yes-noed as usual by illegally sus-
pending it after it was passed. Also, he strongly
upholds the tea-duty, and he voted against it.
Likewise he believes swindling imiiorters should


be punished, but they shouldn’t be “dragged”
into the police court, which is the only legal way
of beginning the process of punishment. The
mere Australian clerk or workman who does a
small steal goes to the police court as a matter of
course, but there should be one law for the Aus-
tralian producer and another and a nicer and less
public law for the English or German or Jew or
Yankee middleman—the class which, according
to the Evening News, has just paid Reid £SO.
* • • •
The existence of George Reid —for he still
drags out a kind of existence —in Australian
politics is one of this country’s mysteries. Austra-
lia knows him in many capacities, as
The man who reversed Dibbs’s policy of economy and
resumed heavy borrowing.
The Freetrader who protected wine, beer, tobacco,
cigars, sugar, Freetrade newspapers and many other
things.
The renegade who twice went to the country for a
mandate to reform the Upper House, and got a majority
on the promise that he would reform it, and left it un-
reformed.
The Tory who refused to pass a Local Government Bill,
to tax absentees, or to break up the great land
monopolies.
The abject person who allowed his anti-nigger Bill to be
torn up by Chamberlain and drafted a new measure at
Chamberlain’s dictation, and who now denounces that
same measure.
The man who is responsible for the fact that the
Braddon clause, which he now denounces, is in the Aus-
tralian Constitution.
The man who refused to grant old age pensions in
N.S.VV.
The person who demands that there shall be one law for
the Australian producer and another for the foreign
importer.
The disgraced politician whose financial doings were
reported on by a committee of three —two of them his
own nominees—and declared to be a huge political fraud
and swindle.
George Reid is all these persons—and many
others equally nefarious as well. And yet the old
stale joke that he borrowed out of Comic Cuts
helps even this load of political infamy (and the
dog) to keep afloat.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Virtuous Jap.
Mr. Bruce Smith is building up a reputation as
the Anacharsis Clootz of Australia. It will bo
remembered that A.C. was known as the
“ Apostle of Mankind ” during the French
Revolution. He held a brief for men of all races
and colors, and wanted them to be looked upon
as brothers by the free and enlightened French
patriots of the period. The grim humorists of the
Convention tolerated him for a time. Then they
chopped his head off. Mr. Smith, lecturing
before a suburban Ladies Political League the
other evening said, amongst other things : “ Our
treatment of the Japanese, as well as of our fellow
subjects of the Empire in India, was an outrage
on our much-vaunted civilisation and enlighten-
ment. We were completely sacrificing our racial
reputation for courage by openly admitting that
what we had to fear in the Japanese were their
great national virtues.” Of course, no such thing
was ever admitted, but it is an old trick in contro-
versy to invent your opponent’s confessions and ad-
missions. A few hours earlier, on the same day
when the member for Niggers and German
Shoddy made these droll statements, a depu-
tation from another Ladies’ League waited on
Minister Kingston at Charters Towers, and urged
him to use his best efforts for “ the abolition of
the system of introducing Japanese women, who
were practically .brought to Queensland for a cer-
tain purpose.” Japanese prostitution, however
much it may Appeal to Bruce Smith as a great
national virtue, evidently has no similar attrac-
tions for the women of the Towers. The latter may,
of course, be prejudiced and take what Mr. Smith
calls ‘‘a narrow view of other races,” but they
are on the spot and are entitled to their opinions,
however illiberal these may seem to Mr. Smith.
And as the class of virtue referred to has
come to be recognised in Queensland, where the
Jappy person is a fact and not merely a
beautiful theory, as a leading Japanese export,
the less said about the virtuous Jap. the
better. Anyhow, Australians are not likely to lose
much by keeping at the end of a four-thousand-
mile pole the national virtues of the Land of the
Geisha and the Yoshiwara. But The Bulletin,
despite its White Australia opinions, doesn’t want
to be too illiberal. As a concession to the enemy,
it is ready to consider the free admission of
Japanese barristers, the same to be allowed to
practise here immediately on arrival.
The Foolishness of Tom- Mann.
The Bulletin has a great respect for Tom Mann,
the English Labor leader, whom the Victorian
workers have engaged as their organiser, but the
above head-line is justified all the same. It re-
gards Mann as miles and miles ahead of the con-
ceited Ben Tillkt— but none the less the foolish-
ness of Tom Mann calls for public remark. Mann
has lately been preaching in Victoria the gospel
?T.. a . six-hours working day as one of the possi-
bilities of the future and one of the remedies for
the evil under which Labor suffers ; and if that
gospel, or anything like it, takes root here in its
raw state, and without any compensating features,
it will be the final ruin of Australia, for these
reasons:—
Australia has already, in a large proportion of its
manufacturing industries, an eight-hour da}'. The
foreign manufacturer mostly gets nine or ten hours* work
out of his men per day, and though they may wear out
earlier and die sooner as a consequence, that makes no
difference in the present advantage which he gains. The
result is that he has a start of us varying from 12J to 25
per cent, in cheapness of production.
The foreign manufacturer pays less wages, which in-
creases his start of us in cheapness of production to
somewhere about 40 or 50 per cent.
If Australia ever gets down to a seven or six hours day
the foreigner will have a still greater start.
And unless the foreigner is handicapped out of the race
by at least a 50 or 60 per cent, protective tariff, the
result will be that, in every’ industry which is exposed to
foreign competition, the six hours per day at present
wages will only’ lead to no hours, no wages, and no
industry at all.
Unusually high wages, unusually short hours (unless
balanced by something quite extraordinary in the way of
skill), and cheap production can’t go together. Protec-
tion itself doesn’t make things dearer, for the cheapest-
producing countries in the world are protected countries.
But paying the maximum wage for the minimum amount
of work does make things dearer. There is no reason
why things shouldn’t be dearer. The producer gets the
advantage in increased wages ; the disadvantage in the
shape of increased prices is shared between him and the
non-producer, and it is folly for the workman to be a
slave in order that the pawnbroker or commission agent
or the landlord may get his goods at .a reduction. Also
if the country, by producing for itself, reduces the tribute
it has to pay to the foreigner the country in the aggregate
is so much the richer. But when the worker starts by
increasing the cost of Australian production through en-
hanced wages and shortened hours, instead of first
handicapping the cheap foreign producer out of the race,
he is only cutting his own throat.
Australia has already done too much in the way
of starting at the wrong end. It has tried to
believe in high wages, short hours, cheap pro-
duction and cheap foreign imports, all at once.
For forty years it has contrived, by finding
artificial employment for its people out of huge
foreign loans, to disguise the fact that there is
a hideous scarcity of real self-supporting local
industries in this country. Now that the loans
imported are barely sufficient to cover the interesb
exported, and the most vigorous borrowing hardly
gives the country any actual cash to play with,
the old ghost can’t be laid any longer. The
manufacturing industries of Australia are larger
now than they ever were before, but even now
they are not more than half sufficient to keep the
people of Australia out of the poorhouse, when
the loan money coming in is all counter-balanced
by the interest going out, and there is no surplus
to make a bogus boom. The tariff has
never been a sufficient set-off against high
wages and short hours, and so the importer is
still, to a great extent, boss of the situation.
Millions and millions of pounds worth of the
goods we should make are being imported,
while our own people are unemployed, because
they can’t, with the present wages and hours,
produce cheaply enough to compete with the im-
porter. The Federal tariff is quite insufficient.
If Australia is going to find work for its multi-
tudinous unemployed, it must either raise its
tariff fence higher or else it must work nine or
ten hours a day for the same, or even less, wages.
If there is going to be any further increase of
wages or reduction of hours, the tariff fence must
go still higher ; if it doesn’t, the inevitable result
is the destruction of many industries and no
wages or hours at all. That is why The Bulletin
advocates the raising of the tariff fence all the
time. But Tom Mann apparently advocates the
short hours and long wages without any serious
attempt to first shut out the competition of long
hours and short wages outside. Henoe the title
of this article.
♦
Stone-Breaking 1 .
Stone-breaking depots are to be opened by the
Government, and the unemployed will be given an
order entitling them to work, according to their
circumstances.— Sydney papers.
Stone-breaking, in England, where most of us,
or our ancestors, come from, has grown to be
synonymous with pauperism. It is the same
thing as stone-broke. It is regarded as the last
possibility in the way of unskilled labor. It is
the job that is done in the gaol-yard and the
workhouse, and it is the kind of work that is
handed out by “the parish,” which is repre-
sented by Bumble the beadle, as poor relief.
And stone-breaking on a large scale is now to be
tried in N.S.W. by way of keeping body and
soul together. The Sand-shifting Government,
and the Scrub-cutting Government, and the
Rail-painting Government we have had, and
the Stone - breaking Government follows them.
New South Wales doesn’t really want any
extraordinary quantity of broken stone just now;
and no country that is heavily in debt to other
countries can pay its way by breaking stone for
itself, any more than it can live by taking in its
own washing. It is a parasitic trade, a mere
makeshift, which helps to partially disguise the
fact that we are borrowing money for purposes of
public charity. New South Wales, with its in-
numerable schemes of “relief work,” is in danger
of becoming, to a greater extent than almost
any other civilised country on earth, a community
of stone-breakers, pick-and-shovel men, rough un-
skilled laborers of the beast-of-burden description
—and enforced paupers. The policy of the State,
as enumerated by its favorite political fool and
clown, George Reid, is to banish skilled indus-
tries, which George denounced recently in Tas-
mania as an insane attempt to compete with
“the slums of the old world’’—and to borrow
money and compete with the poorhouses of
the old world in breaking stones. Every year
N.SAV. imports over £17,000,000 worth of goods
from outside the Commonwealth—goods, the
making of which here would provide work for all
its unemployed; and N.S.W.’s own George
Reid demands that the present low tariff be re-
duced so that we may import still more, and have
still less local employment; while our own people
borrow money from Bull-Cohen and break stones.
The Commonwealth has a population not so very
far short of that of Belgium—Belgium, with its
over 400 iron-works, 148 sugar refineries, 240 dis-
tilleries, its 1200 breweries, its annual output of
£19,000,000 worth of cotton, woollen and silk
goods, and its innumerable other industries ; but
George Reid tells us that we aren’t sturdy
Belgians, and that we are too small and help-
less to think of manufacturing yet—so we break
stones and borrow money in England. The
alleged “great natural industries,” which con-
sisfe of a struggle to make exotic grains and
foreign animals take kindly to an unnatural
soil, have, for the present, collapsed over a
great part of Australia owing to climatic con-
ditions, and when they will recover from that col-
lapse we have not the least idea. The manufactur-
ing industries, which are mostly independent of
climatic conditions, are regarded with derision by
the dominant party in N.S.W. and denounced as
a sinful interference with the profits of the
importer—so N.S.W. sinks into a semi-pauperised
community which borrows money and breaks
stones. And when the supply of loan money,
which holds up the great system of stone-breaking,
relief works, seed-wheat grants, deficits and the
general lack of visible means of support, gives
out, it is difficult to imagine what is ahead.
»
Horse-hair Sense v. Horse-Sense.
The decision of Victorian Chief-Justice Madden
in the customs oase, Stephens v. Abrahams,
declaring the Act which provides for the collection
of Australian customs void in essential particulars,
should be treated with all the respect which a
Supreme Court ruling calls for. Still Australians
(that is to say patriotic Australians, whose sym-
pathies are not with the criminals who are now
rejoicing in the prospect of immunity from punish-
ment for customs swindles) cannot help recalling,
with satisfaction, the fact that Chief-Justice
Madden has a habit of being mistaken in his law.
There is no Australian Judge whom the writer
can at the moment recall who has had so many
decisions upset on appeal. Justice Madden’s
present decision must stand in Victoria until
set aside; but there cannot be much reasonable
doubt as to its ultimate reversal. The case which
evoked it was not a matter of practice law, but
of constitutional interpretation, and it is singu-
larly unfortunate that it should have come before
a court which was not designed or fitted for its
discussion, and from which the appeal lies only
to the Privy Council —a body which, under the
Federal Constitution, is expressly denied (clause
74) the right to adjudicate on such questions
unless by the request of the Federal Hign Court.
However, that is part of the price Australia has
to pay for its bitterly unpatriotic Freetrade
party, which took up so much of the time of the
first session of the Australian Parliament fighting
the cause of shoddy as to postpone the discussion
of the Judicature Act until the last moment, and
then finally blocked the measure. A Federal High
Court would have almost certainly come to a de-
cision entirely different from Chief-Justice Mad-
den’s. Briefly, the points of the case were:
Defendant Abrahams was convicted of presenting
a false invoice and appealed against the conviction
on the ground that all of the penal and machinery
clauses of the Customs Act (Australia, 1901) were
void, because certain clauses in that Act “im-
posed taxation.” The Federal Constitution
declares (clause 53) that no Act imposing taxation
shall include any other provision, the object of
the clause being to protect the rights of the
Senate. The Senate is forbidden to initiate
taxation Bills and can only suggest amendments
therein, and, as a safeguard to its rights as a
chamber of almost co-ordinate power with the
House of Representatives, clause 53 was included
in the constitution to prevent the House of Repre-
sentatives from “tacking” any matter foreign to
finance on to a taxation bill. “ Tacking-on ”is a
quite constitutional method in Britain, where it
has been used by the House of Commons to force
a measure on the House of Lords; it is also con-
stitutional in any Australian State Parliament.
But the Federal Constitution forbids it in the
Australian Parliament, for the clearly avowed and
only object of safeguarding Senate privileges
against encroachment by the House of Represen-
tatives—not with any idea of interfering with
the necessary work of providing machinery
for the collection of taxes. Chief-Justice
Madden, however, decides that the Customs
Act (which is the machinery Act of the
tariff) is an Act imposing taxation (and there-
fore void as to its provisions in regard to
punishment of offenders, etc.) because certain of
its clauses—such as that which allows the Minister
for Customs to stop leakages by charging duty on
any import which, though not exactly similar to a
dutiable article, is clearly a substitute for that
article— when read in conjunction with the subse-
quent Tariff Act, may be held to impose taxa-
tion. That is, from the point of view of common-
sense, a most strained interpretation. At the
time when the Customs Act (the machinery
Act) was before Parliament it imposed no
taxation; standing by itself it still imposes
no taxation. It is only when it is read
with another Act that it becomes a
machine for the collection of taxes. It certainly
in no way trenches on the privileges of the Senate
—to protect which, and only to protect which,
clause 53 of the Constitution was passed. Chief-
Justice Madden might as well argue that if the
Federation, at some future time, were forced
by a great national emergency to impose a poll-
tax, and were, for purposes of convenience, to
declare that every citizen having a vote should
pay the tax, thereby the Federal franchise and
electoral laws would be made invalid, because,
reading the Act which gives an adult a vote in
conjunction with the poll-tax Act, it would be an
Act imposing taxation. If the Victorian decision
is right, it would seem to be practically
impossible for the Australian Parliament, under
its Constitution, to effectively impose any taxa-
tion. To avoid that absurdity, does it not seem to
be the natural course to interpret the Federal
Constitution as meaning what its framers intended
it to mean, and what to the lay mind it very
clearly does mean ? That section 53 of the Con-
stitution Act can be twisted into a meaning
which gives some plausible ground for the view
that the Australian Parliament cannot pass a
taxation machinery Act, because such an Act
mist provide for pains and penalties, and also
must, when read in conjunction with the actual
Taxing Act, be held to impose taxation, may
possibly be admitted. But when there is another
plain meaning of the section open to be taken,
and when that plain meaning, on the evidence of
the debates, is undoubtedly the plain meaning
which the men who made the Constitution had in
their minds, what crooked wisdom it is to torture
plain English into legalising a hopeless absurdity !
Why abandon plain horse sense for such strained
horse-hair sense ?
\ /
The Moaningffl of Fa.
“ If, said Pa Brunker to the Newcastle coal-
miners at their mass meeting on Sunday—“if
there had been in office since 1896 a Minister for
Mines who was not afraid to do his duty, there
would have been no trouble in Newcastle to-day.”
Pa Brunker mentions 1896 because that was the
year in which the Reid Ministry, of which he
was Minister for the Sabbath Banana, passed a
Coal Mines Regulation Bill, which professed to
secure for the coal-miner a great deal more than it
aotually did secure—it professed to secure for
him payment for coal-hewing by weight, and it did
nothing of the sort. It was, in fact, a fair type of
all the political works of George Reid ; it was a
fraud and a sham, and a piece of shoddy. That is
one reason for the trouble in Newcastle at
present. And the other reason is its twin brother.
If there hadn’t been any George Reids and Pa
Brunkers to run N.S.W. on the line 3 of
alleged Freetrade, there wouldn’t have been any
need to have depended upon foreign markets for
coal sales. The Daily Telegraph gave its whole
show away when it let a man in the trade talk in
its columns in this way:—
We have to compete against American coal and Chilian
coal—which is being rapidly put out under labor con-
ditions not nearly so irksome as ours—and if we are to
maintain our position in foreign markets —and three-
fourths of our output is exported—there must be a total
revision of our conditions. We have to compete against
locally-mined coal, English coal, Japanese coal, and
Chinese coal—we are just about driven from the Shanghai
market, and we should have been driven out of Manila
altogether but for the cheap freights by tramp steamers.
Instead of building up our own industries, and
establishing our own mills and factories and works
to consume our own coal while making our own
manufactured goods, we have accepted the
Freetrade heresies of George Reid and Pa
BRtJNKER,_and have compelled our people to scour
the earth in order to find a market for their pro-
duct ; and out there they have to compete with
the cheap yellow miner and with the white miner
who isn’t working under what Australia regards
as white men’s conditions. And when they are
beaten out, as beaten out they must be unless they
consent to be ground down to the odious conditions
underwhich theJapaneseand someotherforeigners
work, Pa Bbunker fatuously tells them that it is
all the fault of the administration of a small Act,
which, at the most, only touches the very surface
of the matter.
; *
Melb. Age, of April 18th, has something to say
about the efficient and intelligent railway service
of the United States, and makes contrast between
it and the Victorian service, with disaster to the
latter. In America, employees all have the way
of promotion open to them, and must move on or
retire. Exams., which must be passed periodi-
cally, compel efficiency, since a certain time only
is allowed in which to pass tests, and, if not suc-
cessful, men must leave. "It does not,” says auld
lang Syme’s paper, “ take an American manager
18 years to get rid of a man who damages stock or
endangers travellers’ lives.” Yet the U.S. has
a villainously bad record for accidents, and
Canada, whence the new Vic. manager is coming,
has about the most murderous railway system on
earth. Even all the facilities these countries
possess for sacking railway employees at the
shortest notice, doesn’t keep down the butchery
bill.
♦
Melbourne Marine Board, at a recent meeting,
discussed an infringement of the Shipping Regu-
lations by a Gippsland steamer. The chairman,
Captain Currie, attempted to close the debate
with the remark, “ never do anything about
nothing.” This remark seems to cover 75 "per
cent, of the Board’s policy. It isn’t anything and
it does nothing. Not so many weeks ago two
cases of deck loading were reported for the
Board’s investigation. One of these concerned a
steamer employed in the Lakes trade. The
shipping inspector reported that early on the
morning of sailing, he had instructed the chief
officer not to stow any more cargo on deck.
Returning just previous to the vessel’s departure
he found that additional cargo had been stowed
on deck, in complete defiance of his instructions.
Reports handed in later by the officers concerned
stated that the additional cargo shipped was for
the Bay ports. What particular bay was not
stated, leaving it to be assumed that Port Phillip
Bay was meant, when, as a matter of fact, it
afterwards turned out that Waratah Bay was the
destination. The final result was that the Board
decided to forward the reports to the owners,
intimating that in case of any infraction of the
inspector’s orders in future, proceedings would be
taken. The same Board has so long been going
to take a firm attitude in the future that it begins
to appear that it hasn’t any future. It certainly
has no attitude worth speaking of in the present,
and it is in the present that vessels are lost and
men are drowned.
♦
Interesting to watch for what is going to happen
to the “Master Coachbuilders’and Wheelwrights’
Association of N.S.W.” That important body,
having been cited by its employees before the
N.S.W. Arbitration Court, decided—
That, in view of the awards and decisions given by the
Industrial Arbitration Court on claims of a similar
nature that have been made on industrial unions of
employers, the Master Coachbuilders and Wheelwrights’
Association of the New South Wales Industrial Union ot
Employers (what a long tail our cat has got I), declines to.
answer any of the 17 claims made upon them by the
claimant union ; and that the secretary be instructed to
file the foregoing in the Industrial Arbitration Office.
As a general rule, it is not safe to refuse to answer
when sued in a court of justice ; the usual result
is a, verdict for the other fellow on all points.
Evidently the true nature of the powers of the
Arbitration Court has not yet penetrated to the
minds of the M.C. and W.A. of the N.S.W. I.U.
of E. Perhaps intelligence takes a long time to
dawn through a name like that.
+
Various misrepresentations by Sydney D.T. in
regard to Victorian railway crisis:
A railway man, the Government says, is entitled to
treatment as good as he could get in the best kindred
private employment, but anything more than that is an
injustice to the employing community. In private em-'
ployment loyal obedience is always required from the
employed. There is no other conceivable basis for
friendly relations and profitable business. The railway
workers, when they were beaten last year—not so much
by the Government as by the aroused employing com-
munity-showed that they regarded the event as only
a temporary set-back by at once and defiantly connecting
themselves with the Government’s bitterest opponents—
the Trades Hall party. So they intimated that they were
still full of fight, and would wait for opportunity to renew
the struggle for supremacy. But the alliance comes
under a long standing and necessary prohibition. A
railway servant must not take an active part in political
affairs. There is no organisation in Australia more given
to participation in politics than is the Victorian Trades
Hall Council.
Why can’t the Tory sheets argue their case with a
little regard for the truth ? It is not a fact (as
inferred) that a private employer always requires
implicit obedience from the employed to the
extent of his right to join a trades-union
and affiliate with a trades-hall council. It is
so far from being true that in N.S. Wales
to require that degree of obedience which,
the Irvine Government asks of the railway
workers would be a criminal act on the part of an
employer. It is not a fact that the Vic. railway
unions, “ when they were beaten last vear,” affili-
ated with the Trades Hall Council; some of them
were affiliated before. It is not a fact that there
is no organisation in Australia more political than
the Vic. Trades Hall Council. In Victoria, as in
N.9.W., the industrial and political organisations
of labor are separate. The D.T. speaks now with
as much falsehood on labor as on tariff matters.
White Australia, and its Brown Brother.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Are we not, brothers, subjects of the same great
Empire?”— Press, everywhere.
There are many men who come across the sea,
And some of them are black, and some are brown;
And some of them are moral, but they’re dirty in
a quarrel,
And knife you when you once go down ;
But the queerest of a quaint old band
Is our brother from the coral strand—
Our brother with his dirt and his animated shirt,
And the bundle in bis unclean hand.
He knoweth not the blessedness of Soap,
He careth not a curse for Beer ;
He’s a lanky son of Hades, and he louts before the
ladies
With an oily “ Missee, please look here ! ”
Our brother from the Chutnee land,
Our brother with the greasy brand,
Our brother with his dirt and his animated shirt,
And the bundle in his unclean hand.
Our brother is a man of toil,
Our brother is a Ganges worm,
He was meant to grub for money in a placid land
and sunny,
And give shelter to the homeless germ ;
Our brother of the hawking band,
Our brother with his suave demand,
Our brother with his dirt and his animated shirt,
And the bundle in his unclean hand.
We’re bothered with the brown Afghan,
.We’re smothered by the smooth Chinee,
We’ve always had to bustle and to try a bitter
tussle
With the spawnings of the Heathen Sea ;
But—we shudder in a bright young land,
At our brother with his smile so bland :
Our brother with his dirt and his animated shirt,
And the bundle in his unclean hand !
Q.
L.


THE LARGEST AND BEST IN THE WORLD !
The Mutual Life Insurance Co. of New York
Admitted Assets, January l, 1903, £78,528,000.
Principal Agency in Australasia; Company’s Building, Martin Place, Sydney.
Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager.
Patriotism Exalteth a Nation.
This may not be quite orthodox, but it is nevertheless true. It is also a fact that in N.S.W.
patriotism is sadly lacking in its people. Parochialism and selfishness are rampant eveJ7'
where—in Parliament and People. Instead of AUSTRALIAN MANUFACTURED GOUU
of equal merit to the Foreign-made Article being preferred, they are only taken if CHEArEK-
The very men who cry the loudest, “ AUSTRALIA FOR THE AUSTRALIANS! even w
the extent of keeping out the English Hatters—are those who, from pure prejudice, ca
for the Foreign-made Article in preference to the Australian production. This is not rn
spirit that prevails in America, and which has made it the greatest country on the fac *
the earth. There nothing is good unless it is “ ’Hurkan,” and so it must be here if we *
to become a Nation. The Rosewarne Packing Co., Limited, have lately added to the ° tn .
branches of their canning business the manufacture of Potted Ham and other e.r
two and four-ounce tins. The packages are neatlv got up, the contents are AT LEA
EQUAL TO, AND THE PRICE IS LOWER THAN, THE IMPORTED ARTICLE. **
patriotic enough to give them a trial, and you will find that they are REALLr GUUL».
They may be had from all the Principal Storekeepers and Grocers.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS WR COMING WEEK.
Lyceum “A Woman of Pleasure."
Criterion.... ......... “ Private Secretary.”
Royal “ Circus Girl.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Palace “Are You a Mason?”
Relmore Park Fitzgerald Bros.’ Circus.
Town Hall Hambourg Concerts.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess's .. “ Midsummer Night’s Dream.”
Her Majesty’s........ “ My Lady Molly.”
Theatre Royal “ The Price of Peace.”
Bijou... .. “On and Off.”
Opera House Rickards’Variety Co.
Town Hall Edward Lloyd Concert*
»
Next Saturday the “ Circus Girl ” is to be
staged at Sydney Royal. It is her first appear-
ance in Sydney, and the oity looks forward
to her in a hopeful frame of mind, based on
good—and possibly quite unreliable —reports of
the lady from other parts. It is backing its
opinion with cash to an extent that makes a big
first night a matter of certainty. < The names of
some old stage friends appear in the cast
Misses Rose Musgrove and Lilian Digges, also
Hugh Ward, C. R. Bantock and Arthur Lissant
among them.
« # 0 ft
“Sweet Lavender ” followed “Charley’s
Aunt,” at Sydney Criterion last Saturday, with
some success. It belongs to the. quieter type of
comedy that appeals to the British nation in its
softer moods, as did “ Caste ” before it, but it
hasn’t any particular meaning for the Australian
of to-day. When it came out first, London lady-
hood went into lavender cuffs and lavender collars,
and tried to make itself a sweet young person with
engaging ways, in imitation of the heroine ; but
Sydney merely wonders what there was about this
uninteresting young female to rouse so much en-
thusiasm. Lavender is a child of Nature, with a
mother who is a housekeeper and also a mystery.
The plot, such as it is, hangs on the ancient idea
of her preventing the marriage of her daughter
with the adopted son of the man who is illegally
responsible for said daughter. She doesn’t men-
tion that he is responsible for the daughter till
Act 111., but merely rises with Lavender, when
she hears who is the adopted father, and says
that they must go. Lavender is ill to order, and
leaves her love to order, and doesn’t ask why, or
stamp her feet at ma, and her filial conduct leaves
this paper much depressed. It takes a very
experienced actress to play the child of nature
with success, and by the time she has the experi-
ence she has generally got too fat or acquired
hard, long shoulders, or otherwise put herself out
of court.
• • • *
Of course the person of the play is 'Frank
Thornton, as the gone-to-pieces barrister, Dick
Phenyl. Thornton’s rendering of the battered
horse-hair wreck is clever, and his voice excel-
lently realistic, but The Bulletin does not feel
any desire to burst into tears at the pathetic
parts, and that, it seems, is how The Bulletin
ought to feel. Joseph Wilson acts naturally
as Mr. Wedderburn, Lavender’s fairly sinful
father; and Mrs. Walter Hill makes a good many
humorous points as a fashionable lady with a deep
voice; she is also the mother of Minnie (Miss
Leonie Norbury), who may be in love with the hero
or may not; there is nothing much in her conduct
to determine one way or the other. Vera Fordyce
as the housekeeper-mother acts with what gentle
papers frequently call “ suppressed force.” It
generally leads to a suppressed actress. With a
little more passion and “ go,” however, Vera may
be saved this fate. Miss Pearl Hellmrich’s
Lavender is a quiet, simple girl, and may be set
down generally as a colorless success. Looking
back on the lady with the flaring red wig who did
the character once before in Sydney, Miss Hellm-
rich gains greatly by comparison. If the other
lady hadn’t Worn the red wig the result of the
comparison might have been different. The
“ Private Secretary ” is due on Saturday.
* * * *
Mark Hambourg, the musical phenome-
non, gave Sydney the first taste of his finished
(if music were ever finished) quality as a pianist
at the Town Hall last Saturday. He looked,
through his hair, at a huge audience ; shook his
hair at it in greeting ; then grasped the keyboard
of bis Grand with all his fingers and breathed his
soul into its soul. His programme was supremely
classic —Beethoven, Chopin, Rubenstein. He
brought out their trills like a canary bird,
he arpeggioed like the breakers on Manly
Beach or the dripping of the waters at
Bridal Veil Falls at Katoomba, and, as for
his rapid octavo passages their lightning-
like dexterity caused many a decent player
in .the audience to lose heart and determine
to lock her piano and sell the key to a
marine store. Boris Hambourg, Mark’s brother,
is a budding Gerardy. There are a lot more
Hambourg geniuses, girl and boy, in the bud.
The youngest is two years old, and is already
advanced in composition of major and minor
wails. Miss Mabel Batchelor is vocalist at the
Hambourg concerts. She is a nice little 15-year
old with a pretty, light soprano of some promise.
John Lemmone’s flute-playing was—well, every-
one knows what the flute is at the lips and fingers
of a master, and “Old John,” as he is affection-
ately called (partly because he is young) is a
master.
* * * »
“A Woman of Pleasure,” at Sydney
Lyceum, continues its involved tale concerning the
lady who loves her husband so much that in despair
she nearly goes off with another man, which is
the stage heroine’s usual method of straightening
things out. She likewise continues to rebuke the
bloomer costume of Georgie Leighford, whereat
the audience applauds, forgetting that the rebuker
blackmailed an innocent earl into sorrowful matri-
mony in the prologue. As before, that melancholy
peer is seen outside his baronial halls advising his
small son, aged five, to guard the family escutcheon
and to be careful of a woman’s reputation; and
the precocious infant promises to keep straight.
In tne last act, when the paper snow falls outside
the window and a small fire burns in the baronial
hall, the earl is seen apostrophising the portrait
of his wife in very long yellow locks, so that when
the lady enters with black hair something needs
to be explained.
* * # *
“ Are You a Mason ” entered on its fourth
week at Sydney Palace with as crowded a house
as on the first night. Going to see this farce has
seemingly become a habit with some people, and
they drift in again and again to give an antici-
patory chuckle as a warning of the joke about to
oome. Even Governor Harry Rawson has found
it necessary to waive etiquette, which is a mighty
thing as regards Governors, and go a second time.
*m * *
The Raimund Pechotsch concert came
off at the Centenary Hall, Tuesday, April 29th,
and served to introduce Miss Zara Wolinski,
a mezzo-soprano debutante. Herr Pechotsch
played in his usual good style and was warmly
received. Miss Wolinski has a very promising
voice, of considerable range, strength and sweet-
ness. Miss Constance Brandon Usher, Miss
Maud Dalrymple, Dr. Maguire and Mr. Harri-
son also assisted.
** « *
Fitzgeralds’ Circus, camped at Belmore
Park (Sydney), has added new and improved
items this last week or so, so that when the rain
descends the audience merely puts its umbrella up
and stays on. The Zenobia Bros, perform on
the Mysterious High Globe, one on top and
one underneath on an attached trapeze. The
undermost Zenobia prefers to hang head down-
wards. E. Shand balances chairs ; and the cham-
pions of Australia, Newhaven and Stockman,
high jump ; while between times horses called
Napoleon and Silver King, or other striking titles,
come in and look beautiful. Also Herr Pagel’s
lion gets every night a little angrier than he was
the night before. On Saturday next the Diving
Horses resume business in the old tank, which is
being constructed at a cost of £250 or so. It is a
large tank, for a Diving Horse is a commodious
beast, and needs a lot of space.
** * *
The Boissett co. appeared at Sydney
Tivoli for the first time last Saturday, and proved
to be a rather bright and merry group of acrobatic
pantomimists. Pantomime, in its true sense of
dumb-show acting, does not, as a rule, appeal
much to English-speaking people, though the
Latin races cherish its traditions fondly and reach
a high degree of skill in its interpretation. The
Latin is, as a rule, a garrulous person, hence
probably his love for an entertainment which
gives the jaw a rest. When the Martinettis—
really excellent pantomimists—were in Australia,
their success was not great—solely because
people didn’t appreciate that sort of act-
ing. The Boissetts, who are n6t nearly so
good at the panto, game, are likely _to be
far more popular, because they have their acro-
batic business to fall back upon. “The Wild
West”—an extravaganza with much knock-about
comedy and some shooting—was received with
great applause on Saturday. Albert Boissett and
Harry Holton show as the best of the troupe,
which is 11 strong. A subsequent display of
gymnastic feats by the same co. was far too long
drawn out. The first part at the Tivoli continues
to be brighter than was expected, owing to some
good items by Miss Florrie Ranger, Miss Molly
Bentley, Edward Forde, Rodda Perry and H. S.
Buckler. Fanny Powers’ imitations of Marie
Lloyd and Peggy Pryde are still popular features.
They make one sorry that Peggy isn’t here and
glad that Marie is away.
*m * *
“ 0.0.” on a little-known varitey show :
In Manly up till lately [an honorable means of adding
to one’s income has been shark-exhibiting. The happy
finder of the large defunct fish cast up on the shore makes
haste to drag it into a cave, or erect a tent over it, and
then he charges 3d a head for admission. He needn’t be
tied down to his show either, for any juvenile Manlyite is
proud to “mind the shark,” and advances this as a
laudable excuse when late home from school. The son
of a Sydney artist (Manly is crammed with artists
both in pen and pencil) came home one morning spread-
ing around him an odor of deceased fish that broke up
the rose and gold visions of his sire. Asked where he
had spent the night, he replied proudly that he had been
“ sleeping with the shark,” he and Algernon (the son of
another dreamer of great visions) having bought the
privilege of guarding that somewhat venerable object for
2d. a head. The proud child was immediately bathed
and fumigated, but the smell seems ineradicable. One
speculates on the future of a youth who, at thirteen
years of age, can find dissipation in an all night sitting
beside a cold and unresponsive shark. Apropos, a man
who once had a very inferior cuttlefish on exhibition
assured me that his show was under the management of
J. C. Williamson, and that he was J.C.W.’s agent. Even
Dan Barry never beat that bluff by much.
** * *
“On and Off,” coming to Melb. Bijou
from Sydney, with a first-class certificate for
humor and sparkle, strikes the present scribe as
being a farcical comedy which needs a little
human nature in its composition. The dialogue
is mostly crisp, and the situations in the last act
have an unfamiliar humor, but none of the char-
acters are sufficiently lifelike to qxcite interest in
their troubles. One thinks of them as stage
creations supplying an entertainment. An air of
unrealism pervades “ On and Off,” and although a
more natural performance of the same unnatural
play is conceivable, it is none the less obvious
that the person, male or female, who took this
farce from the French, and stripped it of all its
native improprieties, has left the actors very little
chance to be actually convincing. They can only
try to look as though they believed in themselves
for the moment. When the effort is not very
palpable they can raise lots of laughter. On
Saturday night there was too much effort because
the audience didn’t laugh readily enough. A
depressing curtain-raiser had opened the pro-
ceedings with a yawn.
** * *
George Willoughby presents a demon-
stratively comic husband who has shifted his
affections to another girl, and hopes to marry
her when he has divorced his harmless wife and
scattered her awful mother. The character is
gay and French, whereas Willoughby’s method is
of the toddlesome cockney order. Other French
characters, who combine to burst up the sinner’s
dream and reduce him to a state of conjugal
fidelity, are impersonated in an Anglo-Aus-
tralian manner. Miss Watts Phillips, as the
awful mother-in-law, scores more points than
anybody else ; whilst Frank Denton, as the man
that Willoughby pretends to be, scores no points
at all. The comedy seems to demand a good deal
of broad personality and masterful push on Den-
ton’s part, but he remains much the same sort of
angular young man as usual. Miss Ascoli comes
along in a casual way as an uncommunicative
young woman with a misleading wink, and she
might very well change places with Miss Apple-
ton, for then the wink item would acquire more
importance, and the artless spinster in the last act
(now played by Miss Appleton) would look better
to the occasion. '
The Rudinoff boom (not a huge, but a
decidedly fair-sized boom) at Melbourne Opera
House is receiving valuable assistance from the
arrival of Hill and Sylvany. Also the Vesuvio
Concert co. is probably contributing to the
prosperity of the present Rickards bill. Those
plump Italians were due to appear on Saturday,
but owing to a sudden pain in the chubby tenor s
throat the Yesuvio event did not transpire.
** * *
Six nights of “ The Toreador” are leading
up to the promised novelty at Her Majesty’s
(Melb.). Take it altogether, “The Toreador”
revival is an improvement on last year’s produc-
tion of that tuneful, but unremarkable, musical
comedy. Miss Florence Young, Lauri, Ward,
and even Thorley, are more spry in their old
parts than when those parts were new ; also Miss
Chetwynd, Miss Ghiloni, Needham and Fred
Young appear where they didn’t appear before,
and the changes benefit the show. In Maud
Chetwynd’s case the benefit amounts to some-
thing considerable. On Friday the red raging
Donna who covets the yellow bull-sticker will
sing of her alleged hero for the last time, and on
Saturday the new comedy opera, “My Lady
Molly,” will appeal to Australian taste for the
first time.
## * *
Likewise Bland Holt purposes an impor-
tant event at the Royal on Saturday (9th). “The
Price of Peace,” a vast Drury Lane success by
Cecil Raleigh, is the spectacle which Bland has
prepared for execution on that date. For the past
year or two he has been threatening to place “ The
Price of Peace ’ ’ before his patrons, but a nervous
dread of the possible consequences gave the
humane manager pause. He was afraid their
astonishment might prove fatal. Now that
the public have become hardened to the sight
of motor cars, and the general capacity for
enduring sensations is stronger than of yore,
Bland reckons himself justified in letting his
tremendous drama loose. It will stagger the
guilty and appal the free, but there will be inter-
vals for rest and refreshment between the shocks.
Meanwhile “ The Prodigal Daughter ” has two
more performances to negotiate, and anyone who
is still wallowing in ignorance of this estimable
drama had better seize a final opportunity to wit-
ness it. “T.P.D.” is one of the very few dramas
which deal reasonably with the innocent girl who
goes astray, and allow her to recover her lost self-
respect without returning home in a long, melan-
choly cloak, minus her hat.
** * *
At the Princess’s there is no reduction in
the demand for Shakspeare-up-to-Date. Long
ago, when “The Dream” was very prettily
staged by George Rignold at the same theatre,
Melbourne couldn’t be induced to take much
interest in it. The present arrangement of the
Bard’s light, peculiar comedy is more expensive
and impressive than Rignold’s, richer in the little
things that go to make up a big result, and espe-
cially noted for its beautiful effect of darkness
and dawn, whereby the evening and the morning
are the next day, and the Lord sees that the
Athenians who slept on the grass all through the
soft musical night are preserved from rheumatism
and early dew. Nevertheless, the secret of the
“Dream’s” success as a poetic play (apart from
its low comedy element) is not wholly in the
staging. The picturesque characters are played
in harmony with the picture. The men—
Lysander Demetrius, angry father Egeus, and the
dear Duke —improve on acquaintance. As for
the ladies, they were always good to see and
delightful to listen to.
** * *
When Edward Lloyd returned to the
Town Hall, on Saturday night, he didn’t find
Melbourne waiting for him. Williamson and
Musgrove apparently made a mistake in bringing
a popular Sydney attraction back to the place
where he had not proved much of an attraction
until he was supposed to be leaving it. If the
history of the previous Lloyd season in Melbourne
is repeated, the third concert, which happens to-
night (Thursday), will draw a large audience, and
the tenor’s final appearance on Saturday will crowd
the Town Hall, and make it humanly warm and
comparatively comfortable. Now is the time of
year when a poorly attended concert at the official
residence of the local Lord Mayor would be a cold
dispiriting function, even though an angel warbled
“ Star of Bethlehem,” and raised it far above the
level of a Methodist hymn, or a Paganini played
the violin. Ernest Toy, a very skilled and rather
uninteresting violinist, gave a display in the big
hall on Saturday afternoon, and the function
struck a chill to one’s inmost sacred marrow.
** * *
The Williamson Comedy Co., with its
fine all-round collection of fun-makers, has left
the Adelaide Royal. During the last part of its
season Arthur Crane and Ernest Mozar alter-
nated the juvenile lead ; one of them can sing
and the other can act. Lilian Digges also had a
better chance in “San Toy” than before, and in
the convent scene of “The Runaway Girl” she
put quite a Sign-of-the-Cross fervour into her
talk of the “ life beyond ” —the said life being
that of a street-singer. As for Rose Mus-
grove, she is now very strong in every
branch of comic opera. The Musgrove Co.
has opened—too late for criticism—in * 1 The
Fortune Teller.” At the Tivoli, Winton scores
heavily with various new features (including a
burlesque of the departed Inaudi); and Spry and
Monti have a regrettable joke or two carved from
the immediate neighborhood of the knuckle.
Charles Pope and Irving Sayles, late ornaments
of the Tivoli, are running a small co. of their own
in suburban halls. The Floral Fair for the blind,
at the Jubilee Exhibition, has closed after running
two weeks, taking £4OOO, and clearing £3OOO
profit. The “ Living Whist ’’show crowded the
building to the roof four times.
At a time when the diminishing infant is
in all the papers, a South Australian country-
woman (Mrs. Williss) is worth mentioning. She
died the other day leaving 59 grandchildren and
43 great-grandchildren, with the number increa-
sing now at an average rate of nine a year.
The Wild Cat Column.
It is mournful to find even one member nf u,
N.S.W Labor party, and that one ameS w l tlle
much brains as Arthur Griffith, excusing and &
fending the State’s infamous loan policy Thl d ,°'
question, he says, to consider, is whether the wL° n H!
money is earning interest. He admite that it isn' °hi
pleads that the shortage is only a little one-aboutlv
per annum per household. But apart from that B h?t ®
which anyhow amounts for Australia to over £3
year, there is something to consider besides the nrZ’ a
terest return. We know that, while the SUte
are borrowing from £5,000,000 to £lO 000 000 t Z U
England to provide the people with
manage to pay enough in railway fares etc ml?
a net income of nearly £4,700,000 from Duhii’e L^ Ve
Probably these works will yield half, or fess than hu'
of that when the foreign loans give out The nnhr’
works that were built with borrowed money havener
yet stood on their own merits. The States " I
money to build railways, etc., and “w every vear thl
borrow money to spend among the people in wages so
that the people may have enough money to Li
for the use of these railways, etc knd m 5
give the borrowing policy a* ’certain BctiUous
air of solvency. At the close of last financial yea
judging by the money in the banks and allowing f o ;
the coin in circulation, there was about £8 00ft run
actual cash in N.S.W and it was the circulaUonoUha
cash which provided the nearly £2,000,000 of net revenn!
earned by N.S.W.’s public works. And of
£8,000,000 of cash in N.S.W. nearly £5,000,000 had bel
raised by loans during the precious M months ThLT
fOre V W i l L Mr -„ Gri , ffith try - t0 form an estimate of how
much of the alleged prosperity of our public works fbniu
with borrowed money) is temporary bogus prosperity
created by new borrowings, and how much of it is reair
• • * •
The London Bank of Australia, Ltd.
Dividend Paid or
Owing to Preference Carried to R e .
Profits. Shareholders. Reserves serves
1893 .. £5,986 6J per cent. =£3904 £2,082 £2ns9
1894 .. 15,242 6* „ „ 9456 5 786 7sS
1895 .. 12,755 6* „ „ 9456 3,299
Taken from ’
. Reserves. Deficit
1896 .. 4,627 5* „ „ 9456 14,083 2 916
1897 .. 8,126 6} „ „ 9456 17,581 20|497
Carried to
Profits. Reserves.
1898 .. 10,885 5J „ „ 9456 1,429 19 068
1899 .. 15,056 5j „ „ 9456 5,600 13’4fi8
1900 .. 14,816 6* „ „ 9456 5,360 8,108
1901 .. 23,354 6J „ „ 9456 13,898 B **T™
1902 .. 13,690 5£ „ „ 9456 4,234 io|c24
As mentioned a few weeks ago, this bank, having got a
new general manager, is proceeding to have a further
cleaning-up. When disaster struck it 10 years ago it
grew flurried, and, in its anxiety to get from under the
wreckage, it undertook to do some rather ridiculous
things in order to pacify the depositors. This under-
taking has been a heavy handicap ; and as drought and
more hard times have come along, the bank is now writ-
ing off £368,272 from its capital, which has lately stood
at £915,865. It is an altogether commendable proceed-
ing.
The London Bank’s year has not been as profit-
able as shareholders might have hoped, from recent
experience, that it would be. Its business is largely with
the country districts, especially in Victoria, and it has a
few back-country N.S.W. branches also—just the places
where it hasn’t been profitable to be a banker or anything
else during the last 18 months. On the shareholders’ net
funds at the commencement of the_ half-year (capital
£915,915, and reserves £5790) the profits amounted to
£1 9s. Bd. per cent, per annum. This compares with
recent results as follows :
1898 .. £1 311 per cent. 1901 .. £2 11 5 per cent.
1899 .. 112 11 „ 1902 .. 1 9 8 „
1900 .. 1 12 4
If the proposed reduction of capital had appeared in the
balance-sheet, the rate would have been £2 9s. sd. per
cent. For a couple of years before 1898 there was a loss
on the business. Further, comparing'Jhe bank’s position
in 1901 and 1902 respectively these things appear
1901. 1902. Increases.
Deposits £2,649,072 £2,691,522 £42,450
Investments against
note issue, and bills .. 661,489 831,787 170,248
Decreases.
Profits 23,354 13,690 9,664
Reconstructed 4J p.c.
deposits .. .. 1,591,092 1,589,271 1,821
Cash and liquid securi-
ties 914,535 788,035 126,500
Advances, &c 4,065,454 3,973,375 92,079
Notes in circulation .. 181,165 168,597 12,568
Bills in circulation .. 651,276 584,479 66,797
No idea is given of the nature of the investments held
against the note issue and for ordinary reserve purposes;
possibly some at least of them are as good as “ cash or
liquid securities.” As the latter item stands, however,it
still represents 23 per cent, of the callable liabilities to
the public—that is, the total amount of the liabilities to
the public less the amount of the reconstructed deposits.
In 1901 these reserves represented 26 per cent, of the
callable liabilities, and in 1900 28 per cent.; and, though
the proportion is not yet dangerously small, the move-
ment has, at a time like the present, gone about far
enough. No doubt the London’s position is very diffi-
cult ; for the 4J per cent, that it has to pay on the old
deposits is a heavy burden which it is naturally straining
to get rid of.
• • • *
If Bent forces on a Victorian railway strike,
the general loss of business will be a dire shock to many
financial institutions which aren’t fitted to stand rude
shocks these times.
• • • •
The Bank of Adelaide
Year to Added Tota ]g e .
31st Profits. Dividends. to Re- gerveB
March serves.
1891 £33,398 7 p.c. =£28,000 £5,398 £152,385
1892 31,116 7„ „ 28,000 3,116 155,501
1893 30,976 7„ „ 28,000 2,976 158,47 i
1894 30,763 7„ „ 28,000 2,763 161,240
1895 31,049 7 „ ~ 28,000 3,049 164,289
1896 31,225 7„ „ 28,000 3,225 16*,514
1897 31,047 7„ „ 28,000 3,047 170,561
1898 33,401 7„ „ 28,000 5,401 175,962
1899 33,026 7„ ~ 28,000 5,026 180,988
1900 38,413 8„ „ 32,000 6,413 187,401
1901 48,097 8 „ „ 32,000 16,097 203,498
1902 45,925 8 „ ~ 32,000 13,925 217,423
1903 52,317 8 „ „ 32,000 20,317 237, *4O
South Australia has been making hay while the sun . has
been shining. It didn’t have, in the end, a great aea
more hay than usual; but the other States had a grea
deal more sun, and that made the profits as good, in
S. Australian farmer has hitherto for the most pa
prayed for a 10-bushel or a two-ton harvest (it depend
on whether he cut for wheat or for hay). Now he kno
better; from the past year’s experience he finds tn ,
so far as he is concerned, one ton at £4 is a long
way better than two tons at £2. The Bank of Adelaid
figures for the past 12 months reflect the rare bit of g
luck which has come S. Australia’s way. (That d. a •
tralia is well acquainted with the other sort of luc
pretty clearly proved by the fact that its other t
banks, the Commercial of S.A., the S. Australia,
the Town and Country, are all gone.) Perhaps no
cern is now so thoroughly representative of the ata


r
TRAM WAYS FOR MINES.
STOCKS in SYDNEY and MELBOURNE include—Steel Rails, Bridge Rails
Steel Side and End Tip Trucks, Portable Tramway, Portable and Permanent
Switches, Ball-bearing Turntables, Axle Boxes, Wheels and Axles, Jim Crows,
Dog Spikes, etc., etc. IND E N TS . —LOCOMOTIVES from 10 to 400 h.p.,
including Compound Locos, and every description of Light Railway Material.
CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY APPLIANCES
Pbop. Ltd., 40 Hunter St., SYDNEY. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager,
Representing Orenstein and Koppel, Ltd., London, Berlin and Paris.
Branches— Melbourne, Brisbane, Cairns and Zeehan (Tasmania).
TVAN A. B. FORBES, Assayer and Analyst, 82 Hunter-
st., Sydney. Assays and Analyses carefully and
promptly attended to personally.
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * • ♦
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, of Melbourne, reports
that there has been a great improvement in the general
outlook of the engineering business since the new year
started, and that his pipe making works in Melbourne
and Perth are working full-handed: Amongst the orders
now being executed at Footscray works is one for 7 miles
10 chains of 18in. diameter light steel spiral-riveted pipes
for the Victorian water supply ; and at Perth works a
contract is in progress for over 6 miles of lOJin. diameter
spiral-riveted pipes, flanged joints, for the Greenbushes
Tin-Mining Syndicate. About two miles of these pipes,
are to stand a test pressure of 8001 b. to tlie square inch.*
• • * *
A. Kozminsky, 106 Queen-st?., Melbourne,
having returned from England, is now prepared to.
purchase paying mines, and mining properties (not
merely surface shows), situated in any part of;
Australasia requiring further capital for development and
machinery. Only genuine and legitimate ventures,
capable of bearing the strictest examinations will be
entertained.*
» • * •
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develop, with option of
purchase “big prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered'
must be subject to inspection. Cable address : “ Option,”
Melbourne •
* • • *
H. Brandon Skertchly, geologist, mining engi-
neer and assayer, is prepared to furnish scientific reports
and plans to British and Australian investors. Assays,
undertaken, and enquiries re mining properties, promptly
attended to. For fuller information apply to H. Brandon
Skertchly, 7 Central Chambers, Queen-st., Brisbane.*
• * • *
The balance-sheet of the Great Southern Con-
sols G.M. Co. (Vic.) for the last half-year shows that the
underground electric haulage plant, which was supplied
and erected about seven months ago by the Austral Otis
Engineering Coy., South Melbourne, sole representatives
of GanzandOo. Ltd., Budapest, Hungary, has effected a
saving of 60 per cent, in manual labor required to operate
the mine. This excellent result, and the great satisfac-
tion the plant has given, has influenced the directors of
the Berry Consols Extended Company in placing an order
for a similar plant with the same firm. The plant will
consist of a generating station, three underground loco-
motives, and a complete electric lighting installation.
This order furnishes further evidence of the high esteem
in which Ganz’s apparatus is held in Australia. *
• • • *
Money Market Review, July, 1902 writes, re
the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited :-**■
“The report is one of the most gratifying the manage-
ment have issued for many years, for in addition to the
satisfactory growth of the business the finances are in a
very strong and sound condition.”*
.
Compound gauge glasses (Schott and Genossen)
as used by the Victorian Railways and the Melbourne
Trams are worth a trial. De Deer, Silberberg and Co.,
Bourke-street, Melbourne, the newly formed partnership
to which we referred last week, are sole agents for
Australasia. *
* * * •
The New Zealand Fire and Marine Insurance
Co., whose head-office for N.S.W. is at No. 81 Pitt-street,
Sydney, is the largest colonial Fire and Marine Insurance
company, and a large amount of their reserves of
£520,305 is invested in the States. Net revenue (1902)
£408,923. Lowest rates and prompt settlements.*
INSIST OH GETTINGS^
u]eer3>lk:ed/Aango,
GHEENnANGO,CASHMERE
v - f MADRASI , «
All Grocery and 5 rorefeepe r>. Every uj Ife r e.
SCHWEPPES DRY GINGER ALE
A record established by no other Mineral Water Company in the World.
SCHWEPPES Mineral
Waters have held the
Royal Warrant contin-
uously since 1834.
of the producer part of the State, any way. Its paid-up
capital (£400,000) is represented by about 900 share-
holders, nearly all local, and in the country township,
which consists chiefly of a general store and a blacksmith’s
shop, it of ten has a one-day-a-fortnight agency. So, though
it confines its business absolutely to South Australia, not
even running a branch over the border at Broken Hill, it
is a larger concern than the size of its native village would
lead one to expect. But all this means that, though it
profits in an exceptional degree from the State’s prosper-
ity, it is likely to suffer in an exceptional degree from its
bad times ; wherefore the directors wisely go on building
their reserves, and are not turned aside by a spurt to
jump up the dividend.
The progress of the Bank of Adelaide shows as
follows:
March, March,
1902. 1903. Increases.
Profits .. _ .. £45,925 £52,317 £6,392
Deposits .. .. .. 1,813,741 2,148,960 335,219
Govt. Debentures .. 400,328 415,435 15,107
All Liquid Securities
(including money at
short call) .. „ 1,081,284 1,520,944 439,660
Notes in Circulation .. 134,903 127,702 7,201
Bills in Circulation .. 223,029 204,749 18,280
Advances .. .. 1,574,477 1,470,339 104,138
These figures indicate a very remarkable movement
indeed. At March, 1902, the bank’s liquid assets repre-
sented 49 per cent, of its liabilities to the public ; at
March, 1903, they represented no less than 67 per cent.—
actual bullion and Government debentures alone repre-
sented 32 per cent. On shareholders’ funds at the com-
mencement of the year (capital £400,000 and reserves
£217,423) profits are equal to a very handsome £8 9s. sd.
per cent.
• • a •
Nothing has been heard in Adelaide of the
Snow tramway scheme for four solid months. Snow’s
options expired last Xmas, and though he secured an
extension for twelve months, his strongest supporters do
not now believe that he will get the necessary capital.
Meanwhile the two Adelaide dailies, also Cohen’s chief
barrackers, Von Doussa, Tucker, Mayor Cohen, and the
rest of the windy crowd who alleged long ago that Snow
already had the money to commence work are as quiet
as a graveyard. What a pity it is there is not a single
democrat in S.A. Parliament strong enough to seize the
present glorious opportunity of securing national control!
• * • »
The Tasmanian Permanent Executors and
Trustees Association, Ltd. (Launceston, Tas.) :
Profits Dividends and Added to Re-
-8 Dividend tax. Reserves, serves.
Sept., 1890 .. £ll7 5 p.c. = £262 £428
Mar., 1897 .. 237 5 „ „ 262 403
Sept., 1897 .. 264 6 „ „ 262 £2 405
Mar., 1898 .. 387 6 „ „ 262 125 530
Sept., 1898 .. 405 5 „ „ 262 143 673
Mar., 1899 .. 316 5 „ ~ 262 64 727
Sept., 1899 .. 375 5 „ „ 262 113 840
Mar., 1900 .. 454 5 „ „ 262 192 1032
Sept., 1900 .. 397 5 „ „ 262 135 1167
Mar., 1901 .. 760 6 „ „ 315 445 1612
Sept., 1901 .. 523 6 „ „ 315 208 1820
Mar., 1902 .. 465 6 „ „ 315 150 1970
Sept., 1902 .. 626 6 „ „ 315 311 2281
Mar., 1903 .. 510 6 „ „ 315 195 2476
The profits represent £lO 4s. per cent, per annum earned
on the paid-up capital, or £8 6s. Id. per cent, per annum on
the shareholders’ funds (capital and reserves) at the com-
mencement of the half-year— either way of looking at it
a comfortable result.
« * » •
Dear B.—You commit a sacrilege in the wool
trade by even mentioning the producer. There are only
two parties in it, the buyers and the sellers 1 The wool
grows out-back somehow, but it is only intended to pro-
vide rich livings for a horde of buyers, sellers, and drum-
mers. And it is the squabbling over the “pickings”
which prevents Sydney being the wool mart of the world.
Personally I know several large growers who would prefer
selling in Sydney rather than in London, but who refuse
to do so owing to the continual bickerings of the asso-
ciated buyers and sellers.—Yours, etc., A Wool-grower.
* * • *
Tooth and Co., Ltd., brewers, Sydney:—
Added to Re-
Net Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
Mar., 1897 £40,055 7 p.c. = £31,500 £8555 £78,441
Sept., 1897 33,074 7 „ „ 31,500 1574 80,015
Mar , 1898 40,278 7 „ „ 31,500 8778 88,793
Sept., 1898 33,625 7 „ „ 31,500 2125 90,918
Mar., 1899 40,741 7 „ „ 31,500 9241 100,159
Sept., 1899 35,706 7 „ „ 31,500 4206 104,365
Mar., 1900 37,979 7 „ „ 31,500 6479 110,844
Sept., 1900 36,451 7 „ „ 31,500 4951 115,795
Mar., 1901 39,898 7 „ „ 31,500 8398 124,193
Sept, i 1901 37,269 7 „ „ 31,500 5769 129,962
Mar., 1902 41,536 8 ~ „ 36,000 5536 135,498
Sept., 1902 40,768 8 „ „ 36,000 4768 140,266
Mar., 1903 41,209 8 „ „ 36,000 5209 145,475
With one exception, the net profit for the past half-year
was the greatest since March, 1896. (Net profit is trading
profit, less, at present, £5OOO per half-year for deprecia-
tion.) Of the reserves £130,837 are invested in “ deposits,
N.S.W. funded stock, debentures, and accrued interest,”
the balance being used in the business. Current bank
balances are a good deal lower than usual, and sundry
debtors owe a good deal m0re—£225,608 as against £193,550
at the end of the previous half-year. This probably
means that the community’s thirst is quite up to the old
standard, but that the community has to ask the beer-
puller to “ put it on the slate ” oftener than it used to.
* • * *
The Australasian Mortgage and Agency Co.,
which has been staggering through the drought with
several million acres of western desert in its swag, and
last year found it necessary to write off £218,602, is now
reconstructing. Meantime, helped by a trust account,
business is proceeding as usual.
• • • •
The Colonial Sugar Refining Co. has
suffered, so far, very little from the drought. Past half-
year was not absolutely the most prosperous in the co.’s
life, but was so close to it that the difference hardly
matters:—
Profits. Dividends. Added to Re-
Reserves. serves.
Mar., 1897 .. £85,480 10 p.c. =£85,100 £3BO £418,126
Sept., 1897.. 85,307 10 ~ „ 85,100 207 418,333
Mar., 1898 .. 85,728 10 „ ~ 85,100 628 418,961
Sept., 1898.. 85,408 10 „ „ 85,100 308 419,269
Mar., 1899.. 85,588 10 „ „ 85,100 488 419,757
Sept., 1899.. 85,819 10 „ „ 85,100 719 420,476
Mar., 1900.. 89,414 10 „ „ 89,255.. 159 420,635
Sept., 1900.. 89,389 10 „ „ 89,344 45 420,680
Mar., 1901 .. 93,608 10 „ „ 93,537 71 420,751
Sept., 1901 .. 93,930 10 „ „ 93,610 320 421,071
Mar., 1902 .. 100,199 10 „ „ 99,776 423 421,494
Sept., 1902 .. 100,352 10 „ „ 99,959 393 421,887
Mar., 1903 .. 100,298 10 „ ~ 100,000 298 422,185
The visible addition to the reserves is, as usual, small.
The Colonial Sugar Refining Co. is one of those concerns
whose visible earnings just cover the regular dividend,
and leave almost the same invariable fraction over.
Presumably there is a remainder—the amount of which
can’t be guessed at —which goes to write down the value
of properties. Whether it i 3 sufficient for the purpose or
not there is nothing to show. The co. ceased to make
any visible and obvious additions to its depreciation fund
about eight years ago.
The ILLAWARRA STEAM NAVIGATION Co.
(Sydney)
J , ,
w ... r .
Profits. Dividends. Written to Re- Re-
serves, serves,
Mar., 1900 £27,506
Sept., 1900 £2098 8J p.c. = 2490 27,114
£ Ia r., 2 ?77 8| „ „ 2490 £287 27,401
Sept., 1901 2215 8| „,, 2490 £626 26,501
™ ar '* }602 2392 8} „ „ 2490 26,403
Sept., 1902 2508 8J ~ „ 2490 18 26,421
" ar - > 1663 3060 8f „,, 2490 670 26,991
The 8f per cent, dividend was thus more nearly warranted
in the past half-year than it has been for a considerable
time. The accounts are still, nevertheless, unsatisfactory
' n one respect. Six months ago it was reported that the
board had been unable to write off depreciation of steamers
tor three years, in consequence of the high price of stores,
&c. (in other words, through paying too high a dividend),
but “hoped to be in a position to have a fair sum available
for that purpose at the close of the current half-year.”
Nothing has, however, been done. Yet the directors
practically admit the great need for writing off by inti-
mating that “a number of modern improvements and
alterations have been made” in one vessel “to more
thoroughly equip her for the trade, while the passenger
accommodation has been thoroughly renewed through-
out” ; apparently, though the other vessels have been get-
"n!w°af Wn talent
Same ™ when thebaSe. Weren’t there and the
g dt and uphclstery were all that could be desired.
of the co.’s assets, apart from ship property, most of
them consists of a d ’ ebt P due b the Govt for the
resumed wharf the price wa / flxed by the court a good
while ago> but i l7>24 i is still owing, besides £1713 for law
cos t g Law costs being obviously a “ permanent and re-
productive work,” this item will, no doubt, be paid out
of a loan as soon as the Govt, can raise one. The Ula-
warra S.N. Co., which so far has been a private concern
whose shareholders have called themselves proprietors,
has decided to now take advantage of modern company-
law and thus limit the owners’ liability. When the
change is effected the proprietors will become mere share-
holders, but that fall in dignity ought to be counter-
balanced by a good deal of extra peace of mind,
• * * *
BENDIGO Co-OPERATIVE DISTRIBUTION SOCIETY,
Ltd., managed, it appears, mainly by working people,
doesn’t present its affairs in the most intelligible way;
but apparently its record at present and for the past
half-year is as follows:
Carried to
Profit. Div. Reserve. Reserves.
Feb., 1903 .. £1284 £lOOO £284 £2359
The reserves are used in the Society’s business. The re-
suits look very remarkable on a paid-up capital of £lB6l.
An effort is being made to establish in the
Newcastle district the sweating system which the
friendly societies or Balmain practise on their medical
employees. The coal-miner as a man who likes to get
a fair wage himself, has hitherto been content to pay
» reasonable sum for medical attendance, through his
lodge (sixpence a week per family for advice and medi-
cine whenever needed) That pays the medical man
reasonably well, and Newcastle has in consequence
attracted some very skilful practitioners, and the miner
man can reckon on getting the drugs that, by all the
rules of the game, ought to do him good, even when they
are expensive. But if he tries the medical sweating
syB tem, the miner will find that ultimately he will get
£ be 80r t; of service and the sort of medicine he pays for—
tihat and no better. And it is the worst sort of folly to
have an under-paid man fooling about with your liver ;
it’s the only liver you’ve got and it is apt to take a bitter
revenge on any ill-treatment,
* • • •
The wondrous vitality of the old confidence
trick was evidenced at Bendigo last week by Newton,
“ the great American salesman,” who ran his entertain-
ment for one consecutive night at the Rolling-stock
Buildings. Newton took the platform clothed in naval
un if o rm, and announced himself as a working philan-
thropist of the keenest moral principles. All he wanted
waB confidence of his friends in front. If they
believed in him they would earn his gratitude, and
probably get something more than their money back.
The first item on his programme was a sale of £1 notes at
15s. each. Six notes went off like hot cakes, and New-
ton’s success as a salesman was firmly established. A
number of half-crowns were next disposed of on terms
unfavorable to the vendor ; after which he cleared out a
small stock of penknives at 3s. each, the alleged cost
price being double that sum. Then Newton from
America settled down to the serious business of his brief
Bendigo season. He offered an albert chain for
sale—nob a valuable chain, as he admitted, but an
excellent article for testing the multitude’s faith
in moral principles. He fixed the price of this first great
test at £lO, and a young man in the crowd put up the
money, whereupon Newton the Salesman returned the
£lO to his trusting customer, plus £1 interest and a
rolled-gold chronometer. The next purchasers of a brass
chain for £lO didn’t get their money back on the spot,
but the prospect of reaping a subsequent reward for their
confidence buoyed them up. Likewise the citizens who
P aid £ . 5 for the sam f. ch * in re ““ n ed hopeful, although
price was presently lowered to £1 and thence to 6d„
e . r whl °b Newton the Salesman took to scattering
chains gratis among the audience A comic song corn-
Petition and free drinks concluded the entertainment
*or, whilst the enchained admirers of he philanthropist
we [, e 8ln « in ? ‘*p 0r h . e 8 ? u y
well away and Bendigo s publici faith in °vv man
his angry
dK exactly ‘Mmposfon
mean s of false verbal representations.” He appealed to
their cupidity bv inviting their confidence, and they gave
him the f r confidence and swallowed his whisky,
« « • •
„ T _ T ~
Permewan, Wright and Co., Ltd. , the carry-
in £ people of Melbourne and 45 other places :
Year Profits, less _ Added Total
to 31st Deprecia- Dividends. Written to Re- Re-
Jan. tion. off. serves, serves,
1893 ..£7230 10 p.c. =£3750 £3480 £18,545
;; g ” ” Z 20,989
10 3750 19,290
-,gQ 7 4844 10 ” 37 r )0 _• 1094 w 384
,oq B " 4514 10 ” ” 3:50 _ 764 2 1’148
i«oq 3769 10 ” ” 3'70 19 21167
,qa o " 4036 9” ” 406 2 21’141
1991 " 4 55 2 8!! 4479 £7500 13,714
1902 " 5759 8„ „ 5000 7500 6,364
igo3 6630 8 „ „ 5000 1630 7,994
. .
The business shows a steady and satisfactory increase.
In the past year, for the first time since the capital went
up from £37,500 to £62,500, enough has been earned to
pay a dividend at the old rate of 10 p.c.—though
directors are not rash and foolish enough to recommend
of confidence in the s management,
.** . *
Premier Seddon s latest idea is to boom Maon-
land meat industry by establishing butcher’s shops in
some of the principal centres of England and Scotland ;
placing Govt, experts in charge, and selling at cost price.
When the British public has become accustomed to buy-
ing Maoriland meat—at a cheaper rate, presumably, than
the local article—the shops, Seddon thinks, may be
closed and the trade left to run itself. Which is where
the mistake comes in. The idea should be to make the
shops yield a small profit, and keep them open perma-
nently, and spread the industry till the Maoriland
Government’s sign-board, hanging above the gory fore-
quarter of meat, is familiar throughout the whole United
Kingdom.
* • • •
B.H. Junction North closed its half-year on
March 31. The co. began the term with £2973 in hand ;
calls yielded £3212 ; and the half-year ended with a credit
balance of £3072. Of the £3113 spent, £2681 was for
mining—mainly the sinking of a prospecting winze
between the 937 ft. and 1037 ft. levels. This working was in
ore all the way, averaging 12oz. silver, 16£ p.e. lead, and
B'4 p.c. zinc. The metallic contents are good, but with
sulphide ore that isn’t everything. Right through,
Junction North ore has been intractable, and the stuff
from this deepest working appears to be of the same
character. Anyhow, cheap working while the Junction,
Junction North, and North are separate concerns is out
of the question ; worked independently they are probably
all unpayable under what must be regarded as normal
conditions, and until some striking development occurs
in the processes of extraction.
• • • •
British 8.H., which in its last half-year (to
Dec., 31, 1902) did no productive work, made a loss of
£2679 ; that is to say, that much was spent in keeping
the rust from the idle machinery and the wolf
from the idle office-staff. In the corresponding half of
1901 the “ loss ” was £11,270; but in that term a good
deal of development was in progress.
* • * »
The most important recent development at
Broken Hill has been in the B.H. Prop, at the 800 ft. level.
Other mines are working deeper than this—the neighbor-
ing Block 10 is ore-getting below 1000 ft. —but the big
show has never been pressed for ore, and has kept mostly
above 550 ft., though the bodies have been proved down
to 700 ft. It is the eastern “leg” which has now been
met in boring at the 800 ft. ; and over 20ft. of satisfactory
mill sulphides have been pierced. The class to which the
Broken Hill lode belongs has never been satisfactorily
settled, and it was therefore doubtful whether the eastern
“ leg,” or “ saddle-flap,” persisted downwards. The
proving of this eastern body at this depth, therefore,
adds very greatly to the known ore bodies in the mine.
• • • *
There isn’t much profit in opal-mining just now.
The market is easily overstocked, especially with poor
stuff, and White Cliffs (N.8.W.) has been turning out
little else lately. Buyers are, therefore, very shy. One
result of the dull season has been to revive the request
for £lOOO or so from the prospecting vote to test the
deeper ground. The work really ought to be done by the
J. Bull co. which got hold of most of the best country at
White Cliffs ; but as the co.’s investment has been most
unprofitable (it paid a ridiculous price for the leases) it
will spend nothing. In the circumstances it might be a
payable thing for the State to give a “ tucker allowance ”
to a few deep-sinking parties, working under the direc-
tion of the district mines inspector and a local committee.
* • • •
The first of the Arltunga co.’s has gone into
liquidation. A very short-lived cat indeed—in fact, only
a kitten.
* • * •
The record of the Boulder Perseverance, at
present Westralia’s greatest mine, during the past two
years :
Receipts. Profit. Dive.
1901 .. £488,756 £211,403 £87,500 £212,590
1902 .. 694,706 375,179 350,000 22,945
Depreciation allowance is not separately charged and
deducted from profit in this statement, as it no doubt
ought to be. Cost of mining in 1901 was 12s. per ton,
against 10s. lid. last year : cost of treatment, 245. lOd.
against 225. lid. To make the shares a handier counter
for gambling with, they are now to be divided into
eighths, with 100,000 shares put in reserve.
* » • •
Great Boulder Perseverance (W.A.) last year
treated 140,642 tons ore at a cost of £340,981, or 48s. 2d.
a ton. This includes £60,500, or Bs. 2d. a ton, spent out
of revenue on development and equipment. The bullion
averaged £3 lls. Bd. per oz., showing that the gold won
from the sulphide zone is about 10s. an ounce inferior to
that won in the oxidised zone. The ore blocked out
above the 700 ft. is estimated at 400,000 tons. Up to date
about 370,000 tons have been treated, making the total
originally contained above 700 ft. 770,000 tons. Taking
14 cubic feet of solid ore to the ton, this means that, on
the average, in every 100 ft. of depth, the Lake View and
Perseverance lodes on this lease each carries 770,000
cubic feet of ore, or is over sft. wide for the full 1450 ft.
of the lease. This is certainly a tall order, and, if
true, stamps the mine as quite unique. The mine
is now being developed at 900 ft., and the shaft is
on the way to 1100 ft. According to the estimates
each of these levels should add 20 months’ supply at the
present rate of extraction without taking into account
Tetley’s lode, which only comes into this mine below
400 ft., and is now being worked at the 500 ft. and 700 ft.
levels. When Christopher Furness joined the board a
year ago he stipulated that divs. were to be limited to
10s. quarterly, the surplus to go into Consols, to build up
a reserve fund. Last year’s surplus profits only panned
out at £2,234, and not a penny was written off for depre-
ciation. This is significant.
« • • •
Associated Northern (W.A.) should shortly
reach the lode cut by diamond drill at 912fc. Co. is still
raising 50 tons of ore daily, and continuing shipments to
Dapto. The first bore on the Iron Monarch lease is down
1000 ft., but results are not available. In the adjoining
Boomerang, on the north, tributors have been
working for years, but, except an occasional rich dab,
nothing much has been found. The delay in ordering
treatment plant is probably due to negotiations for amal-
gamation with adjacent properties.
• « •
Lorna’s Luck, Leonora (W.A.), is apparently
not the wonderful show that manager J. Nuttall would
lead one to believe. He cabled to London that the reef
was 7ft. wide at a depth of 140 ft., and worth 2oz. to lOoz.
to the ton ; yet actual crushings only gave 770 z. from 127
tons, or 12dwt. per ton. On the strength of his asser-
tions a main shaft is being sunk by contract.
* * • •
Queen Margaret South (W.A.) tributors have
had a sensational clean up for their first parcel. Ten
tons of ore, from which 7330 z. had been dollied, yielded
at the battery 7250 z., totting up a gross return of 14580 z.
The gross value of the lot is £5200, of which co. gets
£lO4O, and each tributor receives a similar div. As the
tribute still has some months to run a good many more
may be forthcoming.
* * • •
North Kalgurli (W.A.) has purchased a 20-head
mill of 12001 b. stamps and a complete cyanide plant. Ten
head will be hurried on and will probably get to work in
July. The lodes on this property are disturbed and
patchy, but enough pay ore is now in sight to keep the
plant going for months. Several rich dabs of smelting ore
have also been found. Present manager, Henry Nutman,
deserves praise for bringing this formerly discredited
concern to its present condition.
'« » • »
Golden Horsehoe (W.A.) is bein£ very energe-
tically opened up, the footage now being in the neighbor-
hood of 800 monthly, or a long way in excess of any other
mine. Ten levels are in operation, and all four lodes are
being systematically developed. Development is easily
beating the mill,and ore reserves are gradually mounting
up. 00. has maintained a regular output of about half a
ton of gold monthly for over two years without a break,
and looks like doing so indefinitely. What is known as
No. 4 lode has been the most consistent and richest, and
has helped to sweeten up the returns. This lode was
never located in the Ivanhoe, but recently, while cross-
cutting to the boundary at the 500 ft. level, a lode of 16ft.
wide, and worth 15dwt., was encountered, and is sup-
posed to be the Horseshoe No. 4. If it is, there are in all
six lodes in the Ivanhoe, and probably also in the Horse-
shoe.
* • • *
Bay ley’s, Coolgardie (W. A..), is still exploiting
at the 900 and 1000 ft. levels, but results continue very
disappointing, and it looks as if the mine, like its neigh-
bors, will never be any good at depth. A former
manager, H. H. MacKinnon, is again on the field, and, it
is rumored, is likely to resume charge.
» * • •
Zoroastrian, Bardoo (W.A.), for which Ellis
Parker was going to bring up a 40-head mill from Hope’s
Hill to add to the 10-head on the mine, is a one-horse
show. At the 400 ft level the crosscut had to go nearly
300 ft to reach the reef, which is dipping away, is less
than 2ft wide, and is of poor quality. Even the 10-head
mill continues hung up, and the company is advertising
to crush for the public. The district is a sleepy hollow,
and if the mill has to wait for outside support, it runs a
good chance of being hung up till doomsday.
• • • *
Total Westralian divs. for April were £b55,000,
against £252,587 10s. for the first three months of the
year. Cos. responsible are : Horseshoe £90,000, Perse-
verance £87,500, Great Fingall £62,500, Ivanhoe £40,000,
Brown Hill Extended £20,000, Kalgurli £15,000, Peak Hill
£14,000, Ida H. £13,500, Burbanks Birthday Gift £4,500,
W.F. Main Reefs £4,000, and Princess Royal £4,000.
* • • *
Princess Royal, Norseman (W.A.), the only
regular producer and div. distributor in that district,
looks as if it were to be mopped up by John Bull. Some
months ago Bull tried to get hold of the property, but
did not offer good enough bait, and the deal didn’t come
off. For some time the mine has been producing fully
2000 oz. monthly and paying Is. divs. Since its flotation
in Adelaide in 1896, the co. has distributed £84,000 on a
working capital of £14,625. As filter presses have now
got to work on the big accumulation of slimes, future
returns should show some increase. Present market
value of the mine is about £160,000.
* * • •
In connection with the fire branch which
Premier Seddon thinks of adding to M.L. Insurance Dept.,
the proposal is to give the divisible profits back to in-
surers in the shape of bonuses. Therein Seddon
seems likely to make a bad mistake. It is all
very well to give back part of the profits to
insurers for purposes of advertisement, and in order
to attract business which will bring in more profits.
But the balance of the profit should be invested in State
securities as a reserve fund and allowed to accumulate.
And the interest earned by that reserve fund should not
be included in the ordinary profit, but should be con-
stantly invested in State securities, and allowed to accu-
mulate. And until the State Fire Insurance Department
has bought up all the Maoriland Government securities
that are available for purchase the process of accumula-
tion should go on.
Having got to the end of the Boer war, Britain,
which has already Daid £67,500,000 of the war bill out of
revenue, starts again to pay off its national debt at the
rate of £6,000,000 a year. If Australia made a similar
effort, it would collect sufficient taxes to have no
deficits, would nay for all unproductive works out of
revenue, and wohld pay £600,000 a year into a public
debt sinking-fu*d. The apologists for our loan disease
are always pointing to Britain as a case that is similar to
ours. It isn’t at all similar. The points of difference
are that Britain’s unproductive debt is rather smaller in
proportion to population than ours, and is being system-
atically paid off; ours is larger than Britain’s, and is
being added to every year.


/ONES AND COMPANY,
High=Class
Hatters
Cent’s Black, High-Grade Fur,
Semi-Stiff, Felt Hats.
10$. 61, 12s, 61, 14s, 61, 15s. 61
George and Barrack Streets, Sydney.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath, Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes,
oplendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair,
Kemoves Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
. Invi g° r ating in Hot Climates,
restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Society
[?]
[?]
~ *
Premier See’s comparative estimate of
morality and merchandise"is suggestive. He told
a deputation of women the other day that “ the
man .who ruined a woman’s honor had committed
a crime as serious as burglary.” To “ruin a
woman’s honor, ” according to the Christian theory,
is often much the same as to eternally lose her
soul. And that, says the commercial See, is just
as bad as if a man got into his premises by night
and took away a bag of potatoes.
NOT MUCH.
MISS NISGAL : “ Now, whom did you tell about
taking me to supper, the other night?"
MR. GAYLAD: “ Nobody! t’help me. I didn’t
even mention it to my wife.”
A rather mixed condition ot affairs has
arisen in W. A. in connection with a conviction
for alleged embezzlement. A man was sentenced
to 18 months’ imprisonment, but appealed to the
Full Court against the conviction, and was re
leased on bail pending the hearing of the appeal.
Now the judge who tried him is dead, the Crown
prosecutor at the trial is a judge and a member of
the Full Court, and the lawyer who defended him
has been made Crown Prosecutor. So the man is
at liberty, awaiting further developments.
According to Bendigo (Vic.) Advertiser,
two White Hills persons, with their wives and
families —hitherto ordinary, sober-minded indi-
viduals, with nothing visibly deficient about them
—have taken up the parable of J. A. Dowie
with emendations and expurgations, and have
started out to found a new religion. One
Joshua Jeffrey, or Jeffreys, or Jeffries, an
alleged prophet and pilgrim, with long hair,
flowing black whiskers, and clerical haberdashery,
lately pervaded the district and captured the
emotions of these two White Hills citizens,
Messrs. Watson and Flitterer, who are now
starting a “world-wide mission.” They have nob
as yet adopted a name, but should certainly call
themselves Peripatetics or Flitterers, inasmuch as
they deem it wicked to have the luxuries of a
home, and consider themselves enjoined by the
Book of Daniel and the Revelations of St. John
to only hang out temporarily, and to perpetually
move along like the Perambulating Hebrew.
Anyhow, the two have realised their property,
and started out to convert the world at large.
Nothing definite appears to be known about their
creed, apart from the fact that they propose to
pursue a rheumatic dogma in the open air; and
that their faith—if they can persuade other people
to Flitter along with them —will destroy the value
of real estate. For if the whole community begins
to Flitter, then all the big buildings of Melbourne
will be given over to stray dogs and flying foxes.
* * *
Some curious reports of that recent
episode when the devil came to Cootamundra :
It appears that the few persons who were about heard
a roaring noise, which was immediately followed by a
fire-ball, which seemed to strike White’s Globe Hotel. . .
Constable Manglesdorf, who saw the fire-ball, says he
and Constable Wilson walked on to the middle of the
roadway, and soon after there was a roaring noise. They
then noticed sheets of iron and other building material
scattered about the road. He remarked to his mate
that there had been a cyclone. . . . Another feature of
the occurrence was that Constable Wilson lost his cap,
and afterwards found it on the other side of the street.
As he did not feel any strong wind at the time, the
disappearance of his cap was peculiar. . . . One of the
boarders, named Wright, who occupied one of three beds
in a room, heard a roaring noise, and thinking something
terrible was going to happen, covered his head with a
pillow.
One spectator named Cohen, by the way, saw
either one or three large illuminated balls rushing
down the street. He only spoke of one, but he
probably suppressed the other two lest it should
seem like needless advertisement.*
* « • •
Queensland detectives still visit the house
of Mrs. Murphy at Gatton, and from time to
time put the sad old woman through a catechism
dealing with the mysterious Christmas tragedy of
years ago.
* • * •
This is a very long ago tale of two Austra-
lian brothers who might have been named Smith,
but weren’t. When one married his choice
fell on a milliner. His brother married a
servant. Mrs. Milliner Smith refused to
know Mrs. Slavey Smith, and ill-feeling
raged. But after a while Mrs. Slavey
Smith’s husband got into Parliament,
whereby his wife became respectable,
and Mrs. Milliner trotted along with
her card. Mrs. Slavey gave a wild
whirroo in her expensive drawing-room,
and replied that she wasn’t in, and didn’t
expect to be. More ill-feeling. Then
Mrs. Milliner Smith’s husband got into
Parliament, and rose much more rapidly
than Mrs. Slavey’s husband. The latter
lady trotted along and sent in her card.
Then Mrs. Milliner did a whirroo in
her still more expensive drawing-
room, and sent out a message that
she was dead. About this time,
however, the husbands, who were
on the same side in politics, and
found these hostilities awkward, in-
terposed, and, after much negotia-
tion, the ladies agreed not to whir-
roo any more.
• »
The election of N.S. W. general
divisional representative to the
Federal Public Service Appeal
Board seems like ending in a
sectarian squabble. The dominant
Postal dept, is putting two candi-
dates in the field, representing dif-
ferent factions, and is fighting with
great vigor. One party alluded to the other as
the “scum of the service,” while the “scum”
accuses the “ cream ” of raising the sectarian issue.
It seems to be a row between the scum at the top
and the sediment at the bottom.
Melbourne is promised a startling novelty
in law-suits. Elizabeth O’Hare, married woman,
has issued a writ against Marcus Oldham, of
Toorak, the susceptible middle-aged capitalist
, ,7, ~ , , . v. i
who lately paid heavy damages to a Warrnambool
spinster in settlement of her claim to his heart
and hand. Mrs. O’Hare sues for “specific per-
formance of a contract to purchase for her a
Queen Anne villa, and handsomely furnish same,
and give her £lOOO, and make an investment for
an annuity of £450 for her, or in the alternative
for damages for the breach of contract.” Which-
ever place the late Silas Harding may have gone
to, it is certain that the spirit of tlie old Geelong
skinflint is getting “beans” just now. Harding
acquired vast riches by a long course of penun-
ousness. His first wife and helpmate died prac-
tically of starvation. It was told of the
miserable hunks in the long, long ago, that
when his wife lay sick he was at last
induced. to call in. a medical man, who
told him the patient was suffering from
want of nourishing food. Mrs. Harding Iso. 1
duly passed away to the land of milk and honey,
and Silas, the widower, lived to be the richest
man in Geelong. Then the ancient miser fell
captive to a young woman canvasser, who pre-
sently planted her deplorable millionaire m the
cemetery, and put a big monument over his remains
to keep them down, and started a joyful, fashion-
able widowhood. Fortune played the dashing
widow a cruel trick. She was thrown out of her
oarnage and killed some years ago, and then the
old man s property fell to her next of kin her
brother, Marcus Oldham, and a sister. It was
Silas Harding s money that consoled the W arr-
nambool girl for the loss of her faithless Marcus,
el'd -xr rs ;. , lar .® 13 a .° °? the track of
Skinflint Hardings pile. Time is the King of
Humorists.
* * * *
By way of warning the good-natured, fools
who sign and swear things indiscriminately—the
other day a man was allotted six months in Bathurst
(N.S.W.) gaol for wilfully swearing to a false
declaration in connection with an old-age pension
claim. He knew the applicant well, and swore,
probably in a good-natured, irresponsible way, to
his spotless character, and when it transpired that
the applicant had 18 convictions against him
locally, not to mention three prohibition orders,
the State was justly annoyed. The only cliarac-
ters a man who values himself should vouch for
are those of his ancestors who have been dead 25
years at least, and that of his dog. And it is best
to wait till the dog is dead, too.
Honor among
various kinds of
people. A newly,
married couple
strolled up to a Syd-
ney wine shop, and
ihe husband, drawing
a bottle from under
his coat, dived inside
for some wine. A
frowsy harridan saw
this and confronted
the bride. «Souse
me, Miss —is that
your bloke just gorne
* n • . Cos, if it ain’t,
111 pick ’im up when
he comes out.' y
* » '<_ •
A neat theft that
happened one morn-
ing lately in one of
Sydney's long, nar-
row grocery stores
sho wed traces of origi-
nality. A well-dressed
woman, the only cus-
tomer in the shop,
sidled up to the pro-
vision counter, and
blushed violently.
Then she leaned
across the counter
and admitted in a
terrified whisper to
the provision hand
that her petticoat was
falling off, so would
he mind excusing
himself, until she tied
things up! Me was
young and bashful, so
he threw down the
ham he had been
deftly pruning the
scraggy ends from,
and excused himself
in haste to the other
end of the counter,
where he began pack-
ing sugar to cool him-
self off. The dis-
tressed visitor seemed
a long while; but at
last she finished,
thanked him, and
passed out with a
decided limp and a
piece of string trail-
ing behind her. Next
minute he noticed
that the ham was
gone. Tearing down
the street he saw his
departed friend dis-
appearing through
the side-door of a dis-
tant pub, and just
arrived in time to
find her in a room
behind the bar,
leisurely untying the
ham from her leg.
A lower court in N.S.W. has given the
eminently - satisfactory decision that premises
rented and used by the Salvation Army are liable
8 for municipal purposes. The verdict
13 to be appealed against, of course, for the sects
nowadays only render unto Caesar what is Caesar’s
when Caesar dynamites them; but it is an emi-
nently satisfactory decision to go on with. If it
isn’t law now, it should be law. The statutes
should empower State and municipality to tax all
religious and semi-religious buildings. The
various exemptions granted to people because
they are supposed to be religious or charitable
cloak many frauds on the revenue. Put all on the
one footing j tax church, parsonage and religious
sweating factory, and let the various sects make it
up in the collection-plate. The Government is
the greatest charitable institution in Australia,
and to rob it in order to fatten “ William Booth,
trading as the Salvation Army,” is sacrilege,
• * « »
A case of alleged assault in a railway car-
riage at Prince’s Bridge station, Melbourne, was
tried a few days ago. The girl’s yarn was that,
whilst sitting alone in the carriage, a man entered,
took a seat opposite, and then straightway
attempted to assault her. She complained to the
occupants of the adjoining carriages, when the
defendant got out and hurriedly walked away,
Defendant stated that he had only stooped to tie
his boot-lace, when the girl of excessive virtue
“ hollered out.” As for walking away when she
began to imagine things—well, any sane person
who reads the papers would endeavor to get out
of the locality in a violent hurry under the same
circumstances. A sensible jury, taking into con-
sideration that the train was at a standstill at one
of Melb.’s busiest platforms, and probably re-
fleeting that he would have to be a hardened and
desperate ruffian who would attempt an “assault”
under such conditions, said plainly that it didn’t
believe the girl’s tale and discharged the accused.
The next sweet young person will probably lay
the scene of the outrage on the top of a ’bus while
it is wending its weary way along George-street,
Sydney, in broad daylight,
.* * * .- *
Maoriland Calvinists have always pointed
to Dunedin as the model city where the suburban
trams didn’t run on the Sawbath ; hut now, alas,
the pagans are prevailing, and there is serious talk
of running the trams and risking the consequences,
What those consequences are likely to be hasn’t
yet been settled. Some think a fireball will fall
on Job Wain’s hotel; others that all the cows in
Otago will run dry and the butter business peter
out.
A RECENT LETTER FROM FIJI.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There is trouble in Fiji, where the cocoa-nut trees be,
There is bother in those islands ’twixt the missionary
clans ;
Lo ! the Roman Cath-o-lics are all armed with knotted
sticks,
And'the paths are filled with snorting, aggravated Wes-
ley-ans.
There is prancing on the shore, where the peoples cry
for gore.
And the rival gospel dealers split each other’s creeds in
twain ;
Whilst the Bibles in Fiji blaze and crackle merrilee,
And the native teacher whoops and digs the war-club up
again.
Where Fijian bush is dense the nigger’s soul will hasten
hence
When the warring Methodist has got the Papist by the
ear;
And the Romans in their turn will rejoice ■’mid tree and
fern,
And the land be filled with piety and blood and strife
and beer.
And when the holy books are burned Peace’s hat may be
discerned
Rising like a star of hope on the horizon of the sea ;
But at present there is strife where they sell the Bread
of Life,
And the Bibles on the islands are blazing merrilee.
W.A.
GRANT HERVET.
A MEMORY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Love, you remember that glad night in June
When faintest winds were blowing
Rose-scent and musk athwart the dusk
And when the shimmering opal of the moon
Flashed in the river ; how that golden tune,
In perfect measure flowing—
Each note a falling pearl, a fairy gem—
Crowned Love with Music’s mystic diadem
Sing on, sing on, dear Love,
Sing on for evermore !
But, ah ! My Love was borne from me
With cypress wreaths before.
O.C.C.
RESOLUTIONS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
DAINTY damsel said to me,
“ What will your plans for this year be?
As resolutions now are rife,
What are your vows for New Year life ?
I thought awhile, then slowly said :
“ These are my plans till I am dead :
Maiden charms I shall despise ;
My admiration I’ll disguise .”
She said, “ Such plans could never live.
Your folly, though, I shall forgive.
Allow me now to state my own:
They are, fair sir, to break yours down!
GENERAL.


n
u
L
D.C
V
K
M
S
W
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Strife
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
331- par Half-dozen, free by post throuyhont
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTGASTLE & SONS BRISBANE
Wild’s, in the Sydney Arcade, is the most
fashionable gentlemen’s hairdressing saloon in
Sydney. Every attention possible is paid to the
•customers by six expert hairdressers. Address.—
30 Sydney Arcade, entrance from George-street
or King street, Sydney.*
TO DARKEN GREY HATR
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
•safest, best restores the natural color. Lock*
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.
Ping Pong it is all the go,
Learn to play it —don’t be slow ;
Lots Of fun you’ll find indoors,
While outside the tempest roars.
YTcu’ll gladly think you’re snug and warm,
And not out in the raging storan
'To catch a cold, for which be sure
To take some Woods’ Great Peppermint Ocr>v*
SILVER
S
A
STARCH
THE
BEST
N
HE
WORLD
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
Australia's
Leading Tonic
Beverage .
Next Hospital Saturday there should be
some attractive young and old men out with
collecting boxes—especially old men. It is the
rich and wicked old man who is wanted—the
burnt-out volcano with the leer of a sinful past in
his countenanoe —the rake who hasn’t reformed,
and doesn’t recognise that he is too old to rake
any more. He must be rich, because if he
isn’t he can’t have had enough Past—Past
is a very expensive thing if it is to be
the fight kind of Past. Also he should be
a bachelor or a widower as well as rich ; then
there is no knowing when the bright innocent
face of some young thing who drops 3d. into his
box may move him to settle down (matrimonially)
and reform. But he must be old so that he
won’t settle "down too long—in this world, of
oourse. Tasmanian ex-Premier Braddon would
bring in a fortune with a collecting box.
He is old, reasonably affluent, and has a sort
of a title. Also, though lie probably never had a
sinful Past, he looks as if he had had a dozen of
them. Braddon is in appearance the wicked old
earl of the London Journal to a hair, with the
drooping moustache, the aristocratic features, the
crows-feet and all the other furnishings. Standing
on the Block with a collecting box he could lift
the debt off any hospital single handed.
• * ■* •»
Australia has stood with equanimity
various suggestions that the scales of justice are
not held on a true balance as between rich and
poor. The whole continent, however, is vocifer-
ously aghast concerning the tampering with the
weighing, scales which hold the balance between
horse and horse at Newcastle. That is a crime
which touches the great heart of the nation.
•* * • »
Besides Bent, Leah Abrahams, and other
troubles, Victoria is just now suffering from an
alleged rain-making shindykit, consisting of 39
Srsons, under the guidance of one C. de Lacey
acarthy, M.A. and M.D. Macarthy says he
go# his water-producing secret in Yankeeland,
HOSPITAL SATURDAY.—WHAT IT WILL COME TO SOME DAY.
and he doesn’t need any clouds or vapor strata,
but can fetch a first-class deluge out of the blue
vault of heaven at a few days’ notice. His secret
is understood to be a chemical one, and that’s all
that’s known about it. He tried it at Inglewood
last week, and the rain duly arrived ; but as it
also transpired over nearly the whole of three
States, and as several common or Government
weather prophets duly forecasted it, the experi-
ment was by no means as conclusive as Maoarthy
reckons. If the gentleman with the Irish name
and the Yankee invention will go out to the back
of Bourke, and bring on a heavy downpour once a
month for, say, six months, he may begin to think
he has done something unusual. If he can do
what he claims he may confidently reckon on a
permanent billet from the Commonwealth Govern-
ment at about £1,000,000 a year.
• • • •
A Maoriland newspaper advt. :
GRIOE.—A young milkman arrived at the residence
of Charles Percy Grice, “ Morningside,” Wharehine,
on April 3,1903, intending, “ in the sweet by-and-
bye,” to milk for the P.A. Creamery.
Poor kid, doomed to oow-slavery even from his
cradle 1
“Nil ” on still another aspect of the
case:—
The champion chrysanthemum, the prize sow, the
trapeze girl, and the artist’s model have a chance (when
old age smites them hip and thigh leaving but a wreck)
to recall to the eye the beauties that were. But the
“ respectable ” young woman of any class must be con-
tent with the shadow of her body on the wall or its fleet-
ing reflection in the bath. And why ? She may have a
record of her facial charms (if she have any) and wel-
come. But the girl with the (ah ! so rare) perfect figure
must preserve an inviolable secrecy about it except down
to the upper chest, and as far as it can be suggested and
hinted at by cunning tricks of dress. The old, old
woman who lives again in her handsome granddaughter
may show a miniature of her face and half her bosom and
say, “ Ah ! my dear, you would hardly think it, but that’s
what I looked like at your age." But of the rest a
strange silence ; the hypocrisy of ages of convention.
The present scribe has about as much sentimentality as a
tin tack, but.he confesses to a sense of the pathos of the
(nearly) perfect girl condemned never to be seen ; whose
body is the loveliest work of Nature upon which no eyes
but her own may rest; who is imbued with a natural vanity
not only pardonable but proper to all normal females,
and who may not even have a counterfeit presentment of
her all too fleeting charms wherewith to comfort her
in time of waning. And so, here’s to the Melbourne
swimming girl, and more power to her for a sensible
wench 1
* * • *
The Sunday Railsitter has been running
a “discussion ” about women who are starved by
their husbands; and the number of ladies who
have spread themselves on the subject is simply
astonishing. That there are some women who
are kept on short allowance by their husbands is
true ; but against that many men would be abso-
lutely starved to death by their wives but for the
counter-lunch. The woman who fries the fish
with cold dripping is worse than a murderess;
and the other fiend who regularly cooks the vege-
tables without salt and serves up the beans in a
parboiled state is more nefarious than a baby-
farmer. To fry the steak without first bashing it
on a slab with a hunk of timber is a greater in-
jury than to slay the baker and the butcher, and
to fry the steak at all is an offence compared with
which bigamy is small, harmless and ornamental.
• * • •
“ Bill ” sends this lie :
Scene on St. Kilda (Vic.) railway station. Well-known
politician arrives with his bicycle. Bicycle crippled.
Well-known politician interviews booking clerk and tries
to borrow screw-wrench for bicycle. Olerk can’t find
one. Gomes out and calls the porter, who tries to fix up
machine with ticket-clips, but is unsuccesful. Politician
waits till train comes in. Asks engine-driver for screw-
wrench. Engine-driver gets off and gets to work screw-
ing up machine. Engine shunts with one man. Train
delayed while politician’s bike is repaired. Engine-driver
walks down station to get back to engine. Politician
puts machine in guard’s van and rides with it, free, of
course.
• * • •
Creeve Roe writes :
The Mardi Gras procession has been introduced in a
tentative way in Manly. The Boeuf Gras is a bullock
bought by a local butcher at the Agricultural Show. It
is a large and stately animal and has a blue ribbon tied
to its tail. Imagine how the Fattest member of the
House of Fatmen would look if he were compelled to
wear a coral
rattle and
bells
around bis
neck, and
you can pic-
ture the ex-
pression of
that bul-
lock. A man
leads it
along the
Corso and
people pass-
ing by stop
and feel its
ribs. “This
is my
fancy,” says
one, "slap-
ping it on
the rump.
“ This for
me,” says
another,
punching it
in the bris-
ket. The
bullock
knows very
well what
they are
saying.
You can see
that by the
scornful
droop of its
upper lip.
It seems to
be growing
thinner,
too. Which
reminds me
of a goose
that was be-
ing fed up
for Christ-
mas in a
boarding house at which I stayed once upon a time.
They had it in a cage at the bottom of the yard
and the boarders used to feel it every morning to find out
how much heavier it might have grown during the night.
The goose knew and finally refused to take food. It died,
a mere feathered skeleton, a week before Christmas. The
Manly bullock is at intervals halted outside of the shop of
the butcher. You can almost hear it saying “I, who am
about to die, salute thee 1” as it looks at that enter-
prising tradesman wielding his furious cleaver. What
adds to the cynical effect is the fact that it has a cast in
its eye.
* * • •
Dear Bulletin, —You’re wrong in stating
(B. 11/4/’O3) that the underpaid Australian clerks
are “so revoltingly poor-spirited that they won’t
revolt.” That’s nob where the fish is hooked.
It’s their brainless, empty pride thab prevents
them from bettering their position by forming a
union, and “ haw —lowering themselves to the
level of a—haw—vulgar coal-lumper.” Before
last election asked a haughty three-inch-collar-
wearing-225. 6d.-a-week invoice-clerk in a sweat-
ing Sydney drapery establishment if he intended
to vote for the labor candidate of his electorate.
He stabbed me to the heart with a look of indig-
nation and lisped : “Haw—do you take me for a
common coal-heavah ? ” —The Domainiac.
A conscientious Chinese witness in New-
town (Sydney) police court licked one side of the
Bible all over a few days ago—licked it carefully
and thoroughly, as a cat does its kitten. When he
had got that side pretty clean, he was about to
turn the scripture over and clean the other side,
when the sergeant told him the holy volume was
sufficiently washed and business would now pro-
ceed.
4 • * *
While Bent was raving about the iniquitous
Victorian railway employee who goes “ bung ”
just for the malicious satisfaction of casting dis-
credit on the Bully administration, he counted
without another person indirectly affected. One
of these has just made an appearance in the insol-
vency court, and sets her troubles down to “loss
of boarders through retrenchment in the railway
department ’’—such boarders having, presumably,
to look for oheaper quarters and a thinner variety
of hash.
• • * •
Sydney police department has lately been
making a half-hearted attack on fortune-tellers,
palmists and other small frauds. Several of those
ladies, through being too interested with the dis-
guised policeman’s hands to notice the size of his
feet, have fallen in and been bound over to be of
good behaviour for various periods, and to come
up for sentence when called upon. By the way,
the very respectable S.M. Herald, a paper which
blushes at the word “stocking” and alludes to
that harmless, necessary bag as an article of
woman’s apparel, published the advertisement of
a “clairvoyant” on the very day when that
bowled out woman answered to her name at
Darlinghurst. This is a side issue, but it would
be interesting to know how “Mr. James” would
stand for “ aiding and abetting ” if the law were a
little more vigorously administered.
* • • •
“L.W.”: Last Saturday saw a mob of
howling lunatics in tip-drays, trollies, sulkies,
donkey-carts (most appropriate vehicle), drags,
carriages, boxes on wheels drawn by ragged and
filthy urchins, and motor cars, procesh through
several of the principal streets of Sydney, some
of them heavily congested with traffic. It was
the University Commemoration, and it howled,
screeched, and blew all manner of wind instru-
ments to the great danger of people who were
driving horses within a quarter of a mile.
It was the sort of enjoyment that might
be reasonably expected to be on view at a
lunatic asylum after six months hard drinking. If
a crowd of wharf-lumpers, grocers’ assistants or
any other class of workers were guilty of one-
tenth of the programme which the University
fools carried out over and over again, the Riot
Aot would be read, and every member of:
the offending party tried for obstructing traffic,
gaoled for being a public nuisance, or committed:
to a lunatic asylum for straight jacket and padded
cell treatment. Why the police authorities per-
mit such disgraceful exhibitions in the public-
streets is only explainable by the fact that there
are different kinds of law for different varieties:
of push.
• • • •
It is a melancholy reflection on W. C.
Wentworth’s proposal to establish an hereditary-
peerage in N.S.W. that his own old home,
Vaucluse, is in the market. A bag or portmanteau,
peerage, which has no old hereditary residence,
but humps its swag from place to place, Mill,
never look like the real thing, and the Australians
don’t seem able to hang on to the old shanty for
more than two or three generations. An Arabian
nobility may hang out in a tent, but that kind
would never satisfy imported British ideas.
OVERHEARD AT A MELBA CONCERT.
MUCHAIR : “What did you think of Melba’s
rendering of the mad scene from ' Hamlet?’ ”
SINGLETON: “Wonderful, wonderful! My hair
fairly stood on end.”
MUCHAIR : “ That’s singular .”
The Review of Reviews, in a recent
article, complains that Australians have no sense
of humor. But then hitherto no native of this
Commonwealth, other than the kookaburra, lias
had much to laugh at. When the chance comes,
we laugh heartily enough. We laughed wildly at
Brassey’s fallings-off, and Wallington’s nose made
us laugh, and when we saw the little York “ in-
vesting” some knights we laughed something
tremendous, and when we read about the floggings
in the Grenadier Guards Heaven only knows how
we did laugh. Also Wilson Barrett’s Claudian
made us laugh till we nearly died.
• * * *
A jury at Arrnidale (N.S. W.) circuit court,
last week, asked Acting-Chief Justice Stephen for
lunch. It was mid-day and the jury had just re-
tired. His Honor said that the case was so
simple it was not thought necessary to provide a
meal. At 3 o’clock he would order lunch. At
3.15 the jury (victuals not having turned up) found
a verdict. The Judge reminded the jury that in
olden days they would have been starved into a
verdict. Which seemed unnecessary. A fat man
of large appetite (there is always one such on a
jury) begins to starve by 2.30.
HOSPITAL SATURDAY.
(The Plaint of Gayboy Hardup.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To dodge the girls 1 Each smiling fay,
Tricked out to cozen us to pay,
From all Convention’s trammels free 1
How full of spite is Fate to me,
That I, while most old chums are gay,
Must take some unfrequented way,
And hurry on in dire dismay ;
Forced by the Ourse of Poverty
To dodge the girls 1
My clothes are far gone towards decay,
I may not join the sportive play 1
I swear no burning lake, or sea
Of fiery billows, e’er can be
Such hell as this—that I to-day
Must dodge the girls 1
ULOOLA.
THE GIRL WHO STAYED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The greatest problem of the age
Was puzzled o’er by many a sage.
And statesmen even of high degree
Had wondered why such things should be.
Why “ helps ” should seek the factory’s noise
With dearth of sweet domestic joys
When in safe, sheltered homes they still
Might scrub in peace and fear no ill!
Now Mrs. Brown was pale and small;
She was not wise or great, at all.
Yet, like the sages of the land,
She sought this thing to understand.
And with her woman’s heart at last
She solved the social problem vast.
Within her chamber (all unswept)
Sat Jane, their latest help, and wept
Over the woes of blue-eyed Pearl
Pursued by Branksome’s sinful Earl.
Then Mrs. Brown with burning glance
Came to this child of young Romance.
And took that simple girl aside,
And sobbed awhile ; then groaned and cried,
“ My girl, ere in this home you rest,
Where all with innocence seems blest;
“ Oh 1 hear my words and shun all hurt;
My husband is a desperate flirt.”
(This statement —I must write it down—
Was libel black on Mr. Brown ;
But when a “ slavey’s ’’ in the case,
A husband takes a second place.)
“ If you your way should chance to miss
On staircase dark, I fear a kiss
“ He might attempt,” wept Mrs. 8.,
“80, simple girl, I bid you flee.
“ His soul is dark, his heart is bold . . •
•Twas right to tell it, and I’ve told."
A year has passed since first they met,
And hopeful Jane is stopping yet.
C.C.
LIGHT KISSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I played aft love as a strange, sweet game—
Careless, laughing, cruel, maybe—
Wooed eyes of brown, and blue, and grey,
With mocking fervor, fancy free ;
Kissed lips, and other lips as sweet,
With seeming warmth, in careless fun,
JJut without a throb or a quick heart-beat
For e’er a one.
But I’ve done with the lying make-believe,
The mocking, loveless, paltry sham ;
Weighed with regret and useless grief,
Light kisses leave me as I am.
1 learnt the sting of the careless kiss,
With its taunting glimpse of love unwon,
For the girl I love just kissed me once—
Just once—in fun.
via
J. M'CLELLAND.


the Matter of Dress attention to Detail Indicates Breeding.
EVERY LADY KNOWS rrTjt ™
KLEINERT’S HOOKON
“ THEOHLY Correct Hose Supporter
To Wear with the NEW FORM CORSET
Sold only at the Best Shops.
sU OGEST/ 0/v
•OS*
❖
*
o'*
\>
&*
\+
6?
Women ! why be thin and undeveloped ?
Lact&, the wonderful skin-food, plumps the flesh,
where thin and undeveloped, gives a beautiful
roundness to face, neck, bust, and arms. A
quick, sure and safe home treatment. Jars-
7s. 6d., post Bs. 2d. Thousands of women using it.
daily, all of whom testify to the wonderful results
from its use. Write for pamphlet to H. Westall.
Guest, Vice-regal chemist, 229 Bourke-street,.
Melbourne.*
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW
A SMART BLOUSE
Made of best French flannel, tucked and
strapped in the latest styles.
ALL COLORS 11/6 each
OUR, PRICES SPEAK IN TONES OF
TRUE ECONOMY.
Write to us for any of your WINTER
WANTS. We can please you always.
W. T. WATERS & CO. LTD.
“ The Leaders of Fashion,”
King & George Sts., SYDNEY.
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW
3
W
“e 12 ANNETTES
Are the Ideal Fabric *
FO R
RAINCOATS.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, May 6, 1903.
Mr Dear Arini,—
After the manner of such annual foolishness,
the Sydney University Commemoration wheel
came full circle last Saturday. Town Hall was
packed. You can’t shut your eyes to the fact
that it’s not because of a dreary reading of a weary
list of benefactors, or a conferring of degrees, or
professorial speeches, that the function is packed,
but because people long to see what new kind of
idiots the students may make of themselves. One
of them got off a gag whioh produced a scream
df joy. You can tickle a Commem. crowd with
the decimal of a straw. A girl grad., coming up
for her degree, gave her hand to Chancellor
Normand MacLaurin in the affected shake-hand-
fashion that was once the vogue, and the Chan-
cellor held the hand quite a long time. There
was a flash of silence in the hall, and out of it
came a request in a tender tone: “Call me
Normand, dear! ”
One women grad, made a correct courtesy.
The others gave masculine nods to the Chan-
cellor, and with the exception of one male grad,
the presence of Governors Tennyson and Rawson
was ignored by the degree-getters. Such a host
of women B’s.A. and M’s.A. in the body
of the hall women who had won their
hoods and gowns long ago. Wonder what use
they make of what a Sydney man once called
their “blotting paper education.” I know a
man who owns several B.A. daughters of whom
he proudly says, “To talk to them you would
never think they knew a thing.”
At the annual great noise of Sydney Uni. the
loudest enthusiasm was evoked by the appear-
ance of Mr. M‘William, who is the first blind
student to receive a degree at our Alma Mater.
Said that his teaching had been entirely viva voce.
Sultan of Johore and his auriferous smile are
expected in Sydney shortly. Some years ago this
potentate, who sultans 9000 square miles at the
southern tip of the Malay Peninsula, lost his own
teeth in an accident, but had them replaced by
others wrought by the goldsmith, the diamond-
setter, and the dentist. His smile has a right to
the adjective dazzling. He must be quite English,
you know, for when he was told that there was a
doubt as to whether he and his teeth would be
allowed to land at Fremantle (W.A.) he replied :
“Very well! But I won’t buy any more horses
in the beastly country.” It was said in the
Oxford bleat, no doubt. “ Beastly ”is so English.
Besides, the Sultan had a breach of promise case
brought against him when he was in London a
short time ago, and which he won on the ground
that the court had no jurisdiction over a sovereign
prince.
Decline in popularity of the sailor hat is notice-
able. Milliners have talked it down and dis-
couraged it all they knew, for there is no place
on a sailor hat for half a mile of tucked chiffon,
or an ostrich plume, or a botanical garden, and
therefore no profit. By the way, American dress-
makers are trying all they know to fight down the
shirt-waist, or what we call “the blouse.” It is
declared bourgeoise, and a menace to the profits of
the hard-working dressmaker. “ How can we
expect to do a successful business, ” asked one of
the speakers at a meeting of the National Dress
Association, “if shirt-waists, which are in the
fashion, can be bought at the stores at from 8 to
12 dollars ? ” Same speaker warned her hearers
against the “dressmaker face/” It is a strained,
agonised expression that settles on the modiste’s
face, especially in Spring time, when the dress
creator is on a hunt after ideas and patterns.
He was the dustman in an up-country town in
N.S.W., and when he fell and fractured an arm
he was taken to the hospital, given a good wash,
put into a clean night-gown and deposited in bed.
After night-fall he arose stealthily, wrapped in a
blanket, and fled back to his shanty, where he told
his mates that he only escaped the coffin by flight.
Everything else—washing, shrouding and laymg-
out—the hospital authorities had done. It is a
painful state of things when an Australian citizen
doesn’t recognise an ordinary wash when it comes
his way.
Lloyd concert co. had a half-hour in Sydney
harbor on the Sunday previous to its departure
that it will remember for a space. The co. had
spent a pleasant fore and afternoon running about
in a little steam launch, and was returning home,
when just off Pinchgut, after dark, a squall
of wind and rain (distinguished enough to merit
special press notices next morning) struck the
craft. The vessel started to climb hills of
seas Olympus high, and the wind blew at
the rate of 45 miles an hour. The owner of
the toy vessel took the wheel, or whatever
he calls the steering-gear, and in pauses of
the “hills of seas” breaking over him, he
entreated Miss Foxcroft and Peterkin not to
stop singing. And they didn’t stop except when
the top of a hill fell down their throats. It was
great nerve. Mrs. Peterkin gave herself up for
lost; tenor Lloyd sat tight and tried to reassure
her. The impressario on board swam about in the
• bottom of the boat looking for a valuable box of
cigars, bub his wife collapsed into a bundle of
clothes with a moan inside it.
After six years’ absence, Mark Hambourg, the
star Russian pianist (does his Czar know he’s
out ?) tore the music out of his Erard grand piano
(which he brought with him) at Sydney Town
Hall last Saturday. Hambourg is magnificent.
He has several different sorts of springs and
hinges in his wrists and elbows and fingers. He
is as charged with electricity as a dynamo, and at
the piano he looks like a new kind of bear. lam
very fond of bears, but I object to men imitating
them. I would as soon listen to Laurence Philip
as to Hambourg. So would scores of others who
heard him, but they’re afraid of the other scores
biting derisive thumbs at them if they confess.
The well-known Chopin study in G. flat, as
played by Mr. Hambourg, was like unto a
splendid storm of thunder, lightning and pelting
rain on our Blue Mountain peaks. Hambourg’s
wonderful hands ought to be watched through
your glasses. One tremulous, slender thread of
sound, no louder than a fairy’s whisper, yet which
oan be heard at the end of the hall, he produces,
looking the while into vacancy ; then swiftly lift-
ing his strong white forepaws, half closed, high
above the keyboard, as if he were conjuring the
music from on high. “Come, my dainty Ariel,”
he seems to say, “lend me your aid; just drop
some jessamine petals on these notes and ” so
finished up the Beethoven group, which began
with the Appassionata Sonata.
If Mark would only cut his hair and straighten
his spine he wouldn’t make us wonder how he
escaped the authorities of Yellowstone Park.
Boris Hambourg is a pretty boy ; he played
something of ‘ ‘ Shykufsky’s ” (better spell it as its
pronounced) as long as from here to Honolulu.
Gov.-Gen. and Lady Tennyson and some of their
suite sat out the concert, which was not over till
10.30.
The Box and the Woman had possession of
Sydney and its suburbs last Saturday from dawn
till dusk. Over £4300 was collected, inclusive of
tons of copper and a large assortment of buttons,
match-box tops, tram tickets, and pennies covered
with tinfoil. There was also a snapshot photo, of
Mr. Robertson Clarke, Governor Rawson’s P.S.,
and a £5O note. Who is the Pierpont Morgan
who gave that half-hundred ? The collec-
tion was only a few hundreds less than that of
last year, which is pretty good considering the
drought. Also, probably the drought relief street-
collection, which took place some few months
back, may have detracted from the success of the
hospital bail-up. A favorite trick of the badgered
male at this last annual worry was to feign to be
deaf.
Maoriland greenstone is becoming fashionable
in London as a lucky stone. Girls are wearing it
in the form of necklets or pendants, but more
generally as blouse sleeve-links and studs. Any
stone that gets the preface “lucky” is sure of
attention, and is constantly worn for a
time “for luck.” Then the fashion dies, the
wearer not getting the desire of her heart in
everything. In a Sydney jeweller’s, I have just
seen a wonderful bit of opal in the heart of a knob
of ironstone. It shot arrows of violet and ruby
and amber, and seemed full of angry genii trying
to struggle out of the ironstone prison. At Mark
Hambourg’s concert there was a woman wearing
three opal finger-rings of extraordinary size and
fire. She was a kind woman to those behind her,
for she patted her back hair five times a minute.
She carried her gloves in her hands—a boxing-
glove would hardly have gone over the ringed
hand.
Miss Elyda Russell, the Sydney singer who has
just got such good notices in London on her
debut on the concert platform, is a niece of
P. N. Russell, who donated £50,000 to Sydney
University. This millionaire lives in London.
He is childless. Miss Thea. Proctor, the Sydney
artist so well known for her poster work and
book cover designs, is a grand-niece of the same
affluent person. Miss Proctor is now in London,
haunting picture galleries and deepening her
color sense.
.Florence Schmidt, the Queensland soprano,
was married to Sculptor Frank Derwent Wood
in London last March. Signor Steffani gave the
bride away, but the wedding was very quiet, and
there was no honeymoon trip—save to Florence’s
new home in South Kensington. Australasian’s
London correspondent records the engagement of
actor Titheradge's youngest daughter to Kenneth
Lambert, an engineer and manager of a big
South African mine.
In a very dull article in the Review of Reviews
“ A Tired Australian ” denies the gift of humor
to any Australian writer. Well, anyhow, a
section of our people is humorous. Last week in
a oountry centre prayers were offered for the
recovery of a gentleman of 95, who was seriously
ill.
Two advts. : “ Young lady of 20 would go as
housekeeper to single gentleman, or give week’s
services to learn bar business.” “Elderly lady
wants scrubbing or care of offices.”
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“Said that the late Baronet W. Clarke paid
£lBOO for the lace, made to the order of a royal
bride, .whose marriage was postponed owing to
the death of her husband-elect. When the
deferred ceremony was performed later, with
important changes in the cast, the bride wore her
orange-blossom with a difference and changed the
fashion of her wedding-laces along with her bride-
groom. Since the ex-Royal Honiton arrived in
Australia it has been kept in the bank, whither
it returned after the Clarke-Lindsay wedding.
There are still two Misses at Cliveden, so the
‘ May-blossom lace ’ will probably see more service
before its pronounced ‘ivory tone’ grows too
tawny for beauty.
“The Clarke bride, now the Hon. Mrs. Lind
say, is understood to have garnered in £5OO in
wedding-cheques, plus 400 other gifts, mostly
silver things, though the Cliveden widow gave
diamond necklet and pendant, and the bride-
groom a long chain of pearls. Latter is credited
locally with possessing little beyond his pay and,
of course, the allowance, which every British
officah and gentleman must extort from his people
to enable him to dress, polo, etc., up to the tradi-
tions of the service, doncherknow.
“Still, wifie has a paltry £l5OO a year or so.
Papa Crawford, the bridegroom’s paternal Earl,
is reported to be on his way to Melbourne in his
yacht, and he is reputed to spend many thousands
of pounds on rare books, so there ought to be
more than crusts and cold tea in the Lindsay
larder.
“ T’other day, when the George Coppins gave a
party at their dear old house in Richmond to
welcome the Bland Holts back to Melbourne, the
evergreen host seemed quicker in ‘ the uptake ’
than nine out of ten people one meets. Most of
the * Midsummer Night ’ mummers were on view.
Titania (Norah Kerin) has lovely eyes and hair.
Oberon (Miss Rignold) is handsome and pic-
turesque. Hermia (Miss Cynthia Brooke) is a
decorative sort of picture-girl. There is some
wonderful millinery among the ladies of the
‘Dream’ troupe, when seen in private life-
hats all curtained-in, &c. A bed-curtained broad-
brim would answer splendidly for church in
summer. Draw your curtains and snatch 40
winks in sermon-time and no scandal would be
caused, thanks to the sheltering portieres.
“ The winter woman looks like a tea-cosy. The
shoulder slope and the muffled look of things con-
spire to that effect. From the chiffon days of
trail and flutter to these clean-sweep woollen
times is a rare jump. The scanty skirt brings
about fresh attention to hose —an article lost a
good deal to sight and thought in the trailing
days. Then the bustling lady didn’t bother if
her stockings weren’t mates. Even if the petti-
coats were hoisted a bit, only one stocking showed
at a time, and the aesthetic situation was saved.
Also many a hole at the heel went unregarded.
Now all that is changed. Shoes and stockings
shall be flawless, with gaiters to fill the bill where
ankles are not up to form. These gaiters are
being made neat and saucy—two varieties.
‘ ‘ Evening bodices are being scissored straight
across, an inch or two above the bust line, and
suspended from the shoulders by little more than
a hope and an autumn leaf. The barer the top-
storey the smarter the turn-out. The entire arm
is shown in full regalia—vaccination punctures
included. For half-and-half wear—draughty hall
or small party use—long sweeping lace and chiffon
flappers are to flow from the funny-bone. When
the upper decks defy grease, massage and all
fattening treatment, chiffon swathings are to
foam about the bony parts. And this calls to
mind the great labor involved in a toilette of the
day. Hours are given over to beautification and
extensive calisthenics before the reflecting glass
ere the social world is faced. The sex pays in
this way for perpetual kittenism.
“The nuptials of Mr. TTllathorne, celebrated a
month or two ago in the Big Smoke, are of interest.
The gentleman was married some years ago to a
St. Kilda beauty. „ A separation followed immedi-
ately on the knot-tying, and, after years of
negotiation with the R.C. church authorities, the
lovely Mrs. Ullathorne succeeded in securing a
divorce, with the Pope’s permission, last year.
The lady is in Melbourne under her maiden name.
“ The estrangement of Melbourne’s two leading
families is a toothsome morsel for the Toorak
chatterers. The formal dignity maintained
towards one another in public only makes the
gossips grin the more.
“ A motherly ancient associated with the local
Suffrage movement makes a point of addressing
mixed meetings in the form—‘Gentlemenand Gen-
tlewomen.’ A younger, more trenchant fighter
comes forth with a hit-the-nail-on-the-head start
of ‘Fellow-citizens!’ The whole hall stops
blinking then, and gives prompt attention.
Another she-speaker collars the crowd with
an unmincing form, briefly—‘Men ,and Women !’
Miss Sutherland, the grand foster-mother of
hundreds of infants, had her turn at addressing
a Town Hall throng a little while ago. She
shuffled forward—a short, stout woman, in heavy
boots, rough serge, a straw hat strung on with
an elastic band round her back knob and a big
blush covering her fine face. With one word she
took the whole audience in her fold —‘Friends !’
Every time she came gently down with her brolly
in her enthusiasm, the males of the audience —the
unemployed that had just drifted into the hall
with the free tide—yelled their delight. All the
poor, the unemployed, the town stragglers, the
police and the pressmen know Miss Sutherland
and have a large respect for her. ‘Tell me,
straight,’ she said, ‘ what is any home without a
woman at the head ? You know, and I know,
what the motherless home is. Then give woman
the vote, and own up to her worth in the public
weal.’ And that was the best point of the meeting.
“ I was idly ruminating on our bantam Chief-
Justice as he spread himself for the evening strut
home, via Collins-street, the other day, and
wondering if an inward satisfaction mated that
complacency of feature, when a dirty urchin shot,
comet-like, into sight, and all but collided with
the Waxcellency. He roared ‘ ’Erald, sir.’
Justice Madden thrust thumb and forefinger into
an outer waist pocket, gathered a brownie, pre-
sented it with grace to the boy, and resumed his
minuet —the paper being elegantly folded and
clasped by the gloved fist which held the fellow
‘ kid ’ and the brolly. Everything done with a
nice eye to effect. The vigilance of such ‘ star ’
performers never sleeps.
“The saunter of Justice Hartley Williams is
most dandified. The figure is svelte and the
clothes the greyest and the newest of their kind.
The face is the nicest-looking of any fringed with
snow-white whiskers in a community addicted to
much hair-dye. Justice W. is a consummate artist
in ‘ get-up,’ and, Toorak avers, the one frost-
headed type of English hauteur in our midst. His
departure with the Autumn tints in chilly June
will cause much stylish regret.
“Miss Yetta Davis was the surprise packet of
the Saturday Toy show—the warblings of the
commanding blonde occurring pleasantly between
the brilliant violin flourishes of Ernest Toy and
the grand piano strummings of Herr Scharf.
Miss Davis has advantages in voice and presence.
A picturesque black and blue turn-out framed a
grand figure. The MacEacharns had the most
imposing party at the recital. The long-haired
youth with the old-young air, who wields a bow
with the cheerful confidence of David soothing
Saul, is a Bendigonian and a former pet of
Malcolm’s dame. Students and the teaching
fraternity mostly formed the audience, the world
of frill being engaged in a grand rustle at ‘ Clive-
den,’ where the returned honeymooners—Captain
and Mrs. Lindsay—were at home to a carefully-
leavened three hundred.
, 11 S “ a f* People mostly favored the body of the
hall at the Lloyd concert. Treasurer Turner’s
daughter and niece were hosted by Dr Tav Pav
MTnerney, one of the Social Invisibles. Mi«
Jean Newman flashed a sparkling garb on the
Lloyd audience—a white silk so wrought with
flickering silver sequins as to make the eye blink
Her faint warble was wonderfully augmented bv
that tricky turn-out. The absence of all jewels
left eyes to sparkle honestly on their own
Besides, how naive ! Miss May Mukle, who has
been telling an interviewer that she is a physical
culturist, a deep reader, and an assorted kind
of enthusiast, detracts from her ’cello achieve-
ments by her attitude on the platform. The fat
’cello is posted stolidly between her knees and
the picture is not a pretty one.
“ The crowding along of concerts brings forcibly
to mind a winter horror—the famous Town Hail
draughts. Now that the cold season has arrived
lovers of music have to favor a Polar garb’
Mayor Gillott is not a concert goer, and doesn’t
know the pain of culture in the throes of chill
In fact, his Worship expresses a great admiration
of his fine hall, forgetting that the warm ‘duds’
of office go with nearly every visit he pays to it
and that the she-citizen is constrained to sacrifice
her modish demi-dress whenever she is occupying
a concert seat. 8
“Judge Madden was asked in court this week
to allow £7OO per annum for the education, pocket-
money, ‘medical comforts,’ etc., of two misses
aged 17 and 14 respectively, joint heiresses to
£27,000 odd. Mother of said ‘infants’ already
receives £5OO a year for housing and maintenance
of her two golden goslings, and Waxcellency
could not be induced to sanction the spending of
a penny more than another £450 per annum on
schooling, etc. When counsel suggested that the
1 case of the young ladies should be referred to
the Full Court,’ Chief Justice Madden replied
that he didn’t need any telling ‘about the bringing-
up of a couple of girls.’
“ At present, a daily journal is running a ‘ rose-
Eoll’ and all the curators of local public-gardens
ave named their special ‘fancies,’ as well as,
many enthusiastic amateur growers. So far,
‘ Maman Cochet’ is leading with ‘La France,’
only one vote behind. Queen Rose is perfect in,
her own way, but like all queens, she’s expensive.
Toilers’ gardens generally run to sunflowers*
hollyhocks, etc., rather than roses, not because,,
the owners have gaudy tastes, but because said
flaunters keep on making a brave show in spite of
poor soil and comparatively scant culture. The
kiddies, who grow up with certain flowers, become
attached to the floral friends of their youth and if
you have a giant sunflower in your garden, the
children of the proletariat will audibly admire ift
every time they pass. ‘ Look at the big Sunny !:’
they exclaim, with nevet- an eye for roses or
carnations. Cosmos is another blossom that
flourishes on the cheap. Someone should write
up ‘ how to keeD a garden gay at next to no.
expense. ’
“Womenkind’ here are going in largely for
the vapor tub at. one or two .massage retreats*
the luxurious finding the administration of
steam in the altogether as fascinating as up-
to-date face treatment. There is no doubt
that a wash carried out in scented air to the
tune of gossip in soft tones, and the accom-
paniment of some tender fuss and petting and
pats, is a delightful sensation. When Melbourne
girls are lost for something to do they say, ‘Let
us go and get a clean up,’ and hasten to the
haunts of steam and soap just as in Harborville
they say, ‘ Let us boat it to Manly.’
“Marshall-Hall has fallen captive to ‘ A Mid-
summer Night’s Dream.’ He was unable to
appear at his conservatorium the day after wit-
nessing the fair comedy, telling the students (who
never hear cheap praise of Melbourne perform-
ances from his lips) that the ‘ Dream ’ was so
tangled up in his morning thoughts that work—
the usual round —was impossible. Then every
worshipful soul made haste to go and taste of the
raptures. If Marshall-Hall would say ‘ Girls !
go, have a mud bath and a sulphur gargle,’the
whole lot would rush to obey.
“There will never be a heaven on earth till
automatic household-helps are invented. Even in
Toorak, where competent cooks and qualified
parlor-maids abound and the washing goes to
the laundry, there are domestic rubs. A smart
sporting dame, noted in her spinster days
for bouncing ways and command of ‘ language ’
fell foul of the chef re his dirty kitchen. (The
Toorak kitchens, by the way, are not as a rule
kept like new pins). The man of gravies, re-
sented interference, on the ground that, if his
dishes ‘ ate all right,’ there was nothing to growl
about. His employer talked back, but soon found
that, in spite of her girlish vocabulary feats, she
was nowhere in a ‘ jawing-match ’ with her fire-
flushed opponent. She was wearing a tailor-made
at the time, so it came easy to tear off her coat
and attempt to ‘ punch the offender’s head.’
Cook promptly ‘put up his pins,’ but just then
the gardener and groom grabbed him from the
back, while a string of screaming maids tailed on
to their mistress like a tug-of-war team and hauled
her out of danger.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


NEURALGIA.
Neuralgia is the surest sign that your whole system is weak and unstrung.
Those sharp, stabbing spasms of pain are caused by your jangled nerves— but your nerves would not
be jangled if your blood was pure and strong.
Remember, you can never cure Neuralgia by liniments or hot applications. They relieve for a
moment. They can’t possibly cure. . , w-iv >
No • vou can never cure Neuralgia till you enrich your blood and brace your nerves with Dr. Williams
Pink Pills.’ They actually make new blood. They soothe the nerves and strengthen the whole system.
They strike right at the cause of agonising Neuralgia. '
FELL DOWN FROM PAIN. —“ My whole nervous system was bo thoroughly run down that all my nerves
were shattered and jangled,” says Mrs. 0. Saveli, Argvle-street, Bowral. “I was driven nearly mad with the
horrible shooting spasms of pain that darted through and through my face. Sometimes I was light-headed and fell
on the floor from pain and weakness. Liniments and fomentations proved absolutely useless. Nothing seemed able
to root out the disease, till 1 took Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. Five boxes enriched my blood, braced up my nerves,
and cured me completely.”
Dr Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney. 2s. 9d. a box ; six boxes, 15s. 3d.
THE GENUINE DR. WILLIAMS’ PINK PILLS ARE ALWAYS IN BOXES-NEYER IN BOTTLES.
I
*
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Among the subscribers to Townsville
Hospital is a Montmorency Ah Bow 1
A. D. Austin, who from 1856 downwards
was constructing engineer for more Maoriland
railways than any other man, passed out last
month. He had been a pensioner for nearly 20
years.
Alleged financial swindler Whitaker
Wright had a great and wise objection to being
photographed, and it was from a sketch by Aus-
tralian artist, Percy Spence, in the Sphere that
he was identified for arrest.
The oldest ’Murkan Consul in Australia is
C. A. Murphy, 30 years resident at Adelaide. He
owned old Adelaide Lantern for ten years, and
also held for six years the now defunct Adelaide
Punch. Is a native of Brooklyn.
“Melb.”; Beer-maker Nick Fitzgerald,
M.L.C., was Archbishop Carr’s right-hand man
at the opening of the Cathedral Hall, Sunday
before last. The object of the hall is to keep
young fellow's away from the public-house.
Thorne, the veteran Queensland journalist,
who has just returned to Adelaide, on his way to
Brisbane, after superintending the publication of
his book, “ The Heresy of Teetotalism, viewed in
the Light of the Bible, Science and Legislation,”
wrote his first published contribution to the press
in 1846 Yet he doesn’t look more than 50 now.
Premier Barton’s second son graduated
B.A. this year at Sydney ’Varsity with first class
honors in the two usual decomposed languages,
Latin and Greek, and carried off the blue ribbon
of the year, the University Gold Medal for
Classics. Both of Premier Barton’s sons have had
successful university careers, the elder one finish-
ing up at Oxford.
WIPING OUT OLD SCORES.
BOOZER: “ Fer the love o’ Heaven, fireman,
play it on the slate!"
One man who thoroughly believes in the
Victorian “reform” movement is W. G. S. Dean,
secretary and boss of the ’Pootra League at £BOO
a year. A great many people are capable of
believing in a great many weird fowls for less than
that.
Fell at the last hurdle at Christchurch,
Jubal Fleming, one of the kings of Maori-
land turf speculation. He conducted big
sweeps on the Tattersall principle until Parlia-
ment made racing consultations illegal and in
their place installed the revenue-making tote.
When the late Charles Bright showed
signs of almost immediate dissolution, his. medical
attendant warned him that he could not live more
than a few hours. The invalid said, “I have
communicated with the Unseen World, and shall
not die for two months.” And he lived two
months exactly.
About the only surviving member of S. A.’s
first Legislative Council is John Carr, now close
on 85. During his 40 years’ residence in the State
he has three times been a Minister. But that
happens to almost everybody in S.A. He got out
of the habit of being a Minister 25 years ago, and
has now left politics.
The old S.A. Governor, Baronet Fergusson,
is talking of coming back like a 71-years old ghost
to revisit Australia. He spent four years in
Adelaide, and buried his first wife there. His
second wife, a South Australian girl, died of
cholera in India, but his third is robust and
energetic. Fergusson also took a short spell as
Governor of Maoriland in the ’7o’s.
Senator Smith, on his way to New Guinea,
was blocked at Thursday Island, and was told he
would have to wait six weeks for a steamer. Said
he hadn’t time, and borrowed a little seven-ton
yawl from the Inspector of Fisheries, provisioned
it for a month, and, with two whites and two
niggers, started across Torres Straits for Port
Moresby, a distance of 200 miles. He got there,
and got back, too.
Touching item from a London paper :
The death is announced from Queenstown of John
Duffy, the petty officer who was selected from the Navy
to act as support for the King during his walking exercise
when his Majesty was convalescent on the royal yacm.
Duffy was the most powerful young fellow on the ship s
company, and on his brawny frame the King leaned. The
deceased had to leave the royal yacht owing to a tempo-
rary derangement of his mind, and died from brain-
disease in his twenty-seventh year.
Powerful young fellow—close contact with loyalty
— brain disease — death. What a warning for
K.C.M.G. politicians 1
The Anglican Bishop of New Guinea,
whom Lieut.-Gov. Way . (S.A.) “at homed
the other day, is not quite the usual apostle.
In his diocese his every day attire consists
mainly of a flannel shirt and a pair of dungaree
trousers. He works, manually, as hard as any
one in the place, doing all sorts of odd jobs, from
pick and shovel labor to rough carpentering.
He goes about among the tribes unarmed, and to
this he in a great measure, ascribes his safety
(up till now). Perhaps if the usually unnecessary
missionary were to leave his gun-boat at home
for a while, it might be better for all concerned.
Recently deceased J. F. Smith (Vic.)
arrived in Melb. as a master mariner in ’53,
became shipkeeper to the prison hulks Success
and Sacramento, and went to the assistance of
Supt. Price when the latter was murdered by
convicts at Williamstown in ’5B. Nine years ago
Smith retired from the position of overseer of
works at Pentridge.
William Forrest, who had been right in
the heart of Queensland’s pastoral business for 40
years, and who died the other day, intended to
follow his profession of civil engineer when he
emigrated to Australia in the “fifties”; but the
gold fever took him, and he never handled a staff
again. Sat as an M.L.C. in the cow and grass
interest for 20 years.
Sydney possesses a criminal of regular
habits and mighty bad luck. On 2nd April, 1891,
he was sentenced to five years for being found by
night with house-breaking implements in his pos-
session ; same charge and same sentence on 2nd
A.pril, 1895 ; ditto ditto on 4th April, 1899 ; ditto
ditto on 6th April, 1903. Each time he got a
year and a few months off his sentence for good
conduct, and was “ found by night with house-
breaking implements in hi* possession ” as soon
as he got out. Yet it doesn’t seem certain that
he broke into any house on any of these occasions.
“F.”: Incorrectly stated that the last
two winners of Melb. Art School’s travelling
scholarship were the Altson Bros. Abey Altson
came seoond on the roll of prize winners; he
followed Longstaff. Quinn, Coates and Meldrum
followed the elder Altson, then came his brother,
the latest winner. The triennial scholarship has
been established since 1887, and the quality of the
competitors has undoubtedly deteriorated during
the past 12 years. It remains for young Altson
to prove that he is equal to his brother, who
Sainted “The Golden Age” for Melb. National
•allery.
Reginald Black, M.L.C., director of many
monetary ventures, and just gone to England for
a trip, is son of John Black,
the early manager of the Bank
of New South Wales, and was
born in the bank premises,
then in George-street, where
Bradley and Co.’s auction
rooms now are. Bartley, a
clerk in the old bank over 50
years ago, wrote some “Remi-
niscences.” He reports that
old John Black lived on the
premises, which were rather
primitive, so that things fre-
quently got mixed. Bailey,
the old, unmarried Scotch
secretary, found a partially
nude infant of the Black family
cavorting in his waste-paper
basket one day, and his re-
marks about “a little naked
savage ” interfering in business
were violent. Old manager
Black used to act as teller
himself in times of pressure,
and, being a rather inefficient
teller, was generally short in
his cash at closing time. Those
were primitive times. The
manager’s nude infant doesn’t
crawl through the bank nowa-
days.
A member of the Com-
monwealth Parliament opened
a set of scrap-books the day
after his election, with the view
of preserving all published
pros, and cons, of his political career. So far he
shows three books chock full of cons, with only a
page and a half of pros.
Broughton, M.L.A., has discovered that
George Reid is “the idol of N.5.W.,” and that
the reason is that he is so “humane and kindly.”
Curiously enough the anecdotes writer has heard
about George have mostly represented him as a
coldly selfish cynic, with a hollow laugh and
a heartless jest for other people’s misfortunes.
Did anyone ever hear a story of a single act of
personal generosity or kindliness on Reid’s part ?
This writer hasn’t.
The late Rev. Chas. Clark, who first
arrived in Melbourne by the s.s. Great
Britain, gave some remarkable evidence, before
the Marine Board, in regard to the suicide of a
fellow passenger who, on the way out, jumped
overboard and was drowned. Said His Rever-
ence: “On seeing the man step on to the
bulwarks I immediately proceeded to divest my-
self of my gloves. Before I could get up to him
he had plunged into the sea.”
N.S.W. Govt, has adopted its usual atti-
tude of timorousness in regard to the Inspector-
Generalship of Police. The present occupant,
Mr. Fosbery, wishes to retire; he is too old to
carry out the duties even to his own satisfaction.
There are about 130 hopeless incapables and one
or two good men anxious to take the vacancy,
and, fearful to incur odium by making a choice,
the Govt, intends to allow Mr. _ Fosbery to con-
tinue in office with an “ Assistant Inspector-
General ” —Superintendent Garvin.
Mr. Candler has now completed his 60th
year as a coroner in Victoria. In 1853 he was
appointed coroner for the district lying between
Avoca and the Loddon (Vic.). Two years later
his billet was abolished, and to fill in his time he
offered himself as a candidate for Avoca in Vic-
toria’s first Representative Parliament. He was
third on the poll, Ebenezer Syme and Dr. Owens
(both of the Age) being returned. Mr.
Candler was then appointed coroner for
the metropolitan district of Bourke (in-
cluding Yarra Bend Asylum), which
office he held, with the exception of a
few days at Black Wednesday time,
until the death of Dr. Youl, when he
became city corpse-sitter.
Some time before Bully Bent
became Minister of Vic.’s Great Deficit
Railways, he was travelling in the Wea-
tern district and, by some un-
accountable means, got locked
in the lavatory of a corridor
car, from which the united
efforts of a Melb. press-
man and a western
squatter failed to re-
lease him. It was a
15min. run to the next
station, and all that
time the remarks of
the Hon. Thomas Bent
accumulated in his
prison. Eventually the
guard broke open the
door, and Bent and a
storm of objurgation
poured out together.
Bent now keeps the roll-
ing-stock in a judicious
state of decay which
makes such accidents im-
possible. There is hardly
anything in the Vic.
Railway Department to-
day that wouldn’t double
up instanter if a press-
man and a squatter threw
themselves against it.
Richard Seddon completed his tenth year
as Premier of Maoriland on Ist May. These
were, up to that date, the record long Premier-
ships of Australasia:
Years. Months. Days.
John Forrest (Westralia) .. .. 10 .. 1 .. 17
Richard Seddon (Maoriland) .. 10 .. 0 .. 0
C. C. Kingston (S.A.) .. .. 6 .. 3 .. 15
R. Herbert (Queensland) .. .. 6 .. 1 .. 22
Edward Braddon (Tasmania) .. 6 .. 5 .. 28
Philip Fysh (Tasmania) .. .. 5 .. 4 .. 18
George Turner (Victoria) .. .. 6 .. 2 .. 8
H. U. Alcock, of billiard table renown,
recently celebrated the 50th anniversary of his
arrival in Melbourne. An interesting circum-
stance in his career: When acting as commis-
sioner with the late John Zevenboom at the
Paris Exhibition of ’7B, his colleague, while
intently watching the can-can at the Mabille
Gardens, fell backwards into a cactus. Aloock
spent the rest of the night at their hotel picking
the spikes out of Zevenboom’s back.
Be the late Chas. Clark and his Baptist
tabernacle at Albert-street, Melbourne. Some-
body told The Bulletin that Clark’s predecessor,
Rev. Isaac New (superannuated to make room for
the eloquent man .from England), is still in the
land of the living. It seems that old Isaac New,
who was quite played out when Clark took his
pulpit in ’69, lingered on for many years, but has
long ceased to linger. The Isaac New of nowa-
days, if there be one, is presumably a son of the
original Melbourne preacher.
“CONSTANT READER” PHRASEOLOGY.
“Mr. Bent firm, —men still defiant.” —AGE.
Superintendent Garvin becomes Assistant
to the Inspector-General of N.S.W. Police, after
41 years of police service. Mr. Fosbery was
appointed Assistant, or Deputy, to the Inspector-
General of that day 41 years ago, and Garvin’s
first job, almost, was as police clerk in his office.
A PATERNAL BEAST.
TEACHER : “ Tell me the name of the animal
which provides food and raiment for the
Laplanders.”
TOMMY: “ The reindeer.”
TEACHER: “And now what is the animal which
provides you with most of your food and
clothes?"
TOMMY! “ Father!"
About a Piebald Australian :
Pa Cole, of Melb. Book Arcade, also his weighty, wor-
shipful spouse and their eldest daughter, sailed the other
Wednesday by the Japanese boat en route to the land of
Britain’s yellow ally. Mr. C.’s little book of special
pleading—“A White Australia Impossible”—seems to
have been taken quite seriously by all the Jap. personages
who have read it. They regard the author as the fore-
runner of public policy, and reckon the Book Arcade the
centre of Australian educational influence. . And Pa Cole
shares these foreign illusions. He worked night and day
for weeks to complete the 2nd part of his prayer for a
variegated Commonwealth. Just before the Arcadian
embassy sailed the booklet was fixed up, and a few
hundred copies for distribution in Japan were, doubtless,
included among the family luggage. The interesting
part of the case is that Cole pleads for the admission of
Asiatics to Australia on the ground that all men are
equal; and the non-understanding Jap. loves Cole for
doing it. Vet if it only penetrated the Jap. mind that
this equality idea means that the Chinaman and the
Hindu are his equals he would be so angry that he would
slay Cole on the spot.
An amazing number of people seem
to have been school teachers in S. Australia
and to have thought better of it. Besides
F. W. Holder, Speaker of the Reps. , there
are—more or less in the front Australian
rank —Gardiner, Treasurer of Westralia;
Propsting, the man who has got the tough
job of running Tasmania without taxing it;
and Batchelor, ex-Labor leader of S. Aus-
tralia, and now in the Reps.
In a solemn sort of way Mr. Spruce
Myth provides a great deal of fun for the
House of Representatives. A Parliamen-
tary party was travelling one day last session
from Melbourne and stopped, as usual, at
Seymour, for refreshments. A burly farmer,
about 6ft. 4in. high and broad in propor-
tion, sat down at the same table as Mr.
Spruce Myth, M.H.R. “ Sausages and
mashed,” said the farmer. “ I shall have
sausages with mashed potatoes,” said Mr.
Myth with the solemnity of an oracle. The
waitress sized up the two appetites, as she
thought correctly, and brought the farmer
three sausages, Mr. Myth two. Mr. Myth,
with a deeply injured air, scanned his neigh-
bor’s plate and then his own and called the
waitress. ‘ ‘ May I ask you to explain this in-
jurious differentiation ? I shall pay the same as
this gentleman here. But whilst he has three
sausages I have been given but two. Now as
Herbert Spencer ” But the waitress had fled;
shortly she returned with a third sausage.


| FACILE PRINCEPS. | | SEMPER IDEM. ]
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
MR. J. SPENCER NOLAN, R.D.S.
DENTAL SURGEON, 43 Oxford-Sto Sydney
. - ’■! (between Mark Foy’s and Riley-sfc.). HIGH-CLASS
Uh.jNllsrK\ at lowest prices. Guaranteed absolutely painless extractions by latest American system—a great
success. Beautiful and perfect-fitting 1 atmospheric suction sets ot American teeth, giving the wearer ease,
comfort and natural appearance. Coraline gum plates, without springs or wires. Elastic Gum Coraline is the
most recent, up-to-date plate for mounting teeth. All wrinkles and hollow cheeks disappear. It is so natural
that it defies detection. For comfort, strength and lightness it surpasses everything previously introduced.
Coraline is perfectly tasteless, and remains wholesome and pure. Badly fitting plates remodelled on this new
system. Up-to-date gold crowns. Call and see specimens of latest methods. Upper and lower sets from £1 Is.
Single teeth from ss. Teeth filled, scaled and bleached. Country visitors fitted in one day if required.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Reach’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors. —ln the case of ethnological and
natural history items , etc., always give date and
place of experience ;or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific
value.
AN UNKOWN DESTINATION.
GLOOMY COMFORTER : “Are you prepared to go
to Zion to-night, brother?"
THE BUSHY : " Dunno, boss; how much is the
tickets? ”
Inventory ot the coni ants of a shark
recently caught near Queenscliff (Vic.): One side
of sheep, a bullock’s liver, a quantity of bones and
a large black cat.
♦ * ♦ *
“ Bobrid ” : For some unaccountable
reason, native companions are very plentiful in
the Junee (N.S.W.) district this year. Around
the Erin Yale station-dams I have seen hundreds
of them ; every morning, parties of them fly off to
the cookies’ crops, returning to the dams regularly
every evening. Do not know whether they harm
crops or not, but there’s generally a wild-eyed
cocky with a shot-gun on their trail, which might
lead one to believe that they are not altogether
welcome. It is interesting to watch these birds
“dancing.” They are the personification of
grace when going through what appears to be a
waltz. They bow to one another with such ease
and style that a Darling Point lady would die with
envy if she saw it. I can hardly imagine a more
graceful bird than the companion.
A really vigorous letter from a Western
town:
Wanted : A De la Eey, or De Wet, or something simi-
lar, with a sjambok, to belt energy and sense into
portion of the N.S.W. police-force. Three weeks ago a
low-down skunk, a thing in pants, struck an hotel in the
west. It travelled per sulky and drove tandem. Pub.
was a wayside, and lonely, and kept by a widow who was
grabbing up trouble by the handful, much against her
inclination. Three children in the nearest hospital—
down with fever, and in a serious condition ; and trade
was slack—awfully slack. A friend lent her a sulky, and
’twas the only means she had of getting in to see her
brood in the hospital. Moreover she had five more
chicks of her own at home, and a baby belong-
ing to a married daughter, also sick. The con-
cern in pants drove along, and stayed three days.
Then It went away. Another three days and the widow’s
sulky disappeared. She and her 10-year-old son tracked
the thief some miles on foot, recognising the hoof-marks
of the skunk and the tandem. Tracked to Its camp in
the scrub, where It had fed Its horses while It watched
and waited for the lights at the shanty to go out (It
pulled the sulky by hand to there) and then tracked to
where It had left Its own sulky pro tem. Then they ac-
quainted the police, who started off only eight hours
behind the thief. With a good sprint, two sulkies, tied
one behind the other and driven tandem—a grey and a
black—was easy game. They got within three hours of
their quarry, when their nags knocked up. Then they
found an abandoned sulky—the old one, not the widow’s.
It went on with that. Soon after that they heard news
cf It; which was truly wonderful, seeing how the country
is seamed with telegraph-wires, and they ascertained
that It had got out of their district. Then news came
slowly, and the last was that It had been seen by some
irresponsible person on another track. A week more and
sofneone happened to the township and inquired of the
blaring mass of useless pomposity in a uniform who
bossed the locality “if he had any news, or if the police
were doing anything.” Whereupon the authoritative
heap wobbled with indignation and, spluttering drama-
tically, remarked that it had sent out instructions here,
there, and everywhere, which was a strangely resultless
proceeding, for with telephones and wires in all direc-
tions and a dry, dusty road to track upon, it should have
been a thousand to one against the thief. But the police,
as usual, got tired, and there doesn’t seem to be a Du
Wet or any competent person to sjambok a move into
them ; and now it’s rained and the odds are in favor of
the skunk. Thus the widow loses the sulky that wasn’t
hers and pays £2O for one to replace it. By the way, a
large sociable was stolen from the same township about
three years ago, and the police have not yet recovered it,
let alone discovered the thief. I firmly believe a moun-
tain might be stolen from some of the back-country dis-
tricts and the thief never be traced.
* • * •
The farce of the ordinary trial of the wild
and semi-wild blackfellow. One was charged
lately at Wyndham (Westralia) with murder.
He beamed, and proudly declared he was guilty.
Up there an ordinary magistrate may, with a
jury, take a murder case, or a dozen of them ; and
the magistrate in this case decided to go into the
matter. After that had been done the jury
promptly returned a verdict of not guilty. When
the result was explained to the prisoner it was a
very disgusted black brother indeed who got out
of the dock. He seemed to have an idea that if
he was found guilty he would get a bouquet or
a bottle of rum.
* • • •
“F.C.” : Many fruit-growing friends
who give me peaches have cautioned me
against drinking milk therewith or immediately
thereafter. Anything in this ? And wherefore ?
Have heard somewhere that an English king or
other ill-regulated personage died of a surfeit of
peaches and new ale, but have never been able to
acquire enough of the latter to threaten any
danger.
* * * *
“Turla” : The new regulations in regard
to pollution of water courses should be stringently
applied. In this district it is
pitiful to see the way the
river cookies have des-
troyed large
numbers of river
oaks fodder
trees —during
the drought. In-
stead of being
lopped judicious-
ly, the trees have
been felled indis-
criminately, and
the trunks cast
into the river—
thus killing use-
ful trees, and
making the river
bed a tangled
raft of dead tree-
trunks. When
the next big
flood oomes the
bridges and
flood-gates down
stream will suffer
considerably. It
appears to be the
custom of river-
side people to
haul the heavy
logs and butts
from their clear-
ing to the banks
and tumble them
into the river.
“B.”i “Burglar Bill” (B. 25/4/’O3) is
hardly correct in saying that it is hatred of the
farm which makes it so difficult to obtain recruits
for the gaol cabbage-garden. As a matter of fact
the average Australian cocky in freedom despises
vegetable growing. Not one in ten possesses
even an apology for a garden, vegetable or other-
wise. The only semblance of one is when the
missus ” grows a few geraniums or a rose-bush
in a gin-ease or a kerosene-tin ! It isn’t that the
male cocky hasn’t plenty of time at his disposal
to attend to a cabbage-plot, but the work is be-
neath his notice and savors too much of the Chow.
I have attended shows in various parts of the
State and never saw any vegetables exhibited
unless they came from the Govt, model farms.
The cocky isn’t a cabbage enthusiast.
• • * •
Asserted by Dr. Harris Browne, an old
Adelaide man in England, that the talpose or
pincoo (“ pinkie ”) should be strictly preserved as
an insectivorous animal, fond of locusts and given
to digging up their eggs. Professor Stirling, of
Adelaide, being interviewed on the point, called
the animal pinto or rabbit-bandicoot, but knows
nothing of its alleged egg-digging habits. The
pinkie seems to run about 18 inches long, as a
rule. There is a fine specimen in the Adelaide
Museum, as big as a large buck-rabbit.
In a wayback Maori-
land district of some un-
pronounceable native
name, many sheep were
recently worried to death
by a dog that, for a time,
wisely defied all attempts
to capture it. One cocky,
however, goaded to des-
peration, determined to
have the mongrel’s life-
blood. He disguised him-
self as a sheep, and, per-
fumed with chemicalsand
armed with a Winchester,
took up his abode on
the hillside, where he
passably imitated the
actions of a sheep. For
four long weary days and
nights he waited, till at
last the dog, unable to
resist any longer an
attempt to shake up the
bogus and lonesome
mutton, approached near
enough to receive a charge
of lead. The truth of this
story isn’t guaranteed.
* • *
A marked
survival of simian habits is
the aboriginal Australian’s
command of his toe-action.
He can, even whilst standing
perfectly erect, pick up from
the ground, between the
big and the second toe,
articles as small as a
needle. All young people,
too, display a survival
of ancestral arborealism
in the desire to climb and
to swing by the hands.
Another monkey-like trait
in the aboriginal is the habit
of “planting” or hiding for
future use. The “all-fours” atti-
tude of infants, too, is simian, as is also—to my
thinking—the position most runners assume when
waiting for the pistol-shot to start them.
• * • •
It does a man good, sometimes, to live a
long way from the Owe’Sullivan. A message
from Wentworth, which is a great way out in the
dust:—
Representatives of the local trading firms leave here on
Monday for Oaddel’s Reef, about 40 miles below Went-
worth, the most dangerous and troublesome spot on the
Lower Murray. It is their intention to take advantage of
the present low state of the river, and clear away all
obstructions, and make a safe channel.
If they lived this side of Dandaloo they wouldn’t
load up with dynamite and go to Caddel’s Reef ;
they would load up with statistics and a large
part of the dictionary, and proceed to Sydney,
and when they had roped in six M’s.P., they
would go to the Works Dept., and the six M’s.P.
would make as many speeches, and all the others
would make speeches, and the Owe-See would
make a speech (or two speeches, if he got the
chance), and, subsequently, they would consume
large quantities of whisky, and otherwise hold up
the end of their township, and the Owe’See would
probably take them for a harbor picnic, and then
they would go back home, where they would later
on “ report progress ” in the local State-subsidised
“School of Arts.” And Caddel’s Reef would go
on remaining just where it was.
• « * *
At Gulgong (N.S. W.) after a shower a few
days back a youngster picked up a 15dwt. gold
nugget in the street. The other papers call him
“a lucky boy,” but this one isn’t sure. The
chances are that this stroke of misfortune will
make a prospector of him, and he will live on
tinned dog and green water all the days of his
manhood, and in his early second childhood he
will be a fossicker and live in a bag hut —with
Chinamen, who never wash themselves, for neigh-
bors. And he won’t wash himself either, and
finally the papers will have a paragraph concern-
ing another old-age pensioner found dead.
AT THE BOGANDYETHAR SHOW. —NO
SHEEP-KILLERS WANTED.
INDIGMANT OWNER OF FOX TERRIER (to local
grazier who has been pressed in as dog-judge
to fill an emergency, and has paralysed all
hands by giving the prize for fox terriers to
a pure-bred collie): “ Gor’struth, mate! why
the blank didn't yer give this yer foxy first?”
JUDGE: " Maun! a couldna’ do it; them sort’s
-fer killin’ sheep.”
A DISCONTENTED BLOKE.
BILL: “ How’ve yer been doin’ since
I last saw yer, ’Entry-been in
quod?”
’ENERY : “No, I ain't been in gaol, and I ain’t
been doin' too good; don’t yer know I've been
ter ther tear and the Coronation!”
BILL : “ Yer ain’t been doin’ too good, yer sez.
Why, 'Enery, some blokes ain’t satisfied unless
they're hung, and you're one of them."
Mr. Blank, M.P., represents a country
constituency where the train runs through on its
way to the capital at a very early hour a.m. He
was just embarking one morning when a breath-
less elector rushed on the platform
“ How are you, Mr. Blank ? Want to see you particu-
lar ; been looking for you nearly all yistiday.”
Mr. Blank blandly acknowledged the greeting, and the
elector rattled : “ You know my fox terrier—a real good
little dorg he is, mind you ; his mother’s that bitch of
Alf’s what took the prize last Show. You must know
him ; he’s a real good little dorg. He’s got a black spot
on his hack, and a black an’ yellow mark round his left
eye, and his tail’s a long ’un. Nearly all fox terriers got
short tails.”
The train was getting ready to go, and Mr. Blank
hinted that his constituent might come to the point.
“ Well, you see, it’s this way—that dorg’s lost.”
“ I’d advise you to tell the police.”
“What’s the good of telling the police? I did speak
to the sergeant about him, but the police won’t try and
find him.”
“ Well, what can /do?” queried Mr. Blank.
“ You know Mazzini’s circus w r as here not long ago,
and, about the time they went, my dorg went, and I’ve
got a sort of an idea one of the circus coves shook him.
Now, that circus’s travelling north, and—let’s see—this
is Monday, and they ought to show in Brisbane about
next Thursday.”
The legislator was bewildered, and the elector looked
Earned to think that a representative of the people should
e so dense. “ Ain’t you got a free railway pass, and can’t
you travel on the railways for nothing?”
Blank admitted that much.
“ Well, look here, you might oblige a fellow by slipping
up to Brisbane, and having a look round that circus.
That dorg of mine is a real good little fellow, and I don’t
want to lose him.”
Before the paralysed legislator could find breath to say
anything, the train started and saved the situation.
• * * *
Wangaratta (Vic.) council recently pro-
ceeded against itself by its own officer, instructed
by its own mayor, for allowing the town bull to
wander at large. It was explained that the
council, as managers of the local common, owned
the lugubrious animal, which appeared as an ex-
hibit and created consternation amongst the
other offenders (of the female persuasion) in the
courtyard. The council, however, didn’t carry
its Roman fortitude to the’extent of pressing for
a conviction, but withdrew the case against itself
amid the guffaws of the court.
Aibo : Talk about dog-Latin ! On a tree,
over the Main Range, a few miles from Too-
woomba, which serves the various purposes of a
surveyor’s mark, a wire-strainer-post and a
monument, is this inscription:
Hie Jacet
Bluey.
Obit. 28-2-89
Fidelisa Immortem
R.I.P.
* * » »
So far the reported big change in camel-
driving in far west N.9.W. —the substitution of
white for Asiatic drivers —doesn’t amount to
much. Only one firm of storekeepers, on an
intensely democratic mining field, has started to
employ white labor, probably scenting advt.
in the change. It is recognised now to be all a
question of price. The old idea that there was
some special affinity between the camel and the
Afghan has blown out. As a matter of fact,
many of the attendants are Hindus and Sikhs,
who never handled a camel outside Australia—
men raked in from the coastal sugar-growing
district of N.S.W. and from other parts, not
because of any skill or knowledge, but because
they are very cheap and very servile. Indeed in
Westralia, where the still cheaper aboriginal is
available, he is roped in, and is said to call out
“ Hooshta ” just as well as anybody else.
NO HURRY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It appears to be abundantly
And beautifully clear
That there really isn’t any need to hurry !
This opinion we redundantly,
Continually hear
In our politics on either side the Murray.
And it seems to be the fashion with our Parliaments to-
day
To seal up the doors for months and months in quite a
careful way,
While the members go a-fishing, and the angry prawn
they slay.
As for other things—there isn’t any hurry I
Did you hear about economy,
Retrenchment, and the rest?
Don’t be nervous, for they don’t intend to hurry !
Let us talk about astronomy—
Is Wragge or Russell best?
And don’t give way to any needless flurry.
They’re thinking hard, these statesmen, so wise and old
and grey
(I saw eight of them a-thinking in a public-house to-day ;
A waiter fled towards them with refreshment on a tray,
And you should just have seen that waiter hurry).
If our credit’s gone to Jericho,
Of course, that makes it plain,
That there’s really not the slightest need to hurry 1
They’ll meet again.
The merry co.
In Parliament again
To tell us there’s no earthly need to worry.
Never mind about the papers, nor the people, though
they will
Be inclined to ask some questions ; be profoundly silent —
still
Another loan is mooted ; See’s a-drafting of the Bill,
So there’s surely no demand for any hurry 1
It’s highly reprehensible,
This tendency to haste,
And disgraceful when there isn’t any hurry 1
Oh, be silent, and be sensible,
And never mind the waste !
That is only adding cayenne to the curry !
Does it matter to the common folk, to folk like you and
me,
If the revenue is wasted and the country up a tree ?
Please possess your soul in patience; all the Ministers
agree
There’s no need for loss of dignity and skurry.
Kindly lend me your auricular
(That is to say, your ear);
Don’t expect they ’ll face the music in a hurry 1
But they want to be particular;
They want to make it clear.
That they do not want a scramble and a flurry.
Ee generous ; be moderate ; be patient and be calm !
There is not the slightest reason for a feeling of alarm.
There’ll be something smash directly which will do more
good than harm,
And it won’t be re-constructed in a hurry 1
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODAR.


Used at table and In cooking, Cerebos Salt is
not only dainty and economical, but it makes all
the food more strengthening; because it con-
tains the Bran Phosphates (absent from White
Bread) out of which Nature forms Nerve and
Brain, Bones and Teeth, and Healthy Body.
From (tracers and Stores
Wholesale Agents:~Harrlson <& Attwood, Sydney.
Mrs. L. S. HAGER, Alexis, N. C., writes:
“I was attacked by PNEUMONIA. Our best physician
pronounced it severe and dangerous, being in both right
and left sides. As the disease did not respond to treat-
ment, I resorted to Jayne’s Expectorant, and in a few
days I was able to be up and walk about, and soon began
work again.”*
Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Not genuine without the signature.
Be sure you get Martin’s. Sole proprietor, W.
Martin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
England.*
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Why do Buyers
Come to Us for Rings ?
Ist. Because we are the actual makers.
2nd. Because we are Art Ring designers.
3rd. Because our rings are in exquisite
taste.
4th. Because our prices are the lowest.
Marquese Ring,
Diamonds <& Sapphires,
£l2/12/-
a
5 Exquisite Pearls,
42A
6-stone Diamond
Half-Hoop,
a marvel of value,
£5/5/-
6th. Because we buy large quantities of Diamonds in the rough and cut them
6th. Because we buy Sapphires in the rough and cut them in Sydney.
7th. Because we buy Opal in the rough and cut it in our Hunter-street premises.
Bth. Because we have Pearls direct from the Fisheries.
9th. Because we pay Spot Cash for all the above.
10th. We sell for Cash. No intermediate profits anywhere.
Plain Figures.
Strfctly Cash.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
flanufacturing Jewellers,
23 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY.
“Yanco Be the
modesty of Austra-
lians. I was once head-
master of a bark school
and twelve bush kids
of mixed ages and
sexes. Ages varied
from 7to 15. This
was in very scrubby
“ back ’’ country,
where modesty seldom
advances above par.
In spite of my adjura-
tions these kids con-
tinually indulged in
swimming all together
in the “altogether”
on the road home from
school. I had to make
billy-tea with water
from that creek, bub
when I was inveigh-
ing against their mon-
strous conduct, I never
let personal considera-
tions weigh with me.
Oldest, biggest and
“modestest” girl in
the school treated the
whole thing (including
me) as a hqge joke.
• *
A bit of London
had an exciting ex-
perience the other day
with a wild Australian
kangaroo, which got
loose at Euston Square
railway station and
played ducks and
drakes with traffic re-
gulations and platform
rules for half-an-hour.
Most of the frightened
people thought it was a bear; others reokoned it
to be a tiger, and one lady hazarded the view
that it was the Devil. Finally a bold cabman
gripped it by the neck and restored it to captivity.
* * * *
“ L.M.D.” writes In a cheerful strain ;
“ J.F.D.” (11/4/’O3) and “ R Q.” (4/2/’O3l both “express
what every bushman with ‘imagination’ feels.” For
“ imagination ” read “ tired feeling," “ specks before the
eyes,” and the hundred and one other symptoms blazed
abroad per acres of advertisement. The ‘ ‘ weird ex-
pectancy ’’ of the bush and the things that inhabit thereof
is m the brain of the observer mostly. That “fear of
something dreadful about to happen,” regarded as a
characteristic of disordered nervous machinery, is bad
enough to contemplate, but when influential writers
strive to prove that not only the bush-imprisoned human
solitary is afflicted therewith, but the whole animal world,
the lizard, kangaroo, wallaby and grub, it is
something prevision of a tired nation with
three specks before its eyes, and visions of the three
golden balls of Lombardy, that awful trinity which em-
bodieth Cohen, waiting in expectancy for that something
dreadful about to happen, is enough to make a man pack
his portmanteau and reach out for the horizon.
Never noticed this expectancy myself, excepting in
rabbits and paddymelons and other things that had been
shot at and dogged so often that their expectancy was
justifiable. I was in the scrub this morning, and the
stringybarks and honeysuckles were teeming with bird
and insect-life. If there was any expectancy there it
was of having a good, solid meal. A rabbit scuttled past
my feet and sat up on his burrow a few yards away. I
raised my hand. He didn’t wait to expect —just made a
dead certainty of it and disappeared. And the pleasant
hum, as of a live nation at work at its own industries,
dispelled the gruesomeness instilled by over-much read-
ing of the loony bush bard and his whisky-conjured
visions.
Please advise any bard writing on “ weird expectancy ”
in future to send “stamped addressed envelope for the
name of a good man."
LIFE IN THE OLD DOG YET.
MR. ISAACS: "Now, Esau, I haf made my will,
and left everything I haf to you.”
ESAU: “ Yes, dad.”
MR. ISAACS : “ And as you get all the benefit I
shall stop the cost of making the vill out of
your next week's salary.”
A correspondent writes :
Through the incapacity, or something worse, of its
well paid officials the Govt, very often falls in badly in its
business transactions with the cute money-grubbing citi-
zen. A glaring instance : In a western (N.S.W.) town-
ship an individual, renowned for his diplomacy in dealing
with State officials, got word that a constable was to be
stationed there. He thereupon hastily fenced in an acre
or two (out of the town), erected thereon a cheap,
shoddy, wooden skillion style of building with a bag-
covered verandah and a flimsy stable, and let the lot to
the Department at a yearly rental of £39 1 This enter-
prising individual then secured an extension of lease of a
large Government farm close by, with about 200 acres
cleared, large grass paddocks, Government tank, pump-
ing machinery, troughs, etc., etc., together with a good
building, at a yearly rental of only £35. The State is
always falling in like this through want of supervision.
MARK HAMBOURG.
MICHAEL HAMBOURG (Father of Mark Hambourg).
Up at wild Wyndham, which is somewhere
between Perth and Darwin, a local black named
Muggeree was lately charged with four lots of
murder. In one case it was alleged he playfully
held up a half-caste child by a leg and knocked its
brains out. . The “Acting-Resident” got as far
as sentencing him to two seven-year terms in
gaol with a flogging, when the jury caved in, and
the other proceedings fell through. The local
medical officer then interposed to prevent the
whipping, on the ground that he strongly doubted
Muggeree’s sanity; but before he could pronounce
definitely the Govt, ordered the whipping to be
abandoned. So it looks now as though this black
brother is too mad to be flogged for a crime, but
not mad enough to escape 14 years’ imprisonment
for it. The idea of finding out his state before
trial doesn’t seem to have occurred to anybody.
• • • •
“Nep.”: Be the patience of fishermen.
Saw a sad-faced man heave a bait towards the
rising sun from Coogee beach the other morning.
After lighting his pipe, he twisted the line
artistically around his fingers and settled himself
comfortably on his haunches to await results.
Passing a couple of hours later, he was still in the
same position. Inquired if he had had any luck.
He replied no, but said he had got an encouraging
bite. By sunset something had taken his hook ;
and shortly after he had landed it. “Yes,
I’m pretty lucky as a rule,” he said, contentedly
unhooking the 21b. whiting, “but some days I’ve
seen me have two or three like this by this time.”
* • * *
Until quite lately no traces of aboriginal
occupation had ever been found on Kangaroo
Island, the generally wild and deso-
late pile which shelters the S. Aus-
tralian gulfs from the ocean. Lately,
however, Walter Howchin, the State’s
most tireless searcher for uncon-
sidered trifles, found numerous things
which look like upsetting the hitherto
accepted theory that the place was
never inhabited by our black brother
Bill.
• • «
“L.W.”; Know at least one
snivelling hypocrite who was in town
enjoying himself during show week.
He went out to obtain information
about how to grab a portion of the
free seed grain, and, while engaged
on the task, bought a Erench marble
clock costing about £lO, and a gold
watch and chain as a birthday gift
for his daughter ( and he and his gin
boasted that while in the city no part
of the ox but his two extreme ends
ever passed their lips, and then only
when they got tired of chicken.
* * • •
They tell of a fighting boar in the
Rimutaka district, M.L. :
The boar will bail up cattle and men, and on one
occasion he made a bold attempt to stick up a Fell
engine, which was laboriously ascending the mountain.
He was cast down a gully, two hundred feet in depth,
leaving behind him on the bloodstained cowcatcher a
slab of his hide. Since then the pig has carefully kept
away from the railway line. His chief delicacies are
goats and young lambs. He appears to bear a charmed
life from the gun, and can do a fast mile on any spur in
the Rimutaka.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance
is solicited
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on ilf S. No liability is under-
taken in any case re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted, whether sent by post or handed in ; and in
no case will MS. be returned unless stamps (of any
State) accompany.
Muck-eater (Warwick) : Your local rag which
says that Kingston, when Premier, let a contract for a
railway from Palmerston to Pine Creek, on which 5000
Chinese were employed, is a blushless liar. That line was
finished in 1889. Kingston didn’t become Premier till
1893 G.F.L. : Chow-bank item already received....
J. Cronin : Will probably print “ Past.’” By the way, an
earlier Bulletin contributor has a lien on the signature
“ J.A.0.” Bettertakeapen-name. .Mariquita : Thanks; but
the fact that “ Queen of Earthly Queens” is quoted from
Shakspeare doesn’t render the designation any less pre-
posterous as applied to the late Victoria R.A.P. : Not
worth print Exile: But the yarn isn’t nearly good
enough anyhow... .Boko : 111-conceived, ill-spelt, and ill.
written... .D.H.R. : “ The Hour I Love ” comes very near
the mark. Other verses no good. Tale may have- a
chance Statira : Sarcasm isn’t your forte. Try spud.
peeling... .X-Ray : You don’t illuminate worth a cent....
E.W.F. : Verse too twittery for such a grim theme
The Watcher: “Phantoms” hardly good enough, yet
shows promise J.J. : “London Poor” too stereo-
typed. Other will appear shortly Tishy: Idea good
enough, but syntax faulty, and denouement too easily
foreseen Stella : Nicely enough written, but the theme
—like the heroine—has been “done to death.” C.S.
(Carlton) : Old, blasphemous, Irish joke Eye No : in-
significant scrap....E. F. Leneitz : Not a gleam of real
poetry in them.. .John Muir : There is such an apparatus
at Sydney Hospital. The fact that we paid 2d. for
deficient postage on your letter is a side issue F.
Smith Paid 2d. because packet was “ closed against
inspection.” Ohass. : Always pleased to hear from you
when we aren’t charged 2d. for short postage, as happened
this time... .P.G. : Three verses of “Sunny Australia”
herewith :
If unity and Love bears the chipters of our cointries
our then sunny Australia your sons and your daughters
will be free
Your Cathedrals and Churches will be in one band of
unity
& your Hills dales and valleys will echo with Liberty
you will have no bigoted papists Dill McKay or yellow
puppys
no Tithes to keep up clergy you do not know
neither swaddlers nor Ranters muddletonions nore
Brunswickers
Will be in this sunny and free land of Australia where
the evergreen trees grow
It was prementiost animosity that destroyed our contry
& gave the Foringher the trade of our land
which will cause millions for to weep beneath a dying
slaverie
& Bring us at length under oppressors comand
In this sunny and free land of Australia where the ever-
green trees grow
O you Australia sons it is the want of unity the oppres-
sors will get an
opportunity under sectarian Bigotory cammanded by the
Freetrade Boare
where they will enslave our contries and ceace sunny
australia to be free
that golden and free land where the evergreen trees grow
Mary Mac: Capital style—weary old subject C.J.L. :
For Heaven’s sake don’t “submit more.” Samshu :
“To have to avoid temptation is weakness.” But the
man who recognises his weakness is, to that extent,
strong....Rara : No sense of humor or you’d never
have couched such heroic sentiments in jiggety-jig
verse J.B.T. : Narrowly escaped acceptance
V.V.G. : “Gertie” is mechanically correct, but lacks
Soul. Don’t write and ask us what Soul i 5.... Tiki: Pars
unsuitable. Re other matter, do whatever you please....
E. Waslon : Heavy hen lie Wagtail: Venerable...
Maccabe: Four just passable verses; fifth hopeless....
G.D. : “ Storyette ” only a vague conventional musing
about nothing much.... John P. : “Louie” a very ordi-
nary invocation to your best girl Spix : Rather hazy
verse....J.M’L. : “ Cui Bono” g00d....K. : Your letter
was so friendly that we have hardly the heart to curse
about the insufficient postage...'N.-d-W. (Brisbane):
“ Hairy-legs ” joke and “ Pirate ” joke are twins, foaled
immediately after the Deluge. Is No. 3 a beast of the
same family? P.C. (Sydney): Keeping “ Australia”
to help out a “ Page of Bad Verse” later on S.W.H. :
Cry for a “ Kingston or a Pitt ” to save Australia rejected.
Don’t want any Pitt—if you mean the second (or Bottom-
less) one who wasted hundreds of millions trying to
restore the capsized tyrants of western Europe.. ..C.C.H.:
Well enough written, but hardly in our line... .Blanco:
None of them strong enough... .Jas. P. (W.A.): Your
article was belated... .Brumby : Story too long and cum-
brous.... Dr. H. : Returned accordingly. Quite outside
Bulletin’s orbit Anna K. : Not enough in it....
Verity : Kansas items remote. Also we paid 2d., through
insufficient postage, on your letter.. .Kitty H. (Bendigo) ;
A gleam of genius here and there. A good distance
between gleams... .Le Diable : Should take something to
cure that jumpy style of writing Kodak: “Wail”
rejected. “Shadow” rather uninteresting. “Dusk”
the same High Press: Wooden verse.....
Wanderer : Pleasing, but subject has been worn
threadbare... .J.E. : Rather out of our line is “ Match
Soy.” Hugo: By taking coal out of the earth and
burning it you don’t alter the weight of the globe at all
—the coal is simply turned into other substances, the
total weight of which equals its weight... Val : Advise
you to send it to the girl herself.. ..R.K.D. : Don’t know
the subject of your threnody.. ..Alone : “Domestic”
verse is the pet lamb of poetry, and should be a very
nice lamb indeed.... Dick : Yes, she’s evidently a very
nice girl, which accounts for the agitated state of your
verse on the subject.. ..Blister : No enthusiasm about
cathedral matters in this office.. ..J.G.D. : “Spruce
Smiff” is poor verse on poor subject S.M.V. : “Mar-
supial Shooter” may come in some day for a “Page of
Bad Verse.”.. ..Poppybunch : What is the meaning of
this, for instance :
Light from God’s darkened Eye—
Path to the past.
It or soul-blast ?
Choose quick the moments fly I "
Hear His command on high ?
....Uloola: Flat treatment spoils "Mag." Sceptre:
Opposition of R.C. church to “practical Malthusianism"
is well known ; all the other churches are supposed to
have the same objection, but they don’t take the same
means to enforce it T. : Yarn about Whitaker Wright
having had financial relations with King Edward seems
to mainly rest on his statement in New York : “ You
cannot hold me anyhow, for it was only a business trans-
action, and I will tell you that I have a powerful pro-
tector in an exalted quarter.” Since explained that it
wasn t the King, but one of his brothers.... Rustus:
That sort of writing is out of our line Frank Swain :
Same idea has been often expressed more strongly
•••• 5.M.0.: Two unsuitable; third may pass
All White : Sentiment good ; but it only repeats familiar
facts Octavia : Suggestion not much good, and your
unstamped letter cost us 4d Zingara : When it ap-
pears, observe how it has been condensed, and model
future stuff accordingly... .A.S.M. : Smartly written,
but not quite intelligible... .M. Moore : Good character
studies, but not enough general interest Unsuitable :
Vanitas, T.D., Riverina, 6xB, J. Me. 0., Beanless, E.A.K.,
Maorilander, Rapho.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
G.A.Y. : One may do.. ..E.T.P.: Three rather bare
jokes... .W.R.M. :“ Obliterated ” joke not new....F.F.
(Picton) : Our “ candid opinion ” is that the sketches are
very moderate, jokes about the same, and that there was
2d. to pay for insufficient postage W.T.G. : Gag would
be understood by a few only Unsuitable : 0.L.. F.S.T..
E.T.S., A.B. _
“ H.” : Was yarning with a returned
cohentingenter the other day, who told me that
he believed that most of the comforts sent from
Australia for the different S’African contingents
at various times—clothes, pipes, tobacco, etc. —
never got to the men at all, but were sold to
Capetown storekeepers by certain officers for their
own profit.
MISS MABEL BATCHELOR, SOPRANO.
In a stabbing case heard a week or two
ago in Melbourne, a Chinaman’s wife, living apart
from her husband, stated that the injured person
was her “ boy,” but indignantly denied that he
was her “bloke.” Can anyone accurately define
a bloke, so that he can be recognised at sight and
not confused with a cove ?


THE PARTING OF THE WAYS.
MR. BAWON(In Sudney, [?]): “WE ARE NOW IN A POSITION WHEN WE MUST CHOOSE BETWEEN THE TENDENCY TO COHESION IN THE EMPIRE
AND THE TENDENCY TO SEPARATION....A PURELY AUSTRALIAN NAVY IS IMPOSSIBLE AT THE PRESENT MOMENT.”


JJenR dr>a\«j op [pyW'ly Ip %3^ c
down by itjp Governtrjenf'
would 'fije Irenjiei' >p\
Kern*, I, K fd i lm f> o W^ e
>r s Q§vsL
foor cUrybr'goiten f ? r ty
(fromO)* rnud) ; " Q Jor'
don T 1 KnoV ..
urjfrae ifet' IS.
snkj$ nk j
H,p r l J t nf JK (»* ft mo/e
>v i I do </ ou •
\\ie t'lewporf' A/
CDrifcTT"
is 1a lie stayed I
imtifl "life "i rn
d i se\»oci l
from Ifip
tW' I
?R?nt" - r\OW yoa ear
W> I^ K & 111
\ you.
fr
H*T- . -j&r
lii»r
life i* iu,,;*i":;i»Twe-
)"E* I '"’1 Z r^.vUi
I wou ant J r ,ef r
Op % e on t £*
, V*y/ a
/
I Tf]c grflfc Bent": —)
*We go
merr.
% ffi n1 3\o r
.\\r j^oV + Holl‘s M l A.S^^fi
"]f Will W "lt|e bifesf
rwl e er oyJn
in «A
'A c\U"7'^y
ajl
well
BENT-VICTORIA.


A. SAUNDERS. SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER.
A. SAUNDERS.
High Grade Ladies’ Solid Silver LEVERS,
Full Jewelled, f-plate,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, and £4 10s.
In Solid Gold, £5 10s, £6 10s, £7 10s, £8 10s,
10 guineas, £l2 10s, £l5, and £2O.
Guaranteed 3,4, 5, and 6 years.
A. SAUNDERS.
Three-bar Gold Buckle BROOCH, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Two-bar Floral, with Diamond, Blue, or Red
Stone, BROOCH, 22s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Twist Bar, with Bow and Heart, Gold BROOCH,
6s 6d ; with Amethyst Heart, 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDKRS.
Carved Gold BROOCH, with Opal Centre, 20s.
Ladies’ Curb CHAIN S
Gold Snap Padlock, 255,
80s, 85s, £2 ss. £3 ; 15ct.,
£2los, £3, £i, £i 10s, £5,
£6, £7 10s, £B, £lO.
10s extra
for
Key Padlock.
All With Safety Chain.
Diamond BRACELET. 15 carat Cold, Three Pure Double-cut Diamonds,
with Safety fh tin, £5 ; Diamond and Two Rubies, £4.
Peace-offering Bird Bub BROOCHES, with Enamelled Olive Leaf,
17s 6d ; 15 carat Gold. 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Two Heart Amethyst and Love Knot
BROOCH, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
loot. Two Bar Pure Diamond, Double Cut,
BROOCH, £2 ; with Ruby, 35s
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Diamond Out Amethyst
BROOCH, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Large Size Three Bar Amethyst BROOCH,
25s ; 15 Caiat Gold, Amethyst, 455.
A. SAUNDERS.
Very Pretty Gold BRACELET, Diamond, Red, or Bine Stones,
£2 10s ; 15ct. Gold, £4, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
Bamboo Gold BRACELETS. All the Styles. Prices according
to width. 255, 30s, £2, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s ; 15ct. Gold,
£3, £4, £5, £6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Band Name BRACELET, in Three Sizes, 255, 30s,
above, and 40s wider ; lsct Gold, £3, £3 10s, £4.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Pearl Set Twin Dove Bird
BROOCH, Red Stone Centre, 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Two Bar Opal and Four Diamond
BROOCH, £‘2 10s. Very Effective.
Sil-
ver,
£2.
Gold
£4.
A. SAUNDERS.
ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed. Silver Hunting Keyless.
255, 80s, £2, £2 10s, £3. Solid Gold Keyless, £2, £B, £4.
£5; Superior duality, £6, £7, £B, £lO
ALL GUARANTEED.
FULL SIZE
A. SAUNDERS.
Three Bar Solid Gold Pearl and Red Stone Scroll
BROOCH, 21s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Battloaxe and Shield BROOCH, VeTy Neat and
Effective, Pearl Set with Gem, 20s.
A. SAJNDERS.
Gold Mounted Tusk BROOCH, Chain and Bell,
15s Sd. Very Effeotive.
£3 los.
Keyless,
£5-
A. SAUNDERS.
BUSHMEN AND MINERS’
SPECIAL MADE ENGLISH
LEVERS, Full Cap, Hand Finished, Extra
Jewelled Works, Perfect Timekeeper, with
PuioSilver Cases, Dust and Water Tiffht £3
10s. .
Extra Quality, with Chronometer Balance
£4 10s, £5, £5 10s, £6, £7, £8 ;
Solid Gold, £lO, £l5, £2O.
A written certificate for 3,4, and 5 years.
Try one ; you will not regret it.
Free-
trade
Prices.
No
Ad-
vance.
A. SAUNDERS.
Strong Reliable WATERBURY WATCHES.
Long Wind. 8s 6cl;
New Short Wind, 10s ;
New Model. G., 18s 6d ;
Extra Quality, J-plate, 18s 6d and £l.
Silver, 85s ;
Gold, £2 15s.
The reputation of these Watches is a sufficient
guarantee of the reliability.
20s.
20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Unrivalled non-magnet LEVER.
Perfect Timekeeper, Screw Cass,
dust and water tight, 20s.
Solid Silver, 35s ; Double Case, £2.
A Written Guarantee Given with Each
Watch.
Black or
Nickel,
£3 10s,
Silver,
£5.
“ FLY BACK CHBONOMETKKS. *
Fly-back only. In Solid Nickel or Black,
Extra Quality, £2, £2 10s ; same as above, £3 10s ;
Split Seconds, £3 10s. Pure Solid Silver, as above,
£5, £6, £7, £B, and £lO ; Solid Gold, £l5. £2O £25
and £3O.
A written certificate for 2,3, 4,5, and 6 years
THY ONE.
Solid
Silver, I
£2 10s
Gold
Cased,
4s.
A. SAUNDEES.
WALTHAM LEVEES.
We are Direct Buyers.
Pure Solid Silver Hunting Cases, Extra
Quality Movements,
£2 10s, £ 3, £3 10s, £4, and £5 ;
Gold Patent Cases, Walthams, £4 4s, £5 5s
Solid Gold, £J 10s, £lO, £l2 10s,
£l5, £2O, and £25.
3,4, 5, and. 6 Years’ Guarantee.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Goal BAND
17s 6d ;
Three Opals, ‘22s 6d ;
15ct. Gold. 30s ;
Three Opals, £2.
A. SAUNDERS
18et. Gold Pure Doulle
Gut Diaraoad,
£2 10s, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold, Three Red
or Blue Stones,
Double Cut, 255.
A. SAUNDERS
Band RINGS.
Oct. Solid Gold, 12s 6d,
15s ; 15et. Gold.
20s, 255; 18ct. Gold 255,
30s, 355, £2.
Any name free.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, Pure Double
Cut Diamonds and
Rubies or Sapphires,
£3 10s £4, £4 10s ;
Five Diamonds, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Solid Gold, Pure
Double Cut Diamond,
Puie Rubies
or Sapphire, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold, Two Hearts,
Diamond and Ruby,
85s ;
Two Diamonds, £2 ss.
Latest Style.
Gold Mizpah
CHARM,
4s 6d.
Pearl Cluster
Heart, 15s 6d ;
with Four
Diamond, Ruby,
or Sapphire, 265.
15ct. Gold Heart,
Double Cut
Diamond. 30s, 40s:
Buby or Sapphire,
255.
Gold Envelope
CHARM, 12s 6d ;
name free, with slip
inside, 15s 6d.
Good Friendship
Gold CHARM,
10s 6d ; with Erin-
Go-Bragh, 10s 6d.
Gold Amethyst, and
Pearl Heart
CHARM. 10s 6d ;
larger, 15s and 20s.
Gent.’s Solid Gold Front STUDS, 3s 6d, 5s 6d, 7s 6d each.
A. SAUNDERS.
Hand-Made WEDDING RINGS and KEEPERS,
9ct. Solid Gold, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s 6d each ;
15ct. Gold, lss ; Extra Heavy, 25s ; 18et. Gold, 20s ;
Extra Heavy, 30s, 355, 40s.
(duality of Gold and Fmish First Class.
A. SAUimEKS.
Signet Plain RING, 9ct,. Gol
20s, 255; 15ct. Gold, 80s, 35s ;
18ct. Gold, £2, £2 10s.
Ha rid-Made Solid Gold MUFFS,
9ct. Solid Gold, £3, £3 10s, £4 ; ’
15ct. Gold, £4 10s, £o, £6, £6 10s,
to £lO. Price According to
Thickness and Quality of Gold.
Photo Pendants
New Gold Photo. CHARMS,
9 ct. 10s 6d, 15s, 20s ;
15ct.,1556d, 255, 30s, 40s.
Gent.’s 9ct. Solid Gold Amethyst
RING, 25s ;
15ct. Solid Gold, £2, £2 10s,
9ct. Solid Gold Opal LINKS,
30s ; 15ct. Gold, £2 10s,
Extra Strong.
9ct. Gold Heart LINKS, 12s
6d ; 15ot. Gold,-255.
Beautifully Chased 9ct. Gold
Large Size Sleeve LINKS,
22s (Id; Plain, 21s; or with
initials nicely chased, 22s 6d ;
15ct. Gold £2 ;
Silver, 4s 6d.
18ct. Gold Buckle, liiamond
and Two Rubies or
Sapphires, £2 10s ;
Three Diamonds, £4.
A. SAUNDEBS.
Two Diamond Sparks
and Bed Stone,
15ct. Gold, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold,
Four Diamonds,
with Three Rubies,
Sapphires, or Opals,
£3 10s. £4 10s, £5. £6.
Price to Size of
Diamonds.
18ct. Solid Gold
Two Hearts,
Opals, Three Pure
Double Cut
Diamonds, £4los.
Band RINGS,
with Name,
Oct. Solid Gold,
12s 6d, 15s;
15ct. Gold, 20s, 25s ;
18ct. Gold, 255, 30s,
355, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
18et. Gold Half Hoop,
Five Double Cut
Diamonds, RING, £5;
Larger Diamonds,
£6, £7los, £E £lO,
£li>, £2O.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold, Pearls and
Turquoise, 15s;
Other Styles, 20s.
u IBS:
A. SAUNDERS.
!Bct. Solid Gold,
Diamond and Two
Rubie*' or Sapphires,
£2 10s:
Three Diamonds. £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Double
Buckle, 17s 6d;
15ct. Gold, 80s;
18ct. Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS,
JEWELLER AND SILVERSMITH,
815 AND 817 GEORGE-STREET
/(NEARLY OPFOSITE\
STATIONj»
SYDNEY.


Good Thing
To Take
INSURING HEALTHFUL
Cr BEAUTIFUL LOOKS
Fisher's
Pmspherine
The most Effective, Perfect, and
Wonderful Tonic for Ladies, Delicate
Gentlemen, and Children.
Anaemia and Poor Blood are Conquered by
lmr FISHER’S PHOSPHERINE.
It Ensures Rich Blood and Constant Good Health.
It Cures Headache, Rheumatism, Indigestion, Brain Fag and the Effects of Worry,
The Best Medicine Ever Made.
Unsolicited Testimonial from the South.
Messrs. Eislier and Co., 337 George Street, Sydney.
Barrengarry, June 25th, 1901.
Dear Sirs, — I must write and tell you that your PHOSPHERINE is a
splendid medicine for the HEAD and NERVES. I believe it is the BEST
MEDICINE EVER MADE. I will never be without it. It seems to brace
up the whole system, and is undoubtedly an unequalled Tonic.—Yours faithfully,
WILLIAM HAY.
Worry Kills Business Men. Fisher's Phospherine Saves Men.
ALL SOLDIERS SHOULD READ THIS
*
U
ft
(>j
y\
(»>
ru
V)
FS4
The Remarkable Case of Lieut. C. E. Bulmer. Victoria Barracks.
Messrs. Fisher and Co., 337 George-street. _ Victoria Barracks, Sydney, March 30/’O3.
Sirs, Your Phospherine is truly a wonderful and health-giving medicine. Its therapeutic virtues should be widely known. About 6 months ago,
owing to general troubles and constant worry, my health and nervous system gave way. I became very shaky, lost my appetite—in fact, I was in a very run-
down and critical state. For some time I could hardly walk. The doctor by whom I was examined pronounced my case hopeless, that nothing could be done
for me, and said there was no cure for me, and that it was only a matter of time.
It was then that I heard of your Phospherine. After taking two shilling bottles of it I found a great change. It removed the nervousness and
shakiness. My appetite returned. I have taken it ever since. I isher s Phospherine is my doctor for the future. lam now restored to health and strength,
and feel very well. I cannot speak too highly of your Phospherine. I shall be pleased to recommend it to anyone suffering from nervousness, languor, or loss of
appetite. I consider it the greatest blood builder of the age. For the good of others you may publish my case, or refer sufferers to me for further explanation.
Yours truly, G. E. BULMER.
To Save Doctors’ Bills, on the mantel of every dressing-room, on the desk of every office,
there should stand for ready use a Bottle of
*
The Genuine PHOSPHERINE may he obtained from All Chemists; also from Messrs.
PATTINSON & CO , Ltd., city and suburbs; WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO., ANTHONY
HORDERN & SONS, and Everywhere. ONE SHILLING per Bottle, Post Pree. Pour times the
quantity, 2s. 6d.
Manufacturing Pharmacy: 337 GEORGE STREET , near General Post Office.


To Cure Horse Ailments.
Eminent Veterinary Surgeons
(see Book on Bottle) strongly
recommend Condy’S Fluid as a
speedy and absolutely Certain
Cure for Sore Shoulders, Sore
Backs, Broken Knees, Grease,
Thrush, Cracked Heels and
Mud Fever in Horses.
I nsist on having “GOUdy’S Fluid."
Sold by all Chemists & Stores.
GO TO HBLL-
J(i()liANl> for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Naget),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
AUSTRALIAN STAMPS
Bought, Sold & Exchanged.
Gibbons’ Philatelic Albums
and all requirements. Price lists gratis.
J. H. SMYTH & CO.,
88 KING ST., SYDNEY.
SPECTACLES
-
%
—FOR—
DEFECTIVE
VISION, t.
COUNTRY READERS
who cannot visit us
personally, we send,
Post Free to any ad-
dress, with full in-
structions and Price List, ourmarvellously-accurate
and popular SELF SICHT-MEASURINC PATENT.
By its use you can Test y ur own sight and de-
termine for yourself the style and quality of the
glasses you may need. Write for it to —
H. A. BARRACLOUGH, Optician,
385 Ceorgfe-st., Sydney (opposite Strand Arcade).
King Solomon’s Mines, that fabulous i lace,
Heaped up with precious stone,
Poor Avarice, even, cannot trace
Or claim it for her own.
There’s something wanting more than wealth.
To happiness secure. •
Cure your cough, enjoy good health —
Take Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
Few men have a better knowledge of the-
working of the Lands Acts than has Land
Agent W. N. Willis, of 21 Bligh-street. Pay-
ment by results is not only reasonable but also
novel.*
A SCIENTIFIC PICK-ME-UP.—“No better
tonic and restorative for the victims of social
tivities exists than a morning draught of Hunyadi
Janos. Sure, swift, searching, yet safe, and in
every respect salutary. The best and sateso
natural aperient.*
“Don’t shout
" l hear you. I can hear now
as well as anybody.
••‘How?’ Oh some-
thingnew—The
Common-sense Kar-V
Drum I've a pair in my
ears now. you can'l see them
-they're invisible. I would" t
. know I had them m mysei
only that I hear all right.
k The Wilson Ear-Drum ' 5
really a substitute for tne
working parts of
natural ear. Has n<>
wire. Invisible, easy to a
just, comfortable * Totally
different from any other ue-
'vice Descriptive pamphlet sent upon reques
! J. 22»-23l C0W0& - ne -
%
POLITICAL
POINTS
From the Observer’s report of a case
heard in Brisbane:—
He said my father had called him a fraud, a scoundrel
and an importer.
If the Australian defence forces were
called out to meet an enemy to-morrow, it is
declared that 10 per cent, of the men would be
bootless and 20 per cent, without uniforms.
Minister Kingston met magnificent recep-
tions in Mackay and Cairns —particularly at the
latter town. Apparently the more yellow the
town the more they love a white man—when they
can find one.
It is alleged that Maoriland has granted
permission to a charitable organisation in India
to export Eurasians (half-bred Asiatics) to its
territory. Whither is Premier Seddon’s Imperial-
ism leading him?
Alleged Senator Reid says he will not
resign his alleged seat before Parliament meets.
And when Parliament meets and he tries to
sit on that alleged seat he will probably fall
through, on to the floor. That generally happens
to the man who sits on an alleged seat.
Writes a man from Adelaide :
Bounder Bent’s management of Victoria’s railways has
beeD marked in Adelaide b3' the continual late arrival of
the so-called Melbourne express, and now not the slightest
reliance can be placed upon the time table. When the
train comes in up to time the very greatest surprise is
caused among passengers and officials. I forget when it
last arrived up to time.
At Premier Barton’s Town Hall meeting,
according to the daily paper reports, Dr. Nash,
M. L.C. j moved a vote of thanks and confidence,
and Mayor Hughes put it as a vote of thanks
only. The incident calls for some explanation.
Tlte meeting would have carried a vote of confi-
dence ; and Mr. Hughes is on the other side in
politics.
THE FREE(TRADE) METHODIST AND MORALIST.
“Under ordinary circumstances such a verdict would drive its
object from public life, but probably nine persons out of every ten
in Australia hold, at least, that Mr. Reid’s personal character
emerges untouched from the case.”— PARSON FITCHETT in REVIEW
OF REVIEWS.
THE FREE(TRADE) METHODIST: “ Thank the Lord, anyone
with half a Freetrade eye can see that our beloved brother
in the faith has emerged from the ordeal with his halo
untarnished and his robes all unspotted. Hallelujah! ”
In Victoria, State school teachers, after
20 years’ continuous service, are entitled to six
months’ leave on full pay. It is commonly re-
ported that the “Reform” Ministry proposes to
get over this by sacking a multitude of teachers
and then re-engaging them—thus breaking the
continuity of their service. According to all
reports, in fact, the “ Reform ” Ministry is think-
ing of sacking pretty nearly everybody.
Victoria has been looking for that magni-
ficent asset in the shape of the State’s unsold
land which is said to be such indubitable security
for the public creditor. And after raking over
the 17,000,000 acres of leased land and the
15,000,000 acres neither sold nor leased, Minister
Taverner says he can only find 200,000 acres of
State land that looks at all fit for agriculture.
Private grabbers have collared all the good land
long ago. The State has a big area on paper—
mostly mountain tops.
Two consecutive items in a recent issue of
Sydney Telegraph :
Between the Hunter and Tweed Rivers, says Mr. O’Sul-
livan, the country is fertile, and there is room for a popu-
lation of three or four millions.
Stone-breaking depots are to be opened by the Govern-
ment, and the unemployed will be given an order entitling
them to work according to their circumstances.
Bent’s latest “economy” on Vic. railways
is to sack the regular porters at Melbourne
stations, and license a certain number of indivi-
duals, who are to be remunerated by tips from the
public. These persons are to pay 10s. a year
lioense fee, so Thomas’s new idea will bring in a
little revenue as well as save wages.
It is commonly but wrongly supposed that
the “investiture” held the other day was the
Becond fuss-and-feathers of its kind in Australia,
the small York’s being the first. As a matter of
fact there was a similar public joke 41 years ago
when Governor Barkly put a ham-frill on his
father-in-law, Major-General Pratt.
In the pursuit of Seddon’s proposed nigger
empire in the Pacific, 25 members of Maoriland
House of Reps, and 11 M’sL.C. have sailed on a
gaudy Polynesian jamboree. The gentleman who
was doing three months in an inebriates’ retreat
was let out before his time, so that he might
accompany the expedition. It carried 106 cases
of champagne and many other refreshments, but
the press, which might give away its drinkings
and its philanderings with the brown girl, was
rigorously excluded.
According to a Vic. country paper, that
loud economist, Vic. Railways Minister Tommy
Bent, cost the country a little money at Camper-
down, the other day. Being too excited to wait
an hour for the express, he stopped train,
annexed the engine to run a special for himself,
and fled howling into the darkness. Consequently,
it is alleged, the next goods train had to drag a
double load, the engine was badly damaged
through overstrain, and the employees had to
work four hours extra.
The Gippsland mine-owners and the Bent
Government combined to bring their train-load of
blacklegs from Bendigo through Melbourne at the
very time of the Eight Hours procession, and this
coarse and silly insult did more to widen the
breach than anything that had happened pre-
viously. The train load consisted of 57 weedy
youths and ancient battlers—the scum of Bendigo
and Melbourne —so they won’t make much real
difference in the case, but the insult remains.
Meanwhile, there is all the more need for
Kingston’s Arbitration Bill to hasten. The
miners can easily bring their dispute within its
range, and there is no Commonwealth House of
Fat to obstruct its progress.
Maoriland is at present suffer-
ing from a healthy plague of stowa-
ways. Every incoming boat has its
quota of undesirable immigrants. As
the Restriction Act doesn’t apply to
this class of arrivals, Bun Tuck speaks
of devising a law like that in force in
the United States, to compel the ship-
ping co.’s to return their stowaways
to the port of departure. How will the
familiar howl about “ refusal to allow
free British subjeots to land at a
British port ” come in here ?
There’s a lot of guile behind the
Sydney Telegraph’s yell that Minis-
ter Kingston should examine the
merits of every breach of the Customs
Act, and hale before the oourts only
those importers whom he is convinced
are trying to defraud the revenue. If
Kingston were to act upon the sugges-
tion the Telegraph would rise up in
denunciation of “ these Star-chamber
methods.” Kingston would be accused
of shielding his political friends and
prosecuting his enemies. Further, it
would, no doubt, be pointed out that
such a method would prejudice a
man’s fair trial, as it would be under-
stood that the defendant had been
found guilty at a previous depart-
mental private inquiry, and was
merely brought before the court for
the purpose of punishment.
Fossildom in Great Britain
stares aghast at the reports of recent
Parliamentary debates. Honorable
members are beginning to talk plain
English in the House of Commons.
Lord Hugh Cecil has candidly ad-
mitted to Mr. Speaker—all Parlia-
mentary statements are made to Mr.
Speaker—that the headquarters staff
of the British army is “ tainted with
leprosy.” When Mr. Bromley-Some-
body was complaining that social in-
fluence had been brought to bear
against Colonel Thingummy, the Minis-
ter for War turned upon Bromley-
Somebody and accused him of having
brought a weight of social influence to
bear in the spotted Colonel's favor. It
is refreshing to find these polite pillars
of politics losing their tempers and
telling the truth.
Sydney D.T. couldn’t help letting peep
its sympathy for the importing swindlers and
forgers who have been brought to book when dis-
cussing the Madden customs decision.
But on one point there was a fair amount of unanimity
(among the mercantile community) and that was that, if
the Customs Department had to refund all the fines so
far inflicted, it would certainly secure very little sym-
pathy and commiseration.
A correspondent of the Sydney daily
papers states that quarterly payments for the
State’s boarded-out children were lately allowed
to run a month overdue, and that he knew of
a house in which the bailiff was then sitting
waiting till the State children’s (there were three
at this ‘particular place) money came along. If
this story is true the system that permits
children to be placed in such poverty-stricken
homes is a hopelessly bad one.
HE THOUGHT IT WAS JUST A LITTLE
PASSING SHOWER.
S.M. Herald, discussing that horrible
minimum-wage for manual workers:
Only the capable wage-earner can get employment at
the minimum wage-rate. The others are thrown out of
work.
The solicitor has his minimum for certain _ classes
of work, the medical doctor has his minimum
regulated by his profession, and numbers of others
have a wage minimum. Whom do these trade
rules throw out of work ? The man with a repute
above the common simply raises his price.
“L.W.” carefully blows the froth off a
pot of cool, grateful fluid and reports :
Careful observation during a recent trip to Maoriland
convinces me that the days of the prohibition fanaticism
are just about numbered. The recent success of the cold
tea party was not due to the increase in the numbers of
the cold tea drinkers, but to the resentment of the decent
moderate drinkers against the way the bloated person
with a brogue conducted his beer-pulling. The present
class of publican has got to go, there’s no question about
that, but prohibition only seems to create an even worse
class, and the next proposal which will certainly loom
large in Maoriland will be the State liquor monopoly.
The A.W.U. seems to be nearing the end
of its legal troubles. The Keogh case in Equity
against the union is to be abandoned, and the
action for cancelling the registration of the so-
called Machine-Shearers’ Union comes before the
Arbitration Court again shortly. On this occasion,
the A.W.U. having removed from its rules all
objectionable regulations, the application should
certainly succeed, and the long-maintained effort
of the Pastoralists’ Union to avoid a straight issue
between squatters and employees be finally frus-
trated.
Hunk from a letter in the S.M. Herald
by that futile old person, George Pile —the one-
time owner of George Pile’s anti-Federal dog :
Our towns and this great city are full of people who,
through this cruel minimum-wage regulation enforced by
the law, which, in the words of Bumble, is “an ass,” are
deprived of the means to earn their daily bread and the
bread for those dependent upon them. The question now
is, What are these unfortunate people to do?
It takes 500,000 people to fill Sydney ; and Sydney,
to George Pile’s knowledge, is full of people who
have lost their jobs through the Arbitration law.
Yet no one, to look at G. Pile, would suspect that
one small man of his mildly beaming appearance
could hold so much knowledge.
That remarkable man, A. W. Pearse, has
been writing indignantly to the Sydney papers
about the alleged suppression of private enterprise
by a nefarious policy of State Socialism. It seems
to The Bulletin that the great trouble of N.S.W.
has been that the crowd of capitalists for whom
Pearse speaks, never had twopenn’orth of enter-
prise to suppress. Where are the ship-building
yards, iron works, brass works, steel works, wool-
len mills, cotton mills, silk mills, linen factories,
glass and pottery works, distilleries and the other
great industries which these wonderful persons
created by their wonderful private enterprise, and
which State Socialism destroyed, or threatens to
destroy ? This perpetual complaint by an impu-
dent and useless gang of land-jobbers and miscel-
laneous parasites, that the great industries they
never had the enterprise to start are in danger of
being wiped out by State Socialism, is sickening
and bumptious cant.
Queensland’s Philp Gov-
ernment is industriously mak-
ing a dead letter of the only
little bit of democratic
Kanaka - legislation it ever
had. The State law enacts
that Sammy Lolo and Tommy
Tanna must not be employed
in other work than tropical
agriculture, and the late James
Dickson, and several less hair-
denuded people, were once
grievously insulted and fined
10s. a head for employing
Kanakas on their domestic
premises. But the Act under
which those painful steps were
taken then retired into strict
seclusion, and hasn’t ventured
abroad since; so, now, the
thigh-bone push from Guadal-
canal and the ear-carved
brotherhood from the cocoa-
nut paradise in general, engage
in whatever occupations they
please.
It’s a fine thing (particu-
larly in Queensland) to be a
constituency represented by a
Minister. Roma, a fourth-rate country town, got
a Court House over two years ago at a cost of
over .£6OOO to the country. (Member, A. Rut-
ledge.) Stanthorpe, a declining country town of
only 650 inhabitants, possesses a post office that
took -£7OOO of Government cash to erect. Stan-
thorpe is also represented by a Minister.
Sydney Telegraph sticks vigorously to its
lie that it was the Civil Service vote in Victoria
which brought about the downfall of the Patterson
Government in ’94, and quotes this as a proof of
the necessity for treading on the service with the
big flat foot of Bent. As a matter of well-known
fact it was Treasurer Carter’s silly semi-Freetrade
budget that knocked Patterson endways. The
yell of astonished execration that followed that
amazing budget rang from one end of Victoria to
the other. Members fled from Patterson as an
infected being, and Turner carried a vote of no-
confidence against him. Then the election took
place, but Patterson was a lost Premier before the
civil servants had a chance to say anything about
him at the polls.
THE PEACEMAKER AND HIS BANNER.
It has been suggested that " the leading Melbourne
clerics" be called in to mediate and settle the
great railway crisis.
One of Vic. Railway Minister Bent’s early
“improvements” was his much-paraded adoption
of the “ suggestion-box ” system, under which the
men are invited, in return for a shadowy reward,
to give the Department the benefit of practical
ideas on how to improve the management and
working of the lines. Nobody is known to have
got any reward, but one railway man tells his
personal experience with much disgustedness. He
plainly demonstrated, he affirms, that a certain
appliance used, with the object of ensuring the
safe working of trains, was not, as fondly believed
by the official heads, automatically infallible, and
lost no time in informing his superiors, under the
suggestion-box scheme, of his discovery. He
claims to be the only man whose suggestion
brought an almost instantaneous reply ; the letter
telling him he was fined £5 reached him with a
speed of which he didn’t think the Department
capable.
THE PRINCESS IN THE TOWER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She had a golden dower,
A noble heritage.;
They kept her in a tower,
They cooped her in a cage.
The wicked uncles gaily
Spent all her income fair—
Some thirty thousand daily—
And never turned a hair.
One uncle was O’See, and
He was a stupid man,
And always gave a free hand
To uncle Sullivan
“ O maiden, maiden dearest,
Why do you look so sad ?
Gaze down on the sincerest
Of friends you ever had.
“ We’ve travelled long : the thud of
Our hoofs the watchmen knew,
And when we’ve scraped the mud off
Our clothes, we’ll rescue you.”
The maiden looked down shyly
Upon that squalid band,
And then she chuckled slyly,
And coughed behind her hand.
For with his little brothers,
The fatuous and forlorn,
She saw the knight Carruthers
Blowing his little horn.
C.R.


15he
estey organ.
Estey Organs are manufactured
in America.
We have small portable Organs
suitable for mission use,
weighing only a few pounds
“Cheap but good.
Parlor Models, with handsome
mirror bacKs and good stop
combinations.
Church Models at lowest prices.
(We allow a liberal discount
to Churches and Sunday
Schools.)
Two Manuals with pedals, cap*
able of leading large Choirs.
&/je Estey is the standard of
America.
* * *
Sold on Easy Terms. Old Instru-
ments taKen in Exchange.
Catalogues Free.
W. H. Paling' <SL Co., Ltd.
338 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
PALING’S (Patented)
VICTOR PIANOS.
“Che Victor Pianos are specially
made to our order, designed
and patented by us, Known as
Vicftor I, Vi eft or 11, and
New Vicftor Upright
Grand (with 3 pedals).
These Pianos at the price are the
best value obtainable,
tone is full and rich, touch
excellent, handsome cases,
and durability guaranteed.
If you want a good grade Piano
at a moderate cost
BUY A VICTOR.
Thai’s the Piano you want.
* V? *
Old Pianos taKen in Exchange.
New Pianos Sold on Easy Terms.
Catalogues Free.
W. H. Paling (SI Co., Ltd.
80—88 Queen St., Brisbane.
A MARTYR TO INDIGESTION AND
BILIOUSNESS CURED BY
VITADATIO
144 Drummond-street, Ballarat,
18th August, 1899.
Mr. S. A. PALMER,
Agent-General for Vitadatio.
Dear Sir, —I have much pleasure in sending this testi-
mony of the great benefit I have received from using
WEBBER’S VITADATIO. I was a sufferer for nine years
with indigestion and biliousness, also dry retching ; in
fact, so ill that I was given up by the doctors. For three
years I was hardly out of bed. I became so weak that I
could not attend to my household. I have been a
MARTYR to PAINS IN MY HEAD, and words fail to
express how intense my sufferings were. I have tried
doctors and patent medicines, but found no relief.
Finally I was persuaded to try WEBBER’S VITADATIO.
The first bottle made me so ill that I was doubtful if the
medicine would do me any good. However, I decided to
give VITADATIO a fair trial, so, I purchased a second
bottle. I felt hopeful, for I began to feel stronger every
day. I took four bottles altogether, and can truthfully
say I FEEL LIKE A NEW WOMAN, and was never better
in my life than at the present time. I can now attend to
my household duties without feeling them a burden. E
AM THANKFUL TO GOD and GRATEFUL TO VITA-
DATIO for the renewed health and strength which I
enjoy. I CANNOT SPEAK TOO HIGHLY in its PRAISE,,
and will only be too-happy to give information to ahyone
who may be suffering, if they will kindly call at the above
address.
Yours faithfully,
JESSIE COLEMAN.
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER,
184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The price of medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
THE
BEST
PEN.
BY THE
BEST
MAKERS.
Overlooking
A Good Thing
Is what you are doing if you bare
neglected to come in and look over
FouKTaiH E&K
Made of the very beet material; fitted with
the world's most famous gold pen, and the
only perfect Ink feed known to science, It
will meet your views in every particular.
Get one on trial.
MABIE. TODD tf BARD,
London and Manchester, England.
Soli by St»tio»*r», Jeweller*, »»J Layorters.
Members of the Outtrim (Vic.) brass band*
mostly composed of working miners, being
desirous of leading the Coalminers’ Association in
the eight-hour procession in Melbourne, but,
owing to the local prolonged strike, having no
funds with which to cover railway fares, walked
the whole distance between the two places, a
matter of over 75 miles, to attain their object.
This would have been a remarkable feat enough
in ordinary weather, but for the whole of that two
days march it was particularly wet, and anyone
who has sampled Gippsland roads in rainy times
will not begrudge the coaly ones their honest pride
at the exploit. As a counter picture imagine a
body of Calico-Jimmies walking even ten miles to
attend a banquet of sympathy to alleged Senator
Reid.
A CURIOUS MISTAKE.
DESPITE the advanced teachings of The
Bulletin, many of its readers are like the
old woman who only listened to one side of an
argument, because she could make up her mind
easier. Now don’t be like the old woman, and
make the curious mistake of thinking that,
because Queensland is smaller than the Southern
States, she cannot compete successfully with
them. But before making up your mind, write
to Charles Gilbert, the leading Cash Tailor,
Brisbane, for patterns of New Winter Suitings
(including a special line of soft twill finish pure
Indigo Blue Serge at 50s.—the suit to measure,
carriage paid) and Self - Measurement Forms.
Then compare the values. You will think
differently.
ARTIFICIAL LIMBS
with AA marks
PATENT
RUBBER
FEET and
HANDS
ARE THE BEST
PROCURABLE.
Sole Agents and Manufacturers:
DENYER BROTHERS,
281 CEORCE ST
SYDNEY,
and at cor. Lonsdale & Swanston Sts., Melbourne.
Catalogues and Prices on application.
Missing Friends.
IF MR. DAVID LUMGAIR, only son of the
late ROBERT LUMGAIR, Manufacturer,
Arbroath, Scotland, is still living, and will
apply to MESSRS. BLAKE AND RIGGALL,
Solicitors, 120 William Street, Melbourne, he
will hear of something to his advantage, or if
anyone can give evidence of his death they will
receive a reward on applying to the said
MESSRS. BLAKE AND RIGGALL. It is
believed that MR. DAVID LUMGAIR may
have adopted and used the surname of his
Mother, and have passed as MR. DAVID
CRICHTON.
THE CALLAGHAN
These are
Hard Times
This is a
Hard
Wear
Boot.
You can
not get
better
value
for your
money
anywhere!
2=7
r.
*)
A
t i
tw
I
BOOT
Duty Free
Post Free
17/6
THE CALLAGHAN French
Calf Lace Boot, leather-
lined, in pointed, medium
and square toes.
A really strong, serviceable 1
Boot for city or country wear /
16/6
A Pair sent Post and Duty Free to any address
in the Commonwealth (except W.A.) upon receipt of
17/6
Please remit by P.O. Order or Postal Note with order.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 ceorce st., Sydney.


Banking, Public Companies, Ac.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
$5
Csv
*
£
a
BILLS
discounted.
isr.s.-w.
(Qont deplete D.'t"
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
*74. CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
■ SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT. General Manager.
Colonial Mutual Life
assurance society limited.
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance. Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offloes - • 106 Pitt street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Borns, Chairman; Hon. O. J. Roaua
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Brock Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,595,870.
Policies issued 88,299— assuring £26,826,380.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,767,115.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses— eauitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK. J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
fhe Bank of fjorth Queensland
limited.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director-JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J P Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp& Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... ... £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
t TU* t “ l, .!“ hl ! MOlOO ... gmooo
Royal Bank of Queensland
J LIMITED.
PAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. •• .. .. £456,927
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS. 176,239
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock; sb,ow
£691,166
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr.,W.B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE : 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondenu
Throughout the World.
Queensland Smelting CompgT
** (LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
"DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
15 Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, the Branch
Office, 54 Market-street. Melbourne, or IRWIN HINDS,
Branch Manager, 6 Spring-street, Sydney.
H E SAVIN G S BANK
HAS MONEY TO LEND in VICTORIA
at 41 per cent., in sums of £5OO to £15,000, on Town
Properties; and £2OOO to £20,000 on BROAD ACRES
FOR FIVE YEARS, with option of paying off part
half-yearlv.
FARMERS’ CREDIT FONCIER.
Loans from £5O to £2OOO at 4£ per cent, for 31J years.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-GeneraL
29 Market-street, Melbourne.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors— Sydney : Hon. A. \V. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Oo.), Hon. John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co.. Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clynb ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlanb : Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhab. J. J.ALLEH, Generalilariager for^Aiistraha
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by Hew
Zealand Government .. •• 2 »9w.000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholder* 500,000
Total Capital
£2,500,000
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) £10,494 16 9
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.0., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROVVMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager
No. 56 ACETYLENE CAS Catalogue
w
' •
8 the MOST COMPLETE
and COMPREHENSIVE
ever issued.
Tells all about the Best
ACETYLENE CAS GENER-
ATORS, LAMPS, and
everything in connection
with ACETYLENE.
Nearly 400 of our
Reliable Automatio
Acetylene Cas
Generators
In daily use.
Large Stocks of the
Best
Carbide
ofCalcium
Quotations on application.
‘■oo NLLUVW «"*P
161 Clarence Street
Nr. King-st., Sydney
Shipping.
KT. 33. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin-screw steamer.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday alter Sydney.
Interstate First Class Return Tickets are now available
for Return by the Steamers of the P. and 0., Orient
Pacific, or M.M. Co.’s.
TO SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. STETTIN. 13th MAY.
And Regularly Every 6 Weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent-
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents.
WEBER LOHMANN A CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
WHITE STAR LINE
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWM.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
MEPIC, to Sail on or about 22nd MAY,
AFRIC, SUEVIC, PERSIC and RUNIC
to follow.
FARES—Capetown
London
New York, &o.
£l6 16 0 to £23 2 0
.. 19 0 0 to 27 0 0
.. 25 2 6 to 33 2 6
Only On® Class of Accommodation-
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
agents.
Huddart, parker & C°’* Cine
—TO —
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND POUTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
Oceanic Steamship Company,
A. and A. LIKTE.
TWO Q- R A.KTD BXOT7RSIOUS.
YOSEMITE VALLEY and CALIFORNIA BIG TREES,
UP IN THE HEART OF THE SIERRA NEVADA MOUNTAINS.
Travellers of note who have visited Switzerland say Yosemite surpaasea even the grandeur of the Alps.
£72 (including everything).
HOTEL DEL MONTE (monterey).
ALL-THE-YEAR-ROUND HEALTH AND PLEASURE RESORT.
£65 (including everything).
Through Passengers to London and American centres may participate in these excursions.
BURNS. PHILP and CO., Ltd., flanaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
Hank of New South Wales .
Established 1817.
Head Office— GEOßGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund.. ..
Reserve Liability
... 2,000,000 0 0
... 1,300,000 0 0
.. 2,000,000 0 0
Total „ - 6,300,000 0 0
Directors:
Hon. Chas. K. Mackellar, M.L.0., President
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, KL, M.L.O.
Senator James Thomas Walker.
Hon. Reginald James Black, M.LG.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Richard Binnib, Esq.
Auditors:
Harrington Palmer, Esq. Frederick W. Utiik, Bsq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies, New Zealand
and Fiji; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
Tae Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. HILDA.
mHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house
-L Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation,
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels,
i-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
in the
facing
City,
flights
■ffeatthy fnfhiits
9
£/lUi
fief us a a///m/faf/ons.
Satisfying, Strengthening Soothing for Infants
Agreeable. Digestible, Nourishing
AGFivrS POP SYD/ffY.
SAYOfiS ALLPOfiT & PQTPfff
RIDCES FOOD MILLS. LONDON. Enc
THE DEAF HEAR
DEAF persons need no longer despair. Out of the
mass of failures has come a genuine success.
Head noises can be cured and the deaf made to
hear so effectively that they wonder if they really
were deaf. Particulars of a startling discovery,
based upon the science of MetalLc Galvanic Elec-
tricity, that will assist all persons suffering from
deafness, fully described.
FREE.
By sending your name and address to
THE L. R. VERNON CO., 60-64
HUNTER ST., SYDNEY, you will receive a full
description of this remarkable method, which will
enable you to restore your hearing at a very slight
expense. The description is posted to you free,
and you will be delighted to learn how easily you
can obtain relief. It will pay you to write to-day.
Don’t neglect to do so.
At Dawn and Dusk:
By Y. J. Daley. In handsome cloth,
with portrait. Price 55.; postage, 4d.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
MA.Y 18-
The Most Popular Steamer on
the Pacific .
NEXT SAILINGS ARE—
JUNE 15. JULY 13. AUGUST 10.
Grand Excursion to Canada.
Finest ever offered in Austra-
lia. A 63-day trip for £6O
including all expenses on
steamer, railway and at hotels.
Finest Scenery in the World.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
Unrivalled Position in LONDON
(England),
The Langham Hotel
PORTLAND PLACE
And REGENT STREET, LONDON, W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality.
Hodern Appointments. Moderate Tariff.
“The Challenge”
Latest Scientific
Punching Machine.
A new World’s Record of 12251b5. was established on
the above machine at the Royal Agricultural Society’s
Show, Sydney, 1903, by Mr. T. W. Aulsebrook, of Messrs.
Aulsebrook and Sons, Ltd., the previous World’s Record,
held by Mr. Robert Fitzsimmons, champion pugilist,
being 10851bs.
The “Challenge” is an Automatic Penny-in-the-Slot
Machine, and is especially suitable for Hotels, Billiard
and Refreshment Rooms, Tobacconist Shops, etc.
It is a great attraction to any place, a first class money-
maker, never gets out of order, and requires no attention
whatever.
All other kinds of Automatic Slot Machines kept in
Stock. Illustrated Catalogue posted on application. .
J. LANDES,
108 PITT ST., SYDNEY,
Sole Agent for Australasia.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK :
By Sixty Bulletin writers. Cloth, 300 pages ;
price, Is. 6d. ; postage, 6d.
SOLE DISTRIBUTING AGENTS
EDWARDS, DUNLOP & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO
(LIMITED). U *
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian
Victorian and Queensland Ports. ’
FOR MELBOURNE ■>
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORT!*
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhippingrat Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Gabo,
Friday, May 8.
S.S. Wollowra,
Saturday, May 9
(Without Transhipment).
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oatrns
S.S. Ointra, Saturday,May 9.
S.S. Gabo, Saturday, May 16
S.S. Allinga, Friday, May 22]
Best and Cheapest Monte to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interohangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YU ILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
P. AND o
COMPANY’S
ROYAL MAIL BTEAMERB
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
Sydney,
Noon.
Steamer.
Commander.
ORIENTAL .
ROME
ARCADIA .
OCEANA
AUSTRALIA.
5284 F. N. Tillard
5545 J. Paine, R.N.R. ..
6663 F. C. A. Lyon, R.N.R.
6603 E. Street
, 6901 F. J. Cole
May 16
• May 30
. June 13
June 27
July 11
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B ~10 "i 77
Ditto Ditto Return, £66 to £ll5
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by Orient-Pacific, Messageries
Mari times and N.D.L. Steamers having room.
A. GORDON WESCHE,
63 Pitt-street. Acting Agent.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contraot with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE. FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows:
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Custom*
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
State Ports are available for return by P. and 0.,
Orient Pacific and N.D.L. steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Office*
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
L. BRICARD, Acting Principal Agent.
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. . BY THE . .
“E. and n.” LINE.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwl'n.
Steamer. iTns . Commander. tLeave Sydney.
•EASTERN ... 3600 Winthrop Ellis .. May 13
AUSTRALIAN .. 3000 VV. G. McArthur. .'June 10
•EMPIRE .. 4500 P. T. Helms .. July 8
EASTERN.. .. 3600 Winthrop Ellis .. August 5
•Does not call at Port Darwin.
EVERY CONVENIENCE FOR A TROPICAL VOYAGE.
The Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans. .
Through bookings at special rates to Europe via Canada,
U.S. America, or the Trans-Siberian Railway.
Forhandbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.,
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-st., Sydney.
DR. J. COLLIB BROWNE'S
(“NLORODYNE.
Caution. — Genuine Chlorodyna,
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DLARRHCEA, be “»
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—•
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
pilt ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS <*
Bept. 28, 1895, says:
“If I were asked which single medicine T should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to s
most generally useful, to the exclusion o
others, I should say Chlorodynk. Inever trava
without it, and its general applicability to
relief of a large number of simple ailments to
its best recommendation.”
ORNAMENTAL NAIR.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each.
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair an
write for any Information. Country Orders rec
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers &. Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anythin you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock. ,
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Oha«-
Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to
any Part of Australasia
CRAIG & AITKEN,
N.S.W. Barber’s Supply House,
680-082 George Street, Sydney.
Qg- y g
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Addrbss.—L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Mclbourn


7TY e have had a great deal of trouble with people attempting to do
VAy business on our reputation, copying not only our Books and
literature, but in many cases making poor imitations of our Belt.
We hold sole rights to our book, the product of years of study and
scientific investigation, the circulation of which runs into millions.
Every sick man or woman should read it. It tells how we cure all sorts
of Chronic Ailments, Indigestion, Rheumatism, Nerve Disorders,. Back-
ache, and Kidney Complaints, and is a valuable acquisition to any library.
Write for it to-day.
The dr. McLaughlin co.,
MELBOURNE OFFICE—
-167E. SWANSTON STREET.
100 W. Market St., Sydney.
IN THE COUNTY COURT,
MELBOURNE.
1903.
No. 550.
CRAWFORD
vs.
VON LOHR.’
Copy
CONSENT TO JUDGMENT.
Filed 6/3/03. Stamp 5/-
CLEVERDON & FAY,
95 Queen Street, Melbourne.
PLAINTIFF'S SOLICITORS.
IN THE COUNTY COURT
AT MELBOURNE.
1903. No. 550
BETWEEN
WILLIAM CHAS. CRAWFORD,
of Swanston Street, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
GENERAL MANAGER for
THE DR. McUUJGHLIN SO.,
PLAINTIFF,
and
MORGAN WILLS VON LOHR,
TRADING as
of Number 39 Queen Street, MELBOURNE, aforesaid,
THE DR. J. M. HESTIN ELECTRIC CO.
DEFENDANT.
We the undersigned consent to judgment being entered for the
Plaintiff, for,--
1. The delivery to the Plaintiff of all copies of the Book, "Electro
Therapeutics," which are in the possession of the Defendant.
• t,
2. An Injunction restraining the Defendant, his Servants or Agents
from continuing or repeating any infringements of the Plaintiff's
. ‘ * - .16 • ’
Copyright in the book or pamphlet entitled Dr. McLaughlin's
Electric Belt, and from doing any acts infringing or injuring the said
copyright.
DATED this sixth day of March, 1903.
Signed
FRANKLIN E. FAY. Plaintiff's Attorney.
\ JOHN P. PHODEN, Defendant's Attorney.


Dear Bulletin.—The obituary notice of
Charles Bright has one or two inaccuracies.
Bright arrived in Melbourne 48 years ago, and
joined the staff of the local Morning Herald in
1855, some years before he became connected with
the Argus. It may be true that when he was
invited to manage the advertising for the Mutual
of New York he described himself as “one of the
worst business men in Melbourne,” but, all the
same, Charles Bright belonged to the Chosen
businesspeople. He was a Jew. —K.K.
The death of fine old Charles Bright leads
to talk about the Rev. James Pillars, B. A., whose
widow Bright married. The body of Pillars was
never recovered from the waters at Watson’s Bay,
but in Rookwood cemetery is a monument to him,
with a tablet designed by sculptor Lorando Jones.
Years before, Lorando was tried for Freethought
lecturing in Parramatta Park and sentenced to
hard labor in Ninny Melville, afterwards
Chairman of Committees in N.S.W. Assembly,
challenged the sculptor to repeat his heterodoxies
about King David, and was present in the park
with Police-inspector Bremner and other wit-
nesses to take the words down. Lorando gave
David what-for in the hottest language, and
Ninny had him duly gaoled. Then the Rev.
Pillars stumped Sydney. He wrote to the papers,
called public meetings, headed deputations, and
otherwise excited the mind of the public to such
an extent that the Government quashed the con-
viction and set Lorando free. It is Lorando’s
tablet that is now on the Rev. Pillars’ monument.
The motto around it is “More Light,” a phrase
used on the title-page of a little religious journal
published by Pillars.
Severe Trials Weathered Through.
Sailors at sea have many a severe trial to
weather through. But they stick to their ship,
laugh at the storms and manfully pull her
through. Then the weary and trying times of
the past are looked back upon light-heartedly.
Many a man’s existence can be likened to a ship
struggling against adversity upon the ocean of
life. Trials come, but he who manfully puts
his shoulder to the wheel and determines to push
through them, succeeds where others fail. Mr.
William Huston, of Ashburton, New Zealand,
was well nigh shipwrecked upon the ocean of life.
Before he became utterly wrecked, however,
he miraculously saved himself. “For some
years,” he says, “I had a sluggish liver, which
ultimately ended in a long and painful illness.
On the top of this I had influenza, which further
deranged my liver and brought on a complica-
tion of the kidneys. I underwent treatment by
two doctors, but their medicine and advice were
alike useless. Worn to but a mere shadow of my
former self, I was day and night the victim ot
the many ailments that ceaselessly troubled me.
In this state I should have remained had it not
been for Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, which
did for me what doctors could not effect, l
past is but a mere dark shadow through which
I have passed, the present is full of happiness.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are the best and
mildest medicine I have ever taken, and tnroug
their agency I have been permanently an co
pletely cured.” Dr. Morse’s Indian Roo
are a perfect blood purifier, and a positive
for biliousness, indigestion, constipation, n _
aches, sallow complexion, liver and ki j
troubles, piles, pimples and blotches and
female ailments. Put up in amber bottles ana
the full name blown thereon.*
MARTELLS
THREE STAR
BRANDY.
RESCH’S SELECT STOCK ALE.«» LACER
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives. BREWER'S and OFFICES: DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY. _
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Since the day that Silvermine fell at Randwick,
and thereby caused the death of jockey Alec. Robertson,
the racing community has been considering that “ some-
thing ought to be done ” to put down foul riding and
riding that is made dangerous by ignorance. The child
jockey who has not strength to control the brute he is
perched on should be ruthlessly abolished. Apropos
which, crack English jockey Grimshaw was very short-
sighted, and, on one occasion, he finished an easy second
without making the slightest effort to pass the horse that
was straining every nerve to keep just in front, because
the kid on its back was so small Grimshaw couldn’t
discern him, and thought the horse had thrown his
rider, as Simile did recently at Randwick.
• * * *
Eighteen-year-old jockey W. Aspden died in
hospital last week from fractured spine, brought about
through a fall with nag Gimmaron at Randwick, April
15. Coroner’s jury verdict was accidental death. Un-
usually large crop of falls at A.J.C. autumn gathering
should be inquired into. A.J.O. secretary Clibborn
asserts that the track was much cut up at one part
through horses crowding on the fence near the home
turn and it is told that there wasn’t a hoof-mark outside
10ft.' from the inner rail. Giving mounts to. inex-
perienced boys and the craze for riding Sloan fashion are
other explanations advanced by Mr. Olibborm
F. A. Tennant, ruled out of S. Australian racing
for 10 years, is a young owner, and reputed to be pretty
heavily gilded. Two alleged Maoriland nags were entered
for the Adelaide Autumn meetings—Evening Wonder and
Maori Chief. Maori Chief didn’t turn up, but the Wonder
did • and after it had been nearly a month on the training
tracks, with betting proceeding all the while, it was
announced bv Tennant that it wasn’t the Wonder at all
that had com**but the Chief. Then tb« kicking began.
* * • *
“Le Chasfee” puts forward a sordid view of
things: Why parents persist in rushing their kids into
the Civil Service, and spending hundreds of pounds to
qualify them to earn 30s. per week in the Signal Failure
Department when there are plenty of good training
stables to turn the same boys into capable jockeys, is a
mystery to me. Australia is not the only country where
jockeys ride horses, but it is about the only land where a
man trained under the Owe’See Govt, has any chance of a
billet. In ’Murka, jockey-boy Arthur Redfern expects to
earn £lO,OOO before the year is over, and Danny Maher
will follow him with about £BOOO. W. C. Whitney paid
001. Pepper £3500 for young Redfern’s release and made
a contract with that fortunate kid for a yearly salary of
£3OOO (in dollars, of course) and Frank Hitchcock pays
him £2500 for second call. Danny Maher will ride in
England and his retaining ’fee is £5000.1 In addition to
these small but regular screws both cubs will receive
“outside fees’’which will swell their takings (one cant
Call them earnings, by any stretch of imagination) to
about ten or twelve thousand almightiest pounds for the
vear What’s the use of being a Premier, or a Federal
Treasurer at a paltry £lOOO per year for not more
than three or six years, when in three years as a
jockey one can make a snug fortune to keep one s self in
comfort during middle age and decay ?
* * * *
London Sportsman recently appointed an inter-
national committee, members of which were located in
England, Ireland, France, Russia, Germany, Italy, Aus-
tralia U.S.A., Maoriland, South Africa, Austria, Den-
mark’Spain, Belgium, Roumania, and British Columbia
to determine which of all the stallions would most
suitably mate with the speedy Sceptre. Isinglass was
duly appointed husband, having 54 votes recorded in his
favor Merman was second with 36, and old Jack.
Carbine a good third with 31. Up to the present there is
no word of what Sceptre thinks of the matter, and
whether she will accept the committee’s decision as final
remains to be seen. Isinglass was certainly a fine per-
former on the turf, but that does not always mean
success at the stud ; and some horses who could never
win even a donkey gallop have been highly successful at
siring winners of great races .and many shekels.
The Fritz-Ribbon wood match produced a fine
interchange of skite between Maoriland and visiting Aus-
tralian sports, which resulted in a straight-out offer to pit
Achilles and Cruciform against the best on the mainland.
Wakeful, Abundance or Patronage, w.f.a., over a mile and
a half Suggested that each owner should put up s
sweepstake of 500sovs. on the forfeit system, and run the
race at Riccarton at N.Z. Cup time (Nov.), the Canter-
bury Jockey Club hanging up a purse of a similar amount.
The winner if a Maorilander, is to allow visitors a sum to
be agreed upon for exes. Of course, competitors could
race in the rich N. Z. Cup on first day, run their match on
the second, compete for the Canterbury Cup (w.f.a.) and
Jubilee Cup (also w.f.a.) third and fourth days. It
remains for one of the Australians to take up the
challenge.
* • • m
D. J. Price, the owner of champion pacer
Ribb’onw’ood, was cheered vociferously every time he
beat Fritz, but on the third day of the metropolitan
meeting things suddenly changed. Price had steered
two winners home, and then, as the club declined to give
a purse he gave an exhibition mile “for love, and
broke his own Australian record of 2.10, made on the
first day, reducing it by one second easily. Another
ovation; and Price went out to drive the second favorite
in a handicap event. But he shaped so suspiciously that
the stewards promptly passed him out with the horse
for a six months spell. Curiously enough the moke s
owner is a Mr. Felony. Then the crowd made another
noise, and it had such an ugly sound that the fallen
favorite is understood to have gone home the back way.
* * * *
With the exception of Fritz and Valour the
whole of the big trotting string which A. J. Buckland
took to Maoriland remain in the Plutonic Isles.
* * • *
“ Ne’er-do-weel ” : It was at a big meeting at
an inland town, and the biggest bookmaker confided to
me that he was disappointed with the business doing,
and intended soon to “ shake ’em up ” a bit. It wasn t
till the second last race, when everybody was pretty
drunk, that the shake-up commenced. Then he shook
things right enough. Listening to the yells of the
bookies, I was struck by an occasional offer of longer
odds than the threes and fours usual at these meetings.
This came from my burly friend—“ Twenty to one Black-
bird ! Twenty to one Blackbird! 11l lay Blackbird.
I saw one or two men, mostly tight, book wagers with
him, and considering the horses and the class of horse-
men, thought it was worth while to put a quid on any-
thing with four legs at these odds. I was just about to
make the bet when I looked at my card. Then I spoke :
“Here! what price Blackbird?" “Lay you twenty-
five! Blackbird!-I’ll lay” “Why, dash your
eves ” I said, “ there’s no such horse on the card. What-
chergivin’us?” “ Don’t give a hang ! Laid him a dozen
times already. Thirty to one Blackbird. I’ll lay Black-
bird !"
• • * •
The imported St. Ambrose, a stable companion
of The Victory, looks a very likely winner of the Good-
wood Handicap at Adelaide. On his dandy appearance
St Ambrose would be picked to sprint and stay, and on
his form in last Champion Stakes, when he chased Great
Scot for a mile and a half, the Britisher should prove
dangerous when wanted.
S T.C. meet. Saturday, for an off-day, was well
patronised—muster totalled 6000; but small fields and
unaccountable reversals of form marred the programme
much, and the stipendiary stewards remained same old
wooden images. In face of anything but prominent
running of a week before, Oarwee and hai Viti (well
backed by someone in each instance) appropriated S.T.O.
and Farewell Handicaps easily, giving nothing else a
hope. Yet no explanation was sought. Other things
were “ strong 99 enough to knock one down, and still those
responsible remained inert.
r * * • *
Someone has totted-up the sums won by progeny
of different sires during third quarter (ended April 30) of
present season. Pilgrim’s Progress tops the list with
£lO 561 : then come The Admiral, £8939 ; Bill of Port-
land, £8733 ; Lochiel, £7791; Grafton, £6927 ; Padlock,
£5457 • Trenton, £4904 ; Malvolio, £4124 ; and so on.
* • * •
Viotorian jockey A. Henkle, during few weeks
since his return from Bananaland, has made a big’ im-
pression. In ten mounts he won six times and dead-
heated twice, but unfortunately finished up with a broken
collar-bone, through a bad fall at Geelong.
• • * • •
Remarkably successful Maoriland 3 year old
Wairiki cost his owner £7O as a yearling and has already
won £2485. This season six wins in 11 starts have come
his way.
» • * *
Hurdler Champion, who gathered S.T.C. lepping
event, has much to thank A.J.O. handicapper for.
Though he got away with Hurdles at Rosehill, March 28,
and Second Hurdles at recent A.J.O. autumn meet,
Champion had to hump only 10.3 in latest success.
Champion is by Corinth from Quip, and was bred by Mr.
R. O. Allen.
* • • •
Though usually A.J.C. loses over it 3 autumn
meets and last year was £470 on the wrong side, it
cleared £350 this time, despite that added money was
increased by £lOOO. This was probably one of the disas-
trous effects of the drought.
• * • »
“Point ” : Anent Constable M‘Quaker’s 11751bs
punch, and Hickey’s and Aulsebrook’s improvement
thereon. Writer knows a little man who can always
send the indicator twice round the dial, which is anything
that might be named more than 11751b5, for its full
extent isn’t ascertainable. Know numbers of bruisers
who couldn’t thump within coo-ee of 11751bs on the
machine, but, would sooner be punched twice by
M‘Quaker and Co. than once by any man of them.
People practised at the game bring the weight of the
body to bear, and that’s the trick of it.
* * • ».
A couple of cunning visitors at Tamworth the
other day conspired to take down the local talent at a
shooting gallery. While one competed with the rifle the
other hid behind the target and rang the bell when his
mate fired. The dodge worked all right until an unfor-
tunate wide shot put a bullet through the bellringer s
hand. Then the game was up.
* • • *
Thanks to a further subsidy of -£5OO from the
N.S.W. Government for improvements, the new sports’
ground at Moore Park, Sydney, will have a first-class
cycle track laid down—something which Australia
hasn’t got at present. Speaking of cycle-tracks, Major
Taylor denounced very bitterly the Melbourne track, and
besides declaring it the worst in Australia, hoped that no
races on such a track would be arranged for him on a
future [visit. And the Melbourne authorities simply
smiled.
• • • •
Mr. O. H. Kerry, hon. sec. N.S.W. Gun Club,
writes: A par in your sporting columns, 25/3/’O3 inst.,
refers to quail shooting at the N.S.W. Gun Club grounds
some time before the season opened. Writer is evidently
unaware of the fact that during the N.S.W. close season
large shipments of live quail reached Sydney by the
China mailboats. Those referred to in your par. formed
part of such a shipment landed just at that time.
[This explanation makes things look more legal and
quite as brutal. As the Scripture might put it, “ I was
a stranger, and ye blew me to pieces with a gun.’’—
Ed. B.]
• ft*
Pleasing to note that one goat was disqualified
for running stiff at recent Charters Towers races. This
determination to keep the sport clean and suppress the
unreliable goat-owner can’t be too strongly commended.
• * • *
“ Nym.” : T’other Sunday witnessed a splendid
coursing match —the first of the season. Was driving
along the road to Toolleen when I noticed two
eagles pounce down on some object in the middle of a
paddock. Then the fun commenced. First a dart this
way, then a dart that way, the immense birds often col-
liding against one another in their haste. It was some
moments before I could make out what was up, then they
got closer and I saw the trouble. The birds had surprised
a buck hare asleep, and he was racing and dodging for
his life. The dash of the birds was becoming more
malicious every time, and I thought it must end in the
death of the hare, but the plucky long-eared animal
twisted and turned through a good ten minutes go till
within a few yards of a log fence, when he streaked
like greased lightning to shelter the first time I
ever knew, a hare to take to dead timber. Then the
eagles, thoroughly “ done,” perched on the fence to wait
till he would come out, but when my whip cracked they
fluttered wearily away\
The degeneracy of the Australian man of thew.
Thursday night, last week, turbanned heathens Buttan
Singh and Gunga Brahm’rastled for Australian supremacy
before 2000 people at Wirth’s Circus, Melbourne. Falls
occupied 20, 6£, and 4min. Only one (second) went to
Singh, who has lorded it over all Australian catch-as-
catch-can comers for past few years, because Australia
hasn’t produced a ’rastler—European or otherwise—of
better than mediocre capacity since 15 or 20 years ago.
When ’rastling boomed, and world’s champions Cannon,
Whistler and co. found it profitable to come here, but
crooked work —always in evidence with athletics under
similar conditions —completely choked public zest for
the game. Convincing proof of the decadence of ’rastling
in Australia were the Dunn-Lucifer, Hajek-Lucifei, and
other matches in Sydney, a year or two since.
• * • •
The “colored” persons gradually rake in the
championships of Australia. Major Taylor hung a string
of them to his bike-wheel, and now an Afghan secures
the wrestling championship. The casual and tired Aus-
tralian evidently thinks that wrestling isn’t within his
ability ; and it’s hardly a policy for athletic bodies to re-
cognise championships which can only be won by aliens
to their country.
* • • •
Recently E. L. Armytage rowed on the Tamar
(Tas.) from Launceston to Georgetown and back (74 miles)
in little over 13 hours. Armytage (as breathers for the
big trip) covered 46 miles five weeks before and 23 miles
three times with intervals of a week between each row.
He is same man who, two years ago, rowed from Geelong
to Melbourne.
• * * *
Defeat of Sydney champion amateur sculler,
Joe Daley, in contest for Australian supremacy on the
Yarra, Saturday, was biggest set-back Cornstalk rowers
have known for years. Though doubtful about the Oar
event they looked upon the Sculls as a “ moral.” How
little expert judgment is to be relied upon was never
better exemplified. Authorities generally voted Daley
sure. While Victorians, Ivens and Brasch, were looked
to to make a nose and nose finish for second, Tasmanian
Bourke wasn’t considered “in it,” beyond being among
the starters, yet he won, and easily—26 seconds ahead
of Ivens, who beat Daley two lengths. Course was
2j measured miles. This was Bourke’s first success, but
Daley has won three times—last two years in succession.
’Twas known before Daley left Sydney that he wasn’t at
his best, but he had proved so much ahead of the general
run that it still looked odds on him scoring.
• • • •
Result of latest inter-State 8-oar race should go
far towards forcing N.S.W. R.A. to make room for the
manual labor man, hitherto religiously shut out because
of the fear that, through living by the use of his arms, he
would have a considerable advantage over the clerk, the
counter-jumper, and such. Every other branch of
athletics admits the manual labor man open-armed—
swimming particularly. Until N.S.W. rowing autocrats
make up their minds to follow suit with Victoria in this
respect, they should refrain from sending crews to
compete in inter-State 8-oar races, as they do so
at a disadvantage, which renders the result a fore-
gone conclusion. Evidence of what the manual labor
man can do at rowing was ample in the time of the
“Footscray mud-punters,” who’d leave off their work,
get into their “ eight,” s„o.v their pipes alongside of them
for the time being, and beat any crew that came along.
“ Thanks particularly to the ‘blawsted kaw-
linies ’ ” writes Thb Bulletin’s London correspondent,
“ Scotland well defeated England in the ‘ International ’
Rugby by 10 to 6. Having beaten Ireland and Wales,
the triple crown was the victors’ for this season. The
Scottish (?) three-quarter-back line was made up of two
Australians (A. B. Timms and A. N. Fell), one Maori -
lander (J. S. MacDonald), and one S’African, while another
‘ kerlonyel ’ played forward. Thus a third of the team
were Greater Britons, and, it is admitted, did more than
their share in winning the game. Timms, 30yds. from
the posts, snapped up the ball outside the scrum, and
< repeated his performance in the Welsh game by dropping
a magnificent goal, which fairly aroused the enthusiasm
of all the Scots on the ground ’ (Edinburgh Dispatch). A
writer to the paper above quoted says : ‘lt is a sorry
plight when Scotland takes the field with one-third of
her side composed of rank outsiders.’ ‘Rank’ seems
particularly ungrateful."
* * • *
London Truth has a long article on batsmen
who play leg-breaks with their pads, and argues very
fairly that pads are only intended as a protection, and a
batsman who intentionally plays the ball with them
ought to be given out on the spot. But the article very
•unfairly quotes as its only definite instance the Austra-
lians in their big score at Brighton. It is quite possible
that one or two of them picked up the trick when in
England, but it is distinctly an English trick, and hardly
known in Australia —as a regular method of defence.
* * * *
Jack Reedman, the hardened veteran who still
plays cricket and football for S.A., is to have a benefit
from footballers shortly. Reedman and Giffen are the
two “ aged ” athletes who never knock under. Reedman
has now been playing football for twenty years. He is a
letter carrier, and avers that the 15 miles travelled daily
in doing his work keeps him in good fettle for sport on
Saturday*.
* • • •
It seems “fashionable” for every successful
athlete to blossom as a compiler of reminiscences, and
cricketers take the disease very badly. Giffen, Grace,
Fry, Ranjitsinghji, and hosts of others have been
afflicted with the desire to become famous by resurrecting
mouldy old stories and averages, and jamming into the
heads of aspirants how to play the game by theory.
“ Billy ” Murdoch is the latest to fall into the error, and
he will reminisce with much gloom and weight.
• • * *
The point-blank refusal to send a rifle team to
Bisley from Wellington (M.L.) contrasts very vividly with
the scraping and bowing which is being indulged in by
the different Australian States to raise sufficient boodle
to despatch a team of shootists to the same destination.
Three months ago the trip was considered a certainty,
yet there isn’t an Australian State with its guarantee
ready ; evidently the public regards this bauble- hunting
with feelings only to be expressed by snorts.
♦ m • •
The projected “ benefit ” to cyclist “ Bobby ”
Walne seems to have eaten itself out of existence. When
the accident happened, there was a rush of people to
sympathise with him, but, since then—with the exception
of his trainer and a few friends —he isn’t thought as much
of as yesterday’s meat-pie.
* * • •
Certain now that top-notch Bananaland bikist,
Bob Walne, won’t race again. Whether his leg gets
thoroughly right or not his mind is made up to give the
game best. Few men have had such a run of accidents.
Since latest trouble happened over a month ago he hasn’t
shifted an inch in his bed at Adelaide Hospital. During
eight years Walne has done some big things cycling, and
perhaps scooped more premierships than any other bikist
on this continent.
* • • *
Bendigo (Vie.) bicycle circuit (which is adver-
tised as first-class) is considered by many racing men as
absolutely the worst and most dangerous in Australia. A
recent meeting there teemed with accidents. The track
is so uneven that it invariably causes a sensation akin to
sea-sickness. The path, which is of good size and shape,
has two straights with a curve at each end, and, as the
rider leaves one straight, he ascends a stiff incline, down
which he comes at a frightful pace. The turns are sharp,
with scarcely any banking, and it’s as exhilarating as
a bull-fight to watch the hair-raising way in which riders
negotiate the curves. There are scores of such tracks in
Australia, and the chief end of cycling councils should be
to investigate these death-traps and obliterate them.
• * * *
May not be generally known that bikist Brown,
who was placed second to Don Walker in recent Druids’
Wheel race, and whom many onlookers thought won by
inches, is in the forties and a veteran rider. Remarkable
feature of Brown’s latest effort was that Walker passed
him, but he came again and stayed with the continent’s
top-notcher ever after.
* * • *
Bowls seems to have acquired a new import-
ance in England as a game of skill now that W. G. Grace
is a leading exponent. How about John Roberts? The
old master of billiards would be a likely person to recon-
struct the science of bowls. ,
• * * *
‘ * Austral Exile, ” from London to The Bulletin :
“ Turning up an old record of past events here I found
under date May 29th, 1842— ‘ Bungaree, the Australian
pugilist, died from injuries received in a fight with
Browne at Newmarket.’ And who was Bungaree ?”
» * * *
Unlike Australia, Maoriland doesn’t take seri-
ously to the “ harmless ” pastime of boxing, and so it has
taken a considerable amount of persuasion to induce the
M.L. Boxing Association to add a bantam-weight
championship to the list. Hitherto an under 8-stone
pug., if he wanted to have a smack at a 10-stone bully,
had to do so with all odds thrown in. The newly-added
championship will be fought for about the first week in
June, and promises to launch forth with an unusual num-
ber of entries.
» • • »
Champion axeman-pug. Bill Heckenberg liter-
ally chopped one-time top-notcher Mick Dooley out in less
than a round at Sydney Gaiety A. 0., Monday night. It
was alleged that Dooley had been training, but his flabby
and generally unhealthy-looking body gave the lie to that
assertion. Those who anticipated Dooley would show
some of his brilliance of 15 years ago were bitterly disap-
pointed, for he simply wasn't in it a moment with the
giant woodchopper, who went straight in, using both
hands, and never left the issue in doubt. Dooley should
not have been resurrected; his showings in Melbourne and
Sydney, as far back as a couple of years since indira»»H
that he hadn’t then a spark of the old fire left Id m d
of his stamp don’t improve with age ’ men
* • • .
Much was expected of Hiscutt and Truscott b,
their fight at Sydney National, Tuesday night last week
but it proved a huge disappointment from end to end
Truscott, with a man jumping away from him and duck
ing and dodging round the ring, didn’t show to near si,eh
purpose as with Lenton, who came for his gruel eve™
time. They cuddled, looked fierce, and then scrambled
hitting any and every way, but mostly missing Trim’
cott poked his left in often, and on that account the
blow was harmless, but when he punched properlv it
made Hiscutt wince. They got into all manner of
entanglements, and tied themselves into weird knots it
was nothing but scuffle from end to end. The onlv clean
hitting was done by Truscott in the eighth round and
then he gave the one-time silver digger a hot couple of
minutes, sending him to the boards repeatedly At
“ corners ” Hiscutt had enough and threw the towel in
Most onlookers sized the show a “schlenter.” Their
methods were too much alike to make the match interest
ing.
• a . ,
There is money in cycle racing. Don Walker
the Red Bird champion during the season just ended’
won £7BB on his Red Bird. The new type of this famous
mount for 1903, which has been specially built for Aus-
tralian track and road work, embodies several new and
practical features which should make it a favorite with
lovers of a speedy, reliable bicycle.*
* * * *
Road riders will be interested to learn that the
Dunlop Tyre Co. has fixed on Saturday, August 22nd
for its great Commonwealth road Tace from Warrnam-
bool to Melbourne— a distance of 165 miles. Application
has been made to the League of Victorian Wheelmen for
the above date, which is a week earlier than last year’s
contest, when over 50,000 people witnessed the progress
of the 100 competitors along the course. Upon the same
day, and over the Warrnambool course, the Dunlop Co
is also organising the first motor cycle race held in Aus-
tralia, so that the 22nd August will be a red letter day in
cycling and motor circles.


SECOND-HAND BIfYfTFS
Open
Saturday
Afternoon
We are holding a SALE of SECOND-HAND BIKES during this month.
The Bikes are all in perfect order, and the Prices . . .
from £4 upwards.
First come, first served. This is an opportunity that you should not miss.
CANADA CYCLE & HOTOR CO., Ltd.,
357 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches in Every State.
Franz Josef Lager
. . . THERE IS NOTHING BETTER
YOU GET THE BEST
VALUE FOR YOUR
BUY A
MONEY WHEN YOU
REMINGTON
Double-Barrel . .
Hammerless Gun.
Thoroughly Guaranteed.
Kept n stock by the Largest Gun Stores in Melbourne and Sydney.
Hemlngrton Arms Company,
Head Office: 315 BROADWAY, NEW YORK, U.S A.
REMINGTON GUNS, £5 10s. to £is
REMINGTON RIFLES, 23/6 post free
McLEAN BROS. & RIGC, Ltd., 107 Elizabeth-St., Melbourne.
OUR NEW 1903 MODELS
Are pronounced by experts to be “ Just perfect.” These .. .
RED BIRD BIKES
are specially built for rough Australian roads. They carry our guarantee, and are as near
perfection as brains, capital and honest effort can make them. Call and examine for yourselves.
High-Grade Sports Goods. GOOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 King-st, Sydney.
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manuf. Company
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY ? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5 ; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7 ;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the. best and strongest in Australia. £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and everv description of vehicles in Stock and made
to Order) HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE. —Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
-■ent. more for your requirements.
193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
OUR SPECIAL No. 8
£8 18/6
Delivered at any Wharf er
JI.BLW. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
r
DRINK-
GARDNER’S SPA WATER
From our Springs at Heiidon. OWEN GARDNER & SONS, Brisbane (Head office) &at Helidon.
N
OTICE
TO CONSTITUENTS..
The Head Office of
The Australasian Mortgage & Agency Co. Limited in Edinburgh
has recently decided to go into voluntary liquidation under the Scottish law so as to carry
through a Scheme of Re-arrangement and Re-construction, already approved of by Committees
renresenting the Debenture Holders and other Creditors, with the object of permitting funds
to be sent out to the Colonies for maintaining and improving the Company s Stations and
Business During the process of Re-arrangement the Company s business will be carried on
as formerly by the same staff of officials, and, as in the past, Constituents’ proceeds will be
safeguarded by means of the “ Trust Account. , . a ,
The Company’s Bankers are the The Bank of Australasia, Sydney.
B. B. ALLEN,
Sydney, 29th April, 1903. Manager, A.M. and A. Co., Ltd.
HAND-IN-HAND
forEICHTYYEARS
Williams'
Barbers' Bar.
WILLIAMS' Traveller's Shaving Stick*
You may worry thru a face
scrape on most “Any Old
Soap.” To enjoy the Luxury
of a Perfect Shave you must
use Williams’.
If you doubt it, send a penny
stamp for Williams’ Changing
Face Puzzle. Tells you whj r .
J. B. WILLIAMS CO., Glas-
tonbury, Conn., U.S.A. Also
232 Clarence Street, Sydney.
7? For Sport and War.
By W. W. CREENER.
HITS THE MARK I
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, 1/- nett.;
Posted, 1/2.
The best 1/- worth ever Published.
IF you wish to get good work and value
you should purchase W. W. GREENER’S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to —
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
(Greener’s Representative).
FOB, the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “ Ellis’ King: Street Coffee Palace,”
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor — GEO. W. ELLIS.
WE SHIP ON APPROVAL
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles. Fully warranted.
Latest
Models'
£2.10 to £5.5.0
Dunlop Tyres, Steel or Wood Rims,
Free Wheels, Mud Guard's and Brakes.
| CARRIAGE PAID
| To any Port in Australasia.
TYRES, ACCESSORIES,
Sporting Goods and Sewing
Machines Half Usual Prices.
Writ* for Catalogue and Special Offer
Using *Jd. Stamp. Address Dept 348 D
Mead Cycle Co ,
, 'V's-n
*OOOO/1/0
Every dog will have his day,
And life its ups and downs ;
The face may wear a smile to-day,
To-morrow perhaps a frown,
When things run smooth we little guess
What we may yet endure,
As ooughs and colds—’tis then we bless
Woods’ Great Pbppbrmint Curb.*
After all Tommy Bent’s boasting about
the complete readiness of the Irvine Govern-
ment to face a railway strike it showed its pitiable
unreadiness by serving notices on the old worn-
out pensioners of the Department to prepare to
resume duty. Of course, these 70 and 80-year-old
ancients simply replied by sending in medical
certificates that they were too blind, deaf and
rheumatic to work, and that prop collapsed. But
fanoy the joy of rushing along in an express train
the safety of which depended on a spectacled
Satriarch, who was retired, owing to old age, a
ozen years ago, and who has practically forgotten
the business and the road.
The Argus reports quite cheerfully :
The majority of the settlers on Eurack estate have not
had a good season, and 25 have sent a petition to the
Minister of Lands asking him to postpone their payments
till they have had a good season.
In the same issue which relates this further beg-
ging for State support by the “great natural
industries ” the Abgus denounces the Labor party
as per usual for causing Victoria’s financial
troubles. It looks as if Victoria would have very
few financial troubles, if it wasn’t that it is always
being let in by the Argus’s pet farmer.
Martin’s Apiol and steel pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia. Not genuine
without the signature. Be sure you get Martin’s.
Sole proprietor, W. Martin, pharmaceutical
chemist, Southampton, England.*
N.S.W.’s Foreign-trade Joey Carruthers
says that “the best way to relieve labor is not to
offer it State charity, but to offer it better chances
to work for itself.” Just so ! And to work for
itself at what ? In iron foundries, steel mills,
cotton, silk or woollen factories, distilleries, etc. ?
Where are they ? To go on the land in the west
and centre where a beaten population is already
leaving the land wholesale ? To shear the dead
sheep or drive the dead cow ? To hump ashore
imported goods that the people haven’t the means
to buy? Where does Joey’s fiscal creed present
the opening that Joey talks about so glibly ?
DRYSDALE’S ANTIBILIOUS PILLS
for biliousness, indigestion, headache, loss of appetite,
giddiness, &c., are prescribed by physicians of the highest
standing, who acknowledge their thorough efficiency in
all cases. 1/1 per box, post paid. F. J. Timbury,
chemist, Petrie’s Bight, Brisbane.*
Maoriland Supreme Court has been con-
siderably ruffled over the violent language used
about one of its recent decisions by the British
Privy Council. Chief-Justice Stout and two of
his colleagues, speaking from the bench, have
stated, in effect, that the Privy Council is an old,
ignorant, bumptious, ill-mannered ass. Consider-
ing that Premier Seddon went out of his way to
persuade the British Government to veto those
provisions in the Commonwealth Constitution
which abolished the appeal to the Privy Council,
it is only fitting that that effete body should kick
Seddons grovelsome State first. And it is beauti-
ful irony that, while Seddon was the one Premier
whose reverence for the P.C. was simply abject,
Seddon’s Chief Justice should be the first man to
tell the P. C. what a meddlesome old Shallow it
really is.
A Scottish Charm for Cramp.
Notwithstanding their intense materialism and
shrewd common sense, qualities in which they are
second to none in the world, the Scottish people
have always had a full share of superstition, par-
ticularly Highlanders. Sir Walter Scott had in
his service at Abbottsford a Highland piper
named John Bruce, who, observing that his
master was often afflicted with cramp, ad vised the
distinguished author to sleep upon twelve stones
taken from twelve south-running streams, as that
would infallibly cure him of his malady. Sir
Walter bade the piper obtain twelve such Stones,
a task which cost the piper much time and infinite
trouble. When at last they were obtained, Sir
Walter told the piper that he had looked further
into the matter, and discovered that the charm
was quite worthless unless the stones were
wrapped in a petticoat belonging to a widow who
had never wished to marry again. The task of
obtaining such a garment was too formidable for
the Highland piper to undertake, so the charm
was never tried, and Sir Walter Scott continued
to suffer cramp till the end of his days.
So much for Scottish superstition three genera-
tions ago. To-day when anything ails a native of
“Caledonia, stern and wild,” he or she wastes no
time in hunting for charms, but straightway
resorts to Mother Seigel’s Curative Syrup. “ For
several years,” writes Mrs. Hutchison, of New-
castle Road, Jesmond, N.S.W., “I suffered
agonies from indigestion and liver complaint. I
could neither eat, sleep, nor work—in fact, did
not know what it was to enjoy a single hour of
freedom from pain. I was attended by two of
the cleverest medical men in the Newcastle dis-
trict, but their treatment failed to bring me any
relief. Indeed, I went steadily downhill, and
begun to fear that my case was beyond the aid of
medicine. I grew weakly and thin, and b< came
dejected, when, two years ago, I was advised to
try what Mother Seigel’s Curative Syrup could do
for me. It was a happy decision, for before I had
taken a quarter of the first bottle my health was
much improved. I continued to take the medicine
according to the directions for five weeks, by the
end of which time I was cured. The cure is
evidently a permanent one, for I have remained
well and sound to the present day. I regard
Mother Seigel’s Curative Syrup as a never-failing
family remedy, and always keep a bottle of it in
the house.”
Mrs. Hutchison is a native of Scotland, and
came to this country about thirty years ago. She
has resided at and near her present address for
twenty years.
Minister Murray of Queensland, fn his
latest breaking out, says it is “ an insult to white
men to ask them to engage in such degrading toil
as the cutting of cane.” Will Murray answer
these questions: (1) Why is cane cutting more
naturally degrading than cutting wheat? (2)
Isn’t it a fact that every industry comes to be
regarded as degrading when Murray’s colored
friends have been long engaged on it, just as
vegetable-growing is now held accursed in some
regions as “Chinaman’s work,” and isn’t that a
good reason for not having niggers, seeing that
they turn honest toil into degradation ? (3) How
dare Murray and his friends advocate bringing
into the country races so depraved that they are
fit for “degrading work’’ that a white man
mustn’t touch ?
57*3
IJjJ
-T; :>
V
njV
ALL CYCLISTS
should note that
the new ::
VULCANISED
Duniqp "TYres
are absolutely the finest yet seen In
Australasia. They are manufac-
tured by machinery under a
hydraulic pressure of 1200 lbs. to
the square inch, thus rendering
parting of Rubber and Fabric an
impossibility.
No More
Tyre Troubles
The new Vulcanised Dunlop will
prevent most of the troubles usually
associated with pneumatic tyres.
The Vulcanised Dunlop is Faster
and more Durable than any other
Tyre procurable.
Ask your agent to show you
a sample.
RANI
TRADE
MARK
1
W\
01
iThe Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Australia, Ltd.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.


ro
fi=3
& r
(§ClSjj
W &
<3
C=3
Rsi ty)
Mild
W-i*
a==
£>n
t
A?#T
MILDNESS.
The great charm about Guinea Gold Cigarettes is their delightful mildness. They are mild, and yet at the same time possess a satisfying,
although delicate flavor. This combination is obtained through the selection and use of the best of thoroughly-matured leaf, and the care
used in the manufacture.
BRITISH-AMERICAN TOBACCO CO., LTD, (OGDEN BRANCH), 45 York Street, Sydney.
This is a story only for biblical students.
He was an eloquent preacher in the suburbs, and
he was harrowing his congregation with a pathetic
amplification of the story of the Prodigal Son.
He pictured him packing his portmanteau ; he
followed him from room to room on his last look
round the old home —
Then he made his way to the open door, and passed
along the path to the gate. And as he went his precious
mother —oh, the influence of a good woman ! —came
beside him, and as she tenderly whispered to him her
last farewells, she slipped into his pocket a little copy of
the New Testament, that hope and joy of so many lives
cast adrift upon this uncertain ocean we call life.
He a defunct bookseller :
Apropos bookseller James Caple and his snuff-box (8.,
18/4/*O3). Caple’s shop was in Collins-street West, Mel-
bourne, opposite the Criterion Hotel. He was a political
bookseller, in the sense that all the politicians on the
fringe frequented the shop. He was the originator of the
“ late fee ”on letters to England. The mail steamers in
the late fifties lay out in the bay. There was no “ late
post ” at G.P.0., the mails closing some hours before the
ship sailed. To accommodate the mercantile community
Mr. Caple established a “ late bag ” in his shop, where,
up to within an hour of the advertised time of sailing,
letters could be left. The usual postage was paid in
stamps, but Caple charged a late fee of one shilling. The
bag he despatched by special messenger to Sandridge, a
waterman’s boat was in readiness, and the bag was
handed to the postal officer on board while the anchor
was being hauled up. The idea caught on ; from a few
letters the number grew to hundreds. For'some months
Caple made a good thing. When the Government stepped
in Caple’s receipts for the day amounted to over ±5O.
That did not represent single letters, as he made bargains
with large firms to take all the letters on hoard at a fixed
fee. The Government saw that legitimate revenue was
going into private hands, and established its own late
bag and fee. Caple put up for North Melbourne at the
general election in 1859, when the second O’Shannassy
Ministry was thrown out, and polled 29 votes. • *
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
Tbs Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstrk & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemist*
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstrk & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
m
15c
[Rupture
| Dr. Pierce’s ElcctricTruss
is a Marvel, like
__ it. Best Retainer on earth
and a Genuine Cure for Rupture.
World-renowned. 27 improvem’ts.
If ruptured, send a stamp, (any
sort), for new “Booklet No. 1.”
MAGNETIC E. TRUSS CO., 206 Post Street, San
Francisco, U.S. A.; W. 11. Son I & Co. , Agents, Sydnbt.
JL
'
B
I
•w,
mi""
NO CURE, NO PAY
Dr. Austin’s Electric Belt
Is Sold on this basis to Men and Women
everywhere—Not to be Paid For Until the
Cure Is Complete.
The Dr. Austin Electric Belt is the only remedy
m the world which can be sold on such a plan. It
is the only never-failing cure for Rheumatism,
Lumbago, Weak Back and Kidneys, Nervousness,
Liver, Bladder and Stomach Troubles ; in fact, all
chronic diseases of Men and Women. It cures
after all other remedies have failed. Why ? Be-
cause it restores nerve life, animal vitality,
warmth and vigor to all the weakened parts.
DRUGS ONLY STIMULATE. DR. AUSTIN’S ELECTRIC BELT GIVES
LASTING STRENGTH. ITS CURES ARE PERMANENT.
PAY WHEN CURED.
You pay only when cured, if you can offer reasonable security. Failure to cure costs
you nothing. The Dr. Austin Belt is warranted on a bond of £lOOO to give a stronger
current, last longer, and to cure quicker than any other electric body appliance made.
We make no charge for ad vice, written or personal.
FREE BOOK. —Write for my beautifully illustrated Medical Book and letters from
Cured Patients, sent sealed, Free. WRITE TO-DAY.
The Dr. J. n. Austin Electric Co. ( De p*- M >
49 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
, HERR RASSMUSSEN
will guarantee to cure Nervous Weak-
ness, Blood Diseases, Piles, Rheuma-
tism, Corpulency, Liver and Kidney
Troubles. Me will send his Book Free.
. All correspondence will be held
confidential.
BRISBANE: 309 Queen St.
MELBOURNE: 160 Bourke St.
WEAK, NERVOUS MEN, WHY SUFFER
WHEN you can be quickly and permanently cured by taking Herr Hassmussen’s ALP ALINE Vitality Pills which have cured so many
thousand sufferers from DEBILITY, POOR MEMORY, WEAK SPINE, DESPONDENCY, and all which robs Manhood of that which
is dearest to it—-Vital Strength. Herr Rassmussen will guarantee this remedy to cure every case, no matter of how long standing, and he will
give his skilled advice personally to all patrons of his remedies FREE OF CHARGE, either in his offices or by post. So don’t despair, but
communicate with him without delay, no matter where you live. Treatment by Post a Speciality. Pamphlet sent Free.
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS. Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d., posted.
Blood and Skin Diseases
Blood Disorders, Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, Stone in the Bladder, and Blood
Impurities guaranteed to be removed and permanently cured by
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS. Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d. posted.
Anaemic Women
suffering from Wasting Diseases, Pale, Lifeless, and otherwise affected, should at once communicate with HERR
R ASSMUSSEN. His lifelong experience is at their service, and his
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS will cure them. Boxes, 6s; Courses, 235. 6<L
LIVER and KIDNEY TROUBLES cured at once by the ALFALINE LIVER and KIDNEY PILLS, Boxes Is.
His RHEUMATIC PILLS are World-Tamed, and his PILE POWDERS never Tall ; 6s. per box each.
Tbe ALFALINE REMEDIES oan only beobtained from ... *r jm eu . ■■
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office- heOTge bt., Sydney,
AND HIS BRANCHES AS FOLLOW—
ADELAIDE: 15 Pulteney St.
N Z.: 91 Lambton Quay, Wellington.
W.A., PERTH: 481 Hay St.
KALG-OORUE : 111 Hannaft St.
FREMANTLE: 117 High St-
BOULDER CITI: Piesse St.


THE HATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
UIMTED.
THE TWENTIETH REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS.
..V J!?* S: Bfc ® tarch ,Mt » »“ d the Profit and Loss Account for the half-year
which then terminated, are now submitted to the shareholders.
Loss Account 086 pr ° fit ’ after d ® ductin BT expenses of management and other Items specified In the Profit and
Amounted to .. .. (1 „
Balance from previous half-year M “
Deduct note and income taxes in Australia and Great Britain _ _
which it Is proposed to appropriate as follows
Transfer to Reserve Fund Account (making £75,000) .. .. „
Dividend at the rate of 5 per cent, per annum on preference shares..
Dividend at the rate of BJ per cent, per annum on ordinary shares ..
Carryforward .. „
£39,248 0 8
15,599 9 4
£54,847 10 0
4,687 11 11
£50,259 18 1
£6,000 0 0
7,644 10 0
20,867 14 0
16,747 14 1
£5O 259 18 1
During the half-year the Branch at Mertondale, Western Australia, has been withdrawn, and the Agency at
Narrogin in that State established as a Branch. J
4. The Ordinary General Annual Meeting will be held at the Head Office of the Company, Oollins-street,
Melbourne, on Wednesday, 6th May, at noon. ’
~ , B V shareholders will be called on to elect two Directors on that occasion, in lieu of Senator Sir William
Zeal, K.C.M.G., and the Honourable Joseph Major Pratt, M.L.C., who retire by rotation. There are no other candi-
dates. They will also bs required to appoint two Auditors.
By order of the Board of Directors.
_. „., . _ . . . . , . _, _ JOHN G. ADDISON, Chief Manager.
The National Bank of Australasia Limltad, Head Office, Melbourne, 23rd April, 1903.
BALANCE-SHEET OF THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
FOE THE HALF-YEAR ENDING 3IBT MARCH, 1903
T)y (Including' London Office to 28th February, 1903, and Western Australian Branches
• Lyr ' to 10th March, 1903).
LIMITED,
Cr.
CAPITAL AKD LIABILITIES.
To proprietors’ capital—
-30,578 preference
shares paid in money
to £lO per share,
£305,780 ; 238,488 or-
dinary shares paid
up to £5 per share,
£1,192,440 .. ..£1,498,220 0 0
„ Reserve fund account 70,000 0 0
~ Profit and loss account 60,259 18 1
£1,618,479 18 1
~ Notes in circulation.. £313,281 2 6
„ Bills in circulation .. 1,183,897 6 7
~ Government deposits
—Not bearing interest,
£48,248 4s. ; bearing
interest, £373,488 13s.
6s 421,738 17 6
„ Other deposits—Not
bearing interest,
£2,638,260 19s. 4d. J
bearing interest,
£3,217,226 6s. lOd. .. 6,765,487 5 S
„ Interest accrued and
rebate on current bills 69,663 8 1
„ Balances due to other
banks u ~ 66,482 8 3
• 7,790,898 8 0
£9,408,878 1 1
Contingent liability, as per contra
£427,266 7 4
ASSETS.
By coin, bullion, and cash
at bankers .. ..£1,203,396 3
„ Government, munici-
pal, and other public
stocks, debentures,
and funds
~ Bills and remittances
in transitu
„ Notes and bills of
other banks ..
~ Balances due from
other banks ..
„ Duty stamps ..
723,896 12
849,416 13
24,279 4
61,088 12
3,488 6
0
7
9
2
0
3
£2,855,665 10 9
~ Real estate, consisting of bank
premises at cost to the bank .. .. 449,826 6 6
~ Other real estate, at valuation .. 337,837 1 8
„ Bills discounted and other advances,
exclusive of provision for bad and
doubtful debts M .. 6,765,649 3 2
£9,408,878 1 1
Liability of the old bank, in the form
of a guarantee of certain shire and
municipal debentures (Victoria) sold
in London, and which are being duly
provided for by sinking funds, in terms
of the Act authorising their issue,
£107,600 ; and liabilities of customers
and others on letters of credit and
drafts, £319,656 7s. 4s. ;as per contra £427,256 7 4
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To expenses at head office, 112 branches,
and 10 agencies
„ Note and income taxes
Balance „ M ..
£57,253 7 11
4,587 11 11
60,259 18 1
£112,100 17 11
By balance brought forward
„ Gross profits, including recoveries, less
rebate on bills current, interest paid
and accrued on deposits, repairs to
premises, and rent
£15,599 9 4
96,501 8 7
£112,100 17 11
RESERVE
FUND ACCOUNT.
To balance
..£70,000 0 0
£70,000 0 0
By Balance last half-year £65,000 0 0
~ Transfer from profit and loss .. .. 5,000 0 0
£70,000 0 0
JOHN G. ADDISON, Chief Manager.
NOTE.—The customary Auditors’ Report and the Directors’ Statement to
comply with the Companies Act 1896 appear on the Official Report.
The NEW CENTURY lEIIFXjIE:
15s
Eaoh.
Full Length, 35in. ; Weight, 31b. ; Fires 8.8. Cap, or
22 Long, or 22 Short Rim Fire Cartridge. Takes down
with a single screw. All parts of Best Steel. Per-
fectly Machined throughout. Accurately sighted and
well Rifled for Perfect Shooting. Will kill at 300yds.
Carriage Paid to any railway station in N.S.W. Orders despatched same day.
P.O. Orders payable to
Sydney Small Arms Co., 57 Post Office Chambers. Sydney,
AND CROSSED E.S. AND A. BANK.
A Full Stock of D.8.8.L. Guns, Rifles, and Revolvers always on hand.
T. TOMBLESON, Manager.
M ELLIN’S
FOR INFANTS FOOD AND INVALIDS
!• adapted for use from birth.
Send for Pamphlet and Samples to COLLIN & CO., Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide and Wellington.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
F*r-i*e Medals
Works : Birmingham, England
These series
of Pens neither
I scratch nor spurt
They glide over
the roughest
paper with the
ease of a soft
lead pencil.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
THE PIANOLA
vk
e$ -a
4 *
o *
■o> c
/
w J)
Will
play
any
Piano
and
any
kind
of
Music.
We are mailing free, to anyone who will ask us,
a booklet called “ Music in the Home.”
It will be of interest to every person who loves
music. It will be of particular interest to the many
thousand owners of pianos whose instruments remain
unused for months at a time, and become practically
nothing more than articles of furniture.
The price of the Pianola is £6O prompt cash, or
£65 on moderate monthly payments.
HENRY M. BIRGE & CO.,
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA.
SYDNEY : 323 George St.
MELBOURNE: 185-187 Collins St.
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
ENO’S
HEADACHE,
BILIOUSNESS,
‘FRUIT
SALT’
AND CONSTIPATION.
The effect of Eno’s ‘ Fruit Salt ’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.- 5m Capsule marked ENO S 'FRUIT SALT/ Without It you hare a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Praparad only by J. O. ENO, Ltd., ‘ FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, INI}.,
by J. O. UNO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
2h.p. to lOOh.p.
KlNfi MARINE OIL ENGINES.
Launches built 20ft. to 80ft. overalL
. -
£-4 - Af
Noiseless Uuderwater. .
Exhaust.
Perfect Gas Generator.
Double Oylinder.
Automatic Oil Feed.
Simple Electric Ignition
with Dynamo.
J. F.
Telephone 2671.
WITH THE KING EHCINE—ONE LEVER CONTROLS THE WHOLE.
Ml c 13 E R. JVC O T T & CO 3VT P A. TVT Y,
30 PITT BTREET, SYDNEY.
SORE
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT i
FOR SORB AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYELASHES-
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES. •
rMEIVEIR RAILS.
Ask your Chemist for the Little Book:
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
CURED
At Dawn and Duski
By Victor J. Daley. Handsomely bound ;
makes a fine presentation volume to friends
abroad. Post free from The Bulletin
Office, ss. 4d.
JAYNE’S EXPECTORANT
CURES THE WORSTCOUGH4'


A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
cases in six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
only Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
Of Chemists, or from PARIS MEDICINE CO., 28, Shoe-
lane, London, England.*
“ Polstan ” : A recent Bulletin par. stated that Pagel’s
horse is supposed to weigh nearly a ton. Writer has
seen the beast, and reckons it to be of the delivery van
class, it being about 15 hands high, and rather lightly
built. It is a tremendous horse—the biggest draught
stallion sort—that comes anywhere near being a ton in
weight, and Pagel doesn’t take on draughts.
Patents for Inventions.— Arthur Griffith
and Allen, International Patent Agents and Con-
sulting Engineers, University Chambers, Phillip-
street, Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyright
throughout the world..
“ T.” : First the Pat Mackys and the Dill
Morans will split the Labor crowd. Then the Labor
crowd will recover its senses and be mad. And
when that happens the Pat Mackys and Dill
Morans will start asking again why the working
people don’t go to church.
Sydney Telegraph, last Monday, ex-
plained that Tasmania was prospering splendidly
under the Federal tariff.
Devortport is one of the main outlets on the north-
west of the island for an enormous quantity of produce,
which finds its way principally to Sydney. Since Federa-
tion, too, the trade with Victoria has enormously in-
creased, and everybody on the north-west coast
appears now to be resting in substantial prosperity and
prospective affluence.
Then it went on to say that George Reid was
making magnificent progress _at persuading the
Tasmanians that the Protective features of the
tariff should be abolished, and the N.9.W. and
Victorian markets be thrown open to the compe-
tition of Maoriland and other places, so as to
alter all this obnoxious affluence.
As The Bulletin went to press, the
Victorian railway position was this : The railway
unions had firmly refused the degrading abandon-
ment of their civic rights proposed—with much
cabbage language —by Bent, and the Victorian
Government had made the first move to a back-
down by kicking Bent into the background.
Caliban is no longer allowed to adorn degrading
proposals with degrading language, and Premier
Irvine has taken up the task of trying to compro-
mise with the men. Irvine is a contemptible poli-
tician—in this regard especially for allowing Cali-
ban to rage at large, so long as he thought that that
would succeed in frightening the railway men
to submission —but he is, at any rate, decent
and dignified in his language, and from the Tory,
capitalistic view he is more likely to score points
from the men than Bent. Therefore the men
should be especially watchful. Irvine’s suave
assurance is that if the men throw away the
defence that their affiliation with the Trades Hall
gives them, then their grievances will be inquired
into. This is better than Bent’s language—
the howl of Bent that the men had no
grievances. But the chief grievance, after all, is
that the promises of Irvine’s Government have
been tried, and have proved not worth a rush. It
was that Government, for instance, that cut the
men down to five days’ work and five days’ wages
per week—and then made a large proportion of
them work six or seven days for the five days’
wages. The railway men will be fools if they
give up their rights as unionists under any cir-
cumstances. They will be extra-special fools if
they listen to any more promises by the Irvine
Government until it has redeemed the last lot.
To the Members of
THE AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
LADIES AND GENTLEMEN,— As one of the retiring
Directors of the Society, and being eligible for re
election, I respectfully offer myself accordingly. My
life’s history is bound up with the A.M.P. Society, and
my experience, I think, justifies me in soliciting the
hearty co-operation of members to insure my return at
the forthcoming election.
BENJAMIN SHORT.
To the Members of
THE AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
T ADIES AND GENTLEMEN, —I take this opportunity
of thanking you for the confidence you have hitherto
placed in me as one of your Directors, and beg to
announce that I am again a Candidate for the honor of a
seat on the Board.—Your faithful servant,
J. T. WALKER.
Sydney,
23rd April, 1903.
To the Members of
THE AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY.
T ADIES AND GENTLEMEN,—Having had the honor
to be appointed to fill the vacancy on the Board of
the A.M.P. Society, caused by the retirement, through
ill-health, of Mr. Joseph Abbott, I now offer myself as a
candidate'at the forthcoming election for a seat at the
Board - JAMES BURNS,
of Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
N.S. Wales, Queensland, West Australia, &c.
To the Members of
THE AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY.
LADIES AND GENTLEMEN.—I desire to intimate that
I am a candidate for election to the office of Director,
and in soliciting your votes and support venture to say
that I possess the necessary qualifications for the position.
My long experience in Mercantile life in connection
with the pastoral industry—admittedly the principal
industry of Australasia, and in which a large portion of
the, funds .of the , society is. invested—warrants me in
stating that I am competent to work in a manner that
will materially add to the prosperity of and stability of our
society, and I respectfully claim your generous support
and interest. I am, Ladies and Gentlemen,
Your faithful servant,
GEORGE MAIDEN,
of Goldsbrough, Mort, and Co., Limited.
Circular Quay, Sydney, Ist May, 1903.
Free for Asking.
WRITE to us and we will forward you our scientific
book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magic, and you will be filled with energy,
strength and ambition once more. Posted free. Write
to G. Specific, Elizabeth Street, North Melbourne.
Too Stout
I was for years ; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to lOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney
Sending, mention this paper.
NGIIMEMAN’S MASTER KEY. -All subjects
relating to Examinations for Certificates of Com-
petency in all the States. 365 Pages, 106 Illustrations;
6s. 6d. posted, by L. F. R. SCHNABEL, Consulting
Engineer, 443 Bourke-street, Melbourne. Also COLE’S,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney.
'Mf/MM/i
r
Hotelkeepers, make your own
RATED WATERS
Over 500 Austral Aerated Water Machines in use
in hotels throughout Australasia.
HAS OUTLIVED ALL OTHERS.
Write for Prices and Particulars.
Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers—
ECKERSLEY AND SONS,
214-216 Queen street, Melbourne.
amusements.
SYDNEY.
-f OW N HALL,
THE MUSICAL EVENT OP THE YEAR,
FOURTH CONCERT (TO-NICHT), THURSDAY, MAY 7.
MARK NAMBOURfi.
PRICES— 6s., Bs., and 2s.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee & Manager .. Mr. J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
SATURDAY, MAY 9
(MATINEES—WEDNESDAYS, at 2),
Return of Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON’S
MUSICAL COMEDY COMPANY,
Presenting one of the Gayest of Gaiety Successes,
A CIRCUS GIRL.
Box Plan at Paling’s.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
the World-Famed Farcical Comedy,
ARE YOU A MASON ?
Interpreted by Mr. Williamson’s NEW COMEDY
COMPANY.
headed by the Famous English Comedian,
MR. CEORCE CIDOENS.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Prices as Usual.
Q R ITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the Direction of Mr. FRANK THORNTON.
Representative .. .. .. • • Mr. Mayne.
Agent •• Mr. H. P. Lyons.
FRANK THORNTON COMEDY SEASON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
SWEET LAVEND ER.
NEXT SATURDAY, MAY 9,
A Brief Revival of the Inimitable & Evergreen Comedy,
THE PRIVATE SECRETARY.
Box Plan at Elvy’s.
PRICES—Ss., 3s. 2s. and Is. Early doors (from 7to
7.30, Is. extra. Ordinary Doors, 7.30. Overture, 8.
Carriages, 10.30. Children under 7 not admitted.
Lyceum theatre, Sydney.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. Mr. Wm. Anderson.
LAST NIGHTS of
William Anderson’s Famous Dramatic Organisation
in the largest great Adelphi Success,
A Woman of Pleasure.
Prices—3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Box Plan open at Elvy’s Music
Warehouse, George Street.
Fitzgerald b ros?
HUGE NEW CIRCUS AND MENAGERIE.
LOCATED—
BELTYEORB PARK.
NEXT SATURDAY, MAY 9,
A
GREAT SENSATION
THE DIVING
HORSES,
FROM THE CRYSTAL PALACE, LONDON.
Introduced for the First Time in Sydney on SATURDAY
NEXT, MAY 9.
A Tank for this Act, 50ft. long, 20ft. wide, and 22ft.
deep, is now being constructed at the Circus.
IVOLI T H E A T RE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor and Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
NEW FIRST PART-LAWN TENNIS.
Splendid Success of the
11 BOISSETT COMPANY 11
Splendid Success of SEELEY and WEST, RODDA PERRY
and H. C. BUCKLEY.
PRACTICALLY A NEW COMPANY, fill
PERA H O USE, ME L B O U R N E.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. H. Rickards.
SPLENDID SUCCESS of M. RUDINOFF.
The Greatest Entertainment in the world.
Enthusiastic Success of HILL and SYLVAINY.
VESUVIO CONCERT CO.
Pronounced Success of WILL WHITBURN, ERNEST
FITTS, JACK HARRISON, WALKER & MAY, JAS.
OPIE, MILLIE HERBERTE, LINGARD SISTERS, and
PRACTICALLY A NEW COMPANY.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
EVERY EVENING, AND FOURTH WEEK OF
Mr. George Musgrove’s New English Company in
Shakespeare’s Delightful Comedy,
A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM*
USUAL PRICES. Box Plan at Allan’s.
HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Lessee .. .. .. Mr. Bland Holt.
Business Manager .. C. Simonsens.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of Bland Holt Dramatic Co. in
THE PRODIGAL DAUGHTER;
SATURDAY NIGHT, MAY 9, for the First Time in
Australia, the Great Drury Lane Success,
THE PRICE OF HEACE.
Prices —3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan's.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. Tallis. Treas., E. J. Tait.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF THE TOREADOR.
MAY 9th—First time in Australia. Mr. J.C. Williamson’s
Comic Opera Co. in Mr. Sidney Jones’ Latest Success—
MY LADY MOLLY
with an exceptionally strong cast.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Flan at Allan’s.
DIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
“ The Home of Laughter.”
Management of Willoughby and Geach.
EVERY EVENING, the Clever French Farce,
ON AND OFF.
Headed by Mr. GEO. WILLOUGHBY.
SMART, BRIGHT AND ENTERTAINING.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Glen’s.
TO W N HAL L,
FAREWELL.
melbourn
FAREWELL.
MR. EDWARD LLOYD’S
LAST TWO CONCERTS IN AUSTRALIA, PRIOR TO
HIS RETURN TO EUROPE :
THURSDAY MAY 7
SATURDAY MAY 9
Box-Plans at Allan's. PRlCES—Reserved Seats,
7s 6d ; Unreserved, ss, and Half-a-Crown.
I"HE MUTOSCOP ET
WONDERFUL LIVING PICTURES
now on view at
KINO STREET ARCADE CORNEP
and
74 OXFORD STREET.
Real Life Portrayed with a Vividness and ft Ml -
Never Before Witnessed ReallBn >
ADMISSION FREE.
Under Vice-Regal
Patronage
. A nd by
Special Appoint ment
Mrs. William Green and Miss Green
Professors of Ballroom Dancing, Deportment Cracofm
Carnage, Etiquette and Calisthenic Exercise. ful
The Latest Society Skirt Dances. Classes arran-edL
private residences. Colleges and Convents attended
Classes in all suburbs. Prospectus— 3d '
‘ EHerslie,” 100 Nicholson-st.,Fitzroy
TRADE MARK
FOX Bros. & Co., Ltd., warn
the Public that their Trade
Mark consists
ONLY
of the word
F° x
which is a guarantee of sound-
ness of material and Quality
of Dye of all
Worsted Coatings,
Serges 1 Zmk
on which it is stamped.
As the result of many years
of experience
fox’s pure 3nBigo Dye
is recognised as the best in the
market. All FOX'S standard
cloths are stamped every two
yards on the back
FOX
PURE INDIGO
and without this stamp are
not genuine. These celebrated
serges can be obtained from the
leading Tailors and Drapers
throughout the Colonies.
FOX BROS. & Co., Ltd.,
Wellington, Somerset, Eng.
&
Powell’s Balsam
of Aniseed.
SAFE AND RELIABLE.-
Gives Immediate Relief.
FOR 78 YEARS
THE POPULAR REMEDY FOR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza, and all Lung Troubles.
It loosens the Phlegm Immediately,
the tickling sensation in the Throat,
prives so many of rest during the night
Strengthens the Voice and Cures Hoa
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers,
But see the well-known Trade Mark— Lion,
and Mouse—is on each wrapper.
. Prepared only by Thomas Powell, Ltd., ,
L Blackfriars, London, o.x>* J
KeJ'erencts' throughout Grtat £r, ‘ a<H "'“‘c g^.
taken from the
Nothin* ™mam* yoa
produce an „tnrnO*
eat, sleep and stand exposure w ] th ?° t a»* !*"
symptoms. Cored to star cored, ngj
l.JL.ta Aooetite improved, blo ®° „ o j„ e ni°?* b :
irn FxnlanatorY BOOJfc®fX*ri umiTU**
ASTHMA
At Poverty Point.
The Hibernian Catholic Benefit Society objects, and
with justice, to the “ stage Irishman.” Still the stage
Scotchman generally has red whiskers and is very drunk
on whisky; the stage Frenchman is either a grotesque
buffoon or a villainous Count; the stage Australian, a
never-before-seen alleged boundary - rider ; the stage
foreigner in general is a bad character almost all the
time ; and the stage mother-in-law is a howling blas-
phemy. And all these people put up with it.
Truth lately resurrected the silly old fiction that Sims
Reeves was a drunkard whose frequent failures to keep
his concert engagements were due to the bottle. Reeves
was a strictly abstemious man, troubled all his life with
a bronchial affection, which sometimes seized him after
his first song and prevented him appearing in the
•econd half of the programme. At 80 years of age, or
thereabouts, the well-preserved veteran found a young
lady willing to marry him. '
“ F.” : Be the marriage of the Qearl of Yarmouth to a
’Murkan millionaire’s daughter. Melbourne papers speak
of Yarmouth as being remembered only for his skirt
dancing at the local Bijou. The absurd young man
touched his highest point of unconscious humor as a
vocalist. Attired in a pink silk coat, with knee-breeches
and stockings to match, his youthful Nibs warbled
" Knocked ’em in the Old Kent Road.” He didn’t even
attempt to give the coster ditty in coster accent or
manner. He just “ Knocked ’em ” as though he were
striking them with a feather —the funniest travesty of a
coster that ever was.
Dan Barry, when last heard of, was way up in Mackay
telling fairy tales to the local press. One of Dan’s
dramas—“ Run to Earth ’’ —was alleged to have run for
four consecutive months in Melbourne last year, also it
had the alleged distinction of being the only drama wit-
nessed by Melba in Victoria. The narrative went on
gravely to state that Melba wrote a letter to Dan, telling
him that she had seen the same drama played in London,
but was not so impressed as when she beheld it in
Melbourne under Dan’s supervision.
Died, in Melbourne, the other week, Miss Belle Russell
(wife of Jack Parsons, the cyclist), who played child
parts under many Australian managements in the 80’s.
She was remembered as the Prince Edward in Geo.
Miln’s successful production of “ Richard the Third.”
Previously, Belle Russell had been the interesting small
child of numerous melodramas, and her local claim to
the character of Little Eva or Little Willie held good
until she outgrew her usefulness for theatrical purposes.
Then she played the part of Mrs. Parsons in the best pos-
sible way.
The dainty young daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Court-
neidge is making her appearance as one of the four fairy-
lings in “ Midsummer Night’s Dream.” Little Cicely
Courtneidge was born’in Australia just 10 years ago, so
if she should grow to be another Ellen Terry—which is a
promising possibility—this country will claim her for a
native actress by birth and by Shakspearian baptism.
“N.”: Rudinoff, the latest and hitherto perhaps the
most expensive of Rickards’ investments, is an amiable
giant of Polish extraction —painter, singer, siffleur,
shadowgraphist, and showman. Off the stage he is a
painter, and deprecates any allusion to his music-hall
performances. He is engaged in making a competence
that will enable him to work unfettered by the necessity
of pleasing the dealer and the American millionaire.
The Jap. is identifying himself resolutely with his
English ally. A Japanned version of Othello is now on
the boards of some of the Jap. theatres. The scene is
laid in Formosa. Othello becomes Lieut.-General Muro ;
Cassio, Major Katsu-Yoshio ; the unfortunate Desdemona,
Tomone; and lago, Lieut. Iya Gozo ; and Muro chops up
Tomone with his sword instead of smothering her ; and is
allowed to commit seppuku instead of simply stabbing
himself, as does Othello.
“ Alex M.”: I first heard Edward Lloyd lift up his voice
30 years ago. Also Charles Santley. Found Santley a
decided “ gOnoph ” when he sang in Sydney, and expected
—despite local press praise—to find Lloyd also a back-
number. Discovered, however, that he is still in the
present tense ; with much of his old power and brilliancy
in such items as “ Lend Me Your Aid,” and very nearly
all his aforetime sweetness and grace in “Sally in Our
Alley ” and the like. Where Time appears to have most
touched the athletically cherubic Ned’s organ is, strange
to say, at the bottom ; not at the summit, for he can still
hurl off his burly chest as stupendous a high-0 as ever.
And, as was always his way, he stands on the platform
like a man —straight, strong, and easy—and sings as if he
were having a chat with the audience ; an example much
to be commended to the great tribe of dolly, die-away
tenor-warblers.
Alfred Bucklaw, returning to Australia after an ab-
sence of 13 years, finds himself almost forgotten. And
yet he was the Julius Knight of the olden time. He played
the Pointsman and Silver King, and the nautical hero of
“ Harbor Lights,” a part which Charles Knight filled the
last time the drama was revived. There must be a few
seasoned spinsters in the amphitheatre at Melbourne
Princess’s who heave a sigh when Bucklaw, their idol of
1889-90, comes along as the Duke of Athens. He reminds
’em of bygone Midsummer Nights’ Dreams that had no-
thing to do with Shakspeare’s comedy. They loved their
Bucklaw with a love they transferred in due course to
Kyrle Bellew and Julius Knight. - Loved him best in
“ The Bells of Haslemere,” where he wore a dandy white
linen suit, and used to sit down to slow music and say
“ Now, to read Evelyn’s letter.” Hundreds of girls
wished they were Evelyn.
“T.D.” : A well-known Melbourne singer, whose name
is constantly on programmes, tells me that out of con-
certs in the metropolis last year he made. £4O, the rest,
being all charity and advertisement. His income, outside
teaching, came almost exclusively from the country dis-
tricts, which are remarkably liberal to visiting profes-
sionals, considering the size of some of the towns, and
their inability to cram more than a couple of hundred
people into a hall. Also, at a country concert, the local
populace is almost ready to kiss the hem of the singer’s
garment, and certainly buys him numerous drinks,
whereas the Melbourne'advertising dame, whose charity
consists principally of getting an underpaid professional
to “ give his services,” doesn’t even know him again when
she meets him in the street.
The late Chas. Cogill was a good subject for mimicry.
Young Hawthorne of yore, and Albert Whelan used to
reproduce his voice and chuckle to the life.


MEN’S DISORDERS.
Mr. HOWARD FREE MAh,
The Famous Specialist.
We have cured Thousands of
Serious Cases!!
THERE is nothing gained in employing an un-
practical person to do an expert’s task. Nine
times in ten, EAILURE follows. The average
physician is oftentimes an amateur in the treat-
ment of grave nerve diseases. His time is so fully
occupied in treating a full assortment of human ills
that he cannot devote special study to any particular
branch of practice. Some diseases are sufficiently
simple as to require only the general knowledge
obtained in colleges and general practice.
The More Complex and Perplexing Disorders
are not always favored by the family doctor. He pre-
fers to be relieved of tasks which call for special know-
ledge and special skill.
Dr. RICHARD WALLACE,
Physician-in-Chief.
The true SPECIALIST is a physician who is absolutely expert in the treatment of a few diseases. He knows all
about the complaints he treats, and he supervises difficult cases with the same certainty with which the general practitioner
treats a common ailment.
For over 30 Years we have been treating 1 Serious Diseases.
We began our special work after thorough training in some of the best known colleges abroad. We have cured more
men of their troubles than any association of men in Australia. You can come to us feeling certain that we know just
what to do, that you will be free from malpractice and certain of a cure if one remains for you.
WEAKNESS.
The Functional derangement, commonly
termed “ WEAKNESS,” is generally a direct
result from inflammation causing severe pro-
static troubles. The nerve parts governing
the afflicted centres require stimulating.
Sound medical treatment under the
supervision of a skilled SPECIALIST is
required, combined with the wearing of our
specially tested Electric “INVIGrORATOR”
or Belt, which pours a current of vital energy
into the weak parts, giving them new life and
strength. Over ninety per cent, of our cases
have been completely cured in this manner.
This “INVIGORATOR,” the best in Aus-
tralia, is ONE POUND ONLY. It is a
genuine Electric Belt, and the only one sold
in Australian medical practice locally certifica-
ted. Duty is paid free to all Australian States.
VARICOCELE.
Men who have for years been afflicted with
Varicocele, can come to us with com-
plete assurance that we will effect a per-
manent cure in a few week s time, by a
painless and absolutely harmless method.
There is no dangerous operation or detention
from business. We regard each case as a
means of proving our superior skill, and show-
ing the needlessness of a surgical operation.
We will cure you quickly, thoroughly, and
without the need of hospital care.
BLOOD POISON.
There are many phases of this complaint
and its origin is sometimes obscure. No
man should trifle if he suffers from any
disorder of the blood. An unhealthy state of
the life fluid of the body sometimes imparts
the worst form of physical and mental disease.
We have special methods of cure. We treat
successfully those cases aggravated by the
tampering of others.
rupture.
Since our practice commenced we have
treated over 2500 cases of Rupture. We cure
many cases without cutting or painful opera-
tions. Our patients seldom have to wear
trusses after our treatment. 0/ course there
are some cases in which a truss must be worn,
and for those we have on hand the finest
cheapest, and most comfortable kinds jet
devised by science.
OUR MEDICAL INSTITUTE, BYDNEY.
A Bond of £lOOO
We are under a guarantee bond of £lOOO to faithfully perform all or
any medical contracts that we may enter into. We do not consider any
man cured until he asserts it personally and sends in his testimonial. Of
these we have many thousands, of which a few extracts are here published.
Our Medical Institute, supervised by a Staff of Skilled SPECIALISTS,
is the most scientific in Australia. Over £lOO,OOO has been expended
upon it. Its medical literature embraces an annual disbursement of 25,000’
volumes of medical works.
When under treatment you are under the care of an internationally-
registered SPECIALIST, who holds NINE DIPLOMAS AND
CERTIFICATES of qualification and registration by Australian, English
and American Boards.
Sir Dominic Corrigan, Bart., Physician to the late Queen, says of
him : “ I entertain a high opinion of Dr. Wallace respecting his profes-
sional qualifications.”
Read what the
Cured Say!
Hon. Daniel O’Connor, M.P.
Ex-Minister of the Crown, writing from Parlia-
ment House, Sydney, to the Chief of the Medical
Staff, says of our Electro-Medical treatment: —
“ I have worn one of your Electric ‘ Belts.
It has benefited me much. For years I
suffered from acute kidney pains, which have
now, I am happy to say, entirely left me.”
Mr. Philip Newbury,
the great English tenor, now starring in the leading
musical centres, London, writes :
“ For years I have suffered from uric acid
in the blood. Thanks to the wonderful
efficacy of your Electric ‘ INVIGORATOR, ’
I am now completely cured.”
Mr. Patrick Larkin, J.P.
This gentleman is well known in Sydney as one of
the most active members of commercial life. His
word is his bond. He testifies to our treatment in
these terms :
“ I am satisfied your Electric ‘lnvigorator ’
Belt gives health and vigor to the system. I
wore one, consistent with your instructions,
and it has benefited me much.”
Inspector F. Fowler,
A highly esteemed officer of the Sydney Police
Force, occupying a position of great responsibility as
Chief of the Burwood Division of Police, says *
“Since wearing your ‘Belt’ my health has
greatly improved. I have so much benefited
that I recommended it to my friends.”
A Station Accountant’s j
Eulogy.
Mr. S. H. Bernard, accountant on Qanmain Station,
via Wagga, was, to quote his words, “ a physical
wreck ” when consulting us. A few months later he
writes in this strain : -
“I am getting on steadily and surely. I
must say for years I have not felt so well as I
am now feeling.”
IF you are interested in these cases,
write For special brochure, illustrated.
You may find there a case similar to
your own.
V
ces
Gene
Dise
m
M ■
ECMAN J>
fro Medical*
h CONSULTING STAff
i
This Book is Your Best Friend,
This famous work is now in its tenth edition. “CLINICAL EXPERIENCES” was first published in 1901. Since
that time over 500,000 volumes have been issued throughout Australia. It is a handsome, exhaustive work, containing over 550
pages letterpress and 150 MEDICAL PLATES. A chapter on Anatomy covers 30 pages. There are life-size diagrams of the
human body and its various functions. There are over 30 chapters upon general diseases, and 20 additional articles upon the
treatment of persons afflicted with SNAKE-BITE, SUNSTROKE, PLAGUE, FEVERS, ABSCESS, CONSUMPTION,
BLOOD DISEASES, WEAKNESS IN MEN, INSOMNIA, RHEUMATISM, LOSS OF VITAL POWER, GOUT,
INDIGESTION, Etc.
This Magnificent Work will be POSTED FREE to any Address in Australia on
receipt of ONE SHILLING IN STAMPS. No Further Charge.
THE
FRE
•T
ELECTRO-MEDICAI —^
and SURGICAL INSTITUTE
ELIZABETH anti BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY,
HOWARD FREEMAN, Director. Medicines packed Free -From Observation and sent to all parts ©* Australia.
Dr. RICHARD WALLACE, M D., L.R.C.P., E., L.F.P.S., E., L.M , Physician-in-Chief. Letters treated with Professional Secrecy and promptly replied to.


Letter received by a Melbourne matri-
monial agent:
I am riting to you to see if you could get me a inter-
duction to a sensebel wooman. i will be at your place on
the 10th. I want a sensebel yong wooman not afrade to
soil her hands. No pianno thumping kid gluvved long
skirted female she must be under 40 and good constution
I am a widoer 37 years old with five children all girls wors
luck income a week over £3 5 foot lin. in hite strong and
fare. Would prefer a fare wooman no objection to
widow if she has no kids. Meens not nessary but pre-
ferred before good looks as i am a wesleyan. Market
gardener but would not expect her to work in garden
the girls do that, not particular about religon if she don’t
want me to go to church. If she is sutabel would marry
her strateaway as am getting anxious don’t smoke gamble
nor boose have good morral carhacter and am exseeding
afectionate. i enclose my pohtograf before i cut my
wiskers of. my diseased wife died last year.
“ Jaybell ” uses language :
“ L.W.,” in 8., 18/4/’O3, talks about the “ microbe of
credit.” Quite evident he never lived next door to a
family which was in an advanced stage of the disease.
Microbe ? Bosh ! It’s a tapeworm. Am living next door
to one such now, and m.v missus is just worn to the bone
passing borrowed provender, furniture, jewellery, litera-
ture, crockery, and every other conceivable household
requisite over the fence, in the fond belief of having them
returned “ to-morrow.” I’ve rampaged about, in efforts
to stop the domestic leakage, till the neighborhood
rushed its front verandah thinking the Townsville
cyclone was working south. Did I stop the leak ? I was
less than half-way through the row when these plausible
friends came to me and borrowed ss. and our terra-cotta
bust of Baden Powell. And now an apparently sane
individual arises to proclaim that a mere microbe is the
root of the evil. Microbe ! It’s an elephant.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle. J
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New Zealand.
at lowest current rates of interest.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per
npnf of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any f*ne.
Directors— Thomas Littlejohn, Esq., Chairman; The Hon. A. VV. Meeks, M.L.C., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin Short
Esq^ Senator J. T. Walkkr ; jlmks Burns, Esq. ; The Hon R. J. Black. M.L.C. ; F. E. Winchcombe, Esq., M R
General Manager and Actuary— Richard Teecb, F.1.A., P.F.A., r.o.b.^
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
uiiudu, dsajamin Short
. Winchcombe, Esq., M.p!
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Hearne
tis Cure
the famous hemledy for
T-l —FT* H !%/■ jrvjmwii
fottfttq TtTfONTrHTTTS ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
COUGHS, DHOJN CHI life, o]f any cHEgT medicine m AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers any form D effe( ,J s Compiete Cure. It is most com'
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and mimed,ate re lef;i and to tLose J, a Co „„ h or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption haa
KLenlfoperi/ireltertuh this medicine No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain. 3'T7f7\A-RIB OF COXJGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BEIX
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. O. Hearne.—Dear Sir,— l am writing to tell you
about the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
mv case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my case to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
J, BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir.—l suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and “can’t be licked.”—Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Months 014.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. O. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
cin for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mr*. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Viotorla.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
“ Llenwellyn,
“ Katanga, Via
“Mr. Hearne. —
“ Dear Sir,—l am very much pleased with the effects
ol your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to inv mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefullv,
“JOHN'S. MORTIMER.”
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
“ Dear Sir,— . . .. .
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that, previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus—as walking caused me such pain and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindnes* Ui sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
“Yours very truly,
“M. MORTIMER.
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows “As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne 8
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could da He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could pdssibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night’s rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and aha wishes
to have some of my next supply."
12 Years’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
*< sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried ;
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure.— l remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
“WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker's Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales."
A Five Tears’ Case*
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. G. Hearn*.—Dear Sir,—Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. lam more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle oured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be withou
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethauga, Victoria.
A Seven Tears’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER
COMPLETELY OURED.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearn e.
“ Dear Sir, —Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and X steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as I am now, quite well.— Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney."
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS' CASE.
OURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, writes :—“After suffering from Asthma to!
17 years, and having been under a great many differen
treat menu without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and si
which was in the beginning of 1883— 15 years ago Iha
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine qu
cured me, and I have much pleasure in
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states .
am keeping very well now. Never have the shghtMl
eturn of the Asthma.”
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
w. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtama e ooa y
the " "
SMELTING & REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
Works: DAPTO, LAKE ILLAWARRA (56 Miles from Sydney).
1901, Limited.
Highest Price paid for Gold, Silver, Lead, and Copper Ores,
~. v Cyanide, Slags, and Jewellers’ Sweei> l _gtc.
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay. — sZ 1 s— 2
Eor ah Information regarding Hates, apply to the Manager, Head Oeeice, Dapto;
or, A. E. EUDDEE & CO., 40 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Forwarding Agents.
“ Retained when
all other Foods are
rejected. It is in-
valuable.”
London Medical Record.
‘“BengeF's Food'
has by its excellence
established a repu-
tation of its own.”
British Medical Record.
GOLD MEDAL* HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
For Infants , Invalids, and the Aged . Delicious, Nutritive, and Digestible .
Bender’s Food is sold by Chemists, &c., Everywhere-
Extracts from Private
Letters.
.. My last little boy was
fed entirely upon it
birth, and » '■“f 1 "
child it would be difficu
to find. My wife sounds
the praise of ‘Banger’s
Food’ everywhere.”
“ If every mother kn« w
ol it. «1«. »° '**
would be used.


Melb. Argus having’ stupidly let itself be drawn
into a controversy with Tom Mann on the subject
of Socialism, the hopeless paper went blundering
along like an elephant in a bog. Its chiefest
exhibition of absurdity and greed was over the
question of the distribution of profits. It instanced
the case of an inventor, who made a machine that
enabled one employee to do five times as much
work as was formerly possible, and asked: “Is
that increase also to be accredited to labor, and
appropriated by it ?” It put this question in the
tone of one who knocked the problem out in a
single act. And yet there seems very little reason
for the Argus’s wildly triumphal attitude. When
a valuable invention comes to light the inventor
gets something, and he deserves to, but as a rule
he doesn’t get so very much. The rest of the
profit realised must go either to the emplovee
who works his invention or the employer who
exploits it, neither of whom has any relation to
the invention itself. As a general thing, the
employer takes the whole lot of it—in fact’ it is
difficult to remember when he didn’t take the
whole lot of it. And the Argus asks in the
shocked tone of one who bangs the door on all
further controversy, if it is actually suggested that
the employee should get any of it. Would any-
thing break if he did ?
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wound* that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
pres* your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
■ion ? If *o, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knee* are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case i* hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not how being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Ilousemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
Ac. Price, in Great Britain, 1/1 Jd. per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London. England.
Agents : RLLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for theregistered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright.
DO YOP WORK BEST
WHEN ALL IS WELL}
i
Robert
John
Me
K
E
N
N
E
Y
850 Jones Street, Ultimo, Sydney,
October 24th, 1902.
Dear Sirs : My little boy suffered
great pain, and became so weak and
emaciated he could scarcely raise his little
head ; and the cough so distressed him, that
sleep or rest was out of the question for him
night or day. I was persuaded to make a trial
of Scott’s Emulsion. He took it very readily
from the commencement, and it agreed with
him splendidly. It almost at once eased his
cough, and the improvement in his general
condition was speedy and marked. He re-
gained health and strength, and was again
able to eat and sleep well. Faithfully yours,
(Signed) Mrs. R. MoKennky.
Messrs. Soott & Bowne, Ltd.,
483 Kent-street, Sydney.
DO YOU WORK BEST WHEN
ALL IS WELL? It is but natural for
you to reply that you do. Now, all is not
well if your child is distressed by a cough
which prevents both rest and sleep. Nor can
you do good work, or your best, unless all is
well at home. If your child is weak, or
emaciated, what you do not want to waste
time over is finding out what will cure him.
Scott’s Emulsion will do it for you ; one who
has seen the cure performed has just told you
so. We will not tell you about emaciation,
and why it comes. All that you desire to
know, at the moment, is the remedy, it is
SCOTT’S EMULSION. Th»« s.
the great remedy in all cases of wasting.
When any member of your family is attacked,
or any childhood-disease appears, get Scott’s
Emulsion at once, and you will be able to do
your best work —because oIZ will be well at
home. Scott’s Emulsion has cured cases of
emaciation and wasting in every country that
you ever heard of, and will do so in Australia.
You have one precaution only to take; and
that is to see that on the wrapper of the
bottle there is a picture of a man carrying
a big cod-fish ; if that cod-fish is not there,
you are not getting what we promise you -
a cure! You can obtain a sample of Scott’s
Emulsion, and the choicest children’s booklet
of the year, “A Bunch of Roses, beautifully
printed in colours, by sending sd. to Scott &
Bowne, Ltd., 483 Kent Street, Sydney, and
mentioning this paper. All chemists sell
Scott’s Emulsion.
What the Farmer and Miner Gain by
Protection.
In what way do the farmer and miner benefit by
Protection f Extract from letter addressed to Thb
Bulletin from Ballarat.
The above question is asked so often, and asked
in such a supercilious and BRUCK-SMiTH-like tone,
by the Importing Party, that it seems the oft-
repeated answer might be repeated again with
advantage.
(1) The farmer profits by Protection because it raises a
large manufacturing population to buy his produce. He
can’t eat all his produce himself. He can’t sell all the
surplus to importers’ clerks, for there are not enough of
them. He must sell it to the people who make his boots,
hats and clothes, and his wife’s and daughters’ boots,
hats and clothes, also to the people who make his imple-
ments, furniture, whisky, etc. If these people are at his
own door he sells them his potatoes at 6s. per cwt. If
they are in England he can send his potatoes to them
there, and after paying freights, insurance, and middle-
men’s charges, and allowing for depreciation en route, he
gets about 4s. per cwt.
(2) The reason why farmers are comparatively poor in
Eastern Gippsland, and many other places, is that there
are no large manufacturing towns thereabouts to buy
their produce. Protection will supply such towns in
time.
(3) Protection benefits the farmer by supplying him
with locally-produced implements at a cheaper rate than
the importer supplied them. Under Freetrade the im-
porters’ ring charges extortionate prices while there is no
local competition. When local competition starts it cuts
down prices till the local manufacturer is killed off.
Then it starts to be extortionate again.
(4) The farmer benefits by Protection because it creates
manufacturing industries in which some of his sons can
find employment. Everybody can’t be “on the land,”
and if everybody tries to be on the land the competition
for land runs up prices and rents to a hideous extent.
Rack-rented Ireland has long been an example of the
fearful prices people will pay for the use of a few barren
acres when they and their families must go on the land
for want of other occupations.
(5) The fanner benefits by Protection because it pre-
vents other countries, when they have a specially
large harvest, putting their surplus on his market to sell
for what it will fetch and reducing prices to starvation
level.
(6) The miner benefits by Protection because it supplies
him with cheap tools, as mentioned in paragraph 3.
(7) He benefits because it creates manufacturing
industries which employ thousands of people who would
otherwise be glad to take his job at half-rates rather
than starve. And these same manufactures supply work
for his sons when the mines give out.
(8) He profits because adequate Protection would create
ironworks here, and then many hundreds of miners
would find work digging out iron ore. He profits because
if our manufacturing is done here instead of in
Europe and America, then the factories would use
Australian instead of foreign coal, and that would
furnish employment for hundreds of extra coal-miners.
He profits because if our brass-works, and other
metal works, were here instead of in Europe and
America, the metal would be used here; the saving
of freight and charges would increase profits; and
that would allow of better wages. Also, many mines
that could be worked at a small profit if the product was
used here can’t be worked at all when the product has to
pay freight to England or Germany—the freight item
beina-sufficient to turn what would otherwise be a small
profit into a loss.
(9) The miner and the farmer, in short, profit by Pro-
tection because it creates manufactures which supply
them with cheap implements, which buy their products,
which save them freight charges, and which reduce the
competition in their industries by finding work for people
who would otherwise have to compete with them or else
starve. Every toiler profits by the creation of new in-
dustries. If by abolishing Protection you close up an
industry in Melbourne which supports 1000 men, there
are 1000 men to gradually disperse themselves over Aus-
tralia, and compete for everybody’s job, and offer to cut
under everybody’s wages, till even the man who drives a
cow at Port Darwin feels the consequences.
The people who ask what benefit the miner and
farmer receive from Protection shouldn’t narrow
themselves down to that one question. They
might as well ask what benefit the miner and
farmer gain by naval defence seeing that they
mostly he remote from the sea; or by a University
seeing that it is generally far away in the capital;
or by a Government and Parliament as they don’t
sit in the farming districts or on the goldfields.
Protection benefits the farmer and the miner just
as much as it does anybody else. If Australia
made one year’s trial of real Freetrade there
would be suoh a general closing up of manu-
facturing industries, and such desperate compe-
tition, as a consequence, in the remaining indus-
tries, that the Kalgoorlie gold-miner would have
cause to be glad if his wages didn’t fall below £1
a week.
At the conference of pedagogues held at Mel-
bourne in Easter week one J. T. Raw (may his
somewhat uncouth name be held in reverence)
raised the question of the cocky’s slave children—
the fagged-out mites who get up with the first
gleam of light to pursue and milk the cows, and
do all manner of “chores” about the house, a’hd
then trudge long distances to school, where they
try vainly to keep awake, and come back to pur-
sue and milk the cows once more, and do more
“chores” till far into the night, and do their
lessons in between times when they can. And
then another teacher raised his voice to this
effect:—
Mr. S. J. Mbad said tha.t some of these children never
knew what it was to be children. They worked from the
time they were children until they were old men—that
is, if they had the luck to become old men. (Hear, hear).
Some of the men in the country had less consideration
for their children than for their horses.
And yet there is a lower depth than to be a
cocky’s child, and that is to be a State child
“boarded out” to the cocky by a stepmotherly
Government. On this subject a correspondent
writes: —
Let us raise the cry of the waifs and strays, the orphans,
the tiny workers who are boarded out to certain people
by the Govt., which pays so much a week for the keep of
the unfortunates. These little mites are taken, in nine
cases out of 10, with only one object: to be made to work.
I have only known three poor little things of this class,
and these were boarded-out to women with families in the
country. Instead of paying these children for their toil —
the drudgery of the household, scrubbing, message-run-
ning, kid-comforting till all hours of the night—their task-
mistresses (what a driver the average woman is when she
has the whip-hand !) were actually being paid for their
keep. What worried, nervous little midgets they were
too! and how they sobbed themselves into incoherence
when the local vigilance committee, composed of hard,
grim, economical females, just like their mistresses, and
mostly cronies of the mistresses, looked in once a month
to lift their petticoats to see that they were clean, and
questioned them tartly to know if they were quite happy !
Of course, they were quite happy 1 I don’t know what
kind of spanking they would have got if they had been
otherwise. Compulsory happiness is the lot of the State’s
boarded-out child.
*
Tom Mann, at the unveiling of the Eight Hours?
Memorial, in Melbourne, told the assembled
workers that “one step towards solving the diffi-
culty of new conditions would be to reduce the
hours of labor to six per day.” Is there no
sense left in the land ? Australia imports more
goods for its own consumption, in proportion to
population, than any other country on earth,
because it doesn’t produce enough to supply
itself. It borrows about £5,000,000 or £6,000,000
a year from foreign countries, because it doesn’t
produce enough to pay for its imports. It makes
no attempt to pay off its debts, because it doesn’t
produce enough oo pay them with. And Tom
Mann’s remedy is to produce less.
LIVER.
KIDNEYS.
The Cause of Rheumatism, Gout, Lumbago,
Sciatica, Neuralgia, Blood Disorders,
Gravel, Bladder Disorders, Indigestion,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Anaemia.
HOW TO EFFECT A PERMANENT CURE.
The Kidneys. —Blood is conveyed from the heart to the kidneys through arteries, and it is the
function of the kidneys to filter the blood, and otherwise separate from it water and various im-
purities. These impurities are urea, uric acid, and mineral matter. When the kidneys have. done
their work of purification, the blood enters the veins and traverses the body, accumulating, in its
course, a fresh supply of effete matter produced by the wasting of the tissues. The heart again
delivers the blood to the kidneys, and the process is repeated. Night and day the work of the
kidneys goes on without ceasing.
When the kidneys, through weakness or disease, are unable to perform their duty efficiently,
the blood retains the uric acid and urea which would otherwise be removed, and becomes con-
taminated by these urinary poisons. Nature's method of letting us know that the kidneys are
working indifferently is to make us conscious of the presence of these poisons by causing us to
suffer from Rheumatism, Gout, Lumbago, Sciatica, Neuralgia, Blood Disorders,
Gravel, Stone or Bladder Troubles. The commonest first symptom is a
PAIN IN THE BACK.
but it is not necessary to wait for this acute signal. If some urine, passed the first thing in the
morning, is placed in a covered glass and allowed to stand for twenty-four hours and is then cloudy,
shows a sediment like brick dust, is an unnatural colour, or has particles floating about in it, then the
kidneys are weak or diseased, and immediate steps must be taken to restore them to health and
activity.
The Liver. —The health of the liver and of the kidneys is closely connected. It is almost impossible
for the kidneys to be affected and the liver to remain healthy, or vice versa. The liver is an automatic
chemical laboratory. In the liver various substances are actually made from the blood. Two or
three pounds of bile are thus made by the liver every day. The liver takes sugar from the blood, con-
verts it into another form, and stores it up so as to be able to again supply it to the blood, gradually,
as the latter requires enrichment. The liver changes uric acid, which is insoluble, into urea, which is
completely soluble, and the liver also deals with the blood corpuscles, which have lived their life and
are useful no longer.
When the liver is inactive or diseased, we suffer from Indigestion, Biliousness, Anaemia,
Sick Headache, and Blood Disorders, because the blood is laden with urinary and biliary
poisons to such an extent that it cannot absorb nutriment from the food we eat, red corpuscles are no
longer formed, and it is these red corpuscles which nourish the nerves. In other words the blood is
vitiated and starved.
The importance of keeping the kidneys and liver in vigorous health will therefore be realised,
and an explanation is afforded why
Warner’s Safe Cure
possesses such wonderful power in curing so many seemingly different disorders as those mentioned.
Warner’s Safe Cure possesses the remarkable property of being able to restore the kidneys and liver
to health and activity. All urinary and biliary poisons are then duly removed by the simple process
of Nature and all suffering due to the presence of these poisons in the system necessarily ceases.
Mr. R. H. Blackman, 32 Greek Street, Glebe, Sydney, says About seven years ago I was
suffering from Gout, and was suddenly seized by Sciatica, which attacked me as I was driving, and
the pain became so bad that I had to be carried home. I was advised the next morning to take
Warner’s Safe Cure. After taking a few doses I felt relief, and after taking one or two bottles was
cured altogether."
Mr. A. Newcombe, of 53 Arden Street, North Melbourne, says :—“For several years I was a
martyr to periodical attacks of Indigestion. Eating became almost a terror to me. The attacks became
more frequent as time went on. I tried various remedies, but derived no benefit from any of them.
Having heard a good deal about Warner’s Safe Cure, I took some of that medicine, together with
Warner’s Safe Pills, and was quite cured. I have not had an attack now for many months.’’
A treatise containing full particulars relating to Warner’s Safe Cure, and accounts of many
remarkable cures effected, will be sent free on application by H. H. Warner and Co., Limited,
Australasian Branch, Melbourne, Vic.
r
■
74 GANZ
ELECTRIC
MOTORS
with a total capacity of
100 Horse-Power, will
operate the Government
Printing Office of Victoria.
Canz Induction Motor. 80LE AGENTS i
The pstral Qtis Engineering Co., [td., South fflelb.
f
8161!
HAS STOOD THE TEST OF TIME.
In over 100 years’ world-wide use it has proved itself the best Heal-
ing Ointment extant. It is particularly recommended for the cure of
Ulcerated Legs, Piles, and all long standing and painful
wounds; also for Blotches on the Skin, Pimples Eczema, Cuts,
Burns, Bruises, and all Skin Affections. Prices (in England) 1/1 J 4,
2/9. 11/-, and 22/- pots.
Dr.ROBERTS’ ALTERATIVE PILLS
Purify the Blood. Cure Skin Disease
A Gentle Aperient and Perfect Liver Pill.
40 in a box, 1/1%; 3 quantities, 2/9.
Of all Drug Stores and Patent Medicine Vendors, and made only by —
BEACH & BARNICOTT, Ltd., BRIDPORT, ENGLAND.
G. L. ROBERTS, M.D.
Born 1766. Died 1534. «


OvJ
01/#O 1 /#
0«/,
ay#
O*#,
l«v,
H
ns
''y*» i * ntr‘- I *]f‘*"
•*>
<«•/
foi
S>i»i
'u'A i'/i i »*//# i'Ai'
4>»
r/»>*
&»•
'w'w
7(l'
'M'
'l»'
Si cu d you require a Ring, no matter whether it
be an Engagement, Drees, Wedding, Keeper, or
Signet Ring, this is the p’.ace where you can see a
boundless Stock of all the best at reasonabie prices
Our London House being situated in the heart of
the Diamond Me rket (Hatton Carden) means low
prices to us and you on Diamond Rings.
18c. Gold and 3 Opals,
£2 10s.
18c. Gold Keepers, 21s,
255, 30s, 40s, 455.
RINGS OF BEAUTY
Diamond Half-Hoop En-
gagement Rings, £5 5s
to £4O.
18c.Gold Weddingßings
21/,25/,30/,35/,40/, 50/,60/
RADIANT OPALS....
Sparkling with red, blue and green flames of color,
ever changing as the wearer moves about, fascina-
ting Stones truly. We have a range of patterns
that will delight you. Prices Moderate Always.
v v -
No. 11.—9 c. Gold, £1 6s.
No. S.—lsc. Gold, £2 10s.
No. 2.—15 c. Gold, £2 10a.
3
No. 14.—-Lily of the
Valley, £5 16s.
No. 5. 15c. Gold, £2 12s 6d.
No. 1.—15 c. Gold, £1 12s 6d.
No. 10.—9 c. Gold, 14s 6cL
No. 6.—15 c. Gold, £1 17s 6d.
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE .
POST FREE. .
Captivating Styles
in BROOCHES . .
Fashioned daintily and set with the choices*
of Pearls in strong settings of 15ct. Gold.
The designs are such as you won’t see
elsewhere, and we think you will admit
they are very dainty.^*=— Z3F
No. F 4543. —£4 10s.
f m
No. F 4851. —£3 15a.
No. i’593. —£5 10s.
No. F4541.—£3 15s.
No. F 2253. —£2 153.
No. 544.—£2 7s 6d.
No. F 4545. — £4 16s.
No. E9414.—£2.
No. F4551.—£3 15s.
No. F4842. —£2 17s 6d.
9c. Gold Swallow, Harp or Crescent Centre
lCs 6d.
W
No. F2252.—£1 15s.
Illustrated Catalogue
Post Free*
Jl
No. F1945.—£2 2s.
No. 555.—£4 4s.
No. F 4544. —£5 53.
T
HERE ARE SEVERAL ....
TALKING MACHINES
. . BUT THERE IS ONLY ONE . *
WHICH IS MADE BY
The gramophone m Typewriter [td.
This is a “JUNIOR fIONARCH ” GRAMOPHONE,
Price £6 IOs M and it is unsurpassed by any
Talking Machine at any Price.
Other Styles, £3 to £l4 10s.
Bead what ADELINA PATTI says
To The Gramophone Co.,
City Road, London.
Gentlemen,
'SSt'
Craig-Y-Nos Castle,
Ystradgynlais, R.S.O
Breconshire,
South Wales
I have much pleasure in stating that I have heard your
Monarch Gramophone, and that I consider it a very remarkable instru-
ment of its kind, and quite the most perfect that I have ever heard.
It reproduces the human voice to such a fine point, that in listening
to the records of Caruso, Plancon, etc., it seemed to me as if those
artists were actually singing in my saloons. I have never heard
anything to equal it.
Australian Agencies —VICTORIA: A. P. Sykes, 227 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA : Messrs. S. B. Hunt & Co., 94 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
WESTRALIA: Messrs. Nicholson & Co.. Perth.
TASMANIA: Messrs. Wertheimer, Benjamin, & Anderson, 71 Collins Street, Hobart.
QUEENSLAND: Messrs. Heindorff Bros., 210 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Represented all over
World.
AGENTS IN EVERY TOWN
WHOLESALE DEPOT FOR AUSTRALASIA-
The Gramophone and Typewriter Ltd., 163 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.


ass*
•i* 1 . <*'
V«fS
tstw
'y ri i%
tT
€
1
CORSETS
The Recognised Standard
High-Class Corsets
LATEST SPECIALTY
STRAIGHT FRONT
NOUVELLE FORM
Obtainable from Leading
Drapers Everywhere.
Avoid Inferior Imitations, and see that
each pair bears the Manufacturer’s “Trade
Mark ” on band inside, as above.
HARDY BROS.,
Large Silver - - -
Photograph Frame
44/-
OTHER SIZES FROM 5/-
Our Stock of Silver Photograph
Frames is the largest in the States*
Over 200 patterns to select from.
Goods sent without delay or trouble to the
purchaser to all parts of Australia.
Write for Illustrated Price List , post
free on application.
Goldsmiths & Jewellers.
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY;
and at 118 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
igiipr
GUARANTEED THE HIGHEST QUALITY
TOBACCO
DARKandLIQNTPLUG
ALSO
Like a Fan in the Autumn-
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the Judge called to see Margaret one Sep-
tember morning, he did so with the full intention
of asking her to be his wife ; but directly he saw
her sitting idly by the open window, her white
hands folded listlessly in her lap, he divined that
the time was singularly ill-chosen for such an im-
portant step. A great measure of his successes
where women were concerned was due to the fact
that he.considered their moods and not his own.
He did not wish to be refused even once, for he
knew that Margaret was a creature of habit, and
would possibly go on refusing him if she once
began. And that one quick glance at her and the
flower-decked room had told him all he wanted to
know.
For one thing, the flowers were wild ones, save
for a bowl of early violets. There were trails of
starry traveller’s-joy and jars of brown-stemmed
fluffy yellow wattle that filled the whole place
with a suggestion of Spring ; and the girl was one
with the flowers in humor, and wanted nothing
that savored of the sere and yellow leaf. The
Judge was a fine-looking man, with level black
brows above the handsomest eyes in the world,
but his dark hair and beard were thickly sprinkled
with grey, and there were tell-tale lines about the
eyes which gave his five-and-forty years away.
And Margaret was very young—a tall, graceful-
looking girl; small-boned and fair of hair and
skin. Not strikingly pretty, perhaps, but with
an air of breeding which the Judge fully appre-
ciated. As the girl turned to greet him he smiled
to think how disappointed his first wife’s sister
would be when he returned home that evening
with no definite news to tell her. For Mr 3. Ford-
ham was set on her brother-in-law’s re-marriage ;
being convinced that marriage even to a girl of
Margaret's tastes and bringing-up would be better
for his income than his present bachelor days.
“I’ve come to say good-bye,” he said. “I
suppose you still intend going to-morrow ? ”
“Of course I do —and, oh! howl am looking
forward to it! We shall not be able to get letters
even. Imagine the perfect peace of it all.”
“Imagine the utter boredom of it,” said the
Judge. “You will be tired of it all in a week,
unless ”
“Continue,” said Margaret. “Unless?”
The Judge shrugged his shoulders. “You may
fill the blank when you return. Your father will
add materially to his collection of beetles while in
the Bunyas. Perhaps you may find something
worth collecting there, also.”
“Perhaps,” said Margaret, her hazel eyes
bright w.th anew light of expectation; “but I
sincerely hope we shall not see a soul. I want to
get away from everyone and everything—l’m so
tired.”
“Brain-tired and body-tired,” said the Judge.
“Well, you will be able to tell us all about the
rest cure when you return.”
“Perhaps I never shall return.”
“Perhaps not—it is quite possible. But if you
do return I shall call —I mean to ask you to marry
me then.”
Margaret frowned and abruptly changed the
conversation. “It was good of you to give so nice
a farewell last night,” she said. “I enjoyed it
all.” . v
“I hope you noticed the crape on the box and
the mourning note in the table decorations.”
“Oh! was that what the violets and camellias
meant —they were very pretty at any rate, and I
liked ‘San Toy’—it was bright and sparkling.”
“ Both adjectives appropriate —they accentuate
another equally appropriate one you haven’t used.
You should say, ‘So bright, so sparkling, so
pathetic.’ ”
•“ Pathetic ! Search it all through and you will
not find one pathetic part.”
“ Do you remember the comical Chinese student
in the bee-hive hat who makes futile love to San
Toy?”
“ Yes ; but he was only comic.”
“But his speech was pathetic. * You shall not
cast me aside like a fan in the autumn.’ There
are all sorts of possibilities of passion in that little
sentence, even if the speaker did look fairly
comical.”
“ How cold you are!” said Margaret, raising her
eyebrows; and then she blushed suddenly and
swiftly, so that the Judge was fain to reassure
her.
“ I wasn’t thinking of myself, Margaret. I here
are some fans one keeps just for the value of the
gilding and the ivory, even after one has no
pressing need for them. ’’
Margaret looked slightly puzzled. “ Of course,
one only throws away the cheap fans,” she said
vaguely.
“Of course,” assented the Judge.
• *
For the first week of tent-life under the shadow
of Moherland, 4000 ft. above sea-level, in the heart
of the Bunya forests, Margaret was very happy.
She was thoroughly tired out by a season of
unusual dissipation during a royal visit to Poin-
settiatown ; and to strolF about from one fern-
gully to another, and rest on a sofa of fern-leaves
when she was tired, was delightful. Her father -
an indefinite-looking, sandy-haired man of unex-
ceptionable birth and a small independent income
—had an all-absorbing passion for Coleoptera, and
was wont to go hunting for specimens in all parts
of Queensland ; but this was the first tune his
daughter had ever shown a wish to accompany
him. , . ,
Doubtless the Spring weather had got into her
blood, or the opportunity had come just as she
was in one of her “romantic” moods. At any
rate, here she was—far from the haunts of man,
and apparently quite contented to be so.
However, after the first week she grew strangely
restless. She was craving for the atmosphere of
male adulation in which she had basked since her
miss-in-the-teens days, and she missed the thou-
sand and one little attentions the Judge had
given her so naturally and so unobtrusively. In
the tops of the tall bunyas the scrub-doves were
cooing and calling to each other, and the restless-
ness of the waking year was over everything.
The glory of expectation animated every breaking
bud and uncurling leaf. And so, one evening
when a man walked out of the mystery of the
dark bunya-stems into the circle of light round
the brushwood fire —the girl felt as if she had
known long before of his coming. He was a good-
looking young man, with a shy, reserved manner,
and showed flashing white teeth when he smiled,
which wasn’t often ; and he was dressed in that
most becoming of masculine garbs—moleskins,
gaiters, crimeau shirt, and cabbage-tree hat. His
appearance fitted in with the sylvan scene, and
the girl shuddered to remember that but half-an-
hour before his advent she had caught herself
longing to hear the Judge’s firm footstep. She
could never imagine the Judge in any guise except
that pertaining to the silk-hatted, frock-coated
man of fashion who would be so out of place in
the wilderness.
The man who had suddenly stepped into her
life —and, to tell truth, into her heart as well
—was a romantic-loooking person. He was
camping the other side of Moherland; had lost
his way while out shooting, and had made for the
light of the fire. He volunteered to show the girl,
next day, a trellis-work house, formed of matted
liana-creepers round the crumbling bole of a
forest giant; and that was the only one of many
excursions. The beetle-hunting father never
meddled with anyone, least of all with his own
daughter; and the cook and the black boy who
shot for the pot had possibly neither of them ever
heard of Mrs. Grundy. As for the man and
Margaret, it was simply a case of youth calling to
youth—with the girl’s romantic mood to shed a
glamor everything. The man was slow of
speech, and had a slightly Scotch accent. He told
Margaret that he was in business in Poinsettia,
and had a fortnight’s holiday—the first for years.
She stopped further confidence, for it suited her
“ romance ” to take him just as he was. In the
back of her mind was a vague conviction that he
worked in a bank or on some accountant’s busi-
ness, and she quite imagined how her friends (in-
cluding the Judge) would pity her for becoming
engaged to a poor man. For very soon her
apparent admiration called out the passion which
lay deep, though dormant, in his breast; and, know-
ing her position in the world was the upper one,
she stooped most sweetly to conquer, and broke
through the lad’s Scotch reserve just when she
chose to. Then, one day in the tree-fern gully,
where a stream ran noisily, yet unseen because of
the tangled mass of maiden-hair above it, he
kissed her; and no doubt in that supreme
moment both imagined that Heaven was reigning
upon earth at last.
That very night, people on the moonlit plains
below the Bunya Mountain saw the white clouds
lying like snow on the topmost crests, and pre-
dicted “ weather ” ; and, soon afterwards, Mar-
garet and her father were obliged to shift camp
hurriedly, and come down to the sawmills to
get a trap to take them to the railway-station,
many miles away. Margaret’s lover had left the
evening before, and it was arranged that he should
come to see her in Poinsettia the following Satur-
day.
The Judge called soon after her return. He
was gravely amusing, and told her many odds
and ends of interest about what had taken place
during her absence. He also brought her the
latest book, and did not discuss it too learnedly.
Margaret was not clever, and the Judge never
bored her with a show of his keen criticism. He
was intellectual giant enough to be able to suit
himself to the veriest dwarf in that line, and he
loved the girl none the less for her limited mental
powers. But Margaret—with her heart far off in
a fern-lined valley, living over again a certain
incident —was rather distant; and, when the
Judge called again, she was “out.” Really out,
too; for she was restless and excited, and had
suddenly decided that, as her life was to run on
simpler lines in future, she must learn to do her
own shopping, and take an active interest in the
price of groceries. Instead of being chatelaine of
the Judge’s charming mansion, she would reign
supreme in a pretty rose-covered cottage, and
would dispense tea and cake to her friends, and
show them how happy life could be on £5OO a
year—or probably three.
“ You need not give the order, John —I’m going
in myself,” she said, as her smart little chariot
drew-up at the Co-operative Stores in Alexander-
street. “Very good, miss,” said John, showing
nothing of the surprise he felt. Margaret rustled
into the store and up to the grocery-counter; and
there —clad in a coarse apron, his shirt sleeves
rolled up, and a long knife in his hand—was her
lover of the Bunya forests, slicing rashers from a
side of bacon under the supervision of a keen-eyed
German woman.
He smiled his quick, joyful, dazzling smile, and
finished with the customer before he came to the
girl. “I thought you’d find me out,” he whispered.
“Oh, but the time has been long without you,
my wee girlie—knowing I’d not be free before
Saturday. I dreamed all day that you would
come.”
Margaret felt herself turning cold to the tips of
her fingers.
“ Yes ! yes !—of course,” she murmured. “I
called to make sure that you would come. I—l’m
husy now —very busy ’’ —and she gathered up her
skirts and fled with burning cheeks and a hideous
conviction in her mind that the young grocer’s
assistant had followed her to the carriage-door
and patted her gloved hand, or raised it to his
lips, or done something equally dreadful before
the all-seeing eyes of John.
How she got through the day she never knew —
she wrote letter after letter, and tore them up.
Then came Saturday evening, and her lover,
looking decidedly unpolished in his suit of ill-
fitting Sunday clothes. She wondered now, in
the sudden revulsion of feeling, how she had ever
cared for him—it all seemed so utterly impossible.
And, whether it was the large and beautifully-
appointed house which brought things into focus
for him, or something indefinable and chilling in
the girl’s manner, certain it is that the truth
dawned upon the young Scotchman, and he gave
Margaret very little trouble in the order of his
going. He was a man of few words, and Margaret
cried herself to sleep that night when she thought
of the dull misery on his face as he went out of
the flower-scented room into which he had come
so full of hope. She could not even console her-
self with the idea that he had tried to deceive her ;
to his simple mind class-difference mattered
little—to her so much. It was out of the question
—so utterly, hopelessly impossible. He would
never understand—never ! She loved him no
longer ; and that was all he knew.
The Judge called again, but not until a week
had passed ; and, when he left the house, it was
as Margaret’s affianced husband.
A dark-faced man was leaning against the
railings, heedless of the passers-by, his eyes fixed
oil the windows of Margaret’s sitting-room. Every
afternoon as the western sunbeams touched her
casement-garden Margaret was wont to lean across
the sill and move the plants into shadow.
The dark-faced man watched her for a while —
then he turned and walked swiftly away, and the
Judge paused on the topmost step and watched
him go.
“ * Like a fan in the autumn,’ ” he quoted softly.
Then he stopped again to extract a cigarette from
his case and added, “ How long would she keep
the other, I wonder, if it were not fashioned of
ivory and inlaid with gold.”
From the beginning of things reason has -ver
been but handmaid to desire; and doubtless the
Judge had no inclination to solve the riddle he had
himself propounded.
ETHEL MILLS.
What has China got against Ireland ? If
you want to disturb John’s placidity call him
“Paddy,” and you have a dancing, infuriated
demon whirling a bamboo, and spluttering un-
known curses with the velocity of a steampipe.
“G.A.P.”: Just struck something new,
or, rather, it struck me. Last Monday, the wife
being out, I answered a door-knock and discovered
a patriarchal-looking bloke weeping on the mat.
As he seemed too agitated to speak, and the
gathering crowd began to suspect me of something
horrible, I invited his nibs in to continue his
weeping on the hearth rug. Between weeps I
elicited that his wife had just died and left him
with 11 kids—the four youngest being twins. He
was collecting money for the funeral, and had I
any old clothes, &c. Gave him two bob and went
upstairs to look for duds. When I returned the
old and affected one was gone, and after consider-
ing the number of things that were gone also (I
have already missed 47 articles), I reckon he must
have had eleven similar persons weeping round
the corner and waiting to assist him, or else he
was a single-handed house remover. I reckon the
first theory is the correct one. Has anyone seen a
drove of 12 old men weeping in the street lately ?
A philosopher has to learn what a fool
knows by instinot.
“ J.F.D.” : Re the disadvantages of being
big. Was in King-street one day during the last
test match. My companion stood 6ft. 2in. and
weighed eighteen stone and because he happened
to obstruct the view of a venomous little sawed-off
atom who stood behind, the little man started to
say things. This amused the crowd which backed
him up for his supposed “ grit. ” Finding himself
strongly supported he got worse and in sheer
desperation the big man hit him a tiny little
hit and the four-footer rolled into the gutter.
How did that crowd hoot? “Why don tyer ’it
someone yer own size?” “Git the little ’un a
step ladder to git up to ’im, ” “ Stand’im on
somebody’s shoulders so he can get a chance ” etc.
And the cocksparrow pranced around well out of
reach of the big man’s right, and used horrible
language, and the crowd roared for him. We go*i
away as soon as a chance offered and my com-
panion said ‘ ‘ that’s the disadvantage of being big;
the crowd’s always against you. If I hadn't hit
him they would call me a cur, and when I did they
called me a bully. Wish to the Lord I was only
s£ft.”


ITS PREVENTION AND CURE.
a
251
1
NFLUHNZA only seizes upon those whose systems have become
run down and weakened. Those who keep in the pink of con-
dition snap their fingers at it. Liver chill, colds, attacks of
shivering, and similar ailments have one common origin, namely,
a debilitated condition of the body. When the supply of energy
is adequate, the pulse vigorous, the digestion good, colds and
chills cannot get a hold. Once the vitality becomes lessened
the evils just named creep in. BILE BEANS will keep the
body in the “pink of condition.” They act directly upon the
liver, and end that cause of so many ailments—Constipation.
They stimulate the circulation, improve the digestion, and
increase the energy of the whole system. Just as one illustration
take the following case :
“ I was laid up a few months ago for about three weeks, with a severe
attack of Influenza,” says Mr. W. Tindale, of 28 Little West Street, Darlinghurst,
Sydney. “My body ached all over, especially in the back and head. I lost my appetite
entirely, was very feverish and slightly delirious, and sleep was out of the question. I
tried several remedies, including the usual household treatment, and also consulted a
doctor, but made very slow progress towards recovery. I was advised by a friend who had
used your medicine to give Bile Beans a trial. I acted on this advice, and have much
pleasure in stating that, after taking a few doses, I gained immediate relief, and, continuing
with them, I was quickly restored to my usual health. I can strongly recommend Bile
Beans to anyone suffering from a similar complaint.”
BILE BEANS have now a world-wide reputation for curing Biliousness, Headache,
Indigestion, Constipation, Piles, Debility, Female Weaknesses, Nervousness, Bad Blood,
Pimples and all Skin Eruptions, Bad Breath Anaemia, Loss of Appetite, Rheumatism,
and will fortify the system against the changeable weather of the present season. BILE
BEANS are obtainable from all medicine vendors, price 1/1£ or 2/9 large box (contains
three times the quantity of the size).
0
0
nanss f?r
■ItIOVSNESS
Af (3b F.
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SOAPMAKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
J&otice
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
Ltd.
Two Shoes.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You are standing on my heart,
Two shoes;
With your tiny toes apart,
Two shoes.
I am thinking of the girl
On whose feet you used to twirl
In the dance’s dreamy whirl,
Two shoes.
I am thinking of the days,
Two shoes,
When we walked Love’s shining ways,
Two shoes.
I am thinking of the feet
And the ankles, small and neat—
Oh ! my thoughts are sad and sweet,
Two shoes.
I am thinking of the stars,
Two shoes,
That are shining on our bars.
Two shoes;
They are shining brightly yet,
And my eyes are dim and wet—
There are things we can’t forget,
Two shoes.
There are nights upon the sand,
Two shoes ;
Happy claspings hand in hand,
Two shoes ;
There are kisses by the sea
That come misting back to me
As I sit here silently,
Two shoeg.
Through the smoke-wreaths from my pipe,
Two shoes,
T can see two lips a-ripe,
Two shoes;
I can see a curving breast
And a head all sheeny .tressed—
'Comes a star-sweet mouth a-quest,
Two shoes !
Like a cool wind on my brow,
Two shoes,
Blows the'memory of her now—
Two shoes.
I am muttering her name—
O, I christened her that same !
In our happiness’ sweet flame—
“ Two Shoes.”
She is dear and dead and gone,
Two shoes ;
She I used to put you on s
Two shoes ;
And I sit a man alone
On a memory-jewelled throne,
While my heart plays telephone,
Two shoes.
Words of hers still heart ward roam,
Two shoes;
Down the stream of thought they foam,
Two shoes!
Dear dead lips and mine are met,
And my eyes are dim and wet—
O ! I love you— love you yet,
“ Two Shoes ” !
W.A.
GRANT HERVEY.
The Mailman’s Ghost.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I belave,” said Lanigan, “in your white-
sheeted, pumpkin-headed ghosts about as much
as I do in yire dthrawing-room inthroductions,
an’ that’s moighty little. But I recognise th’
existence of a shupernatral a-agency, which, I
presume, is entoirely th’ property av th’ Almighty.
An example of this came undther my observation
a few years since ; though little use it is spalting
of th’ shuperior forces to onbelaving blaguards
like yez.
“ It’s a mather of twinty years ago since Larry
Cahoun carr-yed th’ mail betune Johnson’s Flat
and Wall Town. I remimber th’ ould fellow
Well, an’ his pony, Daniel O’Connell, a bay wid a
peculiar white marruk down his near shouldther
—a marruk ye wouldn’t aisly forgit, d’ye moind
me now. What Larry didn’t know Daniel
G’Connell did, an’ th’ rest didn’t matther
much. Larry was more thrusted than the
bank, and better known than the pra-aste.
an’ God forgive ’em, more welcome. Whin Larry
eonthradicted the pa-apers, iviry mahn on th’ flat
who could hould a pen sint worrd to tlfl editors
that they were rank obstructors of th’ truth, an’
their pa-apers a fraud an’ a delusion. An’ whin
Larry agreed wid the press, folks ordthered an
exthra copy an’ paid a week’s score off their
account.
“ Wan year a moighty big flood arose, an’ the
creek extinded for miles on aither bank. But
divil a flood or fire kept Larry off juty. He rode
airly in th’ mornin’ from Johnson’s with th’ Wall-
town mails —an’ he niver rode back ! Nayther
him nor the pony were iver seen again. I con-
sidther they were carr-yed down to th’ big river,
and swept out to say. Indade, it was a terrible
calamity to th’ counthry. Johnston’s wint into
mourning for three da-ays, an’ whin it was over
there wasn’t enough liquor left on th’ Flat to float
a corruk.
“D’ye moind me now: Tin years afther the
big flood Johnston’s Flat, which had been re-
baptised Alexandthrew, or some other atrocity, by
a disreputable politician, was thrown into great
consthernation by a matter which I am about to
communicate to yez.
“There was a young gur-rul on th’ Flat named
Katie Shehan, th’ bonniest female in th’ dis-
thrict. She took up wid a harum-scarum black-
guard called Jack Bolton, an’ what was the worse
for Katie’s chance o’ matrimony, a Prodesthant;
for, av course, her parents were against the union.
Bolton threatened this and that, an’ Katie nearly
cried her eyes out till old Shehan, and an uncle of
Jack's, planked down twinty sovereigns each to
take him up north to try his luck on th’ mines.
To give the boy credit, he correspondid wid Katie
wid th’ grea-atest regularity th’ furrust year ;
thin his letthers suddenly shtopped. For months
an’ months that poor little thing wa-aited, an’
hoped, an’ pra-ayed, but never a worrud oame to
comfort her from th’ north.
} “Well, wan winther’s afternoon a hawker
(found Katie lyin’ unconscious on th’ road betune
j Johnston’s an’ th’ creek. A Walltown docther
brought her round for a quarter of an hour before
she expired in her mother’s arrums.
“From her disjynted narrative they discovered
that a horrusman overtuk her. He had a bag
rowled up in front of th’ saddle.
“ ‘ Are ye Katie Shehan ? ’ he says.
I “‘I am that same,’ sez she.
, “‘I have a letther here,’ he says, ‘for Miss
,Katie Shehan,’ he sez, ‘ which I will deliver forth-
with,’ he sez, ‘ aga-ainst th’ rules though it be,’ he
sez. Jist that, an’ no more. Thin he gives
Katie th’ letther into her own hands an’ disappears
round a turrn in th’ road. But whin they ques-
tioned Katie as to the con-tents of the letther,
which, d’ye moind me, had entoirely dishappeared,
she was so overcome that they were forced to
desist. But jist before Katie closed her oyes on
this worruld, ould Shehan approached her bed-
side. She was his wan choild, an’ afther they laid
her away in th’ cemetery he niver held his head up
straight, they do say.
“‘Katie,’ he sez, ‘tell me, fwhat sorrut of a
florrus,’ he sez, ‘ was it that mahn rode,’ he sez.
“ ‘I think,’ she sez faintly, ‘it was a bay, but
there was something else about it, ’ sez she, ‘ that
I shall niver forget,’ she sez.
“‘An’ fwhat was that, ma honey?’ sez ould
Shehan.
“ ‘ There was a white marruk,’ she says, ‘ on its
shouldther,’ she sez, ‘an’ it was the shouldther
next to ,’ and wid that th’ death trimble tuk
her.
“ ‘ In th’ na-ame av th’ Grea-ate God,’ sez ould
Shehan, ‘ It was the wraith av Larry Cahoun.’
“ A few days afther they buried Katie a letther
arrived addressed to Miss Katie Shehan. It was
from a mate o’ Bolton’s telling how Jack had bin
shpeared in a scrimmage wid th’ blacks. It also
contained a lock of Jack’s hair an’ a farewell
worrud fer Katie.
“Now, if any of ye blaguards don’t belave
fwhat I’ve tould yez, go an’ say that sa-ame up at
Johnston’s Flat, an’ the bhoys ’ll drum ye from
there to Wall Town wid clubs —d’ye moind me?”
Then Lanigan gathered up his six-and-a-half
feet of mostly bone and prepared for bunk.
C. H. READE.
Explanation.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Fitz ! ”
Barbara’s voice gives notice, and quits her
suddenly. Then she remembers that she is never
going to speak to John Fitzgerald again. She
takes a weak step past him.
“ Barbara!”
There is one man in Melbourne who says
“ Barbara !” in that tone of voice; “ Barbara ! ”
—one man in the world.
A cloud of dust envelopes them. The sky is
growing saffron. School-boys make shields of
their hats and stagger hidden-faced against the
fence. They enter the gardens with a crisp swirl
of elm leaves at their feet.
“ Well! ” says Fitz.
It is not well. It is ill. The wind blows the
tails of Barbara’s sable to the back of her neck.
It makes a wilderness of her curls. Her skirts
are driven against her limbs. Her umbrella has
evident intentions of turning inside out.
Under the circumstances, it is difficult to pre-
serve a strictly cold and dignified exterior.
“ Well ? ” retorts Barbara.
Now that they have exchanged names and
“ wells,” there appears little to be said. These
flashes of silence threaten to become painful.
Fitz. has treated her shamefully. Two years—
and not a word. And he hasn’t the grace to
appear ashamed of himself.
‘‘ I expect you had a good time, ” volunteers
Babs, stiltedly.
“Very.”
Her heart sinks. Barbara wishes she could hate
Fitz. She studies him furtively through a dust
cloud, admiring his walk and profile. Even his
abominable air of nonchalance. Fitz catches her
in the act and smiles.
‘ ‘ Missed me ? ” he queries.
Barbara is afflicted with sudden deafness.
Fitz pitches his voice in a higher key, and re-
peats —
“Missed me?”
She is so taken aback that she stammers —
“Yes !” Fitzgerald’s smile broadens.
“I missed Babs,” he tells her.
To Barbara’s horror she blushes. What a tame
cat he will think her ! Where is her pride—her
dignity, her—her—maidenhood—
“ Awfully ,” he continues plaintively.
“ Perhaps that’s why you wrote so often.”
Thank goodness her voice sounds spiteful. She
feels more full of tears than spite. Why on earth
does she love Fitz? Why on earth does Fitz
make a catspaw of her ?
“ Glad you liked my letters,” he replies,
through the dust.
What a fool she is ! Now Fitz will never ex-
plain. He will persist that he did write letters—
often !
“Oh ! don’t be horrid ! ” Babs falters.
“ Am I horrid ? ” asks Fitz.
The sky is white now. The baoks of the elm
leaves are white. The whirling dust clouds are
white with scraps of paper.
“Ami?”
The gardens are empty.
He draws very close. Babs feels his arm against
her arm. Her skirts against his knees .. . And
he is asking her if he is horrid !
A dust cloud intervenes.
“What ‘lost-to-sight-to-memory-dear ’ sort of
people we are ? ” she laughs, temporisingly.
“Am I horrid ! ” Fitz repeats.
“ You’ve been cruel,” she whispers.
“Yes?”
“Oh Fitz ! You’ve hurt me. . . . You hurt
me ! ”
“Don’t say that! ”
“ Why did you ? ”
‘ 1 Did I ? —why am I horrid ? ”
They pause for breath behind a statue and a
rose bush.
“ Why horrid ?” says Fitz for the fourth time.
“You know you don’t think I am ! ”
That’s the worst of it! Babs doesn’t. And he
knows it!
So she just sobs.
The sky becomes a scheme of orange pink. She
gets a mouthful of dust and —a kiss sub. rosa._ r
Not till she gets home does she
Fitz explain ? ” '
She thinks he must have. She ia-sA very happy.
And she laughs.
And Fitz in the dust storm laughs too !
Did he explain ?
THE YOUNG 'UN.


Purities the Blood
Bushmen Must Drink Bad Water. This Makes Bad Blood. Sickness
Follows. How to Make the Blood Pure.
%
M
m
Mr. Alexander Jolmson, of Bourke,
New South Wales, sends us his photo-
graph and says:
“ For many years I have been en-
gagfed in shepherding, stock-droving,
and other occupations so well known
to bushmen. Often the drinking-
water was very bad, and I was ex-
posed to other hardships of bush life.
I found all the men around me using
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, so I tried it. For
cleansing and purifying my blood, and
for giving me new life and energy, I
found it the most wonderful medi-
cine I ever used. I do not see how
bushmen get along without it. I
advise all who read this to keep a
bottle of this grand medicine on hand
all the time, for it’s a great health
preserver.”
“The World’s Createst Family Medicine.”
Perhaps you are not exposed to all the hardships of bush life. Yet you
have probably suffered from impure blood, great debility, nervousness, exhaus-
tion, indigestion, and other evidences of a weakened system. No matter what
your occupation, nor where you live, if you are in need of a blood-purifying
medicine and something to build up your nerves, you should certainly take
this grand family medicine.
You will make a great mistake if you try any other Sarsaparilla than
“Ayer’s.” This is the kind that has been making the cures for sixty years.
AYER’S S arsaparilla
Strengthens the Stomach and Builds up the Nerves
Ayer’s Pills —a gentls laxative for the whole family.
Prepared by DE. J. C. AYEB & CO.. Lowell. Maas.. U. S. A.
Because Miss Dor* Rignold’s t*ll young figure a»d rich
contralto voice are so well suited to the part of Oberon,
some people have been wanting to know whether she can
play anything else. As though William Rignold’s daugh-
ter were only a fairy king! In “As Teu Like It" she
will suit herself to Gelia f the quiet girl, whilst Miss Kerin t
the feminine fairy of the “ Dream,” steps out as Rosalind,
the she-boy. Miss Cellier, another young member of the
new co., makes her first appearance in “ As Yeu like It,”
playing Ph®be, the stupendous. Miss Oellier is a niece
of “Dorothy" Oellier, i.e., daughter of his brother
Francois.
Of interest to the local oritic person is the cabled item
that 'London Daily Express has been ordered, by an
English Court, to pay Dramatist Ganthony £2OO for sug-
gesting that Actor-dramatist Charles Hawtrey had re-
written a “ Message from Mars.” More or less, every
modern and ancient play is padded, re-written, or con-
siderably pruned by the various theatre authorities to
suit themselves (not always to the play’s advantage), but
the Daily Express was probably foolish enough to also
“ suggest ” that Ganthony’s play was improved by such
doctoring.
“ 5.T.8.”: My innocent remark that Nellie Farren
must have been meant, when Kate Vaughan was credited
with playing street-arab parts, has brought down two
distinct contradictions in B. 11/4/’O3. “ J.A.C.” repeats
that it was really K.V. that he meant, and that he often
Baw them both “back in the ’7o’s.” Well, so did 1, a
little later ; saw K.V. in all sorts of parts, from a slave
(with dance) to an old English comedy heroine (with
minuet), but cannot imagine her as a street boy. How-
ever, one can’t prove a negative, whereas “ J.A.C.” has
only to name the plays in which she took that kind of
part. “ E.F.” apparently agrees with me as to Kate
Vaughan, hut won’t have Nellie Farren as a street boy
either i I really did not mean Fanny Leslie or Jennie
Lee, as he suggests. N.F., as shown by her “ Nan, the
Good-for-Nothing,” was just the person to play (as far as
any woman can) the kind of part. What I take my stand
on, and believed the original par. to refer to, was her
“Aladdin,” about 1883. The street boy’s song (“Please
to hold your nag, sir. Take your little bag, sir”) was
simply the talk of London. She didn’t dress the part.
According to the Xka, on Peb. 12th last, a child was
born in the stalls of the London Comedy Theatre,
immediately after the fall of the curtain.
Just now, when Kate Vaughan’* memory begins to
fade, an announcement in London Times of 27th Feb., 'O3,
is of interest“ Orkney.—On the 26th inst. at Wing
Lodge, Wing, Bucks., the Countess of Orkney, of a
daughter.” The new baby is the first-born of Connie
Gilchrist, youngest of the Gaiety quartette of Nellie
Farren, Kate Vaughan, Phyllis Broughton and herself in
the days of Teddy Boyce and Hollingshead. The eTent
means more to Connie’s husband than most such, as,
failing male heirs, the Ortcney title passes in the
female line. His “monniker” is about ths only
Scotch thing in the family, all his estates being in
Ireland, while his wife is—well, whence came Connie
Gilchrist? The book simply says she was “Constance
Macdonald, the daughter of David Gilchrist, Esq.”
What diplomatists are these concert tenors—some of
them 1 In the art of getting a benefit your tenor—veil,
e tak ze cake. Now that Walter Kirby has at last packed
up the proceeds of his ben. and gone to Europe, there is
a whisper in Melbourne that Napoleon Boffard ze irr-re-
pressible Boffard—will arrange a farewell complimentary
concert unto himself in June, by way of breaking the
news that he has a subsequent departure in contempla-
tion. Should Boffard carry out the second part of this
fell intention, surely darkness will fall upon Melbourne
Block, and the thresholds of the music-shops will be rent
in twain.
Basso Peterkin, of the Lloyd company, who is a very
fine singer indeed, marvels at the rush of would-be stars
from these parts to London, and laments the inevitable
fate of most of them. He has been singing over ten years
in London, “ and I’m just beginning to get known.” Yet
he was singing in Scotland before that, and probably
knew most of his business before ever he tackled the
Great Smoke. Lloyd himself was for several years glad
to pick up fees of a guinea a time. The people who go
from here, after being used to their three guineas or so,
turn up their noses at the smaller dole when it first
comes their way in London. Often a time comes when
they are only too glad to be afforded a show to sing for
nothing.
all who desire- to have
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN
GAN OBTAIN
BY USING
&
&
&
0
&
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
,N
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.'
BOTTLES, 6d., 1/- 4, 2/6.
Sole Makers— U. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND.
Felton, Grimwade & Co
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
I
The basis of which is “Montserrat” Lime-Fruit Juice.
Far Superior to
all other Sauces.
AGENTS— Elliott Bros. Ltd., J. Connell So Co., D. Mitchell So Co., Sydney.
D. Conen So Co., Newcastle.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
beechams
PILLS
It OR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, sucli as Wind and Pain in the Steraaeh, Sick Headache
’ Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Celd Chills,. Hush*
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Cosriveness, Blotches Skuv, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. IHL rIKSL DUSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be WOR*H A
GUINEA A BOX.” , , , .
BEECHAM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females te eeeaylete health. Ihey
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. Fer a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, Disordered Liver,
they act like magic — a few doses will work woeders upe* the Vital Gegams; Strengthening
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing baek the keee •*.#• ef appetite, a
arousing with the Rosebud ok Health the Whole Phtsi«al Eira*«T of tbe humeaa liwaae. ines
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of seciety, amd we of theheek jruaiaaaees to
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’s Pills have the Ltrrgest <SW« df rtHertt Mememe
he world. F ull directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY *Y
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, iu Boxes, 1s l£d, and 2s 0d eaoh.
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
HIC MAJESTY
THE KINS.
MOIR'S
“MAYFAIR”
TABLE-JELLY
a
ky
SSJTJt
w a tar
IK PINT
PACKETS.
CRYSTAL
•a-a 'NMHOt ‘NHfS >«**9 ‘Ol V • !M WO ? OT H
K'liiAßß Awran? ‘MO.NO-I “an nos * aio* khof wwnwnwK
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
Corner George & Market Sts., SYDNEY
The Best Luncheon in Town from ONE SHILLING, sorted from 12 sharp till 2.30;
Dinner from 5.30 to 7.30, same price.
The Most Convenient Place for Ladies and Gentlemen visiting the Theatres to dine at.
N.B.— Visitors oijly pay f© r wbat tbcy actually baV€.
TERMS. The Convenient and Modern System of paying for a
room on arrival, and Meals as they are had.
Apartments : BEDROOM, Single, 3s. per day ; Double, 6s. per day.
ENGAGE ROOMS AT ROBERTS’ HOTEL, SYDNEY.
NOTE -Send to ROBERTS’ WINE and SPIRIT STORE, MARKET ST., next GEORGE ST.,
tor REVISED PRICE LIST.
Dttli.li.Smith,
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the East
THE BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY
u
M.D., C.M., L.R.C.P.E., L.R.C.S.E.,
L.F.F.S.G., L.M., etc.,
Registered by the Medical Boards of Great
Britain, Victoria, New South Wales,
etc.,
The Eminent Specialist, whose unparalleled success in the Treatment of Blood and Nerve
Diseases has earned for him a reputation unequalled by any other Specialist in Australia, may be consulted
daily personally or by letter, at “ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 El izabeth-st., Sydney. Old and Obsolete
discarded DR MARTIN’S latest treatment has proved absolutely effective in all cases Qf Blood
D Lease, Nerve Affections, Paralysis, Loss of Energy, Lung, Heart, Skin, ‘and all
Chronic Diseases of Men and Women. His Consulting Rooms are replete with all the
latest 1 and most scientific improvements in Electric Appliances, etc. Country Patients
treated by Correspondence at their own homes. Advice and Medicine, One
Pound All Sufferers should write for a copy of Dr. Martin’s Latest Medical Work,
the ‘ KNOX-MERCER ’ TREATMENT IN DISEASE.” This work should find a place in every
household as it contains a full and explicit account of the Most Wonderful Treatment of the Present
Acre It’has been the means of Curing Thousands who followed out the instructions contained
therein. This Marvellous Treatment Cleanses and Rejuvenates the Whole- System, and is the Cheapest
Treatment In Existence, as nothing but the Book is required.
Price, 55.; by post, ss. 6d.
CONSULTING HOURS:
10 to 2 and 7 to 9 Daily.
“ELMLEY HOUSE,” 161 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.


WATERPROOF GOODS
Waterproof Coats
Rutober Soots
G-oloshes
It s easier to buy a Waterproof Goat or Goloshes than to
pay a doctor’s bill through getting wet.
We make a speciality of these goods, and have opened all
the newest Waterproof Wearables for the season.
All are High-grade and Moderately Priced.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE AND PRICE LIST
FREE ON APPLICATION.
PERDRIAU& CO.
RUBBER HERCHANTS,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK:
Price 4s 6d, postage 6d.
CURIOUS
BOOKS
PHOTOS.
The Best Address for
English, French,
German
Books and Photos.
Apply—
-116 BOX, PARIS.
2/- for Catal. and Miniat
Apply 116 BOX. PARIS.
LADIES.
Address-
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
>.1., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
w_ c. ZEULIDZEeiDG-IE &c CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Cenfcetlary Hall).
Country Orders bypost from all the coldnies promptly
attended to.;
SIMPSON BROTHERS
(Sole Australasian Representatives)
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK.
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
For all Services kept in Stock.
Sena, fox* Catalogue.
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissors
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
mr\n Tk.
C©o®oo
49U
J. & J. MAXFIELD, Proprs., SHEFFIELD.
At the BHowrooms
EMPIRE CHAMBERS, 93 YORK-ST,
SYDNEY
Al«o at—
“THE BLOCK,”
Collins-St., MELBOURNE
-•
Have for Sale axid
to arriv
74 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE ; 435 Bourke Street.
PUMPING MACHINERY of every description, Woodworking Machinery, English and American Engines, Boilers,
Injectors, Reducing Valves, Steam Gauges, Steam Traps, Laundry Machinery, Painters’ and Bakers'
Machinery, Engineers’ Machine Tools, Shafting, Plummer Blocks, Pulleys, Hangers, Couplings, Collars,
lubricating Oil, Brunton Pocket Transits, Shedd’s Electrical Fans, Hoisting Engines and Boilers.
-a it
PARKE & LACY CO.
LIMITED,
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS,
Manufacturers and Importers of
MINING MACHINERY, STEAM ENGINES & BOILERS.
I3XT STOCK
Knowles Steam Pumps, Ingersoll Rock Drills and Air Compressors,
Nagle Horizontal and Vertical Engines and Boilers, Pennsylvania Return
Tubular Boilers, Buffalo Blowers and Exhaust Fans, Morris Dredging
Pumps, Bullock Diamond Drills, Dodge Rock Breakers, Roger Rolls,
Cates Rock Breakers, Challenge Ore Feeders, Huntington Quartz
Mills, Wood and Iron Working, and Laundry Machinery, and Mine and
Mill Supplies.
And at San Francisco and London. 60 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Bushman
Harry Moranti
His ’Ventures
and Verses.
and
Buccaneer
By FRANK RENAR.
Price 1/1
Pont
Free.
¥
EDWARDS, DUNLOP & CO.,
SYDNEY.^*
Size, SJ" x 3£" x 5".
We are Direct importers
AND HAVE FOB SALE—
Snow Duplex Pumps
(all sizes for all purposes),
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling
and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shaft-
ing, Hangers, Bearings, Collars, etc.
Engineers' Tools and Fittings, Valves,
Cocks, Gauges, etc., Cast, Tool and
Mining Steel, Wire Ropes and all Requi-
sites for Contractors, Engineers, Saw
Mills and Mining Proprietors.
R. L. Scrutton &Co. Ltd,
97 Clarence-st., Sydney.
A GO-AHEAD FIRM
PATESON & COBCROFT,
231 Sussex Street,
SYDNEY.
and Live Stock Agents,
I 1 » Auctioneers, Commission
% and Produce Merchants. ______ ——m
Goods forwarded and received from this or any State. Agents for celebrated Corn Cob Bacon
AUCTIONS ANYWHERE.
it
KLAST.”
The simplest
and most effec-
tive method for
dry crushing on
a small scale.
invaluable to
Prospectors.
Made of Best
Hardened Steel.
“I regard it as
the best hand pul-
veriser which I have
ever seen.”
E. A. ASHCROFT,
Assayer,
Broken Hill Pty. Co.
No. 2 Power
Machine
will crush 2
to 3cwt. ore
per hour.
Full Particulars on application to
N. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd Sole Agents,
71 Clarence-st., SYDNEY.
NERVOUSNESS.
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Centleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
co-red a SIMPLE MEANS of SELF
CURE, will forward the same, free of
charge, to anyone interested.
Address! A. MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Trewhella Bros.
PATEMT
LOG AND STUMP JACKS.
If you have Stumps, Roots, Stones, or Logs to cleat®'
Threshers or Machinery to move, try these Jacks, in y
are used by thousands throughout Australasia, an
sales are rapidly increasing, which proves their value.
You can obtain them from the ironmonger with whom
you deal, or I will supply you direct.
The Melbourne and Sydney Prices are-
Lift, Toss Pmc®
Double Purchase Jack 4 65 ■
C 75-
2* 40-
11
11
11
Single „ ii
With AUTOMATIC LOWERINC CEAR, 5/- extra.
Awarded Special Prize at R.A. Show, Sydney, 1903.
Full Information and Trade Discounts from _
Trewhella Bros., Trentham, Victoria,
o« H. HINDS, 17 Leftus St., Sydney .
