

McE WAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
PIG STOUT.
« + +.*.*.*****>*><*.'+ * * * ** **“
m
107 Kent street, Sydney,
Mining
and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS AND GENERAL IRONMONGERY
-FOR
and Sawmill Machinery,
NEW ajnd SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
Mining Requisites
13,800 MACHINES SOLD.
Paris
1900
Grand
Prix.
Two
Cord
Medals
Three
Silver
Medals
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
WONDERFUL VALUE—A packet of Seven different
articles, comprising Yankee Rubber Baby, can be carried
in vest pocket and blown out to life size (causes roars of
laughter), Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
Coin and Card Tricks), the Wizard Fish (gives the defini-
tion of your character —very superior for parlor enter-
tainments), the Vest Pocket Tubular Microscope (very
useful for examining small objects), The Pocket Companion
or Combination Comet, Candle and Match Box, the great
Yankee Bicycle Puzzle (very ingenious), and, last of all,
the Famous Wizard of the North's Disappearing Coin
Trick (instructions enclosed). This splendid packet posted
to any address in Australasia (Free) on receipt of 2s. 6d.
L. HUTCHINSON,
NEW YORK
Box 3, P. 0., Hay market.
NOVELTY CO.,
710 George-st., Sydney.
:
85 Pitt. Street,
SYDNEY
Sole Agents for RUSTON, PROCTOR & CO., Ltd., LINCOLN. DoU blo-Crank
F'"s°^ R H“r n ° K rfS
" obk «isRS-«i!#Ba liass
For FULL PARTICULARS and ILLUSTRATED LISTS apply to - - GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., 80 PITT STR . ,
“HERVEY’S RACKAROCK”
17 Years’ Unbroken Beoord as a Standard Australian Explosive. Cnr. CLARENCE& KINCSTS^_SYDNEY^
THORNE’S
EstM. 1831. WHISKY.
HOBAPtT-
—— :
Ijadley’s Orient jjotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
MASILL, S.A.
409 Collins St
MELBOURNE.
dg
84 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
17 Fenchurch St,
LONDON.
(jUK -fat tOalAti)
Som ampo p&Htson
the Discoverer
/OO years old.
INDIGESTION.
When you feel exhausted,
haven’t ambition or strength to
do anything, and your appetite
is poor, take
PEARSON’S
Pepto-Chlor
which is not a cure-all, but the absolute cure for Indiges-
tion and kindred complaints.
PEPTO-CHLOR is a powerful tonic, especially suited
to the digestive organs.
You are urged, to learn nrore about this wonderful
medicine.
Obtainable at all Pattinson’s shops, and from the leading
Chemists everywhere, at 2s. 6d. and 4s. per bottle.
If not obtainable at your local chemist send direct to
the Orlando Pearson Pepto-chlor Co., Stock Exchange
Buildings, Pitt-street, Sydney. ,
J. LANDES,
108 Pitt St., Sydney.
The Largest and most reliable House in
Australasia for Automatic Machines and
Novelties of every description.
The biggest Money Making Machines for
Hotels, Refreshment Rooms, Tobacco-
nists, etc., always in stock, and each
machine guaranteed.
The following' are some of our best known Machines
in use :
The “ Challenge ” Punching Machine—ld. Slot
The Novelty Pool Table Machine (game skill)—3d. Slot-
pays value in goods.
The <£ Australia —6 Slots Spots and P. Machine 3d. Slot
—pays value in goods.
The Monte Carlo—s Slots Machine—3d. Slot—pays value
The Electric Pocket Lights, with extra recharge, reduced
from 21s. to 10s. 6d.
All Goods shipped freight paid.
Kg’Our Illustrated Catalogue free on application.
PLUM
V
PLUM
f'i ENTLEMEN.—This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow pound, ring
V3T like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kina of
edge that is required to ensure an easv shave, and. having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WI, GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
Tit* “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7* 6<L
PM®
“ RAZOLEO ” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
(Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10a 6d; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 218.
\ Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15a; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to ant part of the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sola Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
CHUBB’S SAFES
EVERYWHERE.
“On Our Selection.” By “ Steele
6s, The Bulletin
Co. Ltd.,
ASTHMA and BRONCHITIS CURED
By using: CASE’S ASTHMA CURE, made from the Queensland Asthma
Plant. Relieves instantly, eventually Cures. 4s. 6d. large bottle;
Posted to any State, ss.
J. W. CASE, Chemist, 140 Wickham-st., Brisbane.
Please mention Suulktin when writing.
Are YOU
Like This--?
sg
If your scalp Is
like this, wouldn’t
you like to see it
well covered with
hair ?
Wouldn’t you like
to have it like it
used to be ?
Of course you
would.
TRY
HAIR
TONIC
It’s different from all other hair pre-
parations because it’s better.
You will follow directions, and by-and-
bye you will be gratified by seeing the
hair spring up slowly, but none the less
surely ; and in a little while your scalp
prill be thoroughly covered with hair.
If you will faithfully follow my in-
structions with every bottle, I guarantee
that you will get the above result.
CAPILLA is obtainable at all chemists,
‘.is. 6d. a bottle : or I will post a bottle direct
to you for 3s. 3d.
W. OLIVER RICHARDS,
Sole Proprietor and Inventor,
164 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
• . • .
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300
pages ; price, 4s. 6d.
Helidon Spa Water.
A Natural Liquid Food. From Helidon, Queensland.
The Bulletin
Vol 24.—N0. 1239 ]
[Thursday, November 12, 1903.
Registered at the Genera! Post Offioe, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper-


READY IN A FEW DATS.
0
iUR NEW SELECTION,
Price 6s.
By A. H. DAVIS (“ Steele Rudd **)•
H
EARTS OF GOLD and Other Verses,
By WILL. H. OGHLVIE.
Price 48. 6d.
ORDER AT ONCE FROM THE BULLETIN OFFICE.
Posted to any address in return for postal note or P. 0.0.
Boor trade Advertisement.
NEW BOOKS BY THIS WEEK’S HAIL -
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Lucy, Peeps at Parliament, 9s, postage Is 3d.
Guppy, A Naturalist in the Pacific, Vol. I, 18s, p. Is 4d.
Williams, Romance of Modern Engineering, ss, p. 6d.
Barrett (Frank), Lady Judas, 3s 6d & 3a 6d, p. 6d.
Allen Raine, On the Wings of the Wind, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Muddock, Sweet Doll of Haddon Hills, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Conan Doyle, Adventures of Gerard, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Max Muller, The Silesian Horseherd, ss, postage 6d.
Dr. John Brown : A Biography and a Criticism, 6s, p. 6d.
Jose, Two Awheel, and Others Afoot in Australia, 4s 6d,
p. 6d. Dawes, The Prime Minister, 2s 6d &3s 6d, p. 6d.
Bloundelle-Burton.The Intriguer’s Way, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d
Lyall (David), The Intervening Sea, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Henty, Through the Three Campaigns, 6s, p. Bd.
71 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doors South of Ki»g St.) &at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane & London.
CHOICE PRINTS OF
PHIL MAY’S DRAWINGS.
riIHE Bulletin Newspaper Company has had
JL carefully engraved and printed on. toned art
paper in the best style for mounting and framing
a few examples,
Limited to Twenty>five Numbered
Copies in Each Case
of the following drawings by Phil May
THE CARDINAL.
Humourous likeness of Cardinal Moran. Size of
picture, 11 x stin. His Eminence stands a smiling
and debonair figure in his ecclesiastical vestments.
The hat makes a strong note of colour in the drawing.
Price, 2s. (id.
MEASURING THE GABY.
A fine series of drawings illustrating humourous verses
by Edmund Fisher. Size of picture, 18| x 13}in.
This is one of May’s most popular illustrations, and
forms a charming family picture. Price, ss.
HONOUR AMONG SPIELERS.
Two Card-players.—“ ’Arry ! are we going to play fair
now? or all we know?” Size of picture, 7J- x 6in.
One of the best examples of May’s work in Australia.
The figures are carefully drawn iii “ open line," and the
expression is perfectly caught. Price, 2s 6d.
THE TORTURE OF A JEWISH FAST DAY.
Miss Rebecca Abraham § (redding' late on the afternoon
of Tom Kipur from an evening paper): “The wretched
murderer, on the night before his execution, ate a
hearty meal of steak and onions.”
Mr. Isaac Abrahams: ‘*o, mein Gott! stop, Rebecca,
have mercy ! Don’t make a boor oldt man’s mouth
vater like that 1 ”
The figures of Jew and Jewess are full of character. A
forceful and effective drawing. Size of picture,
8J x 6£in. Price, 2s. 6d.
THE MAJESTY OF THE LAW.
Presiding Beak : “ Well, b’ys, before I dale wid yez, tell
me where ye got to afther I left yez lasht noight.”
Picture of bush magistrate trying his jolly companions.
A fine drawing, full of humourous character. Size of
picture, 9 x 9in. Price, 2s. 6d.
A CURIOSITY IN HER OWN COUNTRY.
A very fine drawing, in “ open style,” of black-gin and
piccaninny, eyed by curious spectators. As an example
of May’s work, no better can be found anywhere. The
reproduction is worthy of a place upon any con-
noisseur’s wall. Size of picture, 8 x 6}in. Price, ss.
HARMONY.
Figure of typical Irishman step-dancing to the harping
of Queen Victoria and the piping of Pope Leo XIII. A
bright and interesting drawing. Size of picture,
7& x lOjin. Price 2s. 6d.
BUT WHICH IS TO STAND IN FRONT?
“ Never in, the history of the Empire ” (said Sir Henry
Loch, at the Melbourne Centennial banquet) “ never
has it been more important than at the present moment
that the Mother Country and the Colonies should stand
with a steady front, to oppose the great Powers of
Europe, armed to the teeth, and standing face to face."
Figures of Russian, German, Turk, Frenchman and
Spaniard threatening John Bull, who is cowering behind
Australia (emblematical female figure). A clever and
remarkable example of May’s talent. The character of
the typical figures is admirable. Size of picture,
7$ x lOfin. Price 2s. 6d.
HIS WIFE’S POCKET.
A series of humourous sketches of a husband trying vainly
to find “ that pocket." A good example of drawing and
an interesting picture. Size, 12 x Bin. Price, 2s. 6d.
CHINESE CHEAP LABOUR.
Cardinal Moran said at Adelaide that “ the Chinese were
industrious men, while the unemployed whites were
lazy.” But suppose the Cardinal’s reference had ex-
tended to the brotherhood ! —Figure of Cardinal Moran
as a Chinaman, introducing Chinese priests to Austra-
lia. Consternation of the Irish clergy. A humourous
and very clever drawing. The character of the priests
and the Chinese is wonderfully caught, and the draw-
ing is a brilliant example of pen-work. Size of picture,
10J x 7}in. Price, 2s. 6d.
THE MINSTREL.
Figure of Parkes with guitar, singing to his own music ;
with introduced likeness ef Francis Abigail. A fine
drawing, full of colour ; and an effective presentation
of Parkes. Size of picture, 11} x s.4iri. Price, 2s. 6d.
PETER LALOR.
A fine and characteristic likeness of one of the best-
known of Australian Irishmen. Size of picture,
11 x ejin. Price, 2s. 6d.
JUMPS AND JIM-JAMS.
What Mr. Brown saw last Christmas. Picture of all the
imaginary monsters seen by Mr. Brown in his dreams
on his own doorstep. A famous and effective drawing.
The original was sold tor £l5 in Melbourne. Size,
17}xl3|-in. Price, 7s. 6d.
ON THE MELBOURNE “BLOCK.”
Procession of well-known Melbourne people—in all
twenty-nine figures, with final likeness of May. The
original was sold in Melbourne for £2l. Size of picture,
16 x 16. Price, 7s. 6d.
SOME NOTORIOUS PEOPLE IN AUSTRALIA.
Remarkable series of likenesses of Patrick Jennings,
Graham Berry, Sir W. Robinson, James Fairfax, John
Lucas, J. L.. l’urves, Sir H. B. Loch, Downer, Peter
Lalor, Julius Vogel, George Reid, J. Edgar Byrne, Bill
Beach, David Gaunson, Bishop Barry, David Sytne, J.
C. Neild, George Coppin, R. Burdett Smith, Tawhiao,
Bruuton Stephens, Lord Carrington, jockey Gorry,
Tom Hales, editor Haddon, Dr. Beauey, Francis
Abigail, Robert Stout, Jack Robertson, Duncan Gillies,
George Dibbs, Henry Parkes, Cardinal Moran, police-
inspector Anderson, Dr. O’Doherty, W. B. Dailey,
Alfred Stephen, Arthur Palmer, S. W. Griffith, and
others.
The original was sold privately for £25. Size of picture,
14} x 19}in. Price 7s. 6d.
Jt
A3T Noth.—These drawings have been carefully
chosen to exhibit May’s best or most interesting
work in Australia from all aspects.
All are printed with wide margins; and the
effect is sometimes better than that of the originals.
The reproductions lose very slightly in quality,
and gain in brilliancy. -
The issue in this form is strictly limited ; and
application for the pictures should be made at
once to ensure supply.
No better or more interesting decoration for an
Australian office or home can be found than one
or more of these drawings, which will always have
a high artistic value.
On sale at The Bulletin office, or sent by post,
securely rolled in cartridge sheaths, to any
address for sixpence extra.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER COMPANY, LTD.,
214 George Street, Sydney, Australia.
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
(registered) THE GREAT ANTISEPTIC REMEDY
For INFLUENZA, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, and ALL AFFECTIONS of
the THROAT and LUNGS, and the PREVENTION of CONSUMPTION.
ASK FOR HUDSON'S, and take ni
AN IDEAL REMEDY,
Containing no Cocaine or other Poisonous Drags.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROAT, LOSS
OF VOICE.
Ml®
52
ip lus
In Tins, 1/6.
They impart a clear and silvery tone to the Voice,
and, owing to the instant relief they give in all
cases of irritation, they are now used by Leading
Singers and Public Speakers.
' **
May be taken daily by old and young. Their antiseptic properties prevent abnormal fermentation of the food,
and are thus helpful in Indigestion and Dyspepsia. Sold by all Chemists. Tins, 1/8. Agencies in all the Australian
States and New Zealand. Sydney Depot: 5& 7 Queen’s Place.
THE RED PAGE.
HOLYROOD.
The moon held.court in Holy rood last night—ten thousand
stars
By ancient tower and archway climbed and kissed the
window bars ;
The Night-mud knelt upon the hill, the crouching lion lay
With shoulder to the Capital and blind eyes to the Bay.
The moon held court in Holyrood, and, as she entered in,
On damask fringe and tapestry the spider ceased to spin;
The slow moon slipped across the floor and bowed a
queenly head
To greet the train that passed her by—a thousand sleep-
less dead
She drifted down the storied halls and touched with
spread white wings
The gallery of the Hundred Dead, the Corridor of Kings ;
She smiled upon a rebel prince, and stretched white hands
to shrive
The gallant men, the peerless maids, that danced in
.. ’Forty-five.
She crossed a sleeping chamber hung with trappings rich
arid rare,
And kissed them softly one by ’one—it was a queen lay
there :
She heard the lute notes rise and fall, and watched the
dagger sped.
While underneath her trembling wings the brown stain
turned to red.
The moon kept court in Holyrood, and from the northern
tower
She looked along the High Street sad at heart for
Scotland’s flower,
And looking saw a rider pass, pale-faced and battle
worn,
Beneath the drooping Flodden flag, all red and slashed
and torn.
The moon passed out of Holyrood, white-lipped, to open
sky ;
The Night-wind whimpered on the Crags to see the ghosts
go by ;
And stately, silent, sorrowful, the lonely lion lay —
Gaunt shoulder to the Capital and blind eyes to the Bay.
WILL. H.
Osilvik, in The Scotsman.
Words that Go to the Bad .
IT may seem whimsical to attribute a quality
of original sin to the dictionary, but there is
some tendency in words, as there is in human
nature, which makes for degeneracy. A
word conies into the world, like the babe, in a
state of innocence. Look at it after a few cen-
turies, or even decades, and the chances are that
you will find it coarsened, if not actually soiled.
To take a very simple and obvious instance:
one would say that “ knowledge ” was an idea so
definite and excellent that it could not take on
any unworthy significance. Yet to say that a
person is “knowing” is not always an unadul-
terated compliment; it suggests wisdom plus cer-
tain other qualities which had no place in the
original meaning. Still more sad is the case of
the word “cunning,” etymologically identical
with “ knowledge,” and now so far removed from
it that only the students of language know they
are related....
The same debasing principle may be seen at
work in such words as “notorious.” Many living'
descendants of Mrs. Malaprop use the word as if
it were a synonym of “ notable,” not detecting
that the trail of the serpent is already over it.
The word has not yet gone very far on the down-
ward path—not so far, for instance, as “enor-
mity ” —but it has long since acquired the specific
meaning of fame in the evil sense. You call an
Anarchist notorious, but not an Archbishop.
That the distinction was made in Shakespear’s
time is plain from the fact that he applies the
epithet to “knave,” “villain,” “pirate,” “liar,”
and other persons not admitted to polite society.
Perhaps—who knows ?—it was he who gave it the
first push on its downward career.
It is only within recent times—probably since
the arrival of musical comedy—that that push has
been given to the word “suggestive.” You may
still speak with perfect correctness of a “sugges-
tive” book or a “suggestive” sermon as one
charged with thought; and yet when you speak
of a “suggestive ” play, it is not, as a rule, its
intellectual quality to which you call attention.
If we are to argue from experience, we must
conclude that some day the word will confine
itself to that meaning exclusively, and we shall
have to find some other term for purposes of
encomium....
The reader who walks unwarily among writings
of the elder time must be prepared for shocks.
He may come across Beaumont and Fletcher’s
“white as the blooming hawthorn,” or even
Gascoigne’s old hymn, “O Abraham’s brats, O
brood of blessed seed.” Quite analogous is the
change in the use of the word “imp.” Did not
Bacon’s “ Pathway unto Prayer ” ask us to “ pray
for the preservation of the king’s most excellent
Majesty, and for the prosperous success of his
entirely beloved son, Edward our Prince, that
most angelic imp ” ? A very terrible instance of
degradation is the word “ silly,” which has very
nearly completed the circle of significance. In
Anglo-Saxon times it meant simply “blessed.”
Thence it came to be associated with the idea of
harmlessness, then of weakness, then of simplicity,
then of foolishness....
Ihe misadventures of “silly” are no more
pathetic than those of certain ill-fated words,
which, in the whirligig of time, have come round
to bear precisely the opposite of their original
Waning. We do not associate the word “beldam”
with beauty, and yet does it not come from the
l “belle dame”—fair lady ? Did not
Milton, without the least idea of depreciation,
speak of “beldam Nature ”? “Egregious ’’ is
another case in point. Etymologically meaning a
person apart—a sheep out of the flock—it is now
used exclusively as a term of contumely. The
Elizabethans could speak of an “ egregious soul,”
as in Marston’s play “Sophonisba ”: —
Erichtho
Dove thunder sits ; to thee, egregious soule,
Let all flesh bend.
Probably Thackeray, when he wrote of drawing
some one splendid and egregious,” was the last
to use the word in its proper sense.
Similarly, had the word “unspeakable” been
applied to the Turk or the Scot three hundred
years ago, it would have been very high praise
indeed. It would then have meant that their
virtues could not be uttered. St. Peter speaks
of joy ln both, these cases it is
easy to see how the two meanings are associated,
just as one can still speak of both pleasure and
pain as “exquisite,” but the significant thing is
that the original and better meaning of “ egregi-
ous and “ unspeakable ” has been entirely lost.
It is this steady downward propensity of the
language which is so puzzling. It is not easy to
find instances of words which, beginning with
sordid associations, have become exclusively
attached to worthier objects.
Do words have a society of their own from
which it is easy to be ostracised, but into which
it is hard to gain admittance ? Black satin went
out of fashion because a murderess elected to be
hanged in it; can one imagine that words which
have permitted themselves to be .used in an un-
worthy connection are henceforth cut off from the
society of their immaculate fellows? Or is it
simply the law of the world at large— facilis
descensus Averni —that there are a hundred ways
of going wrong and only one of going right. .. The
Academy.
MEMORANDA
Ibsen (it is reported by a Christiania-visiting
doctor) has practically lost the power of speech ; he
stammers so that only his nurse can understand him.
Also his faculties are impaired. His loss of memory is
particularly noticeable. In consequence of these defects
he cannot work. Ibsen is, in fact, completely broken up
He presents the picture of a helpless old man.
Observe The Academy's “Bookworm” neatly
twirling 1 two geese on one spit“ The announcement of
a forthcoming book of “Songs and Poems” by Miss
Marie Oorelli will surprise many, but not everybody.
Apart from what one may call the “ lyrical ” passages in
her prose “ works,” Miss Corelli was for some years a
tolerably frequent contributor of verses to the magazine
called “ The Theatre,” while that periodical was edited
by her brother-poet, Mr. Clement Scott."
Tolstoy and Mirbeau are genuflecting one to
other impressively. “I eagerly look forward to the
publication of Mirbeau’s work,” says T. “ France owes
much to you,” says M. to Tolstoy, in dedicating a
Russian translation of Les Affaires sont les Affaires.
New variant of an old mot : A group of
American and English artists were discussing the
manifold perfections of the late Lord Leighton
president of the Royal Academy. “Exquisite musi’-
cian—played the violin like a professional,” said
one. “ One of the best dressed men in London,” said
another. “ Danced divinely,” remarked the third.
“ Ever read his essays ? " asked a fourth ; “ in my opinion
they’re the best of the kind ever written.” Whistler’
who had remained silent, tapped the last speaker on the
shoulder. “ Painted, too, did n’t he ?” he said.
Ethel Turner’s new Betty <Se Go. is a composite
of several stories—some of them appealing to elder chil-
dren, some to elder children’s elders. The title-piece is
rather dull and prim : dozens of the Religious Tract
Society’s writers can do as well. Compared with the
author's earlier work, the other stories are as a rule
cleverer without being so effective. Some improvement
in grasp and handling of the subjects does not compen-
sate us for loss of the buoyancy, the natural gaiety
that were the basis of Ethel Turner’s charm. “ A Rogue
Locomotive” is well turned; “Portraits While You
Wait” is a neat satire; and so on. But the note is
always a little forced ; and the virtue of Seven Little
Australians lay in its unforced simplicity.
Ethel Turner seems to be standing as a writer
between two worlds—oae dead or dying, and the other
not quite powerful enough to be born. Lilian Turner
adopts her sister’s earlier manner in An Australian Lassie
—an agreeable and creditable story for children. The
book seems to hold- echoes of previous boy-and-girl
characters one has read about ; it lacks novelty other
than the novelty of publication ; yet, since it is good in
itself, that matters little. A graver defect is that the
point-of-view is not thoroughly childish : there is an
alloy of grown-up romance that does not belong. But
the story has interest and vitality ; and...one would like
to see boy John flinging stones “ that sped for a couple
of hundred yards an inch or so above the earth.”
Geor.j«a Moore’s conversion to Protestantism
is announced. Are we to take this as his Irishman’s
protest against “ the sacrifice of Ireland to Rome ’’ ?
All Europe is joking about Jacques Lebaudy,
millionaire son of a mammoth sugar refiner, who wearied
of Paris and has planted himself in an unoccupied tract
of Africa, with a posse of adventurers and a battery of
Maxims. J. F. Macdonald quaintly phrases the episode
in The Saturday Review:—"l learn that the latest
Emperor is no other than Jacques Lebaudy, the sugar-
refiner ; and that he, an adventurous soul, happened one
day upon the Sahara, and after reviewing it, cried, * A
moi, le Sahara!’ Yes, all the Sahara for M. Jacques
Lebaudy. Sand and sand for the sugar-refiner,"
MARGINALIA
THE j GETTING CELT.
The mystic Celt is Celting in mysticism eld
With a prophetic vision encountered now but stld;
He confounds the Isle of Erin with the Land of HearVs
Desire,
And goes bounding o’er the bog-land with his hoofs above
the mire ...
The Birds of Magic shadow the beauty of old dreams
Till the wisdom of the ancients a thing of promise seems ,
But the Land of Heart’s Desire is just where it was
before ;
While the mystic Celt is Celting and Dectora plies the oar.
Isabel Moore, in The Reader.
Reynolds's Newspaper says that “The world
owes hardly anything to women as exponents of the
ideal, whether in music, poetry, or the painting or plastic
arts.” Let us see. Gainsborough was an exquisite
painter. He painted the famous Duchess of Devonshire.
You look at the picture and you say, “ How beautiful 1 ”
But there was something more beautiful—the woman
who sat (or stood) for the portrait. She was the Duchess
of Devonshire. Gainsborough was an “ exponent ” of the
ideal. She was the ideal itself .. It is not to be expected
that woman, weighted with the burden of maternity, will
equal man in all other directions. The mother of Shake-
speare did not produce great plays. But she produced
somethin'/ "•'•eat, nevertheless. 3he produced Shakespeare.
—G. W. Foots. ,
Le beau temps d&licat chaufe ma-gorge nue
Oil repose ma vtiix douce comme un pigeon.
Duoi® Delarue-MArdrus.
From the Wallasey (Eng.) Anglican Parish
- Church Magazine. Scene in Heaven :—
St. Peter. Who are you ?
Applicant. A resident of Wallasey.
St. Peter. Did you subscribe to the Parish Magazine
Applicant. Yes.
St. Peter. Did you pay your subscription 1
Applicant. I forget.
St. Peter.
CONTRIB UTORS
“‘Sir,’ said Dr. Johnson, ‘let us take a walk
down Fieet-street.”' This pseudo-quotation, used by
“F.M.” (17/9/3), cannot be found in Boswell’s “John-
son.” But Temple, Bar magazine, established in 1860,
for many years printed the phrase on its outside cover.
Turning to G. A. Sala's Life and Adventures (1895), we
read : —“ To this periodical I gave the name of ‘ Temple
Bar,’and from a rough sketch of mine of the Old Bar,
which blocked the way in Fleet-street, Mr. Percy
Hacquoid drew an admirable frontispiece. As a motto I
imagined a quotation from Boswell, ‘“And now, sir,”
said I)r. Johnson, “we will take a walk down Fleet-
street.” ’ To the best of my knowledge and belief, Dr. J.
never said a word about.taking a walk down Fleet-street;
i but my innocent sitpercherie was, I fancy, implicitly
believed in for at least a generation by the majority of
magazine readers.”—E.W.D.
Exile: Overheard three people discussing-
literature at our boarding-house the other day. The
d raper’s favourites were Barabbas, The Sorrows of Satan,
and The Wandering Jew. The schoolmistress swore un-
divided allegiance to Coming Thro' the Bye— “So sweet,
so lovely ! ” The third babbled of Edna By alb Someone
suggested The Light That Failed; but the schoolmistress
remarked that this was the only one of E. P. Itoe’s she
did not like. Kindly remember this when prating of
Shafeespear, Dante, and Co.
RECEIVED
Fortunatus, a Romance (Melville and Mullen’s
“ Library of Australian Authors”). fThe “Australian
Author’s ” name is not given ; the book is crude.]
The Roman Road, by “Zack” (Lond., Constable;
2s. fid.) [Another serious-minded author whose essays
in fiction need not be taken seriously.]
Buddhism, an illustrated quarterly review, No. 1
(Rangoon, International Buddhist Society; 3s.) A
maga. of moral purposes and propaganda, intro-
duced with a very lame duck of a poem by Edwin
Arnold. Buddhism is the religion of lying down
before you ’re dead : unless for mental invalids, there's
no sense in it. “ Calm's not life’s crown, though calm
is well ’’—when you. have n’t energy enough to be
active. Ail religions of renunciation are poisonous:
the best way to slay your passions is to indulge them :
“ by the road of excess you come to the palace of
wisdom,’" said prophet Blake. True, your passions
may slay you—in which case you deserve to be slain,
and it’s for the Good of Humanity that you should be
slain, and there’s an end of logic and you together.]
Lost in Blunderland, by Caroline Lewis (Lond.,
Heinemann). [A dull statement of the Eng. political
situation, in parody of Carroll. The illustrations by
S.B., imitating Tenniel, are clever.]
Jesus, the Last Great Initiate, by Edouard Scbur4,
trans. F. Both well (Lond., Weljby ; Is. 6d. net). [A
paraphrase of the Bible narrative of Jesus, including an
attempt to reconstruct his thought and motive. A
book without relation to sense or science : food for
superstition’s Chimera.]
The Reflections of Amhrosvne, by Elinor Glyn
(Lond., Duckworth ; 2s. 6 d.) [A light society story of
the moment, with quasi-intellectual fillip of phrase.]
The Mettle of. the Pasture, by James Lane Allen
(Lond., Macmillan ; 2s. 6 d.) [James Lane is the feminine
of Mrs. Humphry Ward, and about the most tedious of
the American tribe, which is saying much. “ He did
not wish her to go, and he held out his hand and she
folded her soft pure hands about it; then her large
noble figure moved to the side of his and through her
veil—her love and sorrow hidden from him—she lifted
her face and kissed him.” Blow her soft pure hands
and her large noble figure.]
Children of Tempest, by Neil Munro (Edin.,
Blackwood ; 2s, fid,). [A. romance of people and
scenery in the Scottish islands. English papers praise
it as high, literature. It is really literature’s" simula-
crum, fluent and glittering, never really “ fe'lt,’”essen-
tially dull arid unimportant.]
The Maids of Paradise, by R. W. Chambers
(Lond., Constable ; 2s. 6d.) [Another story dealing
with France in the days of the Prussian occupation o'?
'71, and possibly the best of the author’s list.
Chambers showed in The King in Yellow that he could
imitate genius creditably: in his French series he
doffs Edgar Poe’s mantle of mystery, and wears his
own garb of industrious talent. He remains a trifle
mechanical; the parts of his books are juxtaposed,
and fitted rather than united; but with solid
•labour he does achieve interest, though scarcely
absorbing interest. Still, in the popular field, there
is no better American writing ; and The Maids is
worth perusal. Plot and characters are sound and
laboriously realised ; and the comic relief of the Yankee
circus is an agreeable echo of Artec ius W. Ail
Chambers’s heroines are attractive to a point, and the
new one is attractive beyond it. Her final embrace is
worth trying—“ She turned in my arms and clasped
her hands behind" her head, crushing her mouth to
mine."
The Celestial Hand, a sensational story by Joyce
Vincent (Sydney, J. 0, MacOartie). [Methods and
ideas of M. P. Shiel and Le Queux applied to the imagi-
nay invasion of Australia by a Mongol Napoleon’s horde.
Considered as a“shillingshockcr,”thebookisingenious,
and quite as readable as its English prototypes. The
local reference adds interest. When Sydney is being
decimated by a poisonous gas manufactured by the
Mongolian Macbiavel, the editor of The Telephone
escapes without harm, “whereas his confrere of The
Trumpeter, having written an article that weighed five
pounds when 1 set,’ arid a ton metaphorically ... could
not be brought to believe that the mysterious enemy
would have the temerity to commit yet another outrage
on law and order, and so remained in his office till the
deadly gas, flowing in through every chink and opening,
deprived him of life. His last act was to alter a direct
statement by one of his leader writers into a Delphian
announcement which could be read several ways, and
so, being consistent to the policy of his journal to the
end, he presumably died happy.”]
MoTodd, by Cutqliffe Hyne (Lond., Macfnillan;
2s. 6 d.) [Sketches of the maritime adventures of a dour
apd drunken Scotch engineer. On the whole, McTodd
is a distinctly duller personage than Captain Kettle,
as generioally he ought to be. The book can be read,
but it .does not demand reading.
A.G.S.


WOOL
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, and CO., Limited,
WOOL BROKERS AND PRODUCE SALESMEN
SYDNEY.
Are by far the most successful Salesmen
CONSIGN YOUR WOOL TO
The Co-operative Wool and Produce Co., Ltd.
And thus secure the benefits of Co-operation. SYDNEY
OF
Kangaroo, Wallaby,
Rabbit and Opossum
dsg
SORE
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT <
FOR SORB AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
PESTCFES EYFLPSHES.
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES. •
!\l EVER FAILS.
Ask youp Chenrst for the Little Book:
HOW TO PhESEhVE THE EYES
<«
CURED
Leading: House for Sporting: Goods and Tobacco
MEN’S TREBLE-SEWJST LEATHER
CRICKET BALLS, 540z.-Won-
derful Value.
Is, Is 9cl, 2s 6d, 3s 6d each
DUKE’S LEATHER BALLS—
-ss, 5s 6d, 6s 3d, 7s 6d
WISDEN’S LEATHER BALLS-
-4s 3d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d
COMPO. BALLS—
Is, Is 4d, 2s 3d, 3s, 4s 3d
BOYS’ COMPOS.- sd, 6d, 9d
BOYS’ 1 No. 0 1 2 3 4 5 G
BATS/ Gd, 9d, Is, Is 3d, IsGd, 2s, 2s Gd
BOYS’ BATS, 1 No. 3 4 5 G
Cane— / 3s Gd, 4s, 4s 9d, 5s 3d
MEN’S BATS, \ss Gd, 6s fd, 7s Gd, 8s Gd
All Cane— J9s Gd, 10s Gd, ll.s Gd, 12s Gd
MEN S CANE l
and RUBBER}
BATS- J
14s Gd,
17s Gd,
15s, 15s Gd,
18s 6d, 20s,
lGs Gd
25s
Send for Catalogue, Post Free—full
list of Bats, toy all Best Makers.
BOYS’ STUMPS—
Gd, Is, Is 6d, 2s, 2s 9d, 3s 9d
MEN’S STUMPS, Brass Tops, Steel Shod—
Gs, 7s 9d, 9s 6d, 10s 6d, 14s Gd set
LEG GUARDS-
Boys’, 4s Gd, ss, Gs Gd pair
Men’s, 5s lid, Gs Gd, 7s 9d, 9s 6d, 12s Gd
14s Gd, 16s Gd pair
GAUNTLETS-
Boys’, 3s Gd, 5s Gd pair
Men’s, ss, Gs 6d, 7s 9d, 9s 6d, 10s 6d pair
MATS, Best Quality, 80s and 95s
CRICKET SETS—
Boys’, Is Gd, 2s 6d, 3s 6d, ss, 7s 6d, 10s,
Men’s, 335, 37s 6d, 64s Gd, 88s Gd, 103 s set
Tennis Racquets.
FULL SIZE.
Dehsv
3s 6d
Hanmcau
5s
STANbARb
7s 3d
Ascot
2s 6d
The above are a new departure in
the Racquet Trade, and the best value
ever offered to the public.
AYRES’, 6s 6d, 8s 9d, 12s 6d, 16s 6d, 19s 6d, 24s
SLAZENGER’S, 13s 6d, 17s, 20s, 255, 30s,
TENNIS SETS, Double, for four players—
30s, 40s, 60s, 60s, 70s, 80s, 90s, 100 s, &c.
Tennis Balls.
Grey Regulation
Covered Regulation
SLAZENGER’S Grey Reg.
SLAZENGER’S Covered ...
AYRES’ Grey Reg.
AYRES’ Covered
AYRES’ Champion...
4s 6d doz.
9s 6d
.... 10s
... lGs
... 8s 6d
12s 6d, 15s
... 16s
TAYLORS
Lawn Bowls,
TAYLOR’S 3rd quality, No. 3 Bias—
Ivory Mounted ... ... 16s 6d, 18s 6,d
TAYLOR’S, Ist quality, No. 3 Bias —
Ivory Mounted ... ... ... 20s, 24s
TAYLOR’S, extra quality, No,. 3 Bias-
Ivory Mounted 24 s
Every Bowl tested arid stamped by the
N.S. W. Botvling Association.
Remittance, including payment fojr
freight, must accompany each order.
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, SYDNEY.
A WELL-K
LEGSSLATOR
After suffering weeks of agonising torture from Sciatica, after being drugged and
physicked nearly to death by different doctors, and having become greatly run
down in general health, finally gave up the old-style treatment and came to us
for a cure. See what he has to say about our remedy :
the dr. McLaughlin co. eaglehawk, vie.
Dear Sirs, —In answer to your inquiries about my health since I purchased your Electric Belt in December last, I have great
pleasure in informing you that I carried out your instructions as nearly as possible from the beginning of January yip to the
beginning of this month by wearing the Belt when going to bed, and taking it off every morning average 7 hours every 24. After
the first three weeks I wore it I began to feel better in myself, and was able to walk better, and now I am pleased to say that the
Belt has ENTIRELY CURED ME, and I have not used it now for three weeks. Up to the time I called on you in Melbourne,
the week before Christmas, I had been under the doctor’s treatment for some time, and nearly physicked of existence,
so much
pounds,
through youri
flesh, to the extent of over a stone. T , , , T u■ * n .
When I was taken ill with the Sciatica, I had just been returned to Parliament, I became so bad I could not walk except
under the most excruciating pain, and had to hire a cab to take me to and from the House for over three weeks. I can honestly
and fully recommend your Belt to anyone suffering from this complaint. I am, Sirs, yours respectfully,
HAY KIRKWOOD, J.P., M.L.A.,
Member of Parliament for Eaglehawk.
& m 9
m
■gem
* t/s-
DR. McLAUGHUN’S ELECTRIC BELT
WITH FREE
ATTACHMENTS
Pours a warming-, invigorating current of life force into your body for hours at a time while you sleep. It strengthens, it builds, it
revitalises the worn-out tissues and organs. Use it, and you’ll never regret it. It has cured thousands, and is curing thousands every year.
The principal feature in our treatment is that we do not use drugs by our method, but the secret of our success is our straightforward,
consistent dealing; we know that Electricity will cure you. We don’t tell you to-day that ELECTRICITY ALONE IS DANGEROUS and
turn around next time and say that MEDICINE IS NOT NECESSARY. Always ~ead these advertisements carefully. You want consistent
treatment, and we will give it to you. Without the help of drugs our Wonderful Rejuven-
ator is an absolutely positive cure for all forms of ORGANIC DEBiLIT sf, LOSS OP
MEMORY, VARICOCELE, WEAK STOMACH, and all Physical and Vital Weaknesses,
Confusion of Ideas, Kidney and allied complaints, Rheumatism, Sciatica, and Lumbago.
It has cured thousands every year after every other known remedy has failed. The fact is,
medicines cannot cure these complaints, as you will know if you have tried them. Elec-
tric ty—which is nerve force —is the power that has been drained from the system, and to
cure it must be replaced.
Martinville, via Cooranbong,
Dear Sirs,—l have much pleasure in testifying to the healing
powers of your Elect ric Belts. Having been a sufferer for years from
Liver and Kidney Complaint, I was at last (after trying the
proverbial 101 different cures, also being attended on by several
doctors without sue ess) persuaded to try one of your Belts, and am
pleased to say that after six months I am a different man, and con-
sider my case a permanent cure. I have no hesitation in recom-
mending Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt to like sufferers. —I remain,
yours gratefully, D. M. B. INNES.
DO MOT BUY AN ELECTRIC BELT UNTIL YOU HAVE ABSOLUTELY DECIDED TO TAKE NO MOBE DRUGS.
FREE.
We want you to read our Book, and learn the truth about our arguments. If you are not as vigorous as you would like to
be, if you have RHEUMATIC PAINS, WEAK KIDNEYS, LOSS OF VITALITY, PROSTATIC TROUBLES,
NERVOUS SPELLS, or any ailment of that kind, it would assure your future happiness if you would look into this method
of ours. We know beyond all possibility of
NOTICE.
£lOOO will be paid for one of our Belts when
properly used refuses to give a strong current.
The ability to regulate the current of our Belt
has done more to produce curative results
than any other feature.
doubt that we can cure you, and cure you
permanently. Our BELTS are within reach of
all. Don’t delay trying it; your best days
are slipping by. If you want this Book, we
send it closely sealed free if you send this ad.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co.,
IOOW. MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
167 E. SWANSTON STREET, HELBOURNE.
54 WILLIS STREET, WELLINGTON, N.Z.


PERDRIAU & CO.
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established 1881.
First Manufacturers of Rubber Goods in Australia.
Rubber Sheet, Rubber Valves, Rubber Buffers.
Armoured and Plain.
For Gardens. For Sieam.
Any Sizes
or Thickness.
HOSE.
TUBING.
For High-pressure delivery.
For Suction.
Of best Quality Rubber.
N ill stand any Climate.
A Full Assortment of
all Best Makes.
Best Quality.
Any Size.
ENGINE PACKING.
RUBBER BELTING.
TITAN JOINTING.
To hold
400 lbs. steam.
Won’t Slip.
Up to 86 in. wids.
For High
Pressure Steam.
Will make a tight and lasting joint on any surface and under any pressure.
Will stand any degree
of steam heat.
DUGONG JOINTING.
Tlie best Jointing ever
made for Ammonia.
Rubber and Oil Waterproof Clothing.
Rubber Coats, Boots, Goloshes, Leggings, Oilskin Ooati, Jackets, Pants' in
everything to keep out the wet. ’ *
Enamu.
SURGICAL
Air and Watar Ouibiona and Bed*.
Fountain Syringes.
Hot Water Bags.
Operating Cushions.
Ice Caps. Atomizers.
RUBBER
GOODS
Rubber Gloves.
Elastic Web Goods.
Bandages, Stockings
Urinals.
PHBPBIAtT & 00, 270 Georg* Si., Sidney.
> Illustrated Catalogues sent Free on Application.
DRINK—
GARDNER’S SPA WATER
From our Springs at Helidon. OWEN GARDNER & SONS, Brisbane (Head office) &at Helidon.
Second
Edition.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER:
Harry Morant
His ’Ventures
and Verses.
Price 1/1
Post
Free.
V By FRANK RENAR. \f
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Sydney
RUPTURE
CAN BE CURED
Without
Operation,
Pain, Danger, Inconvenience, or Loss of Time. A genuine success. IMMEDIATE RELIEF.
The acme of comfort and a feeling of perfect confidence is secured from the first hour of using
Dr. Langston’s combined treatment. Write to-day for Treatise No. 12—posted 2 stamps—and
read the CONVINCING- TESTIMONY received from all parts of Australia, from hundreds
of men who HAVE BEEN CURED. Used and endorsed by Clergymen, Statesmen, Lawyers,
Physicians, Farmers, Artisans, Navvies, Miners; in fact, men and women in every station of
life. These living witnesses support facts that leave no room for doubt.
VARICOCELE
CURED—No Cutting or Pain.
The stagnant blood is driven from the dilated veins, and all soreness and swelling subsides.
Men suffering from Weakened Nerve Force, Constant Depression, Gloomy Forebodings, Fast
Becoming Unfitted for Active Business Life, fail to attribute their deplorable state to the
PROPER CAUSE. They know they have VARICOCELE, as they have suffered some dis-
comfort on account of it, particularly while standing. But the evil effects due to
VARICOCELE are so gradual that they neglect it until the entire system is undermined, and
they are forced to realise that something must be done to prevent them from breaking down
completely. To such sufferers I say, Don’t fall into the hands of Quacks —don’t submit
to the knife —don’t pay enormous sums to so-called specialists for medicines, electric belts, etc.
My perfect, simple device will CURE YOU EASILY, Permanently, and Quickly, without
inconvenience or loss of time. Send for Treatise No. 15—posted 2 stamps.
Surgeon LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.
129 Collins St., Melbourne ; and at 177 Liverpool St., Sydney.
sdg
SMOKE
The Unrivalled
World Renownei
BRIAR
PIPES
LARGEST DEPOT:
231 Clarence St,
SYDNEY.
James Martin & Co.
161 CLARENCE ST
Near King St.
SYDNEY
*353
lii
WE ARE PREPARED TO
ILLUMINATE ANY PLACE,
ANY TIME, ANYWHERE, with
ACETYLENE GAS.
Martin’s Reliable Automatic
Acetylene Gas Generator.
ALL SIZES, from 5 to 1000 LIGHTS.
OVER 503 IN DAILY USE. Send for our “ No. 66
Acetylene Gas Catalogue.”
CARBIDE OF CALCIUH at the BEST PRICES.
When you want MOTIVE POWER it will
pay you to investigate the merits of
MARTIN'S
Nonpareil Oil Engine
BURNS ORDINARY KEROSENE.
FULL SPEED AT A MOMENTS NOTICE.
Strong 1 , Safe, Cheap, Economical. ISt
ALL SIZES, both HORIZONTAL and PORTABLE.
£2T Send for Illustrated Descriptive Circular.
NO CURE. NO PAY.
a
V
Not a penny down. Simply drop us a post-
card with your name and address, and we forward
at once one of our latest Improved High Grade
Electric Belts. You can use it three months,
then pay us if cured, and the price will only be
half what others ask, for their belts. If not
cured, you can return the belt to us at our ex-
pense and your word will decide. We are whiling
to trust you entirely, knowing that we have the
best and most perfect belt used in the Common-
wealth to-day, and nine men in ten always pay
when cured.
We Will Trust You.
This modern Belt is the most perfect and
complete ever invented. It will cure all cases
of Rheumatism, Varicocele, Indigestion, Lum-
bago, Weak Back, Kidney, Liver and Stomach
complaints. We will send absolutely
FREE
A beautifully illustrated Medical Book, which should be read by all weak ir;en and women.
This will be sent free in plain wrapper, all charges prepaid. It is free, and can be had for
the asking. Don’t. neglect this splendid opportunity to regain your health. Write to-day.
The Dr. J. n. Austin Electric Co. (Dept. M.)
49 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.
SOME BOOKS T SIR ROBERT I
:
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
BMBRAOnro
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 86 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FEEE FEOM TECHNICAL TEEMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1903 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUAEANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK
CAN BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my
BIG-
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
Book of Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated with over 50 engravings,
3s 6d posted, . Magic Up-to-Date, Easy Conjuring
Tricks for Beginners, illustrated, Is posted. Ned
Donelly’s Art of Boxing, new enlarged edition 40
engravings, Is. How to Dance, Is ; post, Is 3d. How
to Wrestle, Is ; post, Is 2d. Moll Flanders, a rare
book by De Fop, Is 3d posted. Tailoring for
Amateurs, Is ; post, Is 2d. Zola’s Nana, etc., 2s
each posted. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Fvvoritf,
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Little Folks’
Reciter, Popular Reciter, Humorous Dialogue
Book, Gd each ; posted, Bd. Nigger Stump Speeches
Is. Window' Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Me
chanic’s Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Dog Keeping
Is 3d. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post Is 3d
Georgette Is; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, is ; post
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., is Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d. How to
Make Love, Is Gd. Fowler’s Science of Life 10s 6d
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals’), 3s Gd'
Mahomet s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is; post, Is 3d. Nat Gould’s
SPORTrxG Novels, 2s edition for Is 9d, post paid any
of them. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d posted.
Chiniquv s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional
Is 6d posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3 9d posted.’
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-fitting, etc., is. 3d.
post. How TO Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is. post"
That Rascal Gustave, Is. ; post Is. 3d. Camille, is!
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning
and Repairing, Is. 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is.
Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Horse and Cattle Doctor,
Is. Poultry Keeping, Is. posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is 3d. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is. 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is 3d ; post Is 6d. Letter
Writer Up-to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts,
Public Speaking Made Easy, Is posted. Kelly Gang
of Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post
Is 3d. Model Plays and Dialogues, Is ; post Is 3d.
Inquirer’s Oracle : What to do and How to do it,
3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self Instructor : Every Man
His Own Schoolmaster, Is posted. Cabinet Makers
Handybook, Is 3d. Cabinet Making for Amateurs,
illustrated, 3s 6d post. Resurrection, Bd. posted.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established SO Years.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
How to Make up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is.
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. ; post, Is. 3d.
Sappho, genuine, Is. Advice to Women, Is.; post,
Is. 3d. Dr. Milford’s Midwife’s Handbook, 92 prac-
tical illustrations, 2s. 6d. ; Aristotle, 3s. 6d. Clog
Dancing Made Easy, Is. Practical Palmistry, is.
Love and Parentage, Bd. Secret History Court of
England, Is. 3d. post. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is
Photography for Amateurs, Is. Morgan’s Free-
masonry, Is. 3d. post. Latest Song Books, 3d., 6d
and Is. Tokology, 7s. 6d. post. Voltaire’s Ro-
mances, 2s. Ingersoll’s Works, 2s. Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards, Love, Business, Futurity, etc., with
full directions, is. posted. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is. 6d. posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s. 6d. posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is. 3d. post free. G. W.
Reynolds Court of London Series, 2s. each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s. 6d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is. 2d. posted. The Slide Rule and How to Use It,
Is. 6d. post. 100 New Recitations and Readings,
Is. 3d. Nervousness and Its Cure, Is. 2d. posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1000 illus., leather bound, my price, 15s. postpaid.’
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Me-
chanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s. 6d. posted. The
Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is. 3d. 200 Old-Time
Songs (words and music complete), Is. 6d. posted
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted, Is 3d!
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, ss. 6d. posted
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney
ELECTRIC BELTS
+
Protected by Royal Letters Patent*
YOU never saw a Genuine Electric Belt in this
country if you have not seen ours ; you have never
worn a Genuine Electric Belt if you have not
worn ours. We are protected against all those who
would like to encroach on our Patent Rights. Our Belt
has no cumbersome, obsolete chain to be saturated in
VINEGAR or SULPHURIC ACID TO TORTURE YOUR SKIN, and
you do not lose the current after a few days’ wear.
We have the very latest achievements of Medical
Electric Science, an Electric Body Battery, for the
cure of all nervous and other diseases, in all stages,
however caused, which will restore the wearer to
robust health and vigor, and it weighs only seven
ounces. Call and examine our Electric Belts before
throwing your money away on useless Toy Belts. Test
them on the galvanometer, and also feel their life-
giving galvanic current. Our “Electric Era” and
price list is sent tost free anywhere.
Address: Electric Appliance Company
DEPT. 7,
63 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
m
Given
AWAY
To Advertise
our
OSTRICH
TIPS.
2/6
The Bunch.
Post Free
3 Tips with Ospreys.
ißlack, Cream, or Biack tipped with White.
A Marvel of Cheapness.
Write To-Day. Send Postal Notes.
Illustrated Price List Sent Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Bonrke & Swauston Sts.. Melbourne
Mention The Bulletin.
THE” BULLETIN STORY- BOOK:
Price, 4s. 6d.


It’s an easy job for the barber to
part the hair od a bead like this.
It’s just as easy to prevent baldness
if you only do the right thing.
Baldness is almost always a sure
sign of neglect; it is the story of neg-
lected dandruff.
Dandruff is untidy, unnecessary, and
unhealthy.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
cures dandruff and prevents baldness.
Fou save your hair and you are spared
the annoyance of untidy clothing.
It also stops falling of the hair, and
makes the hair grow thick and long.
Do not be deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Make sure that you get the genuine
Ayer's Hair Vigor.
Preoared by Dr J. C. Ayer& Co.. Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
Cockroaches!
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦
BUFFON’S
COCKROACH . . .
EXTERMINATOR
Clears houses of these pests very quickly.
Has been used for many years with
great success.
To be obtained of all Chemists.
KRUSE’S
FLUID
MAGNESIA
FOR
Indigestion, Biliousness and
' Acidity.
ALLAYS FEVERISH CONDITIONS IN
OLD AND YOUNG.
m Try It."
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Capillarine
Posted (under cover
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 108.6 d.
SOLE AGENTS.
X
Tht Result.
CRAIG & AITKEIM, N.S. W. Barber’B Supply
House. 680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Too Stout
I was for years; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to lOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney,
Sending, mention this paper.
The Acetylene Gas Company
of Australasia, Limited,
Sole Patentees of Crystalline Carbide of Calcium,
36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers of TYREES PATENT GENERATORS.
Adopted by the N.S.W. Government; Sydney Harbor
Trust; N.S.W. Educational Department; Railway De-
partment ; Water and Sewerage Board ; Commonwealth
Post Office ; Churches ; Convents ; Schools ; and nearly
all the leading Squatters, Storekeepers and Hotelkeepers
of N.S.W.
Direotlons for Use. —Throw the Carbide down the tube ;
the Machine does the rest.
e u
ro house
Beware of Infringers of our Patents.
In spite of the fact that we have obtained several
injunctions against infringers, there are still some un-
authorised persons selling Carbide. The Public are
requested to see that each drum bears our label, without
which the user is liable to an action for infringement.
We supply Carbide for any generator either direct, or
through our agents in Australasia, at prices lower than is
charged to the Public in England.
Send for our New Catalogue No. 150.
The Acetylene Gas Co. of Australasia, Ltd.
36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
BONNINGTONS
CARRAGEEN
IRISH MOSS
1
■z
FOR
LUNGS
VOICE
THROAT
SMALL'BOTTLES
fg
Commercial
Bugsyi
£l4 1103,
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-sfc,
SYDNEY.
Send for %
Catalogue.
sfdg
Went Shaft Sulkies,
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE t«
buyer* of Light Vehicles.
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, i3o Sussex St., Sydney
Straight Shaft 3-Spring; Bulkiee, £BlOB.
Sarven Sulky Wheels Tyred, £2 4s 6d pair.
Discount to Wholesale Buyers. Send for Catalogue.
21/-
/
H. IT. SMITH
BRISBANE
21/-
Convincing Proof
Gunnedah,
N.S. Wales.
Received Solid Silver Keyless
Hunting Watclj, 21/-, in good
order ; it keeps perfect time and is
splendid value—best in Austral-
asia.
Yours truly,
JOSEPH BENNETT.
Posted Free to any part Of
Australia.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue.
Queensland Leading Jeweller.
HJ.IIAIS ‘d 'H
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE ;
And at IPSWICH and TOOWOOMBA.
n
he
• ‘‘NEW RIVAL”
Loaded Shotgun Cartridges*
Good powder and shot, carefully and
scientifically loaded in the best of cases,
make Winchester “New Rival Black
Powder Shotgun Cartridges the most re-
liable and satisfactory on the market.
A trial will convince you of their super-
iority. Be sure and get,the Winchester
“ New Rival ” brand next time you buy.
SHOOT THEM AND SHOOT WELL
Before purchasing WINCHESTER GOODS
Send for our Rifle Catalogue, Post Free,
PERRY BROS. -
HARDWARE MERCHANTS,
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
CITIZENS’ LIFE
Assurance
Co., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Citizens’ Buildings, Moore and Castlereagh Streets, Sydney.
FUNDS £1,000,000.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
on security of Freehold City or Suburban Properties,
pood Dairy Farms, Agricultural and Grazing Lands
(Freehold or C.P. and C.L.)or Government Stock of
any of the Australian States or New Zealand, at Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
LOANS ARRANGED for a fixed term, or made repayable by instalments,
without notice or payment of any fine.-
HARRISON, JONESf DEVLIN,™
Wool Brokers
Fat Stock Salesmen,
Stock # Station Agents.
Our Charge for selling
Wool of the New Clip
is reduced to
2 Per
Cent.
Being a Consolidated Charge
includes Commission, Insurance
while in Store, Weighing, Cata-
loguing, &c., &c.
Auction Sales held on all advertised dates of Hides, Sheepskins, Tallow,
Marsupial Skins, and all Station Produce.
Stores and Offices: Circular Quay, Sydney.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Echoes.
The world but echoes what the world hath spoken,
There is no new thing said ;
The living speak, but in a string unbroken,
We hear again the dead.
The voice, however mighty, that upraises
Its note in speech or song,
Unknowingly, perchance, repeats the phrases
The world has known for long.
The feathered songstress —God’s appointed choru3
Since first the world began —
Sings now, as in the centuries before us,
The same to God and man.
And is her note less beautiful though olden ?
Her trills and pipes less true ?
And is her message—Joy and Love—less golden
Because it is not new ?
The old is ever new—stay not the singer,
Though uninspired his lays,
Who to this world is e’en a modest bringer
Of love and joy and praise.
We all are echoes, each reverberating
Time’s ancient hills around,
Until the Master voice—all earth awaiting—
The last great word shall sound.
vio.
EARDLEY TURNER.
Desiree.
Arms about me gleaming whitely,
Transient lips that kiss me tightly;
Dead Desiree, maiden lover,
Leans above my couch midnightly.
From the haunt of winged things wheeling,
Down the dark mist earthward stealing
She unfolds her starry story—
Desiree, my midnight glory !
Fain she wakes me with caresses,
Blinds me with her scented tresses
Laden with the breath of clover
Filched from twilight wildernesses.
Drowns my heart in wild compassion,
Wooing in the olden fashion
Ere she learned her stainless story—
Desiree, my midnight glory !
Past the red Stars’ voiceless thunder
Hath she brought her tales of wonder ;
Dark-eyed houris, luring, loving,
Waiting for the leal out yonder,
Welcoming with honor splendid
Spent souls from the deep ascended ;
Low she lisps her dazzling story—
Desiree, my midnight glory !
Q.
C. L. RIVERS.
The Hillside Tryst.
There’s a track we have trodden together ;
Do you treasure the memory still
Of the path that wound up through the heather
To the brow of the wind-beaten hill ?
And the white-headed peak lay before us—
Dear love, do you ever regret
What the future can never restore us
And the hours we can never forget ?
The stampers’ discordant insistence
Broke faint and subdued on our ears,
And the World lay behind in the distance—
The World with its toil and its tears.
Far away from the roar and the riot,
Where our great hillside temple of stone
Reared its halls of ineffable quiet,
We lingered, my darling, alone.
Now the young moon leans low in the azure,
Lights blink o’er the valley afar,
And from soft twilight-curtained embrasure
Star beacons and beckons to star.
There’s a wind that comes valley ward grieving,
There’s the rush of a riverward rill
Down the slopes where the wattles are weaving
Gold garlands for Carowa Hill.
Mourns the grey peak in majesty hoary ;
There’s a glory gone out of the sky
That belongs to a scene and a story
In a season for ever gone by.
Just we two —and the big vault above us
Bending down to rough ranges uphurled
Ah ! the light in the faces that love us—
The light that is gone from the World,
TAS.
ERHAMI.
How Do I Know?
How do I know that Spring has come ?
Ah ! ’tis not by the blow-fly’s hum ;
But when wild-bees to dead-gum trunk
Fly zig-zag homeward, honey-drunk—
’Tis then I know that Spring has come !
How do I know when Spring is here?
Why—by the gnat-thick atmosphere;
And when, so jealous of his brood,
Dad magpie darts in vicious mood—
’Tis then I know that Spring is here !
How do I know that it is Spring ?
Because the locusts hop and sing,
And green frogs trill, with many a shake,
Their swan-songs to the early snake ! —
Ah, then I know that it is Spring !
And when my prim-faced heart’s desire
Stands with her fellows in the choir,
I hear her sweet notes, loud and pure,
Swell ’neath new fashion’s garniture—
’Tis when new-decked my love doth sing—
To tell me truly it is Spring !
VIC.
RITA SUNYASEE.


A NOVEL PREBENT.
ON receipt of P. 0.0. or M.O. for 5/- we will forward to
any address in Australia one of our Handsome
Bet. Gold-filled Round Wire Brooches, with
either Bell, Heart, Anchor or Cross Pendant, guaranteed
the same quality as brooch ; and without pendant, 3/6.
[n 15ct. G.F. Twisted Wire, 8/6; without pendant. 6/6.
Illustrated Catalogues sent Free. All letters carefully
addressed to R. SIMS, Gold Wire Kins, Cole’s
Book Arcade, Melbourne, Vic.
a
m
&
“ ACM MKB A CHARM.**
JONES’
Rheumaticuro
The great South African Remedy
NEVER FAILS TO CCU
Gout, Rheumatism,
Rheumatic Gout, Lumbago,
Sciatica and Neuralgia.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
2S. 9d. FDR BOTTLH
SOLB PROPRIETORS —
THE RHEUMATICURO CO..
Cape Town,
and 29 Niagara Lane, Melbourne
EVERY WOMAN
Is Interested and should know
about the wonderful
Marvel Whirling Spray
The new FEMALE SYRINGE
Injection and Suction. The bestj
safest and most convenient.
It Clfsnses Instantly,
fgdg
If your druggist cannot
supply the MARVEL,
accept no other, but write us for
Illustrated Book, sent free
sealed. It gives price by mail,
particulars and directions invalu-
able to ladies, w endorsed by Physicians.
Times Building, N.Y.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS-
THE MARVEL CO. OF AUSTRALIA,
284 George St., Sydney, N.S.W*
LADY SPECIALIST IN ATTENDANCE.
Postal Address, Box 623, G<P,O., Sydney.
Write for Booklet. Sent free, sealed.
WEBSTER’S
CARBOLIC
DENTIFRICE
HAS MANY FINE POINTS.
FOR QUALITY, FLAVOR AND PRICE '
HAS NO EQUAL.
Sold all over Australia.
LARGE TINS, 6d. <
INSIST ON GETTING IT. 1
ASTHMA CURE
Gf IT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Fop Asthmatic people who suffer from
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest.
ORIMAULT A Co., Paris. Bold by sllChemltU.
USE ANTHOS AND PREVENT BALDNESS
Discoverer—Christopher Mudd, f. 1.5., f.r.g.s., M.B.Ph.s, L. Lecturer to
Medical Students in Botany at Cambridge University.
A SAFE AND EFFECTIVE HAIR DRESSING.
Used by the aristocracy of Australia. It Cleanses and Refreshes the Scalp, Feeds the Hair, and
PREVENTS MAIR FROM FALLING OUT.
An eminent M.D. (Melbourne University) writes "After observing closely the use of ' AnthOS,' I
am convinced that it promotes the growth of the Hair."
Price, 2/6; posted, 3/3.
Hordern’s, Foy’s, Pattlnson’s, Lasseter’s, Grace Bros. Depots— Horwltz, Pitt Street, and
Elliott Bros. Ltd. Chief Depot— F. J. E. Phillips, 317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
WILD WITH ECZEMA
And Other Itching, Burning,
Scaly Eruptions with
Loss of Hair.
Speedy Cure Treatment.
Bathe the affected parts with Hot Water and Cutlcura Soap, to
cleanse the surface of crusts and scales, and soften the thickened
cuticle. Dry, without hard rubbing, and apply Cutlcura Ointment
freely, to allay itching, irritation, and inflammation, and soothe and
heal, and lastly take Cuticura Resolvent Pills, to cool and cleanse the
blood. A single set is often sufficient to cure the most torturing, dis-
figuring, itching, burning, scaly, pimply humours, eczemas, rashes,
irritations, and chafings, with loss of hair, when all else fails.
The agonizing itching and burning of the skin, as in eczema; the fright*
fnl scaling, as in psoriasis; the loss of hair and crusting of the-scalp, as in
scalled head; the facial disfigurement, as in pimples and ringworm; the
awful suffering of infants and the anxiety of worn-out parents, as in milk
crust, tetter, and salt rheum, all demand a remedy of almost superhuman
virtues to successfully cope with them. Such are the Cuticura remedies,
the purest, sweetest, most speedy and economical curatives for the skin,
scalp, and blood ever compounded. Mothers are their warmest friends.
Millionsof Women Use Cuticura Soap
Assisted by Cuticura Ointment for preserving, purifying, and beautify-
ing the skin, for cleansing the scalp of crusts, scales, and dandruff, and the!
stopping of falling hair, for softening, whitening, and soothing red, rough,
and sore hands, for baby rashes and chafings, in the form of baths for
annoying irritations and inflammations of women, or too free or offensive
perspiration, in the form of washes for ulcerative weaknesses, and many
sanative, antiseptic purposes which readily suggest themselves, as well as
for all the purposes of the toilet, bath, and nursery.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT PILLS
(Chocolate Coated) are a new, tasteless,
odourless, economical substitute for the cele-
brated liquid Cuticura Resolvent, as well as lor all other blood purifiers and humour
cures. Put up in screw-cap pocket vials, containing 60 doses.
Cuticura Remedies are sold throughout the world. Australian Depot: B. Towns & Co., Sydney. British
Depot: 27-28, Charterhouse Sq., London. French Depot: S Rue de la Paix, Paris. Potter Dbuo and Chem.
Coed., Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
I*o DEFY COMIFETIXIOKT.
WINES 0 * < SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS. CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
BOOKS
sdg
BOOK OF NATURE and Il-
lustrated Marriage Guide
by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated
with over 50 engravings,
3s 6d, posted. Magic
Up-to-Date, East Conjur-
ing Tricks for Beginners,
illustrated, Is. Horse and
Cattle Doctor, 6d. Ned
Donelly’s Art op Boxing,
new enlarged edition, 40
engravings, Is. Piping Hot,
2s. How to Dance, Is ;
post Is 3d. Howto Wrestle,
9d &Is 3d. Molli F-landers,
a rare book by De Foe, Is
3d posted. Rush for the
Spoil, 2s. Zola’s Nana, etc., 2s each posted.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite Reciter,
Is each. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist, latest
edition, 3s 6d. Little Folks’ Reciter, Popular
Reciter, Humorous Dialogue Book, 6d each.
Nigger Stump Speeches, Is ; post, Is 3d. All Nat
Gould’s Novels, 6d each, posted Bd. Devil in Sydney,
Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is, post Is 3d. House
Painting and Papering, Is 3d. Dog Keeping, Is 3d;
post, Is 6d. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is;
post, Is 3d. All The Bulletin series.
How to Write Signs, Tickets and Posters, Is 3d.
Staining, Varnishing and Polishing Wood, Is 3d.
Electric Bells, 1/3. Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3.
How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is.
Metal-working for Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing,
Gas-fitting, etc., Is 3d. , How to Play Billiards,
illustrated, Is. That Rascal Gustave, Is ; post Is
3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of Philosophy. Is, post 1/2.
How to Vamp on Piano, Is ; post Is 3d. Piano
Tuning and Repairing, Is 3d ; post Is 6d. Modern
Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Great
Book of Wonders, Secrets, and Mysteries, Is.
Picture Frame Making, Is 3d. Poultry Keeping, Is,
Is 6d and ss; posted. Parlor Magic, Is. Dream
Book and Fortune Teller, Is, 2s and 3s posted.
Every Man His Own Builder, Is 3d; post Is 6d.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready
Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, Is ; posted Is
2d. Australian Doctor, cures for all diseases,
Is 3d; post Is 6d. Letter Writer Up-to-Date, Is.
Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking Made
Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, Is; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post Is 3d.
Model Plays and Dialogues, Is ; post Is 3d.
Enquirer’s Oracle : What to do and How to do it,
8000 subjects, Is 3d ; post Is 6d. Self Instructor :
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, Is. French
Art Studies, 200 kinds, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for 2s. Cabinet
Making for Amateurs, illustrated, 3s 6d.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage
by Old Pro, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is; post
Is 3d. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, Twentieth
Century edition, very latest, 1248 pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, Is 6d. Dynamos and Electric Motors, 1/3.
Advice to Women, Is ; post, Is 3d. Dr. Milford’s
Midwive’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d ;
post, 2s lOd. Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made
Easy, Is. Practical Palmistry, 3d, Is, and Is 6d.
Blacksmith’s Work, Is 3d. Secret History Court of
England, Is 3d, post. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is.
Photography for Amateurs, 6d, Is, and Is 3d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry, Is 3d post. Latest Song
Books, 3d, 6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Webster’s Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s post.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s. Age of Reason, Is 3d.
Ingersoll’s Works, 6d, Is, 2s 6d, and 6s 6d. Wannan’s
Engine Driver, 5s 6d. Rockliff’s Engineer, 4s 6d.
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Zingara Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love,
Business, Futurity, etc., with full directions, Is;
posted, Is 3d. Building Model Boats, Is 3d.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do. Free
catalogues:—No. 1: Plays, Reciters, Make-up, etc.
No. 2: Conjuring Apparatus and Books. No. 3:
French Novels in English. No. 4: Books for Pre-
sents. No 6: Useful and Mechanical Books. No. 6:
Books for the Married. No. 7: Advanced Literature.
508 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE VICTORIA MARKETS)
in
201 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE —.
JAYNE’S EXPECTORANT
CURES THE WORSTCOUGHS,
P| AIR’Q
GOUT $ RHEUMATIC
The Great English Remedy for
GOUT, RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO & NEURALCIA.
The acute pain is quickly relieved and cured in ft
few days by this celebrated Medicine.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, and sold at Is. ljd. and 2s. 9d.
per box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
Deafness & Head Noises Cured
NO EAR-DRUMS. NO OPERATION.
A Colonist 50 years, deaf 48 years, CURED HIMSELF.
CONSULTATION FREE. Write or Call for Particulars.
MILLSOM AGENCY,
36 Carrington Street,
Wynyard Square, Sydney
NERVOUSNESS.
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS of SELF
CURE, will forward the same, free of
Charge, to anyone interested.
Address! A. MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Free for Asking.
WRITE to me and I will forward you my scientific
book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magic, and you will be filled with energy,
strength and ambition once more. Posted free. Write
to Armand Gouraud, 82 Little Flinders St., Melbourne.
Mr
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
show long standing. Are the same
' to the ears as glasses are to th«
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. HAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
p *o
#■
EXI
MEN
If
you
are
suffering from
exhaustion, Vari-
cocele, Wasting,
Weakness, enclose 6 stamps (postage and
packing), and I will send a trial bottle of my
REMEDY, FREE.
IT COSTS YOU NOTHING
to try my Life Syrup Remedies, which
give back strengthof body and brain, renewed
vigor, and development of the vital organs;
not a free prescription dodge, but a trial of
my wonderful remedy free for the asking.
PROFESSOR H. READ,
l6sLCollins street. Melbourne.
LEARN to HYPNOTIZE!
dg
INSTRUCTION FREE!!
You can become a Hypnotist in a few hours
time without leaving your home. You can
sway the minds of others, control friendship
and a (feet ion, cure disease and bad habits,
gratify your ambitions and produce amuse-
ment by the hour. My mammoth Illust ated
Lesson or Key to Hypnotism which I send
free cf charge and postage paid, will tell you
all about this marvelous science. It contains
be utiful and artistic engravings, and shows
you just what Hypnotism is and
what it will accomplish. Send for
it and learn to Hypnotize. Remember, this wonder-
ful book costs you nothing. If you men-
tion this paper, I will also include a large
packasre of other valuable, interesting,
and profusely illustrated literature, with-
out charge. A chance of a liferium.
Write to-day. Address—
sdg
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN, C'J Pitt St., Sydney.
THE BALLET GIRL
sdg
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, is
The Life, Adventures
and Confesssions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, is.
tend stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties .
Madame Panza,
BOX 913. G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
Always use at Bedtime
to prevent Mosquito bites,
CALVERT’S
20 per cent.
Carbolic Soap.
A delightful soap for toilet purposes.
Most useful to prevent or cure insect bites
or stings, itch, piles, ringworm, etc.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.


No Heart. No Energy.
Tortured for a Year.
Weakness and Weariness Replaced by
Health and Vigour.
The Case of Mr. IJ. TREMAIN.
(by oub reporter).
Australians are neither short-sighted nor
reckless, and they always think it well to
brush aside irresponsible rumour and gossip
and to enquire without prejudice into the
history of the affair in question. Hearing
that investigation was courted on a certain
matter, a reporter called on Mr. Richard
Tremain, of No. 131 Macquarie-street
South, Surry Hills, who answered a question
by saying:—
“When I was living in the northern
district of New South Wales, about five
years ago, my health appeared to be drift-
ing away. I felt that I had neither the
heart nor the energy to do my work, and
the gloom and depression which hung over
me took every pleasant thought out of my
mind. Nearly all day I felt as if I wanted
to be lying down, the drowsiness which
affected me being quite overpouring. It is
awful to have work to do and not have the
necessary vitality to get it out of the way,
and that is exactly what was the matter
with me. breams at night whenever I
slept took away all the refreshing influence
which rest generally produces, and when I
left my bed in the mornings it was with a
feeling of being utterly exhausted and worn
out, while my limbs ached to an extent
which was almost unbearable. It was
absurd to think of eating any breakfast, for
as soon as I sat down my stomach revolted
at the smell of the food, and I often got up
without touching it. The nasty taste in
my mouth had something to do with this,
I believe, because later in the day it was
not quite so bad, and then I sometimes ate
a little, but I even felt worse after taking
nourishment than if I had let it alone.”
“That is remarkable,” asserted the ,man
with the note-book. >•
“ Not at all, under the circumstances,”
was Mr. TVemain’s reply. “ You see, the
trouble was that I could not digest what I
had eaten, and the suffering of pain was
only what was to be expected. I felt it
very much just a little below my neck,
where the shoulder-blades are situated, and
the stomach became distended with gases
which seemed to rise to my chest and
prevent my breath from escaping freely. I
could hardly move myself about for the
terrible aches in my loins, and if I stooped
an y purpose my head became quite
giddy. The wretched headaches which dis-
tressed me seemed to produce a feeling
ibout my eyes as if they had swollen, and
'ey nervous system was altogether run
lown. It was the wretched condition of
tny nerves which made my life a misery, for
1 became afflicted with the maddening pains
of neuralgia, from which I suffered for
twelve solid months. I was nearly dis-
tracted with it, and as I now got less sleep
than ever I gradually wore away to a com-
parative shadow, and with scarcely an ounce
of strength in my body. From eleven stone
odd I came down to nine stone, so that will
oell you how greatly reduced I was. It was
only natural that such an alarming state of
iffairs should prey upon my mind, but,
ihank goodness ! when everything looked as
alack as could be, a happy thought sud-
denly came to my mind. ‘ I will try some
.dements Tonic,’ 1 said to myself.”
“ Why was Clements Tonic suggested to
four mind ? ”
“ Because people coming to my store had
io frequently spoken in praise of it, and I
thought when so many folks agreed on the
tame subject there must be truth in what
’•hey said. And what a blessing it was that
remembered their conversations, for I can
aonestly state that several bottles of
Clements Tonic thoroughly cured the
aeuralgia which had tortured me for a year,
and I knew *hat T was now towed to safety
■o far as my digestive organs were con-
cerned, as the systems of indigestion soon
began to leave me. To feel a sense of ease
after my meals was a treat which I enjoyed
through Clements Tonic removing the dis-
comforts arising from flatulence, and I was
glad to get rid of the nasty bilious taste of
a morning, for I could now eat heartily of
anything that was put before me After
experiencing weeks and weeks of sleepless-
ness you can understand how grateful I was
to find that the taking of Clements Tonic
meant plenty of sound rest every night, the
mornings bringing feelings of content and
animation, which had deserted me for many
months. I made up my mind not to part
company with Clements Tonic so long as
there was anything for it to do, and a final
obliteration of all my aches and discomforts
resulted. Indeed, it was a complete release
from painful captivity brought about solely
by Clements Tonic, which also toned and
strengthened my system so well that all
nervousness vanished. Before this I had
been treated by a doctor, and had also
bought various medicines from chemists,
but I did not get the slightest relief from
any of these physics, the only one to which
I am indebted being Clements Tonic, which
was a perfect success, as it went to all parts
of my body and left health and vigour
where weakness and weariness had dwelt so
long. What I have already told you is
something which the most ungrateful mortal
in the world would be thankful for ; but
there is part of my experience which you
have not yet heard.”
“ I would like very much to hear it, if
you do not mind,” interrupted the reporter.
“ Well, this is it: From the time that I
was sixteen years of age I was subject to
rheumatism. It had me crippled so much
that I could not get out of bed, and for
three years I was almost helpless, although
I had some of the best doctors in the city
attending me. This will help you to form
an idea of the great pressure that had been
placed on my constitution previous to my
taking Clements Tonic, and I think that
medicine is entitled to all the more credit
for making me as sound as lam to-day. It
was when I was taking Clements Tonic for
my other ailments that I discovered its in-
trinsic value as a remedy for rheumatic
pains, for, as I said before, it found its way
to all parts of my body and gave me relief,
and as this came after trying all sorts of
medicines to no purpose, it is easy to under-
stand why I regard Clements Tonic as the
most effective physic. Mine was a com-
plication of complaints of a most obstinate
and distressing character, and as Clements
Tonic proved itself to be master of them all
I think I would be doing a wrong to the
public if I did not place my experience on
record, so that anybody in a similar position
can act as he thinks fit. In any case, these
facts may prove serviceable to many
sufferers, so you may publish them in any
way you like.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Richard Tremain, of 131 Macquarie-stree*
South, Surry Hills, Sydney, in the State of New
South Wales, Commonwealth of Australia, do
solemnly and sincerely declare that I have carefully
read th» annexed document, consisting of five folios,
and executively numbered from one to five, and
that it contains and is a true and faithful account of
my illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also
contains my full permission to publish in any way
my statements—which I give voluntarily, without
receiving any payment; and I make this solemn
declaration conscientiously believing the same to be
true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths
Aot, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Sydney, this fourteenth
day of April, one thousand nine hundred and two
bofore me,
P. J. BRENNAN, J.P.
■a
»isr--'»3
SliKjAi&A
**7;
’A.*:
/P
HHi
o
rr^.VT;>'%?
sv? ; i * v
E
as
iV.l*
IN
r M
p||| tafa/oj)ue 1
mMQlfon tws paper
*
NO
Darkroom
II
2SiSGOLLINS ST
m>yl
MELBOURNE.
foe -pece stjgH: wokseeit
am
-Bu/c
um'J’/ffrn
A SOOTHING BALM and EMBROCATION. Will be found
a CERTAIN CURE for Cuts, Burns, Boils, Barcoo,
Eczema, Sprains, Ringrworm, Sore Feet, Piles all
. forms of Skin Disease or Muscular Affections, etc.
I From all Chemists, 1/6 per Tin. A FREE SAMPLE will
1 be sent you. Address the
Z A IVI -B U K C 0., 39 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
I Enclose Penny Stamp for postage, and mention this paper.
JIJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS*,
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. IOkS.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and'
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
£for&itiet HighLs
ts£ea,Ltliy fnf&nts
Try **
RIDGE’S
Refuse af/Am/faf/ons
SaEs/ying. Strengthening. Soothing for Infants
Agreeable. Digestible. Nourishing
XGffITS ROR SYD/ffV.
SATYRS AILPORT & POTTY#
RIDGES FOOD MILES. LONDON.Enc
DEBILITATED
WEAK, NERVOUS SUFFERER. Let us send you a
’’ trial course of our CONCENTRATED BOTANIC
REMEDIES FREE OF CHARGE. You will be more
than pleased with the result, and you will show your
appreciation of our valuable treatment by persevering
in its use for a few weeks until you are PERMANENTLY
CURED. Address—
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
Dim
ENNESS
CURED
Absolutely Conquered In 20 Days.
- rSee my proposition to the Government,
November Bth, 1901, wherein I agree to
accept 100 Test Cases, and prove that my
vegetable Cure for Alcoholism is a positive
ai ?£ , rella ble remedy Home treatment
Within the reach of all. No restrictions no
hypodermic injections. Full particulars freo,
W. LANGSTON, M. R.C.S.. En*.,
129 Collins-st., Melbourne.
FREE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by that justly-
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST,
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OE ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.
USES
SPOONER’S
4-J
SPOONER'S
V
*
Cm * •** W*r+m**
IMUNt U-ATHER BQOTS
d memos*.?
%
l:Vj*'*♦*¥»§
’ »*■:<%
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning: and Polishing
Boots ami Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS DEATH ER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivailed EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
2u! e^v ome as a boon and a blessing to men.
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen."
sdg
sdg
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Bold by all Stationers throughout the World,
EVERY PEN made by Macniven & Cameron, Ltd , is
separately examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS. TRI
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.,
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAM
Wore a Torture
BELT.
SUFFERED TERRIBLE AGONY.
From wearing an Electric Belt
charged by the use of
SULPHURIC TIG in*
Mr. W. Folley, Alfred Woollen Mills,
Williamstown, Vic., writing to the Dr.
McLaughlin Electric Belt Co., tells how he
was scarred and burned by the use of a
Free Belt, which he had erroneously
been led to believe was as good as theirs.
He paid £4 for the Free Belt because
he had been convinced that by paying
this cash price he was obtaining a similar
appliance to Dr. McLaughlin’s Famous
rejuvenator which has gained World
Wide fame as a Curative Agent. It goes
to show how misleading are advertise-
ments which seem to offer something for
nothing.
Gentlemen—ln answer to your kind in-
quiries after my health, I beg to state that
I have been completely cured of the Scia-
tica that has troubled me for years. I
cannot thank you enough for your gentle-
manly treatment and fair dealing with your
patients, as I know from others that their
treatment has been the same as mine.
I may just as well let you know my ex-
perience in seeking a cure for my trouble
before I purchased one of your High Grade
Belts. I had been under doctors and re-
ceived scant relief; and also tried various
quacks, but it was all the same. I then
placed myself in the hands of a Specialist
(in Melbourne) guaranteed to cure Rheu-
matism and Sciatica, but received very
small benefit from the treatment. I then
had my attention drawn to Electricity.
Well, I thought, “ Never venture, never
win,” so I PROCURED first of all a Belt
for £i and was very much disappointed
because I was informed that it was neces-
sary to take a long and exceedingly ex-
pensive course of drug treatment. I would
not do this and then I wrote for, and ob-
tained a so-called Free Belt, with a
most “ Wonderful Pedigree,” at a cost of
£4. I wore the Belt according to the in-
structions given faithfully for a period of
five weeks, and by that time I was Burnt
and Blistered so badly that I could not
wear it longer, and still no relief was
gained, although the Belt was guaranteed
to Cure Anything in Sciatica in One
Month. You bet I was very much dis-
couraged in regard to Electric Belts.
However, I was persuaded to come and
just see you, gentlemen. I then found
that I had been wearing a Torture Belt
and very Wrongly Applied, and quite
enough to give and patient a Horror of
so-called Electric Belts. After the con-
sultation I decided to place myself in your
hands. I knew my case was very diffi-
cult, as I was compelled to follow my em-
ployment, and standing at the vice was
irksome, and the complaint was a very
stubborn one. However, gentlemen, your
Belt, coupled with your advice, has made
me a grateful patient. I thank you kindly
for supplying me with a remedy which has
Completely Cured Me, and strongly recom-
mend it to all and sundry that I find are
suffering from the distressing malady
called “ Sciatica.”
I have not been wearing the Belt for the
past fortnight, but have passed it over to
my wife, who has received great benefit
for nervous troubles. .
I remain, your grateful patient, '
W. FOLLEY
GENUINE BELTS give GENUINE RELIEP.
Send to THE DR. McI.AUGHL.IN 00.,
100 W. Market-st., Sydney ; 167 J Swanston-sfc., Melbourne
S 4 Willis-st., Wellington, N.Z.
NOTiCE
To sufferers from Gout, Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy, 1
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS. '
Prepared by Poingdkstre & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick <
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all '
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists <
in the Australian Colonies. ,
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys <
all Parasites of Head or Body. <
sold in two sizes, 9d. & Is. 6d. (
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN'S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstrk & Truman, ,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all <
Chemists in the Australian Colonies,


sd
The
Genuine
Cognac.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
■/M
em
■
: -:K
i*2
Day Shirt, from 4/- Tennis Shirt, from 4/6
/ERTEX CELLULAR SUMINfIER| R Ts
Full Illustrated Catalogue Post Free.
D. BRA.HA.IVC & CO.,
73 & 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Agent in N.S.W.
TWO POINTS OF MUCH IMPORTANCE.
Sllenburgs Fbo
The great success attending the use of the “Allenburys” Milk Foods is in a great measure ,
due to the two following important facts: —
(l) Their similarity in composition to human milk ; the constituents being in (a) The readiness with which they can De digested and assimilated by
the same relative proportions. _ _ the infant,both foods being as easy of assimilation as maternal milk, 1
Mixed with water according to the directions a humanized milk is provided. and much more so than ordinary modified or diluted cow's milk.
The “ Allenburys ” Foods are especially valuable in hot climates. They are in the
form of powder and keep perfectly.
gsd
Pamphlet on “INFANT FEEDING ” (48 pages) free,
from 495, Boarke Street, Melbourne,
Allen & H anbury s, Ltd., tPlougd (Sourt, Zeombard St., Jbondon.
MILK FOOD No. 1.
From birth to three months.
MILK FOOD No. 2.
From three to six mon...s.
MfILTEO FOOD No. 3.
From 6lx months and upwards.
You do Yourself an Injustice
when you take anything that is offered to you. There are dozens of brands of Cigarettes
going begging —but the discriminating smoker picks out
and lets the rest go.
And he’s right; “Cameos” are the best.
f
“ Blakkr ” is the Icelandic word, and “ Blase ” the Saxon word from which we Englishmen derive the
modern word Black. The original word, “ Blakkr,” probably referred to “ the blackness caused by fire.”
You remember the old time expression, “ Black Art ” (magic), which originated from a combination of
the word “Blakkr” with the Latin word “ Aro,” meaning “applied skill,” thus we have the original
words “ Blakkr-Aro,” or “ black skilfully applied,” reduced to “ Black Art,” or in one word,
“MAGIC.”
In this connection it is interesting to note with what fidelity those two old words, “ Blakkr Aro,” express
the known attributes of P& B Preservative Paint. P& B Paint is a black residue caused by fire, and it
works like “magic” when skilfully applied, as we direct. Concisely stated, P& B Paint preserves all
surfaces above or below land or water from the injurious effects of moisture (which means either rust
or rot). Given honest use it will give honest service.
Full Particulars from
Fremantle, W.A.
j. m. Ferguson, Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A
A. W. Sandßord & Co.
Melbourne, Vic.
Brooks, Robinson & Co.
Launceston, Tas,
Hadley Button.
Wellington, N.Z.
James W. Jack.
E. RICH & CO., Limited,
Sydney
Brisbane


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Pest Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. 24.—N0. 1239.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 1903.
Price 6d.
A MEETING.
1st.--The White G. H. Reid (with dog), whose Government demanded that the Australian mail boats should have white stokers exclusively, and who adopted
the educational test now in use by the Australian Government for the exclusion of colored immigrants from N.S.W. (This gentleman is temporarily dead.)
2nd.—The Black Reid (with dog), who now declares that the exclusion of colored labor from the stokeholes of Australian mail boats is an outrage.
3rd.—The Yellow Reid (with dog), who now alleges that to keep out colored aliens by an education test is a public disgrace.
Various other colored Reids (with dogs) may arrive at any moment.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the Australians.**,
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 IS 0
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc. , and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary communications to be addressea to the Editor.
Special Notice.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number, is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the "Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, 8000 words, are speci-
ally acceptable). Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that ice
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in lllaclc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted, for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tiib Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa — Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown;
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal; Solomon
and Wilson, 22 Hout St., Capetown; Solomon and
Wilson, Commissioners Street, Johannesburg ; Granger
Bros,, Johannesburg ; Isaacs and Co., Durban; Argus
Printing Co., Rhodesia; Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
Ceylon. —Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver
B.C.
Hono Kong. —Brewer and Co., 22 Queens Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai.— Bremer and Co.
TZT&aZletm.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 1905.
Wanted—A Freetrade Party which Isn’t
Wholly Ashamed of its Own Creed.
All over the Commonwealth there are falling the
casual drops which signify the beginning of the
political storm. Premier Deakin has announced
his policy, with more beautiful phrase in it than
policy. George Reid has made himself a fatted
scoff and object of derision throughout Victoria.
Maximilian Hirsch has started out to urge on
the same State the advisability of knocking down
the tariff wall so that local industries may be
killed for the benefit of Maximilian’s brethren
in the Fatherland. George Turner has, charac-
teristically, stayed at home to look after the
cash. Bill Lyne has, characteristically, gone out
to look at beautiful sites, all in his electorate,
for a Federal capital. All the Freetrade leaders
are out demanding to be elected on the Freetrade
ticket, which they say is the only pure and
unadulterated ticket and the one that leads to
heaven ; and are advancing, as a reason why they
should be elected on the Freetrade ticket, the
promise that they will practise a reasonable
amount of Protection, which, they say, is a
ruinous and idiotic policy. And all the Free-
trade papers and politicians are quoting the
example of Britain as a country which has
prospered exceedingly under Freetrade, and as
an unanswerable evidence of the advantages of
Freetrade ; and are asking what kind of a fool it is
who says that Australia shouldn’t do likewise.
And The Bulletin often wonders why all these
people and papers who so persistently point to
Britain’s doings as an example refuse so
flatly to do as Britain does, and to follow the
example about which they yap so persistently.
* * * *
Britain, until quite recently, was an absolutely
Freetrade country in the sense that it gave no
local industry any preference whatever over a
foreign one. It didn’t protect its local sugar
industry, or its cigars and cigarettes and tobacco,
and beer and wine, and biscuits and confectionery,
with heavy duties, after the manner of the bogus
Freetraders of N.S.W. It didn’t convey the
Times and the Chronicle gratis through the post
to give them a start over foreign competitors, nor
did it subsidise them by paying the railways to
carry their daily issue free. It didn’t attempt to
coddle its agricultural and coal industries by pro-
viding, as did the Freetraders of N.S.W.”, that
local products should be carried by rail at a lower
rate than foreign products, though it could
have done so by a very simple legisla-
tive enactment. Where it was considered
necessary to raise money by taxing imports of
anything that could be locally produced an exactly
equal excise duty was levied on the local product.
So definite was Britain on this point that the local
growth of tobacco is prohibited ; it is con-
sidered not worth while to put the excise
jgachinery to work to collect duties on so small an
Ipdiistry, yet the ide i of letting even that small
industry be protected was held to be too shocking
t,o be entertained. Britain allowed the bracing air
of competition to blow freely on all its industries,
and day after day, with a weary, miserable,
dolorous iteration George Reid declares that this
gospel made Britain the most prosperous country
on earth—and that he will see Australia hanged
before he will go and do likewise, and M‘Ml lean
will see it hanged also.
• * * *
The amount which Britain finds it necessary to
raise in taxes is, in proportion to population, a
trifle more than Australia raises. But Britain
doesn’t plead that it is necessary to levy heavy
Customs duties to raise revenue. In ordinary
years of peace it collects Customs duties (none of
them protective) to the amount of about 11s. per
inhabitant per annum. When George Reid was
Premier of N.S.W. he collected Customs taxes to
the amount of about £1 per head, and all his
duties, save one, were protective. Britain, in
ordinary years, raises as much by local taxation on
property as it does by all forms of national taxa-
tion. Out of about £200,000,000 a year now
raised in taxes by the national Government and
the local Government bodies, only about
£30,000,000, even with the new taxes added, is
raised by duties on imports. The other
£170,000,000, with the exception of some small
miscellaneous receipts, consists of excise duties,
estate duties, land-tax, house-tax, property-tax,
income-tax, and local rates. The local rates
average something like 75., or even more, in
the £ of rateable value (Sydney raises Cain
when asked to pay Is. 9d.). Under this sys-
tem the Freetrade party, of which Bruce
Smith is a shining ornament, alleges Britain
has become the greatest, richest, most progressive,
and most enlightened of nations, and an example
for all the world to follow; and Bruoe Smith
won’t follow, and Joe Cook never even dreams of
suggesting such a thing.
* * ♦ *
There is no earthly reason why Australia
shouldn’t follow Britain’s example if it wants to —
except that Pumpkin Smith holds forth at such
awful length about the advisability of following
Britain’s example, and yet neither he nor George
Reid ever did it when they were in power, and
that eminent alleged Freetrader, Pa Brunkkk,
would fall down dead if the thing were attempted.
It is commonly claimed by statisticians that the
average wealth per head of Australia is as great
as that of Britain, and N.S.W. claims to be
even wealthier per inhabitant than the rest of the
Commonwealth. N.S.W. might have followed
Britain’s example in the old Reid days by cutting
down its customs taxes to about £700,000 a year
(the only duties required would have been con-
siderably reduced taxes on spirits, wine, beer and
tobacco); by putting up the excise tax in every
case to the level of the import duty ; by abolishing
free newspaper postage ; by abolishing the re-
duced railway rates granted on local products; by
protecting nothing —neither sugar, beer, Freetrade
papers, nor anything else; by greatly increasing
the income tax, levying house duties, and property
duties ; and by putting the whole State under
Local Government and fixing the minimum
rate to be levied by the Local Government
bodies at ss. in the £ of the rental value.
“Joey” Carruthers wandered all over the State
declaring that this British policy was the only
true policy, the only way to wealth, the only
system that anybody who was even threatened
with intelligence would follow—but what is the
good of all that when Joey Carruthers would
rather see Australia dead than follow his own
policy, and James Alexander Hogue is in the
same situation ?
• * * *
The Bulletin urges Bill Wilks to cease being
an outrage on common sense over this matter,
and to try to lift Aunt Emma Pulseord and
Nancy Gould out of the ditch of complication
and incapacity which they inhabit along with
him. If they believe, as they say they do, that
Britain’s financial policy is the only true one, and
that that policy has made Britain rich, it is time
for them to explain why they never attempted
to follow the British policy when they had
the chance, and why every one of them would
apparently rather die than even propose
to follow it now. When Conroy doesn’t so much
as venture to suggest adopting the British
financial system, what is the use of Conroy
gabbling day and night about the advantages of
that system ? In fact, what is the use of Conroy
under any circumstances ? Either James Thomas
Walker doesn’t believe that the British scheme
of Freetrade is a good thing, in which case he
shouldn’t say he believes it, or else he is conspir-
ing with Edward Braddon and Dugald Thom-
son to damage Australia by his shameful and
traitorous neglect to advocate that policy. There
is no escape from that situation. All the lying
that was ever lied about the financial necessities
of the country won’t alter the case one whit. It is
estimated by statisticians that the average income
per inhabitant is £2O a year in Ireland, £3B
in England, £45 in Scotland, and £46 in the
Commonwealth. The amount raised by taxation
in the Commonwealth is less than the amount
raised in Britain, and the means of paying it are
apparently greater. It is only a question of
adjusting the burden on the only true British
principle. Sudden Solomon, of the Northern
Territory, says Britain’s are the only principles
fit for any sane man's consideration, and he is
backed up by Patrick McMahon Glynn and
George Warburton Fuller. And yet these
people, especially George Warburton Fuller,
will no more advocate the adoption of what they
say is the only sane principle and the only road to
wealth and happiness than if their principle were
an alligator or a live serpent.
* * * *
The Bulletin appeals in this matter to Jaw-
bone Neild, with his beautiful military clothes
on, and asks him, likewise Thomas Brown
and a person named Millen, if this situa-
tion isn’t too ridiculous for any men of sense,
or even alleged sense, to occupy? When no
alleged Freetrader in the whole gang of silly
impudent frauds proposes to make even a pretence
of following Britain’s example, why drag Britain’s
alleged example and its alleged prosperity into the
case? When the Telegraph and the S. M.
Herald would rather slay George Reid till he is
quite dead than advocate no free newspaper
postage, and a local rate of 7s. 6d. in the <£ on
their office-property, and a house-tax, and an in-
come-tax of 14d. in the £, and the abolition of the
protective duty on beer, and the rest of Britain’s
financial methods, why fill their columns with
sore-headed diatribes about how the prosperity of
Britain arises through these methods? What
Lave Britain’s methods to do with the matter,
when not one of the people who dodder verbally
about them proposes to adopt them ? The
Bulletin addresses itself to F. E. McLean and
implores him not to be an ineffective political ass,
and to Simon Fraser not to be a worse political
ass than he can help. If these people believe that
Britain’s policy is a beacon to the world, as they
say they do, then, on their past and present
actions, they are either wilfully seeking to injure
Australia or they are a crowd of grasping hypo-
crites seeking to sell their principles for office.
And it is “up to” G. B. Edwards to explain his
position—likewise Henry Dobson.
A Plea for a Programme.
There is yet lack of a definite programme for the
Federal elections. The polling must take place
some time in December, and probably fairly early
in December. No Government with any instincts
of humanity would bring such a momentous
issue into the life of man just before or just
after the Xmas turkey. December 15, or there-
abouts, will be polling day. That is not much
more than a month from now. And the
issues are still vague and indefinite. The
Labor party’s manifesto, dealing with the past
rather than the future of the Party, is, never-
theless, practically the most definite in laying
down work for the coming session. It at least
suggests that it will agitate actively to make the
Australian tobacco trade a Federal Government
monopoly. Such a monopoly has been established
in France, Italy, and other European countries,
with great benefit to the revenue and with much
convenience to the State in providing easy posts
for retired soldiers and policemen and other old-
age functionaries. The idea of transplanting it to
Australia is a good one, and would represent an
extension of the socialistic idea which has already
justified itself by experience. But the matter
is hardly one of the most pressing. It is
good, but not urgent. Far more important
reforms demand the attention of radicals.
There seems, however, to be a pretty general
notion that the coming Parliament should be of a
restful type, seeking fiscal peace, and peace on all
other points. The first Parliament had an excel-
lent record of work, and did in two years what
would have engaged any State legislature for
twenty. That is suggested as a reason why the
second Parliament should be of a sweet do-
nothing order, born tired, and running a peaceful
course to the dulcet strains of Premier Deakin’s
eloquence.
* * * *
But there is no valid reason for taking that view.
Whilst there is work to be done, no excuse exists
for laziness or for mere desultory talk. Even
when all the machinery of the Constitution
has been established, and the position of the
Federation in regard to the States has been satis-
factorily settled by the practical absorption of the
State legislatures, the Australian Parliament will
have plenty to do. If it attends to its duties it will
never be a restful body. If the second Parliament
is allowed to initiate a policy of drift, that policy
is likely to be followed by many successive legis-
latures. Obviously, the better course is to con-
tinue the good habits of industry of 1902 and 1903,
especially until the vitally urgent reforms which
Australia has a right to expect from the Federa-
tion, since only from the Federation can they
come, are achieved. A possible, and moderate,
platform—embracing (1) progressive Federalism,
(2) the perfecting of the Protective system, (3) a
progressive Federal land-tax and absentee-tax,
partly for revenue sake, partly for the benefit
it would bring in killing land monopoly—has
been already outlined by The Bulletin, which
now again invites one or other of the parties
seeking the favor of the electors to put it forward
as a programme. It is a strictly “ constitutional ”
and a quite feasible policy. Put before a demo-
cratic electorate, which has full control of both
Houses of its Legislature, it could hardly fail to
be endorsed. Nor is there anything in it which
has not been tried before elsewhere, and with
success. Those people who are never happy unless
they have a precedent in front of their noses, and
would hesitate to give a penny to a blind beggar
unless more daring spirits had established
the practice of giving, need have no fear
of the dangers of “rash experimental-
ism” and “tentative legislation” in following
such a programme. Canada has a scheme of
Federation, which goes much further than that
of Australia, and leaves to the State Parliaments
a mere shadow of power. No evil, but much
good, has followed from this in Canada,
and its experience gives Australia the cue to
progressive Federalism. The same country,
whilst cursed at different times with alleged
Freetrade Ministries—Ministries that enforced a
30 per cent, tariff and then spoke of the “pros-
perity under Freetrade’’—has always had a high
range of Protective duties, and has never hesi-
tated, when the chance offered, to nourish a new
industry with heavy specific duties and, if
necessary, bonuses. Canada’s iron industry,
whiclrnow employs a small city-full of [people,
gives another cue to Australia, which has better
iron ore, better coal and, on the whole, as good a
market. For a progressive land-tax the Common-
wealth can find a guide in Maoriland, which
carries the range of its land duties up to 3d.
in the £on big estates with a 20 per cent, surtax
on top of that against absentee landlords. The
enforcement of this law has not caused a revolu-
tion in Maoriland; on the contrary, it and high
Protection and the other progressive legislation of
that State have made it an enviable example of
steady prosperity in Australasia.
* * * *
The Commonwealth is not in such a good way
that it can afford to neglect any means to
progress. Its population is not increasing at a rate
that suggests advancing prosperity. W hat immi-
gration Australasia attracts goes mostly to highly-
protected Maoriland. Its volume is, however,
insignificant as compared with the rush of Euro-
pean immigrants to Canada and the United
States. The United States in particular, which
bars out all but the most desirable colonists and en-
forces a law besides which Australia’s Immigration
Restriction Act is mildness itself, attracts, never-
theless, the.largest stream of immigration in the
world. If in Australia the fertile coast lands
were available for close settlement, instead of
being, to a large extent, locked up by land mono-
polists and rack-renting landlords—if a wide
range of manufacturing industries here offered
to the newcomer a selection of employments,
not only would the present population
be relieved of its unemployed problem but a
stimulus would be given to an inflow of desirable
immigrants from abroad. It is the nation which
sternly bars out the undesirable at the same time
that it offers the desirable man the certainty of a
good livelihood, which gets the pick of the surplus
population of other lands. The Australian legis-
lature has made a good'start in keeping out unde-
sirables. The chief work of its next session
should be attracting desirables. That can be
done in only one way—by opening up avenues of
employment, in factory and on farm, for the
people already here and for others of the class we
may welcome here. And it can't be done by rest-
ful contemplation of past glories.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Whitewashing of the See Cabinet.
Is.S.W. Government was, as The Bulletin fore-
casted, whitewashed by its Assembly as the result
of the censure vote on the Citizens’ Life Assur-
ance agreement. The absurd amendment which,
it was reported, was to “save the face” of the
Labor Party in approving a gross breach of
political propriety (which will possibly set a
precedent for endless corruption in the future) did
not come to the surface. The Labor Party voted
for the Government without venturing on any
subterfuge. On the whole, that was preferable.
It is better to be honest than hypocritical in
shedding political principles. The party which
entered Parliament as the instrutnent of radical
reform and the champion of political honesty, has
now dropped down to the position of actively
supporting the political dishonesty of the present
regime in State employment and finance, and of
tolerating a transaction which will supply future
Governments with an excuse for all sorts of
jobbery. If it is a legitimate thing—the N.S.W.
Assembly and Labor party has declared it
to be so—for the head of the Government to
enter, or allow his Government to enter,
without Parliamentary sanction, into an engage-
ment with a private co., of which he is also a head,
to the monetary advantage of that co., the
financial possibilities of a Premiership are bound-
less. The law prevents a member of the Assembly
from receiving one penny of State money outside
of his fixed allowance ; he may not, whilst a mere
member of Parliament, enter into any contract of
profit with the Crown. But a Premier may,
behind the back of Parliament, commit the coun-
try to a bargain with a co. of which he is the chief
director, and the profits of which are to some
extent his profits—his dividends, that is. There
is a mutual absurdity between these two prin-
ciples now co-existing in N.S.W. The Assembly
might well complete its work and sweep away the
first. There is no sense in imposing restrictions
on mere private members which Ministers do not
have to respect.
4
To Treasurer Turner*, about a Sinking'
Fund.
At present the proposals for the federalisation of
the State debts are in a condition of deadlock.
Treasurer Turner of Australia is an over-cautious
though exceedingly capable financier, and honest
to a degree that makes him unique in Australian
public finance. In the matter of honesty, in fact,
Turner is a solitary specimen ; he should be called
the Treasurer, just as we allude to the Pope and
the Devil, both solitary specimens of their class.
But Turner, unfortunately, in his caution, and
Eerhaps because he is hampered by colleagues who
ave very few financial ideas, wants to wait till
the State Treasurers become almost as honest as
himself before he moves. He wants them to agree
to a rigid limitation in the amount of their future
borrowings ; then he wants to take over the State
debts, start a sinking fund for their repayment,
and convert them into a uniform Federal stock at
a low rate of interest (a thing that is only possible
when the abolition of the borrowing frenzy lifts
Australian credit out of the present ditch), and
thus he hopes to save this country much money.
And as the State Governments won’t agree to
leave off borrowing, and Australian credit remains
in the ditch, nothing is being done. There is hero
a fine opening for a vigorous Goverment—if
anything could make Premier Dearin really
vigorous—to start financial reform on a new
line. Assuming—though it is an absurd as-
sumption—that this isn’t a good time for the
Australian Government to take over the State
debts, there is still no reason at all why it
shouldn’t start a sinking fund to repay these
debts—or rather six sinking funds. Let it be
enacted that a direct tax of some
a Federal land - tax, or income - tax, or
absentee-tax, or house-tax, or dog-tax ; anything
that will yield, say, £500,000 a year—be imposed
for the express purpose of reducing the public
debt. Let the portion of this which is raised in
each State be devoted every year to the repur-
chase of that State’s securities, and let the
interest on the State securities held by the Aus-
tralian Government be devoted to the further
repurchase of securities. The fact that the State
Governments are lamentably remiss in starting
sinking funds is no reason why the Australian
Government shouldn’t do it. The fact that the
Australian Government hasn’t yet taken over the
State debts is no reason why it shouldn’t start the
sinking fund now. It will take over the State debts
some day, and when it does it will want a sink-
ing fund, and if it has one already on hand
it will be so much the better. A thing like that
can’t be started too soon. Whether the debt is
called State or Federal it is the same Australian
people who owe it. Whether the sinking fund is
State or Federal the same people will pay it, and
if one Government holds the debt and the other
the sinking fund it makes no difference —both
Governments are the same people. The estab-
lishment of a sinking fund will raise the credit
of Australia whoever starts the fund. It will
prepare the way for that conversion which
Turner has in view. . It will facilitate the
taking over of the State debts —in fact it will
he a continuous taking over of State debts. The
Australian Government would actually take over
£500,000 of State debts the first year the
new idea was in force; about £520,000 the next
(total taken over £1,020,000), £540,800 the third
year (total taken over £1,560,800), and so on.
Treasurer Turner, so far, is waiting till the State
Treasurers can agree with him about a method of
taking over their debts, but this is a way by
which he can be taking over the debts all the
time whether the State Treasurers agree or not,
and by this method there would be no waiting for
favorable market conditions and so on. Even if
the States go on borrowing that is no reason why
the Australian Government shouldn’t be working
all the time to counteract the evil they are doing
—in fact it is all the more reason why it should be
doing so. Treasurer Turner should seize upon
his eloquent chief Dearin, and lead him into a
corner, and take his phrase-book from him, and
pin him down to business in this matter.
- 4
The Boer Ghost Sises.
The unpleasant truth about the Boer war —that
it was a villainous, carefully-designed conspiracy
between the Tory Government of Britain and its
Jingo followers, and a gang of wealthy criminals
at Johannesburg—begins to be mentioned very
openly nowadays. One notable public utterance
was the evidence given, before the War Commis-
sion, by General Butler —the British Commander
who was recalled before the war broke out for
being too honest. Some extracts :
The essence of the Boer position was this—suspicion.
They suspected everything we did, and you will find that
running through all my despatches. The essence of the
difficulty of the position was suspicion on the part of the
Boers that they were going to have repeated a raid or a
series of raids, and they had not been prepared in 1895-96 ;
as a matter of fact, they had hardly any ammunition at
that time, and the first thing they did after the Raid was
to begin to lay in rifles and ammunition, to build forts,
and order guns. In that sense, they were preparing for
war, but, according to my belief, in that sense only. You
will find all through this suspicion on the part of the
Boers that they were to be raided.
The idea that the Boers wanted to produce war is to
my mind wrong; it is a wrong reading of the situation,
and on that all my preparations were based, and I was
right. As a matter of fact, the Boers never did move
until the reinforcements had arrived and the Army Corps
were mobilised. We moved up numbers of troops round


the frontier, and in doing that provoked the war. We
sent a dozen officers from England into the Iransvaal an
the Orange Free State in July, raised troops at Mate king,
reinforced Natal with 10,000 or 12,000 men, organised a
raid from Tuli, moved troops to the frontiers, and, finally,
mobilised an Army Corps, and then the Boers moved. My
calculation of the chances was the right one; I said in*y
will not move as long as certain tilings are not done.
Now I wish to make one statement to the commission.
When I came back I thought I should have been seen by
the Ministers. I had many papers marked to be shown,
but I saw Lord Lansdowne alone, and only for ten
minutes. He asked me the question : “ If we move to
Biggarsberg what will happen?” I said, “ If you move
the force now at Ladysmith ?” and he said “ Yes. _ Out
of a hundred there are forty chances that it will bring on
war,” was my reply. “ And if we cross the Biggarsberg t
was his next question, and my answer was, “ Then out
of a-hundred there are seventy-five chances that it will
bring on-war.” That conversation took place on Sep-
tember 12. I was treated with suspicion ; they would
not send for me or ask me anything. Of course at that
time they were being told that it was a case of £10,000,000
and the whole thing over at Christmas, or, at furthest,
at Easter Every officer in the army knows that; any-
one who told them the opposite was called names, ridi-
culed and laughed at; he was either a fool or a knave,
or, as they said of me, I was both.
And the childish incapacity of Britain’s Govern-
ment of lords and dukes, and such-like hereditary
trash, hasn’t come home to the British people
even yet. Certainly, they are preparing to throw
out the present lot at next election, but only to
put in the other party’s lords and dukes.
♦
Oar Protege the Chow.
The Bulletin received this by mail on Oct. 27th
from the African Labor League, Johannesburg
(dated then Sept. 28): —
Letter handed in by Mr. Cresswell, Manager, Tillage
Main Reef G.M. Co., to the Native Labor Commission, in
support of his contention that the Mine Owners "'ere
opposed to the employment of White Labor for political
reasons as published in the Press :
2nd July, 1902.
My Dear Cresswell,—With reference to your trial of
white labor for surface work on mines, I was not present
at the Board meeting, when a letter was written stating
that the Board did not approve of the suggestion, and on
receipt of the last mail I called another meeting to recon-
sider the matter, in view of the fact that the local Board
had already commenced to adopt your suggestion.
I have consulted the Consolidated Goldfields people,
and one of the members of the Board of the Village Main
Reef has consulted Messrs. Wernher, Beit and Co., and
the feeling seems to be one of fear that if a large number
of white men are employed on the Rand, the same
troubles will arise as are now prevalent in the Australian
Colonies, i.e., that the combination of the laboring classes
will become so strong as to be able to more or less dictate,
not only on questions of wages, but also on political
questions, by the power of their votes when a Repre-
sentative Government is established.
I cannot, of course, set up my own personal view
against that of the authorities I have mentioned, but at
the same time I think if the European population of the
Transvaal is going to increase to anything like what
Lord Milner and the other best authorities anticipate,
that the extra number of working men which your
scheme would provide would be merely “ a drop in the
ocean.”
The Board finally agreed to the trial being made, and a
cable was sent to that effect. I hope you will meet with
success.
Yours sincerely,
(Signed) Percy Tarbut.
E. P. Cresswell, Esq.
N.B. —Mr. Percy Tarbut is the Chairman of the London
Board of Directors of the Village Main Reef Gold
Mining Co.
The same information came by cable to the daily
papers, curiously enough only the day before. It
took from September to the end of October for the
Australian cable syndicate to get the news from
S’Africa. A copy of the letter should be pre-
served by every Australian democrat who mis-
takenly supported the S’African war, for it gives
the clearest of proof as to what he actually voted
for and fought for —the domination of S’Africa by
a Jewish gang opposed to Democracy, opposed to
white labor, resolved to extirpate the Boer to
make room for the Chinaman. It’s not so long
since the Australian miner drove the Chinese
laborer from Lambing Flat. Now under the
Australian flag, by a path made clear with
British rifles, our 'protege the Chow marches to
the S’African mines.
♦
N.S.W. Labor Party.
The Worker, the official organ of the N.S.W.
State Labor party—which for justice sake has to
be strictly dissociated from the Federal Labor
party—makes some show to contradict statements
in a recent Bulletin article as to that political
strayed sheep. The Bulletin statement —
It would be hard to name a single genuine reform
measure which the N.S.W. Labor parly is now sincerely
striving to advance ; but it is not hard to point to many
political misdoings which it either tolerates or openly
approves—
is described as “ too obviously absurd to require
contradiction.” Rather it is too obviously true
to allow of contradiction. It would be bard to
name a single genuine reform idea that the Labor
Party is now sincerely striving to advance, though
there are several pressing reform ideas —such as
taxation of absentees, a progressive land-tax, local
government, abolition of the Upper House and
financial reform, on which it observes a stern
silence. The cold fact is that the N.S.W. Labor
Party has lost its zeal. The reforms standing to
the credit of its past are:—
One-Man-One-Vote.
Land and Income Taxes.
Workshops and Factories Act.
Coal Mines Regulation Act.
Undesirable Immigrants Exclusion Act.
Navigation Act.
Early Closing Act.
Truck Act.
Old Age Pensions Act.
Miners’ Accident Relief Act.
Industrial Arbitration Act.
Women’s Franchise Act.
All except the last two were passed under the
Dibbs or Reid or Lyne Premierships, and the
last two were legacies from Lyne’s time, and,
though actually passed in the early days of the
See Government, had been, in reality, won before.
Since then, the record has been a barren one ; 1903
is the first year since the advent of the Labor
party which is marked by no reform. But there •
are many evil works to take the place of good
ones. Those things which the party ought to have
done it has neglected, whilst it has done what it
ought not to have done. The chief political mis-
doings which the Labor party has either tolerated
or openly approved are:
Fitzroy Dock mismanagement, and the whole regime
of OwE’SULLiVAN-ism, which consists largely of doing
unnecessary work out of loan funds to oblige constitu-
encies and of disorganising Government workshops by-
political control.
‘ The Government’s paltering and foolish policy in regard
to the Arbitration Act--first introducing an Amending
Bill on the ground that it was necessary ; then, when the
Bill was thrown out by a coterie of squatters in the
Upper House, pleading that it was not necessary, swal-
lowing the insult from the Upper House, and finally
appointing a select committee to inquire into judicial
proceedings—an action which allowed the bogus Machine
Shearers’ Union to crawl all over the House and wipe un-
clean boots on its clothing.
The active campaign by some of the chiefs of the Labor
party against the Land Nationalisation idea as regards
the Federal capita.' - a campaign which is carried on in
the teeth of the Federal Labor party, and which is
nakedly a Landlords’ movement.
The conclusion of a lease, without Parliamenta Jf
authority, between the Government of which Mr. John
See is head and a private co. of which Mr. John See is
also head, against the public interest—a transaction
which will almost inevitably be fruitful of future cor*
ruption, and was most improper and reirehensible.
In other matters the Worker rejoinder needs
little reply. That paper admits extravagances on
the part of the Government —supported by the
Labor party—which amounted to “shovelling
sovereigns into the sea but states that The
Bulletin “ scarcely stirred a pen ” against those
scandals, which, if it were true (it is absolutely un-
true), would be no excuse at all t o the Labor party.
That party seems to have bound itself absolutely
to the See-Owe'Sullivan crowd— so absolutely
that it is not now even able to secure any reforms
as the price of its toleration of misgovernment.
A Laud and Water Grab.
Something new in grabbing is before N.S.W.
Parliament in the shape of a Bill which will
probably be heard of again before the end of the
session. Pretty well all the land that was worth
grabbing had already been grabbed ; yet, as the
hunger was still there, gnawing as fiercely as ever,
a new thing had to be thought of; and the devil
suggested water. It was a happy thought of the
devil’s, for water is just about the one thing that
is well worth “cornering” in the greater
part of Australia; there isn’t much of it,
and at times it becomes well-nigh priceless.
Altogether, in fact, it is so precisely the sort of
thing that a grabber could make a pot of money
out of, that it is amazing nobody ever tried to
“corner” it in a systematic way before. Cer-
tainly the vast possibilities in the business pro-
bably hadn’t struck most people, and especially
city people, until a particularly bad drought
showed up the importance of the water supply.
In a general sort of way everybody outside Sydney
Domain knew, of course, that water was neces-
sary, but they had not all realised how scarce it
could be, and therefore how possible it is to
“corner” it at times. And then, while they
were reading of millions of dying sheep, and
while political capital was being made out
of the fodder duties (this was the first
time that thousands of them ever took the
smallest interest in fodder, and they wouldn’t
know it even now if they met it in Pitt-street),
they read also of the remarkably successful irriga-
tion experiments at Jemalong, on the Lachlan ;
and so the profits of “ cornering ” the water
supply, as well as the possibility of doing it, were
pressed home. True, they knew they could not
“corner” it everywhere; the grabbers must
choose their places, and for a start they began
with a part of the Murruinbidgee river. Their
simple plan, as expressed in the Bill and else-
where, is to build a huge dam on the
upper sources of supply, at Barren Jack,
and use the impounded water, released
in quantities to suit them, for irrigation.
And one great danger arises just here ; for when-
ever irrigation is mentioned a whole lot of Aus-
tralians completely lose their heads. They think
in a vague way of enormous quantities of water
going to waste ; they remember what remarkable
changes irrigation has wrought in some American
states, which have lots of water to irrigate with ;
they think of the idle lands which this water
might fructify, and of the idle hands which are
waiting for the development of this new source of
wealth, and they are prepared to whoop for it on
any terms whatever. No doubt it was upon
this that the present would-be grabbers largely
relied. “ Look,” they say, or their blind
supporters say—“ Look at the crowd of people
who will be settled on the land, practically
outside the ordinary possibilities of drought.”
But if these people settle on the Murrumbidgee
land, and the land is no good, or very little good,
without water, and if the supply of water is in the
power of a syndicate, it follows that the people
must be in the power of the syndicate, too.
Moreover, it is tolerably clear that the same
syndicate which is going to have one paw on the
settlers through its ownership of the essential
water supply, intends also to own the land and
thus have still another paw on the settlers. Even
with only one paw upon him the landlord of
farming and dairying country has proved that he
can almost squeeze the lifeoutofthe tenant; he has
proved that he can squeeze so hard that the tenant
can’t afford to pay his helpers a decent wage-wit-
ness the shocking labor conditions in the fruitful
South Coast districts of N.S. Wales and the
fertile Western lands of Victoria. What he will
be able to do in the way of squeezing when he
gets two paws at work Heaven only knows.
Irrigation badly needs promoting on the few poor
inland waterways that Australia does possess,
but not on such lines. Even with irrigation the
life of tile settler on the inland waterway
is not going to be all beer and trips to the Cup ;
the markets are far away, and that is a big and
continual handicap to begin with. Butif, inaddition
to the natural disadvantages under which he must
struggle, he has to make profits for a landlord and
a waterlord, the struggle will be almost, if not
quite, hopeless. The one thing needed to make
his full cup of bitterness overflow will be the
creation of an airlord ; and, if Parliament is “ Re-
formed ” sufficiently, even that freak may yet
mateiialise.
George Reid, on the Enormous Profits of
Australian Capitalists.
It is interesting to note how the Freetrader—the
agentof foreign manufacturers and traders, engaged
in damaging the industries of his own country so as
to make room for the goods of foreigners—foams
at the mouth when he gets even a suspicion that
an Australian industry is prospering. This is a
recent sample of George Reid : —
Then again there is another thoroughly disloyal object
the Government has in view—I mean disloyalty to the
mother country. Mr. Deakin intends to propose a ship-
ping law which will make it impossible for llritish ships
to trade in Australian waters. This will be the result of
what is proposed by the Government, and in the new
shipping law, Mr. Deakin spoke of it as being aimed
against foreign shipping only, while as a matter of fact it
is deliberately aimed at the shipping of the mother
country, and is in the interests of a little ring of Aus-
tralian shipowners who are making enormous fortunes...
And this Government even breaks up the mail contracts
of the Empire for the sake of a few Lascars. It may be
said that the measures of this Government strike a
serious deadly blow against Imperial unity, to say nothing
of brotherly feeling.
The Australian shipping companies are averaging
just now about 7 or 8 per cent, dividends, and this
is an immensely good time with them ; for years
during the nineties they didn’t come anywhere
near that figure. The shipping business is one where
a huge proportion of the profits have to go to cover
wear and tear, and it takes an immense amount
of luck to make 7 or 8 per cent, for the share-
holders. Yet even this gleam of prosperity—
the mere idea of small, common, miserable
Australians making 7 or 8 per cent, even for
a few^ears—rouses Reid, the commercial flunkey:
of the foreign manufacturer, to fury. His
importing friends are certainly making much
larger profits without exciting any wild frenzy:
in the region of his chest, but then they are
superior Germans and Jews and Englishmen,
and stand cn quite a different plane. What does
any miserable Australian capitalist want with,
any profits or dividends, when George Retd’s.
foreign friends have a use for them ? A3 for
Reid’s outburst of honest indignation about
the proposal to exclude Lascars from mail-
boats subsidised by the Australian Govern-
ment —who w.mld imagine from his cry
of patriotic auger that Reid’s Government.
made exactly the same demand years ago, and
wore on its nose a flush of pride when it declared
that no Australian subsidies should go to nigger-
manned ships ? And would anyone imagine that
this was the same Reid who passed a law
deliberately aimed at the sugar and jam and
biscuit industries “of the mother country,” and
thereby helped the Colonial Sugar Co. to make
an enormous profit, and “struck a deadly blow
against imperial unity ”?. George Reid still
keeps a front place all the time as the. worst poli-
tical curse and degradation in Australia.
; —r -
Another Maorilander gives his views:
Sedi ox has brought down a Liquor Bill in the Maori-
land House at last, and the utterly staggered frame of
mind that it has induced in everybody ought to be
sufficient evidence that it took a lot of compiling.
Seddon’s position was this: He was, from personal as
well as political reasons, anxious to bring in a Bill that
would not cause Bung to rise up and curse him with a
beery voice, and at the same time he was supposed to be
unwilling to offend the Pump party. As a result he has
brought in a Bill that everybody is objecting to at the
top of his voice. Some of its provisions are astounding,
as follows: —
The issue before the electors at the next poll is to be a
straight-out choice between license and no license, the
reduction proposal being thrown overboard. The result
of this is that a lot of people who think there are too
many hotels, but who want to get their drink, will vote
In order to make it quite certain that this will be the
case, there is a provision which makes it an offence for
anyone in a No License area to have grog in his possession
at all. The Prohibitionists see that this clause will hit
them very badly, and they are strenuously objecting
to it. It does not seem particularly consistent, and
amounts to a kind of admission that when a man is face
to face with Beer or No Beer he votes Beer.
It is proposed that at the next election a referendum
will be taken to decide whether the licensing polls shall
be taken every three years as at present or every six years.
The publican cannot be worse off under this clause, but
he can be better off. „ . , .
Another clause reads :—“ Where, after the first day of
June, 1903, any licensed premises have been, or hereafter
may be, ordei ed by the Licensing Committee as condi-
tion to renewal of license to be improved either by
rebuilding or extension or repair, and the cost of such
improvement exceeds the sum of £3OOO, and such order
is complied with to the satisfaction of the committee, the
owner of such premises shall be entitled, as of right, to a
renewal of his license from time to time for a period of
six years from the first day of July next after the date of
such order ; and unless and until licenses are again
granted pursuant to a licensing poll under the Act, no
further license shall be granted in respect of such
premises.”
It is obvious that the Bung who has spent the three
thousand will, in the event of Prohibition being carried
in his district, be able to charge whatever he likes for his
grog, seeing that he will have a monopoly of the liquor
trade and nobody else can bring liquor into the district.
These are the clauses that are going to cause trouble,
and it is supposed that the Bill will never pass this
session. Seddon announces that he is in deadly earnest
about it, and the -clauses quoted seem to indicate that
he is.
There is more row out West (N.S.W.) over the
commissioning of Acting-Justices to hold Circuit
Courts. Only once in about seven years dots a
Supreme Court Judge get out as far as Broken
Hill; for the rest of the time either a practising
barrister without much to do, or one of the Dis-
trict Court Judges, is given the job. The real
trouble is that this system encourages litigation.
If a case goes against a lawyer he puts it to his
client that the decision will probably be reversed
on appeal —and appeals to a Full Court in
Sydney cost money when directed from out
where the sun sets. Some Acting-Justices
go further, and actively encourage appeals.
Thus Judge Gibson said, at Broken Hill, the
other day: “I am sitting only as an acting-
judge, and I will not undertake to decide any
question of law. Counsel can, if he wishes, take
to the Full Court any technical point he has to
raise. I would advise you to take a verdict on
the facts, and have the technical points reserved
for the Full Court.” What a Judge is for if it
isn’t to “ decide any question of law ” Heaven
only knows- If litigants are only to have “ver-
dicts on the facts,” then the sending round of a
Judge at all is a great waste, for the local jury
could do that much on its own.
♦ —r~
S’ Africa is getting its first shipment of Chinese
miners, and Australia, if it would not see before,
can at least see now what it was that it fought for,
and what it was that the Boer farmer fought
against. Australia will be lucky, though, if it
doesn’t have to pay a higher price yet for its
blindness and its folly. Bull-Cohen owns nearly
all the mines in Australia, and those which he
doesn’t own are controlled by alleged Australians
who mostly share his views ; and already Cohen
and these alleged Australians are asking for
cheaper labor, and demanding to know, if the
owners in a British colony in S’Africa can get it,
why can’t they also. If Australia were in a position
to tell Cohen to mind his own business it wouldn’t
matter; but, unfortunately Cohen is able to
reply that this is his business—that Australia
is mortgaged to him, and that it is his business to
see that the mortgaged property is run to yield a
profit. It’s vvith countries as with newspapers ;
a man will control what he owns. And Cohen
pretty well owns Australia ; therefore, before
long, he will probably demand that the precedent
which Australia helped to establish in S’Africa
shall be followed here also. And, honestly, what
can Australia answer except that it formerly
didn’t know what wickedness it was duped into
doing ?
N.S.W. Labor party is now busy denying that it
supported Landlord Hay for Glen Innes. Its
official organ announces :
The N.S.W. Labor party, in Parliament and out of it,
did not in any way support, assist or countenance the
candidature of Squatter Hay for the Glen Innes vacancy.
Further, there was no branch of the P.L.L. in Glen Innes,
and the action of a local assemblage of Squatter Hay’s
supporters in first styling themselves Labor Leaguers and
then in giving their support to Hay no mere made them
Laborites than it made the Labor party responsible for
their knavery and foolishness.
Glen Innocence, indeed 1 Hay was advertised as
having the Labor support; that “ local as-
semblage” calling itself a Labor league was not
declared bogus by the chiefs of the Labor party,
and the Labor party made no move to repudiate
Hay until after the election was over. It was,
and is, actively supporting the Government which
put up Hay as its candidate —that is to say, the
See Government supported Hay, and the Labor
party supported the See Government. It must
be concluded, therefore, that the N.S.W. Labor
party did “countenance and assist” Mr. Hay,
G. H. Reid at Melbourne :
What a grand prospect it was for Australia when this
tariff was forcing women and children into the factories
and men 'o the streets. Ten years ago there was 20 per
cent, of women in the factories ; to-day there was 30 per
cent.
Presumably, as Reid was speaking to a Victorian
audience, he meant to describe the condition of
Victorian protected industries, but the statement
was shamefully false if he referred to Victoria, it
was shamefully untrue if it referred to any other
State or to the whole Commonwealth, and it was
just as shamefully untrue if it applied to all
Australasia. In Victoria the number of male
employees in factories increased by over 16,000 in
The Story of Mac.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ The autobiographical politician is a malodorous
nuisance. The way he travels through certain Aus-
tralian newspapers telling how he worked in youth at
splitting logs, and how he cultivated and followed
* ideals,’ and became at last the great man he is, is too
sad for yawns.”— Bulletin, 29/10/’O3.
MacPiiairson was reared at Dead Rabbit—liis
dad was a cocky robust,
Who harried his hirelings for ever and worried
his sheep in the dust ;
He feasted on ’possum and pigweed—on Sunday
he dined upon ’roo,
And hairy was he, and red-featured, and rough as
a bear in the Zoo.
Mao toiled in his youth (so he tells us) at heaving
and splitting the log,
And shore for his neighbors the mutton, and slew
for his neighbors the hog ;
And so he grew up as Goliath —a mountain of
sinew and bone
—But the hog in his bosom he cherished, for the
hog in his breast was his own !
But older he grew, and ambitious, and weary of
battling for grub,
So, lusting for pelf and for profit, he settled him
down in a pub ;
And lucre, the filthy, he gathered, and garnered
him lashings of gear,
For a well of unspeakable riches he found in a
barrel of beer.
Now ’Phairson was ’ware of his neighbors—a
people bucolic and dense ;
And neighbors were ’ware of MacPiiairson, and
found him a mountain of sense ;
For he who has dollars has wisdom, and judgment
and learning and wit,
And he who has none (at Dead Rabbit) is counted
a Child of the Pit.
He went to the House as “a member ” and 1 attled
at rolling the log,
And sounded the praise of Dead Rabbit and
damned the fair fame of Dead Dog;
He ratted whenever ’twas prudent and stuck to
his guns when it paid—
And gathered him lucre and laurels— for use when
he sat in the shade.
The “district” was proud of M‘Phairson, and
told in a tempest of pride
How M ‘Phairson was raised “on the Rabbit ’
(but M'Phairson he swore that they lied).
And ever the fame of him mounted and ever the
girth of him grew,
And ever the friends of him flattered—as oft as
he shouted for brew.
And now —in white-vested expansion—the people
may hear him dilate
How down in the youth-tide of struggle his heart
had resolved to be Great;
How never a moment he faltered, but pressed
ever on to the Goal,
Till he left the bucolics the barrel and rose to the
sky with a Soul!
Q.
P.L.
The Great Freetrade Revival.
“Kodak” describes how Victoria was saved by
G. Reid
Attended the Dry Dog Festival at Melbourne Town
Hall, t’other night, and found the building filled with a
perspiring crowd of various shapes wa ting anxiously for
the entertainment to commence. A gaunt, scared-looking
woman in rusty black, with a crushed hat like a brooding
curse over one eye, and carrying half a truck-load of
vegetables, fled through the crush into the back row,
and, after stacking her produce in a heap, leant against
it and went to sleep. At one time during the perform-
ance, when aroused by the howls of a rabid Freebooter,
she awoke with a start and clutched wildly at the
fodder, then the dismal whine of the Egg-shaped
Prophet overcame her, and she nestled up to her
vegetables, and her hat slid down over her
face, and made her look like one of the Furies
overcome by the washing. Women and girls in the front
seats and up in the galleries (popular prices 2s. and Is.)
had brought their opera glasses in order to get a good
look at politics and its Dog, and they all chattered and
waved to one another—just as they are accustomed to do
in the amphitheatre of the Princess’s- until the ordeal
commenced. The commencement thereof was like the
movements of a fat boa-constrictor after a heavy meal.
Slowly up the steps and on to the stage climbed a pro-
cession that was mostly old and fat and bald, and, in the
lead, the Egg-shaped Prophet, in response to a reception
that was mostly hoot, bobbed like an ocean tramp in a
heavy sea. When the excitement aroused by the entrance
of the horde of Exalted Freebooters had subsided, the
chairman arose, and made the usual unnecessary speech
at great length, and the hearers, very naturally,
resented it. They had come to be entertained, and they
had brought their opera-glass and their best girl to see
the Dog, not to be bored to death by a strange politician,
who leant on a table with a bottle of water on it, and
waggled his head at them. They told the strange poli-
tician so quite plainly, and he seemed hurt and sat upon.
Then, amidst the usual burst of applause accorded to
every new comedian, the Circular Fakir struggled up
from the depths of his arm-chair and faced his audience.
His first few sentences were listened to with rapt atten-
tion by the people who expected him to reveal himself as
a wilderness of Comic Outs. After three minutes of
broken-hearted whine, the theatre crowd looked bored,
and, at the end of ten minutes, a man near the front in
one of the galleries gathered up his opera-glass and
his best girl and glode from the scene. A quarter
after eight saw serious-looking ancients, in gold-
rimmed spectacles, and frayed derelicts who turn up
to everything and can sit out anything, drifting out, in a
steady stream, in search of quiet and beer. And through
it all the whining Fakir intoned his dull and dreary
Gospel of Freeboot, flapping his arms like an excited
rooster and waving them at the galleries as if he were
beckoning all the Freeboot jim-jams to aid him.
Occasionally he would sink his gradual shriek to a more
subdued wail, bend forward and put his head on one side
like a man looking for something under the bed, then,
with a startled shrinking back, as though he had seen a
surplus, his voice would soar up about nine octaves and
shamble sadly along the top-notes of prevarication, in a
long, even shriek like the dying effort of a penny balloon.
Considered as a statesman, G. H. Reid is a national
calamity. Considered as a clown he is another calamity.
And, because no elderly gentleman can continue to be two
calamities for any length of time, without getting con-
fused and tripping over his Dog, it’s high time George
stopped wailing and sab down to accumulate some in-
telligence and breath.


The EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE sScTETY
FINANCIAL STATEMENT
FOR YEAR ENDED 31st DECEMBER, 1902.
ASSURANCE IN FORCE
INCREASE IN ASSURANCE IN FORCE ..
ASSETS
INCREASE IN ASSETS
SURPLUS ..
INCREASE IN SURPLUS
*265.597,775
• ' £19,915,124
•A *■ •-* *73,355,783
•’ *■ £4,889,175
*15,418,151
* •; • • £620,434
THE NEW BUSINESS EXCEEDED THAT OF 1901 by
£6,565,178
Local Directors have powe - to Issue Policies, Pay Claims, etc.
Sir WILLIAM M'MILLAN, K.C.M.G., Chairman ; Hon. C. K. MACKELLAR MB Mr r
F. NORTON MANNING, Esq., M.D. ’
C« CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia.
F, C. COWLEY, Secretary ALEX. JOBSON, Actuary for Australasia. DAVID FELL, Auditor
. . /j'j $ W D’ARCY IRVINE, F.S.A., Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland
RABBITS!
ARE THEY TO BE
A PROFIT OR PEST?
It rests entirely with our settlers whether it shall cost them and the State a large amount
annually to continue the war which has been waged against “ bunny ” for years past,
whether they will take the trouble to turn him into an asset which will bring a steady
revenue to the country and provide employment for THOUSANDS of its people. The
Rosewarne Packing Company, Ltd., is now receiving rabbits at its works in Young,
Narandera and Sydney. The highest market price is given in return for freshly-killed
rabbi la free of any commission or charges. For forth* particular,, aittr,,,-
THE ROSEWARNE PACKING COMPANY, Limited,
HEAD OFFICE-
-70 PITT ST., SYDNEY
NARANDERA
or YOUNG
the last 10 years, and there was a large increase of
male employees in every other State. The “men
who are being forced on the streets ” out of pro-
tected industries are just a plain, mean lie. There
are men on the streets as the result of the drought,
of the broken banks, of the inability to raise loans
and the wholesale sacking of employees from public
works, but when everything else was breaking the
protected factories kept the half-ruined com-
munity from utter destruction. And it was
because he knew that, that George Reid protected
so many factories.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “ Sweet Nell."
Her Majesty’s “The Country Girl.”
Lyceum ** The Favorite."
Criterion “ Harbor Lights."
Palace “ The Bank of England.”
T> v oli Rickards’Co.
Town Hall Fisk Jubilee Singers (Saturday's).
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK
Her Majesty’s “ The Eternal City.’’
Theatre Royal “ The Great Millionaire."
Opera House Rickards* Vaudeville 00.
The Hippodrome (off) .. _
Princes Bridge) f Fitzgerald Bros.’ Circus.
«
Musical comedy, the “ Country Girl,” inun-
dated the stage of Her Majesty’s (Sydney) with
color, clothes, and chorus on Saturday night. It
was the first appearance of the piece in Aus-
tralia, and, despite the extra booking fee of
half-a-crown, not a seat was unoccupied. No one
looks for philosophy underneath delightful fooling,
though probably the people who can read
sermons in stones will extract wisdom from
“ Molly the Marchioness,” which little Evelyn
Scott, as Nan in the “Country Girl,” sings with
much appropriate gesture. So many “Mollies,”
English and American, have become marchion-
esses. But the composition is done with brains ;
the introduced social sketches and subsidiary'
characters lead artfully up to well-cal-
culated effects ; and the music is of an
attractive, and sometimes also of a high-class
character. Harold Thorley’s .song, “The Sailor s
Life,” in which “we sing a little, and work a
little, and laugh a little, ’ is a rythmical, ozone-
lsh air, to which the audience takes as it
would to a fine salty oyster. Thorley takes
tlm part of an impressionable young naval
officer who is in Jove with one Marjory .Toy (Miss
Florence Young). Whilst he is away at sea his
country-girl grows up, goes to London, and
becomes a famous actress under the name of
Montagu. This is supposed to bring them to
much the same social status, so that, by-
and-bye, when the lovers are married, no
one may “look down ” on the ladv. Their duet
“Naughty Girl and Naughty Boy,” in which Miss
Young and Thorley live again playful little
escapades of their childhood, is another glad thing
m a bright piece.
* * * *
Miss Rose Musgrove shares some of the
best scenes with Lauri, and on Lauri falls the
hißgest work of the piece. He is successively a
sailor-servant, intriguing for his master’s election
to Parliament, a Hungarian bandsman, and a
“ woman ” in an “umpire” gown of white satin
and wearing a red wig. Incidentally he is also
the boss buff-Orpington rooster of the farmyard,
and sings a “ Chook-Chook ” duet with Miss
Musgrove. The Devonshire village scene on
which the curtain rises is a beautiful pastoral
picture in strong contrast to the setting of
the second act which shows the interior of
the Ministry of Fine. Arts with a baT after the
fashion of the Direetoire in progress. There are so
many characters in the “Country Girl,” and so
many worthy of special notice that writer rejoices
to think that the “Girl” will run till Xmas,
so that a number of these characters may be hung
up for future mention, without any risk of not
being found still hanging when wanted.
* * -*
Sydney Royal re-opens on Saturday to
present to the public once again Miss Nellie
Stewart’s lovely little toes and Mr. Hareourt
Beattie’s tinkling laugh and the other attractions
“ Sweet Nell.” Miss Stewart, in Melbourne the
other day, made a puhlic presentation to a jockey
bqy who wo, 11 the Caulfield Cup and gave him
SQjne good advice :
Straight-going is the only royal road to success. Boys
and girls have many temptations. You, in your occupa-.
tion as jockey, are, I know, sure to be sub’e -ted to,
specially alluring temptations at times. Those are the
occasions when you should most of all resolve to keep,
straight. I ean only speak from my own experience, hut
I can tell you that it is doing right which paj s best in
tpe long run.
That is Miss Stewart’s private view of it ; on the
stage, in “ Sweet Nell,” she will accentuate the
lesson that another royal road to success is to
charm an amorous brown monarch, and run
crooked with him at great expense to the tax-
payer. And, from the point of view of merely
gaming success, probably there is a lot to. be said
oti both sides, as Geo. Reid would remark. After
“Sweet Nell,” a short season will be marked by a
revival of “Peg Woffington,” in which Sydney
last savy the capacious figure of Nance O’Neill.
* it- * *
Sydney Lyceum on Saturday will revive
“The Favorite,” a horsey drama that has not
been seen thereabouts for some two years. It has
many horses, a great race, an express train, a
painted woman, .and other attractive features.
The Lyceum prides itself especially on the quality
of its horseflesh, and a drama which is nearly ail
horse is certain to be appreciated. “The Favorite”
will run for a fortnight only, whilst a new sensa-
tional play is being prepared.
* * iff *
The new melodrama at Sydney Palace is
built upon three great national institutions—the
Bank of England, Sherlock Holmes, and the
American heiress. The first gives the piece its
title; and if the real thing is anything like
Miss Fitzmaurice-Gill’s bank, it isn’t what it
is cracked up to be. Two of its directors are
scoundrels; one of its chief officers is a forger
in a large way of business, working in co-opera-
tion with one of the directors aforesaid ; and the
casual way in which half-millions are left lying
about in front of the ledger-desks for customers
to blunt their toes against is calculated to shake
confidence in the institution. 'ibis hitherto
wholly unsuspected casualness of the Old Thread-
needle - street Lady is responsible for the
most thrilling incident of the four acts.
One of the wicked directors, who is sole
trustee of an estate which consists of half-
a-million’s worth of jewelled idols and things
shut up in a box, resolves to steal the treasure
and “ whack ” the proceeds with the other wicked
director and John Cosgrove, a well-known rook,
who seems to have the run of the bank. These
latter two decide that they won’t “whack” it;
they decide to abstract the treasure before it
leaves the bank. The plan is quite simple. Two
cases of supposed treasure belonging to John
Cosgrove are brought in for safe custody; they
really contain bars of lead. The trick is to make
the lead and the treasure change trunks. But the
director of the Bank of England who has gone
back on his pal hasn’t been quite the clean
potato matrimonially; and the trusted forger,
who is helping the swindle through, discovers
(per Sherlock Holmes) that his principal has
ruined his adopted daughter. That causes
trouble —but not to the dramatist. He just kills
off the forger, and makes the wicked director stuff
the body, instead of the lead, into the treasure-
trunk. The lead has, of course, to be left lying
around on the floor, because it seems that the
Bank of England is very particular that parcels
leaving the treasure vault are not overweight ;
still, an unaccountable owt. or two of lead on the
floor doesn t seem to matter. There’s novelty
here, anyway; probably no other villain ever
put the body of his victim on the scales and
balanced it with jewelled idols. Of course, Vice
finishes the fourth act in handcuffs, though
towards the last (the American lady having taken
rip so much time in saying “ Sakes alive ! ” and
“Putt that down on your cuff ”) a good deal has
to be left to the imagination.
* * * *
There is a lot more plot than this. The
wickedest director is after a lady as well as the
other sort of treasure ; and that’s chiefly where
the American lady comes in. She and Sherlock
Holmes are the people who confound the wicked ;
and in the process Holmes has to adopt numerous
disguises. In two of them Charles Blake, who is
Holmes, is particularly effective —as the wraith of
the murdered forger, talking to the wickedest
director through the keyhole, and as an old
Indian banker. Miss Gill is the American, and
the part very well suits her somewhat explosive
manner. All through she plays with a vigor and
breeziness which delight the house. Cosgrove’s
Jew is also an effective character-study. Gener-
ally, in fact, in spite of two or three weak places,
the playing is a great deal better than the play ;
probably the play would seem better with better
stage equipment. As it is, it seems booked for a
successful run.
** * *
At Sydney Criterion Charles Holloway
has been filling in this week with a revival of
“The Two Little Vagabonds,” Beatrice Hollo-
way being the plump little vagabond, and Sophie
Lashmore the little vagabond with the cough and
the plaintive longing to be a blacksmith. The
performance still stands as Miss Holloway’s best.
On this Saturday “ Harbor Lights ” will be staged
in an extra special blaze of glory—the very largest
thing in the way of blaze that manager Holloway
can raise.
** * *
Marzella’s birds continue to fill Sydney
rivoli every night and two afternoons a week.
The star artist just now is a cycling Mexican.
Eagle who “loops the loop”; but, though this
performance probably represents a triumph in the
way of animal-training, the flight and posing of
the doves remains the favorite item in a turn
which is a whole bill in itself. Hallen and Fuller
have put on a new one-act, express-speed comedy;
Miss Ray Jones is added to the singers ; and the
rest are about the same as they were a week ago.
* *- * *
“The Eternal City,” on its first appear-
ance at Her Majesty’s (Melb.), was a slow-going
drama, requiring much compression in the mere
spectacular parts, which are neither very gorgeous
nor very picturesque. Also, the performers—some
of them—helped to niake things tedious on
Saturday. With the curtain falling at 11 o’clock
instead of 11.30, this shpuld be a sufficiently
deserving drama of the heavy, gloomsome sort.
It is even an intellectual entertainment, insofar
that persons who have not read the original novel
must listen attentively to the feeble dialogue, and
puzzle their brains for an hour or two before’they
can quite understand what Hall Caine’s drama is
giving them.
* * * *
A managerial footnote to the programme
states that the events of “ The Eternal City ” are
supposed to happen in the Future—a future
wherein the barrel-organ and the hurdy-gurdy
will continue to be Italian features of London life.
Julius Knight, the hero of the drama’s future
period, is understood to have played a hurdy-
gurdy in London when he was a small Italian boy
He, turned the handle so.carefullv that he rose to
be boss republican agitator in the Parliament at
Rome, and he now addresses public meetings re
the Prime Minister’s alleged misconduct with
the ladies. The Minister’s ward, Miss Jeffries,
seeks revenge on the republican for these rude
remarks, and the Minister wants to suppress him
anyhow. So they arrange that Miss ,T. shall
wait upon Julius at his bachelor lodgings and
lure him to destruction as Delilah lured Samson.
The lady’s device is a dead failure, from a
diplomatic point of view, for at the sight of
Julius she falls violently in love, and vice versa.
In seems that Julius, in his early-gurdy days, had
been befriended by Miss Jeffries’s father and had
previously met her when they were children
together, or thereabouts. The drama is vague as
regards bygone days and happenings. For some
unexplained reason the instantaneous lovers affect
to be meeting one another for the first time,
although their conversation suggests that each
knows that they both of them know the things
they are dimly hinting at. Julius, by the way,
had been the means of getting the lady’s father
hanged for treason (capital punishment being
re-established in Future Italy), but she bears
the orator no grudge on that account. He’s too
irresistible. He visits her studio regularly to sit
for a bust which she is fashioning from plaster of
Paris (of all things !), and whilst she pretends to
scrape the hard plaster as though it were clay, they
fall more deeply in love. Instead of trapping her
treasonable Julius for the Prime Minister, the ten-
der spinster helps him to escape from Italy, after
an insurrection has occurred in the distance, or was
about to occur and didn’t. Then Pope Pius XII.
meanders slowly into the drama. The Pope is a
mild, ruminative personage, addicted to stroking
Miss Jeffries, and at the Prime Minister’s sugges-
tion, His Holiness persuades the lady to lodge a
criminal indictment against Julius, for the sake of
public peace and quietness. Incidentally, the
good old Pope turns out to be the father of Julius,
which is a disturbing revelation when one comes
to size it up. The aged parent appears to be 75,
at least, whereas Julius, by his own showing, is
only 35, consequently His Holiness must have
been very late in entering the priesthood, un-
less he got married afterwards. Here again
the drama avoids going into particulars. More-
over, the Pope’s parental confession makes
no difference to his offspring in the end. Every-
thing comes right in a purely secular way. Miss
Jeffries’s friend, the Prime Minister, gets acci-
dentally shot by J ulius during the best-built scene
of the drama ; afterwards the Government is
overthrown, Julius being elected to fill its place,
and the lovers at latest date are securely locked in
a mutual hug. A good deal of music and invisible
chorus-singing is crowded into the drama, and the
general tone of the proceedings is solemn.
* * * »
The most successful member of the co. is
Eardley Turner, whose performance has practi-
cally nothing to do with the plot. He plays a
simple-minded revolutionary, doomed to bad luck.
He loses his child (bright little Syd. Halliday),
and is assured that his respectable missus eloped
with hero Julius, so he utters one final whoop for
Liberty and stabs himself in the noblest Roman
manner. Eardley Turner presents a plain,
straightforward character for all it is worth.
Arthur Wontner makes the Prime Minister an
unaffected gentlemanly person, and he puts some
force into his acting, but he conveys no idea as to
whether the head of the Italian Government is
intended for an object of moral detestation or
ordinary worldly respect. The Pope (W. A.
Warburton) has the appearance of an amiable
ancient playing a holy part in life, too intent
on holiness to betray any deep feeling
when lie _ discovers his long-lost descendant.
Julius Knight, as David Rossi, is Julius in his
heaviest mood, speaking his lines very like a
preacher, and posing all the time with a virtuous
glare in his foremost eye. One prays for more
variety and art in the method of Mr. Knight. He
is a manly, well set-up actor, but he doesn’t get
inside an exacting character. It is all surface
work. Mis 3 Maud Jeffries acts with more soul,
but even less versatility than the leading man.
The trick of facial expression, the gaspy staccato
utterance which naturalised her performance in
“ Resurrection ” and “The Manxman” are mis-
placed in this drama. Her Donna Roma is “ all
there,” of course. Tall, handsome, emotional,
and—unconvincing.
** * *
The latest Nellie Stewart season in Mel-
bourne came to an end more casually and unex-
pectedly than it began. “ Peg Woffington ” was
to have been staged on Saturday, and the cast of
characters was duly set forth in Friday’s advt.
Next day the management regretted to mention
that “ Peg Woffington ” was not ready for pro-
duction, therefore “Sweet Nell” would be con-
tinued for two more nights, after which the com-
pany would cease to appear at the Princess’s in
any play whatever. People are wondering what
happened to Woffington.
** * *
The Circus changed its bill last Saturday,
and took on the new Strong Man with much
success. Dr. Gordon is a brown, nautical-looking
strong man, who lifts great masses of iron with
his teeth, and breaks chains asunder, and permits
rival cart-horses to pull at him from either
side. Moreover, he is warranted to talk the
roof off the circus if necessary. Gordon is
interesting. _ All strong men are interesting
to a journalist who can rarely raise anything
heavier than a crop of lettuces, or a modest blush.
At,the Athenseum Hall the last nights of Mel. B.
Spurr are threatened, although that neat and
durable monologuer is nightly growing in public
estimation. Spurr supplies a pleasant two hours,
and is worthy to be called something more artistic
than a “society entertainer.” Melbourne in
general has an intelligent disrespect for societv
entertainers. An unspeakable production of
“ (Jharley’s Aunt ’’ at the Bijou appears to have
breathed its last, after challenging odious com-
parisons for one consecutive week.
** * *
Touching “The Great Millionaire,” at
Melbourne Royal, there is a difference of opinion
as to whether Miss Ross dies or begins to feel
better at the end of the tragedy. She is a very
languid invalid lying motionless in a long white
goWn on a long, cane couch, and just when the
curtain fell the first night, she turned up the whites
of her eyes and appeared to join the angels. But
next time this scribe dropped into the Royal to
assist at Miss R.’s dissolution she merely lay limp
without shifting her eyes, and was, perhaps, re-
covering her health. This question needs to be
settled by a definite death struggle or a pleasing
convalescent smile on the part of tne mil-
lionaire’s daughter. Miss Ross is not a quite
satisfactory young sufferer in any respect;
also Miss Ireland makes the mistake of pre-
senting a hard-hearted, respectable spinster in
a lurid light, whilst Mrs. Holt seems out of her
broad comedy element in the part of a gipsy girl
whose intentions are sometimes murderous.
Nevertheless, all the ladies aforesaid shine, by
comparison with Miss Rutledge, as an unscrupu-
lous matron. “The Great Millionaire ” deserves
a more truthful performance than it receives,
generally speaking. Walter Baker is an admirable
millionaire for the first three acts ; Styan would
be a capital secretary to the capitalist if his style
were carefully starched and polished ; but Albert
Norman squanders his inheritance with the
stagiest of squanders, and the person who cleans
him out at the card-table is a deplorable gambler.
Bland Holt’s character in the present drama has
seemingly been added to the original “book.’’
Bland comes along from time to time and reels off
a few yards of irrelevant remarks in the alleged
language of a freeborn Australian from the bluey-
billy backblocks. Later on, he is appointed com-
mander-in-chief of Baker’s motor cars, in which
capacity he helps to pursue Styan’s motor, until
it plunges over the cliff. The vanishing motor
and other scenic features of “ The Great Million-
aire ” were going very strong during Cup week.
** * *
At the Opera House the Three Dumonds
turn out to be three mild musicians, one of
whom has the temerity to sing. Considering
them individually and collectively it is a comfort
to learn (from the ad.) that these well-behaved
strangers corne direct from Paris with a world-
renown. The He Wynnes, and the biograph,
which casts creeping things upon the sheet, are
the best turns at Rickards’ just now, but a con-
signment of unparallelled attractions is promised
for next Saturday, or later.
** * *
At Adelaide Royal, George Giddens has
made many friends with his quiet reserved-force
way of fun-making, but still there remains a very
strong impression that Miss Susie Vaughan is the
finest artist in the company. She is denied the
facial contortions and the exaggerated walk
employed by all male comedians, and gets her
effects by inflections of the voice and sheer clever-
ness of acting. Laurence Hanray puts in some
good work, and Miss Beatty Kingston makes a
creditable approach to being as good as she is
pretty. The co. finished up a brief season with
“ Oh ! What a Night,” which was more reasonably
called “ A Night Out ” when Paulton and Alma
Stanley played it in 1897. Anyway, it loses
much of its fun in trying to disguise what is meant
in the original French. The Tivoli has re-opened
with a remarkable musical comedy, called, with
much simplicity, “Ha ! Ha ! Ha ! ” and modestly
described as “ The Laugh of a Lifetime.” It has
apparently been written by Pat Finn around the
personal peculiarities of a local amateur, and it
contains all sorts of things, from Italian opera
selections to puns.
The Wild Cat Column.
It is only in recent years that Great Britain has
had to contend with rivals which went in seriously for
Protection. Germany was a Freetrade country till 1878,
and till Germany took to Protection it didn’t amount to
a row of pins as a rival. The United States definitely
commenced its Protective system in 1875 and has been
strengthening it at intervals since, and it also amounted
to nothing as a commercial rival till it took to Protection.
These are the export records of the three great nations—
Britain, which stuck to Freetrade, and the two rivals
which abandoned it
Exports.
1872. 1902. Increase.
United States.. £89,000,000 £282,000,000 £193,000,000
Germany .. 116,000,000 241,000,000 125,000,000
Britain
(to colonies).. 61,000,000 109,000,000 48,000,000
(to Foreign Decrease,
countries).. 196,000,000 174,000,000 22,000,000
Increase.
Britain (total).. 257,000,000 283,000,000 26,000,000
Increase of exports from the United States, which
abandoned Freetrade, £193,000,000 a year ! Increase of
exports from Germany, which abandoned Freetrade,
£125,000,000 a year ! Increase of exports from Britain,
which stuck to Freetrade, £26,000,000 a year 1 And
Britain would show a decrease if it were not for its trade
with its own oversea possessions. In the scramble of
competition, the countries which abandoned Freetrade
have beaten out of sight the country which stuck to
Freetrade.
• * • *
That “ returning prosperity ” which was going
to polish up all the railways into payable concerns—when
is it going to turn up ? For the past quarter the N.S. W.
earnings were £31,139 less than for the same months of
last year. And that railway year ended £425,879 to
the bad.
* • * «
There is, so far, very little," if any, sign of
returning prosperity in the States’ revenue returns,
which continue very doleful reading.
New South Wales
Four Months’ Four Months’ Four Months’
Revenue. Expenditure. Deficit.
1902 .. £3,431,125 £4,138,129 £707,004
1903 .. 8,525,598 4,314,532 788,934
Inc. £94,473 Inc. £176,403 Inc. £81,930
The figures for October alone make things look a little
better
Revenue for Expenditure Deficit for
October. for October. October.
1902 „ £914,898 £1,287,627 £372,729
1903 .. 900,057 1,192,587 292,530
Dec. £14,841 Dec. £95,040 Dec. £80,199
In the first four months of last year there was a deficit of
£707,004, and the whole year ended, in the most favorable
way of putting it, £171,166 to the bad. And when a
Treasurer manages to make things £Bl,OOO worse in four
months, he seems quite capable, on a very easy propor-
tion sum, of making things £243,000 worse for the whole
year, which would mean £414,000 deficit.
Yiotobia :
Revenue. 1902. 1903.
Four months.. £2,220,677 £2,185,673 Dec. £35,004
For October .. 635,946 555,433 Inc. £19,487
The railways continue to show a heavy decrease ; but,
for the past month, this has been more than counter-
balanced by increases in excise collections and in the


gsd
TRAMWAYS FOR MINES.
ECONOMY IN HAULAGE.— Horse and dray is cheaper than a wheelbarrow, but an
up-to-date Tramway, with suitable rolling stock for manual, horse or loco, traction,
is still more economical and expeditious. Large Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane
stocks of Steel Rails, Mining Tip-trucks, Portable Tramway, Switches, Turntables, &c.
INDENTS.— Dog-spikes to Compound Locomotives— i.e., EVERYTHING.
43T Our CATALOGUE is yours for the asking.
CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY APPLIANCES
Prop. Ltd., 40 Hunter St., SYDNEY. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager,
Representing Orenstein and Koppel, Ltd., London, Berlin and Paris.
Branches—Melbourne, Brisbane, Cairns and Zeehan (Tasmania).
Finance Chronicle, Ist. August, 1903, writes of
The Oolonial Mutual Life Assurance Society’s latest
report:—“ The business in recent years is being con-
solidated, worked more economically and is thereby
becoming a very profitable kind. There is undoubtedly
a great future before The Oolonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society.’’*
« * • *
For Scientific Apparatus, Chemical Glassware
(Jena), Microscopes, Assay and Chemical Balances,
Morgan’s Salamander and Plumbago Crucibles, Ore
Crushers, Gasoline Furnaces, etc., call, write or telephone.
H. B. Silberberg and Co., Importers and Identors, 439
Bourke-street, Melbourne. Telephone 1377.*
• * * *
In the case recently brought by the Wilfley Ore
Concentrator Syndicate against the Central Cookman
Gold Mining Company, the Victorian Chief Justice has
granted an injunction restraining the defendants from
making or using any concentrating table constructed in
accordance with the Wilfley specification or in colorable
imitation thereof. The Sole Manufacturers in Australasia
of the Wilfley Ore Concentrators are the Austral Otis
Engineering Company Limited, South Melbourne.*
• * * *
The Queensland Smelting Company Limited,
Aldershot, Queensland, announce that they are buyers,
smelters, and refiners of gold, silver, lead, copper ores,
matte, bullion furnace and cyanide products. Tariff and
particulars obtainable from the manager.*
• • • •
The New Zealand Fire and Marine Insurance
Co., whose head-office for N.S.W. is at No. 81 Pitt-street,
Sydney, is the largest colonial Fire and Marine Insurance
company, and a large amount of their reserves of
£520,305 is invested in the States. Net revenue (1902)
£408,928. Lowest rates and prompt settlements.*
• * * *
British manufacturers have been beaten in an
open competition by an Australian engineering firm. We
have ascertained that the Mond Gas Co. of Staffordshire
have accepted the tender of Mephan Ferguson, of Mel-
bourne, for the supply of about 13 miles of Ferguson’s
Patent Lockingbar Steel Pipes, from 18 inches to 36 inches
diameter. The machinery for manufacturing these pipes
has all been made at Ferguson’s General Engineering
Works, Footscray, and shipped to Tipton, in Staffordshire,
where the branch works are being erected. The same
firm have also erected engineering and pipe works at
Wanganui, New Zealand, and have contracted to supply
the Wanganui Borough Council with about 20 miles of
Spiral Riveted Steel Pipes for the town water supply.*
* * * »
A. Kozminsky, 106 Queen-sfc., Melbourne,
having returned from England, is now prepared to
purchase paying mines, and mining properties (not
merely surface shows), situated in any part of
Australasia requiring further capital for development and
machinery. Only genuine and legitimate ventures,
capable of bearing the strictest examinations will be
entertained.*
* * * *
H. Brandon Skertchly, geologist, mining engi-
neer and assayer, is prepared to furnish scientific reports
and plans to British and Australian investors. Assays
undertaken, and inquiries re mining properties, promptly
attended to. For fuller information apply to H. Brandon
Skertchly, Norman Chambers, Creek-street, Brisbane.*
* * * *
George Morrison, Stock and Share broker
(member Brisbane Stock Exchange), 377 Queen-street
opposite Stock Exchange, Brisbane. Agents all parts of
the World. Correspondence invited.*
» * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
Hedley Hawkins, sharebroker, Queen-street,
Brisbane (member, Brisbane Stock Exchange), has agents
every important mining centre and cities of Common-
wealth. Correspondence invited.*
• * * *
E. Garland Abell, Registered Patent Agent,
159 Queen-street, Brisbane. Inventions patented. Trade
Marks registered throughout the world.*
* * * *
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime and
all Mining and Assay Chemicals and Apparatus, Micro-
scopes and accessories can be obtained of Felton, Grim-
wade and Co., Melbourne. 4th edition, enlarged (red
cover) of illustrated catalogue of all mining requisites
now ready. Free on application on receipt of 4d.
postage.*
• • * *
J. H. Curie, who has been inspecting the Kal-
goorlie mines, is in a most optimistic frame of mind, and
if he is still in that condition on his return to London,
the mines, and especially those controlled by 8., M. and
Co., may see a sharp advance in price.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Litharge, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM
BLASTING CHARGES.
Hy. Markwald, 174
William-street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney ; 68 Currie-st., Adelaide ; 94 Eagle-st.,
Brisbane ; 4 Cliff-sfc., Fremantle; and at Auckland,
Wellington, Christchurch, and Dunedin N.Z.
SCHWEPPES MALVERN SPA
By Special Appointment to His Majesty King Edward VII.
Bottled at Celebrated
Malvern Springs,
England.
amount received from the Commonwealth. Victoria
furnishes no monthly or quarterly expenditure returns,
and this allows a Treasurer to croak about a threatened
huge deficit, cut down old age pensions, and demoralise
the railway service on the strength of it, and then wind
up the year with an alleged surplus. If. Victoria pub-
lished monthly expenditure returns, this business of
setting up bogey deficits in order to scare the State into
doing some unjust thing or other wouldn’t be possible—
or wouldn’t be so easily possible, at any rate.
* « * *
Queensland
Four Months’ Four Months’ Available
Revenue. Expenditure. for Interest.
1902 .. £1,009,779 £746,657 £263,122
1903.. 1,001,170 731,027 270,143
Dec., £8,609 Dec., £15,630 Inc., £7,021
The interest on the Queensland debt for four months now
amounts to about £516,000; so that the four months*
shortage is £245,858, against about £240,000 for the same
part of last year. (There is about £7OOO more available
this year to pay interest, but there is about £12,000 more
interest to pay.) Last year the 12 months’ deficit was
£191,341; at the present rate of going it will be a trifle more
this year. The new Government isstrugglingto economise,
but it has first of all to sacrifice afairamount of revenue by
cutting away the objectionable poll-tax, and it is also
facing diminishing receipts from the Commonwealth ; so
the struggle will be a tough one. A country can’t have
the Greatest Debt on Earth, sunk largely in unprofitable
railways, and not pay for the honor. For October alone
the figures are
October. October. Available
Revenue. Expenditure. for Interest.
1902 .. £218,751 £198,035 £20,716
1903 .. 241,575 196,575 45,000
Inc. £22,824 Dec. £1,460 Inc. £24,284
The new Government is therefore doing pretty well so
far, as compared with its predecessor. Most of the
month’s revenue improvement is in “ miscellaneous
receipts,” £17,166, as against £4305 ; and the true
inwardness of that isn’t apparent yet.
South Australia (exclusive of the N. Terri-
tory)
First Quarter’s First Quarter’s First Quarter’s
Revenue. Expenditure. Deficit.
1902 .. £612,784 £596,797 £84,013
1903 .. 530,014 614,517 84,503
Inc., £17,230 Inc., £17,720 Inc., £490
But the revenue returns are sagging again ; receipts from
the Commonwealth are not coming up to expectations ;
only one person with much riches has died this year ; the
land tax has been cut down ; and generally, in spite of
bountiful harvest prospects, S. Australia is in the blues.
It simply revelled in last year’s high fodder prices, and
even then, reckoning in the N. Territory, it didn’t make
ends meet by over £lOO,OOO.
* * * *
Westralia, to the end of September only :
Three months’ Three months’ Three months’
Revenue. Expenditure. Surplus.
1902 .. £976,715 £848,590 £128,125
1903 .. 839,329 837,644 1,685
Dec. £137,386 Dec. £10,946 Dec. £126,440
This is not far short of appalling. Yet if the telegraphed
October figures are included the situation is a good deal
worse
Four Months’ Four Months’
Revenue Expenditure
1902 .. £1,301,674 £1,157,362 Surplus £144,812
1903 .. 1,103,659 1,147,080 Deficit 43,421
Dec. £198,015 Dec. £10,282
On the four months the State is £187,733 worse off than
it was last year. If this sort of “progress” continues
for the other eight months (and another instalment has
just come off the local customs duties, making the
outlook really worse), Westralia is booked for a deficit of
about £550,000, or about £2 Bs. per head of the
population !
* * * *
Tasmania, whose year begins January Ist:
Revenue for Revenue for
October. Ten Months.
1902 .. £83,090 .. £606,883
1903 .. 100,237 .. 701,007
Increase £17,147 Increase £94,124
October is the month when Tasmanians show one another
their biggest potatoes, and railway receipts are therefore
more than ordinary.
• * * *
As to loan expenditure the figures of only two
States are available :
October October
1902. 1903.
N.S. Wales .. £309,648 £201,114 Dec. £108,534
Queensland .. 72,671 45,780 Dec. 26,891
Or for the financial year so far :
Four Months Four Months
1902. 1903.
N.S. W., Exclusive
of Land Re-
sumptions ..£945,446 £585,979 Dec. £359,467
N.S.W., Land Re-
sumptions .. 724,576 279,287 Dec. 445,289
Queensland .. 332,493 216,655 Dec. 115,838
So, apart from Resumptions, N.S.W. is still making the
pace at the rate of a million and three-quarters a year 1
* * * *
So far in this financial year, in spite of the
break-up of the drought, the railway returns have been
extremely disappointing. The figures for the three
Eastern States follow :
Four months. October.
r " " *■ , *-
1902. 1903. 1902. 1903.
N.S.W. .. £1,297,782 £1,273,941 £384,852 £362,819
Victoria .. 1,001,988 934,135 278,967 258,541
Queensland 443,455 424,015 107,786 112,120
Thus the shortages are
Four months. October.
N.S.W £23,841 £22,033
Victoria .. .. 67,853 20,426
Queensland .. 19,440 (Inc.) 4,334
On the other hand, both the South Australian and Tas-
manian services show a small gain on last year ; but the
Westralian figures are unsatisfactory.
* * * *
In a list of results of various Australian co.’s
(B. Oct. 29) the figures for Walkers, Ltd., for 1902 and
1903 were included under those showing a loss instead of
a profit. The profit was £1629 for 1902 and £1484 for 1903.
* * * *
Some papers have curious ideas of honesty.
Perth Daily News, expressing amazement at The Bul-
letin’s wickedness in saying that Westralia was shaping
for a deficit, remarks : “ The Bulletin, of course, finds it
convenient to omit all reference to the credit balance of
£231,659 which existed at the end of the last financial
year and must be added to the estimated revenue for the
year. Therefore the Estimates for the coming year,
instead of showing a deficiency of £230,147, disclose a
small surplus of £1512.” By this charmingly simple plan
the surplus of one year is made to serve as the surplus of
two years. On the same plan, when a horse wins a race
by 3 lengths, and in the next race is 2 lengths behind, he
should still be declared the winner by a length, he
having three lengths to the good left over from the first
race.
• * ♦ *
The Queensland Deposit Bank and Building
Society, Ltd. (Brisbane), from the time when it reduced
its capital and wrote down its assets :
Added (from Profits
Earnings) to from
Business Interest Sale Added
Loss. Suspense of Pro- to Re- Nominal
Sept., Account. perties. serves. Reserves.
1899 .. £748 £5OO £1022 £774 £5,464
1900 ~P ri 92‘ 200 2253 2645 8,109
1901 .. 331 600 1054 1885 9,994
<• ■
1902 .. 287 295 582 10,576
1903 .. 680 303 983 11,569
The interest suspense account represents _ interest
charged up on bad or doubtful accounts that is to say,
the accounts were regarded as earning full interest,
but the doubtful part of the interest was sent into this
account. The profit from the sale of property was for-
merly put into a contingency account, but these two
accounts have now been combined, and for the past two
years it is impossible to say how much of the total (£295
in one year and £303 in the ; other) has been interest on
bad and doubtful debts, and how much has been hard
cash profit on sales. In fact, it is possible that there has
been a positive loss on sales, and that the net credit is
made up out of interest on these bad and doubtful
accounts. The reserves are represented by £13,218, the
total of these combined accounts, less the debit on profit
and loss, £1659. Of the total about £5OOO is represented
by the interest suspense account, which is probably a
paper asset pure and simple. What the society’s exact
position is, it is therefore impossible to tell. The only
thing that seems fairly certain is that, leaving out the
paper profits altogether, current business gives steadily
improving returns.
Very fair progress is being made in the reduc-
tion of liabilities to the public, as follows :
Property Bank
Capital. Deposits. Ad a y n a^ceg Credits.
1899.. £36,589 £56,028 £94,113 £3828
1900.. 39,759 60,614 93,468 4910
1901 .. 43,785 46,880 94,771 5784
1902 .. 46,771 42,137 96,525 2846
1903.. 46,996 39,818 96,119 2094
Somewhere in 1901 or 1902 24,077 shares, on which
£4415 had then or has since been paid, were alleged to be
forfeited ; but instead of adding this amount to reserves,
it has been allowed to remain in capital account, and is
included as such in the preceding figures. As, however,
calls are apparently being still received (or, at any rate,
were last year received) on these shares, R is doubtful
whether they have been definitely forfeited. Of the
£96,119 described as “property and advances” £58,287
is represented by property, £34,617 by advances, and
£3215 by land ; generally speaking, the property item is
being reduced, though not rapidly, while the advances
are growing. The gross receipts for interest (including
rent) amounted to £2221 during the paet year, which was
equal to £2 6s. per cent, on the book value of the
property and advances; and that seems to be pretty
good proof that there is room for some more writing-
down. Also, it throws grave doubts upon the value of
the interest suspense account and upon the reserves
generally. , * *
The Brisbane Permanent Building and
Banking Co.
Dividends Added
and Written to Re- Re-
Aug., Profits. Dividend Tax. ofif. serves, serves.
1894 ..£3363 2* p.c. « £2814 £1,362 £22,211
1895 .. 3280 2J ~ „ 3172 568 21,751
1896 .. 2642 24 ~ „ 2957 1,926 19,510
1897 .. 3410 24 „ ~ 2980 2,705 17,235
1898.. 4019 24 „ „ 3289 1,262 16,703
1899 .. 4711 31 „ „ 3881 332 £498 17,201
1900 .. 5618 3§ „ „ 4464 315 839 18,040
1901 .. 6193 4 „ „ 4758 567 868 18,908
1902 .. 5448 4 „ „ 4761 640 47 18,955
1903 .. 4808 4 , „ 4763 394 18,606
The capital is £112,817, and on this, combined with the
reserves as at the commencement of the year, the return
was equal to £3 13s. per cent. If the amount written oft
is charged against profits, then the net return was only
£3 6s. lid. per cent. ; and that doesn't justify a 4 per
cent, dividend. Considering the size of the capital and
deposits (£146,073), the reserves are too small already,
and certainly can’t afford to be reduced.
* * * *
The Electric Light Department of the
Melbourne City Council shows the following results for
the past few years „ . ,
Available for Carried
Capital Interest and to Re-
Expenditure. Sinking Fund. serves.
1897 .. £105,218 £8,122 £3,913
1898 .. 106,592 6,854 2,591
1899 .. 108,640 9,495 5,149
(Sinking Fund raised from 2£ to 3 per cent.)
1900 .. 112,403 12,031 7,535
1901 .. 204,051 11,265 6,086
1902 .. 289,425 2,684
1903 .. 324,149 22,656 10,865
In the foregoing, sinking fund is included among reserves.
1902 was a transition year. Two or three private electric-
supply undertakings were bought out, and for a consider-
able time had be run separately ; it is estimated that if
the whole business could have been conducted as it is
being conducted now, about £15,000 would have been
saved in the year’s expenditure. The capital now stands
at £300,000 ; the extra £24,149 spent on capital account
has been provided out of bank overdraft. Including the
sinking fund, the reserves now amount to £33,415 ; that
is to say, the sinking fund amounts to £40,985, but the
debit balance on profit and loss account is £7570, leaving
the reserve mentioned. Of these reserves, £30,350 is
invested in the Town Fund. Considering the very
substantial nature of the sinking fund, and the fact that
the charge per unit has been reduced from an all-round
6d. in 1897 to from 3d. to sid. in 1903, and the further
fact that the heaviest loss was due to the special circum-
stances previously referred to, the whole business may be
regarded as very satisfactory. After allowing 3 per cent,
for sinking fund, the return in the past year on the
capital (£300,000) was equal to £4 6s. 2d. per cent., not-
withstanding the reduction in the charge for current.
* * * *
The debenture issues on behalf of the Victorian
Savings Bank during the last two years illustrate the
rapid increase in the interest rate. These figures show
actual interest paid :
March, 1901 .. £3 710 July, 1902 .. £3 12 3
Aug., 1901 .. 310 1 Jan., 1903 .. 314 2
Feb., 1902 .. 310 8 June, 1903 .. 317 10
Another £lOO,OOO is now being asked for, and at the
minimum (96£) the interest would work out at £3 19s. 7d.
As most of the money goes out to farmers at 4$ per cent.,
the margin is now inadequate, and if money becomes any
dearer, authority will have to be got to charge more for
the Credit Foncier Advances.
* « * *
Broken Hill Block 10, which, besides having
had to sink a new shaft—the old main shaft having more
or less corkscrewed—has been obliged to equip itself with
new machinery right through, is compelled to raise more
money. It built up what looked like a very respectable
reserve fund, at one time amounting to £60,000; on
March 31st last it had still £38,513 to credit. Even this
will not be enough, though, to pay for the new electric
power plant in addition to the mill (the latter is now
well on the way), and the shareholders are to be
asked to sanction the borrowing of £20,000. There is
£35,000 callable on the 100,000 shares; but apparently
the directors don’t want to make a call. The mine has
paid £920,000 in divs. (£9 4s. a share), and the prospects
for moderate dividends, given even present metal markets,
are good for years to come. All the ore has not been
taken out from the 415 ft. level yet; nevertheless,
development work has been done right down to 1115 ft.,
at which depth payable ore, worth about 16oz. silver, 17
per cent, lead, and 22 per cent, zinc., is being broken.
* * * *
Broken Hill Proprietary’s output for four
months past
Lead. Silver.
Aug. 12 .. 3299 tons 293,209 oz.
Sept. 9 .. 4576 „ 408,933 „
Oct. 7 .. 5090 „ 366,116 „
Nov. 4 .. 5126 „ 388,245 „
For the past four weeks 1008 oz. gold is also reported.
The lead output for the four weeks was worth approxi-
mately £59,000 and the silver £47,000.
* ♦ * *
B.H. British made a profit of £3056 in the half-
year to June 30th. For the first three months only a
little dead work was done ; for the other three the mill
was running. For a while in the latter three months
lead was worth over £l3 ; it is now about £ll 7s. 6d.
There cannot therefore be much, if any, profit in the co.’s
present operations.
* * * *
The Tasmanian Pebmanent Exeotjtobs and
Trustees Association, Ltd. (Launceston, Tas.):
Added
Profits. Dividends and to Re- Re-
Dividend Tax. serves, serves.
Sept., 1897 £264 6 p.c. = £262 £2 £405
Mar., 1898 387 6 „ „ 262 125 530
Sept., 1898 406 6 „ „ 262 143 673
Mar., 1899 316 6 „ „ 262 54 727
Sept., 1899 375 6 „ „ 262 113 840
Mar., 1900 454 5 „ „ 262 192 1032
Sept., 1900 397 6 „ „ 262 135 1167
Mar., 1901 760 6 „ „ 315 445 1612
Sept., 1901 523 6 „ „ 315 208 1820
Mar., 1902 465 6 „ „ 315 150 1970
Sept., 1902 626 6 „ „ 315 311 2281
Mar., 1903 510 6 „ „ 315 195 2476
Sept., 1903 470 6 „ ~ 315 155 2631
The movement lately has been the wrong way ; still even
the past half-year’s profits were at the rate of £9 Bs. per
cent, per annum on the paid capital (£10,000) or nearly
£7 9s. on capital and reserves together, and things might
be a good deal worse than that.
* * * *
Mount Boppy Mine (N.S.W.) maintains an
average yield of about 2000 oz. gold per month, and ought
soon to show a big increase. Locally, thanks to the utter
indifference of the N.S.W. Mines Department, no informa-
tion is available as to developments in this and other
English-owned or private mines. From London papers
it is learned that very rich discoveries have been made
in the Boppy Mine. On the 11th Sept., the manager
cabled : “ Struck good body ore north end level No. 3
south from fault; evidently branch of main reef. Have
driven 21ft. on it; average width, 7ft., average of five
assays, 70z.” And on Sept. 25 : “ Have driven 22ft. since
Sept. 7 ; lode, 10ft. ; assays—last week 2oz. and 610 z.,
this week 350 z. and 16oz. The ore is high grade, un-
doubtedly, but results must be accepted cautiously, pend-
ing further work and samples.” What has been proven
since then has been made known in London week by
week, but the N.S.W. Government, whose property it is
that is being worked, is kept in ignorance. Some
desultory prospecting is being done to the north and
south of the Boppy property, but the object of the lessees
is obviously not to develop mines, but to find prospects
which may lead to sales at big figures.
• * • •
Cobar Gold Mines (old Fort Bourke, N.S.W.)
for the past few months has been beating Mount Boppy
in production, the respective monthly averages being
about £lO,OOO and £BOOO. But what a difference there is
in the estimated values of the two mines. Oobar Gold
Mines has a substantial credit balance and could pay a
div. if it were not thought wise to keep the money in
reserve for future requirements, but shares are absolutely
unsaleable. Boppy shares, on the other hand, are in
strong request at increasing prices, and there are no
declared sellers. The explanation is that the life of the
Oobar G.M. as a free milling proposition is measurable ;
the present output cannot be maintained for long, and
then the co. will have to face an entirely different system
of treatment, whereas in the Boppy mine the ore likely to
be available cannot be estimated. So far as known it is
an enormous quantity, and deepest workings do not
disclose the presence of copper.
* * * ♦
Hainault, Kalgoorlie (W.A.), is looking much
more promising than at any previous time, and may even-
tually join the div.-payers. Seven levels have been opened
up, the deepest being at 650 ft. The ore bodies are very
wide, the stopes ranging up to 60ft. Unfortunately, so
far as proved, the pay chute is comparatively short, being
only about 270 ft. in length. To test the mine at a
greater depth, the management has arranged with the
Kalgurli to continue latter’s westerly crosscut at 1000 ft.
right across the Hainault. If the result proves satisfac-
tory, the sinking of the main shaft will be energetically
taken in hand. The ore reserves are estimated at about
70,000 tons, or enough to keep the present mill going for
three years.
*** * . .
Sons of Gwalia, Leonora (W.A.), is being
developed faster, probably, than any other mine on the
Westralian fields. Already 12 levels are being worked,
but the main shaft is a long way below No. 12 level, so
that further levels can be started at any time. The lode,
which averaged 22dwt. in the oxidised zone, declined to
about half that in the upper section of the sulphide zone,
but has improved in the two lowest levels now being
driven. The reserves are two years ahead of the mill,
and are being rapidly increased, as the lode ranges from
Bft. to 10ft. wide. Working costs have been reduced, and
are stated by the management to be only 20s. 6d. per ton.
This, however, makes no allowance for upkeep, develop-
ment and London charges, which will add at least 10s.
The co. holds an option, expiring on Dec. 31, over three
adjoining leases of 24 acres each, the price being 7000
fully-paid shares. It already holds 539 acres, consider-
ably more than all the producing mines in Kalgoorlie
combined. If the deal be completed, the issued capital
will be raised to 325,000 shares. Allowing costs at 30s. a
ton, the co. is clearing about £lO,OOO monthly, equivalent
to a yearly div. of, say, 7s. 6d. per share, on the increased
capital. The last div. was paid in June ; another may
shortly be expected.
• * • •
Associated, Kalgoorlie (W. A.), has made marked
progress since R. B. Gleisberg took the management. The
surface equipment has been brought up to date ; returns
have been gradually increasing, and divs., after being
suspended for three years, have been resumed. When
the second half-dozen Merton furnaces start shortly,
returns will be still further augmented. Underground
work has also been pushed ahead feverishly, and ore
reserves, which had nearly reached the vanishing point,
have been vastly increased. At 1000 ft. Judd’s and
Tetley’s shafts, which are 650 ft. apart, have been
connected,'which will not only improve ventilation, but
greatly facilitate and cheapen handling of ore. As the
continuation of the rich Brown Hill-Iron Duke chute has
been traced by diamond drill to within 50ft. of the Asso-
ciated’s boundary in the Oroya, it is pretty safe to predict
that the Associated will locate it before long. This
remarkable chute has now been traced, from its outcrop
on the Brown Hill, a distance of 3000 ft., and has carried
rich telluride ore all the way. It is almost certain that
the Associated will shortly have this chute to sweeten
future returns, so the outlook is bright. As costs of
development and of the discarded machinery have been
written off the accounts, the financial position of the co.
is second to none. The Australia East lode at the 1000 ft,
level, at the north end of the property, is 24ft. wide and
worth loz. per ton.
Champion Prop., Kookynie (W.A.), whioh has
bean working in a faint-hearted sort of way for some
time, may shortly be taken over by Bewick, Moreing and
00. So far as shareholders are concerned a change of
control could do no harm. The mine is on the same line
of country as the Cosmopolitan and Cumberland. Its
shaft is 300 ft. deep, and the mine has only been tested at
100 ft. and 200 ft. The chute, so far as proved, is only 100 ft.
long, and pinches out at both ends, but it is quite pos-
sible that it makes again.
* * * •
Boulder Deep Levels, Kalgoorlie (W.A.), a
combination of Great Boulder South and Boulder
Bonanza, is crosscutting at 900 ft. to intersect a lode
pierced by diamond drilling some time ago. Judging
by the core, this lode was stated to assay 3oz. to
the ton for an approximate width of 6ft. Should
exploration confirm this it will give a great fillip to the
South end of the field, but so many good developments
have been announced from this property in the past, and
have never been heard of again, that scepticism reigns
supreme.
* * * *
Associated Northern, Kalgoorlie (W.A.), after
poking about for six months looking for the 10ft. 6oz.
lode said to exist at depth, has at last located 3ft. of ore,
assaying 27dwt. This is satisfactory, so far as it goes,
but is very far from what shareholders were led to expect.
However, further exploring from the 1050 ft. level is
in progress, and may lead to something better. The
treatment plant, all going well, should make a start
early in December. The curious part of the discovery
of the new ore-body was that the cable announcing it
reached London just in time for the adjourned meeting
of shareholders. Both Bartle Frere and J. H. Curie have
retired from the Board, and the fight between Landau
and Doolette and Co. still continues.
* * * *
Oroya-Brown Hill, Kalgoorlie (W.A.), continues
to have good developments almost daily. The winze
from the No. 9 level of Pomeroy shaft has followed the dip
of the chute for 120 ft. in telluride ore, ranging between
3 and Boz. A bore put in to the south from No. 10 level has
passed through 19ft. of ore worth 4oz. at a depth of
1020 ft., and 18ft. of ore worth 4oz. at a depth of 1060 ft.
This is supposed to be the continuation of the rich chute,
and is close to the Associated boundary. On the Oroya
South Block No. 7 level is being driven in 30dwt. ore.
Such a galaxy of developments is a sure indication of a
general move in the market before long. The full 50-head
mill is now running well.
(Continued on page SO.)


DAVID JONES & COM PAIMY,
DJ. Orient” Boot
BLACK OR TAN
CALF,
16/6
g
Narrow or
Round Toes
special]
VALUE }
16/6
George & Barrack-sts., Sydney
5?
From Fashion’s Domain
THE NEW.
p-
..CORSETS..
The Leading Shapes
In Straight=Fronted Corsets.
t' }
AVOID INFERIOR IMITATION 3.
Each Pair bears the Manufacturers’ Trade Mark on
band inside, as illustrated.
Obtainable from leading Drapers everywhere.
SOCIETY
A burglar, while peacefully following his
usual avocation at a house in Pitt-st., Sydney, the
other night, received a rough mauling at the hands
of two women. Hearing a noise at the back of the
premises, the ladies quietly dressed themselves
and crept cautiously downstairs. One armed her-
self with a stout waddy, and throwing open the
kitchen door, surprised Bill Sikes in the act of
removing the copper, into which he had collected
quite a number of miscellaneous articles. The
good lady didn’t ask any questions ; she promptly
whacked into him with the waddy till he fell,
then stood guard over him, threatening to “smash
him up if he stirred a hair,” while her companion
went in search of a policeman. When that
tentacle of the law arrived he found it necessary
to remove the much-damaged gentleman to the
hospital for repairs.
M‘GUIRE (to Finnigan, during recital of the “ Charge
of the Light Brigade"): “ Share, Pat, that’s a foine song.”
King Edward apparently loathes the very
name of Brown. Not only was the plate with the
mournful inscription taken off the door of the
room where John breathed his last, and every
, . ... , . , .. ,„ ’ . ,*
bust, portrait and statuette of Brown ejected
from the premises, but the King has bought back
from Brown’s relatives the house which Victoria
gave them, and the Brown family moves over the
tc i • , ,
edge of the horizon out of the royal sight, Edward
is said to have even given up wearing brown
clothes because they reminded him of Brown.
*
A Victorian paper prints this :
Swelling on Cow’s Jaw -Farmer, Turrumbarry, asks
what to do with his cow which has a swelling on the iaw:
it has been present for some twelve months, and occa-
sionally bursts and discharges. Answer: Have it freely
lanced, and then syringe it out daily with tincture of
iodine. Such swellings are suspicious, and it is usually
advisable to fatten the animal for the butcher, or others
of the herd may become affected
In short, the animal may be cancerous; better
pass her into consumption, and give her a chance
to spread cancer among humans.
The push of the patent-medicine man. A
man committed suicide at Mount Gambier (S.A.)
on October 31. A paper was found in his pocket
with the words, “Death is better than corns.”
The news was published in Sydney on 2nd Nov.,
and the same day a George-street chemist dis-
played a black-edged card in his window, on
which was pasted the paragraph relating to the
suicide, with the information that the victim’s
life would have been saved if he had purchased a
box of Boggs’ patent corn-plasters. Some day the
patent medicine advt. will work its way into the
burial service, and there will be an affecting
allusion to “our dear brother now departed,
whose life might have been saved by the timely
use of Whack’s Bitters.”
« * * *
Recent in memoriam atrocity from Mel-
bourne :
In Melbourne Divorce Court recently Jus-
tice Hood objected to have alimony paid through
a solicitor on the ground that complaiuts had been
made to him that money paid in that way never
reached the persons for whom it was intended. A
rougher thing than that has seldom been said
about the brigade of devils.
* * * *
Evidence of the shifts Lord Hopetoun was
put to owing to the disgusting meanness of Aus-
tralia in refusing to increase his salary can be
found in Victoria-street, Melbourne, near the
fire-brigade station, where a “kid reviver” and
renovator of rusty clothes advertises on his win-
dows that he was “Dyer and Cleaner to His Ex.
Lord Hopetoun.” The sign is newly painted, so
it seems the dyer was considerate enough to wait
until his dyed patron’s departure before advertis-
ing that it was by his aid the gentleman managed
to keep up a sort of appearance on his miserable
screw.
* * * *
The committee of the national memorial
to the South Australians who went to burn the
Boer farms spent all its money on the equestrian
statue by Captain Adrian Jones, and has nothing
left to pay for the pedestal. The figure is due
from London early in January, and will have to
be put up on a barrel unless £5OO more is raked
in. And the fountain of patriotism seems to have
run dry.
Adelaide Art Gallery has had a small
windfall from Joseph Fisher, an old resident, who
] ate ly .handed over £5OO that he had intended to
IwJfiJwiSL The 'ey has been spent on
a large landscape, a seascape, and three Phil May
drawings in his later and more elaborate manner,
Other recent gifts include large consignments of
black-and-white from the Graphic and London
News proprietors, and a splendid portrait by
J onn (Jollier of Jbowell Buxton, S.A.’s aged and
benevolent, but utterly tactless, last-governor-but
two (presented by himself). Adelaide now claims
to have the best collection of black and whites in
Australia.
♦ * » »
Hen and Chickens Bav, the reclamation of
,„i.;„u • , ~ ~ 0 , TT
-p ■? subject of enquiry by the £s.S.W.
Public Works Uoinniittee, is the historic spot
where the Parramatta River murderers, George
Robert Nichols and Alfred Lester, took their
victims (Bridger and Walker) in the early seven-
ties. Having murdered them for very small gain,
they weighted the bodies and threw them over-
board. Both bodies floated, and both murderers
were hanged.
AT FLEMINGTON.
PAT (whose horse has just run second)" “ I tell
ye that wasn't the way to ride the horse at
all. Ye should hev tuk him to the front, an'
hep' him there, an ’ he'd hev won."
In her Evening News weekly column
Little Em’ly Soldene, who bad visited Phil May
during his fatal illness, writes :—■
Poor Phil! I went up to see him two weeks ago. He
seemed very low then ... and I sang to him.
Of course people add, “And he died.” It is a
mistake to give a base, ill-natured public an
opportunity like that.
Westralian civil servants, who have been
mostly at loggerheads with their departmental
heads lately, got home on the politicians the other
evening. There was a big gathering, promoted
by the servants, to which pretty well all the
leading politicians were invited; and most of
them came with notes of a speech or two bulging
out of their pockets. Then, when things had
begun to move, Chairman and Under-Sec. North
remarked that they should be glad to hear from
their visitors. “Unfortunately,” he added,
blandly, “we can’t ask the politicians who have
honored us with their presence to speak. As
civil servants we are barred from taking part in
political matters, and, much as it grieves us, we
therefore have to deny ourselves the pleasure of
listening to the lion, members,” And the hon.
members tried to smile and look happy.
• « • •
It is believed that, as the result of recent
additions, the collection of Maori carvings in the
Canterbury (M.L.) Museum is now historically
complete. A characteristic of the early-period
carvings is that the images have oniy three
fingers j at that time, also, the pawa shells were
not used, as they always were later on, to repre-
sent the eyes. Another characteristic of the
older Maori art is that carving in the round was
practically unknown. There is one specimen of
“ the round ” in the Canterbury collection, but it
is a rarity ; apparently it was used as the base of
some sort of pillar. After the European came
(say, during the past 50 years) the style changed
somewhat, and “round” carvings have become
common enough ; but, at the best, these produc-
tions can only be regarded as half-castes.
According to a South Australian
calculation the cost of administering
justice in that State has been
pared so close that the total is
now only Is. 6Jd. per head of
the population, as against
3s. Bd. in New South
Wales. But, all told,
South Aus-
tralia has
only three
Judges,
and its
f e w
police
magis-
trates
(there are only eight
or 10 altogether) are
wretchedly paid. In
some cases, in fact, the
magistrate is also the
local postmaster.
Clerks of petty ses-
sion are almost un-
known outside the
metropolitan boundaries;
“the trooper” (the
mounted constable is al-
ways known as “the
trooper”) is also clerk of
the court, and a great
deal besides. Also com-
paratively few townships
have a “trooper” to
themselves; they have un-
paid special constables,
whose sign of office is a
gaudy baton that is never
used except as a plaything
for the special constable’s
children. And, finally,
II' 1 they don’t have any spe-
cially-appointed coroners out-
side the city; any J.P. may
hold an inquest (the inquest on
South Australia’s most sensational
case in recent years was held by a poor
old way-up farmer who could scarcely write
his name), and as nearly every adult male with a
fixed residence is a J.P., inquests are sometimes
weird entertainments. The whole paraphernalia
is in charge of a Minister, who has to look after
the Education Department as well!
• * * * '
Victoria is by way of learning what may
happen to any of its citizens, partly as a result of
having a “Reform” Government; partly by
reason of employing amateur beaks. A little
while back a miner was ordered to pay 4s. a
week towards his father’s pension. As he didn’t
know where to pay the money, he merely put
it by and waited till the miserly Government
sent someone for it; but a month later an officious
policeman, having got a warrant from an incom-
Jietent “honorarium” ordering a month’s hard
abor, arrested him in spite of his offer of the
money due, and gaoled him. He wasn’t allowed
any opportunity to show cause why he shouldn’t
be imprisoned, and the fool beak ordered hard
labor in defiance of the law. The blame for this
cranky proceeding was afterwards passed on to
the local clerk of petty sessions, who is also the
local barber, but the State that employs an
honorary amateur magistrate to supply it with
law has only itself to blame if it has to pay
damages for his mistakes.
AUSTRALIANS ABROAD.
ALICE (in the soft light of an Egyptian moon):
“... And she wore the loveliest blouse I
ever set eyes on."
The uselessness of the Government toy
yacht Victoria was again shown when the Premier
decided to send a search steamer after the belated
Ovalau. The Victoria can’t carry enough coal to
enable it to keep the sea for any_ length of time.
And if it had found the Ovalau, it couldn’t have
towed the vessel in. The Victoria is a sort
of Domain dosser among boats—useless in an
emergency and unfitted for any steady public
employment.
A MEMORY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The moonlight was wan in the month of September,
The flowers crooned a clamorous croon ;
But ’twas only the rose in the wind sobbed “Remember,”
Slow-dying, heat-wounded by noon,
Alone in the haze of the moon.
The night was a night of wondrous November,
The shadows were vague on the Rise ;
I cannot forget, yet I would not remember—
For ever m3’ loneliness cries
For the wonder and warmth of 3'our eyes.
The valle3's were hushed in the heat of December,
The stars and the moon had fled ;
In the hour of a night that I only remember
I sought for a love that had fled,
And I came to the grave of my dead.
N.S.W.
CARO.
’Twas on a Monday afternoon,
The work was almost done,
But it was necessary to finish—
The emery wheel must run.
Our Ernest at his post,
He stood there oft before ;
When, oh, the emery wheel it burst,
And our Ernest’s work was o’er.
EILEEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Low was the sun o’er the hills last night,
Rosy the sky in the West, Eileen ;
The sands were before us softly white,
And the breeze was whispering low, my queen ;
And the lights were gleaming across the bay,
And the boats were still on the farther side—
Save only a rythmic roll and sway
That told of the inward-flowing tide.
Low was your voice on the beach last night—
Gentle and sweet and soft and low ;
Ah ! and your eyes were agleam with the light
That kindles best when the star-lamps glow.
’Twas little you said to me yester-e’en,
There on the beach when the tide was low ;
Yet I called you soft in the moonlight—Queen l
And only the rocks and the sea-birds know.
TAS.
GOLDY.


I suppose you shave ! or, if not, of course
you require your hair trimmed. The most
fashionable gentleman’s hair-dressing saloon in
Sydney is Wild’s, at 30 Sydney Arcade—the
Arcade that runs from George-street to King-
street.*
STAR
WORLD
THE
BEST
IN
THE
k
X
t J
The friendly way in which a Queensland
up-country mother lets the township know what
her daughter has been up to :
I WILL not be responsible for any debts my
daughter Vera should incur, medical or other-
wise. —— .
Now Vera will probably reply in the same
friendly way that she won’t trouble her mother—
she will apply to her father if her mother will tell
her who he is.
* » * *
“ Red-light ” : Vic. railway employees
have still a weary expression of countenance.
Thought it was the result of the strike. Consulted
one as to the reason of the gloomy looks, and he
handed over a much stained, folded and worn
scrap of paper. Deciphered the following, after
much trouble :
No. 36,’03. S.’o3-9649. L,’03—6830a. 9.9.’03.
The Commissioners direct that employees who had full
leave last year, and who have had half leave this year, be
only granted half leave next year ; and that employees
who had full leave last year be granted quarter leave this
year and three quarter leave next year.
T. H. WOODROFFE, O.M.E.
Each individual employee is now puzzling his
brain finding out how memo. No. 36, ’O3, etc., etc.,
applies to him ; whether he should apply for full
leave last year having had quarter leave this year,
or, having had no leave this year was he entitled
to any next year, and how much would he get last
year, or if three-quarter leave last year gave him
leave and a half this year. This applies to the
ordinary employee. Added to the above the
striker portion of the service has the puzzle of
finding out whether the momentous period from
the Bth to 15th May last constituted “leave”
within the meaning of memo. 4a, 3, 008, Qz9,
etc., etc.
CONDENSED WARDROBE.
HE: “May I ask what kind of sweets you have in that parcel!"
SHE (well-known in the front row of the ballet): “Oh! they are not sweets
at all — it’s only my costume for to-night.”
* * * *
Gem from Smellbourne’s Evening ’Erald :
The Prime Minister maintained that what the
Bulgarians wanted was to bake Patriarchal Christians.
“ F.E.P.W.” tells how it didn’t come off :
Remember a somewhat similar case to “Rotter’s” (B.
8/10/’O3) re free railway travelling. This time the would-
be smart one was not successful. On Central Queensland
railway, porter entered carriage, and, after getting
tickets from all present, tried lavatory door and found it
locked. “ Oh,” explained a long shearer from the other
end of the carriage, “ here you are ; Jim gave me his
ticket to give ver! ” He handed a bona-fide ticket to the
porter, arid all should have gone well, but the official
insisted on Jim turning out ; and when he did it was
difficult to say which was Jim, for there were three of
him. In the court case that ensued the three Jims defied
the law to say which was the Jim who had the ticket,
and which were the two Jims who hadn’t ; but the law
took its chances and fell on all three Jims.
* * * *
Melbourne possesses a quaint kleptomaniac
in one Reuben Pinnock, who has a hankering
after land worthy of a fat landlord. The trouble
with Reuben is that, instead of annexing soil by
the acre or square mile, he merely digs up sand
by the ton and carts it away. As usual, the retail
landgrabber is a rascal and a nuisance, while the
wholesale depredator is a respectable citizen, with
a stake in the country. The Law has been steadily
fining Reuben £5 and £lO at a time for some
years, but, as his hundredth conviction or there-
abouts transpired recently, and he still keeps on,
the game seemingly pays. The Law always had
feeble notions of the profits of the great land-
grabbing industry.
* * * *
Some of the many Melbourne people who
seem to have more time than they know what to
do with have lately started an Anti-Accident
League. Like the quaint Society for the Promo-
tion of Land Settlement, it seems to have under-
taken a fair-sized contract, its objects being to
serve and save society; preserve life, limb, and
property ; to study the science of accident-preven-
tion and collateral sciences; to encourage the
efforts of science in that direction ; to deliver the
hospitals from over-crowding, and to wander
vaguely over the face of the earth. Probably,
like the before-mentioned agglomeration of busy-
bodies, it will ultimately spend its energies on
hazy but learned dissertations on the habits and
customs of accidents, with complimentary mono-
graphs on the efforts of individual members.
Meanwhile, the person who is run over in the
street will probably have less breathing space
even than usual through the society crowding
round him and making notes.
* * * *
November sth (Guy Fawkes’ Day) was the
centenary of the first birth of a white child in
what is now Victoria. On that date in 1803 the
wife of one of Capt. Collins’s marines started that
birth-rate which was to make so much trouble in
later years.
“ N.F." has
a birth-rate
theory
I have spent the
day hunting for
furnished rooms,
and have come to
the conclusion that
we are rapidly ap-
proaching the con-
dition of Mark
Twain’s islanders,
who supported
themselves by
taking in one
another’s washing.
About half Sydney
gets its living by
boarding or lodg-
ing the other half.
The landladies I
met were of many
sorts, sizes and
descriptions. Some
of them had seen
better days ; most
of them evidently
expected to see
worse ones. On
one point, how-
ever, they agreed.
As soon as they
heard I was the
half of a married
couple they all
asked: “Any
family?” Some
varied it by ask-
ing : “ Any en-
cumbrance?” They
were all so relieved
to hear that we
were unencum-
bered, and made
such concessions,
that I am inclined
to think this is
one of the secrets
of the declining
birth-rate. I can’t
quite see any re-
medy for it, but
have a hazy idea
that if we had a
“strong man”
like Irvine at the
head of the Go-
vernment he might
rush some totally
illegal measure
through Parlia-
ment, making it
penal for land-
ladies to harbor
married couples
averaging less than
one infant per
annum, and
punishing with
the utmost rigor of the law any couple that shows less
than seven children after 10 years’ matrimony. A reduc-
tion in old age pensions might also be applied to giving a
handsome bonus to landladies letting rooms to large
families, to compensate for wear and tear, &c. Also I
think that the thirteenth child in every family should
have a life pension, so that when a family gets up to
seven or eight there would be inducement to make a
special effort. The thirteenth child would be an asset,
for the old man could borrow from him in his declining
years.
* * * »
The Adelaide crematorium has at last got
really going with the body of a country doctor.
Its previous-experiments had been with a goat
and a Sikh, and the latter was only entrusted to
it because the exact treatment desired by his
countrymen did not meet with the approval of the
Board of Health. The latest trial was in every
way successful, but it is clear that the under-
takers will, for business purposes, try hard to
keep up as much as possible of the flummery that
has come to be associated with the grave-side. A
supplementary and rather trying ceremony, which
the new order of things makes necessary, is the
attendance of the relatives next day to receive the
ashes, the relics that the fire leaves being some-
thing over 41b. in weight.
A POSER.
JONES (to Brown): "Do you know why Dolly Doolittle reminds me of the mare that won the
last race?” B ROWN: “ No idea, old fellow."
J ONES: “ Because it takes a syndicate to run her.”
Probably the wildest outburst of honest
indignation that Sydney has seen for years arose,
the other day, when it was found that a book-
maker had departed without paying up. Sydney
has been swindled very often, and swindled out of
large sums, but in this case the great god, Horse,
had been insulted and his temple had been defiled.
Frantic punters tore the fittings of the premises
to pieces and almost dragged down the building
with their bare hands. Frenzied Australians
rushed around with their mouths full of curses
and rafters, and hurled floors and counters wildly
in the air, and demanded to know if there was
really a Deity. Pallid individuals shook doorways
at each other and asked if the Government
couldn’t be compelled to pay up, and people with
windows under their arms gazed blindly at the
sky and inquired if the planets were still revolving.
The general feeling was that the bottom had
dropped out of Things in General. There might
have been £2,000,000 short in the public finances,
and the country might have been on the verge of
repudiation, and these persons would have been
calm—even apathetic. But something with four
legs and a tail was involved —a useless animal
which was kept for the sole purpose of occasion-
ally running faster than some other animal, and
which breathed heavily in the stable the rest of the
time and never did any useful work. And at these
times Australia rises to the occasion and says all
the remarks it can remember. If a man with a
perfectly new curse had appeared on the scene
just then he would have been hailed as a public
benefactor. The old curses had simply given out.
* * * *
Every fourth hotel-keeper in South Aus-
tralia is a woman—the widow of a deceased Bung
mostly.
“G.L.”: Just heard a large-sized school-
boy, as he emerged from the city school where he
was being taught to speak correctly and arrange
His thoughts in a coherent manner, yell to certain
Q f Ms mates : “ Wicheryoose shotted them rocks?”
Education seems to make very little difference in
the national tendency towards the “shotting ” of
rocks.
ONE REASON.
SHE : “ You brute! How can you come home to
your wife in this state? ”
H E: “ Fact is, my dear, I'm in such a happy
state I’d go almosh anywhere, damifiwoutdn’t!"
Bishop Green took days wrestling in
prayer, it is said, as to whether he should stay
on at Ballarat or go to Brisbane. The dilemma
stood thus (sordid daily paper report):
Under present conditions it is understood that the
Brisbane Bishopric carries with it a smaller salary than
that attaching to Ballarat. On the other hand, it is
regarded as probable that Brisbane will shortly be made
an archbishopric.
Ballarat —bigger present salary ; Brisbane —bigger
prospective dignity. The bird in the hand
whistled.
* * * *
Notwithstanding newspaper growls, the
title “Britisher” is really more civilised and
sensible than “ Briton.” Until the awful
bore and socially false jingle of “ Britons never
shall be Slaves” is abolished and forgotten it
should be an insult to call any honest, peaceful
citizen a “Briton” while the word “Britisher”
is available. By the way, Chamberlain and King
Edward constantly use the term “Britisher.”
“ Steele Rudd’s ” many admirers will be
glad to hear that The Bulletin publishes next
month another book of his— Our New Selection—
with many illustrations. Price, 6s. Order at
once from this office, and the book will be posted
to anv address immediately on publication.
WHICH?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Just turn your gaze on me, and you will see
A fellow in a devilish bad dilemma—
I fain my vacillating heart would fix,
But there are two—and none can waltz like Trix.
Nor yet, again, can any cook like Emma.
My after-dinner pipe draws sweet and free,
And gastronomic thoughts predominate—
Yes, after all, I think it would be wise
To get possession of the kitchen prize—
I’ll speak to Emma ere it be too late.
Then, from some street band, round the corner floating
The haunting rhythm of an old Strauss waltz
Swings clear my heart from dross of meat and drink,
I catch the beat—and then of Trix I think—
To such a partner how could I be false !
VIC.
KERANI.
AS WHEN THE TIDE IS UP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A flooding waste of waters wide,
Dark rock, and flashing spray,
A gleaming beach, a stormy wind
Driving across the bay.
Sad wailing wind, swift-coming Night,
Swift-darkening, gloomy sky,
Fading with all the fading light,
And now the tide is high.
Beyond the bending of the road
The red lights of the town
Gleam on the pavements, dark and wet,
And beat the shadows down.
What lights to guide across the years,
What hopes to stand anigh,
When Life looks through a rain of tears
As when the tide is high ?
vie.
KATHLEEN WALKER.
THE KING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
(“ The Defence Department has asked to be supplied
with 50 portraits of King Edward. The request is made
in answer to a communication from the Secretary of
■State for the Colonies to the effect that the War Office
had prepared a large liumber of portraits for exhibition
in barrack-rooms for army classes.”— S.M. Herald.)
Inspiring picture ! See
The young recruit
Taught for His Majesty
To prod and shoot!
Breathes there a soldier base,
With soul so dead,
Who would not foemen face
For royal Ned ?
Who would not rush on doom,
And think it heaven
To fill a gory tomb
For Edward Seven ?
In many a blood-stained gorge
Men did their duty,
And died for Royal George—
Who was no beauty.
Paste up the portrait fine
Upon the walls 1
Set it up for a sign
That Honor calls.
Hearths, altars, homes are rot—
A legend dead —
But, heroes, who would not
Perish for Ned?
N.S.W.
C.R.


THE
FAVOURITE
LIQUEUR
s
do
&
w t<s
J
t ,VA fiAX E Russian Skin Food eradicates
reckles, wrinkles, sunburn, sallowness, acne pimples
all blemishes. Guaranteed to improve the worst skFn in’
one month Price 3s 6d and 6s, postage 6d. Mss Nellie
Stew art writes . Valaze has made a marvellousdiffer-
* n T? ny complexion; cannot praise it enough”
Helena Rubinstein & Co , 243 Oollins-st., Melbourne^*
facile princePS.
ANAN
SEMPER IDEM.
WHISKY.
sdg
Dress faßßies
Are Stocked by the
Leading Drapers.
varnished board'’
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
„ „ . Sydney, November 10, 1903.
Mr Dear Abini,—
We had three hours of “Elijah,” at Sydney
To wn , Hall last Friday. Mendelssohn built a
splendid musical structure—orchestral, solo, and
chorus—around that insanitary prophet * who
howled and threatened King Ahab and Queen
Jezebel (persons of considerable culture), and to
whom the King put that sonorous question.
Hast thou found me, O mine enemy’” Phil-
harmonic brought the outfit of priests of Baal, the
chorus, the widow, and Obadiah together
and Miss Ada Crossley brought the audience’
Her singing of “O Rest in the Lord”
which occurred in the third hour, was as
welcome to the audience as must have been the
original angel s voice to Elijah when the hungrv
prophet was awakened from his sleep under the
jumper tree and shown a hot cake and a jug of
water (seems to me they didn’t send very swell
breakfasts to prophets). Tradition doesn’t say if
the angel sang her injunction to “Rest” to
Elijah. Anyhow, if she did it was not with a
more beautiful voice or devotional expression than
those of Miss Crossley.
In the celestial rdle Miss Crossley leaned droop-
lngly forward (her figure is so long and supple
she can bend it over to convey the expression of
an angel leaning over a recumbent form), and
sang her lines m a voice empty of earthliness
a holy voice; but when she had to be Jezebel and
ask the prophet why he troubled Israel she
straightened up, and was the offended monarch
demanding in deep dramatic melodies that
prophet s scalp. Mr. Peterkin was a fine deep-
toned dignified personator of the seer who was so
successful as a rain-maker.
An Adelaide correspondent writes that the
feminine element is evidently going to lend a
special interest to the present English cricket-
Foster was married shortly before
he left England, and Warner became engaged
about the same time to Miss Blyth. Both ladies
accompany the team, as also a Miss Starkey and
a brother of Miss Blyth. The ladies are all quite
young, and very keen on the game, being gener-
ally visible behind the nets with kodaks when-
ever practice is going on.
Mr. J. B. Dailey (who is standing for Went-
worth), at a private dinner the other night, was
down for the toast of “Art and Letters.” and
made a promising speech on the rather large
order. It was a fitting toast for the son of his
father, who was the Maecenas of his day, MSS of
books plays and verses used to be sent (about
two a day) to W. B. Dailey for his opinion, by
young authors and versifiers. Though a man of
cultivated and critical taste, he was too gentle for
the harsh office of critic, so scores got from him
passports of glowing praise to Parnassus without
exactly deserving them. Dinners, too, were much
in W.B.D. s line, and his own little Lucretian
banquets are much spoken of to this day. A few
friends, turning up to dine at the Dailey house
one evening were shocked to find the host
apparently plunged m black melancholy. “Mv
friends, he said, “a calamity, an almost irre-
parable calamity, has befallen me. My cook has
left, and you all know how she could cook fish
She insisted on leaving; but lam consoled at the
thought that we parted good friends; I kissed
her on both cheeks before she left.”
Lyrical work in the “ Country Girl ” chorus and
some of the solos is excellent, and the finale of the
first act has about it an atmosphere of grand
opera. Miss Florence Young’s solo, “Coo” has
a haunting sweetness. It spooks one long after it
has been heard. No one worries to keep track of
the story but it runs, bright and swift as a sun-
beam, and is just as thin Pretty villagers wander
into a golden land of half-reaped grain. To make
love to them come certain lords and a naval
officer and there is talk of elections and the
sale of n tin-mine. The Rajah of Bhong and a
gorgeous Indian princess are interpolated, and
the lady undulates up and down the stage like a
jewelled panther and tries to make the young
sailor go wrong. The dressing and “architecture *
of the piece are extravagantly lavish. Miss
ftr -t t i goWn ’i a clln ff in ff cr «pe de chine,
trimmed with panels of silver-spangled lace looks
too perfect to have been made out of heaven • and
there are Arcadian-dressed scenes and Directoire
costumed settings. Miss Rose Musgrove’s dance
with Laun, in which both are barn-yard fowls and
wear tails, and spur dust and straw over each
other, comes in very apropos after the recent
Emma case m Darlinghurst. ’>
Maorilanders like to be reminded of the high
place in which sits their fellow - country-
man George Clutsam, in musical London. He
can do splendid work in symphonies, but he has
to write down to popular taste, the consolation
for which is that he makes a lot of money
Clutsam s Curly-headed Babbie,” one of the
finest coon songs ever written, was sold with
another composition, for £lO. Four years later
the sole copyright was auctioned for £670 But
Clutsam is warier now.
Mr. Nick Fitzgerald, brewer, of Victoria, must
e proud of his sons matrimonial achievements
They are all marrying titled women. Providence
is evidently looking after the titled woman in thus
saving her from spinsterhood, while the titled
man is looking after the Gaiety Girl. One of Mr
Fitzgeralds sons married a daughter of Lord
North, descendant of a British Prime Minister
Wh ° ! a l,f Y 1 disagreement with a person
named Washington; now comes news of thp
engagement of another son, Percy Desmond
(there s an orchid name for you !), 11th Hussars,
D. 5.0., to Lady Constance Mackenzie, daughter
of an ancient race, a sister of the Countess of
Crornartie. She is the champion amateur swimmer
of England, and there is a possibility that bride-
and groom will go on a honeymoon swimming-
tour. “Bride’s swimming-away dress was a.
beautiful white serge combination garment and ant
oilskin cap, no stockings, shoes or gloves,” would!
not look bad in a Society column.
A lady, much envied these days, sits, Qr rather
busts—inside the window of Stewart Dawson,
jeweller, George-st. She wears on her golden head
a tiara of exceeding great beauty and on her waxen
throat a pearl and diamond necklace. She is th&
kind of woman fit to be trusted with such jewels
for no heart beats under her wooden breast and
no original sin lurks within her waxen frame, and
her glass eyes cannot flash with greed under
the lustre of her pearl and diamond crown. Fleur-
de-lys is the pattern chiefly followed in the
structure of the tiara, in which there are many
hundreds of diamonds. The ornament is tipped
with 52 superb pearls. Both tiara and necklace
were promised by at least 200 husbands to their
respective wives if certain horses, good outsiders,
had won the recent Cup. And whilst they were
about the _ promises—talk is cheap—they also
offered their wives some of the opals that lay
around the wax lady’s bust—opals that hold the
sea, sky, and moonlight in their depths.
Talking of jewels, the ring and the spider pre-
sented to Miss Crossley by a group of Sydney
admirers are desirable-looking gems. Former is
of diamonds, stones not set in lines as in most
rings, but held in claws of gold curling in opposite
directions on either side of the circlet. Spider’s
body is a single pearl, his brisket and head an
emerald, his claws gold. An elegant insect. The
contralto wore him and the ring and the Mel-
bourne-given lyre-bird, a really valuable bit of
prize poultry in rubies and diamonds, on Saturday
evening—first night of the “Country Girl” at
Her Majesty’s. Concerning this bird, Mr.
Justice Madden said, when presenting it to Miss
C., “that the beauty of its tail almost compen-
sated for the lack of music in its throat,” wnioh
was a happy remark even for Madden, C.J.,
whose remarks are as often happy as his sentences
are unhappy.
Mr. William Kilgour, Sydney manager for
Halgety and Co., died on Saturday morning of
appendicitis. He was well known in banking and
pastoral circles, and was one of Sydney’s best-
r e -? raen ‘ Mr. Kilgour was married to a sister
of Jean Ingelow, the poetess. He leaves three
sons and one daughter.
A dog-party was given in a fashionable Sydney
suburb lately, by a would-be smart family, in
imitation of a canine “At home ” held by a blasi
New Yorker at his brown-stone mansion in 750th
Avenue. To the Sydney party dogs were invited
to come “on the chain.” They were fed soon
after arrival, no fights of any consequence resulted,
and, as a lot of owners accompanied their bow-
wows, the function resolved itself into a minor
dog show without judges or prizes.
The latest announcement in the matrimonial
Ime is the engagement of the father of an Aus-
tralian judge.
If you like boronia, or pittosporum, or cedar or
wattle perfume you may now distil it for your-
j . f - 1 *. 13 . a drawing-room industry, and the
dainty distillery will cost you 30s. The market is
very lightly stocked at present with the ex-
tractors, but a shipment is on its way here.
Sculptor E. Webb Gilbert, of Melbourne, is at
work on a statue to be called “ The Problems of
-Lite, the model for which is a small Crossley boy,
nephew of the famous Ada. No doubt there are
properties ’ at the base of the figure, perhaps of
the skull and butterfly type. Anyhow, the
sculptor will have to put a world of speculation
into the marble face to fulfil the large order
implied by the title.
I know only three things slower than a
regatta, and they are a review, a tortoise, and
a Gippsland worm. Balmain regatta was the
clnefest (Shakspeare) event of last King’s Birth-
day held on the face of the water. Hundreds of
yachts crept like white spiders over the grey
rna , n J i 6 i t *‘ e , sea > an d scores of odd craft
cuddled round the water-line of the Federal s.s.
bomers t, loaned to be the flagship of the day.
Ihis is the Somerset’s maiden voyage, and
she carries a pictorial captain, who has
a comic-opera cabin, and R.N.R. on his buttons,
lo put men like this in command of vessels that
have mostly frozen quadrupeds as passengers is
rather hard on a large number of nice young
women and a waste of pictorial material. At
the luncheon given in the saloon by the managing
director of the co. was a Balmain resident, Captain
Charles, who has lived under five British
sovereigns, and who asserts that King Ed. is the
best of them. He certainly is the freshest.
May Yohe sometime Lady Francis Hope, the
muoh-marned Gaiety girl who was here with her
last but one husband, is living with her husband,
i ■ Strong, and their child at Buenos Aires.
Strong is doing a most prosperous business as
agent for automobiles.
A number of young ladies were recently “ pro-
fessed as nuns at a Potts Point convent, and
amongst the names taken in religion by them were
Sister Mary Idelphonsus, S. M. Aloysius, S. M.
Baptista, S M. Aracletus, and the last one had to
call herself Sister Mary Anne. If there had
Jane another candl date she would have been Mary
That “hairy man” lately creating a sensation
around the Blue Mom. ,an towns must be the
ghost of Henry Parkes, who lies in 6 by 2 at
I aulconbndge.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
The sartorial glories of Cup Day have waned
considerably. Apart from the influence of hard
Gmes ; other causes have combined to chasten the
Ilemington clothes-parade. The Smartest prefer
to reserve extra-special plumage for less crowded
more exclusive functions, while betwixt-and-
betweeners, dropping to the fact that in the
hurly-buriy no one has eyes for them or their
haberdashery, no longer regard a brand-new rig-
out from top to toe as a necessity for the first
iuesday in November. The faithful few who
still dress up to old Cup traditions are mostly
stage charmers, wives of bookies or of spirit
merchants (wholesale and retail), and similar
samples of the walking-advertisement type.
“ On Oup Day, vice-regal groups were palpably
weighed down by boredom. None of the Common-
wealth’s present pro consular people are, in reality,
a scrap horsey, and the mention of Flemington
falls sadly on their ears, like a phantom voice
keening ‘ Horsetralia expects every Gov. to do
his duty.’ Gov.-General Tennyson is more or
less literary, of course, and is by way of being a
bit of a Bohemian in a comfortable, well-fed way.
He’s no more of a sport than his liege lady, who
shines as a manager, and in England tots up all
his Excellency’s farming finances for him. Other
Cup martyrs were that old salt Gov. Rawson,
with his crony, Admiral Fanshawe, and their
respective quiet, unsportive wives. Bustling,
little State-Governor Clarke, all information
and blue-bookery, could post Scobie himself,
maybe, in horse statistics, provided he had
time to lap up stud-literature, but he’s not a
racing man. The gubernatorial stalls at Flem-
ington were in their palmy days when they had
as inmates the horsey, hunting, sporting Hope-
touns and their spirited stable-mates. Next came
the Brasseys, who fell off gee-gees but liked to put
a little bit on a race and thereby kept up their
interest in each event, till the wrong horse won,
when they got too angry to be dull.
Two types held the lawn at the Cup—one the
lean coquette in billowing skirts, a blouse apart-
ment that confessed to no contour and a chiffon
poke or a shady head-shape with lace winkers;
the other, a stout party in a skirt shirred at the
knees with narrowing effect, shirred midway up
the sleeves, and the bodice trimmings smoothed
over the fleshy portions. In this second class a
sneeze would have endangered the whole structure.
Even a deep breath of anxiety had its alarms. It
was necessary to take Cup losses and wins with
the equanimity of a stoic. Emotion is not possible
when one is not dressed for emotion. I’m waiting
to see a genuine she-sport turn up to the Cup in a
bath-wrapper, dressed in which she can let her
admiration or otherwise of the noble horse she
has backed have full scope.
“Miss Millicent Fairbairn scored heavily on
Cup-day in a dainty rig-out of peach blossom silk
with a girdle of leaf green preserving the floral
tone. Miss Irene Marks bounced into notice at
this, and all the week’s shows, in something
good. For the Cup it took the form of a bold
white linen with apple-green intervals, and a hat
running to the warmer tints of fading foliage.
Black hats topped many a cream, blue, or
mauve turn-out, and there was an outburst of
green parasols. Many owners showed sea-sick
hues under their sunshades.
“The sight of women crowding round the bar
in the Grand Stand refreshment room was one
to make the judicious grieve. The tea and scone
counter had its thin line of customers throughout
the day, but the female bar maintained a
thoroughly brisk air of business. No timidity
about the sweet young creatures as they took their
mps I Mostly they measured out the tonic for
themselves with a steady and an honest hand.
Occasionally a male friend did this office, and did
it generously. You could count 20 women to one
man at this mixed bar.
‘‘Consul Oristinoff, who represents the interests
of Russia, stood miles above his assorted brother
officials at the week’s functions. The Oristinoff
is a decorative figure, above the average height,
with a glossy black beard swept fiercely from the
centre parting to right and left. He has also a
glossy and fiercely-brushed and parted thatch,
Greek features, and an ivory skin—altogether a
Byronic-looking corsair.
“Wednesday of Cup-week Surgeon Fitzgerald’s
eldest daughter accompanied Commander Lums-
den, one of the Royal Arthur figureheads, to the
altar at Scots’ Church. There was a lot of Jack
Tar gala effect in the proceedings. Up under the
floral belfry a mighty array of maids and groom-
helps supported the leading couple, each of the
six maids having a Royal Arthur middy as escort.
Miss Ethel Fitzgerald is an Irish beauty, grey-
eyed, black-haired, with a face full of character.
She wore a bridal veil that had descended from
her mother, and a great, remarkable diamond
brooch, also once a possession of her mother.
“The bride of Cup week, Mrs. Lumsden, for-
merly Miss Ethel Fitzgerald, eldest daughter of
the surgeon of that ilk, is rather delicate-looking.
Owing to the death of her mother, a famous Tas-
manian beauty in her day, she has had the
management of her hospitable father’s house since
she was a slip of a girl. Like her sisters, the new
Mrs. Lumsden inherits the old doctor’s brains,
and when she was a slim ten-year-old with Irish-
blue eyes and dusky ‘pig-tail,’ had a knack of
writing simple, touching little verses about sights
seen from the windows of the old house in the
heart of the city, where the Fitzgeralds still live.
Old schoolmates still quote those baby poems re
‘ Sparrows in the Rain ’ and ‘ The Butterfly on
the Tram-line.’
“The Monday party of the vice-regal Clarkes
went to band music and garden lights. Guests
were welcomed in the bow-window recess of the
larger reception room, and then directed along to
the oak hall or the dim terraces leading to the
lawns and. winding paths where lanterns shed
flickering lights. A vice-regal show at Stonington
is necessarily limited, and when it terms itself an
‘ official ’ party, the limitations are severe. This
Cup-eve just a few society sparklers leavened the
gathering and kept the affair from being alto-
gether deadly. Miss Eva Robertson furnished
the finest raiment of the evening—a wonderfully
embossed floral gauze over an ivory silk slip.
“ There was more than an official tone about
Legislative Council President Wrixon’s garden-
party on Wednesday. It stretched to almost
dinner-time, for society sat late over the Fitz-
gerald wedding feast, and started arriving at
‘ Raheen ’ close on 5 o’clock. Guests were thus
able to enjoy sunset views of the Yarra, the
most poetic portion of which much-aspersed
stream is to be seen at the foot of the com-
manding hill that supports the Wrixons’ house.
Mrs. Edward Miller, rearing her haughty head
like an ostrich, wore a handsome gown of white
silk, gushing into garden plots towards the skirt-
border and the waist. In these plots, pink roses
predominated. It was a woven marvel of
exquisite tone and fabric, probably picked up in
an Indian bazaar or at Paris. Mrs. Norton
Grimwade wore a much embellished champagne
silk and lace toilette, and a flaming red hat
supplied the necessary color contrast.
. “ -At the Government House ball the procession
in of the Gov.-Gen., Lady Tennyson, and the
visiting "V ice-regals, with their feminine adjuncts
and tail of attaches, recalled memories of the
matchless Wally when he used to conduct such a
grand march with a leisured step and a sly smile
down the sides of his great, bony nose. Poor
worried Lord Dicky falls up the hall and over
himself, as it were, with the troubles of the open-
ing thick on his mind.
“At this ball the dames made the youngest
show in their virgin gowns of white, chiffon
sashes, and coy airs. Lady Tennyson wore her
diamonds in a staircase fashion from corsage to
waist. Lady Madden, on the other hand, spread
them as for show purposes. They illumined the
head, the neck, the shoulder rests, and all the
outlying portions of the corsage. Mrs. Pursey
Chirnside has added to her gem store since her
journey abroad, and some fine pearls showed up
amongst her abundant diamonds.
“ A funny feature was Yes-No Reid in an out-
break of Windsor trappings. One overstrained
silk stocking was in need of a darn over the left
calf, and much of the brass-ware on the coat cried
out for a bit of monkey-brand polish. With his
cocked hat under his arm, his monocle at work,
and Treasurer Turner’s dame heaping chaff on
him, Yes-No was truly comical. Even broad
John Forrest in his black clothes, and his fattest
medal dangling over his heart, bounding like an
India-rubber ball through a square dance, was a
grave and staid and altogether dignified mortal
beside the political jester.
“ Miss Shylie Blue, from Adelaide, was one of
the chic young persons present. Her soft, fluffy
dress suited her comeliness. Her hair was dressed
quite two feet high, and through the front part of
this eminence some colored tulle was threaded
with the oddest effect possible. It is the latest
from the Big Smoke. A daughter of vigneron
Andrew Rowan also struck out on an uncommon
lino. She appeared in snuff brown throughout.
It is years since a brown-dressed girl has de-
scended on a Melbourne ball-room.
“ The Stonington party on Friday scored as the
dress-parade of the week. Airy chiffons, pro-
hibited from show the preceding days of revel by
the chill of the atmosphere, had their turn this
warm Friday. The most considerable person of
the gathering turned out to be the Countess of
Darnley, but as the Cliveden Dowager brought
this pi&ce de resistance late and bore it away early,
and inasmuch as inner Society scrambled close
round for tributary smiles, the outer ranks merely
caught stray glimpses of a shimmering Nile-green
frock with jewel encrustations. Fellow travellers
by sea describe the ex-Australienne as bright, en-
tertaining, and chattable. A chattable Countess
is a new experience for Melbourne folk.
“Father Robinson, Amy Castle’s clerical men-
tor, is just back from the Cold Country. Accord-
ing to Irish papers, his lecture on Australia
attracted heavy booking wherever advertised in
the Green Isle.
“ The beautiful faith of some of the recent young
amateurs trying a strut on the Princess’s boards
was touching. One pretty warbler approached a
theatrical satellite, who had been invited to the
rehearsal, with the question : ‘lf I get anything
like a good reception, shall I come out for an
encore ? Is it the thing ? Should I rush anything
like an encore?’ Then said he, brutally, in the
manner of the unsparing critic : ‘My dear young
lady, when you’ve sung, depart for your life—fly !
Don’t wait for the outbreak. Anything might
happen to you.’
“Bridge is likely to decline in favor. The
excitement of the game warmed the players and
fires were not needed in winter. Now, unless the
gamblers sit on ice-blocks, play indoors will be
unendurable.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.
The best Yuletide greeting to send to
friends in other lands will be the Christmas
number of The Bulletin, to be issued on
December 10th. In its pages will be found the
best presentation of An tralian life and thought
ever issued, and no effort has been spared to make
it the best Christmas number up to date.
A mere sprinkling of degradations fell in
Australia on King’s Birthday. One K.C.M.G.
descended like a solitary drop in the wilderness on
Augustus Gregory, M.L.C., of Queensland, who
was a great explorer some 40 years ago—it is a
long time to wait and a very small thing to wait
for. F. B. Suttor, President of N.S.W. Leg.
Council, and Justice Holroyd, of Victoria, are
made K.B., and the knighthoods end there.
Even of C.M.G.’s there are only two, one going
to Foxton, of Queensland, as the reward of seven
years’ service holding up the Continuous Govern-
ment. After that there is a scattering of medals,
jam-pot lids, tobaoco tags, glass beads, and trifles.
Women ! why be thin and undeveloped 1
Lactk, the wonderful skin-food, plumps the flesh
where thin and undeveloped, gives a beautiful
roundness to face, neck, bust, and arms. A
quick, sure and safe home treatment. Jars
7s. 6d., post 8s. 2d. Thousands of women using it
daily, all of whom testify to the wonderful results
from its use. Write for pamphlet to H. Westall
Guest, Vice-regal chemist, 229* Bourke-street,
Melbourne. Sydney—Mrs. Rogers, 54 Strand
Arcade ; and Miss Cuthbert, 11 Victoria Arcade.*
The Outtrim (Vic.) coal-miners have now
been 42 weeks on strike or lockout. In the ab-
sence of a tribunal to inquire into industrial dis-
putes in Vio, it can’t be said for certain whether
it is strike or lookout; but, anyway, for 42 weeks
over 1000 men have been out of work. At various
times they have offered the employers arbitration,
conference on the basis of the old agreement, and
finally an open conference; they have had their
case brought before Parliament; they have
appealed to Premier Irvine; and they are
still on strike or lockout. Neither the owners
nor the “ Reformed ” Parliament nor Irvine
will listen to them. The only people who
have listened to them are their fellow-unionists,
who have kept them going in strike pay
(between lls. and 13s. per man per week); and
out of this the men have not only kept them-
selves but have fought two law cases, and are now
fighting a third, the Martell case, which so far
has cost over £1000. And the coal companies,
instead of paying dividends, are either making
calls or contracting deficits, and their shares have
slumped, in some cases, 50 per cent.; yet they still
hang on and make a pretence of working the
mines with 200 or so men. And, finally, the
State has to pay for special police protection, not
to mention the fact that it is losing the product of
nearly 1000 men’s labor. It wouldn’t have taken
42 weeks for a State which had not chloroformed
its conscience to discover that a Compulsory Arbi-
tration Act was better than all this, anyway ; but
Victoria hasn’t discovered it yet.


To People
with
Rheumatism.
STRAIGHT TALK.
You call a man a fool or a lunatic when he starves within reach of food-but what do you
think of those who go on suffering the tortures of Rheumatism when they know that Dr.
Williams’Pink Pills are a positive cure ? Perhaps you say that you don t believe r. „ .
W iams’ Pink Pills-well* every joint and muscle in your body will continue to punish you for your unbehef. Perhaps
will not iLn to evideuce-and to you won't read chit positive proof from a fellow Austrahan But people of
fntelligence and common sense, who really want to be rid of their Rheumatism, will follow w.th eager mterest word
spoken by Mr. Waldron Frost, of Branxton :
“ WVtPn T heard of neonle being crippled with Rheumatism,” said Mr. Waldron Frost, of Branxton “ I little thought that that
, • When I heard ot peop e oei g PP and this was the Btart of it . The hot, burning pains pierced my back, legs and thighs,
would be my luck. I caught a chill wni | T „„ v,„/i T Vent. moving but if I took a spell even for five minutes, the
At night I could get no rest,
go to work. I spent a small
- get rid of the terrible aches. This
enavsdng ll achmg J Rheumatism A of "mine* baffled the doctor too, for at fist he told me that nothing more
could be done for me. I was just as miserable as could be when I saw that Dr. Williams Pink Pills
for Pale People had cured some of the very worst cases of Rheumatism by actually making new blood.
Mv wife said ‘ Now you never know but what these pills might be the making of you’ and that’s just
what they were. We bought them from Mr. Lewis, the local chemist, and the very first box eased
the pains a bit. Every day I felt better, and 12 boxes drove out every trace of Rheumatism. I know
my cure; is permanent and I’ve never had a twinge of Rheumatism since.”
ACCEPT NO SUBSTITUTE WHATEVER—GET THE GENUINE.
Six boxes. 15s. 3d.
M 0? Y/LLLIAMS'
kINK
11LLS
ALE
tOPLt
Price per box, 2s. 9d.
*
PERSONAL ITEMS.
N.S.W. will miss one perennial candidate
these approaching elections. Harry Foran has
left the State, and is now lifting his voice beside
the Yarra.
A. G. Pendleton has practically had con-
trol of the S. Australian railways for 27 years.
He arrived in S. A. when the rails were only 300
miles in length, __
John Norton was the only member of
N.S.W. Assembly who didn’t vote or pair on the
censure motion last week; the gentle John was
in North Queensland.
Pumpkin Smith will have a strong
opponent for the Macquarie seat in the House of
Reps, in Mr. Sandford, of Lithgow ironworks,
who contests in the interests of Protection.
L. P. Heydon, M.L.C., takes a 12 months’
trip to England, where he hopes to materially
help Joseph Chamberlain in making the Empire
one. He was opposed to making Australia one.
The will of Isaac Feldheim, who died in
London in August last, aged 79 years, has been
proved at £58,919. He was the head of the
German-Australian firm of Feldheim, Gotthelf and
Co.
It is a strange thing that, whereas all the
State Governors, on occasion, rise up on platforms
and talk solemnly of the gambling propensities of
the young (and old) Australian, every blessed one
of them has urgent business in Melbourne at Cup-
time.
The much gilded Percy Chirnside of
IVerribee (Vic.) has been fined £5 for the act of
his servant in furiously driving a Panhard
automobile from Hunstanton to London. Another
item in the great drain of this country’s substance
to Bull-land.
The importance of the Consular service is
a dreadful and garish thing. The brief brown
gent who discharges the very light duties of acting-
Consul for Japan in Sydney now styles himself
“ Chancellor-in-Chief ” of the Consulate. Even the
York-street importer who represents Sweden, and
the gigantic potentates of Nicaragua and Andorra,
and the diplomatic representative for Thibet,
won’t easily beat that “Chancellor-in-Chief.”
THAT'S
WHAT
WOULD
TROUBLE
A THIRSTY SOUL.
MR. ASH: “Poor Henry staggered from the bar,
tram went over him, and he’s no more. A
terrible fate to befall our old friendl — terrible!”
MR. SLEEPE (with dreamy grief): “ More per-
tickler him havin' two whole bob in his pocket.”
Queensland’s new Chief Justice, Cooper,
is a N.S.W. native, having been born at Willeroo,
Lake George. It was his Honor presided at the
Robt. Reid and Co. trial. He doesn’t favor the
horsehair wig and old-woman millinery which
most Judges affect.
At Westport (M.L.) Arthur Coningham,
the well-known cricketer, has been sentenced to
six months imprisonment for larceny and false
pretences. He appealed for mercy on account of
his wife. All the same it wasn’t any fault of
Coningham’s that he has a wife to base an appeal
on.
“ What is Mr. John Lackey’s means of
living?” asked Wood, M.L.A., in N.S.W.
Parliament. “I am inclined to think,” replied
Premier See, “ that he has no money at all, and
no means of living.” Another politician whose
career, apparently, ends on the rocks. Lackey
is now 73. He entered the Legislative Assembly
at 28, and has been Chairman of Committees,
Minister of the Crown, and President of the
Council, and has held various other well-paid
offices.
Mayor Cohen, of Adelaide, after all
declined to stand against Kingston for the
Federal Parliament, because his medical adviser
stated that he could not stand the physical strain
of travelling backwards and forwards between
Adelaide and Melbourne. But he would not
have been called upon to stand the strain, for he
would not have, been returned. Once Cohen
howled amongst the loudest for progressive land
taxation and other radical reforms, but he is now
solidly on "the side of the Tories.
Chief-Justice Pope Cooper, of Queensland,
is, like his predecessor, Chief-J ustice Griffith, of
Australia, a Sydney University man. He entered
at Middle Temple in 1868, and was oalled to the
Bar in 1872. He has been over 20 years on the
Queensland Bench. Cooper’s learned brother
Real, who used to disagree with Griffith on the
bench, has already, started to prod the new chief.
His explanation, when Cooper took his seat as
Chief Justice, that he himself should have had the
billet, was one of the suddenest things that has
happened to Mr. Cooper.
There is not
a single Austra-
lian Chief Justice
who has not been
in politics, and
only two who have
not been Attor-
ney-General; yet
not one of
them got as
far as being
P r e mier.
C.J. Par-
ley, of N.S.
Wales, was
as little of a
politician as any;
for about fifteen
months he was
Parkes’ representative
in the Legislative Coun-
cil, and that was all. C.J.
Madden, of Victoria, also
never reached further than being
Minister of Justice; he held that
office twice. C. J. Way, of S.A.,
got into Parliament in Feb. ’75, be-
came Attorney-General in June ’75,
and was appointed Chief J ustice in March 76-
all of which was fairly sudden. C. J. Stone, of
Westralia, began as clerk in the Leg. Council,
afterwards was a nominee member, and Attorney-
General. C. J. Dodds (Tas.) had the longest poli-
tical career of any of them; he is the only one of
the bunch who has been Treasurer as well as
Attorney-General. And the new C. J. of Queens-
land, Cooper, had only one session in Parliament,
passing from the Attorney-Generalship to a
Northern judgeship after having been only 10
years at the bar.
Recent events have given General Hutton
a lively dread of the press. A meeting of
the Defence Association Council was suddenly
broken up by the irate General falling fiercely on
a person in mufti who had quietly entered the
room. No explanations were listened to, and the
intruder vanished before the stormy generalissimo.
When he could get in the thin edge of a word,
Brigadier Finn inquired why his new orderly,
who apparently had a message _ for hirn, was thus
driven headlong off the premises. Hutton had
thought he was a reporter !
The unveiling of a portrait of the first
Justice Chapman in Welling-
ton (M.L.) Law Courts recalls
the man’s culture. In that
respect probably no Australasian
judge ever stood higher. He was
a profound student of philosophi-
cal literature ; was the intimate
friend and constant correspon-
dent of such men as Mill,
Jeremy Bentham, and Edward
Gibbon Wakefield, the coloniser.
He was a classical scholar, and
that brought him the friendship
of Badham, of Sydney. In
French he was as skilled as in
English; he was well-read in
German literature, and fairly so
in Italian. He had made a
hobby of wool-manufacture, and
wrote the article on “ Weaving ”
for the Encyclopedia Britan-
nioa. And in spite of all that
he knew a good deal about law,
and is still favorably remembered
as a judge. It was he who, while
on the bench the first time,
admitted present Chief-J ustice
Stout to practice.
They say that why Bigjohn
Forrest had to play so prominent
a part as host to the Federal
Government was because Toby
Barton never had the dining
capacity, Alfred Deakin hadn t
the digestive requirements, and
the others failed in either the
inclination or the staying
powers. Bigjohn’s admirers
hold that he can get through
three public dinners in a day, if necessary.
After being dead for 30 years the memory
of John Moffatt, of Hopkins Hill (Vic.), whom
Archibald Michie stigmatised as one of the
wealthy lower orders,” has been revived through
the sale of his estates. They comprised over
100 000 acres of freehold—Chatsworth, Hopkins
Hill, Berrambool, Salt Creek, Leigh, and other
properties all acquired in the sixties. IMoftatt
earned an unpleasant-sounding nick-name by con-
cealing the fact that scab had broken out on one
of his runs:—
Scabby is his name, and scabby is his pocket.
And scabby is the man who votes for Scabby Moffatt.
Though he was a single man, his home at Chats-
worth was one of the finest houses in the west or
Victoria ; a bullock team and dray could be turned
in the hall. The Duke of Edinburgh put up there
once, and it was then that the unlettered Moffatt,
with a vague idea that all dukes were literary,
determined to fit up the library, and issued his
famous order for “ a couple of tons of books.
THIS ns n Y
ISU3Y HAY
HIS TROUBLES.
M AID: “ Oh, Mr. Jones, the Missus is an elopin'
with the bloke what lives next door”
MR. J ONES: “ You bad girl, don't make me laugh.
You know I've got a sore lip.”
Mr. Clement Shakspeare, of Warren
(N.S.W.), who died, the other day, at the age of
66 years, claimed to be a lineal descendant of the
author of “Hamlet.” Mr. Shakspeare came to
Sydney on the ship Light of the Age, which was
the first to bring news of the proclamation of
peace at the conclusion of the Crimean War.
Something with a streak of humor in it
and also a streak of pathos :
Adelaide, Sunday.—Yesterday Edmund Raymond
Lewis, 34 years old, a metal plate worker, of Mount
Gambier, committed suicide by hanging. A paper was
found in his pocket, with the words, “ Death is better
than corns.”
The saddest feature of the case is that if a man
finds afterwards that corns are better than death
the information is of no use to him.
“ Jack” Rigg, who scandalised the Maori-
land Legislative Council by opposing the resolu-
tion commending Chamberlain’s “services to
the empire, and who dared to declare that the
S’African war was the handiwork of a gang of
blood-stained boodlers, is by trade a composi-
tor. He was one of the first batch of Labor
representatives appointed to the Council by
the Ballance Government in 1892, and has
until recently been a pronounced adherent
of Seddon’s. Of a quiet and even retir-
ing disposition, Rigg is effective when
he speaks, and his vigorous denunciation
of the Chamberlain grovel struck right
home. At the opening of the session
he was elected Chairman of Commit-
tees ; but it is hardly likely that the
crawlsome Chamber will seleot him again for tlie
position.
The official investiture of Jerome Cadman,
M.L. ’s latest victim to the star and garter disease,
was a painfully precise and starchy affair. There
was an inordinate amount of bowing and scraping,
and advancing and retreating, and sword exercise
and manipulation of a tomato-red cushion which
Cadman sets up housekeeping as a knight with.
The fallen democrat trembled violently once, not
at being in the presence of the august deputy-king;
but because he was disturbed by a cold, and
fearful lest he should sneeze at the most critical
moment. However, he fortunately
warded off the catastrophe. Among
other democrats invited to be present
was the new Speaker, Arthur Guin-
ness, who may be similarly debased
later on.
The first baronet in Governor-
General Northcote’s line commanded
a regiment under Oliver Cromwell in the Civil
War, and helped Edward Vll.’s distant royal
relative to the place where he was abbreviated
with an axe.
Spruce Myth was speaking :
No, gentlemen. The principles of human liberty and
Freetrade are eternal. You may try to dam them back.
As well try to dam back the Atlantic as it flows into Port
Jackson. ■ ...
A Voice : It’s the Pacific, not the Atlantic.
Mr. Bruce Smith : I wish that rude person would cease
his senseless interjections, which disturb the pleasure of
those who have come to hear the views of a thoughtful
public man.
Dick Seddon’s private castle at Wellington
(M.L.) is a most unpretentious edifice, standing
on an acre of land surrounded by a galvanised
iron fence. Needless to say he has the inevitable
flagstaff, on which to fly “ our beloved sovereign’s ”
Union Jackass. Unlike his henchman, Joey
Ward, Seddon does not keep a carriage. Ward’s
was a present from his creditors. Seddon either
hasn’t any creditors, or they are a meaner lot
than Ward’s.
The Owe’Sullivan confides to a Sabbath
paper that his career has been influenced by
Napoleon, Julius Caesar and Hannibal especially
Hannibal, “in my opinion the ablest tactician
that ever lived.’’ Further, he confides:
My weaknesses are—too much energy, too much sym-
pathy, and too much imagination.
Died, Oct. 27, at Homebush (N.S.W.),
Mrs. H. H. Myles, aged 89 years, widow of
Lawrence Myles, formerly police magistrate ana
superintendent of police at Sydney. In 1840, or
thereabouts, Mr. Myles built the big terrace which
still shows on the skyline, in Gloucester and Cum-
berland streets, on the Sydney Rocks.
From a man in Melbourne press gallery :
Shiels is the most badly-hated man in Vic. Parliament,
not even excepting Bent, who bluffs his fellow-members
into imagining that he is bluff himself, or Max Hirsc ,
whose terrible egotism and irresistible inclination t
' lecture everybody, have earned him the cold shoulder an
round. But Shiels, with his pennywise pinching, ms
affectations, and his habit of snarling like a yellow dog
ambushed by a.garden fence, courts and gets kicks from
every quarter. If ever Shiels had hopes of reaching the
Premiership again, they must have dwindled materially
in the last few months, for he never speaks but to De
treated with derision. Even Chairman of Committees
Graves, trying to check interjections the other day, de-
clared from the chair that “it was difficult to listen to
the Minister ’’—and Graves owes his job to Shiels.
About Victorian Speakers .
In the election of W. D. Beazley as Speaker of the
Victorian Assembly the democracy has won the clmir tor
the second time. Beazley is a house-agent and auctioneer
in Johnston-street, Collingwood, in partnership with one
Aumont, and the business is not a swagger one. Among
past Speakers of the Victorian Assembly the first was
Francis Murphy, a doctor. Charles MacMahon was an
Imperial Army Captain ; Peter Lalor, a civil engineer
and a strong Democrat, vide Eureka. M. H. Davies,
solicitor and creator of banks, became a sort of penny
Wolsey—and like the Cardinal had a grievous fall. lorn
Bent was a cabbage-gardener and rate-collector, but
turned round on his kind ; Graham Berry was in the
sixties and seventies the President of Collingwood amd
its dependencies, but he went to England, was be-
knighted, came back and was rejected by Brunswick,
where the bricks came from ; and Francis Conway Mason
was as much of an aristocrat as nature allowed him to
make himself. He was a schoolmaster, but kept it quiet.
MARRIED FOR MONEY.
IMPECUNIOUS YOUTHS: “Ah! lucky Jim, how I
envy him.”
JIM : “Ah! lucky men, how I envy them.”
About the blessings of education :
During the hearing of one of the numerous time pay-
ment cases, which have kept South Melbourne J.P.’s
working overtime lately, a well-known pugilist denied
that the signature to a document produced was his. He
was asked to write his Christian name, “ Edward,” f< r
purposes of comparison. He demurred, pleading that be
was “ no scholar,” but under pressure seated himself at
the solicitor’s table. Laboriously arranging his limbs, he
dipped two inches of the pen in the ink, and lean-
ing inquiringly over to a solicitor sitting by, asked
“ How do you spell it ? ” Finally he hung out his tongue
to a considerable distance, and scrawled “ Ewdaly ” in
hieroglyphics that resembled the marks of fowl’s feet in
the mud. “ Write Albert,” was the next order. ‘ ‘ Oh,
that’s foreign,” replied the bruiser ; “ give us English ! ”
“ Spell Daniel.” After much hesitation and stumbling—
“ D-a-n-a-u-e-1.” “ Come now, that’s not right.” “Ain't
it? Well, it’s the best I can do. I ain’t-in school, any-
how.”


WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resch’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
Hardy Brothers,
Vice-Regal Jewellers.
13 Hunter Street, Sydney;
U 8 Queen Street, Brisbane
(And at London).
Cake Baskets
HARDY BROTHERS have a large
number of Cake Baskets and Shells
in the newest patterns from 21s*
to £5.
Solid Silver Cake Baskets from £9 to £l5,
suitable for presentation.
WRITE FOR LARGE ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
Best quality electro-plated Cake Basket with
handsome shell edge and richly engraved
centre, 84s.
Aboriginalities.
* * * *
Another bush-school excuse:
Dere mister i want u to scews mi bil for not haven his
lessens dun our gote licced bils slayte it bein greesie en
so pore bil doan no his sumes wicb is to hard mi old man
says he wunt do eny moar like the last him en bil bein
dun up wen they dun the wun were u wanted to no how
far a man cud wark in for ours if he warked wun myl in
aytean minits he sayes cud u giv bil nex tyme sumes
about hawses mi old man saves he wunt do bils sumes
agen in workin for eny darned teecher en iam respeck-
fooly, MARY TOMSON.
AT ROTORUA.
TORIST: “ Er — er —I say, are you a guide?"
MAORI MAIDEN: “ Er — er — can’t yer find yer mother?”
On the second day of the Circuit Court
sittings at Normanton, which is as far North in
Queensland as you can go without getting singed,
Justice Chubb made a speech from the bench.
“Gentlemen,” he said, “I am not in a good
humor this morning.” Then, having taken a sip
of what looked like water, he proceeded to
explain :
I have had no sleep for the last two nights. Last night
at the hotel at which I am staying I had to listen to
filthy, disgusting and obscene language. So that, gentle-
men, if you find me in a bad humor there is an excuse for
it. The language used last night would have shocked a
drunken bullock-driver. I am going to have quietness
at my hotel to-night, and you will give the necessary
instructions, Mr. Sheriff, and the Inspector of Police will
see that those instructions are carried out, for police pro-
tection at the hotel to-night. I am going to have some
sleep to-night, and I am not going to submit to be
annoyed by either local magnates, station men, financial
men, or even members of the legal profession. I have
certain powers which I can put into force. A Judge on
oircuit has powers which would surprise some people if I
mentioned them. I must have police protection to-
night.
After that the Associate called the jury roll, and
they went on with business.
* * * *
“ Wer.” : Bikes seem to be all the rage
now among shearers and other peregrinating
workers in far western parts. They are always
handy in the mornings, they seldom knock up
. through doing three times the journey of a horse,
and they can do without feed and water better
than a camel. Some of the men are good riders,
too. A shearer named Potts put up a record
near Winton that will take some beating. He
finished shearing at Ayrshire Downs at breakfast-
time, covered the 40 miles to Winton, with a big
swag up, by dinner-time, and cut-out half a hun-
dred sheep at the local scour in the afternoon.
» * * *
The foreigners’ struggle with the name of
the Reps.’ choice of a Federal capital recalls that
the earliest recorded spelling was Dooinut. It
occurs in the narrative of the Quaker missionary
Backhouse, who, in 1836, met two young men who
had “sheep-stations on the Doomut River, far
southward beyond the located part of the colony.”
The natives called it something more or lesarepre-
sented by “Dhoomuth.”
* * » *
“ Wurrym ” : Perth is the only capital
in the Commonwealth that I know of where ’roo
meat is exposed for sale in butchers’ shops. So
far as I can learn only old Gropers buy it.
The S. Australian Forestry Department
has now 3130 date palms growing along the over-
flows from artesian wells in the dry Far North.
The hot, drifting sand last year killed a good
many, but the rest are now thriving. The oldest
trees are at Hergott; a few of them there have
been fruiting for about 10 years, and have reached
the stage at which the fair annual crop is 1001 b.
from each. The largest plantation is at Lake
Harry, where considerably over 2000 palms are
being cultivated.
• * * *
“H.”. Before me is a remarkably in-
teresting volume of the transactions of a congress
of Maoriland horticulturists held not long ago in
Dunedin. Surprising is their wholesale con-
demnation of the acclimatised birds, ranging over
larks, thrushes, blackbirds, sparrows, minahs,
starlings, and everything. The fruit spoilt and
the seeds stolen are out of all proportion to the
insect pests devoured. All the native birds have
good characters, but they are being driven out.
The native and imported larks are merging. The
question is whether Jekyll or Hyde will pre-
dominate.
* • * *
You never know what you are going to
fall into at Bendigo. There are hundreds of old
alluvial shafts under the city, and not a tenth of
them have been filled in. Right opposite the
Town Hall, the other day, workmen who were
making a hole for a lamp-post broke into an
opening of uncertain depth. The traffic of a busy
street had been taking dreadful chances on top of
a thin crust of earth for close on 50 years.
• * » *
One Far West station, with a good many
miles frontage to the lower Darling and taking in
an area, all told, of 800,000 acres, is said to have
been able to muster only 400 sheep for shearing.
There were a few others, but they couldn’t be
brought in. And yet its neighbor, Netley, with
900,000 acres, shore over 40,000. The principal
difference between them is that one has been
over-stocked in good seasons and the other hasn’t.
In other words, one fell into the hands of a bank
which flogged the country and about flogged it to
death ; the other has never gone out of the power
of the Dunne family which first took it up.
* * * •
It is astonishing how completely lost are
some of the Australian aboriginal arts. Dr. Roth
tells that, in N.W. Queensland, owing to the
prevalence of iron, the art of stone-flaking, by
which weapons were once made, has been almost
entirely forgotten. It took Dr. Roth a long time
before he hunted up a very ancient Georgina
native who could describe the old method of
■tone-flaking.
Maoriland Railway Department
has been making a series of inquiries
as to the life of various timbers which
have been used as sleepers in railway
construction. Ironbark and grey gum,
with a working life of from 25 to 30
years, head the list, with jar rah, 25
years as a maximum, closely following.
Of essentially Maori timbers, yellow
pine, totara and puriri are in the
front, lasting 20 years, which is also
said to be the “life” of the Austra-
lian blue gum. Kauri has lasted 15
years; but rimu, rata, and some other
native woods are done for after eight
years. The Maoriland experience with
karri (from Westralia, half-brother to
jarrah) is very unfavorable ; 10 years
finish it. But no doubt a good deal
depends, not only upon the chemical
constitution of the ground on which
the timber is laid and the climate there
abouts, but also upon the country
where the timber was cut. The mulga,
which at its best is about the hardest
of all native N.S.W. timbers, will last
over 30 years in the ground if it has
been cut from dry hillsides; but if it
has come from watercourses, it is likely
to rot off inside seven years.
“ Matchbox ” : Horses in Victoria are
selling at fabulous prices. Might as well buy a
traction engine as a team. Weeds, £5 to £10;
good buggy horses, to £25; draughts, £25 to £5O ;
ponies, £l4 10s; carriage pairs, J5lOO to .£l3O.
Recently saw 200 yarded. Looked like the crowd
that followed the Apostles. The lame and the
halt and the blind were there. In the 200 there
was one absolutely sound nag. Reason, approach
of harvest and necessity for big teams causing
demand. After February things should change a
bit.
* * * *
The old order changeth slowly but surely,
and soon a kindly, time-honored bush institution
will be no more. Clip from Sydney Telegraph
(17/10/’03):
DOOM OF THE SUNDOWNER.
MOLONG, Friday.—Shearers on several stations intend
catering for themselves this season, each man boiling his
own billy and supplying his own food. In the past, the
men complained of the heavy charge levied to pay bills,
expenses for cook, assistants, &c. It is contended that
the new system will prevent travellers loafing on the men
in a systematic manner from shed to shed.
* * * *
DROPPED.
SMALL BOY (to horse): “ Hi, there! You've dropped something.”
According to the Lachlander some pas-
toralists are making good headway towards re-
plenishing their depleted flocks, one man near
Condobolin (N.S.W.) this season having obtained
200 per cent, inorease. He had one ewe and she
had twins.
* * • •
“Vigilans” sends another letter from
Sheol:
On the south-east coast of Westralia there’s a tele-
graph-station called Eyre’s Sand Patch. What a heart
Eyre must have had ! This place is rightly named Sand
Patch ; a more God-forsaken spot it would be difficult to
find this side of Sheol—a mass of sandhills, 20 miles
long, without a tree to be seen, only stunted shrubs.
Nothing will grow there ; not a living thing will exist
there ; and there’s no traffic. The nearest house on one
side is 50 miles away, and 200 miles distant on the other
side lies Israelite Bay Repeating-station. The houses are
situated in a valley, surrounded by huge white sand drifts;
a wonderful spectacle, made still more weird and awful
by the constant roar of the ocean, half-a-mile away. A
steamer calls here once a quarter with the mails and
stores, and then the transmitters go to sleep until the
arrival of the next mail. “ A desolation of desolations—
a hell of the devil’s making ! ” And yet one Graham, a
former P.M., resided here for 24 years, and brought up a
big family battling with the sand.
• * * •
On the typical mining field there is a small,
disused graveyard close into the heart of the
township. The men who go to a new rush don’t
usually take either a hearse or a coffin in their
swags; and when typhoid lays them out, though
their mates usually see that they are put into
some kind of a coffin, it isn’t often
very safe to carry it far over a
rough track on their shoulders.
Also, generally speaking, when
the first man has to be buried
there aren’t many shoulders available
to carry him; and so a grave is
made handy. That fixes the ceme-
tery site until, in a few months,
the warden and the Government
surveyor come along, say it will never
do, and mark off a new reserve a
couple of miles out. Then the old ones
‘ ‘ open ” no longer, and the township,
if it doesn’t itself die, spreads out
beyond and around it. Very few of
the mounds are marked; whose bones
lie under most of them is unknown.
There are 33 graves in the “old
cemetery ” at Coolgardie—the graves
of the men who blazed the track to
the biggest Australian goldfields of
recent years. Only two are marked ;
and there is about the same propor-
tion in the little enclosure where the
dead pioneers of Broken Hill lie.
Coolgardie has, however, lately put
up something in the shape of a
general memorial—a pile of quartz-
boulders, cemented together, sur-
mounted by a cross, with the in-
scription—“ To the Memory of the
Early Pioneers, 1892-4. The Men
who Blazed the Track.” They tried
to find out who the 33 were, even
though it was obviously impossible to
tell the grave of one from tnat of any
other; but, as the death records were
kept for most of the time away back
at Southern Cross, several of the
earlier deaths were not reported at
all, and thus the idea of inscribing
the names had to be abandoned.
“J. M‘C.” writes from the Darling
oountry .
“fc
Arbitration Court, prefer to fight on “in their own way.”
Some time back they threw a dead dog into a backblocks
union office, and recently a dead cat, with a strong smell,
flew through the door of another union office through the
same agency. And the union officials—an irritable and
humorless set—resent such tactics and yell out something
about “wanting their disputes with the squatters put
before the Arbitration Court for final settlement.”
“Winkle” winks
from the wilderness:
It is not surprising,
perhaps, considering the
dishonesty of ’(Austra-
lians in small matters of
customs, seed-wheat ad-
vances, etc., etc., that
so little of the jewellery
lost in small country
places ever finds its way
back to the rightful
owners. The Lamb-
tailers’ “hop*’ was on
last week, and Mrs.
Smiff and the rest of
’em from Bound about
were there, with the
family gewgaws thick
upon 'em—all picked,
and paid for in hides,
hoofs, eggs, fowls, and
butter, from the half-
yearly hawker. Next
morning a crowd of ex-
cited shemales in de-
shabille made for the
police station, after
crawling over the ball-
room floor and net find-
ing their treasures. The
constable showed me
the list of alleged miss-
ing articles: Three 15ct.
bangles, set with gems;
three curb-chain brace-
lets ; two dress rings,
one valued at £BO (not
worth 2s. 6d. if the
truth were known); five
watches (all valuable
and gold, yettheonly one
recovered was brass);
two valuable hair orna.
ments ; six purses ; two garters with gold buckles; the
opal out of a brooch ; three brooches, and lots of little
things like pearl necklets (net cost, 3s. 6d.). They were
supposed to have been dropped in the room, and to date
none of the valuables (excepting the brass watch afore-
said, arid one garter, much dilapidated) have been
recovered. Where did they get to ? Or is the alleged
loss of valuable jewellery merely a method of keeping up
the fiction of family greatness ?
* * * *
“ Kink ” : Surprising the number of keen-
eyed people who can guess the weight of a fat
bullock, within a few ounces. This form of gam-
bling is very popular at country shows. Another
amusement —guessing the number of seeds in a
monster pumpkin—is pure gambling, the pumpkin
having no fixed rules about it. A certain sewing
machine agency down South donates a prize in the
shape of an up-to-date machine to each of the big
Agricultural Societies, the only condition being
that it must be guessed for, some way or other.
It is generally guessed for on pumpkin principles.
• * * *
“ H.S.R.” writes :
Re the fairy tale about the great boom there would be
in work if men could only be got for 15s. per week
(B. 15/10/’O3). I would like to hear of any pastoralist or
farmer who is giving more now’, or who has given more
for several years. Many give much less, especially
farmers, many of whom expect 10 or 12 hours work per
day, at from 6s. to 10s. per week and found. I know for
a fact that men have been working on sheep and cattle
stations for as low as 10s. per week.
MRS. MAY, WIFE OF THE LATE PHIL MAY.
Photo, by Foster & Martin, Melbourne.
“James Dish” ; During a buggy-bump-
ing, camel-contorting tour round about “ Right-
.t-the-Rear;of-B.ck.o'.Ou»-B.* I gathered the
following rings of changes on the Never-Never
nomenclature Out-Back, Wayback, Rightback,
T , , , n - r, , _ ’ y
Daok-o -Out-Back, Beyond-Out-Back, Behind-Uut-
Back, Set-o’-Sun, Death-o’-Day, Past-West,
Westest-West, Beyond-Set-o’-Sun, Right-Behind
Death-o’-Day, and so on.
THE SWAGMAN TO HIS DOG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
• Steady there, Joe ! —yer blackguard ! Down, old boy !
Guess yer too blind ter see an inch er so !
Garn now ! —yer can’t smell, Joe ; yer blamed old fool,
Yer lost thet with yer eyesight long ago.
"Yer lyin’ hound, Joe 1 Say, what’s woke yer up,
After ther way yer’ve crawled dead-beat erlong ther
track ?
D’yer know we’re near the old place once more, Joe ?
Is thet what’s kep’ yer up—ther cornin’ back ?
‘ Why, here's ther very gate—yer know it, Joe !
Many’s ther flock yer’ve kep’—l b’lieve yer knows ;
Yer wuz a credit then, an’ worth a pound,
But now, like me, yer only fit fer crows.
• Gawd I what an age it seems since long ago
Us an’ ther missus, Joe, an’ all ther boys
Busted around from year end to ther next !
Gawd ! how the old place rang with life an’ noise !
“Ther missu3—she went first—remember, Joe,
She saved from many a lickin’ yer old hide. ,
We put ’er where ther wild flowers grew ther best;
I’ve often wished I ’uz lyin’ by her side.
“ Ther boys went one by one ; we watched ’em go ;
They thought ther world wuz wantin’ ’em somehow.
I guess ther old place wuz a sight too slow.
I often wonder where they’ve got to n.
“We were ther last ter leave. Yer blackguard, Joe,
Yer stayed until the last darned sheep wuz dead.
We left ther drought-cursed homestead far behind
And wandered back, just as our footsteps led.
“ We tramped about a bit, Joe—you an’ me ;
We’ve had ernough. I think we’ll give it best.
Ther sun is settin’ there behind the gums ;
We’ll camp ’ere, Joe, an’ get a bit o’ rest."
GEEBUNG.
THE SCENT OF THE WATTLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A faint, sweet scent in 'the air oppresses
The heart with a thought of the days that were,
As the song of a loved one, lost, distresses
By memories waked of an old-time care.
A faint, sweet scent in the air yet lingers,
And a heart-crave wakes that for long has slept,
For the perfume stirs, as with ghostly fingers,
Thoughts of the years that the past has kept.
The breeze sways the gold-crowned wattles slender,
And the perfume sweet brings the old-time pain ;
The small spring ripples a lullaby tender,
But the love of the past comes not again !
Oh ! wattle-blooms, in your golden splendor
Recalling the days of the long ago,
A rush of memories, sad and tender,
Wake when your perfumed breezes blow.
A faint, sweet scent in the air oppresses;
The gold-tipped sprays wake the old-time pain ;
For the thought of the love of the past distresses,
When nought but the mem’ries frail remain.
VIC.
K.A.H.


%
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS
A CURE FOR KIDNEY AND BLADDER TROUBLES.
A REAL PICK-ME-UP.-“Talk about cham-
pagne,” said Byron, there is nothing which cheers
your spirits up like a dose of salts.” But had he
known Hunyadi Janos he would certainly have
preferred this, the best and safest natural
aperient.*
THE “ Fx. & R.»
New Electro-plated
on Nickel Silver ...
ENTREE DISH
is practically a sheath of Solid Silver on a
base of hard, white Nickel Silver.
They are hard soldered, and cannot be
affected by the heat of the oven.
They are the latest and most convenient
shapes, and are 11 inches long.
The one dish forms two lidless dishes, the
handle being removeable.
They stand any amount of fair wear, will
last for a quarter of a century, and
engrave as well as solid silver.
They are 48/- each—Net Cash.
Best quality 11 inches, 48/- ; best quality, oval shape, 38/-
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street*
“ Vul.” r Be a pathetic natural history-
item in a recent Bulletin—mama jackass inten-
tionally, and with malice aforethought, poisoning
jack, jun., after she’d found all her efforts to
' "release him futile. Such a practice is not uncom-
mon in the animal kingdom. Seton-Thompson
details how, on a baby fox being captured and put
on a chain, the mother, after many unsuccessful
attempts to set him free, finally poisoned him.
She spent half the first night trying to gnaw the
chain through, but, finding this useless, she
brought the cub a hen from the fowl-house, and
departed at daybreak. Next night she procured
the hen before she visited the cub, and stood off
with the prize to induce the young one to follow
her ; but, on finding his struggles ineffectual, she
gave him the bird and again departed. On the
third night she came early, and, at the corner of
the kennel to which the chain was attached, began
to dig a large hole. When this was deep enough
for her liking, she drew the cub to the edge of the
cavity, and gathering up the slack of the chain,
dropped it in, and buried it. Having thus dis-
posed of the chain, as she thought, she took baby
in her mouth and bounded off—with disastrous
results when the end of the chain was reached.
When she appeared on the fourth night she made
no attempts to release the cub, but went, instead,
to where the poison baits were laid, and, selecting
one, took it carefully to him. She sat down and
watched him eat the morsel, then, when the last
bit had disappeared, made off swiftly, and was
never seen in the neighborhood again. Thompson
affirms that the murder was quite premeditated ;
the hen-house was open as usual that night, and
she might have foraged therein as heretofore had
she liked. She could not have taken the bait
unsuspectingly, as she was a noted thief in the
district, and all such doctored dainties she had
hitherto contemptuously left alone, and the only
assumption left was that she had given the poison
to her baby quite knowing what its effects would
be. That she returned no more to the cub
strengthens the assumption.
• • • •
Strange names in New South Wales—Tea-
pot Swamp (near Newbridge) and Poor Man’s
Hollow (near Bathurst).
• • • *
“ Yarrum” : Watched a man “breaking-
in ” a young horse here (Newcastle district)
t’other afternoon, and felt very ill. The
breaker, accompanied by twenty or so horsey -
looking blokes, brought the unfortunate animal—
a weedy two-year-old—down on the sand; and,
after running it 49 times round a stump—’bout
three miles, up to the hocks —put the saddle on.
Then he got back, and put the moke round the
ring 40 times more. By this time the animal was
completely done, and the man was badly winded.
Then the biggest man in the crowd took the
animal by the ear, and hung on like grim death
until the rider had a chew, and hitched up his
moleskins. Another four times round, and three
men approached and fixed a surcingle, somebody
ad vising them meanwhile to ‘ ‘ look out for the beg-
gar's paws.” The big man next stepped up,
gripped the ear again, and placed his dirty hat
over the animal’s near eye. Then the horse-
breaker approached carefully, and was about to
mount, when it struck him that his boots were a
trifle heavy, and that the nails in them might
slip in the stirrups. He swopped boots with the
postmaster, spat on his hands twice, and, whilst
the crowd held its breath, climbed into the
saddle. The animal staggered off with its head
down, and the crowd—some of it had walked
three miles to see the fun —moved homewards,
seemingly disgusted. During the whole perform-
ance two heavy weights hung on to the animal’s
head by a long rope. And this is what they call
“ breakin’ in a young ’un.”
» # * *
“Viator”: I ran lately into a West
Queensland shire where the Council had the
audacity to levy a tax of 2s. 6d. on goats whether
on reserves or on selectors' 1 own holdings. The
Shire Councillors were all big men and owned
sheep. Naturally there was no half-crown tax on
sheep-
THE ENGLISH CRICKETERS.
Braund. Fielder. Relf. Arnold. Rhodes. Hayward.
Hirst. Strudwick. Knight. Lilley.
Foster. Warner. Bosanquet.
Photo, by R. M. Riggall.
A dog Crusoe inhabits a little island iu
Lake Pukaki (M.L.), and has been heard barking
any time during the last eight years. Believed to
have been left there by a shooting party, and in
the absence of a boat hasn’t been rescued. The
island abounds in rabbits, which keep him alive
and presumably afford him plenty of recreation.
THE LATE PHIL MOUBRAY
(“Scotty the Wrinkler”).
“ Marat The man who buries his second
wife in the same grave with the first has no soul,
Noticed a Rookwood tombstone, first and second
wives sleeping in the one grave, and the inscrip-
tion read, “May their souls rest in peace.” Is it
likely that the first wife could rest in peace with
the second one on top of her ?
The Passing of Scotty .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
-w~ E throw us down on the dusty plain
f/f/ When the gold has gone from the west,
// But we rise and tramp on the track again,
For we’re tired —too tired to rest.
Darker and denser the shadows fall
That are cramping each aching brow —
Scotty the Wrinkler ! you’ve solved it all,
Give us a wrinkle now.
But no one lieth so still in death
.As the rover who never could rest ;
And lie’s free of thought as he’s free of breath —
And his hands are crossed on his breast.
You have earned your rest —you brave old tramp —
As I hope in the end we will.
Ah met ’twas a long, long way to camp
Since the days when they called you “ Phil.”
What have they done with your quaint old soul
Now they have passed you through ?
But we can’t l at think, as our sivags we roll,
That it’s right, old man, ivith you ;
You learned some truth in the storm and strife
Of the outcast battler's toays ;
And you left some light in the vagabond’s life
Ere you vanished beyond the haze.
One by one in the far ahead,
In the smothering haze of drought —
Where hearts are loyal and hopes are dead —
The forms of our mates fade out.
’Tis a distant goal and a weary load.
But we follow the Wrinkler home,
As, staggering into the short, straight road,
From the blind branch tracks we come.
We leave our mark and we play our part
In the nation’s pregnant days,
And we find a place in the Bushman’s heart
Ere we vanish beyond the haze.
N.S.W.
H.L.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
Bo notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. So liability is under-
taken in any case re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted, whether sent by post or handed in ; and in
no case will MS. be returned unless stamps (of any
State) accompany.
F.H.W. : Glad to hear that Tumutcan grow
apples ; but if you read “ B.” article, you’ll see that it
was never said it couldn’t. What was said was that
Tumut had a maize-growing climate, and the Federal
capital should have an apple-growing climate, the refer-
ence being to a scientific distinction in climatics between
districts in which apples flourish and those in which
maize flourishes. The two never flourish together,
though they may exist together almost anywhere
Felice : Not up to publication level, but not without
promise Gardener : The metre would have ruined its
chances in any case H.E.W.B. : Hardly worthwhile.
.... Tarmla : Sorry not good enough.... W.F. (S. A.) :
Too mazy and hazy... .Anchor W. : Prose limps and verse
stumbles.... Tom B. : Too long and lean. We like our
yarns short and meaty... .Wynne Relph :No novel or
bright ideas in it ; no novel or striking forms of expres-
sion ; lines irregular, and the attempt to make “thyself”
rhyme to “strife” is quite hopeless P.M. : “ Why not
simply describe the Australian capital as ‘ The Capital,’
and have no other name ?” Well, because you wouldn’t
like to have no other name and be simply called
“ The Man ” ; because to call the inhabitants “ Capi-
tallers ” would be awkward ; because it would look as if
Australia thought it was the only place with a capital
R. Wardrop: Regret to say we can’t trace the date
of that old ship. Found much dust and legendary
lore, but no reliable dates Will C. : Don’t
score this time Racy O.: Some of your eloquence
doesn’t quite fit the line-repairer’s job Allen
Green: After some doubt, no Ben Sun: Don’t
hit the mark.... St. Leger: Incidents and arguments
hopelessly unreal. ..Sahluma: We get, on an average,
10 “ Faded Flower” poems a week Rita S.: Sorry to
disagree with you. The antiquated instrument at
Melbourne has done a lot of work, but neither it, nor any
other at present known, is really accurate. Of course,
the local institution has to swear by its respectable fossil.
M. T. Grain : Full of literary faults Roma : “ Vil-
lage Settlement” is labored and mechanical W.V.T.:
A hopeless production... .Horace G. : Such chirography
bars it “826”: Sorry not suitable Doran: Too
broken-backed A. B. W.: One may do. The
others are too elaborate and artificial. F. O’D. :
Very near the mark. A shade too grandiloquent
Crowfoot: Will publish in an abbreviated form—publish
the good verses, that is Spero : Some good verses, but
not enough of them... .G.P.L. : Thanks for par. re holy
pressmen....Weslon : “Bibber” nearly good enough;
not quite... .Philip E.: Sunday school verses —of a very
poor order—about the sinfulness of “Doubt,” and, pre-
sumably, the blessedness of believing everything....
G. : Two antiques, which makes us doubtful about
the third one. Quite needless to stick a stamp on each
par F.E.A.: Both commonplace. And when you
write verses on “Morning in Moore Park,” everyone
instinctively adds “Near the Tip.” T.Q.: Not very
promising Namoi East: Not enough sense in them,
and not enough nonsense L.M.D. : Too “sultry”
towards the end Pip : Too enigmatical... .Francis L.:
None of them any g00d... .E.R. : Nothing in it... .Luna :
Not worth such minute recapitulation Parby : All
three long-winded and prosy J.P.H. : Neither up to
the mark... .Lux : Rambles around too much L.B.H. :
Both very stodgy and awkward Westral: Shows the
prentice hand, but has promise... .B.A. : Feeble and
pretentious.... Dolby : Lacks coherence and continuity.
V.N.F. : Spoilt by the ineffective ending... .Moses :
Too many digressions and moralisings Tambo : Pars.
good ; sketches show some gift, but great lack of skill
Gerald : Has points about it, but hardly suits us Isis :
You carol too clumsily D.E.M. : Microscopic humor.
.. ..G.K. : Too rhapsodical and extravagant Double B.:
An unsavory and ill-told chestnut Jim H. : You are
over-zealous about what is, after all, a very small matter..
Gerald B. : “ Poppy Wine ’’ is pretty verse about nothing
definite. Try to be about something definite H.T. :
“AhFoo” not at all interesting.... Dickinson : It isn’t
poetry. That’s all that’s wrong with it C.G.W. :
“Dawnward” will be forwarded when published
8x8: Did not refer to you Vindex: How could we
possibly know that? J.A.O. (Vic.): Not too bad in
matter, but very weak and flimsy in manner Broma :
Completely out of our line B.T. : Not well enough
put together Fred G.: Too long and loose E.N.D. :
Pretty, but rather feeble Goldy: Will publish
“Eileen” Correspondent: (1) It is his son’s photo.
(2) If you are playing “ jamb ” nap any man who
has not yet had a say can go three or four or nap
though some one else has done it before him.
The penalty is that he pays double if he loses.
At plain nap nothing of the kind is allowed
H. : “Riverina Race Flat” declined... .Mangaweka:
Merely a routine mark, meaning “Please return”
Uloola: Not worth print M.A.W. : Feeble piece of
work Earewao : Tame and dull Tom J. : Crude and
awkward Folder: “Jimmy” is slow and prosy....
D. :An intolerable quantity of expatiation to a very
poor halfpennyworth of subject Art. B. : Broken-
backed verse Davey : It was duly returned M.E.R.:
Musical and pretty, but thin and conventional....A.D.
(Vic.): Very good attempt. Experience is what you lack...
L.B.E. : Some good notions, but, on the whole, too
faulty.. .Snakebite :On application at the nearest police
station you can get a Government chart as to treatment
of snakebite. Roughly speaking, these rules will serve :
(1) Don’t give alcohol in large quantities—more people
are killed by over-dosing with alcohol than by the venom
in snakebite ; (2) if the bite is on a limb, tightly ligature
the limb between the bite and the heart; (3) cutting into
the flesh, deeply, with a penknife around the bite is
generally good ; so is sucking the wound (there is no
great risk from this, even if some of the poison is taken
into the stomach—which can easily be prevented); (4)
hypodermic injections of strychnine are invaluable ; a
chemist will supply a syringe and tabloids to a responsible
peison ; great care is necessary in administering this
remedy C.M.A. : Has points about it, but is inartistic
and slipshod.... Osterley : Rather feeble stuff.... A.K. :
You don’t give date of issue... Melancholy: Not well
enough written Brenda : Too suggestive of Shelley....
E. Day: Nicely phrased sentiment, but altogether too
usual.... W.J.A. : That bright lie has a musty flavor.
J.C.F. : (1-2) Can’t say, but efforts are being
made. (3) Present proposal does not strike us as
sound, but there’s no atom of reason why’ the labor
people should not run a successful evening paper;
any morning paper proposal seems to be necessarily
doomed to failure. (4) About the Victorian proposal
know nothing.... A Country Resident: Methods you pro-
pose are impracticable, but the ideal is all right, and will
come, little by little Elodie : Your topical verse is
good, but subjects not well chosen for B. On the R.
Smith matter, for instance, we were with R. 5.... .Odds :
Subject been dealt with so often before in these columns.
Jarowa: Your Federal capital joke is far too much
drawn out—a thousand miles long by one mile thin
P.C. : Whitmanish poem on sewerage respectfully de-
clined Frank D. : Not far short of the mark. With
more terseness vou should do good work. . Unsuitable :
R.S., E., Hard Times, J.M., J.E.S., E. 5.8., Tavo, T.R.L.G.,
R.G.P., Disque, Uloola, A.P.S. G.W.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Una R. ; Sketches unsuitable. By the way, your
“ Indian ink ” is the palest of the kind we’ve noticed ;
it must be Eurasian J.S.W. : “ Breath ” joke no good.
.. ..M.‘G.: Impossible picture.. ..H.S. : Picture of gentle-
man on bike not inspiriting... Spiff : Old gag J. 8.:
Joke only intelligible to golfers (Bulletin doesn’t golf).
Edgar D.: One may do as suggestion.. ..A.K.C. :
Drawings show some promise, but line work is too weak
and scribbly Benny Pensla : All unsuitable.
The new long-distance talking machine—
the electrophone—helped London Daily Mail
and Evening News to a journalistic triumph in
regard to Chamberlain’s recent Birmingham
speech. Reporters sat at the receivers in the
London office, took a verbatim report of the
speech, and the News, containing a full account,
was selling in the streets 20 minutes after Cham-
berlain concluded. Papers which relied upon
telegraphed reports were beaten by an hour and a
half.
BREAKING IT GENTLY .
“ How my horses now, Jacky?”
“Oh, one dead, boss.”
“That’s bad. See the other one!”
“ Yes, him dead too, boss.”
E. J. Brady, with the Builder Printing
Works proprietary as publishers, has produced an
admirable Christmas souvenir titled “Sydney
Harbor.” In about 60 broad pages Brady has
put into always readable and often graphic prose
most of what every admirer of “the, finest haven
in the world ” wants to tell his friends abroad
about it ; and the prose is helped on to this end
by the camera and the brush, in a series of
characteristic views, excellently reproduced on
fine paper. Added is a colored sheet giving a
panoramio view of the magnificent winding stretch
of water.
“THE TIME HAS NOW ARRIVED!”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Mr. Reid pointed out that the time had now arrived for
him to put the finances of the country once more in the
healthy state of prosperity which invariably follows in
the track of Freetrade."— Daily paper.
I’ i saving up the addled eggs, the kitten’s getting ripe
That will land upon his waistcoat with a crash,
As he twirls the golden cable that is stretched across his
“kipe,”
While he tells us how to save the country’s cash.
Though he’s traded on “ our burdens ” since first he took
the stump,
And at every party shuffle has connived,
He will bob up all serenely, looking confident and plump
To assure us that “ the time has now arrived 1 ”
But we’ll smite him hip and thigh,
Shake the eyeglass from his eye—
That paunchy man who tells us that “ the time has now
arrived 1 ’’
He will tell us how we've suffered 'neath Protection's
cruel sway;
He will tell us he’s the chap to put us right;
How we’ll all be “ fat and jolly ” on a bob or two a day
If we’ll help him win the coming fiscal fight
He has watched us growing thinner through that little
pane of glass
Since the woeful day the country was deprived
Of his guidance, but the promised joys will surely come
to pass
If we trust him—for the time has now arrived.
But we’ll shunt him—none too soon,
That public pantaloon—
The breezy, wheezy man who wails “ the time has now
arrived I "
A little nonsense now and then is relished by the wise,
But the jester’s not the man to rule the State ;
And we ’re weary of the joker who is always going to rise
And relieve us of our surplus while we wait.
He has held the reins too often with his broken-winded
team,
And to wreck the coach he always has contrived ;
When another driver rights it he will stump around and
scream :
“ Give me the reins—my time has now arrived 1 "
It will grieve old “ Hop ” we know,
But the bounder has to go—
That talky clown who tells us that “the time has now
arrived I ”
N.B.W.
ORIPPS CLARE.


The d£<-_grows more disgusted with Pre-
mier. Irvine every day, and more fierce in
its criticism. Ho is accused of “ piltcrmg
with Parliament; his pledges aud his
duty." and told that he is headstrong and
as bad as his predecessor
Too man, Uf “ 5 . hedrl
Vredkin’ Tojtjjnk. IKi t re no
Sooner ™2!I T e f ..
WdnT lo J-edd rtw sVf;
- c&SKi •Vs?™** • m.
their jiresen na j s eviL£P r °t^ batever in
hood, , im . f ® v . lntod m-tlre noighbor-
«'-'W - grea” <*"*>*-
euce, whilst the oolieo n, dhout interfer-
Ma-
' ' PUBLIC : c miges
During the Ju do business
hv the police, Wron -
just round tbe corner.
II?e,~UW - rlow ,/ I
WASr?' T mloircl y lanoton
«/ iq existence ife
lfTe corner,
j 4 one 1/ ffic byes
1o d dollar orr J
Wd'keju} jTr me ”
v#>/
“ It was-a matter[for congratulation that
Mr. G. Fairbaim hati-been returned to Par
liamont With Mr. Swinburne and Mr.
McCutcheon they now had a solid little
party-wliich would look after their inter
ests, and would stand together in opposi
tion to the Socialistic tendencies-
Employers EeJciatum Speed:.
AND YET IT MOVES.
So far we have not been able to discover
that the little party has set up a
reaction _
> r ~' CTO'bOSLJS the joke.
The Light Comedian (in-tho,jvings.
- gloomily) — ll She ’ doesn’t like me, a bit !
" Btit t.hore, you can : t expect woman tcrap-.
prcciate a joke 1
Yestcruay, Edmund-Raymond Lewis,
of Mount Gambler, committed rsuicide.
paper was found in. his pocket, with the
words, “Death is better than corns
A)gus.
BACKING 'EM.
I .Mo (ingenuously)—“-And yet the public
s pretendtli to be amazed ven they don’t
vin !"
‘ A chance like this for a testimonial can
not be let slip:
“ Since using vottf great"'
corn cure my Corns have given me no
trouble in the world. Signed, 8.L.”
POLITICS, HORSES, ETC.


M'DwKins Stored]
SVfould PC set io
ir]Oyc"~ Spruce Hytf)
-Avdf'df^l
Asiatic "All li . you r/o lef me in
wou /eflfts fondle m ye C*> low
(jonjc be li4 o
/\u$fr$h\ NTo jW, neinje*' you
Hor Vour
worK, ( «
Would
Ifjen jjkjif ?
«\trk
K \
\
/frw-we\
S.M. Herald
K! "i \
fobl?*c,r \ '
Jfcl>oUr*r<^
„ Tfc V_ .
Tl)e Imperial Offite
fo S«t>t>W * ConsiVniqent"
of pJ7tWs oPH.IME 4 '®
to*" up !•? Orderly
°t> I)^s
fcc«»7 V ce j»ted fry
: rli'*)is+e.'' of Defence .
1 News |f « ,, >
W«. tt|U<>l'"sfcK'j
, -\-v ■ »70W j
"V CWfwn inli^itii n^
for jRe rale raj fratf
,—— *&*'
SOME POLITICAL ISSUES.


A. SAUNDERS.
Two Gent.’e Solid Silver Hair BRUSHES and COMB,
in BilkrUned Case, £2 10b, £B.
sdg
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Morocco Leather CIGAR CASE,
Sterling Silver Shield, 10b 6d (
other styles, 12s 6d, IBs, 20s, 28s.
'* ' tvs-
i
;?vr
*4
E!
Mi
■vaO
o
/fJTi
as
(
<o
&
;<p,cj
\\<i
f&2
<3ft
NS)
o.
'!
WW
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-plated Silk-lined JEWEL CASE,
beautifully Carved and embossed, 255,
very effective.
A. SAUNDERS.
r
A. BALNDEBS.
Gen |~ ’» Pure Silver ( nAR-OCOTER,
4* 6d, Ts 6d.
'Ffmm v
A. SAUNDERS.
(Jent.’s Leather BOLL, containing 2 hollow ground
SQf
, 1 ,f( '■. ■ V
■ ./■%<:')
m>
,
]
r -. v.
i ( V._.
■ ' ' ■■ ■
, ■ -
orocoo Strap Wallet
Silver
A. SAUNDERS.
Eadiea' Crocodile Wallet
PURSE, Sterling Silver Mounts
speoial value, 10* od.
Ladies’ Seal Leather
Sterling Silver-
, mounted
PURSE, 13s 6d.
v>Y
A. SAUNDERS.
Silver Cedar PENCIL, 8s 6d, Bs 6d, Ts 6d ;
other styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d; gold, 20s, 2C«, 80s, 85s, £2.
I
: If
. MS
'■’iiu.m
gfd
Ladies’ Pure Solid Si
Soent Bottu
A. SAUNDERS.
lrer-mounted TOILET SET, Hair Pin Holder,
>, Puff Box, and Pomade Pot, £2 10s ;
larger size, £8 10s.
:/■
A, SAUNDERS.
Pure Solid Silver-mounted SALTS
and SPOONS, Fanoy Out Olaes,
in Silk-l|n*d Cate, 15s 6d, 20b ; heart-shaped, 13s 6d.
\ -iJ
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-mounted LADIES’
COMPANION, 18s 6d{
smaller, IBs 6d.
A. BAUNDEKB.
TE.AVELLING CASE, containing Hair Brush, Cloth Brush,
Scent Bottle, Soap Box, Mirror, and Manicure Bet, 25s ;
other styles, 21b, 27b 6d, 80s, 85s, 40a.
i, v;
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-mounted Cabinet PHOTO.
FRAMES, 5s 6d ; other styles, 7s 6d,
10s tid, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255, 80s, 355, 40s.
mm
mi
mm
A. SAUNDERS.
Presentation Child’s CUP. Pore
Silver-plated, in Silk-lined Case,
similar 12s Gd, 15s, 20s, 255, 30s.
•>-*■■&+> , • - ■
: ■■ ■ :: •
■ . V, ?
'' ''
...... ' c i>ar? , ."r-
R.— Pare Solid Silver JAH SPOON,
• and BREAD EKJRK, in_Silk-lined Case,
Embossed and Ornamented, 4os.
m
so.
m
m
8/6
A. SAUNDERS.
Exceptional Value, Pure Silver Cut Class HAIR-PIN BOX,
full size, 8s 6d.
8/6
?/vUV.d.
»:S
': ■ . .-••
'iifeag:/
. ...'■■ - ■»■ .
!)’>*'' V '''
.-4 lij
A. BAUNDEBS.
white bristlea. in idtk-lino
ier •trie*, 2U, 26k.
' ' K
- r .: -•
ji^..'■■.■> jf • ■
" -; M ■••■■■
A. SOUNDERS.
Staling Silver SMOKERS'
iug Silver SMOKERS’ COMPANION,
Cigarette Case, Matchbox, end
Cigar-holder, 455.
sss .,
A. SAUNDERS:
Pure Silver-plated NUT CRACKERS
and PICKS, In silk-lined case,
Ivory Handles 21b, Pearl 255,
Silver HATPINS, initials,
Is tid.; stone set, Ss 6d, 4s 6d,
Pure Silver-mounted Swan
PIN CUSHION, 7s 6d.
’
A. SAUNDERS.
1/\ /£S Pure Silver Large Size BRUSH, Extra Long
•*■”/ Hair Drawn' Bristlea,
Beautifully Chased and Ornapaeated, 10s 6d;
other styles, 12s 6d, IBs, 20s, 26*, 80s. Post Free.
m
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver RATTLE,
Ivory Ring aud Whistle, 7s fid
other ■•'tyles, 4i od, 6b fid,
8s 6d, 10b 6d.
CA-
■r -
A. BAT7NDEEB.
Nicely Chased MaNTCUBE SET, 6 useful articles,
Very best quality snii full size, in silk-lined case, 80s, £2 {
other style9,lss, 20s, 22s 6d.
ittcrran*t3
-•Y
_ A. SAUNDERS.
and POCKET BOOK, all improvements, Bil ver-mmnted,
HS above, 12s 6d, without Shield 10s 6d. Initials nicely chased, Is extra ;
other styles, 15s, 20s, 255, 80s.
f
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Solid Silver CIGARETTE CASE,
with Matchbox and Sovereign Purse
combination, £2 lCs.
fdg
7/6
A . SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-mounted SHOE LIFT and HOOK,
in silk-ined case, 7b OiJ ;
similar styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s,
" u
,A;
.v
?'■• i;
;
-rig '&*£. ■:
A. SAUNDERS.
A LADY'S PRESENT.-Pare Silver-Manured
Stretcher, Shoe Hook, Glove Hook, and Shoe Lift,
in Nice Leather Case, 255.
fd
Pure Silver PUFJ? BOX,
beautifully embossed and engraved, 30s.
Gilt Top only, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
QsifpftJ *
mm -
;. i
: -i -vi
$ &
A. SAUNDERS. - j doz. Pure Silver-platsd 4-o’clock TEA
, BPOONS, with Tongs and Sifter, in silk-lined case, 25s ;
other styles, 15s 6d, 17s 6d, 80s, 355. ]
jtXawnct&ed.
y, LONDON BISYDNEY
L A. SAUNDERS.— Cake or
; Dessert FORKS,Evory Handles, 25s :
pure Bilvor-plated, in silk-lined ease, 12s 6d, 15s.
'^ ri S\V r
h\'- ■-
tssi
Eg
S>?
mMm
m
9
A. SAUNDRRS.
Pure Silver MATCH BOX,
12s 6d ; similar, 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 7b 6d, 10b,
g _
in
- 3 „■£.-; -
%
m
m
§:M
m
&
m
-i£
A. SAU ■ DEES. . 4
Solid Silver Pair HAIR BRUSHES and OOMB,'m =:i-
lined leather case, £8 10s ; similar styles, 10s £*..
A.'SAUNDERS,
Sydney’s Leading Jeweller
and Optician>
For Jewellery, Watches, Clocks, Optical Goods, Leather
Goods, and Silverplate of Every Description.
809, 811, 813, 815, SIT
George-st, Sydney,
Opposite Kail way State.


BEAUTIFUL EYES & LASHES.
M ORRIS’S^
r'heroists& stores, j
Imperial
B\>e * *
©intment
‘ Adds lustre, strengthens vision,
restores lashes. No toilet table
complete without it. Pots 2/”,
Post 2/2 from Proprietary,Melb!
Norwood, an Adelaide suburb, has just
had the moral courage to give an erysipelas
patient “ ten shillings or 14 days,” for being about
the streets before he was cured. The astonished
invalid paid the fine, and retired into seclusion to
finish convalescing. This is the first case under
the present S.A. Health Act.
Mr. E. Solomon, Turton-road, Waratah,
N.S.W., the well-known breeder of Buff Orping-
ton fowls, says:—“l have tried Chamberlain’s
Stomach and Liver Tablets, and cannot speak too
highly of them as a liver livener. The form in
which they are made makes them easy to take,
and they are quite effective. I found them do
their work thoroughly and without purging.”
Chamberlain’s Stomach and Liver Tablets are
sold everywhere. Is. 6d.*
V:1
BEETi QF3JFU3I3EU
Flavelle, Roberts & Sankey, Ltd.,
BRISBANE,
are now manufacturing all classes of
THERMOMETERS & HYDROMETERS.
Any SPECIAL THERttOnETER made to order.
Thermometers, Barometers, etc., repaired at
short notice.
gfd
ri "' a‘“a
SHOT-GUN CARTRIDGES.
ms
MM
o
mm
NEW CLUB CARTRIDGES,
NITRO CLUB CARTRIDGES,
Loaded with Black Powder*
Loaded with Smokeless Powder*
Recommended to Shooters particularly for Uniformity,
Penetration, and Cleanliness. Guaranteed the Best.
SOLD BY ALL DEALERS.
0-00X3 3r3l_A-313rl FOR
o,
24*
All Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. " Price—3s., 45., 5s Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
t3T For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATUR ALINE.
For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra. i.
Washington H. Soul & Co.,
Pitt-streeC, Sydney.
CONSULT HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by WATKIMS & MACKAY, Chemists, Queen Street, Brisbane ; Mr. GORDON, 92 George
Street, Rockhampton, Queensland, and
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Coil ins-street, MELBOURNE
KELLY
The Host Successful American
Traction Engine made.
TRACTION ENGINES.
Fitted with Two (2) Speeds and
Steel Gearing throughout.
Lists and Particulars FREE on application to the SOLE AGENTS FOR QUEENSLAND:
CLARK Sc FAUSET, Eagle St., Brisbane.
PATENTSHEEPBRA
Is now being used by hundreds of woolgrowers, amongst them some of the largest squatters in Australia.
IT WILL DO EVERYTHING THAT IS CLAIMED EOR IT.
It will stay on the sheep’s back as long as required. It will not injure the wool and can be scoured from it.
Manufacturers and Sole Agents :
FEtTQI KHHHE $ CO., PIEEiOURnE.
BLACK, BED, and BLUE (in 8-gallon Cases):—
PRICE IN MELBOURNE .. .. 4/- per Q&llon.
SYDNEY (E. Rich & Co., Ltd.) -2L/- „
BRISBANE (E. Rich & Co., Ltd.) „ „ 4/- „
HOBART (Wm. Crosby & Co.) „ ... ►. 4/- „
If
91
II
Hotelkeepers! Make your own SODA WATER
— WITH
Eckersley’s Improved Aerated Water Machines
NJ
SODA WATER costs per dozen.
LEMONADE, GINGER BEER, GINGER
ALE, &c., &c., 4d. per dozen.
Owing to the number of unscrupulous imitators attempting to exploit a
trade which by virtue of the superiority of our machines we hold, we desire
to point out to intending purchasers:—
(1) That our machines are used solely by His Majesty’s Australian
Squadron, after an exhaustive trial, in which other so-called aerating
machines competed.
(2) That on all the Victorian Railway Refreshment Rooms, after careful
trial and examination, our machines were unanimously selected for
the excellence and purity of the aerated waters produced by them.
(3) That the leading Hotels and Clubs throughout Australasia have dis-
carded all other makes of machines and have given ours the preference.
(4) Being by far the largest importers of Pure, Natural, Liquefied Carbonic
Gas in Australia, we can insure to purchasers of our machines an
unfailing supply of this gas.
A few of the hundreds of users of our machines are given below, and
they will be pleased to furnish inquirers with their opinions thereon :
The Flagship of the Australian Squadron (H.M.S. Royal Arthur).
George Talmage, Lessee Victorian Railways Refreshment Rooms at
Geelong, Ballarat, and Melbourne (Vic.).
John Rowan, Railway Refreshment Rooms, Warragul, Sale, and
Traralgon (Vic.).
J. P. Rowan, Commercial Hotel, Leongatha (Vic.)
R. G. Drummond, Victoria Hotel, Hamilton (Vic.).
S. J. Carberry, Sportsman’s Arms Hotel, Star of the East, Murchison
(W.A.).
Thomas Barclay, White Cliffs (N.S.W.).
J. J. Kahl, Tattersall’s Hotel, Blackall (Queensland).
We are also Manufacturers of Small Machines for Cafes, Confectioners and Private Use.
Descriptive Catalogue and
Full Particulars from
ECKERSLEY & SONS, 214 Queen St, Melbourne, Vic.
POLITICAL POINTS.
From an English paper :
At Swindon, on Friday, 37 passive resisters, including
eight town councillors and two Methodist ministers, were
summoned for non-payment of the education rate.
Before proceeding to court a prayer meeting was held in
the Congregational Church. At the Police Court the
defendants were given a sympathetic hearing, and each
made a speech giving reasons for declining to pay. The
Bench decided to issue distress warrants against the
defendants, who, with their supporters, sang the Doxo-
logy in court.
The Balfour Government’s insane attempt to
restore Church control of education is the last
straw on its sagging back.
The decision of M.L. House of Representa-
tives, by 43 to 19, not to give statutory preference
to unionists under the Arbitration law, has been
a good deal misunderstood. The simple fact of
the matter was that the Arbitration Court has
already been giving preference in the vast majority
of cases, and the Reps, decided to let the Court
go on doing it. In the 61 cases decided this year,
preference has been awarded 48 times, a “no
discrimination ” clause has been inserted in nine
other awards, in one other there is no reference to
the subject at all, and in only three was it decided
that preference should not be granted.
Premier Deakin’s poetical eloquence isn’t
even dithyrambio, but mild and spring-like. Com-
pare his ladylike outburst at Ballarat—
From the perpetual summer in New Guinea, the spring
in Ballarat now in its blossom, and to Hobart, where the
buds are scarcely beginning to burst; from the place
where I speak to you to-night to Perth, where the sun
has not yet set, the Commonwealth flag flies over it all
with the American—
The U-nited States of America are bounded on the north
by the Aurora Borealis, on the south by the Eternal Pro-
cession of God’s Equinoxes, on the east by the Rising Sun,
and on the west by the Day of Judgment. Whoop !
“Glenara,” from a Vic. agricultural dis-
trict :
The happenings at a recent land board, held in Ararat
(Vic.), are a striking example of how the legal shark
intrudes himself into everything. The dangerous practice
of allowing legal sharkism in land board matters has only
lately come into vogue, and it cannot be too rapidly
abolished. About 300 applications were put in for a few
blocks on Lexington Common, and the land board sat in
Ararat to decide who should be sent “on the land.”
Presiding official, after asking the land-seeker the neces-
sary questions, gave the other applicants for the same
block the right to cross-question. One applicant, instead
of cross-examining in person, engaged a lawyer to appear
on his behalf, and try to prove that rival applicants were
not bona-fide. Others, of course, followed suit. Appli-
cants without funds for lawyers’ fees are thus simply at
the mercy of their financially stronger comrades. The
areas thrown open for selection are supposed to be for
the benefit of the struggling toiler, who generally can’t
hire a lawyer ; now they generally go to the man who
can hire the most expensive and violent attorney.
The cheese-paring policy of Yic. Railway
Commissioners is responsible for a villainous pro*
cess of robbery among the loco, branch employees,
particularly those engaged on the suburban lines.
Under the “broken shifts ” arrangement the men
have to work several hours for which they receive
no pay—they are paid only for the time spent in
running, no account being taken of time spent in
shunting and preparing engines for the road.
Some examples of time worked and time paid
for:—
No. 12 shift: Sign on 6 a.m., sign off 12.45 p.m. Sign
on again 3 p.m., siy-n off B.2s—over 12 hours’ work. Paid
for 8J hours.
No. 19 shift: On 5 a.m. till 1.14 p.m., and from 4.15
p.m. till 7.15 p.m.—over 11 hours’ work. Paid for
8J hours.
No. 22 shift: On 4.35 a.m. till 8.36 a.m., and from 3.10
p.m. till 7.37 p.m.—nearly 8J hours’ work. Paid for 6
hours.
No. 23 shift: On from 4.45 a.m. till 8.27 a.m., and from
4p.m. till 8.45 p.m.—over 8J hours’ work. Paid for 6
hours.
When a man is paid by the hour and is then com-
pelled to work a number of hours without pay, it
isn’t economy—it is plain thievery.
Sydney Telegraph's very latest effort
(28/10/’O3) in the way of Freetrade argument was
to declare that, if Britain gave a preference to
Australian wheat by letting it in free while
charging a duty of, say, 2s. a quarter on foreign
wheat, the resuit would be most damaging to Aus-
tralia, because, though we would get 2s. a quarter
more for the wheat we export, we would pay 2s. a
quarter more for the wheat we use. The argu-
ment seems tolerably weak. If Major Randal
Carey of the Telegraph could get instead of
Id. for all the Telegraphs he sells, would he mind
paying to himself an extra £d. for the Telegraph
he reads ? Similarly, if Australia can get 2s. a
quarter extra for the wheat it sells it doesn’t seem
to matter much if it has to pay to itself 2s. a
quarter more for the wheat it uses.
“A.M.EL”: By way of illustrating the
fact that the experience of “Driver” (8/10/’O3) is
not an isolated case in the Victorian railway ser-
vice, the following is interesting. It is the time-
table of a junior booking-clerk at Flinders-street
Station:
On duty, 10 a.m.
Dinner interval, none.
Afternoon, straight on till 7 p.m.
So these poor unfortunates work from 10 a.m. to
7 p.m. continuously—not the slightest interval to
snatch a bite to eat, and get home to tea at about
8 p.m. This slave has also to make up any short-
ages in cash occurring during his work ; has to be
civil and attentive to the publio (and the publio is
often drunk, and still oftener quarrelsome), and
receives £B5 per annum, less life insurance.
Writes a Melbourne man :
Already fall the first drops of the storm that will
presently strike the Victorian Railway Department when
the call is made on it for trucks to carry wheat. Though
the Newport workshops have been going full speed the
last three months, practically the only attempt made to
cope with the abundant harvest has been the construc-
tion of 100 new 15-ton steel trucks—and there is no
certainty that all these will be ready ; the rest of the time
and labor has been spent on repairing and patching up
Bent’s broken-down engines and other stock. Even with
last year’s insignificant crop the shortage of trucks
caused much loss of freight, and, before Tait came,
Acting-Commissioner Fitzpatrick requisitioned for more
rolling-stock. Kyabram will presently realise to the full
its folly in giving such monumental incapables as Bent
and Irvine control of the State’s transport system ; but
the loss won’t fall entirely on Kyabram—not by a long
chalk.
After publishing the long list of Acts
Eassed by the first Australian Parliament, the
ydney dailies proceeded to wail about the
unfulfilled pledges of the Government. They
didn’t say how much time was taken up by
Conroy, Pumpkin Smith, Pulsford, Wilks,
and other members of the importers’ party,
in attempts to block Parliament from doing
any business at all. Nor did the papers
mention that G. H. Reid and his Freetrade bar-
rackers were five years in office and didn’t pass
the Reform of the Council Bill, for which they
pledged themselves at the opening of two Parlia-
ments. The spectacle of the Foreign-trade party
jeering at the Federal Legislature for not doing
everything , while all the time they themselves are
doing their best to prevent it from doing anything,
is not a pretty one.
“W.W.” writes: —
Have frequently heard people crying out that payment
Of members and the Labor party hinder progress in Aus-
tralia more than all other ills combined. Don’t pretend
to know a great deal about political affairs myself, but,
bad as many of our laws are at present, many of them
are, in my humble opinion, a cut above what they were
in the days of Robertson and Parkes—land laws in parti-
cular. Was boundary riding on a backbloeks run at one
time while Parkes was boss of N.S. Wales. One end of the
woolshed stood on Crown land, which was open for selec-
tion. One of the station hands took it up, used as his
residence an office which was on top end of shearing board
on block of land selected, worked and tuckered with the
other station hands as usual. The Minister for Lands at
time was a relation of station owner ; perhaps that had
nothing to do with case, though. Don’t think that scrt
of business would work now. It would probably be called
dummying.


PHOTOS FROM LIFE
FOR LOVERS OF ART ANO BEAUTY.
in the most graceful and exquisite French
Workmanship.
Illustrated Catalogue, with 48 samples, and 3 fine
Cabinets or Stereoscopes, ss.
Carefully Selected Assortments, 10s., £l, £2.
Money order or draft on London.
R. GENNERT, 89C Fauby, St. Martin, Paris, France
{ennon’s Hotel, Brisbane,
Has been Re-Furnished throughout and will be
conducted as a FIRST-CLASS HOUSE. Its
central position recommends it to Commercial
Men and Families. Trams pass the door —a penny
section to any part of the City.
S r M, COLLINS, Proprietor.
SPECTACLES
gf
—FOR—
DEFECTIVE
VISION, r.
COUNTRY READERS
who cannot visit us
personally, we send,
Post Free to any ad-
dress, with full in-
structions and Price List, our marvellously-accurate
and popular SELF SIGHT-MEASURING PATENT.
By its use you can Test your own sight and determine
for yourself the style and quality of the glasses you
may need. Write for it to—
H. A* BARRACLOUGH* Optician,
385 George=st., Sydney (opposite Strand Arcade).
IL
Before booking your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers’
Gazette & Sailing List, with map.
THOS. COOK & SON,
268 Collins-st., Melbourne.
4 Hunter-st., Sydney.
gfg
(3-0 TO TT OT -I -
I (JO.LAN l> for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
<;/ t
Fred. Nagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Eiizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
What a nice little family party the British
Cabinet is. Joseph’s son has now been pushed
into one of the chief places, and the son of the
Marquis of Salisbury appointed Lord Privy Seal.
What happiness must be Philp’s just now !
Not only has Robert been turned out of office,
but the other night Premier Morgan deemed it
advisable to put the “ gag ”on him—the gag that
he invented to suppress the Labor party.
“ There is no safety for the nation that
neglects the sinews of war ; there is no safety for
the nation that lets its merchant navy pass into
the hands of foreigners, and no safety for the
nation that prefers lascars and colored seamen to
white men.” — Pkemieh Deakin.
Extract from the deliberations of N.S.W.
Assembly :
Mr. Crick : A mor* pitiful exhibition of lungs against
brains I have never seen.
Mr. Mackenzie : Who has the brains ?
Mr. Crick : Not you. You buy a sheep’* head, and
you’ll have more brains than you ever had before.
N.S.W. Deformed League proposes that
all wage-earners who do not come under income
tax shall have to pay stamp duty on their wages’
receipts. That’ll get at Bill Jones, coalheaver,
and Jane, the laundress, and “ the whole ragtag
and bobtail,” as one eloquent reformer observed.
The rumble of discontent grew so loud the
day after Carruthers’ last fiasco that N.S.W.
Opposition might have appointed another Joss if
some not absolutely hopeless material had been
available. Carruthers started his attack by
cordially assuring the House that he ascribed no
personal motive to Citizen See in using his position
as Premier to give a profitable public contract to
his own life assurance co. And when a man thus
violently accuses his enemy of doing a perfectly
honorable action with the best motives, there isn’t
much left for him to say. There are said to be
reasons why Joseph doesn’t wish to be too parti-
cularly nasty to the Government.
Melbourne Argus was vastly amused
lately at what it called the “modest programme
of a straight-out Labor
man ” —to wit, A. A. Wil-
son, coalminers’ secretary,
who is standing as Rep-
resentative of Flinders.
Chief planks were Protec-
tion, immediate abolition
of State Governors, and
ultimate abolition of State
Governments (that plank
will carry more votes than
many think), compulsory
arbitration embracing sea-
men and public servants,
uniform mining laws,
taking over of the State
debts and State railways
by the Australian Govern-
ment, graduated land-tax
and absentee-tax, and legal-
isation of the totalisator,
charities to be assisted, if
not maintained, by .a stiff
percentage of the profits.
And it is a modest pro-
gramme. In 20 years’ time
most of its demands will be
considered very small and
harmless. The Australian
Parliament moves faster
than the stodgy old State
Houses.
“H.”: More results
of the Victorian Railway
strike ! The public was
fully assured during that
memorable week that com-
petent engine-drivers were
falling over one another
to volunteer their services.
Now, however, the people
are treated to the absurdity of a huge, class
A engine hauling four vehicles up and down the
suburban lines. In fact, once or twice lately those
recently-made monsters, the A 1 engines, have
been doing this work. And the reason is, that a
very large proportion of the class E light passen-
ger engines are laid up for repairs, owing to the
way they were mishandled by wild amateurs dur-
ing the strike. The big engines are regular
coal-eaters and the reverse of economical, and, in
addition, are slower “off the mark” and harder
to stop than the light engines, and are totally
unsuited to work involving frequent stoppages.
And when you look at one of them it sets you
thinking of an elephant hauling a ge-cart.
The one outstanding feature of the N.S. W.
Assembly debate on the Mines Department’s
estimates was the sustained attack on the proposed
appointment, as chief mining inspector, of a man
who, however competent as a geologist, has
never had charge of a mine in his life, and
who has never helped to work one except for
a few months when he was a lad in England. The
practical men of the House were joined in the
protest by C. G. Wade, who has been counsel for
the coal mine-owners in nearly every big case in
which they have been concerned for years past,
and was the Commissioner appointed to inquire
into the cause of certain accidents at Broken Hill.
N.S.W.’s dreary politician, Affleck, is
pushing through a measure to make any bill of
sale given by a husband over the household sticks
null and void, unless his wife gives her written
oonsent to it. It is a good and humane idea, and
Affleck, for once, seems like deserving a monu-
ment.
Peake, M.P., last session introduced into
the S.A. Assembly a Bill with the object of sub-
dividing the crime of unlawfully killing into the
three degrees of wilful murder, murder, and man-
slaughter, according to the circumstances, the
punishment to range from death to 14 years
imprisonment. The measure was executed without
trial.
Ex-Treasurer Cribb admitted recently that
he had collected the poll-tax from Kanakas. A
Kanaka has no say in the governing of Queens-
land ; his wages are about as low as they can be ;
and this poll-tax practically means that 8i per
cent. (10s. out of £6) is deducted from his annual
cash income. Could legislative meanness go any
further ?
In the recent contest for the Cunningham
election (Q.), both candidates loudly declared
themselves supporters of Morgan, and each, in
print and on platform, did all he could to brand
the other a dastardly pro-Philpite. The fallen Joss
begins to realise the greatness of his fall when he
hears his old worshippers frantically defending
themselves against the charge of being seen in the
vicinity of his ruins.
The Sydney Telegraph, on the morning
of Prime Minister Deakin’s Town Hall meeting,
headed its most prominent column “ A Bam-
boozled State” and devoted it to an almost
direct invitation to Sydney, to howl down the
visitor in the evening. Luckily for the credit of
the city, the efforts which roused the push to yell
at Barton failed to excite much interest, and
Deakin had his say in peace.
Sydney Telegraph begins to pepper itself
with campaign fiction. For instance :
The capital is to be “ in the bush ” because the Vic-
torians insisted on having it there.
Whatever blame attaches to the “bush capital” is
entirely on Victoria.
The Victorians didn’t insist on any such thing.
The Convention Bill didn’t mention a bush
capital; yet the Victorians agreed to it, and
N.S.W. gave it a solid majority. The Convention
Bill left the selection entirely and absolutely open,
and the Victorians were satisfied. It was George
Reid, backed up and egged on by the D.T., who
wasn’t satisfied to leave it at that, and began
insisting, and in the end, being a hopeless
muddler, got worse terms than the Convention
offered and N.S.W. was willing to accept in the
beginning.
A LIVELY PROBABILITY.
STERN FEMALE : “ Rubbish! Starving wife!
Hungry children! I know you; you have
no children .”
BEAT (humbly): “Well, lady, only think how
hungry my wife an ’ children would be if I
had any.”
The woman-voter who wants to buy laces
and things isn’t going to be such easy prey as
Yes-No Reid’s crowd thinks. There was a meet-
ing at Bendigo after George had opened the local
campaign, and one of them asked this : “If Free-
trade means that we can buy cheap, why won’t he
give us Freetrade ? ” And, when no satisfactory
explanation was forthcoming, that woman-voter
promptly declared that the man with the eye-glass
was a fraud—just as bt.d a fraud as the man who
advertised bargains, and always told the people
who turned up to get them that he was sorry, but
be had just sold out of that line.
The S. Australian Forestry Department
is doing serious work m
trying to cover some of
the barrenness of that
great dry land. Apart
from what it planted
in its own large re-
serves, it distributed,
in the last planting
season, over a quar-
ter of a million
trees, in addition
to 20,047 vines.
KINGSTON AND FORREST HAVE
DISAGREED.
This is the story condensed.
George Reid’s favorite weep is to the effect
that the Australian Government has so gerry-
mandered the electorates that one N.S.W. con-
stituency has 40,000 voters while another has only
15,000. Which shows how history repeats itself.
When George Reid had finished gerrymandering
the N.S.W. electorates for the election of 1898,
one electorate had a member for 1663 voters while
another had one member for 3912 voters. History
is a ourious animal in the way of repeating itself.
The Adelaide Labor party is running
Representative Batchelor, who is far too good a
man to lose, for a doubtful seat at the Federal
elections, and is nominating a much-defeated
local politician—Jimmy Hutchison, editor of the
Labor Herald— for Hindmarsb (of which Port
Adelaide is the centre), which would be a moral
for Batchelor. But it is hoped that Kingston
will, despite his ill-health, so stir up matters as to
carry his friends in on the top of a wave of demo-
cratic feeling.
A Dry Ewe candidate has been put up
against Chairman-of-Committees Chanter in pas-
toral Riverina. He announces himself as “a
revenue tariffist.” In other words, he is going to
collect customs duties, but is going to see that
those duties don’t do any work in the way of
encouraging Australian industry. Which is to
say, he isn’t going to keep anything but Dry Ewes
on his selection ; and the selectors of the Riverina
will probably not take long to reckon up what
sort of fool-politics that is.
“ Semaphore ” writes: —
The most utter disregard of truth recorded since the
death of that famous person in the old Testament was
exhibited by the Victorian Government the other day,
when it flatly denied (in answer to Trenwith, M.L. A.) that
engine-drivers were working more than eight hours
daily. Not only are the men working, in many cases,
14 hours per day, but dozens of them are averaging only
four or five hours pay a day. Here is one case out of
many :—Thursday, 22/10/’o3js ign on 6 10 a.m., sign off
7.lft p.m. ; time broken waiting at shed after one hour’s
work in morning. Total time nominally worked and paid
for, ii hours. Total time on duty, over 13 hours. Has
the Deity not another spare thunderbolt lying around?
When the Citizens’ Life Assurance Co.,
of which Premier See is chief director, puts up that
building in Moore-street, Sydney, for the N.S.W.
Government Savings Bank, it appears that the
rent is to be based on the value of the building
and the value of the land, latter estimated at £3OO
per foot, and if the Government buys, it is to pay
£350 afoot. The adjacent bit of land has just been
let at a rental based on the assumption that it is
worth £2OO a foot. The Citizens’ seems to be a
concern which knows when to come in out of the
slush.
A section of Maoriland House of Repre-
sentatives was bitterly angry at that clause in the
new Licensing Bill which provides that, when
once a district votes Prohibition it shall get
Prohibition—the real article ; and any resident
found with liquor in his house shall be punishable.
“Who is the author of the Jesuitical clause
regarding the prohibition of grog in private houses
situated in Prohibition -districts?” shouted
Duthie. “I am,” said Premier Seddon in his
deepest dog-voice. “ I am the author. No
licence, no grog. ”
Sydney Evening News, under the heading
“the Single Tax Fad” recently complained that the
Single-taxers were obtaining an absurdly large
share of influence in the councils of the N.S.W.
Freetrade League. This is sad. The Single-
taxers are real Freetraders. They want to make
trade free. They don’t propose to protect sugar,
wine, beer, tobacco, cigars, Freetrade news-
papers, and a few dozen other tilings as the alleged
Freetraders do. And the N.S.W. Freetraders are
shocked at this unmannerly irruption of real Free-
trade into their midst.
The Bulletin receives a small, thin docu-
ment, purporting to be a statement of the views
of a woman’s organisation called the “Patriotic
Censor League.” It sets forth that the objects of
the League are these four hazy platitudes :
To raise the status of Parliament by endeavouring to
secure the return of free, honourable and capable repre-
sentatives.
To closely scrutinize and discuss all measures intro-
duced into Parliament concerning the general welfare.
To protest, by petitions and public meetings, against
the passing of class, and oppresive measures.
To guard against unnecessary expenditure of public
funds. -
The only definite idea which this document leaves
behind it is that the habit of spelling “oppressive”
with one “s ” should be guarded against.
At this year’s British trades-union congres*
one interesting feature of the annual fight for in-
dustrial arbitration was the support given by the
representatives of the female workers. *
can’t go in for strike methods,” said the chiet
woman speaker, “so if you want us to win yoa
must help us to some other weapon. But the
bulk of the miners were against it as hitherto, and
the proposal was once more defeated, this time
by 899,000 votes to 251,000.
Premier Dick Seddon is also good at
hanging up laws that don’t suit his political
book. Under the law, M.L. mining cos regis-
tered in M.L. pay only half the ordinary income
tax, while those registered outside should pay iull
rates. But it turns out that when Seddon was
in England the “injustice” was brought under
his notice, and latterly the department has
(quite illegally) only collected the same amount
from the English as from the local co s.
S.A. Government has bought the Burn-
side estate of some 16,000 acres, at £4 an acre.
The land is close to Strathalbyn, and not far
from Mount Barker, on the Melbourne line.
It has been used as a sheep-walk for years, but
will now be cut up into about 40 blocks of
what should be first-class farming land.
Mackay (Q.) is stirred to its depths.
“Under the present stringent administration of
the Early Closing Act”—it was recently an-
nounced—“ a J.P. was actually unable to get a
drink on Sunday!” After this there’ll be a
horrible slump in J’s.P.
That talkative person, Lord Lonsdale,
interviewed in London after his return from
Australia, told the usual Tory yarn of local
industries being handicapped by the labor dim-
culty. Also—
There is boundless scope in Australia for agriculture if
labor were not so dear, and if attempts were not made to
limit the working day to 6J hours.
Now, in what part of Australia are the agricul-
tural laborers attempting to limit the working
day to hours, or even to eight or nine hours?
Lonsdale couldn’t tell to save his life. He has
simply been stuffed by the usual lies of city
Tories, who lay for the guileless lord and take him
in.
The Labor party gets a straight tip. J. H.
Want, talking on his return from Europe,.said.he
happened to know that it was the Victorian
Government’s attitude towards the Labor party,
especially in connection with the railway strike,
which enabled the recent conversion loan to be
arranged. The renewal of the bill depends, then,
upon downing the Labor party. In that case, the
Labor party’s only possible plan is to see that for
the future no new bills are made which will
require renewing (in other words, that no more
loans are floated); and, in the second place, by
building up a sinking fund, to put the States in
a position to pay off existing bills as they fall
due.
NOT TO BE IMPOSED UPON.
MRS. O’GRADY: “Go and chop some wood, you
lazy divil."
MISTER O’GRADY (unemployed): "Do yer own
bloomin’ work do you take me for a bloomin'
idjit? ”
The Victorian Employers’Federation, like
its Siamese twin, the Citizens’ Defoim League, is
issuing a manifesto and having posters placed on
all railway stations. Here follow the six planks
of its precious “Platform’ for the Federal
elections (the remarks in parenthesis are Bulletin
comments, not planks):—
(1) To promote economy in public expenditure.
(2) To oppose Government borrowings on any but
Reproductive Works. (We seem to have heard that some-
where before. Not stated by whom the “ works ” are ta-
be judged reproductive.)
(3) To oppose Government interference with private
enterprise. (Can this be the party that is always on the
Government door-mat cadging for assistance in various
works ?)
(4) To resist the nationalisation of industries and'
manufactures and also of land by excessive taxation.
(5) To oppose undue domination in Parliament of Labor
or any other party which has extreme Socialism for its-
object. (Still, somehow, the only part of Australasia at
present anyway prosperous is socialistic Maoriland.)
(6) To support legislation promoting the development
of agricultural, pastoral, mining, manufacturing, com-
mercial, and industrial pursuits by “private enterprise,"
and to protect them from “ harassing legislation ” and
taxation.
Plank 6 seems to read rather queerly after plank
3. No 6is a bald and naked howl for Government
Interference with Private Enterprise—interference
in the way of handing over the money of the
people to the begging capitalist, that is to say.


Hie Callaghan Boot
FOR MEN
In French Calf, sent direct,
DUTY and POST FREE,
TO ANY ADDRESS IN THE
COMMONWEALTH
EXCEPT W.A., FOR
24/6
...
k
■
£
%
r?:
%
jT
mm
STYLE
FIT
ELE6ANC6
WEAR
WILL ALWAYS BE FOUND
IN THE CALLAGHAN BOOT.
Please Read
“Messrs. CALLAGHAN & SON.
“Dear Sirs, —I received the boots this morning, and they give the greatest
satisfaction, fitting me beautifully. G.G., Boggabri.”
In giving the size No. Just say whether you want the fullest fitting of your size or otherwise.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 ceorge st., Sydney.
READ WHAT
VITADATIO
IS DOING.
A BAD CASE
or
TUMOUR
REMOVED AND THE SYSTEM CLEARED
BY
VITADATIO.
Nicholson-road, Subiaco,
West Australia.
MR. 8. A. PALMER, 25/4/’Ol.
"’ ear testimony to the efficacy of VITA-
DATIO in clearing from my breast a Tumour that had
formed in it and which had caused me much pain and
trouble, and in the 0,-inion of the doctor was of a severe
order.
I am now free from all pain, and the doctor whom I
vr'nr'i r lnCe ' S as t?nished at such a simple remedy as
tITADATIO having taken it away and advises its
continuance.
I may say that the lump had roots running under the
arm and round the breast, and I may add that another
* inwardly has under the influence of VITA-
DATIO completely gone. I have since, passed , for life
ln »!r r ? I10e ’ ** lus Proving the completeness of my cure.
Make what use you p ease of this letter, as I am willing
to answer any questions, in order to help others who
suffer. ,
Yours respectfully,
, ANNIE WHITE.
Witness—W. J. Fist.
For further particulars ,
S. A. PALMER,
Head Office: Clarendon
A.,
Sotith Melbourne.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
?VA™ icine is 5/6 a,ld 3 6 per bottle.
MESSRS. ELLIOTT BROS., O’Connell-street, Sydney,
Sole Agents N.S.W.
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
Houses and Land for Private Sale.
Grand Compact Station Property.
ACRES. Good Homestead.
WELL watered with Creek and Tanks, with first-class
„ <■ catchments. There is a stack of Hay, and the
country looks lovely.
-fin , STOCK.
<6O nock ewes and 400 flock lambs (fit to wean by middle
QAn De < Ce ? lbe 465 Btud ewes and 122 stud lambs.
dOO stud ewes to lamb this month. 7 stud rams,
f B ®* ected r ?ms, 51 flock rams. 25 cull rams, 30 fat
4 draught mares, 1 harness mare, and 2
saddle horses, l cow and calf, 1 buggy, 1 sulky,
... harness to each. 2 wool presses, etc.
All furniture, including piano, bedding, stores, etc.
Price » £9lOO. Easy Terms.
Full particulars—
HUGH DUFF & CO.,
Auctioneers,
283 GEORGE BT.
Premier Irvine, of Victoria, goes gaily on
s way ruining the finances and generally knock-
ing the country to pieces. Under his new Income
Tax Bill the person with £5OO a year derived
from personal exertion is to pay only 3d.
in the £. The person with £lOOO a year will
pay 3d. on the first £5OO and 4d. on the second
£5OO, making only 3|d. in the £ all round. The
person with £l5OO a year will pay 3d. on the first
£5OO, 4d. on the next, and sd. on the third,
making only 4d. in the £ all round—and so on.
Victoria had a large deficit last year, which it dis»
guised by using sinking funds and trust funds as
revenue. It has a falling revenue and another
great deficit in view. It has an accumulated
shortage of nearly £3,000,000, which no one is
making the slightest effort to reduce. The
sinking fund is gone. The railway shortage has
increased enormously under Bent’s awful manage-
ment. All its city and town lands and most of its
country lands are exempted from land-tax, no
matter how naked the Treasury may be. And
now that the Iceberg Government has started to
cut down the income-tax the prospects are indeed
beautiful.
This Elastic Truss
mrnm
m.
Elastic
Truss-
Single, 15/-
Double, 20/-
is something better, more
comfortable and far superior
to any other truss made. We
make any kind of a truss to
order, and have special fitters
on the premises.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY (opp. Hunter St.).
And at Oor. Swanston and Lonsdale Sts., Melbourne
II
mmu
HOTEL DANIELL
(Late iriPERIAL),
Corner of GEORGE & ADELAIDE STS.,
BRISBANE
fďg
ES
L»J=Ei1d
Sufferers from Deafness or Head Noises
desiring a complete and permanent curs
should write to The L. R. VERNON CO
60 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY, for pam-
phlet describing an entirely new self-
applied method which will be sent post
free on mentioning this paper
What made your linens coarse?
Common soap.
Sunlight Soap saves linen.
UNLIGHT
Sosp
REDUCES
EXPENSE
TYPEWRITERS
fdg
3 of the World’s Best
fIU
New flodel No. 10, adopted by Depts. of
External and Home Affairs.
THE No. 5 DENSMORE.
Fastest machine in the world. Used and endorsed
by Messrs. Dalgety & Co., Sydney.
THE NEW CENTURY.
Velvet touch—as supplied to Governor-General and
Governors of N.S. Wales and Victoria.
LIMITED TYPEWRITER AND SUPPLIES CO.,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE and PERTH.
BRISBANE— Webster & Co. ADELAIDE— N. York Import. Co. LAUNCESTON— HedIey Button.
TARPAULINS,
CART, WAGGON and
MACHINERY
Canvas
Cotton Duck
Patent
Waterproof
Cloth.
ALL HAND-SEWN.
tefcsr-iVi.i' I-.
COVERS
AT SPOT CASH
PRICES.
Estimates Sent by
Return Post.
SEND FOR LIST.
BUZACOTT & CO., Ltd., 7
& 9 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY.
Hi
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’*
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
MAGNESIA
k
N.S.W. Assembly has found out another
thing it can’t do. There has been a very long-
standing idea that when “ a call of the House ” is
made every member must attend under heavy
penalties, unless he can show that his absence is
unavoidable. Now Premier See has abandoned
his idea of having a call of the House on the
second reading of his Bill providing for a refer-
endum about the reduction of members, because,
he says, if members don’t attend when they are
called, the Speaker can do nothing to them.
Apparently the Speaker nowadays can’t do any-
thing to anybody, except ask the hon. member
who has called the other hon. member a cat’s-
meat to withdraw the remark.
The N.S.W. Shearers’ Accommodation
Act, which the See Government annuls on its own
responsibility, is even a worse example of the
Ministerial flouting of Parliament than the weigh-
ing clauses of the Coal Mining Act:
The Minister for Education, in reply to Mr. Scobie,
said that in consequence of the drought he had extended
the period in which improvements should be made under
the Shearers’ Accommodation Act to March 31st next.
And when March comes there may be floods, and
these again may be succeeded by another drought,
and so on. In the meantime the Act might as
well be non-existent.
The pure-merino, Tory, Foreign-trade
view of the White Australia policy was thus put
by Dr. Wilson, the State frights candidate of
Yilliers and Heytesbury (Yio.), who asks Victorian
workers to return him as its Representative for
Corangamite. Said he :
A white-owned Australia would be a more satisfactory
policy. Colored men should be allowed to work in
industries where white men could not work, but they
should be prohibited from owning freehold property.
Jesso ! The superior land owning class must be
kept pure and white; nothing else matters
tuppence.
The most contemptible thing that has
happened this session in Queensland Parliament
was G. W. Gray’s attack upon Treasurer Kidston
in the Council. “ Him Treasurer ! ” snorted
Gray. “Why, he couldn’t run a little country
business successfully—he could only pay four-and-
something in the £.” Apart from the fact that
Kidston paid up his creditors in full, which is
more than a whole lot of other Queenslanders
have done, what right has Gray to criticise?
Kidston was elected by the people as a legis-
lator, while Gray was called to the Council
by Nelson for no better reason than that he had
made a good deal of money by selling beer.
After Australia has been bamboozled into
voting the increased naval tribute S.M. Hekald
prints this sort of thing
A number of officers of the flagship Royal Arthur are
said to have written to London stating that too much of
their time is devoted to what they term “ housemaiding"
duties, while their proficiency in gunnery is impaired.
They are stated to have said that recent gunnery practice
by some of the vessels of the auxiliary squadron had dis-
closed very poor marksmanship. The attention of the
Minister for Defence has been directed to these state-
ments, and Mr. Chapman will probably endeavor to
ascertain whether they are well founded. The Defence
Department has, however, no control over the fleet, and
no means of learning whether the squadron is thoroughly
effective.
The last sentence rubs it in cruelly. We have
“no control over the fleet.” Ours but to pay.
Mr. Wade, barrister-at-law, the newly-
chosen member for Willoughby in N.S.W.
Assembly, seems to have fallen quite cheerfully
into the character of a local member. He has
already forwarded information to the local
council that certain water-pipes are being laid in
the borough, and he has also ascertained the
important fact that the distance from some tank
to some place is exactly so many miles and a
furlong. A really capable statesman is always
exact about his tank and his furlong.
Judge Johnston (Vic.) is a man who
believes in encouraging prisoners to tell the truth.
T’other day a prisoner was charged with robbery
in company. The jury disagreed. Then the
prisoner offered to plead guilty and save the
country the expense of another trial, whereupon
his Honor was so moved that he handed down a
sentence of two years’ “hard,” 24 days’solitary,
and 15 lashes. It will be a long time before
another prisoner tells any damaging truths to his
genial Honor.
The dishonesty of the Victorian poor
farmer and his bloodless creation, the Iceberg
Government, is likely to rebound with a very
hard bump during the coming grain season. The
sacking policy has driven a lot of the best
railway men away from Victoria, and at latest,
the railway bosses couldn’t find men to drive the
locomotives requisite for the extra harvest traffic.
There is even some talk of asking the strike
executive to come back to its old job, which
would be gall and wormwood for Irvine, Bent,
Shiels, and the faithful Samuel Lancaster. And
the great sigh that will go up when the poor
farmer contemplates his thousands of bags of
wheat stacked at the sidings, with no hope of
removal in time to reach profitable markets, will
be as a loud gale blowing in a commodious
wilderness.


Some oat-back roads in Maoriland are (
veritable sinks of iniquity. An impecunious
parson, when beseeching his Synod for money
enough to keep three or four horses, solemnly
assured the holy brethren that in one part of his
district it once took 14 bullocks, 12 horses, and
four drivers eight days to get a load a distance of
11 miles. The Synod puckered its brows, fixed a
fearful gaze on that parson right to the end of the
sessions, and seemed to fear for his future. A
settler in same district once told writer that he
had lost two valuable nags within a month.
“Stolen?’’ he was asked. “No; don’t think so,
was the reply. “They must have strayed on to
the road and sunk. ”
Shipping-
[UNO’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Freight, Passage Money, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adelaide Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO., Grenfell-streec.
Fremantle & Albany Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER-
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
NEW ZEALAND AND AFRICAN
STEAMSHIP COMPANY, Ltd.
STEAM TO LONDON VIA SOUTH AFRICAN PORTS.
; The Magnificent Twin-Screw Steamship
SOMERSET,
11,000 tons; J. R. BARTER, R.N.R., Commander,
will be despatched on or about NOVEMBER 18,
taking Refrigerated and General Cargo,
at Lowest Current Rates.
Has Excellent accommodation for Saloon and Third-
Class Passengers.
FARES—SALOON, South Africa .. £2B 7 to £3O
~ London ... 40
THIRD!
CLASS /
South Africa 13 13
London .. 17 17
For full particulars apply
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Managing Agents,
7 Macquarie-place.
Banking, Public Companies, See.
Upon - all - Classes
Security—
E.OWEST INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
$
18
BILLS
discounted.
asr.s."W.
Plant delete
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
174. CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
* SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THE HOTELKEEPERS’ FRIEND.
A
©
Soda Water Id. per doz.
Lemonade and Ginger Ale, 3d. per doz.
Hotelkeepers make their own supplies of
Aerated Waters.
No skilled labor required. Anyone can learn to .
operate the machine in ten minutes.
TESTIMONIALS.
“To the Daylesford Mineral Water Co.
“ Dear Sirs, —The machine purchased from you is per-
fection . The Stuff turned out is Splendid. It is the best
speculation I have entered into since I joined the Licensed
Victuallers. — Geo. Nicholls, Royal Hotel, Swan Hill.
Mr. P. Kennedy, Coolgardie, says Profits saved by
making my own supplies of Aerated Waters with the
Machine pay the rent of my hotel.”
Mr. Lewis, Heidelberg, Victoria, says "I have made
thousands of dozens of the best Aerated Waters with the
Machine, and it has not required sixpence worth of
repairs. No Hotelkeeper should be without one of
them.”
Mr. W. Atkinson, Hotelkeeper, Wentworth, N.S.W.,
says :—“ It is the greatest money maker yet discovered
for hotelkeepers.”
Mr. Burk, Yalgo, W.A., says “ Since getting one of
your Machines, and making our own soft stuff, I have
saved its price ten times over.”
W. H. Jones, Peak Hill, W.A., says Machine great
success.”
E. Davis, Peak Hill, W.A., says “ Cannot speak too
highly of effectiveness and simplicity.”
G. N. Murdoch, Abbotts, W.A., says:—“Value of
Machine indisputable ; quality and cheapness of stuff
unquestionable.”
T. H. Williams, Mossman, Queensland, says :—“ Highly
successful, and recommend to all hotelkeepers.”
J. S. Davidson, Bundaberg, Queensland,says:—“Great
saving compared to previous cost of stock.”
A profitable business awaits pushing men in many small
centres of population, where a deeply-felt want exists for
A GOOD QUALITY of AERATED WATERS. OBSERVE THE PROFITS
Call and see these machines, or write for circular desbrili-
ng them, also Price List. Prices Reduced.
Paylesford Hepburn Mineral Water Co-
-407 COLLINS-STREET, MELBOURNE.
Shipping.
KT. D. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin-screw steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
S.S. PRINZ SICISMUND, 3300 tons, 9th DECEMBER.
And Regularly Every 6 Weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
TN€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London»
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
ABERDEEN
DAMASCUS
MILTIADES
T. T. Gambell
R. B. V. M'Killiam
T. F. Spalding
Noon, Nov. 20
Noon, Deo. 11
Noon, Jan. 9
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. £55 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal • • £3l 10s • • £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £l2O.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and Company,
AGENTS.
Ltd.,
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at —
HRS- TOBIMS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. KILDA.
mHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, J-hour
by tram. Billiards, etc.
QCHA.KTIO
THE
stea.msh;ip ooME*A.3xnr.
A. AND A. LINE.
EAST MAIL LINE.
Sydney to Auckland .. .. .. days.
Auckland t,o Pago Pago .. .. .. 4 days.
Samoa to Fanning Island .. .. I 4 days.
Fanning Island to Honolulu .. .. days.
Honolulu to San Francisco .. .. 5j days.
Overland to New York .. .. .. 4 days.
New York to London .. .. .. 6 days.
Passengers can break the journey en route.
fd
Elaborately appointed Staterooms for occupancy of not more than TWO Passengers.
No Steamers on the Pacific compare with our “ Sister Ships,” Sierra, Sonoma, Ventura. The NEWEST, LARGEST
(6200 tons), FASTEST, AND ONLY STEAMERS HAVING TWIN-SCREWS WITH TWO SETS OF
INDEPENDENT ENGINES.
FARES TO ANY DESTINATION AS CHEAP AS ANY OTHER FIRST-CLASS LINE.
Send for Illustrated Matter, including New Publication, “If Not, Why Not ? ” Post Free, 3d.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., flanaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with*
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - ■ 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Robirts
C.M.0., M.L.C.; Bruch Smith, Esq., M.H.R.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,706,830.
Policies issued 91,305—assuring £27,614,218
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,981,398.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—eauitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE*
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Building’s, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital ... .. £2,500,000
Royal Bank of Queensland
J LIMITED. “
CAPITAL PAID-UP £457,354
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 175,997
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 60,000
£693 351
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. VV. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessov, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, 1). Clynb ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlank ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farquiiar. J. J.ALLEN, General Manager for Australia
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) £10,494 16 9
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M L C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager
The Bank of florth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director-JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250.100 ... £350.000
64
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. G. TniLTDIR.IIDG-lE] &c CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
to nntry Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has c\ red
permanently’ the very worst cases of Epilepsy when every
other remedy has failed. English Prices, 4/6 and 11/-.
thousands of Testimonials. Of all Chemists, Stores, etc.
Wholesale Agents:
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. Nieholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist
' 25 High-street, Belfast, Ireland.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
The Cheapest Route to America
and London.
The Route to St. Louis Exhibition
and to London via St. Louis.
Via Brisbane or New Zealand, Fiji
and Honolulu , Victoria, and the
Canadian Paci/ic.
THE TOURIST ROUTE OF THE WORLD.
STEAMERS SAIL-
Nov. 30. Dec. 28. Jan. 25.
Illustrated Pamphlets Posted Free on Application.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
Unrivalled Position in LONDON
(England),
TheLanghamHotel
PORTLAND PLACE
And REGENT STREET, LONDON, W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality,
riodern Appointments. Moderate Tariff.
“Don’t shout”
" (liter you. I can hear now
as well as anybody.
'“How>' Ob some-
thing new — TS e Wilson/
Common -sense tar-'-V
Drum. I’ve a pair s n my X
ears now. you can't see them
. —they're invisible. 1
know I bad them in myscH.s
only that I hear all right.” I
The Wilson E«r- n r«Bi «s'
really a substitute for the
vvorking parts of the
* natural ear. H-s no
wtre. Invisible, easy to id
just, comfortable Tc"'ly
1 different from any other de-
| vice. Descriptive pamphlet sent upon request
f,». CIIAIWtg», 329-231 Cotiins Sf.,
gfd
gfd
References' throughout Great Britain and CetonUs»
ASTHMA
taken from the System.
Nothing remains which can
i produce an attack. You can
•at sUep aid stand exposure without slightest return of
innpUc s. Cared to stay cured, by elimination and rer
«on#truni'n. Appetite improved; blood enriched, ne
,«r«* theaed, whole system built up; llte made enjoj able.
or change of climate no longer needed. '' e have
Moated ov. 5 ,000 Asthma Fever patientafo-
tablisbtu BM. Explanatory BOOK 32c1 post FREE.
Address -m P. Haroi.d Hayks asthmatic iMbTiiUTB,
Lufialo, N. Y.. U. S. A.
CKGINEMAN’S MASTER KEY -All subjects
E, relating to Examinations for Certificates of Com
petency in all the States. 365 Pages. 106 Illustrations ,
8s 6d'posted, by L. F. R. SCHNABEL Con-mlt.ng
Engineer, 443 Bourke-street, Melbourne. Also LOnt ft,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney.
Siiippin;
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO
(UMrm>).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping-at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Innamincka,
Friday, Nov. 13, at 5 p.m.
(Transhipping at
Melbourne).
S.S. Wollowra,
Saturday, Nov. 21, at 10 a.m.
(Without Transhipment.)
1
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Porta North to Oalrna
S.S. Rockton, November 14,
at Noon.
S.S. Innamincka, Nov. 21.
S.S. Gabo, November 28.
Uest and Cheapest Itoute to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
p.
AND
O COMPANY'S
■ ROYAL MAIL STEAMERB
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
Steamer.
AUSTRALIA
BRITANNIA
CHINA
VICTORIA ..
HIMALAYA ..
Commander.
Sydney,
Noon.
6901 F. J. Cole .. •• Nov. 14
6526 F. H. Seymour .. ..|Nov. 28
7912 G. K. Wright, R.N.R. ..|Dec. 12
6522 R. L. Haddock, R.N.R. ..IDec. 26
6898 W. L. Broun. R.N.R. ..'Jan. 9
PASSAGE MONE YTO LON DON—Single, £3B to £77
Ditto Ditto Return,£66 to £ll5
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Forts
are available for return by Orient-Pacific, Messagenes
Mari times and N.D.L. Steamers having room.
/
A. GORDON WESCHE,
63 Pitt-street. Acting Agent.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
.vm r, . irv Mi t j: i _i 1 AXTfTLI X V na f r-»l 1 nivc •
FASSKJNUISKB DOOKeu to ouiiumj,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £-7 to £77.
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
L. BRICARD, Acting Principal Agent.
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. . BY THE . .
“E. and A.” LINE.
Leave Sydney.
November 25
December 23
January 20
February 17
EVERY cun V Dmnnun rvu a- wuu . - - ---
rhe Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
itted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Europe r\% Canada
ind the U.S. America, or the Trans-Siberian Railway.
Forhandbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-st., Sydney.
DR. J. COULIS BROWNE'S
f HLOROPyNE.
sate:
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BfiOMOHITU
DIARRHEA, **. bear 3
the Government Stamp the name
oi the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
IBK ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ot
Sept. 28 1895, says: 1
“If I were asked wbieh single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of al
others, 1 should say Chlouodynk. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to tbe
relief of a large number simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.
LADES 1
HAIR
DRESSERS
* CRAIG &
] AITKEN.
' Te. 1198.
"HE most charming and stylish
Transformations and semi-
“ Transformations you ever
saw from 21/- each. Switches of
hair from 5/6. Your own Comb-
ings made up into Switches at
2/6 per oz. Specific Lotion, an
unfailing remedy for falling hair
and eradicating dandruff, 3/6 per
bottle.
Supply stores wholesale, human
hair merchants, assistants en-
gaged and sent anywhere.
Mail orders receive special
attention.
Price Lists on application.
680-682 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
At Dawn and Dusk :
By V. J. Daley, in handsome cloth,
with portrait. Price ss.


Trade
g
Marß
above Cpade Mark is a guarantee of socipdoess of Material
apd Quality of dye of all . . .
MERINO COATINGS ®> SERGES
op wbicb it is stamped.
BEWARE
. OF .
IMITATIONS
As tbe result of many years experience FOX’S PURC
INDIGO DYC is pecognised as tbe best ip tbe
mapket.
All FOX’S Sepges and Coatings are stamped every two
yards on tbe back
PURE INDIGO
and without tbis stamp ape not genuine.
J'hese Celebrated Serges can be obtained from the heading bailors and drapers
THROUGHOUT THE COLONIES.
FOX BROS. Co., Ltd,, Wellington, Somerset, ENGLAND.
mm
from Weak Nerves, Impure Blood, the Kidneys, Rheumatism, the Spine and Bladder,
WOMEN WHO WASTE AWAY
from Anaemia, Poverty of Blood, Leucorrhoea,
and Internal Complaints, &c., &c.,
I err
A CHAT WITH YOU. DON’T LOSE HEART! DON’T DESPAIR! DON’T DIE!
RASSMUSSENS HERBAL ALFALINE SPECIFICS
Have Cured Many Thousands. They have held their own against all comers for over 20 years,
and have never been known to fail. THEY WILL CURE YOU.
I>o YOU KNOW
lhafc Herr Rassmussen possesses the most wonderful Specific Remedies for the
Blood and Nerves?
That Ilcrr Rassmussen guarantees his Alfaline Herbal Remedies to Cure?
DO YOU KNOW . . 0 Eterr Rassmussen’s
ALFALINE VITALITY NERVE PILLS.
This remedy can be depended on to cure all kinds of Nervons Diseases, Debility, Vital
W eakness, Despondency, Melancholia, Specks before the Eyes, Want of Memory, Bash-
fulness, and entirely stop the Waste from the System which is so weakening to the
Spine, Brain and Nerves. It entirely builds up and restores a broken-down Nervous
System, Special Powerful Course, 435. 6d.; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.; Smaller Boxes
at 12s. and Cs. each. Posted unobserved.
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS
Are a guaranteed Cure for the worst forms of Blood Diseases, no matter how caused or
of how long standing, whether secondary or any other stage. This remedy completely
purifies, cleans and purges the Blood of all kinds of Impurities, and leaves the system
as pure as a new-born baby. It contains no Mercury, like all other remedies do used
for the Blood and Skin, and will entirely Cure all Diseases of the Skin and Blood,
Gravel and Stones in the Bladder, and all complaints of the Urinary passage. Special
Powerful Course, 435. 6d.; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.; Smaller Boxes at 12s. and 6s. each.
DO YOXJ KNOW . . .
That Herr Rassmussen s Remedies are purely Herbal, and contain no mercury or anv
other mineral poisons ? J J
That Herr Rassmussen has Thousands of Testimonials ?
Alfaline Herbal Remedies Never Fail to Cure?
I ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS
! ?® v " f^ n to Cure all forms of Amaemia, and entirely Cure and Prevent the most fear-
ful W asting Diseases, which defy all other forms of treatment. They are particularly
efifectxve in the treatment of all kinds of Internal Female Complaints, and being entirely
harmless, and most wonderfully effective for strengthening and thickening the Blood and
building up the Nerves. Course, 235. 6d.; Boxes, 12s. and 63.
ALFALINE LIVER & KIDNEY PILLS.
This is absolutely the world’s best remedy for Constipation, Indigestion, Wind, Heart-
bum, Flatulence, and. all complaints of the Liver and Kidneys. Loxes Js
ALFALINE RHEUMATIC PILLS
Cure Rheumatism, Gout and Sciatica. Boxes, 12s. 6s. and 3s.
ALFALINE ASTHMA & COUGH PILLS
Will Cure Asthma and Cough, Consumption, Bronchitis, and all Lung and Chest troubles
Courses, 235. 6d. ; Boxes, 6s.
ALFALINE PILE POWDERS, a won-
derful remedy for completely eradicating
both Internal and Extenial Blind and
Bleeding Piles. Gives instant relief.
ALFALINE CORN CURE. Is.
ALFALINE FAT-REDUCING POW-
DER is entirely harmless, and is the
best fat-reducing powder in the world.
Boxes, Gs. and 3s.
ALFALINE OINTMENT. Is.
ALFALINE EMBROCATION, excel-
lent for Cyclists, Cure Stiff Joints, Gout,
and Chapped Skin. Bottles, Is.
ALFALINE HEADACHE TABLETS.
Instantaneous and permanent cure. Is.
ALFALINE HAIR RESTORER.
llestores the Hair, 6s.
ALFALINE EUCALYPTUS. Bottles,la.
ALFALINE WORM TABLETS. Is.
COMPLEXION BEAUTIFIER. 6i.&35.
BOOK POSTED FREE.—A Valuable Book containing Valuable Advice for all Complaints Posted Free and Unobserved.
TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALITY.
All correspondence will be held strictly confidential. Remedies will be posted in plain cover and
- therefore entirely unobserved, both from the Head Office and Agencies. Make Cheques and Monev
Orders payable to HANS RASSMUSSEN. Register letters containing Money, and when Special Advice is required, address letters as follows
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S Head Office: 547 George St, Sydney.
Herr Rassmussen’s Alfaline Herbal Remedies can also be obtained forom liis Agencies, as follows :
BRISBjSLXirii; 303 QUESIO' STREET.
ADELAIDE! 15 PULTENEY ST. | W. A.; PERTH, 481 HAY ST. | KALCOORLIE: 111 HANNAH ST. | N.Z.: 91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON.


At the meeting of shareholders of the Dunlop
Pneumatic Tyre Company of Australasia, Limited, held
on Friday, the report presented showed a profit balance
of £12,428 10s. 7d., including £484 12s. 4d. brought for-
ward from the previous year. Dividends at the rate of
7 per cent, on the cumulative and 7£ per cent, on the
non-cumulative preference shares, inclusive of interim
dividends, absorb £7100 ; an addition of £1332 2s. 5d. is
made to the general reserve account, raising the total to
£4667 8s. lOd ; the sum of £2500 is appropriated in reduc-
tion of goodwill; and the balance, £1496 8s. 2d., is carried
forward. The chairman, Mr. Nicholas Fitzgerald, stated
that the amount provided for depreciation for the year
was £5365 7s. 4d.*
* • * *
“J.F.D.”: It is about time the Law stretched
out its mighty hand and shook the pigeon murderer. The
report of his doings in the “ respectable ” dailies makes
one feel mad. I take it that wholesale destruction of
birds is only permissible in two instances : to pro-
vide food, or to eradicate pests. Taking the
two favorite Sydney haunts, an average of 600 pigeons
are murdered or maimed to provide amusement for a
few coarse and bloodthirsty hoodlums who call them-
selves “sports.” At one shoot the local “cop”
appears and chases off the small boy who, armed with an
antiquated fowling piece, tries to finish off maimed birds
which have managed to struggle out of the grounds.
The “cop ’’is impressed with the idea that the “sport”
is only for the moneyed butcher inside. The pigeon
should have fallen dead inside of “ bounds,” and
thus kept its murderer’s nomination going; if it
managed to reach the trees outside, with only one leg, it
was the pigeon’s fault. All pigeons, dead and wounded,
are retrieved by the dog. If the dog, retrieving a merely
wounded bird, takes it into his head to have a gallop
round the ground, with the live pigeon in his mouth, the
shooters and the other hoodlums are amused. It is time
every decent citizen rose to protest forcibly against this
cold-blooded slaughter of harmless birds to provide amuse
ment for a few hen assassins.
Tortured by Rheumatism for Seven
Y ears.
Mrs. Wood, 8 Pearson Street, Summer Hill,
TELLS OF THE MAGICAL EFFECT OF Dfi. MORSE’S
Indian Root Pills.
People that have been great sufferers from any
complaint, and after trying many doctors and
many remedies without receiving any benefit,
when they do find the remedy that relieves them
of years of agony, are ready to publish abroad the
fact that they have been cured so that others who
suffer as they have, can take advantage of their
experience and receive like benefit. Such a one
is Mrs. Wood, of Summer Hill, whose case can
best be described in her own words : —
“ I am very glad to be able to give this
testimonial as to the benefit I have derived from
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills. I suffered for
seven years from rheumatism, tried all sorts of
remedies and consulted doctors, but with no avail.
I was persuaded to try Indian Root Pills, and the
effect was magical; I felt instant relief, and con-
tinued to improve until I was perfectly cured. I
am indeed thankful, for I had given up all hope
of ever being cured. But I am now able to give
this positive statement that Indian Root Pills
have certainly cured me, and I hope and trust
that this testimony may have the effect of inducing
people to try this wonderful medicine, for I am
convinced that they are a perfect preventive
against this terrible trouble. You may use this
statement in any way you think fit.”
Rheumatism is caused by uric acid in the blood.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a perfect blood
purifier, driving out uric acid poison and all
biliary poisons. They make the blood rich and
red. They are a positive cure for biliousness,
constipation, and all disorders that arise from a
disordered stomach and torpid liver. Packed in
amber bottles and sold throughout Australasia.*
Ogilvie’s new book of verses— Hearts of Gold,
price 4s. 6d. Posted to any address in exchange
for postal note or P.O.O. to Bulletin office.
The Bulletin’s Christmas number will be
issued on December 10th, and, as already the rush
for extra copies has set in, early application is
necessary to ensure supplies. It will contain the
largest and best selection of the work of the
picture, song and story artists of Australia ever
issued to the public of this continent, and without
it no holiday will be complete.
“Steele Rudd’s” new book, Our New
Selection , will be ready in mid-November. Even
jollier than On Our Selection, with more pictures.
Price, 6s. Order at once from The Bullelin.*
RESCH*
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives.
BREWERY and OFFICES: DOWLING ST., REDEERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The latest caper of Victoria’s cool, calm
Ministry has brought on it the ridicule of all Oollingwood
and the profound scorn of Footscray. On the Monday
before Cup day the Cabinet held a solemn conclave, with
Police Commissioner O’Oallaghan in attendance, and
decided to suppress Wren’s Oollingwood tote violently,
without any more nonsense. At 3 the next morning a
regiment of police, armed with axes, picks, and crowbars,
marched down to the notorious betting-shop and attacked
it valiantly, Supt. Sharp bringing up the rear pluckily
brandishing a warrant, which set forth that “ it appeared
to the undersigned J.P. that the said premises are being
used as a gaming-house, wherefore," etc., etc. Entry
was made with about as much difficulty as a boy experi-
ences in scaling a five-foot fence, and the attacking
party took possession of the fort, and little elsel A
few unsold tickets were found, also the large sheets
adorning the walls, which show bettors the amounts
wagered on different Cup horses. The books, the bushels
of ready-printed tickets and the cash were all gone.
Between the time when the raid was decided on and the
hour when it took place these had been carefully removed,
“ from information received.” Information always is
received when the Government allows so much time for
the receipt of information. The attackers left a squad of
25—no less—to hold the fortress and repel all invaders.
This continued'for some days, and the 25 warriors were
relieved every eight hours, so the “ Retrenchment ”
Government was paying about €3O a day for the pleasure
of being laughed at. During nearly the whole of Cup
Day casual gamblers who came to back Sweet Nell
or Abundance, or some other beast, were buttonholed by
certain unostentatious individuals who were strolling
about outside and advised to go and get their hair cut at
a certain adjacent shop. They went. Wren was running
his tote as of yore, under some slight inconveniences cer-
tainly, but he ran it and paid his dividend on Cardigan
with his usual promptitude. These bettors, having
backed their particular prads, came back and gave three
cheers for the stolid 25. Meanwhile, the Government was
admiring its withered laurels and declaring its resolve to
hold the place until Wren came back and claimed it, and
thereby proved his criminality. But Wren reckoned that
the Government was losing more money than he was and
would cave in first, so he naturally made no sign.
Besides, he was too busy making money at his new ad-
dress to argue small matters like that.
* * * *
“A Backer of F.J.A.” writes.: One of your
Sporting Notioners seems to have put his money on Lord
Cardigan, and in his joy he said some wild things to the
glory of that animal. Expressing astonishment at the
calculations of people who backed F.J.A. to give Lord
Cardigan as much as 161 b. on the Cup, he went on to
prove by figures that Cardigan had been a better per-
former than the Derby winner. Figures can be made to
prove anything. He says, “ the three half-mile sections
of the Derby were covered in 53 j, 51J, and .611, and final
6 furlongs in l.lSjsecs. —all inferior to Lord Cardigan's
figures for same distances same day.” Firstly, the
Notioner ignores the important fact that whereas F.J.A.
carried 8.10 in the Derby race, Cardigan carried only 7.11
in the Melbourne Stakes. In the second place the heavier
weighted colt was running itself a mile further
in the Derby than Lord Cardigan had to gallop in
tiie Stakes, consequently the third half-mile section of
F.J.A.’s race included j-mile which Cardigan was not
required to cover at all. Also, the final 6 furlongs of the
Derby was run by an Bst. 10!b. colt who bad already
travelled 6 furlongs and had been ridden with that fact
in the jockey’s mind, whereas Cardigan’s final 6 furlongs
were an easier task, because he carried 7st. lllbs. and had
gone only 4 furlongs previously. But there is one
more point to be scored in my argument. F.J.A.
won the Derby, whereas Lord Cardigan did not
win the Stakes, consequently the time for those
final 6 furlongs of the 10 furlongs race was not
Cardigan’s. It was Wakeful’s time. The mare won
easily by a length and a half, and Cardigan must
be debited with the time required for covering
the distance by which he was beaten. And now to
take the respective performances of F.J.A., the
Derby winner and Cardigan, the Stakes runner-up, with-
out any hair-splitting comparisons of £ mile, £ mile, or
| mile sections. F.J.A. carried Bst 101 b. over a 12furlong
course in 2.361, which is equal to record time for the
Derby and only llsec. slower than the Australian record
for the distance, three older horses having done it in
2.35. Lord Cardigan humped 7st. 111 b. over a 10-furlong
course (less a length and a half) in 2.9, which is a full
3sec. slower than Hova’s record time, fsec. slower than
Wakeful’s time last year, and llsec. slower than Lan-
caster’s time in 1900.
So, thus I sum up the case for backers of the Derby
winner last Tuesday week. F.J.A. proved himself a great
stayer by winning the Derby from end to end in r»m irk-
ably fast time with the regulation 8.10 on his back,
beating the mare (Sweet Nell) who had won the Caulfield
Cup with 6.13 up. Lord Cardigan did not prove
himself a great stayer by carrying 7.11 in the Mel-
bourne Stakes and getting beaten at the finish,
the time not being remarkable. Judging the two
colts by their Saturday performances punters were
quite justified in thinking that F.J.A., in the Cup with
7.10 (a stone less than his Derby weight), was better
worth backing than Lord Cardigan with 6.8 (171 b. less
than his Melbourne Stakes weight). And it has yet to be
decided that the little horse who, two days later, beat
Ibex and Famous easily at w.f.a. in the Flying Stakes,
is not a very superior bit of stuff to Lord Cardigan, to
whom Famous gave 51b. more than w.f.a. at Randwick,
on the afternoon of the day when he, Famous, together
with Wakeful and Cruciform, had been beaten by Ibex
aforesaid. Of course no man of racing experience attaches
great importance to seconds, half-seconds, and quarter-
seconds in time tests, or thinks of all horses as mere
weighing machines that must necessarily show the effect
of a few ounces one way or t’other. Any number of
conflicting conclusions can be drawn from the “form”
in two different Handicap races or w.f.a. events. How
badly Lord Cardigan (6.10) ran in the Metropolitan at
Randwick! Sweet Nell, who got away last of all and
finished sixth, was giving the ignominiously beaten
Cardigan 81b. on that occasion. In the V.R.O. Derby
F.J.A. gave the 51b. sex allowance to Sweet Nell and
beat her easily. How much better is F.J.A. than Lord
Cardigan on some of their “ form ” ?
♦ * * *
Oaks Day was remarkable for the fact that
three previous winners at the meeting managed to score
again. Bega took his second hurdle race ; Sarto, victor
in the Encourage Stakes on Saturday, captured a Nursery
Handicap ; and F.J.A., the Derby hero, added to bis
reputation by taking the Flying Stakes, a notoriously
difficult race for a 3-year-old to win.
* * * *
Sweet Nell and F.J.A., between them, have
scored for their owner two Derbies (Adelaide and Mel-
bourne), two Derby seconds (Sydney and Melbourne),
Caulfield Guineas and Cup, Toorak Handicap, V.R.O.
Oaks and Flying Stakes. Rupert Clarke was born lucky
and rich.
* * * *
The old fashion of backing Melbourne Stakes
“form” for the Cup was revived this year with satis-
factory results. Wakeful and Lord Cardigan, first and
second in the Stakes, reversed their positions in the Cup.
Last year, when The Victory was runner-up for the Stakes
to Wakeful, the merit of his performance was not taken
seriously by the public, but, with the mare scratched for
the big race, The Victory won it easily. In the previous
year, San Fran ran second for both events. In 1900 and
1899 the Stakes running was a false guide to Cup bettors,
but in ’9B The Grafter finished second and first for Stakes
and Cup respectively. Luck notwithstanding, the ca-
lendar shows that a punter who “knows nothing”
may wisely swear by the one or two candidates that have
specially distinguished themselves in the Stakes race. It
is the most trustworthy of public trials.
* * * *
Said that more than one of the riders in the
Melbourne Cup field had received “ bumping ” instruc-
tions re F.J.A. and Abundance, and it is a fact that
neither the little Derby winner nor the big chestnut got
near the front after going half the journey. But proba-
bly one of the most unfortunate nags was St. Ambrose,
who got bumped almost to a standstill, and was trodden
on, and came back to the birdcage with both of his heels
Ambrose’s trouble happened at the back
of the course what time F. J.A. was receiving his quietus.
* * * *
After the Cup it was generally admitted that
F.J.A.'s chance had been foolishly chucked away. The
little fellow was set the task of winning the Derby from
end to end with 8.10 on his back. In the Oup he might
at least have been allowed to nearly lead the field with
7.10 for his burden. To the astonishment of punters in
general, P.J.A. was seen to be fighting for his head as he
went past the grandstand for the first time. To restrain
a willing Derby winner if he wants to run away with the
Oup is to court “interference.” And the interference
came surely enough.
* * * .
Abundance was treated to a slow and steady
preparation for the Melbourne Cup. A week before the
race every tout at Flemington was at least con-
vinced that he would go to the post (bar accidents) in
the best possible condition for winning. But after all
those months of getting him “ fit to run for a man’s life,”
Abundance on the day was so sore that his preliminary
canter suggested lameness. In the race he never showed
prominently, and an hour later he was too sore for any
thing.
* » . .
After the Cup it was amusing to hear the
friends of Lord Cardigan talking about the excellence of
his “ form ”in beating Wakeful at Rand wick. The mare
couldn’t capture a race in three tries at Randwick, but
on returning to Victoria she was her old winning self
again, and just when she was looking most like her old
self Abundance, Postillion, and Emir beat her at Caul-
field in fast time. The “form” of Abundance on that
occasion would have been referred to as the straightest
of straight tips for the Oup—had he won the Cup.
* . * *
One of the biggest Melb. bookies struck a bad
deal on Hauturier in connection with the Cup. He
sought out the holder of that nag in Tattersall’s con-
sultation, and bargained with him for his £6OOO chance
for £750. When Hauturier sprang a leak or something,
the lamentations of the Ikey Mo gentleman could be
heard anywhere within a radius of half a mile of the
Victoria Club.
• * * *
Flagship has run with remarkable consistency
in both the Oaulfield Oup and the V.R.O. Handicap for
three years. Two wins and one second in the l|-mile
handicap, and two thirds and one second place in the
Caulfield Oup are credited to the veteran. Every year
he has been beaten out of a place for the Melbourne Cup,
so it seems certain that the 2-mile course is a bit too long
for him thus far, though he may arrive at the capacity to
get the distance if his dicky fore leg holds good for
another year. It was a lame-looking limb imme-
diately before and after the struggle on Satur-
day, but it seemed right again an hour later.
Flagship is a wonderfully hardy and handy animal.
Thirty yards from the post in last Saturday’s race some-
thing crossed him, and he nearly came to grief, yet an
instant later he resumed his sprint, and won by a head.
He is one of the spry order of performers that know how
to take care of themselves in a crowd, and can bob up
serenely where a length}', unadaptable nag—such as
Abundance or Nothos—would be hopelessly discomfited.
On the other hand, there is enough stuff in Flagship (as
in Wakeful) to withstand a bump which would settle an
F.J.A. or Sweet Nell.
* * * *
The knocking down of Sweet Nell in the C.B.
Fisher Plate was an awful instance of the turf’s “ glorious
uncertainty.” With only five horses on the track Sweet
Nell, the favorite, got such a bump from Postillion (so her
jockey testified) that she was banged up against the rails
with sufficient force to bring her down. When Bobby
Lewis lodged a complaint of foul riding against Barden
the other three riders had nothing accusative to say,
therefore the protest was dismissed, after which Rupert
Clarke publicly “ slated ” Barden, and the jockey hinted
that he would take legal proceedings against the irate
Rupert. Sweet Nell certainly showed signs of having
been violently collided against.
.** * •
The Miller stable scored a rather surprising win
in the Cup Steeplechase with old black horse The African.
He carried a respectable weight (11.6) and led most of
the way—a good three-mile performance for a reputed
non-stayer, although the time was considerably below
the average for recent years. The African has acquired
stamina- in his old age, and, when he’s at his best, he
still heads the field almost as impetuously as of yore,
when he ranked as a comparative “squirt” among
chasers.
• • • •
Said that one of a syndicate of 10 Sydney
Government Printing Office men, who drew second in
“ Tatt.’s ” Melbourne Cup 10s. sweep, sold his interest for
6s. before result was known, and consequently forfeited
all claim to about £4OO.
* * * *
Most successful sire during V.R.O.’s four days
was Positano with four wins. Pilgrim’s Progress, Haut
Brion and Wallace notched three each, while repre-
sentatives of Grafton and Bargo appropriated two each.
Scobie’s stable’s first mount (Lewis) did best of jockeys
with three firsts. After him were W. H. Smith, A.
Richardson, P. King, Chevalley, Hickey, Osborne, Min-
ter, Burn, and B. Carslake two each. Only competitors
to gather more than one race were Victorian F.J.A., and
N.S.W. nags Sarto, Bega and Graft, who accounted for
eight events.
» * * *
Sydney nags suffered a bad time concluding day
of Flemington Spring meet —not one passed the post first
in seven races, despite that they got away with eight on
preceding three days. Though big majority of N.S.W.
trainers secured something, veteran Tom Payten hadn’t
the luck to get better than seconds, and he brought six
good performers over.
» * • *
Apropos recent death of crack S.A. jockey
Willis. He went to Melbourne to ride Mr. Howie’s
Fairyland and Trochon through Spring meet and colt
Ganymede in Maribyrnong Handicap. Same owner tele-
graphed nominations for Moonee Valley races but wire
arrived too late and through this Willis was recalled to
S.A. to pilot Liliput and The Bird. First named was
voted a “cert” (which it proved) but latter, among the
unluckiest nags that ever figured in Adelaide, killed the
unfortunate jockey.
* * * •
Sweet Nell’s dam, Novelette 11. (Nordenfeldt —
Ouida), was purchased as a filly at Wellington Park (M.L.)
sales, verging on 11 years ago, for Mr. S. Hordern, for
900 guineas. Though her racing days were brief, prices
secured for the mare’s progeny have rendered the invest-
ment a particularly good one.
* * * *
Anticipated that Cup meeting will swell
V.R.O.’s funds by close on £9OOO, which is much ahead
of last year’s £5708 surplus.
* * * *
Albert Cornwall, trainer of Lord Cardigan,
prepared Merton Steel for last year’s five-thousand-
pounder, and nag’s connections backed it to win fortunes.
Cornwall, whose experience in preparing racehorses ex-
tends over 35 years, tipped Merton Steel a “ moral.”
barring the possibility of him falling down —and the
possibility came off, with the result that the nag had to
be shot and the boy (Godby) brought to the hospital with
a broken leg. Cornwall then gave up all hope of leading
in a Cup winner, little thinking he had this year’s in his
stable at the time, and that the lad who rode Merton
Steel would be up on the more fortunate nag.
* * * *
In connection with the flight of a Market-street
(Sydney) shop Ikey immediately after Lord Cardigan’s
success, stated he got away with upwards of £3OOO as the
result of offering a point or two more than others
“straight out” or for a “place.” Among his clients
were some who “saved” or “laid off” big lumps of
double money without naming the source whence they
expected to draw it, which means that the “ saved ” and
“laid off ” amounts will have to be paid. A well-known
sporting pressman picked the double at the extremely
long odds of £350 to 25., which alone should have sounded
the alarm, but it didn’t. Instances of liberal wine
“ shouts ” prior to going round for the coin are freely
related. A foreign Jew who won £IOO paid for a cham-
pagne spree for a few chums, after which the whole party
went to “collect,” but the “book” had a long start by
then.
* » * *
Melbourne Cup bits: Lord Cardigan’s time was
only lsec. behind Carbine’s and, but for the heavy
going, might have been better. Pace was solid all the
way. First im. occupied 521, second 54J, and third and
fourth each 51J. Last 6fur.”were covered in I.IOJ, and
concluding mile in 1.42 J. A Sydney owner hadn’t
previously scored since 1898, when The Grafter won. No
winner has had such a light weight as Lord Cardigan’s
feather since Zulu (5.7) qualified for the spoils 22 years
ago. Among highest winners is Melbourne caterer H. H.
Skinner, who threw in for £9OO0 —all at long prices
secured on occasion of A.J.C. Spring meeting. Owner,
John Mayo, is said to have gathered £SOOO over and above
prize money, and trainer (Albert Cornwall) made between
£3OOO and £4OOO. All “ two Cups ” double layers were
struck —one prominent Melbourne Mo. laid £7OOO of it and
paid out £17,400 on settling day. Estimated L.C.’s
success took about £60,000 out of the ring. Altogether
43 Cups have been won, of which Victoria has annexed
25, N.S.W. 16, and S.A. 2. Three-year-olds have
triumphed 12, 4-year-olds 9, 5-year-olds 13, 6-year-olds 6,
and aged horses 4 times. Somebody went into the thing
before last struggle and showed that Cup results have, on
the whole, been much in favor of the “ books,” the
betting average is a fraction in excess of 17 to 1.
Melbourne Cup was worth but £6lO to the winner first
year and 1863 saw the smallest sum given (£490) and the
weakest field (seven).
* • * •
Biggest winner at V.R.C. meeting, closed
Saturday, was “Old Jack” Mayo (owner of Lord Car-
digan), whose haul totalled £4944. Rupert Clarke came
next with £2OBB, then followed Messrs. O. L. M’Donald
(£1729) and W. Brown (£1010), the nearest afterwardsbeing
J. P. Madden with £620.
* * * *
Died lately in M.L. that gay fraud Ocean, half-
brother (by Eiridspord) to Melb. Cup winner Newhaven.
He was one of the lucky prizes in St. Albans lottery, cost
bushels of money, and never earned his feed.
« * * *
According to one bookmaker, M. Lewis, who
gave evidence before the N.S.W. Parliamentary Com-
mittee on gambling : “ If the totalisator were established
it would mean that 1000 bookmakers and their clerks
would have to leave the State.” Perhaps the holy crowd
which opposes the tote so violently doesn’t want the
moral atmosphere purified by the departure of 1000 book-
makers and their clerks.
• * * *
Caulfield cross-country course won’t henceforth
be the soft task hitherto experienced by leppers. Though
fences are not raised, they have been made uniform
height (4ft.), through ground at take-off being cut away.
None but genuine ’chasers will be able to negotiate the
trip now.
* * * *
Auburn, winner of King’s Cup at Queensland
T.O. meet, Saturday, is by Gozo from More Pork, and
consequently full brother to Little Mary, May M‘Key and
The Tola —well-known N.S.W. performers; and was
foaled at Tucka Tucka (N.S.W.). Hopeful Stakes, at
same gathering, resulted in a dead-heat between N.S.W.-
bred horses Joyance (by Simmer from Bliss) and Optimist
(by Haut Brion from Moth).
* * * *
M.L. Cup fell to Canteen (7.12), with Wairiki
(9.2) second, and Achilles (9.6) third. Interference with
Achilles at home turn is said to have marred latter’s
prospects. Rider of winner was disqualified for two
years for foul riding, which suggests that offence must
have been glaring; hence ’tis mystifying, in the absence
of details, how Canteen was allowed to keep the stake.
Time given (3.27 1-5 sec.) is a record for the continent.
Prior best (3.28) for the trip (2m.) belonged to Wakeful,
who accomplished the task at Rand',vick with 9.7 up.
World’s top figures (3.25 2-5) are Palmerston’s, created at
Hurst Park, England. Canteen is by Castor from Vivan-
diere.
» * • *
In reply to 8.8. (Unley): No, he is a solicitor
in Inverell.
* * • •
During recent race-week nights poker play was
indulged in at a big Kalgoorlie hotel with £5 “rises.”
One bookie dropped £2OO in a quarter of an hour, and
retired, declaring Kalgoorlie was the swiftest place he
had ever struck.
* * * *
Arnold, Tyldesley and Lilley, of Warner’s
English team, have birthdays this month. Arnold, 27 on
the 7th ; Tyldesley, 30 on the 22nd ; and Lilley, 36 on the
18th.
# • • •
Warner has announced his intention of going
with the amateur division of his team to the same hotels
as his professionals. This abandonment of the irritating
distinction which has hitherto been the practice of visit-
ing English teams, will win more popular favor for
Skipper Warner than anything else he could have done.
So fixed are the lines dividing the “ Gentlemen ” from the
“ Players” in England that Major Wardell never dreamt
of this decision, and divided camps had already been
arranged for. Apart from “ class" reasons, it must be a
manifest advantage to the captain of the team to have all
hands continually under his eye.
* * * *
S, Australia knew before Warner landed that it
was short of bowlers, and in picking its eleven it passed
two or three fair batsmen who can’t bowl at all, to make
room for poorer men who can bowl a little. Even
then it could only get rid of eight of the English-
men for 483; at that Warner declared. Eight
bowlers were tried; Claxton (4 for 76) did the best,
though he wasn’t reckoned a bowler. Giffen’s one
scalp cost 122. Hayward (157) was at the wickets
6hrs. 20min., so his play was slow. Lilley gives a big lift
to his average with 91 n. 0., and the captain was close up
with 65. Foster’s luck was the worst; after dazzling
Adelaide at the practice nets he was run out in the first
few minutes of the play for 2. Whether Warner had the
right to “ declare ” as he did is at least doubtful under
the rules, but common sense is all on his side.
• * * *
The home team started better than it finished,
and when stumps were drawn for the day (the second),
the board showed three for 93. Gehrs, who came
to the front last season, but has this season
only batted in one club match (he made 20), was
thrown out at 31 ; and that stood the record
for the side. Hill was stumped at 18—disappointing after
his 156 (not out) against East Adelaide, the other day.
Giffen (not out), 15 at draw of stumps, took his tally to
23 on Tuesday; and Jennings added 26. The rest was
chiefly disaster; the end came at 172, and Rhodes was
largely responsible for it. Cricket probably is not
booming in S.A. ; yet, as this Adelaide team is practi-
cally the same as the one that beat the last lot of English-
man who toured these parts, the showing in the present
match gives an indication of the sort of nut that Mel-
bourne and Sydney will have to try their teeth on.
* * * *
Trial match (N.S.W. first 11 v. next 13) at
’Varsity Oval, Saturday and Monday, supplied nothing to
rave about. Opening day’s honors were all with the
colts. First team made 180 in its initial effort on a
faultless wicket. Next 13 made 65 for two wickets, and
on second day carried the score to 278, Deane, Mackay,
Foster, and Pye shaping best. First 11 retrieved its
reputation some in second innings through putting 354
together for the loss of six wickets in, perhaps, three
hours. Noble accumulated 101 and retired. C. Gregory
got 97, Trumper 61, and Sid Gregory 56.
* * * *
George Giffen, who can’t quite see the difference
between what he once was and what he now is to S. Aus-
tralian cricket, has begun the big-game season with
trouble. He wanted £lO for the S.A.-Englishmen’s
match as “compensation for loss of time”; and the
Association would only offer £5. George, who has been
playing senior cricket for a quarter of a century, at first
declined to play at all, but then changed his mind,
decided to play “ out of compliment to the visitors,” and
announced that he would pass on the fiver to the
Children’s Hospital. No doubt Giffen has made large
sacrifices for the game, for, after nearly 30 years service,
he is still a very subordinate clerk in the Adelaide post
office.
* * * *
Personnel of N.S.W. bowling combination for
inter-State match at Melbourne has been much criti-
cised, as is invariably the case ; but considering the
material available for the selection committee to work
upon, it couldn’t be improved. Not for years have so
few front-rankers volunteered to make the trip, probably
because of playing week being shifted from Cup-time to
later in the year. Absence of extra inducement of
sharing in Melbourne’s big spree evidently makes a heap
of difference. Likely that the team may be beaten in all
three matches, but it is also on the cards that it
might spring a surprise, mainly because more time has
been allowed for practice together than hitherto.
- * * * *
Westralian bowling team, in Melbourne during
Cup week, surprised Victorians by the quality of its play.
Though not by any means representing the full strength
of W.A., the ’Gropers gave the home combination a close
call in each of first two matches of the rubber —a chance
shot deprived them of victory when they were lying 6 in
the final “head ” of the first game and then they scored
a surplus in two out of three rinks. After threatening
victory twice or thrice in their second effort W.A. reps,
only went under by 11 on a very keen green.
* * * *
Southern Rifle Association meet at Goulburn
(N.S.W.) Monday produced phenomenal scoring. In the
“Mackay” (500yds.) Private Cutler (youngest of three
brothers from Bathurst) notched a “bull” with every
one of his 10 shots. In the “ Singer,” contested sub-
sequently same man performed same feat again. The
“Hutton” (a head and shoulders event at 300yds.) saw
W. A. Clark (Sydney) make the remarkable score of 9
“ bulls” and 1 outer under rapid firing conditions.
* * * *
Sydney’s cycling speculators are not finding the
game quite the gold mine it was in the past. Up to and
inclusive of Saturday last, three nights’ racing had been
held, but through adverse weather and, perhaps, overdoing
of the thing, public has not responded liberally. First night
saw Ivor Lawson win final of Australian Handicap (lm.)
brilliantly in 1.55 2-5—better than Major Taylor’s time
over the same journey and a world’s record, put up from
15 yards behind scratch. Falls were frequent, but no
serious accident occurred. Saturday night Lawson
credited himself with another remarkable sprint, getting
over concluding lap of the Denison Cup in remarkable
time of 30 l-5see. Taylor never showed anything superior
to this —the pity of it that the negro isn’t here this
season. Lawson sits and works as though part and parcel
of his machine.
» * » *


Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER
A Nib,
A Bottle of Ink,
A Sheet of Paper,
and
LETTER BOOK
Make* a eampleta outfit
with which any man, wo-
man or CHILD can write »
letter, and at the aame
time make an exact copy.
Prom O. Plummkr,
Straw Hat Manufacturer.
Rutland Street, Auckland, N.Z.,
August 18, 1902.
that your
Two months* trial of the Pm Oarbos Lima Book obtained from you has satisfied ua
JEN
roduce
reserve
revent
ARSON
lean
opies
onfusion
L
ETTER
egible
asting
oss and
B
OOKS
ills
right
ad Language
Yours faithfully, C. PLUMMER.
The Pen Carbon Letter Book
Is a True end Valued Friend.
Sole Australasian
Agents—
E. RICH & CO., Ltd.
SYDNEY.
BRISBANE.
Continental Caoutchouc & Guttapercha Co*
haktover.
m
- r
I
... MAKERS OF
Wallace Continental Bicycle Tyres,
Wallace Continental Motor Bicycle Tyres.
Tne Celebrated Continental Motor Tyres
(Winners of Gordon Bennett Cup, 1903).
Total Yearly Output—over 600,000 Tyres.
DEPOT AT-
WALLACE PNEUMATIC TYRE COY.,
Ba™ „ INDERS ST " MELBOURNE.
\
V?
o
H
fdg
fd
They Look Well, and Run Well, for Years.
The material embodied in the construction of
RED BIRD BICYCLES
I* »*, MD BIRDS J*
Agents all towns - GOOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 King St., Sydney.
Sydney Telegraph, in its rage at the
success of Premier Deakin’s meeting in Sydney,
something to the effect that “ a few
j succeeded in getting into the
m i • y? u * : was ree to everybody.
Deakin didn’t charge 2s. admission as Reid did in
Victoria, nor did he have agents giving away
tickets wholesale to people of his own fiscal views,
so that the man who was prepared to cheer him
came m free and the man who wasn’t prepared to
cheer had to pay 2s. Deakin’s meeting wasn’t
packed ” like the Vie. demonstrations of the
Owner of the Dry Dog. If only a few Freetraders
got m under these conditions there must be an
immense crowd of Protectionists in Sydney.
MNlljQ m omosa^i
gfd
Buffering sister who
address to THE
By a new discovery, odorless
and tasteless, which any lady
can give in tea, coffee or food,
i It dues its work so silently »,nd
I surely that while the devt tsd
\ W *L-'. sister or daughter looks on
the drunkard is reclaimed even
against his will and without his
knowledge or co-operation.
Miss Edith WILLIAMS, who
cured her father after years of
misery, wretchedness and almost
unbearable suffering, says :—“ I
1 Shall be so glad if you publish my
experience, for it will reach
many others and let th m know
about the wonderful EUCRA SY.
mi* W * cau help any
will write ’me.’* Send name and
rasy Co *> 62 Hunter-st., Sydney,
and they will send you,Booklet and particulars FREE. ,
SOFTENS THE
HARSHEST BEARD
WILLIAMS’
mm
A Soothing
Influence—
Williams’
Shaving
Stick.
My Silent Partner—
WILLIAMS’ BARBER’S BAR.
gfd
SS" Every Bar
weighs- Sixteen
Honest English
Ounces, divi-
ded into Six
Cakes. Not
sold in Slices.
J. B. Williams
Co., Glaston-
bury,Conn., U.
S.A., 232 Clar-
Collins St.. Melbourne
WILLIAMS’
WON’T DRY ON
THE FACE.
rrn
m
LED
m
an
i
cm
ra
m
■pOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
L ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “ Ellis’ King Street Coffee Palace,” “»(8
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. P-ovrietor—G RO. IF. ELLIS.
SNfIRPSNOOTIHdS
g
For Sport and War.
By W. W. GREENER.
HITS THB MARK!
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, 1/- nn>
Posted, 1/2. *
The best 1/- worth ever Published,
■ Fyou wish to get good work and value
" L° u „ should Purchase W.W. GREENER'S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars oii
application to—
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 c ° ,,ins Street, Melbourne,
(Greener s Representative).
REAPERS AND BINDERS.
Tbe “Booois,” Prise £2B
Manufactured, Johnston Harvester Co., New York.
Direct Importers and Sole Agents:
Farmers' & Settlers’ Co-operative Society.
343 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Full Stock, duplicate parts. Write for Catalogue.
CHAiLCIL BERT’S
E
u
E
E
Nl
“HEADQUARTERS”
of the army of swell dressers. I’ve drilled
them so thoroughly in the matter of dress
that they are distinctly identified as the
“Swell-’uns.” I’m looking for recruits all
over the Commonwealth, and am always
on duty.
Suit to Measurelj
Hand Finished..-j 1
60s T ° 85s
“Economic” ....V
Suit to Measure/'
35s ™ 50s
CARRIAGE FREE
Hair-Cloth through the fronts of every
coat to prevent creasing. I’]] post you Free
for the asking the finest selection of Samples
ever submitted, together with Tape Measure,
Catalogue, etc.
Write To-Day ! Worth the Trouble.
Mitt
IlSi
/*l
mm
* '\
\
\\\^
ft
i«Vt,
R
I
S
B
A
N
E
K3>
Such is Lifb, by Tom Collins, price 4s. 6d., is
one of the best bush books ever written. Send
postal note or P. 0.0. to Bulletin office.
A certain contractor had a claim—a quite
valid claim—against the N.S.W. Government, and
was subjected to much delay in getting it through.
Finally, the Owe’Sullivan gave him an order on
the Treasury. But the Treasury wouldn’t pay,
and the contractor went back to Owe’Sullivan.
“ Oh, but I have paid you,” said Owe’S. “ Yes,
but I can’t get the money.” “Well, I can’t help
you. I have paid you.” And the Owe’S. closed
the discussion at that. Wasn’t it the Jubilee
Juggins who stoutly maintained that he had paid
certain creditors to whom he had given cheques
which were dishonored ?
If Ikey Mo got something of a bump on
Cup-day he could afford to be philosophical on
his previous profits. Anyway, there is always con-
solation for the unfortunate in D.C.L. Whisky;
also that cheerful self-confidence which enables the
loser on one race to be a winner on the next. And
in the race of Life the wise quaffer of D.C.L. on
scientific principles is always sure of a front place
and good winning.*
Two “In Memoriam ” notices (Octo-
ber 28) recall Edward Sadler, of the Miners’
Exchange Hotel, King-street, Sydney, who died
in 1874. Ted Sadler was known in his day as the
“ Political Cordwainer.” He was a Sydney native,
a shoemaker by trade, and his shops in Market and
George-street were the centres where electioneer-
ing campaigns were planned. Bob Nichols,
James Martin, Bill Tunks and others of the
native party had great faith in the working powers
of Ted. He was the underground engineer in an
era before the advent of John Davies, but, unlike
John Davies, Ted Sadler took no interest in such
outside aids to electioneering success as bun-
struggles and the Three Hats. Late in life, Ted
Sadler took over the license of the Miners’ Ex-
change Hotel, at the stalls-entrance of the Theatre
Royal, and in ’74 he suddenly descended the
stan-s head first and broke his neck. His son is
W. E. Baker, the well-known actor of Bland
Holt s co.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
-.•Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives mvay
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developea a lovely skin-
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
On 31st October, 1835, the first publican's
license was issued in Melbourne, the publira-i
being John Pascoe Fawkner. Pretty nearly
everything that was issued in Melbourne in tho;o
days was issued to old Johnny.
If the man on the Land wishes to remain
there in peace, he should employ W. N. Willis
Land Agent, 21 Bligh-street, as his Agent. No
results—no payments.* :
The cast of Deemiug’s head in the pos-
session of Loinbroso, the noted criminologist, is
repeatedly taken for that of the great Napoleon—
another famous murderer ! The resemblance is
most marked.
H' D- SMITH, Bradgate, lowa, October
17, 1899, writes :
‘‘/..t'."/ 1 Jayne’s Expectorant to be THE ONLY COUGH
REMEDY THAT CAN BE RELIED URON, and X
confidently recommend it.”*
Some more George Reid : f ' ..
Referring to the question of old age pensions, Mr. Reid
said he was glad that Mr. Deakin abstained from putting
old-age pensions in that prominent position which it
occupied last time, when Ministers must have known, as
Mr. Deakin stated at Ballarat the other night, that it
was impossible to have such an Act while the Braddoii
clause was in existence, or, in other words, it was
impossible to have such an Act till the year 1910 Yet
the measure was in the forefront of the Government
programme that was submitted at the last general
election. “
I here are two definite statements here, and both
of them are false. There was no definite promise
of old age pensions in the Australian Govern-
ment’s first programme. And if there had been
such a promise, it wouldn’t have been made with
the knowledge that the money for old age pen-
sions couldn’t be raised ; it can be raised, as Reid
well knows, by direct taxation. Also, there is
one probably true statement in Reid's pronounce-
ment. He says he is glad Federal old age
pensions are not on the programme.
£2
ST
Rerubber *
1 worn out Wringer Rollere—
\ ® n< * guarantee to return
% eame with little delay.
Housewives
Should
Note
thaf we are now re rubbering
worn out Wringer Rollers - dt the following Pricey
10 <e>4 / cd l^;l^<?s^3
To these Prices must be ddded carriage /
both ways- Or if you prefer it we will forward j
vou Rubber tube -a instructions for fitting
Sdme yourself without- loss of fime-at
thc- above Prices.
1 DUNLOP PNEUMATIC TYRE (0. Of AUS If n.
B 8 Flinders Stflclb
Adelaide7BAdelaide 31 Brisbane 154Barrack!>t.ftrttil28Lichfield5tq
t
"Ip!
iT
n>r
N«S*W. Depot—
-150 Clarence Street
Sydney.
Good
, Rollers
I make washing' day easier.
\ Our Rollers ARE
\ Good*
fdg


THEM
THE
OF
TOUR
MEMORY
\
\
\\
'
V
V
\
i*
b
i
Xs
Y,
/
WHAT ?—■
The Virtues of
I
TOBACCO
The introduction of “Pilot” Navy
Cut marks an epoch in the manu-
facture of high grade Tobaccos.
Nothing more perfect in manufac-
ture, or more consistently even and
excellent in quality has ever been
presented to Australia.
“ PILOT ” is packed in patent air-tight tins and will hold
its condition in any climate and under any circumstances.
“D.” to “ F.M.” (B. 8/10/’O3) : Let the
female schoolteacher clothe her nakedness as she
thinks fit. We are overrun with uniformed
people. There is very little individuality at any
time about the average school-teacher, but put her
in a uniform and one would be the counterpart ot
the other. 'They would settle down into walking
masses of tfates, places and recollections of old
dead kings, held together by a few yards of cheap
serge with a red stripe round it. Further, many
a woman does not wish everybody to know she
teaches school; it is not a great gameat any time.
The nurse’s costume mentioned by “ P.M. is no
criterion of what might be picked by a Govern-
ment Department for the unfortunate school
ma’am. Look at the female gaol attendant s
costume ; it would choke any man off the wearer,
supposing any man wanted to marry a gaol atten-
dant.
ALWAYS RECOMMEND IT.
In almost every community there is someone
whose life has been saved by Chamberlain s Colic,
Cholera, and Diarrhoea Remedy. Such persons
seldom miss an opportunity to recommend it, and
their recommendation and the_ never-failing quali-
ties of the remedy account for its great popularity.
Sold everywhere at Is. 6d.*
Commonwealth Chief Justice Griffith takes
amazing pride in the consolidated criminal code
he compiled and engineered through a sleepy
Queensland Parliament. For ruthlessness it can
give points to Alfred Stephen’s code and beat it
badly : Clipping coin, gaol for life; public y
attacking a religious creed, one year s Raol;
defamation of foreign princes (say Jackhore),
two years’ gaol; treason, death ; disturbing the
Legislature, three years’ gaol ; attempting
suicide, twelvemonths’ gaol; defamation of M.P.,
two years’ gaol and fine of £5OO ; assault and
robbery, death or gaol for life, with or without
flogging; and so on. Of course Griffith didnt
originate these laws, but he carefully collected
them out of the musty past and secured for them
fresh recognition. There was a chance to drop
some of them, and they weren’t dropped.
FOREIGN stamps.
r p o TAG e:
mmm
fd
dIMECHe
©HDsaiaai
fIHEAP SETS.—B Turkey, 6d;
47 Spain, Is 6d; 6 British
Guiana, 6d ; 8 Egypt, 6d ; 10 Bul-
garia, 6d \ 11 Canada, 6d t 15
Roumania,6d; 6 United States War-
ships, 3d ; 8 Java, 6d ; 5 Costa
Rica, 4d ; 3 Victoria, 1850 issue,
7s 6d ; 4 Sudan, 9d; 20 Brazil.
Is ; 12 Cuba, 9d ; 11 Portugal, 6d,
New Catalogue of Stamps, &c., Gratis. Stamps purchased.
CHARLES DONNE, 346 Little Collins st., Melbourne.
&
COON - COON - COON,
I’VE MADE UP MY MIND
TO SAIL AWAY.
The Honeysuckle & the Bee,
I Skedaddled, It’s the Man behind the
Gun, Sweet Ivy May Jerry Co,
Melindol,oo,Sometimes, when the
Harvest Davsare Over, also Two
Hundred other OrieinalCoon and
LoveSones. Al' f heI,ATEST HI IS.
Posted for ONE SHILLINC,
anywhere.: Stamps or Postal hote.
B.p. Co., Uox 404, G.P.O., Sydney
gfd
Models from Life, Beautiful Stereo-
scopies, etc. List with 109 Minia-
ture and 3 Cabinet Size Photos.,
55., P. 0.0. or stamps.
S. R2CKNA3EL NACHF, Munich, 1 Brieffaoh, Germany
, Glasgow Evening News :
The colonies, however much they may inspire English
literature to-day, contribute directly but little to the
sum of it. India has given us Mr. Kipling’s poems and
stories at their best; but Maoriland seems never to have
bred an author of any importance, and Australia’s writers
have been practically limited to a few minor poets, all
rightly or wrongly expressing the soul of a country that
is apparently grey-colored and steeped in a not unpleas-
ing melancholy.
The “fashionable woman,” it seems, will
go with the Foreign-raid interest right through-
out the Commonwealth, in the silly beliel
that Freetrade means a little saving on kid
gloves, open-work silk stockings, “ straight-
front” corsets, and patchouli. The worlur
woman, who must keep her eye steadily fixed on
her old man’s job, lest it escapes him, shows signs
of being a good democrat and Protectionist.
Wk 1
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
FURRED TONGUE.
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
There's SECURITY in
Barters
ITTL
IVER
PILLS.
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Prict.
They TOUGH the LIVER
Be Sure they are
Carter's
gf
FREE
A Beautiful Set, Gold-cased
Nellie Stewart Bracelet, a
Solid Gold Shell Ring, and
a Handsome Nickel surer
Watch,
FREE.
I Simply s«nd us your Name and Address, plainly written on a post card,
and we will send you 20 Packages of our unexcelled White Rose Perfume, in
a Box, Free »f all expense to you. You then sell the Perfume among your
friends and ueighlours at 6d. per packet, and when sold, you remit ustne
monev you have collected, and we *ill send you, a* so Fp©©» or yc
trouble, the above-described Watch, or the Nellie Stewart Brace-
let and the Ring 1 . Both the Perfume and the Premiums are sent abso-
lutely Free of ail cta-ges. It is an entirely new perfume, and will sell
ewily, and each customer who buys a package receives a prize ticket which entitles them to
a Beautiful Brooch, absolutely Free. Our object in making this marwalloxxa
such unusual fine premiums, is to get our very superior Perfume into the hands of the public
immediately, as we are satisfied that everyone will be so well fkased with it that they wil
gladly recommend it to their friends. We have hundreds of unsol.c.ted testimonialP. You
aimnlv send your Name and Address, plainly written on a post card, and we will send the Per-
fume. No money required. We take ill risk. Good, returnable if not sold. Remember we pay
all shipping expenses. NATIONAL. SUPPLY CO., Ash St , Sydney, N.S.W.
COOL
.ROOF
A
%
IWCR*
ACENTB:
Leading Ironmongert
everywhere.
COOL HOUSES
WHITE COMPO.
or TERRA COTTA
To Avoid Fraud
-KsseeTTradeMark
ON EACH CASE &C.
FACTORIES : For these two lines address—
“AßAßlC” DEPOT, MELBOURNE.
V\RM
#
Cheapest
OIL
PAINT
on
Earth !!
HYPNOTISM
ENABLES you to gratify your ambitions. It marks
the difference between success and failure. By our
system you can learn this wonderful science at home.
You can cure diseases, bad habits, DRUNKENNESS,
etc., and wield a wonderful influence over others. v\e
absolutelv GUARANTEE success. Send six stamps for
our treatise, and test for yourself the remarkable power
of HYPNOTISM and PERSONAL MAGNETISM, etc.,
as taught by us. THE AMERICAN INSTITUTE OP
SCIENCE, Victoria Buildings, 63 Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY. N.B. —Patients treated daily at the Institute.
Health. Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by using
iF
The oniy Infallible remedy for WEAKNEBS, DEt IUTf,
VARICOCELE, etc. Restores Energy, ptreng-th
and Vitalify to the most weak and shattered
constitutions. Send stamps for pamphlet.
Price 125., or four quantities in one, 365. Freight .
A gl'nts'for Tuatralasia—P ER R Y & CO., 47Queen St,
Melbourne; X.X.W.- Faulting & c °->J t 6 ° Cc nnel ‘
St., Sydney; Newcastle, Adelaide and rerm.
dg
We Ship on Approval
and guarantee safe
Highest grade Cycles fully warranted.
Latest
Models <
£2.10*o£5‘5-0
Dunlop Tyres,Westwood Steel Rims.
Free Wheels, Mud Guards, Brahes.
CARRIAGE PAID to any
port In Australasia.
Motor Cars and MotocycleS
Tyres , Accessories,. Sporting Goods
land Sewing Machines Half usual
[Prices. Write for Catalogues and
Special Offer using sufficient for
eign postage. Addresr
MEAD GYGLE GO.
CHICAGO
C. S. A.
D
■EAR SIR,-1 have been cun d of Weakness and Dej
1 bilitv by a simple and inexpensive remedy and «,11
be pleased to send the means of cure to all suffei r •
do this entirely out of gratitude, and mate no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to
Mr. ROBERT E. PARKHUBSi,
v. Pitt street( Sydney*


One incident with a touch of the dramatic
in it took place while the Victorian Factories Bill
was being bandied about between the two Houses.
Fatmau Smith wanted to reintroduce the iniquitous
old system under which dressmakers’ apprentices
were charged premiums, these being in reality
paid by the girls handing back the poor half-
crown they received as wages. The Assembly
rejected this clause. Smith moved again and the
Landlords were inclined to insist. Then Attorney-
General Davies produced an elegant evening
wrapper—the sort of thing the average Fat Coun-
cillor sees on his wife. The Fats were inclined to
be facetious. Davies let them inspect the garment,
then said slowly: “That wrapper was made
throughout by a girl, an apprentice, who found
her own thread and her own machine. It took
her two hours to do it, and she got sd. for it. . . .
And the hon. member wants the House to say
that the girl shall hand back her sd. at the week
end to make up her premium.” The laughter
and Smith’s amendment went by the
board.
lAVE YOU
A BAD LE
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If *o, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
tnay be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not how being cured,
bend at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchus,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Slores,
Ac. Brice, in Great Britain, 1/ljd. per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents : /CLLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers snould
look for Unregistered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
DO PEOPLE ILL
WORRY YOU? ..
t
Lilian
H
U
M
P
H
R
E
Y
S
61 Alma Street, Darlington, Sydney,
October 24th, 1902.
Dear Sira:—When only nine months
old my little girl contracted whoop-
ing cough, which was followed by pneumonia;
for three months she was ill in bed, and for two
whole weeks delirious. When she had slightly
improved in condition, the doctor attending
her recommended us to give her Scott's
Emulsion. We did not take his advice. Five
months later there was a return of the illness
and she became as bad as she was before.
The doctor was in constant attendance. This
time I gave her Scott’s Emulsion on trial. It
worked wonders—enabling her to eat and
digest her food; she has gained flesh and
looks a different child, the picture of health
and happiness. She has since had measles, and
by the aid of Scott’s Emulsion pulled through
with little trouble and with no sign of a return
of the pneumonia. Faithfully yours,
(Signed) Mrs. C. Humphreys.
Messrs. Scott & Bowne, Ltd.,
483 Kent Street, Sydney.
DO PEOPLE ILL WORRY
YOU ™re especially when they are
members of your own family ? They worry
most people, particularly mothers, for no
mother can remain indifferent to the suffer-
ings of a child ! When whooping-cough or
pneumonia appears, it is natural to be wor-
ried ; but you need not be if you send at once
for Scott’s Emulsion. Just above, one who
has seen the cure performed, tells you how
Scott’s Emulsion acts; and, when whooping-
cough or pneumonia attacks your child, ivhat
you want is a remedy. That remedy is
SCOTT'S EMULSION, it i. act
necessary to know anything else about whoop-
ing cough or pneumonia except what will
cure it. This, Scott’s Emulsion does rapidly,
surely, steadily, until the cure is reached. It
has cured whooping cough in every land under
the sun; it will cure it in Australia. You have
one precaution only to take ; and that is to see
that on the wrapper of the bottle there is a pic-
ture of a man carrying a big cod-fish ; if that
cod-fish is not there, you are not getting what
we promise you—a cure. You can obtain a
sample of Scott’s Emulsion and the choicest
children’s booklet of the year, “ A Bunch of
Roses,” beautifully printed in colours, by send-
ing sd. to Scott and Bowne, Ltd., 483 Kent
Street, Sydney, and mentioning this paper.
All chemists sell Scott’s Emulsion.
A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is gua/anteed to, cure any case of.
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter-
how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
casesin six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the-
only Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
Of Chemists, or from PARIS MEDICINE CO., 28, Shoe-
lane, London, England.*
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Eli/.abeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance
is solicited
EXPLAINING
THE ACTION OF
Warner’s Safe Cure,
and why it cures disorders so seemingly different in character as
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Backache
Sciatica
Indigestion
Anaemia
Blood Disorders
Biliousness
Jaundice
Gravel
Stone
Bladder Troubles'.
General Debility
Sick Headache
This is a fairly long list of disorders, but every one of them is caused by defective action of tfi©
KIDNEYS AND LIVER.
When the kidneys and liver are working perfectly, it is impossible for anyone to suffer from
ny of the disorders named. In order that this important fact may be realised, the following- descrin-
lon of the work performed by those vital organs is given.
The Kidneys filter and extract from the blood about three pints of urine every day. In this
quantity of urine are dissolved about an ounce of urea, ten to twelve grains in weight of uric acid
together with other animal and mineral matter varying from a third of an ounce to nearly an ounce!
When the kidneys are m health, all this solid matter is in solution and is invisible. Directly the
kidneys, through either weakness or disease, become unfit to do their duty properly, a proportion of
the solid matter remains in the blood, becomes actively poisonous, and causes us to suffer from uric
disorders such as Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia, Lumbago, Backache, Sciatica, Gravel
Stone, Bladder Troubles, and Bright’s Disease. A simple test to make as to the condition of
the kidneys is to place some urine, passed the first thing in the morning, in a covered glass, and let it
stand until next morning. If it is then cloudy, or there is a brick-dust like sediment, or if particles
float about in it, or it is of an unnatural color, the kidneys are not healthy, and no time must be lost in
adopting remedial measures, or Bright’s Disease, Diabetes, or some less serious but more nainful
illness will result.
The Liver.— Bi the liver various substances are actually made from the blood. Two or three
pounds of bile are thus made from the blood every day. The liver takes sugar from the blood
converts it into another form, and stores it up so as to be able to again supply it to the blood
gradually, as the latter requires enrichment. The liver changes uric acid, which is insoluble into
urea, which is completely soluble, and the liver also deals with blood corpuscles which have lived their
life and are useful no longer. When the liver is inactive or diseased we suffer from Indigestion
Biliousness, Anaemia, Sick Headache and Blood Disorders. ’
The health of'the liver and of the kidneys is so closely connected that it is almost impossible for
the kidneys to be affected and the liver to remain healthy, or vice versa.
It is nearly thirty years since scientific research, directed specially to diseases of the Kidneys and
Diver, was rewarded by the discovery of the medicine now known throughout the world as Warner’s
• _ate Cure. It was realised, at the outset of the investigation, that it was necessary to find a cura-
tive agent which would act equally upon the kidneys and upon the liver, these organs being so imme-
diately associated in the work of dealing with the body’s waste material, and, after many disappoint-
ments, the medicine which possessed the required action in the fullest degree was at length discovered.
Warner-s Safe Cure cures all diseases of the kidneys and liver, and, by restoring their
c I'J J.’ these vital oygans are enabled to rid the body, through the natural channels, of the urinary
and biliary poisons, the presence of which, in the system, are the causes of Rheumatism, Gout, Neu-
cr f'tV Lumbago, Backache, Sciatica, Blood Disorders, Anaemia, Indigestion, Biliousness, Jaundice,
bick Headache, Gravel Stone, Bladder Troubles, and General Debility. Warner’s Safe Cure cures
all these disorders simply by removing the cause of the disorder. This is the reason why cures effected
by Warner’s Safe Cure are permanent cures.
COnta ' n ‘ n " Particulars, and accounts of many remarkable cures effected, even
lSraYri, f ßrrorM^S. ,redof ' Wi “ *** '“»• H - W “"“ C »-
LIS'
Seddon’s Tilt at Trusts.
In Maoriland, Premier Seddon proposes to try
another interesting experiment in social legis-
lation, this time in the prevention of trade
monopolies. Practically there is no straight-out
opposition to it, because nobody openly defends
such monopolies ; yet the Bill has many enemies,
nevertheless. The Tory crowd, which is opposed
on general principles to “experimental legis-
lation, ” scents in it the usual “interference with
private enterprise.” This is the fixed attitude of
the political crowd which, nowadays, usually calls
itself a “ Reform Party it yells reform in'a wild
and whirling fashion, but sees so many objec-
tions to every specific reform proposal that it
never accomplishes anything itself and does its
best to prevent others doing anything either. It
was just this “ we-must-be-careful ” brand of oppo-
sition that Industrial Arbitration used to meet in
M.L. and N.S. Wales, and still meets elsewhere;
and M.L., which knows that the dreadful things
that were going to happen under Industrial Arbi-
tration haven’t happened, will not go far wrong if
it decides that; the same crowd has got hold of
another of the same family of bogeys.
• • • •
And Maoriland has the less reason to hang up
this question because it is proposed to use, as far
as possible, the very same machinery which has
proved so effective in connection with the peaceful
settlement of industrial troubles. The Arbi-
tration Court will have its counterpart in the
Monopolies Court; and Seddon proposes that
for most of the way the former’s procedure shall
also be the latter’s. The principal difference
between the two courts would be that the
Monopolies Court would consist of the Chief
Justice and two Supreme Court Judges instead
of one Supreme Court Judge and two lay
assistants. In building his proposed Court of
such materials Seddon gives legitimate trade
every chance—a Court composed of three Supreme
Court judges isn’t likely to take any very socialistic
view of what constitutes a monopoly. And of
necessity much must be left to the discretion of
the Court; all that the Bill attempts is to define
an illegal trade monopoly as “any agreement,
whether in writing or not, the dominant, or one,
of the main objects of which ” is
1. To destroy, restrain, or prevent the reasonable trade
of other traders in the same or a similar trade . . . ; or
2. To enhance the price of goods sold by the parties to
such agreement, whether such"parties are engaged in the
same trade or not, beyond the price reasonably obtain-
able for such goods if such price were determined by the
operations of reasonable trade competition in the absence
of such agreement.
In the event of a monopoly being disclosed the
Court may annul contracts, order the monopoly
to cease, and order any corporate company re-
sponsible for a monopoly to be wound up.
• • • »
The few but noisy Foreign-traders who are left
in Maoriland are also pointing out that there is no
need for the Bill. Raising the old cry that
“ Protection is the parent of trusts,” they say that
no anti-trust legislation would be needed if there
were no Protection. This is truer than almost
anything else that the Foreign-trader says. There
would also be no need for safety-valves if there
were no steam-engines ; but only the fool would
propose to abolish steam-engines in consequence.
The reason why, as a rule, trade monopolies do
not flourish under Freetrade is that the industry
simply cannot yield the extra profit which the
monopolist is after. He can get his extra profit
in only two ways—by putting up his prices, and
by cutting down wages. But, under Freetrade,
he can’t in most cases do the former, because the
foreigner would undersell him ; and he can’t often
do the latter, because his work-people are on the
verge of starvation already. It isn’t any-
thing to the credit of a Freetrade country
that it grows few monopolies—no more
than it is to the credit of the wilder-
ness west of the Darling that it grows few
weeds. That the Foreign-trader should want to
block any measure for monopoly-prevention is,
nevertheless, natural enough. He argues now
against Protection that it breeds monopoly and
thus leads to public spoliation. It is a poor argu-
ment, because it really doesn’t do it once in a
thousand times ; but, such as it is, it would dis-
appear with such an Act as Seddon proposes in
working order, and the Foreign-trader, in order
to keep the market for his foreign calico and his
imported shoddy, would then have to fall back
upon some even less feasible-looking lie.
* • * •
Another popular argument in favor of hanging
up this question indefinitely is that trusts and
combines may be very good things for the com-
munity, because they prevent waste and senseless
competition. There certainly are things which
ought to be monopolies ; and when they are
discovered they ought to be handed over to the
State to handle. The private capitalist, who is
out after profit, certainly can’t be trusted with
any monopoly whatever; and if it can be shown
that any service should be monopolised, then it is
shown at the same time, and without any further
argument, that the private capitalist should be
moved out of it altogether. But, apart from that,
neither Premier Seddon nor anybody else wants
to prohibit the combination of capitalists for the
purpose of preventing waste and thus legitimately
reducing costs. If a combine is working for
the public benefit, then it has nothing to fear
from a Monopolies Court such as the M.L. Bill
proposes. In fact, the Court would hardly
hesitate to say that, under the Bill, such a
combination was not a “ trade monopoly ” at all.
• • • «
Whether a Monopolies Prevention Bill can be
entirely effective The Bulletin does not know ;
but, at least, it can be vastly better than nothing
at all. That anti-trust legislation in America
has not wholly succeeded goes for nothing. What
it hasn’t prevented is apparent ; what it has, is
not. In some States it has certainly succeeded ;
if it hasn’t succeeded in others it is because, in
order to entice industries from adjacent States,
the laws have been made purposely lax. Also the
law would probably have done more if it had
started earlier. But, at the worst, a law can
easily put its finger upon possibly the most
dangerous development of the trust and monopoly
disease —a development which has already occurred
in Australia : that is, the “ watering ” of stock, of
which the Australian case of the Broken Hill Pro-
prietary Co. is a glaring example. That mine lias
to earn dividends on a nominal capital which pre-
sents about the same relationship to its real
capital as an albatross does to a humming-bird.
When the pinch of hard times comes to a gro.-sly
over-burdened concern, the work-people are the
first to suffer : their wages are ground down in
the desperate struggle to earn dividends on the
extravagant capitalisation. At the same time
the public has to pay an extravagant price for
whatever service the monopoly renders if it
is the kind of monopoly which is in a position
to demand the price. A trade combination or
monopoly which is not over-capitalised may
be a public benefit; but once it becomes over-
capitalised—once it is called upon to earn profit
on paper capital as well as the capital represented
by property—then it is practically certain to be-
come apublic misfortune. And even if a Mono-
polies Court did no more than protect the public
against that sort of financial fraud it would be
amply justified.
An Honest Auditor.
Ip what is now being attempted in England, in the
case of the Shoreditch Borough Council deficiency,
were to be legalised in Australia, a great deal of
the shameless dishonesty which makes “aider-
man ” here almost synonymous with “pickpocket ”
and “ State Treasurer” with “grand embezzler ”
would be done away with. Shoreditch Borough
Council suffered, in a mild form, from the Austra-
lian epidemic of low taxation and dishonest
budgets. On September 9, 1902, the finance com-
mittee reported that a rate of 3s. lOd. in the £
was required to meet the estimates of expenditure
for the then current half-year. The Council,
however, reduced the rate to 3s. Bd. (In Aus-
tralia no finance committee that The Bulletin
can imagine would even mention a three-and-
tenpenny rate, and no council that can be imagined
would pass even 3s. Bd. ; among the swindling
Kyabramists the usual dishonest rate is 9d. or Is.
in the £, and by valuing the land at a quarter its
value the Is. rate is made to really represent 3d.)
The result of the Shoreditch Council’s action was
that when the auditor—Mr. A. Carson Roberts,
whose name should be honored of his generation
came to investigate the accounts for the year
ended March 31st, 1903, there was a deficit of
£6198. He then forwarded the following letter
to the 14 aldermen responsible for reducing the
rate: —
In auditing the accounts for the year ended the 31st
March, 1903, of the Shoreditch Borough Council, I find
that there has arisen a deficiency amounting to £6198, or
more, which, as it at present appears to me, is to be
attributed to the action of yourself and others in reduc-
ing the rate proposed by the Finance Committee below
the amount required to meet the estimates.
In order to afford you an opportunity of being heard
on the subject, if you so desire, or of sending me in
writing any representations which you may think fit to
make with regard to it, before I decide as to whether it
is my duty to surcharge you with all or some portion
thereof, I beg to inform you that I have adjourned che
audit so far as relates to this matter to Friday, the 3rd
day of July, at twelve noon, at the Town Hall, Old-street,
and that I shall be glad either to hear you, if present, at
such adjourned audit, or to consider any representations
on the subject whicti you may send to me in writing at
the adjourned audit, or at the address given below before
the adjourned audit takes place.
The aldermen were not able to satisfy him on this
point, and he accordingly charged the deficit to
them personally.
Because they as members of the council did neglect to
make, or to take any steps for the making of, rates
sufficient to meet the estimated or actual expenditure or
requirements of the financial year, which neglect has
incurred a deficiency in the sums greater than the
amount surcharged upon them. Ido hereby certify that
the said sum of six thousand one hundred and ninety-
eight pounds to be jointly and severally due from the
fourteen aldermen and councillors abovenamed. As
witness my hand this Bth day of September, 1903.
And bis action is quite legal in England, and the
aldermen must pay unless, on an appeal to the
King’s Bench, or to the Local Government Board,
it is found that the auditor’s action is not justified.
There are many things that Australian politicians
delight to imitate from England in apeish manner.
But it cannot be said that honesty in public
finance is one of them. They may prate about the
glorious British Constitution, but they never
attempt to follow the British example—initiated,
if Macaulay is to be believed, by William of
Orange—of being honest and solvent in matters of
public finance. Accordingly there will be found
in no Australian Local Government Act any pro-
vision that if, after honest audit, it is shown that
a town council has deliberately levied a rate too
low to ensure solvency, the aldermen shall be
personally liable. The custom here is to allow the
municipality to repudiate its debt, as in the case
of the Victorian Kyabram shires, and, to a less
extent, the N.S.W. country towns which had
their water-supply schemes carried out by the
State. In*fact, Australia has gone further than
that. A large municipality in the vicinity of
Sydney once got an honest auditor, who refused
to certify to the grossly incorrect and shamefully
muddled accounts, and, without his certificate,
the Government subsidy couldn’t be collected. So
the Government sent up an accountant, who took
the auditor’s place, and certified off-hand that the
accounts were correct. Then the honest auditor
was hauled up before a bench of disgraceful Js.P.
and fined for not certifying to the muddled accounts.
He proved and exhibited in court the vast mass of
errors and discrepancies he had complained of,
and showed the accounts to be confused and utterly
incoherent, but the local Js.P. fined the honest
auditor all the same. They do things differently
in England.


TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.
From Sydney Daily Telegraph :
Mr. J. H. Want, M.L.0., who returned to Sydney on
Saturday, says that the people of England are disgusted
with the way Australia is managed by the Labor party.
Managed by the Labor party! And when Jack
Want left England there wasn’t one single Labor
member in Ministerial office in all Australia. In
the Commonwealth Parliament that party never
has had as much as one-fourth the total member-
ship. It has only one-seventh in N.S.W. In one
House in Victoria it has not a single representa-
tive, and it hasn’t one-twelfth of the total repre-
sentation in the other. Of 70 S. Australian
members, it has only six. In Tasmania there
is no Labor Councillor, and in the Assembly the
anti-Laborites out-number the Laborites by about
Bto 1. In Queensland it has not one-fourth of
the total representation; in Westralia not one-
tenth. And yet Australia is “ managed by the
Labor party.” What great people these Labor
people must be, and what incompetent asses Jack
Want’s party must be !
Martin’s Apiol and steel pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia. Not genuine
without the signature. Be sure you get Martin’s.
Sole proprietor, W. Martin, pharmaceutical
chemist, Southampton, England.*
“Steele Rudd’s” second book, “Our New
Selection ! ” —will be ready before Christmas.
Better than the first book, if possible; with many
illustrations.
FISHER & CO.’S HAIR RESTORER,
‘PUPA'S HAIR'
(Trade Mark).
R
21
A gentleman has 3ent
us the following:—
“ A few weeks ago I
bought a bottle of
your ‘ Papa’s Hair,’
and it has acted with
the most satisfactory
results. Previous to
doing so my hair had
a mousey color
streaked with grey.
The dear children
would try to count
Papa’s grey hairs, but,
because of the num-
ber,could not succeed.
Being only 44 years of
age, I determined to
improve my hair, and
tried your ‘Papa’s
Hair , ’ and am pleased
to write that, though
at first there seemed little difference, gradually the hair
regained its original color, and is now strong and glossy."
This Preparation is not a Dye, but acts gradually
on the Roots of the Hair, and Restores Grey Hair
to its Natural Color and Lustre.
No Preparation will make Hair grow better than
“PAPA’S HAIR.”
It effectually prevents the formation of Dandruff, as it
is called, the presence of which always denotes diseased
action in the cuticle of the scalp, causing premature
baldness or a falling off of the hair.
Directions. —Well shake the bottle, and, with a small
piece of sponge, rub into the roots of the Hair, night and
morning, till the Hair is restored to its natural color;
afterwards apply twice a week.
38 per Bottle ; by Post, 9d extra.
MEMORY.
PELMAN’S SYSTEM.
Is your Memory unreliable ?
The Memory can be Developed and Im-
proved by proper training just as the
muscles of the body are developed and
strengthened by proper exercises.
PELMAN’S
System of memory Training
is a practical system of proved value based
upon well-known psychological principles.
Increases Mental Capacity In every
case. Invaluable to Students.
Explanatory Book sent Post Free on application
to the Secretary.
Melmaa’s School of Memory draining,
MELBOURNE, G.P.O. Box 402.
London, 4 Bloomsbury-st_ W.O. ; U.S.A., 1608 Masonic
Temple, Chicago ; South Africa, Lynn Buildings, Durban ;
Germany, Mozart-str 9, Munich ; France, 109 Avenue de
Neuilly, Paris.
Amusements.
The new her majesty’s THE *™ e '
Sole Lessee & Manager, Mr. J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at i.
TRIUMPHANT SUCCESS of
Mr. J. 0. WILLIAMSON’S Famous and Ever Welcome
ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY,
A COUNTRY GIRL.
Box Plan at Paling’s. S3t PRICES AS USUAL.
QrTtIeRION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. CHARLES HOLLOWAY.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of .
CHARLES HOLLOWAY DRAMATIC COMPANY in
TWO LITTLE VAGABONDS.
SATURDAY, NOV. 14, First Production in Sydney of
Henry Pettitt’s and Geo. R. Sims’ Famous Nautical
Drama, THE HARBOR LIOHTB.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Paling’s.
PA LA CE THEATRE, SYDN EY.
Sub-Lessee & Manageress, MissFITZMAURICE GILL.
EVERY EVENING, EVERY EVENING,
MISS FITZMAURICE GILL
and her
SPECIALLY SELECTED DRAMATIC COMPANY
in the Present Great London Success, entitled,
BANK OF ENGLAND.
PRICES—3s, 2s, & Is. No Early Doors. Plan at Elvy’s.
y~O WN HALL, BYDNEY.
SATURDAY NIGHTS,
14 th, 21st, 28th NOVEMBER,
PEOPLE’S
PEOPLE’S
POPULAR
POPULAR
CONCERTS
CONCERTS
McADOO’S ORIGINAL
FISK JUBILEE SINGERS.
LAST THREE CONCERTS.
Plan at White Rose Confectionery Co., Pitt-street.
Reserved Seats, 2s.
y c e u ivi
THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee .. .. .. Mr. George Miisgrove.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
EVERY EVENING,
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION, headed by MISS EUGENE DUGGAN, in
HER SECOND TIME ON EARTH,
Written by Walter Melville.
Prices—3/-, 2/-and 1/-. Box Plan open at Elvy’s Music-
Warehouse, George Street.
SATURDAY,
SATURDAY,
NOV. :28
NOV. 28
SATURDAY.
SATURDAY.
MISS CORNELIA MAY-LITTLE
MISS CORNELIA MAY-LITTLE
THE GREAT AMERICAN CONTRALTO,
CENTENARY HALL, YORK STREET.
Plan at Paling’s. ss, 3s, 2s. J. EDWARD SYKES.
the MUTOSCOPE.
WONDERFUL LIVING PICTURES.
KING STREET ARCADE
»d 400 GEORGE STREET.
Always on View.
(£!?”• Admission FREE.
Tivoli theatre, sydne/.
Sole Proprietor and Manager— Mu. HariLy Uickaiiom.
A Furore Created Nightly by IWIARZELLA, and her
Wonderfully and Highly Trained MEXICAN EAGLE.
Snlendid Reception of America’s Comedy Sketch Artists,
FREDERICK
H ALLEN
}
and
{
••MOLLY
FULLER.
Enthusiastic Reception of Mr. ERNEST FITTS.
Miss ELLA WELLINGTON, Mr. EDWARD JORD,
Miss NITA LEETE, Mr. ERNEST SULLIVAN,
Miss PEARL LOVELL, Mr. GEORGE BENTLEY,
Mr. LES WHARTON, and all our Great Co.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. H. Rickards.
3 THE DUMONDS 3
THE MICRO-BIOSCOPE.
IRVING SAYLES. THE POWERS BROTHERS.
DE WYNNE BROTHERS. ALBERTO.
WILL WHITBURN, FRED. RIVENHALL, ROBERT
NEEDHAM, FRANK YORKE.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING, Mr. BEERBOHM TREE’S CO.,
including
Miss MAUD JEFFRIES and Mr. JULIUS KNIGHT in
THE ETERNAL CITY,
by Hall Caine.
First Time in Australia;
MAUD JEFFRIES....as.;..DONNA ROMA VOLONNA.
JULIUS KNIGHT....as... .DAVID ROSSI.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessee .. • • • Mr. 131&ncl Xlolfc.
Business Manager .. . . 0. Simonsens.
EVERY EVENING. SECOND WEEK of
Bland Holt’s Dramatic Co.
in
The Great Millionaire,
by Cecil Raleigh and Arthur Collins.
FORCIBLE, POWERFUL, and ARTISTIC.
Prices—3s. 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
piTZ'GERALD BROS.’
ALL NEW CIRCUS AND MENAGERIE,
IN THEIR OWN PERMANENT BUILDING,
JUST OVER PRINCEB BRIDGE, MELBOURNE.
STILL THE LEADING AMUSEMENT RESORT.
CRAMMED, PACKED, JAMMED.
Thousands and Thousands of Delighted Patrons.
First Appearance of
DR. GORDON, THE MODERN VULCAN,
who will Exhibit his Prowess by pulling against
TWO DRAUGHT HORSES,
and will LIFT the ENORMOUS WEIGHT of 4501 b.
WITH HIS TEETH ALONE.
MATINEES, MONDAYS and TUESDAYS, and
ALL HOLIDAYS.
PRICES—4s, 3s, 2s, Is. Box Plan Glen’s & Grand Hotel.
Lancefield, Laverton (W.A.), is producing
about SOOoz. monthly from BJdwt. ore, and paying 4d. a
month in divs. Capital is in 21,600 shares. Three levels
are being worked, in all of which the lode is very wide
In the two upper levels it runs about 18ft., and in the
lowest 26ft. No: 1 level is nearly 900 ft, long, and the ore
taken from it has maintained an average of 7 to 8 dwts.
Some extra equipment, including a Cornish lift, is being
installed to increase efficiency and reduce costs. The
concern is run by a local co., and has practically paid for
its own equipment. Some time ago the property was
put under offer to Bewick, Moreing and Co., who in-
spected it, but they were evidently dissatisfied, as the
deal fell through. Probably the ore in the sulphide zone
is too poor for a highly capitalised co., even if it does not
prove so for the present proprietors.
* * * *
Great Fingall Consols, Day Dawn (W.A.), will
shortly have its new 20-head mill in position near Day
Dawn shaft, and will then probably be the largest pro-
ducer in the State. Most of the exploration at present is
confined to opening up No. 9 level, and to cross-cutting
for the reef at No. 10. At No. 9 level the reef runs from
Bft. to 10ft. wide, and ranges from loz. to 2oz. to the ton,
the best ore being in the north drive. This level is being
opened up at the rate of 160 ft. a month. A new 'Murkan
manager, William Pomeroy, from Arizona, is now boss of
the show, his predecessor, Stansfield, having gone to
Tasmania. It is rumored that quarterly divs. of 7s. 6d.
per share will be paid in future. This is quite feasible,
as, even taking costs at £2 a ton, the co. is making a
profit of £31,000 monthly, which would meet the higher
div. mooted even without the extra mill.
* * * *
Concerning the Arrino (W.A.) copper deposits,
which have been the subject of a hundred booming para-
graphs on this side (especially in those arch-boomsters,
the Adelaide papers), the Westralian Government geolo-
gist writes: “It is hardly possible for me to say very
much beyond that there are good indications of a payable
lode existing at depth at both Baxter’s (location 342) and
Oheyne’s M.L. 4. Since giving in my report of September
30, I have been shown a lengthy extract from the South
Australian Register. My comment on it is that Ido
not consider that carbonate of copper staining in a hard
sandstone, in places altered into a quartzite, can consti-
tute payable ore. Therefore, it can hardly be said that
there is a lode extending over a width of 100 vards.”
Divs. already announced by W.A. mines for
Nov. are: Golden Horseshoe, £90,000; G.B. Perseverance,
£87.500 ; Princess Royal, £4OOO ; and Lancefield, £360.
These bring the total for the year to £1,821,771, the
highest for any year bar the phenomenal 1899, when Lake
View Consols, by gutting the mine, distributed £625,000,
and Golden Horseshoe £365,000. There are still a few
divs. due before the year expires, but it is now unlikely,
though still.possible, that the two million mark will be
reached, as the only div.-payers likely to make any more
declarations in the neighborhood of £50.000 are Oroya-
Brown llill, Great Boulder Prop., and possibly Cosmo-
politan and Associated.
* *' * *
Recent developments on the Moon line of reef,
Eaglehawk, have started Bendigo with a new lease of
life. According to geologists of the time, the field was
exhausted nearly 40 years ago, the theory' of the experts
being that gold would not be found below the zone of the
so-called burnt quartz. While in the older sectionsof the
field it is not likely that any discoveries will be made
which will be of anything like permanent value, it would
seem that from the newer sections there will be a restora-
tion of something like the old-time prosperity and
Importance. Nbrth of the Moon group of mines there is
a large area of practically virgin re -fing country. There
hgve been rich alluvial tracts in this area, and in isolated
patches, such as Sebastian and Raywood, very rich quartz
deposits have been worked. Th -t it will be proved that
the famous Garden Gully, New Chum, and Hustlers reefs
are continuous throughout this area seems inevitable.
No'one would be foolish enough to assume that the reefs
wifi be continuously payable, but it may be reasonably
Supposed that the proportion of blanks to payable chutes
will be the same as in the other sections. The difference
between the formations at Lendigo and Eaglehawk is
that in the former case the saddle reefs outcrop
at, or near .the surface, while in the latter
there is a superincumbent mass of spurs. The
pitch of the reef is to the north—thus a reef forma-
tion which may be showing at the surface at the
southern end of the field may not be intersected at the
northern end until a depth of, say, 2000 ft. has been
reached. As a matter of fact, the South New Moon and
New Moon miqes have not worked any saddle formations.
The New Moon, which has been a consistent dividend-
payer for many years, has existed soleiy on the spurry
formations, the working of which on a large scale neces-
sarily involves a big disproportion of gold-bearing quartz
to worthless rock in the stuff sent to the mill. This
accounts for the fact, that although it is always a speci-
men mine, the. bulk crushings do not reach |oz. to the
ton. The North Moon co., situated some distance north
of the New Moon, has just intersected a very rich run of
spurs at the depth of 1400 ft., and the shares jumped from
10s. to 50s. in the week. Extensive prospecting opera-
tions have been in progress further north for some time
past, and the latest discovery will act as an incentive to
increased activity. There is great excitement on the
field, but nothing suggestive of the bogus boom of the
'7o's, which did incalculable harm.
* * * *
, The London and Globe Assets Co. includes
among its possessions several deep lead alluvial proper-
ties in the Loddon district (Vic.), and, according to the
chairman, is making desperate efforts to secure a mono-
poly over 35 miles of leads. The estimated quantity of
gold per mile of lead is 500,0000 z. Writer thinks this
estimate is outrageously extravagant; it seems to be
based on the assumption that the whole course of the
ancient river-bed is as rich as it was in the famous Madam
Berry mine, but such wealth as that is only likely to
be found in spots contiguous to where the' river has
disintegrated rich gold-bearing rocks. The chairman is
not responsible for this estimate, but he makes what he
calls a practical suggestion which is even more Utopian.
Drainage will he the most costly part of the project, and
ijjj’is feared that some selfish landowners will not contri-
bute towards the cost of this. In the event of the
Government not compelling these selfish people to
stump up, the chairman has the happy idea of putting in
water barriers across the lead. Just as sensible would it
be to talk of building an earthen embankment across
Bass Strait or from Dover to Calais.
* * * •
From the manager of Stannary Hills: “Can
supply the mill three months certain, perhaps much
longer. Cannot guarantee percentage of ore, except 4j
percent.” Shares, of course, are down to where you
can only just see them with the naked eye ; and Adelaide
lqoks like dropping another third of a million or so over
the ridiculously-boomed show with its 22 miles of railway
through the mountains and its elaborate mill and other
plant.
• * • •
Maoriland has for some years past been borrow-
ing on short-dated debentures; and King Richard is
beginning to see that, though it may be easier to get
money that way, the curse comes home to roost very
early. One lot of £465,000 has matured this year, and a
corresponding lot has been got off in London to provide
for them ; another £165,000 is falling due shortly ; next
year £1,937,150 will want attending to ; and early in the
year after that £1,032,600. Seddon asked the permission
of Parliament to renew these at anything up to 6 per
cent.; but, on the advice of Agent-General Reeves, that
Bull Cohen would pretty certainly demand 5 per cent, if
Richard had authority to pay it, an amendment was
•uslied through reducing the maximum to 41 per cent.
• * • •
N.S.W. is now raising money to prolong its
Owe’Sullivanism in about a dozen different ways
By straight-out borrowing at Bull-Oohen’s counter.
By resuming foreshore properties and not paying for
them, while pocketing the rents.
By local issue of 4 per cent. Treasury bills.
By appropriating Savings Bank funds.
By conditionally agreeing to rent buildings for 10 or 12
years, and to pay for them at the end of that time, which
is simply a means of postponing payment for the
buildings.
By issuing 4 per cent, funded stock.
By bank overdraft.
By annexation of trust moneys.
*
The Bulletin’s Christmas number will
be issued on 10th December. The Bulletin’s
Christmas number has been good in the past.
This year ** will be better.
J. B. STEELE ,
A very old-time favorite of the Australian stage.
Photo, by Brand, Park-st., Sydney.
The Bulletin herewith presents a portrait
of that very old dramatic warrior, John Blenner-
hassett Steele, who was recently slain in the
columns of S.M. Herald, but who is still alive
and well—except for his load of years—in Parra-
matta Home for the Aged. Mr. Steele and his
wife, Adelaide Bowring, were engaged by George
Coppin, in London, to support G. V. Brooke.
Brooke sailed in the memorable s.s. London, and
went down in the Bay of Biscay. Mr. and Mrs.
Steele, finding the London’s passenger-list full,
had started a month earlier, and did a 111 days’
passage in the Western Ocean. They played at
Melbourne and Ballarat, then went to the
crude wastes of early Maoriland. They came
back to Melbourne, and, after a spell at
the Haymarket, went to the Royal, under
the management of Harwood, Coppin, Stewart
and Hennings. During this season they pro-
duced “ Black Sheep ” and Tom Robertson’s
comedy, “Ours,” with much success, and sup-
ported Walter Montgomery, Henry Talbot and
Herr Bandmann (who was somebody in those
days). Also about that time “Hamlet’’ran 11
nights, a most unusual thing then. At various
times, in Maoriland and elsewhere, Mr. Steele sup-
ported Mrs. Scott-Siddons, May Howard, and
another American actress, Jane Coombes, a
great favorite, but now forgotten. At Sydney
Royal Mr. Steele supported Miss Pomeroy for
some weeks and shared the management of the
Queen’s Theatre with J. F. Keogh until the
Government Architect summarily closed the.
crumbling building. These are the merest frag-
ments from his story. Mr. Steele's years are so
many that he has almost forgotten to count them,
but he is a fine perpendicular veteran even now,
and still recalls the actor whom all Australia
loved in his good days.
At Poverty Point.
A noted she-sport and footlight person is said to have
once received a gee-gee as a present from a duke. Asked
what she would name it she said “Death." “Why?"
asked the donor. “ Because,” Madame is reported to have
replied, “The wages of Sin is Death."
Hall, the manager of Hall’s Australian Juveniles, is
reported to have died suddenly on the 29th of last month.
This may be of interest to the parents of sundry juveniles.
Haddon Chambers’latest play, “The Golden Silence,"
has not aroused any enthusiasm in London. “The
Tyranny of Tears ” still represents Chambers at his best—
and a best inexplicably ahead of the second best.
Poor Johnny Coleman, the clever variety artist, has
fallen on evil days. While hilariously intoxicated he
lately wandered away with another man’s field-glasses—
possibly he was in that stage of drunk when a telescope,
or a window, or anything with glass in it vaguely sug-
gested something to drink—and he was sentenced to six
months as a matter of form. He was immediately released
on George Lauri giving security for his future good
behavior.
The Frawley co. opened in “ Arizona” to a small house
at Wellington (M.L.). Harry Plimmer, in his native
town, was received with the blank indifference that falls
to almost every prophet when he gets back to the bark
hut of his ancestors. If a person absolutely shakes the
world, after the fashion of Melba, the family bark hut is
glad to hold out the hand of mild applause, but as a rule
it is a beastly indifferent sort of place.
Barrie’s latest comedy has the stomach—just the ordi-
nary beef-fed British stomach —as its chief character. Its
name is “ Little Mary,” and the plot is this : Moira Larey
is left by her old grandfather a book on health as a
legacy, and sets up as a sort of quack (idea evidently from
Shakspeare’s Helena). She is called into a country house
to cure the daughter, who is “in a decline.” The cure is
effected by a reorganisation of the whole household
economy, and, when pressed, Moira discloses her secret.
“It is Stomach.” The grandfather’s discovery was that
over-eating was the curse of the English ; it made them
ill, and made them stupid. “ One day, one dinner ” was
his gospel, and all Moira’s miracles had been wrought by
persuading people to carry it out. There’s the usual
wedding to wind up. And this stomach play is acclaimed
as delightful by the London critics.
“0.K.": The man who describes “Monsieur Beaucaire”
as an American sling-off at English old-world snobbery
may be referring to the novel, certainly not to the play
adapted from the novel. I have not read the book, but
I have seen the play a few times, and I can call to mind
no other comedy so utterly snobbish in action and senti-
ment as this “Beaucaire,” the story of an impossible
hero whose wondrous luck at cards, skill in fencing, and
irresistibility in general are due to his royal blood—so
the play would suggest. All the other characters are
.horrible snobs from first to last, but especially at last.
‘Beaucaire,” as it appears to me, is the work of an
American old-world idolator, like “Sweet Nell of Old
Drury,” wherein a worthless king figures as a hero merely
because of his rank, and his concubine is considered to be
greatly honored by the languid waster’s condescension.
“L. 8.”: The Capital of the Commonwealth should
contain a National Theatre, built and owned by the
Federal Government and handed over to the dramatic
directorship of some capable stage-expert like H. H.
Vincent or Robert Brough. One theatre at least will be a
necessity in the Federal Capital, and here is the chance
to establish a theatre that will be devoted to the pro-
duction of the world’s great dramatic masterpieces, and
whatever is written in Australia approximating to those
high standards. We want a theatre like the Burg-
Theater, at Berlin, which in case of financial failure is
supported out of the Emperor’s private purse (only with
us it should come out of the Commonwealth funds). The
Federal Capital is to be the outward embodiment of the
complete idea of the Australian Commonwealth, and no
national ideal can possibly be complete without a national
drama. “The theatre is irresistible,” said Matthew
Arnold. “ Organise the theatre.” And if we want an
Australian national life, we must organise the theatre and
make it a national institution, just as we have national
galleries and libraries. At present there is no chance for
the local dramatist. He is overwhelmed by stuff imported
from London, New York, and Paris ; and even if he were
to get a chance he has nothing to stimulate him. A
theatre devoted to the best drama would give him the
best models to study and draw inspiration from.
Sick and Nervous Headache.
SPEEDILY DISPELLED BY BILE BEANS.
Sick and nervous headaches may aptly _ be
classed amongst the most distressing complaints
that fall to the lot of mankind. Bile Beans, by
going direct to the root of the evil —disordered
liver and digestive organs—have proved singularly
successful in curing these headaches, the latest
illustration of which comes from Mrs. S. A.
Masters, of 18 Jarrett-street, Leichhardt, Sydney.
This lady says :—“ I have found your Bile Beans
are an excellent remedy for a disordered liver.
At times I have been so bad with indigestion that
I did not know what to eat. My appetite was
considerably impaired, and although at nights I
have felt like having a good sleep, I could not do
so, and in consequence, felt completely done up
during the day, and suffered agony with sick and
nervous headaches. I was induced to take your
medicine by seeing an advertisement wherein
Bile Beans had cured a fellow sufferer, and can
now say from my own experience, that Bile Beans
are a perfect remedy for sick headache, loss of
appetite, sleeplessness, and those innumerable
symptoms of a sick liver. I would now use no
other medicine, and always keep a box at hand
for an emergency.” Bile Beans have now a
world wide reputation for curing biliousness,
headache, indigestion, constipation, piles, debility,
female weaknesses, nervousness, bad blood,
pimples and all skin eruptions, bad breath,
anaemia, loss of appetite, rheumatism, weakness
after influenza, spring ailments, etc. Bile Beans
are obtainable from all medicine vendors, price
Is. or 2s. 9d. large box, (contains three times
the Is. size.)*


Some Interesting Facts
about the Manufacture of
The Freeman and Wallace
Electric ‘Invigorator’ Belts.
#
An Interview with Mr. W. O. English, M.B.,
Certificated Electrician.
One of the most scientific electricians practising
in Australia is Mr. W. G. ENGLISH, M.E.,
CERTIFICATED ELECTRICIAN, formerly
mechanical electrician to the Government Rail-
ways, Eveleigh, and the Government Electrical
Tramway Department. Mr. English’s knowledge
is not confined to the practical side of the Science
as applied to national industries. He has studied
deeply the Science of Electro-Therapeutics or the
application of Electricity to the human body for
the cure of such diseases as St. Vitus’ Dance,
Epilepsy, Rheumatism, or any class of Nerve
Diseases afflicting the human species. He is the
holder of a high class certificate granted at the
Sydney Technical College for competency in these
studies, which he received with honors.
Mr. English was recently interviewed by our
special reporter at his extensive laboratory,
Sydney. Replying to questions relative to Elec-
tric Belts generally he said :—
“ I think I have at my private residence over
30 different kinds of Electric Belts sold in different
parts of the world. I have specially studied this
science, and when any new Electric Belt or an
improvement is announced I receive it by first
mail from my European agents.”
“ Have you found any of them superior to the
Freeman and Wallace‘Invigorator ’ Belt, which
they sell for One Pound Only, and which you are
under contract to manufacture for them ? ”
“No! I have not. I have here a Belt adver-
tised largely and for which as much as ten
and fifty pounds is said to be paid, but it is
not equal to the Belt I manufacture here. I use
the finest material combined with the latest
improvements. The chief feature of my Belt is
the vulcanite insulation, for which the Institute’s
Specialists hold Australian patent rights. From
a medical point it is most important, for without
this no Belt is worth twopence medicinally, as the
current leaks away instead of being concentrated
on the human body affected.”
“And this is most important in cases of serious
nerve diseases, I suppose ? ”
“ Very important. With the vulcanite insula-
tion the current is directed upon the electric discs
attached to the Belt-sheath and directly associated
with the body. Its benefit is thus directly felt,
no escapement is possible, and the invigoration of
the affected parts is rendered immediately com-
plete. It is a most scientific and effective
method.”
“And you think that Belts sold at £10 or £50
are useless as a curative agent compared with the
one you manufacture at One Pound ? ”
“They are not to be compared with it,” replied
the Electrician. “I test every Belt I make with a
rigid crucial test. I will give any man or woman
an electric shock from one. The electro-motive
current is continuous and can be regulated by a
recently-patented electrical switch and can be
increased or decreased at the patient’s will. I
have known instances where patients could not
withstand the current generated when the voltaic
circlet of. batteries have been fully charged.”
“And is this Belt the finest in Australia?”
“ Absolutely. I know for a fact that certair
firms here imitate the vulcanite process and tin
Belt generally. As patent rights are held for this
process, they are liable to prosecution at am
time.”
“You manufacture a large quantity of tin
'INVIGORATORS,’ I suppose?” queried the
reporter.
. “Yes. I also manufacture other forms of electrical
instruments. I turn out on an average 100 Belts a
week, or about 5000 during the year. The low
price at which the firm sells them enables the
poorer classes to purchase them. They cannot
do this from firms that ask ten and fifty pounds
for an inferior article.”
“ And they have been worn by many members
of the Sydney public.”
“Yes. A few who have worn and eulogised
them by grateful testimony are Mr. Daniel
O’Connor, M.P.; Inspector Fowler, N.S. Wales
Police; Mr. Phillip Newbury, the great tenor;
Mr Patrick Larkin, J.P. ; Mr. Arthur Hill (of
Hill and Sylvainy), under contract to Mr. Harry
Rickards; and hundreds of others. I also possess
testimonies from prominent electricians who have
used these belts at my recommendation, and have
recommended them to suffering persons. These
men could not be gulled with any fake belt or
fraud.”
“You were for years studying Electro-Thera-
peutics at Technical College were you
not ” ? J
Yes ; and'that study gives students the right
to diagnose diseases. I took my final certificate
in 1900, which was granted me by the Supt. of the
College. I have also certificates shewing grada-
tions . of study dating back to 1886. I have
experimented upon and cured many severe cases
of Lumbago, Locomotor Ataxia, Sciatica, Rheu-
matism, and Kidney and Stomach Troubles by
electnc applications. In my opinion this century
will see many wonderful studies in the medical
application of electricity, and diseases will be
cured now deemed incurable, amongst them the
dreaded scourge, cancer. I have made special
studies of the X rays, and feel confident in what
1 say.”
At this point Mr. English intimated that the
interview must end, as he was a busy man, and
proceeded to test a recently-constructed Belt of
large dimensions, which was ordered by a sqiiat-
ter at Inverell, who suffered from dyspepsia.
■d i. charge will you make for this
Lelt. asked the rej>orter. “ Squatters are often
very rich.”
( ‘‘OnlvOiie Pound!” rejoined the electrician.
' it is the firm’s standing price. They do not
nolate it in any way. Call and see me again. I
canahvays give you an instructive hour.”
1 lie reporter ieft, feeling certain that in the
science of Electro-Therapeutics the future would
piove t.iere is much more philosophy than is at
present dreamt of.
Wear THIS BELT
MEN!!
Why be Weak ? Why not listen to the Echo of Thousands of
Voices Raised in Thanks to these Grand Electric Belts ?
THE FREEMAN & WALLACE No. 7 PATENT
ELECTRIC “ INVICORATOR ” BELT,
which is sold for One Pound Only, sends its currents Leaping over the Nerves, carrying Joy to
the Heart, saturating the Body with the Fire of Youth, the Heart with Confidence and Certainty
of Success. It makes Old Men Young and Young Men Manly. It gives them the Lion’s Strength,
it Dispels the Glooms of Life, it gives Power where Weakness reigned, and the Sunshine of Happi-
ness where before dwelt the Shadows of Sickness. Every spark is a wave of Animal Life sweeping
into the Body. Every Moment it provides New Energy. Its Touch is the Touch of Magnetism—the
Healthful Essence of Vitality that makes Men Strong.
0 •*' ■ ’»• ■#' - '»■ - «.» — 'V —v - -ir 11 —"»"»• —’
Thousands have been cured of Sciatica, Indigestion, Rheumatism. Varicocele, Loss of Vital
Power, Constipation, Prostatic and Bladder Troubles, by wearing this grand Belt. The HON
DANIEL O’CONNOR, M.P., Ex-Minister of the Crown, was cured of KIDNEY TROUBLE by its use.
Read his testimony— f
If,- : \x~’
- \j'. .•■ oS? > r- - :Hi
■'••'-■:
... v ■ ■ : ''' 't : ' >■
jl® ■
r * v
■
f
&Mm
M?, ■ '
IV: v‘
■ ijT *
nsM
»- i
:m
is
N
WJ
■ v % '{ ...
. ■.'.¥:
• '
iiilM
:
f .\'l
lilllmi
..
I
i ■ m
•m
!Kio
VV-::*
■
&
$ '.:C^
K -1
• .
p- pH
■HI
T\
. a&a
w •
m
MMM
" ■
THE HON. DANIEL O’CONNOR,
M.P.
.Photo, by Eden, Sydney.
Mr. O’CONNOR’S TESTIMONY. Parliament House, Macquarie Street,
* - - Sydney, January 28, 1903.
“I have worn one of your famous Electric ( INVIGORATOR REITS.”
It has benefited me much. For years I suffered from severe pains in the
kidneys—the legacy of an attack of lumbago—which has now, I am glad to
say, left me. “ (Signed) daniel oconnor , 31. r:
THOUSANDS OF TESTIMONIES OF CURE.
If you suffer you should try this wonderful treat-
ment, and you will be cured, as Mr. O’CONNOR was
cured. Worn for a few hours nightly, while correct and
stimulative medicines are taken, relief is at once felt.
Its Price is only One Pound.
The patient awakes fresh and strong as though he had
partaken of the fabled Elixir of Life. Do not go through
life a Weakling. Be a strong healthy man. Remember !
You are not asked to pay £lO or £5O for this “ Invigor-
ator ” Belt as you are asked to pay for American importa-
tions. It is locally certificated by leading Electricians.
It is the finest Electric Belt Australia has ever seen. Do
not suffer when this system offers you a radical cure.
When under treatment every patient is under the care
of DR. WALLACE, M.D., L.R.C.P., E., L.F.P.S., E.,
L.M., who is Registered by the Medical Boards of New
South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, England and
AMERICA. He is a Specialist and medical Electrician
of Great International Reputation,
and is late of the Homoeopathic Hospital, Melbourne,
and British Army Medical Staff. (See N.S. Wales and
Victorian Registered Practitioners’ List.) All letters
addressed to him are treated with profe»«ional secrecy
and replied to punctually. Men’s Disorders are specialities.
Anyone suffering and interested in the cure by Electricity of a medicallv diagnosed disease, should send to the-Specialists-of the
Institute, for their 570 PAGE MEDICAL WORK, “CLINICAL EXPERIENCES,” 150 MEDICAL PLATES, 31 CHAPTERS. It
is a treatise upon Electro-Therapeutics. A chapter upon Electricity deals exhaustively with the methods by which so many wonderful cures
are daily made at the Institute. It is a whole Library of Facts and worth its weight in gold to strengthless men.
The FREEMAN & WALLACE
ELECTRO-MEDICAL and SURGICAL INSTITUTE,
Cor. Bathurst & Elizabeth Sts., Sydney.


“ Caber ” : Attended a Salvarmy shivoo
at Hillgrove once. The captain was descanting
on Naaman, the leper ; pointing a moral while
adorning a tale. Peter Rooney, who was along-
side me, kept a wrathful eye fixed on the speaker
during a portion of the sermon, and then hastily
withdrew. Asked him afterwards why he left so
hurriedly. He blazed out: “Luk ye here, Mae.
Phwat the divvle did ould Brown want to go
tellin’ us about a blasted Assyrian lepper? Why,
mahn, my faddher was the best lepper in
Tip’rary ; he cud lepp six fut. Him an’ his d—d
foreign leppers! ”
A well-informed correspondent from
S’Africa :
There are more unemployed at present in Johannes-
burg than Sydney ever saw. When the Mongolians
(200,000) come—as they will—the roll of white unem*
ployed will be greater than ever. There are hundreds o*
carpenters, joiners, bricklaj'ers, &c., who cannot obtain
work, and those who are getting £1 per diem can just
make both ends meet. At present S’Africa is a good
place to keep away from—even for the most highly-
skilled workmen. There is a great deal of distress,
particularly amongst the up-country people. One
benevolent (?) contractor (railwaj’) is offering distressed
white farmers 4s. 6d. per diem, without rations, where
meat is Is. 2d. per lb., with every prospect of a rise.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
Corner George & Market Sts., SYDNEY
The Best Luncheon in Town from ONE SHILLING, served from 12 sharp till 2.30;
Dinner from 5.30 to 7.30, same price.
The Most Convenient Place for Ladies and Gentlemen visiting the Theatres to dine at.
N.B.—Visitors oply pay for wbat tbcy actually batfc.
TERMS.—The Convenient and Modern System ot paying -for a
room on arrival, and Meals as they are had.
Apartments: BEDROOM, Single, 3s. per day; Double, 6s. per day.
ENGAGE ROOMS AT ROBERTS’ NOT€L, SYDNCY.
NOTE.-Send to ROBERTS’ WINE and SPIRIT STORE, MARKET ST., next GEORGE ST.,
for REVISED PRICE LIST. COUNTRY ORDERS PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO.
Flavefle, Roberts« Sankey,iM.
Lapidaries . • . .
Gem Merchants and ♦ •
Manufacturing Jewellers
w
BRISBANE and
ROCKHAMPTON
5S*
■■■ 3
2
3
4
5
6
fdg
fd
9
10
No. 1. —3 Fine Brilliant Diamonds £4O, smaller to £lO ; with 1
Sapphire and 2 Diamonds, £25.
No. 2.—5 Fine Brilliant Diamonds from £l2 to £5O ; 2 Diamonds
and 3 Sapphires, £lO to £25.
No. 3. —3 Fine Opals and 2 Brilliant Diamonds, £9 ; 3 Fine Pearls
and 2 Diamonds, £l2.
No. 4.—1 Diamond and 1 Fine Sapphire, £7 10s.
No. 5.—3 Brilliant Diamonds in Gipsy setting, £lO to £l6.
No. 6.—3 Queensland White Topazes and 2 Queensland Rubies £6.
No. 7.—1 Queensland Yellow Sapphire (very brilliant), £5 ; 1
Queensland Ruby (very handsome), £4 4s.
No. B. — l Fine Pearl and Diamond Cluster, £2B; 1 Yellow
Sapphire and Diamond Cluster, £23.
No. 9. — 1 Queensland White Topaz & 2 Queensland Rubies, £4 10s.
No. 10.—1 Opal and Pearl Cluster, £3 10s.
No. 11.—2 Queensland Olivines and Diamonds, £7.
No. 12. —1 Queensland White Topaz (as brilliant as ths
Diamond), £4.
No. 13. —Marquise of Brilliant Diamonds, £lB to £3O.
II
12
13
Send for Booklet on “The Gem
Products of Queensland.”
WE HOLD THE LARGEST STOCK OF UNSET GEMS IN AUSTRALIA
—OVER 100,000 GEMS ON HAND.
™ E CENTURY THERMAL BATH CABINET
as?
t* 1
C
CAP 1
pppjf
is equal to A DOCTOR IN EVERY HOME.
THOUSANDS CLADLY TESTIFY TO THIS FACT!
Hot-air and Vapour Baths administered by this Cabinet are
a speedy cure for RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA, BRONCHITIS,
GOUT, LIVER and KIDNEY TROUBLES, INFLUENZA,
COLDS, FEVERS—in fact, there is no disease which can resist
the power of heat as applied by this Cabinet. 300,000 now
heing used in Great Britain weekly.
PRICES, delivered, 30/- to 84/-.
Write to-day for descriptive Booklet—FßEE.
| Century Thermal Bath Cabinet Co. Ltd.< DBFT -8)
|i(Sole Agents Wanted for Sydney.)
1 ALEX. TROUP, Manager,
Royal Arcade, Elizabeth-st. Entrance, MELBOURNE.
The VOLCANIC
AERATING
HACHINE
w
THE GENUINE
Automatic Valve Aerator
Used by all leading: Melbourne and
country Hotelkeepers.
Money Saving! Time Saving!
No Skilled Labor required.
Produces sparkling Aerated Waters of the
Highest Quality.
Absolutely Best and Simplest Machine
known.
Australian
Established 1849.
Mutual Provident Society
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or or | e |® c t of N 9
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or No
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTERESI.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per
cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any f ne. rhairman • Benjamin Short,
Directors—Thomas Littlejohn, Esq.,Chairman; The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M L.C., Deputy - w icombe, Ksq M.P.
Esq. ; Senator J. T. Walker ; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C. ;F. R. WINCHCombe, 4
General Manasrer and Actuary — Richard Teecb, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S. paatfrOTJ Secretary.
HEAD OFFICE 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Sec y
THE PIANOLA
it'"
t'SA*
S£/,j
r~\
r %
WHAT
IT
MEANS
TO
YOU.
The Pianola enables you to play your piano at once though you may
never have played a note in your life.
Would you not gladly pay £6O to be suddenly provided with the ability
to play the piano perfectly, and to retain the ability without constant and
arduous practice ?
If you will write us. we will mail you free our Catalog 44 B.” explaining
how this is done.
The price of the Pianola is £6O for prompt cash, or £65 on moderate
monthly payments.
You do not have to buy the music. It is supplied for a small annual
charge from our Circulating Libraries.
HENRY M. BIRGE & CO.,
323 George-st.. Sydney. 185 & 187 Collins-st., Melbourne*
2h.p. to lOOh.p.
KING
MARINE OIL ENGINES.
Launches built 20ft. to 80ft. overall.
gfd
g
fd
Noiseless Uuderwater . .
Exhaust.
Perfect Gas Generator.
Double Cylinder.
Automatic Oil Feed.
Simple Electric Ignition
with Dynamo.
WITH THE KING ENGINE—ONE LEVEE CONTROLS THE WHOLE.
J. F. MoDERMOTT & COMPANY,
Telephone 2671. 30 PITT STREET* S3TX3]XrE'Sr>
The Volcanic Aerated Water Machine is being used by Messrs. Spiers & Pond
on the Railway Refreshment Bars, London and Scotland.
A few reasons why the “ Volcanic ” Machine is superior to ail others.
1. The Valve works automatically ; no other aerating machine of this class has an Automatic Valve.
2. The Water Cylinder holds 10 gals., and has two perforated partitions inside, causing the sparkle so much
appreciated. Weight, 801bs. Copper, thoroughly tinned inside and outside.
3. The gas tube holds 571 bs. pure gas, being much larger than the tubes supplied with other plants.
4. The Turn-over Bottling Rack is made of the best metal. Thirty dozen per hour can be bottled with it.
5. The “ VOLCANIC” Machine is the only one of its kind erected in the leading houses in Melbourne, including—
The Grand Hotel, Parer’s Crystal Oaf 6, Parer’s The Duke Caf6, Young and Jackson’s, J. Richardson’s Hotel,
Bourke-street, Evans’Covent Garden Cafe, Lucas Caf6, Town Hall Hotel, Sheehan’s New Treasury Hotel,
Rubira’s Cafb, Victoria Coffee Palace, Hotel Metropole, Imperial, Lucas (Confectioner), Bath’s Hotel,
Britannia, Auscralian, A.N.A., City Arms, etc., etc. Also many others in the suburbs and the leading houses
in the country.
Price, £3O, with all accessories.
Smaller Machine on
same principle, £2o>
SPECIAL NOTICE.— The “ VOLCANIC ” Machine was the first of its kind introduced into Australasia. It
received the Gold Medal against all competitors at the Ballarat Exhibition.
Writ© for Pamphlets, containing Testimonials from people who have used the machines for years.
W. JAMES, Proprietor. Office: 101 Queen-st., Melbourne. Depot: 130 Cecil-st., South Melbourne
BENGER’S FOOD is
not only highly nutritive,
but is most easily digested
and is so delicious that it
is enjoyed by Infants, In-
valids, Convalescents and
the aged.
w
m
I
The London Medical Record
says“ It is retained when all
other foods are rejected.”
The British Medical Journal
says“ Benger’s Food has by
its excellence established
reputation of its own.’
Benger’s Food is sold in tins
by Chemists, etc., everywhere.
u


For the Men Folks
At this store the needs of the men are studied and understood. We have
hundreds of useful things suitable for Birthday Gifts or Presentation. We
have things for every age from cradle-days up to manhood, and in variety
such as you cannot possibly get elsewhere, and at all prices except high
ones. Write for Price List.
gfd
No. F8966.—Solid Silver Military Hair
Brushes for men. Beet make, 21s each
No. F5935.—The Billiard Player’s
Companion, Solid Silver Billiard
Chalk Holder, 6a.
No. F6905.—Torpedo and Shield
Links, 9ct. Gold, 21s.
No. F6909.—Heavy Oct. Gold
Engraved Shield Links, 21s.
No. 257.—Solid Silver Sovereign
Oase. Best Make only, Plain or
Ohased, 10s 6d.
No. 259A.—Silver Cigarette
Case, 27s 6d.
Plain or Chased, in 9ct. Cold,
£12 10s.
'
cs
3
sjvx
cisy
The “ Kinds’” Sovereign Purse, just patented, simple and
safe action, quite different from old style.
In Solid Silver, price 14s 6d.
No. F6235.—New Zealand
Greenstone and Cot. Gold
Watch Chain Pendant,
22s 6d.
9ct. Gold Tie Clips in many styles. Plain, 6s 6d a
pair; Heavy-made, 12s 6d ; set with Stones, 12s 6d,
14s 6d, 16s 6d, 18s 6d.
No. G2394/9. — Silver-
plated and Leather
Whisky Flasks, 6 sizes,
9s 6d, 11s 6d, 13s 6d,
No. G8.—Gentleman's Solid Silver Concave Military
Hair Brush, 18s 6d.
No. F9365—Engraved Solid Silver
Match Box, strong make, 12s 6d.
Catalogues
Post Free.
No. F7098.—New Zealand Greenstone and 9ct. Gold
Fish Pendant, 22s 6d.
■&
N). P 7354.— New Zealand Greenstone and Gold Pendant
for Watch Chain, 12s 6d.
No. F7416.—9ct. Gold Tie
Clip, 14s 6d ; Silver, 2s 6d
No. E6019. —Silver-Mounted Shaving
Mug-, 10s 6d.
ESJHEaa
No. G466.—Faultless Queensland Bean Match Box,
Silver Mounts, 12s 6d.
No. F5293.-
Case, 12s
■Gent. s Solid Silver Card
. 6d. Solid Gold, £5.
No. G2621.—Silver Serviette Clip, 2s.
No. E6461.—Silver Case containing
Cigarette Holder, 6s. 6d.
No. 602.—Solid Silver Sovereign Case and
Match Box combined, 27s 6d: 9ct. Gold,
£6 10s ; 15ct. Gold, £9 10s ; 18ct., £16 10s.
No. F3462.—Fine Leather Pocket Book,
Solid Silver Mounts, 10s 6d.
Gramophone
by this . . .
Celebrated Artist.
WE have great pleasure in an-
nouncing that we have a selec-
tion of Records which are
marvellous examples of the wonderful
technique and splendid execution of Mr.
Jacobs.
>
10in. RECORDS.
7946 Polonaise... ... Wieniawski
AS PLAYED IN AUSTRALIA.
7945 Serenata Moskowski
Tin. RECORDS.
7905 Waltz Caprice
7906 Zigeunerweisen
7908 Overtas Mazurka
7909 Dudziarz Mazurka
7912 Legende Wieniawski
7913 Polonaise... Wieniawski
We have also a grand selection of
Records as song at the Ada Crossley Con-
certs, of which we may mention “The
Fonr-Leaved Shamrock/* “The Little
Silver Ring/* and “ Home, Sweet Home/*
y
*
Photo, by Talmm.
Mr. JACOBS,
The Violinist of the Ada Crossley Concert Company.
Agents all over the World*
»
RECORDS
IN ALL LANGUAGES.
Send for Catalogues and
Price Lists.
Australasian Agents
VICTORIA—
A. P. Sykes, 272 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—
Messrs. F. Marshall & Sons,
Rundle Street, Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND—
Messrs. Heindorff Bros.,
210 Queen Street, Brisbane.
WEST AUSTRALIA—
Messrs. Nicholson & Co.,
Barrack Street, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND-
Messrs. H. Gentles & Co.,
9 Strand Arcade, Auckland.
TASMANIA—
Messrs. Wertheimer & Benjamin,
71 Collins Street, Hobart.
GRAMOPHONE & TYPEWRITER, LTD.
163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TATTE RS ALL S
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania).
IMPORTANT NOTICE
The Tasmanian Government having imposed a tax of One! Penny
on every Pive Shilling Ticket issued by Tattersall’s on and after Ist
Jannary ( 1903, clients will please forward Id. extra for eaoh os.
ticket applied for, or feL for every 41, and so on.
NOW OPEN
SANDHURST CUP, Bendigo, Victoria, NOVEMBER 25, 100,000 at 5/L
NEWCASTLE CUP, Newcastle, N.S.W., DECEMBER 12, 50,000 at 5/L
SUMMER CUP, Randwick, N.S.W., DECEMBER 26, 50,000 at 5/L
Subscribers will please note that GEORGE ADAMS (“TATTERSALL”) STILL
CONTINUES bis business in HOBART, under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN
GOVERNMENT, and that clients can send their subscriptions by letter to any friend or
acquaintance in HOBART, who will there have no difficulty in delivering the application and
securing the despatch of tickets and results direct to clients.
Money can also be paid through any Bank in Australasia, to the credit of GEORGE
Commercial Bank of Tasmania, Hobart. Clients when so doing will please request
TUwfc to advise GEORGE ADAMS of amount, with their name and full address.
Small Parcels addressed to me can be forwarded to Hobart through any PARCEL
DELIVERY CO. or FIRM doing business with Tasmania.
Beanie’s Bronchitis Cure.
THE FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufhcienfc,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEWARE OP COTJGHB !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED BY" ONE BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
I'HE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE- EMPTY BOTTLE.
“ Orange, N.S.W.
Mr. Hearne.—
“ Dear Sir, —I enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
of London, England, from which you will glean that
your medicine has been a perfect Godsend to a martyr to
colds and bronchial asthma. I do not wish any names to
be mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you choose, andyou can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
land. You can see for yourself what an immense success
it was.—Yours faithfully,
Extract from letter alluded to above :
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
arrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very-
much interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
off the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
from a chemist who is iri a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will bet
supplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS* TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEATINE'S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
j “Dergholm, Victoria.
“Dear Sir, —I wish to add my testimony to the won-
derful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for pine
months, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
I was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
advice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
yours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
first dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
am a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
may depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
wonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“Yours faithfully.
“ JAMES ASTBURY."
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidlv successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
ty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS-
“I used your Bronchitis Cure tor three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
doses.—P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.”
“Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of
the medicine yet; but I am sending for another bottle in case I should want it. —I). M‘DONALD, Trinkey, via
Quirindi, N.S.W."
“Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.—A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney.”
“ My wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and I am glad to inform you that your Broehit.is Cure has done us
both a wonderful deal of good, it having quickly cured us both.—R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford,
Victoria.”
“ I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me.—(Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria.”
1 1 have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria.”
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone.—J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W.”
“My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses. —C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers,
Queen-street, Melbourne."
“ I lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miraculous.—F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.”
“Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria.”
©
“ Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.—(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warr&gul, Victoria.”
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at onoe.—
G. SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” •
“Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle.—W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria.”
“I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to everybody.—S.
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” ©
“I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine,
but I can truly say that I ana astonished at niy present freedom, as a direct result of mv brief trial. —JOHN C.
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.”
“Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
me any good; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well.—ll. HOOD,
Brooklands, Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.”
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very had Bronchitis. —A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.”
“Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from you have pulled
«ie through a long and dangerous illness. —HENRY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria.”
“The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in Its effects.— CHAS. WHYBROW, Enoch’s
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.”
Gratitude and Appreciation
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
“The Scientific Australian Office,
“ 169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
“Dear Mr. Hearne, — The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during- the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom-
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ac-
countant, Oollins-street, and the effect that it had was so
marked that he has eVer since been continually-recom-
mending it to others.
“ We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO."
Queensland Testimony-
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
“ 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Please send us 36
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose our
cheque to cover amount of order.
“ We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
“We are, faithfully yours,
» THOMASON, CHATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemists.
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir,—Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUARRILL,
“ Editor Gkklong Advertiser. ~
“Upon looking through our books we arestruok with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.”-ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
*" AWCHPEPOT ' Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
THE
SMELTING & REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
Works: DAPTO, LAKE ILLAWARRA (!6 Miles from Sydney). 1901, Limited.
TTighest Price paid for Gold, Silver, Lead, and Copper Ores,
Cyanide, Slags, and Jewellers’ Sweep, etc.
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay*
Eor aIJ Information regarding Hates, apply to the Manager, Head Oeeice, Dapto;
or. A. El EUDDEE & CO., 40 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Forwarding Agents.


A COMMON ERROR.
It’S a common error to plaster the back, to rub with liniment the rheumatic
joints. And then to wonder why relief does not come.
The aching back, the rheumatic joints, come from sick kidneys.
Plasters and liniments WON’T cure sick kidneys.
You’ve got to reach the kidneys from the inside. You’ve got to make them
well. Well kidneys keep the blood rich and pure. Leave no excuse for
backache and rheumatic pains.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Fills
make well kidneys. Cure every ill of the Kidneys and Bladder.
Believe the aching back and cure it.
They strengthen the kidneys and help them to perform that most important
of all functions—the filtering of the blood.
Loan s Backache Kidney Pills cure dangerous urinary disorders.
Not a symptom in the Kidney calender they do not reach, down to the
borderland of Diabetes, Dropsy and Bright’s disease.
They are endorsed by Sydney people. Your own friends and neighbors have
used them, and testify to their merits. You couldn’t have more positive
proof than this Sydney proof.
g
df
[ FROM MAIMLY. j
Mr. W. James, Tobacconist, Manly,
states :—“Five years ago I took a course
of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and
they removed pains from my back, and
strengthened my kidneys. I had been
suffering with this trouble a good while,
and ib was the first medicine to do me
good. I’ve been quite free of the ail-
ment ever since I used Doan’s Pills five
years ago. I’ve never taken a pill or had
any treatment for the kidneys whatever
since then. It is solely Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills which cured me. Anybody
who suffers with the kidneys should use
this remedy, which cured me five years
ago—to stay cured."
| FROM ERSKIN EVILLE. |
Mrs. Edwin Tomlyn, 143 George-street, Erskineville, this City, says:—“Three years ago I told
you how remarkably Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills had benefited me in a case of kidney complaint. I
would like to inform you that I have been right-ever since, unless I except on two occasions, I bad slight
signs of the old complaint return. I had been bad for years before I got Doan’s Pills. At first I did not
know what was wrong with me. I was always feeling cast down and debilitated, and my secretions were
thick and of a changing colour. I took all kinds of remedies, and was none the better for having used
them. My limbs ached a good deal, and I was always so worn down with weariness that I could scarcely
keep house, and often I had to keep the children at home from school to help. At last I went to a
doctor, who told me that I was in an unnatural condition, and said that I would have to go under an
operation. 1 would not do this, however, so I started using patent medicines again. I bought one thing
after another, but had no success. I used to think it hard that these medicines would do other people
good, and yet act no better than water in my case. One day I read about Doan’s Bachache Kidney Pills,
a ?~ 1 resolved that I would give this remedy a trial. I noticed an improvement after a few doses. Soon
after the secretions commenced to clear, and I lost that terrible weary feeling, and I began to do my
housework, and then I felt so well that I gave up using the pills. When I made the statement which you
published 1 still had a doubt about the permanency of the cure, but as time went on that doubt left me
and now I know my cure was permanent; I shall be glad to see anybody who wishes to investigate mv
c f s ®. In fact I have derived more benefits from the use of Doan's Backache Kidney Pills than I have
stated her©. 1 could not speak well enough of this remedy.**
I FROM WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
Mr. J. Bickell, 12 Chapel-street, Wool-
loomooloo, says : “ Being a sufferer from
Kidney trouble, Mrs. Mullins, 49 Hun-
ter-street, told me to use Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills. She told me that they
had cured her of a similar trouble to
mine. I procured a box, and found that
much good resulted from taking them.
I used to have very bad pains across the
loins and down the thighs. At times I
could scarcely move. I always had
urinary weakness, which was very
annoying ; the secretions contained sedi-
ment. lam glad to speak up for Doan’s
Pills; they deserve it.” Mrs. Bickell,
when seen by our representative, states
that her husband is still free of kidney
trouble, and attributes his cure solely to
the use of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.
tor. Some M a ‘“? tah ’ •? DOAN ’ S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, and will B ive yon wlmt
posted on receipt of price by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street! Sydney. 1 ° 1 S th ° genuine and save money and misery. Price, 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes, 15s. 3d.), o
BXTT DE323 SXTiR.I3 YOU GrHT DOA.3XT’S.
you call
r will be
My Creed.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My hat comes off when ’mid the aisles of stately
gums I slowly walk;
Grand colonnades and peristyles, with green
entablatures that talk !
The whispering leaves that croon above sing
anthems grand and gray to me ;
And swelling strains that murmur Love come
from the far-off Organ Sea !
The tenets of my faith are breathed by each
divine, slow-trailing breeze ;
The strands of my strong Creed are wreathed
among the tops of singing trees.
My Alma Mater of the Bush, I worship in your
cloisters wide—
I am in church when ’mid the hush of stately gums
I slowly stride !
My Creed is short—its articles are stern as they
are good and few —
No clangor of disturbing bells calls me, my God,
to worship you !
“Be firm, be strong,” my Bible saith—the
Scripture of the Pastor-Gums—
“ Be kind and good, and smile at Death when at
long last Earth’s summons comes.
Work hard, work well—use hand and heart and
brain, my son ” —Australia says;
I hear Commandments in the rain, and in the
waves along the bays.
My grey Cathedral of old trees—my well-beloved
Eternal Land—
I am in church when on my knees 1 stoop beneath
your gums so grand !
They call me pagan, those who pray to mould’ring
spook on mould’ring throne,
But I—l smile when tall gums say “My son,
worship your Land alone ! ”
And Ido so. My heart and soul I pledge unto
Australia mine;
Where lifts a tall, sweet, white gum-bole there is
my refuge and my shrine.
The thoughts too strange for mortal ears I speak
in this confessional,
Where winds from far star-hemispheres their
priest-responses softly call.
My hat comes off when ’neath the nave of two
arched gums I mutely bow—
It is my Church; dig there my grave, that gum-
leaf tears may touch my brow 1
vio.
GRANT HERVEY.
Commissioner Taifc has done one sensible
thing for the Victorian lines, anyhow. When the
little State Governor goes to open a country
show Tait runs no special train for him and his
party as of yore ; just advertises a country excur-
sion at cheap rates, carries as many of the paying
public as he can get, and hitches Gov. Clarke’s car
on to the rear. And every time an elderly gentle-
man puts out his head to look at a rabbit, the public
assumes that he is Gov. Clarke —which he generally
isn’t —and cheers.
Two Villages.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The little Presbyterian missionary invited us to
his place on Vila Island. He had clear grey
eyes, sound white teeth, hair like silver wool, and
a light, airy manner that almost bordered upon
pagan levity. He reminded me greatly of the old
saint who said that if people only knew it there
was a lot of fun to be got out of being good.
Picture to yourselves a sloping lawn quite a
foot deep in couch-grass, a walk bordered with
roses in bloom and virginal lilies, and here and
there a croton tree with its many-colored leaves
looking like a bouquet of sunsets. Banyan trees
like fantastic living temples, with their slender
pillars built from above like stalagmites, surround
the hospitable house, with its wide verandah, and
look of old-fashioned ease and —remoteness from
sordid landlords and sordid bailiffs. That is the
lodging here below of the Rev. Dr. Mackenzie,
chief of the Presbyterian Church in the New
Hebrides. The rooms in the house are large and
lofty, with whale-baok ceilings—no cornices to
harbor dust, and no more furniture in them than
what is necessary for elegant comfort. I may
state here that while I was in the Islands I met
several wives of missionaries, and they all seemed
to take their situation with serious joy. And that
is saying much for their philosophic piety, when
you remember that there are no shops, or theatres,
or racecourses down there.
Behind the house is an untamed jungle which
would be almost Indian if there were a tiger or
two in it. There is also at one side of the house
a grove of native drums—hollow trunks of trees
with a slit in the middle —which, when struck, give
forth a sound savage and melancholy. Some
years back, in the wicked heathen times, those
drums called the natives to cannibal feasts. They
reminded me in their forlornness and decay of some
old grey Druidical stones of sacrifice I have seen
standing lonely in waste places. They had the
same look of evil remembrance and regret—
ghastly, pathetic, terrible —that was on the faces
of the stones. I picked up, close by, a bone of a
man who had been eaten.
* • • *
Then we went to see the village. I am a vir-
tuoso in regard to babies. They never bite me.
A fat little brown Christian came rushing to meet
us, and tripped over his absurdly voluminous
lava-lava. He rolled over and over and laughed,
and then, with sudden infantile dignity,. threw
the lava-lava over his shoulders like a shawl, and
announced our arrival. There were only women
to be seen just then, and they all wore wrappers,
and looked apathetic and almost sullen. The
men were over on the mainland of Efate working
in the garden belonging to the village. Before
Dr. Mackenzie arrived with the “good news”
the women used to work in the gardens. But he
altered all that and established a regime of Chris-
tian chivalry. The women stayed at home and
minded their houses and babies, and did not look
too happy. They had been deprived of their im.
memorial right to slavery, and resented it. I saw
one old lady with grey hair, cropped close, scrap-
ing arrowroot on a grater. It looked like clotted
cream. Dr. Mackenzie showed me afterwards
some bags of it stacked in the church. They sent
it away for sale. I saw several similar bags in the
House of God in Aneityum ; and pious old ladies
buy it at missionary bazaars, and make custards
of it, and tell their friends that it was grown and
prepared by the dear, black, rescued souls in the
New Hebrides.
The village was almost painfully clean, with
its streets—so to speak—paved with sparkling,
broken coral. The houses were of the usual New
Hebridean architecture, with thatched roofs
reaching within two feet of the ground. We
went upon our hands and knees and crawled into
one of them. It was surprisingly sweet and
wholesome, but dark. There was no stuffiness,
such as might be expected from the beehive build,
in these interiors. The palm-thatch lets in the
air and keeps out the rain. Every house is
furnished with a hanging lamp. It is not
required—the natives do not read novelettes
at night, or work sewing-machines, or play the
piano—but is kept chiefly as a mark of civilisation
and refinement. The houses contain two rooms,
one to sleep in—divided by a partition when there
are unattached females in the family—the other
to eat in and entertain visitors.
The men returned from their work before we
left. They were respectful, but not particularly
cheerful. The painful riddle of the earth, which
gave them no trouble in their benighted heathen
days, seemed to perplex and worry them. They
answered with aggravating alacrity to leading
questions concerning their content with the
sphere of life in which they are placed. It all
seemed too much like a lesson learnt by rote, and
the village itself looked like a hothouse growth
which should be put under a glass case and sent
to Exeter Hall for exhibition. The village pigs
were the only unspoiled, unregenerate, primitive
living objects on the island. They had snouts as
long as their bodies. All Island pigs are ugly, but
the pigs on Vila are the ugliest. They are not
seen in the streets, however. A barbed-wire fence
keeps them out of the village. That is probably
one reason why the women lock so lonesome. The
Tanna women nurse their little sucking-pigs, and
the girls carry them around as white girls carry
dolls.
• • • »
Now to Aola in Guadalcanal in the Solo-
mons. There is no Arrowroot Church there.
Several devils, whose names I have forgotten,
are worshipped with awe and fear, and a god or
two are regarded with respectful tolerance. The
houses in the village look as if they had been
shaken out of a gigantic dice-box. There is an
appearance of Anyhowness about them which
delighted me beyond any present means of
expression. Some front the main thoroughfare,
some have their backs to it, and others look
upon it sidewise. They are gable-roofed, and
the door is in the gable-end. In fact,
you see in Aola the germ of Elizabethan
architecture. In the centre of the village is a
high pole with a ladder reaching to a platform.
Perched on the top of the pole is a little wooden
god with a cynical cast in his clam-shell eye.
The village priest, upon solemn occasions, ascends
the ladder and requests the timber deity to pro-
vide fine weather —it is not necessary to pray for
rain in the Solomons. If the god, after several
applications, is unresponsive, the priest goes up
to the platform, and the doors of all the houses in
the village are closed. The god is having a bad
time. His yells are pitiful. A trader who, by
chance, witnessed an episode of the sort said that
it was dreadful to see the way the priest dealt it
out to his idol. Of course, the priest does the
yelling.
The George-street of Aola in Guadalcanar is
populous with pigs. Eriendly, familiar pigs, that
are much more prepossessing than the pigs in
Vila. I was gazing up at the god on the pole, and
stumbled over a grey sow—all the Island pigs I
saw were white, or grey, or mouse-colored—that
had her family beside her. She looked at me
with a little eye of benevolent reproach. She
evidently made allowances for me as a stranger.
Small baby pigs ran in and out of the houses —
there were no locks on the doors in Aola—and the
little boys and girls played with them, and seemed
to be entirely happy in their benighted pagan
way. And pigs, babies and men appeared to be
joyously ignorant of the fact that they had
immortal souls to lose.
The men were standing or strolling around. I
saw one strapping fellow clothed in a belt and a
car fc r i dge box. The box was empty, and he had
g j ven awa y his gun. He was not long back from
Queensland. After working there for some years
he returned home with a box full of trade—knives,
c j a y pip es> an accordeon, two mouth organs, some
turkey-red calico, three shoe-horns, four or five
boxes of hairpins, a saw, an axe (this is his own
i nven tory), a gun and cartridges, and a cheap
£ weed su it. Immediately after his arrival he dis-
tributed the i o t. One friend got the gun, another
the cartridges . The belt and the case he kept for
his own personal adornment. And so on with the
other thi He was practicall y in t he same
pos ition-naked and happy-as he was in before
he went away to labor in the cane-fields,
.. You go back along Queensland ? ’’
He sho * k his head and i aughed .
« No . fear . Too much work. Whiteman
Q ueensa ] and want too much wages. Do too much
ork »
Th j g was hi , dim Melanesian way of explaining
t hat even h e had recognised the fact that the
de mand for dark-brown labor was on the wane,
~ And what do do now _ eh v »
He smiled and /tightened his back,
„ My wife she com e along now, ”he said.
Sure enough, the women were returning from
?he gardep> There was no interference with their
immemorial rights in Aola. They were not pretty,
but they were certainly not vulgar. Each of them
had a basket full of yams or taro on her head, and
went to the front door of her house and kicked
. fche domestic pig put of the way with her bare foot
£ * superior to anything I have seen at
Po * ts Polnfc - , T he young women were slender,
well-set round-breasted, and graceful, They
wore little grass aprons round their waists, and
that was the beginning and end_of their costume,
Y . et - lf us . e tbe Phrase they carried them-
sel^ e s wlth air of contemptuous chastity
Put wunan nobody remembered her
W e > whl ? h 1 J ud S ed to }» lf ast seventy-
impressed me more than all the others. She was
wrinkled from head to foot, had close-cropped
white hair like the old woman in yiH but
T' as as straight as a lance. To see Age with
breasfcs bke empty saddle-bags and a foot-long
f» r ass petticoat, yet instinct with natural dignity,
not *° sa y baffieur, was a revelation to me.
Every living thing—men, women, children and
pigs—in that village seemed to be happy. It
may be bad taste, but instead of glass-house Vila
village give me Aola in Guadalcanar.
VICTOR J. DALEY.


Pears
Ready
November 23rd.
Christmas,
1903.
Annual
. . Will contain the amazing adventures of . .
Monsieur Qumollet 2 Matrimonial Tour
With 23 Illustrations in Color and 94 in Black and White.
3
WITH THE ABOVE ARE
PRESENTATION
PLATFR
Printed In Colors in the Best and Most Artistic
Style of the Chromo=Lithographic Art, viz.:
1. A Hearty Welcome.
From the Original Painting by
Edgar Bundy, r.i.
Size 28 b.y 19£ inches.
Printed in I 3 Colors.
2. Playmates.
From the Original Painting by E. Munier.
Size 23Jr by 18 inches.
Printed in i 3 Colors.
3. A Healthy Appetite.
From the Original Painting by
W. Dendy-Sadler.
Size 16J- by Ilf inches.
Printed in 13 Colors.
The Whole Entirely Printed in England
SOLD BY ALL BOOKSELLERS.
WHOLESALE AGENTS
FOR AUSTRALASIA . .
GORDON & GOTCH.
CASINO, N.S.W.
Thursday, 26th November.
The Celebrated Kyogle Estate,
Richmond River, N.S.W.
One of the Finest Estates in Australia.
RAINFALL averages over 50in. per annum.
Magnificent Lucerne Country.
The Finest Maize-Growing Flats.
Splendid River and Creek Frontages.
RAILWAY now open to Casino.
Metalled Road from thence to the Property, 13 Miles.
TERHS OF PAYMENT UP TO TEN YEARS.
HAMILTON GROOM & CO., of 116 Queen Street, Melbourne, and J. B. McDOUGALL, of
Casino, have received instructions from the owners to sell by public auction at the
SCHOOL OP ARTS, CASINO, on THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 26th, at one o’clock,
The First Sub-Division of the Kyogle Estate containing 20,000 Acres,
sub-divided into Farms from 50 to 400 acres.
The Kyogle Estate contains 41,000 acres, of which about 12,000 acres are the finest river flats in Australia—deep
black and dark chocolate loam. The balance is rich dark chocolate ridges, free from grit—the true chocolate soil so
highly prized by farmers, soft, mellow, and greasy to the touch, retentive of moisture, and overlying a basaltic
formation.
The first sub-division is now being offered to the public, containing
20,000 ACRES,
of which 7000 to 8000 are river flats—the balance rich dark chocolate ridges, all lightly timbered, and open grass
country—no heavy timber to clear—-no scrub to be cut down and burned off.
Dairying can be commenced on this land at once with no further outlay than for fencing and necessary buildings,
and the carrying capacity can be gradually trebled by working in paspalum and other grasses.
For many years the Richmond River districts were practically unknown, and the dairying industry there is
comparatively of only recent growth, but has taken such gigantic strides that the output of butter, bacon," etc., now
exceeds that of any similar district in New South Wales, and there is a population now settled there of nearly 50,000
persons, which is rapidly’ increasing. In no part of Australia, is there a district better suited for carrying an
enormous population on small holdings—the excellence of the rainfall, mild climate, and fertility of the soil all com-
bine to make this the Garden of Australia. The Government of New South Wales has recently survey'ed a line of
Railway from Casino through the Kyogle Estate, and with the sub-division of the property there is every probability
that the line will be constructed at no great distant date. A Township has recently been formed at Kyogle, 18 miles
from Casino, to which there is a metal road ; and there are already several stores, an Hotel, a blacksmith’s shop, two
churches, Creamery, a saw-mill in full swing, a State School close by, a Post and Telegraph Office, and more buildings
in course of erection, while the Bank of New South Wales has recently opened a branch there.
Never before has such an opportunity occurred to secure some of the finest land in Australia at such low figures.
Owing to the demand that has existed for dairying and farming lands in favored districts properties have been
forced up to extreme values, and the purchasing power of the would-be settler much restricted. He has now the
opportunity of securing land at least equal, if not superior, to that in any other part of Australia at one-fourth the
price paid in some districts ; and he will have the advantage of good roads, excellent market facilities, and a climate
that will enable him to dairy successfully’ all the year round, and where he will have the satisfaction of seeing his pro-
perty steadily improve in value for many years to come.
Most liberal terms of payment will be given—viz., one-fourth cash, one-fourth in two years, balance up to ten
years at 5 per cent., or all cash at any time if desired.
TITLES FREEHOLD UNDER TORRENS ACT.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Exceptionally Low Reserves will be fixed for this First Subdivisional Sale, as the owners
intend to offer every inducement for settlement on the Estate.
PLANS and all information now obtainable from
J. B. McDOUGALL, Casino,
HAMILTON GROOM & CO., 116 Queen St.,
See extended advt. in Weekly Times, Leader, and Australasian.
Melbourne.
By Rail and Semaphore.
THE FALL OF ELI MANASSAH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It started at the time of the robbery at the rail-
way station. The night before, I had gone down to
the office leaving the keys at home in my other
pocket. I had the keys of the door and till on my
watch-chain, so, when I closed up at 11.30 p.m., I
found myself with about £35 in the till and the
safe-key a mile and a half away. Well, consider-
ing there was a night-watchman, and the station
walls were of brick, and the doors strong, I thought
it was safer to leave the cash there than to cart it
home along a wet, dark, lonely road. I wouldn’t
have done this had I not been on early shift
next day, but, as no one else would know anything
about it, I left it and went home.
Next morning, I found Martin, the porter, and
the night-watchman and an engine-cleaner or two
looking helplessly at the open door of the book-
ing-office and the spectacle of a big jack-drill half-
way into the safe, with its butt resting agairtst
two large blocks of wood. The till was lying on
the floor, and every stiver, of course, gone. This
was a beautiful complication. I wouldn’t have
cared if they had got the safe open. But they
hadn’t, and, of course, if I had locked up the cash
in the safe, as I should have done, it would have
been there untouched. I saw clearly that, unless
the cash was there when the boss came on duty at
10 o’clock, I would have to pay up, and get into
disgrace into the bargain. So I determined to
have it there.
I had only about ten or' twelve pounds to my
account, and both my particular friends, Howard,
of the Freezing Works, and Garlick, the squatter,
were away from town and out of reach of the tele-
graph-wire. Howard, as everybody knows, has
about £15,000 a year that he doesn’t know
what to do with, from the Freezing Works
and his several runs and other concerns;
while only Heaven and the bankers know
what Garlick has got. But, with all this money
about, I was stuck for £25. So I rushed up to Eli
Manassah, the usurer, and asked for the loan of
£25, for six months, on personal security. He
said it was impossible, as his principals didn’t
allow him to lend money for six months, but he
offered to do it for three, on the verbal under-
standing that he would renew half the amount at
the end of the quarter. He said I could leave
my jewellery as collateral security, but dropped
the notion when I asked him if he had a pawn-
broker’s license.
After some considerable haggling the promis-
sory note was signed, and I took the cheque and
fled to the bank as fast as a cab could carry me.
I relied upon the Station-master’s regular habit
of coming on duty half-an-hour late to get me
through. I drove down to the station like the
wind, and reached the office just in time to see
the boss step on the end of the platform. I had
escaped the reprimand.
The papers that evening contained a full
account of the breaking open of the station-office,
and mentioned with joy that the thieves had failed
to get away with the contents of the safe. How
those robbers must have gloated over the fact
that they hadn’t waited to open the empty safe
when the papers announced that all the money in
the office (£35) was safely locked up in it. No
doubt they dropped to the fact that the amount
they got was that £35, and that the papers had
been gulled by a clerk who was paying up rather
than have his breach of the regulations discovered.
Eli Manassah came down and had a look round,
shook his head at me, winked, and said myste-
riously, “Mum’s the word !”
Next day but one Howard came to town, and I
told him about the whole business, and he gave
me a cheque to pay Eli off and have done with him.
I went up to the office to do so, but Eli wouldn’t
hear of it, and urged me to let it stand to the
end of the month at any rate. I was quite
touched at his kindness, and came away with a
settled conviction that all the stories I had heard
about Eli Manassah were base fabrications.
That afternoon I called inatthe Citizens’ Club to
have a drink. Eli’s nephew met me at the bar,
took me aside, and remarked knowingly that
there was something fishy about that station
robbery. He had an idea that the Commissioners
would be only too glad to know that the man who
locked up the cash the night before had, the next
morning, borrowed a trifle at a rather heavy
interest and in great haste. He was sorry, but his
own losses had been considerable of late, and
although it might strike me as a rather mean
action, he intended to sound the Commissioners to
see what they would give him for the information.
I took Eli’s nephew out into the skittle-alley
and there committed an aggravated assault upon
him, and sent him home with his head in splints
while I adjourned for medical treatment for a
black eye and a swollen nose. Then I called on
the worthy Eli and told him what had happened.
That kind-hearted man was overwhelmed with
grief at his nephew’s behavior, but feared
he saw no way to stop him letting the Com-
missioners know about it except by buying his
silence. He then mentioned the fact that I had
offered to liquidate the amount, and suggested
that I should utilise the money to keep the
nephew’s mouth closed, and the p.n. could remain
undisturbed in his cash-box. The nephew, he
said, was a close friend of his “principals,” and
therefore it was out of his power to restrain him
to any extent. But I produced the money and
sternly demanded the p.n. I got it next morning
and the nephew came down to the office with his
neck on crutches, and demanded to know what I
was going to do about compensating him for the
grievous battery I had committed. He also thought
he would write to the Commissioners by to-
morrow’s express.
If once the Commissi&Yiers heard about that
loan of £25 I should be an object of perpetual sus-
picion, and once our Commissioners get suspicions
about a man he’s as good as dismissed, and I’m
fond of the railway, and hope to be a manager
some day. I felt sick at the thought of my
prospects being wrecked by this unscrupulous
scoundrel, and I went across and asked the boss
for the afternoon off. After dinner I rode up to
.Howard’s on the bike, and told him how I felt,
and asked him what had better be done. He
.chuckled, and seemed to regard the whole busi-
ness as a huge joke. Then he rang the bell and
told me not to worry, and that Eli would be very
sorry for himself before long. “Anyhow,” he
. concluded, “ the Commissioners won’t know.”
The nephew saw me once again, and when I
threatened to do sundry blood-curdling things,
he went off with a queer smile that I felt meant
mischief. Next day the Commissioners tele-
graphed for a full explanation. At tea-time I
was suspended.
Then an inquiry, at which I told the
naked truth so far as it seemed safe to let that
precious article go about unclothed in a bleak
climate. The Commissioners, much to my sur-
prise, said that as far as they were aware, accord-
ing to the Station-master’s report, I had my cash
all correct when it was asked for, and, although
they did not approve of officers being on the books
of usurers, this was a case in which they felt they
had no right to interfere; especially as the money
had since been paid, and it was all dead and past.
But the rage of Howard was something con-
siderable. He had promised that the Commis-
sioners should never know, and he was a man who
was accustomed to say, in an off-hand way
“Let there be light!” and there generally
was light. If there wasn’t, he usually threw
himself headlong into a cab, and drove
furiously to the bank to see why there
wasn’t. He swore to drive Eli Manassah right
out of Romahapa, and Garlick, who was back in
town, said he’d take a hand in the game. They
“ventured to prophesy ” that Eli would hunt me
up about the evening of the fourth of next month.
Then we fell upon some new liquor that Howard
had on hand, and forgot all about Eli Manassah.
As they said, next fourth of the month Eli
came to me in a state of economic agony. He
threw himself on the couch, and thence slipped on
to the floor, and begged me, in the name of sweet
mercy, to relieve the pressure. He was not aware
that I was a member of the “inside ring,” and
although he had nothing to do with his nephew’s
attempt to blackmail me, he would make all
amends. He would dismiss the youth imme-
diately—he would slay him if Iso desired. “If
you had so much moneys behind you, why did
you come to me toborrowaliddle £25?” he asked,
pitifully. He wanted to know if I was only look-
ing for an excuse to break him. Why should he
be broke ? He was not hard ; he never crushed a
thrifty man; it was only the improvident and
those who wasted their substance and never tried
to pay up, that he suppressed. He was mildness
itself compared to the Awarua Mortgage and
Supplies Co., or the blood-sucking Romahapa
Investment and Deposit Co.
It was all Greek to me. I felt my heart giving
way. He was a most abject picture. Great
globules of perspiration rolled down his fat, brown
face, and he clung to my hands in a frenzied man-
ner and implored me to stop that mysterious
“ pressure.” Heaven knows I would have stopped
it had I known how. I told the poor wretch I
knew nothing of any pressure—that I was
engineering nothing, and gave him my word that
I retained no animosity. Then the prophecy of
Howard and Garlick flashed upon me, and I
understood. I told him I would stop the pressure
if I could, and bade him go home and fear no more.
He scrambled to his feet and fell into a chair. Then
he squeezed my hand again, drank some whisky,
and went.
I. watched him disappear across the garden.
He seemed to have aged twenty years since I
saw him last, and he looked so feeble and bent
and worried as he passed between the beds of
chrysanthemums that I felt I must go at once
and make Howard and Garlick stop their game,
whatever it was. I waited till he got to the
street, and then went down to Howard’s on the
bike.
Howard was practising his new pastime—smok-
ing a nargilah. He had the tube laid round the
room once or twice, and I trod on it as I entered.
He had a Maori wahine, dressed as a Circassian
slave, attending to the confounded thing, and
seemed to imagine he was having a high old time
of it. He clapped his hands as I entered, and the
wahine disappeared.
“Look here, Frank, you must stop that darned
squeezing of poor old Manassah ; he is nearly
mad. What game you are playing with him I
don’t know, but he’s in a state of great distress.”
He coughed the smoke out of his lungs and
muttered contentedly, “Teach him not to play
monkey-tricks with one of our set again while he
has so much marketable paper flying around.
But I’m thinking a man of my position ought to
look after the interests of the working population.
He’s crushed a lot of them, and I’ve found out
that some of my hands are under his thumb, and
Garlick and you and I are going to scrunch him ;
see?”
“But I’ve just given him my word that it will
stop. I’ve shaken hands with him, and we’re
quite friendly again. Really you must let him
go.”
The wahine entered the room with another
huge nargilah, and commenced to lay the tubing
round the room. “What’s this for, Frank? Surely
you don’t smoke two of 'em at the same time, do
you ? ”
“ That’s for you, Wally. You shouldn’t have
done that with Eli. But it doesn’t matter, it was
done under a misapprehension. Besides, it’s all a
matter of business. Manassah pretty well owns
the earth, you see, but he overbalanced himself
trying to grab the last quarter acre, and there’s
thousands of pounds of his overdue paper in the
hands of the bank. Well, Garlick and I have
bought that paper, and we won’t renew. So damn
Manassah! —Whisky, Otanomomo!”
Otanomomo brought the whisky, and I stayed
about an hour, and then left and rolled into
Garlick’s club. The room was almost in darkness.
He was sitting in the big bay window and a pretty-
figured waitress made a hasty exit as I entered.
Against the dim light of the window his face
looked more Jewish than that of Eli himself. He
rose and turned on the light. His long nose and
grim shaven mouth took a more saturnine ex-
pression as soon as I mentioned the usurer’s name :
“ He’s crying for mercy, Garlick ; don’t you think
you might let him off?”
He led the way to the garden. “ It’s just this
way, old man ; he’s come round to you whining
because he feels the grip of a bigger man than
himself, and believes you are behind it. Excuse
my-plain speaking, old fellow ; but for the fact
that you were able to borrow money from Howard,
and had what was better than money, the influ-
ence of all the best people in Romahapa exerted
on your behalf in that inquiry, things would have
gone precious hard with you. You would have
lost your position but for Howard ; or you would
have made terms with that nephew, and they’d
have gone on bleeding you for ever, draining you
of every cent above actual living expenses.
Howard has found out that there are men in his
own employment who have been working for
years, not for themselves and their families, but
for Eli Manassah. Eli’s ruin is a vested interest
now. Gome an’ have a drink.”
I looked across the flower-beds, between the
trees, at the sea, and shuddered at the thought of
helping Eli Manassah to keep his unholy clutch
on the toilers of Romahapa.
“Right, Garlick,” I said, “I give him to you.”
And as I said it a meteor flashed down, blazed a
moment; and seemed to bury itself in the sea.
Garlick pointed to it with his cigar ; “See,” he
said, “ Manassah’s star has fallen ! ”
And that was how Eli Manassah came to buy a
sleeping draught and lie down to take a short nap
after shutting all the doors and windows and
turning on the gas.
C. A. JEFFRIES.


A Stringof Complaints
Lanpor, Depression, General Undoing, Loss of Appetite, Weakness,—
A String of Complaints Due to Hot Weather.
pi
S 3
Mr. G. J. Plenty, of Bowden, South
Australia, sends us his photograph
and says: :
“I have a regular string of com-
plaints every summer. The excessive
heat prostrates me. I feel languid
and depressed and have a general un-
doing of my health. A great many
of my friends complain in the same
way. Lately I have found that Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla overcomes all these bad
effects and enables me to go through
the hot season without any trouble.
It revivifies my system, purifies my
blood, and gives me an unusual de-
gree of strength. lam sure no one
will be disappointed with this medi-
cine, for it is not only a preventive
but also a powerful cure, of dis-
ease.”
“The World’s Greatest Family SVSedicine.”
Keep your blood in good cpndition, keep your digestion strong, and keep
your nervous system vigorous. Then you will not suffer from the weakening
effects of hot weather. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla was made for just these purposes.
It cools the blood, tones up the digestive apparatus, puts force into the
nervous system. And it fortifies you against hot weather, cold weather, or
changeable weather. It gives strength to ward off disease.
Don’t be deceived by trying some other Sarsaparilla. Don’t experiment
with imitations. Hold fast to the tried and tested Sarsaparilla—Ayer’s.
AYER’S
* .
Conic
dyer's Pills are a purely
r All Seasons of the Year
table laxative for the whole
BETTER THAN PILLS.
You will never wish to take another dose of
Sills after having once used Chamberlain’s
tomach and Liver Tablets. They are easier to
take, more mild and gentle in their action, and
more reliable, as they can always be depended
upon. They also cleanse and invigorate the
stomach and leave the bowels in a natural con-
dition, while pills are more harsh, in effect, and
their use is usually followed by constipation.
“Just What You Need.” Only Is. 6d. Sold
everywhere.*
ENOS
‘FRUIT
INVALUABLE IN ALL
Derangements
Functional
OF THE LIVER.
BY CHBMiSTS, Ac. EVERYWHERE. -
Needs must where
INDIGESTION drives.
You have to avoid some favourite dish, or you do
not enjoy your food and have to be uncomfortably
particular about your diet. WHY ? Whether
you know it or not you are suffering from
INDIGESTION. Instead of your stomach
being the minister of your body’s needs, it is im-
peded in its action by dyspepsia, and you are
being robbed of your nourishment, your sleep, your
pleasure. Now, if you wish to save yourself from,
perhaps, very serious illness you will seek the
aid of
QEECHAM’S
PILLS
and drive away the. INDIGESTION.
A course of this famous remedy will, as certainly
as water quenches thirst, impart new vigour to
the Stomach and Digestive Organs. The Liver
and Kidneys will be cleansed and regulated, the
Blood purified, and the general health soundly
re-established.
BEECHAM’S PILLS have done this for many
thousands of suffering and distressed people:
Why should they not do as much for you ?
BEECHAM’S PILLS
cure Indigestion.
II
Ask for
n
KNORR’S
I PEA SOUP I
Ready
Made
Dried-
ft is . .
Known
as the
Best..
L
0
Consults by Wetter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropi'iately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the JSaafe
THIS BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY,
11l
M.D., C M., 1i.8.C.F.i:., L.R.C.S.E.,
L.P.P.S.G., L.M., etc..
Registered by the Mediealßoards of 1
Britain, Victoria, New South Wales,
The Eminent Specialist, whose unparalleled success in the Treatment of Blood and Nerve
Diseases has earned for him a reputation unequalled by any other Specialist in Australia, may be consulted
daily, personally or by letter, at “ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 Elizabeth-st., Sydney. Old and Obsolete
Methods discarded. DR. MARTIN’S latest treatment has proved absolutely effective in all cases of Blood
Disease, Kerve Affections, Paralysis, Loss of Energy, Lung, Heart, Skin, and all
Chronic Diseases of Men and Women. His Consulting Rooms are replete with all the
latest and most scientific improvements in Electric Appliances, etc. Country Patients
treated by Correspondence at' their own homes- Advice and Medicine, One
Pound. All Sufferers should write for a copy of Dr. Martin’s Latest Medical Work,
‘‘THE ‘ KNOX-MERCEII ’ TREATMENT IX DISEASE.” This work should find a place in every
household, as it contains a full and explicit account of the Most Wonderful Treatment of the Present
Aye. It has been the means of Curing Thousands who fo'-lowed out the instructions contained
th This Marvellous Treatment Cleanses and Rejuvenates the W hole System, and is the Cheapest
Treatment in Existence, as nothing but the Book is required.
Cheap Edition, Is. ; by post, Is. 6d.
“Press Extracts’’ posted free throughout Australia.
CONSULTING HOURS: 10 to 2 and 7 to 9 Daily.
“ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
G H.': Re par. anent ancient^ war-horse, George
Loppin (8., l/10/’O3), came across following lines the other
aay in the volume of verses, “ Sparks and Sounds from a
Colonial Anvil,” published at Melbourne by George
Robertson in 1873, and written by John Whiteman, ex-
blacksmith :
Ive heard the old man often speak of Coppin's dodges
then,
Who d lost some fortunes, three or four, and won them
back again.
Twas then he had a precious row with Viscount Canter-
bury ;
The papers all were down on him, 'twas hot for Ooppin,
very.
He didn’t seem to mind it much ; I ve heard my grand-
sire say
That Coppin was a "curious cuss” and mostly had his
way. | ■ '
They had some pretty bad poets in those early seventies.
'“ J - A -0.” : Re mixed metaphor (B. l/10/’O3). One of
the most flagrant instances in the language almost in-
variably escapes notice, although familiar to nearly
everybody. It occurs in the opera of the “Bohemian
Girl, m the song “ When other lips,” and is from the
pen of the “poet Bunn.” It reads: “When hollow
hearts shall wear a mask, ’twill grieve thine own to see!”
“Haresfoot” : Clarance Holt, Bland’s father, was a
sound actor, about as good as Dampier. Mr. and Mrs.
Clarance Holt were esteemed all over Australasia. They
had a starring repertoire of dramas, all of which have
fallen out of count. Clarance was effective as D’Artagnan
and Monte Christo. When Jimmy Simmonds got such a
squadron of remarkable performers round Jefferson at
the Melb. Princess’s,. Clarance Holt was Wahnotee in the
Octoroon,” the cast including Lambert, Heir, Fitz-
gerald, Dunn, Ireland, Mrs. Heir, Eosa Dunn, Dolly
Green, and Mrs. A. Phillips. Clarance’s biggest card was
as the original Flotsam in “New Babylon.” He had a
never-dying crave, highly to his credit, for enacting
Hamlet. This was the stock grievance between him and
Hoskins, when they managed Melbourne Eoyal. Holt
would say, “ Well, shall we put up 1 Macbeth ’ or ‘ Hamlet ’
for I riday night ? ” and Hoskins’ reply would be, “No,
no, the ‘ Three Musketeers.’” And Clarence Holt was
dead tired of the “ Three Musketeers.”
C “P'" : The minstrels have been dropping off fast
of ate. The Cogill. brothers, Charlie Hugo, Johnny
Collins and George Walton have followed each other in
rapid succession. Horace Bent and veteran Tom Eaihford
are now the best-known survivors of the burnt-corkists
who lived in the days when the cork could be burnt
profitably.
Florence Esdaile, formerly of Rickards’, was singing at
the London Tivoli when last heard of, and she figured
among the large-type names in the advt. When Flo
asdaile made her first appearance in comic opera on the
Melbourne stage, Florence Young was still a novice, like-
wise Ada Colley, and nobody thought of them as being
exceptionally promising warblers. Good Australian voices
were more plentiful in those days.
• the lately-deceased Charles Upson, who died
m Melbourne at the age of 95 or so. He was before the
days of George Coppin, and first played in Sydney 70
years ago. He left the stage for the circus, where he
acted as clown. Then he went to minstrelsy, and wound
P ’y busking. ’ Latterly old age and sickness com-
pelled him to give up the banjo and singing at Scott’s and
Menzies hotels and he lived on the 10s. a week given him
out of the fund for distressed actors.
Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Not genuine without the signature.
-Be sure you get Martin’s. Sole proprietor, W.
E ar ] tln ’d * armac eutical c^em ist, Southampton,
“T.D.": A Victorian “musical competitions" judge
notorious for his habit of “ slinging off ” at contestants
who do not please him, found his match recently at a
provincial centre. The oracle had just assured a girl-
singer that she would be “ better at home minding the
baby,” when a large and obviously indignant female
raided the platform, told him that he didn’t know music
from pitch and toss, described him minutely as a con-
ceited, bald-headed ass, and assured him that “for two
pins” she would smite him hard on the countenance.
Since that event the eminent musical judge has dis-
played commendable caution in his criticism of the
aspiring young female.
Somebody has discovered a German play-bill, dated
1742, which contains this notice “ For the convenience
of the whole audience it is requested that those in the
first row should lie down, those of the second kneel down,
those of the third sit down, and those of the fourth stand
up. In that way everyone in the house will be able to see
the stage. No laughter is permitted during the per-
formance, which is a drama.”
Sheridan Knowles was a creature of the oddest sim-
plicity. It was far from him to perpetrate a practical
joke, and yet he would innocently do things which
resembled the stupid jokes of Toole and Sothern. One
Binge was acting in a new play, which absorbed Knowles,
but he was under the necessity of leaving in the middle.
He went behind the scenes and whispered to Binge, who
was then in full blast, “ Hist t Binge ! ” The aptor mut-
tered between his teeth, “ Don’t bother me now—please.”
Knowles whispered, “I only want to know if you’ll marry
the poor girl.” “Yes lyes!” said Binge, impatiently,
waving his hand. Knowles grabbed it with effusion, ex-
claiming, “ Bless you ! you were always a good fellow.”
“ Melb.”: Just heard a group enthusing over a
singer. A fashionable bootmaker came in with the
climax, “ She’s a wonderful woman. She cut up a pair
of thirty-shilling boots in one afternoon, over the sharp
rocks at Sorrento.”
John Coleman (the London one) says that the plays
which have brought in the most money are “ Hamlet,”
the “ Lady of Lyons," “ East Lynne,” and the “ Ticket of
Leave Man,” for which last the author, Tom Taylor, only
got £l5O. Byron sold his “Our Boys” for some such
small figure. Taylor got much less—if anything—for
“ Our American Cousin,” which he gave to an American
actor named Silsbee.
“ G.H.” : The beauty-actor has his own troubles. One
day, a few years back, the favorite of the moment, who
was notoriously pursued by the substantial tragedienne
of the day, rushed down the,stairs of a glittering Mel-
bourne hotel and sprang into an elaborate vehicle wherein
writer—till then totally unacquainted with this beauty-
actor —was waiting for a gaudy best girl of his own.
“ Drive ! drive away, old man ; for God’s sake, drive,” he
gasped. “ Escaping from a woman—you know what it is.
Drive anywhere, old chap, and be my guest for the day.”
Writer knew what it was to be like that, and drove,
though the driving, by the time it was through, cost the
Beauty the thick end of a week’s star salary. Also
scribe’s best girl cut him dead the next time he met
her. Now that handsome boy is presently returning to
Australia, and the fact hauls up a very mixed bag of
thoughts out of the chaos of the past. Wonder if
he apprehends the meeting of another substantial
tragedienne, or if one anticipates colliding with him.
The present authority on the universal forgetfulness of
things says : “ No-o ” !


RELIABLE
GARDEN
HOSE_«
SAMPLES
AND
PRICES
FREE.
Reliable, because it is
well made, and made
to last. Every foot of
Hose we sell increases
our reputation as
makers and sellers of
the best.
PERDRIAU & CO.
RUBBER
MERCHANTS
270 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
FITS
Trench’s Remedy
EPILEPSY.
I Immediate Relief.
Valuable Booklet
Free.
CURED
The Union Mfg. & Agency Company,
359 and 361 Collins Street, Melbourne.
EPPS’S EPPS’S
THE COCOA
EPPS’S EPPS’S
A Policy for the Common-wealth:
A Handy Manual of Politics. By James
Edmond. Price, 6d. ; post free from The
Bulletin Office, 7d.
SIMPSON BROTHERS
32 & 34 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
WORTHINGTON
trade mark*
Sole Australasian Representatives for
Boiler Feed Pump.
SEND FOR CATALOGUES.
James Simpson & Co., Ltd. l-ondon and Newark.
Worthington Pump Company, Limited,
Warren Webster & Co. New jersey.
Enquiries Invited for
Worthington Pumps
Webster Feed Water Heaters & Purifiers
Cincinnati Air Compressors
gfd
TANGYE S
OIL ENGINES
Solb Australian Representatives—
BENNIE, TEARE & CO.
Melbourne, Sydney, Perth and Coolgardie.
Sole Agents for
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Sydney and Melbourne.
FAY-EGAN WOODWORKING MACHINERY
g
ew Form
Vise
a
The “ Utopia ” Vise holds work of any shape, at
any angle. It has every advantage that could he gained from a dozen
Vises in as many different positions. It swings round and over at the
will of the operator and the work swings with it. There are two
forms of the “UTOPIA”; one for Joiners and Pattern Makers
(dimensions 7 x 18|in., opens 14in.) and the other for Fitters. Both
can be seen in operation at
60 Clarence St., Sydney, the Address Of
PARKE & LACY GO. LTD.
Manufacturers and Importers of Mining Machinery,
Steam Engines and Boilers. Engineers Tools and Supplies, etc-, etc.
m
■m
fdg
T. M. GOODALL & CO., 129 hay st., Sydney
AIY i ii fN i. Portable, Traction, Vertical & Horizontal Boilers,
Engineers and Mining Tools, Saw Mill Machinery, Pulleys, Belting, Etc.
Irrigation and Pumping Plants a Specialty. New and Second-Hand Machinery aiways available.
■S9*
M
m
Size, 51" x Z\" x 6*.
We are Direct Importers
and have
for Sale—
SNOW DUPLEX PUMPS
(all size*
for all
purposes)
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shafting, Hangers, Bearings,
Collars, etc. Engineers’ Tools and Fittings, Valves, Cocks, Gauges, etc. Cast, Tool and Mining Steel, Wire
Ropes and all Requisites for Contractors, Engineers Saw Mills, and Mining Proprietors.
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO., Ltd.
CLA.REKTCE STREET, SYDOTEY.
7?m
>.
FILTERS
.... ON ....
Scientific Principles
Passed all
Bacteriological Tests
Dr. NELLY, L.R.C.P. &S., Edin.;
Mons. A. de BAVAY, Melb.;
Mr. GILRUTH, Govt. Bacteriologist,
N.Z.; and others.
A FILTER WITHOUT SUCH A
CERTIFICATE IS NOT A
REAL FILTER.
fd
1“ ABBOTT”
Pressure,
Non=Pressure,
Water Bag,
Tank, and
Large Service
FILTERS
All Authorities condemn old style
so-called filters.
PT- THEY ARE DANGEROUS.
5 -
GERM
PROOF
The Cheapest and
Host Satisfactory
Filter in the Market.
Consult the “Abbott”
Filter Co. on all matters
of Filtration on a large
or small scale.
ADVICE GRATIS.
mmm
m.
Is
m
mm
m
:&
■
The “Abbott” Filter 486 Collins St n Melbourne
" r N. Guthridge, Ltd., T 1 Clarence St„ Sydney
