

MciIWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
PIG STOUT.
The Bulletin
Vol 24.—N0. 1234.]
[Thursday, October 8, 1903.
Begistered at the Genera! Past Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
xs. ck «sc. co.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—iron—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining lieqiiisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW AND SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
McLAREN’S Compound
Traction Steam Engine.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
WONDERFUL VALUE—A packet of Seven different
articles, comprising Yankee Rubber Baby, can be carried
in vest pocket and blown out to life size (causes roars of
laughter), Book of Conjuring' Tricks (containing over 100
Coin and Card Tricks), the Wizard Fish (gives the defini-
tion of your character—very superior for parlor enter-
tainments), the Vest Pocket Tubular Microscope (very
useful for examining small objects),The PoeketCompanion
or Combination Comet, Candle and Match Box, the great
Yankee Bicycle Puzzle (very ingenious), and, last of all,
the Famous Wizard of the North's Disappearing Coin
Trick (instructions enclosed). This splendid packet posted
to any address in Australasia (Free) on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. I w UTCHINSOIM, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarkefc.
XNEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
710 George-st., Sydney.
GIBSON, BATTLE &C° pm s**, SYDNEY.
Bole Agents for «l. & H. MoLAREN, Loads, England, Makars of Steam Ploughing Taokle, Traction Engines for Haulage, General and Special Work.
We Btook and have to arrive MoLaren’s Compound Traotion Engines; HUSTON’S Portable Horizontal and Vertical Staam Engines;
BROAOBENT’S Hydro Extraotors; KIROHNER’S Saw Mill and Wood-Working Machinery.
COMPOUND TRACTION STEAM ENGINES.^*
“HERVEY’S RACKAROCK
17 Years’ Unbroken Record as a Standard Australian Exp'osive. Cor. CLARENCE& KING STS.,
99
SYDNEY
THORNE’S
Estbd. 1831. WHISKY.
HOBART.
fjadlegs Orient fiotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C. Ludowicl & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
SYDNEY-
Royal, April, 1903,
CHAMPION CUP
and
SIX FIRST PRIZES
*N
MELBOURNE—
August, 11902, Grand
Championship of
Australasia.
ADELAIDE —Champion
Cup & 8 First Prizes.
(jUK for tOalMwi s&di M-toKty'
*■
c
SZROOM’S
INDIAN
POLO STICKS
Are the BEST and
Cheapest in the World.
Well known in S.Africa,
Egypt, China and Ceylon
Q
and used by all the best players in India, Agents wanted
In Australia, N.Z., and elsewhere. Sports dealers, saddlers
and merchants are invited to write (or trade terms.
010
Q
EROOM & CO.,
CALCUTTA, INDIA.
111
Polo Canes
Polo Heads
Polo Balls.
Q O
H 6
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Edisuran - Lamp.
SillSi
§j|
~rr.
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthiest
Imitations.
m mm i mi
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch: 16 Carrington-street,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Queensland Depot—Commonwealth Buildings,
Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
THE
‘ PLUM’
sdf
sd
fg
THE
PLUM’
hollow ground, rln
O.ENTLEMEN. —This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly w
like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind <
edge that is required to ensure an easv shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
Th« “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7a. 6d.
MSSSii
Price
“ RAZOLEO ” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
/Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 2ts.
1 Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s j Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the World.
fS?" Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sol® Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
CHUBB’S SAFES
EVERYWHERE.
“On Our Selection.” By “ Steele Rudd.”
Price, 6s. The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Ltd., Sydney.
"•••-Vo'- -i
The Quality and Success of this Brand
has caused many imitations.
The Immense Sale of BOOMERANG BRANDY is
the Best Testimonial to its Quality.
BRANDY.
Be Sure that you get the BOOMERANG BRAND.
3
OHAtrDap.fi fis&fr*
-j*
Indigestion
The Robber of Health ;
The Bane of Existence;
The Sapper of Vitality;
The foundation of the ills
that flesh is heir to.
Pearson's PEPTO-CHLOR
has relieved thousands of sufferers. Why not you ?
PEPTO-CHLOR makes unsteady nerves steady, and
cures the source of the trouble, viz., Indigestion.
A GREAT NERVE TONIC.
Sold by all Chemists at-2s. 6d. and 4s. per bottle. If
your chemist does not stock Pepto-chlor, send direct to
the Australasian Head Office, Sydney Stock Exchange
Buildings, 113 Pitt-st., Sydney. Add 9d. for postage.
/ERTEX
CELLULAR
SHIRTS and
UNDERWEAR.
Ladies' and Gentlemen's Garments*
A Positive Safeguard Against Chilis.
ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST. PATTERNS, Etc.
POST FREE.
D. B RAH AM & CO.,
Cellular Outfitters,
SOLE AGENTS IN N.S.W.-
73 & 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Helidon Spa. Watar. A Natural Liquid Food. From Helidon, Queensland.


THE RED PAGE.
IN REPLY
(To a letter from Her, enclosing portrait of, and
rhapsody on, the nun, Sister Glare.)
Her mouth is resolute," you write
In praise of her, your perfect Clare ;
“ Her chin betokens silent might
To suffer scorn, to do, to bear”
(Or words to that effect), and 1
Agree. A paragon of chins !
“ One to front dangers fearlessly,
And fight its way until it wins
So you, most dear enthusiast,
Run on with pen that flows and flies,
Out-pouring words of love too fast
To cross their “ t’s ” or dot their “ i’s
So you, exhausting dips of ink
In diligent succession, race
To fill the sheets with what you think
Of such a chin on such a face.
1 gaze upon it long, and see
What well may justify your praise :
Strong purpose, iron constancy
To walk through fire on chosen ways—
To serve the cause appearing right.
And not be turned away therefrom
By all the woe of hopeless fight,
And all the pains of martyrdom,
I gaze on yours, so different,
And mine, so like in difference,
That speak less firmness of intent,
And more regard for consequence —
Egg-ended, I regret to see,
And rounded, off like skittle-pins ; •
Alas ! alas ! why have not we
Two square Napoleonic chins ?
There’s some diversity, of course ;
Mine, double, if the glass can speak
The truth, but still devoid of force,
Since both the knobs of it are weak ;
Yours delicately tapered, one
And indivisible, but that
You must not pride yourself upon—
It’s just because you ’re not so fat!
Do I regret this, after all ?
Do I repine and judge it’wrong
Of Fate to give us chins so small
That, morally, we can’t be strong,
Or quite so strong as others dire
To shun transgression’s snares and sins —
Who set their course by one fixed star
Because of their more righteous chins t
God knows I always wish to do
The right thing for Right’s sake alone ;
And know, dear love of mine, that you
Have just such feeling as my own ;
But Eric Mackay sang full well,
For such a little trimmed squireen
Of song, that “ Some will smile in Hell
To think how sweet their sins have been."
The Poivef that rules the Universe,
And swings the 'worlds, and stirs the hearts,
Has made so easy all the worse,
So hard the. bitter, better parts—
Has thickly-strewn our moral path
With treachermis banana-skins,
And made us heritors of wrath
And shapely, though unstable, chins l
I cannot answer yes or no
( Being round-chinned, irresolute).
What, ! to be stone, and quite forego
All munchingi of forbidden fruit ?
To set the teeth and turn away
From rosy apples close o’erhead —
Never to halt or disobey
The stern commands of faith and dread ?
I doubt, yet do not greatly fear,
The end of ends ; for one thing plain
To me is this : We are not here
By any act of ours ; the pain,
The sin, the wrong, the shame are His
With all things else He bade to be ;
The chins like Clare's, and those like this
Of yours, just noio confronting me.
But standing in the countless ranks
Of those who err, and yet will err, i
Like you, I tender earnest thanks .
For Sister Clare, and such as her,
Who shame us with the greater love
Than flutters after changing things —
No earthling of a Cupid’s dove,
But white and high as angel’s wings l
Yet, sweet, when all our days have passed
If at the Tribunal we stand,
Clare on the right, we with the massed
And trembling hosts on God’s left hand,
While she, against our doom abhorred,
Prays, “ Father, pardon these their sins,"
I will advance this protest: “ Lord,
We never had our choice of chins! ”
J.F.
AU CAFE
[Ptrsons— William : James: Henrt. Time—lO.SOp.m .]
James: We 11...?
William : Belle reclame ! For the rest... as
instructed.
James : Then you are not pleased ?
William : But certainly. A good voice; a
sufficient art: I will listen to her again. Not the
magnificent voice and marvellous art of the adver-
tisements, however. The gross public can be
impressed only by superlatives—as if anything
were superlative ! What, do they know of nuances?
With italics you goad them to hysterics: their
eyes goggle, their lungs pant, all their secretions
flow more abundantly.
James : Including cash.
William : Precisely. Money is their noblest
secretion, since it represents potentiality beyond
individuality. The artist, like Lucullus, dines on
the tit-bits of a thousand geese.
Henry : (Smokes.)
James : But they say the local artist does n’t
dine?
William : A reinforcement of the proof that he
is n’t an artist.
James : But where do you find the proof ?
William : A priori, in himself ; a posteriori, in
his work. One fits the other as pea fits pod.
Goldsmith may have written like an angel, since
the manner of an angel’s writing never has been
ascertained; but assuredly he did not talk like
poor Poll. It was his auditor who heard like poor
Poll.. A man and his work are one, though
divisible.
James : Yet surely circumstances count. You
cannot expect growth and fruit from the seed
dropped in stony places. What of genius hemmed
by fortune, crushed by environment ?
YVilliam : Genius is hemmed by nothing in the
world but its own limitations, crushed by nothing
in the world but its own incapacity. “ The fault,
dear Brutus, is not in our stars, but in ourselves,
if we are underlings.” In Australia bananas
are cheap: bread and chops, judiciously pur-
chased, are not dear. Life and paints are
for everybody. But everybody wishes to live
by Art: not for her: Naturally Art objects : her
objections are hung in Pitt-street. Across eaoh
daub she has written, in the boldest letters, “I
will be no man’s strumpet.” Consider Millet.
Consider Phil May. What are Australian obstacles
compared with those they overcame ! Besides,
the world is not Pistol’s oyster only. Stony
ground may prevent ?, seed from germinating;
but a painter walks upon two legs, like Mr. Pick-
wick, even if he does not walk erect. Let him
walk—and find out for himself that there are
colder places than Australia. Here, if anywhere,
the wind is tempered to artistic lambs ; the sheep
are in evidence. But, if he stay, no whining !
Henry : (Smokes,..)
James : But is not whining as legitimate as
puffery? Is not whining, in fact, a mode of
puffer}', since each is a false plea—-a trap to catch
the public sunbeam? See how Miss Crossley’s
sprained ankle is turned to advertising account,
for example ! ,
William : While the dogma of Chivalry has
credit, a concession to the Sex with the S is
inevitable. We can make a logical virtue of the
necessity by. turning it to individual profit, each
for himself. But some of our painters claim to
be ex-S, and to pity them is wasteful and ridicu-
lous. As to puffery, if you agree that the purest
imaginative white reaches the .public intelligence
as ring-straked and speckled, and that in order to
give a just impression of brown you must rave
black midnight, then puffery is legitimate. Or,
rather, legitimate puffery is legitimate.
James : You mean ?
William : That you can find a practical-ethical
justification for saying that two and two are ten,
if you believe that the audience’s notion of ten
corresponds with your notion of four. But you
must not assert that plain discord is the music
of the spheres.
Henry : ( Smokes ...)
James : Is that treason to Queen Ada?
William : O Lud, no ! But she is a queen who
has not come to her full queendom a thin reed
and virginal, waiting for the sap to rise, bhe
sings without passion : that is to say, she does not
sing, humanly speaking. Thus she is preferred in
divine oratorio. Don’t forget that the concert
platform is highly artificial; and there is nothing
less artificial than true song, binging is an
art; but song, for the gifted, is spontaneous.
Singers are born and by art made; but
the profession of singing in public, with
its concomitants of fees, applause, hisses,
"‘good notices” and ‘.‘bad notices”—all the
roufine of agents, “encores,” bouquets, and
the rest—might seem planned to destroy the
singer’s natural emotion. And when emotion is
not held, it is not given. Thus when we “goto a
concert,” we may hear “ a voice,’ - we may admire
the grace of “a trained voice” in mechanical
melody, but we rarely hear passionate, phlegm-
shaking, heart-stirring Song. Plainly Miss Crow-
ley does not sing as well as she can, as well as she
will. Temperament helps her to sing better than
others; but she still sings as a girl, not as a
woman. '• ,
James : But what has. that to do with her voice ?
William:. Everything, my Innocence. A woman
who sings, really sings, sings not with her vocal
mechanism, not with her headful of knowledge,
but with her whole body, right down to the pretty
toes that somebody has admired (one hopes) in
private. ■ ■ ,
Henry (meditatively) : That is where we come
m WiLLiAM : That is where He comes in. Miss
Crossley has the capacity to sing. When she has
behind her an exciting lovetstory, with appropriate
pangs and satisfactions, hot ardours and icy
despairs, then she will sing in earnest. She may
sing the song of her life as a dowager on some day
of tremendous anniversary. At present she is an
infant crying melodiously in the night to the
largest audiences on record (see advertisements).
James: How did you like Percy Grainger ?
William : A smart young man, self-satisfied.
There are so many smart young men, self-satis-
fied. By dint of quick wit and keen energy he
makes an acceptable offering. But the root of
emotion is not in him —as yet.
James : Peterkin ?
William : Fuit Ilium.
James: And Jacobs ? . .
William: Ah, he is no mere violinist. He
feels music, and makes you feel. But he is still
hampered by technic, though his ■ technic is
good. When it becomes so good that he can
forget it altogether, and abandon himself to his
interpretation—well, he will interpret: he has the
power: even to-night you felt it. A man of
promise 1
Waiter (abruptly)'. Closing time, gentlemen,
please! __ ..
Henry ( rising ponderously) : Well, damn all
superior persons, I say !
William (with malice) : Observe, my James,
how he resents enlightenment; and marvel what
a force of disgusted inertia we have overcome in
the march of human evolution !
[They go out.]
THE WICKEDNESS OF WOMAN
[Sia Chapters of a Man’s Life, by Victoria Cross (Walter
Scott, 65.), is a book so unusual that it must be reviewed
tw 03 — once for the moral and once for the a-moral.]
This book is a great comfort. The most bril-
liant and audacious of The Yellow Book stories, in
the earlier and better days when Beardsley and
Harland and Symons were all wicked together,
was “Theodora: a fragment.” Theodora was a
unique and very desirable girl; and news of her
ended in an abrupt fashion that left one mcon-
solable. “Victoria Cross” has described some
remarkable heroines since, but none like pretty
.. . Theodora. Paula wasN.T.S. (as she might have
said herself); but one longed for Theodora. Anna.
Lombard was duly praised; but one hankered
after Theodora. We have waited eight long
years for Theodora. Now and at last Theodora
comes in Six Chapters —an English marvel.
“It is not literature- it is life!—as the
humourous Scotch paper said profoundly or On
Our Selection. You can find no precise analogue.
The nearest English parallel is George Moore;
but V. Cross is fresh and palpitating, not jaded—-
nor is she concerned to replace “ morals with
an artistic moral. Again, one is reminded of
Morley Roberts, of Hichens, of Mirbeau, of a
dozen writers back to Lou vet de Couvray. Com-
parisons are useless : there is nothing like the Six
Chapters. ...
A man is supposed to tell the history of his
relations with a woman, as he might tell it to a
friend. The detail is as full and as decorous as a
man might permit himself to give to a friend,—no
less full, no more decorous. For five chapters the
book might be truth : the sixth chapter is less
convincing. The whole is a fine performance,
and an interesting proof of the inferiority of the
naturalistic method in literature.
“ Victoria Cross ” is worth consideration. Who
is she 1 Her books are not great art ; but they
are uncommonly good reading. Over Theodora
one sighs, contentedly discontented. Six Chap-
ters of a Man’s Life can be called the most irritat
ing book ever written.
[Forward, fair Virtue!]
Six Chapters of a Man’s Life, by Victoria Cross,
issued at Gs. by the Walter Scott Company, is
a deplorable publication. Some readers may
remember a magazine called The Yellow Book, now
happily extinct, in which an attempt was made to
transplant to English soil the worst vices of
decadent French literature. Perhaps the most
indecent and filthily suggestive story in The
Yellow Book was one called “Theodora.” This
was printed as “afragment,” and is now reprinted
as a portion of the book under notice.
The story of the book, simply stated, is that of a
man’s immoral relationship with a woman. The
heroine oomes to the hero in London, dressed in
man’s clothes, and offers herself to be taken to
Mesopotamia, of all places in the world ! He
lamely suggests marriage, which she refuses; and
they go off together. At Port Said there is a
tragedy into the details of which we decline to
enter. It might have been conceived by the
imagination of a satyr. As a result, the heroine
drowns herself; and the man is supposed to tell
the story of their liaison.
Sufficient lias been said to show that the book is
a shameless outrage on good taste and good man-
ners. The author revels in references to “ hips
and “bosoms” ; and at page 128 there is a double
entendre so gross that we wonder a respect-
able publishing firm should have permitted
it. It is surprising, indeed, that such a
book should have been published at all.
Surely it is not too mucli to ask that our
novel-writers should confine themselves to legiti-
mate fields, without dabbling in the vile prurien-
cies of Daudet and Zola. Illicit sexual relation-
ships unfortunately exist; but that is no reason
why they should be written about. Without
being prudish, one may surely demand that
Milton’s fair well of English undefiled shall be
handed down to posterity in a clean and unpol-
luted stream. ' , , .
Victoria Cross adds the last straw to her load of
indecency by permitting her heroine to decry
maternity—and this at a time when the decline
of the Australian birth-rate is causing serious
anxiety !
MEMORANDA
THE KISS.
By Cappicllo.
Somebody tells The Argonaut that when Max
Beerbohm succeeded G. B. Shaw as dramatic critic of
The Saturday Review the manager told him Stiaw s salary,
with a tentative ‘ 4 Of course, Mr. Beerbohm, being com-
paratively inexperienced, you can scarcely expect so
much.” “Oh, ves, I shall,” rejoined Beerbohm decisively,
“ indeed, I shall expect more. You see, as Shaw knows
thedranmthoroughly.it was perfectly easy for him to
write about it. Whereas I know nothing about it, and it
will be shockingly hard work.”
“Bismarck didn’t care for Wagner; and one
day, asked what he thought of the friend of Louis 11,
gave this as his deliberate opinion : “ As a composer, he
is superior to Goethe ; and as a poet, he te greater than
Mozart! ” “ Can you be more wicked than that. asks
Le Gaulois. . ,
Two Whistler biographies stewing—and a ladies
duel between the writers, Mrs. Joe Pennell and Mrs.
Mortimer Menpes. Both Pennell and Menpes were
Whistler’s friends ; but the friendship with Menpes was
broken, while that with Pennell endured. Both
Pennell and Menpes are practising artists, etchers,
and illustrators, with clever wives who do their
writing for them. Menpes, of course, is an Adelaide
youth, with the impudence (wearing on narrower
shoulders Whistler’s pose) to tell Who s Who that he was
“ inartistioally bom in Australia,” and educated nomi-
nally at a Grammar School in Port Adelaide ; but really
on a life scheme of his own. His career as a painter began
when he was a year old :he is still a painter. Menpes
has the credit of producing some of the best illustrations
by the three-colour screen process that have come out qi
England.
Now that Whistler is safely Dead, the Royal
Academy, which he hated as the embodiment of stodgy
prejudice, is thinking of arranging an exhibition of his
paintings. Wm. Heinemann and Pennell write to The
Morning Post in protest. “We had the privilege of
seeing perhaps more of Mr. Whistler during the last, ten
years of his life than any of his other friends, and he has
on many occasions expressed to us the hope that no pic-
ture of his would ever be hung on the walls of Burlington
House, or ever be included in one of the English national
collections. The reason for his strong desire to deprive
England of any of his work (as far as he was able to do
so) is explained by the behaviour of the governing body
of the Royal Academy towards him, and the attitude ot
English critics and professors towards his work until
other countries recognised in him the greatest master of
the Nineteenth Century.”
George Meredith’s Poems will be obtainable
presently in two pocket volumes for 55... . Stevenson a
Men and Books and Virginibus Puerisque are ready at is.
Hugh Macmillan, who has written a life of G.
B’ Watts (now 86) says that “ Watts does not paint
directly from Nature, hut from his recollected observa-
tions and impressions of nature. The painters mission,
like the poet’s, is (he holds) to present his own vision and
intuition of a perfected, an archetypal nature, disen-
tangled from the accidents and imperfections of actual
nature. But more than that, he uses no model,
lay figure, or arranged drapery. He does not
even make any preparatory study or sketch,
either of the whole or the parts. He thinks out his
pictures, ‘ and then directly begins to sketch them out
o„ i ho canvas. ... He uses neither palette nor mahUtick,
nothiJig-but the simple brush, and the assorted colours
he requites beside him. Ble lays on these colours with a
seemingly careless lavishness, but nevertheless with a
deft han.d. There is Ja.o smearing or covering large sur-
faces with broad'effects, with as little labour as possible.
The outlines are, brought out with the most distinct
definition and clearness, while at the sanie time he sur-
rounds his ideal forms with a misty or.cloudy atmo-
sphere, for the purpose of showing that theV are visionary
of ideal He finishes the,smallest features of his pictures
with the. utmost Care. ... If he ever finds himself at a loss
for soinfe detail, he has recourse directly to nature, from
which he copies at first hand.”
August Monthly Review prints an unpublished
poem by Blake—some hundred and fifty loose and vapid
finest Only here and there is there a hint of vision, a
tremor of force. This might pass for weaker Whitman-
Go see the city—f riends joined hand in hand—
Go see the natural tie of flesh and blood —
gb see—more strong, the ties of marriage-love :
Thou scarce shall find but Self-Love stands between.
And this holds the time-old ferief of Bill the Bard of
IBoggabri—
Jt is the cursed thorn wounding my breast
That makes me sing !
Wallace Nelson, in whose editorship Kalgoorlie
Sun has become 'he most intelligent and the most
interesting paper of the West, is leaving, possibly on an
English lecturing trip.
A novel by Randolph Bedford, True Eyes and a
Whirlwind , : is to be published shortly by Duckworth,
London.
TO JOE SWALLOW.
When your blustering is over, and your tvhine is never
heard, ... , , , . .
And the manly pride you boast of is in deed and not in
'word, ,
You will know as well as I do that the world is as a glass
To the steady look of wisdom or grimacing of the ass ';
But you growl, “ The world is rotten,”'
And pretend to have forgotten
How the ugliness of life— as you perceive it— came to pass.
When you know that you ’re a noodle with the rudiments
You HI be 1 quick to think of others, you ’ll be slow to take
offence,
You’ll be thankful for forbearance, and you wont go
poking round
For the little flaws in friendship, or enlarge em when
they ’re found ;
The tree may not be quite _
What you choose to think is right,
But you need n't hack and burn it if the fruit of it is
. sound.
You are native of the alleys, so you turn your back on
soap;
But we who hoped an open road would give your spirit
scope . . .
Are grieved to hear you prating like a parrot of the
Which,ln ’carefidler inspection, are but dirty shirts and
rags— , . , ..
And we wish you’d wash, em white,
But not in public sight s
Where you ’re spat on by the saintly folk and scoffed at by
the wags.
The ash will never flare again ;;the old ideal’s dead,
And you have n’t learnt enough - to light another one
instead; . ' .
But when manhood, reawakened, bids your canine nature
From I hungering and howling for your vomit in the sink,
You may drop your tale of wrongs,
And, by God, I swear your songs
Will be better than your “ alley” hymns of “drums
and muck and stink.
You may curse me for my riming, you may bid me go to
You may say that I’m a traitor, that my friendship was
Butmy l heart has not forgotten. To the wordy storm I’ll
Ananko knows, but you’ll remember, and may want
me ere the end !
I am here, at any rate,
And am quite content to wait
Till your lonely heart is crying for the solace of a friend.
J. L. & G. B.
CORRESPONDENTS
McC. : Dunno. Dr. (Melb.) Maloney says that
Bernhardt and all her company, playing “ Hamlet,” call
him Owlet— reinforcing thus Donnelly’s theory : omelette,
eggs-and-bacon, plain bacon, Bacon-Shakespear. “ Hence
the Eng. stage tradition of calling a good part a fat part-
e.n., a Shakespearian part—i.e., a Bacon part. No gammon
here.” J.A.B. : Thanks indeed E.W.S. : Price
of that “ Epithalamium,” complete is £lo—£s for
writing it, £0 for shocking our modesty L.B.K.
Looked at it several times, and don’t like it well enough.
....Quixotic: Be born again, with a sense of humour.
.’.'.’.'« Via ” wants reference to complete verses including-
“ If only in my thoughts I may enfold thee, still hath tbe
day a soul.
If only in my dreams I may behold thee, still hath the
night a goal. • .
Ten thousand garlands earth's gay gardens cherish ;
One pale, pale rose is mine,” &c.
[?]
Book trade Advertisement.
theTatest BOOKSBY THIS WEEK’S ryUL —-
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Cleeve, Anglo Americans, 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Banks (Nancy H.), Hound Anvil Hock, - 2s 6d &3s 6d, p. 6d.
Gould (Nat), Bred in the Bflsh, 2s & 2s 6d, p. sd.
Merriman, Barlasch of the Guard, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
“ Pha.nos,” Elements of Hand Reading, Is 3d, postage 3d.
Somerville & Ross, An Irish Cousin, 2s 6d & 3s6d,p. 6d.
Meade (Mrs. L. T.), Burden of her Youth, Bs 6d, p- 6d.
Allen(J ames Lane), Mettle of the Pasture, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d
Send to us for any Booh or Magazine you Want. . .
We are always pleased to answer Inquiries.
71 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doors South of King St.) & at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane & London.
For the LUNGS, the THROAT, the VOICE
. . THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
o
A . The Larynx, or organ ol
voice. , .
B. The Trachea or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG
and
Invaluable to
SINGERS
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered).
Contain NO Cocaine or other Poisonous Drug's.
Sold bv all Chemists, in tins, 1/6 ; from the Proprietor, G. Hudson, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland, post; free tempt
S ol stamps. Sydney Depdt: 5& 7 Queen’s Place. Made in Australia. Agencies in all Australian States and


V
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, and CO., Limited,
WOOL BROKERS AND PRODUCE SALESMEN
SYDNE Y.
WINGHGOMBE, CARSON & CO.,
Are by far the most successful Salesmen
OP
Kangaroo, Wallaby,
Rabbit and Opossum
sins
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Wool Stores—F7RMONT.
Head Office and Produce Store—ll Phillip St.
SYDNEY.
Sole Wool-Selling Commission
to the Growers—
“I | Per Cent.
Trust Account,
Regular Sales of Wool & Produce.
Prompt Returns,
A GO-AHEAD FIRM
PATESON & COBCROFT,
231 Sussex Street,
SYDNEY.
and Live Stock Agents!
( I* Auctioneers, Commission
I and Produce Merchants. .
Good* forwarded and received from this or any State. Agents for celebrated Corn Cob Bacon
AUCTIONS ANYWHERE.
THE LEADING HOUSE for SPORTING GOODS and TOBACCO.
mi*
k
(y
Lcola.
Santiago.
SINGLE BOX AT WHOLESALE PRICE.
GOODS EXCHANGED or MONEY RETURNED.
•v
W
no.
(y
A/?/Manila
Ko. 1 Manila*
<n (Si 1
o n
ROTHSCHILDS
El Mundo.
GUARANTEE.-EVERV CIGAR SOUND
AND IN PERFECT CONDITION.
ROMA QUEENS In 9 3
LA PAROLA, Reliable Smoke .. 100 10 3
HIGH LIFE MENDOZAS .. . 100 13 3
NIMROD REINA VICTORIA .. 100 13 3
LA SPECIAL, from Choicest Leaf 100 13 3
SANTIAGO LA FLOR, Fine Quality 50 15 0
• Borneo > Mild Smoking 50 15 0
~?, IVAL ’” Borneo i Pull Flavor 50 15 0
HEAVY WEIGHTS (P. de Mendoza) 100 17 0
Post Free Post Free
N.S.W. oth. States
s. d. s. d.A
10 4
10 8
13 8
13 8
13 8
15 8
15 8
15 8
17 aj
Per 100.
Post Free Post Free
N.S.W. oth. States
‘ ‘ PERL A ” BOUQUET
" EL MUNDO” (Rothschilds)
"MENDOZA" (Rothschilds) ..
" PERLA ” (Rothschilds) .. ..
"MINERVA" No. 1 MANILA ..
“WINDSOR LADY” (Manila Regalia)
" PERLA MINERVA,” Manila, Fine Qui
FLOR DE NAVES (Havana Reina) ..
HENRY CLAY (Havana Couchas, extra) 50
“ REVOLUTION ” IN THE TOBACCO TRADE.
“ RED SEAL ” TOBACCO
AT MILLION PRICES
TO SUIT THE TIMES.
“Red Seal”
Dark Plug
Strong & Medium
3/-
per lb.
Poet Free
“Red Seal”
Bright Cut
2o z. Packets
)
4/3
per lb.
Pest F. ee
“Red Seal”
Bright Plug: 1
Mild Smoking- J
3/6
per lb.
Post Free
“Red Seal”
Bright Cut
4oz. Patent Tins
43
per lb.
Post Free
“ RED SEAL ” is a R EA L GOOD Smoking Tobacco, guaranteed BEST VALUE in the Stages.
We RECOnHEND Smokers to give “ RED SEAL” Tobacco a tpiai
•AtiCicls: Simmons, Haymarket, Sydney
I. Hollis
& Son’s
“THE RELIABLE.”
Price £6 12s. 6d.
m
H
i r ~
Kb
m
y:
NUI
. D-B-E.lj. Gun, 12 gauge, top lever, bar acLion, real twist or steel
u rre i 8 ’ .cross-bolt, left choke, rebounding locks snap fore-end,
chambered for 2|in. cartridges. Guaranteed for all Smokeless Powder.
Mick Simmons, Haymarket, Sydney.
ELECTRICITY
Professor Loeb, of the
University of Chicago,
recently announced that he had dis-
covered that “ Electricity was the basis
of Life.” He said that the motion of
the heart was due, not to the heat, but to the Electricity in the body. A part of the chemical energy of foodstuffs
is transformed into Electrical energy, which in turn gives energy to the muscles and organs of the body. Professor
Loeb s experiments have extended over a period of ten years. These results, he says, are going to upset the
teachings of physiology—that is, they are going to expose the fallacy of medicine as it is administered by the
regular physician of to-day. This is all in line with Dr. McLaughlin’s teachings, which have been before the
THE BASIS
world for the past ten years. Dr. McLaughlin has
been a student of this subject for the past 25 years
and has made his observations from cases under per-
sonal treatment. He says—“ The food that we eat
is treated as fuel by the stomach just as is the coal in
a furnace. The chemical action which is produced
upon the food by the acids and juices of the stomach
ur,i>> 1 18 ood and causes a carbonic heat. This heat is Electricity and it is forced into the nerves and vital
organs, and it is their life. The electrical heat generated by the consumption of our food should keep healthy
eveiy vital organ of the body. Debility of the vital organs arises when the waste is greater than the repair, when
t e stomach is unable to generate sufficient Electrical heat to supply the demands of Nature. This excessive
waste is due to over-taxation of the vital forces by hard work, grief and worry, extra physical exertion, severe
OF LIFE.
fevers (such as typhoid or malaria), and excesses which drain
away the vitality and leave the system debilitated.” Dr.
McLaughlin goes on to say —“ When the stomach is not able to
generate sufficient of this Electricity to supply the demands of
Nature the result is a lowering of nerve, organic and muscular
power, and anyone becomes a wasted, worn out being.” Then an
Electric current must be used to assist the stomach, and that
current can only be supplied by
AN ILLUSTRATED BOOK
SENT FREE (POST PAID)
TO ANY
ADDRESS
7
II l
W
Mi
SMI
l
ft
Here, my boy I Give up Quacks and Drugs, and send for
one of these Books ! It will tell you all aboid it. I got one,
also a Belt, and look at me ! I was never better in mg life.”
DR. McLAUGHLIN’S Electric
wit V hiS ® ec^ r . ical force is P roof against all Functional Disorders, Weak Back, Liver and Kidney Troubles, all Nerve us Disoidei*
suffiX P f f ' I r d ? es !i° l !’ C ° ns s ipat 1 10n ’ Insomnia, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lumbago, Headaches, &c., &c. There can be no decay or disease where there is
sufficient force to keep the heart and vital organs active, and under Dr. McLaughlin’s treatment
of 75 and even 85 Years of Age have found a New Lease of Life.
Men
hi~h G G e!£*?Z age * d 7 ?’ ° f SUrry Co,,e « e * Surry Hil,s > Victoria, wrote: “I am delighted to be able to tell you that your marvellous
«fo^h»°oa“ah.art,." a * "“ reV ° Ur ° d m ° ° f Pa, *» mftmr <*«~ *> year.. lam 72 years of a e e, bat .. has
JO ”" NORTH ’aged 80, of Yendon, Victoria, says: “At my age I required assistance, and after reading about your .
am able tsTrio V ° U * Be,t > f nd to-day • feel a wonderfully different man. At my age it is surprising what this Eeit has done for me and I
° ° my own domestic work, and lam 80 years of age next July. Everyone of my age ought to buy it.” ’
. . A • , The current supplied by this a ppliance enters the body in a glowing stream of vitalising heat, so gentle that the nerves and vital organs absorb it u ,
babe drinks milk. Inis force is added to the natural power generated by the stomach. It saturates everv vital part, and soon transforms the debilitated bodv iutrfn r t "i h f U, ‘ gry
sraENGralSrTOriLiTT“ d ck,s “ the doors for erer t 0 d ™ “ ,,d debilit> '' a " d f ™>» i-Kd. K hwwuuESS
T- 1^ 1 " T - L ' GR S >T ”» 0 / Bhe P arc,stown « N.8.W., writes: “Cramps, stinging pains and rheumatism which I had for a long time ara ihinoe
past. There is no doubt the Belt is a marvel, and wil, do a„ you promised it would. You have my most heartfelt thankf.foT it Jls cured m"”
»• - r ' GEORGE LEW,S > Of Willow Farm, near Gladstone, S.A., says: “I am feeling as well as ever I did in my life I really must M , +
living advertisement of your Belt. All my friends can see a great change in me.” aain my ute I really must say lamt ic
pr
DO NOT BUY AN ELECTRIC BELT UNTIL YOU HAVE ABSOLUTELY DECIDED TO USE NO IVIORE DRUGS.
CAUTION.—We have to caution the pub-
lic against persons offering Belts “ Free.”
This is a snare to deceive persons seeking
health. Write us full particulars of any-
one who has been deceived and we will
guarantee to have their money returned.
This applies to the past two years.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co.
100 W. Market St., Sydney
Melbourne Office: 167 E. Swanston Street.
N.Z. Office: 54 Will s Street, Wellington.


PERDRIAU & CO.
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established 1881.
-- - First Manufacturers of Rubber Goods in Australia.
Rubber Sheet, Rubber Valves, Rubber Buffers.
Armoured and Plain. •
For Gardens. For Steam.
Any Sizes
" ■ or Thickness.
A Full Assortment of
all Best Makes.
Best Quality.
Any Size.
ROSE.
TUBING.
ENGINE PACKING.
RUBBER BELTING.
TITAN JOINTING.
For High-pressure delivery.
For Suction.
Of best Quality Rubber.
Will stand any Climate.
To hold
400 lbs. steam.
Won’t, Slip.
Up to 36 in. wide.
For High
Pr ssure Steam.
Will make a tight and lasting joint on any surface and under any steam pressure.
Will stand any decree
of st . aui heat.
DUGONG JOINTING.
The best Jointing, ever
made for Ammonia.
Rubber and Oil Waterproof Clothing .
Rubber Coals, Boots, Goloshes, Leggings, Oilskin Coats, Jackets, Pants; in tact,
everything to keep out the wet.
SURGICAL
Enemas.
Fountain Syringes.
Hot Water Bags.
Operating Cushions.
- Icecaps. Atomizers.
Air and Water Cushions and Beds.
RUBBER
GOODS
Rubber Gloves.
Klastic Web Goods.
Bandages, Stockings
Urinals.
3E*IO JE&3335E5»31-A-XX CJO- 270 George St., Sydney.
Illustrated Catalogues sent Free on Application.
r
D RIN K- ——
GARDNER’S SPA WATER
From our Springs at Helidon. OWEN GARDNER & SONS, Brisbane (Head Office) &at Helidon.
Second
Edition.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER:
Harry Morant
His ’Ventures
and Verses.
Price 1/1
Post
Free.
By FRANK RBNAR.
Edwards* Dunlop & Co., Sydney
CAN BE CURED
Without
Operation
Pain ©anger, Inconvenience, or Loss of Time. A genuine success. IMMEDIATE REE I El.
The 'ictne of comfort and a feeling of perfect confidence is securer from the first hour of using
Dr Langston’s combined treatment. Write to-day for Treatise No. 12—posted 2 stamps—and
read the CONVINCING TESTIMONY received from all parts of Australia, from hundreds
of men who HAVE BEEN CURED. Used and endorsed by. Clergymen, Statesmen, Lawyers
Physicians Farmers, Artisans, Navvies, Miners; in fact, men and women in every station of
life. These living witnesses support facts that leave no room for doubt.
CURED —No Cutting or Pain.
The stagnant blood is driven from the dilated veins, and all soreness and swelling subsides.
Men suffering from Weakened Nerve Force, Constant Depression Gloomy Forebodings Fast
Becoming Unfitted for Active Business Life, faib to attribute their deplorable state to the
PROPER CAUSE They know they have VARICOCELE, as they have suffered some dis-.
comfort on account of it, particularly while standing. But the evjl effects due ..to,
VARICOCELE are so gradual that they neglect it until the. entire system is undermined, and
they are forced to realise that something ..must be done to prevent them from breaking down
completely. To such sufferers I say, Don’t fail into th.e hands of, Q iaeka don t submit
to the knife —don’t pay enormous sums to so-called specialists for , medicines electric belts, etc.
Mv perfect simple device will CURE YOU EASILY, Permanently, and Quickly, without
inconvenience or loss of time. Send for Treatise No. 15-posted 2 stamps.
Surgeon LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.
129 Collins St., Melbourne; and at 177 Liverpool St., Sydney.
-An
*8
■rs.
SMOKE
The Unrivalled
World Renownec
BRIAR
PIPES
LARGEST DEPOT :
231 Clarence St,
SYDNEY.
i
The TJniyersal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour 1 Eructations, Bilious Aftection*.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDSI
AGNESI A i
ibl
PAY WHEN CURED
sdfg
' We want everybody suffering from Rheumatism,
Lumbago, Dyspepsia, Varicocele, Nervousness, Weak Back,
Liver, Kidney or Stomach Troubles, or from any weaknesses
of vital organs, to try our Latest Improved High Grade
Belt, Free.
5,000 FREE !
We have just completed our Medical Treatise, “Electro
Neuro Therapy,” a copy of which we will send free, prepaid,
to all writing us. It is invaluable to every weak man and
woman. It is fully illustrated, and can be had for the asking.
A post card will do. Write for it to-day.
No Cure, No Pay.
We will cure you free if you will let us, and if we fail it
will cost you nothing. You can have our latest Improved
Belt on Trial Free. One does for eight persons. If you need
treatment write to us, and we will send you this splendid new
Belt. Free on trial. We want every weak man and woman
to write us to-day. Delay no longer, as we can cure you free.
The Dr.
4
J. fl. Austin Electric Co.
ELIZABETH STREET, fIELBOURNE, VIC,
(Dept. M
SORE
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORE AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYELASHES-
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES.
INI EVER FAIL-3.
Ask your Chemist for the Little Book:
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
CURED
SOME BOOKS
SOLD
BY
SIR ROBERT!
I
home cyclopedia
BMBRACnm
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FKEE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain.language, a thou-
sand questions that.occur: to the minds of joung- and old, but .about
which they feel a'delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted ,to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
ria&e, which makes it a superior eruide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1903 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Book lop Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated with over 50 engravings,
3s 6d posted. Magic Up-Tq-Date, Easy Conjuring
Tricks for Beginners,' illustrated. Is posted! Ned
Donelly’s Art of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40
engravings, Is. How to Dance, Is ; post, Is 3d. How
to Wrestle, Is ; post, Is 2d. Moi.i. Flanders, a rare
book by De Foe, Is 3d posted. Tailoring for
Amateurs, Is ; post, Is 2d. Zola’s Nana, etc., 2s
each posted. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Little Folks’
Reciter, Popular Reciter, Humorous Dialogue
Book, 0d each ; posted, Bd. Nigger Stump Speeches,
Is. Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Me-
chanic’s Workshop Handybook, is 3d. Dog Keeping,
Is 3d. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is; post, Is 3d: Tije Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, ill us., Is. Beauty’s
post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d. How to
Make Love, Is 6d. Fowler’s Science of Life, 10s 6d.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Giiide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Nat Gould’s
Sportin& Novels, 2s edition for Is 9d, post paid, any
of them. Will Power (Personal Magnetism), Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d posted.
Chiniquys Priest, Woman,.and the Confessional,
Is 6d posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry', 3s 9d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-fitting, etc., Is. 3d.
.post, .Oow to. Play Billiards, illustrated, is. post.
That Rascal Gustave, Is. ; post Is. 3d. Camille, Is.
post.. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning
and Repairing, Is. 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is.
Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Horse and Cattle-Doctor,
Is. Poultry Keeping, Is. posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Everyman His-Own Builder, : Is 3d. Every
Man- His Own;" Carpenter* Is. Jd. CReady Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is 3d ; post Is 6d. Letter
Writer Up-to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts,
Public Speaking Made Kasx, Is posted.. Kelly Gang
of Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is'3d. Model Plays and Dialogues, Is; post - Is 3d.
Inquirer’s Oracle: Wiiat to do and How to doit,
3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self Instructor r Every Man
His Own Schoolmaster, Is pasted. Cabinet Makers
"Handybook, Is 3d. Cabinet Making for. Amateurs,
illustrated, 3s 6d post. Resurrection, Bd. posted.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. pT" Established %0 Years.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK
CAN BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
4
Write for my
BIG
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
Sent Any\vhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
How to Make up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is.
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. ; post, Is. 3d.
Sappho, genuine, Is. Advice to Women, Is. ; post,
15..3d. _. Dr. Milford’s Midwife’s Handbook, 92 prac-
tical illustrations, 2s. 6d. ; Aristotle, 3s. 6d. Clog
Dancing Made Easy, Is. Practical Palmistry, Is.
Love and Parentage, Bd. Secret History Court of
England, Is. 3d. post. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is.
Photography for Amateurs, Is. Morgan’s Free-
masonry, Is. 3d. post. Latest'SONg Books, 3d., 6d.,
and Is. Tokology, 7s 6d. post. Voltaire’s Ro-
mances, 2s. Ingersoll’s Works, js. Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards, Love, Business, Futurity, etc., with
full directions, Is. posted. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), is. 6d. posted. Chf.vasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s. 6d. posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is. 3d. post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s. each posted.
Sappho, is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s. 6d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is. 2d. posted. The Slide Rule and How to Use It,
Is. 6d. post. 100 New Recitations 'and Readings,
is. 3d. Nervousness and Its Cure, Is. 2d. posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus., leather hound, my price, 15s. post paid.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Me-
chanic, 1010 pages, cloth bound, 10s. 6d. posted. The
Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is. 3d. 200 Old-Time
Songs (words and music complete), Is. 6d. posted.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted, Is. 3d.
Wanxax's Engine Driver’s Guide, ss. 6d. posted:
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney
NOTICE
To sufferersfrom Gout, Rheumatism. Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdestre & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efl&cacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman'S NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B. —Insist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstre & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
HAYMAN’S
If you have a Cough or Cold
HAYMAN’S BALSAM WILL CURE IT.
BALSAM
Gives Rest and Sleep. Pleasant to
take. Invaluable in the Nursery.
Sold by all
CHEMISTS
and STORES.
CURES.
Engine maxi’s master key. -ah subjects
relating to Examinations for Certificates of Lorn-
latency in all the States. 365, Pagres, 106 illustrations :
6s. 6d. posted, bv L. F. R. SCHNABEL, Con“iiltin.s;
Knjrineer, 413 Baurke-street', Melbourne. Also CO -EN
Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney.
THE BULLETIN STOEY BOOK
Price, 4s. Gd.


sd
I Colds often hang on.
You try this thing and
that thing, every kind
of home remedy and
cheap cough mixtures,
and yet your cold con-
tinues to hang on.
You must not deal
lightly with these old
colds. You must get
rid of them just as
soon as possible. You
must take something to
break their hold.
Ayers
Cherry Pectoral
soothes irritable throats, heals inflamed
bronchial tubes, and quiets congestion
in the lungs. This is why it so quickly
controls these old coughs and pre-
vents pneumonia and consumption.
“I was troubled with a very hard
cough which I could not get rid of.
When I read of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
I sent to Johannesburg and procured
a bottle. It completely cured me, and I
have many comrades here who have had
hard coughs cured in the same way. ”
Wm. Sessions, Company C, Second Royal
Berks. Reg., Net’s Spruit, Transvaal, S. Africa.
There are many substitutes and imi-
tations. Beware of them! Be sure
you get Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral.
Two sizes. Large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
Cockroaches!
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦
BUFFON’S
COCKROACH . . .
EXTERMINATOR
Clears houses of these pests very quickly.
Has been used for many years with
great success.
To be obtained of all Chemists.
BOSISTO’S
“Parrot Brand”
Eucalyptus Oil
For Rheumatism, Sprains, Bruises,
Wounds, Coughs, Colds and
Sore Throats.
CAUTION.—Ask for Bosisto’s
PARROT BRAND,
and Beware of Imitations.
"I'll Try It.”
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
(apillarine
Posted (under cover
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
The Result.
CRAIG <&, AITKEN, N.S •W. Barber’s Supply
House, 680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Self* Inking Rubber Stamp
Pen & Pencil Combined, with any name in first-class
fg
style,
1/0
RUBBER post free.
made to order in any style. Send rough
sketch, and we will send you our Reduced
Price. PHILLIPS & CO.,
(Successors to Gardiner & Cool), Rubber Stamp
Manufacturers, 91 Market St., Sydney.
IF YOU WANT IT
** >CET IT WITH A
sdfg
SEND FOR
CATALOGUE
OF AIL DEALERS OR
KODAK L TD2^« s N f r
me'Ntiow this paper <9
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Heralds of tho Dvrk.
There never was so bright,
So brave a summer day,
But in its heart of light
A secret shadow lay.
When from this southern world
Night gees, ere one may mark,
In gullies deep, close-furled
She leaves ht r banner dark.
Day comes with joy or grief,
The sun keeps royal state ;
But ’neath each shining leaf.
Night’s hidden heralds wait.
The sun in splendor shires
On valley and on hill ;
In deep heart of the pines
The shadows linger still.
Tall trees a-swoon with charms,
And dreams of golden light,
Eastward stretch sable arms
In welcome to the Night.
N.S.W.
VICTOR J. DALEY.
Our Inlands.
The Lord hath touched our Inlands,
For the grass is growing green,
And the naked now is clothed,
And the slave is turned a queen.
Long the cattle lowed for water
And the sheep fell down and died ;
And a cruel sword-blade, reddened,
Fell and slew on every side,
Till the noontide and the wide night
Were a time of sobs and moans,
And the green plain grew a grey p’ain
Patched with little piles of bones.
But the Lord hath touched our Inlands,
And the weaklings rise and walk,
And the rivers chant in triumph,
And the creeks begin to talk.
And the red sword slays no longer,
For the red sword is at rest;
And the West is full of wonder
At the greenness of the West.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Mademoiselle.
Spring with her rosy lip,
Pressed by her finger down,
Peeped o’er the ranges’ tip
Into the smouldering town;
Rain gleamed on all the streets,
Snow where the gullies fell
Sheer from the mountain seak—
Hearts lifted like a bell,
Mademoiselle!
Surely she comes at last!
Winter is dead and graved,
Clouds with her funeral passed
When the black branches waved,
Moaning to icy breath
For her sad passing bell—
Spring waves her hair and saith,
“Wake all that love me well,”
Mademoiselle!
When you came o’er the street
Darkness and cold had fled,
There, where your skirted feet
Skimmed, all the heavens shed
Round me delicious airs:
Oh ! all the wattle fell
On you in golden stairs;
Yes ! you were Spring, ma belle
Mademoiselle!
M.L.
HUBERT CHURCH.
Bianca.
Come down, come down, Bianca sweet,
My heart knocks at the gate ;
O, swift as swallows be your feet
To me, importunate.
The sun .'a sunken in the wood,
The busy, thrumming bees
Across the river’s shining flood
Are sk oping in the trees.
The bat flits o’er the stony brook,
The white moth on the wall
Seeks for his mate. A drowsy rook
Gives out a frightened call.
Deep, deep, the night grows ever deep,
Her purple folds fall down ;
They lap about the yarded sleep
And hide the twinkling town.
Come down, come down, Bianca sweet,
My heart knocks at the gate ;
O, swift as swallows be your feet
To me, importunate.
Hark ! from the moon’s high minaret
There rings the silver bell
(Faint in the starry Infinite)
Of sweet Saint Philomel.
N.S.W.
HUGH R. M'CRAE.
Lyric Wine.
Oh, would that I could pour
My song, like wine, into a golden bowl,
Whence thought might sup for evermore,
While hearts have power to feel and eyes to see,
The drink divine of poesy,
The nectar of tie soul !
A bowl of lyric wine,
Whence men may quench their thirst, and come
again,
I’d leave, like a desire divine
Rarer than an elixir to impart
Intoxication to the heart,
And rapture to the brain !
So would my song outlast
Time and Decay, the passion, pith and power
Of all things mortal, as they passed :
As from its vital beauty all men drew
A subtle sweetness, ever new
As perfume in a flower.
n.s.w.
E. CRAWFORD.
LOSS of VOICE
Sore ThroaT
Bronchitis
Influenza
Cctrecl with
ONNINCTONS
Carrageen or
I RISH MOSS
Larqe and Small BpttleS.
sdf
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 10a
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-sb.,
SYDNEY.
(2F Send for a
Catalogue.
gsd
fg
(dent Shaft Sulkies,
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE t«
buyers of Light Vehicles,
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, i3o Sussex St., Sydney
Straight Shaft 3-Spring Sulkies, £Blos.
Sarven Sulky Wheels Tyred, £2 4s 6d pair.
Discount to Wholesale Buyers. Send for Catalogue.
\ M /
H.F. SMITH
BRISBANE
*
21/-
21/-
YOU WANT^»
A Good Timekeeper
at a Reasonable Price.
HERE IT IS!!
A Solid Silver Keyless
Hunting Watch
Warranted 2 Years.
Posted Free to any part of
Australasia—
-21/-
Send for my New Catalogue—FßEE
H. F. SMITH,
Queensland Leading Jeweller, QUEEN ST*, BRISBANE.
IPSWICH and TOOWOOMBA.
£
:
“NEW RIVAL”
Loaded Shotgun Cartridges*
Good powder and shot, carefully ana
scientifically loaded in the best of cases,
make Winchester “New Rival” Black
Powder Shotgun Cartridges the most re-
liable and satisfactory on the market.
A trial will convince you of their super-
iority. Be sure and get the Winchester
“New Rival” brand next time you buy.
SHOOT THEM AND SHOOT WELL
Our Stock of WINCHESTER GOODS
Is unequalled in the Commonwealth. Catalogues Free.
PERRY BROS, - -
HARDWARE MERCHANTS.
QOEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
HEALTH GIVING,
ENO’S
COOLING, ‘FRUIT REFRESHING,
AND INVIGORATING. salt:
THERE IS NO DOUBT THAT where it has been
taken in the earliest stages of a disease, it has, in
innumerable instances, PREVENTED what would other-
wise have been a SERIOUS ILLNESS.
CAUTION.—See Capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT/ Without It you have a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. 0. ENO, Ltd., ‘ FRUIT SALT’ WORKS. LONDON, HNGK.
by J. 0. ENO S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere.


GOUT
PILLS.
F°R GOUT,
RHEUMATISM.
SCIATICA.
LUMBAGO.
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Phout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.
Hypnotism
<9
Reader, why not be able to nee the
most mysterious and powerful force of
nature? By my method you cau learn
to Hypnotize in a few hours time, with-
out leaving your borne. You can per-
form all the many marvellous feats
that are possible to the Hypnotist.'
Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
i conquer pain ; win reluctant affection,
I gratify your ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I have
just issued in book form a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or Key to
Hypnotism, -which fully explain*
the mysteries and secrets
of the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the kind
ever published. For a short
time I wiil send this magnifi-
cent work FREE, sealed on
receipt of 6d. (stamps) to cover
postage. Order to-day and learn
to Hypnotize. It is a chance of,
a life-time. Address—
i
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
sdf
MEN
If
you
are
• suffering from
11 exhaustion, Vari-
cocele, Wasting,
Weakness, enclose 6 stamps (postage and
packing), and I will send a trial bottle of my
REMEDY, FREE.
IT COSTS YOU NOTHING
to try my Life Syrup Remedies, which
give back strength of body and brain, renewed
vigor, and development of the vital organs;
not a free prescription dodge, but a trial of
my wonderful remedy free for the asking.
PROFESSOR H. READ,
16JLC.ohj.ns street, Melbourne.
<t
o
«n®o
“Bo:
u
m
<
DCS
anO
THE ROAD
TO HEALTH IS
PAVED WITH
GOOD
DIGESTION.
fceedily cares Acidity, Flatulence, Heartburn,
Impure Breath, Indigestion, Diarrhcua, &c. It
destroys all disease germs, and,absorbing all impuri-
ties in the stomach and bowels,gives a healthy tone
totha whole system. Wards off all attaoks of Typhoid
and other Feyers. Prevents many an illness.
BRAGG’S PURE CHARCOAL POWDER in
Bottles; LOZENGES and BISCUITS in Tins
(pleasant to take). Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
Having had complaints of the injury done by other
preparations,please see that each Bottle or Tin bears
the Trade Mark’J.L.B., in monogram, 'on the wrapper.
OF INTEREST to MEN
TvEAR SIR, —I have been cured of weakness and De-
bilitv by a simple ..ud inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to
Mr. ROBERT E. PARKHURSI,
Vss=Pitt street, Sydney.
THE BALLET GIEL
gsd
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is
The Life, Adventures
and Confesssions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Pros, is.
lend stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties.
Madame Panza,
BOX 913. G.P.O.. SYDNEY.
Refreshing and Agreeable.
CALVERT’S
•- CARBOLIC
TOILEToSOAP.
A pleasant Antiseptic Soap (containing ic%
pure Carbolic Acid). Should be need regularly
to improve the ekin and complexion and prevent
infection. - .
F. C, CALVERT ft Co., Manchester, Eng.
OLEAG cures ECZEMA
AND ALL SKIN
DISEASES.
Discoverer—Christopher Mudd, F.L.S., F.R G.S.. M.B. Ph.s., L. Botanist to the King of England
during His Majesty’s Indian tour.
STOPS THE INTENSE ITCHING. BRINCS OUT THE DISEASE.
IS NOT A CREASE. USED IN MELBOURNE HOSPITALS.
Testimonials from sufferers Skin Specialists failed to cure. Advice Free-Personal or by Letter,
Price— 2/6, 4/6, 15/-. Postage extra. All Chemists and Storekeepers.
Hordern’s, Foy’s, Pattinson’s, Lasseter’s, Grace Bros. Depots— Horwitz, Pitt Street, and
Elliott Bros. Ltd. Chief Depot— F. J. E. Phillips, 317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
SAVE YOUR HAIR
With Shampoos of Cuticura Soap
and Light Dressings
of Cuticura.
This treatment at once stops falling hair,
removes crusts, scales, and dandruff, soothes
irritated, itching surfaces, stimulates hair folli-
cles, supplies the roots with energy and nourish-
ment, and makes the hair grow upon a sweet,
wholesome, healthy scalp when all else fails.
MILLIONS USE CUTICURA SOAP
Assisted by Cuticura Ointment, for preserving, purifying, and beautify-
ing the skin, for cleansing the scalp of crusts, scales, and dandruff, and the
stopping of falling hair, for softening, whitening, and soothing red, rough,
and sore hands, for baby rashes, itchings, and chafings, in the form of baths
for annoying irritations and inflammations, or too free or offensive perspi-
ration, and for all the purposes of the toilet, as well as by millions of women
in the form of washes for ulcerative weaknesses, and many sanative, antisep-
tic purposes which readily suggest themselves to women and mothers.
COMPLETE TREATMENT FOR EVERY HUMOUR,
Consisting of Cuticura Soap, to cleanse the skin of crusts and scales, and soften the
thickened cuticle; Cuticura Ointment, to instantly allay itching, inflammation, and
irritation, and soothe and heal; and Cuticura Resolvent Pills, to cool and cleanse the
blood. A Single Set is often sufficient to cure the most torturing, disfiguring, itching,
burning, and scaly skin, scalp, and blood humours, with loss of hair, when ail else fails.
Sold throughout the world. Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co., Sydney. British Depot:
27-28, Charterhouse Sq., London. French Depot: 5 Rue de la Palx, Paris. Potter Drug
and Chem. Corf., Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT PILLS
(Chocolate Coated) are a new, tasteless,
odourless, economical substitute for the cele-
brated liquid Cuticura Resolvent, as well as for all other blood purifiers and humour
cures. Put up in screw-cap pocket vials, containing 60 doses. Cuticura Pills are
alterative, antiseptic, tonic, digestive, and the purest, sweetest, most successful and
economical of blood and skin purifiers, humour cures, and tonic-digestives.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £.900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO E)EJJ?Y COMiJPJESTITIOJXr.
WINES tk ‘ SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS. CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
A NOVEL PRESENT.^^
ON receipt of P. 0.0. or M.O. for 5/- we will forward to
any address in Australia one of our Handsome
9ct. Gold-filled Round Wire Brooches, with
either Bell, Heart, Anchor or Cross Pendant, guaranteed
the same quality as brooch ; and without pendant, 3/6.
In 15ct. G.F. Twisted Wire, 8/6 ; without pendant. 6/6.
Illustrated Catalogues sent Free. All letters carefully
addressed to R. SIMS, Gold Wire King:, Cole's
Book Arcade, Melbourne, Vic.
fg
“ ACTS LIKE A CHARM.”
JONES’
Rheumaticuro
The great South African Remedy
NEVER FAILS TO CORE
Gout, Rheumatism,
Rheumatic Gout, Lumbago,
Sciatica and Neuralgia.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
28. 9d. PER BOTTLE
SOLE PROPRIETORS —
THE RHEUMATICURO CO.,
Cape Town,
and 29 Niagara Lane, Melbourne
EVERY WOMAN
sdf
is interested and should know
about the wonderful
Marvel Whirling Spray
The new FEMALE SYRINGE
Injection and Suction. The best,
safest and most convenient.
lt Cleanses Instantly.
If your druggist cannot
supply the MARVEL,
accept no other, but write us for
Illustrated Book, sent free
sealed. It gives price by mail,
particulars and directions invalu-
able to ladies, ’ Xudoi'sed by Physicians.
Times Building, N.Y.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS-
THE MARVEL CO. OF AUSTRALIA,
CAMDEN BUILDING,
418 George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
LADY SPECIALIST IN ATTENDANCE
Postal Address, Box 623, G.P.0., Sydney.
Write for Booklet. Sent free, sealed.
morris's
IMPERIAL
.EYE,
OINTMEHt
CURES
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Fop Asthmatic people who suffer from
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault’s Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest.
OR.IMAULT & Co., Parle. Sold by >ll Chemists.
WILL ANDRADE'S u» BOOKS
gsd
BOOK OF NATURE and Il-
lustrated Marriage Guide
by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated
with over 50 engravings,
Ss 6d, posted. Magic
Up-to-Datk, Easy Conjur-
ing Tricks for Beginners,
illustrated, Is. Horse and
Cattle Doctor, 6d. Ned
Donelly’s Art of Boxing,
new enlarged edition, 40
engravings, Is. Astrology,
6d. How to Dance, Is ;
post Is 3d. Howto Wrestle,
9d &Is 3d. Moll Flanders,
a rare book by De Foe, Is
3d posted. Tailoring for
Amateurs, Is. Zola’s Nana, etc., 2s each posted.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite Reciter,
Is each. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist, latest
edition, 3s 6d. Little Folks’ Reciter, Popular
Reciter, Humorous Dialogue Book, 6d each.
Nigger Stump Speeches, Is ; post, Is 3d. All Nat
Gould’s Novels, 6d each, posted Bd. Mystic Oracle,
6d. Phrenology Madb Easy, 6d. House Painting
and Papering, Is 3d. Dog Keeping, Is 3d; post, Is 6d.
My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is Bd. Georgette,
Is; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Blacksmith’s Work, Is Bd. All The Bulletin series.
How to Write Signs, Tickets and Posters, Is 3d.
Staining, Varnishing and Polishing Wood, Is 3d.
Electric Bells, 1/3. Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3.
How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is.
Metal-working for Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing,
Gas-fitting, etc., Is 3d. How to Play Billiards,
illustrated, Is. That Rascal Gustave, Is ; post Is
3d. Camille, Is. Big Value Premium Budget, 6d.
How to Vamp on Piano, Is ; post Is 3d. Piano
Tuning and Repairing, Is 3d ; post Is 6d. Modern
Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Great
Book of Wonders, Secrets, and Mysteries, Is.
Picture Frame Making, Is 3d. Poultry Keeping, Is,
Is 6d and ss; posted. Parlor Magic, Is. Dream
Book and Fortune Teller, Is, 2s and 3s posted.
Every Man His Own Builder, Is 3d ; post Is 6d.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready
Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, Is ; posted Is
2d. Australian Doctor, cures for all diseases,
Is 3d; post Is 6d. Letter Writer Up-to-Date, Is.
Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking Made
Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, Is ; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of 'Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post Is 3d.
Model Plays and Dialogues, Is ; post Is 3d.
Enquirer’s Oracle : What to do and How to do it,
3000 subjects, Is 3d ; post Is 6d. Self Instructor :
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, Is. Cabinet
Maker’s Handybook, Is 6d. Cabinet Making for
Amateurs, illustrated, 3s 6d; post, 4s.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage
by Old Pro, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is ; post
Is 3d. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, Twentieth
Century edition, very latest, 1248 pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, Is 6d. Dynamos and Electric Motors, 1/3.
Advice to Women, Is ; post, Is 3d. Dr. Milford’s
Midwive’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d;
post, 2s lOd. Aristotle, 3s 6d. Cloo Dancing Made
Easy, Is. Practical Palmistry, 3d, Is, and Is 6d.
Love and Parentage, Bd. Secret History Court of
England, Is 3d, post. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is.
Photography for Amateurs, 6d, Is, and Is 3d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry, Is 3d post. Latest Song
Books, 3d, 6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Webster’s Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s post.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s. Age of Reason, Is 3d.
Ingersoll’s Works, 6d, Is, 2s 6d, and 6s 6d. \V annan’s
Engine Driver, 6s 6d. Rockliff’s Engineer, 4s 6d.
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Zingara Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love,
Business, Futurity, etc., with full directions, Is;
posted, Is 3d. Building Model Boats, Is 3d.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do. Free
catalogues :—No. 1: Plays, Reciters, Make-up, etc.
No. 2: Conjuring Apparatus and Books. No. 3:
French Novels in English. No. 4: Books for Pre-
sents. No 5 : Useful and Mechanical Books. No. 6:
Books for the Married. No. 7: Advanced Literature.
508 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE VICTORIA MARKETS)
AND
201 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE.
JAYNE’S EXPECTORANT
CURES THE WOR.STCOUGHS.


A Lesson Worth Learning.
Hsepatitis and Dyspeptic Misery.
“A BLESSING TO WORK & LIVE.”
The Case of
Mrs. B. EAGAR.
(For the Redfern Times.)
It is impossible to read the following
statement of the condition of things de-
scribed by Mrs. Bertha Eagar, of No. 145
Walker-street, Redfern, without being
struck by certain phases and facts in her re-
cital. Carrying her memory back eleven
years, Mrs. Eagar said :
“ It is that length of time since I was re-
leased from a complaint of such great ob-
stinacy that there was every reason to think
I would never be the same woman again.
Why I say this is because my sufferings ex-
tended over a period of six months or
more, and half that time I was under the
care of a doctor.”
“What complaint was he treating you
for ? ” asked our reporter,
“My ailments were as numerous as they
were difficult to cope with, but I am of
opinion that they were occasioned by v dis-
eased state of my liver. Be that as it may,
I know that indigestion was one of the prin-
cipal features of my illness, and I became so
seriously affected by it that before long I
was a completely helpless invalid. When I
had been taking medicines prescribed by my
physician till I knew it was useless to drink
any more I did not know what to do next,
for I was so feeble that I could not walk
across the floor. It seemed a cruel thing to
throw so much money away, and waste so
much time for nothing, but when people are
ill, you know, they will spend their last
penny, if necessary, in buying things which
they expect to do them good. And that is
the very reason why I consider it my duty
to divulge to all mankind the fact that it
was only through using Clements Tonic at
the eleventh hour that my awful sufferings
were checked. Through reading a kindly-
disposed person’s testimonial I started tak-
ing it, and ever since those words appeared
before me I have regarded them with as
much respect as though they had consti-
tuted a message from an angel above. When
I come to consider how much agony I en-
dured I am devoutly thankful that the right
remedy came at last.”
“ Was it after eating that you felt so
ill ? ” .
“ Well, if you like to call it eating, it
was, but my appetite was so very quickly
appeased that I could not take even a
moderate meal. Two or three mouthfuls of
light diet were always enough, and then the
most unmerciful pains in the chest started.
Had you beheld my anguish you would have
been moved, as the suffocating sensations in-
duced such desperate efforts to get my
breath that an onlooker would have feared
I was going to choke. A fearful state of
weakness was brought about, and I was
compelled to lie down the greater part of
the day, my household duties, of course,
being out of the question so far as I was
concerned. A dreadful aching pain settled
across my brow, as if its mission was to
destroy all the pleasures in life, and it cer-
tainly succeeded, for I felt cheerless and
careworn beyond expression. This state of
things was bad enough in the day time, but
when I hid to go through the same horrors
it night, for the want of sleep, my sorrowful
condition can be imagined. Gradually the
Hesh wasted off my bones, and in the mean-
time my skin changed to a pallid hue, while
the weaker I got the more my limbs ached.
My lips and hands were as white as if my
flood had turned to water, aud when I
•aised my head I became quite giddy. If I
tried to walk upstairs I felt so dazed that I
•ould not go two steps alone, a strange mist
flso appearing before my eyes, which nearly
lways felt swollen and weak, as if I were
offering from a severe cold. Acute pains
■truck me between my shoulder-blades, too,
while the aches across my loins were as pain-
ful as they could be. My mouth was never
free from a taste as bitter as gall, and there
was a sticky substance over my tongue
which I could never wash off, these two ad-
verse elements combined making me con-
tinually feel sick.”
“How did your nervou* system bear up
against all this ? ”
“ Very well for a time, and then my
nerves gave way quite suddenly 3 The least
excitement produced a fit of trembling, my
mind also being agitated on the slightest
provocation. But, so far as that goes, my
brain always seemed to be in a restless state,
for if I got an hour or two’s doze, it in-
variably meant that I had some kind of ugly
dream, the recollection of which frightened
me on awaking.”
“ You certainly had very little comfort in
life at that time, Mrs, Eagar,,'’
“There was really nothing left for me to
live for, and the melancholy thoughts with
which I was seized through my heart pal-
pitating very badly made me heartily sick
and tired of everything ; but when I read
about Clements Tonic I thought I might at
least get a little better if I tried it, and I
think my present appearance speaks for it-
self. When my recovery began it was by
acquiring an appetite through the use of
Clements Tonic, and already that medicine
had done me more service than all the other
decoctions put together, because there was
an inward sense of comfort after my food
which told me that digestion was being pro-
perly performed. Ido not wish you to be-
lieve that this wonderful amount of relief
came instantly, because such a thing, con-
sidering the plight I was in, would be im-
possible, but it was certainly the speedy and
direct result of taking Clements Tonic, and,
moreover, I was soon sufficiently eased from
headaches and pains to admit of sound
sleep helping me towards the goal I desired
to reach. The medicine I was taking suited
my complaints splendidly, as the fearful
pains in my chest diminished as each dose
of Clements Tonic was taken, while flatu-
lence and giddiness were remedied quite
mysteriously. Drowsiness and despondency
were wafted away by the medicine, which
was likewise bracing together my shattered
nerves, and its regulating powers had a
beneficial effect which I have enjoyed up to
the present day My skju soon became
clear and bright, which®showed that
Clements Tonic had a more powerful in-
fluence over my blood than any physic I had
hitherto purchased, and the unpleasant taste
was altogether removed from my mouth. It
did not take a great deal of Clements Tonic
to rid me of those wearying aches which had
come upon me through excessive weakness,
and when they were gone there was nothing
to stop me from doing my housework with
as much activity and cheerfulness a 3 ev< r.
Indeed, it was a blessing to work and live,
for before my last bottle of Clements Tonic
was finished I was well and sound in every
respect, and not one of my old ailments has
troubled me since. A lesson like mine
should be taught all invalids, so you can
publish these words in any way you
choose.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Bertha Eagar, of 145 Walker-street, Redfern,
in tha State of New South Wales, Com-
monwealth of Australia, do solemnly and
sincerely declare that I have carefully read
the annexed document, consisting of four
folios, and consecutively numbered from one
to four, and that it contains and is a true
and faithful account of my illness and
cure by Clements Tonic; and also contains
my full permission to publish in any way my
statements—which I give voluntarily, without
receiving any payment; and I make this solemn
declaration conscientiously believing the same to be
true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oatlia
Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Redfern, this twenty-
ninth day of March, one thousand nine hundred
and two, before me,
A. MOLES, J.P.
S. FREEMAN + SONS L!*"E2
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES;
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMANS PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAP OFFICE
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK
CLOTH, 300 PAGES.
BY SIXTY BULLETIN WRITERS. PRICE, 4s. 6d.
From all Booksellers, or the Publishers,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 214 Georye-st., Sydney, Australia.
fob THE STJBHW&HfBBB
am
-Bu/c
A SOOTHING BALM and EMBROCATION. Will be found
A a CERTAIN CURE for Cuts Burns, Boils, Barcoo,
Eczema, Sprains, Ringworm, Sore Feet, Piles all
forms of Skin Disease or . MuB ® ul *iC„^ ff ®?*l o p n T B A ®*Sj
From all Chemists, 1/6 per Tin. A t REE SAMPLE will
be sent you. Address the
ZAM- BU K CO., 39 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Enclose Penny Stamp for postage, and mention this paper.
JJOTICE TO MEC.BOURNB VISITOR^
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
Henry Skinner,
01arendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 10/tS.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Bails
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCiSI© PLOOKS
of various sizes (tupitliiGcti'
TRY ' **
*i
JBesL
FOOD
Satisfying. Sticngfliffnlal S’aofiil n 1 far Infamfs:
abr<r. Jslg£siible,
A&SffS SO# SVM£K,
SAYERS ALIPORT & POTTER
ridge's food mills. London. ea*.
DEBILITATED
WEAK, NERVOUS SUFFERER. Let us sei«fycnr a
trial course of our CONCENTRATED BOTANIC
REMEDIES FREE OF CHARGE. You will be more
than pleased with the result, and you will show your
appreciation of our valuable treatment by persevering
in its use for a few weeks until you are PERMANENTLY
CURED. ‘ Address—
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
DRUNK
ENNESS
CURED
Absolutely Conquered in 20 Days.
See my proposition to the Government*
November 8th, 1901, wherein I agree ta>
accept ioo Test Cases* and prove that my
Vegetable Cure for Alcoholism is a positive
and reliable remedy Home treatment
■within the r&ich of all. No restrictions, n<j
hypodermic injections. Full particulars fre*.
W. LANGSTON, M.R.C.S.. Eng.,
129 Collins-st M Melbourne.
FREE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by that justly-
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST,
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.
S'X'IDIEriE'X’-
USB, *
SPOONER’S
m
SPOONERS
V
*
*
(ATENT LEATHER BOOia
'GLAZED RIOS **?
»>•••*M* H* «M«
<«• »*•
4»WHU
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and 13.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing tor
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottlt), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Eto.
, Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
“ They come as a boon and a blessing to men,
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen."
THE WAVERLEV PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEN made by Macniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
separately examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
|£gT- BEWARE OP IMITATIONS. ~9(U
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.,
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAM
Wore a Torture
BELT.
SUFFERED TERRIBLE AGONY.
From wearing an Electric Belt
charged by the use of
SULPHURIC TIC ID.
Mr. W, Folley, Alfred Woollen Mills,
Williamstown, Vic., writing to tlie Dr.
McLaughlin Electric Belt Co., tells how he
was scarred and burned by the use of a
Free Belt, which he had erroneously
been led to believe was as good as theirs.
He paid £\ for the Free Belt because
he had been convinced that by paying
this cash price he was obtaining a similar
appliance to Dr. McLaughlin’s Famous
rejuvenator which has gained WORED
Wide fame as a Curative Agent. It goes
to show how misleading are advertise-
ments which seem to offer something for
nothing.
Gentlemen —In answer to your kind in-
quiries after my health, I beg to state that
I have been completely cured of the Scia-
tica that has troubled me for years. I .
cannot thank you enough for your gentle-
manly treatment and fair dealing with your
patients, as I know from others that their
treatment has been the same as mine.
I may just as well let you know my ex-
perience in seeking a cure for my trouble
before I purchased one of your High Grade
Belts. I had been under doctors and re-
ceived scant relief; and also tried various
quacks, but it was all the same. I then
placed myself in the hands of a Specialist
(in Melbourne) guaranteed to cure Rheu-
matism and Sciatica, but received very
small benefit from the treatment. I then
had my attention drawn to Electricity.
Well, I thought, “ Never venture, never
win,” so I PROCURED first of all a Belt
for £i and was very much disappointed
because I was informed that it was neces-
sary to take a long and exceedingly ex-
pensive course of drug treatment. I would
not do this and then I wrote for, and ob-
tained a so-called Free Belt, with a
most “ Wonderful Pedigree,” at a cost of
£ 4. I wore the Belt according to the in-
structions given faithfully for a period of
five weeks, and by that time I was Burnt
and Blistered so badly that I could not
wear it longer, and still no relief was
gained, although the Belt was guaranteed
to Cure Anything in Sciatica in One
Month. You bet I was very much dis-
couraged in regard to Electric Belts.
However, I was persuaded to come and
jnst see you, gentlemen. I then found
that I had been wearing a Torture Belt
and very Wrongly Applied, and quite
enough to give and patient a Horror of
so-called Electric Belts. After the con-
sultation I decided to place myself in your
hands. I knew my case was very diffi-
cult, as I was compelled to follow my em-
ployment, and standing at the vice was
irksome, arid the complaint was a very
stubborn one. However, gentlemen, your
Belt, coupled with your advice, has made
me a grateful patient. I thank you kindly
for supplying me with a remedy which has
Completely Cured Me, and strongly recom-
mend it to all and sundry that I find are
suffering from the distressing malady
called “ Sciatica.”
I have not been wearing the Belt for the
past fortnight, but have passed it over to
my wife, who has received great benefit
for nervous troubles.
I remain, your grateful patient,
W. FOLLEY
30 Days’
Free T rial.
TjiVERY Weak, Nervous, and Enfeebled Man or
Woman will find ELECTRICITY as supplied by our
Perfected and Patented ELECTRO-GALVANIC BELT
a wonderful restorative to robust health and vigor.
TEST IT, FREE OF CHARGE. We ask the readers of
this paper to remember that this offer is made by a firm
with twenty-five years’ reputation in Australia.
We desire that every sufferer should wear this mar-
vellous Belt and test its healing virtues for thirty days,
as we are certain that it will cure, and that the wearer
after the month’s trial will then prefer to keep rather
than return the Belt. Do not miss this opportunity to
regain your Health, for Health mean Wealth, Health
and Strength means Happiness in mind and body.
Enjoy a full measure of life by being strong and robust
to a vigorous old age.
Remember, we give a WRITTEN GUARANTEE with
each Electric Belt that it will permanently cure you. If
it does not we will promptly return the full amount paid.
Send for our ELECTRIC ERA and Price List (post free),
explaining our different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also TESTIMONY, which will convince the most sceptical.
Address: Electric Appliance Company
DEPT. H.,
63 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.


BBMESST’S
MIIDY.
Ask for
Hennessy’s BrancTy
the Standard
of Purity
Throughout
the World.
BOTTLED IN CQGim
fgs
HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and two minutes from
entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
Tariff, 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments may be
secured separately by the day from 3s. and upwards.
Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted on applies
lion to The Manager.
King Marine Oil Engines.
2\ to 500 H.P. 1903 MODELS.
Estimates given for Fitting Cargo Boats, Tug Boats, Fishing Boats and Trawlers, Auxiliary
Power or Pleasure Boats. Vessels of all sizes built and fully equipped.
PUMPING PLANTS. REFRIGERATING PLANTS. COLD STORAGE for F.shing Boats.
Information and Prices furnished by—
j. f. mcdermott & co ♦ , 30 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Factory Agents for Australia and the South Seas.
CAMEO CIGARETTES
A BEAUTIFUL FABRIC,
THE
lOUis’ Velveteen.
NOTE WELL!—Each Yard of Genuine “LOUIS” Velveteen
bears the name (spelled and in no other
way) and is stamped with a guarantee of wear.
iiffl
m
AARONS
Exchange Hotel Co->
SYDNEY.
The system of paying for Room only an
Meals as required is adopted here.
£3 3s. per Week
9s. per Day
W. W. AIKEN, Manager,
30 Years in the Establishment.
GORDON MARE, Secretary-
vl
CHEERING NEWS
For Owners of “Premo” Cameras.
The new daylight-loading Flat
Film Packs can now be adapted
to any “Premo” Camera.
Each Pack contains 12 E: t a Rapid Cut Films, non-curling
and isochromatic. No dark room necessary for changing.
THOUSANDS OF NEW MOULDED EDISON RECORDS,
just landed. Also COLUHBIAN DISC QRAPHOPHONES,
and HYfINS and SHORT STORIES for
the LANTERN.
PR
/q?/ Sydney.
**/ Melbourne
Adelaide.
V£-\ Brisbane.
\6">v >
Vs>rrV
“ AUSTRAL ” DRY PLATES frish from the Factory every few days.
The Baker & Rouse Proprietary Ltd.
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at MELBOURNE, ADELAI >E, and BRISBANE.
To Smokers of High Class Mixture.
WILLS' 8 “VlflF.-MSfiAT.’’ MIXTURE
(Registered.)
Choice Blend of High Class and Carefully Selected TOBACCO.
Packed only in patent air-tight tins.
Manufactured in two strengths—Medium and Full.
Price, Is. per 2oz. Tin.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vou 24,—N0. 1234.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 8, 1908.
Prioe 6d.
Extracts from report of a women's political
meeting (Sydney)
The Chairman : I think the discussion might be
allowed to go on uninterruptedly.
Mrs. Hamilton Grey : You Parliamentary
humbugs !
The Chairman : Order, order.
Mrs. Hamilton Grey (excitedly) : You and your
policemen.
Mr. Levy : Mr. Chairman, she’s got no right to
interrupt the meeting like this.
Mrs. Hamilton Grey : Oh, I’ll go. I don’t
want to stay here.
The Chairman : I must protect these speakers.
Mrs. Hamilton Grey (excitedly): You miserable
coward to go and talk about me as you did. (Dis-
order.)
Mrs. Hamilton Grey then got up, and with a
parting shot at the chairman, left the hall. Mr.
Levy was being asked by the chairman and others
to continue his remarks, when a second lady got
up and attacked the chairman.
Several gentlemen rose, and attempted to calm
the lady, and others spoke about “ women’s rights
with a vengeance,” but the lady continued to talk
excitedly at the chairman for some seconds, and
then left the room. A third lady now rose and
went out, and, quietness being restored, Mr. Lew
proceeded with his address. —Daily paper.
THE NEW WOMAN: WANTED, THE NEW POLICEMAN.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the Australians.”
rYhifed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverjey, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance, .only)
rev Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 0
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
ROT ICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin frosted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques,-Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary communications to be addressed to the Editor.
Special Notice.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number, is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing Uvo columns in length, or, say, SOOO words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in lilaclc and White.
' Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa — Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown;
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal ; Solomon
and Wilson, S 3 Ilout St., Capetown; Solomon and
Wilson, Commissioners Street, Johannesburg ; Granger
Bros,, Johannesburg ; Isaacs and Co., Durban ; Argus
Printing Co., Rhodesia; Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
Ceylon .—Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver
B.C.
Hong Kono. —Brewer and Co., 33 Queens Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai.— Brewer and Co.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 8, 1903.
The Financial Rottenness of N.S.W.
New South Wales, per medium of Treasurer
Waddell, has issued its balance-sheet. It is that
gentleman’s third attempt, he having become
Treasurer early in 1901. He has foretold three
surpluses and has realised two serious deficits;
probably when the present financial year ends he
will arrive at his third deficit, and thereby make
things (beautiful and symmetrical all round.
Already, with only three months of the year gone,
the deficit is £160,000 more than it was at the
same period of last year, and as last year (when
Treasurer Waddell promised a surplus) turned
out badly, the chances are that this year (when
Treasurer Waddell promises a surplus) will turn
out a vast deal worse. The hopelessness of
Treasurer Waddell, and of the futile Ministry to
which he belongs, seems to be a thing which can
be relied upon at all times.
* * * *
A large feature in the calculations of every
State Treasurer is the amount which is to be
returned to him by the Australian Government
out of its customs and excise collections. The
Australian Government is pledged to return to
the States three-fourths of the tariff revenue,
though under George Turner’s careful manage-
ment it returns much more. In the present case
Turner calculates that he will be able to pay to
N.S.W. £2,564,000, and he ought to know. The
State Treasurer manufactures his paper surplus of
£33,000 by adding £236,000 on to this and assum-
ing that Turner will hand him back £2,800,000.
Any kind of a paper surplus can be manufactured
in that way. The chances are that the surplus
will “ fall in ” badly. Last year N.S.W. borrowed
an enormous amount of money in England, and
through the artificial abundance thus created, it
was able to import 1 irgely—therefore its customs
revenue was larger than was expected. It can’t
borrow so much in England this year, because
England isn’t looking kindly on Australian loans.
Therefore imports will be less ; customs revenue
will be less, and the good old surplus will almost
certainly go the way of its unborn predecessors.
Even if the revenue comes up to what Treasurer
Waddell says he expects, the invariable item of
“ unforeseen expenditure ” will far more than
absorb the anticipated credit balance of £33,000.
A State that has .had seventeen deficits in 23 years
should begin to take some more serious precautions
and to leave a larger margin.
* * * *
Last year N.S.W. produced the largest revenue
in all its history, and it was relieved of more than
£1, 000,000 of what used to be State, but is now
Federal, expendituie ; yet the excuse given for the
appearance of another large shortage is- that,
owing to the drought, “the revenue suffered by
many hundreds of thousands of pounds.” It
didn’t suffer in comparison with any previous
year ; apparently the excuse is that, though it was
the largest revenue on record, it was smaller than
some imaginaryamount that the Treasurer thought
it might have readied if there had been no
drought, just as a giant may be a very small man
in comparison with the man he might have been if
he had been a very much larger man. For an
explanation in which impudence gets perilously
near to straight-out falsehood this takes a high
place. The N.S.W. public debt is now about
£81,000,000, and the See-Owe’Sullivan-Waddell
Government hopes to borrow a lot more
when the money market improves The
Treasurer says that the Government ought
not to spend loan money on non-productive
works, and that if it hadn’t been for the good old
drought (and for the fact, presumably, that the
Government had the largest revenue on record*
and was'relieved of over £1,000,000 of expenditure)
it would have inaugurated a system of paying for
non-productive works out of land revenue. It is
hardly possible that a single sane individual in
the community will believe this incredible tale.
' If the See Government couldn’t commence its
financial reform in the year when the revenue
broke all past records, it is hardly likely that it
ever will commence it. And, though it is alleged
now that the See Government had intended to do
this thing (by which allegation the See Govern-
ment takes credit for the corpse of the good
intentions that were never seen alive), that
Government never made the slightest arrange-
ment for doing anything of the kind. Also,
it makes no arrangement now, after having
received and spent the most abnormally large
revenue on record, it only promises to commence
paying for non-productive works out of revenue
when the revenue becomes normal The combined
silliness and insolence of that promise are so
wonderful as to be almost magnificent There is
something in establishing a record -even a record
for incapacity.
* * * *
In the course of a long and bewildering state
ment, the N.S.W. Treasurer put forth many
strange apologies for the financial condition of the
State. One of them was to the effect that, if
Great Britain had built its railways, tramways,
water and sewerage works, &c., as Government
enterprises, and had borrowed all the money
required, and had never repaid any of the money
thus borrowed, Great Britain would owe about as
much per head as N.S.W. does; therefore there
is nothing wrong with N.S.W. That is to say
that N.S.W. has enjoyed and spent, with no
public works to show for it, such a magnificent land
revenue as, in proportion to population, no other
country in the world possesses, while Britain has
had practically no land revenue; N.S.W has had no
costly wars as Britain has; and the best that can be
said for N.S.W. is that, with its land revenue to
spend, and without wars to pay for, it is as badly
off as Britain would be if Britain was as badly-
managed as N.S.W. is Also the See Govern-
ment’s financier pointed out that because the
United Kingdom, after the hideously expensive
Napoleonic wars, owed £45 per inhabitant and set
to work resolutely to pay it off, therefore the posi-
tion of N.S.W. —owing £57 per inhabitant and
always getting deeper in debt, and with its great
public lands asset diminishing every year, and
with no attempt to pay off anything—is perfectly
satisfactory. An infant school could hardly pro-
vide anything more childish
* * • •
Furthermore, the gaudy Treasureris inordinately
proud of the fact that his Government borrowed
abroad instead of locally sc as to increase the
State’s dependence on foreign money-lenders, and
to increase the great absentee curse, and to add to
the amount of money that must be annually
exported in the way of interest. He assures the
public that the railways, as they wear out, will
double in value, so it is quite needless to pay for
them. He explains that the drought relief works
(which were paid for out of loans) are a good and
sufficient reason why the ordinary expenditure
(which didn’t include drought relief works) ex-
ceeded the income. He also explains that N.S.W.
is a great, rich country and not heavily taxed, and
the fact that it is lightly taxed seems to be a
reason for not putting on sufficient extra taxation
to enable the State to pay for its odd jobs and
repairs out of revenue instead of making them
a permanent burden upon posterity. Also, times
being hard, it is proposed to cut down
the road vote to £450,000 (when there was much
less road to keep in order it ran as high as
£800,000) and thus let the highways go to wreck.
This is almost the only piece of economy proposed
up to now.
* • • »
So far as the financial year has gone, the expendi-
ture has increased enormously as compared with
la3t year, and Treasurer Waddell’s estimates are
based on a large decrease Also, they are based
on the assumption that there will be no unforeseen
expenditure. The decrease is to be effected
despite the fact that the interest bill is greatly
enlarged, and that there is a new outlay of £74,000
for Civil Service pensions. The old, iniquitous
policy of charging unproductive expenditure to
loans is to be continued —the Government says it is
wrong, but that makes very little difference to this
kind of Government. The taxation is light, but
.the See Government prefers to do wrong rather
than increase it. It proposes to gc on borrowing
on a huge scale; the proposed loan expenditure
this year is £1,600,000 on public works and jobs
and patches and repairs, and perhaps £1,000,000
more on land resumptions There is not a word
in the financial programme about a sinking fund,
or a graduated land-tax to break up large estates;
the See Government’s only idea in the way of
breaking up large estates is to float loans for re-
purchase purposes. There is no proposal for an
absentee-tax; the See Government is insanely
proud of the fact that it has sedulously increased
the absentee curse by doing its borrowings, when-
ever possible, in England. Above all, there is a
blank, hopeless, childish incapacity—or pretence
of incapacity—to recognise that there is anything
wrong.
* * * *
N.S.W. has received and spent £50,000,000 of
land revenue—half of it proceeds of land sales —
for which it has nothing to show. It has also
built up, in 40 years, without any serious war,
almost as large an unproductive debt per head as
Britain did in 200 years of campaigning, and it is
adding constant deficits and great masses of further
non-productive expenditure to that debt, while
Britain is reducing its liability. For three years in
succession N.S.W. has had the biggest revenue
on record —the result mostly of a fictitious pros-
perity built on foreign loans—and it has been
relieved by the Commonwealth of an immense
amount of expenditure, yet, even after charging
almost all its unproductive works tc loans, it
hasn’t once made ends meet, or anything
like meet. And all this financial chaos evokes
hardly one sincere protest. There are protests
certainly, but they come from the people who
want-to put Joey Carruthers into office, and the
party which Carruthers represents borrows,
and charges the unproductive work to loan funds,
and heaps up deficits, just like the party which
See represents. Of genuine, honest protest there
is practically none. A rotten Government says
that the present ruinous condition of things is a
matter for warm congratulation A Legislature
of the same type is so used to such things
that it doesn’t see anything remarkable about the
statement. A community which appears about
as rotten as the rest of the proceedings, sees
nothing remarkable either. And a rotten daily
press cordially applauds—that is to say, the
Star applauds when the See crowd does
this sort of thing, and the other three
Sydney dailies applaud w_Len the Gai>»
EUTHERS crowd does it. It is customary to
strike an attitude of shocked virtue when the
possibility of default is mentioned, and to ask who
dare say this awful thing about an English-
speaking community, Yet not only default, but
straight-out repudiation looks quite possible in a
community which tolerates such a disgrace as the
financial doings of the See Government, and
which tolerated those of Reid and M’Millan. A
community which has got down into such a sink
of political degradation has no right to put on airs.
Buying Back Our IOU from Bull.
It becomes more and more probable that Victoria
is likely to “fall in’’after an alarming fashion
when it renews its £5,000,000 loan at the end of
this year. Four years ago that State floated a 3
per cent, loan in London at something over £95
for each £lOO of stock. Now its 3 per cent,
securities are selling in London at about £B6,
and seem to be still on the down-grade; yet
even they are not the worst samples—at time
of writing N.S.W, 3 per cent, securities have
slumped in the Bull market to £B5 and a
fraction. If Victoria put a 3 per cent, loan
of £5,000,000 on the London market to-day, it
would probably have to take something not much
above £BO, which means that it would have
to owe £6,000,000 in order to renew a loan
of £5,000,000. In order to float its loan at
par it would almost certainly have to offer
4 per cent., which is a sorrowful thing to think of
and not by any means what the public expected.
It isn’t wholly Victoria’s fault that these things
have happened. That State has not borrowed very
much of late. But the lavish borrowing of other
States has made Australian credit smell with a
lamentable odor in London; moreover, London
isn’t too well off for ready cash just now even if
Australia’s credit gave off a very different financial
perfume.
, * » *
The great loan policy has landed the Australian
States in this weird dilemma. They are pledged
to repay in London, at fixed dates, immense sums
which, while their present policy lasts, they have
no hope of repaying except by borrowing the
money over again in London. That is the only
foreign market where we are known, and there we
begin to be known altogether too well. There
is certainly far more actual cash in Paris
than in London, but to go to the market where
we are not known, on the ground that the market
where we are known doesn’t think the security
good enough, isn’t a hopeful prospect. If a State
in the present position of Victoria has to strike
the London market when London is hard up it
may have to pay 4 per cent. ; if it is driven there
by a similar dire necessity when the London
market is still harder up it may have to pay 5 or 6
per cent Hard economy, hard Kyabramming,
even abstention from new loans have all done no
good ; if one Australian State goes on a mighty
loan-burst as N.S.W. has just done, the event is
described as “Australian” extravagance and
Australian securities go down all round. The
Irvine Government has done every mean thing a
Governmentcoulddoto reassure the British money-
lender, and the only result is the worst slump
in its securities that has been known for very
many years. The faked surplus, the atrocious
Coercion Bill, the sacking of engine-drivers, the
starving of old age pensioners, the roars of Bent
—all have been to no purpose.
• * * *
Unless Australia is to take the risk of spending
the next 50 years or more in a state of sleepless
terror lest Bull won’t renew the next loan, it is
necessary to lay out a definite policy, the object
of which will be to make Australia its own public
creditor Even if Australia decided that all
future loans should be made repayable, after the
British fashion, only at this country’s option, still
there are debts falling due at fixed dates until past
1930, and Australia’s hair will be grey with anxiety
before then. Therefore the objects to which this
country should devote itself are these three :
(1) To swear off all further borrowing.
(2) To establish a sinking fund, however small, for the
reduction of the existing debt.
(3) To convert the existing debt from a foreign into a
local liability, so that Australia will only have its own
people to argue with at renewal time, and not the remote
and unreliable Bull whose money market is always being
turned up on end by European political complications.
» » * »
There is nothing absurd, nothing impossible,
nothing even difficult, about making Australia its
own creditor, and buying back by degrees from
Bull in London the £200,000,000 of Australian
securities - which he is so tired of holding—or
buying back as much of them as he will part
with at a reasonable price, and taking the
rest up locally when the renewal comes
round. It is only a matter of importing
a little less. In one recent year, for instance,
the Commonwealth bought from outside
countries goods to the value of £42,000,000, which
is about its average. If the imports were cut
down by a rigid,Protectionist tariff to £30,000,000
while exports were kept up to about the present
average, Australia would have vastly more work
for its own people, and would have £12,000,000
more every year to enable it to leave off borrow-
ing, pay its interest bill in cash, and start the
repurchase of its securities. The last item would
not mean paying off the public debt, but it would
mean gradually replacing the British creditor by a
local creditor, who would be a much more manage-
able individual. A considerable amount would
be available for the repurchase of our foreign
securities ; it would only be necessary to see that
it was so applied It would be practically a case
of compelling Australian institutions to invest in
the public securities of their own country—in
other words, it would be a compulsory loan pro-
cess. This would doubtless be called “an outrage
on the liberty of the subject,” which would merely
go to show how curiously the public mind runs
in a groove ; to compulsorily borrow the people’s
money at 3| per cent, is not so bad an outrage
as to compulsorily take the people’s money
in taxation at nothing at all per cent., yet that
latter outrage is unavoidable—in fact, it doesn’t
happen nearly often enough.
* * * *
Therefore, it is proposed that, in addition to
the abolition of borrowing, in addition to the
establishment of a small sinking fund for the
reduction of the Public Debt, and in addition to
the_ adoption of the Canadian banking system
with its State note issue, every Australian com-
pany or society carrying on business for purposes
of gain (including The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
Limited) should be compelled to carry, say, 10 per
cent, of its profits to a reserve fund, and invest
the amount in Government securities so long as
they are obtainable at par or below it. It could
carry to its reserve as much more as it pleased,
and invest the surplus anyhow it pleased, but that
10 per cent, would, under this plan, be a fixture
so long as the institution lasted and there were any
public securities available on the terms specified.
The results would be numerous. A steady process
of repurchasing our IO U from Bull would set in.
A .arge number of companies would have to tem-
porarily reduce their dividends—and many of them
which are paying larger dividends than they can
afford would be glad of an excuse to do so. A large
number of companies which never had sense
enough to build up adequate reserves would have
to do so, and would gain immensely in stability by
the process. A multitude of institutions whose
reserves are now invested in shaky securities
would then begin to have real reserves. There
would be only a fraction of the risk of a general
bank breakage that there is now ; dividends would
be to some extent kept down, and reserves would
be kept up. And in a few years the income
derived from these compulsory reserves would
enable the dividends to be put up again. A
lengthy period under this system would supply
Australia with the most solid setof financial insti-
tutions in the world.
**♦ \ *
It would, of course, be a necessarj T part of the
bargain that when these loans fell dde the Govern-
ment would not force down interest rates to an
unduly low figure, and thus take advantage of the
fact that the financial institutions must needs
renew whether so inclined or not. If they were
guaranteed 3£ per cent, on renewal of the loans it
would probably be fair dealing. So far as the ever-
increasing proportion of the public debt that would
thus be held locally was concerned, the State
would be saved all the risk, worry and expense
attached to ordinary renewals. And 'even'if the
3£ per C9nt. was at any time above the market
value of money, it is cheaper to pay ourselves 3£
per cent, than to pay another person per cent.
By this process Australia would gradually get
free from the necessity of exporting £7,000,000 a
year in interest on its public debt—always pro-
vided that, by a heavy absentee-tax, it prevented
its financial institutions falling bodily into foreign
hands. It would gradually get rid of its oppres-
sive foreign debt. It would build up its financial
institutions on a large and solid basis. And as to
the outrage on the liberty of the subject, the
subject would get used to that.
• * * *
Of course, if Australia is to go on buying im-
ported goods on the present absurdly large scale,
such a scheme would be impossible. The gold we
dig out and the merchandise we sell abroad are
not sufficient even now to pay for our imports and
also to pay interest on our foreign liabilities—if it
were not for further foreign borrowings, Australia
would be compelled either to import much less or
to go insolvent. If foreign borrowing ceased, im-
ports would have to be reduced in order to keep
the country solvent —and through that reduction
in imports there would be so much the more work
for Australian artisans. If the State devoted a
small sum every year to a sinking fund for the
repayment of the public debt, imports would have,
to be still further reduced —and there would be all
the more work for Australian artisans. If, in:
addition, part of the profits of banks, insurance
institutions and companies had to be devoted to
the repurchase of public securities and were thus-
locked up instead of going into circulation and
being spent, it would necessitate a still further,
reduction in imports—and again there would be
more work for the Australian artisan. Nothing-
can be done in the way of financial reform unless
Australia is prepared to sacrifice a little of its
absurd and ridiculous luxury in the way of
imports—it can’t either cease foreign borrowing,
or pay its interest bill honestly out of its own
earnings, or reduce its foreign debt, unless it cuts
down imports. It can’t even find work for its
people unless it cuts down imports and gives them
a chance to manufacture instead. The yearning
to buy more foreign goods per head than any
other country on earth, and thus to make a ridi-
culous display of what the morning paper calls
our “ purchasing power,” is at the bottom of
almost all Australia’s financial woes.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Mr. See’s Hysterics.
Probably the most violent example of male
hysteria that N.S.W. Assembly has seen for ten
years past was furnished last week by Premier
See and Lands Minister Crick —principally the
former. The London Times has a correspondent
in Sydney—said to be someone on the literary
staff of the S. M. Herald —and this gentleman
cabled to the Times some details of the See
Government’s finances. Among other things he
stated that last year’s deficit was added to the
public debt, and it was this insult which made
Premier See roar. W ords are hardly strong
enough to explain how he roared. The bray
of the wild ass in Persia wasn’t a circum-
stance by comparison; . if reason had been
wobbling on its throne the excitement could
hardly have been more terrible. “The most out-
rageous statement ever made by any public
journal in this State,’’ “contemptible,” “traitor,”
“ handing over our interests to the enemy,”
“ ought to be shot,” “ absolutely untrue,” “ with-
out shadow of foundation.” were only a few of
the stodgy epithets that rained on the House 1 ' like
the remains of a dynamited gentleman who "was
coming down in fragments. It was a terrible
stream of language—and yet every sane and sober
man who knew anything of figures, and who
wasn’t driven frantic by his own shouts and
excitement, was aware that every word that the
Times said was literally and obviously true. All
the hysteria and mock heroics on earth couldn’t
alter itone iota. The N.S.W. public debt consists
of everything that N'.S.W. owes in its capacity
as a State—inscribed stock, debentures, Treasury
bills, overdrafts, and all other liabilities. N.S.W.,
on 30th June, when the financial year closed, had,
by its Treasurer's own showing, a deficit for
that year of over £171,000. It hasn’t paid that out
of revenue, for since June it has spent £496,000
more than it received. Therefore, last year’s
deficit is in the public debt. There is no other
place for it to be in ; it isn’t in the coal-scuttle, or
the candle-box, or the lunatic asylum, and it must
be somewhere. Premier See himself didn’t say it
was up the chimney, nor did he give any coherent
explanation whatever; he simply raged and
whirled things round his head. Affairs were bad
enough before, but, by adding to them the spec-
tacle of a Premier who thinks the country can
owe money without the liability being part of its
debt, they haven’t been improved.
♦
The Dirty Employer.
The Westralian Parliament is engaged on a
Shops and Factories Bill, which Premier James
supported with a powerful argument when he
tabled the Central Board of Health’s report on 77
factories and workrooms in Perth and Fremantle.
Report is an interesting document, as showing the
callous carelessness of capital towards humanity
when not forced into decency by Act of Parlia-
ment and police-court prosecutions. The hours
of work and the wages (which are controlled by the
Early Closing and Conciliation and Arbitration
Acts) are reported satisfactory. No reliable data
as to overtime ig available. (There are no in-
spectors under tlm Early Closing Act, police being
responsible for this duty.) As to cleanliness:


“The conditions surrounding work-rooms are in
too many cases a matter of entire indifference to
and neglected by employers ” The report gives
some nauseating details of foodstuffs handled by
dirty workers and prepared in filthy premises.
“Lack of sanitary conveniences affords no
incentive to employees to cleanly habits
when proprietors themselves are so in-
different to ordinary methods of decency.
Some details: In 90 per cent, of factories ventila-
tion is insufficient; 20 per cent., as now occupied,
are very injurious to health. In 75 per cent, of
workrooms there is no provision for fire. Sanitary
accommodation is disgraceful, except in rare
instances. Sometimes there is none at all. Out
of the 77 factories examined, 68 fall far short of
the lavatory minimum of the Victorian Act. The
publication of this report brought an injured wail,
from the local Chamber of Manufacturers, which
was “considerably surprised,” and snorted —“We
cannot see how a Factories Act can have the
effect of remedying the matters objected to in the
report.” An energetic inspector, with authority
to prosecute under the Act, might astonish these
manufacturers. One Dunlop, president of afore-
said Chamber, says, in face, of the report, that the
assertion that fresh legislation is necessary is “utter
nonsense.” Any expenditure on provision for the
health and safety of workers is always “ utter
nonsense ” from the Tory employer’s view point.
Dunlop further contends that manufacturers are
enduring a burden of over-legislation which they
cannot carry much longer, and asserts that similar
legislation has driven the manufacturers out. of
Victoria—which statement has a fine impressive
sound until compared with statistics which prove
Dunlop to be as unreliable as the faked-invoice
importer, for manufactures are growing in Vic--
toriaas they never grew in the old dirty days.
The report should be sufficient evidence to con-
vince even the House of Property of the necessity
for legislation.
The Shadow of Cold Tea.
A Maoriland correspondent:— 1
I am quite satisfied that National Prohibition is inevit-
able in this country, and that before many years. We
have had four polls since the passing of the Alcoholic
Liquors Sale Act in 1893, and the No-License vote has
gained steadily all the time, until last November there
were,majorities for No-License in 34 electorates, and,
although the three-fifths majority necessary to carry
No-License was obtained in six districts only, the
Reduction issue was carried wherever there, was
a majority for No-License. Now, in my opinion,
Buno and Co. do not realise the ultimate sig-
nificance involved in carrying Reduction. It means
that the vested interest in the maintenance of “ the
trade ” is diminished, for, as the law stands, it is not pos- .
sible to increase the number of licenses. Every hotel
closed, therefore, means a reduction of Bung’s fighting
forces. Then, while the number of hotels is steadily de-
creasing, the voters are increasing, and nearly all the
new voters are Maoriland born, the great majority of
whom will vote No-License. The census shows that
there are in this State 103,000 people between 15 and 21
years old. These will all be entitled to vote at the poll
after next—that is, at the election of 1908, subject, of
course, to a small decrease by death and other causes ;
and fully two-thirds will “ erase the top line.” That cer-
tainly spells all-round prohibition, and I wonder why
Bung and Co. don’t realise the fact. But, shrewd as he
is in business matters, Bung is in many ways an ass.
Just now he is pinning his faith to the amending
licensing legislation which Premier Seddon has promised.
But not even Seddon, popular man that he is, can hope
to get Parliament to lengthen the interval between the
polls; provide compensation for publicans; or abolish
elective committees—all of which things Bung would like
to obtain. Parliament can’t oppose public opinion, and
public opinion is not with Bung to anything like the same
extent as formerly. In view of all the facts, therefore,
I hereby pronounce Prohibition to be as inevitable as
Death in Maoriland, and, seeing that the State gets
£600,000 and the local governing bodies £53,000 in
revenue from drink, we must soon consider our financial
position.
»
Dealing With an Upper House.
Tasmanian Premier Propsting, having trouble
with the Legislative Council of that State last
week, proposed the old, foolish remedy of dis-
solving the Assembly. The Governor, with more
sense than constitutional propriety, vetoed the
suggestion. Otherwise it would have been carried
into effect, and by way of punishing the Upper
House, which does not represent; the voters, the
Lower House, which does, would have been sub-
jected to the monetary and other loss of a disso-
lution. When the general election was over,
things would be just as they were, and everybody
knew that, only there is a political habit of pre-
tending that things would be different. The
Upper House would be made aware, through the
election, of the opinion of the people—just as much
aware as it was before, and no more aware. It
might bow to that opinion, just as it might have
done before, and it might snap its fingers at it.
The dissolution of an Assembly, in case of an
acute disagreement with a Council, under the
legislative systems of the Australian States, is
only a good expedient when the Assembly pro-
poses some novel measure, on which the voice of
the people has not been heard, and the Council
rejects that measure on the plea that the voters
do not wish for it. An appeal to the people is then
a natural method of putting the question to the
proof. But there is no sense at all in a dissolution
of the Assembly when the question at issue is one
upon which the people have already voted and upon
which their opinion is quite clear and recent. If
a dog bites a man, the mail doesn’t kick himself ;
he kicks the dog. At least he tries to, if he has
any sense. But it is almost established as a con-
stitutional precedent that when a Legislative
Council kicks an Assembly the Assembly
should promptly kick itself with a dissolution.
There seems to be some sort of a vague and
shadowy idea that that is the best way to put fear
into the hearts of the Council. But there is no
logical reason why it should. The spectacle of a
man kicking himself viciously doesn’t scare away
a savage dog as a rule, and the natural attitude of
a Leg. Council, when it sees the Assembly
dissolving itself, is to urge it to keep on at
that game as long as it pleases. The Councillors
pay none of the expenses, and it is none of their
funeral. When a democratic Premier, who knows
his business, encounters an obstructive Legislative
Council, he will not dissolve the popular Chamber,
but the Council—and that finally. Obstruction
on the part of any one of those farcical excrescences
on our constitutional system inflicted upon Aus-
tralia in slavish imitation of English conditions
should be met with a Bill for its abolition. The
passage of such a measure might be secured either
by a contemptuous provision for generous old age
pensions for the ex-Councillors, or by tacking
the measure on to an Appropriation Bill, and
throwing upon the Upper House the respon-
sibility of hanging up the business of the
country, stopping the pay of the public servants,
and preventing all the wheels from going around,
until it was ready to pass the Bill. That method
was tried in England long ago to overcome the
opposition of the House of Lords to an Irish Land
Bill, and the Lords promptly decided to give way.
It.is an awful responsibility for a House which is
mcjstly rich and fat and old and can’t run from
daaiger—that of stopping the wheels of Govern-
ment and sending .the police force out on strike,
and bringing about a condition of things in which
every elderly citizen must defend his property as
best he can with his own brolly. But a Council is
not at all alarmed by the Assembly dissolving
itself —especially as the Assembly can t dissolve
on its door-step and be an unpleasant corpse on
its premises.
The Slump in Kyabram.
A Victorian pressman writes: —
Kyabram with the mask dropped and its leprous vjsage
exposed is too strong a “ joint” even for Irvine, and the
Toorak election has provided him With the opportunity
to break with the Reform crowd before it drags him down
with ifcs own failure. It is not generally known that
Kyabram had no more to do with starting the so*
called Reform movement than Croajingalong. The
Kj'abram shire council, like every other tinpot body of
the sort in Victoria, received a circular from a Melbourne
sharebroker, asking it to take up a harmless-looking lot
of suggestions regarding economical government, and
Kyabram happening to be the first council that met after
the receipt of the circular, it grabbed all the glory, and
had its little local nonentities boomed for the nonce into
full-blown statesmen by the leg-pulling metropolitan
press. The original Kyabram proposals were such
(on paper) as the most advanced democrat could
hardly object to, and the mass of the Victorian
people, knowing nothing of the true inwardness of
the show, swallowed it for what it pretended to be..
The result was that members of Parliament who had
strongly ridiculed the movement had to effect rapid con-
versions, and the still, cool, calm, immutable. Irvine had
to crawl down to the Kyabramites. But, during the past
year, Kyabram has been gradually revealing.itself. Its
success has made id careless and confident in its own
immortality. The last annual conference coolly threw
aside the original economy ideas, and devoted itself
mainly to attacking progressive legislation, and howling
for the lavish expenditure of public money around its
own farms, and the last few weeks have seen
Kyabram and the Employers’ Federation so closely
associated as to indicate that they are merely
different forms of the same body. When Duncan Gillies
died, Kyabram and the Government arranged to choose a
joint candidate for Toorak on a subsequent date; but,
before that date arrived, the League, calmly ignoring
Irvine and the arrangement, held a meeting and picked
one Fairbairn. Another of the candidates, barrister
Bryant, declined to accept this method of choosing the
Tory representative, alleging that Kyabram had packed
the meeting that chose Fairbairn with new members of
the League at a shilling a head, and that the League had
supplied the “ bob.” The League side retaliated, and
when Tories fall out the people have some chance of
getting the truth. Meanwhile, the flouted Irvine
surged in his Ministerial room. There are some things
that even a still, calm, strong Premier cannot stand, and,
after three day's’ consideration, Irvine decided that he
could not endure G. W. S. Dean rolling him over in the
mud and rubbing it in. Accordingly Irvine has cast the
Government support for Bryant, which is the very best
news that the Vic. Democracy has had for many a day.
If Bryant and Fairbairn split the Tory vote effectually,
the Democratic candidate will get in, administering a
nasty jolt to the Tory party in both its forms. If Bryant
is returned, it will mean that Kyabram is practically
dead, and the influence of its unburied remains at the
Victorian Federal elections will be nil. If Fairbairn is
returned, it will mean the triumph of Kyabram, but the
utter discomfiture of Irvine. Whatever happens there
will be something about which to sound the loud timbrel
and lift up the voice in glee.
The Gambling 1 Curse and the Importing
Curse. .
The S.M. Herald, talking to the Christian
Endeavor Convention, expresses horror at the
discovery that, in one year alone, Sydney’s metro-
politan, area spends the enormous sum of four
millions sterling in gambling. “ Can a community
like ours, ” it asks, 1 ‘ afford to get rid of anything
approaching so large a proportion of its annual
earnings in this way?” Yet the S.M. Herald
never turns a hair at the thought that this com-
munity is, in a far more real sense, “getting rid
of” over 16 millions a year by importing from
foreign countries goods most of which it
could produce for itself. .At the worst the
money spent in gambling is not lost; it only
passes from one Australian to another; and
the waste is comparatively little. A few pro-
fessional gamblers spend their time at the
unproductive business, but the number is small;
by far the greater number of those who “get rid
of ” the four millions are producers, who work as
hard as if they didn’t gamble at all, and probably,
in a good many cases, have to work harder. On
the other hand, the Foreign-trade insanity, which
has the S. M. Herald’s cordial support, involves
a real getting rid of money. It isn’t a mere local
passing round of the money; it is the who’esale
exportation of it, in the shape either of bullion or
of other goods. It involves the employment of
foreign workmen, while our workmen are idle ; it
takes the bread out of the mouths of our own
people to put it into the mouths of people with
whom we have no special concern; while gambling,
useless and foolish as it is, amounts, at the worst,
to taking the bread out of the mouths of some of
our own people and putting it into the mouths of
others of our own people. And, as for the few
non-producers who live on the game, they can’t
be compared, in either number or rapacity, to the
non-producers who live on the importing game ;
for the importer is just as much a parasite on the
community as the professional gambler is.
Further, the gambling evil, bad as it is, is com-
paratively trivial beside the importing evil,
because nobody need gamble unless he
wishes to. But when a country gets the
importing disease, as the result of the per-
sistent scattering of poison by the S.M. Herald
and others, the workman can’t help himself. He
sees the bread that ought to be his going to feed
the foreigner, and he has to see his wife and chil-
dren hungry, and think as kindly as he can of the
S.M. Herald, the author to a great extent of the
mischief. There is, in fact, hardly one bad feature
in connection with gambling which does not exist
in a worse form in connection with the foreign
importing disease; and there are a' dozen bad
features in connection with importing of which
gambling is innocent. And still the poor old
Herald is so blind that it can see only the evils
and the horrors of the thing that hasn’t half so
many evils and isn’t half so horrible as the other
fhing.
Tasmania’s Stolen Land.
Tasmanian Premier Propsting’s proposals for an
amended land-tax were:—
Where the assessed value is under £5OOO, a tax of one
half-penny in the pound sterling; £5OOO and under
£15,000, five-eighths of a penny; £15,000 and under
£35,000, three-farthings; £35,000 and under £60,000,
seven-eighths of a penny ; £60,000 and under £85,000, one
penny ; £85,000 and under £llO,OOO, one penny and one-
eighth of a penny ; £llO,OOO and under £135,000, one
penny and one farthing ; £135,000 and under £160,000,
one penny and one-halfpenny ; £160,000 and under
£185,00(5, one penny and three farthings; £185,000 and
over, two pence.
Where the owner of any land is an absentee, the tax
shall be at double the above rates.
By an easy compromise in committee, Propsting
made it “£60,000 and under £135,000, one penny ;
£135,000 and over, one penny half-penny.” That
knocked a lot of the burden off the big land-
grabber. Then Patterson, leader of the Oppo-
sition, moved that the absentee be only made to
pay an increased tax of 25 per cent, instead of 100
percent. The proposal as it stood, said Patterson,
was simply confiscation. Patterson and his
fellow clubmen are not particular what is con-
fiscated, so long as the sacrecl absentee is not
interfered with. As the bulk of Yandemonian
politicians, including the new “ democrats,” are of
Patterson’s opinion, his amendment was agreed
to on the voices, PropsTTNG himself taking hisgruel
with unmistakeable enjoyment. In this way a lot
more of the burden was lifted off the big land-
stealer. So even if the House of Dodery comes
to some arrangement in the end, the big. land-
stealer won’t be suppressed to any very grievous
extent, nor will the sacred absentee be especially
ill-used. Propsting’s democracy fizzles-out with
amazing readiness on occasion.
+
Victorian Lunacy “Reform.”
There are not many good points, and a lot of bad
ones, iii the new Victorian Lunacy Bill framed by
the Iceberg Irvine Government. The proposed
Lunacy Board of five members is an utter farce ;
it is to have no more powers than the Official
Visitors have under the existing law. The 1
Inspector-General is in future to be a man drawing
£1250 a year, instead of, as at present, £800; and
the staffs of the various lunatic asylums are to be
placed under his direct control. This simply
means that, instead of the Public Service Com-
missioner dealing with the staffs, the Inspector-
General will do so in the same way as the Com-
missioner formerly did. Elaborate provisions are
made for the establishment of receiving houses,
but receiving houses are provided for in the present
law —the only trouble has been that the Govern-
ment, in its anxiety to avoid a land tax, wouldn’t
provide the money to build them. Lunatics have
no votes, so nobody has worried any Government
sufficiently to make it move in the matter.
As a bare, bald fact, the only reform wanted in
Victorian lunacy matters is more money—money
to provide better accommodation, money to pro-
vide better attendance and medical treatment,
money to prevent lunatics being crowded three in
a bed with one cheap, tired, inexperienced person
to look after 100 or 200 of them, and with one lava-
tory to 150 of them. An Inspector-General won’t
make things any better unless the sordid, callous
Government will supply the funds. But supplying
the funds is something like hard work, and there is
more glory to be got out of new legislation, so the
Iceberg crowd, which lives on shams, has just
manufactured another interesting make-believe.
The worst provision in the Bill is one giving
private enterprise a free rein in matters lunatic.
The Bill allows the Chief Secretary to license
persons to keep houses for the insane, and the
number of lunatics to each house is unlimited. In
fact, the Iceberg measure proposes to re-establish
on a large scale the system of the private mad-
house, in which the person who had “friends”
interested in his removal used to be deposited, and
where the keeper’s interests lie in retaining his
prisoner so long as the money for his keep is
forthcoming. These private mad-houses are
to be “inspectedsomebody is to dodder
round perfunctorily at stated intervals. Curi-
ously enough, the old private lunatic asylums in
England were also inspected regularly, and the
amount of torture, murder, and callous neglect
which the weary, formal inspectors contrived
never to discover was almost incredible. The
Irvine Government has such a habit of going
back to the dark ages for its ideas that the re-
establishment of torture may be proposed ere long.
Torture as a means of crime investigation would
be probably cheaper than evidence.
His Honor’s “Clobber.”
The Judges of the Federal High Court will have
to decide for themselves whether they will do
their business dressed like ordinary civilised
human beings, or whether they will call in
the milliner, and trick themselves out in horsehair,
furs, and silk. The only valid argument in favor
of judicial millinery is that, formerly, at any rate,
it impressed the crowd, and gained for the
decisions of the courts a proper and wholesome
respect which would otherwise have been wanting.
But hardly anybody is imposed upon by the horse-
hair and rabbit-skin nowadays ; in fact, the
Judges who have been, and still are, held in the
highest public esteem are those who have
shown the strongest disposition to leave the
millinery off, especially in hot weather. A Judge
who wears a lot of useless clothes in January and
February doesn’t strike Australia as particularly
wise ; he rather strikes it as particularly foolish.
And, anyhow, the work of the Australian High
Court will be mostly of a kind that won’t bring it
before the crowd that needs impressing; it will
work mostly in front only of lawyers, who will
know well enough that Griffith, Barton, and
O’Connor are only mortals, no matter what mil-
linery they wear. It will be more like the Privy
Council than any other judicial body; and the Privy
Council dispenses with millinery—it, no doubt,
reckons it has enough natural dignity and real
wisdom and learning to carry it through, without
borrowing any from a horse or a silkworm; and that
is a remarkably good precedent for the Australian
High Court to follow. Yet, if the precedent
isn’t good enough, common sense ought to guide
that way. For an Australian Judge to wear a
heavy wig and other unnecessary clothing because
away up in the cold north some other Judges do
it, is just about as ridiculous as it would be for
Australia to insist on warming itself with large
fires in January. It would be a lot more sensible
for Griffith and his brothers to go on the bench
with a sprig of gum-tree with which to brush
away the flies. Still, if they do decide for the
wild and hairy garniture, The Bulletin hopes
they will do the thing properly. A painted
countenance and a tall feather stuck in the wig
would have something to recommend them.
■ 4-
Industrial Legislation.
Mr. B. R. Wise having introduced into N.S.W.
Leg. Council a Bill to “declare” the law as re-
gards conspiracy in industrial disputes, and to
clear up a doubtful point in the Industrial Arbi-
tration Act, 1901, the Employers’ Federation has
decided to “watch the measure closely.” That, in
effect, amounts to an intention to appeal to the
Upper House to reject the Bill. The Upper
House will certainly have the desire, and pro-,
bably the courage, to take that action. Under
John See’s inept and timorous conduct of
public affairs, N.S.W. Upper House begins to
waken from the stupor into which it was
belted by a previous Administration, and to put ,
on airs of vigor. “This House is not now a
museum of antiquities,” one member boasted the
other night, amid applause. The Leg. Council
has, indeed, been so much humored of late,
allowed so much authority, that it looks upon
itself as quite an equal, if not exactly a superior,
House of Legislature. If this spirit encourages it
to reject the Bill presented by Wise, an oppor-
tunity will be given to Premier See at the
eleventh hour to put himself right with the
country. The Bill is absolutely fair and candid.
The Arbitration Act of 1901 imposed upon
trades-unions which came under the covet
of its provisions certain very stringent dis
abilities. In effect it made an absolutely
new industrial policy necessary. Strikes were
majle penal as well as lock-outs, and it was
decreed that questions of increase or reduc-
tion in wages were not to be decided by
industrial free fight, but by judicial decision
of a Supreme Court. The massed funds of
trades-unions, and the individual property and
liberty of trades-unionists,, were put in hostage
for the keeping of the industrial peace. At the
same time it was provided—or intended to be
provided—that trades-unions coming under the
Arbitration Act should be thereby exempted from
all liability under any other Act, or under any
common law affecting industrial disputes. But
the intention was not too clearly expressed, and
a judicial decision, given since, has nullified it,'
The essence of Attorney-General Wise’s Bill is to
make that intention absolutely clear, and practi-
cally to put all industrial relations in N.S.W.
under the control of the very stringent, peace-i
preserving Arbitration Act. So much is necessary/
to keep faith with the trades-unions, which would?
probably not have registered under the Arbitration;
Act if thereby they came under all its penalties
yet did not escape other penalties. Should the
Upper House stand in the way of the passage of:
the Bill and turn its back on what it has;
already in effect affirmed, Premier See will
have a chance of redeeming his reputation,
as an administrator. It will probably be
the last. Already Fortune has sent to him many,
opportunities, all of which he has neglected ; and,
he now leads—if the process of being shoved in'
the forefront of a disorderly and disorganised,
rabble can be called leading—a Government and a;
Parliament which have established a record for
incapacity, weakness and laziness. There is
hardly anything of a firm, decided nature—how-?
ever mistaken—that Mr. See could do which
would not be better for him than the present-
policy of drift and drivel. Should Fate offer to:
him the chance of doing a firm and right thing, he
should grasp the opportunity with both hands.
And it looks as though Fate, acting through the,
folly of the Upper House, were going to be so
kind.
It is suggested that N.S.W.’s Owe’Sullivan may
leave State politics to stand for the Australian
Senate. The Bulletin hopes the rumor is true.
The Owe’S., when he has a chance to put up im-
mense buildings and float huge loans, is a political;
calamity, but in a branch of the Legislature.
which doesn’t deal much with money matters he
would probably he a sane, sensible democrat
again. He was a good man before he got. at the:
loan-bottle, and painted his financial nose red
with borrowed money, and began to breathe-a
rummy atmosphere of IO IPs, and if he could be
dragged out of the monetary pub. there is time ’
for rehabilitation. Owe’Sullivan, as a saved
loan drunk, could capture a Senatorial seat in the
Protectionist interest easily. He is
popular, and all over N.S.W. there are memories
of good deeds to plead for him.
One member, anyhow, of Victorian Chamber of
Manufactures has apologised. This is the person
who, at a recent meeting, announced that, as a
result of the Factories and Shops Act, “between
400 and 500 persons in the tobacco trade had left
the State to his knowledge.’' Next day the
Minister of Labor staggered him with the informa-
tion that the tobacco trade had never been under
the Act; also that, as a matter of fact, the number
of persons employed in the trade had increased
during the last six years from 619 to 1290. But
the apology doesn’t make the ignorance displayed
any the less remarkable. A member who knows
personally of the collapse of a trade that is really
expanding very fast, and is personally aware that
the collapse which didn’t happen is owing to the
application of the Act that was never applied,
should buy an alphabet and take to the bush.
The wildest Freetrader of recent years writes to
the Barrier Miner, signing himself “Peter
Parenthesis ” :
In your leader of Monday you say, “ It is the people,
not the politicians, nor the manufacturers, nor the im-
porters, who have to pay the Customs duties.”. Thank
God for those words of yours ! Would I could write them
in letters of fire on the forehead of every Protectionist !
From your words I can deduce nothing but the fact that
Protection is simply “ taxation paid by the workers.”
You conclude your sentence with the words, “ for
Customs duties of some kind there must be.” Are you-
sure ? What about “ direct” taxation, under which a man
knows what he pays? What about taxing the “ unearned
increment”? What about “ land values ” taxation ? For
the love of God and your fellow men, for the love of a
world hastening to chaos, or otherwise destined to an
eternal wrangling over, a Socialism which is long in
coming, and may never come, I beg an answer.
And when Mr. Parenthesis gets his answer---
when Australia proceeds to follow the methods of
prosperous India, China, Persia, Turkey, etc., all
land-tax and non-Protectionist countries—when it
lets everything in free so that the artisan, in order
to get a job, must work as cheaply as the cheapest
artisan on earth, and its selectors have either
to add the extra tax they pay to the price of the
food they sell, or else abandon the land and emi-
grate because they are undersold by imported
grain—what a country Mr. Parenthesis will
have! The ideal of the Freetrade Single-taxer is
to levy heavy taxes on our own food, to let the
foreigner’s food in free, and to either abolish the
artisan or else cub his wages so low that he can
compete against the cheapest foreign worker. It
is a beautiful prospect and calculated to make the
community feel good.
London Times, which is quite sure that Seddon
is wrong, and that the Arbitration and Labor
laws are ruining Maoriland ; and the president of
the Westralian Chamber of Manufactures and
other ignorant Australian persons who have been
declaring that factories legislation is closing up
factories and causing the dismissal of hands
wholesale—these and a lob more people ought to
put in some quiet Sunday reading the last report
of the Maoriland Labor Department. This docu-
ment shows that from 1894 down to the present
there has every year been an increase in the num-
ber of persons employed in factories, the figures
having moved as follows :
1895 .. .. 29,879 1900 .. .. 48,938
1896 .. .. 32,387 1901 .. .. 53,460
1897 .. .. 36,918 1902 ... .. 55,395
1898 .. .. 39,672 1903 .. .. 59,047
1899 .. .. 45,305
As a testimonial to high Protection and socialistic
fegislation this is remarkable. Maoriland hasn’t
much more than one-half N.S.W.’s population,
bub it employs almost as many people in its
industries.
. *
A murder trial in Pretoria, recently, revived
memory of the Bushveldt Carbineers incidents.
A Boer named Prinsloo was charged with the
murder of one Ferguson, who was shot without
trial, on suspicion of being a spy. Prinsloo
acted under the orders of Veldt-Cornet Pretorius,
his superior officer ; pleaded that at the trial, and
the plea held good. The Bushveldt Carbineer
officers, HANDCOCKand Witton certainly, Morant
almost certainly, had orders from superior officers
to shoot Boer prisoners, but those orders did not
exculpate them on trial. It becomes daily more
clear that they were the victims, not of the, fine
sense of justice of the English authorities, but of
their susceptibility to German remonstrances.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ The Toreador.”
royal ** As You Like It.”
Lyceum “When London Sleeps.”
Criterion.",“ From Clue to Capture.”
jivoli Rickards’Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK
Princess’s “Oh 1 What a Night 1 ”
Her Majesty’s “ Monsieur Beaucaire.”
Theatre Royal “ The Union Jack.”
Opera House Rickards’Vaudeville Co.
Town Hall Ada Crossley Concerts.
—♦
At Her Majesty’s (Sydney) the “Toreador”
is pursuing his imaginary bull through the third
week of a very fair success. Next in popularity
to the solos of the principals in the “ Toreador” is
the mimicry introduced by Lauri and Rose Mus-
grove. They do a Ouyler Hastings and May
Chevalier scene that convulses the audience. “I
fear you do not mean what you say, Miss Faulk-
ner, ” says Lauri in tense, hurried, Sherlock Holmes
tones, while he wears the tragic, haggard, affection-
ate look and tall, drugged expression of the great
Finder-Out. “O, Holmes,” responds his fellow
joker in the peculiar, out-of-an-empty-tank voice
of Miss Chevalier “sweet, sweet Holmes, if you
will not propose to me, I must propose to you.”
And the white light is turned on to Lauri’s face
and his slow and solemn wink as she draws his
head to her shoulder. The burning cigar incident
is also introduced, but Lauri’s cigar is some-
thing like a red-headed main-mast. The hand-
shake of Beattie and Roberts is a side-show
in itself, so is the kinking of Beattie’s
panama. The “Toreador” himself, though of a
devastating aspect, must be full of Christian
meekness, for his hated rival, Pettifer, the dealer
in wild animals, calls him variously “stick of
Spanish liquorice,” “spangled gas-bag” and
“baby-frightener,” yet escapes being thrown to the
wild bulls—that are supposed to rage so furiously
behind the scenes. Pettifer (Spencer Barry) him-
self is comical enough, and the sight of bis clothes
would make a tame animal rabid. The flower-
shop scene on which the opera opens, with white
and silver Celia Ghiloni posing against a counter
covered with bright flowers to the music of Leon
Caron’B orchestra, is a good picture—much better
than the view outside the theatre on a wet Eight
Hours Day.
** # *
The Willoughby-Geach season draws to a
close at Sydney Palace this coming Saturday, and
the last opportunities should be availed of to see
that clever farce —“Mistakes Will Happen.”
When it is gone, the people who haven’t seen it
will realise that a riiistake has happened sure
enough. Reported that an American musical
comedy co. will follow.
*# # *
This week Shakspeare and “As You
Like It ” have been passing through the fiery fur-
nace at Sydney Royal, and have not been burned.
The comedy had been referred to in the Educa-
tion Department as a promising bit of work and
the author as a deserving person, whereupon one
John Perry decided to give it his patronage. W.
Shakspeare is therefore now happy in the pos-
session of J. Perry’s certificate, which, in view of
certain aspersions that have been cast upon his
character, will probably help him when he comes up
for his old age pension. The Eight Hours delegates
have also sampled the piece and passed it; ditto
Gov. Rawson ; and the Sbakspearean Society’s
turn comes this (Thursday) evening. So far no
arrangements have been made to get the seal of
approval of Gunga Brahm and Buttan Singh set
upon the wrestling scene ; but there is yet time.
Not much time, though ; for the season of mag-
nificently-staged Shakspeare draws near its close
in Sydney, manager Musgrove having decided to
leave for Melbourne via Maoriland on the 21st.
The wonderfully successful Holloway-
Dampier revival of “Robbery Under Arms” at
Sydney Criterion will come to an end on Friday,
and the next night “ From Clue to Capture ” will
be staged. A rumor was current that the story is
about Acting-Agent-General Jersey wildly pur-
suing a man who was suspected of being willing
to lend N.S.W. enough money at 1£ P er cent, to
complete the Owe’Sullivan railway station, but
this is probably untrue.
Fisk Jubilee Singers opened a new box of
old and favorite songs on Saturday night at
Sydney Town Hall. On Monday night they got
an immense audience of Eight-Hour folk, who
must be devotional by instinct, judging by the
almost tearful fervency with which they re-
ceived the chorus, “Steal Away to Jesus,”
and kindred hymns. Mr. Eugene M’Adoo’s
bass might be loaned out for stage thunder,
lie looks such a good-humored vocalist that
his audiences rather poach on his rumblings
and are too much inclined to ask for more rumble.
Miss Dezaliah Underwood’s singing of “ The
Cows are in the Clover ” always blocks the pro-
gramme, for her audience loves the way she can
bang on to the “Maggie” notes. It is a vocal
feat, and in the interval all the pals and paliasses
in the hall tell each other how many they counted
whilst the soprano was Maggie-ing. “Thirty-
eight and not very fast either,” was the report of
one who had walked in Monday’s procession.
Miss Belle Gibbons, Miss Hamilton Hodges (she
has a fine soprano voice), Miss Beatrice Mercer,
and Mr. Collins all suffer recalls. Prof. White,
who manages the accompaniments and plays some
of his own compositions, retains that valuable
asset—an appearance like the head of a Chamber
of Commerce.
The revival of “ When London Sleeps,” at
Sydney Lyceum, recalls a Gladstone yarn. There
was a new preacher at Ha warden Church, who
mouthed horribly. '* I can’t hear him,” said the
G.O.M. “No matter, my dear,” said hi 3 wife,
“a sleep will do you more good.” The same con-
solation may be offered to decent London if this
is all that happens when it goes to bed. The
piece is, in fact, poor nonsense. Lyceum audi-
ences don’t ask for more probability in their
plots than other people; but they can hardly
help thinking that this time Anderson is pull-
ing their leg. For instance, a bank is entrusted
with £30,000 worth of jewels, and the client wants
them; so the bank puts them in a hand-bag
and sends off a clerk to hunt up the owner.
Presently he runs against the wicked Miss
Guildford and asks her if she’s the good Miss
Duggan, because if she is he has uie jewels
for her; and the wicked Miss Guildford, of
course, promptly says she is, and the clerk hands
over the £30,000 worth, and goes away satisfied.
The gallery was never a bank itself, but it knows
how to run a bank better than that. Nor does
the piece give Anderson a chance to show as
many horses as usual, or as much scenery. The
only thing of note in that line is the escape, of
Miss Duggan from a burning building, in which
the wicked Willard has tried roast her, by
walking along a telephone cable. Miss Duggan
was specially trained to escape like this ; though
one of the richest young women in England
in this act, in the act before last, she was
Queenie Carruthers, the circus wire-walker.
Inman, of course, is her hero; he is the king of
the air in the circus, and Bert Bailey is the usual
comic person, who is also in the circus line. In
fact, the whole show is mostly usual, except
where, as before mentioned, it isn’t as good as
usual. An exception is a “bell ballet,” led by
Miss Cosham, which is excellent.
** # #
The great American Yitagraph, at Queen’s
Hall, Sydney, isn’t half Yankee enough, though
its flicker is sufficiently great. One of its pictures
is “ Shooting the Chutes at Coney Island.” Down
comes a boatful of persons, who must have ox-
hearts, no nerves, and the courage of Boers—
down a steeply-graded chute. The boat seems
to be travelling for a long time swift as a
rocket to certain destruction, and the sensi-
tive watcher feels a rushing of air and a
singing in the ears. Then the boat dodges
up a slight incline, down again, and with a fearful
leap jumps into the lake at the bottom of the
greased precipice and ploughs its way, amid spray
and much applause, out of sight. It is as enjoy-
able as is the feel of a horrible nightmare
or the hearkening to a fearsome ghost-story;
yet even the sensitive watcher wants it all
done again. About 10 boats come down, and
their wild canter to destruction is a great
proceeding. The Maori Haka, as danced before
the Royalties in the year of Mr. Seddon’s visit to
England (the Hegira is a mere incident compared
to that journey), was a very tameflicker because the
darkies danced and looked so like Doctors of
Divinity. “Fourteen minutes in Rome” ought
to satisfy anyone with a raging thirst for travel;
and the pronunciation of classic names (“Apollo,”
“Pantheon,” “Trajan”) by the Roosevelt who
’graphs the show is a proof that he’s a born leader
and no slavish follower of foreign customs. This
Vitagraph has an extensive repertory —a few sad
pictures, and a number of hugely humorous or
instructive ones. The two-step incidental music
is attractive, and, as for the gentleman vocalist—
well, Ada Crossley has no one like him in her
company.
i** * *
By the time this is in the hands of an
intelligent public Wirth’s great and honorable
circus will have vacated Phillip Park, Sydney,
and in the place where the huge green tent stood
the sandbagger will raid in his glee, and there will
be lifted up the voice of the harridan who sings
comic opera as she is dragged by perspiring Irish-
men to Woolloomooloo lock-up. The two heathen
Chinese who effect on a revolving ladder weird
balances that throw into utter darkness even
Waddell’s surplus will be defying the laws of
gravitation somewhere around Bathurst, and the
chances are now that Pagel will be eaten in some
small town where the gate-money won’t pay for
the wear and tear of the lion.
** * *
Mr. Henry Weir, whose portrait appears
elsewhere in this issue, has the distinction of being
one of the purest and best tenors in Sydney. He
has been specially engaged to sing silvery solos at
a musical festival in Maoriland, and leaves for the
land of Seddon and other volcanoes on Saturday,
this week. At Wellington he will take part in
“ Elijah,’The Golden Legend,” and “The
Messiah ” ; then on to Christchurch to warble in
Dvorak’s “Spectre’s Bride.” However, there are
some things Maoriland eannot wrest from Aus-
tralia, and the tenor will be back in Sydney about
the beginning of November.
** * #
In Marzella and her troupe of trained
birds Sydney Tivoli has something truly wonder-
ful to show. There are scores of the birds —white
pigeons, white cockatoos, Brazilian parrots, and
crows—and one bird-like little lady whose com-
mands they obey, whereby they are led into the
most curiqus feats. One crow leaps through
hoops of fire. A cockatoo rides an electric-lighted
bicycle right round the auditorium. Others turn
somersaults, roll over, fire guns, spell out words
from an alphabet, and so on. Most of the birds
seem to enjoy the proceedings. The crows,
certainly, are saturnine fowl and go through their
feats gloomily—picking out letters of the alphabet
would naturally be dull work to the bird
that wants eyes to eat, and the crow shows no
ambition to climb to the literary depart-
ment of the show. But the white cockatoos
have the vanity of human actors; they strut about
the stage, pluming and preening themselves, and
are seemingly quite aware of the meaning of
applause The cockatoo who has literary
leanings and spells out words, is an espe-
cially proud personage; there is not a poet in
Sydney who puts on more airs. There are other
items on the Tivoli programme, but they don’t
matter much.
#* # *
Packed from organ gallery to the south
wall with all sorts of audience, Melbourne Town
Hall was a great sight when the Crossley concert
season started last Saturday. The first concert
was an all-round success, and the star must have
charmed everybody by her singing, although her
voice seemed rather wanting in strength of con-
tralto character. One is apt to underrate the
cleverness of Melba’s florid vocalising because the
witching sweetness of her tones is the first con-
sideration. Perhaps Ada Crossley’s smooth voice
would strike the crowd more forcibly as a voice if
her interpretations of the ballad text were not so
interestingly artistic. As an artist in simple
pathos she surpasses any singer we have ever
heard, not excepting the vt . ile Dolores. The
Crossley method, shown in Oh, that We Two
were Maying,” or “The Banks of Allan Water,”
is. essentially descriptive without being tinged
with theatricalism. Her skilful management
of the music seems subordinate to her impres-
sive rendering of the words. She exaggerates
nothing, nor ever sacrifices sense to sound,
as even the most intelligent contralto vocalists
have done. There is no singing to the gallery, no
tickling the ears of the groundlings, no clap-trap
effects whatever—but she gets there all the same.
Ada Crossley was recognised as a specially brainy
artist before she sailed from Melbourne to make
her fortune. She was not quite expected to
develop into the woman she is. Her easy plat-
form style and unaffected air of distinction gave
her control of the crowd before she opened her
lips. Whether the artist was really “too over-
come ” to take up her “ Home, Sweet Home ” cue
at the first attempt (she sang the old ditty with
persuasive tenderness at the end of the concert),
or whether she acted on histrionic instinct, the
breakdown did her great credit. It reduced the
audience to a beautiful silence. They believed in
the broken sob, and forgot that the lady had just
previously given them “ Out On the Rocks ’’
with all the apparent emotion of an Ada who had
been cruelly deceived when the Tide was Low.
* » * *
Dapper Percy Grainger, and his head of
hair, and his honest, upright dealings with the
Eianoforte, were duly appreciated. Percy, with
is touch of classic formality, makes a capital
change from the brilliant Hambourg; whilst a
solo by violinist Jacobs comes like a deed of atone-
ment for several previous fiddlers who have
travelled on the technical sufficiency of their
scraping. Jacobs produces a sweet tone where
those other performers committed harsh noises
and called them by the sacred name of music.
Peterkin, the basso (he should borrow a few locks
of Grainger’s hair), sang “ Arm, ye.brave ! ” on
Saturday, sang it in a polite, passionless way,
with the music in his hand ; but he was afterwards
very effective in his humorous “ Tral-lal-lal ”
song, which brings out all the virtues of his voice
and enunciation. The third Crossley concert is
to-night (Thursday), another on Saturday, and the
last of the series on Monday.
** # *
“Oh ! What a Night ! ” came along for
revival at the Princess’s last Saturday, and will
be gone ere next Bulletin bursts into leaf. Nine
performances of the re-christened farcical comedy
will probably satisfy public wants. “Oh ! What
a Night! ”is the same thing as “A Night Out,”
which introduced Paulton and Miss Alma Stanley
to Australia some six years ago, and plunged
them into the middle of a winter season when the
grey-haired story of man’s comic infidelity to his
missus was bound to suffer a pretty cold time. The
present revival is more happily placed as regards
weather; also, the difference between the light-
footed, extravagant comedy style of Geo. Giddens
and the slow, gloomy naturalism of Harry Paulton
is another point in its favor. Cecil Ward plays
his old part of the architect who hankers after
ghost (a very unusual hanker for an architect) and
Fred Cambourne is the same waiter as before.
One or two members of the original co. were per-
haps a little more satisfactory than their suc-
cessors, but the farce as a whole looks all the
better for being re-cast in a dozen places, and if it
looked even more better it would not present a
wonderfully humorous appearance.
* sfc * *
“ The Union Jack,” at Melbourne Royal,
is the same handsomely illustrated melodrama
that it was last week, and on many occasions in
the long ago. The unscrupulous army contractor
—a dramatist can’t go far wrong in blackening an
army contractor’s character—continues to assassi-
nate his friend, the captain, and Miss Ross always
has the luck to be present at the slaughter, other-
wise Walter Baker would die of circumstantial
evidence. Considering how often the persecuted
Baker has triumphed over his enemies in the fourth
act, he may be said to keep his joy and gladness re-
markably fresh. In fact all the members of Bland
Holt’s co. seem to play familiar parts with a fair
amount of go. No doubt the tired feeling
struggles hard for possession of them, but they
keep themselves in condition, and derive great
benefit from Brunton’s changes of scenery. In
this respect a perpetual melodrama co. has a big
pull over a company of farcical comedians doomed
to a long mummery of British domestic life.
Bland Holt’s people go long voyages to foreign
parts and mix with Arabs, Chows, and other alien
races. They get wrecked at sea sometimes, and
once in a way Albert Norman falls from a balloon
or Baker is drowned in a diving dress through the
other fellow cutting his air-tube. A melodrama
career has incidents which relieve the sameness of
it all.
Katusha will handle the bottle for the last
time, at Her Majesty’s (Melb.), on Friday night,
and on Saturday a very different play, ‘ * Monsieur
Beaucaire,” will displace “Resurrection.” Rumor
speaks cheerfully about “Monsieur Beaucaire.”
It is a play wherein mannahs and costumes are
equally ornate, and wigs are powdered, and people
don’t repent of their sins to any great extent.
Julius Knight and Miss Jeffries fill gorgeous
parts, and even the minor characters are said to
carry jewelled snuff-boxes.
** * *
At Melbourne Opera House, the pro-
gramme suffers from general depression and pains
in the back. New people of importance will pre-
sently be arriving from Europe, Asia, or America.
Meanwhile, the principal “turns’’are somewhat
aged, and the latest additions leave something to
be desired. The first part is pretty enough, but
even a painted setting of landscape is poor con-
solation for the soul that has been bruised by
several oomio songs.
#* * *
The forthcoming rush of amateurs to
Melbourne Princess’s promises to bring forth some
droll results. First there will be three nichts of
“Rab Roy,” ye ken, engineered by the local
Caledonian Society with the assistance of Eloise
Juno. Presumably the amateurs in that case will
be mostly pupils of Miss Juno, and their Scotch
accent will be quite satisfactory, although all the
voices will sound pretty much the same. After
the kilted chieftain has withdrawn his legs from
the scene, another amateur co., promoted by
George Tutton and patronised by all the nobility,
is to undertake “Mikado’’for three nights, and
then there will be a reappearance of the aspiring
young people, or most of them, who played “ The
Runaway Girl” last year. Their intentions are
various. They will attempt “A Pantomime
Rehearsal,” which is a “skit” on amateur stage
doings, and their chief experiment will be a burnt-
cork minstrel show, it is said. They are going to
black their faces and say “Golly 1”
# * * *•
Adelaide Tivoli being closed, and the Royal
occupied by crude melodrama, the city of spiie is
chiefly occupied in lamenting the vanished Cuyler
Hastings company. Hastings himself did his
best work at the end, in ‘ ‘ Secret Servioe,” and his
lesson in the art of how to behave when unex-
pectedly shot was much admired. (There is room
for someone to write a stage story with the title
“ How to be Cheerful though Shot.”) But it is a
misguided play, with a hero who first spies on his
hosts, and then plays his own side false for the
sake of a girl; while all the snubbings and the
gallery-hoots are invited for the honest man who
bowls out the spy. Miss Chevallier had her
best chance in a single performance of “The
Christian ”; still, there is only one Henrietta
Wacson. The William Anderson Co., at popular
prices, has been drawing fairly good houses in a
play which mites up the Highlanders’ charge at
Dargai with acrobatic business by the Silvenis.
The present production is “ Honor Thy Father ”
—which seems to depend a good deal on the
character of the old man. Mark Hambourg and
his little brother have been playing at the Town
Hall to audiences which improved as the series
progressed ; but a children’s fete at the Exhibition
on their opening night beat them badly in point
of attendance.
* * *
Melbournian writes :
The “ Eternal City ” appears to be withdrawn from the
Jeffries-Knight repertoire. I happen to know that
Beerbohm Tree and Williamson agreed to open with it in
Melbourne. Afterwards they were persuaded to take
“ Resurrection ” instead. The fact is that Williamson
and Meynell, Tree’s representative, cannot get over the
episode'of the Pope in the “ Eternal City.” As readers of
the book are aware, be is Pius X., and not an excellent
character at that. Williamson thought at first that he
might be called Gregory, or something, but yet the
Catholic interest is feared. So “Monsieur Beaucaire”
goes up. I doubt if the “ Eternal City ” will be seen at
all in Australia.
*& * *
“ Kiwi ” writes from the land that belongs
to Seddon:
The history of the Maoriland Band, whose members
are now dribbling back in disgust and detached parties,
after a melancholy sojourn in England, is a nasty jar to
Jingodom. Some months ago, the band left on a tour of
England, and not only was it confidently predicted that
it would give an excellent account of itself professionally,
but it was taken for granted that, by reason of “our
great services to the Empire in South Africa,” the Maori-
landers would be received with open arms and free beer
everywhere in “ the dear old Motherland.” The band
left these shores with the usual Ministerial benedictions
and amid the hoarse cheering of excited crowds;
in fact, it only needed a bishop or two to
give the send-off the appearance of an African
farm-burning expedition. Well, we know the
grim truth now, which is briefly this : The band was,
first of all, disappointed because nobody met it when it
reached England. It might have been a grocer’s
assistant for all the notice that was taken of it. Still it
hoped for better things later on. It played, but nobody
took much notice, and then, in sheer disgust, it aban-
doned the tour. One of the bandsmen has told a press
interviewer here how a Yorkshire tyke expressed surprise
that Maoriland produced white men 1 Another bands-
man declares that the average country Englishman
believes Maoriland to be a part of Australia. Such in-
quiries as, “ Do you know Jim Jones in Sydney?” gave
the expedition a tired feeling. Various reasons are
ascribed by the local Jingoes for the gross failure of the
tour ; but the bald truth seems to be that nobody in
England took any interest in the Maorilanders, and
regarded them in the same light as Italian organ-
grinders. England had no reason for doing this ; it simply
couldn’t Bee any reason for doing anything else.
** * *
The rumor that W. S. Gilbert has written
another comic opera is discredited by some Eng-
lish newspapers on the score of W.S.G.’s advanced
age and easy circumstances, which have not been
calculated to keep his humor keen and active.
He is nearing 68, and, as he wouldn’t think of
writing an opera for anybody but himself to pro-
duce, the chances are that he has finally retired
from the business. In his best days Gilbert was
an awfully dyspeptic, irritable autocrat. He has
eaten thousands of dinners since then, and his
dyspepsia is doubtless no better.
“ With total Assets standing; at £78,089,283, Tub Mutual Life Insurance Company
of New York occupies the premier place as the largest and strongest Life Office in the world.”
THE MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE
RICHARD A. McCURDY.
President.
COMPANY OF NEW YORK-
From its Organisation in 1843 to 31st December, 1902,
It has paid to living members .. £37,496,649
To beneficiaries of deceased members 55,726,749
Total paid to members, living and dead £123,223,398
Invested for present members ~ ~ .. .. 78,039,284
Tolal paid to and invested for its members .. .. £201,312,682
Bonuses paid to policy holders amount to £22,005,481
Contingent Guarantee Fund and Divisible Surplus 13,991,627
Total Profits to Members £35,997,108
far in excess of those of any other company.
Copy of Annual Report and particulars of Policies to meet everv reauirement, whether for LIFE,
ENDOWMENT, INVESTMENT, or ANNUITY, may be obtained on application. Power to issue binding
policies on select lives and pay Claims immediately upon receipt of proofs at the
HJAD OFFICE FOR AUSTRALASIA—
MUTUAL LIFE BJIcDINA, Martin Place and Pitt Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager and Attorney.
RABBITS!
ARE THEY TO BE
A PROFIT OR PEST?
It rests entirely with our settlers whether it shall cost them and the State a large amount
annually to continue the war which has been waged against “ bunny for years past,
whether they will take the trouble to turn him into an asset which will bring a steady
revenue to the country and provide employment for THOUSANDS of its people. The
Uosewarne Packing Company, Ltd., is now receiving rabbits at its works in Young,
Narandera and Sydney. The highest market price is given in return for freshly-killed
rabbits free of any commission or charges. jp or f ur ther particulars, address—
THE ROSEWARNE PACKING
HEAD OFFICE—
-70 "PITT ST., SYDNEY
COMPANY, Limited,
NARANDERA
or YOUNG.


The Wild Cat Column.
Treasurer Waddell, of N.S.W., delivered his
third budget excuse on September 29, and admitted a
total deficiency ot £273,524 “on a business basis.” The
cash deficiency at the end of the year was actually
£484,355, but £210,831 is claimed to be recoverable.
Even, however, if this amount is recovered, the actual
deficit “on a business basis ” is greater than that stated,
because, though rents from the resumed foreshore areas
are treated as revenue, the accruing interest on unpaid
purchase money is not charged to expenditure. The exact
amount is unknown, because some of the values are in
dispute; but it is a large item. On a true “ business
basis” there would, moreover, be a heavy sinking-
fund or depreciation charge, if not to redeem
loans in gene:al, at any rate to wipe out the
capital cost of decaying works; but as the appropria-
tions of this sort in N.S.W. are insignificant, the state-
ment that the accounts are presented “on a business
basis ”is mere flam. Also, when once the Cash Basis is
deserted, and the Treasurer begins to take credit for
money he hasn’t actually got, then he must also debit
himself with accrued interest on the public debt and
unpaid accounts. With the deficiency that he does
admit, the Treasurer doesn’t propose to do anything
except the usual thing of letting it slide. Certainly a
surplus of £33,066 is promised this year, as usual; but,
even if it could be realised, it would be a small drop in a
large bucket. No deficit has been foreshadowed during
the past 10 years ; yet, taking the official figures for pre-
vious years, and Mr. Waddell’s figures of net revenue and
expenditure for 1903, the actual record has been :
Revenue. Expenditure.
1894 .. £9,499,910 £10,082;i93 Deficit £582,288
1895 .. 9,350,051 9,329,353 Surplus 20,698
1596 .. 9,091,368 9,698,891 Deficit 607,523
1897 .. 9,109,253 9,316,620 „ 207,367
1898 .. 9,304,884 9,299,411 Surplus 6,473
1899 .. 9,573,415 9,562,739 „ 10,676
1900 .. 9,973,736 10,086,126 Deficit 112,450
1901 .. 10,612,422 10,729,711 „ 117,319
1902 .. 11,007,356 11,020,105 „ 12,749
1903 .. 11,296,068 11,467,234 „ 171,166
In the total 10 years the revenue has aggregated
£98,818,463, and the expenditure 6199,592,478, leaving a
net deficit on 10 years’ transactions of £1,774,015. There
have been seven deficits, totalling £1,810,862, and three
surpluses, totalling £30,347. Yet every year a surplus
has been promised.
* * * *
New South Wales, therefore, hasn’t much en-
couragement to put confidence in promised surpluses,
and Treasurer Waddell’s promises for the current year
look worse than usual. His gross figures are:—
1903. 1901.
Actual. Estimated. Decrease.
Revenue ..£11,532,230 .. £11,507,555 £24,675
Expenditure 11,707,996 11,174,489 233,507
Deficit £175,766 Surplus £33,066
Federal Treasurer Turner estimated that he would, this
year, refund to N.S.W, £2,563,760. State Treasurer
Waddell jumps this amount up to £2,800,000, takes credit
for the extra £236,240, and thereupon builds his surplus.
Treasurer Turner is admittedly a cautious man, the State
Treasurer says; then, acting apparently in the belief that
caution isn’t a quality to be encouraged in a State
Treasury, he throws it and the estimate into the rubbish-
heap, and makes another. When deficits turn up as a
matter of course after this sort of thing has been done,
N.S.W. talks about the plague, or the drought, or cattle-
ticks, as though it couldn’t be expected to provide for
such accidents. The political advantage of this species
of fraud is that the present doesn’t have to pay for its own
misfortunes ; the burden, or a good part of it, is handed
on to the next generation. In the past 10 years N.S.W.
has in this way evaded £1,775,000 of taxation, simply
passing the bill on to our children. Three months of the
N.S.W. financial year have already gone ; and there is not
the smallest sign, as will be seen by the revenue and ex-
penditure figures below, of t he Treasurer’s estimate being
realised. In the first quarter ot last year expenditure
exceeded revenue by £334,275, and the year ended with a
deficiency of £171,166 ; this quarter the excess of expendi-
ture has been £496,404, and at that rate of going, on last
year’s basis, 'this year’s total deficit would be over
£BOO,OOO, instead of the predicted surplus of £33,000.
The Treasurer’s estimate was based on an expenditure
averaging nearly £60,000 a quarter less than last year's ;
yet this quarter's expenditure was £271,443 more than
that of the corresponding part of last year. Altogether,
in fact, it looks like another deficit, another cowardly
evasion of taxation, another utterly selfish shunting of
the debt, not merely for works but for ordinary current
expenses, to the next generation.
A few months ago Premier See triumphantly
produced a document showing that three or four officials
had sworn that New South Wales never paid interest
with borrowed money, and that they were liars who said
it had ever done any such thing. Yet the fact is now
admitted that last year £2,942,021 of interest was pay-
able, and, after the other current liabilities were met,
there was not enough to pay it without borrowing
£171,166. If Premier See paid the interest out of revenue,
then in order to do it he had to borrow £171,166 to pay
the other bills with ; and the difference between that and
actually borrowing to pay interest isn’t worth bothering
abcut. (That, however, isn’t worse than the average ; in
fact, in the past 10 years N.S.W. has had, in the same
way, to borrow an average of £177,401 a year in order to
pay Cohen.) Moreover, it has had to practically borrow
£171,166 to pay the 12 months’ interest, notwithstanding
that it sold £1,010,246 worth of its mortgaged land assets
during the year and used the amount as revenue. This,
then, is the position : N.S.W. had £2,942,021 of interest
to pay, in addition to current expenses. After meeting
the latter, all it had left out of revenue from railways and
other services, and taxation of all sorts, and rents was
£1,760,609. The other £1,181,412 was got by selling land
—the mortgaged asset—and by borrowing.
The N.S.W. public debt has moved as follows
in 12 months:
June, 1902 .. .. £75,991,905
June, 1903 .. .. 80,970,960
Increase .. .. £4,979,055
This includes floating debt. The public debt proper on
June 30th was £77,692,987. Two years previously it was
£67,361,246; so the last two years has seen £10,331,741
added to tiie State’s permanent load. This is more than
had been added in the previous eight years. The Owe’
Sullivan has earned his name.
* * * *
The break-up of the drought hasn’t yet tinged
the States’ revenue returns with gold ; the quarter’s
figures are (except as to loan expenditure) a good deal
less satisfactory than those issued 12 months ago.
New South Wales :
Three Months’ Three Months' Three Months’
Revenue. Expenditure. Deficit.
1902 .. £2,516,227 £2,850,502 £334,275
1903 .. 2,625,541 3,121,945 496,404
Inc. £109,314 Inc. £271,443 Inc. £162,129
Comparing this year’s revenue, so far, with last year’s,
only two leading items, income tax and railways, show a
decline ; and yet N.S.W. is £496,000 to the bad. In spite
of all prophecies, the railway revenue was £20,981 less
than in 1902. The foregoing statement of revenue
includes rents from resumed properties, some of which
are still unpaid for. If these are deducted, the first
quarter of the year which is to end with a surplus shows
a deficit much over half-a-million ! Figures for Septem-
ber alone are :
September. September. Month’s
Revenue. Expenditure. Deficit.
1902 ..£873,969 4 1,188,728 £314,759
1903 .. 871,862 1,149,934 278,072
Dec. £2,107 Dec. £38,794 Dec. £36,687
A month’s deficit of £278,072 is pretty fair sailing for a
country which haa decided to live strictly within its
means.
In Victoria the fowl still comes home to roost:
1902. 1903. Decrease.
Three Months’Revenue. .£1,684,731 £1,630,240 £54,491
Revenue for September.. 607,752 558,732 49,0-0
The Bent railway system, which gave such disastrous
results last year, is doing even worse than it did then ,
the three months’ shortage, as compared with last year,
amounts to no less than £59,548. The revenue has had
a few probate windfalls; otherwise the figures would
show up much worse than they do. Expenditure figures
are, as usual, not available.
Queensland, whose Treasury returns are
signed, probably for the first time anywhere, by a Labor
member, Treasurer Kidston
Three months’ Three months’ Available for
Revenue. Expenditure.
1902 .. .. £791,028 .. £548,622 .. £242,406
1908 .. .. 769,594 .. 534,451 .. 225,143
Dec. £31,434 Dec. £14,171 Dec. £17,263
That is to say, at this time last year the Government had
£17,236 more in hand with which to pay interest than it
has now ; and still it wound up with a deficit for the year
of £191,341. Interest calls for about £377,300 a quarter ;
and for this quarter only £225,143 is available. That is
the sort of job which the new Treasurer has to tackle.
For September alone the figures are
September September Available for
Revenue. Expenditure. Interest.
1902 .. .. £244,894 .. £201,192 .. £43,702
1903 .. .. 224,475 .. 190,153 .. 34,322
Dec. £20,419 Dec. £11,039 Dec. £9,380
Queensland is suffering mainly from reduced receipts
from railways and customs, both of which show a large
falling-off.
Sooth Australia (revenue returns only)
First Quarter, 1902 .. .. £542.^34
First Quarter, 1903 .. .. 630,014
Increase .. •• £17,230
The State received from the Commonwealth £136,973 as
against £175,656—a decline of £38,683. The railway
revenue is satisfactory; receipts were £254,883 against
£239,252 last year.
Westralia is rushing down a steep place
rapidly. Reliable September figures are not to hand
yet; those to August 31st are included :
Two Months’ Two Months’
Revenue. Expenditure.
1902 .. £564,052 £532,433 Surplus £31,619
1903 .. 610,180 632,517 Deficit 22,337
Dec. £53,872 Inc. £B4 Dec. £53,950
Commonwealth refunds were £265,815 in 1902 and
£221,207 in 1903; railway revenue, £214,691 this year as
against £215,486 last year. Last year’s surplus was
about £93,000. At the present rate of going this year 3
deficit will be £125,000 at least.
Tasmania, whose financial year began on Ist
January (revenue only):
September Nine Months’
Revenue. Revenue.
1902.. .. £61,397 .. £523,793
1903.. .. 57,802 .. 600,770
Decrease £3,595 Increase £76,977
Both Tasmania and South Australia still show a gain
from the misfortunes of their neighbors.
Loan expenditure returns come only from New
South Wales and Queensland, and the figures are not
what they were before Cohen started to be offensive .
September, September,
1902. 1903.
N.S. Wales .. £645,657 £236,650 Decrease £409,007
Queensland .. 120,354 63,423 Decrease 56,931
And for the quarter :
Ist Quarter, Ist Quarter,
1902. 1903.
N.S.W. (Exclusive of- „ „„„
Resumptions) .. £687,558 £481,195 Dec. £206,363
N ’tio’nT" ReSUmP . 672,816 182,957 Dec. 489,859
Queensland .. .. 259,821 170,874 Dec. 88,947
The total N.S.W. decrease for the quarter is £696,222 ;
but the Owe’Sullivan’s Roads and Bridges Department
has been responsible for less than 30 per cent, of it. The
much-boomed reduction seems, in fact, to be, so far,
mostly the result of hanging up payments for resumed
properties a little while longer.
Another of Victoria’s awful Water Trusts —
this time the East Loddon United, which owes £3352
in interest, and has a liability of £20,054 is about to ask
the Government to write off the debt. At a recent meet-
ing the Marong shire council, which forms part of the
trust, was urged to pay its half-year s interest, £19165. 9d.,
to avoid having a receiver put in to collect the amount.
It decided to think over the matter ; the idea of being
honest required much consideration. For real impu-
dence the Victorian farmer combinations take, not the
cake, but the whole factory. Their constant repudiation
of their liabilities and their utter indifference as to
whether they keep faith with their creditors or not,
combined with the fact that they profess to be the
governing influence in Victoria now, is making the. State s
public creditor feel very sick. He realises that his turn
to be repudiated may come at any^ moment.
A 12 months’ result of Bent’s railway manage-
ment in Victoria is now available. The services rendered
to the State by that great man can perhaps best be shown
by comparing results with those of former years .
Per cent. Net Earn-
of Working ings per
Earnings. Expenses to cent, of
j une Earnings. Capital.
1894 ’ .. £2,726,159 60‘57 2'BB
1895 .. 2,581,591 59 95 2‘73
1896 .. 2,401,392 64'61 2‘24
1897 .. 2,615,935 59'95 2’74
1898 .. 2,608,896 63"24 2’49
1899 .. 2,873,729 62 55 2‘75
1900 .. 3,025,162 62-89 2-83
1901 .. 3,337,797 62-17 314
1902 .. 3,367,843 64'31 2’96
1903 .. 3,046,858 66'69 2‘47
The average interest payable on outstanding loans is
3-86 per cent., so a deficit of 1'39 per cent, is shown.
This is double the deficit of 1901—the year before the
disastrous Bent set out on his course of reform. The
capital cost of the system stands at £40,974,493.
Re Sydnev Telegraph’s boycott of the proposed
Labor daily, "it refuses to allow the newsagents to sell
the new "journal, because they are a “distributing
system ” organised by the Telegraph people for them-
selves. Such a foolish claim might just as well be made
bv the Photo Chips, Sniff Snaps, Ally Sloper, and other
weekly dreadfuls, against the World’s News. The news-
agents have been selling (under an organisation which it
has taken years to build up) the Ally Sloper kind of
horror and the Telegraph wantonly seized cn the system
ready made for pushing its own penny weekly at the
cost of already established rivals.
*****
The bill for the prohibition of trading coupons
his been thrown out in South Australia. The most
denressing fact about it is that for this loss the Labor
Deonle were responsible. They argued that the coupon
rave the little man a chance to compete with the big man,
because the big man can give his own discount coupon
and a little man can’t. Why a little man can’t give his
own discount as well as a big man isn t clear. It is abso-
lutely certain, in fact, that he can give his customers a
bigger discount if he doesn't have to support a middle-
man in the shape ot a coupon institution than if he does.
The Labor party, in S. Australia especially, isn’t often
culled into fixing a non-producer more firmly on the
shoulders of the workers ; but it has done it this time.
* * * *
The Maoriland State Land Bank, from the
beginning:
Loss on Loss on Loan
March, Business. Flotation. Deficit.
1890 .. £31,159 .. £105,897 .. £137,050
Profits.
1897 .. 1,954 .. .. 135,102
1898 .. 23,929 .. .. 111,173
1899 .. 17,598 .. .. 03,575
1900 .. 14,073 .. 28,142 .. 107,644
1901 .. 20,325 .. 9,889 .. 97,208
1902 .. 29,452 .. .. 67,756
1903 .. 24,907 .. 43,953 .. 86,802
At the end of March, 1902, the liabilities on loan amounted
to £2,646,333. Under unfavorable conditions, this has
been increased to £2,940,000 during the past year, and
the new borrowings, been done at an absurdly low rate of
interest, have involved a further serious loss to be added
to the deficit. M.L. can’t expect to finance, even for
so profitable a concern as this, on a 3 per cent, basis
at a time when Australian banks are offering 4 per
cent, and may yet have to offer even more. The loss
shown is, therefore, no reflection on this State Land Bank.
On the contrary, notwithstanding the slightly reduced
profit on business, its record is excellent. It has not a
single security on its hands ; overdue interest totals only
£6044, which ‘is £1163 less than it was 12 months before ;
and of £927,127 of principal which has fallen due,
£925,742 has actually been paid—a remarkable record.
The expense rate continues to go still lower.
The progress has been :
Total cost of Proportion to
Management. Nominal Capital.
March, 1897 .. £11,294 .. £0 15 1 percent.
„ 1898 .. 6,216 .. 0 8 3,,,,
„ 1899 .. 6,869 .. 0 9 2,,,,
„ 1900 .. 7,267 .. 07 3 ~,,
1901 .. 6,869 .. 0 610 „ „
1902 .. 7,696 .. 0 510 „ „
” 1903 .. 7,316 .. 04 11 „ „
From the beginning the bank has authorised advances of
£3,581,660t0 11,293 persons; and £2,590,543 is still out.
Against this the department’s valuers reckon the securi-
ties to be worth, without recent improvements,
£7,849,728.
The Wellington Building and Investment
Cos. (M.L.) Added to Be-
June Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1894 ’..£2442 9 per cent. =£1732 £7lO £4,679
1895 .. 2400 9 „ „ 1732 668 5,347
1896 I: 3351 9 „ ” 1732 1619 6,966
1897 .. 2931 9 „ ~ 1790 1141 8,107
1898 .. 2730 9 „ „ 1800 930 9,037
1899 .. 2909 9 „ -. 2115 7941 13 581
Premiums on New Shares.. 3750 )
1900 .. 3444 9 per cent. = 2469 975 14,556
1901 3344 9 ~ ~ 2475 869 15,425
1902 - 3585 10 " !, 2750 835 . 16,260
1903 .. 4061 10 ~ ~ 2<50 1311 17,5.1
The co.’s assets consist of mortgages £158,573, “invest-
ments” of an unspecified character £9039, and furni
ture £25. It owes to the public £121,191, of which
deposits represent £118,689. Even assuming that
the unspecified “ investments ” are of the . most
liquid nature, and that the office stool is imme-
diately saleable, the co.’s liquid assets are still only
equal to paying a trifle under Is. 6d. in the £ of the
liabilities to the public. This is no doubt the way
to make large profits (those for the year are equal to
nearly 17 per cent, on capital and reserves combined),
and it is all right so long as the mortgages retain their
value and depositors their confidence ; but should a
change come in either of those respects, unpleasant
things are liable to happen, as they happened a few years
a»-o this side. The co. is building up a very substantial
reserve ; and the sooner it is put into, say, State securities,
instead of merely going to swell the total of mortgages,
the better will the co. be able to face the hard times that
come to most countries sooner or later.
N S.W. fruitgrowers are staunch individualists;
thev'ob'ject to any Government telling them how to run
their business. Any talk of legislation to make orchardists
keep their trees clean has been met with the cry that the
“fundamental principles of the great law of supply and
demand would effectually do all that was necessary. The
man who failed to keep his trees clean would simply lose
his market, and that was infinitely better than all your
boasted State interference.” So Governments have fooled
around drafting Bills and Acts but have done nothing
definite, and now the curse has come home and brought
all its baggage with it. The U.S.A. has refused to allow
N.S.W. fruit to enter the country, and the State of Cali-
fornia has passed a Special Act to keep it out. And
recently Victoria condemned 4000 cases of N.S.W. grown
■oranges on the ground that they were literally covered
with “red scale.” Practically the N.S.W. fruit export
trade is ruined. The “ fundamental principles have
burst. „ . , *
The Australia Hotel Cos. (Sydney)
Added
Profits. Dividends. to Re- Re-
june serves, serves.
1901 .. £651 Nil £651 £16,987
1902 .. 3239 10 per cent. =£2500 739 17,726
1903 .. 3300 10 „ „ „ 2500 800 18,526
The paid capital is £25,000, and the year’s return upon
this and on the reserves as at July Ist, 1902, was
equal to £7 14s. 6d. per cent, or £l3 4s. per cent, on
capital alone. The mortgages still stand at £125,000, just
as they did five years or more ago, or five times the paid
capital; and the interest they carry is apparently £4 12s.
per cent, per annum.
* * * * *
A violent struggle is proceeding over the vacant
post of Chief Inspector of Mines in N.S.W. The late
Chief, Slee, before he stepped out in consequence of
asthma and old age, recommended the senior-inspector,
Milne ; yet, mainly on the ground that Milne hasn’t
any degree or School of Mines diploma, but is merely
a man who knows the business, another high-grade
officer recommended somebody else who can write a
quantity of the alphabet after his name. The latter’s
appointment was just about to be made, when it was
pointed out that it couldn’t be legally done. ; the Act
says that the inspector must have a mine-manager’s
certificate, and the proposed appointee didn’t have one.
Apparently an attempt is being made to get over that
difficul y by holding a special examination for mine-
managers’ certificates; meanwhile the appointment is
hung up. The mining inspector’s work—and especially
the work of the chief mining inspector.—consists very
largely of advising mine managers as to the safest means
of working in particular circumstances ; and for that job
it doesn’t seem too safe to trust to any man who hasn’t
been through the mill himself, and whose appointment
has to be hung up while he is given a chance to rush
through an examination. It is something like postponing
the appointment of a Chief Government Medical Officer,
in order to allow the third-year medical students a chance
to graduate. * * *
The Broken Hill Prop, made tests lately of the
auantity of water actually saved by the condensers. In
an average 24 hours the boilers used 134,000 gallons, of
which 108,000 gallons were saved from the exhaust steam
and used over again. A permanent condensing plant is
now going up to the mine. It is hardly likely that the
co will have to draw on the Water Cos. for at least six
months ; and the other-mines are now in much the same
position. # ,
The N S.W. Arbitration Court has made its
award in the Broken Hill mining case. The miners are said
to be satisfied ; if so, they are satisfied with far less than
thev asked Thev asked, principally, for about 10 per cent,
increased pav, and did not get it. The co.’scounter-claimed
alO per cent, reduction—not very seriously', though
and it is (airly clear that the president, at any rate.would
have awarded that rather .than an advance. There, no
doubt, was a time within the last four or five j ears when
the co.’s could have afforded to pay higher wages , but
the miners had the bad luck to go to the Court when
lead, instead of being £l7, is down to about £ll per ton,
and that killed their chances. The suggestion of Mr
Smith, one of the members of the Court, that a shdlng
scale should be introduced is about the best possible.
Certainly it could not be worked so easily as a
coal-trade sliding scale, because Broken Hill hgs
two staple products—lead and silver—moving mde-
pendently in the markets ; and it may have a third,
zinc. The difficulties in arranging a scale are, however,
not insurmountable ; and without it very serious trouble
may arise. It may easily happen that at the end of two
years (the period for which the present rates are fixed)
the metal markets may be booming ; and if wages are
fixed low now because metals are cheap, they will tnen
in fairness have to be fixed high because metal prices will
be high. And it may just as easily happen that, as
soon as wages have been thus fixed at a high standard for
a couple of years or more, the metal markets will tall
again ; and then operations will become unprofitable, and
men will either be sacked, or work will only be carried on
bv making calls on the shareholders. Moreover, to
fix the rate for two years is to fix two years as
the furthest limit to which the co.’s can carry their plans ;
while if there were a sliding scale, the co.’s could plan tor,
say seven years ahead-and seven years is not.long in the
history of a big mine. But the sliding scale was not
demanded, and consequently was not provided for by the
court. The award is simply that for two years wages and
hours are to remain as they have been for some years
past; that, other things being equal, unionists are to
have preference of employment, though this is not to
apply to men who are now in the co.s’ service ; a much
fairer contract agreement is to be used ; and the co. s
are to use “their best judgment” in setting con-
tracts so that contract men while working may
earn 11s. a shift, though there is no obligation
to pay 11s. So far, then, matters are, practically,
left just about where they were. Some advantages are
gained by the unionists, but they will most likely be
found to be sentimental, rather than practical. A further
finding is that there shall be a committee composed of
representatives of the two partita to which troubles and
disputes arising out of the award or otherwise may bo
referred ; but neither side is bound to go to this tribunal.
Generally speaking, the relations between the managers
and the men at Broken Hill are very friendly ; and, in
addition to smoothing away new difficulties, it is possible
that this committee of friendly people may be able to
arrange long beforehand the terms under which work will
, be carried on at the expiration of the two years. It will
be a great gain to the industry if this can be done.
(Continued on page SO.)
dfg
TRAMWAYS FOR MINES.
ECONO . Y IN HAULAGE.— Horst And dray is cheaper than a wheelbarrow, but an
up-to-date Tramway, with suitable rolling stock tor manual, horse or loco, tract lo "-
is still more economical and expeditious. Large Sydney, Melbourne and Busb.
stocks of Steel Rails, Mining Tip-trucks, Portable Tramway, Switches, Turntables, Sc.
INDLNTS.— Dog-spikes to .Compound Locomotives—i.e., EVLRYTHIIN L.
Our &ATALOGUE is yours for the asking.
CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY APPLIANCES
Prop. Ltd., 40 Hunter St., SYDNEY. A. E. LEPLLSTRIER, Manager,
Representing Orenstein and Koppel, Ltd., London, Berlin and Pai s.
Branches—Melbourne, Brisbane, Cairns and Zeehan (Tasmania),
The Insurance Spectator of London— lst.
August, 1903—writes “ The Colonial Mutual possesses
the energy of youth which pervades the Australian
Colonies and has been able to adopt the most valuable
features of modern Life Assurance contracts grafted on
to the strong financial position worthy of a British hie
office.”*
* • • *
The merits of the Wilfley Ore Concentrator are
now fully recognised throughout the Commonwealth,
and its use is extending every day. The new No. 4
pattern is doing excellent work at the many mines .on
which it has been installed. Recent additions to mining
plants comprise ; 4 tables to the Great Fingall, 6 to the
Oroya Brown Hill, 4 to the Ivanhoe Company, 4 to the
Sons of Gwalia, 3 to the Queen’s Cross Coy., Charters
Towers, 3 to the Long Tunnel Extended, 1 to the South
Moon, Bendigo, and many other mines too numerous to
mention. Upwards of 600 of the Wilfley Tables are now
in use in Australia, giving excellent results on gold,
silver, lead, tin, and copper mines. Full particulars and
a useful pamphlet on concentration can be obtained from
the Sole Manufacturers in Australia, The Austral Otis
Engineering Coy., South Melbourne.*
British manufacturers have been beaten in an
open competition by an Australian engineering firm. v\ e
have ascertained that the Mond Gas Co. of Staffordshire
have accepted the tender of Mephan Ferguson, of Me ■
bourne, for the supply of about 13 miles of Fergusons
Patent Lockingbar Steel Pipes, from 18 inches to 36 inches
diameter. The machinery for manufacturing these pipes
has all been made at Ferguson’s General Engineering
Works, Footscray, and shipped to Tipton, in Staffordshire,
where the branch works are being erected. The same
firm have also erected engineering and pipe works at
Wanganui, New Zealand, and have contracted to supply
the Wanganui Borough Council with about 20 miles of
Spiral Riveted Steel Pipes for the town water supply.*
* * * *
A. Kozminsky, 106 Queen-st., Melbourne,
having returned from England,, is now prepared to
purchase paying mines, and mining properties (not
merely surface shows), situated in any part of
Australasia requiring further capital for development and
machinery. Only genuine and legitimate ventures,
capable of bearing the strictest examinations will be
entertained.*
* • * *
With a constant sensibility of t/3000th. grain,
assayers will welcome the “Galopin” Assay Balance
(price, with'weights, £21.) “It is all you claim font,
writes a customer to de Beer, Silberberg and Co., of
Gasoline furnace fame, Bourke-street, Melbourne.*
• * * *
H. Brandon Skertcldy, geologist, mining engi*
neer and assayer, is prepared to furnish scientific reports
and plans to British and Australian investors. Assays
undertaken, and inquiries re mining properties, promptly
attended to. For fuller information apply to H. Brandon
Skertchly, Norman Chambers, Creek-street, Brisbane.*
* * * ♦
George Morrison, Stock and Share broker
(member Brisbane Stock Exchange), 377 Queen-street
opposite Stock Exchange, Brisbane. Agents all parts of
the World. Correspondence invited.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
♦ » * *
Hedley Hawkins, sharebroker, Queen-street,
Brisbane (member, Brisbane Stock Exchange), has agents
every important mining centre and cities of Common*
wealth. Correspondence invited.*
• * * *
B. Garland Abell, Registered Patent Agent,
159 Queen-street, Brisbane. Inventions patented. Trade
Marks registered throughout the world.*
About the best. Brand for Sheep now in the
market is Kemp’s Branding Liquid. It goes further and
is considerably cheaper than any other. It will dissolve
in the scour, and should certainly be used by those who
hope to get a good jgrice for their wool. E. Rich and Co.,
Sydney and Brisbane, hold stocks.*
* * * *
An insanitary difficulty has arisen in the work-
ing of the venerable Long Tunnel (Walhalla) G.M. The
water in the shaft'is so poisonous on account, of the
mineral in solution that a drop of it penetrating tho
abraded skin of a miner causes.a painful sore.
ft#
SUN :
HIGHEST
QUALITY
BRAND
SOLD
EVERYWHERE.
S ch weppesSoda.
By Special Appointment to His Majesty the King,


Society
GETTING ON.
“ Oh, isn’t it the toffs I’m livin’
with now, Katie, dear I Sure we
keep a groom, an’ three maids, an ’ the missus
strips for dinner.”
It is said that, at a recent meeting held to
promote a woman’s reform' league, or something
of that sort, a mocker proposed that nobody should
be eligible for membership who, being 27 years
old, couldn’t produce either two children or a
medical certificate. The birth-rate of the
crowd present was alleged to be about -05
per cent.; wherefore the indignity with which the
BU i?B es kion was treated wasn’t astonishing.
If Mr. Solomon, the father of Rehoboam,
had lived in these days, he would have placed the
Tory mind in the list of things “ too wonderful ”
for him to understand. It will be remembered by
those not brought up under a godless system of
education that poor old Solomon, worn out with
thinking on many subjects, had to own up that
there were four things in the world that beat him
badly ; to wit, “ The way of an eagle in the air;
the way of a serpent upon a rock ; the way of a
ship in the midst of the sea; and the way of a
man with a maid.’’ But a more difficult thing to
understand is the way of the modern Tory. All
over Australia the Tory strenuously opposed the
granting of woman’s suffrage. His stook argu-
ment against the proposal was that it would
degrade women to have them take part in the tur-
moil of politics. Yet the Australian Parliament
had no sooner given women the vote than the
Tory began to hustle women into the fight of
politics. Everywhere members of the Tory party
and Tory associations are holding meetings to urge
women to go to the polls and be degraded in
great masses. They are pulling all the social
strings to accomplish their ends. Lately, in Vic-
toria, they induced Janet Clarke to call a meeting
of women at her swell city home, and urge them
to be degraded. Three or four hundred of
the sex that has no pockets in its clothes
turned up, and Bigjohn Forrest and Murray
Smith, that woeful back number in politics,
poured Tory politics into their little pink ears.
The organisers of the scheme made a shocking
blunder, however. Without having first ascer-
tained his views, they invited Professor Harrison
Moore, of the law faculty, to address the meeting.
Moore opened out on the several Tory cries just
now being raised in Victoria. He solemnly warned
the Women not to be frightened by the socialistic
bogey, pointed out the hollowness of the economy
cry, and remarked that if they wanted to know
something about politics they should not read the
daily newspapers.
* ♦ • *
M‘Eacharn’s anxiety to get back, after a
brief interval (two years), to the expensive billet
of Melbourne’s boss cookie, is comprehensible and
humorous. What time he made the mayoralty
hum and kept Sam Gillott waiting for his turn,
gaudy Mac was only the Mayor. Now, if he
returns to the job, he will be “ijord” Mayor, and,
for men of his mental temperament, there is a
divinity in that extra word. Lord Mayor
M’Eaeharn ! He loves the sound of the distinc-
tion ; and the fight between him and rival candi-
date Hennessy promises to be desperate.
* * • ♦
Those distant fields. A steamer has
just brought back 56 of the fool Australian
who joined in the rush to South Africa
Borne months ago. The expected pile didn’t
materialise; the hardly-acquired nest-egg evapor-
ated, instead, in the quest of a mare’s nest. One
man, who sold a good property in Port Melbourne
to hie Africawards, sadly admits that he returns
to begin life afresh here on next to nothing.
Crowds of penniless Australians watched the
departure of the vessel from Durban ; all of them
would have come, too, if they had had the means.
In Capetown and Johannesburg there are hun-
dreds of mechanics and artisans unemployed and
hopeless. Experience teaches that there is no
place like home to be hard up in ; and when all
Australia’s discontenteds return to the fold there
should be great peace and contentment in Aus-
tralia.
“J.F.D.”: Speaking to a Sairey
Gamp yesterday I inquired if the
decrease in the birth-rate was per-
ceptible to her individually. She
said “No,” the only thing she
noticed was the frequent shortage of
five shillings or seven-and-six in the
two guinea fee. The
is es missing money was
?L_ ill always promised “as
I: j»~. -sl soon as Bill has a good
hML S 0 week,” but Bill never
had a good week.
Think myself there
is .more money
owi ig to ; that
Sairey Gamp
than to.many
business men
who employ
a couple oif
debt-col-
lectors.
Sairey
cannot
send a
debt-
collector
to bully
fjr her fee.
Know an old
midwife at New-
town (N.S.W.), whose poverty-stricken clients run
into hundreds. At present she is near to death’s
door; a wound received from a broken bottle while
running home to obtain blankets for a poor wretch
confined in an empty house makes her life a
burden. I stand up for Sairey Gamp. Her acts
of charity are many and big.
* ♦ * *
Notice painted on a Bourke-street (Mel-
bourne) cheap restaurant: “ Accommodation for
single and married couples. ”
REAL HAPPINESS.
OLD LADY (who has given tramp threepence) : “ Don't think Pm giving this for
Charity's sake. It's only because it pleases me to do so.”
TRAMP: “Make it three bob instead of threepence, and enjoy yourself, mum!”
The toney Alexandra Ladies’ Club, of
Melbourne, is applying for a license to sell
“ hard ” drinks, and the police are going to oppose
the application. For one thing, the Alexandra is
a proprietary club, and, for another thing, the
rules admit of males being introduced as visitors
by the lady members; consequently, the establish-
ment is not on all fours with a mere man-club,
where ladies can’t be introduced for drinking
purposes after the pubs, are closed. Also, it
seems questionable whether member Gwendo-
line’s request for champagne for Dick, Tom, and
Adolphus would be a bona-fide order at her own
expense.
* * * *
“Mick”: Be par (8., 10/9/’O3) on vege-
tarian restaurants. I recently paid one a visit.
It made me feel as if I were dead, and the grass
growing above my tomb. After
a stiff wrestle with the menu,
I tackled several weirdly-
named dishes, and emerged
as hollow as I had gone
in. At same table sat two
regular habitues of the
place. They discoursed
learnedly on the merits of
“nuttose,” “protose” and
“jellose”; also the evils
of smoking, of drinking
before meals, the need of
social purity for the young,
and similar-subjects. The
great majority of those
present were grey, gaunt
and dyspeptic-looking, with
a hungry glare in their
eyes that fairly shouted for
a good beefsteak done
“rare.” They had the
introspective look of men
who ponder incessantly on
their own innards—of the
people who compare symp-
toms and globules, and ex*
amine their tongues every
morning, and. count their
hairs before going to bed. I
wouldn’t like to live among these
people and learn to talk about
things ending in “ose,” and to measure my ears
carefully to see if one is larger than the other.
'■ * * * •
That eminent ethnologist, Senator Simon
Fraser, has settled a big question in one act.
Talking on the White Australia policy for the
millionth time, in the Senate, he gave a
characteristic speech in his cinematograph style
of delivery. “If white men do the black men’s
work,” he cried, vehemently, “they’ll get black
too.” Poor old Simon quite forgot to add that if
he did a Chinaman’s work he would become
yellow, and if he did an Aztec’s work he would
become reddish brown, and if he did a Turk’s
work he would become turkey.
“B." com-
plains :
Some time
ago the Royal
Shipwreck'
Society' quite
unwarrantably
altered its title
to the Ship-
wreck and
Humane
Society’, and
entered on the
business of
grantingmedalB
and certificates
to persons who
by bravery
saved human
life, whether on
sea or land.
This worthy
enough business
is already at-
tended to by
the well-knowii
Hum a n e
Society, which
has no reason
for existing
apart from the
medal- giving
business. The
Shipwreck
Society might
well stick to its
own ©occupa-
tion. But re-
-liev i n g- di s-
tressed seamen
is a job that
has no limelight
about it: On
the other hand,
when present-
ing medals to
the deserving
brave, it is easy
to call a big
meeting at big
expense, put
the deserving
brave in the
back seats, and
the council of
the Society on
the dais with
the Governor
and suite, the
Judges, poli-
ticians and re-
porters. These
remarks are
called forth by
the recent ac-
tion of thecoun-
cil in presenting
its chairman, a
well-meaning
businessperson,
with the
Society’s gold
medal. The
gold medal has
hardly ever been given for bravery. A simple sailor,
who jumped into a dark, rough, shark-infested sea, and
pulled out a sinking woman, was donated a silver medal;
while those brave men who dashed into the poisoned air
of the Kembla mine (some of them losing their own lives
in their heroic efforts to save their fellow-men) did not
get as much as a paper certificate among them. The gold
medal of this humorously exasperating society goes to
the President who, as the papers put it, was overcome by
emotion ! Overcome! The wonder is he didn’t choke
outright. The members of the council could then have
voted themselves gold medals for bringing him to by
patting him on the back and other heroic measures.
* * • •
The dangers of proving too much were
clearly shown in Adelaide police court hist week
when a “ no visible ” case related the story of his
recent engagement with a canvasser. All he had
to do was to hold the boss’s spirited horse while
ON THE BENCHES IN THE PARK.
H E: “ What are you thinking of, darling?”
SHE: “Nothing.”
H E: “ Why do you think so much of me?”
calls were made, and if £7 a day were taken (which
often happened) he (the horseholder) got £3 of it.
There was a regular salary, too —“ perhaps £2 or
£3 a week.” The S.M. gently inquired if this
liberal master did anything else for his man,
and was told that some weeks he gave him
“ several pounds ” for himself to go to the races
with. After which the tale was pronounced
“outrageous,” and the narrator got two months.
THE BIGOT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Tlie Latter Day Bigot was kneeling and blowing the
faggots of shame.
And hoping to God they would kindle and flash as of old
: into flame ;
“’Tis plain to the simplest' and dullest," the Bigot he
panted and said,
“ Unless we be warmed by the faggots our blood will be
frozen and dead.
" Twill cheer us—the weariful nation that limps in the
Land of the Loan—
To turn on the rack of our fathers and hark to the
penitent groan ;
We weary of drought and disaster, of quack and political
liar,
And it comes with a message of healing—the crackle of
fat in the Are.
11 So give to the paunoh of the Bigot—for Bigotry’s
craving is vast —
Apd rouse up a hell for the Future by raking the hell of
the Past;
Heat up the fat head of the stupid and see that it never
grows cool,
And fire up the narrow fanatic, and play on the fad of the
fool.”
The Bigot he paused for a moment, then cried with a
sanctified grin—
“ 0, send them, good Lord, for their saving, a saint who
shall spit on their sin";
A saint who shall come as a Calvin—as grim and as bitter
as gall,
To trample the gods of the heatheif and flourish a lash
for them all.
“ Thou knowest, in days that were olden, they drave us,
Thy children, as swine,
Until, with the turn of the tables, we drave them in turn
to the brine.
Biit they— they insulted Thy Chosen and trampled us
. down without ruth ;
While we —when we lighted the faggots—we lifted a blaze
* for the Truth 1
f
“We lifted a blaze for the burning of them whom
Apollyon had stirred ;
We hanged and we racked and we. tortured— that men
. might be brought to the Word!
We purged the poor children of error, of fierce and
forbidden desire.
Oh, it came with a sound as of healing—the crackle of fat
in the fire 1”
PHILANDER FLAM.
t J
Panama Hats
MEN'S
GENUINE,
FOLDER, FINE GRADE,
HAND SELECTED,-
UNBLEACHED
PANAMA HATS
PRICES—
-19/6, 37/6.
DAVID JONES and COMPANY,
J GEORGE and BARRACK STS., SYDNEY
This is the
weight
TRADK MARK
WHICH GIVES
A
GOOD
iriPRESSION.
Illustrated
Catalogue
FREE!
The e are the goods if bearing the
WEI iHT WILL CREATi A GOOD IM-
PI E SION.
HARRINGTON* 00 ’
LTD.,
PHOTOGRAPHIC MERCHANTS,
66 KING ST„ SYDNEY
and 93 Queen Street, Brisbane.
This is
the
IMPRESSION
Efficiency
and
Good Value
HADE WITH
THE GOODS
WHICH BEAR
THE WEIGHT.
See that your
Camera and Photo
Supplies bear our
Trade Hark or
Name and save
disappointment.


It was probably a very much surprised co-
re. who received 12 months gaol for swearing, in the
N.9.W. Divorce Court, that he didn’t, when, as a
matter of fact, he did. It has been pretty gener-
ally thought that the law of perjury did not apply
to the Divorce Court, and that the safe, as well as
the honorable thing there, was to follow royal
example and “ perjure yourself like a gentleman.”
Now Justice Owen shows that it is not safe and
argues that it is not honorable. If you have
kissed you must tell—in the Divorce Court witness-
box—unless you preserve a dead silence and take
it out in contempt of court. Neither the sentence
nor the argument is likely to quite kill ohivalry on
the subject, which will continue to follow the
maxim of Kipling:
If trouble should lie to Herward and lie of yours can clear,
Lie until your lips are black, lie while there’s a soul to
hear—
Or words to that effeob
A COLD SNAP IN MELBOURNE.
SULLIVAN: “ It’s a cold day, the day, sir.”
CCITIZEN: “ Cold I Put your car to the window,
and hear the false teeth chattering ?”
Sydney Water Police Court listened, last
week, to one of the most extraordinary stories
ever told there. The charge was against a 20-year-
old unmarried servant girl of wilfully exposing
her four-year-old child “in a manner likely to
result in bodily suffering.” A constable said he
first
saw the child in the yard, playing with fowls. She had
no hat or boots on. She was scratching in the earth with
her foot, or hand, and rolling in the dust, picking up
things with her fingers, crowing, and imitating fowls in
every way. She would crawl through any small openings,
and follow the fowls round the yard. . . . He went again
on the 17th, 18th, 19th and 20th instant, and each day
saw the child acting in a similar manner. The fowls were
there every day. It was a cold, bleak day on the 19th,
and it rained about dinner time, while the child was left
in the yard. Once, he saw the accused come through the
gate into the yard, and give the youngster something to
eat.
Another constable
saw it walk round the yard about half-a-dozen times, each
time crawling under a low bush that was in the yard. It
would also spar up to a rooster, the same as one rooster
would do to another.
And a nurse at the Benevolent Asylum told how,
for two or three days after the mite’s admission,
it could not speak,
but would crow and chuckle round the others, and when
retiring to bed it would not do as an ordinary child, but
would want to perch on the cot. It had improved
wonderfully, and was able to speak.
Yet the neighbors said that, except that the child
was turned out in the yard, the mother was kind
to it; and a doctor reported it well nourished.
The mother, handicapped with a child which
apparently nobody else took the least interest in,
got no wages, she said ; she had to take the child
with her, and few would have a girl with an infant
about the premises, and those who would have her
simply put up with her and the encumbrance
because she was cheap. For drudging late into
the night she got her keep and the child's —the
child’s keep was reckoned instead of wages. It
was a pitiful tale; but the Bench jumped the
morals .and fined the mother £1 or seven days •
fined this wageless, penniless, wretched girl £l,
instead of suggesting that if there was a poor-box
handy this was a fit subject for help. The child
i 3 sent to the Benevolent Asylum until she is 16
years old, by which time most likely she will have
quite outgrown the habit of wanting to perch on
the foot-rail of the bed.
“P.”: Hosts of Australian R.O.’s sincerely
hope that Cardinal Moran will get a billet at the
Vatican or elsewhere. They would also like Dill
to get a job somewhere far away that would pay
him better than the many things he is at
just now. The Australian R.C. is full up of
religious quarrels. It is a pity, for the sake
of the future, that Australian R.C.’s do not
care about the sin-shifting business. _ They
prefer getting into the Corporation to
wearing a black suit and a collar that
buttons at the back. The clerics are im-
ported and, under Cardinal Moran’s
rule, hail from Ireland. And it takes
from ten to twenty years for an Irish
priest to realise that he has left Ire-
land. At R.C. functions—foundation-
stone layings, and so on—the references
to the “dear old country,” and to
“poor, down-trodden Ireland,” make
one think that the clergy consider
Roman Catholicism and Ireland sy-
nonymous terms, and that there are no
members of the ancient faith outside
the snake-ridded island. How much
would it cost Australia to buy Ireland
right out—borrowing the money from
England, of course? It would be such a
beautiful loan to float, and think how
it would expand the Commonwealth !
t** • *
More space was devoted to the
Ramsay Smith inquiry by the Adelaide
dailies than was ever given up previously
to any public trial in that city. The
nearest approach to it was the Thow case
in 1886 (Mr. Thow was Locomotive
Engineer and was threatened with dis-
missal), which ended in the triumph of the
public official, the defeat of the Government,
and the loss of his Parliamentary seat by
Playford, who, as Commissioner of Public Works,
had instigated the proceedings.
* * * *
The silly old libel on socialism turned up
at the Chapter (Anglican Church) meeting in
Melbourne last week. H. B. Higgins made a fine
speech in favor of socialism. Then a bishop
named Stretch, a great big man with a great big
guffaw, gob up and explained how Higgins him-
self cured him (Stretch) of socialism. They were
students at the Univeisity, competing in ti e
same exhibition. Higgins won. Stretch went to
him and asked him for half, as a practical bit of
socialism. Whereupon Higgins refused, and'
Stretch recanted from socialism. And so the silly
old lie lives on that socialism means a general
division of property, and consists in one man who
has a shilling giving half to another man who has
nothing. And it is with such an imbecility that
a tottering Church tries to prop itself up.
# # * *
The captain of the steamer Croki, run
ashore on a clear night off Seal Rocks, has been
found guilty of “default” by N.S.W. Marine
Court, but—
Although, at first sight, it would appear that there was
gross negligence on the part of the master, the Court was
of opinion that, taking into consideration the fact that he
had been practically on duty, involving a severe strain,
mental and physical, for more than 22J hours witho. t
any sleep, it was not to be wondered at that his vigilance
was somewhat relaxed, and that, unintentionally, he
dozed when at his post. For this reason the Court did
not deal with his certificate.
So nobody is held punishable. The Court does
not bring before it the owners who, presumably,
were responsible for the captain having to
work 22J hours at a stretch, and cancel or sus-
pend their right to run ships. Even the people
who manage a tenth-rate pony meeting have more
sense than the law; they disqualify the owner
sometimes.
“J.” : It is pathetic
to note the perches
and niches out-
side churches for
p rosp'bcti ve
stone saints
which the faith-
ful will not buy.
Knew one R.C.
church whose
empty roost,
originally inten-
ded for a mineral
St. Peter, formed
for years the
groundwork for
slash ing ser m ons
on mean spirited
congregations.
The “soggarth”
argued that the
empty perch was
a reproach to
the congregation,
and that the here-
tics of the town
pointed the finger
of scorn at its
meanness. Then
O’Burke, who carved
landmarks for graves,
presented the church
with a stone angel with
folded wings (it was an
old order, the balance of
the purchase money not
coming to hand), and the
substitute was hoisted into
the place intended for the
long-expected Peter. It was
a miserable misfit, but it
pacified the soggarth, and his
wild cries from an image deaf-
ened us no longer.
* » *
“ F.M.*’ : Why not a
smart and decent uniform for
female teachers ? It would give
them a good deal more authority
amongst their pupils, and win for
them a good deal of esteem outside.
Out back, moreover, it would gain them
some necessary protection. As to matri-
monial chances and other things of that sort, ib
is not generally supposed that hospital nurses lose
many of them by reason of their uniforms.
* * * *
It’s a dull day when Melbourne Argus fails
to make a loyal and ludicrous ass of itself, but it let
itself go something extra, per its London corres-
pondent, over Edward Vll’s visit to Marienbad.
After bowing down in amazed adoration before
“a wonderful story reaching us of the King’s
entertaining talk with an old soldier,” Granny
told “ of his Majesty sheltering in a draper’s shop
during a shower of rain, and making extensive, if
not useful, purchases.” Also it announced
that “the King walks about the grounds like
any mortal of meaner clay.” Walks, in fact, just
as Shakspeare or Michael Angelo might have
done, and condescends to put his feet down just
like Washington, and honors Rubens by lift-
ing them up again the same way as he did.
Further, it was stated that “His Majesty
walks six or eight miles without a stop,
and some of the distance uphill, thus reduc-
ing his weight.” What a world of interest the
toady press can extract out of the mental picture
of a stout King perspiring on the highroad ! And
how the picture might be improved if there were
added to it a sketch of the First and Second Lords
of the Bedchamber pursuing him with a water-
bottle, in case the struggle proved too great, and
with a quilt on which a tired Emperor might faint
respectably if necessary.
KEY SEKUSEY, KEY SAKUSEY.— (Daniel
O'Connor, M.P. —or some other distinguished
French orator.)
“It was a game to which the most scrupulous could
take no exception, and it should be their aim to keep it
as it was now— good, harmless, wholesome, gentlemanly
pastime.”: — President Young (in defence of the per-
nicious game of bonis.)
BILL BIFF (to distinguished brother athlete):
“Wot! these religious coves been down on
you, too! Never mind, old cobber. We coves
'as only got to stick together to down ’em.”
Some Maoriland town-
ships that) nobody ever
saw any beauty in have
lately become quite
popular tourists-’ . re-
sorts. There is Cher.t-
sey, for instance,
just over the border
of the Ashburton
Prohibition terri-
tory. In fact, all
the townships
that have de-
veloped new
beauties are
just ov e r
some bor-
d erp r
other.
THE VALUE OF AN OATH.
“ Yer swear yer done it?” “ Yus.”
“ Will yer wish yer self dead if yer didn’t?”
“Yus.”
“ Will yer take yer solemn dyin’ oath yer done
it?” “Yus”
“ Will yer let me a tray yer done it?”
“No bloomin’ fear —not likely.”
Another disgrace to his country has been .
dealt with in the usual praiseworthy manner by.,
their Melbourne Washups. Called itself Thomas ,
Hilliard, and was garbed in string braces, a faded.
coronation tie, and sundry other apologetic gar-
ments. One of O’Callaghan’s policemen heard
someone talking loudly in the Yarra after dark,
and fished the dingy one out. The policeman men-
tioned to the Court, inter alia, that his catch was
suffering from beer. Hilliard denied the impeach-..
ment, and informed the Bench that he had only
had one pint since the’9o strike —“One beer in
13 years, yer Honors.” Then the Bench made the
usual nasty remarks, and passed a sentence of ~
three months gaol. Three months for falling into.
the Yarra (a river that is dirty enough to be its
own punishment) is worthy of Melbourne.
“Screw 22”: “Burglar Bill” and all
his friends should view the closing of Trial Bay
prison with feelings of regret; for, compared
with other gaols, it must have been a little
heaven for them. The good-conduct men
were allowed eighteenpence a day, and
they could spend a third of that on to-
bacco, cigarettes, cocoa, jam or any
other luxury of the kind. No trade ’
work was done of late ; it was all good,
healthy work in the bracing sea air,
and, at certain times, the convicts ,
were allowed to play cricket, or some
other open-air game. The break-,
water was never in a worse state
than it is in at present, and the
silt has so choked up the harbor as
to render it quite useless. A new
and splendidly-fitted wing had just
been added when news arrived
that the prison was to be closed.
* • •
Melbourne is one of the few places
in Australia that sticks to the old practice
of decorating hearses with black i lumes
of feathers. This ridiculous mftmmery in
honor of the corpse hasr been abolished
in most progressive communities, but it
is some time since Melbourne was pro-
gressive, and some of its old boomsters
deserve a final tribute of feathers, anyway
—with a few casks of tar added.
Most of the frauds recently prosecuted at
Sydney criminal court for fortune-telling are again
advertising “ seances ”in the daily papers. They
mostly call themselves palmists and phrenologists
now, but as most of them only know one collection
of, tricks, the chances are tnati they live on the
gullible public in the old way.
THE LAMENTATION OF JONES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At last night’s meeting of the Baptist Union, the presi-
dent, the Rev. Seth Jones, made some comments on Sir
Harry Rawson having been invited to take the chair at
a gathering held in connection with the recent Christian
Endeavor Convention. “He attends race meetings,”
said Mr. Jones, “ and I don’t think it was proper for him
to preside at such a meeting. I don’t like this seeking
after worldly grandeur on the part of Christian organisa-
tions. A man who went to race meetings was not a man
to lead Christian young men and women.”— 2fews item.
The Rev. Jones, “God made this place
With deep, sad groans, For bleat and grace,
And lifted palms, For groan and prayer ;
And inward qualms, . Not Race and Fair,
Doth say : “ Hee, haw ! Or horrid sporb
This Guv’nor Raw- Of any sort;
Son is not fit And Guv’nors who
To eat or sit, Will not look blue
Preside or walk, And stay away
Commune or talk, From sports, I say,
With our weak hims and Must not come near our
weaker hers— hims and hers —
Our huggy-mug Endeavor- Our huggy-mug Endeavor-
ers. ers.”
ALONE.
THE BALLADE OF SYLVIA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The rowell’d sun has spurr’d the haze
Back to its own Cimmerian den ;
It is a very pearl of days,
A day alike for gods and men !
Close to the breezy reed-clad fen
A garden old its tangle shows,
And lo 1 its fairest citizen,
Sweet Sylvia, sleeps beneath the rose.
My eyes, entranced, fondly gaze
Upon that dainty denizen
Who slumbers there, amid the fays
And nymphs of that enchanted glen.
Not Helen’s self, nor Imogen,
Such maiden graces could disclose
As when, like dryad in Ardennes,
Sweet Sylvia sleeps beneath the rose.
I do not seek a conqueror’s bays,
My wants to such are alien ;
I rather an appeal would make.
My heart’s petition I would pen
To her who makes the Muses ten,
The Graces four. Ah ! if she chose
To that appeal to sigh “ Amen ” !
But Sylvia sleeps beneath the rose.
ENVOY.
“ Friend, when she wakes,” you ask, “ wh.il then ?”
Then must the curtains softly close ;
1 only lift them lightly when
Sweet Sylvia sleeps beneath the rose.
N.B.W.
S. ELLICTT NAPIER.
DAVID STOKER & SONS’ "■"»» w-mummm
Registered
Tradb
Mark.
TATTOO
OIL
Is the Only Absolutely
SAFE
wco:-
Marking or
The Perfect Sheep-Mark r. SHEEP BRANDING OIL.
Kept by ALL MERCHANTS and STOREKEEPERS.
I suppose you shave 1 or, if not, of course
you require your hair trimmed. The most
fashionable gentleman’s hair-dressing saloon in
Sydney is Wild’s, at 30 Sydney Arcade —the
Arcade that runs from George-street to King-
street.* '
STARCH
STAR
WORLD
THE
BEST
IN
THE
: Kelpful
in
Kidney Troubles.
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
Unvarying
in
Quality.


A WOMAN’S LETTER.
~ . Sydney, October 6, 1903.
My Dear Arini,— ’
Sydney florists ar e saying that Ada Crosslev’s
visit brought them an extraordinary run of busi-
ness, a bigger run than that caused by any
previous stars shining. Apart from the flowers
U .P to , the v. pl^form ' hundreds of bouquets
were sent to her hotel, many of them Australian
sjmng flowers-pungent, bitter-sweet blossoms
with streamers of wide satin ribbon or chiffon
After she had been here a few days there were
rainbow masses of these garnishings, enough to
hll a Saratoga, hanging against the walls of Miss
Crossley s rooms. A lot that she did not keep as
remembrancers went to the hospitals; her com-
partment m the Melbourne express, too, was
& °n e lt d ’ and \ f , or , th ® matter of that,
the Ada s gomg-away costume
was a fine arrangement in brown, with a hat (not
“?. e , an £ T- h f ave seen here) of brown crinoline
with a bird in front of the wide, up-curving brim.
Dn-dy staff of greyish white swept round to the
back of the hair. Bu 111 was the Crossley matinee
costume which caused the “ Oh, my 1 ” buzz It
was a sky-dyed soft silk with panels of cream
jewelled lace, Gainsborough hat, and feather that
matched the silk.
Talking of floral decorations, at a Society splash
arranged in honor of Miss Crossley at Bateman’s
Hotel—a splash which her damaged foot prevented
her honoring—the colors used were the artiste’s
favorites, brown and amber. A great quantity of
bright brown leaves (the flash of Summer heat at
the beginning of the month had put Autumn tints
upon the camphor laurel and other foliage) and
primroses made “Ada” at each of the four cor-
ners of the table. The lampshades were brown
and edged with daffodils and ornamented on the
upper surface with big, amber butterflies carrying
boronia and primroses oil their wings.
Melbourne National Art Gallery haS bought
Norman Lindsay’s pen-and-ink picture, “The
Scoffers,” exhibited at current Sydney Royal Art
Society’s show. It was “The Scoffers” and its
companion, “The Curate’s Little Wife,” that
caused a certain little sectarian weekly to exude
gall of so virulent a type that you could kill a snake
Wlt j- ** Scoffers’’ shows a group of
mediaeval Florentine men and maids, lightly clad
and slightly sober, looking at Something in good-
humored derision, or contempt, or mere vacancy
Some persons were puzzled as to the identity of
ihat at which the Scoffers scoffed, so vague was
the indication of crucified feet and a wooden beam.
Ihere is a figure among the merry rogues that
arrests your attention like a bull’s eye lantern in a
dark passage. He has detached himself from his
fellows and stands quite close to the object, one
hand meditatively laid on his chin. Philosopher
jester, reveller, critic, regular bad young sceptic!
you feel he is. A Francois Villon or a Heine
might have looked so. The thinker, the analyst
of motives, is now uppermost, and his pen-and-
ink face translates his thoughts.
State Excellencies, the Rawsons, planted
memorial trees in the Botanic Gardens last week •
then the whole See outfit followed suite. Six
Sees, six trees. “ Attention was given,” says the
report to suitability of the trees as regards soil
and aspect and future landscape effects.” It
might have continued, “Also to the artistic
grouping of the Vice-regal and See families in the
photograph that followed.” There surely was a
photograph. Most of John See’s children (very
handsome children they are) have Vice regal
godfathers. You get rid of your original sin
much more thoroughly when a Governor renounces
it for you, and if you plant a tree in compapv with
a Governor it’s sinful neglect on your part if you
are not photographed as an accessory after the
fact.
If Mrs. Martel and Miss Vida Goldstein arrive
in the Senate, will they be called Senatress or
Senatrix ? Or Mrs. and Miss Senator respec-
tively ? Or will there be no distinction at all,
and they be Senators Martel and Goldstein, just
as the hairy males ? By the tiipe women.do arrive
in the Senate there will be no boggling about such
trifles as fashion of address. It is fairly safe to
prophesy that they will not get there for many
years to come. Yet there does not seem to be the
prejudice against the possible woman senator that
there was against the woman doctor when she
started. Woman’s arrival in Parliament is only a
question of time. It has indeed been predicted by
one dreamer that in time to come countries will
have Parliaments of two Houses—one tif women
elected by women, one of men elected by men !
What a chasm between the minds of women
who have the courage to wish to sit in the Senate
and those of the amiable idiots who write to the
penny ladies’ papers entreating sympathy or
remedies for spots on the face, falling hair, or a
cooling lover ; these are the three common forms of
female anguish. I cannot imagine Senator Ethel
1 ullskull leaving the Senate for the writing room
to ask someone named “Isobel” if it is “really
true that men care for nothing but beauty in
=’; andthetho^hfc that this ma V be true
malun g her very sorrowful. She has the richlv-
“lsobei n ” n< H and f* 10 we^'brussled - glossy hair that
adv ° cat es so incessantly, but it is iin-
ffihnt« f tc ! f practase the other (advised)
takethn the . self-effacing spirit that might
eves ” h ln , Sen ator Bill Sturtpea’s
her to m Se f ‘ e ? aced> the press would tell
ner to go and typewrite or cuddle a baby, and her
election 6ntS W ° uld heaVe her out next
The other day the proprietor of a matrimonial
f,f® n ? y and the clerical blacksmith who welded on
The™ 8 - ell °VV, nd dissol ved partnership
£1 tJ lZ n^T dlat ? Iy cu , t down the price from
15s V k and th? old employer did likewise and
mam who rally • round him as a chea P
man who had brought marriage within the reach
'e Poorest-even those who had no furniture.
V ® ri ° has rented a house two doors from
ionl hf 1 P - Ut . ° ut a ne . w . si &n and a lamp, and
gone solidly into opposition The public is
waiting to see the parson and the agency pro-
prietor fight 10 rounds to decide the ownership of
«wre“&isl:ss»s! b h “ pu, “ " p bet »“” th »
from which Lad y Rawson is
suffering has its compensations. It has compelled
her to stay at home and nurse it, and several quite
SW P tu a en^T ents have had to be shelved.
Since their arrival here the Rawsons have had,
atd^Vl ° n > ly fo !l r evenin ffs to themselves,
nd their holiday in the mountains gave them
but pne week.! They are b 7 nature* a horn!
fe 9 f n .?> fireside-loving family, so the rush
into the outer darkness night after night
must be counted to them for a seise
of duty If Lady Rawson does not make a
hurried recovery she cannot go to Tumut—in this
enticing weather, too, when the rain is pelting
you by the tankful, and wild, wet Eedera^politf-
for a S capitll hlng throUgh the sodden grass looking
°ur ex-governor Earl Beauchamp has had his
2P“ Ilnd fief christened with massed bands, flying
flags and full-choral effects. Worcester papers,
m describing the ceremony, studiously refer to the
in ant as Lord Elmley.” He was given the
= ?5)7 llh T- ii ttle Willie bad four sponsors
lie of them Lord Rosebery. A curious item of
the proceedings was the way Billy was handed
about When the christening Bishop required
hmi the nurse handed him to Lady Lygon, who
handed him to the Bishop. And when the
sprinkling was accomplished the Duchess of West-
minster received him from the Sprinkler and
handed him back to the nurse. Suppose all these
paddmg ceremonies make for dramatic effect,
b!* d%H*L (P40 ° hance “Ohebabj
How curious appear women’s figures of the very
early 8° s, as sketched by Phil May, in contrast
with those of this year The tight-fitting bodice,
fastened by obvious rows of buttons down the
front, and the very obvious, jutting bust, are pre-
sent, with folds of drapery circumferencing the
skirt below the hips. An immense fullness of the
back drapery, short skirts, high heels, small
waists, and hard-looking, boat-shaped or pork-pie
hats seem to have been the apex of fashion at that
time. A girl who was with her mother viewing
the sketches on the walls of Bradley’s auction
mart, previous to the sale, condoled with the elder
lady on having ever dressed like that. “ I don’t
think it half as awful as your style,” retorted the
mother, with your straight front and pompa-
d°jrf i?, Rpg ei )t-street dip, and side-combs
and tableland nat. “ P’r’aps,” replied the dam-
sel, but 1 don’t see how you could ever look
tilady m such gowns.” “We didn’t call them
gowns then, explained the mother, “they were
dresses or ‘toilettes,’” and the reminiscencer
went on to tell how much “ it cost your father for
my party dresses then, because of the artificial
flowers with which the back of the skirt, just
where you d crush them by sitting on them, was
trimmed.
11 rm rea at 3 * be cb ®?k of the begging-letter writer.
The Young Widow” or the “Orphan” who
advertises for £5 to be loaned her by “ some kind
gentleman, same to be returned in instalments, is
one form of beggar. But the most impudent mendi-
cantsare those who beg of notable persons visiting
ms btate. A late visitor had a request from a man
for £2OO to enable him to buy a building allot-
ment, and he considerately enclosed a plan of the
humpy he intended erecting. A certain star
artiste had a request for money to buy a new
buggy. But the writer who “ took the cake ” was
the man who forwarded a song of his own com-
position to the artiste and when he was notified
that it did not suit her, and that he could recover
it at a certain office, threatened to take legal pro-
ceedings for the recovery of his property if it were
not returned by post before 3 o’clock on the
following day.
With what tense anxiety must those who are
suffering from cancer, or who have the scourge a&
an hereditary possibility in their families,
watch for developments in the radium
cure experiments. The curative properties of
radium on surface cancer have already been
proved. At present, they cannot be used on deep-
seated cases, probably because of their destructive
effect upon the tissue cells. Within 20 years, the
Pasteur institute has made a conquest of five great
ills—hydrophobia, diphtheria, lockjaw, snake
pmson, and bubonic plague. Remains for some
biologist or bacteriologist to conquer the
cancer, foe. A well-known Sydney lady,
who is afflicted, and whom the doctors
have given only three years to live, scoffs
at the medical limitation; she knows the cure will,
be found before the three years are up,
and her daughter reasons “I am young yet,
before I m middle-aged it surely must come.”
Edwin Geach left by the Victoria last Saturday
for Maoriland The co. and the dog, “Aquin-
aldo, will follow in a week’s time. M.L. always
welcomes laughing plays—pieces that will;
make its smile circumnavigate its head.
I hear that Melbourne women—some of those
who have adopted the short skirt, and who have
pretty feet—are wearing red, white or blue shoe-
laces to draw attention to their number threes.
No woman whose foot-case is over three wants to
publish the fact. But why not wear red, white
or blue shoes ? What a sale there would have
been for red, white and blue shoes on Mafeking
night, when all Melbourne hung out the Dutch
colors in its ignorance !
Tailoresses’ Union appeared in the Eight-Hours
procession on Monday for the first time. The
leading.damsels’ faces wore an heroic, Joan of Arc
expression. State Ex. Rawson watched the show
from the top of the Town Hall porch, in company
with three of his staff and Mr. and Mrs. O’Sulli-
van.
Toxteth Church is to be pulled down, and the
Glebe estate of the Allens, so long identified with
that Sydney suburb, will become modernised. In
grandfather Allen's, time the estate was planned
out as an English village, with a big house for the
Lord of the Manor, cottages for tenants, and a
church for Sunday use.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ The Dowager. of Cliveden summoned the
upper few to a political matinee, at her fortified
home, the other day. They came in their fresh,
Verdant, spring clothes, to match the greenness
of their political knowledge. A curious set of
mixed men addressed the meeting, or whatever
they called it. The most successful spokesman
with the dear young things was Murray Smith,
who is a bit of a dear young thing himself. He
prefaced his yarn with the confession that he had
never approved of female suffrage himself, but,
now that it had descended on women, so far as
the Federal elections were concerned, it behoved
her ladyship to feel her responsibility, and vote
always for a man whose bell-topper is a shining
light and whose frock-coat is cut without reproach.
The perfumed feminines were disposed to take
this dear little man quite seriously. Other
harangues were greeted with grave doubts as to
their respectability. But Murray Smith is almost
as respectable as your Spruce Myth.
“If you want to study the importunity, the
unreasonableness, and the stupidity of our sweet
sex, take a stand at the G.P.O. Inquiry window
any mail morning and see the final frantic rush of
the mail women. They elbow and fight their
way to the caged official, thrust their , packets,
papers, letters, and cards in simultaneously,
scream out their questions, hustle and shuffle and
scramble and scrape against each other in a fever
of fright and agitation.
“There is a convergence of footlight favorites at
present in these parts. Mrs. Kelly (n6e Knigbt-
Mollison) is most in evidence. She favors blue
raiment, running through the whole range of shades
from the sky to the bruise blue.
‘ References of a flattering nature are made to
two former Melbourne foot-lighters in recent
London publications—Miss Maie Saqui and
Miss Winnie Browne. The former’s neat little
feet and piquant prettiness have whirled her into
dancing fame. The dainty little Melbourne
tripper of long ago has blossomed into an arch
and imperious young beauty of the London boards.
Miss Browne (handsome Mrs. Hoddle, of East
Melbourne) has made strides commensurate in a
way with her striking appearance. From the
showy chorus girl of the Princess boards, she has
graduated to leading parts in comic opera. Her
latest essay is ‘ Cora Angelique,’ and a Big Smoke
paper gushes over her shapeliness.
“Julius Knight, one day last week, was enter-
tained at Bigjohn Forrest’s. The Knight with the
bnlliantined locks finds things a little changed
since the days of his Marcus Superbus glories.
It used to be related how station-holders threw
out piteous entreaties for week-end visits from
Julius, and one or two actually had Saturday-
night specials switched on to steam the noble
youth to their homes. Now, there’s none of that
extravagance. Still, Julius scores an occasional
lunch, and the glory of his legs has not altogether
departed.
‘No doubt remains as to the fashionableness
of maternity A Fogtown gossip paper now
devotes a special column to the ‘ Babies of the
Week.’ Herein are set down all Sairey Gamp
data, and the arrival is announced and para-
graphed before, it is out of its swaddling clothes.
A young honorable’s coming runs to a few lines,
but the arrival of a dukelet, who is from birth a
belted earl, calls for a heavy sentence with an
ample postscript as to his noble mamma’s pulse-
beat and complexion-tone. As for the ordinary
infant, who is merely a walloped and not a belted
scion, he isn’t noticed at all.
“ The select Alexandra Club, grown out of the
remains of the faded ‘ Wattle,’ wishes to follow
the most fashionable lines of London establish-
ments and has applied for a liquor license.
Probably the hardened licensing court never had
such a shock in its career as when this female
club sent along its request for a drinking certifi-
cate. The matter hangs fire.
“ A skittish Toorak dame, nowin foreign parts,
sends along word that the choicest after-dinner
frolics are impromptu, and not at all stiff or
restrained. Coon walks are out of date, but any-
thing else in the form of extravagance is welcomed,
and prizes are accorded to the most original notion
in the way of a frolic. A friend of mine has an
idea on the subject—to bring in tubs instead of
finger-bowls with the fruit, and everybody have a
mixed bathing turn. It would certainly cause a
sensation. But do you think I ought to keep that
friend ?
“To the quietness of the recent season is
attributed the number of surgical operations re-
cently amongst those smart women whose means
allow of the luxury. There was a rush on the
private hospitals, and at the leading place in Lons-
dale-street four operations happened one recent
Sunday Having nothing better to do, Scjciety
seems to have had itself cut up from sheer ennui.
“The schoolgirl of the ruminating eyes and
tame pig-tail has died out. The short-coaled of
the day flaunts a precocious coquetry by the aid of
a partly bare neck, tricky side combs, and .wide
Alsatian hair bows. She came in droves to the
Hambourg concerts. A truly painful maiden is
the ex-pigtailed girl. If the monkeyish and sus-
ceptible Small weed gave the impression that he
never lay in a cradle, or if so, that he lay there in a
tail-coat, the advanced school-girl induces one to
think she must have been born in corsets and
frills.
“The dress-builders are charging extra for an
early season rush of orders, and, incidentally, for
the 1 ashion’s great ornamentation demands.
From the high-boned collar that stabs the upper
neck down to the hem of the train, there’s one
complex series of elaborations. Of course, ready-
made trimmings are becoming a prominent factor,
and next season the smart she will merely need to
buy up the decorated parts, run them into co-
herency and have the garb complete for donning.
But at present fashionable dress is expensive.
“ At Spencer-street the crowd’s first impression
of Ada Crossley was of a tall, willowy, nut-brown
maid with a nut-brown Paradise plume waving
luxuriously from a nut-brown toque, and the nut-
brown eyes of the songstress in flood. Ada was
shedding the genuine tears of gratitude, not the
bogus ones of advertisement. But by the time
the Melbourne personages and the Gippaland
way-backs (who had torn themselves away from
the onion crop) had ring-a-rosied round, and the
old platitudes of the Parliamentarian had circu-
lated, the dear Ada was herself again. Her
’kerchief was waved to all the old familiar faces,
an eager kiss was blown to sisters and brothers in
the rear, and she sat on a floral dais b neath a
canopy of flowers like the Queen of Song in a
children’s story-book.
“Melba’s relatives were noted for their retiring
ways, but the family connections of the Crossley
star put all the Mitchell modesty completely in
the shade. They were in the most distant quarter
of the station crowd, hustled to the rear, and
again, at the Mayoral shivoo, took a remote perch
and were the least conspicuous figures. In fact,
the little knot of sisters (three are married) and
brothers were the only persons in the hall not
fighting for a peep at the star.
“ The Gillotts asked the whole of Melbourne to
come and make a brave show at the contralto’s
welcome home. ‘Society ’ arrived late and found
the dais annexed by the municipal body. A batch
of smart dames, all dressed for a grand trail,
gathered up their new spring trains in a temper
and mounted the balcony. There they watched
the ‘ mob ’ follow its bent to and from the dais.
“ Ada poses like majesty itself. Her head and
her neck have proud, beautiful lines, but her
expression is the most amiable and human in the
world. She curtails her smiles (which do not
show her at her best), and you notice her con-
tinually pursing her mouth as much as to say,
‘Oh, don’t make me laugh ! ’ She is voted by all
the friends of her youth to have marvellously
improved in looks. The thick-waisted, florid,
full-faced Ada of yore, whose fondness for bright
colors in dress, combined with the warm tints of
her hair, made observers perspire, has been re-
placed by a tall, willowy charmer, with masses of
pale-gold hair, piled above a white forehead, and
a general air of tactful refinement. She faced
Town Hall starers in a poetic toilette of delicate
mauve, with pensive pearls as her only effort in
the way of jewellery.
“ The brief welcome of the Melbourne
musicians (Mrs. Palmer at their head) on Friday
evening, was the most enjoyable of all. The
Waxcellency, who turned on a full flood of elo-
quence, got home with the remark that this should
be the cheeriest and best of all the celebrations as
it was ‘nearest bed-time.’ It took with the
crowd, and the Waxcellency looked surprised at
the laugh it created. He presented a diamond
lyre-bird to the contralto on behalf of the
musicians.
“After the audience of Saturday night had
thoroughly sized up the fine features of the
Crossley platform presence, it became deeply
impressed with her dexterously-executed bows,
that were directed in turn to all parts of the house!
Wonderful bows from the waist—slow, and full of
court stateliness. When the contralto, whom
every man, woman and child in the place alludes
to affectionately as ‘Ada,’ turned to include the
overflow accommodated on the organ loft in her
sweep of figurative thanks, the front of the house
was treated to a graceful silhouette. Her hair, a
towering creation, held at its apex the diamond
lyre-bird presented by the Melbourne musicians.
Flautist Lemmone had an interesting musical
party in his balcony reserve at the first concert,
and attention was directed to the Mitchell-
Patterson family at close quarters to the carpeted
reserve of the vice-regals. Melba’s nice old dad
thumped out his applause vigorously, with an
obvious desire to do justice to all the’stars of-the
firmament where his Nellie reigns secure.
“All the talk in this Crossley-crazed city is of
Ada’s ‘naturalness.’ But looking impartially on
that magnificently got-up appearance, the well-
rehearsed deportment, the hundred and one
devices that help to create a fine platform appear-
ance, one hesitates to join in the catch-word cry.
How much naturalness is left to a woman after
years of practice in all the arts that go toward the
making of a world-celebrated singer ?
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.
x <;-c'V
IS
VALAZE Russian Skin Food eradicates
freckles, wrinkles, sunburn, sallowness, acne pimples,
all blemishes. Guaranteed to improve the worst skin in
■one month. Price 3s 6d and 6s, postage 6d. Miss Nellie
Stewart writes: “ Valaze has made a marvellous differ-
•ence in my complexion; cannot praise it enough ’’
-Helena Rubinstein & Co., 243 Collins-st., Melbourne!*
Women ! why be thin and undeveloped ?
Lactfe, the wonderful skin-food, plumps the flesh
where thin and undeveloped, gives a beautiful
roundness to face, neck, bust, and arms. A
quick, sure and safe home treatment. Jars
7s. 6d., post Bs. 2d. Thousands of women using it
daily, all of whom testify to the wonderful results
from its use. Write for pamphlet to H. Westall
Guest, Vice-regal chemist, 229 Bourke-streeti
Melbourne. Sydney—Mrs. Rogers, 54 Strand
Arcade; and Miss Cuthbert, 11 Victoria Arcade.*
I FACILE priimcepsT~[
I SEMPER iPEM. |
BUCHANAN WHISKY
8
ENETTES*
§iy llsK
Are the Ideal Fabrics
for
RAINCOATS.
The
SEW
Id
eclipse
all others-
Be sure a „
ho .geh hhe I
RIGHT
£very Corset is branded inside on band
PD.
f U&
* * *
PD.
Refuse all others*


PERSONAL ITEMS.
They say that physical culture is doing so
much for G. H. Reid that he can now keep awake
during an interview.
The Hercules of the defunct Philp Ministry
is taking his licking very badly, and threatens to
retire into private life and leave Queensland to
its fate. Queensland isn’t worrying.
Lady Constance Knox, daughter of M.L.
Governor Ranfurly, has discovered a new snail,
and the crawling thing has been named after her.
There is always something crawling after vice-
royalty.
Victorian Premier Irvine has publicly con-
fessed his expenditure of a weekly sixpence for
The Bulletin (unless he borrows it) by alluding
to himself as an “Iceberg.” He spoke the word
in inverted commas, and even tried to smile.
The new Pope is a moderate smoker--not
of a pipe, but of a cheap brand of Swiss cigars.
Now that he’s Pope, he may promote himself to
Havanas. There’s not much fun in being Pope,
and even Dill Macky wouldn’t grudge him that
little bit of joy.
An Australian municipal potentate, or
prospective potentate, was, in his younger days,
fined four times for selling adulterated goods of
his own manufacture. As an exposition of how a
rich and respectable citizen may begin life this
item is worth considering.
Larry Foley has definitely decided to
enter active politics. He has picked Yass for his
battle of the Boyne, and hopes to demolish Wully
Affleck. Some time ago, when Larry Harnett
was sick, and his office likely to fall vacant, Foley
was in the running for the billet of Sergeant-at-
Arms.
Barnum Carnegie has replied favorably to
an Australian lady fietionist, who appealed to him
to godfather the publication expenses of her first
bush novel. Governor Carington, when in Sydney,
did the same thing for another Australian novelist,
but stipulated that the publisher should be one of
three leading London firms. The three shuddered
at the book, and declined to touch it at any price.
Australasian Speakerships have been sub-
ject to many changes lately. Gillies (Vic.) and
Brown (Tas.) have died, and Morgan (Q.) has
taken the Premiership, while not long previously
Abbott (N.S.W.) died, and Mason (Vic.) and
O’Rorke (M.L.) were defeated at the polls. Coles
(S.A.) dates from 1890, and Lee Steere (W.A.)
from the beginning of Constitutional Government
in the same year.
The members of Parkes’ Federal Con-
vention of 1891 are thinning fast—two more,
Gillies and N. J. Brown,
have dropped out within
a fortnight of each
other. Of N.S. Wales’
seven, only one is
now in politics—
McMillan. Parkes,
Abbott, W. H.
Suttor, and Pat-
rick Jennings
have all dis-
appeared. Of
the Maori -
latiders only
the military Rus-
sell is left. Mac-
rossan, Mcll wraith
and Donaldson are
gone from the
Queenslanders,
leaving Griffith,
Rutledge, Pat-
erson and
Thynne. The
South Aus-
tralians have
suffered least:
Playford,
Downer, King-
ston, Gordon,
and Baker are
still a vigorous
five; and Cockburn
is very much on deck
still, in London. From
that State’s bunch only
former Speaker, Premier,
and Agent-General Bray is
gone. Gillies and Collard
Smith are missing from
the Victorians; but of
the rest only Premier
Deakin still holds a
front place in politics.
State Treasurer Shiels
was only a temporary
member of the Con-
vention.
McDONALD PATER-
SON, M.H.R.,
QUEENSLAND.
Larry Foley, ex-high priest of “stoush,”
has resigned his position as N.S.W. “official
demolisher ” because he “cannot see his way to
continue to bear the loss which his acceptance of
employment has hitherto entailed.” Perhaps
that’s what’s the matter with so many who are
out of work.
London University has arranged to grant
degrees in divinity by examination in N.S.W.
The purchaseable Yankee degree will now proba-
bly disappear. The only Church of England
Bishop in N.S.W. who is D.D. by examination is
Primate Smith, though the other Bishops are
D.D. by courtesy.
Rev. F. W. Cox, the oldest minister in
Adelaide, isn’t far short of 90 now. The first
place he preached at in Adelaide was Ebenezer
Chapel, situate in Ebenezer Place, a sort of blind
lane down the east end of Rundle-street. It is
now used as a species of fruit warehouse. Ministers,
for some reason or other, are a very long-lived
class.
It is to be hoped that Beazley, who suc-
ceeds Duncan Gillies as Speaker of Victorian
Assembly, will be more fortunate than his pre-
decessors, Matthew Davies got mixed up financi-
ally whilst holding this position, and had to retire
into private life. Bent followed him in the chair,
and lost his seat at the next election; the same fate
happened to Graham Berry and F. C. Mason.
Then Gillies died. Vic. Speakership has been an
ill-omened job ever since Lalor’s time.
“ Watty,” as the Adelaide Professor of
Anatomy (Dr. Archibald Watson) is lovingly
called by his students, is by birth a Victorian, but
he has studied surgery in England, France,
Prussia, Spain, Italy, Morocco, and Egypt. He
applied for a surgeon’s position with the army of
Hicks Pasha which was annihilated by the Arabs
in the Soudan, but, luckily for him, he did not get
it. At Scotch College, Melbourne, he used to
carry off the Scriptural prizes, which, perhaps,
accounts for his present fine flow of language.
WHO’LL CAST THE FIRST STONE?
“The Rev. J. T. Baglin pointed out that there would be some difficulty in applying the determinations of
a wages board to these charitable institutions. The convents and Salvation Army homes took in fallen women.
Were they going to say that these women should be paid the regular rate of wages? He did not think they
were likely to succeed in securing such a condition.” — Age.
“ And they which heard it, being convicted by their went consciences, went out one by one, even
to the last”—all except the Rev. J. T. Baglin, and he said: “ What! do you mean to
say you would treat her like a human being? DO YOU KNOW WHAT SHE IS?
“Jim Jams ” : Man passed here (Never-
tire) recently leading a long-handled dog and an
elderly haybag, whom he said he merely had on
tribute and wasn’t married to. The gentleman
said he was “Scotty the Wrinkler” on his way
to Broken Hill to make rain. This world is full
of people accompanied by stolen dogs who
personate our great men.
Judge Bundey will complete 20 years’
service on the South Australian Bench in July,
1904, and will then vacate his seat on a pension
(£lO3O a year). Should the Jenkins Ministry get
safely into recess Attorney-General Gordon will
be practically a “ dead bird ” for the vacancy, as
Parliament will not meet again, if Jenkins can help
it, until the billet has been filled.
Rupert Smith, the inventor and maker of
the first complete harvester that harvested grain
in the Commonwealth, died in the Melbourne
Benevolent Asylum at the age of 85 years. He
lived to see the machine he originated over 30
years ago coming into general use in the wheat-
fields of these States, as well as being exported by
hundreds to Argentina and South Africa.
Arthur Griffith, who has been chosen as
the N.S.W. Labor candidate for the Senatorial
elections, has the valuable faculties of courage
and honesty. There is hardly a man in N.S.W.
State polities who would be of more value in the
Australian Parliament than Griffith, if he could
only get rid of the idea that the way to make a
country rich is to lean it up helplessly against a
foreign money-lender.
Said that N.S. W. Representative M‘Millan
is among those with an eye on the Australian
High Commissionership. To have a linen-draper
bagman in the position would be simply calami-
tous. A trader in any manly line, such as whisky
or cigars or axes or whale oil, might be possible,
but to have travelled for female haberdashery—
that leaves an ineffaceable stain on the mind and
a womanish frill on the character.
The Australian Government’s failure to
appoint Senator ’Siah Symon to a judgeship was
a sad disappointment for Sudden Solomon,
M.H.R. Solomon was returned by the whole
State (S.A.) voting as one electorate ; but, as he
can’t find one of the seven divisions which looks as
though it wanted him, he had his eye on Symon’s
seat. Now Symon’s seat isn’t empty, and Sudden
Solomon doesn’t know what to do.
South Australia lately lost its most original
scientific investigator—R. W. O. Kestel, of Port
Adelaide. He spent his nights and days trying
to account for the motion of the heavenly bodies,
and wrote works of great weight about the nebular
hypothesis and radiant energy ; and the labor,
combined with the fact that even after he had
found out something he couldn’t get anybody else
to grow excited about it, wore him out at last.
Apparently Mr. Austin (tatious) Chapman’s
first act as Australian Minister for Defence was
to get himself photographed at the roll-top desk
of office. He had snatched a moment from his
labors to look round at the camera ; the pen with
which he was defending the country was still in
his hand ; and he had the upward northerly look of
a man who saw the Russians pouring down over
Mercator’s Projection and meant to fix them with
his eye before they got much further.
A Mataura (M.L.) resident, who came
scathless out of a dredge accident in which nine
out of ten would have lost limbs or life, has had
some extraordinary escapes—all vouched for. A
dray, containing 35 bags of grain, once fell on
him; a drum of oil dropped 20 feet on to his
head ; and a horse kicked him in the mouth. Yet
he is alive and well, and not even knocked
seriously out of shape.
Mr. J. B. Oliffe, secretary to Tattersall’s
Club, Sydney, stated before the Committee on
Gambling that no better men lived than the mem-
bers of his institution. They were better men
than those he had met in Parliament. Mr.
Oliffe’s career in Parliament, however, ended in
the old squalid days when members, being unpaid,
had either to take it out in riot and diversion, or
else pay themselves in subterranean ways. There
is a comparatively quiet and honest Parliament
now.
Among birthdays in October are :—George
Dibbs (N.S.W.), 69 on the 12th; Guy Boothby,
46 on the 13th ; editor Bonython (S.A.), 55, and
ex-Judge Hartley Williams (Vic.), 60 on the 15th ;
James Fairfax (S.M. Herald), 69 on the 17th ;
Henry Wrixon (Vic.), he of the tremendous and
stodgy novel, 64 on the 18th; Charlie Kingston
(S.A.), 53 on the 22nd; ex-Premier Neil Lewis
(Tas.), 45 on the 27th; Judge Boucaut (S.A.), 72
on the 29th ; and Larry Harnett (too beautiful
and well-known to require description) has a birth-
day on the 31st.
Worth recalling that a few months ago
N.S.W. Leg. Council Chairman of Committees
Trickett and Chief Justice Griffith visited
Adelaide simultaneously, and Mr. Trickett’s
majesty was served by a mounted escort which
accompanied him as he processed through the
street. Chief Justice Griffith hoofed it along the
pavement like any ordinary citizen. It is said
that Justice G. B. Simpson, of N.S.W., who
is a slave to proprieties and belltoppers, once
solemnly remonstrated with Griffith for wearing a
straw hat in the street.
Thomas Paltridge, one of the pioneers of
the Mount Barker district, and a most prominent
figure in the election fights of the early days of
S. A., is so seriously ill that he is not likely to
recover. He never attempted to enter Parlia-
ment, but in his own district he made and unmade
members very much as he pleased 30 or 40 years
ago. His famous phrase in describing the coali-
tion of three well-known political figures of long
ago—“ The Apostle Paul is sitting cheek by jowl
with Pontius Pilate and Judas Iscariot ” —lived
for decades after it was uttered.
Phil Mowbray (“Scotty the Wrinkler”),
who wants a change, sends this characteristic note
to Corowa Free Press :
Is there any vigneron or orchardist in your neighbor-
hood who wants a patrol and vermin-killer for the fruit
season ? lam the best night-watchman in the world. I
never really sleep, and I’ll block, kill, or capture ferae
naturae against the next. If I could get a tutor’s billet
I’d take it, and my conditions are Teaching only, and
room to myself or space for a tent. Don’t know music,
and no religion taught; but will teach English, French,
Drawing (freehand and mechanical), Oil-and-Water
Colors, Mathematics (pure and mixed), Latin, and
Elementary Greek. Hours—9 a.m. till noon ; 1 p.m. till
3, or 2 till 4, five days a week.
The new Premier of Queensland, Arthur
Morgan, made his debut as a platform speaker in
1878, when 22 years of age. The Warwick election
lay between James Morgan and Jacob Horwitz,
and James being down with a broken leg, Arthur
addressed meetings on his father’s behalf. Hor-
witz won, and for five years used to tell people
generally, ‘ ‘ I am Mister Jacob Horvitz, the mem-
ber for Varrick.” Horwitz did neither good nor
harm as a legislator, but he had a grievance, and
aired it in season or out. Even if the discussion was
about an abstruse theological point Jacob would
clinch his argument by remarking : “ Dere is deni
dam vaterworks; she is a vhite elephant! Ihe
shock of defeat killed James Morgan, but m less
tnan 10 years Arthur took his place.
“0. O’B.” writes: —
Re your “Personal” par. on Harry P. Morgan, in
Bulletin of 24/9/’O3, permit me, as one well acquainted, with
the old journalist, to say that his “ old club friends ’ did
not desert him. Morgan was a man of very remarkable
ability, but he was taciturn, morose and blunt, withal.
His “ old club friends ” stuck to him as long as they knew
he needed their help ; but no one dreamed that his affairs
had petered out and that he was contemplating self-
destruction. Morgan made the mistake of his life when
he started the Queensland Mines and Works Gazette.
He had not sufficient funds to carry on, and the late
Philp Government turned dog on the old man by repur
diating a contract which it made with him before the idea
of starting a Government Mining Journal was mooted.
Anyhow, if there is any eternal justice, Morgan is pro-
bably happier now than he was before he changed hiS
address ; and I write only to take the slur off “ his old
club friends,” who had no means of knowing what Morgan
was thinking about.
Away back in the seventies, the Ijite
Duncan Gillies was rising rapidly in political
fame and beginning to acquire the dignity and
final polish of success. Duncan had to take part
in a political demonstration at a north-eastern
town, either Wangaratta or Benalla. He had a
number of vicious opponents there, and a scheme
was arranged to upset his dignity. Accordingly,,
when the dignified Duncan stepped from the rail-
way carriage in the presence of a concourse, of
leading people, a girl dashed from the waiting
crowd and, yelling loudly, “Oh! my dear, little,
rosv-cbeeked Duncan ! ” flung her arms around his
neck and administered several passionate kisses.
The girl, it was afterwards stated, was quite un-
acquainted with Gillies, but had been given £lO,
raised by public subscription, to knock a few
corners off his increasing dignity.
A BIT ASHAMED OF IT NOW.
“There does not seem to be any ambition on the part
of members of the Ist, 2nd, 3rd and 4th Vic. Contingents
to possess the bars accessory to their war medals. Head-
quarters has a large stock of these bars still on hand
which it is anxious the rightful owners should apply
fir.” —AGE.
BRITANNIA: “Here, don't you want this pretty
thing I'm giving away? ”
EX-COHENTINGENTER (clothed and in his right-
mind): “If you don't yet out of here I'll
sool the dog on yer! ”
Francis Augustus Wright, M.L. A. (N, S. W.),
died on Thursday last at the age of 68 years. He
was the founder of the carrying firm of Wright,
Heaton and Co. Limited, and some years ago, at
the instance of Francis Abigail, stood his trial
with some of his partners and employees on a
charge of defrauding the Government in. the
carriage of wool. The charge fell through badly.
Wright, a large-hearted man with many friends,
was, like many other politicians, a shade too
large to be a private and not quite big enough
for a corporal. He was in Parliament almost
continuously for 21 years, and was in Stuart’s
mediocre Cabinet for rather over two yea,rs, and
in a mediocre Dibbs Cabinet for 10 days. Eighteen
years ago Premiers got out of the habit of asking
F. A. Wright to take something—a portfolio, not
a drink.
COULDN’T LACE HIS BOOTS.
a SK anyone in Kapunda, S.A., if they know C. E. Williams, and see what they’ll say,” said this hearty old
II miner. “ I’ve lived there just on 50 years, and everybody can tell you how Dr. Williams' Pink Pills cured
*■ me of Locomotor Ataxia. In the copper mines you get wet to the skin, and this started my trouble. It
began with Influenza, and that left every bone in my body aching. I thought at first it was Rheumatism, for
it drew up my muscles in hard knots—but soon I found I was crippled with Locomotor Ataxia. Lightning pains
shot through my legs and ribs, and then my sight began to go. The pains in my legs were like the sharp stabs of a
knife ripping up my nerves and muscles. It was just as if someone were pounding the life out of me. For two
years I pay from my Lodge, for I couldn’t do a stroke of work. You’d have pitied me trying to hobble
along with my sticks. It took me an hour to cover 300 yards. If I missed my foot and went down, there I’d lie
till picked up. No matter how I tried, I couldn’t lace my boots or dress myself. Every day the Locomotor Ataxia
got a tighter grip of me. I lay all day on a couch before the fire—an absolute cripple—and my whole health gave
way. The best doctors could do nothing for me, and death seemed my only cure. But just then I got a book telling
how Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, by actually making new blood, had cured a man named Jarvis, in Sydney, of this
Locomotor Ataxia after he had suffered for months. His sufferings tallied exactly with mine, so I started these
pills. The very first box did me a lot of good. Gradually the pains eased up, and I got back the full strength of
my sight. Then the muscles of my back loosened—and by the time I took 16 boxes I was the healthy, active man
you see to-day. Whoever says Locomotor Ataxia can’t be cured ought to have seen me before I was cured by
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People ”
Dr. Williams Pink Pills for pale people


Aboriginalities.
* * * •
“Wiljar”: My belated say in bunny-
trapping argument is that one trap is about as
good or as bad as another; that bunny is an adept
at avoiding them; that iguanas, cats, snakes and
rabbit-paws are, as a rule, your only reward ;
also, that reynard usually polishes off any
casual victims before you arrive. Have known a
Glenorchy (Vic.) trapper build up a tenner by
Saturday night, but he was shed-ringer at Swinton
for eight years, and could do things. Writer one
time had an old sheep-dog which, soon as he “put
up ” bunny, _ would take a short cut for the burrow
—all filled in but one—and crouch in the entry
with open jaws. Two dozen a day was a good
average thing for him, but dogs like that don’t
grow on every tree.
OLD AGE PENSIONERS’ HOMES, DARLING RIVER (N.S.W.).
Photo, by A. J. Shear, Wentworth.
“The carrying capacity of some of the
Darling country has been fixed by the Wilcannia
Pastures Protection Board at one sheep tp 34
acres.” This is no doubt what is meant by
the “unlimited natural resources of this great
country.”
* * * *
From “ Only Me ” :
“ Ne’er-do-Weel ” (B. 17/9/’O3) refers to the curious
custom among Queensland bush school children of
striking their chests and spitting whenever they want to
clinch an assertion. I have seen it practised among
school children in Adelaide. They call it “ spitting their
death.” I don’t know what they think will happen to
them if they tell an untruth after “ spitting their death ”
—something serious, I should imagine.
* * * *
A just-out “ furriner ” with an ’owitch on
the end of his name recently initiated Wickliffe
Road (Vic.), into the arts of Russian horse
management. Being requested by a brother
hawker to lead his horse to water he carefully
removed the bridle, and, grabbing the two traces,
lugged the astonished gee-gee off to the tank.
Men must be very energetic in Russia if they are
in the habit of dragging horses about by main
force like this.
Owl-light ” : Out op. the Darling River,
near Pooncarie, two young ladies went one hot
day to bathe in a lagoon. It was a shallow hole
with abundance of black mud, and in this one of
the ladies sank past her waist and was bogged.
The more she struggled to get out, the more bogged
she became. The other lady became alarmed,
and, after hurriedly putting on a few garments,
gathered up the rest and ran for help. In
her confusion, she gathered up both lots of clothes,
intending to dress at home, after sending assist-
ance. While she still fled across the landscape, aid
came to the bogged one in the shape of a big
youth, and, after struggling with her for some
time, he managed to haul her to the bank, the
black mud adhering thickly to her flesh up to as
far as she was bogged in it. When out, she went
to where they had undressed, but the other had
taken her clothes. She looked around, bewil-
dered, gave a little squeal, and made off for home.
Being thickly clothed with black mud, her flight
was' perfectly respectable. The only really
remarkable feature about the case was that two
swaggies, who saw the black and white apparition
trekking in the distance, quarrelled as to whether
she was a half-caste whose black ancestry had
settled into the lower part of her body, or whether
she was in an advanced state of mortification. A
very respectable fight ensued.
“ Thurla”: “D.H.R.’s” friend (8.,
27/8/’O3) must be very extravagant to use dyna-
mite doorpegs. Maybe he also uses a detonator
as a penholder. But a piece of stick would serve
the purpose better in both instances. Anyhow,
dynamite is very brittle and unsatisfactory. While
on the subject, here are two instances of the
varying moods of high explosives. Some pros-
pectors left overnight about Jib. gelignite and
several detonators in a prospect dish, and covered
with sugar bag and bark. On returning in the
morning they found that some stray cattle had
sprung the plant, and had scoffed all the explo-
sives, with the exception of one detonator, which
had been chewed flat and was lying on the ground.
The probable culprit was calmly munching the
sugar bag as he sauntered away, none the worse.
Also, I once helped to render “first aid” to a
man who put six plugs of dynamite in a treacle
can, and then placed it on some warm ashes to
stew. That dynamite didn’t want to be hammered
or chewed. It was its day for blowing up and it
blew.
* * * *
“ Delo ” re Tasmanian bush birds as
weather prophets :
When mopokes hold a late concert, look out for wet.
When black cockatoos fly about and scream horribly
stand by for rough weather. When a little, brown,
plump bird (a warbler) gives forth a long, melancholy
soprano whistle, followed by “ wet you-ou-ou,” don’t
forget your bluey next morning. When the magpie
warbles on a moonlight night a fine day will succeed.
When mountain
jays fly in flocks
from the southward
you can bet on snow
and wind. When
the bush-robin
twitters faintly and
all other tflrds are
silent thunder is
close up. When
the yellow-throated
honey-sucker gives
out hi s peculiar
tremulous note j ust
after sunrise in
winter and finishes
up with a rapid
“ kuk-kuk ” the
weather will con-
tinue fine and
frosty If he is
silent it will become
overcast and prob-
ably rain. If the
fan -1 ail e d fly-
catcher performs
his tumbling show
in the air in abso-
lute silence it will
rain ; if he diversi-
fies the circus with
song you can leave
your coat in camp.
The butcher-bird,
or shrike, known
as “Whistling
Di c k,’’ has three
distinct notes, or
eats of notes—one
for fine weather,
one for bad, and another because he isn’t exactly certain,
but will hazard a guess, like some other prophets. When the
“Jackass,” or “Derwent jackass ” (Kingfisher) sings just
between sunset and dusk, it will be fine. The jackass
only sings during his honeymoon , at all other times he is
a trifle jerky. Not even Melba’s divine voice can be com-
pared to the succession of clear, throaty notes a jackass
can send to you across a mile of forest without an appa-
rent effort And his throat measures about ljin. in cir-
cumference. How would he sound in a concert hall?
Writer’s father frequently heard the nightingale in
Hampshire (England), and voted him tuneless and
screechy; but then he had listened to the “Derwenter"
serenading his mate amongst the honeysuckles in the
Land o’ Sleep.
» * * *
“ Bobrid ” : Sat, t’other day, with nine
station-hands for the usual dinner-hour “smoko.”
Said one : “ It’s goin’ ter rain ! ” A general spit.
Ten minutes later another observed : “ It’s coinin’
all right! ” A couple struck matches. A quarter’s
silence, when a third ventured: “We’ll get it
afore night! ” Another spit all round. Ten more
minutes’ silent puffing. Someone hazarded the
remark: “Gettin’ too windy for rain!” Ashes
knocked out of a couple of pipes. Five minutes
later one rose, looked up and muttered “ Might!”
Gradually and one by one the other eight rose,
looked up and said nothing. It was a brilliant
exposition of weather phenomena !
WOULDN’T MATTER OTHERWISE.
BRACEMAN (kindly): “I wouldn’t monkey round
the shaft, sonny; you might fall on somebody.”
John Dodds writes in a glowing strain
from Milparinka (N.S. W.):
Have read Favenc’s plea (B 17/9/’O3) for the selection of
Milparinka as the site of the Federal Capital. Is Favenc
earnest? His suggestion for settlement of site is the
most sensible of the suggestion series. A huge and
healthy Federal territory could he cheaply acquired.
The climate of Weat-o’-Darling, from April to September,
. is far finer than even the much praised climate of
Southern Europe, or Northern Africa. It is so dry and
golden, that the sunshine soaks through and through one,
making the quickest consumption cure in the world. The
air of the said months is pure as water, strong as
wine. The building of the future Federal Capital at
Milparinka would mean the making and adding of the
finest province to the Commonwealth—because it would
bring about the locking and weiring of the Darling, huge
and wise water conservation schemes ; inexhaustible
rainwater supplies for navigation and irrigation ; the
cultivation of countless acres under wheat, grapes,
peaches, apricots, oranges, lemons, tobacco. The Santa
Clara Valley would be beaten out of sight; jaded city-
folk would go West to recuperate, and incidentally learn
something of the largeness of Western ways ; the Darling
would be a river of delight; the Australian Cinderella
would at last come into her own, and, in the fullness of
her heart and purse, she’d bear no malice towards those
who cruelly neglected her in the dark days.
The Bulletin smiles a little at the Santa Clara
valley comparison. Santa Clara, close to the sea,
with one of the biggest mountain ranges in the
world at its back to break the rain clouds, average
temperature about 56 degrees, situated in a
reasonably wet State, near a permanent river,
with very moderate evaporation ! Milparinka, in
a flat country, where four yards of water evapo-
rates in a year, where the ground doesn’t “ hold ”
water to any great extent, 605 miles from the
coast, 160 miles from an alleged river, which can
hardly support itself in some years let alone
supply water for irrigation ; rainfall less than
nine inches per annum, mean temperature 68
degrees! Ernest Favenc worked off a very good
joke on the artless West.
* * * *
According to the last report of the Queens-
land Southern Protector of Aborigines, at. least
£2OOO worth of surreptitious opium is sold annually
in the Peak Downs district, and an equal amount
in the Maranoa. The blacks are mostly victims
to the drug, and a great many white men are
opium fiends as well. The Chow is gradually
quitting the West, but he has left a deadly legacy
behind him.
« * * *
“Oc.” : An el±ay woman with a selec-
tion in the backblocks had to be written to on
many occasions by a Victorian State Department
to produce her marriage certificate, which at last
came to hand, accompanied by a bitter letter of
complaint that she and her old man had to neglect
the farm for a whole day and drive 40 miles in
order to comply with a stupid red-tape formality.
The funny part of the business was that the certi-
ficate bore date only two days before its receipt at
the department.
* * * *
“ Hayran ” : Walking one morning with a
friend towards the Haymarket, Sydney, we saw,
seated on his haunches on the kerbstone, a for-
lorn-looking person, whom my friend said he
would swear was from Gundagai. Asked him if
he were not from Bathurst. “No,” said he,
“from Gundagai; came down with sheep yester-
day.” My friend afterwards explained that all
the Gundagai men sit that way; and that the
habit came from their fathers, who used to squat
along the footpaths after work, telling lies about
the flood.
“ Wallaroo ” : A dazed pedagogue handed
me this ;
Dear mister Kidbeeter Clord scot said you wos going to
hairier my milton for not coming to Scool this weak, he
come home on thursdy with his head in his hands and a
pane in his Stumik and he has been Sik all the time and
so as me and Dorothea if you dont belele me art dorothea
who is beter now and quit a skeletin thank god. dear
mister will you stop Duglas brown filing my nelson he
come home limping and i had to put him to bed on one
leg that duglas Brown broke nocking him into a waterole
and old brown said i wos a b fool and i am and etceterer
Jane Ann higgins.
* • * *
“ Rotter ” : I was travelling on a Victorian
line a short time ago. When I had settled myself
and the train had got out of the
station I heard a muffled voice
say from under the seat, “ Let’s
out of this!” and a fellow
crawled out. I entered into
conversation with him and
found he had travelled from
Adelaide and was going to
Shepparton (Vic.). He got a
platform ticket at Adelaide,
crawled under the seat, stayed
tnere till the train got away from
the station, and then got out.
“But,” I said, “doesn’t anyone
ev 3r put you away ? ” “You’ve got
to chance that,’’ he said, “but
there’s not much fear.” Whenever
we came to a checking station he,
of course, got under the seat again.
He told me he often travelled that
way, but more often stowed away
in a truck He once walked 30
miles on his way to Melbourne,
and then, seeing a covered truck
labelled “Melbourne,” he crawled
into it and waited for several hours
till an engine bitched on. Found the
label had deceived him, for the engine
hauled him GO miles in the wrong direc-
tion and left him witli 30 miles more
travelling to do than when he started.
Graphic picture of N.S.W. backblocks
land war by Dr. Ross, M.L.A. :
He knew of a case where a husband and wife, with
seven or eight children, were only allowed 160 acres. The
squatter actually ran sheep to their very door ; he rushed
his dogs on and killed their fowls ; he burnt the trees
down, and in the fall of one of them the poor man was
killed. He believed that Mr. Darnell was Minister at the
time. He got a'Select Committee, and obtained £5OO
compen.ation for the unfortunate widow, who was turned
out of her home by one of the vilest surveyors in this
State, who swore that the squatter was entitled to the
land, inasmuch as he had improved it to the value of £4O
an acre, whereas there was not £4 an acre of improve-
ments. That surveyor was now a rich man
“ That surveyor was now a rich man.” It suggests
early Biblical days, the big man killing off the
small man, and the official intermediary fattening
on the slaughter.
BEER ALONE.
OUR NEW COPPER: “Look here , me man , O[?]
intend to make alterations in the conduct of
this place. Life won't he all beer and skittles
wid ye in future."
PRICKLY PEAR JIM ( with a certain amount of
warmth): “We don't want none of yer skittles."
About the longest traction-engine journey
on record was begun at Burketown (N.Q.) lately,
when a carrier set out for Brunette Downs (N.T.),
500 miles away, with a 15-ton load. He reckoned
to cover a little over 100 miles a month.
A COLLINGWOOD IDYLL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
11 It’s no use, Bill—l’m satisfied ’bout you ;
Your style don’t suit this bit o’ muslin ’ere ;
You can’t get I to act as No. Two—
I don’t go whacks in blokes, no bloomin’ fear.
” Why, strike me, at that Burt-day down at Rosie’s,
Yer sit out in the kitching ’arf the night
With that young dolled-up waitress piece from Hosie’s :
An’, I say, Bill, yer didn't waste much light ! ”
** Now, look ere, Liz, ol’ girl, this tale won’t do—
'Twas * Nipper ’ ’Enderson the bloke you saw
Mashin’ the skirt in there ; I saw *im, too,
As I was walkin’ past the bloomin’ door."
“ ‘ Nipper,’ you say—er—well, I might be wrong ;
Perhaps I’ve made a bloomer, after all;
Yer know, I hardly thought you’d be that strong,
But, I can tell yer, I felt pretty small.
“ Well, never mind, ol’ man, there’s no ’arm done ;
I was a fool to take that cove fer you.
But Bill—er—did you see the other one—
The girl, I mean—did you—er—see her, too ? ”
“ I couldn’t place ’er, Liz., because, yer know,
She sorter kep’ ’er chivvy turned away ;
She seemed about your size- what, must yer go?
Oh, well, so-long, I’m sorry yer can’t stay I
“ Oh, bli’ me, that was near a bloomin’ row.
’Ow lucky that I twigged ol’ Nipper there 1
I wonder who the girl was, anyhow ;
She wasn’t Hosie’s waitress I can swear.
“ Liz. was dam’ curious about ’er, too,
An’ yet, she seemed quite pleased I couldn’t tip ’er.
I wonder what’s ’er game—why, strike me blue !
'Twas Liz. ’erself a-spoonin’ there with Nipper.”
vie.
A.T.B.
“ Sterling merit has been the secret of his
success.” —Me lb. Argus on an early-day squatter.
Sterling merit might have been
Of some worth in days of yore,
When an empty land and green
Stretched the pioneer before.
Sterling merit nowaday!
Has no chance to steal the land,
And the cow turned out to graze
Always wears a blessed brand.
GLENARA.
To Play yow> Piano
/;•
H 3
iiljp*i
The Pianola anil aid you.
We are mailing - free to anyone who will
ask us a book called “Music in the Home."
This book tells about the Pianola, whatic
is, and what it will do. It will be of in-
terest to every person who loves music,
and particularly to the many thousand
owners of pianos whose instruments remain
unused for months at a time.
The Pianola can be played by any one,
even though they may never have played
one note in their life.
The price of the Pianola is £6O prompt
cash, or £65 on moderate monthly pay-
ments.
HENRY M. BIRGE & CO.,
Sole Agents for Australasia,
323 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY,
135-187 GOLLIN3 STRZET, MELBOURNE
Hardy Brothers,
VICE-REGAL JEWELLERS.
Diamond Jewellery.
HARDY BROTHERS are rioted for their new
and exclusive designs in Diamond
Ornaments and Rings.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue.
Goods forwarded to all parts of the Common-
wealth.
13 Hunter Street, Sydney;
118 Queen Street, Brisbane
(And at London).
Diamond Stars from £35 to £l5O.


One M.L. engineer, Gr. A. Ward, now
editing the Tauranga Times, is predicting trouble
for his ricketty island unless it drains off some of
. , • , . ,
the water which is accumulating at Rotomahana.
Old Lake Rotomahana used to empty itself into
J^ e T araw era; but after the big eruption of
loob the surroundings were changed, and a new
lake bed was formed. Ward calculates that the
1„1 v.. .
new lake ho.ds about 10 times more water than
the old one ; and if the leakage of water from the
old lake on to the underground fires was able to
make as much trouble as happened in 1886, he
reckons that the drip from the new one will, sooner
or later, probably make about 10 times more
trouble. So far the leakage is small; but when
the ricketty island receives a worse jar than
usual, and a bigger crack is made, and more water
pours down, and more steam pours up then G. A.
Ward has an idea that Martinique will occur over
again And engineer Ward who lives too close
to Rotomahana to think cheerfully about that
probability, is calling on Seddon to empty the
new lake before it is too late—and keep it empty.
AN AUSTRALIAN VOCAL QUARTETTE —Miss Queenie
Cadden (Melbourne), Miss Kate Traill (Sydney), Miss
Constance Evelyn (Sydney), Miss Kate Rooney (Sydney) —
now doing well in England.
Photo. by “The Biograph Studio,” Regent-street, London.
“ The Wink ” : Premier See, of N.S.W.,
has lately introduced a Bill to protect certain of
our native animals, including the wombat. Why
does this useless and mischievous brute need pro-
tecting—miles and miles of wire-netted fences
are spoilt by his burrowing proclivities ? He
tears open orchard and farm fences, burrows
under water-races, causing them to break away,
and does endless damage. Many station-owners
are offering bonuses for dead wombats. Their
skins are of no value, and, in fact, they are simply
ugly, useless wretches fit only for tearing up the
face of nature and consuming the grass. If See
and co. are anxious to preserve the Australian
fauna, why not do something to stop the reckless
destruction of snakes ?
MR. HENRY WEIR, an Australian tenor.
If xs a Be, it is a good lie, anyhow :
Broken Hill used to have a municipal by-law forbidding
the driving of cattle anywhere but along Concord road.
There was no such place there, the by-laws having been
copied without alteration from those of a Sydney suburb.
tolls on goods landed at wharves from ships, also indi-
eating the wharves at which the ships should tie up, and
regulating bathing on the sea-shore. Evidently it copied
its by-laws wholesale from some place that was blessed
with a sea-shore.
* * ♦ *
“War E.” : Re “ W.J.,” who says bul-
locks leave grass for a taste of “sheoak” (B
23/7/’O3). This does not prove that they are fond
0 f it. On any station where sheep have been fed
artificially from carts, when they see a cart they
followit-formilessometimes—nomatter how good
the grass is. This does not prove that they want
t o eat the cart. Following a vehicle has become
second nature with them ! They are as much used
to being behind the vehicle as the horse is to being
j n front. °
“W. J.A.” on some-
thing in the healing line:—
Hypnotic Suggestion it was
oalled. Observing an advt. I
attended a lecture in a Sydney
hall. The audience were mostly
ladies of the species “ wim-
men ’’—weary fragments in
spectacles predominating. Pro-
ceedings opened with a song by
one of the “ Institoot,” to en-
sure, as the professor put it,
“ ’armony of thought.” The
pianist had a handkerchief of
dubious color knotted round
his throat, and whilst playing
reflectively masticated a chew
of tobacco. To demonstrate
the theories, volunteers were
called to be operated upon. A
herculean fellow briskly stepped
forward, assuring the audience
that he “hadn’t worked for
seven years—it gave him such
pain in the back.” He further
stated that “ if hypnotism could
make him work again it would
be a 1 murrakel ’ ” —or words to
that effect. He was taken
behind a screen, and the male
Eortion of the audience clam-
ered upon the platform to
watch proceedings. Then fol-
lowed the sound of scuffling and
pummelling. “Here, I say,
knock it off—you’re rubbin’ the
dashed skin off me ” (this is in
a hoarse whisper). Then a call
for water. “ Goodness gra-
cious," anxiously said my com-
panion, “ they must have set
him on fire.” The lecturer
meanwhile whittled away time
by familiar alleged jocularity,
which fell very flat upon the
women in spectacles. By way of
variety he threw in a little
sleight-of-hand business. The
flogger and the floggee emerged,
the former very red in the
face. The latter looked rueful
and dubious, but consented to
be still further castigated three
times a week free of charge.
“ We’ll conclude with another
song," sqid the professor, look-
ing round for the vocalist.
But he had disappeared, being
very thirsty after his late
exertions. The seat of all
hypnotism is—according to
the “ institoot ” —the solar
plexus, and as I didn’t want
to be struck there, as Cor-
bett was, I kept in the back-
ground. I don’t like a reli-
gion that interferes with my
solar plexus. It’s the only one I've got.
* * * *
They recently tried an aboriginal, described
as “Jimmy,’’in Kalgoorlie (W.A.) court for pound-
ing his gin with intent to do grievous bodily harm.
All the pomp and majesty of the law were there,
and the legal profession split the hair of argument
lengthways with such care that when it was split
it was impossible to tell which half was jargon
and which half was precedent. Finally, the court
found Jimmy guilty, and the Judge asked him if
he had anything to say ; and James, the aborigi-
nal, to whom it was all darkness, pointed to the
largest “cop” and remarked : “My word, him
p’liceman blenty fat pfellar.”
THE MYSTERY OF DIRTY BILL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He was missing on the station ; where he’d vanish d no
one knew.
On a boulde up the river they had found his hat and
coat.
Many mutter’d, “ Darn good riddance,” till inquisitive
they grew;
And they dragged the creeks and rivers, both adjacent
and remote.
But they couldn’t find a vestige of his good-for-nothing
hide,
Though they scoured full half the country and much
fruitless effort spent;
Until someone drew attention to a spot they hadn’t tried,
’Twas the last place they had dreamt of, and they found
him—in his tent.
“ Well, I alius knew he’d do it,” said the trooper, with a
tear.
“ Yes, I alius said he’d do it,” and he gravely shook his
head.
“ And no wonder as we couldn't find him anywhere, look
here !
He’s been and gone and washed hisself, and put hisself to
bed 1"
vie.
ALFRED E. LANSDALE.
TABLE SALT
While common Salt is only a Seasoning:,
CEREBOS SALT is a Splendid Food. Used
in the kitchen and at table, it gives
greater strength to the diet and builds up
the Constitution.
From Grocers and S totes.
Wholesale Agents:—Harrison & At wood. Sydney.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will betaken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken in any case re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted, whether sent by post or handed in ; and in
no case will MS. be returned unless stamps (of any
State) accompany.'
Ruis: It is mere misuse of language to talk of
“ selfishness and arrogance ” towards inanimate objects.
... .H. Murray (W.A.): Very good material; too clumsily
put together for print Lucinda: Amiably aimless
H.V.G. : A good deal of ill-directed vigor about it;
with more self-restraint you might make a mark
Donald M. : Verse not bad in form, but the sentiment
deserves an old age pension Irena: Parnell the only
Protectionist Nationalist I What of Emmet, Wolfe Tone,
Smith O’Brien, John Martin, John Mitchell? &c., &c
Dora W. : The re-casting hasn’t improved it. The con-
tract is too big for you. Try a lighter vein Salvina :
Whirls around merrily till the fifth verse—then suddenly
flies off the handle....F. Mac.W. : Subject has been
already dealt with in 8... .Shellback : Any such game
would be promptly blocked by “ Lloyds’ Captains’ Regis-
ter,” which provides a complete professional biography,
to date, of every master in the British mercantile marine.
Andy B.: You are a very stodgy and uninteresting
Andrew W.F. : Very prim and trim and correct,
but hasn’t a glimmer of interest John E.L.: The
wretched scribble damns it Sephon : Rather feeble....
J.L. (Maoriland) : A few good ones in the collection, but
very few Barney : Two good items L.M.M.: Hardly
good enough Gottheim Badde : Moderate—very
D.S.M.: The well-watered North Coast Division of N.S.W.
has less than eight persons to the square mile, the South
Coast less than nine, and the Northern Tableland about
three. Bulletin reckons that the large estates there
should be resumed and cut up, that every small settler in
the hopeless West should be helped (not out of loans) to
remove there, and that the West should be abandoned to
cattle. It would be cheaper in the end..'. .Zizi: Getting
tired of finding 6d. deficient postage charged on your
letters. There seems to be an impression in Victoria that
a ton of coals can go through the post with a penny
stamp on it....M. Folley : When you send a bulky, ill-
written tale in a closed unstamped envelope, the affair
costing us Is. 6d., we conclude you haven’t the literary
instinct Squeers : You are another Victorian with a
profound faith in the carrying capacity of a Id. stamp....
Nondescript: Another Victorian with deficient postage.
Giro (Macedon, Vic.) : One more deficient postage
fiend from Victoria. Isn’t there a twopenny stamp in all
that State ?. ..Shadow : Will probably print “ Blossom.”..
Dick W. : Little merit in either Maori: Rather pretty,
but not far enough off the beaten track Scrip : Con-
ventional in theme and lacking in literary finish Jack
Spratt: Too crude aud shapeless Bushgirl: You have
imagination and some picturesque power, but you greatly
lack experience J.C. : Not quality enough Whip:
Too dry and didactic Thyrsus : You can’t depend on
the naming of Australian wines. Widely different wines
are styled ‘ ‘ Burgundy,” ‘ ‘Hermitage,” and so on. Also,
“ Shiraz " is, properly, not the name of a wine, but of the
grape that makes “Red Hermitage,” as “Riesling” is
that of the Rhine wines, and “Verdeilho" that of
Madeira L.O.L. : Such matters are entirely out of our
line. Try the Australasian Umbopa : Cannot advise
you—except to consult a medical man of standing....
R.N.0.: “Headless” has nothing to recommend it
except a certain amount of wattle.. ..Sp. : Doubts about
“ When We were Droving.” So many Australian verse-
writers seem to look back on old cow-pursuing days....
H.M.M. : Declined; “white foam fire” and “stalks
wilderness.through my soul’s world ” touch the bathetic.
Steff C. : Amusing, but too trifling W.P.G. : Dull,
stiff, awkward.. ..Nondescript : One will do ; other too
involved. We do not acknowledge pars. ; would need a
page every week to do it in Ibis : Generally unsatis-
factory Wompye : Story of a dog’s marriage declined
with alacrity Duncan S. : Drags along too heavily
Girondin : Verses have some merit, but you have not
enough knowledge of English. “Et tu Brute ! ’’—which
you charge against us as bad French—is Latin....
Manx : “ M’Carthy’s Mile ” much too long for the interest.
Other story commonplace in theme... Dickinson : Both
very unequal J.W. : “Admiration” very slovenly
G.B. (V.) : “Eucalyptus” and “Sonnet” mechanically
accurate, but not a new idea or a new version of an old
one between them Weight-Chaser: Will print “Where
the Live Men Live.” P.M.: Don’t care much for either
fragment General: “ Schoolmates ” misses the bus
G.R. : None of them up to much EII. : “ Death ” and
“ Separation ” declined ; not very bad, but don’t quite
get there Mimosa : Don’t enthuse very copiously
over “Jimmie.” Donald: “After the Drought” re-
spectfully buried in a damp place Q.P. : “Nemesis”
lamentable; “Memories” very moderate.. ..0.H.: “Home
from the Mauritius” is built on very familiar lines
D.R.: “ When We Part” very moderate Tom Pinch:
The only verse which made us hesitate to decline it was
this:
When all of the coal mines have been opened out
And the land lies under cultivation,
There’s none can have the slightest doubt
But there’ll be an immense population.
.. ..A Mere Mother : The Bulletin cordially approves of
Woman Suffrage. Surely an intelligent woman who can
read can understand politics without going to political
meetings ! Women profess to understand religion, which
is a great deal harder than politics... .C. A.: “Bedtime
at Home ” would require almost complete re-writing....
“ Yellow Dog” : Story of the Yellow Dog mine is hardly
a success even now E.W. : “ Morning” doesn’t quite
get there. “ Reverie ” and “ Queensland Rum ” miss the
mark by a street Disque : “Woman of the Fireside"
very good in places, very like a mild Sunday tract in
other places St. L. : “ Flirt’s Diary ” has good points,
but there are too many large, flat spaces between the
points Gian: Will print “ Scorn.” O.M.E. : “Idyl"
desperately hard to read, and doesn’t seem up to much.
Might have seemed better if more legible A.A.S. :
“ Bullocky Jim” is very rocky verse C.C. (Vic.):
Will print “Misjudged”; “Star Set" declined
J.S.M.P. : Rejected, despite gleams of joy in it.. ..Phil-
garlic : Rather dull bosom-and-hair verse. If the desire
for your nice, best girl to come and dangle her hair over
you makes you so bad as that, better get her to post
her hair to you G.R.F. : Good material clumsily
handled F.S.H. : Hardly worth print Doubtful :
Lively, but too coarse Periwinkle : Desperately long-
winded... .Matchbox : You don’t quite “get there.”
Snack : Difficult to find space for such lengthy items as
your last W.R.B. : George Reid’s ignorance in talking
about Maoriland “ w.fch eight or ten cities of 40,000 to
50,000 inhabitants” is hardly worth mentioning. G.R.
shows so much ignorance.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
R.H.: May do as a suggestion J.D. : "Drop Too
Much ” not new idea W. 0.8. : One may do as sugges
tion W. Mac. : No use for Maori J.S.S.: “Shadow
of Levi" not much point C.N.L. : Picture not good
and joke not decent A.W. : “ Ambitious Artist" de-
clined H.Y.E.H. : Extra hopeless Billie (Croydon) :
Not a prospect among- them G.K. : One may do as'a
suggestion Simon: Clever piece of modelling, but
wouldn’t reproduce... Red N. : No such rabbit ever
grew on this earth D.G. M‘D. : Not bad drawing in
parts, but subject too trivial, and preacher seems to
have only one leg N.E.Q.: Church joke not too
bright; rabbit joke an old Bulletin wheeze.. ..S.A.S.:
The worst drawing this week J.S.S.: Bird picture
wouldn’t make anybody laugh.... J.W.E.: Mouth and
ears joke a very old witticism Carswell: In the
absence of any gag can’t decide what the picture is
about.. ..Unsuitable: 0.E.8., E. 8., R. 0., Wenona, Sam K.
A State schoolboy in the Wairarapa district
(M.L.) gave these definitions to the Government
examiner:
A buttress is a woman who makes butter.
A ruminating animal is one that chews its cubs.
“Scotty”: The mosquito vessels trading up
and down N.S.W. coast carry a master, one mate,
one engineer, two firemen and a couple of deck-
hands, besides the cook. The master and mate
take watch and watch, but the engineer has no one
to fall back upon, unless it be the firemen. If the
trip is anything over a dozen hours (and some of
the voyages run into 30 and 40 hours) the care of
the engines must be left at times to. the firemen,
who probably know little about engines, and who
are possibly as tired as the engineer himself.
“Adelaide”: Re the S.M. Herald par.
on the “ remarkable fact ” of shearing 100 sheep
in a day (B. 6/8/’O3). If the papers don’t fall in
that way oftener it must be by sheer luck, for the
man who does the scissor-work never seems to
exercise his thinking powers. One of the Adelaide
dailies had a foot-of-the-column fill-up par. not
long back about a surprising Yankee custom of
guessing the weight of a fat bullock at shows, for
prizes. And this very custom has prevailed all
over S.A. for years past, and, only just before,
this and other papers had been publishing the
news that the Police Commissioner was taking
legal opinion as to its legality I
This may interest those who advocate
raising monuments to deceased farm-burners and
fowl-fighters. In the Contemporary Review,
Capt. Vane, in an article on “Fruits of the War
in South Africa,” says, amongst a lot of other
things: “ There is no person on earth that the
Dutchman despises so much as he does the colonial
soldier.” The Dutchman does not object to the
colonial soldier simply on account of his colonial-
ism, “ but he strenuously objects to the manner in
which the colonial has waged war. We who have
been through it know that our colonial comrades
vjere, in fact, little better them English-speaking
Bashi-Bazouks .” Now, what use is . there
wasting money on monuments that posterity will
be sure to pull down ? Capt. Vane also quotes as
to effects of the war: “Undoubtedly and most
obviously the spirit of Afrikanderism has been
enormously strengthened. Alongside this purely
Dutch spirit there is another new growth—the
Afrikander spirit among English colonials.”
A RHYME.
BUSH (struggling with her masterpiece,
“Ode a Waterhole”): “O! how I do
wish something would strike me that rhymes
with dam.”
Desperate hardships are being endured by-
settlers in S’Africa—deaths from starvation
actually occurring—and the Capetown papers
have been forced to open subscriptions for the
relief of distress. These facts don’t exactly war-
rant the present rush of Australians to the Cohen
country.
The man on the Land is always in trouble,
but his troubles end when he places his business
in the hands of Land Agent W. N._ Willis, of 21
Bligh-street. No results, no fees, is his business
shingle.*
“M.E.F.” : Be the old J.P. (B. 6/8/03),
how is this? Years ago two well-known men of the
class, and bosom friends, started out on horseback
on a trip of 17 miles. There was a public-house
about half-way, where they stopped, and they
didn’t remount until they felt better. Then they
started to do the remainder of the journey at
record pace, but, on navigating a big hill about
four miles out, the bigger J.P. fell off and was
left behind. He wasn’t missed by his companion,
who kept at full pace to his destination. On
arrival, apparently dissatisfied with the color of
the town, he set to work to repaint it, and when he
had half-finished the job he was safely yarded. In
the search for a justice, the second man was spotted
coming full gallop into the town, refreshed by a
few hours’ sleep, and just in time to try his com-
panion, whom he severely reprimanded, fined 55.,
and threatened to send on to take his trial in Ade-
laide if he came before him again. Then the
magistrate, trooper and prisoner went and drank
each other’s health.
One high Federal dame takes upon herself
to act as a sort of Government Whip, and when a
critical division is impending strives to engage the
attention of some Oppositionist or other with
earnest conversation so that he will miss the vote'.
Sometimes she succeeds, too.
Enormous Reductions in Spoons and Forks*
MAPPiN
ai d
WEBB,
m
The makers of our Spoons and Forks, have advised us that, consequent upon the introduction of improved
machinery and the fall in the price of silver, they are able to make enormous reductions in prices i
“Fx. & R.” No. 1 Quality.
Table Spoons and Forks .. .. 32s Od per doz.
Dessert Spoons and Forks .. .. 26s 6d ,
Tea Spoons 14s 6d
“Fx. & R.” No. 2 Quality.
Table Spoons and Forks .. .. 24s Od per doz.
Dessert Spoons and Forks .. .. 19s Od ~
Tea Spoons 128 Od „
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street,


This is not an aboriginalie, but sworn
evidence in the Sydney Water Police
Court in a case of child neglect.
. “ When retiring to bed it would not
do as an ordinary child, but would'
want to perch on the cot.” —A nurse s
oath.
„ vP.'\ c*° } /
“ The child,
through- being
left) always to
play with the fowls',
got to be like them.
It would spar up to a rooster the same as one rooster
would to another.” —A policeman’s oath.
cm Keinjtsfe °“K iiafiSirAl W e cm
i niaXe A W "l° Alteft "
| * Uf?d 'fc liVe if/, r/of
to flee #"7
[ronfinf’nl w (f r A^'‘
f tri*e -
'-5
ifje vm.jA
If it had only been allowed
to grow up in that way what
a fine bird it would have been 1
% cM cfe
j4m/ V I^SS
u Oct-'rf' 1?
*ie Sort °f
(tours dfcj %t borrowing
Mt} is VinmW, j
to N-S.W A
> Dili
fay*
(o/tfecT^^y
HENS, DOGS, AND OTHER MATTERS.


' liquor licence applied for.
Amongst the latest applicants for a certi-
ficate authorising the sale of fermented and
spirituous liquors on club premises is the
( Alexandra Ladies' Club, of Collins-strcet.- /\ CF
rf*.
£ ■*
~0 % <» \>®
ftW is, <sT” rtk
r\ dAeg,' Qub "This
/fie bdrmdn. EZyidenlfv (Ke / >
tnemberg, aj ff\c /\lexdflndr4, /
Club advanced. Women/
who bell ev& ffid]7 the ■s.ex /:
. lu»T»iseA in odiminn mm
i'ten&e J
Kilnerlo monopolized /••;•./'.-i 1 •
PV /fie men 1 / '
%J [
The Citizen’s Reform League is wroth with
Premier Irvine for declaring in favor of the j
candidature of Mr. Bryant for the Toorak
seat and ignoring the Kyabram candidate
Jbe league talks of the viper it warmed in
its bosom
WuNQ t&e Brewer.—“Btop! If you cut that
j. knot the poor publican will never be able v
to keep his business together.” /
, \’ es»°^ v
v
ipV
/
&ys
<y <s?.<S
& *v
xf* >&■ e,
s^^V-/
' A?*#''
As a matter of fact, the force is fairly
seething with discontent. By the extension
‘ , «. a^ e retirement for officers from 60
i? 60 yca . rs - th « ra , nk and file feel that all
- th ttDC " rt ‘ a!,oDable promotion is denied
Yol-nc Cr ■ IAT lS " FORCE.".
* * CONSTABUi * 0...
an d ol d waitiH-, f 9u PP°«> Hi grow f ht
off.- f " r °" e " f ‘l'-tuT to drop
Ab
** o-
//£&■
< &
,°Al°l v
vW**/
r
a WASTING DIBEABB.
Shiels—‘'lt’s my little one all right, but
he s shrunk a trifle. Marasmus is what
ails him.
Vic.—- I’m afraid it’s chronic."
r > rim
$ — J 1 * 'L/w
j ftrson wiiffd ra|r o'
'il OKourvi^^lj:
her*%*ins "
v <*W<W 'Tor ndtfiind* d {
*"—' j IS ]
4bunda«fi i
WilfT lfi£ proW dr,a m e
nnowledlc£«. TfidT inioMik dll I
comes, (fa. vJdsIVP I
The report is a plain tale of a most dis-
astrous year’s transactions. .Notwithstanding
the heroic effort made by the Government to
atop the railway drift, it is shown that the
deficit for the year ended June 30tb last
amounted to at least £304,091 It is arguable
that it was actually £365,255, or even as much _
as -f-lnR 3R9
_ ugg, w orwnii^iontr”,
* while we dre drawing dL jEdt dead Weugfjl.
THINGS VICTORIAN.


A. SAUNDERS.
Two Gent.’e Solid SilverHnir BRUSHES and COMB,
In Bilk-lined Case, £2 10s, £B.
sdf
A, BATJNDERS.
Gent.’s Morocco Leather CIGAR CASE,
Sterling Silver Shield, 10» 6d ;
other styles, 12s 6d, IBs, 20s, 28s.
gs
A. BATTNDERS.
Pure Silver-plated Silk-lined JEWEL CASE,
beautifully carved and embossed, 255,
very effective.
A. SAUNDERS.
df
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.'* Pure Bilw CIGAR-CUTTER,
4* 6d, 7a 6d.
wpp - ■
k. N ■ . -m.. .;• . • .'. ;
3
'■‘tifc.ii
u
A. BAUNUEE6.
j 2 hollow ground
1 Tweezers, ‘2ob, 25s
Ith one H tit or only, 15s, 17s 6d.
V 1
C
*r'
'V", ' ;V;
■ ' . : '"■ - .J ■ ■- •'• ’' , • • T*r'
• ■ * :O'J : ' :•• ii
■ ■ -. :J■- • v-•• I . ' .
Black Morocoo Strap Wallet
PURSE, Build Silver
Mount*, 8* od,
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladiee’ Crocodile Wallet
PURSE, Sterling Silver Mounts
special value, 10s 6d.
Ladies’ Seal Leather
Sterling Silver-
mounted
PURSE, 13s 6d.
V
u
A, SAUNDERS.
Pore Solid Silver-mounted 8 ALTS
and SPOONS, Fanoy Out Olass,
id Silk-lined Case, 15s od, 20s ; heart-shaped, 13s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-mounted LADIES'
COMPANION, 18s 6d;
smaller, IBs 6d.
mamammjmmt
A. SAUNDERS.
Silver Cedar PErKUD, 8s 6d, Bs 6d, 7s Gd [
other styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d ; gold, 20s, 2os, 90s, 355, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
TRAVELLiINO CASE, containing Hair Brush, Cloth Biutsh,
Scent Bottle, Soap Box, Mirror, and Manicure Bet, 23s ;
other styles, 21b, 27b 6d, 80s, 85s, 40s.
gsdf
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Pure Solid Silver-mounted TOILET SET, Hair Pin Holder,
Soent Bottle, Puff Box, and Pomade Pot, £2 10s;
larger size, £3los.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-mounted Cabinet PHOTO.
FRAMES, 5s Gd ; other styles, 7s (sd,
10s (3d, 12s od, 15s, 20s, 255,'305, 355, 40s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Presentation Child’s CUP. Pure
Silver-plated, in Silk-lined Case,
similax 12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255, 30?.
- . -
•r.»!'
raggftHa
r k« =£s
~"-yr}-r- -~ -.-:
A. BAUHDRRS.— Pure Solid Silver JAM SPOOK,
BUTTER KJSJFB, and BBEAP FORK, in .Silli-lined Case,
Embossed and Ornamented, 40s,
si
9MMHB
8/6
A. SAUNDERS.
Exceptional Value, Pure Silver Cut Glass HAIR-PIN BOX,
full size, 8s 6d.
8/6
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Pure SilverSrst-ol&ss SAJR 3BOBH, bemtiftil
white bristles. In silk-lined ease, 80s ; other styles, 21s, 255.
A. BAUNJJEBS.
Bteriiug Silver BMOKEKS’ COMPANION,
Cigarette Case, Matchbox, and
Cigar-holder, 45a.
A. SAUNDERS.
Puce Silver-plated NUT CRACKERS
and PICKS, in silk-lined case,
Ivory Handles 21s, Pearl 255.
bilver HATPINS, initials,
Is t!d ; stone set, Ss 6d, 4s 6d.
Pure Silver-mounted Swan
PIN CUSHION, 7s 6d.
gsd
A. SAUNDERS.
■J IgS Pure Silver Large Size BRUSH, Extra Long
Hair Drawn Bristles,
Beautifully Chased and Ornamented, 10s 0d ;
other styles, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 25», 80s. Post Free.
S&Mgi
3
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver BATTLE.
Ivory Bing and Whistle. 7s fid
other styles, 4< Od, 6s 6d,
8s 6d, 10s fid.
vV. t-U.
■ *
wmm,
■ t, Pt* . s i.v'i
i: .
■~S~^
A. BAUNDISEB.
Nicely Chased MANICURE SET, 6 useful articles,
very best quality and full size, in silk lined case, 30s,
other styles, 15s, 20s, 22s 6d.
_ ‘wvt att , A. SAUNDERS.
Geat.B WALLET and POCKET BOOK, all improvement, Bilver-m muted,
** above, 12s 6d, without Shield 10s 6d. Initials nicely chased, Is extra |
other styles, 15s, 20s, 255, 80s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Solid Silver CIGARETTE CASE,
with Matchbox and Sovereign Purse
combination, £2 10s.
*6
7/6
A. SAUNDERS.
Eure Silver-mounted SHOE LIFT and HOOK,
in ailk-ined case. 7s 6d ;
similar styles, 10s 6d, 12s (id, 15s.
■'V - >‘:j C: £•;> i- -. '”.
. |SfB
■*!
-p
A. SAUNDEBS.
A LADY’S PRESENT. —Pure Silver-Mounted Glu*e
Stretcher, Shoe Hook, Glove Hook, and Shoe Lift,
in Nice Leather Case, "ss.
fg
Pure Silver PUl’i? BOisi,
beautifully embossed and engraved, 30s
(Hit Top only, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
ill
J $ mMM
plf®! ft.;® -
j
1
AlP'/tP'- ■&' "i •:):■ :i||
A. SAUNDERS. - j doz. Pure Silver-platsd 4-o’clock TEA
. SPOONS, with Tongs and Sifter, in si'ik-lined case, 25s ;
other styles, 15s 6d, 17s 6d, 80s, 355.
*f£scu&/ui&Z4-
-Z LONDON &. SYDNEY ..
A. SAUNDERS —4-o’clo< > k Cake or
Dessert FORKS,Ivory Handles, 25s ;
pure Silver-plated, in silk-lined case, 12s 6d, 15s.
A. SAUNDIsRS.
Pure Silver MATCH BOX,
12b 6d; similar, 5s 6d, 6s od, 7s 6d, 10s,
'
. ‘yfe&i-:Z L 'ljr}*f'r~' ’-■:'Spp
i -TpT) p 5-
; pgpMp
. .>>- -
A. SAU 'DEES. J
Solid Silver Pair HAlli BBTJSHEK and COMB, in ailk-
lined leather case, £3 10s ; similar styles, £2los £3.
A. SAUNDERS,
Sydney’s leading Jeweller
and Optician>
j For Jewellery, Watches, Clocks, Optical Goods, Leather
( Goods, and Silverplate of Every Description.
809, 811, 813, 815, 817
George-st., Sydney,
Opposite Hail way Station.


POLITICAL POINTS.
The billets of Attorney-General and Solici-
tor-General are now held by one and the same
member of the Victorian State Ministry, and his
name is J. M. Davies. Time was when Attorney-
General Bryan O’Loghlen and Solicitor-General
Isaac Isaacs couldn’t agree on the question of a
Crown prosecution of J. M. Davies’s brother,
Matthew, in the Mercantile Bank case, and Isaacs
acted on his own. The Attorney-General and the
Solicitor-General always agree now.
A London Daily Express special sums
up Australian loyalty fairly accurately :
What, then, about all the loyal declarations that Aus-
tralian Parliaments and Ministers are continually making ?
Well, in part they are genuine enough, and in part they
ai’e matters of business. The politician who makes them
may believe in the Empire, or he may be going to float a
new loan, or he may only be angling for a K.C.M.G. But
in no case does he necessarily represent the feeling of the
electorates, of the people at large. The war-feeling has
died down, and the Australian is drifting back to his old
attitude of isolation.
The bonds of Empire —loans and K.C.M.G.’s 1
From the Canadian correspondent of Lon-
don Daily Chronicle :
The country’s prosperity and an unprecedented surplus
in the public finances will serve to help the Government,
while an appeal to the people now will postpone a decision
on the fiscal issue until after the anticipated British elec-
tions, and prevent the growing Protectionist sentiment
in this country from becoming uncontrollable.
Canada has a tariff on an average three times as
high as that of Australia, and yet the Govern-
ment has to manoeuvre to keep under the “grow-
ing Protectionist sentiment ” !
The political afternoon tea has come with
a rush in Melbourne, and the wives of political
notoriety-hunters are playing the game for all it
is worth in the interests of the coveted vote. The
political afternoon tea affords a pleasant way of
raking over the most savory bits of various poli-
ticians’ history, and it also gives the Rev.
Aminadab Sleek an opportunity of putting in a
word or two for the saintly grocer, who is going
to stand on the strength of his holiness.
Justice G. B. Simpson (N.S.W.) recently
committed for trial at next Darlinghurst sittings
the respondent and co-respondent in a divorce
suit on the ground that in giving evidence they
had committed perjury. Yet Gent One periodi-
cally comes up and glibly swears his soul away
before the Full Court, and the Full Court simply
suspends the blackened rag of the law for a stated
period. Why does it not send that man for trial?
Commonly L„ is guilty of robbery. . He robs and
then perjures himself in affidavits. But Judges
suspend him from practice. That is all.
The attention of Yes-No Reid, of the eye-
glass and the dry dog, is invited to the conduct of
Councillor Doherty, of Broadford (Vic.). Doherty
aforesaid, thinking he should have been chosen
president and being passed over by his fellow-
councillors, assumed an heroic attitude, resigned
his seat, and appealed to the ratepayers to send
him back again byway of an expression of opinion
on the subject. But—and this is the point—
along with his resignation Doherty forwarded a
cheque covering the cost of the fresh election.
Reid didn’t even leave his dog as security.
_ S. Australian Labor party has chosen its
eight men to fight for the vacancies in the Aus-
tralian Parliament; there will be ten vacancies,
but two won’t be contested. Present members
M‘Gregor (Senate) and Batchelor (Reps.) will, of
course, not be disturbed ; to them are added
Adams, formerly M.L.C. ; “Bob” Guthrie,
M.L.C., the seamen’s secretary; Hutchison, who
had a short life in the Assembly for a city dis-
trict ; Robinson, formerly M.L.C. ; W. H. Story,
a suburban Mayor ; and F. S. Wallis, of the
Typographical Society, and secretary of the
Trades Hall.
More “ fiddliug with Socialism.” It was
Irvine who used the phrase and now two of his
most ardent supporters in the Victorian Assembly
have circulated a fatherly, socialistic, interfering
Bill to prevent the adulteration of chaff. This
measure provides a penalty of £2O for anyone
caught selling chaff wrongly branded. All chaff
offered for sale must be branded in capital letters
not less than one inch square, as “ hay chaff,”
“ straw chaff,” or “ mixed chaff, ” as the case may
be. And the meaning of “chaff” is defined so
carefully that the “ liberty of the subject ” will be
knocked endways.
A Hobart pressman supplies this forecast:
The Federal elections in Tasmania will cause little
excitement, and—so far as can now be seen—few sur-
prises. Braddon will get back ; and, if a strong or popular
man opposes Fysh in Hobart, Fysh will go down—deep.
Also, King O’Malley will go back. Among the miners of
the West Coast there is now a solidity such as never
before existed. The trouble slowly coming to a head at
Lvell is holding the men together, and the successful
effort of the Coast to put Labor men into the State Par-
liament has caused elation all along the line. In other
directions the Flyspeck is suffering badly from its char-
acteristic lack of decent politicians. Take the biggest
electorate, La Perouse, which embraces all the south of
the island, excluding Hobart. For La Perouse at present
the only possible candidate is W. J. M'Williams, a Tas-
manian pressman, who has sat in the State Parliament
and who once edited Launceston Daily Telegraph.
M'Williams is a good fellow enough, and very progressive
by Vandemonian standards; and as most of the electors
in the Huon knew the M'Williams family as children, and
most of the Derwent Valley electors have met W.J. at
country shows, his return is about as near certain as any-
thing can be in these times.
(Continued on page 22.)
A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
cases in six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
only Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
Of Chemists, or from PARIS MEDICINE CO., 28, Shoe-
lane, London, England.*
Two yarns credited to Chauncey Depew
A Senator, being shaved by an aged colored barber at
the Arlington Hotel in Washington, remarked to him,
“ Uncle, you must have had among your customers many
of my distinguished predecessors in the Senate—many of
the men now dead who have occupied the place I
now fill.”
Yes, sar,” said the barber : “ I’se known most all of
dem. By the way, Senator, you remind me of Daniel
Webster.”
The gratified statesman raised himself in his chair and
placed his hand upon his forehead. “Isit my brow?”
“ No, boss,” said the barber, “ it is your breath.” . . .
A friend of mine, stopping recently at the Washington
hotelj sat beside a bride who had been a widow, and on
her first wedding journey had stayed at the same inn.
She said : “ John, pass me the butter.”
The bridegroom indignantly replied ; “ My name is not
John, it is Charles.”
She said : “ Excuse my mistake, Charles,” and then,
tasting the butter, said reflectively, “ but it is the same
butter.”
Patents for Inventions. —Arthur Griffith
and Allen, International Patent Agents and Con-
sulting Engineers, University Chambers, Phillip-
street, Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyright
throughout the world.*
The Protest of the Pirate.
The indignant scream of Victoria’s prize, crusted,
Tory squatters in the Argus against the Irvine
Compulsory Land Purchase proposal is just as
logical, fully as impudent, and almost as amusing
as Sancho Panza’s memorable complaint of being
“deprived of his lawful spoils”—which he had
just commandeered from an inoffensive traveller.
If any men in the State should hesitate about
using the awkward words “fraud” and “confis-
cation,” it is surely that band of unscrupulous
squatters who, some 40 years ago, in defiance of a
just-enacted and well-intentioned Land Act,
swindled both the country and their fellow-
citizens by the wholesale seizure, through dum-
mying and other nefarious means, of the
fairest tracts of land in the Western District.
The Duffy Land Act made it illegal to select
more than a farm-steading of land ; but the earth-
hungry squatters rode rough-shod over the whole-
some provisions of this Act, and annexed hundreds
of thousands of acres in the heart of the fertile
West. Indeed, when the squatters had finished
grabbing there was very little land of any kind
left for the legitimate settler. The lies and
the tricks and the false affidavits of these
“pioneers” were something awesome; vague
traditions and hair-raising legends of their
methods are current to this day in the Western
District. The miserable dupes who acted as
dummies were, as is usual in such cases, nearly all
turned adrift when their shameful work was
finished; and some of them even now turn up,
like ghosts, for outdoor relief at their old
employers’ homesteads. There is scarcely
one big estate in the whole of Western
Victoria which was not founded on chi-
canery and fraud of this sort; and for the
owners of these big slices of embezzled public
property to protest against the people having a
look in again—after paying the owner fair market
value—is effrontery of the most brazen description.
For a great proportion of his land the squatter
paid either nothing at all, or only a nominal price;
yet when the State proposes to take the land
back—after paying the owner full present value
for his steal—the squeal of “ confiscation ” is
heard, and the Government is charged by the
thieves, or those who profited by the thieving, with
doing something unmentionable to the alleged
sacred rights of property.
A Kind-Hearted Elephant.
Who does not love to recall the days of infancy,
when the wondrous records of what the dog said
to the ox, the conversation between the cock and
the bull, and the sayings and doings of the fox,
seemed the most natural things in the world ?
Sometimes, in after life, these immensely far-
fetched fables will recur to the mind and point
the moral of a mass of dry facts. Take the fable
of the kind-hearted she-elephant, who having
accidently killed a hen by treading upon it was so
much moved to compassion for the deceased hen’s
chickens, that after drowning several of them
with her copious tears, she resolved to be a mother
to the rest, and therefore sat upon them.
The moral of this is that some people’s friendship
is harder to endure than other people’s enmity.
It is a Yankee yarn, and only those are expected
to believe it who have a strong inclination to do
so. It comes to mind in considering the known
fact that some much-vaunted medicines procure
effects worse than the diseases they are supposed
to cure. Some medicines do neither harm nor
good, while others benefit slightly but temporarily.
Seigel’s Syrup cures. Among the thousands who
have proved that by experience is Mrs. Marian
Moss, of 127, Quay-street, Ultimo, N.S.W., who
writes thus on 14th March, 1903:—“For years I
suffered from chronic indigestion, which caused
me terrible pain in the chest and beneath the
shoulder blades. After eating, gas would generate
in the stomach and occasion intense distress,
sometimes rendering me helpless for hours. I
lacked energy, and was especially weak and languid
during the summer months. I tried a great many
remedies; but the best that any of them did for
me was to confer slight temporary relief. Four
months ago, when I was suffering from an
unusually severe attack of windy spasms, I was
induced by a friend to try Mother Seigel’s Cura-
tive Syrup. Only two bottles of that remedy were
sufficient to eradicate every trace of indigestion
from my system; and as there has been no
recurrence of the trouble, I think I am justified in
considering my cure a permanent one.”
Evidence such as this, from a highly respectable
source, and with no inducement whatever to give
it beyond the desire to benefit others similarly
afflicted, has a real value and deserves to be
recorded.*
Queensland Governor Chermside works
hard to justify his £3700 a year. His forte is long
encyclopedic speeches. If he is asked to open a
dog show he prepares a speech in which he traces
the descent of tne dog back to protoplasm, and
gives a chemical analysis of its bark.
CHILDREN WHEN TEETHING
have more or less diarrhoea, which cannot be
checked effectually, and the cause cannot be re-
moved ; but the diarrhoea can and should be con-
trolled by giving Chamberlain’s Colic and Di-
arrhoea Remedy, and an occasional dose of castor
oil to cleanse the system. Chamberlain’s Colic
and Diarrhoea Remedy is sold by all dealers, at
Is. 6d. Get a bottle to-day ;it may save a life.*
“ There are more remedies for mosquito
bites than I had suspected when I inquired for
one the other day. Yet another correspondent,
speaking from an ample experience of the ravages
of these pestilent insects both abroad and at home,
comes forward with a strong recommendation of
Scrubb’s Cloudy Fluid Ammonia—a preparation
well-known to me as useful for several purposes,
though I had overlooked this one.”— Truth.*
Mrs. Maybrick, the interesting American
woman who was convicted, 13 years ago, of
poisoning her husband in England, is now within
easy distance of her release. Agitations for a
new trial and petitions for a free pardon kept
Mrs. M.’s memory green for such a long time that
she seems quite a young and recent celebrity,
instead of a widow of 42, who is working out
the last months of a “ life ” sentence. Her mother
is a baroness, and there’s some talk of her prose-
cuting a family claim to property worth 5,000,000
dollars. When she gets her freedom in July,
1904, the world is going to be pestered with
Maybrickian paragraphs once again.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direc tto him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance
is solicited
r
74 GANZ
ELECTRIC
MOTORS
with a total capacity of
100 Horse-Power, will
operate the Government
Printing Office of Victoria.
Qanz Induction Motor* SOLE AGENTS :
The ffostral Otis Engineering Co., Ltd., South (|)elb.
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
*
\1
0
&
fie 9
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- & 2/6.
MOSQUITOES. Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
Agents—Elliott Bros., Sydney; Felton, Griinwade & Co., Melbourne.
IT LAUGHS! IT TALKS! IT PLAYS! IT SINGS I
A PHONOGRAPH for
12/6
A Novelty.
sdf
gsd
“The Majestic”
A beautifully-made little instrument on
enamel and gold iron base, with nickel
horn. It is actuated by clockwork, which
is exceedingly simple.
Reduced to 12/6.
•Though sold at this remarkably low
price it gives splendid results, speaks and
recites most distinctly, sings splendidly,
and plays beautifully. We have thousands
of Records to select from, and everyone
should now have a Phonograph in the
house. We are at all times willing to let
anybody who wishes, hear one.
SEND FOR LIST OF RECORDS.
Send for Catalogue of other Machines.
RECORDS
OSBORN & JERDAN,
2/- each; 21/- per dozen.
“My Opticians/’
393 George St., SYDNEY, and 213 Queen St., BRISBANE.
Mention This Paper.]
GOOD Jllir*. i?"OR
All Chemists.
Holland's fr&rveHous Hair Restore?
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. ' Price—3s., 45., 5s Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
raT For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d. ; postage, 9d. extra.
Washington 11. Soul & Co.,
Pitt-streefc, Sydney.
CONSULT HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by WATKINS & MAOKAY, Chemists, Queen Street, Brisbane ; Mr. CORDON, 92 George
• Street, Rockhampton, Queensland, and
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Goiiins-street, MELBOURNE
CAMPBELL OIL ENGINES
fg
Portable and Stationary.
—■ 26 Working in Queensland.
The Most Simple Oil Engine vsing Kerosene only.
Lists and Particulars FREE on application to the
SOLE AGENTS FOR QUEENSLAND—
CLARK and FAUSET,
Eagle Street, Brisbane
f Absolutely THE BEST.
KNORRS
Ready-Made Dried
PEA SOUP i
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300 pages ; price, 4s. 6d.


POLITICAL
POINTS
Dacey, M.L.A. (N.S.W.), on the woman
voter who is dotting the land with “ leagues ” :
Will the Premier restrain these infuriated females from
going about at large in the manner they are doing ?
Last year, taxation (national and local) in
England was £4 3s. 7d. per inhabitant; in N.S.W.
it was £3 15s. Which goes a long way to explain
why Britain is paying off its debt and N.S.W.
isn’t.
Rev. Dilly-Silly Macky’s absurd paper sees
a Popish plot in the proposal that Eden-Bombala
should be the site of the Federal capital. Evidence
in support of this theory is that some Roman
Catholics live there.
Judging by the cabled reports from
England, the rush to hear Chamberlain advocate
Protection is so great that the biggest hall in the
biggest city won’t hold the multitude. When the
Protectionist leader hires a hall that will hold 5000
he is staggered by 50,000 applications for admis-
sion.
“B.” : An ill-considered clause in N.S.W.
State Children’s Bill gives the Attorney-General
power to send to a reformatory “ any child com-
mitted for trial.” But many “committed” chil-
dren are acquitted. The clause therefore makes
“committal” and “conviction” the same in
effect.
The spectacle of that ardent Freetrader,
Mr. Storey, who has something to do with hats,
introducing a deputation of hatters, who asked
the Government that hats should be blessed with
a larger measure of that loathsome creature Pro-
tection, is something to be remembered.
The path of the Icicle Government gets even
rockier than that of the Biblical transgressor.
“Careless,” “blundering,” “stupid,” “self-
opinionated,” were some of the epithets bestowed
by the Age when the blessed ’Pootra’s Reform Bill
failed to get the royal assent, by reason of Irvine’s
neglect to secure the statutory majority.
That quaint and mentally lumbering Free-
trade individual, Senator Pulsford, of N.S.W.,
advanced two reasons for voting to repeal the
white labor clause in the Australian postal law :
(1) That it was an insult to the Hindoo to prohibit
his employment on mail steamers; (2) that the
British seaman was too good a man to work in
the stoke-hole of a mail-boat, such a job being
only fit for miserable black trash like the Hindoo.
There is nothing insulting about Pulsford.
DRIFTING ASHORE—THE REEF OF
COHEN’S NOSE.
The national fund started for G. H. Reid
by the Freetrade and Liberal Association, a
couple of years ago, struggles to its feet again.
The idea is that he shall devote his whole time to
advocating the destruction of Australian indus-
tries for the benefit of the importers, and be a
sort of salaried advocate with a moveable chin.
Melbourne Age lately showed how a
Russian Jew, running a white-work factory in
Flinders-street, sweated his employees by taking
the record of an exceptionally fast worker, and
fixing that as the “ task ” to be completed before
the worker got the minimum wage. The task
was so severe that a medical man said three
months of such work would break an average girl
down. The Victorian Chamber of Manufactures,
which has said so much about its alleged desire to
put down sweating, has preserved a silence over
this episode compared to which the grave is
pandemonium.
Alas ! the glamor of the cohentingenting
business is so dim and distant now that most of
Victoria’s farm-burners haven’t troubled to apply
for the bars which are supposed to be attached to
their war-medals, and the department doesn’t
knpw what to do with the lumber. Still, appli-
cations may dribble in as the incendiaries get out
of gaol.
Federal Premier Deakin, with a shudder*
ing eye on Irvine, tells the press :
Mr. Chamberlain never consulted me on the Victorian
Reform Bill, either directly or indirectly, officially or un-
officially. I have neither formed nor expressed any opinion
on it.
Doesn’t it strike Mr. Deakin that an Australian
politician who hasn’t “ formed any opinion ” as to
the wholesale disfranchisement of civil servants is
a very poor sort of creature ?
There is a tough problem agitating some
politicians up North. Just before Philp and co.
took down their sign, a prominent Philpite said
he had a certain remedy for the notorious evasions
of the Stamp Duty Act, and it would net the
Government about £30,000 a year. Then Philp
resigned, and the financial genius won’t disclose
his scheme; and the Stamp Duty people don’t
know whether to coax him to join the Morgauites,
or waylay him in the Parliamentary refreshment
rooms and hit him with a decanter.
The Deakin Government’s Bill for fixing
the Australian capital consists of one clause:
It is hereby determined that the seat of the Govern-
ment of the Commonwealth shall be at or near
Thus the Deakin Government avoids the trouble
of having a definite opinion. It doesn’t even say
that an effort shall be made to secure square
miles for the purposes of a capital, or that in the
matter of retaining the freehold of the Federal
territory as national property its policy shall be
. The Government takes no responsi-
bility.
The House of Reps, wisely re-instated in
the Patents Bill the proviso—struck out by the
Senate—that if any patented article is not manu-
factured’ in Australia after five years from the
issue of the patent, the patentee can be compelled
to issue licenses for its manufacture, and that im-
ports of the article shall cease after four years.
The modification—“if the patented article is
reasonably capable of being manufactured in the
Commonwealth, or reasonably capable of being
commercially worked in Australia,’’ was added,
and this should muzzle even the most virulent
importer and enemy of Australian industry.
The “ Good Roads for Farmers ” articles
are being pushed for all they are worth by Mel-
bourne Ahgus. The spectacle of Victoria’s leading
Tory and Private Enterprise paper barracking
for State aid to help the farmer to produce his
crop several hundreds of miles from Melbourne,
whilst thousands of acres of cleared, easily acces-
sible country, with rail and roads, lie idle at Mel-
bourne’s backdoor, is a mournful one. It suggests
that what is wanted is good roads by which to
reach the comprehension of the people of Vic-
toria —roads that will not be overgrown with
weedy arguments and tangled with dishonest
statistics.
Fremantle harbor is now controlled by a
Trust, formed by three shipping agents, a Perth
hardware merchant and a chair-
man who is principal stevedore of
the port. They don’t seem to
do much and the port is in a
scandalous condition. The
Victoria quay is sinking in
places ; there is no ferry ser-
vice between one side of the
river and the other; no pro-
per system of handling cargo;
and scarcely a week passes
without some unfortunate
sailor losing his life owing to
the want of lights to guide
him to his ship. There is
no dock. Parliament voted
money for that essential
work many years ago, but
Bigjohn coolly snaveiled the
amount piece by piece for
other purposes until not a
penny remained, and even
the site of a dock has not
been decided upon.
Queensland legal pro-
profession met, the other
day, to form a Shark Union.
The Gentlemen One are
afraid of reciprocity and an
influx of Sharks from the
other States, yet every man
of them will work himself
into a white heat decrying
the horrible anti-immigra-
tion Federal laws. Some
time ago C.J. Griffith re-
vised the scale of costs, and
because the typewriter has cheapened
copying, reduced the chargeable limit
from fid. a folio to 4d. Sharks waxed so in-
dignant that the scale was left at fid., which
means that the blue bag people who, in the days
of the pen, paid 2d. and charged 6d., in these type-
writer days pay Id. and still charge 6d.
When the plague raged, £5OOO went on
the N.S.W. Estimates for a crematorium. When
the plague abated, Lyne spent the money in some
other direction. Now See is deputationised to put
£3OOO on the Estimates for a crematorium. And
if he does, it still doesn’t follow that there will be
any crematorium —the money may go to pay for
crockery or irrigation.
O’Malley of the Hat brightened up pro-
ceedings in the House of Representatives during
the Federal capital debate :
Mr. O’MALLEY (T.) said that the voting was like a race
in which the blooded horse Bombala did not care a bit
about the “ scrubs ” behind him.
The MINISTER of CUSTOMS : Bombala will be last.
Mr. O’MALLEY : Last! Bombala will be first as sure as
your name’s Bill Lyne. (Laughter.) Mr. Speaker, have
you read “ The Man From Snowy River"?
The SPEAKER : The hon. member will please confine
himself to the question before the House.
UNPROFITABLE PHILANTHROPY.
“Replying to a letter from the Archbishop of Canter-
bury, Mr. A. J. Balfour said the revolutionary committees
deliberately adopted provocative measures in order to
create Turkish excesses and to enlist the world’s sym-
pathies. Such methods, the Prime Minister said, were no
more morally tolerable than the Turkish misgovem-
ment.”—Daily Paper.
COHEN BULL: "What! Rescue the young lady—
and no diamonds ”
The democratic section of the House of
Representatives should make an effort to urge on
the Government the appointment of a High Com-
missioner before this session closes. With Parlia-
ment in session the Government would hardly dare
to appoint a gratis aud dear-at the-price lordlingor
wild-cat agent willing to take the job for what he
could get out of it; with Parliament in recess the
Government might do anything. A representa-
tive of the Commonwealth is badly needed in
London just now, with the shadow of Cohen
seeking repayment coming ominously over the
States, and with an imminent prospect of a re-
settling of British commercial treaties.
All through Tasmania’s miserable two-
penny crisis the island didn’t produce one paper
or politician that seemed game to face the real
situation. The trouble was a financial one. The
Lewis Government found that, even after using
more than half the loan money for revenue pur-
poses, there was a deficit. The Lewis Govern-
ment fixed up a new taxation scheme, which it
reckoned, along with the practice of using more
than half the loan money as revenue, would make
ends meet. The Propsting Government reckoned
that, by using more than half the loan money
as revenue, it could dispense with some of
the Lewis Government’s taxation. By common
consent, the question of the iniquity of using the
bulk of the loan money as revenue wasn’t once
mentioned by anybody.
At last Federal election N.S.W. sent in
six Sydney Senators and Victoria six Melbourne
ditto. It wasn’t that the
city vote manned down the
country vote, for it didn’t;
the fact is that all things are
so coi.omtrated in these big
cities that it is only there a
man can become sufficiently
known to have a show in an
election with all the State as
one constituency. The well--’
known Victorians outside
Melbourne are a few huge
landlords (known by their
acres), Lansell of Bendigo
(known by his gold mines),
and perhaps dull Sammy Lan-
caster of Kyabram. AndN.S.W.
hasn’t even a Sammy Lancaster
outside Sydney.
Yic. Trades Hall party is going the right
way about losing some of its grip on Federal
politics, instead of gaining, as it should. One or
two of the candidates it is putting up are distinctly
“no class.” When it is considered that the Vic-
torian quota of the Federal Labor party is already
a most pronounced “tail,” the necessity for
putting its brainiest men forward should be
thoroughly apparent to the Trades Hall. One
Trenwith would count for more than a whole bag-
ful of the nonentities who are now thrusting
themselves forward.
The latest row in N.S. W. Assembly
assumed a very doggy turn. The yells of Willis,
M.L.A., to Webster, M.L.A., “Sit down, sit
down—all dingoes have to sit down ! ” were
deafening, though why a dingo should have to sit
dowh any more than a snake doesn’t appear.
Then Webster, M.L.A., seemed to imply that
Willis, : M‘.L.A.'. was laying poisoned baits for
him, but unless Webster, M.L.A., is very incau-
tious about stray bits of meat that he finds on the
ground, it is difficult to see how Willis, M.L.A.,
could get at him that way.
From “T.H.” :
Why doesn’t Bill Trenwith do more platform work in
Victoria ? Tom Mann is doing fairly good work in the
Labor interests, but he can’t come within eooee of Tren-
with in talking to crowds. Trenwith’s manner of putting
a point is so clean and clear that the most tired Austra-
lian couldn’t miss the said point if he were huddled up in
a boiler fast asleep. At the Richmond market, t’other
Sunday, Trenwith made a big audience bubble with en-
thusiasm. Dealing with those who said they would not
accept, compulsory arbitration, but would be willing to
see a Bill passed for voluntary arbitration, he remarked :
“Voluntary arbitration is like voluntary honesty or
voluntary payment of debts. Both those things are good
in their way, but a court is wanted behind them to
make those who will not be honest and who will not pay
their debts do so. Law is merely public opinion plut a
policeman.”
The low wage prevails in the
Tasmanian civil service. Seven years
ago, the Clerk of the Assembly, for
instance, got the same salary as a junior
reporter on a Sydney or Melbourne
morning paper. He gets very little more
now. The rank-and-file of the service
are shockingly underpaid. And yet
there’s a Reform party bawling for reduc-
tions, and there’s a man named Rattle in
the Assembly who has such a craze for
sacking the service wholesale that he’s
called “ Sack’em Rattle.” Some poor
wretches of the service who can play or
sing, or whose wives can, have been trying
to make a living by giving music lessons
and such-like after hours. But the
Government has sent a circular to all
members of the service demanding to
know if they earn anything outside of
the service, or if their wives do. When'
Pi opsting and co. were in Opposition,
they railed against the “inquisitorial”
nature of the income-tax, and have per-
suaded the new Assembly to repeal the
“personal exertion” clause. Now, if
people in the service make any personal
exertion outside, they’ll apparently have
to live on it, and take the sack from the
Government offices.
If anything should make the N.S.W.
Government get to work for very shame at burst-
ing up the big estates with a really heavy,
graduated land-tax and absentee-tax, an item of
recent news should do it. A Victorian syndicate
of big landlords is at work in N.S.W. buying up
big properties in the Richmond River district.
They are to be cut up into dairy farms, and either
sold or let on terms which will give the Victorian
syndicate a fine, large profit. And while the
State is thus exploited by Victorian speculators,
the helpless Government looks on and blathers
about the largest railway-station in the world and
the big tower that is to be built when the loan
comes in.
The other day a cable told how a British
firm, owing to the operation of the new Russian
tariff, had been compelled to start huge hardware
and cutlery works in Riga, in order to keep its
Russian trade, upon which, to a large extent, it
lived. Sydney Ticlkgkaph triumphantly called it
“Invading the Enemy’s Territory.” The first
result of this successful invasion of the enemy’s-
territory will be that Britain will lose and Russia
fain the benefit of the whole of the wages. Pro-
ably the wages will represent half the wealth
created by the firm. The ultimate profits of the
business may continue to flow to Britain for a few
years, but the wages, the living expenses of the-
managing partners, and the benefit of the subsi-
diary industries will all go to Russia. And,
sooner, or later, the owners and the profits, like
the wages and expenses, will become Russian.
From the balconies of Queensland Parlia-
ment House politicians can get ample evidence of
the woeful waste of the Queensland taxpayers’
money. In the river below are anchored the
Lucinda (Cabinet yacht, £2OOO a year mainten-
ance) and the Lindon Bates dredges (cost £200,000’
and now hung up), while towards the city £116,000
worth of new Lands Office
lifts its head as a monu-
ment to the stupendous
folly of Philp.
NOT TAKING ANY.
“The Minister for Works, in reply to Mr. Affleck, said
that the works upon which Mr. Laurence Foley had been
employed returned a clear profit. He did not know Mr.
Foley’s age, but judging from his muscular and mental
activity he was not more than 45. If the hon. member
wanted any further information he would refer him to
Mr. Foley.” —Daily Paper.
THE O'S.: “ Permit me to introduce you to my
friend Larry."
AH JOHN’S JOSS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There’s Hades in the Joss-house of the fiscal pagan Bull,
He’s damning of his idol’s eyes and bumping of its skull,
He’s tearing off its tinsel, he is jumping on its chest,
The gaudy deity is being knocked around with zest.
No roast pig decks the altar now, of rice there’s awful
loss.
Since John found out the hollowness of his Importing
Joss.
The neighbors all in chorus are a-yelling out “ Oh lor’ 1 "
As John berates his deity with many a fierce “ Whaffor? 1 '
It was a good fair-weather Joss, but failed in time of
stress,
And now it’s getting curses from the man who used to
bless.
He’s seized his ancient Cobden Club o’ergrown with fiscal
moss,
And with it he is fiercely knocking saucepans out of Jogfc.
Ah John begins to think his Joss a hollow heathen jest,
He found it only middling, and Brummagem at best;
We’ve seen him grovel to it as we passed the Open Door,
And now we hear him smiting hard its head upon the
floor;
Its ears are flying endways and its skull is cracked across
And Lord knows where the nose is of the damaged Free.-,
trade Joss.
C.H.
SPECTACLES
sdf
—JOE—
DEFECTIVE
VISION, t.
COUNTRY READERS
who cannot visit us
personally, we send,
Post Free to any ad-
dress, with full in-
structions and Price List, our lnarvellously-aeourate
and popular SELF SICHT-MEASURINC PATENT.
By its use you can Test your own sight and determine
for yourself the style and quality of the glasses you
may need. Write for it to—
H. A. BARRACLOUGH, Optician,
385 Georges t., Sydney (opposite Strand Arcade).
gsd
GrO XO HBLL-
IGOIiANI) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, seud to
Fred. Hageo,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS BRISBANE,
WATSON’S WHISKY
Resch’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artisti- Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.


BUY A
Lipp
Piano
If you want the
Best German Piano
imported.
Lipp Pianos have
been sold in Aus-
tralia by us for over
35 years.
They are the most
Popular Pianos on
the market.
Thousands of Lipp
Pianos have been
sold and given un-
qualified satisfac-
tion.
Pure in tone, and
built to last a life-
time.
*
Sold on Easy Terms.
Catalogues Free.
*
Old Pianos taken in
exchange and full value
allowed.
Paling's,
338 Georg’e St. #
SYDNEY.
A Fine
Violin
£lllll 6
fgs
mm “STUDENT’S**
MODEL.
Complete with Bow,
Case, Resin and Set
of Extra Strings.
Post Free to any
town in N.S.W.
£1 :11 s 6.
Write for Handsome
illustrated catalogue
post free.
PALING'S
335 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
15he
Victor
Piano
Has proved its
popularity by the
enormous number
of orders we receive.
We sold last year
over 400 Victor
Pianos.
If you want the
Best medium-priced
Piano made,
BUY A
VICTOR
and you will have a
Piano that will give
you every satisfac-
tion.
Made in 3 models,
and sold on Easy
Terms.
Send for Catalogues.
**
Old Pianos taken in
exchange and full value
allowed.
Paling’s,
338 George St.,
SYDNEY.
VITADATIO
The Great Herbal
Blood Remedy.
The After-Effects of
Rheumatic Fever.
To Mr. W. WEBBER, Proprietor of VITADATIO and
INDIAN OIL OF OREAM.
Dear Sir, —It is with profound gratitude that I feel it
my duty to inform you of the great good derived by the
use of your VITADATIO and OIL OF OREAM.
To begin with, let me say my trouble was what doctors
called paralysis of the legs, and especially the knees,
which left me quite powerless to walk ; this I must also
say was the after-effects of Rheumatic fever. For
upwards of six months I was in a deplorable condition—
two months of this time I was in the Launceston
Hospital, and about four months with Mr J. IrVine,
Glenfield House, Brisbane-street, Launceston. The
doctors finding they were unable to cure me, said I would
never again have the normal use of my affected limbs. . .
I had often heard of your VITADATIO and INDIAN OIL
OF CREAM, but had no faith in it as a remedy for my
disease. However, I was urged to give it a fair trial, and
Consented to do so. Seven bottles of INDIAN OIL OF
CREAM were rubbed faithfully into my limbs and spine,
and five bottles; (large size) of your VITATATIO taken
internally with result I now have once again the full use
of my limbs, and thank God I ever heard of you and your
great remedies.
■ ' Yours truly,
August, 1396.. FRANK TIBBETTS.
Present Address— Moonbe Ponds, Melbourne, Victoria.
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER,
Head Office: Clarendon Street N,,
South Melbourne.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
" The prfceof medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
MESSRS.' ELLIOTT BROS., O’Gonnell-street, Sydney,
. .a.- Sole Agents N.S.W.
Ail Chemists and Storekeepers.
This Elastic Truss
M
...
Elastic
T russ-
Sin;fle, 15/-
Double, 20/-
is so nething better, more
comfortable and far superior
to any other truss made. We
make any kind of a truss to
order, and have special fitters
on the premises.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instru nent Makers,
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Also at Melbourne. (opp. Hunter St.).
True Pen Comfort it spelt
“SWAN."
.* •m -m
_ nn« up
r For You V,
df
gsd
The good point of V
/ the Swan Foun- \
J tain Pen has made it V
/ the writer’s true friend. \
/ Perfect in construction, \
/ positive in performance, \
It “sticks up” for the user
whenever writing is a necessity.
1
FoutfrAitf
is the easiest of all fountain pens to cafe for.
Befllling over the point of the pen thor-
oughly cleanses the reed and does away with
the everlasting nuisance of taking apart.
Fully guaranteed by the world’s largest and
best gold and fountain pen manufacturers,
MABIE, TODD V BARD,
, London and Manchester, England.
Sold by Stationers, Jewellers, and Importers.
*
1
HI
11
li
HOTEL DANIELL
(Late inPERIAL),
Corner of GEORGE & ADELAIDE STS.,
BRISBANE
ItftrtHctt throughout Croat Britain and CtUnitt.
ASTHMA
taken from the System.
Nothing remains which can
produce an attack. You can
eat, sleep and stand exposure without slightest return of
symptoms. Cured to stay cured, by elimination and re-
construction. Appetite improved; blood enriched; nerves
strengthened; whole system built up; life made enjoyable.
Reliefs, or change of climate no longer needed. We have
treated over 52,000 Asthma and Ha v Fever patients. Es-
tablished 1883. Explar atory BOOK 32c post FREE.
Address: DR. P. HAROLD HaYES’ASTHMATIC INSTITUTE#
Buffalo, N. Y.. U. S. A.
PHOTOS
Models from Life, Beautiful Stereo-
scopies, etc. List with 10 J Minia-
ture and 3 Cabinet Size Photos.,
55., P. 0.0, or stamps.
S. R-CKNA 3EL NACHF, Munich, 1 B.'ieTfach, Germany.
fg
E&l
Eu 9
B
Sufferers from Deafness or Head Noises
if B i> */ ;,,ir, P J ete and permanent cure
should tv) The L. R. VERNON - f’O
ST., SYDNEY, for pain 1
phlet descn j.ig an entirely new self-
applied method whioh will be seutpost
free on mentioning this paper
THE
CALLAGHAN SHOE
13/6
POST
AND
DUTY
FREE
EXCEPT
TO W.A.
oil
■■ ■
-
STYLE
. -
COMFORT
WEAR
* LADIES’ FINE AMERICAN GLACE
: , ; KID SHOE, in either Lace or Button, with
Stylish Patent Leather Caps and the NEW-
FASH TONED COLLARETTE, shown in engraving.
Price, 12/11. Post and Duty Free, 13/6, except W.A.
Evening: Shoes.
The
Latest Fashions of
Distinct Designs
From - - - - 7/9 a pair.
One trial will convince you that you are wasting
money in not wearing CALLAGHAN SHOES,
There never can be much more Style and Ele-
gance put into a Shoe than is found in CAL-
LAGHAN’S SHOES. After using the .Very
Best Material and Workmanship, combined with
the Latest Style, what is there left that can add
to the beauty and serviceableness of a shoe?
You get all these features in
THE CALLAGHAN SHOE.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 39s ceorce st.,
SYDNEY.


Queensland has now 960 artesian wells, of
which 576 give flowing supplies. The average
depth is about 1220 ft., so that, so far, about 222
miles of boring has been done in this State alone.
The water supply varies, but in the aggregate it is
reckoned at 385 J millions gallons a day. A year’s
flow at this rate would be enough to put 808 square
miles under a foot of water.
They have a humorously off-hand manner
of doing things in Bananaland. Recently two
lunatics and two Kanaka prisoners were being
forwarded from Cairns to somewhere down the
coast in charge of one policeman. Even a police-
man has to sleep sometimes, and when he awoke
from a snatch of slumber and counted his lunatics
he could only find one. The other had gone over-
board.
“J.A.C.”: Be inoculation with glycerine
in Launceston (8., 17/9/’O3). An English medico,
down on his luck in S’Africa, prior to
the war, made a nice little “ rise ” during a small-
pox scare. He had no vaccine lymph, so he used
condensed milk instead, and nobody, for the time
being, was any the wiser. But it finally leaked-
out, and he did an exemplary sccot.
“ The Coming Reaction,” just published,
tells some interesting historical facts as to Free-
trade. The Dutch built up a great trade under
Freetrade. England, under Protection, wrested
it from them. Germany and America are now
repeating history, destroying a Freetrade com-
merce by Protectionist methods. The three great
staple industries of England—iron, wool, and
cotton —grew under Protection ; since the advent
of Freetrade no invention of cardinal importance
to any industry has been made in England.
LONDON £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Freight, Passage Money, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adelaide Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO., Grenfell-streec.
Albany Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER-
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking. Public Companies, &c. ~~
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.—
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
sdf
BILLS
DISCOUNTED
axr.s.^w.
(Jlontdepielefl.^|.Co.,tt<l.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
17 4. CASTLEREAGH ST., *7 4
*” SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
~ E -.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
FOR
Mutual Lite Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices • - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Mon. J F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Robirtb
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruch Smith, Esq., M.H.R.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,706,830.
Policies issued 91,305-assuring £27,614,218
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,981,398.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—eauitably distributed.
\ Head Office:
(19 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
fhe Bank of Qorth Queensland
LIMITED.”
Sydney Office ... 10 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director- JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Cannt. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... - ... *700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders - ... 250 900 ... *350,000
IST Royal Bank of Queensland
CAPITAL PAID-UP '.. .. £457,354
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 175,997
REISER VE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 60,000
Q*l
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Geu. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. litd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Dire3tors— Sydney : Hon. A. W< Mebks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Hon. John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adefafcle : L. A. Jessop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlank : Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farquiiar J. J.ALLEN, General Manager for Australia
tARquiiAR. ». 131 pit) . st> SYDNEY.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
M 412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP • • A 90.000 0 0
IIESEBVE F.OND (used In Company s
business) £10,494 16 9
Directors : F. It. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : It. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vioe Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
C. M. Officer; Esq. ; Hon. .EM. Pr.'it-t, M L (’.
JAMES BOIIItuWMAN, Manager.
FItEDK A. LANG, Assistant Manage*
SUpping.
]XT. 33. L.
(NORD-DKUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OP
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerpand Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin-screw steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
5.5. PRINZ WALDEMAR, 3300 tons, 28th OCTOBER.
8.5. PRINZ SICISMUND, 3300 tons, 9th DECEMBER.
And Regularly Every 6 Weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
MEDIC, to Sail on- or about 16th OCTOBER,
AFRIC, SUE VIC, PERSIC, and RUNIC
to follow.
FARES—Capetown
London
New York, &c.
£l6 16 0 to £23
19 0 0 to
25 2 6 to
2 0
27 0 0
33 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation-
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Baaoonrfield Para dfl
ST. KILDA.
fTIHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, I-hout
by tram. Billiards, etc.
OH A.3XTIO
Sydney to Auckland
Auckland to Pago Pago
Samoa to Fanning Island ..
Fanning Island to Honolulu
Honolulu to San Francisco
Overland to New York
New York to London
STH A. M 63 OE3CI E*
c? g> :e» a. :ixr
A. AND A. LINE.
Passengers can break the journey en route.
3J days.
4 days.
4 days.
2£ days.
days.
4 days.
6 days.
Elaborately appointed Staterooms for occupancy qf not more than TWO Passengers.
No Steamers on the Pacific compare with our “ Sister Ships,” Sierra, Sonoma, Ventura. The NEWEST, LARGEST
(6200 tons), FASTEST, AND ONLY STEAMERS HAVING TWIN-SCREWS WITH TWO SETS OF
INDEPENDENT ENGINES.
FARES TO ANY DESTINATION AS CHEAP AS ANY OTHpR tIRST-CLASS LINE.
Send for Illustrated Matter, including New Publication, “If Not, Why Not 1 ” Post Free, 3d.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., flanaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Building's, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £2,500,000
Bank of New South Wales .
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. „ 2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. ~ ~ 1,315,000 0 0
Reserve Liability 2,000,000 0 0
Total .. .. .. 5,315,000 0 0
Directors:
Hon. Ciias. K. Mackellar, M.L.0., President.
The Hon. Sir NorMand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator James Thomas Walker.
Honv Reginald James Black, M7LC. *
William Alfred Cotteb, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors:
Harrington Palmer, Esq. Frederick W. Uther, Esq
London Office-Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies, New Zealand
and Fiji; and Agencies and Coirespondents throughout
Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India, China,
Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United States,
South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
T.ie Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their .behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Letters of Credit and Circular
Notes in sums of £lO or £2O, negotiable throughout the
World. X. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
64
TEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. C. lEIjIDIR.TIDG-lE] &c CO.,
DYERS & GLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
qtr
[DEAFI
map
The New Patent
.SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
■ how long standing. Are the same
fto the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
Free for Asking:.
WRITE to us and we will forward you our scientific
book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magic, and you will be filled with energy,
strength and ambition once more. Posted free. Write
to Armand GouraUd, 82 Little Flinders St., Melbourne.
FOREIGN STAMPS.
m
/"I HEAP SETS.—B Turkey, 6d ;
47 Spain, la 6d; 6 British
Guiana, 6d ; 8 Egypt, 6d ; 10 Bul-
garia, 6d; 11 Canada, 6d : 15
Roumania,6d; 6 United States War-
ships, 3d ; 8 Java, 6d ; 5 Costa
Rica, 4d ; 3 Victoria, 1850 issue,
7a 6d ; 4 Sudan, 9d ; 20 Brazil.
Is; 12 Cuba, 9d ;11 Portugal, 6d,
New Catalogue of Stamps, &c., Gratis. Stamps purchased.
CHARLES DONNE, 346 Little Collins st., Melbourne
&
COON - COON - COON,
I’YE MADE UP MY MIND
TO SAIL AWAY.
The Honeysuckle & the Bee,
I Skedaddled, l t*s the Man behind the
Gun, Sweet Ivy May Jerry Co,
MeiindoLoo,Sometimes,When the
Harvest Da vs are Over, also Two
Hundred othef t)ri<>ina ICoon and
Love Sonars. A' 1 *' eLATF.ST HITS.
Posted for ONE SHILLING,
anvwhere. Stamps or I’o&ial Noie.
B.P. CO., Box 404, G.P.O..Sydney
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
*’v.’ Vl .
MOANA, NOVEMBER 2,
The Most Popular Steamer
ott the Pacific.
NEXT SAILINGS—
NOVEMBER 30, DECEMBER 27.
Cheapest Route to America
and London.
Via Brisbane or Via
New Zealand .
Illustrated Pamphlets Posted Free on Application.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.,
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
Unrivalled Position in LONDON
(England)^
The LanghamHotel
PLACE
And REGENT STREET, LONDON, W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con*
venient and Healthy Locality.
riodern Appointments. Moderate Tariff.
“The Challenge
Latest Scientific
Punching 1 Machine.
-» .
A new World’s Record of 12251b5. was established On
the above machine at the Royal Agricultural Society’s
Show, Sydney, 1903, by Mr. T. W. Aulsebrook, of Messrs.
Aulsebrook and Sons, Ltd., the previous World’s Record,
held by Mr. Robert Fitzsimmons, champion pugilist,
being 10851bs.
The “Challenge” is an Automatic Penny-in-the-Slob
Machine, and is especially suitable for Hotels, Billiard
and Refreshment Rooms, Tobacconist Shops, etc.
It is a great, attraction to any place,’ a first class money-
maker, never gets out of order, and requires no attention
whatever - .
All other kinds of Automatic Slot Machines kept in
Stock. Illustrated Catalogue posted on application.
J. LANDES,
108 PITT ST., SYDNEY,
Sole Agent for. Australasia.
story BOOK :
By Bulletin writers. Cloth, 300 pages ;
price, is. 6d. From all Booksellers, or the
Publishers, The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
' 211 George Street, Sydney, Australia.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITISt)).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Rockton,
Friday, Oct. 9, at 5 p.m
(Transhipping at
Melbourne).
SiS. Marloo,
Saturday, Oct. 10, at 10 a.tn.
(Without Transhipment).
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Claims
S.S. Allinga, Oct. 9, at 5 p.m.
. S.S. Rockton, October 17.
S.S. Innamincka, Occ. 24.
Beat and Cheapest ltonte to Goldfields.
1 > Saloon Passage Tickets are Interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
~ G. 8. YU ILL & CO., LTD., '
-f : Agents, 0 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
pVAND Q
COMPANY’S
ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with tha 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dat'ep, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Lip 6 Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND.SECOND SALOON ONLY.
Steamef.
AROABIA .
OCEANA .
AUSTRALIA
BRITANNIA
CHINA
Commander.
6663,F. 0- A. Lyon, R.N.R.
6603. E. Street
6901 t Fi J. Cole
6526 F. H. Seymour ..
7f)l2G. K, Wright, R.N.R,
Sydney,
Noon.
..Oct. 17
.. 'Oct. 22
.. ;NoV. 14
..INov. 28
~ Dec. 12
PASSAGE MONEY TO LON DON—Single, £33 to Ml
Ditto Ditto Return, £66 to £ll5
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by Orient-Pacific, Messageries
Mari times and N.D.f,. Steamers having room.
/
A. WESCHE,
63 Pitt-street. Acting Agent.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARI.?.
Steamefs Of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with til*
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, AUE*
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY,SUEZ, and
POU'Jf SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows: -
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meat
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
L. BRICARD, Acting Principal Agent.
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
• ...... , v. BY TUB . .
“E. and A.” LINE.
Jdi V jCiXw rUvTI V lZiiivXJCaX'l V7XV xx jlavwx . ■*.
The Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans.
. Through bookings at special rates to Europe via Canada
and the U.S. America, c r the Trans-Siberian Railway,
i Forhandbooks and all information apply to the
. EASTERN: and: AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
.37 Pitt-st., Sydney.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyna.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BfiONUHITIt),
DIARRHCEA, beara on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr. J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS A
Sept. 28 1895, saya:
“ Jf'l were asked which single medicine I should
piefer to take .abroad with me, as likely to
most generally useful, to the exclusion of
others, I should say Chlokodxne. I never tra
without) it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailment 3 terms
its best recommendation."
l&sr
LADIES'
i>{ '
HAIR
DRESSERS
if
CRAIG &
AITKEN.
Tel, 1198.
THE most charming and slyjish
Transformations and serni-
Transformations you ever
saw from 21/- each. Switches- of
hair from 5/6. Your own Comb-
ings made up into Switches at
2/6 per oz. Specific Lotion, an
unfailing remedy for falling hair
and eradicating dandruff, 3/6 per
bottle.
Supply stores wholesale, human
hair merchants, assistants en-
gaged and sent any where.
Mail orders receive special
attention'.
Price Lists oh application.
680 682 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
At Dawn and Dusk :
By V. J. Dalky. In handsome cloth,
with portrait. Price ss.


“N.A.D.” : Be funerals. “0.K.”(8.,
Sept. 3) is quite correct—the undertaker, as a
rule, is the fiend who prolongs the agony. I en-
gaged one in Melbourne once. The house and the
cemetery were on the same side of the city, and
there was no need to go within three miles of the
business centre j but just before he mounted his
box-seat the Pestiferous Planter asked me, “Shall
we go direct to Collins-street, sir ? ” The “ Block ”
he considered an absolute necessity—the only
question in his mind was whether he shouldn’t go
through Toorak and St. Kilda first. I told him
to go direct to the cemetery, and I’ll swear, from
his face as he climbed up, that he was thinking,
“ These people are no class. They are Huns. ”
Cardinal Vaughan’s Westminster Cathe.
dral has been described as composed of two
gasometers and a factory chimney.
For mixed metaphor Sir Boyle Roche has
long held the record with his “I smell a rat; I
see it floating in the air; but I’ll nip it in the
bud ! ” Hardly second to this, however, comes
the following—from an eminent physician’s re-
cently-published monograph upon “ The Heart ” :
“And so often cripples the very citadel of life as
to poison all its springs, when it does not cut
them short.” Truly, rhetoric is a dangerous
weapon for the unskilled user.
gsd
™ e CENTURY THERMAL BATH CABINET
is equal to A DOCTOR IN EVERY HOME.
THOUSANDS CLADLY TESTIFY TO THIS FACT!
Hot-air and Vapour Baths administered by this Cabinet are
a speedy cure for RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA, BRONCHITIS,
GOUT, LIVER and KIDNEY TROUBLES, INFLUENZA,
COLDS, FEVERS—in fact, there is no disease which can resist
the power of heat as applied by this Cabinet. 300,000 now
being used in Great, Britain weekly.
PRICES, delivered, 30/- to 84/-.
Write to-day for descriptive Booklet—FßEE.
I Century Thermal Bath Cabinet Co. Ltd. (»«*. sj
/(Sole Agents Wanted for Sydney.)
ALEX. TROUP, Manager,
Royal Arcade, Elizabeth-st. Entrance, MELBOURNE.
[jtt
Vfl
There’s SECURITY in
BARTER'S
■ITTLE
IVER
PI LLSj
V Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
\ FURRED TONGUE.
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
They TOUCH the LIVER
Be Sure they are
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price.
Carter's
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
Corner George & Market Sts., SYDNEY
The Best Luncheon in Town from ONE SHILLING, served from 12 sharp till 2.30;
Dinner from 5.30 to 7.30, same price.
The Moat Convenient Place for Ladies and Gentlemen visiting the Theatres to dine at.
N.B.—Visitors ooly pay for wfrat tbcy actually bayc.
TERMS.—The Convenient and Modern System or paying for a
room on arrival, and Meals as they are had.
Apartments: BEDROOM, Single, 3s. per day ; Double, 6s. per day.
ENGAGE ROOMS AT ROBERTS’ HOTEL, SYDNEY.
NOTE.-Send to ROBERTS’ WINE and SPIRIT STORE, MARKET ST., next QEORQE ST.,
for REVISED PRICE LIST. COUNTRY ORDERS PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO.
AMMUNITION
Can always be depended upon for being sure fire,
regular, and clean. It is sold by the principal
ironmongers throughout Australasia,
SPECIFY U.M.C. AMMUNITION and ACCEPT NO OTHER.
M ELLIN’S
FOR INFANTS FOOD AND INVALIDS
Is adapted for use from birth.
Send for Pamphlet and Samples to GOLLIN & 00., Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide and Wellington.
Jr \kM
mm
mSm
from Weak Nerves, Impure Blood, the Kidneys, Rheumatism, the Spine and Bladder,
WOMEN WHO WASTE AWAY
from Anaemia, Poverty of Blood, Leucorrhcea,
and Internal Complaints, &c., &c.,
H
A CHAT WITH YOU. DON'T LOSE HEART! DON'T DESPAIRI DON'T DIE!
I’i
err
Have Cured Many Thousands. They have held their own against all comers Tor over 20
and have never been known to Tail. THEY WILL CURE YOU.
I>o YOU KNOW . ; .
That Herr Rassmusseu possesses the most wonderful Specific Remedies for the
Blood and Nerves ?
That Herr Rassmussen guarantees his Alfaline Herbal Remedies to Cure?
I>o YOTJ KNOW . . .
That Herr Rassmussen’s Remedies are purely Herbal, and contain no mercury or any
other mineral poisons?
That Herr Rassmussen has Thousands of Testimonials ?
DO YOU KNOW . . . Herr Rassmuseen’s Alfaline Herbal Remedies Hever Fail to Cure?
ALFALINE VITALITY NERVE PILLS.
This remedy can be depended on to cure all kinds of Nervons Diseases, Debility, Vital
Weakness, Despondency, Melancholia, Specks before the Eyes, Want of Memory, Bash-
fulness, and entirely stop the Waste from the System which is so weakening to the
Spine, Brain, and Nerves. It entirely builds up and restores a broken-down Nervous
System. Special Powerful Course, 435. 6d.; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.j Smaller Boxes
at 12s. and 6s. each. Posted unobserved.
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS
Are a guaranteed Cure for the worst forms of Blood Diseases, no matter how caused or
of how long standing, whether secondary or any other stage. This remedy completely
purifies, cleans and purges the Blood of all kinds of Impurities, and leaves the system
as pure as a new-born baby. It contains no Mercury, like all other remedies do used
for the Blood and Skin, and will entirely Cure all Diseases of the Skin and Blood,
Gravel and Stones in the Bladder, and all complaints of the Urinary passage. Special
Powerful Course, 435. 6d.; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.; Smaller Boxes at 12s. and 6s. each.
ALFALINE PILE POWDERS, a won-
derful remedy for completely eradicating
both Internal and External Blind and
Bleeding Piles. Gives instant relief.
ALFALINE CORN CURE. Is.
ALFALINE FAT-REDUCING POW-
DER is entirely harmless, and is the
best fat-reducing powder in the world.
Boxes, 6s. and 3s.
ALFALINE OINTMENT. Is.
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS
Never fail to Cure all forma of Amaemia, and entirely Cure and Prevent the most fear-
ful Wasting Diseases, which defy sill other forms of treatment. They are particularly
effective in the treatment of all kinds of Internal Female Complaints, and being entirely
harmless, and most wonderfully effective for strengthening and thickening the Blood and
building up the Nerves. Course, 235. 6d.; Boxes, 12s. and 6s.
ALFALINE LIVER & KIDNEY PILLS.
This is absolutely the world’s beat remedy for Constipation, Indigestion, Wind, Heart-
burn, Flatulence, and all complaints of the Liver and Kidneys. Boxes, Is.
ALFALINE RHEUMATIC PILLS
Cure Rheumatism, Gout and Sciatica. Boxes, 125., 6s. and 3s.
ALFALINE ASTHMA & COUGH PILLS
Will Cure Asthma and Cough, Consumption, Bronchitis, and all Lung and Chest troubles.
Courses, 235. 6d.; Boxes, 6s.
ALFALINE EMBROCATION, excel-
lent for Cyclists, Cure Stiff Joints, Gout,
and Chapped Skin. Bottles, Is.
ALFALINE HEADACHE TABLETS.
Instantaneous and permanent cure. Is.
ALFALINE HAIR RESTORER.
Restores the Hair, 6s.
ALFALINE EUCALYPTUS. Bottles,ls.
ALFALINE WORM TABLETS. Is.
COMPLEXION BEAUTIFIER. 65.&3s
DO OK POSTED FREE.—A Valuable Book containing Valuable Advice for all Complaints Posted Free and Unobserved.
TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALITY.
All correspondence will be held strictly confidential. Remedies will be posted in plain cover, and
. — therefore entirely unobserved, both from the Head Office and Agencies. Make Cheques and Money
Orders payable to HANS RASSMUSSEN. Reg.ster letters containing Money, and when Special Advice is required, address letters as follows
HERR RASS MUSS EM’S Head Office: 547 George St., Sydney.
Ilerr Hassmnssen s Alfaline Herbal Remedies can also be obtained foroni his Agencies, as follows :
BRISBASTE s 300 QUESIff STHiISST.
ADELAIDE; 15 PULTENEY ST. | W.A.: PERTH, 481 HAY ST. [ KALCOORLIE: 111 HANNAN ST, ( N.Z.: 91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON.


SPORTING NOTIONS.
;
In Wellington (Maoriland) there is a “two-up
school ” run on high-class principles. In fact it is almost
a recommendation about town to be accepted as a
member of the “club.” Candidates must be possessed
of reliable credentials before they are admitted to the
select circle. Ostensibly the “club" is an athletic
school. There are some forty members, and Is. an hour
is collected from the players. Hot coffee and cakes are
handed around every night about 11 o’clock and a smoke
concert is given once a month. Precautions against
police attack are most elaborate. The Wellington “cops”
blame the Australian element for the importation of
“ two-up ” into Maoriland. where it will soon be the
national game—but then the incompetent Maoriland
“ cop,” when he fails badly, always says there is a dark
Australian conspiracy against him.
• * * *
“E. & 0.E.” writes: Bulletin says racing is
booming in Westralia. It is. Racing clubs are making
enormous profits, and bookmakers are like mushrooms
after heavy rain. Jockeys maintain mansions (on the
regulation riding fees, of course); trainers live well ;
owners win enough to pay feed bills—sometimes. And
the public—well, the public comes in a bad last, as usual.
Fact is, the golden goose is being surely slaughtered.
Apparently the big clubs can’t see that they are bleeding
the public to death. Clubs’ main revenue comes from
bookmakers and totalisator, and as fast as profits come
they are expended in course improvements, only a small
percentage going towards increase of stakes. There is a
feverish desire to have appointments as good as, if not
better than, those of Eastern clubs. Therefore, big
profits are necessary, and clubs are not particular
how the money is gained. They can’t get more than
10 per cent, from the tote, but they can and do get
fixed sums from bookmakers for permission to bet,
said sums being paid before the meeting, and practically
guaranteeing the stakes. Coolgardie Club collected £920
from Ikey Mo. for two days’ racing—average attendance
2500 each day—and two totes, straight out and place, in
opposition. At Boulder, 38 bookies paid £3O each to bet \
in enclosure on the three days. Fee for the flat was £5
per day. Didn’t count the flat layers—l got tired. The
clubs exercise no discrimination ; they collect the betting
fees, in cash, and ask no questions. The W.A.T.O. will
register anyone as a bookmaker provided he produces a
guarantee of £3OO. Among the books I can count men
who have “done time” ; one or two are notoriously
defaulters in other States ; others are men of straw.
Guarantors incur no liability, because the Turf Club is
not a bet-collecting agency ; all it does is to cancel the
defaulter’s license. We hear of balancing and welshing
at every meeting. Clubs are so ravenous for revenue
(.hat they run straight out, place, and ladies’ totalisators,
and they would run six or eight more kinds of tote if
they could invent them.
• * * •
One “ W. J.” writes for names of nexb Caulfield
and Melbourne Cup winners, and proposes to recompense
this journal for a ‘ correct tip ’ by sending a year’s sub-
scription in advance. ‘W. J.’s ’ letter makes one feel the
absurdity of talking about Turf matters to inexperienced
inquirers, bub it is worth answering with a few general
remarks. Bulletin ‘ tips' for the two Cups have to be
printed at least four days before the Caulfield and seven
days before the Melbourne event, and, as horses are sub-
ject to sudden breakdowns, rapid goings ‘ off,’ important
olianges of jockey arrangements, and weather conditions,
it sometimes happens that the tipster would change his
published tip on the day of the race if he could—but he
can’t. A good animal entered for both Cups has a fair
chance to win either of them at his handicapped weight,
but if he wins the Caulfield he is penalised 141 b. for the
Melbourne Cup, therefore in the case of a C.C. runner a
tipster must wait for the Caulfield result before he can
gauge its chance in the subsequent handicap. The Y.R.O.
Derby is a great public trial of several three-year-olds’
prospects in the Melbourne Cup, but a Bulletin man
hasn’t the Derby history to guide him when he is spinning
his Cup prediction. Just here it may be stated that
Emir is a quite probable winner of the Derby and Cup
‘ double,’ provided he doesn’t ‘ go amiss’ in his training,
and the fact that he recently did go amiss makes this
brilliant colt a specially uncertain subject. ‘ W.J.’ asks
for a reckless, stright-out ‘ tip,’ and this scribe gives him
Emir for the Derby and Melbourne Cup to go on with.
The Caulfield Cup is another story. Heavy rain on
the day of a race usually means the victory of a
sturdy, mud-larking animal that would not be able
to finish among the first three in a fast-run race.
Tipsters writing a few daj's before the event base their
calculations on a hard state of the course, because a fast-
run race is the only true test of horses’ speed-cum-
stamina. Very wet weather means a surprise. A Glen-
,l< th wins a Melbourne Cup through the mud. An average
Melbourne Cup field probably includes six starters that
could do the trick at least once in ten tries if their rela-
tive fitness and the state of the course were always the
same. A Caulfield Cup field includes a larger proportion
of possible winners ; the shorter course is more circular
than the Flemington track, and each competitor runs a
greater risk of being bumped,blocked,Orlaid low (as many
as 15 have fallen at one turn), and the 1J mile journey is not
too far for many speedy animals, which are bound to fail
at the finish of the Flemington two miles. As for pre-
dicting the actual winner with cocksureness—why, it is
only once in a blue moon that anything so ‘certain’ as
Revenue gets into Melbourne Cup at an easy weight.
An experienced horse-reporter rarely feels quite safe in
restricting his final choice to half-a-dozen candidates for
a Caulfield Cup, and when he has picked his six he knows
that more luck than discrimination is needed for selecting
the actual winner. Many ‘ prophets ’ admit their lack of
confidence by tipping in this style :
Gammon or Spinach .. .. 1
Tomato Soup .. .. .. 2
Scarecrow or Snooker .. .. 3
by which device the two last-named chances are crowded
into the ‘ place’ selection under false pretences, for five
horses can’t get into three places This plan entitles the
prophet to flap his wings triumphantly if Spinach wins,
although Spinach is actually his second choice. It is,
perhaps, better to put the names of six bona fide fancies
in a hat, pick one at haphazard, and pin the ‘ tip ’ to that.
In trying to draw delicate distinctions this scribe has
suffered all the slings and arrows of outrageous fortune.
Last year his choice of six for the Melbourne Gup included
the first three, but the attempt to place four of them in
their proper order was a dire failure. The fact that
winner and runner-up had never been fancied at all out-
side of The Bulletin was not counted for righteousness.
A tipster can get no glory from a ‘ W. J,’ except by naming
the actual winner in once. If his nomination has bad
luck and gets beaten by a nose he ranks as a fool; if it
has good luck and wins by half-a-nose he is considered a
wise person. If he selects three unsuccessful horses for
places he is three fools. Better to be only one fool.
Duke of Grafton and Czarovitch started for the
October Stakes at Flemington last Saturday, and in a
quite ordinary way of Australian circus racing there was
a scrimmage (only 10 in the field, but a scrimmage all the
same)and the two colts fell, Duke of Grafton breaking
his leg. On an important occasion last year the same
two colts ran together and did not fall. It was the
Maribyrnong Plate at Flemington, and they finished first
and second.” What a difference a “scrimmage” makes 1
* * * •
ttt rWxA.ni. QtnUoo
, Wakefuls easy victory in the October Stakes
(™ h ? re the mar ? *■ beating :
half Improved a iotsihcesheshapeddmppomtmgb on
‘ be Ra ?dwick course last month, but it proves nothing
The “form ” of Famous, who finished third to Wakeful
and Hauturier was nevertheless discouraging to Sydney
Punters And there were other evidences that the recent
( allur , e .? f Victorian horses a t R andwick may be followed
by a failure o Sydney cracks at Caulfield and Fleming.
ton. Yet nothing is more certain than the uncertainty
which ? rev f 3 at time , of writin «\
, , „ . t
First day of the big V.A.I.G. meeting (next
Saturday) will sift some of the wheat from the chaff of
Cup horses that have to be thought of as possibles until
something more is known-about them. The relative
strength of the local forces and the N.S.W. contingent
will be tested more or less, and if Emir gets a run in the
Caulfield Stakes the Ballarat colt may throw a very
searching light on the situation. Ennr has been
entered for the Caulfield Stakes, also the Eclipse
Stakes run on Wednesday (the 14th). If his Derby
a nd Cup chances are worth backing (and people nave
backed, them again lately) the colt will presumably
show his quality before next Bulletin comes round. The
Stakes is a race which a first-class Derbj horse may be
expected to win, or nearly win, at w.f.a., however strong
the opposition. Emir should beat Abundance, Wakeful,
Famous, and all of them over the 9 furlongs—if he is in
good fettle. And then Belah s pretensions to Derby and
Cup will be considerably discounted. But Scobie s cham-
pion has yet to justify the stable allegations of his all-
rightness.
* * * . *
The Toorak Handicap (which will be shirked by
some of the genuine Cup candidates on account of the
71b. penalty that befalls the winner) offers Air Motor a
chance to redeem her last year’s defeat. The Sydney
nlare is said to be a likely starter for the mile rush, and
s ( le , or one of Scobie’s 3-year-olds, may capture this
stake.
* * * *
N ow that Duke of Grafton is dead and buried,
Belah - n the presume( j absence of Emir, seems to have an
even money chance of taking the Guineas. The Guineas,
thou h i a rat her notorious for surprises, and, looking
around {or a {air th i n g at a better price, this scribe
fancieB the mass i V e Scottish King, in the Wakeful stable,
* * • *
, T°,^ e average punter the legend. Registered
Tattersall s, painted 01 V o-s g £
something about it that seems tg th
£>° his money. Yetwt'iw ™ th P aver-ip-e
Gambling Commission shows that, s
punter is concerned, ; n vesMi?ntp
lhe y,v n member nf
charge of alleged defaulting unless made by a t
Cm club. , , * *
„ T , . . , • ..
Ku-Klux : I broke up a partnership, tne
other day. I was leaning over the railings, at Sandown
Park, when a young man at my side started a conversa-
tion. Presently, another sauntered up, and touched him
on the arm. “Give me three quid, and 111 give you a
tenner, Jim,” said No. 2, without, however, producing
the tenner. “ It will do later,” said Jim, carelessly,
“ Have you got anything going for this race t No. 2
asserted that he had a moral, and promised to return
with definite news. He departed, and No. 1 informed me
that he had hacked the last two winners on No. 2 s
advice. Presently, just as the horses were lining up to
the barrier, No. 2 rushed up. I’ve taken 35 to 0 about
this for you, Jim,” he said. Jim carefully noted the bet
on his shirt-cuff. “ Oh,” he said, ‘ you might as well put
this gent, on to it, too ; he’s a friend of mine. H°. 2
agreed; “ Shall we say £l4 to £2r” he asked. I hesi-
tated. “ Well,” he said, anxiously, ‘ ■ to If No, I
said,l’m afraid I can’t run that much. Hedooked
disappointed. “How much?” he asked. ‘Well, I
said, “ I’ll tell you what, I’ll give you a bob to put on for
me.” Before No. 2 could recover his senses, the horses
started. Then he turned to his decoy with : ‘You re a.
blanky blank to pick out a blanky mug. _’*hy, you can t
pick you’re own blanky teeth. Keep you re blasted mug
and his deener.” And he walked off, indignantly. I felt
sorry for No. 1 ; he looked broken up over it.
* * * *
Maribyrnong Trial Stakes on Saturday, the
first two-year old race of the Victorian season, saw 24
starterg Public favorite, Ballarat filly Class, won easily
with Radilim (N.S.W.) second. Class (by Wallace from La
Xogca ) ; 3 booked for Maribyrnong Plate and Debutante
gtakes i at t er with lOlbs. penalty,
* . * * *
.//-rum- » n TVWa TTo.i
“ Old-Timer ” : Haut Brion-Tnste colt Hau-
tuner (second to Wakeful in October Stakes at Fleming-
ton, Saturday) has heaps of pace, and bears the impress
of a more than-possible Newmarket-winner, provided all
goes well with him meanwhile. Though same darn was
responsible for existence of Carinthia, Australia. and
others, she never produced anything withm a great deal
as good-looking as Hauturier, but question as to whether
he can stay has still to be answered. When it is answered
> n the affirmative, this writer will have a little lnvest-
ment on him for the Derby or Cup, or both. Hauturier 8
sister, Eleanor, could see a journey out.
General entries for coming Caulfield Spring meet
total 402, as against 461 last year. Those for Y.R.O.
atherin g tot up 778 . i 2 months ago they were 827.
h 6 * * * * *
, Aaent cab i ed information last week that Sceptre
English Jockey Club Stakes, beating Rock Sand and
fc when nresent- owner e-ave Sievier £9O 000 for the
H^Sider^e^^in^then
mm accidenW surely
bring additional grist to th ,
. , ~ . _
George Adams big sweep on the Demonstration
Handicap at Warwick * arm, Saturday, was not beneficial
to the race. Only eight lined up, and a number of others
who might have made good showing retired because the
desired bit to nothing was not telegraphed by the people
who drew the horses in the +
* , xr a m xx
Gross revenue for V.A.I.G. pasb year was
£36,000, of which £27,515 was paid in stakes. Though
assets exceed liabilities by £10,119, there’s a debit balance
owing to additional £BOO prize money. Gate brought £2OO
less than previous year.
Undecided, second to The Idler in V.R.C,
Stand Handicap (11 miles), has been well backed for the
Caulfield Cup, and is worth consideration.
* * * *
Some Warwick Farm items. First two-year-
old race of N.S.W. season went to unbacked filly
Cathay In the Employers' Handicap Berthier was also
unbacked, and nobody seemed to know the brute was in
the race till he finished first. There were some frightful
reversals of form between the racing at Canterbury on
Saturday and at the Farm on Monday ; but the stipen-
diaries were dreaming as usual. Lanoline, whose track
gallops prior to recent Epsom were best of any, ran
wretchedly in the Stewards’ Mile at Canterbury on Satur-
day On Monday over the same distance the nag
romped home easily at 7 to 1 against, with a few B’s to
10’s scattered about. Dick Lilley, badly beaten at Canter-
bury, and any price in the betting, was only beaten by a
head in the Arbitration Handicap-at Warwick Farm,
after a desperate tussle down the straight. Last moment,
when the horses were at the post, Dick Lilley was quietly
backed to win a thousand or so at 20’s to 1. Evidently
his good showing was expected by somebody, although it
staggered the public badly.
• » » *
Garrageen, who failed so miserably in poor com-
pany for Canterbury Handicap, cost IOOOgs. as a yearling.
“Ah Kee”: Charters Towers Jockey Club
pays the Hodson Totalisator Co. two per cent,
on turnover, for right to run their machine
at the T.J.O. meetings, the co. taking all risks.
At the annual, in the Flying (the Newmarket
of the North) the balls got blocked, so, while the
machine showed only 111 tickets taken on the winner
(Heretic), the number really issued was considerably
more. Club rightly insisted on tote paying according to
the register, greatiy to disgust of the company, which
subsequently asked the club to share the loss (1380), and
got a cold refusal. Apropos, a well-known Northern
sporting grog vendor (the same gentleman who,' when
his horse finished last instead of first, gravely asked
the boy on top, "What detained you, my lad?”) got
reminiscent over the incident: “ When we ran the tote
we had had pound tickets for as long as the Towers had
been a field. When things got dull, some said a pound a
ticket was too much, so we cut them down to ten bob.
The man at the window had got so used to making up the
dividend at a pound, that the first time he paid out he
worked it out at the same for ten bob as if it had been for
a pound. ‘You’re wrong,’ I says. ‘You mind your
own business,’ he says. ‘ Oh! very well,’ I says ;‘ it
takes a good man for to do that.’ And presently he come
to thfrend of the money and about 40 people wid tickets
waiting for to be paid. ‘ There now / you dam fool,’ I
says, 1 who’s minding his own business I’”
Backing of Orloff for M.L. Cup, next month, is
strange, considering he was struck out of all Australian
engagements just before recent A.J.O. meet, and sent
home, through an alleged dotty leg.
* * * *
Wirths’ big green waterproof tent was crammed
and packed to watch the turbaned infidels Buttan Singh
and Gunga Brahm wrestle for the catch-as-catchee-can
supremacy of White Australia last Thursday evening.
They clawed for grips and hugged and jerked and went
near to dismembering each other without definite conclu-
sion. It was a bitter and determined struggle right
through. Singh, the lighter by 61b. (he scaled 12st.
61b.), was the aggressor ail through, while Brahm played
a wary defensive. Over and over again they both came
near to notching falls, but in the supreme moment the
agility and prompt cleverness of each were really wonder-
ful. Impossible to say who would have scored had thething
been allowed to go to a conclusion, but it was impossible as
the Circus had to close its Sydney season a few days later.
When referee Larry Foley called them off they were both
thoroughly warmed upi and looked very' like fighting.
Possibly another match will be made within the next few
days with the proviso that there must be a winner even
if the struggle extends over a week. In the meantime
both the Paynims are hurling defiance at all the land for
a side bet up to hundreds, and so far no white man has
come forward to vindicate the supremacy of the para-
mount color. Fifteen years ago the cream of the
wrestling world was in Australia, and Tom Cannon,
Clarence Whistler, “ Tonald ” Dinnie, Professor Miller, or
the sturdy tiger, Jack Connors, who threw a huge bear at
Foley’s gymnasium in George-street, would have broken
either or both of the dusky Asiatics with one sudden,
decisive wrench.
* * # *
“Cornstalk”: Concerning Lytielton Times
whoop (Bulletin reprint l/10/’O3) : There’s not much to
crow about when it’s all sorted out. Bookmaker Bill
Lyons, who annexed Sydney Tatt.’s billiard tourney, isn’t
more than half as good a player as professionals Weiss
and Memmott, and would certainly go under in a match
with either of amateur top-notchers Belfield or Rumball.
M.L. racehorse Achilles, whose public form places him
ahead of Cruciform and in front of anything else M.L.
owns, is Australian bred. M.L. Rugbyites (in Australia)
when pitted against the only anything-like-properly
picked and organised team they encountered won mainly
through a free kick awarded by a sympathetic umpire.
M.L. rep. pigeon shots —Ohavannes and Eccles—went
home empty handed, and there is a large silence over the
fact that third-class Sydney swimmers have swept the
M.L. championship board over and over again.
* * * *
At a rural picnic in M.L., some years ago, a
young fellow, named Mick something or other, toed the
mark for the half mile. His prospects didn’t appear too
good near home, and he was a good deal blown when a
long hairy individual, armed with a carriage whip,
emerged from the crowd and yelling “ It’s a tinner,
Moike, it’s a tinner,” started belting him along to the
post. The whip put a good deal of energy into the
runner, who eventually won on the post with a yell. The
flagellator wa3 his father, who, on being remonstrated
with, said : “ Sure, it’s nothin’; the bhoy doan’t moind ;
Moike’s a good fellow, d’ye knaw, but he’s a bit lazy
between whiles.”
» * * *
“D.” London Referee’s remarks on the
poor muscular development of the crowds who enthuse
over exhibitions of strength and stamina, are about
correct. Have invariably noticed that the thin-legged
short-winded, narrow-chested "weed” is the person who
flies into hysterical bursts of enthusiasm over muscle
records. Examine the crowds at a big boxing contest,
the cheap seats overflowing with cigarette-smoking
“weeds," and the front perches carrying fat, flabby,
unhealthy-looking Hebrews and hoodoos. The only time
one does see a well-developed crowd at a sporting contest
is at an up-country wood-chopping set-to, and it is best
to bolt early in the day before the giants start drinking.
* * * *
“Hiphen”: More “Weird Australian expec-
tancy I”. It was the first time I had been in a sculling
boat with a sliding seat. I was going up the Yarra in
good style, when something happened and I went out.
I swam the boat ashore and, with the help of two
youngsters on the bank, tipped it, and gingerly started
off again. This time I got on very well till I heard one
chirrup to the other: “Come on Bill, ’e might fallout
agen I ” Then I did. Their weird expectancy struck me
so suddenly that the first thing I knew I was sitting on a
snag at the bottom of the river with an eel in my hair.
♦ * * *
“D.”: Consider the poor pigeons in Sydney
bird-dealers’ windows. They stand for weeks in pens 6in.
square until they are sold or die from “lights” (bird
consumption). Pigeons bought for pigeon-shooting are
packed in crates without food or water and sent for
miles. Saw a crate containing 100 pigeons standing on
end, at Sydney railway station recently. I called a porter s
attention to it, and he put it down. Live near a man
who keeps pigeons ; he goes into the loft every day and
flogs them with a horse tail. It leaves them terror-
stricken, and gives them a better chance of escaping the
gun to get back home and go through the same perform-
ance until butchered.
* * * *
The football riots in Victoria suggest the possi-
bility of Australians coming, through climatic influences,
to resemble the people of Southern Europe, who stone
each other on all questions of public interest. A century
or two may find the Australian calling himself Guglielmo
or Angelo, and stabbing his best girl instead of shooting
her as at present.
* # » *
Certain controlling bodies might study the
record of the N.S.VV. Rugby Football Union, which has
spent all its gate money and a bit over in fostering the
game. Metropolitan teams have been sent to the country,
country teams have heen brought to town, and substan-
tial grants have been made to impecunious clubs to
defray ground rents and training expenses. A controlling
body which builds up a big bank balance usually does it
at the expense of healthy sport.
It may not be generally known that the chal-
lenger for the America Cup is heavily handicapped. He
must commit himself to contest the race with a boat nomi-
nated fully 10 months beforehand, while the defender need
not be named until a week previous to the event. Also he
has to sail his boat across the Atlantic, therefore the chal-
lenger can’t cut things so fine in the way of sacrificing
solidity to lightness as the defender can. There is no
sentiment about the Amurrikans ; it is pure business
from start to finish. Re Lipton, few people are aware
that his success in commerce is in a large measure due to
Joseph Biggar, Irish Nationalist M.P. and champion
obstructionist, who loaded him up with Irish bacon in his
early days.
i|i 4c id *
Reported that Bill Martin intends to retire
from the track after the Sydney Thousand has been
allocated. This is the severaith time that William has
been going to retire, but no doubt if the Plugger could
land that gilded prize he would retire, full of honor and
lucre. The handicappers are giving him starts in handi-
cap races, and if William is treated leniently he may
effect a coup.
* * * *
Incoming Yankee mail boat, Sonoma, has a
contingent of forefront ’Murkan bikists aboard for ap-
proaching big cycling meets. Ivor Lawson, who was in
Australia before and did well, is one of them. Last and
present years he was runner-up for American champion-
ship, and several times beat holder (Kramer) of that
honor, besides winning mile supremacy of Yankeedom
this season. Floyd M'Farland has been with the world’s
most prominent cyclists for close to 10 years, and is a
good all-rounder, owning the reputation of being the best
handicap man in existence. Ha is Oft. 3in. high, and the
tallest known at the-game. Hardy Downing is one of the
fine performing American brothers of same name, and an
extra good sprinter with a long record.
* * * *
Owing to Soldier Thompson’s weight exceeding
the 11.4 limit by 3ilbs. his smashing of Sturgeon at the
Sydney National did not carry the middleweight supre-
macy. It was a five rounds scrap, and very cyclonic while it
lasted, Thompson doing the most damage. From sto 4 the
odds on Thompson lengthened to 2 to 1 and 5 to 2. Foot-
work was excellent. Sturgeon fought better than when he
met Thompson before, but there were many signs that he
couldn’t last a prolonged struggle. A right cross in the
first spoilt the symmetry of his left eye, but that was
counterbalanced by a virile.-looking “ mouse” on Thomp-
son’s right peeper in the second. In the fifth, as Sturgeon
closed in, Thompson’s left crashed on to his ribs, while the
right, carrying all the sting Thompson had about him,
caught Snowy just under the bosom, and the next that
was seen was Snowy squirming on the floor. An effort of
the beaten man arid his seconds'to make believe it was a
foul failed miserably, and Thompson got the verdict and
the coin.
* * * *
Sydney first-grade cricket commenced on Satur-
day with some fine bowling. In Yaralla-Leiehhardt
match, M’Leod, a medium-paced bowler who sends them
in from the off, got nine wickets for 5, bowling 10 overs,
of which seven were maidens. Best batting was C.
Gregory’s for 136, for Waver h y against Central Cumber-
land, including eight s’s and sixteen 4’s.
fgs
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SCRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
- SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
a
I
7231 miles is the distance travelled by Mr. J.
Pearson, the Suburban Bicycle Club’s skipper, on his
machine during: the past 12 months, which is’a very
creditable performance, and probably a greater distance
than that covered by any other cyclist per bicycle in
N.S. Wales. His rides have included a trip to Melbourne,
through the Monaro district and over the mountains of
Gippsland, returnirg by the old Melbourne to Sydney
route, and it also includes rides to Mt. Kosciusko anil
Yarrangobilly Caves. It may be interesting to know that
the same tyres (Dunlop Vulcanized) were ridden through-
out with only five punctures, and from the appearance of
them at the present time they are good enough for
another 7000 miles. Mr. Pearson has just arranged the
annual tour of the Suburban Bicycle Club which is being
made to Brisbane, and the enthusiasm and stamina of
this veteran tourist is a high testimonial to rational
bicycle riding as a health preserver.*
» * * *
Visitors from this and the adjoining States will
be leaving shortly to take part in the Spring Carnival of
the Victoria Racing Club. His Excellency the Governor-
General and Lady Tennyson will entertain at Melbourne,
during the Cup week, His Excellency the Admiral, tt e
State Governors, and their suites, together with the
officers of the war ships. A brilliant and large gathering
is assured now that the drought is happily ended.*
Sick Headache
Cured by Dk. Morse’s Indian Root Pills.
When the food is improperly digested and
becomes clogged in the intestines, sick headache
is almost sure to follow. Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills strike at the cause, aiding digestion—
cleansing the system and making the stomach
clean and pure. They assist nature in the dis-
charge of all her functions, increase the appetite,
produce sound sleep and give elasticity to the
spirits. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a
permanent cure for all diseases arising from a
disordered condition of the stomach, liver and
kidneys. They purify the blood and make it rich
and red, and are a positive cure for biliousness,
indigestion, constipation, headaches, sallow com-
plexion, piles, pimples, boils and blotches and for
female ailments. Packed in amber bottles, and
sold throughout Australasia.*
Old Villeneuve Smith, one of Adelaide’s
greatest characters, was never seen without his
eyeglass in his eye, and, unlike a certain Governor-
General, he never dropped it. He once undertook
to race a friend on the Toirens, and proudly
entered the boat with his eyeglass on and a
cigar in his mouth. The boat upset, and
Villeneuve Smith went to the bottom. When he
came up his eyeglass was still in its place and his
cigar wasn’t lost. The general resurrection
wouldn’t have shifted Smith’s eyeglass.
Pii.es and theib Cube.— The pamphlet, by
Albert Sharp, of Sydney, entitled, “Piles and
How to Cure Them,” without operation, by the
“ Cannalin ” treatment, sent free from 257
George-st., Sydney. Cannalin Ointment (the
quickest relief known), by post Is. 7d.*
RESCH’S SELECT STOCK ALE «■ LAGER
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives. BREWERY and OFFICES: DOWLING ST,, REDEERN, SYDNEY.


Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER. ....
15ct. Gold Foreret-Me-Not
Brooch, set with
6 Pearls & 6 Turquoises, 35/-
30 „ 6 „ 55/-
or set with all Pearls.
Post Free.
The Ever-Popular Gold Twin Swallow Brooch.
9ct. Plain, 10/6; smaller size, 9/- per pair ; set with
Pearls and Ruby or Sapphire Pastes, 21/- pair.
15ct. Plain Swallows or Doves, 20/- pair.
Post Free.
Solid Gold Bow Brooch
5/6;
without Heart, 4/-
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
POST FREE.
The Goldsmiths & Silversmiths Alliance, Ltd
Watchmakers, Jewellers and Opticians, 90 KING ST*, SYDNEY*
The Secret of Pleasurable r.ynimg
is to buy a Bicycle that suits your height, weight, etc.
RED BIRD BICYCLES
are built in every size of frame, and the purchaser can select any shape of handle-bar, style of
saddle, make of tyres, rims, chain, etc. Long, easy payment terms arranged.
GOOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 King St., Sydney.
DEAFNESS IN YOUNG AND OLD
LOUISVILLE MAN ORIGINATES A SIHPLE LITTLE DEVICE THAT
RESTORES THE HEARING—FITS PERFECTLY, COMFORTABLY,
AND DOES NOT SHOW. FREE BOOK TELLS ALL ABOUT IT.
n
*
i
&
SINCE the discovery of a Louisville man it is no longer
necessary for any deaf person to carry a trumpet,
tube, or any such old-fashioned device, for it is now
possible for anyone to hear perfectly by a simple in-
vention that fits in the ear and cannot be detected. The
honor belongs to Mr. George H. Wilson, of Louisville,
U.S.A.,who was himself deaf, and now hears as well as
anyone. He calls it WILSON’S COMMON SENSE EAR
DRUM. It is built on the strictest scientific principles,
containing no metal of any kind, and is entirely new in
every respect. It is so small that no one can see it, but,
nevertheless, it collects all sound waves, and diverts them
against the drum head, causing you to hear. It will do
this even when the natural ear drums are partially or
entirely destroyed, perforated, scarred, relaxed, or
thickened. It fits any ear from childhood to old age, and,
aside from the fact that it does not show, can be used with
comfort day or night.
Ic cures Deafness, whether fro n catarrh, fevers, measles,
22
m
m
32
w
(((/'" I
©
whooping cough, gathering in the ear, shocks from artil •
lery, or through accidents. It stays the progress of
Deafness and relieves roaring and buzzing noises. It does
this in a simple, sure, and scientific way.
Let every person who needs this at once send to the
Company for its book, which you can have free. It de-
scribes and illustrates WILSON’S COMMON SENSE EAR
DRUMS, and contains bona fide letters from numerous
persons in every station of life and from all parts of the
world. These letters are from clergymen, physicians,
lawyers, merchants, society ladies, etc., and tell the truth
about the benefits to be derived from the use of this
wonderful little device; you will find among them the
names of people in your own town or State.
Write to day, so that it may not be long before you
regain your hearing. Address, for the Free Book and qon
vincing evidence, Wilson Ear Drum Co., J. CHALMERS,
Agent, 10, 11, 12 Premier Buildings, 229-231 COLLINS
ST.. MELROTTR.VE.
“Steele Rudd’s” second book, “Oor New
Selection ! ” —will be ready before Christmas.
Better than the first book, if possible; with many
illustrations.
RESCUED from DljlNK
df
By a new discovery, odorless
and tasteless, which any lady
can give in tea, coffee or food.
It does its work so silently and
surely that while the devt ted
wife, sister or daughter looks on
the drunkard is reclaimed even
against his will and without his
knowledge or co-operation.
Miss Edith WILLIAMS, who
cured her father after years of
misery, wretch edness and almost
unbearable suffering, says:—“ I
shall be so glad if yon publish my
experience, for it will reach
many others and let them know
about the wonderful EUCR A SY.
I will do all I can to help any
suffering sister who will write me.*' Send name and
address to THE
Eucrasy Co., 62 Hunter-st., Sydney,
and they will send you Booklet and particulars FREE.
Too Stout
I was for years ; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to lOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Sending, mention this paper.
FITS
Trench’s Remedy
EPILEPSY.
Immediate Relief.
Valuable Booklet
Free.
Permanent Cure.
CURED
The Union Mfg. & Agency Company,
359 and 361 Collins Street, Melbourne.
HERE'S A BARGAIN.
This New
FASHIONABLE MOUNT
TWO TIPS with
OSPREYS,
The Bunch
Post Free.
3/'
Black, White, Cream,
or Black tipped with White
Worth Twice the Money
Write To day. Send Postal Note
gsd
Illustrated Price List Sent Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Bonrke & Swanston Sta., Melbourne
Mention The Bulletin.
SHARPSHOOTIN6
fgs
For Sport and War.
m By W. W. GREENER.
HITS THE MARKI
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, 1/« NBrr.s
Posted, 1/2.
The beat 1/- worth ever Published,.
IF you wish to get good work and value
you should purchase W.W. CRIENER'S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to—
C. W. BUCKLANO,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne,
(Greener’s Representative).
dfg
HAND-IN-HAND
forEIGHTYYEARS
Williams'
Barbers' Bar*
WILLIAMS' Traveller's Shaving Stick.
You may worry thru a face
scrape on most “Any Old
Soap.” To enjoy the Luxury
of a Perfect Shave you must
use Williams’.
Flawless skins ensured by the
use of Williams’ Jersey Cream
Toilet Soap. 4oz. Cake sent,
post paid, for 9d. in stamps.
J. B. WILLIAMS CO., Glas-
tonbury, Conn., U.S.A. Also
232 Clarence Street, Sydney.
sdf
m r=i i
- ww
m
1
j ' ga
HOB the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
L ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “Ellis’ King Street Coffee Palace,” tkj
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor—GEO, IF. ELLIS.
CHAS GILBERT’S
QDUbIZ K)k
STYLISH ALPACA COATS
m
%
b»
THE acme of comfort for hot weather
wear. Special attention has been
paid to the fit of collar, comfort under
the arms, and full width of sleeves;
usually objectionable features in this class
of garment.
In fast black —S.B. Sacs, 7/6, 9/6, 11/6, 12/6
D.B. Sacs, 12/6, 14/6
It neat black and white stripes—
S.B. Sacs, 9/6. D.B. Sacs, 12/6
Sac Coats and Vests, 15/6.
Sizes stocked from 34in. to 46in. Breast.
Not Cheap— simply Low Priced
Post Free to any addr ss on receipt of cash.
gs
B
R
I
S
B
A
N
E
SPECIALITIES
£ £ Smith, who used to ask the young
man if he didn’t feel well, is mentioned as a can-
didate for the Flinders (Vic.) seat in the Austra-
lian Parliament. In N.S.W. “Dick” Meagher
was proposed as a Senatorial candidate in
place of O’Connor, but has judiciously declined,
and W. P. Manning has been suggested. Surely
£ £ Smith at least is weary enough to deserve a
rest.
Mr. PETER MILLER, La Crosse, Kansas,
writes:
“I was seriously afflicted with BRONCHITIS, arid for
a while thought I would die. The physician failed to do
me any good, when one of our neighbors persuaded me to
try Jayne’s Expectorant. I was absolutely astonished at
the relief I obtained from the first few doses, and, con-
tinuing the medicine, was COMPLETELY AND PERMA-
NENTLY CURED.”*
The Queensland Smelting Co., Limited,,notifies
that, as a result of Mr. Dunn severing his connection
with the co., the Managing Director, Mr. Arthur Kift, has
'appointed Mr. Eric E. Watson Manager of the company
and Mr. Frank Hambridge Local Secretary. These
Igentlemen will in future conduct the operations of the
| co. in Australia.*
“ L.W.” : One reason why every Protec-
tionist member of the Australian Parliament
should vote for fixing the Federal capital at Eden-
.Bombala is that it will help to break up cen-
tralisation, which is now almost as great an evil
as the old Cobden myth. Up on the Northern
rivers they are ploughing onions into the ground
—it won’t pay to gather them ; and yet every day
I go to a restaurant for dinner a bottle of Yankee
pickled onions is shoved right under my nose by a
waiter who looks like a first cousin to George
Reid or his dog. Sydney is the commercial heart
of N.S.W., and Sydney is ruled by importers ;
and the importer pushes the trade of the imported
article every time. He may make more on the
locally-grown onion, but if it becomes a staple
industry, in time the produce will be bought and
sold where it is grown, in a hundred centres of
N.S.W,, instead of being sent to Sydney in every
case. With the whole trade of the country
centred in Sydney the importer can retain his
control of the market.
Tub Reward of Merit.—Testimony in abun-
dance is received daily which proves that the permanent
cure of many forms of grave nerve and blood diseases,
long classed as “incurable,” lies in the application of
electricity in medicated electric currents to the shattered
and jaded nerve system. Such agonising nerve afflictions
as insomnia, epilepsy, rheumatism, locomotor ataxia,
hysteria, neuralgia ; or stomach; kidney or bladder
diseases are relieved immediately by the wearing nightly
of the Freeman and Wallace Electric “ Invigorator ” Belt,
which is rigidly tested and highly certificated by leading
electrical authorities. It is sold lor £1 only, as the firm’s
advt., which appears on another page, announces. Any-
one suffering from any of the above Complaints and who
have tried their doctors unavailingly should purchase one
of the famous instruments if they wish to be relieved
from physical and mental torture. Full particulars will
be sent on application to the firm at their institute,
Elizabeth and Bathurst-streets, Sydney.*
The split between the Victorian Tory
Reform League and the Tory Iceberg Irvine
Government, which now begins to be threatened
with liberal ideas, has come at last. An all-wool-
to-the-toes Tory, in the person of squatter Fair-
bairn, wasselected by-the League, in -}ts usual
tricky way, to contest the Toorakseat. Fairbairn
is sitting on a rail over most of the Government’s
present proposals. He is against factories legis-
lation and compulsory purchase of big landed
estates. He wants to get into Parliament on a
policy which the Government has, rightly or
wrongly, put into effect. In other words, Fair-
bairn is a sturdy supporter of the measures which
the Government has already passed, but he is
against those the Government wants to pass. In
nominating Fairbairn the League badly-tricked
Irvine. He was .asked to lie low fpr a day or two,
and while he was hiding behind his colossal silence
the League quietly selected the candidate that
didn’t support his policy. This made the Iceberg
angry, and the Government promptly selected
Bryant as its nominee in opposition to Fairbairn
and the League. ISfow the Argus, which' “so per-
sistently denounces the Labor party for insisting
on discipline in its ranks, shrieks at Bryant and
the Government for not obeying the orders of the
party organisation.
oo
°o
ooo#
On
P n°oO°
o°o
o <Do°,
o°o
9o
v Or>
o°z
o O
OQ
oOq'Oq
o o
°OoOO,
Oo?
9 O
OOoo°
Oo
Oo
00 o
0 0 0
000
OoX?
OqOQ
°OOP°Q
o°O
rpo
OoP
op
0?ob
000
POO
Poo
op
Po
Opo
OOqO
oob
s&sS!
?Po
0000
oo
PPo^oS
bGfi
oo
Oo
oOOq
000 o X°^ooo
000
oo
o°Pr
Op no
0009
oop
Pci
OOP
?OQo£o
Oo?
Oxoo
OOOQ
OP?q®oO
OjPoO
oo?
C'oP
?gp
poo
qgSe?
D& : :
OnOP-P
Og&>cPXP
\N
as
/y
/T>
l£r
£9
(V
o
USE
DUNLOP
HOSE
It does not
Crack
or Burst.
A»k your Storekeeper to procure
you Dunlop Hose if he
does not stock it. It is absolutely
the finest obtainable and will last
for years. Price and sample on
application.
THE DUNLOP PNEUMATIC TYRE CO. OF AUS„ LTD.,
150 CLARENCEI STREET, SYDNEY ;
And at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane and Christchurch (N.Z.)


vViNNI N 6 POST]
r
DIXSONS
YANKEE DOODLp
O.X
hi
N.\
saawi
w
§
Flake Cut
A
o"“
\®
V,'
\
\
f
\ )
v '
\
X
X
xs
DARK and BRIGHT.
In PLUGS, or CUT IN PATENT AIR-
TIGHT TINS.,
In the Race
for Supremacy
Yankee
Doodle
TOBACCO
‘Walks in, and Wins’
WINS POPULARITY.
Nearly
Two /\illioo Lbs.
87 Sold Annually.
“Y D” Mixture
A blend of Dark
and Aromatic, in
2 and 4 oz. tins. A beautiful fragrant mixture,
well worth your attention.
J.f .D. : Asked my fisherman yesterday
if the bright red color of the gills was an infallible
sign as to the freshness of the fish. “Not it” he
Baid; “a lot of ’em paint ’em.”
Martin’s Apiol and steel pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia. Not genuine
without the signature. Be sure you get Martin’s.
Sole proprietor, W. Martin, pharmaceutical
chemist, Southampton, England.*
One of the most stubbornly contested dis-
puted-parentage cases ever fought in Australia
came to a conclusion a few days ago in favor of the
mother. The struggle lasted over eight months,
and involved three hearings before the stipen-
diary and one appear to the Full Court. The
remarkable feature of the crfse was that it was
practically decided on the evidence of Dr.
Stewart, who had made a special study of
human ears. He examined the hearing machinery
of all the parties to the case, and found that the
defendant had a peculiar formation of “listener,”
which would not be found, said the doctor, in
one case in 10,000. The baby girl, around whom
the storm centred, had ears of the same pattern,
and the unwilling father went down for three
half-crowns. Query : How many men are sup-
porting infants for whose existence they are not
responsible and how many mothers are unable to
collect maintenance fees from unnatural fathers,
just because they didn’t have the ears of all parties
concerned (including the magistrate, whose ears
should be studied, in some cases, on account of
their extreme length) scientifically examined ?
THE WORLD OVER.
From all over the world come words of praise
for Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera, and Diarrhoea
Remedy. It has a world-wide reputation for its
cures of dysentery and diarrhoea. No family can
afford to be without it, as it is especially valuable
for children.*
Letter from a min - r to Cornwall Adver
TISER.
Johannesburg people are full up with British Govern
ment. It is worse than Oom Paul’s. Things are no
like they used to be before the war. The capitalists wan
everything their own way, and Joey is trying to hel
them to get Chinamen to fill up Africa. There will b
trouble here before they will be allowed to bring in an
yellow labor. We have got Kaffirs enough if the mine
would only pay a fair wage. But “ boys ” won’t work f<
Is. and Is. 6d. a day.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developesa lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London. *
“Alone” : lb is now being claimed thn
radium will prove to be a happy mixture of the
philosopher’s stone, the elixir of life, perpetual
motion, the light that never fails, and a gener j
scheme for giving everything to everybody ; als'
that it will practically abolish death. Claimed
that its rays not only cure malignant cancer, but
kill all germs, and even small animals, such as
mice. Thus all disease germs are to have a bad
time soon. Radium is more penetrating than
the X-ray—passes through metals, lead, for in-
instance, with facility ; and even a blindfolded,
or a blind, man receives the sensation of light
after the rays have passed through lead an inch
thiokC Thus the rumor got about that it could
restore the sight of the blind. Its present price
is about £15,000 an ounce. Small quantities are
said to have been glowing for the last five years in
the laboratories without any apparent alteration
whatever, and it is expected they will glow for
centuries at least. Calculated that one ounce
holds enough power to propel an engine 20,000
miles, and that 21bs. of it would make Reid’s
balance-sheets square.
D 1: ROBERT S’
POOR MAN’S
FRIEND
HAS STOOP THE TEST OF TIME.
In over ioo years’ world-wide use it has proved itself the best Heal-
ing Ointment extant. It is particularly recommended for the cure of
Ulcerated Legs, Piles, and all long standing and painful
wounds ; also for Blotches on the Skin, Pimples Eczema, Cuts
Burns, Bruises, and all Skin Affections. Prices (in England! 1/1 V?
2/9. 11/-, and 22/- pots. ’ ' Au
Dr.ROBERTS’ALTERATIVE PILLS
Purify the Blood. Cure Skin Disease.
A Gentle Aperient and Perfect Liver Pill.
40 in a box, 1/1 ; 3 quantities,' 2/9.
Of-allDrugStores and -Patent Medicine Vendors, and made only by—
BEACH & BARNICOTT, Ltd., BRIDPORT, ENGLAND.
C. L. ROBERTS, K.D.
3
Born 1766. Died 1834.
FLAVELLE, ROBERTS and SANKEY, Ltd
Oculists, Opticians, and
Manufacturers of Spectacles..
Brisbane and Rockhampton
luuiuuiummmmumuii
OPTICAL BRANCH presided over by Mr. CHAS. SANKEY FRASER, F.S.n.C., Etc., Etc., who holds
the highest qualifications as an Optician in all Australia, viz. : Diploma Applied Optics, Northamton
Institute, London ; Diploma Visual Optics, Northamton Institute, London ; Diploma of the British Optical
Association, London ; Fellow of the Worshipful Company of Spectacle Makers of London, and Freeman of the
City of London ; Author of “ The Human Eye.” Send for Copy—Post Free.
Correspondence Invited—Prompt Attention Assured.
Recommended by Leading Oculists. -®!
The Best and the Cheapest.
WOMEN, BEAD THESE FACTS.
Many of you live far in country parts, where you cannot procure the necessities for the
NURSERY, the BOUDOIR, the HOME. By writing to us you can be certain that your
wants will be supplied. FACE and TOOTH POWDERS, Toilet Requisites in Variety,
Soaps, Perfumes, Patent Medicines, or any indispensable necessity, may be received by parcel
post a few hours after writing. We have an excellent assortment of Bath Requisites suitable for
Summer requirements. Write to us for price lists, sent free on application.
Dr. Steel’s Celebrated Indigestion
Cure. —The enemy of Indigestion & Dyspepsia.
2s 6d post paid.
Dr. Hughes’ “Tits Epilep.”— A certain
remedy for Epilepsy and Fits in all forms. Won-
derful cures are registered from its use. 5s p. paid
Fincham’s Capaline. —A Nursery Hair-
Wash invaluable for Children’s Use. Destroys
Vermin speedily. No mother should be without
a bottle. Is 6d and 2s 6d, post paid.
Fincham’s “Fearline” Face Bleach.—
For beautifying the Skin and Complexion.
Makes the face, neck and hands as white as a
lily. Sure Cure for Blackheads, Pimples, and
Sallow Skin, &c. 2s 6d post paid.
Pyramid Pile Cure. —A certain remedy.
It is so effective that the worst cases are relieved
in six hours. See you get the G-. 5 remedies,
3s. 6d. p. paid.
Fincham’s May Blossom Herbal Liver
Tonic. —Made from original recipe of the late
Dr. Fortesque. Corrects all derangements of
the Liver, Bilious Headaches, Sourness of the
Stomach, Bad Breath, Lassitude, Despondency.
2s. 6d. and 55., post paid.
Dr. Clarkson’s Great Re-Invigorator.
—For weak Dyspeptic men, a splendid Nerve
Tonic and Rejuvenator, promotes Digestion,
increases the Appetite, enriches the Blood, and
gives vital strength. In bottles, 7s. 6d. Three
bottles (a course), £l. Post paid.
All these Invaluable Remedies will be mailed free on application to
C. P. FINCHAM, M.P.S.,
ghe ,Bwl §mg (Store, 227 Elizabeth Street,
Hyde Park, SYDNEY.


Ex-Premier Lewis, of Tasmania, has been
appointed Chancellor of the local University---*
small, one-horse affair established a few years ago.
Lewis took a degree and learned some “ haw ” at
Oxford, being one of the “Tasmanian scholars.”
Until recently Tasmania awarded two scholar-
ships yearly—after test of public examination —to
youths, who were paid out of State funds enough
to see them through three years at an English
University. The scholarships have been abolished,
as the island didn’t get nearly as much “haw as
it paid for. Many of the scholars died in the
Cold Country, their cram-worn constitutions suc-
cumbing to the frost; many others took degrees
and forgot to go back to Tasmania.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that fwhen you
t>fesß your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies ah
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
the same with the ankles, round which the skin
mav be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
W'lfll. Yfftr in ay ""have at le hd e d various hospitals and had
tneaiefcl advice, and been told your case ie hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
SURE YOU. r\ don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not how being cured
Send at oncefpr
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned'
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis, i
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
Ac. Price, in Great Britain, 1/lJd. per b.»x. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73,- Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents. sJSLLIQTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look-for th-eregistered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box, (Regd . iopyrighM.
DO THREATENED
CHILDREN LIVE?
p
» V £•*» m i
Henry
Abbott
w
A
T
S
o
N
21 Derwent-street, Glebe, Sydney,
July 9th, 1902.
Dear Sirs: Our little boy was deli-
cate from birth, and seemed to derive
no benefit from any food we gave him, gradu-
ally becoming thinner and weaker. He took
whooping-cough and sunk so low that wo
thought he was gone. We tried several things
without succeeding in reviving him, and were
then advised to try Scott’s Emulsion, which
we did without hope. From the first dose it
agreed with him; he was able to keep it on his
stomach. He rapidly gained ip health and
strength, and we soon saw life and movement
in his frame, which before had been quite
emaciated and listless. He cut his teeth abso-
lutely without trouble, and now at the age of
sixteen months has them all, and is a fine,
hearty little chap. Scott’s Emulsion, without
doubt, saved his life. Faithfully yours,
(Signed) Mrs. Margaret Watson.
Mr. Henry Watson.
Messrs. Scott & Bowne, Ltd.
483 Kent-street, Sydney. '
DO THREATENED CHILDREN
LIVE? Some do for a long time, so
tenacious are they of life. If they have not
strength it makes the fight difficult. There
is an easy way of prolonging their life, by
giving Scott’s Emulsion. Two who have seen
the cure performed have just proved that to
yon above. Be careful with delicate children.
The great care that you want to take should
be in the direction of getting them stronger'
quickly. It is not necessary to point out how
difficult it is to rear a delicate child, or how
liable that child is to succumb to disease.
The thing that you want us to point out is
hoio to cure the trouble. The remedy is
SCOTT'S EMULSION, the most
important factor of child-life. All that
mother and father wish to know is that, if
the child is delicate, the dangers following
on delicate condition can be prevented or
removed by Scott’s Emulsion: which acts
promptly, surely, steadily, until the cure is
complete. It has saved delicate children of
every nationality under the sun, and it will
save delicate Australians.
You have one precaution only to take; and
t.b it is to see that oa rbe wrapper of the
bottle there is a picture of a man carrying
a big cod-fish ; if that cod-fish is not there,
you are not getting wliat we promise you
—a cure! You can obtain a sample of
Scott’s Emulsion and the choicest children’s
booklet of the year, “A Bunch of Roses,”
beautifully printed in colours, by sending
f, to ScotJ & Bowne, Ltd., 483 Kent-street,
S ; di>ey, and mentioning this paper. All
chemists sell Scott’s Emulsion.
Turning' Waste Dirt Into Coin.
Br an unfortunate union of the Foreign-traders
and Labor members, the proposal to offer a
bonus for establishing the iron industry has so far
been defeated. But while most of the things
which make it desirable that we should produce
our own iron apply also to zinc production, few of
the arguments used in resisting an iron bonus
apply to a zinc bonus. The principal argument
used against the iron bonus is that iron production
ought to be a State monopoly. But even if, as it
is pointed out, the sources of iron supply are still
in the hands of the State, the chief known sources
of zinc supply are not. Moreover (which is of
probably greater importance), while , the Aus-
tralian Governments are very large consumers
of iron, they take very little zinc, and a
foreign market would have to be found
for the product. Even, then, if the Aus-
tralian Parliament should be ill-advised
enough to go on withholding its assistance from
the establishment of an iron industry, there is no
good reason why it should do the same thing with
regard to the other. Zinc is a fairly valuable
metal. It is worth at present about £2l a ton —
nearly 10 times more than iron and 50 per cent,
more than lead. It occurs in Australia in many
places ; but Broken Hill is the most likely source
of supply, because, at that place,' there are hun-
dreds of thousands of tons already broken and
broughttothe surface and, tosomeextent, prepared
for treatment. It was shown lately that, at one
representative mine, the full metallic contents of
the ore won last half-year were worth £1,034,527,
of which only £285,398 was recovered ; the other
consisting almost entirely of zinc, has
joined 20 times more which was already
lying useless on the waste dilmps, giving
nobody any employment just so ..much
grimy dirt. The chief reason why it is not
used is that it would cost too much in wages to
use it, an enormous amount of labor being
required to work up the crude ore to the
metallic zinc; and that is, of course,' pre-
cisely why Australia _ should be particularly
anxious to see this industry going—it would
profitably employ the man for whom Australia
can at present only find unprofitable sand-
shifting. It wouldn't be simply Broken Hill
that; ’ would gain ; in fact, Broken Hill would
most likely get little out of it but the price of
loa'ding the stuff into trucks. The rest would go
in. rail and coastal steamship carriage, and in
coal-raising and coke-making; and the coal-raiser
and l the-coke-maker would have to be fed and
clothed. Those millions which are lying
in the dumps in the middle of Australia
o iglit, in fact, to be flowing in and out
of . the pockets of the people all oyer
tie continent; but all that is happening
at present is that on windy days a
little of it blows into the nostrils of the people
w ib live out there —and for the rest we shift sand,
and crack stones, and ask the Government to for-
give us a few years’ rent bf the dry patch where
we, have been trying to grow wheat and mutton.
If the zinc industry were hopeless, it would, no
doubt, be useless to offer a bonus for establishing
it (though even in that case it would cost us
nothing to offer it); but it looks like an industry
that is just on the balance. One company has, in
fact, put up four furnaces at Newcastle ; but only
one of the four is running. If a bonus of £2 per
ten were offered for the first 10,000 tons of metal
produced, it would almost certainly mean that the
whole four furnaces, and probably others, would
be Set to work. That would mean that Australia, by
paying £20,000 to itself, would turn a quantity of
now useless dirt into at least £210,000, practically
the whole of which would be paid in wages, and
used over and over again. Nor is it likely that
the benefit would stop at that. Australia knows
little or nothing yet about zinc-production ; by
the time it had got out 10,000 tons of the metal it
would know a good deal, and consequently by
that time it would probably be able to hold its
own without any help at all. By way of illus-
tration, it is worth remembering that, whereas it
used to cost something like £6 a ton to treat a ton
of Broken Hillsilyer-lead ore, a far more refractory
ore can now be handled for £2 a ton. There is
every reason to expect that if, with a little wise
assistance, the production of zinc can be set on
foot, similar developments will take place, with
similar results. And even if they didn’t, it would
probably pay Australia handsomely to go on
paying the bonus for ever.
■ *
About an iron industry :
William Sandford, who has spent a good part of his life
trying to establish the iron industry in New South Wales,
is back from a visit to the big iron-producing countries.
Away in Belgium he went over the works which lately
had the job of making 5000 tons of steel plates for the
Westralian waterworks. Australia has the coal and the
iron-ore—nearer to one another, moreover, than they are
in Belgium ; yet the Belgian had this work to do, while
the Australian went hungry for want of it. Both the
European and the Canadian iron industries were built up
under Protection and the bonus system ; and now they
are knocking out the unprotected English industry.
At one English iron-work Mr. Sandford visited, four
out of seven furnaces were idle: “ I found that
the bars which they should have been making
were coming from Germany and Belgium.” The
manufacture of iron goods naturally went the same
way : “T saw numbers of smokeless chimney stacks from
Wolverhampton to Birmingham.” Yet Belgium and
Germany possess no superior natural advantages.
Belgium has but little iron ore ; most of it has to come
from Russia and Spain, and then has to be handled two
or three times. The labor conditions have probably
helped ; but the public assistance given to the industry
has been the chief factor. “I have come back,” sa3’s
Sandford, “ with the view that no country in the world
possesses such natural advantages as N.S.W. for steel and
iron industries. If we were placed in the same position
as the manufacturers of Canada and Europe we could find
employment for thousands.” Meantime, however, Aus-
tralia discusses at great length whether private persons
should be encouraged to build up the industry, or
whether the State should do it; and while we discuss the
matter at great length nobody does anything ; so we may
go on sending to Belgium as usual, and borrow to keep
the Belgian employed, and then deplore that our own
young men are going to Africa or elsewhere.
’"Try and keep the people in the country,”
Governor Le Hunte has been telling the Adelaide *
Methodists. “ This is a matter which I think is
of great importance. If you can do anything to
keep the people on the land you will be doing a
great service.” It depends a lot upon what
Governor Le Hunte calls “ the land.” If he
means the far-northern semi-desert, where men
and women are wearing out their lives in a hope-
less, horrible struggle ,to grow wheat under
impossible conditions ; where never a ray of true
sunshine enters into the women’s lives; where the
children grow up but little ahead of the poor
beasts that starve in the white stubble ; where nob
merely poverty but debt is the common condition,
and the miserable harvest is mortgaged often even
before the seed is sown ; where yet they plod on
in the fading hope that some time an accident
willhappen and they will have a good season, when
they will do Gob knows what—if Governor Le
.Hunte means that the Methodies will do a ser-
vice by keeping their fellows “ on the land ” under
such conditions, then The Bulletin doesn’t
believe it. The first essential is, not to keep the
people on the land, but to get for the people lain)
that will keep them in reasonable comfort.
On Suffering Pain Needlessly.
The worry and troubles of life are a burden quite sufficient for any human being to bear without
having added to it the misery of ever present pain, but, either from ignorance or in despondency,
many people endure pain from which there is no real necessity that they should suffer. The following
is a iist of disorders, productive in most cases of intense agony, which can be readily cured :
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Backache
Sciatica
Indigestion
Anaemia
Blood Disorders
Biliousness
Jaundice
Gravel
Stone
Bladder Troubles
General Debility
Sick Headache
All of these complaints are caused by the presence in the body of urinary and biliary poisons, due
to ineffective action of the kidneys and liver. A realisation of the work performed by these vita
organs enables us to understand why, when they fail, we necessarily suffer.
THE KIDNEYS.
By a process akin to filtering, the kidneys remove the excess of water from tlie blo<?d in the form
of urine. The kidneys of the average man filter and extract about three pints of urine every day.
In this quantity of urine are dissolved about an ounce of urea, ten to twelve grams in weight of uric
acid, and other animal and miueral matter varying from a third of an ounce to nearly an ounce. JNow
all these are solid matter, which, when the kidneys are working healthily, is dissolved m the urine ana
leaves the body in complete solution. When the kidneys fail, a proportion of the solid matter
remains in the blood, and becoming actively poisonous, produces the various disorders due to urinary
poisoning, such as Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia, Backache, Sciatica,.Gravel, Stone,
Bladder Troubles. Sick Headache and Anaemia are also generally attributable to the same
cause.
THE LIVER.
The health of the liver and of the kidnevs is closely related. It is almost impossible for the
kidneys to be affected and for the liver to remain healthy, or vice versa. In the liver various sub-
stances are actually made from the blood. Two or three pounds of bile are thus made from the
blood daily The liver takes sugar from the blood, converts it into another form, and stores it
up so as to be able to supply it again to the blood as the latter requires enrichment. The liver
changes uric acid, which is insoluble, into urea, which is completely soluble, and the liver also deals
with blood corpuscles which have lived their life and are useful no longer. When the liver is inactive
or diseased, the blood becomes laden with biliary and urinary poisons to such an extent that it is not
in a condition to take up nutriment from the food we eat, red corpuscles are no longer formed, and it
is these red corpuscles which nourish the nerves. In other words, the blood is vitiated, and starved,
and we are bound to suffer in consequence. Indigestion, Biliousness, Neuralgia, Anaemia,
Sick Headache, and Blood Disorders are bjut Nature’s signs that the liver is not doing its duty.
Warner’s Safe Cure.
It is nearly thirty years since scientific research, directed specially to diseases of the Kidneys and
Liver was rewarded by the discovery of the medicine now known throughout the world as Warner’s
Safe Cure. At the outset of the investigation it was realised that it was necessary to find a curative ■>
agent which would act equally upon the kidneys and upon the liver, these two organs being so inti-
mately associated in removing the waste products of;the body. Warner’s Safe Cure possesses the
desired property in its fullest degree. It acts beneficially alike upon the kidneys and the liver,
restoring them to their original activity, and enabling them to rid the body, by natural means, of all ;■
urinary and biliary poisons. This is the reason why there is no necessity for anyone to suffer from
Rheumatism, Gout, Backache, Lumbago, Sciatica, Persistent Headache, Neuralgia,
Gravel, Stone, Bladder Troubles, Anaemia, Debility, Indigestion, or Torpid Liver,
provided Warner’s Safe Cure is taken as directed. Eveh Bright’s Disease yields to treatment by
Warner’s Safe Cure. T ' , ' ■
A Simple Test to make is to place some urine, passed the first thing in the morning, in a
covered glass, and let it stand until next morning. If it is then cloudy, shows a brick-dust-like sedi-
ment, if particles float about in it or it is of an unnatural color, the kidneys are unhealthy, and no
time must be lost in taking Warner’s Safe Cure, or Bright’s Disease, Diabetes, or some less
serious but more painful manifestation of their inactivity will result. [l4]
t Ltd.
Lapidaries . * • .
Gem Merchants and. .
Manufacturing jewellers
BRISBANE and
ROCKHAMPTON
6
7
8
No. 1. —3 Fine Brilliant Diamonds £4O, smaller to £10; with 1
Sapphire and 2 Diamonds, £25.
No. 2. —5 Fine Brilliant Diamonds from £l2 to £5O ; 2 Diamonds
and 3 Sapphires,:£lo to £25.
No. 3.—3 Fine Opals and 2 Brilliant Diamonds, £9 ; 3 Fine Pearls
and 2 Diamonds, £l2.
No. 4.—1 Diamond and 1 Fine Sapphire, £7 10s.
No. 5. —3 Brilliant Diamonds in Gipsy setting', £lO to £l6.
No. 6. —3 Queensland White Topazes and 2 Queensland Rubies £6.
No. 7. —1 Queensland Yellow Sapphire (very brilliant), £5 ; 1
Queensland Ruby (very handsome), £4 4s.
No. B.—l Fine Pearl and Diamond Cluster, £2B; 1 Yellow
Sapphire and Diamond Cluster, £23.
No. 9. —1 Queensland White Topaz & 2 Queensland Rubies, £4 10s.
No. 10.—1 Opal arid Pearl Cluster, £3 10s.
No. 11.—2 Queensland Olivines and Diamonds, £7.
No. 12.--1 Queensland White Topaz (as brilliant as the
Diamond), £4.
No. 13.—Marquise of Brilliant Diamonds, £lB to £3O.
fiDEUO.
12
13
Send for Booklet on “The Gem
Products of Queensland.”
WE HOLD THE LARGEST STOCK OF UNSET OEMS IN AUSTRALIA
—OVER 100,000 OEMS ON HAND.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed.
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
dfg
Works : Birmingham! Enfflanda
These series
of Pens neither
scratch nor spurt
[They glide over
[the roughest
paper with the
ease of a soft
lead pencil.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.


“ R.” writes: There is much wire-pulling
and bitterness of feeling among N.S.W. mines officials
over the appointment of a successor to Chief Inspector
Slee. There are thres classes of applicants—purely
theoretical men, essentially practical men, and the
inevitable M.P. Why there should be any hesitation
about appointing one of the practical staff, thus giving
him deserved promotion, is beyond comprehension. The
law d'stinctly says that the mines inspectors must hold
mine managers’ certificates, issued partly in virtue of at
least three years' actual mining service. It will require
most violent straining of the law to bring any mem-
ber of the geological staff within this qualification.
The office of Chief Inspector of Mines, from bedrock to
grass, is a practical one, or it is nothing. It will be
worse than a scandal if the man with knowledge of rocks
and ignorance of the first principles of mining gets the
appointment. There are two of the present inspectorial
staff who possess all the requisite qualifications for the
position—they are trained miners, they have had long
experience of inspectors’ work, and they are honored
alike by miners and mineowners for the impartial way in
which they have performed their duties. Within the
past two months two members of the staff have been
lured out of the service by private employers, and there
will certainly be no inducement for the others to remain
and do honest work if some kid-gloved rockologist is
interposed between them and promotion. .
Crowl Creek (N.S.W.) has issued its first half-
yearly report; the period covered is to 31st July. It was
expected that an estimate would have been submitted of
the quantity of ore developed above the 330 ft., but none
is yet forthcoming. All that the directors state is that
“ it seems beyond question that many thousands of tons
of sulphides averaging from 10 to 12 per cent, of copper
have been proved below 210 ft., and that many thousands
of tons of oxidised ore are still standing in the ground
opened above 210 ft.” There were raised during the half-
year 5156 tons oxides and 977 tons sulphides ; and,
altogether, there are now broken 15,519 tons, averag-
ing 7.90 per cent. Of the ore broken during the
six months 977 tons (taken out during the course of
exploratory work) averaged 8.2 per cent. ; and 5156
tons oxides stoped were dressed into two classes —601 tons
assaying 23.3 per cent., and 4555 tons assaying about BJ-
per cent. Ore sales (848 tons dressed ore were sold)
realised £10,713, while all expenses, including manage-
ment, amounted to £9287. The co.’s current liabilities
were, on July 31st, £7948, and the liquid assets amounted,
including unpaid calls, to £1738. Since the close of the
half-year one reverberatory has been started, another is
ready, and two more will be built by the middle of
November. The first run of the first furnace gave 23 tons
matte (45 to 50 per cent.) from 94 tons ore ; costs, includ-
ing converting matte to rough copper (97 per cent.), were
about £1 per ton of ore. On 8 per cent, ore it is reckoned
that the four furnaces should show a profit of about £SOO
per week.
* • * •
The output of Moonta (S.A.) mine got down to
943 tons fine copper last half-year, and there are poor
prospects ahead of that part of the Wallaroo and Moonta
Co.’s property. What ore there is available is, however,
rich, giving a working average of nearly 19 per cent. The
old waste dumps are also giving a profit in the neighbor-
hood of £20,000 a year. This is by the salt water leaching,
or cementatiom, process ; holes are made in the dumps,
and water, which is pumped in on top, is caught in
channels at the foot of the dumps, and the copper which
it then carries is precipitated on scrap iron. This preci-
pitate, scraped off and. dried, is smelted ; it averages over
75 per cent, metallic copper. The process is very inex-
pensive, though not so inexpensive as was expected, for
more labor is required to loosen the material, in order to
give air and water access to it, than had been estimated.
The Wallaroo mine last half-year turned out 14,280 tons
of 11'9 per cent, ore, giving 1585 tons fine copper. Total
production of both mines was 2840 tons, against 2879 tons
in the first half of 1902. Of by-products the most import-
ant were 70 tons bluestone and 1673 tons sulphuric acid.
* * * *
Victorian Mines Bill, just introduced, proposes
a departure from one of the main principles of Australian
mining legislation, for which change there is absolutely
no justification. This is in respect of labor conditions.
It is a clear case of the Government bowing the knee to
a worthless crowd of boodlers and boomsters. The
majority of the men who .have been c'amoring for what
they term belter security of tenure as regards mining
leases never were and never will be identified
with legitimate mining ; their game has been that
of the unconscionable promoter. They have preyed upon
the confiding public so thoroughly that there are no more
gullible fools left to operate upon ; finding their occupa-
tion gone, they must needs ascribe it to the wicked law
which insists that if they hold leases they must work
them. The new proposal is that a lessee who can prove
that he has spent £2OO upon his lease shall be entitled to
suspension of labor conditicjns for a certain period, and as
any excess over £2OO will be credited to him for further
suspension, it will be quite' , possil le for £IOOO expenditure
to ensure a title practically in perpetuity. Under such a
system a Whitaker Wright might shepherd the whole
country side and suspend all production. The workers
must see to it thatthe continuous labor condition—applied
under discretionary powers as at present—is maintained
as a sine qua non of title. Victoria is the last State
in the group in which there is a possible necessity for
introducing the monopolistic principle. No man holding
a lease in Victoria which presents a ghost of a chance of
embracing a payable mine can truthfully say that he is
handicapped for the want of capital to develop it. The
lessee! who is greedy enough to expect other men to find
the material for the cake, to cook it, and then let him
eat it, should be compelled to go under every time.
Another side-thrust at the workers is the proposal that
the applicant for the forfeiture of a lease must satisfy the
Warden that he has at command the capital requisite to
work the ground. This will be an effectual bar to work-
ing parties getting possession of practically abandoned
areas. The alleged object of this precious Bill is to give
a fillip to the rapidly declining mining industry of Vic-
toria ; the direct and immediate effect of it would be to
largely curtail legitimate mining in the interests of a few
speculators.
* * * *
The Great Columbian, the mine which has put
Inglewood (Vic.) on the div -paying list again, has won
£6940 during the last six months, and current working
expenses amounted to £2650. Out of the balance the co.,
which is working the reef in one place over6off. wide, has
just paid its third dividend, making £3768 in all; it has
also paid off £IOOO advanced by the State from the pro-
specting vote, with interest (the Department got one of
the worst shocks of Its life when this happened); it has
already spent over £BOO-on plant, and now, on account of
the excellent prospects at)4s2ft., has added 10 head of
stampers and fine gold saving appliances. The stone runs
about 17idwt.
* * » *
The Hercules, Mt. Read (Tasmanian West
Coast), has got very near the end of its oxidised ores,
and cannot quite make up its mind what to do with its
lead-zinc sulphides. German zinc buyers, to whom the
co. appealed, report that, owing to the recent increase in
the price of spelter, a very'large tonnage of clean zinc
blende is offering from all Over the world, and'smelters
are consequently “off ” complicated and refractory o>res
like those of the Tasmanian West. Coast. Half-a-dozen or
more processes for-getting a cleaner product, mostly
magnetic, are therefore being investigated. A sample of
Hercules ore was sent to the Broken Hill Prop, for treat-
ment by the Delprat immersion process, but the results
are reported unsatisfactory ; and nothing better has so
far come of a reverberatory-furnace process offered
on a I per cent, royalty basis bv a Stanthorpe (Q.) co.
Meantime the Hercules Cos. is selling its ore, crude, to
Zeehan and other custom works. Possibly the arrange-
ment is the best that is at present possible ; but as sul-
phide ore which averages from 70s. to 80s. per ton is still
too poor to be touched, there is evidently room for much
improvement. The Hercules’.last six months’ work gave
a profit of £2890, out of which a 6d. dividend was paid,
absorbing, with tax, £2702. The co. has liquid assets
worth about £7700, including £5378 cash.
The Sydney child who was found by the police
in a fowl-yard , where it had acquired the habits
of the fowls (the child is now in the Benevolent
Asylum).
The chief W. A. mines give their August returns
as follows '.—Fine gold—G.B. Perseverance, 14,3280 z. (and
19960 z. fine silver); Great Fingall Consols, 11,3390 z. ;
Ivanhoe, 11,0940 z. ; Oroya-Brown Hill, 69150 z. ; Sons of
Gwalia, 53450 z.; Associated Northern, 23130 z.; L.V
Consols, 42880 z. ; Golden Link’s Eclipse, 22870 z. ; East
Murchison United, 19500 z. ; Boulder Main Reef, 9040 z. ;
Golden Age Consols, 6590 z. Standard gold —Kalgurli,
364t0z; Hainault, 812 oz. Bullion— Golden Horseshoe,
17,5980 z. ; Great Boulder Prop., 14,5030 z. ; Associated,
65330 z. ;W. Mt. Morgans, 52120 z.; Cosmopolitan, 55670 z.;
Peak Hill, 27300 z. ; Princess Royal, 26900 z. ; Westralia
and East Extension, 12170 z. ; Burbanks Birthday Gift,
12470 z. ; Lady Shenton, 1280 oz. ; Bellevue, 15600 z. ;
Queensland Menzies, 1161 oz. ; W.F. Main Reefs, 1t430z. ;
IdaH., 12450 z. ; Lancefield, 809 oz. ; Golden Pole, 11490 z. ;
Hannan’s Star, 15670 z. ; Fraser’s South Extended, 680 oz.;
Menzies’ Alpha, 601 oz. ; Golden Ridge, 6240 z. ; Champion
Prop., 5890 z.
* • * *
Total Westralian divs. for the first nine months
of 1903 amount to £1,485,851, as against £929,136 for same
period of 1902. So far as one can judge, the divs. for the
year will just fall short of £2,000,000, and will be a long
way ahead of any year except 1899, when £2,057,421 was
paid, chiefly by gutting the L.V. Consols and Associated.
* * * *
Associated Northern, Kalgoorlie (W.A.), has
already done a lot of crosscutting at the 1050 ft. level, and
should shortly cut the 8 to 10ft. of sJoz. ore, if it really
exists, which seems doubtful. This ore was said to be
70ft. west of the shaft. The co. is now stated to have
only 45,000 tons of ore, worth £250,000, in sight and at
grass, instead of the millions spoken of not long ago.
It is, nevertheless, pretty safe to predict that this
quantity will be very largely added to when the mine is
properly opened up, and the stoping is systemati-
cally done, as has happened with all the mines in the
vicinity. The co. is in a strong financial position, as,
besides having £140,000 in liquid assets, there are nearly
16,000 tons of ore at grass, worth £BO,OOO, on which
there will be a profit of £50,000 at least. This
should about meet the cost of the treatment plant. The
latter is expected to be in full swing by the beginning
of December, and to be able to treat 2000 tons monthly.
Bartle Frere, whose experience of gold-mining consists
in having been director for some years of mostly
unsuccessful mines in South Africa and British Columbia,
has been elected chairman of the co., and J. H. Curie, the
mining journalist, has also joined the board. While
other directors who have been responsible for a whole
host of wild-cat flotations remain on the board, the confi-
dence of investors will not be restored. The übiquitous
Bewick, Moreing and Co., who recently got control of
Burbank's Birthday Gift, have been appointed managers
and consulting engineers.
* « * *
Lake View Consols (W.A.) is at length to
scrap the original 50-head mill, and replace it by a new
plant. The old mill wad obsolete when purchased, and
was, moreover, badly erected. Developments on the
property are still being pushed ahead in every direction,
and not before it was time, as there has been some diffi-
culty in maintaining returns. The main shaft has reached
1500 ft., but is to go down to 1600 ft. before another level
is started.
* * * *
The sale of the Tasmania gold mine to Bull-
Cohen has been completed, after a little delay, and the
Flyspeck loses the bulk of what has been its most fruitful
property, and has another absentee to carry on its back.
And with decent management there would not have been
the smallest need to sell. The local directors were, how-
ever, so hungry for dividends that they neither kept
development work well in advance nor created a reserve
fund ; and now the State has to pay for it.
sdf
ON OUR EASY TERMS
Get The Engagement R.ng
on our famous and novel plan of easy
purchase. Lovely Gems, Unique De-
signs, Richly Finished, 18et. Hall
Marked. The British Imperial Gold-
smiths, 7 Moore Street, Sydney.
Second Exhibition and Sale of
Phil May's Drawing's.
The remainder of Phil May’s original drawings
for The Bulletin, comprising Victorian subjects
chiefly, will be sold at auction by Gemmell,
Tuekett, and Co., 359 Collins-street, Melbourne,
on,Thursday, October 29.
The series of some 140 drawings will’ be ex-
hibited during the week prior to the sale. None
of these were shown in Sydney. The collection
represents the whole remainder of May’s work
that can be offered. A number of examples have
been lost or destroyed ; others have been sold pri-
vately ; and this auction sale will be the last that
it is possible to make. Once dispersed, it is un-
likely that the drawings will ever again be
collected for exhibition.
Some of the very best pieces of May’s work in
Australia—in portrait in cartoon work,
and in humorous illustration—will be included
in the Melbourne collection. There are some
striking drawings dealing with English subjects,
which it was originally intended to reserve for
English sale. The whole of these have now been
added to the Melbourne catalogue.
The portrait-drawings include likenesses of
Chief Justice Madden, J. L‘. Purves, David
Gaunson, David Syme; Alfred Deakin, Peter
Lalor, Dr. Bromby, Dr. Neild, E. G. Fitzgibbon,
and many other well-known Melbourne men.
Some of these are again drawn in the well-
remembered picture “On the Melbourne Block.”
There are two fine pages of travel-sketches ; and
some remarkable drawings satirising English
politics—with likenesses of Queen Victoria, the
Prince of Wales (now King Edward), Gladstone,
Lord Salisbury, and others.
Th<>se who saw the Sydney collection will find
that reserved for Melbourne no less interesting,
and in sbme points even more valuable.
NINE EPIDEMICS.
Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy has
been used in nine epidemics of dysentery with
perfect success, effecting a cure in the most severe
and dangerous cases. If troubled with diarrhoea
or bowel complaints, try it once and see how you
like it. Sold at Is. 6d. everywhere.*
At Poverty Point.
Mr. David Thomson, of Launceston (Tas.) (where Melba
didn’t sine), circularises Australia to state that he has
** received a letter from the Private Secretary to King
Edward VII., in which Lord Knollys states that he was
commanded by the King to inform Mr. Thomson that his
Majesty never sent any message to the Governor-General
of the Commonwealth relative to Madame Melba, and that
there must have been some misapprehension with regard
to the press reports concerning the alleged message.
How the King heard that Thomson was the correct person
to write to about such matters the circular doesn’t explain.
Possibly the King looked up Thomson in the directory.
Carrie Moore will have time to cure herself of her
worst mannerisms before she gets a show in London. She
has been put into a “San Toy” company, for a tour
round the English provinces, and she plays the part of
Dudley, the lady’s maid.
The Victorian Gazette announces the appointment of
J. C. Williamson, George Musgrove, George Tallis and
Henry Westley as trustees of land reserved in 1878 as a
site for the use and benefit of actors and others connected
with the theatrical profession, in the room of Mark Last
King, J. R. Greville, Richard Stewart and George Chap-
- man, all deceased. There doesn’t seem to have been
much hurry about the appointments; M. L. King has
been dead 20 years.
Miss Bertha Faning, a Sydney contralto of melodious
note, faded quietly away to London, t’other day, without
the usual benefit. The lady, who is related to English
composer Eaton Faning, hopes to earn more shekels with
her voice in Fogtown than seemed possible in this over-
crowded-with-songsters continent.
Percy Grainger’s debut as a juvenile pianist happened
at Melbourne Masonic Hall some nine years ago, and it
was then that Surgeon O’Hara remarked a striking like-
ness to Mozart in the precocious cherubic youngster.
O’Hara, who was freely asserting his big baritone voice in
public at that time, contributed a warble to hoy Percy’s
concert.
Dear Bulletin,— “ Valentine Day’s” memory has played
him false in his remarks on the production of “ Midsum-
mer Night’s Dream ”by Mr. George Rignold. Miss Bessie
Rignold (sister of Miss Dora Rignold, the charming
Oberon of Mr. George Musgrove’s production) was one of
the singing fairies. The Oberon of the first revival, and
all the subsequent ones, was—Faithfully yours, Roland
Watts Phillips. [The Bulletin adds, by way of irrele-
vant postscript, that Miss Watts Phillips is one of the few
ladies from whom it is a pleasure to receive a letter,
inasmuch as the letter is legible, and not like a collection
of angular gridirons. Will other ladies please note ?]
Madame Marzella and her trained birds attracted the
vice-regal Tennysons to Rickards’ show in Melbourne the
other Wednesday afternoon. Since the time of Cinque-
valli’s first visit only two “turns" at Rickards’s—
Rudinoff and Marzella—have served to draw every sort of
person to the house and improve its “tone,” and these
two successes coming so close together will probably be
found to have chastened manager ’Arry’s ideas re the
class of music hall entertainment that Australia really
wants. The first of his new goods from America and
England will arrive shortly.
“ Ami.”: Died in Melbourne, Miss Margaret Guerin,
aged about 54, known as Miss Maggie Stewart. This rips
up memories of old Sydney and middle-aged Melbourne.
Mr. and Mrs. Guerin, of the Victoria Theatre, Sydney,
had two daughters (Theodosia, or Docy, and Maggie),
both little when Guerin died. He was leader of the
orchestra, and Mrs. Guerin was a popular actress.
Richard Stewart married her, and became the father of
Miss Nellie Stewart and Richard Stewart, junior. The
family moved to Melbourne about 1861, when Mr. Stewart
made his first appearance at the Royal. Afterwards he
was at the Princess’s during the Julia Mathews and Jeffer-
son seasons. Then he transferred to Coppin’s new Hay-
market. Here, I think, Miss Docy Stewart and Miss
Maggie Stewart made their first appearance, about 1864,
in Planche’s extravaganza, “ The King of the Peacocks.”
Next the Stewarts became associated with the Theatre
Royal. Somewhere about Miss Nellie’s first stage appear-
ance, if not the first, was as the saucy boy in “ Saratoga,”
in 1873 or 1874. She, Docy, and Maggie constantly
figured in the Christmas pantomimes for several years,
with Harwood, Greville, and Stewart as the comedians.
A double dance by Nellie and Maggie used to be a feature.
These two had the enviable gift of retaining a girlish
appearance. A happy time in the life of the Stewarts was
when they all went round the world with Garnet Walsh’s
musical comedietta of “Rainbow Revels.” Docy Stewart
is the widow of Mr. Harwood.
Died at the age of 77, Clarance Holt, father of Bland
of that ilk. He was in Australia in the crude and woolly
50’s, and came this way again in ’62, when he was a
dramatic pioneer in Maoriland, and played a two years’
season at Dunedin—what there was of it then —in a
theatre built by himself. He was a man of great size in
the dramatic world in his day.
“T.D.”: Victorian Socialists are making
discoveries with regard to their creed since
Premier Irvine declared that he wasn’t going “ to
fiddle with Socialism,” and in the same speech
announced that he was about to initiate big irriga-
tion schemes, buy up land for closer settlement,
and do a lot of other things of a similar kind.
The latest surprise was afforded at Janet Clarke’s
political afternoon tea —the newest thing in crazes
—when youthful Harrison Moore, professor of
political economy at Melbourne University, ex-
pressed his surprise at Irvine’s introduction of his
notorious Strike Suppression Bill, which was
“one of the most Socialistic measures ever intro-
duced into an Australian legislature, yet was
received entirely with favor by people commonly
opposed to Socialism.” Before another year is
out, we may find James Gillespie and F. T. Der-
ham and G. D. Meudell and Benjamin Goddard,
of Kyabram, spreading themselves over the coun-
try and affirming that the wretched piece of
Socialism known as the Strike Suppression Bill
owed its miserable existence to Labor member
Prendergast and Stephen Barker, and was only
squelched by the firm and manly statesmanship
of the mighty Irvine.
N.S.W. stockowners who, in consequence
of recent legislation and a complication of Supreme
Court and Land Appeal Court decisions, don’t
quite know what their relations are, either to the
stock they own or to the rabbits and wild dogs
they would gladly give away, will find all the
information that they need in “Pastures and
Stock Acts : with Regulations and Forms,” by F.
A. A. Russell, a Sydney barrister. The volume
contains the text of the consolidating Pastures
Protection Act, passed last year, with the regula-
tions under both that Act and the unrepealed
portions of the Stock Act of 1901. The publica-
tion (from the Law Book Co. of Australasia) is
copiously indexed.
The Permanent Trustee Co.
of N. S. Wales, Ltd.
Incorporated by Act of Parliament.
THE Sixteenth ORDINARY GENERAL
MEETING of the Members will be held in
the Royal Exchange on MONDAY, 19th
OCTOBER, 1903, at noon.
BUSINESS :
To receive Reports and Balance Sheet to 30th Sept., 1903.
To elect one Director in place of Lesley Herring, Esq.,
who retires (under clause 77 of the Articles of Associa-
tion) and who offers himself for re-election.
To elect two Auditors in place of W. Clarke and F.
Phillips, Esq res., who retire, but are eligible for and
seek re-election.
To consider any other business of which due notice shall
have been given in accordance with the Articles of
Association.
A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
Victoria Racing Club.
CUP WEEK.
DERBY DAY OCTOBER 31
CUP DAY NOVEMBER 3
OA ICS DAY NOVEMBER 5
STEEPLECHASE DAY... NOVEMBER 7
LA ROB ENTRIES.
ACCOMMODATION FOR THOUSANDS.
HOLIDAY EXCURSION FARES.
H. BYRON MOORE, Secretary.
Amusements. ___
The new her majesty’s theatre.
Sole Lessee & Manager, Mr. J. O. WILLIAMSON.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
AN UNDOUBTED TRIUMPH.
Mr. J. 0. WILLIAMSON’S Famous and Ever Welcome
ROYAL COMIO OPERA COMPANY,
THE TOREADOR.
Box Plan at Paling’s. &2T PRICES AS USUAL.
QRITERION THEATRE, 3Y DNEY
Under the Direction of Mr. CHARLES HOLLOWAY.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
ALPRED DAM PIER, Supported by the
CHARLES HOLLOWAY DRAMATIC COMPANY,
in
ROBBERY UNDER ARMS.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 10, and for Six Nights Only
FROM CLUE TO OAPTURE.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Paling’s.
I" HEA T R B ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Under the Sole Direction of MR. GEORGE MUSOROVE.
EVERY EVENING, at 7.45.
THE GLORY OF A GREAT SUCCESS.
Mr. GEORGE MUSGROVE’S COMPANY in Shakespeare’s
Enchanting Comedy,
AS YOU LIKE IT.
Prices as Usual. Plan at Nicholson’s.
I* OW N HALL, SYDNEY.
EVERY SATURDAY, EVERY
PEOPLE’S
PEOPLE’S POPULAR
POPULAR CONCERTS.
CONCERTS.
McADOO’S ORIGINAL
FISK JUBILEE SINGERS,
Plan at White Rose Confectionery Co., Pitt-street.
Reserved Seats, 2s.
QUEEN’S HALL, SYDNEY.
Sole Manager .. .. Mr. F. C. DAWES.
EVERY EVENING.
GREAT AMERICAN VITACRAPH.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
POPULAR PRICES. 1B& Box Plan at Hall.
Lyceum theatre, syd n e
Lessee .. .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY), TO-NIGHT,
And for a Limited Number of Nights,
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION, headed bv MISS EUGENE DUGGAN, in
WHEN LONDON SLEEPS.
Prices—3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Box Plan open at Elvy’s Music
Warehouse, George Street.
the MUTOSCOPE.
WONDERFUL LIVING PICTURES.
KING STREET ARCADE
and 400 GEORGE STREET.
Always on View. IBP 1 ” Admission FREE.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney,
Sole Proprietor and Manager— Mr. llarry Rickards
A Furore Created Nightly by MARZELLA,
Queen of the Feathered World.
Emphatic Success of THE POWERS BROTHERS.
Gigantic Success of our New Artists,
MR. DAN CRAWLEY, MISS LILIAN BISHOP,
London’s Comedian. Male Impersonator.
Miss NITA LKETE, Mr. ERNEST SULLIVAN,
THE TWO COLLIERS, Mr. EDWARD FORD,
Miss ELLA WELLINGTON, Miss MAGGIE FRASER,
Mr. LES WHARTON, and all our Great Co.
PERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. H. Rickards.
W. C. FIELDS, America’s Eccentric Juggler.
FRANCES LESLIE, America’s Soprano.
FREDERICK
HALLEN
and
MOLLY
FULLER
WILL WHITBURN, CLARENCE SISTERS, CECILE
STEPHANS, TIIE LENTONS, FRANK YORKE,
HUGH HUXHAM.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamsoh. .
LAST TWO NIGHTS ot Tolstoy’s RESURRECTION.
SATURDAY NEXT, OCTOBER 10,
Mr. BEERBOHM TREE’S CO., including
Miss MAUD JEFFRIES and Mr. JULIUS KNICHT
in a New Romantic English Play, entitled,
MONSIEUR BEAUCAIRE,
First Time in Australia.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
EVERY EVENING.
FAREWELL PERFORMANCES.
Mr. J. 0. Williamson’s New English Comedy Co. in
OH! WHAT A NICHT.
The Famous English Comedian, Mr. GEORCE CIDDENS
as M. PINCLET.
USUAL PRICES. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessee Mr. Bland Holt.
Business Manager .. .. C. Simonsens.
SECOND WEEK. EVERY EVENING,
Bland Holt’s Dramatic Company in the Great Stirring
Military and Naval Melodrama,
THE UNION JACK,
by H. Pettitt and S. Grundy.
BONNY, BREEZY, BOUYANT, BRILLIANT.
Prices—3s. 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.


A CHAIN Of EVIDENCE
THERE is no finer Electric Belt sold in Australia for ONE POUND, or for ten times the value, than the splendid
medical instrument which has been worn and praised by tfie distinguished coterie of professional men whose
portraits and testimonies are herein published. The wonderful, vitalising electric currents which
The FREEMAN & WALLACE, No. 7, Patented,
ELECTRIC “ INVIGORATOR ” BELT
which is sold for One Pound only, sends Leaping over the Nerves, carrying Joy and Gladness to the Heart, Saturating
the Body with the Eire of Youth. It makes Old Men Young and Young Men Manly. It gives Strength to the Heart,.
Power to the Nerves. Its benefits are felt as soon as worn. In some instances victims of Sciatica have thrown down
their crutches, and have been cured of suffering after 30 years.
Every Spark is a Wave of Animal Life Sweeping into the Body.
Every moment it provides New Energy. Its touch is the Touch of Magnetism —the Healthful Essence of Vitality
that Makes Men Strong. Read the testimonies from these men, many of whom you know. It will prove to you if you are
ill you can be quickly relieved, and diseases classed by medical men as “ incurable ” may be speedily and permanently relieved.
Great
Testimonies.
SIQNOR CARLO DANI, Royal
Italian Opera Company, Sydney, one
of the most brilliant tenors visiting
Australia, says—
“ 1 was induced to try an Electric
‘ Invigorator ’ Belt for my nerves.
I obtained great benefit to my nerve
and muscular systems.”
HR. J. H. BROWN, Professional
Pianist, suffered from Brain-Fag
and Nerve-Exhaustion. He writes
in this Strain—
“ I testify to the benefits obtained
from your Electric ‘ Invigorator.’
Sufferers from Decline of the Nerv-
ous Syslem should wear one.”
MR. JACK HARSH, the great
Australian Bowler, about whom so
much controversy has arisen, says—
“l suffered from Rheumatism with
Sciatic tendencies. I was bene-
fited by the use of your Electric
Belt. I recommend it to all
athletes.”
MR. Q. JOHNS, Champion Light-
weight- of Australia, says of this
remarkable system—
“ I have worn one of your Elec-
tric *lnvgorator’ Bells during
training for various contests. Its
effects are most beneficial.”
Medical Electricity.
Sufferers should wear no other Belts
than these here instanced. They are
guaranteed hy reliable electrical authori-
ties, including Mr. G. W. English, C.E.
late Electrician to the N.S.W. Govern,
ment. They have patent electrical attach'
merit, to regulate the current to suit the
patient’s needs.
Although sold lor £1 only
they are honestly worth £lO. Worn
nightly, the soothing current re-invigor-
ates every fibre and tissue of the body.
Diseases classed as “ INCURABLE ” have
been speedily relieved. INSOMNIA,
EPILEPSY, LOSS OF VITAL ENERGY,
RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA, and NER-
VOUS WEAKNESS have been remedied
permanently. Thousands of sick person,
have testified gratefully to its wonderful
healing influences*
Famous
Persons
Testify
si%6,
tfrJH*Drovytt
£
'v. ""•fel . *i - -•<'•. i
/f s %■
safe
ry x
MrJ.Marsh. 1
is
i m
W\
k;
s;
fir
SSff 1 !
SB
«
®si\
V-Hetlin^J
"wsmL -v!
r- ”
Singers,
Authors,
Athletes
THE
Only Genuine
Electric
“ Belt ” in Australia
IS the
freeman and tyallace
Electric “Invigorator” Belt
<IMO. 7, PATENTED)
SOLD FOE.
One Pound
ONLY.
Proofs
from
Everywhere
Fine
Electrical
Certificates
Grand
Testimonies.
HR. EDWARD H. ATIES, Profes-
sional rider who introduced the
“Tod Sloan” style of riding into
Australia, asserts—
“ I wore one of your' Invigoratcr ’
Belts. I regained my usual nerve
power, and recently won two great
racing events in one day.”
HR. HAT HITCHIE, a distinguished
pugilist of the Golden Gate Athletic
Club, Sydney, says—
“ I attribute much of my staying
power in a recent great fight to the
use of your Electric ‘ Invigorator ’
Belt.”
MR. JACK HELLINGS, Champion
Amateur Swimmer, Sydney, after a
few months’ treatment at the hands
of the Specialists, affirms—
“lam cured of the most severe
forms of shoulder rheumatism
which afflicted me for years. Your
‘ Invigorator ’ was wonderful in its
remedial effects.”
MR. JOSEPH HEGSON, Champion
Cyclist of New South Wales, con-
sulted the Specialists of the Insti-
tute, and declares—
“ I was on the point of a consti-
tutional break-up more than once.
The merits of your ‘lnvigorator’
are beyond question.”
A Free Book.
“ CLINICAL EXPERIENCES,” 570
pages, 150 medical plates, 31 chapters,
explains the Electro-Therapeutic methods
by which so many of these wonderful
cures are made. Numerous testimonials,
bearing the names and photographs of
persons cured, are also included. These
comprise testimonies in addition to those
here published, from
The Hon. Daniel O’Connor, M.P.
ex-Minister of the Crown, N.S.W., Patrick
Larkin, J.P., Sydney, Mr. Arthur Hill
(Tivoli Theatre), the famous art cyclist,
Mr. Phillip Newbury, the great tenor,
Inspector Fowler, N.S. Wales Police, and
many others. It is a work which has
been eulogised in the columns of over 150
leading Australian newspapers. It is
worth a Pound a Page to persons residing
in the country districts where medical
men are few. Read it, then lend it to
your friends. Posted free to all addresses.
FREE
Do not wear an Electric Belt unless you
will not aggravate your complaint, as a
are certain it
worthless Belt
will do. When under treatment every patient is under the care of DR.
WALLACE, M.D., L.R.C.P., E., L.F.P.S., E., L.M., who is registered
by the Medical Boards of New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia,
England and AMERICA. He is a Specialist and Medical Electrician of
Great International reputation, and is late of the Homoeopathic Hospital,
Melbourne, and British Army Medical Staff. (See
New South Wales and Victorian Registered Practi-
ADVICE
tioners’ List.) All letters addressed to him are treated with professional
secrecy and replied to punctually. The Specialists’ correspondence is the
largest in the Southern World, and is received from all parts of the
habitable globe. Their system of Home Treatment may be adopted by
anyone. In cases of Men’s Disorders, where medical men are few, this
is a system which recommends itself. It is invaluable in every sense.
CAUTION.
Do not buy any Electric Belt for
£lO, £2O or £5O .when you can
purchase the finest Electric Belt sold in Australia for £l. The
Freeman and Wallace Electric “ INVIGORATOR” Belt, which is
sold for £1 only, is superior to any Belt sold elsewhere. It is
locally manufactured and tested by competent Electricians, it has
special electrical regulator to increase or decrease the current,
and special cushioned electrodes to prevent blistering of the skin.
It is a magnificent instrument, and unequalled as a medical
medium for the cure of Nerve and Stomach and Kidney Diseases.
The FREEMAN and WALLACE
Electro-Medical and Surgical Institute,
Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts., Sydney


The Inky Way.
A Victorian detective the other day founded a case on
the writingon a blotting-pad. A now-forgotten incident
of a somewhat similar character created a sensation in
the seventies. One William Nelson M’Cann, M.L.A., had
David Syme hauled to the bar of the Assembly over an
Age leading article, which alleged that members were
supporting a certain Bill “in order to fill their own
pockets from the public Treasury.” While David was
waiting in the coal-hole, or somewhere, and the Sergeant-
at-Arms was oiling the rack, a debate took place in the
House, and some of the members alleged that the article
was written by one of themselves—G. P. Smith. Then Dr.
Embling, member for Collingwood (father of Dr. Embling
now in Victorian Upper House), rose up and explained
that he had inspected the blotting-paper in the library,
and found thereon the faint reflection of some derogatory
remarks, whereby he knew that the House was harboring
a serpent in its bosom, or something to that effect.
Jabez Packer, who used to look after the religious
department of the Sydney Daily Telegraph, is now
editor of the Watchman— the Dill Macky organ. This
is bad news for the Pope. Packer, who was trained
under Stead, has a good knowledge of journalism, knows
exactly how much or how little friskiness can be
blended with religion, and may make the sectarian rag
interesting, with a proper blending of ginger and
godliness. Hitherto, under amateur journalists, it has
been a mixture of ballast and dish-water, and has been
rather a kedge-anchor than a publication. There is
something beautifully apposite in a religious editor’s
front name being Jabez. All religious editors should b#
named Jabez:
* * * *
There is trouble between the Hughenden Observer
(N.Q.) and a Richmond contemporary. Former says the
latter is an “ obscene jack-in-the-box,” and that the editor
is “ known to be of depraved tastes.” also that his paper
contains “a most disgusting and obscene conversation
regarding an alleged Chinaman." Same old bone of con-
tention, the Chinaman.
* • • •
Lately died James Duigan, who succeeded John
Ballance as editor of the Wanganui (M.L.) Herald.
When a boy he went to sea ; afterwards was engaged in
survey work in Victoria ; then was employed for a time
in the Melbourne Argus office ; next, joined the Vic-
torian telegraph service, and transferred as a telegraphist
to Maoriland ; speculated successfully, and bought the
Chronicle at Wanganui ; sold out again, and became a
brewer ; then, after this, bought a flour-mill; and finally
settled down in the editorial chair he occupied at the
time of his death.
* • * *
Adelaide Quiz is about to float itself into a company. The
paper now runs to 16 pages, with occasional gleams, for Id.,
and still has Single-taxer Crawford Vaughan at the head.
Meanwhile Chandler’s Truth has become the most popular
Saturday night paper and has merged itself into a sport-
ing publication. Which is better than the kind of paper
it was when it started. It is now about six times its
original size and for the same ironev, too.
* * * •
Brisbane Daily Mail editor, C. H. Buzacott, is a
septuagenarian who renounced a pension of £5 a week
from the Courier in order to embark upon the enter-
prise. Buzacott is probably the oldest working press-
man in Queensland. In 1865 he was editing a paper in
Clermont (Q.)
* * * »
News item contributed by our “ esteemed corres-
pondent ” to the Croydon Mining News, in wild and
woolly North Queensland: —“There was a fellow out
here reckoned the News was no blanky good. I plugged
him. I think every working man ought to follow my
example and be a regular subscriber to your paper.”
* * * *
The newspaper reporter has to be a slippery customer.
One night one of the clan, in a moment of leisure,
wandered into a “two-up” school with the object of
gaining a little unearned increment. The police executed
a flank movement on the proprietor and raided the pre-
mises. Pandemonium reigned supreme. Like trapped
rats the gamblers excitedly ran into every corner vainly
seeking to escape. Not so the reporter. First of all he
grabbed his good silver and buttoned it up tight. Then
he pulled out his pocket-book and ostentatiously made
notes, at the same time affecting a business-like-” just-
got-here-with-the-police ” air. The next day his account
completely eclipsed that of the reptile contemporary,
and the reporter gained much glory as well as the 12s. 6d.
he had won. His skill in discovering that there was
going to be a raid and getting on the spot early, especially
impressed the editor.
• * « •
The medical staff at the Sydney Hospital gave 1 ttle
Renwick a dinner and presentation at the Australian
Club recently. The daily papers were informed that the
dinner was at 7 o’clock and would they “please send a
reporter atBo’clock to report the speeches.” The function
was unrecorded. Long ago the reporter established the
rule : “ Present as a guest or not at all.”
In recent case, M'Culloch v. Syme (Melb.), the jury, in
the absence of any authoritative evidence to the contrary,
decided that six months was a “fair and reasonable
notice ” to a man on the permanent staff of a big paper.
But some dailies now exact an agreement from employees
providing for a “fortnight’s notice” on either side.
S.M.H. has done so since the Lowe case.
* * * *
The Waterside Workers’ Gazette is the latest of Aus-
tralian Labor papers. It devotes its energies entirely to
serving the interests of the waterside men, and as all
good Labor papers should be, is strongly Federal. The
clever hand of Hughes, M.H.R., can be seen in some of its
matter.
• * * *
In these linotype days it isn’t only the Dog Creek
Howler that is guilty of shrieking “ literals.” Adelaide
Register recently referred to some rev. body as having
been a " rabbit" at the local synagogue for a third of a
century.
• • • •
" Scribe ”: Tour correspondent who recently wrote
that the pious pressman in “Dolores” was an impossi-
bility, as there was no such thing as a religious reporter,
was guilty of a gross and unwarranted libel on the pre-
sent staff of Melbourne Age. One of the leading lights in
militant Christianity of the Southern city is L. V. Biggs,
the “friend of Kingston," who “does” the Federal depart-
ments. Biggs is secretary of the Christian Social Union
(an adjunct of the Anglican cathedral), a member of the
Anti-Sweating League, the Purity Brigade, and half-a-
dozen other bodies of the sort. Between times of hunting
up information in the departments he conducts a crusade
against swearing among his unregenerate brethren ; and,
on the rare occasions when he has a night off, he addresses
gatherings on the evils of cigarettes and other vices.
Close behind Biggs come half-a-dozen other members of
the staff, all equally fervent in their piety ; and so sympa-
thetic is the office towards them, that when one
threatened to throw up his job rather than write a
special article favorable to “Tatt.” at the time of the
Postal Act controversy, he was straightway relieved.
The ranks of the Age pietists were shocked a little while
back when one of their number left to take a job as a
circus-manager, but they are still fairly solid.
* * * *
The Kanaka is evidently drifting into North Queensland
conservative journalism and has taken to editing Mongo-
lian newspapers at South Sea Island rates. A recent issue of
a Kanakaland Ministerial organ contains some gems.
“The Govern ment,” this vile assassin of the King’s
English thinks, “would compair and even surpass,” &c.,
and the same genius reports “ the emortal Edmond Burke
said,” &c.; a meeting “ elapsed for want of a korum j
while it considers certain proceedings a “ mistry affair ;
also accuses the editor of its vile contemporary of writing
“ vitupirus vapporings with a wet cloth rapped round his
head.” Describing a fire the descriptive journal says :
“the flames were ingulping a fireman, and the
act of a child in rescuing its feeding-bottle would
‘ neglect credit on its seniors.’ ” Also someone
“ diserved the Humain Society’s medal.” In conclusion,
the editor is proud to say that all service at the fire ‘ was
rendered gratueously.” The spelling of this, organ of
enlightenment is peculiar, but its composition is shriek-
ingly funny. A sentence picked at random : ‘ The
sufferer is now stoying at the hotel under matronal
care and nursing of Mrs. assisted by our local
appothecarry under his medication treatment is happily
on the highway of recovery, and has no remembrances
how he came bye the accidant how he was throne off his
horse or otherwise with him it remains a blank. ’ (!)
Looks almost like the faked “ Baboo ” letters we meet
occasionally. But it is a solid Queensland fact, and the
editor takes himself and his paper very seriously, as part
of the general cussedness of things 1
• * * *
Death of English Cardinal Vaughan recalls the fact that
London Ponch editor Burnand was a fellow student for
the R.O. priesthood with him at a seminary. Burnand
was too solemn for a R.O. priest, and, there being no
prospects with the Calvinists, he became Punch editor.
• * * *
“Mr.” James told a new hand on the S.M. Herald
lately that he was always glad to receive hints to further
the circulation of the paper. Next day he received a
scheme offering a prize of five shillings to the first guesser
of a missing word. “ Mr.” James has a vague idea that
the scheme is not quite original.
* * * *
The poor scribbler. A considerable Australian
daily not long since decided to retrench its dog-
reporter, and the paper came out without its usual
weekly column of barks and dog-kennels. .Then the
doggy-man went round to see all the tinpot dog
owners whose victories he had celebrated, and they
wrote letters to the business manager of the great daily,
informing him that they only took his paper to read the
dog news, and if it did not come to hand on the ap.
pointed day they would discontinue the rag. One bull.
dog owner wrote, saying, “ Mr. knew more about a
dawg than any man in Australia, and if he wasn’t taken
back at once he would take away the weekly shilling
advt. regarding his bull-hound terrior at stud.’’ The
paper stood firm, however, and it has no official literary
doggist to this day.
THE PRESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The inky *lave of Paunchy Purse
In very sooth am I;
I heave by day his deadly curse
Whene’er he looks awry ;
I send his oily blessing down
On all the puny pale,
I chronicle his daily smile
And note his brand of ale.
The boots upon his ample feet,
The hat upon his head,
His shining studs, his diamonds sweet,
His fifteen stone of tread,
His ruddy nose that sends a gleam
Just like a coal of fire —
I glorify them one and all
To please his high desire.
A daily tale of Wrong and Fraud
I post to ev’ry part;
The quacks who pay I duly laud
From out a thankful heart;
I sing a psalm of placid peace,
Then wave a gory sword
And loose the waiting dogs of war
To bay before the Lord.
I may not boast of any creed—
’Tis mine to preach them all;
I praise or blame them in my screed
As Money’s magnates call;
With many a weary load of type
I weigh old Freedom down,
The while my henchmen twine the thorns
That make her only crown.
The virtues of the drugs that slay
I cry with Stentor-call ;
The vices of the poor I bray
In ev’ry lordly hall;
The words of regal imbeciles
I greet as words of gold,
And hail each phrase that Mammon coins
As prophet-chant of old.
There is no helot on the chain
More helot-souled than I ;
I give the daily dews of brain
To breed the daily Lie ;
To him who hath a shekel-store
I give my heart—my whole,
And he who buys my venal praise
Hath bought my venal soul.
Q.
P.L.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.
%
fflh
i
!i !
5
Sf
"NATURES
PLEASANT!
LAXATIVE?
THE ORIGINAL
AND
GENUINE.
California Syrup of Figs acts
gently, pleasantly and most benefi-
cially on the Liver, Kidneys and
Bowels, and permanently overcomes
Habitual Constipation.
Words of Advice
Ask for CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS,
and see that the package bears the well-
known Name and Trade Mark of the
California Fig Syrup Co. Imitations are
numerous, but as you value your health,
cannot risk taking a substitute. Cali-
fornia Syrup of Figs is sold in Aus-
tralia in two sizes at 1/3 and l/lf„
Worthless substitutes are often offered
at less as an inducement.
California Fig Syrup Co., 32 Snow Hill, London.
Australia— 7 Barrack St., Sydney.
Exquisite New Goods^—
NOT one of these things we illustrate to-day has been shown before. They are all new—some of
them have hardly got the wrappers off as we write. They are pretty and serviceable—suited both
for personal wear and gift giving. There is not a common style in the lot and the make and finish are
quite equal to our usual high-grade goods. If you are particular as to what you buy in our line then
nowhere else can you go if you would select from a stock so large—so varied that it is an uncommon
thing for us to have to say, “ Sorry, but we have not got it.” Remember that, although we illustrate but
21 articles, we have hundreds of equally dainty, equally good, and equally low-priced new lines to show
i cuvsonß
you if you call. Our
catalogues, “Attractive
Things at Attractive
Prices ” and “ Honest
Watches,” will be sent
free on request. We
deliver all Goods free
and safe by post or rail.
No. F 8935. —Exquisite Gold Pearl
arid Turquoise Necklet and Pendant,
£3 ss.
No. Cl32o.—Solid Gold Fashion*
able Photo Pendant, 8s 6d.
Exact size.
No. G 1970.— Solid Silver
Mounted Toilet Bottle,
patent pull off top, 4Jin.
high, 15s 6d.
No. F9297.—Dainty
Gold Pearl and Tur-
quoise Pendant, 255.
No. F9oo2—Rustic Inkstand, Silver-plated,
sjin. high, 9s 6d.
SB
m
No. F2966.—A Magnificent Cruet, the highest
quality of Plate and Cut Glass, £4 15s.
No. G1414.—A1 Quality Exquisitely Engraved
Hot Water Kettle, £2 15s.
No. FB966.—Handsomely Chased Hair Brush,
man’s size, sJin., 22s 6d.
No. F729B.—Choice Pearl and Gol 1 Brooch, 21s
DRAWN JS SISE
No. F2376.—Lovely Saw-pierced Belt Clasp,
Heavy and Handsome, 21s.
No. F1760.—-This size Gold Mounted Pen Knife
—Fluted Pattern only, 10s 6d.
Catalogues Free .
r"
No. F 8936. —Gold and Fine Pearl
Necklet, with Pendant, £2 12s 6d.
No. F8731. — 100t. Gold
Engraved Cross, exactly
as shown, 18s 6d.
No. F7539.—2J x 3 in.
Solid Silver Bag Purse,
32s 6d.
No. F7o9B.—Fish Pendant, Gold, and Greenstone
from Maoriland, 22s 6d.
No. F337.—Baby’s Can.
Engraved and Hall-marked Solid
Sterling Silver, 3in., JO2 ss.
No. F3B49.—Solid
Silver Milk Jug, 3iin.
high, £2.
No. Fs6s.—Solid Silver
Glass Lined Powder Jar,
2iin. high, 22s fid.
No. Cool.—lsc. Gold
Brooch, set with Pearls
and Turquoise, £1 15s.
No. GBlB.—Eeavy Gold
Mounted Solid Silver
Match Box, lain, high,
22s 6d.
No. FB439.—Cluster
King, 18e. Gold, 3
Rubies, 6 Diamonds,
£3 ss.


Dr. Maloney, a year or so ago, secured the
passing of an Act in Victoria to legitimise all
children born out of wedlock, if the parents should
subsequently marry. But, unfortunately, the idea
got abroad that this legitimisation could only be
effected in open court. There is, however, no
need for any publicity. The doctor is ready with
a further Bill to give full civil rights (of inherit-
anee, etc.) to all children born out of wedlock.
This Bill would have got through last year had
not the Council urged that it would not fit in with
its ideas of “Proputty.” A House which repre-
sents Proputty only lias no time to consider
humanity.
The poor old Flyspeck is amazingly behind
the times. It hasn’t reached Tasmania yet that
the Jewish disabilities were taken off 80 years
ago. In the ecclesiastical jurisdiction of the
Supreme Court they don’t recognise Jews at
all. Every week notices are published “to the
next of kin of Timothy Jones (or somebody else)
and to all Christian people.” Some day Monty
Ansell will appear in chambers on behalf of
Alderman Benjamin, attorney in Tasmania for
Solomon Abraham Moses, and Crosby Gilmore
or Davenport Hoggins will respectfully submit
that his learned friend has no locus standi, ar.d
then the thing will be brought to a head.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle,
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of-Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New Zealand.
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per
cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors — Thomas Littlejohn, Esq.. Chairman ; The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin Short,
Esq. ; Senator J. T. Walker; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C. ; F. E. Winchcombe, Esq., M.P,
General Manager and Actuary— Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Beanie’s Bronchitis Cure.
THE FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have talcen this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEJWA-RE OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
CONSUMPTION,
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—l am writing to tell you
about the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
my case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my case to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir.—l suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at onoe,
and “can’t be licked.”—Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
imall bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
ail cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
um for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Vlotoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
“ Llenwellyn,
“ Katunga, Vio.
“Mr. Hearne.—
“Dear Sir,—l am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to my mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“JOHN S. MORTIMER.”
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus—as walking caused me such pain and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
“Yours very truly,
“M. MORTIMER.
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows: —“ As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night’s rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Years’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“Sir. —My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicineshaving been tried;
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure. —I remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
“WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Five Years’ Case.
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. Q. Hearne.—Dear Sir, —Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. lam more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be withou
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Seven Years’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“ Dear Sir, —Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as I am now, quite well. —Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.”
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS’ CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charlevllle,
Queensland, writes :—“After suffering from Asbhiha for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to tryHearne’s
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then,
which was in the beginning of 1883— 15 years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.”
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states: —“I
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma.”
PREPARED ONLY. AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARIME, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
bhanoh depot. r office : No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Fost to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
THE
SMELTING * REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
Works: DAPTO, LAKE ILLAWARRA (56 Miles from Sydney).
1901, Limited.
Highest Price paid for Gold, Silver, Lead, and Copper Ores,
Cyanide, Slags, and Jewellers* Sweep, etc.
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay.
For all Information regarding Hates, apply to the Manager, Head Oeeice, Dapto;
or, A. E. EUDDEE & CO., 40 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Forwarding Agents.
“ Retained when
all other Foods are
rejected. It is in-
valuable.”
London Medical Record.
,» wm
“‘Benger*s Food*
has by its excellence
established a repu-
tation of its own.”
British Medical Record.
GOLD MEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
Benger’s Food
For Infants, Invalids, and the Aged. Delicious, Nutritive, and Digestible.
Benger’s Food is sold by Chemists, See., Everywhere
Extracts from. Private
Letters.
“ My last little boy was
fed entirely upon it from
birth, and a healthier
child it would be difficult
tn find. My wife sounds
the praise of * Benger’s
Food’ everywhere.”
“If every mother knew
of its value, no other
would be used.


Browne, who dispossessed Philp of the Q.
Premiership, is probably the lightest weight in
Australasian politics. His fighting weight is
between fist, and 7st. He has one glass eye and
one real eye—latter the eye he kept on Philp.
“R.S.A.” : Know a boy named Carbine
Smith. His mother drew Carbine in a sweep, 11
years ago, and this is the awful result. It is
almost as bad as the case of that miserable
youth, Federation Australian Horse Jones.
No other man has heard so much of the
debates of the Australian Parliament as Gregor
M‘Gregor, the Adelaide Labor senator. He has
not.missed a sitting yet; and, being almost blind,
he Hardly ever moves from his place. His repu-
tation in the S.A. State House was of the same
pattern. He is also about the most confirmed
interjector in Parliament.
The South Australian inquiry committee
has completely exonerated Dr. Ramsay Smith on
all charges of wrong-doing —the charges mostly
concerned the alleged unlawful prigging of corpses,
skeletons, skulls, &c. The public will now await
with some interest Dr. Smith’s kick back. He is
not likely to let the matter drop at the present
stage—and he is a hard ltioker.
Henry Lucy, inS.M. Herald :
I regret to learn that, after the custom of the kingdom
of Bohemia, Phil May died practically penniless. He does
not seem to have left behind him many of the original
sketches of his regular contributions to magazines and
books. If these were available, they would fetch high
prices. He gave away his precious sketches as he was
ready to give away any' of his possessions to the first
beggar he chanced to meet. If only these and others to
whom this too-openhanded man gave or lent money or
money’s worth would return a tithe of it, the effort now
being made by some of Phil’s old colleagues to make per-
manent provision for the widow would be liberally
assisted.
Melbourne Age Syme is not only a large
figure in Victorian politics, but he is a good-sized
octopus in speculative commercialism. He is a
big holder of both country and city lands. Some
of the best land in the Healesville district belongs
to Syme, likewise several of the finest blocks in
“ doctors’ quarters,” Collins-street. A big lump
" f Ji e^ res “ coal f mine ? Gippsland is
under Syme, and he is interested in goldmines
in victoria and Westralia. Also, some of the
fattest cornera in produce t up ’ late l y in Vic-
toria wero controlled by dry old Syme.
’ . , . , , ,Z. .
A law case is looming between a Minis-
ter of the Crown and the landlord of a house
adjoining the Minister’s residence. The Minister
&£&?£
staghorns carefully. The water percolates through
Q wa an( j ne xt-door tenants leave. A
f ew wee ks back the landlord asked the great man
to desistj and the Minister threatened to hose the
landlord The landlord has been waiting for his
gon £ 0 je admitted as a solicitor, so that he can
conduct the ease and thus keep the business in the
family. The son has now been admitted, so the
trouble should start as soon as that young man
has worked off any preliminary nervousness, the
Minister being a fierce character and a large
handful for a young solicitor to tackle.
“ Argo ” : I lately made a critical analysis
of one of Reid’s speeches, and this is what I got:
Mr. Reid, who was received with loud applause, said—
Ta-ra-ra-boom-de-ay (laughter). Hi-tiddley-hi-ti-ti-hi
(applause). Ker, chog; I’m your butterfly (great
laughter). What ho ! she bumps (cheers). B-r-r-r-r-um,
ah, yah (immense laughter). Socialistic legislation
(groans). Eh ? (laughter).. (Great laughter).. (Laughter)
....(Tremendouslaughter)—(Cheers). . .(Laughter)....
(Hooray 1)
Maggie Papakura, the guide of the Hot
Lakes, who has been over to Australia, is intensely
loyal to the Maori race, and insists that nearly all
the good things the Maori could ever do he can
do now. Even the carving, which the tourist is
often told is a lost art, is not impossible ; and she
recalls that the famous Maori house, which is one of
the treasures of Canterbury museum, was wrought
by an artist who is still living at Tu Paroa ; and
the sacred whalebone mallet, the Porourangi, with
which the figures of the chiefs, but nothing else,
were carved, is still held by the Ngatiporous, of
the East Coast.
About a deceased citizen :
Eighty-four-years-old Jacob Joseph, the wealthiest Jew
in Wellington (M.L.), died on 13th September. He had
been blind since he was 17 years old—the result of chasing
some merry little Rachel through the bushes at a picnic
in England. The maiden parted the branches, and Jacob,
who was following close behind—he was never far behind
in anything he followed, especially business—received a
blow across the eyes from the rebound of a twig. In-
flammation set in, and he became stone blind. Then
Jacob took unto himself a wife, and commenced to make
money. He came out to Maoriland, started business in
Wellington, and amassed a large fortune, which, so far,
has done nobody much good. Ilis first wife died, but the
touch of a woman seemed necessary, and he plunged sight-
lessly into matrimony once more and retired from business.
It is alleged that the old man was so wild at a near relath e
not being admitted a member of the exclusive Wellintrtt n
Club on the Terrace, that he erected the huge five-stoiey
block on Lambton Quay which effectually blocks ihe
Club’s view of the harbor. Jacob Joseph leaves one :on,
Joseph Joseph. He bequeathed £5OOO for the ereclion
in London of a home for the Jewish indigent blind.
“F.” : The suit in Melbourne to deter-
mine profits in the Australian Alliance Insurance
Company, recalls its founder and the reason for
its institution. Michael Q’Grady, a Roscommon
(Ireland) boy, born in 1831, went to London for
experience ; and in 1855 came out to Sydney to
establish a branch of the People’s Provident
Society. The offices in Sydney were at 90
Clarence-street. In 1856 O’Grady went to Mel-
bourne, and established an office for the society
in Collins-street, the directors being D. S. Camp-
bell, W. T. Mollison (the parliamentarian who
had a lump on the top of his bald head the size of
a hen’s egg), and F. A. Walsh. A couple of years
afterwards o‘Grady took the management of the
European Assurance Society ; and in 1861 entered
the Legislative Assembly as a supporter of John
O’Shanassy. The directors of the European, all
absentees, objected to their manager being in
politics, and gave Mr. O’Grady a choice of evils—
leave Parliament or their service. Mr. O’Grady
chose to remain in Parliament, and, as a solatium,
his friends (O’Shanassy and others) established
the Australian Alliance, giving him the pest of
manager. He was a member of the Sladen Minis-
try, with Duncan Gillies as a colleague, for nine
weeks in 1868, and held office under C. G. Duffy
in 1871-2, Graham Berry and William M'Lellan
being the only survivors of that Ministry. Mr.
’Grady died in 1875.
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania).
IMPORTANT NOTICE
The Tasmanian Government having imposed a tax of One Penny
on every Five Shilling Ticket issued by Tatter sail’s on and after Ist
January, 1903, clients will please forward Id. extra for each ss.
ticket applied for, or 4d. for every JBI, and so on.
NOW OPEN
CAULFIELD CUP, Caulfield, Vic., Oct. 17, 100,000 at 5/1.
MELBOURNE CUP, Flemington, Vic., Nov. 3, 100,000 at 10/2.
MELBOURNE CUP, Flemington, Vic., Nov. 3, 100,000 at 5/1
MELBOURNE CUP (Special), Flemington, Vic., November 3 (Drawn Morning of Race), 100,000 at 5/1.
Subscribers will please note that GEORGE ADAMS (“TATTERSALL ”) STILL
CONTINUES his business in HOBART, under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN
GOVERNMENT, and that clients can send their subscriptions by letter to any friend or
acquaintance in HOBART, who will there have no difficulty in delivering the application and
securing the despatch of tickets and results direct to clients.
Money can also be paid through any Bank in Australasia, to the credit of GEORGE
ADAMS, Commercial Bank of Tasmania, Hobart. ! Clients when so doing will please request
Bank to advise GEORGE ADAMS of amount, with their name and full address.
Small Parcels addressed to me can be forwarded to Hobart through any PARCEL
DELIVER Y CO. or FIRM doing business with Tasmania.
Our Latest Styles of ~— 1
GRAMOPHONES
ARE FITTED WITH THE
NEW PATENT “SOUND ARM.”
IT APPEALS TO YOU
HERE
ft
m
PURER,
LOUDER and
SWEETER.
One ot the many advantages which this attach-
ment possesses is the ease with which
the horn can be turned in any direction.
PRICES.
“Monarch,” single-spring machine, 22in. Brass Horn, and “Concert
Sound Box,” fitted with new “Sound Arm” ... ... 15 Q
“ Double=Spring Monarch,” 22in. Brass Horn and “ Concert
Sound Box,” fitted with new “Sound Arm” ... ... £l4 15 O
“ Triple=Spring Monarch,” 22in. Brass Horn and “Concert
Sound Box,” fitted with new “Sound Arm” ... ... £l6 5 O
Other Styles, 30s to £3O. All “Monarch” styles play 7in. or lOin. records.
1 . 1 - - •
-, ! . V;> - . . - -
Agents all over the World,
~U Hr ♦
RECORDS
IN ALL LANGUAGES.
Send for Catalogues and
Price Lists.
Australasian Agents
Victoria—
A. P.- Sykes, 227 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne.
South Australia—
Messrs. S. B. Hunt & Co.,
94 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
Queensland—
Messrs. Heindorff Bros.,
210 Queen Street, Brisbane.
West Australia—
Messrs. Nicholson & Co.,
Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand
Messrs. H. Gentles & Co.,
9 Strand Arcade* Auckland.
Tasmania—
Messrs. "Wertheimer & Benjamin,
71 Collins Street, Hobart
GRAMOPHONE & TYPEWRITER.
163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.


A Spring Song.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Merry be ye in the Spring—
All its joys are flowers that fade,
Song birds warbling on the wing
As they pass, from shade to shade; ,
Still it comes but once thy way ;
Merry be ye while ye may.
Gently let thy life unfold,
Sleep and dream, and dream and sleep ;
Early wise is early old ;
Panting haste hot tears shall reap ;
Spring invites ; do not delay ;
Merry be ye while ye may.
“Vanity !” cold Prudence cries—
Light of heart, be glad, and sing ;
Vanity hath sparkling eyes,
Vain and prodigal is Spring ;
Catch each throbbing ecstasy ;
Merry be ye while ye may.
In the Spring a maiden’s lips
Ask the kiss she feigns to scorn ;
Blushing to her finger-tips,
Coy and wondering—love is born.
Rosy tints at break of day :
Merry be ye while ye may.
In the Spring the greener grass
Waits the tread of lovers’ feet;
Every lad go court a lass—
Birds are mating as is meet.
Nature bids ; shall she betray ?
Merry be ye while ye may.
In the Spring the bluer sky
Bids young Fancy rise and soar,
High as are the heavens high,
Far as is the evermore —
Fancy smiles, and trips away ;
Merry be ye while ye may.
Take the proffered gifts of Spring-
Love and kisses, mirth and song ;
Fading flowers have scents that cling,
Joys short-lived leave memories long.
’Neath the golden blossoms stay ;
Merry be ye while ye may.
vie.
ANDREW SARD.
A.squatter, rich enough to have his rudeness
dubbed ‘charmirig originality,’ carried it, the
other day, to an extrema pitch. A small party
had-travelled put to\ his homestead. Some days
passed with fizzy gusto, and enjoyment reigned.
Then one night the host found himself wakeful
and wondered why on earth he filled the house
with: a crowd of people who ate, smiled, slept, and
shared none of his cares. So he rose and went
round knocking at all the doors, with an injunc-
tion for the lot of them to clear out. A cart
would be waiting at 6 o’clock that morning. All
who didn’t get it would have to walk many miles
to the station. All got it. That’s their side of
the story. His may be different.
The Doctor’s Yarn.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The hotel night-porter was sleeping comfortably
on a chair in the corner of the smoking room.
The two guests wild were awaiting the midnight
mail coach had got, one on each side of the cosy
fire. The grey-haired, fatherly-looking doctor
kept up an incessant conversation, which his bald-
headed, bull-necked companion, the commercial,
traveller, was tired of, and he took no pains to-
hide the fact. The doctor was relating remi-
niscences of his school days ; his companion
answered in grunts and monosyllables. At last
the doctor noticed and stopped short in the
middle of his talk. There was a few minutes
silence, during which he seemed to be studying
his companion, and he began again.
“Some time ago while staying at Dunlop’s
hotel I had a rather strange experience. It was
race week, and the place was crowded. One night,
having had a fair amount of whisky hot, I went to
bed somewhat before the usual time. The night
was warm, so I put my window up to its full
extent and left the door ajar. How long I’d been
sleeping I don’t know. I was suddenly awakened
by hearing the door hinge creak. Propping myself
on one elbow I put my hand under the pillow and
made sure that, my watch and chain were safe,
Then I waited for the intruder, ready to hit.”
The doctor stopped short and narrowly eyed his
companion, who gave vent to a series of loud
snores as a gentle hint that he didn’t want to be
disturbed. The doctor smiled, and, undaunted,
began again in a loud, self-satisfied tone.
“I fully expected to be pounced on by some
burly villain. Guess my surprise when the door
was gently pushed wide open, and I discerned by
the gas that was burning dimly in the corridor the
form of a most beautiful young girl, clad only in a
flimsy nightgown, which showed off her well-
rounded form, while a mass of shimmering hair
fell below her waist.”
The bagman was about to give vent to another
snore, but, at the mention of the “girl in the
night-gown,”' he cut the snore so short that it
sounded like the snort of a frightened horse.
The doctor leaned back in his chair and lit a
cigar, keeping a sharp eye on his companion who
gentlv removed the rug from about his ears, and,
opening one bloodshot eye, surveyed the doctor
from head to foot.
“Yes,” continued the doctor, “I can assure
you I was greatly relieved when I saw the
intruder. I could perceive at a glance that she
was a somnambulist. I quietly reached my hand
out and lit the candle; then I waited. She
extended her arms in front of her as though she
were groping her way, and glided up to my bed-
side.”
The commercial traveller’s; rug had gently slid
down until it lay in a heap at his chair legs. His
other bloodshot eye had opened, and his gaze was
riveted on the doctor. An insinuating grin
hovered about his thick lips. The doctor turned
to the snoring porter, and shouted to him not to
let the coach go without him, then leant back in
his chair, seemingly forgetful of the yarn. The
other moved on to the edge of his chair, and
tapping the doctor on the knee with his fat hand,
said, remindful l.v :
“So she moved up to vour bed-side, did she?”
“Yes, I cannot easily forget the sweet, innocent
look on that face as she bent over me. Seeing
what she was about to do, I gently slid out at the
far side of the bed, when she turned down the
covering and turned in. A slight sigh escaped
her lips, as her head lay on the pillow. For a few
minutes I thought the situation over, when an
idea struck me. I quietly put my slippers on,
and, leaving the room, traversed the corridor until
I came to a bedroom with its door partly
open. I cautiously pushed the door back
until the gaslight fell in the room. The bed
had been disturbed and a lady’s wearing
apparel was on a chair. This convinced me that
it was the room that my visitor had just left. I
gathered up the flimsy-articles, not leaving as
much as a ribbon behind, then made my way back
to my room again.”
“ Sly dog, doctor, sly dog! ” said the now
almost breathless listener slapping the doctor
vigorously on the knees and leaning over so that
his breath almost scalded the doctor’s face. ,
The doctor looked at his watch, then, turning to
the porter, started to question him about the
coach’s different stopping places.
11 D—n the coach, ” said the commercial;
“ finish vour yarn.”
“Yes, I brought her clothes into my room. I
put them carefully down on a chair, gathered up
my few odds and ends, then stole out of the room,
back into the one she’d left, turned into the dis-
ordered bed, and fell asleep. . .
“It’s a d d lie ! ” roared the traveller, rising
excitedly and capsizing his chair with a crash.
Then he went outside, and kicked the big woolly
dog that lay on the door-mat.
R.R.
The Wheel of Fortune.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dad grafted in the old Wheel of Fortune in the
Sixties. They were driving about due North at
300 ft. when Dad took the dirt off a leader running
in the same direction as the drive. It wasn’t big,
so far as-he could see, but the one in the Kain.
marama that turned out a ton of gold in two years
wasn’t big either. Dad didn’t say anything to his
mate, but thought hard all the morning, and
when Bill went op to crib just tumbled a barrow-
load of mullock over it and tramped it down
a bit.
The manager was a “ fair cow,” Dad said ; he
knew him in Bendigo. Not long after a lump of
quartz fell from somewhere about Dad in the
change-house, and the shift-boss, who sighted it,
swore it came from under Dad’s arm. At any
rate, Dad got the sack, and he never worked for
any of the English companies again. The Wheel
of "Fortune did a big thing with the Nick-o’-Time
reef, a herring-gutted leader, which ran somewhere
about 3oz. to the pound sometimes. For years,
though, they had not seen a speck ; the company
was reformed, reconstructed, and amalgamated
till it didn’t know itself, and at last they had to
let sections down to the 300 ft. level on tribute. I
was working at the Rothschild Extended at the
time, and my brother Jim was doing nothing in
particular. Dad had a serious chat with us two
one night. He hauled out an old plan of the
Wheel of Fortune from somewhere. We com-
pared this with the new tributes at the General
Manager’s office, and I chucked my job at the
Rothschilds. We weren’t too eager, though ; we
knew there’d be a rush for the 200 ft. sections,
where most of the gold came from years ago. But
after a while we signed the agreement and took a
section at the three hundred “old workings.’’
We sent our first lot of stone to the battery in less
than double-quick time, I can tell you. The
manager after that nosed ail around the show, and
didn’t look Very pleased; I heard that night lie d
been making inquiries about us and about Dad.
But what could he do ? He did make things as
warm as he could for us, though. It was awful
rotten ground, and, as we wanted to get the stuff
out slick, we rushed up the timbers anyhow.
What did the boss do but brings the Government
inspector down, and he—well he talked a lot.
After that it took Jim all his time timbering while
I grafted at the leader. But it was just ..like
shelling peas, and every three weeks, like clock-
work, the paper used to say, “the Biggar Brothers,
tributors in this mine ”• (that’s the Wheel of For-
tune, you know), “have crushed so-and-so for
such-and-such.” The manager came to us one day,
and offered us £lOO each to clear ; and I winked
at Jim and asked him if he thought they manu-
factured flats at our place. Jim stuffed his hat in
his mouth. The manager was a Cousin Jack, and
he got into the cage swearing enough to break his
neck. We’d been at it about five months, and the
bank had given us receipts for something like
j£sooo.
Well, Jim went off one shift with the influenza,
and I guessed that night I’d lay-up with it next
day, too. Jim went to graft in the morning, but
came back before ten in an awful sweat. I said,
“What’s the matter, Jim?” He said, “The
howling cows have let the water in on us 1 ” You
see, according to agreement, we paid the company
20 per cent, on the gold we took out, and the com-
pany was supposed to keep our level clear of
water. Seeing they couldn’t get rid of us other
ways, the mean curs stopped the pumps.
I took the thing very quietly. This made Jim
mad, and he asked me if I was going to stand by
and see myself robbed without saying anything.
Then I told Jim something I’d found out the day
before, and Jim—he didn’t know whether to laugh
or swear. We had a chat about things for a bit,
and then we went down to the manager’s office
and gave him particular beans. He tried to tell
us the pumping machinery had gone cronk, and
he couldn’t help the water. But we knew better..
In six days the water was up to the 200 ft., but
they kept that clear with a Tangye. W e told the
boss we had eight months to run, and if we
couldn’t get into our section the company couldn’t
either. The eompaHy offered us £3OO to cancel
the agreement, but we weren’t taking' any. A
month slipped by, and the boss came to us and
told us the pumping gear was all to smash,
and we’d have to wait till they got a new piece out
from England to replace the broken part. I
knew it was gammon, but I waited. Before he
left, the manager offered us £5OO to quit, and I
told him I’d sound Jim about it. At last we
decided it would be best to take him at that
figure, and our lawyer saw it paid into the bank
to our account. Then the company started pump-
ing and had the water all out in a fortnight.
They had two crushings from that leader —one
was for 60 ounces and the other for 32 —but no.
more. You see, the day Jim laid-up I picked it
easy that the leader was petering out. So it
didn’t matter much what the company did.
Eh ? what’s that ? No, none of our family
can get a job in the English mines now.
JAMES COWAN.
Kutnow’s Powder expels Uric Acid and Banishes Disease-Breeding Impurities from
the Blood, Brain, Nerves and Tissue. Thus is the system purified and derange-
ments of Stomach, Liver, and Kidneys rectified by the use of Kutnow’s Powder.
OU cannot expect to enjoy even
fair health when your stomach,
liver, or kidneys are inactive and your
system has become weakened and de-
ranged by an accumulation of uric acid
and other disease-breeding products.
Kutnow’s Powder not only dissolves
the acid accumulation, but also expels
without any pain the dissolved products
from the system. This relieves the
stomach, liver, and kidneys of the im-
purities which hinder the performance
of their proper functions, improves
digestion, promotes nutrition, and
furnishes an increased supply of energy
to both brain and body.
KUTNOW’S
Improved effer JEsnttjr carlsbad
POWDER.
m
Hiischensprung
Leap
REGISTERED
(ENTERED AT STATIONER'S HAUb)
Important Warning
There are many substitutes for
Kutnow’s Powder o.ered under
various names, as something 1
cheaper, and “just as good.”
These substitutes are injurious
io health, and therefore not
cheap at any price. Insist upon
having the
GENUINE
KUTNOW’S POWDER.
DR. DUZAKLIAN WRITES :-
“ Broussa, Turkey,
“ Aug. 10, 1902.
“Dear Sirs, —Having used two
bottles, of your Kutnow’s Powder, I
take the privilege of stating my satis-
faction in regard to the prompt effect
in rheumatism and constipation. The
taste is very pleasant. I. have perfect
confidence in its beneficial action.—l
am, yours yery truly,
“ K. DUZAKLIAN, M.D.”
COLONEL ROLLESTON WRITES
“ Saltf ord House, near Bristol,
“ March 21, 1903.
“I have been using Kutnow’s
Powder for years as a mild aperient
and for indigestion, and have found it
excellent. »■■■
“ V. BOLLESTON, Colonel.”
KUTNOW’S POWDEH can be obtained from all Chemists and Medicine Vendors throughout the World.
Proprietors—S. KUTNOW & GO., Ltd., 41 Farringdon Rd., London, E.C. Proprietors in U.S.A.: KUTNOW BROS., Ltd., 853 Broadway, New York.


“Te Court.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was the last straw.
M'Guffin usually winked at the many pecca-
dilloes of the Maori boatmen, but eight bottles
out of the last case of whisky upset his equa-
nimity.
“You all right, boss,” said the chief. “You
get plenty law. Me make t’e court all-a-same as
t’e pakeha.”
The old savage had recently returned from a
visit to civilization, much impressed by the
pakeha’s methods of dispensing law and justice.
The court sat next morning at half-past ten.
The delay of half-an-hour was excusable, as the
messenger had a rough fifteen-mile ride, and the
settler was dubious about lending his copy of last
year’s Maoriland statutes, in spite of Kahu’s urgent
message.
“Now we all right,” cried the chief, when the
messenger galloped up, waving the volume in
triumph.
Everyone rose when the chief stalked into court
and an usher, chosen for his big voice, bellowed
“Silence !” at microscopic intervals.
“ T’e court ” —said the chief.
“Silen’,” bellowed the usher.
“’Top, you fool !”
“Silen’! silen’! silen’!”
“Put him out—too much damn-silence,” said
the chief.
Four truculent Maoris, appointed constables for
the occasion, rushed at the usher and a mass of
whirling brown arms and legs, gasping “Silen’,”
waltzed outside.
“T’e court now open,” said the chief. “T’eoase
is t’e pakeha against Kerepa and six others. Call
Kareo.”
A grizzled, tatooed old Maori came forward and
took his place in an impromptu witness-box. One
of the constables placed the volume of last year’s
Maoriland statutes in his right hand, and he was
sworn to tell “t’e troot, t’e whole troot, and
nothing but t’e troot.”
“ What your name?” asked the chief.
“ You know.”
“You t’e witness—you answer question,” said
the chief, sternly.
“ Kareo.”
“ What you occ’pation?”
“ What you call him ? ”
“ What you do ? ” explained the chief.
“ Tell t e troot.”
‘‘You f-o-o-1!” said the chief, disgustedly—
‘ What you work ? ”
“Fish.”
“ Why you not say so ? You be werry careful ”
tapping the desk with his finger. “ Now, tell t’e
court what you know.”
The witness dropped into a rambling statement,
beginning with the pre-natal history of one of the
defendants.
“ What whisky got to do wit’ dat ? ”
“ No whisky, no ”
“ Who took t’e pakeha’s whisky ? ”
“ Karepa and Horo and ”
“Where from ?”
“T’e boat.”
‘ ‘ Did you see them ? ”
“ Saw Horo and t’e others open t’e case.”
Werry good,” said the chief ; “ you go down.”
“How much for t’e witness?” enquired Kareo
holding out a brown paw. The chief stared.
.. You * ran ’ i UI- y witness?” said the chief.
You get t’anks ; you all right. Call Rangi.”
An enormously fat Maori waddled into the
witness-box.
“ What you name ? ”
“Rangi.”
“ What you do ? ”
“ Eat! ” yelled a voice amongst the crowd.
There were shouts of laughter, as Rangi’s appe-
tite was proverbial.
The chief looked sternly at the crowd. “Ise
fine five bob—contemp’ of court.”
.There was a little difficulty about identifying
the owner of the voice, but presently the constable
returned with the fine.
“Werry good,” said the chief, counting the
money. “Tell t’e court what you know, Rangi.”
Rangi was presently interrupted.
“ What you see?”
“ Karepa tell me.”
“Dat not witness—only ear-talk,” said the
chief. “You fine five bob—contemp’ court.”
Rangi gave a yell, which was followed by a
muffled shout of “Silen’!” from the banished
usher.
The next witness, who was near the door,
slipped out of court.
“Call Roto.”
“Gone !” cried several voices.
“Fine five bob'—contemp’ court —he pay,”
pointing to one of Roto’s relatives.
The fine was collected after some struggles.
Presently, the case for the prosecution closed,
and the defence was called.
“What you say, Horo?” asked the chief.
‘ Guilty or not guilty ? ”
“Guilty.”
“Fine one poun’or 10 years. What you say,
Karepa—guilty or not guilty ?”
“Me not guilty.”
“Fine two poun’or 10 years. What you say.
Hone—guilty or not guilty ? ”
“Both.”
“What dat?”
“Me took, bottle—had fight—bottle broke—
urrgh no whisky,” he cried, rolling up the whites
of his eyes in a hideous grimace.
• * ne , one P oun .’ or lb years. More careful next
time, said the chief, sententiously.
The other defendants all pleaded guilty, and
were each fined one pound'or 25 years. Some
time was occupied in collecting the fines, but
Presently the money was laid before the chief.
“ What dis?” he said, pouncing on a corner of
white paper amongst the notes.
Dat all right dat my I 0 U one poun’,”
explained one of the defendants, known as Flash
Jack.
The chief held it contemptuously at arm’s
length between his finger and thumb.
What t’e goed of dat to Queen Wikitoria ? ” he
demanded. Then turning to the defendant, “Fine
five bob —contemp’court.” >
‘‘ My gorry ! ” ejaculated Flash Jack.
When he had counted all the fines the chief rose.
“T’e witness all discharged—get Queen Wiki-
toria’s t’anks.”
Then he made an impressive oration. It
amounted to this:
“You are a greedy lot of Maoris. Why, you
take t’e pakeha’s whisky and trink it by your-
self. I am ashamed of you. You will give t’e
bapu a bad name—t’e pakeha will get other boat-
men.” Then, after an impres v ive pause: “What
wifi Queen Wikitoria t’inlc?”
The chief, overcome by this thought, dropped
into his seat; then he sorrowfully made the money
into two heaps. Placing three pounds on one
side, he said:
‘ ‘ Dat for t’e pakeha.”
Sweeping the balance (five pounds odd) into his
breeches pocket:
‘‘Dis for Queen Wikitoria. ”
Later on, the chief changed his mind, and gave
the pakeha his lOU for £3 instead. That
harassed person has it yet.
T. HEMMING.
Peter Anson’s Octopus.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Tvvas a house and garden lonely, and a female
form loafed pronely
In a sort of hammock fixing, while a man sat on
the step,
With his head between his fingers like a weary
soul that lingers
On this earth too long. We murmured and a
maiden lady wep’.
To the driver old and battered an interrogation
uttered
By the apoplectic bagman brought an answer
which ran thus:
“ Gents, that there unusual woman, she’s a type
that’s partly human,
Also partly sea-gohanner; that’s Pete’s married
octopus.
“Pete was once a decent fellow, ’fore that girl
with locks of yellow
Wound her blessed hair around him like ashe-
calamity
And hitched to him like an anchor ; Pete, you
know, used often hanker
For to go an’ damp his person in the frequent-
heard-of sea.
So he went one year, did Peter, and ’tvvas there
he chanced to meet her—
That same fuzzy-headed lady, all peroxide, fluff
and fuss.
At his board-house she was stayin’, and her nets
there she was layin’,
And she used make eyes at Peter while he ate
asparagus.
“Twas a house of pomp and glitter, that same
place where Peter met her,
Where the serviette bloomed freely like a blossom
in the Spring ;
And there was a Dago menu (sort of thing as now
an’then you
Comes across in furrin’ regions)—’twas tied up
with nice blue string.
An’ that female ’cross the table—her that’s king-
pin of this fable,
Used to yearn to comfort Peter, an’ to take him
in her arms,
There to shield him from life’s dangers, from the
stares of haughty strangers—
From the hostile table jellies and the salad’s wild
alarms.
“ Pete was dreadful shy an’ silent, and this
female’s love grew vi’lent;
So at last she worked a scheme out somethin’
dreadful bad and vile;
Watched where Peter used go swimmin’ in .a little
bay where brimmin’
Waves used splash and tumble round him, fresh
and wet and free from guile.
Then when dawn was shinin’ pearly that she-
fiend rose bright and early
In a pale-blue bathin’-costoom with big frills at
neck and knee ;
Then she went down to the water like a merman’s
5-ton daughter,
An’ she threw herself, like Joner, right into the
heavin’ sea.
“ Then came Peter singin’ lightly, and his bathin’
togs shone brightly
(His costoorn was red and yeller with green stripes
about the neck);
He saw naught to make him fearful, an’ he waved
his towel cheerful,
Took a header in the ocean, an’ became a total
wreck.
Oh, the wicked crdft of wimmen ! There she was
in secret swimmin’
In a low, mean, underhanded sort of way behind
a rock.
From behind she fell on Peter, who had never
dreamt to meet her,
And he was three-quarters drownded and three-
quarters died of shock.
Oh, Pete’s yell rose loud and shrilly ! oh, he
struggled sick and chilly,
Bein’ filled with the idea that a squid had hold of
he.
Pete was finely eddicated, an’ he thought it was
the hated
Beast described by some old Dago in the ‘ Toilers
of the Sea.’
But the form Pete’s back was pinned to—it was
neither-scaled nor finned, too ;
It was soft and broad and bale-like in its heavin’
overplus;
An’ around the promontory shone the sun in
golden glory
On the fatal dingin’ hair-strands of Pete Anson’s
octopus.
“ Well, Pete he woke up senseless, an' damp an’
quite defenceless,
An’ found himself ashore an’ on the sand a-lyin’
dead,
An’ a woman knelt before him with her wet hair
hangin’ o’er him ;
She was shook with deep emotion an’ was weepin’
on his head.
There upon the promontory she related all the
story
How she saved him from a crab about the size of
this old ’bus ;
There was none to give him warnin’, and they
married that same inornin’ —
They mimed- Peter Anson an’ that schemin’
octopus! ”
VIC.
GRANT HERVEY.
I
cured
YEARS OF AGONY ENDED.
m.
5=
“ ~I~N the interests of thousands of fellow
creatures who niay be suffering as I
have, I desire to testify to the effi-
cacy of your Bile Beans for my
trouble,” says Mr. Alfred Hopkins, of 45
Princ-es-street, Church-hill, Sydney. “I
have been a terrible sufferer for over two
years from Piles, and although I have tried
nearly every so-called cure, and undergone
the pangs of pain to an almost suicidal
degree, 1 found no relief until two weeks
ago. My trouble seriously incapacitated
me from my work generally. I, however,
obtained work at a prominent club as
waiter, but had to give it up. I saw an advertisement in one of the papers, and determined
to give your pills a trial ;so I purchased a box. The first night I took one, the second
night I took three, and for several nights I took three, and then two, and sometimes one
on alternate nights, and by the time I had taken one box of your pills I was cured. I can
solemnly swear that Bile Beans, and Bile Beans only, have cured me. The Piles have
entirely disappeared, and I have recommended Bile Beans to another young man suffering
with them—only more mild than in my case—and he can testify to the accuracy of the
above statement. I shall feel gratified if any sufferer obtains the same cure as I have by
taking Bile Beans, and request you to give this testimony the fullest advertisement.”
Bile Beans are a prompt and permanent cure for BILIOUSNESS, HEADACHE
INDIGESTION, CONSTIPATION, PILES, DEBILITY, FEMALE WEAKNESSES
NERVOUSNESS, BAD BLOOD, PIMPLES, and ALL SKIN ERUPTIONS BAD
BREATH, ANAEMIA, INSOMNIA, LOSS OF APPETITE, RHEUMATISM, and,
in fact, all ailments that owe their origin to defective liver action. Bile Beans are
obtainable from all medicine vendors, PRICE Is. ljd., or 2s. 9d. LARGE BOX (con-
taining three times the quantity of the Is. size), or Post-paid from THE BILE
BEAN MANUFACTURING COMPANY, 39 Pitt-street, Sydney.
e>« s
ONE BEAN I
• ONE DOSE I
:
m
V \
m
m
m
mm
m
. ;
■
■
1
,
m
m
WMfßm wm I iilll
11M»
i Ig
Simi
: /-
; i^i*!
Illllllp
m
991
j»H
■i : Slßßßill
■■:■-■ ■ ...........................1
I■:.• '
Wmmm
wiMl
il
ill H
■HH
n
n^
■
wSKm
■■
geiK
Si
\k,dfa,..A£ t
Kitiwf
m.
■
HH


“ The Englishman named Fellows who claims
the biggest hit record” (“Sporting Notions,” 13/8/’O3)
has ceased to claim anything. He is dead. In life he
became the Rev. Walter Fellows, and a Melbourne parson
at that. All his big cricket was played in England, first
as a University man and afterwards as a curate. The
result of his early athleticism was enormous when he
settled down to comfortable Divine service in Aus-
tralia. Died at the weight of ISst. or thereabouts.
* * * *
“Matchbox”: Re cronkness of out-back race
meetings. Can vouch for this New Year’s Day happening,
Amongst the horses in a Flying Handicap at my town was
one run by the local bookies (3d. in” the bag at start). It
won the first race hands down, and crowd, knowing what
an ordinary lot of hacks were running, planked coin on
bookies’ gee. Bookies raked in the coin. Rider left at
the post, started 200 yards behind, and just managed to
lose by a length. Judge, Who had stuff on the dead ’un,
gave it “ dead-heat.” In the run off the rider started off
and came in a quarter of a mile ahead, running well
inside the post near the straight. Loser entered protest.
Protest dismissed. Bookies left in haste, one on the dead
’un and the other on a borrowed nag. Judge was a J.P.
* * * *
“J.F.D.”: The hard times have told on
pigeon-breeding. During the early part of the year
pigeons were sold for Is. 3d. a pair ; food was dear, and
they had to go. Now the caterers to the pigeon-murder-
ers are advertising 2s. 6d. a pair and cannot get them. A
man near,me had 23 stolen a few nights back. He went
to all the pigeon-buyers and gave a description of his
birds but was told that none answering to the description
were offered to them. The day of the championship
shoot at Botany three birds arrived home. ' Two were so
badly wounded that they died on the perch outside their
pen ; the third was vainly trying to stand on one leg, the
other having been shot,away. The woman of the house
cried ; they were her pets. Pigeon-shooting—the sport
of thieves and slaughtermen.
* * * *
“ Flatcatcher ” writes :— No wonder the (badly)
Chosen People hate the Tote worse than the origi-
nal Moses hated pork and Pharaoh. At the recent
Boulder (W.A.) meeting no less than £26,702 went
through the totalisator, and the club’s profit on the meet
was £4OOO. As the Boulder (a suburb of Kalgoorlie) is
only about as large as Balmain, this should, induce the
A. J.C. to try and catch the goose that lays isuch fine,
large, golden eggs. And punters can reckon up its worth
to them from the fact that in Melbourne the best price to
be got from the bookies about F.J.A. for the Adelaide
Derby was stol on ! The tote paid out 28s. for every
sovereign invested.
“War E.”: Re the unwritten law (B. 20/8/03)
of winners shouting champagne for the “ bookies, etc.
Country race clubs in N.S.W. are making a dead set
against this infliction. Was present at a settling at
Temora (N.S.W.), when the-cheques were simply handed
over at the club’s office. The rage of the bookies, jocks
and “ guns” at being done out of their spree was pitiable,
and a hurried meeting was convened to protest .against
such awful conduct. Decided to hold a “ settling-up
on their own. Adjourned to a pub., ordered in glasses
preparatory to the wine ; no money being forthcoming,
the liquids were “off,” and the fraternity pledged one
another in empty glasses
* * * *
“Periwinkle”: The shortwinded citizens of
Sixpennyville were having their walk, the same as other
lunatics, when I struck the place looking for work, and
after the event I interviewed the competitors. The man
who came in first told me, as he pocketed the purse with
sundry half-crowns therein, that he could have clipped
several minutes off his record for the twelve miles
only for “ a touch of the sun ” ; he had thrown away his
hat to lighten himself after the first mile. No. 2
blamed his kharki linen knickers for his defeat. Being
new and stiff they chafed him. Next time he walks
he will wear flannel — or nothing! No. 3 cursed his
bootmaker (one of the competitors) for -repairing his
boots badly. No. 4 ate a lemon, pips and all, during his
scurry, and got appendicitis through the pips. The fifth
man had unaccountably swelled up to great dimensions
during the walk, and had become a veritable balloon
through his exertions. The local doctor spoke of tapping
him as they led him away. No. 6 looked very groggy as
he passed through the crowd to the tape. Before he lay
down in the gutter to have a sleep he confided in my
sympathetic ear that he had been “ doped.” Another
man said he was trained over the distance for a fortnight
by his missus, who was mounted on a bike. He couldn’t
account for his slow time, unless it was that she had
trained him too fine, and had filled him with home-made
scones before he started. The rest bad fallen down on
the road, and failed to finish the course. They mostly
said there was a conspiracy against them.
* * ' * • ’■
“Ku-Klux” : Re par. (B. 20/8/’O3) about the
Ohow winning the footrace. Some years ago during a
shearing at Morow, near Deryiliquin, we held races one
Sunday (no, it must have been Saturday), and the places
in the principal event (440 yards) were, filled by two three-
quarter bred aborigines and a Hindu hawker. The
Hindu hawker can ran like a bush-fire, as a rule. He
gets lots of practice when the cocky is after him for
insulting his wife —not that the cocky can run very fast,
but his dog can
* * • •
The difference between the Australian and
Rugby games of football seems to be that in the former
game the barrackers deal it out to the players, and in
the latter the players deal it out to one another.
Reduced to a Shadow
Could Hardly Walk. Doctors Said Slow Recovery. Disappointed
Doctors and Myself by Getting Well Quickly.
&
a
Mr. Wm. B. Mackie, of Dunedin, New
Zealand, sends us Ms photograph and
says:
“Not long ago I was run over by a
wagon and severely injured. For weeks
I was confined to my bed. I was reduced
to a mere shadow, so weak I could hardly
walk. The doctors told me it would be a
long time before I could regain my health.
I felt I could not wait, so procured a
bottle of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. You can-
not imagine how quickly my health and
strength began to return. The first day
I felt an improvement. In a week I had
a better appetite, and was much stronger.
And only a few bottles wrought a most
marvelous change in me. I like your
medicine especially because it seems to
give just the aid nature sometimes
needs.”
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
If you have been sick and are not recovering rapidly, just try a bottle of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. It is tbe strongest tonic you can buy, and it aids nature
wonderfully. Tbe better way is to take tbe Sarsaparilla before you get really
ill. Take it when you first begin to feel poorly. It will cure you quickly
tben and save you much suffering and large expense. Yet even wben you are
sick, you cannot find a better medicine.
There are many so-called Sarsaparillas. Be sure you get Ayer’s, tbe oldest,
strongest, and best Sarsaparilla. Don’t experiment with imitations.
AYER’S S arsaparilla
Gives Strength to the Weak, Courage to the Depressed
Ayer’s Pills cure constipation, biliousness, sick-headache, coated tongue.
Prepared by DE. J. C. AYEB & CO., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
The Dunlop Tyre Co. has patented an improved
single tube racing tyre, which will be available for the
coining season. The new features of the tyre are that it
is easily repairable, and further that the fabric pocket
has no lap, thus doing away with any possibility of the
tyre bursting.*
Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Not genuine without the signature.
Be sure you get Martin’s. Sole proprietor, W.
Martin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
England.*
USEFUL HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE.
Chamberlainj's Colic, Cholera, and Diarrhoea
Remedy is redommended for the speedy and per-
manent cure jof dysentery, diarrhoea, chronic
diarrhoea, pai>* in the stomach, colic, summer
complaint, bi ious colic, and cholera infantum.
It has been in he market 35 years, and its won-
derful sale has een effected by what those who
have used it sa , and its curative powers. It is
to be found ir thousands of homes all over the
world.*
James
&
161 C
He]
RENGE ST.
King St
SYDNEY
t
WE ARE PREPARED TO
ILLUMINATE ANY PLACE,
ANY TIME, ANYWHERE, with
ACETYLENE GAS.
Martin’s Reliable Automatic
Acetylene Gas Generator.
• ALL SIZES, from 5 to 1000 LIGHTS.
OVER 500 IN DAILY USE. Send for our “No. 5f
Acetylene Gas Catalogue.”
CARBIDE OF CALCIUn at the BEST PRICES.
Wb
fen you want MOTIVE POWER it will
pay A> u to investigate the merits of
/ m:./sl.:r.ti:3Xi »S
Nonpareil Oil
BURNS ORDINARY KEROSENE.
FULL SPEED AT A MOMENTS NOTICE.
Strong, Safe, Cheap, Economical. TSSi
ALL SIZES, both HORIZONTAL and PORTABLE.
BSP Se>id for Illustrated Descri-pticc Circular.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
pfcfftlPs
II OB Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headaches
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills,. luush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Costiveness, on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. IHJi JllKbi JJUoJs
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be WOR»H A
GUINUA A BOX.” , _ , _ ...
BEECHAM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. Ihey
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite,
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. 1“
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees ?
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieme in
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECH AM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENCLANB.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, Is and 2s 9d each.
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
gsd
HIS MAJESTY
THE KING.
MOIRS
kippered
HERRINGS
IN I-lb FLAT OVAL TINS.
Manufrs.—JOHN MOIR & SON, LTD., London, Aberdeen and Seville.
Head Office: 9 * 10, Great Tower Street, LONDON, E.C.
f ff
rj.
¥ . T? ’
Lime ri
'//'///Of.
The basis of which Is “Montserrat” Lime-Fruit Juice
Far Superior to
all otHer Sauces.
• AGENTS— Elliott Bros. Ltd., J. Connell &. Co., D. Mitchell &• Co., Sydney.
D. Cohen & Co., Newcastle. ,
u
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the East
THE BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
miMl
M.D., C.M., 1.R.C.P.E., L.R.C.5.8.,
L.F.P.S.G., etc.,
Registered by the Medical Boards of
Britain, Victoria, New South Wales,
The Eminent Specialist, whose unparalleled success in the Treatment of Blood and Nerve
Diseases has earned for him a reputation unequalled by any other Specialist in Australia, may be consulted
daily, personally or by letter, at “ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 Elizabeth-st., Sydney. Old and Obsolete
Methods discarded. DR. MARTIN’S latest treatment has proved absolutely effective in all cases of Blood
Disease, Nerve Affections, Paralysis, Loss of Energy, Lung, Heart, Skin, and all
Chronic Diseases of Men and Women. His Consulting Rooms are replete with all the
latest and most scientific improvements in Electric Appliances, etc. Country Patients
treated by Correspondence at their own homes. Advice and Medicine, One
Pound. All Sufferers should write for a copy of Dr. Martin’s Latest Medical Work,
“THE ‘ KNOX-MERCER * TREATMENT IN DISEASE.” This work should find a place in every
household, as it contains a full and explicit account of the Most Wonderful Treatment of the Present
A°-e. It has been the means of Curing Thousands who fo lowed out the instructions contained
the This Marvellous Treatment Cleanses and Rejuvenates the Whole System, and is the Cheapest
Treatment in Existence, as nothing but the Book is required.
Cheap Edition, Is. ; by post, Is. 6d.
“Press Extracts” posted free throughout Australia.
CONSULTING HOURS: 10 to 2 and 7 to 9 Daily.
«ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.


D’YE
WANT A
GARDEN
Every good
garden
deserves a
good Hose;
Our garden
hose lasts
longer than
the ordinary
kind, and
is, therefore,
cheaper
in the
GET THE BEST—
SHUN THE REST.
PERDRIAU AND CO.,
RUBBER HERCHANTS,
Only One Address—27o GEORGE ST.
NERVOUSNESS.
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS of SELF
CURE, will forward the same, free of
charge, to anyone interested.
Address: A. MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING*
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
A Policy for the Commonwealth:
A Handy Manual of Politics. By James
Edmond. Price, 6d.; post free from The
Bulletin Office, 7d.
SIMPSON BROTHERS
32 & 34 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Australasian [Representatives for
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK.
Boiler Feed Pump.
80~ SEND FOR CATALOGUES.
James Simpson & Co., Ltd. London and Newark
Worthington Pump Company, Limited, London
Warren Webster & Co. now Jersey.
Enquiries Invited fob «.m. ... : ,
Worthington Pumps
Webster Feed Water Heaters & Purifiers
Cincinnati Air Compressors
fg
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
MARK.
-V:. ■:
J. & J. MAXFIELD, Proprs., SHEFFIELD.
' •
r
At the Showrooms—
EMPIRE CHAMBERS, 93 YORK-ST.,
SYDNEY
Also at—
“THE BLOCK,’’
Collins-St., MELBOURNE
\
m
• V
I ■
mi
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE,
Engineers * General Machinery Merchants,
Sole Agents in Australia for — The Mason Regulator Co., The Pickering Governor Co., The Shedd Electric Co.,
The “ Champion” lubricating Oils, The Ludlow Valve Co., Sturtevant’s Fans, The American Pulley Co.
New Fo:
f Vise.
sdf
The “ Utopia ” Vise holds work of any shape, at
any angle. It has every advantage that could be gained from a dozen
Vises in as many different positions. It swings round and over at the
will of the operator and the work swings with it. There are two
forms of the “UTOPIA”; one for Joiners and Pattern Makers
(dimensions 7 x opens 14in.) and the other for Fitters. Both
can be seen in operation at
60 Clarence St., Sydney, the Address &w
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.
Manufacturers and Importers of Mining Machinery,
Steam Engines and Boilers, Engineers Tools and Supplies, etc., etc.
gsd
m
ft
T. M. GOODALL & CO., hay st., Sydney
H,VE ■" .BTOCK.AND To.ARRtvE— p or t a b| ej Traction, Vertical & Horizontal Boilers,
Engineers and Minihg Tools, Saw Mill Machinery, Pulleys, Belting, Etc.
Irrigation and Pumping Plants a Specialty. Hew and Second-Hand Machinery always available.
wert
-T7, 7 -, yr r _ . - •
■J*
■>-
JR
Size, SJ" x 3J" x 5".
iIT We are Direct Importers
AND HAVE FOE SALE—
Snow Duplex Pumps
(all sizes for all purposes),
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling
and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shaft-
ing, Hangers, Bearings, Collars, etc.
Engineers’ Tools and Fittings, Valves,
Cocks, Gauges, etc. Cast, Tool and
Mining Steel, Wire Ropes and all Requi-
sites for Contractors, Engineers, Saw
Mills and Mining Proprietors.
R. L. Scrutton & Co. Ltd.
97 Ciar©race-st., Sydney.
“Rendroek
THE NEW EXPLOSIVE COMPOUND
(PATENTED). J
“ Cobar Gold Mines, Ltd., July 13th, j 1903.
“ I have no hesitation in saying that it is MUCH SUPERIOR to the
old ‘Rackarock.’ It is much stronger and does better work, and\ is quite as
safe. I think it is the very best explosive for stoping. I have also \used it in
the main drive where it did very well indeed. \
“JOHN FOX, Manager.”
Consumption about 4COOIbs. monthly.
——— — ■ \
PROPRIETORS ■ \
N. GUTMRIDGE, LTD.,
71 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
RfIHZ JOSEF,
| the best natural
f Aperient- water.
RfINZ JOSEF
I the best natural
Aperient- water.
RfIHZ JOSEF
( the best natural
Aperient ware^
RflltZ JOSEF
i the best nafural
f Aperien f- water.
