

McEWAN’S ALE
GAELIC WHISKY.
PIG STOUT.
B. <3r. WATK.IIVS «§£ CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
—FOB —
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS AM> GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
13,800 MACHINES SOLD.
1900
Grand
Prix.
Two
Three
Silver
Medals
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° > 85 Pitt street, SYDNEY
sole Agents for RUSTON, PROCTOR & CO., Ltd., LINCOLN.
FINISHING THRASHING MACHINES, With Patent ECCENTRIC MOTION for driving SHAKERS & SHOES. Improved Double-Crank
Finishing Thrashing Machines, with Self-O ling Drumshaft Bearings. Less Driving Power required. Less Oil. SIX WEEKS
WORK with only ONE OILING, and with less than THREE PINTS of OIL. Portable and Fixed STE M and OIL ENGINES. McLaren’s
Compound TRACTION ENGINES. Moffat Virtue SHEEP SHEARING MACHINES. Broadbent’s HYDRO EXTRACTORS.
For FULL PARTICULARS and ILLUSTRATED LISTS apply to - - GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., 85 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
“HERVEY’S RACKAROCK”
Years’ Unbroken Record as a Standard Australian Explosive. Cor. CLARENCE & KING STS., SYDNEY
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
WONDERFUL VALUE—A packet of Seven different
articles,.comprising Yankee Rubber Baby, can be carried
in vest pocket and blown out to life size (causes roars of
laughter), Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
Coin and Card Tricks), the Wizard Fish (gives the defini-
tion of your character—very superior for parlor enter-
tainments), the Vest Pocket Tubular Microscope (very
useful for examining small objects), the Cinematograph
(or book of moving pictures), the great Yankee Bicycle
Puzzle (very ingenious), and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Disappearing Coin Trick (instruc-
tions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australia (Free) on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Hay market.
XIMEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
710 George-st., Sydney.
THORNES
Estbd. 1831.
HOBART.
s Orient fiotei.
1
Ill'll
PBONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J„ C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
SUCH IS LIFE I
SUCH IS LIFE!
SUCH IS LIFE I
Now' Ready.
A new book in The
Bulletin Library.
A story of Riverin*’g
.. early days.
In handsome cloth,
decorated: price,
Send postal note or
stamps to
The Bulletin office,
and the booh will be
posted to any address
immediately on pub-
lication.
TOM COLLINS
TOM COLLINS
TOM COLLINS
FREE
l h ° win g sufferers how they may CUBE
Su 51 !? il or ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
ni°TT>i ty ’ and their serious consequences. A HOME
i/UKE pure and simple for all who need it. Address-
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by that justly-
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SP ECI AL.I ST,
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St,
S3T3Di<r^]3r.
TTg-tr,
SPOONER’S
: t
SPOONERS
v m S
wi*r L£AtHt« 300 T
GUilSXfD&tt
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and la.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also'Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Soot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
THE
j ~
sdf
sd
THE
PLUM’
(GENTLEMEN. —This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, fin:
like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind o'.
edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “ PLUM ” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7*. 6(L
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
Price
/ Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Oaae, 2ls.
\ Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful oase, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to ant part op the World.
tar Please add 6d. exchange on Country and le. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sol* Agents ORA IQ A AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
ASTHMA and BRONCHITIS CURED
By using CASE’S ASTHMA CURE, made from the Queensland Asthma
Plant. Relieves Instantly, eventually Cures. 4s. 6d. large bottle:
Posted to any State, Ss.
d. W. CASE, Chemist, 140 Wickham-st., Brisbane.
Please mention Bulletin when writing:.
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manuf. Company,
193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
WHEEES > or any description of
SADDLERY ? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man ' Sulky, £5; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the beat and strongest in Australia. £ll.
Double Buggies, £26. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts
and every description of vehicles in Stock and made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
eriptmn at the very Lowest Prices. Send us' your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
■*ent. more for your requirements.
fsd
<WK BPE CIA Ti No. 3
£8 18/6
W.B.W. Railways, S
Are YOU
Like This—?
=r=i
II your scalp is
like this, wouldn’t
you like to see it
well covered with
hair ?
Wouldn’t you like
to have it like it
used to be ?
Of course you
would.
TRY
HAIR
SO''3-
TO!
It’s different from all other hair pre-
parations because it’s better.
You will follow directions, and by-and-
bye you will be gratified by seeing the
hair spring up slowly, but none the less
surely ; and in a little while your scalp
will be thoroughly covered with hair.
If you will faithfully follow my in-
structions with every bottle, I guarantee
that you will get the above result.
OAPILLA is obtainable at all chemists,
2s. 6d. a bottle : or I will post a bottle direct
to you for 3s. 3d.
W. OLIVER RICHARDS,
Sole Proprietor and Inven tor,
164 PITt STREET, SYDNEY.
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300
pages ; price, 4s. 6d.
SYDNEY—
Royal, April, 1903,
CHAMPION CUP
and
SIX FIRST PRIZES.
*
s
MELBOURNE—
August, 1902, Grand
Championship of
Australasia.
ADELAIDE—Champion
Cup & 8 First Prizes.
Helidon Saa Water.
A Natural Liquid Food. Frmti HclMnn OnconaknJ
The Bulletin
Vol 24.—N0. 1229. j
[Thursday, September 3, 1903
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


trade
THE LATEST BOOKS AT-
Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd. :
Hobbs, Imperial India ; Cloth, 2s, postage 4d.
American Literature (Literatures of the World), 6s, p. Bd.
Strong and Osbourne, Memories of Vaihma, 4s, p. 6a.
Sir David Wilkie (Masters of British Art), 4s, p. 6d.
Kernahan (Mrs.), An Unwise Virgin, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Roberts, Barbara Ladd, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
M‘Carthy (J.H.), If I Were King, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Bell, Wee Macgreegor, Illus., Leather, 4s, postage 4d.
Crawford, Queen Victoria, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Baden-Powell (Major), War in Practice, ss, p. 6d.
Griffith (Geo.), Lake of Gold, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Raits, Alison Howard, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Bayliss, A Woman in the City, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Oxenham (John), Rising Fortunes, 2s 6d, p. 4d.
71 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doors South of King St.) &at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane & London
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
Contain no Cocaine or
other Poisonous Drug.
For COUGHS,
COLDS,
LOSS OF VOICE,
BRONCHITIS,
and all Affections of
the Throat and Lungs.
ov
Sold by all Chemists, tins, 1/6.
The Great Antiseptic
Remedy for the Care
of INFLUENZA and
PREVENTION of CON—
SUnPTION.
Invaluable for Singers
and Public Speakers.
Sole Manufacturer : G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Australia.
SYDNEY DEPOT: 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE. Agents In all the Australian States and New Zealand.
Melbourne and West Australia .. .. FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO.
South Australia *.
Launceston .. •*
.. PAULDING & CO.
FAIRTHOKNE & CO.
Hobart..
New Zealand..
.. A. P. MILLAR & 808
.. SHARLAND & 00., Lr*.
THE RED PAGE.
James Brunton Stephens.
11.
FOR twenty-one years, among the crowds
from the southern suburb that trooped
daily across Victoria bridge, Brisbane,
James Brunton Stephens was a familiar
figure. He used to wear a loose, old-fashioned,
dark walking coat, and an old-fashioned hard
black hat. Of medium height, and rather thin,
he walked with a stick, and he wore dark glasses
on account of the weakness of his eyes. He
carried his head with dignity. His chin and
throat were shaven ; and in later days his hair
and beard were sparse and silvery white. If
faces are any indication of the mind, then
Stephens’s face indicated the cultured mind
behind it. It was the face of a poet.
In spite of official obligations and family dis-
tractions, Stephens managed to do a great deal of
literary work. For the last thirty years of his
life, and until his official work became engross-
ing, he wrote for the newspapers topical notes,
short stories, and verses light and serious. Most
of these writings, possibly, possessed only a
passing interest, but the saving grace of style is
with them all. His literary craftsmanship
was also to be traced in the more important
State documents that of late years appeared
above the signatures of Queensland Premiers ;
and politicians heard, at the opening of Parlia-
ments, Stephens’s language issuing from the
mouth of the Governor.
“ The longer I live,” he has written, “and the
more poetry I read, the more does my apprecia-
tion of absolute accuracy of expression increase.”
Like his ancestor, Buchanan, Stephens was a
stickler for the precise word—the exact phrase.
Often he would lie awake at night fighting over
a troublesome line of poetry, unable to sleep until
he had mastered it.
The- burden of Stephens’s official work lay
heavily upon his shoulders towards the end.
Federation and the South African war, into which
Queensland had been hustled, meant for him, as
the mouthpiece of the Premier, much additional
work. There were days when, to use his own
expression, “his brains were like batter-pud-
ding.” He had not the faculty of being able
to write to order. He was particularly sensitive
to noise, and could only concentrate his thoughts
in isolation. He envied the writer who could
fling himself into his work, oblivious of his sur-
roundings.
Stephens’s official work undoubtedly interfered
with the maturing of those sub-conscious pro-
cesses that with him preceded literary production.
He held that to do good work one needed leisure
for rumination. Impressions or ideas, stored up
in his brain, grouped or classified themselves sub-
consciously, and, gradually taking form, quickened
for literary birth in due season. Meditation
aided the process ; distraction and pre-occupation
delayed it. The artist who could devote himself
entirely to an art was to be envied, he thought.
He did not believe in artistic coddling, however—
in sitting down and waiting for moods. Without
doubt, there were times when a man could write
better than at others. To some extent moods could
be cultivated, but the man who set himself to
find moods—to drag them out of their lairs, so to
speak—had a considerable advantage over the
man who preferred to sit down and wait for his
moods to manifest themselves.
Stephens wrote but one leading article for a
newspaper. His sipgle novel is practically out of
print. A comic opera entitled Fayette, libretto by
Stephens and music by G. B. Allen (who had
conducted Gilbert and Sullivan’s first opera), was
taken to London by an influential friend, but
failed to find acceptance ; though selections ren-
dered publicly in Brisbane had much praise from
local musical lovers and critics. Two other comic
operas, taken at different times to London, met
no better reception.
On the whole Stephens made very little money
out of his writings. He did not lack business
instinct, for he was a careful man in money
matters; but he hated advertisement, and he had
always a curious lack of faith in the value of his
literary productions. When Henry Lawson once
complained in print that he had not made A7OO
out of all his writings, Stephens laconically
remarked, “ If I had made anything like that out
of mine, I’d have been satisfied.”
His head was always full of literary projects.
In one of his Tamrookum letters (1870) to Earle,
written in the light bantering vein that charac-
terises most of his letters to close friends, he
says:—
Will you get me a book on the Sandwich Islands ? I
want the S.I. for the base of the thing. I’ll tell you all
about it when I get the thing clearer in my mind. It’s
the scenery chiefly I want, especially, the. volcano of
Kilauea. The basis of the pome will be historical, but the
most of it will be reflections, like. The title is clear
enough, so I won’t withhold it—
KAPIOLANI.
Ain’t that a bee-youtiful name ? None of yer Englified
pronunciation for it tho’. None of yer Oxford Kappy-o-lay-
nigh, but a fine broad Scotch Ka,pio-lah-nee. Four
syllables, mind, Kap-yo-lah-nee.
Q. Who was Kapiolani ?
A. A queen of the Sandwidge Islands.
Q. What can you tell me of Kapiolani?
A. She embraced Christianity and overthrew the idola-
trous worship of Pete.
Q. How did she go for to do it ?
A. She announced to her subjects that she would go up
to the top of the volcano of Kilauea, the supposed
stronghold of Pet 4, and throw her slipper down the
crater, defying the goddess to avenge the insult.
Q. And did she do it ?
A, Guess she did.
Q. And did Pet 6 avenge the insult ?
A Not yet.
Q. How do you know ?
A. You Te another.
It is to be written in a totally new style of versification
as thus
Kapiolani swore she’d dip her
Slipper
In the crater,
And her subjects swore to await her
At the foot of it,
Not a doot of it,
One with her stocking and another with her gaiter —
And the whole transaction took place about 20° north
of the Equator.
It is called the crescendo-diminuendo metre. lam
sure Jo [Clarke] will admire it—it is so pittoresque even
in the outline.
But, seriously, I want a book about the Sandwich
Islands—not too dear, you know. The subject is, I
venture to say, utterly virgin and untouched, and there
is a whole poem in the very idea.
It was Stephens’s custom to read all the avail-
able literature dealing vyitli the subject upon
which he intended to write. He was particularly
careful of his natural history and geography, and
generally went to great trouble in verifying his
references. He was an excellent letter-writer,
and delighted in a congenial correspondence.
In his letters to his few intimate friends the
nature of the man is disclosed, sometimes
exuberant with rollicking humour, full of the
zest of life; sometimes sad and melancholy when
the pendulum had swung to the other extreme.
On Saturday evenings, when the worries of
office were not heavy, the friend who called at
Stephens’s home in Water-street, South Brisbane,
saw him at his best. These friends were few, because
he was not an easy man to get in touch with. He
strained at uncongenial companionship; in con*
genial company he unfolded himself slowly, and
then only when sure of his ground. Here is a
characteristic invitation to a Saturday evening
symposium:—
Dear . It is an age since we have seen you. Why
is that thus and not otherwise? Can you come to us to-
morrow evening ?
Menu for the evening: Chatter and Bulimba, with
entr6e of Capstan medium. Write and say whether
Yours faithfully,
J. B. Stephens.
He loved “a yarn,” as he called it—an uncon-
ventional chat about men, and books, and things.
In the roof of his house at Wator-street he had an
attic built to which he retired from the bosom of
his family to smoke, and write, and read, and
meditate. There the privileged visitor saw him
as he really was—simple, natural, modest, and un-
restrained. His voice was musical, clear, courtly,
and cultured. There was no trace of egotism
about him. He did not monopolise the conversa-
tion, and spoke about himself and his writings
seldom, with great diffidence. He read widely in
poetry, fiction, history, science, and metaphysics.
Italian and French literature he absorbed in the
original. Shakespeare, Dante, Tennyson, Ros-
setti and Swinburne ranked highest in his estima-
tion of the poets. He described Swinburne as
“poison ” to young poets, who found it difficult to
resist imitating his mannerisms. Those who
know Swinburne’s “Hesperia” will recognise
that “Convict Once” is written in a similar
metre. Of Rossetti he wrote to a young writer :
‘ ‘ Now, there is a man who can meet all the
modern symbolists or other ists on their own
ground and lick them. Which of them can bring
such treasures from the Infinite as he ? But take
his “ House of Life.” The sublimation of thought
in it is not more remarkable than the incontest-
able accuracy of expression, the definition, the
preciseness of each wonderful phrase. Others
grope in the Infinite. Rossetti knows his way in/
it.”
Of Australian poetry he had a due appreciation,
but its “horseyness” and its pessimism did not
appeal to him. “It lacks a fundamental basis of
brain,” was his verdict. He hated the Bush.
“ Soul cannot march to the bleating of sheep and
the lowing of cattle,” he wrote in “Convict
Once.” The element of local colour in any verse
mattered little to him ; the essential thing was the
broader emotion common to humanity.
<3*
Stephens made a point of keeping abreast of the
times in his reading, and in developing what he
called “the modern side of his mind.” He read
the American novelists with zest, and had a keen
appreciation of the American short story.
“There is something fresh about it to me,” he
would say. But realism in literature was his
Mte noire. “The coarseness ”of Zola offended his
literary susceptibilities. The portrayal of scenes
and actions such as are depicted in Zola’s writings,
he averred, is in itself a stimulant to crime. And
he wrote —
lam at war with pessimism as a literary cult. To me
no grind is so weak and monotonous as the weary, mono-
tonous grind of pessimism. Things may be rotten, but
the poetry of rottenness is the rottenest of them all. The
cry to genius is to create—make something, not weep
and wail. Pessimism (I mean literary pessimism), in my
opinion, is weakness of mind—decay of originality, and
most of its literary devices merely disguise the want of
positive ideas. ..lam constitutionally pessimistic. I have
been there, and am still apt to go back. But that would
not justify me in making a cult of pessimism, any more
than my being a leper would justify me in disseminating
a nn«cr"y of leprosy.
And—
uost of the rising poets seem to me to be occupied in
describing their point of view.. . The devil take their point
of view ! What I want to know is what they see from it.
In politics, Stephens was a conservative, but
his conservatism was tempered by a sympathetic
nature. He was appalled at the amount of
misery and suffering that existed in the world ;
he was astonished at the patience of the oppressed
masses; but he was not to be convinced that it
was possible for State effort to remedy their
grievance. “I have experienced penury myself,”
he has said; “I have known the time when I
sat in the gardens near the Brisbane Observa-
tory and wondered where I was going to get
my next meal from. lam not Jacking in sym-
pathy for the poor and the outcast, but I do not
hold with the wrong ideas of the Labour party.”
The subject of Socialism was a tabooed one at
Water-street. “No doubt it is the greatest
question of the day,” he has written, “but I
confess I am getting a little tired of book
Socialism as material for conversation. If you
can tell me the actual steps—not the mere prin-
ciples of the bill—that are going to be taken in
consequence of it all, and what are likely to be
the proximate results to ourselves and our chil-
dren—no sweet-by-and-by business—l shall be
much obliged, but in the meantime I am going to
take a rest from first principles.”
Stephens prided himself upon keeping his mind
open for the reception of new truths, and upon
his toleration. And on all other subjects
than Socialism he was tolerant. An intellectual
aristocrat, he had a groundless dread of the
possibility of a hobnailed invasion. Democracy,
in a vague sort ot way, meant a levelling down
to the status of the man hanging about the
street corner waiting for someone to come
along and buy his labour. It meant that the
vestal in the sacred temple of Art would be a
fellow with bowyangs ! . , ,
In the orthodox sense, Stephens was without
religion. Christ was to him the moral ideal. But
Christ’s divinity was quite another matter.
Stephens’s mental attitude towards that great
personification of all the virtues was the mental
attitude of Renan. His nature was too sympa-
thetic to remain bound by the hard, cold, cruel
Calvinism with which his young mind had been
saturated. His mind was too broad to be confined
by any particular sect or creed. “But if ever I
should turn to any particular religion, lie has
said, “I think it would be Roman Catholicism.
The’self-sacrifice of its devotees impressed one to
whom true religion was manifest in deeds, not
words. And the antiquity of Roman Catholic tradi-
tions appealed to him. , . ..
“Have you read Lafcadio’s Hearns Kokorol
he asked a friend a week before his death. “ Ihere
is a chapter headed " The Idea of Pre-existence
in it. I was just working towards that.” In the
particular ohapter mentioned the Oriental idea of
the soul is outlined. It is not “the single,
tenuous, tremulous, transparent, inner man of
the Western peoples, not the ghostly supernatural
visitant or guest that links man to the Great Un-
known. To the Buddhistic mind the soul is not
individual, but multiple. “It is the inherited
memory of the absolutely inconceivable multitude
of experiences received by all the brains of which
it is the descendant.’’ The individual soul is
likened to a composite photograph. “The
struggle between impulses good and evil is but a
conflict between the various ghostly wills that
make up the Ego. And a person’s spiritual hope is
to disengage his better self or selves from his
worso selves ; Nirvana, or the Supreme bliss,
being attainable only through the survival of the
best within him.” “Through all my ups and
downs,” Stephens has said, “I have never lost
that inherent something that set me striving to
live up to the best that was in me.” He was con-
vinced that true happiness consisted in right-doing,
and that “that which is right is that which is best
not only for the individual, but for all.” At
times a peculiar dread of the possibility of a
future life would possess him, but normally he
was without prejudice in respect to any after
state.
J*
Stephens had an ideal nature in many respects.
In the combination of ancestors that epitomised
in him the female element predominated. He
had none of the distinctive virile qualities of
his sex. Books and his pen were his hobbies.
He was a student from his boyhood upwards.
His office, his family, his study, the School of
Arts, an occasional literary gathering, and some-
times a visit to the theatre, made up the routine
of his days during the last two decades. He
shrank from prominence, and he had a holy
horror, of being lionised. At literary gatherings,
people over whom he stood head and
intellectually, he would retire into out-
of-the-way corners. An inordinately modest man,
he could never bring himself to the assurance that
his writings deserved the success they had
achieved. At the height of his literary fame,
when a common correspondence clerkship in the
Colonial Secretary’s Department was offered to
him, he fretted in fear that he might,not be com-
petent to do the work.
He was, indeed, exceedingly sensitive. Any
extraordinary event, such as a new appointment
or a birth in his family, unbalanced him, often
for days together. When a person was to be
hung at the gaol, half-a-niile away from his house,
he could not sleep for several nights previous to
the execution. In fancy he would hear the
hammering of the mien erecting the gallows. He
was intensely sympathetic. He could not refuse
a request for charity. As he saw the outcast and
the mendicant, so he pictured himself as becoming.
Did one of his daughters have occasion to
go to the dentist’s, he went to his office and was
miserable all day.
An absolutely conscientious man in all his
undertakings! As a Bush tutor, be preferred
to resign his position rather than brook parental
interference with what he conceived to be his duty
towards his charges. As perhaps the most promin-
ent literary personality in Australia, numbers of
young writers sent him MSS, and besought his
advice. Though he hated to act as a literary
judge, often under the necessity of passing
adverse judgment, still he felt it incumbent upon
him to undertake such work, and he carried
it through conscientiously, frequently at great
personal inconvenience. “He was an excellent
friend,” says one who had known him intimately
for thirty years, with _ moistened eyes. “He
never let anyone in in his life, he never borrowed
money. When he hadn’t it he went without it.
His attachments were eternal. He was as tender-
hearted as a woman. He had the soul of an
angel, had Jimmy Stephens.”
F.K.
MARGINALIA
M a mie a un petit rien,
Si joli, si doux, si fin ;
Et ce cher petit rien
Pour moi c’est l’Eden.
Pavfois me mets en Ute
Que seul lui appartient:
Ont le rn£me toutes fillettes,
Un joli, joli petit rien..
L’une le livre d tons,
L’autre le garde d soi ;
Pourtant mon bijou
Ne le donne qu’d moi.
Lorsqu’avec extase
Elle me fixe tendrement,
Vile je Venlace,
Sa main cache le talisman.
Et ce cher petit rien
Auquel personne ne touche,
Vous le concevez bien,
De ma mie c’est la bouche.
EMILE STEADS.
O women! what did you do with the sweet
depths of your eyes—with the intoxication of vour
dreaming- lips or with their swelling, voluptuous
ardour—with your dimples—with your little curis—with
the baudelairian swing of your hips—with your wilful
f orce — w ith your audacious charm—when you became
painters and sculptors?— Adolphe Dervaux, commisera-
ting the (Paris) exhibition of the Union of Woman
Painters and Sculptors.
As Gelett Burgess writes—
Not the quarry, hut the chase,
Not the laurel, but the race,
Not the hazard, but the play,
Make me, Lord, enjoy alway.
MEMORANDA
Wagner’s literary and musical copyrights are
worth to his heirs about .£30,000 a year, without counting
Bayreuth. Last year Lohengrin was given 997 times in
the German countries, 420 times in Latin countries, and
318 times in Britain and the U.S.A. Tannhauser, in all
countries, was performed upwards of 500 times ; and the
author’s royalties came to about £l5 per representation.
Barron Field’s First Fruits of Australian
Poetry brought £8 at a London sale in June. For the
price of late fruits from rich fields, see advertisements.
Eloquent statistics ! In Paris Salons this year
there were catalogued by the Independents, 2462 works
of art from 350 painters, sculptors, etc. ; by the Artistes
franqaia, 2755 works from 900 authors; and by the
Soci6t6 nationale, 4757 works from 3000 authors making
a total of 4250 artists and 9974 works of art! So
that the adventurous Australian who gets One In may
seem scarcely to earn his cable.
“ Mark Twain” has announced his intention to
leave America and make his home if) Italy.
The International Encyclopcedia of Journalism.,
“an authoritative history and comprehensive hand-
book,” is being compiled in London.
Jumbuck : You propose restricting competition
in the Herald chess problem tourneys to Australian com-
posers only. I am an Australian composer whose
problems have appeared in every illustrated Australian
weekly, and elsewhere. So far from deprecating the
world's competition, I wish for it. The £5 ss. is nothing
in my eyes : the glory is everything. It would be an
honour to come out first against the world’s best com-
posers ; whereas a first against local composers, however
good the winning problem, would have little merit in the
eyes of the world at large.
But one could do chess a real service by securing
anonymity. Suppose the judge never sees the names of
the composers, do you think he does not know ? Do you
think “Hop’s” cartoons could remain anonymous,
wherever appearing ? A chess-man who had seen even one
of my problems would know my compositions by the very
colour of the inks employed ; by the diagramming ; by
the handwriting in the solution sent with the problem.
It seems to me evident that Glynn, though a conscien-
tious and honourable judge, was “ gallied ” into award-
ing a place to a problem by Max Feigl—a problem
utterly unworthy of that fine composer. Could the
judge, recognising Feigl’s Work, dare to pass it over ?
especially in face of Lond. Times critique on the last
prize-winners. .
So with the problems by Charlick, and “ Sans Peine.
Let the competitive problems with their solutions be
copied or printed off in the Herald office all in one style,
before forwarding to the judge. This suggestion in
kindness to the judge himself, and in fairness to Aus-
tralian composers.
Some of Whistler’s “ Propositions
A picture is finished when all trace of the means used
to bring about the end has disappeared. .
To say of a picture, as is often said in its praise, that it
shows “great and earnest labour,” is to say that it is in*
complete and unfit for view.
Industry in Art is a necessity, not a virtue ; and any
evidence of the same in the production is a blemish, not
a quality : a proof, not of achievement, but of absolutely
insufficient work, for work alone will efface the footsteps
of work. , ~ ' , ~
The work of the Master reeks not of the sweat of the
brow, suggests no effort, and is finished from its be-
ginning. , .
The “ completed task ” of perseverance only has never
been begun, and will remain unfinished to eternity—a
monument of goodwill and foolishness.
“ There is one that laboureth, and taketh pains, and
maketh haste—and is so much the more behind.”
The masterpiece should appear as the flower to the
painter, perfect in its bud as in its bloom, with no reason
to explain its presence, no mission to fulfil—a joy to the
artist, a delusion to the philanthropist, a puzzle to the
botanist, an accident of sentiment and alliteration to the
literary man.
Another Whistler story. To a painter who
complained that there was “a conspiracy of silence
against him, and asked for advice, Whistler gently re-
sponded, “Join it! 1
Another. He was painting the portrait of an
American lady, but could not please himself (her
pleasure was of no importance). After twenty sittings
he gave a “Chut!” of disgust, and destroyed the
canvas before her eyes. Much chagrined, the
asked what was to recompense her for the time she had
wasted. “ Madam !—all these days you the
society of ” —bowing gracefully—“ Whistler !"
A Sydney firm of colourmen addresses its
advertisement to “ Artists and Painters.” The distinc-
tion is appreciable—and necessary.
Eng. Law Times urges that ifi'-is only by an act
of grace that Australia is allowed to make up her own
mind on the preferential tariff question and others. It
we look to the letter of the British Constitution, as dis-
tinguished from the spirit by which its working is
prompted, nothing is clearer than that the legislative
authority possessed by Colonial Legislatures is puisne to
the authority of the Imperial Parliament. By the
Colonial Laws Act, 1865, laws cannot be made by Colonial
legislatures inconsistent with any Act of Parliament
intended by the Imperial Parliament to apply to these
Colonies. It would accordingly be within the com-
petence of the Imperial Parliament to adjust by its own
legislation the commercial relations between Great
Britain and the Colonies.” This is a point which Gov.
Flick-’em-on-the-Rawson and other Of Chamberlain s
Empire-touts might make when there’s question of
getting John See or Deakin to bob up unexpectedly with
a perfectly original and totally unsuggested cable.
George Taylor, a local illustrator whose drawings
have appeared in Punch, complains that some of his
acquaintances have misunderstood the charge of lack of
originality levelled against Pundh. Acquaintances are
often stupid. What obviously was meant was that Punen
dealt in out-worn modes, in tame compromises between
art and public sentimeht, and that one looked m its
pao-es vainly for the new, the virile, 1 the inspired, the
Australians who have drawn for Punch were not accused
of being imitators. No one who has seen George Taylor s
drawings, for example, would ever dream of doubting his
originality. ...
The Bulletin will presently hold an exhibition
and sale of the drawings that Phil May contributed to its
columns. The collection will be not only a series of
brilliant examples of black-and-white art: it will hold a
rare Australian interest. The drawings of eminent Aus-
tralians of the eighties and nineties, with which Mays
work is filled, have unique value. It is Australian
history and biography, as well as pen-drawing in many
respects unsurpassed, that will be shown in the rooms of
Messrs. Walter Bradley and Co.
A.G.C.


WOOL
WINGHCOMBE, CARSON, and CO., Limited,
WOOL BROKERS AND PRODUCE SALESMEN
SYDNEY.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
Are by far the most successful Salesmen
OP
Kangaroo, Wallaby,
Babbit and Opossum
fsd
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
SYDNEY.
Wool Stores-FYRMONT.
Head Office and Produce Store—ll Phillip St.
Sole Wool-Selling Commission
to the Growers—
If Peir Cent.
Trust Account.
Regular Sales of Wool & Product.
Prompt Returns.
A GO-AHEAD FIRM
Sussex Street,
SYDNEY.
t
PATESON & COBCROFT, 231
Auctioneers, Commission and Live Stock Agents,
. and Produce Merchants,
floods forwarded and received from this or any State. Agents for celebrated Corn Cob Bacon.
AUCTIONS ANYWHERE.
THE LEADING HOUSE for SPORTING HOODS and TOBACCO.
ir
&
Isola.
&
N?/MANILA
No. 1 Manila.
Santiago.
SINGLE BOX AT WHOLESALE PRICE.
GOODS EXCHANGED or MONEY RETURNED.
El Mundo.
GUARANTEE.-EVERV CIGAR SOUND
AND IN PERFECT CONDITION.
Post Free Post Free
N.S.YV. oth. States
Post Free Post Free
N.S.W. oth. States
EOMA QUEENS
LA PAROLA, Reliable Smoke
HIGH LIFE MENDOZAS
NIMROD REINA VICTORIA ..
LA SPECIAL, from Choicest Leaf
SANTIAGO LA FLOR, Fine Quality
" LEOLA,” Borneo, Mild Smoking
‘EL RIVAL,” Borneo, Full Flavor ui
HEAVY WEIGHTS (P. de Mendoza) 100
Per 100.
“ PERLA ” BOUQUET
“EL MUNDO” (Rothschilds)
“MENDOZA” (Rothschilds)
“ PERLA ” (Rothschilds) ..
“ MINERVA ” No.' 1 MANILA ..
“WINDSOR LADY” (Manila Regalia)
“ PERLA MINERVA,” Manila, Fine Qui
FLOR DE NAVES (Havana Reina)
Per 100.
HENRY CLAY (Havana Oouchas, extra) 60
36 0 30 Obox
REVOLUTION ” IN THE TOBACCO TRADE.
“ RED SEAL” TOBACCO
AT MILLION PRICES f *
Tft SUIT THP TfMPS.
“Red Seal”
Dark Plug:
Strong & Medium
3/-
per lb.
Post Free
“Red Seal”
Bright Plug 1
Mild Smoking/
3/6
per lb.
Post Free
“Red Seal”
Bright Cut
2oz. Packets
}
4/3
per lb.
Post Free
“Red Seal
99
Bright Cut
4oz. Patent Tine
4/3
per lb.
Poet Free
“ RED SEAL ” is a REAL GOOD Smoking Tobacco, guaranteed BEST VALUE in the States.
We RECOnnEND Smokers to give “RED SEAL” Tobacco a tpia.
Miok Simmons, Haymarltet, Sydney*
I. Hollis
& Son’s
“THE RELIABLE."
Pfrice J 36 12s. 6di
fsd
N?a
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 gauge, top lever, bar action, real twist or steel
barrels, Greener cross-bolt, left choke, rebounding locks snap fore-end
chambered for 2fm. cartridges. Guaranteed for all Smokeless Powder.
Mick Simmons, Haymarket, Sydney.
WE Will Give Ton HAPPINESS
If you will only place your case in our hands, we have the Remedy for you, and We know we can cure you, as we have dohe with thousands of worse cases than yours,
tor we have placed many people, who have been bed-ridden for periods of from five to twenty years, on their feet, and made them as strong and healthy as ever they
were. You do not know what Electricity can do for you until you try it, and then you will bless the day you came to us, as others have done.
DR. MCLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT =====
s P e edy Remedy for ALL NERVOUS DISORDERS, BACKACHE, KIDNEY and LIVER TROUBLES, INDIGESTION, CON-
£ r0 l N ! DYSPEPSIA, RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA, LUMBAGO, THAT TIRED FEELING, and BLOOD DISORDERS. Without it Life is a misery !
vvita it we bring Joy ana Happiness to every home. Health and Happiness can only be obtained by the use of this Genuine Electric Appliance—the only one in existence.
A FREE BOOK
containing all information as to the
uses of the Belt and other informa-
tion, and also giving names of a
great many people who have been
cured by it, will be sent post paid to
any address. If you are not feeling
well you ought to send for it at once,
if you study your Health. You will
never regret it should you place
your case in our hands.
Medicine did No Good.
Mr. Joseph Selway, of Jesmond,
near Lambton, Newcastle, N.S.W.,
says: “Dear Sirs,— I am very thankful to
inform you that my health is a great deal
better since wearing your No. 7 Belt. The
strange, cold feeling that I complained of in
my side and chest is very near gone alto-
gether, thank God; also my bowels act a
good deal more freely. Your Belt is simply
a wonder, as I never got any good from
medicines, and this Belt has done so much
in so short a time for me.”
■m.
ft 'I B fcr-
I IfISPStfS
A'l
i. \ *
mu
I'M
I!‘«m
DRUGS
are Useless and Expensive.
• • Dr. McLaughlin’s ..
ELECTRIC BELT
m wmummm ■■h mmmmmmmm
absolutely Cure you of your
Ailments, without medicine
A FREE TEST
of this wonderful Electric Appliance
will be given to anyone wishing to
call, and we will only, be too pleased
to show anyone, whether ailing or
not, the working of the Electricity
in the Belt, how the current can be
regulated so that the smallest child
can wear it without the slightest
inconvenience.
Mr. A. W. McCulloch, of 68 Kent
Street, N. Richmond, Vic., writes:
“ Dear Sirs, —I have great pleasure in say-
ing that I have received great benefit from
wearing your Belt. My system is much
stronger, and my Sciatica and Rheumatism
has not troubled me, as was usual at this
time of the year, a great benefit which I owe
to your Belt, although I have only had it
for about a month. Before wearing your
Belt I had always something wrong with
me, either in my legs or arms through
Rheumatism. I have great confidence in
your Belt, and will not fail to recommend
it to anyone suffering the same as I have
done.”
health has improved very much since I have been wiring the Belt yoi^YsleepwelUt* night letter just received as my
in my back have entirely left me, as has, also, the sense of weariness I used to feel. 3 My friends clngratukte me on my f ° r
wish to know what lam taking ;I am glad to tell them that it is the Belt that has caused the changl Hope you will sell plenty Belts, as I till try to do°fir you!”’
Do not Buy sn Electric Belt until you Bic&vg given up taking Drugs.
Special Notice-— Owing to the Wonderful Success and the great cures effected by the Dr. McLaughlin Electric Belt naturally envious people
try to imitate it. Do not confuse us with any concern advertising a Belt “ Free,” and who, upon your request for same, place
and try to induce you to part with a few shillings, which is considerably more than the value of the appliance Write us for full particSars
The Dr. McLAUGHLIN CO.
10OW. Market St., Sydney
Melbourne Office: 167 E. Swanston Street.


fsd
SMOKE
The Unrivalled
World Renownec
BRIAR
PIPES
LARGEST DEPOT:
231 Clarence St,
SYDNEY.
D
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartb.urn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affection*.
EFORDS
DIN
MAGNESIA
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
T
k
\
L
From our Springs at Helidon. OWEN GARDNER & SONS, Brisbane (Head office) &at Helidon.
Ask for ..
5
Ready
Made
Dried-
f
It is. .
Known
as the
Best..
On Our Selection, written by A. H. Davis
(“ Steele Rudd ”) and published by Tub
Bulletin-Co., has earned the title of “the
jolliest book ever printed in Australia.”
There is laughter on every page; yet the
book remains grimly true to the facts. As
a picture of life on an Australian selection
it has never been surpassed. Since it was
published, little more than two years ago,
upwards of 12,000 copies have been sold at
the comparatively high price of 6s. —making
an Australian publishing record. The reason of the sale is not far to seek : the
people who have bought the book know they have got value for their money;
and they recommend it to others. The price is comparatively high because the book is expensive to
produce. It is well printed, and strongly bound in cloth in good style. There are numerous pictures
by such well-known i lustrators as Mahony, Leist, Lambert, Fischer, Fullwood, and Vincent. From
ON
m®\\
i
cover to cover the book is Australian—the product of Aus-
tralian workmen. If it were produced by cheaper labour
in Eu"land, it would cost less, and could be sold at a
cheaper rate. The publishers prefer to employ Australian
labor only. When you buy On Our Selection you pay T
a little more than you pay for an English book ; but
you get 100 times the Australian value. “ Steele Kudd’s”
book has gone all over Australia, and wherever it has
gone it has become the treasure of a household, often
the delight of a township. People never leave off
reading it until it is thumbed to rags ; and then they
buy another copv. The characters of “ Our Selection
“Old Dad,” “Joe,” “Dave,” “Sarah,” and the rest—
OUR
have become famous throughout the country ; and their imitation by weaker writers proves the force
of their grip on the public mind. Any bookseller will sell you the book ; or if you send a postal
order for 65., with Bd. postage, direct to The Bulletin office, it will be forwarded to any address
by return mail.
SELECTION !
RIFLES AND SHOT-GUNS
Are Guaranteed to give Satisfaction.
sdf
Peep Sight.
Take-down.
REMING-TON NEW No. 6 RIFLE—I9O3 MODEL
Is tlxe latest production in a 22 calibre rifle, and is offered at a price that
makes it the best value in the market.
Sp3cify U.M.C. 22 Calibre Cartridges.
KING
2h.p. to lOOh.p.
MARINE OIL ENGINES.
Launches built 20ft. to 80ft. overall.
'innwMMisnrfrriJf/SS*
f-
.J* 0
Noiseless Uuderwater. •
Exhaust.
Perfect Gas Generator.
Double Cylinder.
Automatic Oil Feed.
Simple Electric Igruitioa
with Dynamo.
J. F.
Telephone 2871.
WITM THli KING ENGINE — ONE LEVER CONTROLS TILE WHOLE.
McJDHRMOTX & COMIFA-HTT.
30 PITT STREET. S'SC’XJIKnE'X".
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £.900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Botble are universally acknowledged
XO DKITY COMPBTITIOKT.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
Sc
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
m
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE*
TORPID LIVER.
i FURRED TONGUE.
I
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION. !
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
Carter's
There’s SECURITY In
WITTLE
IVER
PI LLS
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price.
They TOUGH the
Be
Sure are i
Carters
TATTERS ALL’S
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania).
IMPORTANT NOTICE
The Tasmanian Government having 1 imposed a tax of One Penny
on every Five Shilling Ticket issued by Tattersall’s on and after Ist
January, 1903, clients will please forward Id. extra for each ss.
ticket applied for, or 4d. for every .£l, and so on.
NOW OPEN
METROPOLITAN STAKES, Randwick, N.S.W., September 14, 50,000 at 5/1.
DEMONSTRATION H’CP, Warwick Farm, N.S.W., Oct. 5, 50,000 at 5/1.
CAULFIELD CUP, Caulfield, Vic., Oct. 17, 100,000 at 5/1.
MELBOURNE CUP, Flemington, Vic., Nov. 3, 100,000 at 10/2.
MELBOURNE CUP, Flemington, Vic., Nov. 3, 100,000 at 5/1-
MELBOURNE CUP (Special), Elemington, Vic., November 3 (Drawn Morning of Race), 100,000 at 5/1.
Subscribers will please note that GEORGE ADAMS (“TATTERSALL”) STILL
CONTINUES his business in HOBART, under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN
GOVERNMENT, and that clients can send their subscriptions by letter to any friend or
acquaintance in HOBART, who will there have no difficulty in delivering the application and
securing the despatch of tickets and results direct to clients.
Money can also be paid through any Bank in Australasia, to the credit of G T
ADAMS, Commercial Bank of Tasmania, Hobart. Clients when so doing will please request
Bank to advise GEORGE ADAMS of amount, with their name and full address.
Small Parcels addressed to me can be forwarded to Hobart through any lAROEL
DELIVERY” CO. doing; business with Tasmania.


:e
v*
V.
It’s an easy job for the barber to
part the hair on a head like this.
It’s just as easy to prevent baldness
if you only do the right thing.
Baldness is almost always a sure
sign of neglect; it is the story of neg-
lected dandruff.
Dandruff is untidy, unnecessary, and
unhealthy
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
cures dandruff and prevents baldness.
You save your hair and you are spared
the annoyance of untidy clothing.
It also stops falling of the hair, and
makes the hair grow thick and long..
Do not be deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Make sure that you get the genuine
Ayer’s Hair Vigor,
Prepared by Or J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell. Mass., U.S.A.
Cockroaches !
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦ »♦♦♦♦♦
BUFFONS
COCKROACH . . .
EXTERMINATOR
Clears houses of these pests very quickly.
Has been used for many years with
great success.
To be obtained of all Chemists.
BOSISTO’S
“Parrot Brand 1 ’
Eucalyptus Oil
For Rheumatism, Sprains, Bruises,
Wounds, Coughs, Colds and
Sore Throats.
CAUTION.—Ask for Bosisto’B
PARROT BRAND,
and Beware of Imitations.
sdf
sdf
F;'l
H
W. H.Wigzell.
FRINGES: Best Natural Ourly
Hair, 3/6, 5/6, 7/6, 8/6,10/6 each.
TAILS and PLAITS : 20in. long',
5/6 ; extra thick, 7/6; 24in., 10/6;
extra thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings worked up,
2/6 per oz. Don’t be misled.
Our Plaits and Tails are twice as
thick as sold elsewhere at the
same price. Send color of Hair.
Only one address: 110 WILLIAM*
ST., cor. of Palmer St. SYDNEY.
Noucb.—NO Branch Businesses. All work guaranteed,
illustrated Catalogue post free. Prompt attention given
to country orders. Wigs made on shortest notice. All
mirwork sent to the other States free of duty. Transfor-
mations. entire covering for the head, 30/- each.
SANOOW’S
sd
CLOSED.
N3<JO
SPRING GRIP DUMB-BELL
Ladies and Gentlemen,
I fear there has been some misunderstanding as
regards the method of using my
PHYSICAL CULTURE APPLIANCES.
In the first instance, my SPRING GRIP DUMB
BELL should be used according to the Charts accom-
panying it. This gives an all-round and symmetrical
development of every muscle of the body, rendering
them firm and strong, and my DEVELOPER, or
OBESITY REDUCER, should be used afterwards,
in conjunction with the Grip Dumb-bells. ... ©
Yours faithfully, EUGEN SANDOW.
S. HOFFNUNC & CO. (1902) Ltd., Wholesale Agents.
Obtainable from all Sports Depots, Ironmongers and
Storekeepers throughout Australia.
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when every
other remedy has failed. English Prices, 4/6 and 11/l.
Thousands of Testimonials. Of all Chemists, Stores, etc!
Wholesale Agents:
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist
25 High-street, Belfast, Ireland.
LOSS
VOICE
Sore Throat
Bronchitis
Influenza
Cured wftfi
bonnincton's
Carrageen or
IRISH MOSS
- Large and Small Bottles.
twftuov.
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 10a.
H. Hillier,
130 Sussox-st.,
SYDNEY.
t£}~ Send for a
Catalogue.
f
Uent Shaft Sulkies,
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE t«
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest,
H. HILLIER, i3o Sussex St., Sydney
Straight Shaft 3-Spring Sulkies, £Blos.
Sarven Sulky Wheels Tyred, £2 4s 6d pair.
Diaoouut to Wholesale Buyers. Send for Catalogue.
/
iF. SMITH
BRISBANE
21/-
2 If
YOU WANT.
A Good Timekeeper
at a Reasonable Price.
HERE IT IS!!
A Solid Silver Keyless
Hunting Watch
Warranted 2 Years.
Posted Free to any part of
Australasia—
-21/-
Send for my New Catalogue—FßEE
H. F. SMITH,
Queensland Leading Jeweller, QUEEN ST.* BRISBANE.
IPBWICH and TOOWOOMBA.
a&t 5
m
gt;
c
r
r “NEW RIVAL” *
I Loaded Shotgun Cartridges*
Good powder and shot, carefully and
scientifically loaded in the best of cases,
make Winchester “New Rival” Black
Powder Shotgun Cartridges the most re-
liable and satisfactory on the market,
i A trial will convince you of their super-
iority. Be sure and get the Winchester
“New Rival” brand next time you buy.
SHOOT THEM AND SHOOT WELL.
Before purchasing WINCHESTER GOODS
Send for our Rifle Catalogue. Post Free.
PERRY BROS.
HARDWARE MERCHANTS, •
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
CITIZENS’ LIFE
Assurance
Co., Ltd.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
HEAD OFFICE: Citizens’ Buildings, Moore and Castlereagh Streets, Sydney.
FUNDS £l,OOO, OOOa
on security of Freehold City or Suburban Properties,
good Dairy Farms, Agricultural and Grazing Lands
ny of the Australian States or New Zealand, at Loivest^CurrenYßates ° r Government sfcock of
LOANS ARRANGED for a fixed term, or made repayable by instalments,
without notice or payment of any fine.
HARRISON, JONES
sdf
pvi‘NllA3o
Our Charge for selling
Wool of the New Clip
is reduced to
Wool Brokers
2
Per
Cent.
Fat Stock Salesmen,
Stock Station Agents.
Being a Consolidated Charge
includes Commission, Insurance
while in Store, Weighing, Cata-
loguing, &c., &c.
Auction Sales held on all advertised dates of Hides, Sheepskins, Tallow,
Marsupial Skins, and alt Station Produce.
Stores and Offices : Circular Quay, Sydney.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Land Ahead!
N.S.W.
To landsmen far from home,
Upon the mam,
The fair, green fields of foam
Are vast and vain.
They count the time with sighs,
They pine and fret,
And see with weary eyes
Suns rise and set.
Then from the topmast high,
When hope seems dead,
They hear the welcome cry.
Of “Land Ahead !”
And though it chance to be
A foreign shore,
Right good it is to see
Greenland once more. '*
So on the ocean lone
Of Life we sail,
Upon a course unknown
With faces pale.
Then from the topmast tall,
We hear a bland
And reverend Look-Out call—
“ The Promised Land ! ”
And some with sight made strong
By faith, behold
A winged and shining throng
With harps of gold.
They stand on that bright shore .
A vision fair
But, ah, for many more
It melts in air.
V. J. DALEY.
Friends.
“As you think best! ” and she turned her head,
As to hide a sudden thought from me.
“As you think best,” she softly said,
As we stood there by the silver sea.
The ships were passing like things of life
Out in the glow of the morning air,
And she whom I would have had to wife
Was like a dream in her beauty there.
I had spoken of how we had agreed
; To be mere friends —to give and take
Solace of either as we had need,
True to each, ever, for either’s sake.
I had told her how, as the months went by,
I had learned to like her more and more ;
Till Love had come with his sovereign cry,
And we couldn’t be what we had been before.
I had laid my heart bare before her, and
Had said it was better it should end ;
I couldn’t now touch her thrilling hand
With the old true touch of a simple friend.
And “As you think best! ” was all she said ;
But there was a something in her tone—
A hint in the quick-averted head . . .
And we were there on the sands alone.
N.S.W.
R. CRAWFORD.
Black Plumes.
She stood dry-eyed as they lifted him—
Dry-eyed and cold, though her heart was wrung;
And out in the hill fog, grey and dim,
The black, black plumes on the horses swung.
She strove to fight with the bearers grim ;
With breaking heart to the bier she clung—
And out in the roadway, grey and dim,
The nodding plumes on the horses swung.
Beauty of face, and of form and limb—
She moaned to God with a voiceless tongue—
As cloaked by the eddying mist-clouds dim
The horses moved and the black plumes swung.
She would give her beauty to speak with him
Whose laugh was a song to her heart low-sung.
But far o’er the hill where the road winds dim
The drivers whispered; the black plumes swung.
M.L.
WILL LAWSON.
The Early Spring.
There is a oharm in the early Spring,
In the smell o’ the mould when the wind comes
cold,
In the flashing dip of the swallow’s wing,
In the cowslip’s cloth of gold
Spread on the marsh’s rugged edge,
By shallow creek and frost-rimmed sedge.
A charm the mellower season lacks,
When the free creek leaps down rocky steeps,
And Echo answers the woodman’s axe,
When over the spot where t ie buttercup sleeps
The dumb earth feels a strange new thrill,
And the feet of the Spring are on plain and hill.
Ah, to spy when the tender shoots show pink,
A shy bird breast on a quiet nest,
To mark by the glassy river’s brink
Willows in silver and greenery dressed—
Hearts that are Winter-worn wake and sing,
There is a charm in the early Spring,
Gut on the hill when the day is new
Then one may capture the spirit of rapture
Born of the dawn, baptised of the dew.
High on the hill, in the breezes pure,
One may stand, for the moment, a god,
Fully aware of it, and unawed.
N.S.W.
MAGGIE SULLIVAN.


BLAIR’S
GOUT k RHEUMATIC
PIIIIIS.
Qiraefc EtogUsb Remedy for
tm, M9MATISM, SCIATICA,
WWABffl & NEURALGIA.
®R> ncuto pain is qufeMy relieved and cured in •
tOT.days.by tlito. colobiratod Medicine.
HhufHt' Mia, yriifch, aao jnerlectly harmless, require
noawattmilit o£ dliM: dluminjj ttlreir use, and are certain
ft»provent tlio diiioasa; aiititaefeing any vital part.
Hhmifactuued in HJl»g»tofflwi toy Front & Co., 229,
Stand, London, and! sro&l rat Is. 3|d. and 2s. 9d.
yer box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
airougdiout tlio Australian Colonies.
Bypuotom
-why not U fcbla tome the
m/roft mijajbwritetta wd powerful force of
arafbuatf IBy my method you can learn
■fio> JffyjiufwtHia* laa a frftr hours time, 'wlth-
!<mtfc JUnwtoffi ytour home. You can per-
Aimm aim tQu® many marvellous feats
•Shaft an® yrcflarDMle to the Hypnotist.
Hygnssttamyou can cure disease
yaiia* wdu relactant affection,
hffmfti-fy jour B®nMt2cin», and produce
Ennuoanicnt % the hour. It costs you
fanffliii) gto £nd «wt all about It I have
sia& icflucd in lawk form a mammoth
intaotnntrf LESSON or Key to
IHyniw&ism, whloh fnllj explain.
ffikß mgwteriso and nsnta
IQa Alt. It contains
Thnnmßwmffltt ®J btantlfal Mid
arittfiOOi c ami lx sta xmt elaborate
aml<o9fOenn!nntllUturißt Bo'Wni
vnarj jubllsiloili. few a J&riirt
bUna I£ willl nmnt ffilfix 2rm©nWft-
ml -worlfc POTEJE, moOid m
melpt. oft 6dl.(titanjnß)) 4» unvwr
postagei. Ondor to.iltiy.ftJ)ill iuwtt
tollJrpnoUia;. IttJiji n ebmmoti
eJlfMtUn n. Aidtooae-*- '
sdf
sdf
¥W ©C BL H. BARRADEN,
% Pux Seeekt, Sydney, N.S.W.
sdf
MEN
II
you
are
& suffering from
* exhaustion, Vari-
cocele-,, "Wasting,
Weakness, enclbsen 6 stamps postage and
gating), andll wall 1 send’ a trial bottle of my
REMEDY, FREE,
IT COSTS YOU NOTHING
tt>) try my - ’ ILife: Syrup- which
give back strength of body andhraim, renewed
vigor, and development, of: lho vital organs;
not a free prescription dodge, out a trial of
my wonderfuHremedy free for tho asking.
Professor h. read,
Ifis_ Collins street,, Melbourne.
RR ACC'S*
Char coot
ns ROM)
CD HEALTH IS
PAVED WITH
' ‘ . 6809
mm**-
Sfcusdlly cures Acidity, HMMi—eea Heartburn,
Impure Breath, Indigestion,. TOhanrttosra, to. It
4aatroiß all disease germs, tmd,abf3ofrbsngall impuri-
ties In the atomnoh and bawsls,g£va» a healthy tans
to the whole syatsnr. IVavditoff call nttachao* Typhoid
and other Fevers. Prevents many an Illness.
BRAQQ’B PURE CHABQPAUt POWDHR In
Bottles; LOZBnOSS and BISCUITS In Tins
(pleasant to take). Sold by ell Chomlato and Stores.
Having had complaints ol lho> injury dono by other
preparations,please boo that aach Bottlo orTin bears
the Trade Morh.*!Ji.li,B., In monageam.' on the mapper.
OF INTEREST to MEN
TYEAR SIR,—I have been cured of weakness and De-
" bilitv by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to
Mr. ROBERT E. PARKHURSI,
street, Sydney.
THE BALLET GIRL
sdf
sdf
Her Theatrical and
l>omc9tic History.
Poet Froo, is
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Froo, i».
Kent? damp for Illustrated Lists of Bootes and Novelties.
Madame Panza,
BOX 913. G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
LARGEST SALE OF ARY DEHTIFKICE,
CALVERTS
CARBOLIC
Tooth Powder.
A unique and efficacious preparation for
cleansing the teeth and strengthening the gums.
F. C, CALYERT & Co,, Manchester, Eng.
AND TIRED MOTHERS
Find Comfort in Cuticura
Instant Relief and refreshing sleep for Skin-tortured Babies and
rest for Tired Mothers in warm baths with CuricußA , d
gentle anointings with Cuticura Ointment, great i*m cure ana
purest of emollients, to be followed in severe cases by mild doses ol
Cuticura Resolvent Pills, to cool and- clean . se <i^ e p J ) 0 1^ ic
the purest, sweetest, most speedy, permanen , ~ sca i v
ment for torturing, disfiguring, itching, burning, bleed g,
crusted, and pimply humours, eczemas, rashes, and
itchings, with loss of hair, of infants and children, yet compounded.
MILLIONS USE CUTICURA SOAP
Assisted by Cuticura OiNTMENT,for preserving, purifying, and beautifying
the skin, for cleansing the scalp of crusts, scales, d andruff, and the
stopping of falling hair, for softening, whitening, and
and sorf hands, for baby rashes, itchings, and cbafings, mthe f ormofb
for annoying irritations and inflammations, or too free or offensive persp ra-
tion, in the form of washes for ulcerative weaknesses, and for many san v ,
antiseptic purposes which readily suggest themselves to women, especially
mothers, and for all the purposes of the toilet, bath, and nurse y.
medicated soap ever compounded is to be compared with it for Paving,
purifying, and beautifying the skin, scalp, hair, and hands,
foreign or domestic toilet soap, however expensive, is to be compared with
itfor S all the purposes of the toilet, bath, and nursery. Ihus it combines
In One Soap at One Price, the best skin and complexion soap, ana the
BEST toilet and best baby soap in the world.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT PILLS
(Chocolate Coated) are a new, tasteless,
odourless, economical substitute for the cele-
brated liquid Cuticura Resolvent, as well as for all other blood purifiers and humour
cures. Put up in screw-cap pocket vials, containing 60 doses.
Coticura Remedies are Bold throughout the world. Australian Depot: R. Towns tc Co., Sydney. British
Depot: 27-28, Charterhouse Sq., London. French Depot: 5 Rue de la Paix, Paris. Poiteb Drug and chess
Cobf., Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A.
4
ARE YOU WEAK ?
Low-spirited, Tired of Life, Have you utterly
failed in your efforts to regain Health?
Go to the fountain Head
and consult OLD SURGEON LANGSTON, member of the Royal
College of Surgeons, Eng., who will cure you. Forty years’
practice as a Specialist is sufficient guarantee of the doctor’s
ability. I do not seek to demonstrate a theory. I have no time for that,
for I am accomplishing facts. I am curing thousands who have
given up all hope of life. I am bringing joy and happiness
into hundreds of homes. If you suffer from kidney and liver disease,
lung, stomach or heart-trouble, consumption, debility, insomnia, blood
poison, Varicocele, headaches, backache, nervousness, or any disease
or weakness of the vital organs, come to me and I will cure you
and make you well. The people whom I have snatched from the very
ja-ws of death and have lifted up and given strength and health are
living witnesses of the everlasting power of my treatment. It
matters not how long you have been afflicted ; it matters not how
hopeless or helpless you may be ; it matters not what doctors have
said or what remedies have failed to cure you ; it matters not whether
you have faith.
X WILL CURE YOU.
A NEW TREATMENT AND GUARANTEED CURE FOR VARICOCELE WITHOUT OPERATION.
Be the Equal of Your Fellow Man.
If you are a sufferer from any nervous, chronic Blood or Skin diseases, or interested in the subject of
Neurasthenia and associated evils, write at once for book of information, blank forms, etc., and have the
old doctor diagnose your case.
All communications strictly confidential. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, 129 Collins Street, Melbourne
Established in Melbourne 1886.
SORE
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT <
FOR SORE AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYELASHES-
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES. .
!\> EVER FAILS.
Ask your Chemist for the Little Book:
‘HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES
CURED
A NOVEL PRESENT.
f\N receipt of P. 0.0, or M.O. for 6/- we will forward to
any address in Australia one of our Handsome
9ct. Gold-filled Round Wire Brooches, with
either Bell, Heart, Anchor or Cross Pendant, guaranteed
the same quality as brooch ; and without pendant, 3/6.
In 15ct. G.F. Twisted Wire, 8/6 ; without pendant. 6/6.
Illustrated Catalogues sent Free. All letters carefully
addressed to R. SIMS, Gold Wire King) Cole's
Book Arcade, Melbourne, Vic.
sdf
“ ACTS MKB A CHARM."
JONES’
Hheumaticuro
The great South African Remedy
NEVER FAILS TO CURB
Gout, Rheumatism,
Rheumatic Gout, Lumbago,
Sciatica and Neuralgia.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
28. 9cJ . PER. DOTTED
SOLE PROPRIETORS—
THE RHEUMATICURO CO.,
Cape Town,
I tod 29 Niagara Lane, Meltowua
EVERY WOMAN
is interested and should know
about the wonderfdl
Marvel Whirling Spray
The new FEMALE BYRIHQE
Injection and Suction. The best,
safest and most convenient.
It Cleanses Instantly,
JR*
If your druggist cannot
supply the MARVEL,
accept no other, but write us for
Illustrated Book, sent free
sealed. It gives price by mail,
particulars and directions invalu-
able to ladies. ® Endorsed by Physicians.
Times Building. N.Y.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS-
THE MARVEL CO. OF AUSTRALIA,
CAMDEN BUILDING,
418 George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
LADY SPECIALIST IN ATTENDANCE, y
Postal Address, Box 623, G.P.0., Sydney.
Write for Booklet. Sent free, sealed.
Health, strength and Vigor Restored In
Four Weeks by using
RX CORO'S
p.ss£^ ce ° f u f t \
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNEBB, DEBILITY)
VARICOCELE, etc.
Dr. Eicord’s Essence of Life affords relief and permanently
cures all who suffer from wasting and withering of the
nervous tissues; restores Energy, Strength and
Vitality to the most weak and shattered constitution!
(no matter from what cause) and regenerates all ths
important elements of the human frame.
Price 128., or four quantities in one, 368. Freight extra.
Is. and is. 6d. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope.
Aaents for Australasia, —PERRY & CO., 47 Queen St,
Melbourne; N.S.W.- Faulding & Co., 16 O’Connell
St., Sydney ; Newcastle, Adelaide and Perth.
ASTHMA CURE
EMITS INDIAN CMS
For Asthmatic people who suffer from
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault’s Cigarettes vender the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest.
ORXMAWLT & Co., Paris. BoldbyallChtmliU.
WILL ANDRADE’S u. » ROOKS
sd
Book of Nature and Il-
lustrated Marriage Guide
by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated
with over 50 engravings,
3s 6d ; posted, 4s. Magic
Up-to-Date, Easy Conjur-
ing Tricks for Beginners,
illustrated, Is; posted, Is
3d. Ned Donelly’s Art of
Boxing, new enlarged edi-
tion, 40 engravings, Is ;
post, Is 3d. How to Dance,
Is ; post, Is 3d. How to
Wrestle, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Moll Flanders, a rare book
by De Foe, Is 6d posted.
Tailoring for Amateurs,
Is; post, Is 3d ; Zola’s Nana, etc., 2s 6d each posted.
VENTRILOqUISM MADE EAST, IS. Up-TO-DaTE COMIC
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite Reciter,
Is each; posted, Is 3d. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d ; posted, 4s ; Little
Folks’ Reciter, Popular Reciter, Humorous Dia-
logue Book, 6d each ; posted, 9d. Nigger Stump
Speeches, Is ; post, Is 3d. Window Ticket Writing
Explained, Is 3d ; post, Is 6d. Mechanic’s Workshop
Handybook, is 6d. Dog Keeping, Is 3d ; post, Is 6d.
My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d. Georgette,
Is; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post, Is 3d. Tom
Collins’ Such is Life, 4s 6d. All The Bulletin series.
Letter of a Self-made Merchant to His Son, 2s 6d
and 3s 6d ; postage 6d. Wee Macgregor, Is Sd ;
posted Is 6d. Ethel, by same author, Is 3d. How
to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is.
Metal-working for Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing,
Gas-fitting, etc., Is 3d ; post Is 6d. How to Play
Billiards, illustrated, Is ; post Is 3d. That Rascal
Gustave, Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is ; post, Is 3d.
How to Vamp on Piano, Is ; post Is 3d. Piano
Tuning and Repairing, Is 3d ; post Is 6d. Modern
Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Great
Book of Wonders, Secrets, and Mysteries, Is.
Horse and Cattle Doctor, Is. Poultry Keeping, Is,
Is 6d and ss ; posted. Parlor Magic, Is. Dream
Book and Fortune Teller, Is, 2s and 3s posted.
Every Man His Own Builder, Is 3d ; post Is 6d.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready
Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, Is ; posted Is
2d. Australian Doctor, cures for all diseases, Is 3d ;
post Is 6d. Letter Writer Up-to-Date, Is ;, post Is
3d. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking Made
Easy, Is; post Is 3d. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by
Dr. Warren, Is ; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post .Is 3d.
Model Plays and Dialogues, Is ; post Is 3d.
Enquirer’s Oracle : What to do and How to do it,
3000 subjects, Is 3d ; post Is 6d. Self Instructor :
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Cabinet Maker’s Handybook, Is 6d. Cabinet Making
for Amateurs, illustrated, 3s 6d ; post, 4s.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage
bv Old Pro, Is ; posted, Is 3d. New Tricks with
Cards, Is; post, Is 3d. Dr. Foote’s R'Ani Hoti*
Talk, Twentieth Century edition, very latest, L 24»
pages, over 4DO colored plates and engravings, 7s M
posted. Sappho, genuine, Is 6d. Stackpoolbi
Advice to Women, Is ; post, Is 3d. Dr. Milfords
Midwive’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s oa,
post, 2s lOd. Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made
Easy, Is. Practical Palmistry, Is 6d. Love and
Parentage, Bd. Secret History Court of England,
Is 6d, post. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is., Photo-
graphy for Amateurs, Is 3d. Morgan’s Frbb-
MASONRY, Is 6d post. LATEST SONG BOOKS, 3d, 6a,
and Is. Tokology, 10s 6d post. Webster s Dic-
tionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 16s post. Voltaires
Romances, 2s. Age of Reason, Is 3d. Ingbrsolli
Works, 2s 6d. Wannan’s Engine Driver, 6s wl
Rockliff’s Engineer, 4s 6d.
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Zingara Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, love.
Business, Futurity, etc., with full directions, is,
posted, Is 3d. ..
Above prices include postage to any address-
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do. Free
catalogues No. 1: Plays, Reciters, Make-ups etc.
No. 2: Conjuring Apparatus and Books. Nos.
French Novels in English. No. 4: Books for Pre-
sents. No 5 : Useful and Mechanical Books. No. o.
Books for the Married. No. 7: Advanced Literature.
CO
CO
00
IO
(OPPOSITE VICTORIA MARKETS)
201 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE -
JAYNE’S EXPECTORANT
CURES THE WOR9TCOUGHS.


SVlonth After Month.
Year After Year
BY ID_A_Y
WE PUBLISH EVIDENCE LIKE THIS*
The Case of Mr. A. LYES.
(for thb “standard.”)
The requirements of the Australian popu-
lace can only be arrived at by reference to
the statistics which are compiled at various
periods, and as evidence is necessary for the
purpose of gauging popular opinion, it may
here be interesting to listen to Mr. Albert
Lyes, of No. 7 Frazer-street, Leichhardt.
.** When living in the North Coast dis-
trict, said Mr. Lyes, “ I experienced a
vast amount of trouble with my liver and
kidneys, the consequence being that I was
put to a lot of inconvenience owing to the
acute pains across the small of my back.
As I had heavy work to do at the time, my
afflictions came as a great hardship, more so
if there was any lifting to be done, when my
back pains were intensified to a degree that
I could scarcely endure.”
Reporter: “ Were you much affected in
any other part ? ”
ii L y es : “ It would be quicker for me
to tell you where I was not affected, for I
had aches and pains all over me. There
was a cold, painful sensation in the spine
which felt as if somebody had shot a ball of
ice along my back, and that horrible shoot-
mg pain extended right to my eyes, which
also gave me the impression of being
swollen. I was sluggish, drowsy, and had
no energy whatever, the only thing I felt
fit for being to lie down—it did not matter
where. It is a serious matter for a married
man to get into that condition, but I held
out p long as I could, and then I had
to give in, for all the grit was taken out
u j'u' ® e * n B without any appetite, which
had been on the wane for a long time, the
chances of stopping a further leakage of my
vitality were very remote, and as I could not
sleep at all well at nights, there was no
doubt that I was in a very grave state. With
my tongue covered with a nasty substance
and a vile taste in my mouth, there is
nothing remarkable in the fact that I could
not enjoy any food, and in the natural
course of events I got a long way thinner
than I ought to have done. I was tor-
mented with very severe headaches which
made me feel so gloomy and wretched that
there seemed to be nothing in the world
worth living for, and with my weakness
daily increasing, my limbs ached so persis-
tently that I could not even take a walk in
comfort. Palpitation of the heart and dizzi-
ness always follow ed any exertion, my
heart being particularly bad. It used to
make a thumping sound like the noUe from
a horse’s hoof heard in the distance, and
many, an anxious hour have I passed in
thinking what might be wrong with that
organ. Like most people who suffer like
this for the first time, I consulted a
doctor, who said that my liver and kidneys
were diseased. He wrote a prescription,
which I had made up, and said I would
have to keep as quiet as possible, and not
exert myself any more than was absolutely
necessary."
Reporter: “ How did you feel after
taking his medicine ? ”
Mr. Lyes : “ Just about the same as
before, and when I saw it was only so much
waste to take any more I dropped it off.
The oppression in my chest and the flatu-
lence in my stomach were still there, and
the urine remained of a cloudy and scanty
nature, so what wa3 the use of throwing
any more money away I thought? Besides,
my nervous system was completely out of
order, as any kind of noise had a startling
effect which kept my nerves at extreme
tension, as if they had been suddenly un-
hinged, and then, again, I felt agitated and
irritable at the slightest provocation. The
long-continuance of these sufferings had
made me very morose and low-spirited, for
there were others to think of besides my-
self; but, thank goodness! that trying
ordeal is all over now, and it is not likely
to be repeated, because I discovered a
remedy which oared my ailments then, and
I am sure it could do so again if ever X
needed it.”
Reporter: '* May I learn what the remedy
was ? ”
Mr. Lyes: “ I have no desire to keep the
matter secret, because I might do other
poor sufferers a good turn by letting you
know. It was Clements Tonic—a medicine
that I had been reading about—that made
a new man of me, and I always regard it as
my only friend amongst all medicines. I
had only taken a couple of bottles of
Clements Tonic when I felt ever so much
better. In fact, the change was so great
that I could scarcely believe it myself,
especially as I had lost confidence in
physics generally. But Clements Tonic
asserted itself as something uncommonly
good by rapidly giving me a desire for food,
and in the matter of making me sleep wef
1^ thought it a most marvellous medicine.
The health-giving properties of Clements
lonic were not confined to those improve-
ments, as it amended the defects in my
internal organs which had gone against the
digestion of my food, and by those means
the pains in my chest and shoulders were
relieved. The fermentation of my food
was done away with in like manner, so that
I was getting the full benefit of my meals,
and how well I knew it ! for the return of
my strength was quite noticeable. I no
longer desired to lie about in a state of
careless languor, for Clements Tonic gave
me the energy and ambition to do some
work, which was becoming easier to per-
form each day, because the pains in my
back were less troublesome as time moved
on. My heart gave me no occasion to
worry myself, as it was beating with a
regular pulsation, and with the departure
of my headaches my sight became so clear
that I could sit down and read for hours
without the least inconvenience. I was
greatly pleased with Clements Tonic for
the effect it had on my nervous system,
for it invigorated my nerves so thoroughly
that they became perfectly steady, while
such a thing as becoming excited or annoyed
over trifling incidents did not happen. A
good indication to go by as to the efficacy of
Clements lonic was the entire removal of
my deranged kidney symptoms, and it was
then that I was altogether free from pain.”
Reporter : “ Did you stop taking your
medicine immediately that happened ? ”
Mr. Lyes: “Not exactly, for I wanted
to be quite sure that all disease was effaced,
so I took another couple of bottles of
Clements. Tonic, and when they were
finished it was not necessary to take any
more, as I was as strong and thoroughly
restored as I could wish to be. It is several
years ago since Clements Tonic put an end
to sny sufferings, yet my work has never
since interfered with my health—a fact
which shows that Clements Tonic made me
as sound as a bell; and if these statements
are likely to be perused by others, you may
publish them as you like.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
«,*! A LBI “ lT fj* B 'l Frazer street, Leichhardt,
Sydney, in the State of New South Wales,
Commonwealth of Australia, do solemnly and
lIIh VL d,cUr * tha ‘ I hare carefully
. •“* annexed document, consisting ol
f t,°i o3 am ? consecutively numbered front
an ? l !? a * *nd is a true and
faithful account of my illness and cure by Clemente
Tonic, and also contains my full permission to pub-
***,, ln an y way my statements - which I give
voluntarily, without receiving any pavment; and
I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believ-
vlfinna of rh*« n tr l le ’ ‘" d V * nue Of ttl« pfO-
visions of the Oaths Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Leichhardt, lids
fifteenth day of tlaroh, one thousand nine hundred
and two, before me,
H. R. STEWARD, J.P.
S. FREEMAN * SONS LIMITED
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES*
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
gg- AD omoM, WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK
*•- BY SIXTY BULLETIN WRITERS.
V : -. ■
/ From all Booksellers, or the Publishers,
CLOTH, 300 PAGES.
PRICE, 4s. od.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. f Ltd., 214 George-st., Sydney, Australia ,
POR THE BtrSKTWbflKflir
am-Bufc
fsdf
ABOOTHINC BALM and EMBROCATION. Will be found
a CERTAIN CURE for Cuts, Burns, Boils, Barooo,
Eczema, Sprains, Ringworm, Sore Feet, Piles all
forms of Skin Disease or Muscular Affections, etc.
From all Chemists, 1/6 per Tin. A FREE SAMPLE will
be sent you. Address the
ZAM-BUK CO., 39 Pitt Street, BYONEY.
Inclose Penny Stamp for postage, and mention this paper.
JJOTIOE TO MHSC.BOURNQ VISITORS*.
~,^ IJ 1 P ? LE ’ S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 10k3.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
•elected PLANT OP TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTB and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
Study Evenings
Oorcbnovledge AT HOME. Ilore Pay
Courses offered by mall:
mechanical, marine. Civil.
Electrical. Sanitary.
Stationary. Locomotive.
Telegraphy. Architecture.
Sheet Metal Work.
*eeh. Si Perspective Draw’s
American School
AT
Armour Inst.ofTechnology
Chicago, 111.
1T Write for Handbook.
160 VICKERY’S CHAHBERS,
BOX 629, Q.P.0., SYDNEY.
Mr. Andrew Carnegie says: “ The secret of
American industrial success is emphatically the
application of brains and knowledge to work, even
in the smallest detail; and the influence of the
Correspondence Technical School in furthering
America’s advantages in this regard deserves
universal recognition."
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
" Th.y come u a boon and a blessing to men.
The Plckwiok, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen.”
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Bold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEN mads by Macniven & Cameron, Ltd., la
separately examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
imr BEWARE OF IMITATIONB. TEH
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.
EPINBURGH and BIRMINGHAn.
THE HOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COC O A
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
DEBILITATED
T\7EAK, NERVOUS SUFFERER. Let us send you a
trial course of our CONCENTRATED BOTANIC
REMEDIES FREE OF CHARGE. You will be more
than pleased with the result, and you will show your
appreciation of our valuable treatment by persevering
in its use for a few weeks until you are PERMANENTLY
CURED. Address—
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Viotoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
DRUNK
ENNESS
. CURED
Absolutely Conquered in 20 Days.
my proposition to the Government,
November Bth, 1901, wherein I agree to
accept 100 Test Cases, and prove that my
Vegetable Cure for Alcoholism is a positive
and reliable remedy Home treatment
within the reach of all. No restrictions no
hypodermic injections. Full particulars frea.
W. LANGSTON, m.r.c.s.. Eng..
129 Collins-st., Me bourne.
RUPTURE CURED
IThrow away
without opera-
tion or pain, no detention from work,
or dependence upon Trusses. The
only humane treatment. Hundreds
cured. Write to-day for illustrated
Treatise No. 10. Address;
SURGEON LANGSTON,
M.R.C.S., ENG.,
129 COLLINS STREET
MELBOURNE.
NGI NEMAN’S MASTER KEY. -All subjects
■" relating to Examinations for Certificates of Com-
petency in all the States. 365 Pages, 106 Illustrations*
6s. 6d. posted, by L. F. R. SCHNABEL, Consulting
Engineer, 443 Bourke-street, Melbourne. Also COLE’S!
Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney,
THE 48th ...
fl-flaar Demonstration
-and Irt Onion
(Under sanction of
the Attorney-General)
[Monday, sth Oct., 1903.
Prizes value £1250.
First Prize, value £6OO ; Second Prize, value £100;
Third Prize, value £6O; and 160 other valuable Prize*
The Prize Drawing is open to the public and the
i press, and every purchaser of a ticket has an equal
f chance whether present or not.
) Last year a number of applications for tickets were
received too late for participation in the drawing,
| and their moneys had to be returned. People from a
distance should apply early and avoid this disap-
i pointment.
Tickets to be obtained from
A. McDougall, Secretary,
Trades Hall, Sydney,
or from Local Agent* everywhere.
The First Prize (a Golden Emu valued at 600 sovs.)
was last year won by Mrs. Swadling, of Edden-street,
Leichhardt, Sydney.
Buy your Tickets Early.
Only One Shilling.
i/vr-»luiet /lights
TRY
71/
iT&esL
Refuse a// fm/faf/ons. -
Satisfying, Strengthening. Soothing for Infants
Agreeable. Digestible, Nourishing
AGF/Vrs POP SYjD/V£V.
sayprs allpory & potty#
RlDdk's FOOD MILIS.LONDON.Cnc.
WEBSTER’S
CARBOLIC
DENTIFRICE
HAS MANY FINE POINTS.
FOR QUALITY, FLAVOR AND PRICE
HAS NO EQUAL.
Sold all over Australia.
LARGE TINS, 6d.
INSIST ON GETTING IT.
NOTICE _
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy •
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdestkk & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
f MAN'S NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy*
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. <fc Is. 6d.
N.B. —Insist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdustre die Tiiuman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
30 Days*
Free Trial
"CVVERY Weak, Nervous, and Enfeebled Man or
- LJ Woman will find ELECTRICITY as supplied by our
Perfected and Patented ELECTRO-GALVANIC BELT
a wonderful restorative to robust health and viuor.
TEST IT, FREE OF CHARGE. We ask the readers of
this paper to remember that this offer is made by a firm
with twenty-five years’ reputation in Australia.
We desire that every sufferer should wear this mar.
vellous Belt and test its healing virtues for thirty days
as we are certain that it will cure, and that the wearer
after the month’s trial will then prefer to keep rather
than return the Belt. Do not miss this opportunity to
regain your Health, for Health mean Wealth, Health
and Strength means Happiness in mind and body.
Enjoy a full measure of life by being strong and robust
to a vigorous old age.
Remember, we give a WRITTEN GUARANTEE with
each Electric Belt that it will permanently cure you. If
it does not we will promptly return the full amount paid.
Send for our ELECTRA ERA and Price List (post free),
explaining our different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also TESTIMONY, which will convince the most sceptical.
ADDRESS :
German Electrio Appliance Company
63 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,


3
Safeguard
Your
Health)
See
that your
Brandy
is
Bottled
in
Cognac.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
Castro’s Cast Sacrament
And Other Stories,
BY ALBERT DORRINGTON.
“ The Mott Brilliant Short Storiet Produced in
Australia.”
A CONSENSUS OF CRITICAL OPINION.
NEW SOUTH WALES.
* • He has been everywhere and seen every-
thing, and he has to no ordinary extent the
power of presenting things as they seemed to
him —the gift of vivid and powerful narration.
. . . . Contains dramatic pictures which the
best of our artists in words might well envy.”—
Sydney Moi ning Herald.
“The stories are often filled with incidents
that startle the reader, and emotions whose very
strength makes him shiver. . . . Mr. Dorring-
ton’s warrant as a writer of short stories is that
of absolute genius.” —Sydney Daily Telegraph.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
214 George Street, Sydney, Australia.
A Distinct Advance in Infant Feeding.
The 44 AllcnburyS ' Foods provide nourishment suited to the growing digestive powers
of the Infant, and constitute an altogether distinct advance on the mischievous expedient of trying
to make the child’s stomach accomodate itself to a food essentially unsuited to its digestive powers.
Farinaceous foods of all kinds are totally unfit for infants under five or six months of age, such foods
being a potent cause of digestive troubles, rickets, and many disorders arising from mal-nutrition.
nnvSMtf^
n fic Hanbo
& H
sdf
The “Allenburys ” Foods are especially valuable in hot
climates. They are in the form of poivder and keep perfectly.
Pamphlet on “INFANT FEEDING” (48 pages) free, from
495 , Bourke Street, Melbourne.
ALLEN & HANBURYS, Ltd., London, Eng.
MILK FOOD No. 1.
Prom birth to three months.
MILK FOOD No. 2.
From three to six months.
MALTED FOOD No. ft.
From six months and upwards.
4<;
The Ideal Cigarette is one that soothes with its
fragrance, pleases the palate with its purity and
smokes freely as a tribute to its careful manufacture.
Cameo Cigarettes
provide you with a gratification that is ever at
hand —and to be bad for the “ lighting.”
Rol I
s
e
n
£
S
E
T
I -
sdf
Melbourne,Vic.
A.W.Sandforo&C°,
Adelaide, S.A.
J.M.Ferguson. L jp
Fremai\He ? W,A.
' • •
(Sand mm
&
/: - - ■■
c 3
CV
so
%
end)
I
Igßpigs
■
■
A
:■■■; ■
111
■a
m
a:
sdf
James W. Jack,
Wellington,N.Z.
Heoley Button,
Launceston,Tas,
[.Rich & C?,
Brisbane, Q..
i|s
m
Sy<d n ey.
Brisbane.


The bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. 24,—N0, 1229.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 1003.
Price 6d.
THE MEMBER FOR POSTERITY.
“I REPEESENT THE GREAT UNBORN PARTY—MAY I SOLICIT YOUR VOTE:”


the Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
•*Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Maclhod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 Goorge-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 0
Quarterly ... ... 0 7 0
NOTICE
By sending 'Hired to Tire Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
tobe addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director.
Literary communications to be addressea to the Editor.
Special Notice.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number, is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the .form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in leiujth, or, say, $OOO ivords, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
dippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
Tire Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps, are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that ive
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To A nut tears in Blade and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
. — i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions, under ivhich
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MB.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa — Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown;
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal; Solomon
and Wilson, S 3 flout St., Capetown; Solomon and
Wilson, Commissioners Street, Johannesburg ; Granger
Bros,, Johannesburg ; Isaacs and Co., Durban; Argus
Printing Co., Rhodesia; Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
Ceylon.— Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver
B.C.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., S 3 Queens Road, Ilong
Kong.
Shanghai .—Brewer and Co.
xhtHefzai.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 1903.
The High Commissionership.
As the Australian Parliament approaches one of
the last of its tasks in equipping the people with
the implements of nation-making, it is brought
face to face again with the motley opposition of
anti-Federalism. Those people, whose grotesque
ideas of “ loyalty ” to Britain involve them in a
consistent disloyalty to Australia; the members
of the Society mob, who were awakened by Lord
Hopetoun’s ignominious departure to the fact
that Federation was not a matter of social pomp
and Court ceremony, and now mourn with
alleged Senator Reid (whose firm’s invoice was
lately a matter of much interest) that it has
“fostered no great establishments” for the dis-
play of vulgar wealth ; and the State politicians
with their little parochial grievances—are prepar-
ing to unitedly join issue now against the appoint-
ment of an Australian High Commissioner.
Some of them can see no reason at all for the
representation of Australian interests in London ;
what it suits Britain to offer us, or to take from
us, should be agreed to without argument.
Britain knows what is best for us; blessed be
Britain, and away with the disloyal idea of
a High Commissioner who might seek to thwart
Joseph Chamberlain. Others understand no
reason other than a social one for the existence of
a High Commissioner in London, and urge the
appointment of some titled outsider, who can give
an occasional Australian plutocrat travelling to
England the joy of sitting down to dinner by the
side of a peer. Yet others are particularly
anxious that the State Agents-General shall con-
tinue with undiminished prestige to represent
Australia at the great bauble warehouse. With
an Australian High Commissioner, the State
Agents-General must be practically effaced and
lose all influence in helping the State politician to
his E.C.M.G., so these people suggest that the
duties of,a Commissioner can be very well carried
out by one oh other of the State agents in his
spare time. With different ideas as to what steps
should be taken to represent, or misrepresent, Aus-
tralia, all these sections agree that to send an able
public man to London to watch over matters of
foreign policy affecting Australian interests, to
take charge of negotiations with regard to Bills
reserved for the Royal assent, to guard the finan-
cial interests of the Commonwealth, and to.speak
generally on its behalf as an ambassador, is pre-
posterous. The alternatives range from having
no representation at all, down to putting our
affairs in the charge of the nominee of Jenkins,
or Philp, or See, or of some lordling who would
condescend to be Australia’s ambassador after a
perfunctory fashion in return for the official
prominence the post would give him. But it is
agreed quite unanimously that the Commonwealth
must not presume to fancy itself as dignified an
institution as, say, the State of Victoria that, in
short, any old thing is good enough for Australia.
» * * *
Of the various pleas put forward why the
Commonwealth should not act the decent, digni-
fied and truly economical part in this matter, the
most contemptible is that it would be easy to get
gome lord or other to act in an “honorary capa-
city ” and “ lend the influence of his name ” to
Australia. Meatiness is thus combined with
snobbishness and a degraded national feeling.
The Sydney Morning Herald gives more or less
open countenance to the proposal, in spite of (or
perhaps by reason of) the fact that it would
be a humiliating confession of our national
incapacity to produce a worthy representa-
tive of our own, and of our national reverence for
a lord, as a lord, which marks about the lowest
stage of the human intellect. Australia is a debt-
ridden country, but it has not yet reached the
stage at which it is necessary to plead for eleemo-
synary service. Australia is not, just now, a land
justified in flaunting a haughty spirit in public,
but it has not, surely, descended to such a depth
that it can be glorified and exalted by the
patronage of an English lord—a person of the
class to which belong Yarmouth and Anglesea
and Russell and our one-time visitor, the peer
who used to get free board in a suburban pub.
on condition that he looked after the dog.
Almost as .contemptible is the suggestion from
another quarter that, when'creating the office,
the salary should be made a practically nominal
one, as it would be easy enough to secure at any
price, or at no price, some socially-ambitious
rich man such as Mr. John Forrest, Mr.
Bonython or Mr. M‘Eacharn, only too glad to
misrepresent Australia in London for something
near to nothing a year whilst hunting lions and
a title. This sort of man, of course, couldn’t be
expected to hold up Australia’s end in a difference
with Britain, as that would blight his hope of a
title, and the search for a title would be his real
mission in London. Australia, in settling the
terms of this appointment, should be as
generous as possible, with a view to attracting
the best man available and to giving him as
good a chance of useful work as possible, for by
the High Commissioner Australia will, to a very
large extent, be judged abroad. He will be the
only one of the great officials of the Common-
wealth who will come constantly into close con-
tact with foreigners. As our representative
sample, it will be but business-like to have him
of good quality. He should be of the type to
whom no Britishah can say “Haw!” with any
justification. There are reasons for this, both of
sentiment and of solid business. Those of senti-
ment are, of course, unexplainable; people who
don’t feel them can never be taught them. Those
of business ought to be apparent to everybody.
* * * *
The High Commissioner must be a man who has
both the ability and the personal prestige to make
out a good case for Australia, to show up Aus-
tralia as an attractive and civilised patch of
earth. We do not want an influx of colored aliens
or of contract-bound wage slaves to this continent,
but we do want immigrants of the right sort —the
sort that America attracts so constantly. By-and-
bye, when tariff conditions here are better, the
openings for such immigrants—men with some
brains and some means—will be many. It will be
the High Commissioner’s duty to help to attract
them. At present Australian legislation
especially its radical legislation —is absurdly
misrepresented in London, and, on the text of the
Six Blathers and many similar fictions, sermons
are being constantly preached as to the ruin to
which “ labor legislation ” is driving this country.
A High Commissioner could throw a little of the
light of truth on such Rougemontese. Further,
the State-frights, black labor and Tory sections
in the Commonwealth are ever inciting the
British authority to interfere with Federal law-
making ; to have enactments reserved for the
Royal assent in the hope of their being
mangled is the constant plan of the news-
papers which play the game of these people. A
High Commissioner would devote some energy
towards frustrating those tricks. Another great
task which would fall to his hand would be the
negotiations between Cohen and Australia when
the inevitable happ ms, and the Common-
wealth takes up the burden of unifying
and (The Bulletin devoutly trusts) paying
the Australian debt. That seems likely to
happen soon. Even this year Victoria has
a £5,000,000 P.N. falling clue, which must be
renewed on some terms. Though the Federation
will take no direct responsibility in regard to that
loan, it must admit to some indirect concern, for
it cannot all >w the bailiffs to be put in on one of
its States. The presence of a Commonwealth repre-
sentative in London when that—the beginning
of the great loan trouble which is looming ahead—
comes to Cohen for decision is obviously desirable.
A High Commissioner is, in short, wanted at
once to be the champion of the Australian people,
the Australian Parliament and the Australian
Constitution at the court of the suzerain power
and the paramount Cohen, and before the world
generally. And he must be a man of Australian
training and of skilful diplomacy—not a titled
nobody representing Australia in a perfunctory
fashion for the honor of the thing, or a local
plutocrat devoting his energies to social advance-
ment, and selling the interests of Australia to
Britain in return for a British title.. To get the
proper man the Australian Parliament must pay
a reasonable price. The man or the horse or the
dog that is got for nothing, or next to nothing, is
always a bad bargain.
* »
At a hazard The Bulletin would say that the
Australian High Commissioner in London should
have a status and salary equal to that of the
British High Commissioner in Australia (who is
called Governor-General), adding promptly that,
in its opinion, the Governor-General is at present
too generously paid. To put it more
this paper wouldn’t think £5OOO a year too high
a price for a first-class man, and would vote
£3500 a year a moderate salary and satisfactory
to the national purse if satisfactory to the office-
holder. The Kyabram suggestion of £lOOO a year is
only a proposal to confine the range of selection to
wealthy persons with social ambitions, who could
misrepresent Australia as much as they pleased,
for if one wealthy snob was discharged it would
only be possible to replace him by another wealthy
snob. No magnificence should be required of the
High Commissioner, no great social entertain-
ments. But he should be put on the same plane
at least as a first-class bank manager or a cable
company’s representative, and paid so that he can
hold his office with dignity without drawing on
any private resources or mortgaging his future.
Further, he should be appointed at once. This
Parliament should not dissolve without appoint-
ing a Commissioner. If the tragical fooling
of George Keid does not permit of an Act
being passed, a make-shift provision for the office
should be made on the Estimates.
The N.S.W. Land Bill Fraud.
The N.S.W, Government, cordially aided and
abetted by the N.S.W Opposition, is busy buying
the farmers’ votes by another gross swindle upon
posterity. There have been so many gross swin-
dles upon posterity that it may be said that one
more doesn’t signify much, but that is hardly the
way any sane politician would view the matter.
Under the new Land Bill, the selectors of N.S.W.
are to be allowed to repudiate some more of their
obligations to the State by having the interest on
their unpaid balances reduced from 4 per cent.,
which is low enough, to per cent., which
is ridiculous. The reduction is not to take
place immediately, so that the present Govern-
ment need not at once face the loss of
revenue, and hump the obloquy of the deficit, and
have the disgrace of having to put on new taxes,
or cut down the wages of the public service, in
order to make up the shortage. The deduction
begins two or three years hence, and any liability
that is a year or two distant is regarded in N.S.W.
as hardly existing at all. But the glory and kudos
of taking a load off the “ down-trodden agricul-
turist ” begin immediately; the votes of the
gratified agriculturist begin immediately ; and for
a year or two the See Government will be able to
pose as the Government which took a heavy
liability oft the crushed agriculturist without any
disaster to the revenue. The great mass of the
public won’t notice the discrepancy.
* • » *
This is not all, nor nearly all, the relief that the
agriculturist gets nowadays. In addition to being
allowed to repudiate his bargain about the interest,
he is also allowed to repudiate his bargain about
the principal. When the State sold him land at
less than it was worth, or constructed railways
and other works which were not in the bond, and
which made his land worth three or four times
what he agreed to pay for it, the State has to hold
to the letter of its agreement—if it isn’t actually
confronted with a demand for a reduction. But
where there is the least shadow of a possibility
that the State made a reasonably good bargain, and
sold its land for something like the fair value there-
of, the buyer has always a chance to secure a re-
appraisement and to have the price reduced. One
result is that, in manv cases, the settler will be out
of debt to the State many years earlier than would
be the case if the original agreement remained
standing; in other words, the State’s income from
this source will leave off much sooner than would
otherwise be the case. This is another case where
the glory and the votes and the thankfulness fall
to the Governments of the present, and the loss,
and the grimy drudgery of making the loss
good, remain to posterity. _ And the pros-
pects of posterity look intensely gloomy.
At the end of 1895 there was owing to
the State over .£13,000,000 on account of
conditional purchases, and from this source
N.S.W. collected an annual revenue of about
£1,000,000 a year. But the new conditional
purchases taken up do not by any means counter-
balance the old ones paid off, and by 1900
the amount owing was reduced to £10,000,000.
The cheerful throwing away of a million or two
in the way of interest reductions and re-appraise-
ments will accelerate the extinction of this ever-
dwindling asset. The throwing-away process may
buy votes inthepresent, bu t i 11 1 as tens th e time w hen
about £1,000,000 a year will suddenly disappear
out of the revenue. Posterity will have to face
that loss ; also it will have to face a vastly
increased interest bill; an increased outlay for old
age pensions; a Civil Service Superannuation
Fund and Police Superannuation Fund that have
gone broke and become a charge on the revenue
through Governments using the funds for wrongful
purposes ; also it will have to shoulder the deficits
of to-day, and to construct out of revenue works
that are now charged to loans, for the loan
insanity can’t last for ever. The whole financial
policy of N.S.W. to-day—the policy of which the
present Land Bill is a fair sample—is a cruel,
heartless process by which the fathers of the
present swindle their own sons and their own
daughters, and lay on the narrow shoulders of the
infant a burden which they are too callous and too
cowardly to carry themselves,
* » * *
The present N.S.W. Land Bill practically puts
an end to all hops of an honest and efficient
system of resuming large estates for closer settle-
ment. The closer settlement idea is that the
State should repurchase large estates, cut them
up, and either sell or lease them in small areas at
a rate which will, at the very least, fully repay
the State’s outlay. But the Government policy
of reduction, repudiation, and re-appraisement has
in many cases reduced prices so low that the man
on the resumed estate, if he is to pay enough to
cover the outlay on the repurchase of the property,
will be paying three or four times as much as the
original selector on an equally good piece of
ground alongside. And the result will be that the
man on the resumed property will demand that
his land be re appraised also, and his price re-
duced, and the almost inevitable result will be
that the big estate which was resumed at an honest
value of £lOO,OOO, and sold or let at corresponding
rates, will be re appraised till the State only gets
£50,000 or only collects interest on £50,000; and
the balance of the transaction will be dead loss.
When it is impossible to buy votes by further re-
ducing the rent or the price to the State’s original
leaseholder or selector, the process of buying votes
by re-appraising the man on resumed land will
naturally follow. Foolish or corrupt politicians
have let it become an article of N.S.W.’s political
creed that no faith need be kept with the
State—that the man who buys land from it for
£lOO need only pay £5O if he feels that way, and
the man who rents land from the State at £5O
need only pay just about what he darned well
pleases, provided he interviews his member with
sufficient energy. It has also become an article
of faith that the “poor farmer ” should be always
an object of pity and charity, while at the same
time posing as the sturdy, self-reliant backbone of
the community—that he shouldn’t pay any local
rates, that his roads, bridges and culverts should
be provided by the general taxpayer, that his
produce should be carried at one-fourth the rate
that the manufacturer pays, and that he should
be allowed to vary his bargains with the country
in a large and reckless manner. It may be
that he needs all this assistance ; but if he does,
farming in N.S.W is, so far as concerns a very
large extent of the country, a mere parasitic indus-
try—not self-supporting, but living on the rest of
the community. And if so, the whole political
situation requires to be reconsidered.
• * • •
When the loans were obtainable the farmer
received the benefit of a vast expenditure of loan
money--there is hardly a bridge, road, or culvert,
and certainly not one yard of railway, built
otherwise than on credit —and the bill was
left to posterity. Now that loans are almost
unobtainable, he is being forgiven the debts he
owes to posterity. Posterity gets the burden to
carry in every case. Both sides of the Assembly,
in their eagerness to buy the agricultural vote,
are falling over each other in their haste to cancel
the debt which the N.S.W. settlers owe to pos-
terity. And how posterity will get along no one
cares much.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Federal Arbitration.
The Federal Arbitration Bill, Prime Minister
Barton has gone out of his way (at a bagmen’s
banquet) to assure State Premier Irvine, will not
include any provision for State or Commonwealth
Government employees. Practicaljy Barton’s
statement amounts to a pledge that, if an amend-
ment is carried to extend the benefits of the Bill
to such workers, the measure will be dropped.
What logic there .is in decreeing by law that any
disputes as to industrial conditions arising between
workers and private employers are to be settled by
judicial process and not by the brutal expedient
of strike and lock-out, whilst such disputes between
workersand public employers are to be lefttotheold
anarchic, riotous, desolating way of settlement, the
helpless, drifting Barton didn’t say. If there is
reason for interfering with “ the liberty of the
subject ” to prevent the stoppage of private indus-
tries, there is, surely, far more reason to do so to
prevent the disturbance of much larger State-
owned enterprises which, as a rule, are vitally
essential to the public well-being. If the boot-
trade is stopped by a strike there is loss, incon-
venience, some misery perhaps, but the com-
munity life is undisturbed. If the water supply
or the railway service is stopped, then industrial
war begins to wear the aspect of real war. A
Federal Arbitration Bill, which ref uses tofollow the
example of the N.S.W. Act and bring under its
scope State employees, seems to be hardly worth
worrying about. Barton’s Bill also exempts
seamen, and on this point the Labor Party is
being urged by the Seamen’s Union to insist on
amendment. The argument against including
seamen is that the Bill will then be reserved for
Royal assent and thus delayed, perhaps, a year.
That difficulty can be easily surmounted by
giving the seamen the benefit of the Act in
an accompanying Act; the Labor Party should
insist on this being done. Were it not for the
The Land of the Loan.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Lo, this is the Land of the Debtor, the rich fief
of a far mortgagee —
Aye, the Land that the interest-fetter binds safely
to Jews o’er the sea !
This is the fool land of the careless, of the sliders
and slouchers—alas !
That a country which ought to be peerless should
barter its soul for mean “brass ” !
For this is a country whose people beg ever, in
shrill monotone;
Aye, liened from foundation to steeple, is this
Land of the Lingering Loan !
Yea, this is the land whose resources lie fallow,
awaiting the plough,
Where the wealth-bearing trade water-courses are
damless and run anyhow. (
Yea, this is the nation perpensive, where nothing
is started or done ;
Where the over-sea dues are extensive and the
bank-balance total is none !
Aye, this, the dear Land we were born in, lifts a
weak and a beggarly moan—
O, the shame to seek alms night and morning and
make it a Land of the Loan !
Lo, the fair title-deeds of our Birth-place are
locked in the safes of the Jews—
We’ve bartered our precious sweet earth-place for
funds to continue the Booze !
We are loungers and strollers and loafers, doing
chores in a leisurely way,
For we know in advance the pawn-coffers have
the call on our national pay !
We are lazy, indolent, weary, ever lifting a mendi-
cant’s groan ;
Aye, listless and useless and bleary, we 101 l in our
Land of the Loan !
Where the factory-fires should be smoking and the
thunder of hammers be heard—
Lo, we lie on our backs idly joking, caring less
than a GoD-foddered bird.
When the ear straineth after the clangor and
music of foundry and mill,
Only echo the sighs of our languor—in the place of
work’s thunder and thrill!
Where the red blood should throb and glow tidal,
where muscles should buttress the bone,
Lo 1 a current flows dully and idle in this beggarly
Land of the Loan !
Shall we beg, shall we borrow for ever, despised
by all nations of men ?
Shall we never make manly endeavor with hammer
and heart and with pen ?
Shall we for the world be a scorning—ever
craving a charity boon ?
Shall we float the P.N. in the morning and the
Bill in the fair afternoon ?
Shall our Land be ever the Debtor, the place
where the Jew has his throne ?
Shall we carry for ever the fetter, be always the
Land of the Loan ?
There be writers, my country, that laud you and
call you by flattering names.
They are hirelings of those who defraud you with
swindling over-sea games !
There be those who paint ever with crimson the
picture of life unto thee—
Listen now to a stern and a grim son, with a curse
in the place of their glee !
Listen now to a child of your bosom, ere at last
you be fooled and undone —
O give heed to the dark fate and gruesome hang-
ing o’er you, Land of the Loan !
Let us rise ere the sun mounteth higher; let us
drop the poor crutch and the whine.
There is time yet to kindle the fire of Freedom,
O Country of Mine !
There is time, but the limit is near us—we are
poised on the edge of the ditch ;
Shall we march full of life down the eras, or
crawl, alms-importing—say which ?
Over-long have we crept in the bye-ways where
the dogs seek the crust and the bone.
Let us cry a new faith in the highways and arouse
this dead Land of Loan.
GRANT HERVEY.


fact that a Federal Arbitration Act—even the
sort of Act Premier Barton gives—will be of
great use to the Australian Workers’ Union in
forcing its wily foe, the Pastoralists’ Union,
into a Court of Justice, The Bulletin
would be inclined to urge the Labor Party to
insist cn extending the Arbitration Bill to State
employees and seamen, and would urge it to send
premier Barton back to well-earned obscurity if
he regards his servility to Irvine as of more
account than his duty to Australia. The condi-
tions under which Premier Barton gave his
latest assurance on the subject of the State
employees were a striking evidence of his inability
to maintain the dignity of his position. It was
at a banquet of bagmen. The hard-faced State
Premier, who had introduced a Bill which pro-
fessed to give any common policeman power to
arrest Barton’s colleague, the Postmaster General,
and put him in gaol for carrying through the
mails papers which Irvine and Bent disapproved
of, was lecturing Barton on his Federal duty, and
pointing out that all the disgraceful tyranny that
Bents ruffianly policy had brought about was
liable to be undone if State officials were brought
under the Bill. And Barton, the alleged head of
about the most democratic Legislature in the
world, cordially assured the individual who intro-
duced the Bill for putting Barton’s fellow-
Minister in gaol without trial, that he wouldn’t
dream of upsetting the results of Bent’s ruffianly
policy on any account. More dignity and less
banquet would make an improvement in Premier
Barton.
♦
Irvine’s Resumption Scheme.
I-ER RVINE> Victoria, in his speech at
9 mn e mn are ’ in S . outh and West Gippsland, approximately
a °°° a< ? res of Rood agricultural land, privately owned
r * ev °f®d to the grazing of sheep and cattle,
* 1 are essel ? tla lly fit for the support of a large and
prosperous agricultural population. This land has been
, / la rgely enhanced in value by the railways the State
bourne 6 * ts nearn ess to the markets of Mel-
That was a good beginning, but the ending was a
grievous falling away. For Irvine straightway
proceeded to assure his audience that the State
would pay full compensation, according to present
values, to the dispossessed landlords. So the situ-
ation is this :
(1) The people gave the land a new value by the
wP. m V l at^- 0f . po l' ulation . and they pay the landlords
fo £* hat - U'ns is probably unavoidable.)
A gave the land a vastly increased value by
ac !? ! ' r oa j? ar , K ! railways out of loan money, and they
P 3 the landlord for that. (This ma3 r be unavoidable, but
it is swindle.)
keep on fc ? this day giving the land an inflated
,■ u ,- v exempting it from any serious measure of taxa-
fn ’ ’’[’t making it pay an3'thing worth mentioning
towards the railways above-mentioned, and by incurring
usre deficits in order to avoid a general land-tax. And
tney propose to pay the landlord for that. (This is pure
unadulterated swindle, fraud, steal and three-card trick.)
The true market value of land is what it will
fetch in a community that doesn’t borrow any-
thing. When land carries with it a tax liability
it fetches less than unencumbered land— i.e., land
without a tax liability. With a large tax liability
it fetches less than with a small one. When a
country raises enough taxation to wholly pay its
way then everything finds its fair market level.
But to buy land on the temporary inflated value
that it acquires through a temporary relief from
m nnn OD a eni P orar y relief secured by borrowing
L 1,000,000 a year and piling up an accumulated
shortage of £3,ooo,ooo—is pure fraud. Some day
loans will have to stop, and land will have to
carry its share of the public burdens, and until
then its real value will be a mystery. A scheme
for the extensive resumption of land should be
preceded in every case by a financial reform which
will put the Treasury on an absolutely honest
basis, without any recourse to Cohen, either local
or foreign. Anything short of that means wasting
the peoples money on the purchase of fictitious
values. Also, no scheme for the resumption and
cutting up of large estates is honest unless it pro-
vides some device that will prevent the small
being gradually bought up by capitalists
till the big estates form again.
♦
The Maoriland Cold Tea Difficulty.
It isn’t certain even yet that Maoriland’s long-
lived Seddon Government won’t fall over the
licjuor question. Certainly it has tottered over
this matter as it never tottered before
Beddon’s own sympathies are mostly with the
liquor people, but the strong man who drove so
many others is now being driven himself, and he
doesn t go gracefully in harness, nor is he satis-
fied to look back from his menial job in the
shafts and see the cadaverous teetotaller on the
box. The snag which Seddon struck concerned
the Newtown and Bruce local option polls and
some other things. Prohibition was carried
m these districts by the necessary three-fifths
majority, but the polls were declared invalid
on technical grounds. Then, as the law
by some oversight, had made no provision
for holding a second poll in such a case
and the regular poll wouldn’t come round again
for three years, there was a deadlock. The
licensing authorities, elected by the local Cold-Tea
majority, cut the knot by refusing to renew the
licenses—they declared, in fact, that, though the
poll was invalid, it was valid enough for them.
The publicans declared this action illegal, and
appealed to the Supreme Court. Pending the
appeal, they kept open and put a head on the
beer • for the usual cash consideration. The
Supreme Court decided against the publicans,
who thereupon proposed to appeal to the Privy
Council. They also proposed to sell beer without
a license till the Privy Council came to a
decision (in a year or tivo it might be, for
that august body moves slowly), whether they
had a right to get their licenses renewed or not.
Then all parties broke like a troubled sea on Pre-
mier Seddon. The Cold Tea crowd demanded
that he should enforce the law by the aid of the
police, and accused him of having given instruc-
tions to the force not to move. The liquor people
warned him that if he closed their pubs while the
case was sub judice it would be dangerously near to
contempt of court, and that if the Privy Council
decided in their favor after their pubs had been
closed, the bill for damages would be heavy— not
to say enormous. The situation was a difficult
one for Seddon ; he had for many years led
an overwhelmingly strong party, so that he
didn’t require to steer a careful course
among excited and evenly - balanced factions,
and, as a natural consequence, his gift of diplo-
macy was rusty. If he drove the Cold Tea crowd
to join the small knot of his irreconcilable
enemies the combination might be strong
enough to run him out of office. If he drove
the liquor crowd to do likewise, he would
have to face the strongest opposition he had met
for years. His own sympathies were with the
publicans, and he tried to hold up their end of
the barrel, but the Cold Tea people threatened
war, and he dropped that end of the keg suddenly
and ungracefully. So, for the time being, things
stand something like this: The teetotallers are
to have their way, but they look coldly on
Seddon as an enemy who yields ungrace-
fully under compulsion. The publicans look
coldly on him, as a friend who abandoned
them under compulsion. His mana has suffered
considerably since he struck against something
stronger than himself —which was the cadaverous
spectre of Cold Tea. Also, it is necessary to bring
in a Licensing Bill to put the law on a better
basis and prevent any more such deadlocks as
have happened _ of late, and that Bill will turn
the Legislature into a bear-garden. The measure
that Seddon would probably like to bring in
would wreck the Government. The measure that
the extreme teetotallers want him to bring in
might wreck the Government, and the sight of it
would probably drive Seddon to murder in cold
blood the first Cold Tea person he met, for it
would be a fearsome scheme, and calculated to
make any large, full-bodied gentleman fly from
the country in disgust. Yet the present law has
reached such a state of deadlock that it is impos-
sible to leave things alone. The sleeping dog
must be roused up, and he is a dog of so many
cantankerous and diverse views that there is no
knowing what will happen when he wakes.
+
The Need to Get Rid of Owe’Sullivan.
ALL over New South Wales public works are
being stopped for want of loan funds because
Cohen has turned cranky ; and the only satisfac-
tion that is offered is Owe'Sullivan's assurance
that things will resume when loans again pour
m from over the sea. When that will be, neither
the Owe’Sullivan nor any other person can tell.
lhere are various considerations which tend to
make the situation uncertain. In every country
there is a certain amount of money for investment
at low rates combined with supposedly dead-sure
security the money of orphans, old women,
retired elderly grocers, reserve funds of careful
institutions, and so on. Also, there is a certain
amount for investment at higher rates and not quite
so good security—the money of the more enterpris-
mg gamblers of the community. It is from the class
wh:e 1 is willing to take low interest for good
security that Australia borrows, and quite apart
from the fact that the security doesn’t look what
it once did, various things have happened of late,
i he British Government has borrowed £200,000,000
from this class to begin with. Then water-works,
tramways, etc., which used to be in the hands of
private companies and belong to the speculative
class of investments, are steadily passing under
municipal control, and the municipalities have
borrowed immense sums to buy up these works.
lhe money is being gradually repaid, but still
the kind of money that Australia used to borrow
r 16 money of the orphan and the old woman—
is now being mopped up by British municipal loans.
Jiiven if our credit doesn’t smell any worse with
the progress of years than it does now, there is no
knowing when the loan business can recommence.
Meanwhile, the half-finished public works are
being left to moulder. There is not the slightest
ft bout the helpless, shiftless, uncompre-
bending See-Owe’Sui.livan Ministry of any
attempt to carry on necessary worksout of revenue.
I here is certainly a promise that the State expen-
diture will be cut down to bedrock, but the See-
Owe Sullivan Ministry and- all the rest of the
present mob of politicians have strange views as to
what constitutes bedrock, and the idea seems
merely to be that an attempt will be made to pay
those liabilities which can’t possibly be postponed.
Ihe-auestion to be decided, now or very soon, is
whether, when loans are temporarily unprocur-
able, all progress is to stop short; and whether,
when loans become permanently unprocurable, all
progress is to leave off for ever. The Owe’Sul-
livan s assurance that things will start again when
some more borrowing can be done, and his utter
inability to even imagine anything resuming until
some more borrowing can be done, certainly point
m that direction. The inference is that the only
way to prevent stagnation and a drift back into
barbarism is to get rid of Owe’Sullivan and
everythmg that he represents. N.S.W. cannot
afford to stagnate utterly even for the joy of having l
Owe’Sullivan.
Irvine, the Illogical.
By his recent declaration of his policy at Nhill
Irvine has shown himself to be a most absurdly
illogical Premier, and Victoria hardly knows
where to look for its Iceberg now. Throughout
that speech Irvine hopped so quicklv from Tory
to Socialist, and from Socialist to Tory, that it
made the eyeballs ache to watch him. With a
jump so startling in its quickness that it almost
took away one’s breath, he was in the thick of a
magnificent argument in favor of the compulsory
resumptions of big estates, and with an outburst
of fine scorn he overturned the Tory fetish of the
sanctity of the rights of property. “ There is ’’
he said, “no right created by the State that’is
paramount to the well-being of the State itself. It
is said that the principle of compulsory resump-
tion impairs the sanctity of title and the sacred-
ness of the rights of property. The objection
rests _ upon an entire misconception of the
meamng of the word ‘ property ’ and ‘rights.’
All rights of property rest solely upon the
fact that the enforcement of them tends
to the benefit of the whole community. The State
can never give a title which will at any time
defeat the State’s ultimate ends.” Those are state-
ments that go to the very root of Socialism. No
better answer to the objections taken by Tories to
Socialism could have been made by the most
advanced Socialist. Irvine .proved in those few
sentences that the sacred rights of property are a
pure myth. “ There ain’t no such person.” Yet
in the next breath the same Irvine was asserting
that any compulsory resumption system must be
accompanied by grants of the freehold to the
smaH farmers who take up the resumed lands.
Why had the brave Socialist of the front part
of the speech not the courage to continue in a
straight line, and say that the tenure must be lease-
hold ’. that the State being the sole owner of the
land should not continue the farce of pretending to
give a sacred and inviolable title which he frankly
confesses it has no right to give and cannot give ’
Ihe granting of the alleged freehold title to the
small farmers who are to be put on the land instead
of sheep, is the blot on Irvine’s otherwise states-
manlike proposal to cut up the big estates. Coming
to the question of industrial legislation, Irvine
oscillated and tumbled about bet ween the poles 1 of
Socialism and Toryism in an equally astounding
manner. He denounced compulsory arbitration
as an evil thing. He shuddered when he men-
tioned the word, and with trembling finger pointed
out how it put shackles on the poor worker for
whom Irvine and his Ministry have shown such
• deep concern. It nearly broke him up to
contemplate the condition into which the
workers would be thrown by compulsory arbi-
tration. That frame of mind cheered up the
many Tory friends who were listening. Then
by a quick turn, Irvine was admitting he had
become convinced that it was possible to control
wages by legislation. . The experience of the Vic-
torian Factories Act had satisfied him that it was
quite possible to prevent employers taking advant-
age of the hunger of their fellow-men to make
them work long hours for little pay. And because
he had become convinced of that fact, he proposed
to create a tribunal in every way similar to the
Compulsory Arbitration Court, which he had just
mangled and left for dead, to review and revise
the work of the Wages Boards. In other words,
Irvine, the great opponent of compulsory arbi-
tration, says he intends to add to the Wages
Board system of the Victorian law an Arbitration
Court.. In a dim sort of way Irvine begins to see
that his dictum in regard to the rights of property
applies equally to the rights of employers to
enslave the rest of the community. It is to
the interests of the State., as a whole, to have a
healthy, well-fed race of. independent men and
women, while it is to the interest of the employers
to make profits out of the employes irrespective
of the fact that their doing so might result in a
weedy, servile, hungry race of white slaves.
According to Irvine the Socialist, the interests
of the employer, when they thus come into
collision with the interests of the State, are not
worth shucks and must not be considered. If
Irvine could only shed his steel bound casing of
Toryism he would make a great Socialist.
4.
The Gun that was Loaded.
The pained surprise of the old, hard-shell Tories
a,t the democratic goings-on of the Australian Par-
liament, though a trifle amusing, is not to be
wondered at. Some of these political relics were
amongst the staunchest supporters of Federation,
and only an odd one—such as the late Sargood—
had the prevision to forecast what “the most
liberal franchise in the world ” was likely to pro-
duce. They are now discovering, to their amaze-
ment, that the gun is loaded. This fact explains
the whole of the present bogus agitation in con-
nection with the Arbitration Bill, the “Bush
Capital,” and Federation in general; and so loud
and impudent is the fat critic of the Australian
Parliament becoming that a word of warning to
the democratic elector is necessary. The mere
fact that practically the whole of the hubbub is
being created by the various Chambers of
Commerce and Horrors and Manufactures, by
the Municipal Councils, and “ National Reform ”
Leagues, is in itself a highly suspicious cir-
cumstance. At. the. present moment half the
time of the Victorian Municipal Councils is
taken up with considering proposals from
each other for conferences to protest against
the “white’.’ clause in the ocean mail contracts,
the Arbitration Bill, and the idea of having a
Federal capital which will be wholly national
property. The other day, a West Victorian
auctioneer took the appropriate opportunity
of a “swine conference” to point out the
“dangerous tendencies” of Federal legisla-
tion. Even such a pure merino as squatter
Manifold, who happens to be this auctioneer’s
representative, is beginning to be suspected of
democratic leanings; and the Argos lately -
announced that his recent actions had not pleased
his constituents, and that he would probably be
opposed at the approaching elections. These are
all signs of the times, and they point to the fact that
the Tory and his wife, together with his cousins
and his maiden aunt, will attend the polls in
force next December. If the democratic party is
to hold its own, it must continue perfecting its
organisation, and must see to it that its collective
mother, and sister, and mother-in-law—very few
democrats have maiden aunts—record their votes.
Australia wants next Australian Parliament to be
vastly more Federal and more progressive than
this one. It wants it to be solid on high Protec-
tion, a heavy Federal graduated land-tax, the
taking over of the State debts and State railways,
the repayment of the public debt, Federal old age
pensions, and the extension of the Federal
authority in every direction. And it wants no
State-rights cranks in it, and no importers.
Under these conditions the Democracy needs .to
be very wide-awake indeed next December.
♦
A Federal Land Tax.
King O’Malley proposes, if lie gets the chance, to
challenge the House of Representatives to express
itself on the large question of a Federal Land
Tax. Probably he won’t get a chance; but he
has, anyhow, given notice of motion for the
earliest available day, which is somewhere in the
remote tail-end of October, and The Bulletin
wishes him luck. His idea (which was The
Bulletin’s idea before it was his, though the
King is welcome to it) is that Australia is
suffering from’ two diseases in particular—the
foreign-debt disease and the big landlord disease.
The absentee landlord disease is merely a
complication of the other two. A land tax
can be made to cope with all of them ; and,
on the ground that the larger the estate the
more malignant the disease, O’Malley proposes a
graduated treatment. His own idea is to start at
£2OOO, exempting all estates below that limit,
charging Ad. per £1 when the value is between
£2OOO and £20,000, and rising to 6d. in the case
of estates valued at £400,000. The suggested
exemption is, possibly, fixed too high; and the
tax should almost certainly begin at Id. in the £
instead of |d., but these are matters of detail
which can be put right when the general principle
is accepted. To his graduated-tax proposals
O’Malley adds one dealing with absentees—very
brief, very effective; that they shall pay double
the foregoing rates. The absentee proprietor, as
said before, combines the two diseases; he not
only in most cases locks up land against set-
tlement, but he takes the proceeds out of the
country. If an absentee landlord owns £250,000
worth of landed property, from which he draws 6
per cent., the effect is precisely the same as if this
community had borrowed a quarter of a million
from a foreigner at 6 per cent. . The absentee
landlord thus adds injury to. injury, and can only
be reached by a double taxi Hardly, however, is
this a tax at alb in either case. No part of the
money which would be taken would be value
created by the man who pays it. The community
would simply ask for the return for public purposes
of a small proportion of the value'which it has itself
created. There is, of course, most urgent need of
the money. While old-age pensions are admitted
to be a necessity of modern civilisation, only two
Australian States are paying them. Moreover,
through the constant passing of population from
'State to State, a merely local pension system has
proved inadequate and unfair. A graduated land
tax would provide the funds for a complete and
fairer system, and if it was the kind of tax it should
be it would also provide the means for the equally
essential Public Debt sinking fund. At the same
time it Would, by hastening the break-up of big
estates, provide land for the people, bring popu-
lation to the country to occupy that land, provide
a host of new taxpayers to relieve the Treasury
and a host of new customers for the local manu-
facturer, and a lot of new people to supply
railway revenue, and it would diminish the
public debt per head by bringing here a large
number of new people to carry a share of the
burden. It is of no earthly use to wait for people
of the Philp stamp to move in this matter. The
democratic Parliament of Australia is the onlv
body in which there is any hope, and it is handi-
“d int “ sre ' ,t
v 4-
The Fluent Judge.
boJthnThiTt after he ha<l declared in the witness
that his tongue never. got .awey from him so
wantPrl*w m u , sln F the exact word he
wanted, Victoria’s Waxed Chief Justice found one
&JIJL oPPftunities that he never misses for
digging that sharp forensic implement into the
subject of human depravity— the depravity that
generally consists of a weeping female making a
vigorous endeavor to imprison and flog a man
who, as a rule, hasn’t assaulted her. In this
case where two men were found guilty of
drunkenJyoutraging an old woman, Dr. Madden
probably awarded what they deserved, although
there was an extraordinary conflict of testimony
on the part of the prosecutrix herself. But the
waxed one notwithstanding his lesson in
the witness-box, couldn’t resist saying a few
words on the “continually growing disposition
among some of the community to hold a thorough
unbelief in the honor of women,” which made it
appear more and more indispensable, the longer
his experience of the courts, to “firmly resent
these cases.” Also, the C. J. stated that “ per
cent, of the trials then before him were similar
in character. This being the case, there seems to be
either a very rapid growth of sex lunacy in Vic-
tona, or the hysterical female is growing increas-
ingly wanton in her desire to ruin some man’s
reputation. Mr. Madden having quoted his
statistics, it would be as well to have some figures
from the other side, showing exactly the propor-
tion of cases in which the accusations of the
allegedly outraged female have fallen to the
ground, usually through the final admission
of the lady herself that she is a brazen
liar. _ These figures would completely upset
Justice Madden’s estimate so far as con-
victions are concerned. Investigation of the
kind in respect of, say, the last five years’ criminal
assault charges, would show at once that the
Waxellency and his brother Judges have been
neglecting a public duty in failing to send about
half the complaining females to prison for per-
jury, and have been pandering to crime, and
shielding about the worst class of criminals from
justice. _ A good, honest attempt to deal with the
matter in all its bearings—especially in the way
of gaoling the lying female—would do more good
than all Chief Justice Madden’s tongue-wagging.
N.S.W. requires 60 to 100 new locomotives, and
the See Government has announced thatit will have
them built in the State, even if they cost more than
the imported articles. Solomon never made any
wiser remark in his Book of Proverbs. It is
cheaper to pay a man ss. a week above the English
standard for doing something useful than to pay
him 10s. a week relief money for digging silly
holes somewhere. You save ss. a week to begin
with ; also you develop a useful artisan instead of
a semi-pauper. And if £250,000 is kept in the
country which would otherwise have gone out, it
probably means £300,000 difference to the revenue.
Few people realise that the revenue is such a com-
prehensive thing that it annually mops up
and spends again all the money there
is in the country, and more. Judging by
the _ bank returns, and allowing for the coin
m circulation, it is practically certain that there
is never more than £8,000,000 of cash in all
N.S. W. And out of that the Government collects
and spends again £11,000,000 in a single year. It
practically collects all the money there is in the
State every nine months. Therefore, a policy
which will leave £250,000 more in the country
may easily prevent a slump of even more than that
sum in the public income, and in the present state
of the public income that is worth considering.
The Jenkins Government has withdrawn most of
the charges on which Dr. Ramsay Smith, the City
Coroner, was suspended, and has substituted
others. One of the accusations was that he had
taken the head of a man named Hickman. Hick-
man, during an altercation, was knocked down
and died of skull-fracture. At the inquest a
witness stated that the assailant had used a stick,
and the doctor who examined the body agreed
that the injury might have been caused by a
heavy blow with such a weapon. The jury, acting
on this testimony, returned a verdict of
manslaughter. Eventually, Dr. Ramsay Smith
was ordered to exhume the body and to
make another autopsy. Accompanied by the
police he went to the country town where
Hickman .was buried, and obtained the head. He
carefully inspected it, and decided that the injury
was caused by a fall on a jagged stone. The police
searched the scene of the fatality and found a
stone with hair and blood on it, which exactly
fitted the wound (bloodstains'last a long time in
rainless S.A.). Seeing that the doctor was ex-
pressly, sent to get Hickman’s head, the fact that
he got it doesn’t seem much of a case for suspen-
Sion. Another charge withdrawn is that regarding
the head of Bertha Schippan, which, it was
ultimately proved, had never left the custody of
the police.
So soon as the Queensland Treasurer’s new Stamp
Tax proposals were announced, Brisbane’s cham-
ber of Commerce was hurriedly called together,
and, after inviting the city bankers to join and
help to express profound horror, proceeded to
wildly discuss the affair. After getting very red
and heated, the Chamber unanimously resolved
to. appoint a deputation for the purjiose of
pointing out that it was “distinctly a form of
class legislation, and calculated to hamper trade
and drive it out of the State.” In England the
citizen is taxed on an affidavit (2s. 6d.), agreement
(6d.), taking a furnished house (2s. 6d.), valuation
(from 3d. up to £1), for being a house agent (£2 a
year), apprenticeship indentures (2s. 6d.), for
being articled to a solicitor (£80), for being an
auctioneer (£lO a year), for an arbitrator’s award
(3d. to £1 155.), for selling playing cards (£1), for
a motor car (15s. to £5 55.), for being a London
solicitor (£9 a year), ocn tract to buy stock (Id. to Is.)
delivery order for goods (Id.), for being an ecclesi-
astical lecf*B-er (10s.), church (10s.), dog (7s. 6d )
for permission to sell certain kinds of fowls (£2 a
year), permission to own a pistol (10s. a year), to
keep a place for curing drunkards (£5), to own a
house (2d. to 9d. in the £ of rental) — The Bulletin
here stops in sheer weariness when not anything
like a quarter through the list. But to put it
shortly, m England it is hard to find anything,
and especially any mercantile document, that
isn’t taxed, and the Englishman takes it quite
philosophically. Also, it doesn’t drive trade
away, though it is about the most aggravating
system of small and eternal taxation that could be
devised, and twenty times more aggravating than
any Protectionist tariff—England even taxes you
on your male servant 10s. a year, and demands
£5 ss. a year for a license to sell sweets, and Id.
on a proxy to vote at a meeting of shareholders in
a bursted bank. Gonsidering that trade survives
this sort of thing in England, the Brisbane
Chamber of Buyers and Sellers has no need to
grow so excited.


The equitable life assurance society
FINANCIAL STATEMENT
FOR YEAR ENDED 31st DECEMBER, 1902.
ASSURANCE IN FORCE £265.597.775
INCREASE IN ASSURANCE IN FORCE ... £19,915,124
ASSETS •• • £73.855.783
INCREASE IN ASSETS .. .. .. .. .. •• £4,889,175
SURPLUS •• £15.418.151
INCREASE IN SURPLUS .. .. . . • • £620,434
THE NEW BUSINESS EXCEEDED THAT OF 1901 by ... .. £6,565,178
Local Directors have power to Issue Policies, Pay Claims, etc.
Sir WILLIAM M‘MILLAN, K.0.M.G., Chairman ; Hon. C. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C.
F. NORTON MANNING, Esq., M.D.
C. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager ■for Australasia.
F O. COWLEY, Secretary ALEX. JOBSON, Actuary for Australasia. DAVID FELL, Auditor.
S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, F.S.S., Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland.
RABBITS!
ARE THEY TO BE
A PROFIT OR PEST?
It rests entirely with our settlers whether it shall cost them and the State a large amount
annually to continue the war which has been waged against “ bunny ” for years past,
whether they will take the trouble to turn him into an asset which will bring a steady
revenue to the country and provide employment for THOUSANDS of its people. The
Rose war no Packing Company, Ltd., is now receiving rabbits at its works in Young,
Narandera and Sydney. The highest market price is given in return for freshly-killed
rabbits free of any commission or charges. For further particulars, address —
THE ROSEWARNE PACKING COMPANY, Limited,
HEAD OFFICE-
-70 PITT ST., SYDNEY
NARANDERA
or YOUNG.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ My Lady Molly.”
Royal “ Twelfth Night.”
Lyceum “ Worst Woman in London.”
Criterion “A Life’s Revenge.”
Palace “ In Mizzoura.”
Tivoli Rickards’Co.
Phillip Park Wirths’Circus.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK
Princess’s “ Are You a M ason ? ”
Her Majesty’s. “ Sherlock Holmes.”
Theatre Royal “ Tne Golden Ladder.”
Opera House... Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
♦
“ Secret Service,” an American drama
which is not new to Australia, doubtless owes its
popularity to the novel character of its plot and
the very sensational situations of Act 111. For
it is hot at all well constructed. With an ambi-
tious effort to preserve “the unities ” by bringing
the whole action within one day, and a still more
ambitious attempt to enlist sympathy for a man
who is a spy, and a very mean spy at that, the
play is full of faults of detail. In Act 1.,
for instance, a good deal of time is taken
up with light comedy between Wilfred
Varney and Caroline Mitford. The action of the
play is just then at a critical point, and
the amorous bye-play of the juvenile lovers
seems at first to be so shaped as to help the plot
on, to prepare for and develop the next situation.
But it does nothing of the sort. It is mere
“ comic relief ” dragged in needlessly, like the red-
headed servant’s maunderings in a cheap melo-
drama. Compared with, say, a Sardou play, in
which every incident is significant and essential,
“ Secret Service ”is poorly done. The author had
a novel idea, but not enough skill to work it out.
Still the unusualness of the piece gives it attractive-
ness. The central figure is a Yankee spy who has
entered the city of Richmond—practically the last
stronghold of the falling Confederacy—to betray it
and anything else that is necessary. In pursuit
of his plans he worms his way into the house
of Mrs. Varney, wife of a Confederate
general, and makes love to her daughter
and uses her servants to carry his messages.
The spy in war is not at the best a
figure commanding sympathy ; still his work is
sometimes necessary, and since it is necessary,
honorable. But in this play the spy’s methods
are so contemptible as to take from him all excuse.
Yet he is the hero, and his love for Miss Varney,
and his spying, and his final betrayal of his own
friends by refusing to give them the secrets he
had basely won, and his prospective happy
marriage with the lady, make up the piece. Only
the very highest of art could carry such an idea
through successfully ; and that author Gillette
has not.
It is nob the best of plays, however, that
are most popular, and “ Secret Service ” wins its
way to public favor in spite of all its faults.
The Frawley co. certainly plays it admirably.
Daniel Frawley’s style is exactly suited to the
cool, desperate character of Lewis Dumont, and
he carries the sympathy of the audience with the
spy all the evening. Miss Van Buren (as Edith
Varney), his lover, has a part of fine dramatic
intensity and plays it with great success. A
dignified figure is that of Mrs. Varney, the old
general’s wife; Miss' Blanche Douglas, who has
hitherto taken ingenue parts, acts it with quiet
grace. Harry Plimtner, as usual, has to take up
a thankless part —that of Arrelsford—a man who
is true to his cause and attempts no treachery, but
who is very hardly treated by the dramatist,
becoming in reality “the villain of the piece.”
Others who stand out prominently in a big cast
are Miss Christine Hill (in a broad negress part),
Miss Eva Dennison (as the arch and kittenish
Caroline Mitford), and .T. R. Amory. “Secret
Service will be withdrawn on Saturday, and there
will follow, in quick succession, “In Mizzouri,”
“ Arizona” (for two performances), and “Barbara
Freitchie ’’—presumably the lady who shook the
H ig at Stonewall Jackson.
** * *
Leinare’s final Sydney organ recital on
August 29 was interesting because the programme
was packed with the items that the player had
found most popular during his season; and of
the nine favorites a crowded house evidently
most favored the mock-heroic “ Funeral March of
a Marionette.” After that C'nipp’s Fantasia on
the Austrian National Hymn, Lemare’s own
Bircarolle, and the crash-bang “Ride of the
Valkyries.” Final accounts have not been made
up yet; but it is said that the City Council hasn’t
lost by Lemare’s engagement, £5OO being left over
and above the organist’s £BOO wherewith to pay
for incidentals.
Sfc
The “ Midsummer Night’s Dream ” closes
its brilliant career at Sydney Royal to-morrow
(Friday). It has been a very brilliant career, yet
Ceorge Rignold presented the same play with
a more capable company, and made a better
Nicholas Bottom than the present wearer of the
hearing apparatus of the ass; and though he
didn’t mount the play so expensively he deserved
quite as good luck—and didn’t get it. The human
materials of which that, and many other, fine old
shows were constructed, are either battling round
Australia in small parts, snowed under by the
rush of imported and widely-advertised Eng-
lish actors of very medium quality, or
else are battling individually in many corners
of the earth. If a wealthy manager wanted
to try something new, he might do worse than
take an Australian company (Australian by
birth or long residence) to London in return for
the many English companies that have come here ;
and if the English companies we have seen are a
fair criterion, he could show London something
much better than it expected. Certainly he could
snd back as good a “ Midsummer Night’s
Dream ” as England has sent to us.
Manager Musgrove stages “"Twelfth!
Night ” at the Royal on Saturday. This isn’t
exactly one of the lost plays of Shakspeare—lost*
to the stage, that is, as are “ Henry VI.” and!
“ Titus Andronicus,” and other more or' less;
lamented productions of blood and tonnage—but.
it is a thing that arises only at long intervals-,, andl
is therefore all the more welcome.
*« * *
“My Lady Molly ” will be snowed under-
sometime next week. She has drawn good audi-
ences, for life and love and color and calves, not to*
speak of attractive solos and rousing choruses, are;
what the majority of audiences appreciate. The*
comic operator doesn’t worry about sequence and
the classic unities. The story halts in the telling;
whilst a man servant dances with a chambermaid,,
or it pauses to let the ingenue be presented with*
a fox’s brush by a crowd of hunters. The chronic*
visitor to “Lady Molly” gets captious towards,
the close of the season, and says that the brush is*
half a lady’s boa, and he is critical about the.
stockings of the chorus and says some of them*
are not silk but lisle thread—for through
silk the leg complexion should be quite apparent.
After the first fortnight he knows the music by
heart, and can tell if principals or chorus omit one*
mechanical smile or add an extra mannerism. By
now he has come to the conclusion that Florence*
Young’s voice is a wonderful stayer, and that her
somewhat hard face is greatly softened by the*
wearing of a white wig. Evelyn Scott’s voice,
he discovers, won’t “stay.” It is “ tinny,” but
the fact that her little beak is Hebraic is forgiven*
because her smile is so pretty. When he turns*
to male principals he wonders why Harold Thorley
doesn’t keep his long coat buttoned to hide his in-
artistic legs. As for the grooms, hunters, guests
and peace officers—he loves them all, but all the*
same, he’ll be glad to see them in fresh disguises.
** * *
Mark Hambourg was billed to shake his.
mane at Sydney generally in the Town Hall last,
(that is Wednesday) night, but the exigencies of a.
paper which goes to press in the dim late hours of
Tuesday make it impossible to say whether the*
mane shook satisfactorily or not. The Bulletin 1
takes it f< r granted that it did, and leaves things
at that till next week.
** * *
The Westminster Abbey Glee Party, whose
pleasant warble and quaint clothes were here com-
mented upon during its Melbourne season, lifts
up its song at Sydney Town Hall on Monday
next. Governor Rawson, who is something in the
same line of business, having frequently lifted up
his voice to hail the main deck, accords his
patronage. So do Lady Rawson and that inde-
finite thing called “suite.”
Charles Holloway makes a change at Syd-
ney Criterion this Saturday night, replacing
“ The Price of Sin ” with “ A Life’s Revenge”— a
melodrama which Holloway promises to stage
with even more magnificence than usual.
** * *
There’s a whiff of old-time paganism about
the atmosphere of Wirths’ Circus, and judging by
the crowds which nightly cram the big green tent,
there is little difference between the taste of the
Australians under Consul Barton and that of the
Romans in the days of Honorius and the empe-
rors who tottered immediately after him. The
Alexandrine and Roman got slightly more in their
free show than the Australian does for cash ; but
that is the fault of the times. Circus appetite is a
depraved taste. The crowds who flock to the
great tent nightly go to see a tremendous gamble.
The small child ties herself into double and treble
knots, and the public sits half-hoping, half-fearing
that she will not be able to untie herself. It’s the
horrible possibility that that infant may have to
go through life done up in a hard knot,
that makes the performance fascinating.
There’s always a long, half-regretful sigh when
she suddenly twists herself back into the
shape and position in which God made her.
When the Flying Eugenes play rounders with
themselves away up in the dome of the tent there
is an unformed hope that the smallest Eugene
will be shot right across the horizon and come
down “ wough ! ” If there wasn’t a chance of
him coming down there would be little satisfaction
in him being up. The Simon Magus element is
supplied by the Howards, and that boss fakir
himself only got off one trick that looked cleverer
than that of the Howard Brothers —when he made
his two creamy horses gallop up from the floor of
the Coliseum through the empty air, dragging
him in his chariot behind them. Simon knocked
the Howards right out —and a just retribution
awaited him. He went up all right, but he fell
with such a bang that bits of his outfit were
scattered over the Emperor’s Sunday frock coat
and disarranged the Csesar’s top hat. Occasionally
the Roman circus frequenter saw the tamers eaten
in a tired sort of a way, and there are fine possi-
bilities about Wirths’ in that direction, too.
Mons. Ragoul seems to have his beasts fairly
under control, but Pagel’s lion is getting too big
for that large Teuton, and some night the two
will hold a sudden argument on the floor, the
result of which will greatly depend on who speaks
first.
m& # #
At Sydney Lyceum “The Worst Woman
in London” is repeating her former triumphs.
People who saw her before turn up to see if she
has discovered any more villainy ; husbands who
reckon themselves ill-used turn up to get conso-
lation in the thought that it might be worse; and
it is alleged that numerous females have turned
up with notebooks, and have been kept busy
jotting down sins that they haven’t tried up to
now. So far, William Anderson has been kept
too busy finding room for these various people to
think of any change of programme.
The skilful and humorous De Wynne Bros,
are now the chief attraction at Sydney Tivoli, with
W. C. Fields, a close second. Fields does not
seem to have enough variety in his budget to
enable him to run a long season and maintain the
public interest. A new arrival at the Tivoli is the
■ old favorite, Bobby Watson, who sings a couple of
comic songs with some success. It is a pretty
; solemn thing, when you think of it, to belong to a
profession in which a grown man finds it advisable
to call himself “ Bobby.”
** * *
“ Are You a Mason 1 ” as produced at
'Melbourne Princess’s last Saturday, is the same
elegantly-furnished trifle that Sydney saw five
months ago, when the cast of characters was
slightly different. Nowadays Miss Susie Vaughan
(vice Miss Munro) plays the somewhat severe
matron, who is the most important and least un-
suspicious member of a farcical comedy family.
Mental blindness is a universal failing in “Are
You a Mason ?” Even the somewhat severe lady
seems a strangely confiding creature by compari-
son with all former mothers-in-law, and this
.abnormal trustfulness on the part of the bad old
man’s partner is the main point of originality in a
very orthodox kind of farce. The bad old man
.and his son-in-law have respectively been going
where they were not supposed to go, and doing
the things they didn’t profess to have done, and
both of them have cloaked the harmless truth
•with a fictitious apron—the apron of Freemasonry.
* * * *
The fact that they are not the Freemasons
they claim to be leads them into a number of
extravagancies; also it involves the tiresome
foolishness of an agriculturist who marries a cer-
tain Angelina, and it provides opportunity for a
casual actor-man —the typical gesticulating actor-
man of stage invention —to levy blackmail on the
son-in-law. When the mock-Mason idea is nearly
worked to death, the ‘ ‘ Charley’s Aunt ” idea is
introduced into the complications, and a third
male character disguises himself as the suppositi-
tious daughter of Angelina aforesaid. Then
the bad old man imagines that he was respon-
sible for a spurious offspring under distant
conditions of immorality which never existed, as
far as Angelina can remember, and when the
make-believe result of this phantom liaison reap-
pears in male attire, and calls himself the brother
of the girl he had previously pretended to be, the
bad old man revels in the delusion that Angelina
and himself were the joint authors of twins.
Which aspersion on Angelina’s character is too
complicated a misunderstanding to be unravelled,
so the curtain falls on the story, and the audience
goes home, remarking that the entertainment is
“funny enough.” Present scribe reckons
“A.Y’.A.M.” a funny enough farce, sufficiently
well played. George Giddens, an easy comedian
with no individuality to speak of, takes the part
of the bad old man, in an ill-fitting wig ; Cecil
Ward is the son-in-law as before; George Desmond
repeats his spry impersonation of a hard-faced
spinster ; and the ladies, other than Miss
Vaughan, are the same imported actresses who sat
around and did needlework in April last. There
is little else than needlework for them to do, and
they don’t make much of that little.
At about the time when the modern Mel-
bourne youth was getting born, Bland Holt staged
a melodrama by G. R. Sims and Wilson Barrett,
titled “The Golden Ladder.” On Saturday he
brought it to light again at the Royal, trying the
effect of this forgotten thing upon a new genera-
tion ; and the new generation found it a higher-
toned melodrama than the ordinary sensation
nightmare of later years. In the kingdom of
dramatic jerry-builders Sims is King, and Barrett
is the Archbishop. Seemingly Barrett opened
their collaboration with prayer, and directed it
with a be-eautiful text.
’Tis sorrow builds the Shining Ladder up,
Whose Golden Rounds are our Calamities.
And he prayed that the sorrowful climber in this
narrative might be a noble young curate of
missionary tendencies pursued by a persecutor.
Then Sims said—“ Let there be a comic cockney
pastrycook to lighten the darkness,” and it was
so; and the parson, the persecutor, and the pastry-
cook were the pillars of the parable. The actors,
as well as artist Brunton, get encouragement to
spread themselves thoughtfully, if not enthu-
siastically, upon the B. and S. drama. It con-
tains many “telling” situations and lines, and
the curate on the ladder is a victim of circum-
stances that come natural to the plot, anyhow.
* * * *
The persecutor (Albert Norman) is a
candid villain. In the Ist scene he warns Rev.
Walter Baker and Miss Ross to expect all
the harm he can heap upon them, and there-
after he chases them round the world, making
himself horribly unpleasant. Charles Brown and
Styan assist him to steal securities and bring
false charges, whilst the pastrycook and his wife
(Bland and Mrs. Holt) offer shelter and jelly, and
sympathy and sponge-cake, to the oppressed.
They spread jam on the golden ladder, as it were.
In the last act Bland strikes the true note of
cockney heroism when he defies a foreign adven-
turer to shift him. “I’m old—but I'm
Inglish,” cries Bland. The foreigner falls
back, staggered by the force of that remark.
Miss Brightie Smith creates a convincing
young daughter for the comic couple; in short
Brightie would be the most admirable performer
in the piece, if Walter Baker didn’t happen to be
exceptionally strong this time. Baker proclaims
his solemn determinations and utters his threats
of vengeance as though the soul of the curate
possessed him. His trouble turns his hair grey,
and brings wrinkles into his eloquent voice. And
when Baker, turning his commanding profile
towards the d.c. entrance, loads himself to the
muzzle with earnestness and pulls the trigger—
well, where is there another melodrama hero who
can go off with so impressive a bang? This
country has never seen the other man.
** * *
The Musgrove-Slapoffski situation is very-
mixed. Firstly Madame Slap, issued a writ
against Musgrove for what may be called “breach
of privilege” as regards the unwritten law
relating to “leading ladies” and leading parts.
Secondly, Musgrove has issued a writ against
Madame Slap’s, husband for breach of contract,
claiming £2,000 damages, more than double the
amount that Madame claims on her little writ.
** * *
At Her Majesty’s a drunk and disorderly
poet is still tearing the Aurora Borealis from the
heavens to make a necklace for his heart’s best
idol. Also, the six men who routed the Bur-
gundian forces with great slaughter have not ceased
to cry “Yah!” when King Louis proposes to
hang their Constable in the interests of
humor. “If I were King” appeals to the
feelings of most people, including the noisiest
and least sober. The wages of disrespectability
in France, five hundred years ago, were a cup of
wine and a pocket full of money. If you slung
treasonable verses at the lean old head of the
reigning sovereign he transferred you to Court,
clothed in white kid boots a yard long. It was a
great period for publicans and sinners, and Mel-
bourne will be rather sorry to see the last of it on
Friday. On the other hand, there is gladness in
the thought that Sherlock Holmes and the Pro-
fessor are about to resume their feud for a week.
For the last six nights of the season the Professor
will breathe his orders down thespeaking tube, and
inconvenient citizens will be removed (with, or
without, chloroform) whilst the Man of Destiny
waits in his high-backed chair.
** * *
The Mexican eagle who loops the loop at
Rickards’ is a useful bird insofar as he aids, by his
avoirdupois weight, a practical demonstration of
‘ ‘ loopage,” but in his character of star performer
the anxious captive is a delusion and a fraud.
All the other birds trained by Madame Mar-
zella go about their business on their own—or
seem to —and their air of willingness is an
attraction in the show. The eagle looks like a
dissenting party to the loop transaction, but he
preserves a majestic silence under the ordeal, and
subsequently reappears without his bicycle to con-
vince the audience that he didn’t die of fright.
Madame and the Birds are proceeding until
further notice at the Opera House, likewise Dan
Crawley, and Hallen and Fuller, who have
changed their wheelbarrow sketch for a rather
better one.
An annual agricultural show is due in
Melbourne this week, therefore some of the
theatre matinees are dated for Thursday
instead of the usual Wednesday. The influx
of fat cattle and bloated capitalists from the
interior accounts for several unusual events. A
circus which is only a first cousin to the circus
that comes at Cup time will remain at
Fitzgerald Bros.’ building until the beginning of
next week; also, something is bound to happen
at the Town Hall, and the Aquarium, and Krist-
mayer’s Waxworks. The Waxworks always puts
up specialties at holiday seasons, and its heaviest
specialty just now is a gentle Clara, who weighs
43 stone.
** * *
Hill and Sylvainy, who manage to imp;vrt
something new to the well-worn trick-cycling
business, are the chief attractions at Adelaide
Tivoli. Grace Emmett (the programme con-
sistently calls her Gracie, but there is no obvious
reason for this familiarity) wisely went back to
her best work—as the middle-aged Irish bride with
a “sure thing” in an unhealthy husband fully
insured —for the end of her season. Her small co ,
which includes a typical Gibson girl and two pretty
good men, has now moved on. Dan Barry has also
gone from the Royal, after giving a remarkable
speech on praying for rain. He stated that he
did it once and got floods, with much suffering
and loss of life; did it again and got bush-fires !
Meanwhile, he produced a large slab of crude
melodrama entitled, “When the Sea Gives Up
its Dead;” and Adelaide, which had expected
from the name something about the Day of
Judgment, received it rather coldly. William
Anderson has now come along with the “Death
of Nelson,” including “ Hearts of Oak ” and other
naval curiosities of great antiquity.
The Wild Cat Column
Toohey’s, Limited, the people who run the big
Sydney beer factory, and who commenced 18 months ago
with a deficit of £90,605 (preliminary expenses, £5605, and
a goodwill item of £85,000):
In Be-
duction
Net of
Profits. Dividends. Deficit. Deficit.
July, 1902.. £11,416 £11,416 £79.189
Jan., 1903.. 25,606 6 p.c. = £16,500 9,106 70,03-1
July, 1903.. 18,603 6 „,, 16,500 2,103 67,980
There isn’t much enlightenment to he got out of tins
co.’s balance-sheet. The principal line among the assets
is “Standard Brewery, plant and machinery, goy<--
will, rolling stock, freehold and leasehold properties
£437,863” ; but how much is brewery, which is a tangible
asset, and how much is goodwill, which isn’t, could i ot
have been stated had not the chairman made a verbal
announcement on the subject at the shareholders meet-
ing. The undivided profits (including the two resene
funds —“ordinary reserve” and “ reserve against good-
will”) are being used in the business; just how they
are being used cannot, however, be stated either,
because they are simply swelling the huge composite
item previously referred to. Said item has grown in thi-
way '.—July, 1902, £398,956 ; January, 1903, £423,404;
July, 1903, £437,863. There has been a rather serious
slump in the profits ; but here again no explanation can
be offered except that the shrinkage has been in the
profits from the sale of liquor, the other chief item (rents)
having been well sustained ; probably the reduced profits
result, as in other cases, from the higher prices of bre«-
ing materials, but there is no evidence on the point, lhe
only evidence there is, in fact, is that net profits on
capital (£550,000) and undivided profits were equal to
£9 4s. 3d. per cent, in the half-year ending January, 19 «,
whereas they were down to £6 11s. 9d. per cent, in the
past half-year. * * *
Private enterprise is still hustling along gaily.
That splendid British syndicate which got the right to
supply Adelaide with electric tramways, and announce
in a large, grand way that it had the money all ready,
and which denounced its opponents as people »’ti
sought to prevent the immediate employment of an
immense number of men, hasn’t done any work yet.


dfsd
TRAMWAYS FOR MINES.
up
is still more economical and expeditious Lara-e Svdnov 'M.n 86 or loco i traction,
' too ™l Ss? R S"' »*>» Tip.Kta“p„,tffi?S;g; ffitevsLsyy
-- NOENTS.—Dog-spikes to Compound Locomotives— i.e., EVERYTHING ’ * C ‘
n tr MT D A I GATALOGUE is yours for the asking. ‘m<
CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY APPLIANCES
Prop. Ltd., 40 Hunter St., SYD NEY A. E LFplustdied «. ES
t, , Representing Orenstein and Koppel' Ltd., London Berlin andPariff'’
Branches—Melbourne, Brisbane, Cairns and Zeehan (Tasmania). , Rerun and Paris.
Messrs. Gillespie Bros, and Co., of the Anchor
Roller Flour Mills, Sydney, have placed an order with
The Austral Otis Engineering’ Company, of South
Melbourne, for the construction of a modern semi tandem
horizontally coupled triple expansion surface condensing
engine. The engine will be capable of indicating 450
horsepower ; the cylinders being 12", 19" and 30" diam.
respectively, with a stroke of 48 inches, and will be fitted
with specially designed inlet and exhaust steam valves
on the Sultzer principle. This engine will form another
excellent example of modern high class engine construc-
tion to the credit of the builders, who have already
attained a well deserved reputation throughout the
Commonwealth for design and construction of this class
of work.*
* * * »
Scottish Critic, October, 1902, writes re the
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited :—“ The
Company was established in 1873 and the management
has always been characterised by abundant enterprise,
tempered with the prudence which can alone make
energy valuable in a life assurance company.”*
* * * *
British manufacturers have been beaten iii an
open competition by an Australian engineering firm. We
have ascertained that the Mond Gas Co. of Staffordshire
have accepted the tender of Mephan Ferguson, of Mel-
bourne, for the supply of about 13 miles of Ferguson’s
Patent Lockingbar Steel Pipes, from 18 inches to 36 inches
diameter. The machinery for manufacturing these pipes
has all been made at Ferguson’s General Engineering
Works, Footscray, and shipped to Tipton, in Staffordshire,
where the branch works are being erected. The same
firm have also erected engineering and pipe works at
Wanganui, New Zealand, and have contracted to supply
the Wanganui Borough Council with about 20 miles of
Spiral Riveted Steel Pipes for the town water supply.*
* * * *
Thousands of pounds are yearly thrown away
because insufficient care is taken to save the extreme
fines and slimes in concentrating mills. There is only
one ore dressing machine which is unquestionably entitled
to first place as the best and surest means of saving this
material. We refer to the Luhrig Vanners, which have
proved their superiority on all leading mining fields and
may be seen daily in use at the gold, silver, lead, zinc,
tin, copper and other mines where up-to-date ore dressing
is in vogue. Messrs W. and J. Lempriere, of Melbourne
and Sydney, are the Sole Agents, and will be pleased to
give full particulars on application.*
* * « *
A. Kozminsky, 106 Queen-st., Melbourne,
having returned from England, is now prepared to
purchase paying mines, and mining properties (not
merely surface shows), situated in any part of
Australasia requiring further capital for development and
machinery. Only genuine and legitimate ventures,
capable of bearing the strictest examinations will be
entertained.*
* * » *
With a constant sensibility of l/3000th. grain,
assayers will welcome the "Galopin” Assay Balance
(price, with weights, £21.) “It is all you claim for it,”
writes a customer to de Beer, Silberberg and Co., of
Gasoline furnace fame, Bourke-street, Melbourne.*
* * * *
H. Brandon Skertchly, geologist, mining engi-
neer and assayer, is prepared to furnish scientific reports
and plans to British and Australian investors. Assays
undertaken, and inquiries re mining properties, promptly
attended to. For fuller information apply to H. Brandon
Skertchly, Norman Chambers, Creek-street, Brisbane.*
* * * *
George Morrison, Stock and Share broker
(member Brisbane Stock Exchange), 377 Queen-street
opposite Stock Exchange, Brisbane. Agents all parts of
the World. Correspondence invited.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-streeb, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
Hedley Hawkins, sharebroker, Queen-street,
Brisbane (member, Brisbane Stock Exchange), has agents
every important mining centre and cities of Common-
wealth. Correspondence invited.*
* * * *
To empty old abandoned shafts, or to cope with
inrushes of water at a minimum cost, may be effected by
the use of the Vertical Plunger Sinking Pumps, manufac-
tured by The A. S. Cameron Steam Pump Works of New
York ; and represented by Messrs. W. & J. Lempriere, of
Melbourne, who hold stocks of these and various other
sizes and styles of steam or air pumps. These pumps are
distinct from any other make of so-called “Cameron’
Pump. They work automatically, and have no dead
centre, neither have they springs nor outside valve gear
to become deranged. They occupy less space in a shaft
than any other Sinking Pump of same capacity.*
••* * *
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime and
all Mining and Assay Chemicals and Apparatus, Micro-
scopes and accessories can be obtained of Felton, Grim-
wade and Co., Melbourne. 4th edition, enlarged (red
cover) of illustrated catalogue of all mining requisites
now ready. Free on application on receipt of 4d.
postage.*
• • * *
E. Garland Abell, Registered Patent Agent,
159 Queen-street, Brisbane. Inventions patented. Trade
Marks registered throughout the world.*
* * * *
The Great Cobar deal is practically completed.
In the absence of details the terms of flotation in London
are incomprehensible. It is evident that the promoters
could not raise the whole of the capital in cash, and that
there was even great difficulty in getting the amount
requisite to pay for the properties, and provide the work-
ing capital which Mr. Kendall says is necessary to alter
the system of working. There is a debenture issue of
£700,000, bearing 6£ per cent. As the remainder of the
capital is necessary for the purposes stated above, it is
to be assumed that the option syndicate is taking its
purchase consideration in debentures, and, also, that a
large amount of debentures have been issued to under-
writers as bonuses. This method of financing the scheme
may be compulsory, and it may be satisfactory to the
syndicators, but it must severely handicap the mines by
making a big hole in the profits.
$
f
SUN
H IGHEST
QUALITY
BRAND
SOLO
EVERYWHERE.
Nor, apparently, has it been able, after fooling around
for nearly two years, to raise any money worth speaking
of. It hasn’t even paid the cash agreed upon for the old
horse trams. Now it asks the old companies to hand
over their trams and take payment in the shape of a sort
of second mortgage on the new trams, and the old com-
panies reckon the proposal is a shocking impertinence.
The Melbourne Tramway and Omnibus Co.
(the rate of dividend given below is not always strictly
accurate, but is given to the nearest convenient fraction):
Net Re-
serves,
Dividends on including
£250,000 actually Added capital-
paid up by Written to Re- ised Re-
Profits. shareholders. off. serves, serves.
1889 £207,260 12 p.c.= £30,000 £120,552
1890 170,552 25J „ 64,000 £106,552 227,104
1891 131,501 38J „ 96,000 35,501 262,605
1892 111,816 29 „ 72,000 39,816 302,421
1893 51,270 9J „ 24,000 27,270 329,691
1594 45,460 9J „ 24,000 21,460 351,151
1895 62,870 9j „ 24,000 28,870 380,021
1896 40,069 9J „ 24,000 16,069 396,090
1897 51,978 9} ~ 24,000 £15,000 12,978 409,068
1898 43,159 9j „ 24,000 19,159 428,227
1899 56,629 11j „ 28,800 10,000 17,829 446,056
1900 73,270 15J „ 38,400 10,000 24,870 470,926
1901 107,505 24 „ 60,000 10,000 37,505 508,431
1902 92,538 24 „ 60,000 10,000 22,538 530,969
1903 83,944 19 „ 48,000 3,000 32,944 563,913
The reserves have been made up in this way during the
past three years:—
1901. 1902. 1903.
Capitalised Profits .. £230,000 £230,000 £230,000
Renewal Reserve 250,169 261,827 264,960
Reserve for the Return
of Capital .. .. 30,375 41,514 53,071
Undivided Profit.. .. 29,253 25,994 26,248
Dividend Reserve .. 12,000 12,000 12,000
Reserve for Depreciation 15,000
„ „ , £651,797 £571,335 £601,279
Less Balance of a Good-
will Item in Process of
Writingoff .. .. 43,366 40,366 37,366
£508,431 £530,969 £663,913
The co. itself does not, of course, put it quite like that.
In its balance-sheet it says :
“ Capital.—Subscribed .. .. £960,000
“ Less Uncalled .. 480,000
£480,000
11 (Oi which £400,000 was actually paid up
in money.)”
Another way of putting it would be something like this :
Capital.—Subscribed .. .. £960,600
Less Uncalled .. .. 480,000
£480,000
(Made up as follows :
Plant and goodwill of old co £BO,OOO
Subscribed by Shareholders .. .. 170,000
Obtained by charging high fares and ’
not at once cutting up the proceeds 150,000
Ditto by working employees long hours
for small pay, and telling them the
co. couldn’t afford to treat them any
better 80,000
£480,000
This year the directors of this magnificent
monopoly have some more mournful remarks to make
regarding the “continued falling-off of business”; still,
in view of the fact that on the shareholders’ actually paid-
up £250,000 a profit of £33 11s. 7d. per cent has been
made, they are implored to bear up, and remember that
things might have been worse—some people find it hard
work to make even 30 per cent. Certainly the M.T. and
U Co. 8 is a wasting security ; in 1916 the property goes
out of its hands. But even now, after these shockingly
bad times through which it has been passing for years,
during which it has never paid more than 24 per cent,
dividend, it could make the writer a present of the whole
concern, pay its debts, and still have something over
£1 9s. for every £1 of cash or £1 worth of horse and ’bus
and tram that it put into the business.
* * * *
Pitt, Son and Badgery, Ltd. (Sydney), wool
and station produce salesmen and agents :
lon _ Profits. How Disposed of Reserves
iono " *• • £l > B4X Written off £1,841 £7500
4393 " - 2 > 731 >• » 2,731
89 “ “ 4 ’ 043 » .. 4 -043
lorn - ** 6 > 555 » .. 6,555 „
lonl " ” 5,569 >. » 5 -669 „
962 ~ " 12 ’ 299 » » 12,299
1903 •• 6,319 „ „ 6,319 ”
It grows a little wearisome, this announcement that
your directors deem it necessary to transfer the
net profits to the special reserve 'to meet bad and
doubtful debts ’—which means that the profits were
lost before they were made. The satisfactory
Teature is that the directors announce that “no
turtner appropriations will be required. ” In seven
years £39,357 has been wiped 4 out, which “
pretty considerable for a co. with a paid capital
only £so,ooo—an average of 11J per cent.
• A,,d 4hat P rofit haa b een made
(proht, that is, assuming that they are old, and not
partly current bad and doubtful debts that have been
mopping up the surplus earnings) in spite of the fact that
Jn the early part of the seven-year period the co had a
heavy interest hill to pay. At June 30th, 1899, it had an
overdraft uf £65 ; 437, and other liabilities which brought
the total to £72,117, and in that year it paid £2337 in
interest; on June 30th of this year the overdraft was
£24 ’445, and other liabilities to £2252 ; total,
£26,69i-a reduction of £14,343 during the last 12
months. And the interest has been only £640. Assuming,
then, that the old bad debts have, as stated, been about
wped out (there is, of course, no means of testing this),
and that there are no recent bad debts to provide for,
then Pitt, Son and Badgery, if they can maintain recent
earnings, will have a very good time. On the paid capital
last years profits were equal to £l2 12s. 9d. percent.
* * * *
Richardson and Wrench, Ltd. (Svdnev)
property salesmen, valuators, &c.
Deficit
D . In Re- (Goodwill
Profits. Dividends. duction not
of reckoned
Tll „„ ionn Deficit, an Asset.)
June, 1899 £ss>ris7 /
Dec., 1899..£2071 5 per cent. =£lsoo £571 51’486
June, 1900.. 2448 5 „ 1500 948 50’538
Dec., 1900.. 2538 5 ~ „ 1500 1038 49 500
June, 1901.. 2517 5 „ „ 1500 1017 48 483
Dec., 1901 . 3313 5 „ „ 1500 1813 46 670
n" 16 ’ irmo‘ 3263 5 •> ’• 1500 1763 44|907
Dec., 1902.. 2993 5 „ „ 1500 1493 43 414
June, 1903.. 1746 5 „ „ 1500 246 43,168
The goodwill item, which stood originally at £57 000
(capital £60,000), has been written down to £44 000 The
assets are Treasury bills, £9OOO (increased by
£2OOO during the past 12 months); and cash with hankers
ei.>°o« payi i= th o f, urrent divif lend, £9540 (as against
£l2 925 on June 30th, 1902.) The serious reduction of
l /’. fo'o entlre !- v dne fco Poorer earnings, which amounted
ti £4488 as against £6065 for the corresponding part of
last year, while thecostof managementand otherexpenses
have remained almost stationary. Even at the reduced
rate, however, the profits are equal to £5 9s. Bd. on paid
-apital, which, taking Sydney’s recent circumstances into
account, can be regarded as satisfactory.
* * * ‘ *
. N.S.W. Agent-General Copeland comes back to
inform ua that the Australian Government must not at-
tempt to take over the State debts without also takinsr
over the principal asset which they represent—the raif-
TK yS r b u- f i'l' e the Brifcish creditor “ won’t hear of it ”
the dashed insolence of the British creditor is interest-
ing but something of this sort was bound to come
oohen now presumes to dictate our politics, and Copeland
carries Cohen’s commands toCohen’sbond-slave, Australia.
Certainly, the Commonwealth should take over the debts
and the railways, but the fact that it suits Australia to
do so doesn’t make Cohen’s insolence any the less glaring-.
If Australia would only decide to borrow no more, then it
could tell Cohen to go to—anywhere convenient. Re-
newal loans needn’t trouble us. If Cohen won’t renew
we can simply tell him the loan is renewed —in fact, that
is the only thing we could tell him under such condi-
tions
* * * *
The Balmain New Ferry Co. (Sydney):
Net Added to Re-
Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
June, 1898 ~ - £u77
Dec., 1898 .. £1372 10 per cent. = £648 £724 2201
June, 1899 .. 1355 10 „ „ 648 707 2908
Dec., 1899 .. 1687 10 „ „ 648 1039 394/
June, 1900.. 773 10 „ „ 648 125 4072
Dec., 1900 .. 975 10 „ 648 327 4399
June, 1901.. 990 10 „ „ 648 342 4741
Dec., 1901 .. 494 10 „ „ 648 4587
June, 1902.. 1031 10 „ „ .648 383 4970
£367 profit made on sale of forfeited shares 5337
Dec., 1902 .. 272 7J per cent. = 616 4993
£247 profit made on sale of forfeited shares 5240
June, 1903 .. 309 5 per cent. = 410 5139
Compared with their predecessors the figures in the last
line make the position rather better than it really is,
because the amount charged for depreciation during the
past half-year was unusually small For the previous two
years the average half-yearly allowance on this account
was £lOO4 ; for the la?t six months only £713 is allowed
If the old average had been maintained a net profit of
only £lB would have been shown. The fact is, there has
been a constant shrinkage in earnings. The directors
blame “the general depression of the present time,”
But the shrinkage in traffic receipts has been going on
for some years
June, 1901 .. .. £9745
Dec., 1901 .. .. 9105
June, 1902 .. .. 9028
Dec., 1902 ... £8763
June, 1903 .. .. 8579
Meantime, however, general expenses (coals, stores,
wages, &c.) have advanced: —
June, 1901 .. .. £6903
Dec., 1901 .. .. 6807
June, 1902 .. .. 6774
Dec., 1902 .. .. £6837
June, 1903 .. .. 7632
Taking the two sets of figures together, the movement
disclosed is particularly unhealthy. And while things
are bad for the shareholders they don’t seem to be any
better for the public; there are more complaints regard-
ing this ferry service than of any other on the harbor—
complaints of failure to run to time, of bad lighting,
ricketty jetties, and general discomfort.
* • • •
N.S.W. Public Works Committee has come to a
decision with regard to the proposed supplementary
water supply for Broken Hill. Only two schemes found
supporters ; the proposal to complete the Umberumberka
weir and provide Broken Hill with another distinct
service had three votes, while the proposal to give the
present co. an extension of time on its undertaking to add
to its drainage area by diverting the waters of Yancowinna
Creek had four votes. The latter proposal has therefore
been recommended to Parliament. It has one quality
which will appeal to the Government: the Treasury
won’t have to find any cash in order to carry it
out. The length of the time-extension shall, it
is proposed, be determined by actuarial calculation.
The scheme recommended is the simplest and least
expensive of all those that have been mentioned ; on the
other hand, it is the least satisfactory. Apart from the
fact that it involves an extension of the private monopoly
of water supply (and it is generally agreed that water
supply, at any rate, ought to be under public control),
there is a strong objection to the diversion of more water
into the present polluted reservoir. Further, from its
extreme flatness, the present reservoir is not suitable for
holding a large quantity of water ; the loss by evapora-
tion in that climate is enormous. In that respect the
Umberumberka scheme has an advantage ; the water
would be confined in a comparatively small area, and the
loss would therefore be minimised. The proposal
adopted by the Works Committee will certainly give much
less satisfaction to Broken Hill than any of the others.
Locally, connection with the Darling is for the moment
the most favored. That, however, would probably cost
about £250,000, and the cost of maintenance would also
be heavy. Moreover, the present co would compete with
it for the mines supply, at any rate. No doubt it would
give a much more permanent supply than any other; but
it is economically impossible, and the only result that is
likely to follow an agitation in its favor is the hanging-up
of a decision in the whole matter.
* * * • *
The Albert Building Society (Melbourne)
Busi- Loss on Visible
ness Property Net
July, Profits Sales Profit Dividends Reserves
1895 .. .. £8,964
1896 .. .. £ll4 £ll4 9,078
1897 .... 135 135 9,213
1898 .... 90 90 9,303
1899 .. .. 305 £B2 223 9,526
1900 . . .. 402 70 332 9,858
1901 .. .. 712 340 372 10,230
£356 Surplus on Terminating Shares 10,586
1902. .. .-. 681 523 158 ljp.c.=£726 10,018
1903 .... 967 967 l| „ 726 10,259
A year ago it was decided to take counsel’s opinion as to
whether it was lawful for shareholders to have a bite at
the profits, and counsel said it was. It was not a very
large bite that followed—only about lj per cent.—but
still it was more than had been eiarned during the year,
and,, in fact, nearly five times more if the losses on
property sales are taken into account This year the
profits are better ; but, as the improvement is mainly the
result of spending about £2OO less than usual on repairs,
it can’t be depended upon to continue. In fact, the
society’s one source of revenue—interest and receipts
from properties- returned less in 1903 than in 1902. Pro-
fits even at the enhanced rate were equal to only £ll3s.
6d. per cent, on the paid capital (£57,777); obviously
much severe writing-down is still waiting to be done.
The assets consist almost wholly of properties acquired by
foreclosure and still taken in at boom-time book-value ;
and very little is being done (for the good reason, no
doubt, that very little can be done) in the way of realis-
ing. Progress in this respect in recent years has gone
like this :
Loans and Fore- Realised
closed Properties. during year.
1896 £74,277 ..
1897 73,740 ~ £537
1898 ' 73,340 ... 400
1899.. .. .. 72,675 ' .. 665
1900. 72,378 297
1901.. .. .. 70,820 .. 1558
1902 69,413 .. 1407
1903 68,935 j. 478
In seven years property to the extent of £5342 has been
realised, and in the same period liabilities have been re-
duced by £5443. But whereas seven years ago there was
a credit cash balance of £562, on the payment of the pre-
sent dividend there will be a debit balance of £96. If the
shareholders are willing to wait long enough it looks as
though they may get their money back by the slow
realisation of properties ; but it is fairly plain that thev
can’t hope to do that and draw even small dividends into
the bargain.
* » - * *
Veritas: A, E, G and H are good and sound.
B nasn t been long enough in existence to form much of
an opinion about. O is a wasting security, and has a
doubtfu l future. Dis making good profits, but amount
of bad and doubtful debts is uncertain. F is heavily
loaded with debt and is not doing we 11.... W. Femison •
Send stamped addressed envelope for reply,. JJD •
Don’t care to advise ; all the information available is in
the weekly notes. Among the big things developments
at Great Boulder have been well spoken of; among the
smaller, Q. Menzies... .Wildcat: District very unreliable
.. .. Anxrous r The Tasmanian concern is a certain wild-
cat ; and if the others have any good in them it is being
kept a dead secret. g
The Australian Newspaper Co. (Sydney),
which owns and publishes the Australian Star
June Gross Net Dividends NolT lip al
June ’ Earnings. Depreci- Profit. Dividends. Re-
ation). selves.
2g9g £B2B
1890.. £29,064 £28.142 £922 4 p.c. =£l6oo 150
1900.. 26,611 24,648 1963 6 „ „ 2000 113
1901.. 25,921 23,915 2006 5 „ 2000 119
Loss. Deficit.
190.2.. 21,964 23,383 1419 1300
1903.. 21,592 22,075 1383 2683
The assets include “P. :mises, plant, furniture, stationery,
goodwill, £31,699.” It is not stated how much goodwill
is reckoned at; but, whatever it is, by that much is the
real deficit greater than is stated above. On June 30 the
co. was working on an overdraft of £3038. The directors
are hopeful that their new Sunday-paper venture will
help to improve the look of things before long. The co.’s
capital is £40,000, all paid up
The annual meeting of the Australian Star,
held last week, was not a very cheerful function.
Adverse comment as to the neglect of directors to carry
out the suggestions of the previous annual meeting cul-
minated in what was practically a vote of censure on the
directorate. This was lost on the casting vote of the
chairman. The adoption of the report was then carried
by a majority of three A poll was demanded, but the
chairman refused to sanction it. The dissatisfied share-
holders speak now of calling a special meeting to deal
with the situation.
* * * *
The Queensland Agricultural Bank completed
its first year’s work on June 30th, Under its Act it is
entitled to raise £250,000 “ for the purpose of promoting
the occupation, cultivation, and improvement of the
agricultural lands of the State ”; but, as advances may
only be made on improvements, and then to no more than
13s. in the £ of their value, the full amount is not likely
to be called for for a good many years. In the 12 months
267 applications were received and 177 were put through ;
the others have either been refused, hung up, or with-
drawn. The 177 represent £22,612, of which so far,
however, only £6253 has been paid. The experience
with regard to interest payments has been unsatis-
factory ; of £177 due only £79 had been paid on June
30th. A further £45 was received within the en-
suing seven days of grace. Interest is payable at the
rate of 5 per cent, per annum for five years; after
that a half-yearly payment of £4 os. 3d. per cent, for
20 years will extinguish the debt. Expenses of manage-
ment (including contingencies) amounted to 1617, or at
the rate of £9 17s. 4d. per cent, of the advances. On
the other hand, valuation and other fees realised £7lB,
more than covering the expenses, which, no doubt, to
some extent, were of a preliminary and special character.
* * * *
The Berrima District Farm and Dairy Co.
(N.S.W.):
* Writ- Add- Re-
Bonus ten ed to ser-
to off. Re- ves.
Dec., Profit. Dividend. Suppliers. serves.
1899 £2489
1900 £2460 10 p.c. = £92 12 p.c. = £685 £4Ol £1282 3771
1901 2460 10 „ „ 94 15 „ „ 1010 397 959 4730
1902 3482 10 „ „ 94 25 „ „ 2313 390 685 5415
J-yr. to
June
1903 1068 1068 6483
The accounts are made up and balance-sheets issued
every six months ; but as dividends and bonuses are paid
only every year, the figures in the above are grouped into
yearly periods. Last half-year has, as with all such co’s.,
been unfavorable ; apart from that, there has been
excellent progress. The paid capital is only £941 ; so
that, in proportion, the reserves are very handsome.
These reserves are mostly represented by cash balances,
which, on June 30th, 1903, amounted to nearly £4OOO.
* * * *
The Albury Brewing and Malting Co.
(Alhury, N.S.W.)
Profits. Dividends. Written Re-
June, off - serves. serves ’
1900.. 5 per cent. =£725 £274
1901.. £849 5 „ „ 725 £l5O 248
1902.. 1340 5 „ „ 725 300 £315 563
1903. 446 5 „ „ 725 150 134
The paid capital is £14,500. As in most brewery busi-
nesses the profits are erratic ; they were, however, in-
clining upwards when they were affected last year by the
high prices of brewing materials. Still, it can’t be said
that the high prices had all to do with the slump ; the
fall in gross sales, from £8599 in 1902 to £7399 in 1903,
was no doubt largely responsible. The most satisfactory
feature disclosed is the substantial writing-down of plant,
&c.; but, even allowing for that, the 5 per cent, dividend
is not at all justified.
* * » *
Broken Hill S.M. Co. made a profit of £21,016
during the half-year to June 30th, after writing off
£4493 for depreciation of plant. For some past few half-
years its record has been :
Ore Lead re- Silver re- Gross Divi-
treated. covered, covered. Profit. dends.
tons. p.c. p.c. £ £
June, 1899.. 43,150 15,686 20,000
Dec., 1899.. 48,137 61-89 47-60 29,731 15,000
June, 1900.. 48,004 67'39 50'51 29,207 30,000
Dec., 1900.. 49,007 69-22 49'83 30,807 30,000
June, 1901.. 51,091 69-08 50-24 15,337 10,000
Dec., 1901.. 51,650 70'29 51'71 8,695 nil
June, 1902.. 67,359 70'22 54-90 23,622 10,000
Dec., 1902.. 68,948 70-42 53'95 8,647 10,000
June, 1903.. 66,743 66'57 48'90 25,504 10,000
The “ gross profit ” above is the profit less the variable
deduction for wear and tear. The surplus of liquid assets
over current liabilities at the end of the half-year was
£38,918 (this is after payment of the half-year’s dividend),
as against £23,287 six months previously. The least
satisfactory feature disclosed is the rather serious
reduction in the percentages of metals recovered from
the ore by concentration. This reduction has, moreover,
been accompanied by a fall in the metallic contents of
the ore; the average was 15'96 p.c. lead and 8‘450z.
silver against 17 72 lead and 7'46 oz. silver in the previous
six months. The total quantity of metal recovered in
the concentrates was 9061 tons lead and 301,8700 z. silver.
The gross profit, as stated, was £25,504, or at the rate of
£2 16s. 3d per ton of the lead. The average price for
lead has been £lll9s Bd. ; for silver, 2s. Id. With silver
stationary at that price, the South can thus produce lead
at £9 3s. sd, but without making any allowance for wear
and tear of plant. The co. has, however, been re-treating
large quantities of cheaply-handled old tailings ; when
these are exhausted it is doubtful whether it will be able
to show such good results. As to mine prospects, it is
now estimated that above the 800 ft. level there are 1,100,000
tons of ore available; and the ore bodies were generally
widening between the 700 ft. and the 800 ft. level. At the
present rate of hauling, the quantity named would last
nearly nine years.
* * * «
The Broken Hill mines have a long way to go
yet before they reach anything like perfection in the
treatment of their refractory sulphides, although they
have now been working on them for six or seven years,
and have spent in the aggregate hundreds of thousands
on experiments and plants. The B.H. South ore, though-
hard. is less refractory than most; yet, in spite of
extremely careful management, less than a third of the
market value of the metallic contents is as yet recovered.
Here is that mine’s record for 12 months :
Lead. Silver. Zinc.
Ore contents .. 28,200 tons I 1,179,4680 z. 28,652 tons
Recovered.. .. 19,335 ~ 605,241,, Nil.
Unrecovered .. 8,865 „ j 574,227 ~ 28,652 „
Or expressed in terms of approximate sterling value :
Lead. Silver. Zinc. Total.
Ore contents.. £324,300 £122,861 £587,366 £1,034,527
Recovered .. 222,352 63,046 Nil. 285,398
Unrecovered. 101,948 59,815 587,366 749,129
Thus only 27-7 per cent, of the metal values is at present
recovered. Certainly, in addition, a very small percent-
age of zinc is included in the silver-lead concentrates;
but it is valueless there, and, indeed, detracts from the
value of the other metals. What dividends the South is
paying (and it is a typical Broken Hill mine) are therefore
being won on a recovery of just over a fourth of the
metals ; the other three-fourths (nearly) represent the
field still open to the metallurgist and the engineer. The
zinc in the ore is worth more than the silver and lead put
together; and yet, up to within the last few months,
nothing whatever was done with it, and even now only
the smallest beginnings have been made upon this branch
of the industry.
* * * *
A couple of moderate showers have at last fallen
in the right place at Broken Hill, and there is now thre#
or four months’supply of water in the reservoir and the
mines’ dams. It isn’t much, but it’s something to go on
with, and other showers may happen within four months
even at Broken Hill. The famine lasted two months and
a day or two. Even, however, with water available, three
of the mines—the Junctidn, the North, and the Junction
North—will not be able to resume work on account of
the low price of lead.
* * * *
Myall’s United (near Peak Hill, N.S.W.) shows
some remarkable results, but theyare not of the sort that
are likely to please shareholders, although the3 r may be
satisfactory to the disinterested practical man. Last
report published states that 2647 tons of ore were treated
during the month for 5390 z. of gold, and that there was
a profit of £245. The stone is worth about 15s. per ton,
and that it is mined at a depth of 600 ft., hauled, crushed,
amalgamated, and cyanided at a profit of Is. 9d. per ton
are facts which reflect much credit on the capable
manager—Mr. James Hocking. He is one of the few able
men engaged in the business in N.S.W., and deserves to
have charge of a better mine.
* * * *
London papers of the 23rd July apprised share-
holders in the Cobar Gold Mines (old Port Bourke) that
the June return was £7852 and all expenses £5400,
showing a surplus of £2452, and that the return for
May was £6553. Australian shareholders have to wait
a very long time before the lingering Bull parts with
information. The opinion previously expressed—that it
will take all the profits to be made out of the oxidised
lode to make provision for the treatment of the ore in
the cupriferous zone—is reiterated. Shareholders may
not like the prospect, but the only alternative is a div.
to-day and a call to-morrow.
(Continued on page SO.)


David Jones & Co.’s
celebrated “ ORIENT TO fIEASURE ”
SAC SUITS
In Tweed
or Serge
Send for
Patterns and
Self-
Measurement
Forms ...
TO MEASURE
63s
Delivered Free to any Railway Station or Seaport in the States.
Barrack Sts,, Sydney.
WATSON’S WHISKY
Resch’s "Waverley Brewery, Agents.
Society
A pleasant father’s advt. in Christchurch
(M.L.) Press :
TX/"ANTED, a lady willing to give corporal punisli-
. ment to widower’s three girls. Good salary.
State age and experience.
Apropos, a lady, said to be the daughter of an
Anglican parson, used to have a regular advt. in
certain London papers to the effect that she was
prepared to call and flog young ladies at their own
residences in town or country. She charged 7s. Gd.
for consultation with the fond parent or guardian,
and 15s. for the assault. She explained to an
interviewer that her chief business lay among
young ladies from 16 to 21, who were rather large
for their parents to handle; but she had called
upon and spanked them up to the age of 24. Her
connection, she said, lay mostly among the “ best
society.”
THE BRUTE.
“What would you do if I died? ”
“ Oh, I don't know—same as you would, I suppose."
“You wretch I And you used to tell me that you would never marry again."
N.S.W. Agent-General Copeland has come
back weeping (in a Sydney Telegraph interview)
about that alleged family which was coming to
Australia, but didn’t come because Copeland told
the old gentleman that he couldn’t, under the Im-
migration laws, bring his old family servants with
him. If Copeland really did tell anybody
that item of pernicious rot, then he ought
to be sacked from his billet with ignominy.
The fine old English gentleman certainly couldn’t
bring his servants here bound by contract, but
unless he was a very bad character indeed they
would have accepted his assurance that they would
get a formal engagement after landing here, if
they wanted one. There was no difficulty in
the way—unless these servants knew that
their employer couldn’t be trusted. The Federal
Government should ask Copeland to explain
exactly what he said about the Act, and unless
the explanation is a great deal more promising
than seems likely, it should advertise in London
that it isn’t responsible for Copeland's mis-
representations.
Victorian Chief Justice Madden's habit of
talking at large lately led a respectable, hard-work-
ing citizen into trouble. The citizen (M‘Culloch,
of the Age) reported the Chief-Justice as saying
in one of his loose and whirling lectures :
All intelligent foreigners who visited Australia were
struck with the vulgar and unintelligible chatter of
women and their graceless carriage in the streets.
The fluent and waxed Chief Justice no sooner
saw this in print than he denied having said it,
and the Age meanly sacked its representative and
blamed him in a printed p iragraph for his “erro-
neous report.” Then the reporter sued the Age
for damages, and Victoria saw its Chief Justice’s
beautiful moustache sticking out of the witness-
box as he denied the correctness of M‘Cul-
loch’s report. And yet the chances are
that the Chief did, quite unconsciously,
use the words attributed to him. A re-
porter is almost always a cold, unimpassioned
machine, taking down what he hears. A speaker
is sometimes a fatally fluent Irish gentleman
whose eloquence has bolted with him, and who is
rushed down a steep place by his own beautiful
language. A man may get just as drunk on elo-
quence as he can on whisky, and be just as un-
conscious afterwards of what he said. No loosely-
corked gentleman like Mr. Madden should be too
positive as to what he said in some moment when
he let himself go—in fact, he shouldn’t let himself
go. Then he wouldn’t strike depressing snags
like that lie is impaled upon now, for the jury
decided, in effect, that the Clhef-Justice had
unconsciously used the words which he denied
using, and decided that the reporter was libelled
in having his report described as incorrect.
The country pays a judge to be an aloof and awe-
some personage on a bench, and, when he wanders
abroad to give views on extraneous subjects, he is
liable to fall in, and indirectly bring the law into
contempt before he gets out.
* * » *
A man has been committed for trial at
Newcastle, N.S.W., charged with having made a
false statement, in burying his paramour, that slio
was his wife. It seems to be a case that might be
well met with a nolle prosequi. The desire of the
man to shield his old woman’s reputation on the
grave-stone was a manly sentiment and might
excuse his lie.
• • • •
L.O.L.’s are protesting wildly against any
demonstration in connection with the celebration
of the Robert Emmett Centenary, which occurs
this month. The L.O.L.’s, like many other
ignorant people, are under the impression that
the leaders of the ’9B rebellion were R.C.’s. As
a matter of fact, most of the men of note were
Presbyterians or Church of England people.
“T.D.”: Nearly every girl I meet in
Melbourne is either just going or has just been to
the dentist’s getting all her teeth out.
Dear Bulletin.^— Talking of
the undue length of funeral pro-
cession routes you shouldn’t
put all the blame upon the
ruling relatives of the
corpse. The undertaker,
as a rule, is the fiend who
persuades them to pro-
long the depressingspec-
tacle, provided that it
is an expensive show
with lots of feather
trimmings. iZcarran-
ges the circuitous
journey, and proudly
leads the way at the
outset, with a trian-
gular-topped black
pole in liis hand—
a sort of Lord-
Death - Chamber-
lain and Master
of the Obsequies.
Undertakers,
naturally wish-
ing to advertise
their business,
have the drollest
delusion as to
the value of a
pompous funeral
show from their
own commercial point of view. ‘ They reckon
that the gaping world itches to know the name of
the stage manager of a well-mounted funeral, and
, makes urgent enquiries on the subject, and goes
’ home to tea full of admiration for the beautiful
manner in which Ghoul, Wormms and Co. con-
’ ducted poor old So-and-Sos trip to the grave.
| An undertaker is an enthusiast in the pomp and
circumstance of an interment. His professional
pride in the achievement of a beautiful polished
oaken coffin, price 60 guineas, is something that
even an ordinarily snobbish chief mourner can
not quite understand. I have known an under-
taker to turn pale when he found that a lovely
coffin, with the corpse inside it, was to be confined
to the privacy of a bed-room until called for. He
thought the proper place for such a noble piece of
furniture was the drawing room.—O.K.
* » * *
The latest news regarding that strange
discovery or myth or joke about the “Jennings
millions ” is that a certain Jennings “lays claim
to the baronetcy.” This sort of thing makes the
story more and more tangled. A previous
narrative was to the effect that the original
Jennings died in the fifteenth century or there-
abouts, and his property went into Chancery, and,
owing to the utter contempt for riches displayed
by his descendants, it has lain there ever since and
accumulated at compound interest until it now
amounts to £6,000,000 or so. Quite apart from the
fact that recent, returns showed the total unclaimed
moneys in Chancery to be just about a fraction of
the alleged Jennings pile, the baronetcy is a dis-
turbing influence. If the Jennings fortune went
into Chancery and the Jennings family went under
at the alleged date, which was a century or two
before baronetcies were invented, how comes a
baronetcy to be mixed up with the business?
Certainly no big event of this kind has been
complete without a baronetcy, especially since the
Tiehborne time, but on the surface of things it
looks incongruous. Perhaps the baronetcy was
thrown in by Chancery as interest on the money.
• * * *
Daylesford has started a quite lively
agitation for an improved train service. One of
the oldest and pleasantest of the settled districts
in Victoria, poor little Daylesford is about the
least considered by the Railway Department. For
years the mid-day train from Melbourne has been
a languid joke. It leaves the marvellous metropolis
at 11.30 a.m. or thereabouts. Passengers for
Daylesford are turned out to cool at Woodend,
where they are presently hitched on to a wood
train which brings them to the end of their 80
miles journey any time between 5.15 and 6.30 p.m.
—say six hours for the 80 miles. The locals inflict
a moss-grown “ wheeze ” upon the unsuspecting
stranger. They tell him how the ruminative
official in char ,e at Bullarto, the last long stopping
place before the engine puffs onward to Davles-
ford, is “the highest paid station-master in
Victoria,” the explanation of this excruciatingly
funny remark lying in the fact that Bullarto has a
prouder elevation than any other shunting ground.
Passengers are expected to while away the time
by sniffing mountain air from the open window of
a narrow worm-eaten carriage.
* * * *
The Maoiiland Supreme Court has just
wrestled with another problem in connection
with the State’s fearful and wonderful licensing
law. A man was on a bicycle journey on the
Sabbath, and after having travelled many dry
miles called in somewhere for a refresher. He
said he had “arrived from a journey,” and the
local magistrate said he hadn’t—that he was still
on a journey, and therefore that, in getting a
drink, he was an enemy to his country’s laws,
and so was the publican. It took the whole five
Supreme Court judges to say what “arrived from
a journey ” meant. Two of them thought that,
so far as the-publican was concerned (and it was
he who was prosecuted), the man had arrived
from a journey ; he couldn’t tell whether the man
was going on another journey or not. The other
three, including the Chief, said that from where
the traveller left to his final stopping place was
only one journey, and that he couldn’t arrive
from that journey before he had finished it ; and
as there were three judges against two, that rule
prevailed. Practically this altogether knocks
out Sunday trading so far as travellers are
concerned ; for the only man who can get a drink
is the man who has pulled up at a pub and
intends to stay there for life.
JILTED.
NIPPER : “ Yer drink-
in’ a bloomin' lot
to-day, Ginger."
GINGER (gloomily):
“ I've been dram
to it!”
THE GHOSTS THAT NEVER WALKED.
GREAT BUT NEGLECTES TRAGEDIAN: "Yes.
Oswald, dear boy, I was once superstitious
and believed in ghosts; but, dear boy, that was
before I entered the profession—years before! ”
In Pitt-street., Sydney, near the City Bank,
a new building is going up on the site of the old
Shakspeare Hotel, a noted house in its time.
Nearly 60 years ago—in 1847, to be precise—Tom
Stubbs, the Australian Robins, offered the pro-
perty by public auction. He styled it “a real
English freehold,” producing then =£3l2 a year
rent. Tom Stubbs’ auction-room was in King-
street, about the present Arcade entrance. It had;
been Blackman’s, and, after Stubbs, was occupied;
by Andrew Allen, a political auctioneer. Stubbs;
went to Melbourne in the late 40’s, and was a;
successful auctioneer. He was also a corn poser of
no mean ability and a good flautist. Miss Maud
Fitzstubbs is a granddaughter. The Shakspeare
had many notable tenants. One in particular,
Thomas Spencer, was the first to introduce electric
“shocks” into his business. A metal rod ran
round the counter, and the battery was connected
therewith. The unsophisticated inhabitants
thought they had beerf flicked by the devil, who
was very active in those days.
MY LADY’S TEETH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My lady’s teeth, like ivory,
Flash whitely as she smiles on me.
And ah ! the heaven which then I know,
Suffused with pleasing passion’s glow,
When she smiles thus bewitchingly.
What charm makes my heart sing with glee
When ’twixt her rosy lips do show
Those pearly gems in sparkling row—
My lady’s teeth 1
But, ah ! that Beauty should not be
Entirely Nature’s artistry !
That there are times the glance I throw
Beyond those red lips may not go—
When in a basin I can see
My lady’s teeth I
UDOOLA.
OCTOBER.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
The sparrow hops beneath the tree—
The tree with sunshine in its leaves ;
The sky is blue, and nothing grieves
Save 1... my mate is gone from me.
The lazy cows meander past,
A-down the meadows in a stream,
Thro’ Cape flower—gold as Dame’s dream ;
This pang—this heart-break—will it last?
Across the fence the guelder rose
Sways to the breeze’s idle touch,
Whilst lilac breathes, and blooms, and blows.
Why must I suffer, God, so much ?
The sparrow hops beneath the tree—
The tree with sunshine in its leaves ;
The sky is blue and nothing grieves
Save 1 .;.. my mate is < ns from me!
vio.
MOTH.
AN EVERYDAY TRAGEDY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A kiss,
What bliss 1
“He.V.Ciss!" .
—Her husband.
A hiss :
“Take this 1”
She’ll miss
—Her lodger.
D-N!”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Archer : Withdraw the amendment I
.Mr. J. 0. L. Fitzpatrick : Perhaps the hon. member-
will do us the favor of withdrawing from the House.
Mr.. Archer : I wish the hon. member would withdraw
—he is a damned nuisance, anyway !
Mr. Speaker : I have repeatedly asked the hon. member-
for Burwood to discontinue interrupting, and he has not.
taken the slightest notice.
An Hon. Member : He said “ Damn ! ” Mr. Speaker.
—N.S.W. Hansard.
Oh, wasn’t it a fearful thing
When Archer murmured “ D 1 ” ?
I’m filled with pain and wondering—
Indeed I really am 1
And so (I’m nearly sure) are you ;
It was a dreadful thing to do—
It thrills a person through and through;
When Archer murmurs “ D—-1”
Another tale I’ll tell to you
Of one who murmured “ D
There was a certain Bishop who-
Contrived to miss his tram
And though he could! nob ounse llis fata-
(For Bishops have to.keep:sedate),
A layman, who was.-also.late,,
Ejaculated, “D>^—
That bishop shook that layman’s hand t
(The hand was like a ham.)
That bishop smiled with pleasure and!
His eyes with water swam !
“ My friend, how kind that was of you
To say what I was thinking too,
But could not say ! It wouldn’t do
For ME to murmur ‘ D- 1 ’”
So pressmen in the House at night
(They must not call out “ D •I ”)
Who have to write the blatherskite,
As silent as a clam,
And listen to the dreary crew
Who want to talk till all is blue
Will bless the name of Archer who
Breathed out that hearty “ D ! ”
W. T. GOODGE.


English admirers of Phil May would see
with pleasurelhe five series of cartoons included
in the collection - pfiMay’s original drawings for
sale on 18th September. These represent a class
of work that May never attempted in England,
aird are valuable from their rarity as well as from
the uncorhmon artistic merit of many among
them.
I suppose you shave ! or, if not, of course
you require your bair trimmed. The most
fashionable gentleman’s hair-dressing’saloon in
Sydney is Wild’s, at 30 Sydney Arcade—the
Arcade that runs from George-street to’ Kins-
street.*
STAR STARCH.
BEST IN THE WORLD.
PA
t J
r
Troubles.
B. R. Wise, in an amendment to the
Girls’ Protection Bill in N.S.W. Legislative
Council, has done something far more practical
against child vice than any age-of-consent law
could effect. This amendment provides that any
person who harbors in a bad house a girl between
the ages of 12 and 17 shall be liable to five years
penal servitude; and any person residing in or
frequenting the house is liable to the same penalty.
That should clear away most of the evil of child
prostitution.
* * •
Kew, where Malkum M‘Eacharn, the
anti-white Australian, plays the host to Prime
Minister Barton, is the prettiest and most
peaceful of Melbourne suburbs. Its inhabi-
tants are a subdued and quietly disposed
crowd. In Kew there is a lunatio asylum,
an inebriates’ institute, and a cemetery;
and the Kewite can never tell when ha
may bump into an escaped lunatic or a
runaway-drunk pursued by bucketfuls
of snakes, or a casual ghost from the
burial ground.
Another legacy from the war.
In the London Lancet, Professor
Whittles describes a cheerful para-
site which causes thickening of the
gums, andd isfiguring protrusion of
the upper lip. He has come across
a lot of these cases lately, and believes
that the parasite (which he is ap-
parently rather pleased with, and
has named after himself) has been
“ brought from South Africa by re-
turning troops.” The patients are
mostly women ! Australian girls do
not show any special desire to kiss the
returned cohentingenter nowadays ; but
in case any of them want to kiss him
when his sentence expires, here is one more reason
for not doing it.
* * * *
The Adamson divorce petition, just dis-
missed by Victorian Justice Hood, was an affair
with amusing side-lights. The co-respondent—
the eternal lodger—seems to have had a pretty
exciting time all the way through. It suddenly
dawned on the husband one day that his wife and
the co. were on very friendly terms, whereupon
“ he spoke to her seriously about it ” ; also he had
a .few words with the lodger about it, but allowed
him to stay in the house. Twice he broke up his
home in the hope of breaking off this undue in-
timacy, but the pestilent lodger, who never paid
for his board, always turned up again and dwelt
with the family, like a ghost or a drought. The
husband admitted he had serious thoughts of
getting him by the scruff of the neck and running
him violently out, but thought better of it, as the
co was reputed to be handy with his fists, though
only a drapers assistant. He once, however,
really lost his temper, and called in a constable to
eject the co., but cooled down after a while and
actually slept that night in the same bed with
him, his wife having put him there; “but,” said
he, I didn’t speak to him.” In a casual sort of
way the petitioner admitted having misconducted
himself more or less frequently, also the co. owned
up to being a married man, though he had never
lived with his wife owing to her having miscon-
ducted herself with another co.—the strange co-
respondents who creep sideways into a ease like
tins are numerous. Justice Hood ordered the hus-
band to pay his and his wife’s costs, and the co.
to pay his own costs, and discoursed at great
length, and left things at that. The Law is very
learned and elaborate, but it doesn’t settle diffi-
culties worth a cent.
THOUGHTLESSNESS.
VISITOR: “ It would surprise you to know the amount of counter-
feit money we receive in collection-boxes during the year.”
HOSTESS ; “ I suppose so? How do you manage to get rid of
it all?”
The organising of domestic helps is the
latest thing mooted in Christchurch (M.L.). The
Crockery-Breakers’ Union ” is suggested as a
suitable name; or the ‘ ‘ Dish-Droppers’ Associa-
tion.”
CONFESSING THE OBVIOUS.
WIFE OF HIS BOSOM : “ Where have you been all
night, you brute?”
RESPECTABLE CITIZEN: “ There, I knew you’d
never guess. But I’ll be honest wish you, my
love. Fact ish, I’ve been out on a tear.”
In a bigamy case at the late criminal sit-
tings in Adelaide, John Downer, K.C., for the
defence, tried to do away with the first marriage
by picking a hole in the old Government pro-
clamation under which the officiating clergyman
acted. The horrified Bundey pointed to a general
validating clause, but more than hinted that he
would, in any case, refuse to consider a technical
point which would make of no effect most of the
marriages celebrated in the State for years past.
Parson Hosking, a Collingwood (Vic.)
gospel dispenser and a vigorous Prohibitionist,
is said to have forwarded the following letter to
R. H. Lemon, secretary to Victorian Licensed
Victuallers' Association:
Sir, I am astonished at your statement, that I seriously
damage the reputation of the liquor trade. Why, I would
damage it any hour if I could, and send the whole traffic
to the devil. It is the most damnable traffic on the face
of God’s earth at the present time. It is blasting the
homes, crushing the childhood, womanhood and manhood
of the State. It is impossible for me or anyone else to
slander the liquor trade. It is a dirty traffic, a traffic in
slavery of the worst kind, a God-hating, soul-destroying
traffic, a menace to the health, life and morals of the
people. To slander such a traffic is impossible. My
prayer to God is, “ damn the liquor traffic, and send it
back to hell 1 ” Wishing you and your association every
success in trying to stir the mud and stench of this traffic,
yours, etc., John Hoskins.
If a man can use language like that on cold tea
what a noble bullocky he would make after two
rums!
* * * *
Melbourne Age has curious things in its
matrimonial column at times. Here are two
specimens:—
YOUNG MAN wishes introduction to a handsome
young Lady prior to a visit to Europe with view
of above.
YOUNG MAN like meet Female, age no object,
view to above.
The man who wants a pretty girl to visit Europe
with him and wander through its art centres and
its historical spots “ with view of above,” and the
fellow who wants a female of uncertain age, repre-
sent the extremes of sentiment.
* * * *
M.L. Government is out with a brand
new proposal in regard to the social derelicts of
the community. They are to be shifted north,
when raked in by the police, made to fell hush,
and transform the rugged scenery into vegetable •
gardens, the produce to be sent to Government
institutions. The idea of the average physical
street wreck battling with the mighty forest is
humorsome, but he should be able to transplant
cabbages and pick gooseberries all right.
0. H. Ohomley, a
Melbourne Freetrade fana-
tic and nephew of County
Court Judge Chomley, is
at present journalisting in
London, where he is turn-
ing out for the London
press Freetrade fallacies
galore. He is posing as a
great authority on Aus-
tralian affairs, and in that
capacity was present at the
Cobden Club’s conference
when the campaign against
Chamberlain was opened.
In an article which Mr.
Chom'eysenttothe Argus
the Cobden Club is de-
scribed as “once more up
in arms in defence of Great
Britain’s fiscal policy.” The
picture of a handful of
Anglo foreigners standing
in the limelight defending
the. good flag and fiscal
policy against an incoming
tide of common-sense is
just as pathetic as the
melodrama hero declaring
to his “bit of fluff” that
the clouds will roll by and
thunderbolts drop atop of
the “ dastardly perpetra-
tors of this night’s work,”
or words to that effect.
Then the interesting func-
tion at which Mi 1 . Chomley was present began
to re-state to one another “ tile basic principles
of Freetrade, ” in much the same way as the
kerristian clergy occasionally get together and
explain the Scripture to one another.
Victorian Justice Hood has been getting
off a lot of superheated steam (much of it quite
justified) about husbands deserting their wives.
The matter cropped up while he was in the
Divorce Court, and he endorsed the opinion of
brother Justice A’Beckett, expressed some time
ago, that it would be a good thing to make wife-
desertion criminal. _ “If men and women,” he
said, “ could be criminally punished for a violation
of their duty they would think twice before they
offended.” That is very pretty, of course, but in
some cases there is no doubt that, although she
remains in his house, the woman has, in fact, de-
serted the man long before he clears out. She
makes things as unpleasant for him as she can,
and there is no living thing that can create half so
much unpleasantness in a house as a healthy
woman. Poor old Solomon knew considerable
about women, and in his bittetness he once wrote,
“ It is better to dwell in the corner of the house-
top than with a brawling female in commodious
premises,” or words to that effect. -Most men’s
houses are not very: wide, and the Australian roof
slopes too much for a man to.dwell on it when- lie
comes home from work, so the owner of the lady-
described by Solomon moves -on and leaves the
other party on her own. Then the divorce comes
in. due course, and sour Judges make remarks
about the absentee. If nagging, and the un-
pleasant habit of periodically digging up the home
skeleton and throwing its bones at the other
party, could be made criminal offences, then it
would be absolutely fair to make desertion
criminal also. The only thing a woman can
always throw straight is the family skeleton. As
a shot with it she is an unprecedented success.
* * * *
There were humorous points about Vic-
torian Chief Justice Madden’s appearance in
the witness-box in the case of M'Culloch v.
Syrne. The hand of the Judge’s associate shook
visibly as he handed , the Bible to the august
witness. The C.J. looked as uncomfortable as
the average man in a similar position. The second
question, “What is your occupation?” was un-
expected, and his Waxcellency gave a start and
answered stammeringly, “ What ?—er—ah—oh—
Chief Justice.” Then His Wax. was asked if he
had used any such phrase as “the vulgar and un-
intelligent chatter of the Australian women, and
their graceless carriage in the streets,” and lie re-
plied withafineshowofindignationthathe had said
no such thing, although he admitted that he might
have said the women walked badly and talked
badly. He believed that on the occasion under
notice he spoke possibly for a quarter-of-an-
hqur, though he would be “sorry to contradict ”
anyone in the audience who was prepared to say
that he spoke for 45 minutes. Thereupon the
C.J. proceeded to tell an unoffending court what
he really intended to say, and the exposition
lasted for six or seven minutes of desperate volu-
bility. But the C.J. was badly broken up when
he was asked if lie had noticed.the position of Mr.
Beale —“the man who works the limelight.”
“ The limelight man—l don’t know him ! ” snorted
the C.J. in a voice which seemed to suggest that
lie had been asked for particulars about a cock-
roach.
* * * *
The Victorian railway authorities joked
cruelly at the expense of the Melbourne Age re-
porters who journeyed to Nhill the other day with
Premier Irvine, by accommodating them in the
identical car in which Tren.with was accused of
having “luxuriated” when Minister of Railways.
This car, built more than a generation ago, is
about the saddest old rattletrap now running on
the Victorian lines, and one or two of the press-
men were so shaken that they suffered from some-
thing akin to sea sickness Those who had a hand
in reviling Trenwith for his alleged luxury .must
have been badly stricken with remorse for the
lies they told about plain Bootmaker William.
* * * *
A year or two ago some meaningless aid
needless ceremony connected with the estab-
lishment of the Commonwealth took place in a
shoddy pavilion at Centennial Park, Sydney.
Then the usual active member cadged the pavilion
as a trophy for his electorate, and got it removeil
there and set up in Cabarita Park, and because
neither the blastiferous cadging member i or the
proud electorate would pay the expenses of
removal, the Government gave £lOO out of the
impoverished pi. 1 c revenue. So now the
building where the thing happened is away up
the Parramatta River, and the site where it
happened is at Centennial Park, for the ener-
getic and cadging member quite forgot to ask the
Go\ .r.iment to dig up the site and shift it also at
public expense. (It wouldn’t have been much of a
job; if the earth had been removed to a depth of
four feet that would probably have been as far as
the associations had soaked in.) So the active
local member, whose seat looked rather shaky
before the pavilion happened, will probably get
back all right at next election. And up at
Cabarita. Park the; shoddy and bathetic pavilion
is standing the weather reasonably well so far,
and will probably last a year or two, if the goats
don’t lean against it.
* * * *
N.S.W-. Board of Health has warned
Premier See that, owing to the fact that a large
proportion of the population is unvaccinated, his
State is in grave danger of endemic smallpox,
and that this danger, unless precautions are taken,
will, sooner or later, culminate in disaster. The
Board recommends systematic vaccination in
infancy ; re-vaccination on arriving at puberty ;
establishment of a station for the preparation of
lymph, and the passing of a Compulsory Vacci-
nation Act. N.S.W. is the only State in the
Commonwealth that does not possess such an Act.
* * * *
■ Almost, every week now, at one or other
of jhe‘Melbourne courts, some hapless widow is
refused State aid for her fatherless children and
thrown on the resources of the charitable. The
Iceberg crowd has sweated the old pensioners to
the last gasp, has cut down its charity dole to the
last grudging half-penny, has robbed its servants,
and maintains its imane little better than savage
beasts, and, as if that were not enough, it now
throws starving orphans to the wolves—and for
what? To save the rich Melbourne landlords
from paying land-tax.
“ D'Harum " : More of the S. A. soldiers
who went to the war full of patriotism, and re-
turned full of beer, have appeared in court, with
the usual charges against their names —vagrancy,
drunkenness, or the customary demand for the ss,
a week for the support of the infant. In almost
every case the offenders were the loafers who
shipped to S’Africa for Horstralia’s good with the
last eohentingents. Apparently, Australia’s
genuine “ patriotism ” died out early. The first
cohentingent seems to have .been respectable.
The later ones were mostly bummers, skunks and
incendiaries.
. VOTE fo* '
WfIUY SVWTHEHS
"Th e.* •
/, y>RTt)OVIS-CNHP IDATE.'
drihk .. .'
# , cahhqt swoke.
KKVe
) l A - Et> A <S\R,U, •.'
ifT
V: ive^SuwwsY.
Of fcK>s.
/lyoM : ixz why ,
r SEE* i\ Batr
-'
te^i^t^oVr
,\ oF.
y ,?qi.'T>c3.
SOMETHING FOR JOHN NORTON TO
CONTEMPTATE.
“ An interesting’ question was discussed by the Liberal
and Refoiqn delegates— viz., Should a woman vote for
immoral politicians or virtuous opponents?
Trustees of the N.S.W. Public Library,
in their last report, complain again of the failure,
of the Government to make any provision for the
Mitchell Donation. Mr. Mitchell lias presented
to the State a collection of Australian books,
valued at £lOO,OOO, and a big cash sum to provide
for the care of the volumes, stipulating only that
the Government shall house them suitably and
make them accessible to students. And the
Government, so far, shows no intention of doing
anything but keep the books in a cellar. But
Sydney University was able to get a big grant to
build its new library. What is the unworthy
motive at the back of the Government’s refusal
to open up the Mitchell treasures to the public ?
* v- * * *
A recent Melbourne matrimonial advt. :
'V'OUNG Man would like to meet Widow, age no
object, view to above.
Doesn’t even say she niust have money. Appar-
ently what he wants is an aged and embarrassed
female with experience.
THE EXODUS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
T> ARM AID, going Ohjna early September, like to
hear of another lady. East, G.P.O.—S.M.
HeraLd (4/8/’O3).
There’s a maiden of the bar going forth
To the land of Confucius in the North,
Throws the dull old world behind ; let it rip.
Wants a mate (a lady, mind !) —partnership.
For the Chow is calling, calling
For a girl to fill his can
And the brown man’s dry and bawling
For beer in old Japan.
So a damsel bound for Asia is hastening away
To sell grog unto Confucius in the land of old Cathay.
There languid Chinese Johnnies breast the bar
And call for milk and soda, or three star.
And like a sun there beams the mandarin,
And the greasy pigtail gleams in Pekin.
And to help the white girl land,
Up there by the Yellow Sea,
Is Asia’s claw-like hand,
Extended on the quay.
S ° ”°„ one P ack her bandbox, write to “East” at
(jr. P.O. f
For the Chow is dry and anxious in C'a iton and n
Ningpo.
J.F.D
THE POINT OF VIEW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Jew is cursed in many a land,
Because of old he took a hand
In heat of blind conviction,
In lifting up a thing of wood—
(Ye hear it called the Holy Rood)
To do a gruesome deed of blood—
That awful Crucifixion !
And 3’et the Jews may justly plead—•
Although they sinned—not all their deed
Deserved the curse of Ages ;
For when in hate and wicked pride
A spotless Saint they crucified,
They nailed a brace of thieves beside
And paid the Devil’s wages.
The Gentile’s hand hath ever thrown
At Jacob’s race a ready stone —
Hath spat upon and spurned it;
But Jacob’s seed may yet reply :
“ Two-thirds of them we nailed on high
And haled a felon’s death to die
Were felons who had earned it.
“ But ye— your thieves—they prance in pride,
They strut abroad at festal tide,
And flout the gallows gaily ;
And ye—who say the Christ we slew
Was Prophet pure and Teacher true—
Oh Hebrew-hating Christian crew,
Ye crucify Him daily ! ”
Q.
P.L.


V *°<o.
; s %
c o<" J
Women ! why be thin and undeveloped 1
Lactfe, the wonderful skin-food, plumps the flesh
where thin and undeveloped, gives a beautiful
roundness to face, neck, bust, and arms. A
quick, sure and safe home treatment. Jars
7s. 6d., post 8s. 2d. Thousands of women using it
daily, all of whom testify to the wonderful results
from its use. Write for pamphlet to H. Westall
Guest, Vice-regal chemist, 229 Bourke-street,
Melbourne.*
FACILE PRIIMCEPS.
BUCHANAN
SEMPER IDEM.
WHISKY.
dsf
Dress Fabrics
Are Stocked by the
Leading Drapers.
CdemarkTHE varnished board
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, September 1,1903,
Mr Dear Arini,—
Mis 3 A. G. Murphy, the first of Australian
women journalists to try her luck in London, is
in Sydney on a visit after an absence of seven
years. Through her newspaper work she has
been to a considerable extent the means of
Australian Society keeping in touch with the
Australian colony in London. On her way
through the American States hither, Miss
Murphy secured an engagement for Miss Marie
Narelle at £l5O per week. This information will be
received with a gasp by a group of local birds
who are spreading their wings for homeward
flight. But Narelle’s engagers will not regret
their bargain. New York and Chicago halls,
filled with audiences 4000 to 6000 strong (mostly
named Patrick and Michael, not to speak of
Eileen and Norah), will frantically welcome
Narelle’s “Wearin’ o’ the Green” and “Kil-
larney.” Persons who called upon Melba
during her stay in Sydney and who “couldn’t
make it out ” why she didn’t receive
them, would understand if they could hear our
visitor mention the style in which Melba lives in
London. Does the Sopranie Majesty deign to re-
ceive you ? Then two flunkeys, more gorgeous than
a sun-burst, stand one at either side of the swing
doors and roll them wide with an air of ushering
you before the Great White Throne itself. Why,
Lady Londonderry and other grand dames bow
over Melba’s hand and kiss it. No wonder
Madam was mad at the “ Who be you, Mum ? ” of
the Tasmanian waiting-maid and at the casuals
who strolled up to call upon her. No wonder she
had dining-room walls knocked down and ordered
dining-tables and engagements to be lengthened
or shortened as she capriced.
By the way, Eva Mylott, writing to a Sydney
daily, says Melba is sending her for a short course
of study to Tosti. The “Good-Bye” man is a
great chum of Melba’s and often plays her.accom-
paniments when she sings his songs.
Speaking of Ada Crossley’s concerts, Miss
Murphy mentions that they will take a recital
form—the contralto will sing several numbers at
one standing. As Miss Crossley has been pro-
nounced by topmost authorities the greatest living
warbler of sacred songs, it is to be hoped she will
treat us liberally in that direction. Concerning
Ada’s command to sing before Edward and
Alexandra, it transpires that the commandeered
gets no fee. For singing at a State concert a
singer receives a large one, but the former honor
is the greater of the two. Since present King’s
accession only two singers, Melba and Crossley,
have been commanded. As for the Australian
quartette which is cabled as having sung before
the King at Cowe3, it simply warbled at a concert
there, which the King attended. Herr Jacobs is
the violinist accompanying Crossley. He is a 22-
year-old genius, a pupil of Joachim.'
Of the Phil M*y menage Miss Murphy used to
see a great deal. Mrs. May will probably be put
on the Civil List, and possibly Punch will see to
it that she does not want. Poor May left nothing
but a beautiful home, not even a life assurance
policy. The artist’s mother and elder brother
used frequently to come to see him in London.
Former is a very handsome old lady, dressed
pictorially in velvet and black lace. Their home
is at Leeds, where the son is a carpet designer.
Our friend Longstaff is reported as flourishing;
he has now a fairly large family of small children.
Did you ever stop by the way “to watch a
potter thumping his wet clay.” Such a fascinating
sight. Biblical recollections and memories of
Omar make one half-expect to hear, “ What
make’st thou?” or “Gently, brother, gently,
pray ! ” from the thing that may be an urn or an
ash-tray. I went to a local pottery works lately
to look at the ware that is being made for Mrs.
B. R. Wise’s stall, at the Cranbrook Fete, in aid
of the District Nursing Society. By the way, the
Fete opens on Friday, and endures from 2 to 6
p.m. for two days. A procession of floral
go-carts, with baby freight, will be a fair
sight. There will be an immense refresh-
ment-tent where you may buy any eatable,
from a robust sandwich to an ortolan (which
has been killed by holding its beak under
Heidsieck). At the pottery-stall you may choose
your morning or afternoon, tea-set. Get for the
morning set a tender sunrise hue. Color counts for
so much, especially on mornings when you wake to
meet the nerve-desolating nor’-easter, and to
wonder miserably where and when you lost your
backbone. The sight of a tea-pot, jug and sugar
basin flushed rose or amethyst will give you energy
to pour out your orange pekoe, and perhaps
determine you to stay in this beastly world longer
than you intended after you heard the moaning of
that vicious wind.
Another fairly new thing for Sydney you may get
at the pottery stall—a baking dish in which to cook
a fowl. It has a heavy, close-fitting lid, and shut in
this the chookie is a real gaol-bird. Put in three
onions, a tablespoonful of water —I forget the rest
of the instructions, but the result is something
that would throw Emily Soldene into asterisks.
The potters have also copied several other cooking
pots from originals brought from Marseilles. You
bring these pots straight off the fire on to the
table—no bother about dishing up.
The tender mercies of the wicked Post Office 1
A friend sent me what had been a cigar box
full of Westralian wild flowers. Box arrived
in nine splinters with a handful of crushed flower
petals and some paper and string adhering. But
that’s not as bad as the Paris floral toque that
arrived last week for a certain smart Sydney
dresser. It was doubled up and forced into the
letter-box on her gate.
The picture post card is a splendid labor-saving
device. Everyone hates letter-writing, and the
picture card keeps the sender’s memory a forget-
me-not-blue, although it leaves space for only a
mere line of greeting. You get a card from Paris
showing a wonderful bit of staircase in Notre
Dame, and underneath the scrawl: “Was here
for a day, love to all.” Max Schluter’s picture
cards carry a map of Denmark, and lately I saw
a curious one from Paderewski. It showed a
pianoforte key-board with rays springing forward
from the white notes at every octave, and light
projected from above on to the black. In the
centre of this spectral piano was a heart. Most
individualistic one is from violinist Franz Wilczek.
It pictures Franz on his bicycle with his two fox
terriers looking out from a box secured to the
handles.
Cards are out from State Governor and Lady
Rawson for a garden party at Cranbrook
on the 18th. Mrs. Fanshawe has a dancing
At Home at Admiralty House on the Bth.
On the evening of 22nd oocurs Mrs. Fitz-
gerald’s concert. Australian Club ball takes place
on the 16th. Union Club, evidently, has
ceased to ball. It didn’t give one last year, and it
won’t give one this year. U.C. members are now
mostly at the bath-chair stage of life, and retire at
9 p.m. with a basin of hot gruel and the prayer,
“ Remember not, O Lord, the sins of our youth,
because we’ve forgotten them ourselves.” A
shame to expect the U.C. to give a dance at its
time of life ; yet Sydney Society is grumbling and
sneering because it won’t. Masked ball, in aid of
the Waitara Foundling Home, comes off to-mor-
row, Friday night, at Sydney Town Hall.
A new matrimonial agency has been incubated in
Sydney. It says of itself that it is an entirely
new idea in Australia, and not in any way con-
nected with any other society or agency. Also its
circular entreats the patronage and goodwill of
bishops and clergymen, and says that it is pat-
terned after the exact lines of a similar society
inaugurated in London by editor Stead. The
prospectus mentions feelingly that there are thou-
sands of persons of both sexes in Australia and
Maoriland whose lives are wasted through lack of
opportunity for meeting suitable life partners.
How far the entrance-fee of ss. and subscription
of 21s. will debar those who pine in single blessed-
ness from entering a society that encourages
double cussedness, it is hard to say.
If the political women who are expending so
much energy on temperance questions and the
morality of legislators would give some attention
to the shameful law that allows a wife to be
robbed by her husband during his lifetime, and
ignored in his will after his death, and have that
wrong righted, they would do some good for their
sex. In most civilised countries, a wife may claim
a share of her husband’s property. In Scotland,
the widow can demand her share of the property
left by the husband—whatever his will may say.
Here, where the English law obtains, the husband
may bequeath everything he has away from his wife,
who may have materially helped him to accumulate
property. Take the case of the old man who was
brought before a Sydney magistrate, lately, for
not making adequate provision for his wife. This
ancient was, a. few years ago, possessed of pro-
perty which brought him in from £7 to £lO a
week, but he made over the whole of it to the
Salvation Army, on condition that it gave him an
annuity of £2 12s. a week. He’s 92, the wife is 86
and helpless from rheumatism. The Army col-
lects all rents and pays the annuity to the hus-
band, who seems to have neglected to look after
his wife. The arrangement should be reversible
at law. Any decent asssurance society would
have given a vastly larger annuity on both
lives on such very old age securities. The
Booth gang must have a face of brass and
a heart of clay to allow the old man to thus
rob his wife in the name of “ God and the Army.”
This is more of a woman’s question than the
Neglected Children’s Act.
The all-conquering widow again ! Miss Ethel
Knight Mollison, of the “ Are You a Mason?”
co., has harpooned Mr. Bertie Kelly, one of
Sydney’s matrimonial prizes. During the pretty
widow’s stay here, Mr. Kelly rushed her about
considerably in his motor car, and floated her
round in his yacht. He is a son of the late “ Tin ”
Kelly, who made his money in tin smelting, and
has an income of about £6OOO yearly. Family has
a beautiful home at Rose Bay; the only girl is
travelling in Europe. Wedding was celebrated
quietly in Melbourne. Mr. Cuyler Hastings and
Mrs. Flood, a Sydney resident, signed the register.
The wedding announcement was made in Miss
Mollison’s maiden name—no mention of the dear
departed’s cognomen, which may or may not have
been Jorkings. At the close of her present engage-
ment with Mr. Williamson, Mrs. Kelly will quit
the footlights.
Maggie Papakura, the Maori guide, who is
visiting Sydney, is so grieved at the death of her
cousin, Joe Warbrick, that she will probably
return at once to M.L. Warbrick was one of the
guides with the unhappy trio of visitors killed by
the boiling geyser, Waimangu, at Rotorua last
Monday. Maggie and a sister of the unlucky
guide were at the Palace Theatre last Saturday,
dressed in their mats and feathers, to see “ Secret
Service.”
Mrs. Leland Stanford, widow of the millionaire
founder of the U.S. A. University which bears his
name, arrived by the Yentura last week and goes
to Melbourne to visit a brother of her late hus-
band. For many years Mrs. Stanford has borne
the fairly heavy burden of the management of the
institution, and is now on a two years’holiday,
accompanied by a lady secretary and two servants.
Mrs. Stanford, who celebrated her something over
70th birthday on board, is a bright and vigorous
woman.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“‘Stonington’ is in mourning just now for
quite a number of reasons. First of all Private
Sec. Fitzpatrick fell sick. Then his brother A. D. O.
Browning was listed among the hunting casualties
of the season, and put to bed for repairs. Then
followed the cabled news of Rev. Clarke’s death,
and the Governor found himself suddenly an
orphan. So the Stonington shutters are up for a
time. The Clarkes have been going everywhere
and doing everything with the patience of a whim-
horse. A period of quiet will be a blessing to
them.
“Word comes from the Holy City that the Le
Hunte Governorship starts with too fervid a
wooing of popularity. The new Governor gushes
too freely to last—like a Maoriland geyser—and
will yet suffer from his amiability. Society
doesn’t like the over-pleasant Vice-Regal. It
aches rather for the stings and arrows of out-
rageous hauteur. The cold Countess was regarded
with awe and reverence in this State, while the
lady who followed her and stooped to conquer is
regarded with some pity. Vice-Regal snubs are
better than smiles for toadies.
“The Earl of Lonsdale and the Countess put
in an appearance at the Australian Parliament on
Wednesday and took an unimpassioned view of
the proceedings. They struck the Senate what
time those two rough-hewn South Australians
Tom Playford and the jesting M‘Gregor—were
exchanging political civilities. The Countess
looked on with cold eyes, but thoughtfully. It
seems to be the notion of England’s fairest to
padlock the features, to freeze all expression from
the eyes, and by every means to mask thought.
A. point of the lady’s toilette was its subdued
hue, deep blue, while the figure showed a scorn of
the Gibson effect or the Russian slope. It was
the unexaggerated form with a defined waist.
“That Wednesday saw no end of fashionables
call at the House. A beautifully-trimmed Aus-
trian count paid attention to the orating Reps,
and added a few notes to his diary. The Forrests
were simply in ecstatic glee over the rush of
visitors. As these were of various grades they had
to be sorted and galleried accordingly. The
family of Justice Hood were in the places of the
Elect ; also Judge Chomley’s. The fairest
member of this party regarded the talkers with
frank curiosity and a kind of zoological interest
through an elegantly-mounted lorgnette, making
critical remarks the while. One of these days the
lorgnette business will be overdone, and an angry
Parliament will clear its galleries of impertinent
starers—even when they are pretty girls.
“President Wrixon’s dame postscripts the
opening of State Parliament next Tuesday (7th)
with the usual tea-scramble. The ebbing season
has been singularly free from functions. The
subscription ‘At Homes’—once a winter after-
noon institution —were struck off the lists. With
them were erased sundry noon rallies once precious
to the woman of dress. Mayoral receptions had
no part in the social bill of fare. Consequently
race meetings provided the only public Cake
Walk. The afternoon Bridge corroboree can’t be
counted as a frocking affair, for the players have
ears and eyes only for the gamble, and dress
doesn’t get a look in, even.
“The Tennysons looked in at the military foot-
ball match, on the M.C.C. ground, on Saturday.
Senator Drake played the social r&le of his new
Defence dignity rather feebly. The Banana-
lander can’t drop the parsonic cut of his clothes or
manner. Even Governor Tennyson, with his
boxer atilt and his suede gloves half-way on,
looked rakish and exuberant beside Minister
Drake.
“ Governor Clarke is the promptest governing
person we have ever known. The morning after
the official multitude had wired and penned its
sympathy at the family bereavement to his Ex.,
all were answered fully and in due measure of
thanks. The Governor, too, has a gift of polite
letter-writing. He writes more pleasantly than
he speaks.
“ Cuyler Hastings lost no time in begging the
Melbourne girls to dry those tears, fie is not
married, nor likely—no, he didn’t quite say that.
But he proclaims from the house-tops that he is a
bachelor at large. Apply at Her Majesty’s Theatre,
for all further particulars.
“ A certain beauteous mummer, not long arrived
this way, falls into the error of scenting all her
stationery with subtle perfumery. There is
danger ahead for the woman who does this.
There are days when many a woman wants to dis-
guise her handwriting, but how swear away a
subtle breath of mignonette, or violet, or rose ?
“ Mrs. Norman Menzies is scarcely to be known
these days for the chubby Dorothy Vane with soft
thoughts to a convent bent. She has grown thin.
This was particularly noticed the other night, at
the ‘Sweet Nell’ farewell, when the small dame
sat among some towering ladies, whose chiffons
spread far beyond their booked circle space. A
heliotrope cloak made for pallor, and a mop of
fuzzy fringe only served to diminish the size of
the face.
“One of the most interested members of the
Lemare recital audience at the Town Hall, on
Thursday, was the elfish daughter of Nellie
Stewart. While an infantile neighbor fidgetted
and played with her frills, her sweets, her gloves,
that little one sat on, with hands folded and a
look of deep concern on her colorless face. Per-
haps she likes music; perhaps she is learning to
act early in life.
“ There is no sympathy to spare for the Johnnie
who enters, promiscuous like, into a promise of
matrimony with a stage girl. People are laugh-
ing at the flight of one who, alarmed at the fair
one’s vagaries, begged to be released from the
bond, and had to pay up handsomely as balm to
the lady’s bruised feelings. He was so glad to get
out of the contract, and so relieved to do it quietly,
that he poured all his available cash into her hands.
And she, with a healed heart, prepares to leave
for other shores.
“ They tell all kinds of yarns anent the friskish-
ness and buoyant spirits of Fritz Mueller, highly
reminiscent of the young Mozart who had a way
of skipping from the side of a sovereign to frolic
with a youngster of his own age, or to ask the
most captivating of the Court ladies (Oh, dis-
criminating youth !) for a kiss. Master Fritz
doesn’t ask for kisses ; he gives sauce instead, but
he will come out of a Chopin dream, a Mendelssohn
spell, or a Bach enchantment to turn a somer-
sault, to vault over two or three chairs, or to clear
a space for a Catherine wheel. The music moment
past, young Mueller drops his artistic soul and
plays the kid quite unaffectedly—well, it appears
to be unaffectedly.
“The most successful tootler at a recent big
concert was a stout lady, who lent additional
width to her frame by a loose, flowing Empire
gown—the kind that starts to flow from the com-
modious bust line. It was a terrible mistake,
almost as bad as that of the bony platformer
whose angular parts stick out aggressively from
under a meagre stretch of chiffon. One lean lady
I know invariably recites in a frail muslin garb.
The sleeves flutter when the arms get in motion
like flags from a knobby pole. There’s a
kink, very often, in the female mind that
sends the fat form into fabrics with leopard
stripes or moon circles, and the lean into
black, or some elongating material. With such a
candid friend as the looking-glass always at hand
for safe counsel, isn’t it a wonder that Woman
doesn’t get to know herself ? Wh3 7 must she al-
ways know the other cat so much better ?
“Melbourne vegetarians, who lag behind N.S.
Wales co-feeders in modern methods, but will
soon come to the front with an enticing cafe, gave
an excellent tea the other evening at the Thistle
Rooms. Tomatoes and rice, lentil rolls, bean
salads, stewed prunes, fruit, and caramel coffee
seemed the favorite items, not forgetting brown
bread, and clean-tasting wheat ‘triseuits’ (thrice-
baked).
“Friends of the Rev. George Robinson learn
that he is hatching a scheme for the biggest
bazaar ever conceived. The germ of it was in his
brain-box long before he boarded the ’Ome
steamer, but time and a short residence in Dublin
have led to its development. At no distant date
we shall have the diplomatic guardian of the
Castles’ flock returning to set the colossal project
afloat.
“ The season of beet-root has its importance in
the eyes of humble feminines —it being used, after
boiling operations, by the homely sex as a harm-
less ‘ make up.’ Then, of your Cynthia, you. say—
‘ Red as a beet is she. *
“Some of the she-reformers of this city are
upset at the appointment of some horrid men
down your way to inquire into the causes of the
decreasing birth-rate. ‘ What do they know ? ’
say the members of the Sairey Gamp sex, with an
indignant snort. How may a committee of he-
citizens pry into a state of things so strictly
feminine ? Set women to catch women.
“Whatever statisticians may aver in regard
to the dwindling figures in the year’s birth
columns, it must be admitted that society has
had twinges of conscience lately. It isn’t, even
now, pledging itself to any baker’s dozen or any
vulgar number, but, for the last year or two,
it, has been resigned to the lot of limited mother-
hood. Children are the fashion just now, and
is not good form for a matron to be without oue
or two.
“ Such a show of male finery at the annual meet
of Trinity College Dialectic Society ! Bishop
Clarke, who sported scarlet, with big over-cape of
ermine, apologised for his fine feathers, explaining
that to please Dr. Leeper he had donned the
wampum appropriate to a Cambridge Doctor of
Divinity. This year’s Prelector, Dr. Frank
Andrew, son of a former professor of Melbourne
’Varsity, is a handsome youth, who showed, when
he wound up with a quotation from Victor Daley,
that a musical voice is another of his properties.
For a Trinity Prelector he sounded fairly Radical.
In his utterances on ‘ Australian ideals ’ Chief-
Justice Madden dealt very tenderly with the
young democrat. The Waxcellency knows that
butter is the best remedy for youthful outspoken-
ness. It’s so hard to keep on being independent
and antagonistic when the big hands stroke puss-
patriot’s fur the right way. Dr. Madden was
extra bright and genial that night. Previous
speakers had all chaffed him for criticising the
accent of Australian girls. He affected to think,
when his turn to speak came, that girls had been
offended by his advice, because his years are now
too many and his attractions too few to make him
an acceptable Mentor to the roses, whose thorns
had pricked his fingers. He advised the young
and handsome Prelector to mission the fair sex
with regard to their vowels or any other foible,
while he is still charming enough to win woman’s
ear.
“The political romance, ‘Jacob Shumate,’
penned by Mr. Henry Wrixon, receives very faint
praise from the London oracles. The Athenaeum
starts promisingly with the announcement that
President Wrixon is a most distinguished Vic-
torian statesman, but it deprecates that person’s
skill at ‘ picturing Australian politicians and their
difficulties.’ The Athenaeum instances Mrs.
Campbell-Praed as a pleasanter and abler autho-
rity on the matter. Then occurs this nasty rub :
‘ The reader who has the patience to do what we
have been compelled to undertake.’ Have been
compelled !
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHL.
In Sydney Telegraph’s report of one of
George Reid’s open-air election meetings, that
wonderful man is stated to have said : “My great
objection is that the Australian Government has
broken in the grossest possible manner the laws
which it had passed. If a man defrauded anyone
of his elector’s right that man could be imprisoned
for two years. Yet these law-makers were
strangling the votes of tens of thousands. ’ Then
a voice asked : “What did you do in 1896?” and
the gerrymanderer of 189frhad the front to reply :
“ You can’t get out of an indictment by saying
someone else did it.” And then he went on to
wax righteously indignant over the alleged crime
which he himself had perpetrated only seven
years ago. And some of the audience actually
thought he meant it.
“THE MERRYMAN, MOPING, MUM!”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The clown has turned tragedian. "—Barton on
Reid.
“ I have a game to play.”— Jack Pointless.
It’s played with a lie
And a glass in the eye,
And a tumbling turn, and a No-Yes-No !
It’s the game of a paunchy and punful clown
Who stumps a Commonwealth up and down,
Now taking the biggest hall in town,
Now tickling bucolics, bearded, brown,
With a fiscal feather long obsolete
From the tail of the arid dog effete.
It’s also the song of the Doleful Dane,
With a bloodshot wrath in his window-pane,
Who thought with twaddle to catch the crowd,
And saw no shadow of Someone’s shroud
As he cheerfully danced on a cumbrous toe
To the lilting strains of a No-Yes-No.
He saw in the sky no rising cloud,
Nor the gathering shadow of Someone’s shroud.
H. C. C.


&
SICK KIDNEYS.
An aching, breaking back—sharp, sickening stabs of pain—That’s kidney trouble.
Look at the picture. See how the kidneys are really a spongy filter—a human filter to
take poison from the blood.
But sick, weak kidneys can’t filter the blood properly. The delicate human filters get
clogged with impurities, and the poison is left in the system to cause backaches, headaches
rheumatism, dropsy and fatal inflammation.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are the one sure cure for sick kidneys. They make new blood which
flushes them clean and gives them strength for their work. Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills set the kidneys ri<*ht
and make lame backs stiff and sturdy.
“ Thirteen years ago a terrible dragging’ pain came in the small of my back,” says Mrs. Caroline Courtney, 85 Phillip Street, Moore Park
Sydnev; Dull aching kidneys wouldn’t let me sleep. I felt sore and bruised, and afraid to walk. My eyes grew dim and strange lisrhts
danced before them. I was too weak to work and the smell of food made me sick. I suffered day and night till I took Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills for Pale People. They gradually filled my veins with pure, healthy blood and my kidneys ached ho more. Now I never have a pain in
my back, my kidneys are clean and souud, and I am a happy, healthy woman.” F
By making new blood, Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are a simple, scientific cure
for anaemia, paleness, skin diseases, biliousness, indigestion, heart St.
Vitus’ dance, nervousness, neuralgia, sciatica, partial paralysis and locomotor
ataxia.
' *
kINK
Tills
ale
tOPlul
Dr. Williams pink pills for pale people
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Of the present 57 members of the N.S.W.
Legislative Council 33 have held seats in the
Legislative Assembly, and four have sought seats
and failed.
Sam See (John’s brother), of Grafton
(N.S.W.), pronounces definitely against the white
labor policy of the Commonwealth. That should
about wreck Sam’s lately-expressed pdlitical am-
bitions.
Heading in a daily paper :
A Legislative Councillor Found Dead.
Most Legislative Councillors are dead, but they,
as a rule, manage to avoid being publicly dis-
covered in that condition.
For this year’s exhibition of the N.S.W.
Oil Art Society, “Mr. Long will show some good
portraits, including one of Mr. Perry ” —the
Minister in charge of the Art subsidy. That’s
what one might call Tact.
Both Argos and Age, in reviewing ’Enery
Wrixon’s political novel (which is as long as five
ordinary-sized novels), start off by mentioning
that Disraeli was a statesman who also wrote
novels. Why drag in Disraeli ?
In removing Bent from the Railways to
the Health Department Vic. Premier Irvine has
done a wise thing. Bent is now grappling with
the swine fever, and if there is anyone in the
Commonwealth who ought to understand swine it
is Bent.
A youth who should make"' a champion
criminal in a few years keeps on extending his
record in the Melbourne courts. He is only 20,
and already owns to 29 previous convictions,
mostly for petty larceny, vagrancy, and insulting
behavior. The law still fines him 20s. or a month,
though it hasn’t the sense to make him earn his
living while doing the month.
Hobart possesses two bishops, the
Anglican and the Coadjutor R.C., who scan-
dalise Fatman by their
talk from the pulpit
about wages and work.
The other Sunday
there was a requiem
mass at St. Mary’s
Cathedral; Hobart,
for Pope Leo
XIII. Bishop
Delany preached
to Hobart’s aris-
tocr a c y, and
many of his hearers
were all broke up
at the awful way in
which he discoursed
upon employers,
workers, wages, “pre-
scriptive rights,” and
things of that sort.
When J. C. Watson
spoke at Hobart Town
Hall, Anglican Bishop
Mercer sat in a big arm
chair in front of the plat-
form, and next day preached
a sermon in St. David’s
which the Accumulated Fat
of Hobart regarded as a
shocking attack on respect-
able established institu-
tions
Though N.S.W. Jus-
tice G. B. Simpson
claims to have spent
many years in active
Parliamentary prac-
tice, his sphere all the
time was the Leg.
Council. An ambi-
tion to enter the As-
sembly possessed
him for a couple of
months about forty
years ago, and he
started up Gosford
way to fascinate
electors. There were
no trains and few
coaches on the track, and
barrister Simpson, unlike the average
native, was but a poor hand with bush
horses. The result was that he was badly
thrown and had an arm broken. He went to
bed, but allowed his name to go to the poll, where
it was duly wiped out. He dropped politics after
that till Robertson sent him .into the Council as
Attorney-General in 1885.
“R.S.A.” : One morning, when the Age
remarked that Bent had shed tears of emotion,
a huge smile swept over Melbourne. Neverthe-
less, I have seen Bent cry—with rage. One of
the most amusing sights in the city is to see
Tommy wound up—ramping, raging, snapping,
snorting, and trying to climb over his own head.
Obit. Mrs. C. E. Pilcher, wife oftheK.C.
The deceased lady was a daughter of Mr. John
M‘Phillamy, of Mount Tamar, Bathurst (N.S.W.),
born in 1851, and married in 1871. Her father
represented West Macquarie in the reformed
Parliament of 1859.
Said that ex-politician Jacob Garrard, who
mismanages Sydney Water Supply, insists always
on being addressed as the “Hon.’ Mr. Garrard.
Some men’s claim to honor, like some women’s
claim to virtue, has to be insisted upon to get any
sort of recognition.
Apropos Frederick Bridges and the N.S.W.
Under-Secretaryship of Public Instruction.
Bridges is in his 64th year; according to the rule
of the service he should retire in a year’s time.
Naturally, the question is—for whom is Bridges
keeping the billet open ?
N.S.W. Acting-Chief Justice Stephen has
now been nearly 54 years in the law and on the
Bench; Justice Owen, 44 years; Justice G. B.
Simpson, 45 years; Justice A. H. Simpson, 35
years; Justice Cohen, 31 years ; Justice Gregory
Walker, 30 years; Justice Pring, 29 years.
Apropos the late Tommy Walker and his
missing remains. When the last of the male
Tasmanian aboriginals died in ’69, in Hobart
Hospital, his head was stolen and replaced by
that of an old Scotch shepherd who had died in
the institution at the same time. Notwith-
standing the dual contents of the coffin, prayers
were read for our “ dear departed brother.”
Hee Hem Smith, member for Taranaki in
M.L. House of Representatives, has just been
requested by the New Plymouth corporation to
resign his position as turncock to that borough.
Although Lis son does the work, the little man in
the belltopper is primarily responsible when the
water isn’t quickly turned on, and as, during the
session, he is absent at Wellington, it has been
decided that he can’t be relied upon.
Bishop Broyer, of the Navigator Islands,
now visiting Sydney, has still much of interest to
say of Robert Louis Stevenson, whom he knew
well in Samoa. The novelist has become a kind
of sacred memory among the natives. Ihe Bishop
has been about those islands the last 28 years.
N.S.W. Rep. Conroy has taken to farm-
ing, and makes it pay. _ The only thing he has
to guard against is orating near the crops, lie
inadvertently expressed his opinion of the Barton
Ministry the other day in the home paddock, and
gave a beautiful crop of oats, just in ear, the
blight.
N.S.W. Premier See and Attorney-
General Wise have appointed themselves trustees
of N.S.W. National Park. The trusteeship of
this park is a fine, comfortable billet. The
trustees are masters of the beautiful reserve, with
a comfortably furnished house, a steam launch,
and a small fleet of boats thrown in.
The recent death of John Hindmarsh,
son of the first Governor of South Australia,
indirectly recalls Australia’s first land boom.
There were only 546 inhabitants in S.A. when
Hindmarsh arrived. A big boom set in after
the first sale of town allotments, which rose
from £5 ss. and £6 6s. to £2OOO and £3OOO an acre,
and everything else was at a ridiculous figure.
The bubble burst in ’39, and left S. A. with about
7d. worth of genuine assets.
The current Australian Review of
Reviews, outrages all Christianity and decency
by publishing a set of verses, coming from a man
at Cairns (Q.), depicting Kingston dying, and
“the ghastly thing” which serves as his soul
foing to the Judgment Seat, where God expresses
is scorn for this “ Thing.” Then there’s talk of
the “murky stench of that Federal Parliament,”
and so on. It’s a woeful exhibition of how far
rage at an honest man can carry a parson editor.
GENUINE FRIENDSHIP.
EPPUSIVE PARTY : “ I like you! You shall be my
friend! I will dine with you!”
“ A.N.H.” : Two ladies inspecting the
Weekly, Times pictures exhibited at Melbourne
’Erald office struck in last issue a portrait of the
new Governor-General. The name, North cote,
evidently reminded them of something, and when
I left they were eagerly discussing whether he
should have been hanged or imprisoned for life for
“ putting that poor dear of a baby in the Merri
Creek.”
HARD TIMES.
“The policy pursued by the Ministry has brought us
to the time when it is necessary to be just to the country
before we can be generous to the old-age pensioners.”
S.M. HERALD.
OLD GRANDMA HERALD: “Back, Mr. Waddell.
This is a time to be economical and just; and
this is the best victim of economy.”
Premier Jenkins will complete his 52nd
year on Tuesday next (September 8). On the
following day Spofforth, the erstwhile Demon
bowler, will be 48. Twenty years ago Spofforth
was the greater man of the two, but cricket is a
game that wants continued application and
youthful freshness, whereas the game of politics
is often won by the man who can take advantage
of the freshness of other people.
Samuel Summers, who has been superin-
tendent of the postal money-order department in
S. Australia ever since such a department has
exiadd, has just retired from the service. Sum-
mers was a comparatively old man when Deputy
P.M.Gr. Todd, who is usually reckoned the
ancient of the office, arrived 48 years ago. It is
said that not so much as a penny has ever gone
wrong in the S. A. money-order office.
The deceased Charles J. Pharazyn re-
signed from Maoriland Upper House in disgust
when fined £lOO for dual voting (which he didn’t
deny) at a city election, being over-anxious to
secure the return of an old crony. The old man
was a familiar figure at the Assessment Courts,
where, even up to his hundredth year, or near it,
he inveighed volubly against the scandalous
figures placed on his properties by official valuers.
It was his only annual recreation, and as the
valuations were rarely reduced he hobbled out in
high dudgeon.
Coroner Candler, of Melbourne, has been
sitting on fires and corpses for half-a-century in
Victoria, but he will be best known to posterity
by having given a “case” to the law books.
Thirty years ago, an old doctor named Cornelius
Casey, who had been surgeon at Port Arthur,
gave some “ cheek ” to Candler, who committed
him for contempt. Casey sued Candler for false
imprisonment, and the case went to the Full
Court on the question whether the coroner’s court
was a “court of record” and the coroner had
power to commit. Casey v. Candler is known to
all lawyers and law students in Vic.
Victoria’s Premier Irvine has publicly
announced that he is not going to enter the Aus-
tralian Parliament. He says he finds his hands
too full of State matters. Irvine’s friends made a
great effort to secure him a seat in the House of
Representatives three years ago, but Pharez
Phillips beat him by over 500 votes. Irvine tells
his private friends that he is losing money by
remaining in politics. Since he took over the
job of Victorian dictator he has let his law
practice go hang. He is reported to have made
about £2OOO a year at the Bar while in practice.
Of oourse, he may annex one of the judgeships
which must become vacant shortly.
The other day, Adye Douglas, President
of Tasmania’s Legislative Council, was one of a
deputation that waited on Archbishop Murphy to
congratulate him on his 88th birthday and wish
him many happy returns. Douglas bragged that
he was six weeks older than the Archishop, but
said that if his youngest son, who was six years
old the day before, was a little older, he didn’t
care how soon he went under. “ When a man
gets to my age the essence of life is gone.” Then
the old prelate began to think how he’d feel six
weeks hence. But at a festive meeting last week
Adye told the assemblage that he meant soon to
have a pleasure trip to Europe to see life and
bring back the lost essence.
“ Spring ” on some politicians:—
Recently re-visited
N.S.VV. Legislative
Assembly. Had a
seat in the Speaker’s
Gallery. You must
be distinguished to
get there. The com-
mon man is in the
Strangers’ Gallery,
whence he gazes
fondly down upon
the top of honest
Edden’s pink head.
In entering I tripped
over about 10 police-
men within as many
yards of passages.
The most awesome
official is he who con-
ducts you to your
seat. He has that
large air of import-
ance always noticed
in men with author-
ity in small matters.
The first remarkable
object I noticed on
the floor of the
chamber was Dan
O’Oonnor drifting
about like a lost snow
storm. He seemed
greatly agitated or
something. Dan’s
eyebrows are always
in motion, and like
two white mice creep up, up almost to the back of his
head, and then scamper back again. The members of
the Ministry have grown remarkably fat. Even Waddell,
whom I remember as a thin and fretful Oppositionist, is
now sleek and calm. Crick is the exception. He is
thinner and more careless in his dress, and seems out of
place amongst that brilliant array of meat and broad-
cloth. He is the head-piece, Owe’Sullivan is the stomach,
and dour John Kidd is the sturdy, dumpy legs of the
Ministry. I didn’t see its soul ; that is in Cohen’s safe in
London. The Opposition is, generally, pathetically lean,
bar Oarruthers. He is fat enough, hut pallid, and not
hearty. Amongst the Ministry and its supporters, there
is now no really amusing person. See’s three most ridi-
culous supporters—Dan O’Connor, Eden George, and
the harmless Dr. Ross—have recently left him. “ It’s a
bad omen when the clowns leave the circus,” said a
showman.
John Langdon Parsons, M.L.C., who
recently died in Adelaide, was a leading member
of the Cremation Society which recently con-
structed the expensive crematorium, in which, so
far, only two sheep and an Afghan have been in-
cinerated. However, his friends did not permit
his remains to be cremated, but placed them in
the earth in the conventional way. Parsons began
life as a Baptist preacher, but though he retired
from the pulpit 30 years ago, in the few semi-
conscious moments before he passed away he was
back to the old calling.
At a recent excursion of the Australian
Historical Society to Parramatta, a house in
George-street was pointed out as being the
residence of John Batman. If it be true that the
Victorian pioneer land-grabber lived there, the
house must be nearly 90 years old, and possibly
older, as John Batman settled in Van Diemen’s
Land in 1820. Batman was a native of Parra-
matta, born in 1800, his father being one of a
missionary band which had failed to get a footing
“in the islands, ’ and settled down in “Botany
Bay.” Its members took to various occupations,
money-lending being the specialty of at least one.
His name was Clode, and having lent a soldier
a sum of money, he tried to collect the same, and
got murdered for his trouble.
“ Allan Dale ” writes :
Touching “ M.’s” pathetic par. concerning the passing
of poor Parkes, all the old man’s soul-weariness and deep
despondency at the time referred to were fully accounted
for a few hours after he died. On opening his desk the
sum of one-and-ninepence was found, and that was all the
wealth he possessed in this world. The constant scraping
and struggling and manoeuvring to “make ends meet”
had crushed all the vigor out of him. It was small use
helping Parkes with a mere loan, for money went through
his hands like water through a sieve. It is a fact that,
having spent the greater part of a day trying to “flv a
kite ” for £5O, which was urgently required for home
necessaries, he spent £3O out of it on his way home on
rare old books, pictures, and bric-a-brac , of which he
deluded himself he was a clever judge. Parkes was like
an empty sack. Lifting him up was a mere waste of
time, unless you held him up continuously as well.
About a very old identity :
Charles Johnston Pharazyn, a wealthy citizen of
Wellington (M.L.), died on 17th August, aged 100 years
and 10 months. One of the old man’s brightest recollec-
tions was the Waterloo celebration. When aged 39 he
left England for Maoriland. The “good”—they were
always “ good ’’—barque Jane, 356 tons, was found to be
quite unseaworthy, and she put into Rio in a sinking
condition. The captain held that Jane couldn’t be
repaired, but Pharazyn took the opposite view and paid
out all the money he had to cover expenses. One of the
crude methods employed was to bind the hull with chains
fore and aft--urider the keel and across the deck. Jane
struggling under her curious ironmongery repairs’
arrived in Port Nicholson in May, 1841, after havin <r been
given up for lost. Pharazyn had to sue the owners in
bydney to recover the money he had spent in repairing
Jane. He subsequently took up land in the vicinity of
,?, a „ . lser miles from Wellington) in partnership
with William Fitzherbert. In 1869 he was called to the
Legislative Council, and retained his seat until 1885
when his son, Robt. Pharazyn, was appointed in his
stead. The centenarian was married three times—on the
last occasion to Miss Jessica Rankin, a poetess of some
note None of his four sons survive him. It is told of
. man t'hat he had slept in the same room with his
eothn for over twenty years.


To Play yottp Piano
p
The Pianola mill aid you.
We are mailing- free to anyone who will
ask us a book called “ Music in the Home.”
This book tells about the Pianola, what it
is, and what it will do. It will be of in-
terest to every person who loves music,
and particularly to the many thousand
owners of pianos whose instruments remain
unused for months at a time
The Pianola can be plaj'ed by any one,
even though they may never have played
one note,in their life.
The price of the Pianola is £6O prompt
cash, or £65 on moderate monthly pay
ments.
&
HENRY KL BIRGE & CO.,
Sole Agents for Australasia,
323 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
135-187 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
“Sweet are the uses of Advertising,” especially
if tiie article advertised has merit to sustain it, as is the
case with Mr. Charles Nuttall’s historical painting of the
opening of the Commonwealth Parliament by H.R.H. the
Prince of Wales. Photogravure copies are already being
distributed all over Australia, and finding a ready sale
amongst all classes. The metropolitan papers speak of
the work as being “ a fine and faithful impression of the
scene,” and as “ an historical record of undying interest
to every Australian.” See next week’s Bulletin.*
Our New Selection, by “Steele Rudd,” will
be ready in November. Even more humorous
than his first book, with more pictures. Price 6s.
Aboriginalities.
“War E.”: Animals often meet with
peculiar deaths. Recollect many years ago a
“piker” of a bullock getting his head between
two saplings ; it was wider at the top than bottom.
He stayed there, and his bones marked the spot
for many years afterwards. On another occasion
a young bullock had been coupled to an old stager.
The young ’un took fright and bolted into a scrub
dragging the other with him. Searched several
days for them without success. Months later
came on their remains in a little ravine; the young
bullock had fallen and broken his neck, and there
had stood the other patiently awaiting death.
Often merino rams, when feeding near wire fences,
get their horns caught in the wire and perish.
Have seen where a dingo, in making a jump, was
caught by the tail in the cleft of a stump.
• * * *
“Opal King” : A swagman in the Wir-
rabara district stopped to inform a cocky of an
incident that had happened not far from his place.
Mrs. Cocky met him at the gate, and jumped at
the conclusion that he had come for rations.
“Can you” he began, but she broke in:
“No; I’ll give you nothing ! ” “Here, I say,”
said the wanderer, “will you” “No!’’said
Mrs. Cocky, firmly; “my husband told me to
give nothing. Travellers will ruin us. First one
comes for a bit of flour, and another for some
meat, and ” “D—n you and your flour!”
said the person with the swag. “ D —n your bit
of meat ! Can you tell me who’s the bloke wot’s
hung himself down the road—him with the
dungaree pants, and the bluchers, and the galatea
shirt?” “I expect it’s my husband,” said Mrs.
Cocky.
* * ♦ *
“Mimosa”; A resident of Gippsland
asserts that the buny ip-amphibian bogey of the
bygone black is nothing more formidable than a
duck—just a little musk duck, no bigger than any
other wild duck inhabiting the swamps of that
moist locality. I can testify to the weird blood-
curd le of its music in the silent midnight watches.
With the melancholy mopoke and the keening
curlew already on hand, it needed only the shout
of this unholy fowl to make the blackfellow cower
and shudder in his mia mia, and long for the
cheerful kookaburras in the morning.
* * * *
“ Combo ” writes :
Concerning P. 0. Cole’s inquiry (26/7/’O3). The “ bull
roarer,” or “ goonanduckyer,” which fills the Australian
savage with
such terror,
is merely
what was
known in
my boyhood
days as a
“hummer”
—a piece of
rather thin,
flat wood
aboutafoot
long and
threeinches
wide, with
deep
notches cut
into both
sides. A
string is
fastened to
one end,
and when
theconcern
Is whirled rapidly round the head
it makes a strange humming or
roaring noise which, if heard in
the bush on a dark night by
anyone who didn’t know the
real cause, would induce either a
black or a white to fall on his knees and remember about
99 per cent, of his sins—and be rather sorry for some of
them. The “bullroarer” is to the black gin what the
Masonic hot poker is to a Mason’s wife, and plays a lead*
ing part in the ceremony of “ making a young man ” of
youths who have attained the age of puberty. I
once whirled a “hummer” of my own make behind an
old gin in the Bathurst district. She was not the least
alarmed for herself, but warned me : “ Baal you show dat
to Georgie"—her husband, a chief—“ him make you
go jute (die).” She had discovered the Masonic secret
and reckoned it up at its real value.
* * * »
A day’s North Queensland court-work :
Ingham: A Kanaka, found guilty of indecently
assaulting a white girl, was sentenced to three months’
imprisonment. Another black boy was fined for violent
behavior; a Cingalese pleaded guilty to a charge of
attempted suicide, and was committed for trial.
Townsville : Wm. Ah Kit, a half-caste Chinese boy, on
committal from Normanton, charged with entering a
warehouse and stealing cigarettes and tobacco, was
ordered to attend for sentence when called upon;
Abesykr Powles, a Cingalese, charged with’attempting to
kill himself, was imprisoned till the rising of the court;
a time-expired Kanaka, named Teena Tow, was sentenced
to 14 days, for assault.
Cairns : Five Kanakas, named Todos, Geenah, Wanga,
Kow and YVarra Warra, were charged with drunkenness
and disorderly conduct; two Chinamen were prosecuted
under the Betting Act ; an Indian and a man named
Emanuel de Gessray (presumed to be an Asiatic nobleman
out of luck), were charged with vagrancy; another
black man, name unknown, was charged with an unnatural
offence, and remanded for a week.
* * * *
A selector near Barcaldine (Q.)has turned
bore water to a useful and novel purpose. He
ran a small pipe round the inside of a properly
partitioned box and then diverted a small portion
of his bore water into the pipe. The box was
thus converted ihto an inexpensive incubator,
and many chickens have been hatched therein.
MR. “ BILL” LYONS,
Winner of Talt.’s Club Billiard Competition.
Photo, by Eden, Sydney.
Eureka Stockade will not have a jubilee
until 3rd December of next year; but it was just
50 years ago, at the end of August, that Victoria’s
other great goldfield, Bendigo, was at white-heat
over the same business. They called the Bendigo
protest the “red-ribbon movement; ” every man
who joined in it wore a flaming rosette. Two
monster meetings were held —one on August 21
and the other on August 27 ; the roll-up was some-
thing like 20,000 strong. Gov. Latrobe, who had
been talking about cannons, cut a miserable figure
over the demonstrations at Bendigo and Waranga,
and the Government departments were in a state
of panic. For the moment, the diggers’ license
fee, which had been run up to £3 a month, was
brought down to 10s., and the lesser amount was
collected more or less decently; but when the
diggers, satisfied with the change, threw the red
rosettes away, the old game started again, the
licenses were jumped up, the administration
became worse than ever, and Eureka followed.
One or two of those who wore the badge
at Bendigo are still on deck: among them
W. D. C. Denovan, afterwards clerk of the city
council, and G. E. Thomson, who then, or a little
later, kept an eating-house, but was afterwards a
solicitor. Other more prominent men in the
movement have died in the last few years—among
them “Old Bob” Haverfield, for a generation
editor of Bendigo Advertiser, and Angus
Mackay, owner of that paper, and one of the
ounders of Sydney Telegraph.
“ Viator ” : Philp Government pro-
poses to introduce a drastic measure for
the suppression of cattle-stealing. A good
part of the fault lies with the squatters
themselves, or with the controlling
financial institutions. Writer knows from
personal observation that several station
properties of huge area in the Gulf coun-
try employ no labor beyond a manager
and several blackboys. Mustering comes
round, and a couple of aboriginal stock-
men are sent out—often without a white
man. Warrigal musters just as many as
he finds convenient, and the result is the
run is overrun with clean-skins. Recent
condition laid down in fencing contract by
wide-awake squatter : That the successful
contractor buy 121bs. of beef per man per
week during the term of the contract.-
* * *
“ Lando ” : Shearing has started in
several sheds in the Gwydir, Gunnedah
and Lower Castlereagh districts, and the
general date for the north-western part of
the State is Ist September. The roads
converging thereto are lined, with men,
and it is estimated that about four times
the requisite labor is available. What the
surplus three-fourths will do no man
knoweth. Lambing may be taken at 80
per cent, on an average, so matters are
better than anticipated.
* * *
“ Kooka ”: In the Yungella Range,
Mackay district (Q.), there is found a
curious stone called locally a “sand ball.”
These stones are more or less rounded,
with a pitted surface (no sign of break or
crack), of a rust color, and of similar for-
mation to sandstone. On breaking them
the interior is found to be made up of loose
dry sand, which can be shaken out, leaving
but a shell of hard stone, varying in thick-
ness in different balls, but not always
varying with the size of the ball. Some
times the ball is not quite full, and by
shaking it close to the ear the loose sand
may be heard to rattle. The stones vary
in size ; some are as small as a hen’s egg,
others so large that when carefully sawn
in two the halves make unique flower
pots. No local geologist' seems able to
account for the curious formation.
The Bulletin hears that between Clon-
curry and Camoweal (Q.) many aborigines are in a
fearful state of disease. The Protector might see
to it.
* * * *
“R.A.”: Living in Gippsland, where
there are nine wet months in the year, seems to
affect people in the top-piece. Within the last
three years seven men I have worked with have
gone to the lunatic asylum, and another suicided
whilst insane.
“Nym”: What is looked
upon as a new fish species has
been bothering the minds of
Albury anglers. Early in the
year a Mr. J. Flower caught
a peculiar-looking fish in the
Wodonga Creek It was
jumping cheerfully in a shal-
low place when Flower kicked
it out of the water and thus
diminished its harmless mirth.
The fish weighed about a
pound, and resembled a bream
more than any other fresh
water fish; but the stranger
possessed all the internals of
an animal as distinguished
from a fish, the most peculiar
difference in this respect
being the gizzard. It is said
that fish of this description,
known as the Murrumbidgee
herring, have been known for
many years in the waters of
the Murrumbidgee. I think
the finny specimens are a
cross between a perch and a
cat-fish. [Probably a cross
between the cat-fish and the
rabbit. —Ed. B.]
* * *
“Jason”: In the in-
terior of this indebted country
there grows a timber known
as “ gidgee” ; at least that i 3
the way most folk spell the
word. Yet there appear to
be differences of opinion con-
cerning its orthography. In
an auction advt. lately I re-
marked that the property
offered was plains country,
intersected by “gidyah”
belts. Again, in an article
published in the De Rouge-
mont Maga., an “explorer,” in the course of his
weird tale, recounted how he cooked a damper in
the “ghigi” ashes. Then there is a writer who
tells of the strong odor of the wot “gidgah,” and
it is reported that the man who d—d Chicago is
turning a walking-stick from “gidyea” for some
celebrity.
“ Elmore ” : I was sitting alone on the
form outside the pub. A man passed by remark-
ing, cheerily, “Not to-day, old man.” I turned
round and stared after him in astonishment, but
was suddenly brought round again with a jerk at
an irate female voice, snapping out, “You great
THE PEARL OF MINSTRELSY.
COUNTRY VISITOR (at Zoo): “I wishter ’Eaven
they’d begin to sing!”
idiot! you ought to be ashamed of yourself!"
Things were getting serious. I looked over as
much as I could see of myself, but everything
seemed satisfactory. The next who passed by
said simply, “Fool,” and the fourth said,
“ Blanky fool.” Then a seedy individual wanted
to fight me. I reckoned by this time it was up to
me to get an explanation, so I asked him why he
wanted to fight. “ Trying to make a fool of me
with that,” he said, pointing to a neatly-tied
parcel lying on the ground a few feet away
from me, and which I then noticed for the
first time. “Is it a brick or a dead eat ? ”
Whilst I was trying to prove my innocence, an
old sundowner happened along. He dropped his
swag and looked at the parcel. Then he skirted
round it. Finally, he picked it up and opened it,
and found 21b. of cheese. The man who wanted
to fight me looked foolish. I felt so sorry for him
that I went into the bar and ordered a drink for
myself.
BILL MAYNE’S STORY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They were yarning in the bar-room of a shanty In the
West,
And wetting intervals with rum and clo’;
Fish and snake-yarns, shearing-tallies, sheep-dog tales,
and all the rest
Of bush-prevarications got a show.
We were “ broke,” and Mayne considered that the time
had duly come
For us to have a cut-in at the game.
So he told a little story which, though strange and
puzz’esome,
Was a truthful little story all the same.
“ ’Twas in Gippsland, where I come from,” said my mate
in solemn tone,
“ My evergreen, belovfed home in Vic.,
And I went out shooting dingoes with a brother of my
own—
His name, I state in passing, it was Dick."
Here the tears began to trickle down the cheeks of
William Mayne
Till they offered him a tumbler full of rum.
“ Ah, my story is a sad one, and to tell it gives me pain.”
He sobbed and then he dried his eyes with some.
Then went on, “ And we had shinned it down the cleared
side of a hill,
When in front of us beside a blue-gum log,
In a burnt-off fern-tree gully, standing beautifully still,
We espied a full-grown reddish native dog.
“ With the rifle Dick could beat me, so I let him have the
kill ”
Here another flow of tears caused Mayne to stop.
But they quickly filled his tumbler, and incited him to
swill,
And he drank and thought his mate would like a drop.
I refreshed ; and he continued: “ Yes, I gave the shot to
him,
And considered that there dog as good as dead,
When I saw my brother aiming with his gun against a
limb,
To dispatch his never-failing dose of lead.
“ But imagine, mates, my horror when the dingo twisted
round
Just the moment when the bullet reached the cuss !
And, of course, instead of passing through the off side of
the hound,
It came out the side the brute had turned to us!
PEOPLE WE PUT ON THE LAND.
DAD : “ Old? Why, demit man, ye can see for
ye’self. She ain’t cut her top front teeth yet!”
“ And the cruel, deadly missile came back the way it
went,
And it killed my only brother on the spot!
Ever since my heart is broken, for I caused the accident,
By allowing him to have that fatal shot.”
Then Bill Mayne broke down completely and began to sob
aloud,
And his sorrows sent a lump into my throat.
But the fellows at the shanty were a sympathetic crowd,
And shouted rum enough to drown a boat.
We were soothed, and just felt happy when a kangarooer
said :
“ This ’ere dingo-varn is nothing else but rot.”
And that started them debating, and their faces colored
red,
While their lingo grew from warm to hoiling-hot.
“ You are right,” then yelled a drover, “ we were mugs,
we now can see,
To swallow and believe such bloomin' stuff 1 ”
While some others, mixed with curses, hollered out,
“ The thing could be
If the dingo only turned round quick enough 1 ”
And a ginger-headed shearer, whose profanities would
burn,
Demanded, in a brutal voice, to know :
“If that crimson, slaughtered bullet, when the dingo
took a turn,
Could any other blanky elsewhere go ? ”
The debate grew hot and hotter, till there rose an all-
round fight,
And I wished my mate had never told the tale !
For they called poor Bill a liar, and a ‘ * take-down,” and
a “skite,”
And they swore they’d knock his head off without fail 1
Then Bill thought it just as well to get our swags and
move away,
So we hurried off across the Blacksoil Plain ;
But the fellows at the shanty talked and fought till break-
o’-day
'Bout that truthful little story told by Mayne.
Q.
G X S.
NODDING!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There’s a nod of recognition in the bowing of the trees,
As they spread their rain-blessed tangles to be wantoned
by the breeze ;
While the flowers in the paddocks have a curtsey all their
own,
Since the season is the brightest that the last decade has
known 1
All the world’s a church these mornings with the singing
everywhere,
And the congregation nodding, and sweet incense in the
air—
Ah! methinks the fields a-nodding in their toques of
green and gold
Nod the benison of harvest for the six-bag yields of old.
vie.
BITA SUNTASED.


WOLFE’S
THE REAL
ORIGINAL
SCHNAPPS.
Spring Time Cleaning 1 .
Spring has arrived, and now the careful house-
wife goes through the annual Spring house clean-
ing. The summer will soon be upon us, and at this
time of the year we should take care to cleanse
the whole system, and fortify it to withstand the
enervating effects of the Summer. The increasing
hot weather of this period has an extremely
debilitating effect on the system if it is not in
perfect working order all through. It will be thus
seen that a medicine that will regulate and cleanse
the interior mechanism of man is especially
valuable at this time of the year. Such a medi-
cine is Bile Beans, and no better preparation can
be found for toning up the digestive organs,
cleansing the blood, and invigorating the liver.
Spring generally brings with it an assortment of
ailments, such as Spring Fever, tired feeling, loss
of appetite, &c. For these take Bile Beans,
which are also a specific for biliousness, indiges-
tion, constipation, debility, which are also preva-
lent at this season, As a purgative Bile Beans
are acknowledged without an equal in Australia.
Their price places them within the reach of every-
one, and no one should run the risk of being in
ill-health through the Summer when a short
course of Bile Beans would effectually purify the
body and keep it in thorough working order.*
Spoons
AND
Forks
MMUlililiil
E*
If
aiL
The “Fx&R” Spoons and Forks are the MOST HEAVILY PLATED of all those made
in England.
They are plated on a white hard nickel silver base
They are the Cheapest in Australia
“Fx&r” No. 1 Quality.
TABLE SPOONS and FORKS, 32s DOZEN
DESSERT SPOONS and FORKS, 26s 6d DOZEN
TEA SPOONS and FORKS, 14a Od DOZEN
“Fx&R” No. 2 Quality.
TABLE SPOONS and FORKS, 24s DOZEN
D' SSERT SPOONS and FORKS, 19s DOZEN
TEA. SPOONS and FORKS, 12s DOZEN.
They will be good and look like Silver after 40 years’ continuous wear.
London Prices
Pius Duty
strictly Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter St
“W.H.”: At Cassowary Creek, between
Port Douglas and the Mossman (Q.), four years
ago, one of the bridge hands sang out to me from
a waterhole. Going over, I saw a big brown
snake, head above the surface of the water, hold-
ing down a water-lizard with a couple of round
turns of his tail. On snake being shot the lizard
disengaged himself and disappeared in the bushes
seemingly unhurt. Snake measured between
four and five feet in length. Thought he
meant to drown the other reptile.
though, of course, he may only have
been teaching him to swim.
OVER-INDULGENGE.
THE BRUNETTE ONE: “Ah! there goes that
beautiful hubby of mine. He's been indulging
in so much missionary of late that he fairly
looks like one.”
So far the efforts to get artesian water at
the head of the Australian Bight, somewhere
near the track of the proposed trans-continental
line, haven’t been overwhelmed with success. A
supply has lately been struck near Eyre at a
depth of 2041 ft., but it is small, and saline at
that. Generally it is supposed that the great
Australian artesian system, which is fed on the
western slopes of the Queensland and northern
N.S.W. coastal ranges, has an outlet somewhere
along the Bight; but Westralia’s boring has, so
far, not advanced that theory, so the present
supply may be only a local one.
* * * »
The other day, the remains of a man who
had died of thirst two years before were discovered
on Caradoc station, just outside the Mildura
boundary, almost within coo-ee of a tank and
within a few miles of the river. The body was
identified by his widow in Mildura, after two
years in the inallee scrub, by the contents of his
swag, his billy, and the clothes he had been wear-
ing. He had left his home, bluey up, after a tiff
with his wife, and the immeasurable distances
swallowed him.
» * * *
It was found, on a recent Sunday, that a
hill had subsided from underneath the Wellington-
Napier (M.L.) railway line at Mungaroa, and left
the sleepers and rails suspended high in the air
for a distance of over two chains. This timely
discovery averted what might have been the
biggest railway disaster ever known in Maoriland,
for the spot is hidden by a bent cutting on either
side, and no danger was ever suspected there-
abouts. This sinking process in the Rimutakas
will give humanity such a shock one of these days,
that Joe Ward will be forced to take the line
around the valley that opens out near Martin-
borough. Nothing else above ground will move
him to rectify the evils of that huge political job
—the Rimutaka incline.
* * * *
The other day the Afghan camel-drivers
employed by the Western Camel Co. went on
strike at Wilcannia (N.S.W.) because one of their
number had been summarily discharged. The
company immediately filled their places with
white labor. Ram Dam Singhi’s views on Aus-
tralian labor matters now are probably a bit mixed.
■* * * *
“E.”; A peculiarity of Victorian streams is
that no eels are found in those running north from
the Dividing Range, and no perch or bream were
found, in streams running south until they were
introduced by Anglers’ Societies within recent
years.
* * * *
“War E.” ; The fox in Australia cannot
have the same powers of endurance as the fox we
read of in the Cold Country. I have often run him
down with a slow sheep-dog, and for any sort of
a greyhound Reynard is the “ softest snap ” pos-
sible. The Australian fox can keep ahead of
an island or a tombstone certainly, but he can’t
race a dog—not in my locality, anyhow.
What is claimed to be the largest cedar
tree ever felled in Queensland was lately cut in the
Barron Valley, back from Cairns. Its girth was
36ft. The scrub around it was so thick that it had
to be hand-sawed where it fell.
* * * *
“Periwinkle” : Jack Clarke, the Murray
fisherman, who died, t’other day, in his tent, from
heart failure, . was a
well-known identity
along “thestream”
for miles above
Echuca to Strath-
mertonway. Like
all Murray no-
mads Jack was a
character, and,
like the rest,
had some
physical
failing (his
heart, it
proved,
though he
guarded
his secret
well)
otherwise
he would
never have
been there.
Never met
a healthy
man camped
on the Murray
yet. Jack, like the
rest of ’em, was a
terror for patent phy-
sics, and like mighty few
of ’em he rarely imbibed.
What he didn’t know about
the river and its denizens no
one could teach him, and it
was one text in his gospel never to let
a big cod beat him. Like the Murray men,
too, he was as full of crotchets as an egg
is sometimes full of badness. All he could
talk of was fish, the price of fish, the close
season for fish; in fact, he was impregnated
with fish—and tobacco. He posed, in his more
ambitious moods, as the first discoverer of
molasses as a cure for mange in dogs. Like all
Australian nomads, he loved the canine tribe,
and the first chop and dose of physic went to
Nelly or Dick, his lop-eared mates. The old-
timers are dropping off one by one —though Jack
wasn’t old, only 47—and with their going the soli-
tude of the Long Thin liiver becomes more
oppressive.
• * • •
“ Jumbuck ” : At the cessation (or alleged
cessation) of recent drought in Central Queens-
land around one dam alone on a big station there
were no less than 40,000 carcases of sheep. During
the drought the station had men always employed
pulling the dead and bogged sheep out of the dam,
yet not a single sheep was skinned, nor was any
save made of the wool. Nearly all the pelts
would have been worth 3s. a piece. The same
story can be told of most of the stations out back
—their neglect to save the half loaf has led to
nearly as much evil as the drought.
• * * »
“P.M.D.” : Re cockatoo-fences, I heard
them so called in ’5B. All the old clearing leases
in the Illawarra district were fenced in with what
we now call dog-leg fences, at that time called
cockatoo fences. When John Robertson’s Free
Selection Act came into force, all the selectors at
first fenced in their selections that way owing to
its simplicity and cheapness. The cockatoo-fence
came first, then the cockatoo—named after his
fence.
Extracts from “ Hop.’s” letter from Hong
Kong :
VVe arrived here this a.m. in a heavy rainstorm after a
remarkably fine passage all the way from Sydney. The
weather has cleared, and it has turned out frightfully hot
and muggy, and though I have seen very little of the
city, I feel quite used up. I am dazed with the utter
novelty of Hong Kong, and looking over my balcony on
the street below is like being a spectator in a nightmare.
What would the O’Sullivan say to seeing potential voters
doing the work of horses and other beasts of burthen ? I
saw one team of a dozen men or so “ stuck up ” on a hill.
They were harnessed to a sort of trolly, laden with soda
water, intended, no doubt, to dilute the whisky of the
“ foreign devils ” who pollute the sacred streets. There
was no driver, but all the human team were chattering
and swearing at each other in Chinese. China is the
only country where the bullock swears at himself when
he gets bogged.
Another thing which struck me as odd was the Chinese
boats which surrounded our ship as we came to anchor,
“manned” mostly by women. I noticed one lady
especially, with a six months old baby strapped to her
back, propelling a sampan with a single oar, the drowsy
youngster’s head wagging back and forth between its
shoulder-blades, keeping time to the action of the
mother’s sculling. The husband and father of this lot
was sitting in a sort of cock-pit with an awning over him,
trying to light a metal pipe.
The harbor of Hong Kong certainly presents some of
the most curious sights I have ever seen. We struck it
by daylight and met a large number of junks of
ail sizes putting out to sea in a stiff breeze. How
vessels built upon such lines manage to keep above
water is a mystery to me. I wonder why poverty is
always so picturesque. There was scarcely a whole sail
among the vagabond fleet, and the crews seemed to have
hardly enough clothes upon them to wad a shotgun. Yet
they looked a happy, well-nourished lot, and certainly
made a charming picture in the grey morning. Though
I have seen little of Hong Kong, I have come to the con-
clusion that society here is divided into two classes —
those who drag or carry their fellow-men about the
streets, and those who are dragged or carried about.
The police amuse me—both the Indian and the Chinese
variety. The only policeman-like things they possess in
common with our variety are the big feet and the
policeman’s walk ; and another thing—the police-
man’s absence when most wanted. I saw this after-
noon, over the way, a ’rickshaw man set upon
by five or six fellow ’rickshawists and hit with
something hard wrapped up in a wet cloth, and, of course,
no policeman about. The poor fellow lay there all the
afternoon gradually regaining consciousness. The whole
thing was so pleasantly done, and the Chinkey who-
wielded the hard substance did it with a, smile on his
face.
So far my impressions of China are received from my
balcony where I sit and swelter and curse the Yellow
Agony. And my superficial observations so far have done
more to commit me unreservedly to the White Australia
doctrine than all the leaders and cartoons of “ your
highly esteemed and very able publication.” To see the
Image of God playing horse in earnest is not an edifying
spectacle.
I leave by the Coptic on Saturday for Frisco via
Shanghai, Yokohama, and God knows what other out-
landish places.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
Nonotice (except of a hostile character) will betaken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken in any case re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted, whether tent by post or handed in ; and in
no case mil MS. be returned unless stamps (of any
State) accompany.
Gil: Have doubts about “Doings in Divorce.”...
Silas Wegg: Two or three excellent verses, but the
others are weak.. .He El: “ Dream of Faith ” doesn’t seem
to dream about anything tangible H«E.R.: “Death
in the Bush ” is very dead. Even the rhyme is defunct,
and the metre is an uneven corpse Jos.; You baldly
state a fact with no hair on it 0.K.: “Chrissie” re-
jected firmly. “ Kitchen" ditto with emphasis. “Then
and Now” ditto with opprobrium Elmore :Re “Love
Signals”—when does the bush boy “turn pale with fear”
at hearing a mopoke? “Red Road” is overdone; the
bushman, however deeply in love, seldom sheds “bitter
tears” on the way to shearing Brengalilly: Rather
ordinary pathos.... W.S. : Verses on the necessity of not
aggravating foreign nations declined.... A Beginner : Too
rugged, but has some good points. The idea of the
Fatman “tumbling down on God” is remembersome.....
G.E.B. : “Temptress" hardly up to your usual standard.
E.W.: “Youth and Age” pretty, but idea too
ordinary•....Owl-Light: “Hogan” too erratic, though
there is a small shriek of humor in it Moa : Impossible,
though the line “his mermaids were mostly tail” is a
new way of expressing disillusionment M.C. McO.:
‘‘Twilight” not quite up to mark, yet not far 0ff....
Seamus: Declined with thanks E.V.K. : Will print
“Shadow.” Memento Mori: “Hangman” is a re-
markable “ poem.” Best half of it herewith :
Early morn ! So your duty is at hand,
To sneak and bind a life. Command
The wretch to creep, and show him the ghastly stand
On which you’ve murdered others You brute, with your
blood-stained hand
You strap him, cap him, and watch him.
Are you paid for your acts by a grim
Death-master or a kindly Satan ?
Has Charon taught you to swim f
You must die, brute-hangman, someday—’cause its one
of God’s strictest laws—
“An eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth! ’*
Gerard, P.R. : “Are thes any use for your papar ? *’ Well,
one of them may possibly adorn our next page of monu-
mentally bad verse Momus : Inappropriate pen-name
for such a dreary production....W.A.K. : You are too
exacting. When a narrative is not guaranteed to be a
statement of actual fact, any incidental pretence to that
effect is quite within the province of legitimate fiction.
You might as well find fault with “ Robinson Crusoe ”
because it a pure figment of Defoe’s imagination... Arum :
They range from bad to very bad, with the single excep-
tion of “ Visions,” which approaches the tolerable
D.O’N. : Narrowly misses being a good thing. With more
technical skill, you would probably get into print....
John G. : You have certainly, as you say, “ squeezed it
up tighter”; but, alas! the last state of that screed
li worse than the first Rory: Poem a shade too
rorty Rosa D. : Treatment too trite for such well-
worn themes S.M. : Form is all right but it lacks
ideas; it is, in fact, like a prettily-built idiot asy-
lum Bandar: Mostly Tennyson and water
Neil: Don’t mix fact with fiction quite so violently
C.C. (Terang) : Will print “ Philosophy” Luke Kay :
“Be Content ” accepted. Others will be reported on
later Moa: ‘ ‘ Love’s Barricade ” declined Burt:
“ In the Bush” isn’t at all like the real bush W.F.K. :
Verses declined. Joke very, very old.. .Unemployed:
Sorry to say that place is under a cloud also at present...
Young One: Quite unsuitable.... Potassium: “Sauce”
joke is a chestnut of mature flavor. Verses not up to
mark Relton : Declined with—well, various things
Hector : Your reflections are too trite and obvious for
print, and you’ve a lot to learn yet in the way of
spelling and syntax Luke Kay : Verses very moderate
merit. Story not worth the trouble you’ve taken with
the dialect Rambler: The lines have no life or spirit
in them, and both rhyme and metre are faulty
Lucius: Breaks down badly in the middle Myra
Mac : You have good lyrical quality, but your themes
lack interest... J.T.S. : Both Spanish. Patagonia is
from “ patagon,” a big clumsy foot, and Labrador means
cultivable (as distinguished from Greenland) C.R.R. :
Received your very kind suggestion that we should say
no more about the Rodney irrigation swindle. So we
will, just as soon as Victoria stops cutting down the
wages of the railway men to help make good the money
lost through the refusal of the Rodney and other
farmers to meet their obligations, and as soon
as the Kyabram party, to which these swin-
dling farmers belong, leaves off ascribing the
States’ difficulties to “socialistic legislation”
J.M‘O. : “Infidel” declined D.R. : “Hope’s Rays"
hardly good enough ; ditto “ Night ” and “ One Dead.”
Del M‘o.: Verse not quite up Vinco : “Love’s
Trysting Place” under doubtful consideration
Scribbler : Statements quite true, but metre lamentable.
A a: “ Commandeering” has too many weak spots.
H. .R. : Not quite well enough put together Net:
Duly received Myrtle P. : Too crude and unskilful.
Kitty K.: Shows great lack of experience,
but is not without promise Rita S. : Verses (with
one exception, which appears) very stiff and far-
fetched. Tale rather weak and ill-finished W.F.C. :
Story too slender of interest. The verses will be con-
sidered H.G.M.: Too long and thin and weak
Hiphen : Unequal. On the whole not up to the mark
Gerald B. : Rather feeble and conventional George K.:
Couldn’t use it in that form W.M.N. : A weak little
effort. You have no delineative skill E.W.D.: Thanks;
for information, but the fact remains that by the term
“Gothic” is generally understood the pointed style in
its three developments ; and to this style the term was
first disparagingly applied by Wren and other favorers of
the Revived Classic Free Lance : Style rather stiff and
ponderous. Try to get a lighter and more graphic touch.
Patriot: The sentiment is all right, but the verse is
awkward and prose-like.. .Myall: Hardly worth print
Minion : The daily paper that started out to cater for
“the religious people” would have a task which we
wouldn’t inflict on our worst enemy C.M.A. : Touch
not deft enough Sea-Spray: Pretty well versed, but
quite empty of interest... .George S. : Hardly enough
meat on its bones Jorkes : A literary barbarity
O.S. (Vic.): With difficulty deciphered some of it and
found it wasn’t worth the trouble... .Ras-Ali: Rather
smart, but subject too threadbare... .M.J.C.F. : Hardly
worth print H.S.H.: Falls rather flat.. ..Juggins :
You belie your pen-name. The stuff is smart enough, but
hopelessly out of our line... .Myra : Too long and weak
S.B.W. : Well-conceived, but ill-constructed. For
instance, the incident that would have made an effective
close is “given away” near the beginning. . . .Mossy C. :
With a little more care and concentration you would pro-
bably “arrive.” F.A.H. : The Dunbar was wrecked on
20th August, 1857 Ararat: Many thanks for letter....
W.L.D. : Declined K.S. : “ Finis ” more suited for
holy publication Orient: Three mild little broken-
hearted poems ! Write about something alive and cheer-
ful. Write about a cow A.E.P :“ Baby ” pretty sen-
timent but ramshackle verse.. . iA.E.S. : “ Burtville
Races ” hopelessly crude.. . .C.E.H. : “ Cemetery ” good.
“ Seasons ” isn’t Australian ; such things as woods clad
in tender green, village garden plots, brown heaths,
winter frosts, and so on, areaforeign inspiration 8.8. :
Will print “ Lagoon.” Don’t care for “ Stockrider.” The
typed copies were returned as being declined ; they were
typed in the office because an accident happened to the
manuscript
The modern churchman knows that there
is a Better Land, but—moving is such a trouble.
A PALTRY EXCUSE.
VOICE AHEAD: “ An ’ what excuse did ’e give fer
not cornin’ shootin ’ with us?”
BILLY CAN: “’E didn’t give none. ’E only said
’is mother told ’im not to go.”
Bodley, in a book just issued out King
Edward’s Coronation, mentions that George IV.,
going to the putting on of his crown, had 18
notorious pugilists surrounding him, dressed as
pages, in resplendent suits of satin and lace.
These pugilists included Cribb, Spring, Belcher,
Richmond (a blackfellow), and all the cream of
the profession. There was an impression that
His Majesty’s loving subjects were waiting for
His Majesty with road metal and large slabs of
hard mud, hence the precaution.
Sale of Phil May’s Drawings.
The Bulletin Newspaper Company, Limited,
has instructed Messrs. Walter Bradley and Co. to
hold an Exhibition and Sale of the Original Pen-
Drawings by Phil May, contributed to The Bul-
letin during 1886, 1887, 1888, and subsequently.
The sale will take place at the auctioneers’ show-
rooms, 324 George-street, Sydney, on Friday,
September 18. The drawings will be on view for
several days prior to sale.
Phil May was in many respects the most
talented pen-draughtsman of his generation, and
he ranks undoubtedly with the greatest English
masters of black-and-white art. Such a critic as
Whistler wrote of him that “his work interests
me far more than that of any man since Charles
Keene, from whom he is quite distinct. There is
a brightness and daintiness in what he does, com-
bined with knowledge. These, together with the
fact that in his drawings the wit is the artist’s,
make a great difference between him and his
contemporaries.”
In Phil May’s Bulletin period many of bis
very best drawings were done. On the whole, his
“line” was never more sure, his “character”
more vivid, and his wonderful dexterity more
manifest than they were in Australia. Some of
the examples of drawing in this collection are
worthy to hang in any gallery in the world. (
In addition to their artistic value, Phil May s
drawings have an Australian value peculiar and
unique. He has drawn or caricatured nearly all
the most notable Australian personalities of the
eighties and nineties—men and women familiar m
society, on the stage, or in public life. Many of
these likenesses have become famous. The
originals are now for sale.
The collection comprises upwards of five
hundred drawings especially chosen from a total
of some eight hundred contributed by May to
The Bulletin. The artistic and historical value
of these, very great at the present day, is bound
to increase as time goes on.


I "Compulsbry resumption of large estates
■is the Government's panacea-for all tho
Bills of the body politic, as far as closer
[settlement is concerned.'’— Argus.
-trWdft'
of*®-
ITiie Landlord.— “Now, I wonder if
there's really anything but smoko in_
I that bomb of Irvine’s."
tJki
)To Brichtqml
a good deal of indignation is expressed
|at the action of the heads of the dopart-
• menfc in running on Friday, Saturday and
l Sunday a pilot engine in front of the train
I conveying to Nhill and back the State
Premier, colleagues and party. The pro-
ceeding was a great insult to tho employes,
who woro suspected of boing vile enough
to wreck the train. ••
SkoWir,^
*doeT o»s oWrj Vd^Wdv
<3cr>A dcCou rfaincL %?e. \&cT |f>d£*
%e 'milidW oS tt) e s>p, s fer ?K
T^'\v^<^■ *t> ‘ dre jrjo ).on q^v
1 S^HS',?*!“““» ft»
dogs.' 1 country is going to tho
/V'M
w
&
%
A VA *
\ ,
'o % A n .
°+;,% %?%
f o "/ <?„ v%
V*\ <%.
o» *o % <2,
' <V t l-y °°rj
\ % r/ o
A Popular Premier taking the Air.
If he isn’t safe on a railway line with-
out a pilot engine, surely the authorities
will consider tho dangorhe runs on a road
without a street sweeper and an armed
guard.
X>OC
VV&cvA W
County '"Will jolloW *?Au dxdn>pc
u ln reference to the Federal Concili-
ation and Arbitration Bill, Mr. Irvine felt
considerable apprehension as to the results
of such a sudden seizure by the Federal
Parliament of such a wide domain of
domestic industrial legislation. Argus.
. . ——^
Gj connection with the railwaystrifce
hfi assurod his hearers .with much' feeling, .
that from the first moment of the threat- •’
enod troublo to the last the thought of the
injury which the railway mon were doing
their wives, families, and themselves was
never absent from his mind ' ” Age.
6 °<y .
3$
\■?{?&-. — "y W"
ut> owo^thW
linej m f,eflpincf tf-ese
A d ' rs ' Mr %>.r*
MOSTLY VICTORIAN.


M o~f I C =
STecRA<;E PASJs4
Not am-ovep
THE HOME-COMING OF THE
AGENT-GENERAL.
Copeland (to See): “Sorry to come
back looking like this ; but we haven’t
been able to raise a loan in London for
quite a while. By the way, you haven’t
such a thing as 6d. about you, I sup-
pose 1 ”
V'<vv
% /<?*. <? »,*© /K
Ss
* V, J \f
*«c/V** \, ,
NSS >
*•»/„. O', V'OA
!^ V
V /e * >
* V %! „
«// 0 * ~
Apolitical reprisals.
Mr. Carrutliers : “ When Mr.
Newman applied for remission of a
tine he had received a most insult-
ing reply from Mr. Wise, that see-
ing how the hon. member had voted
in the Friedman case, he could not '
expect what he asked.” Mr. O’Sul-
livan asked : “ Was that said in the
letter?” “Yes,” replied Mr. Car-
i ruthers ; “ and if I had been in the
hon. member’s place I would have
[had the matter out on the floor of
[the House.’
A Y oice: “Did you ever carry :
a swag?’’ Mr. John See : “Yes ;:
I am not ashamed to own I have -
carried my swag, though I don’t
want to do it again ; but, if I
had' to, I would do it rather
than become a loafer.”
Mr. Se* : “ I’ve carried it a bit
in my time, but the old girl
carries it now.”
|. T HE FEDERAL FEELING,
i 1 “ Yo « want the capital,- do
i you, you cat 1"
“ Fancy you with the capital.
I d6n’t believe you’ve got "your
marriage lines ! ”
Senator Matheson : “ Ministers have never done
their duty, and I say they will never be found jto do
it. What Minister is going to risk his chance of
getting a star or garter by doing so? ”
TRUE, ALAS, TOO TRUE!
CURRENT POLITICS.


Key,
£3 10s
Keyless,
A. SAUNDERS.
BUSHMEN AND MINERS’
SPECIAL MADE ENGLISH
LEVEES, Full Cap, Hand Finished. Extra
Jewelled Worts, Perfect Timekeeper, with
Pure Silver Cases, Dust and Watertight. £3
10s. Extra Quality, with Chronometer
Balance, £4 10s. £5, £5 10s, £6, £7, £B. Solid
Gold, £lO, £l5, £2O. A written certificate for
3,4, and 5 years. Try one, you will not
regret it.
Free-
trade
Prices
No
Ad-
vance.
% M /
c so
A. SAUNDERS.
Strong Reliable
WATERBURY WATCHES.
Long: Wind, 8s 6d ;
New Short Wind, 10s ;
New Model, G., 13s 6d ;
Extra Quality, §-plate, 18s 6d and £1;
Silver, 35s ;
Gold. £vi 15s.
The reputation of these watches is a suffi-
cient guarantee of the reliability.
20s.
20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Unrivalled Non-magnet LEVER.
Perfect timekeeper, Screw Oa>es,
D"st and Water tight, 20s ;
Solid Silver, 85s ; Double Case, £2.
A Written Guarantee given with
each Watch.
Black
or
Nickel,
£3 10s.
Silver,
£5.
A. SAUNDERS.
“ FLY-BACK CHRONOMETERS.”
Fly-back only. In Solid Nickel 01 Black. Extra
Quality, £2, £2 10s ; same as above, £3 It's ; Split
Seconds, £3 10s. Pure Solid Silver, as above, £5,
£6. £7, £6, and £lO ; Solid Cold, £l5, £2O, £25,
and £3O. A witten certificate for 2,3, 4,5, and 6
years. TRY ONE.
Solid
Silver
£2los
Gold
Cased,
£4 4s.
A. SAUNDERS.
WALTHAM LEVERS.
We are Direct Buyers. Pure Solid
Silver Hunting Cases, Extra (duality
Movements, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, and £5 ;
Gold Patent Cases, Walthams, £4 4s, £5
5s ; Solid Gold, £7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s £l5,
£2O, and £25.
3,4, 5, and 6 Years’ Guarantee.
Solid Gold Chain, Single or Double, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s,
£4, £4 10s, £5. 15c. Solid Gold, f‘s 10s, £6, £6 10s, £7,
£B. £lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s. Sena for
Price 111 Book
A. SAUNDERS (Registered).
Friendship G"ld Motto BRO( ><Tff, 20s
Isct. gold, 35s ; 18ct., gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Ivy Leaf BROOC H, 12s 6d ; loot, gold,
Gem Set, 30s; Diamonds, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold-monnted Tusk BROOCH,
Chain and Bell, 15s 6d.
Bamboo Gold BRACE GETS. All the Styles. Prices
according to width, 255, 30s, £2, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s ; 15c.
Gold, £3, £4, £5, £6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Nellie Stewart Secret Snap BRACELET, Beautifully
Finished, £4 10s; 15c. Gold, £6 10s and £7 10s.
Similar, £2 15s, £3, £3 ss, £3 10s, £4.
15ct. Gold Pearl Star PENDANT
or BROOCH, £5 10s ;
with Diamond centre, £7 10s;
with double row of Pi arls,
Same Price.
15ct. Gold BROOCH,
Diamond, 2 Red or Blue Stones, 255.
•7 s.,
*3 XK
1
1
£
ft
31
gsy
37
A. SAUNDERS.
a. Saunders.
Diamond Cut Amethyst BRACELET, Gold-mounted, £i 10s
Heart Amethyst Padlock, £5 ss.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Band Name BRACELET,
in Three Sizes, 255, 30s. as above,
and 40s wider ; loot Gold, £3, £3 10s. £4.
15c,t. G-old Double Heart
and Knob PENDANT or
BROOCH, £4 KM ;
Diamond in centre of Bow.
£6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Registered GoodWis’i Gold BROOCH, 13s
6d ; 15ct. Gold. 23s ; Silver, 4s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Two-Heart Amethyst and Love Knot
BIIOOCH, 20s.
«’©p
A. SAUNDERS.
15c. Gold Two-Bar Goal and Four-Diamond
BltO( )<JH, £2 10s. Vi ry Effective.
3- Bar Amethyst Gold BROOCH, 25s ;
loot. Gold, 455.
Solid Gold Peril Sel Twin Love Birds.
BROOCH. Red Stone Centie, 17s 6d.
Goll Name BROOCH with Raised Flowers,
7s 6d ; loot. Gold, 15s ; any Name Free.
Sr
r=s
Hisli Grade Ladies’ Solid Silver LEVERS,
Full Jewelled, 5-plrle> £2 10s, £3, £3los,
£4 and £4 10s. In Solid Gold, £slos, £6
30s £7 10s, £8 10s, 10 guineas, £l2 10s,
£l5, and £2O. Guar. 3,4, 5, and 6 Yrs. 1
df
, Gold
, SLIPPER,
i Chain, Nob,
, and Pin. 6s 6d;
Metal Pin, 5s 6d.
t-ilver, 2s 6d.
sdf
sdf
sdf
. som £s;
Gent.'s Solid Gold Trout STUDS,
3s 6d, 5s 6d, 7s 6d each,
$
sdf
15cl. Gold Fan BROOCH,
Diamond and 2 Rubies, £3
3 Diamonds, £4.
Gold Mizpah
CHARM, 4s od.
Solid Gold Opal Band,
17s Bd ;
Three Opals, 22s 6d ;
loct. Gold, 30s ; Three
Opals, £2. 1
, Band RINGS,
with Name, 9ct. Solid Gold,
Bis 6d, 15s ;
i 15ct. Gold, 20s, 25s ;
18ct. Gold, 255, 30s, 355, £2.
Signet) jain KING
9ct. Gold, 20s, 25s
15ct. Gold, 30s, 35s
18ct. Gold, £2,
£2 10s.
sd
m'
■
15ct Gold, Two Hearts, 18ct. Solid Gold,
Diamond and Ruby, 35s ; Diamond and Two
Two Diamonds, £2 ss. Rubies or Sapphires,
Latest Style. £2los ; 3 Diamonds, £3.
18ct. Gold, 4 Diamonds,
with 3 Rubies,
Sapphires, or Opals,
£3 10s, £4 10s, £5, £6.
Two Diamond Spaiks
and fled Stone,
loot. Gold, 30s.
&
ISct. Gold, Pure Double
Cut Diamonds and
Rubies or Sapphires, £3 10s,
£4, £4 10s ; Five Diamonds, £5.
fsd
18ct. Solid Gold,
Pure Double Out Dia-
mond, Pure Rubies
or Sapphire, £2.
fdf
gEJ.
FOW
Gold CHA.RM, Pearl
Star and Crescent,
32s 6d ;
Larger, £2 2s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Good Friendship
CHARM, 10s 6d;
•with Erin-Go-Biagh,
9ct. Gold Heart-shaped
LINKS, 12s 6d ;
15ct. Gold, 255.
9ct. Gold LINKS, 22s 6d;
lCct. Gold £2;
in Solid Silver 4s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS,
815 and 817 George-street
sdf
sdf
sdf
X
sdf
ladies’ Long Gold Muff CHAINS in every
Style and Pattern made. £2 10s, £3, £3 10s,
£4, £4 10s, £5, £5 10s, £6, £7, £B, £lO.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Heart,
Double Out Diamond,
30s. 40s ;
Ruby Or Sapphire, 255.
I
Latest Style Gold Bow and Cham
Photo PENDANT to Hold Two
Photos. 255, 27s 64, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS-
15ct. Gold
Pearl Star
PENDANT
or BROOCH, £3,
very neat.
JEWELLER AND
SILVERSMITH,
(Nearly Opposite
Kail way Station)»
Sydney.
A. SAUNDERS.
Good Luck Gold .HEART,
Cham and Pin, 7 s 6d.
A. SVUNDERS.
(iold Amethyst aua
Pearl tteait CHARM.
10s 6d ;
A. SAUNDERS.
ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed. Silver Hunting
Keyless, 255, 30s, £2, £2 10s, £3. . bolid GnW
Keyl ss, £2. fcS, £4. £5 ; Superior Quality,
£<s, £7, £B, £lO.
ALT, GUARANTEED.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold 3-Bar BRUOCH,
with Double Cut Diain ni Centre,
£3 10s ;
larger Diamonds, £4 10s.
sdf
18ct. Gold Half Hoop,
Five Double Cut,
Diamonds, KING £5,
Lanier Diamonds, £6;
£7 10s, £B, £lO, £l5, £2O.
S) Q
18ct. fold Buckle,
Diamond
and Two Rubies or
Sapphires, £2 10s;
3 Diamonds, £4
Gent.’s Set. Solid
Gold Amethyst BING,
25s ; 15ct. Solid Gold,
£2, £2 10s.
IBct. Solid Gold Two
Hearts, Opals,
Three Pure Double Cut
Diamonds, £4 10s.
s
IBct. Gold
Pure 1 touble
Cut Diamond,
£2 10s, £3.
dfsd
IBct. Gold
5 Opal RING, £2los
Size Larger,
£3los.
fs
Hand-made WEDDING RINGS and KEEPERS, 9ct.
Solid Gold, 5s 6d, 7s 6d-, 10s Odeach; 15ct. Gold, Us,
Extra Heavy, 25s ; 18ct. Gold, 20s ; Extra Heavy, 30s,
355, 40s. Quality of Gold and Finish First Class.
18ct. Solid Gold
Buttercup Pure
Diamond RING,
£3, £4, £5.


BEAUTIFUL EYES & LASHES.
MORRIS’S^
Umperial
E)?e * *
©intment
Adds lustre, strengthens vision,
restores lashes. No toilet table
. . . complete without it. Pots 2/-
chemists & stores. Post 2/2 from Proprietary,Melb!
“imperial.*
NERYOUSNESS.
wOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS of SELF
CURE, will forward the same, free of
charge, to anyone interested.
Address! A. MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
BAD ?
When your Liver is enlarged or sluggish,
when you have pains around the side and
under the shoulder-blade, take, in water,
half-an-hour after each meal, FIVE DROPS
of
“ Fisher’s Phospherine.”
A Certain Cure for all Functional and
Chronic Diseases of the Liver.
THE GREATEST AID TO DIGESTION KNOWN.
Worry Kills
Business Men*
Fisher's
Phospherme
Saves Men*
V
A
A Few Drops of
Fisher's
Phospherme
Saves
Doctors' Bills*
HEADACHE.
Five drops, in Water, half-an-hour before breakfast, cures all
Headaches and Neuralgic Pains, whether in the face or
head, and however severe.
It counteracts the deleterious effects of over-indulgence
in a most remarkable manner.
It Cleanses the Palate and Settles the Stomach.
Invaluable for Seasickness.
The most suitable and greatest of all Tonics for Delicate
Gentlemen, Ladies, and Children.
When you feel Weak, Languid, and Run Down take five
drops of
“Fisher’s Phospherine,”
A Most Wonderful Remedy.
None Genuine without this, our
Signature—
df
Manufacturing Chemists and Druggists,
337 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Nearly Opposite General Post Office.
SENT POST FREE TO THE COUNTRY EVERYWHERE.
All Chemists, Is. per Bottle.
Four Times the Quantity, 2s. 6d.
Listen to no opposite Advice. Insist upon being served with FISHER'S.
GASTRITIS, SOUR MOUTH, CONSTANT VOMITING
COMPLETELY CURED BY
“Fisher’s Phospherine.”
Our reporter called upon Mr. Thomas Forsyth, at Ashfield, who cordially agreed to answer
any questions and to make a statement oh oath. J ° u
Reporter : “ What did Fisher’s Phospherine do for you ’ ”
Mr. Forsyth : “It cured me of gastritis.”
“ What are the symptoms of the complaint ? I don’t know much about it myself.”
. It is reaily an acute inflammation of the stomach, with a burning pain. Your tongue
gets a thick coating over it, and you constantly suffer from nausea. Why, I used to be almost
constantly vomiting I consulted two doctors in Ashfield for years without getting rS
But xn three weeks Fisher s Phospherine completely cured me.” ° °
Reporter : “You are a prominent man, I hear, in the Lodge? ”
“Yes ;I am Noble Grand for the Loyal Ashfield M.U.0.0.F. I have been in the T,orW
18 years. Most of the members know of my illness. Five to ten drops of Fisher’s Phospherine
ofmy c?se"” taSte “ moUth ’ and keeps my stomach in re^ular order. Let
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
T, THOMAS FORSYTH of Liverpool-ro id, Ashfield, in the State of New South Wales
gardener dp hereby solemnly and smcerciy declare that I have read carefully the annexed
document, and that it contains and is a true account of my illness and cure by Fisher and Co ’q
Phospherine, and also contains my fuh permission to publish in any wav mv state man*.* 1 vl°'i!
I give voluntarily, without receiving any payment. 7 7 y statements . which
And I make this'solemn declaration believing the same to be true, and bv virtue of tbo
provisions of the Oaths Act, 1900. au Dy vmue °* the
Subscribed and declared, at Ashfield this
Twentieth day of August, one thousand
nine hundred and three,
before me,
A. R. LEM A IRE, J.P.
sdf
THE BEST MEDICINE EVER MADE.
sdf
FLUID
OIL
CRUDE FLUID
POWDER
EMBROCATION
..
SOAPS
DIBINFECTORS
INHALERS
FUMIGATORS
IBINFECTIM
FLUID.
!/•
COLORLESS
FRACRANT
NON.
POISONOUS
DOES NOT
STAIN
KILLS ALL
DISEASE
GERMS
OXYCENATEB
THE AIR.
Sulphur Candles - \
Formic Fumigators /
KINGZETT’S
PATENTS.
“HOW TO DISINFECT ” Book Free.
The “SANITAS” CO., Ltd.,
Bethnal Green, LONDON, Ei
sd
VERTEX CELLULAR UNDERWEAR
VOU need to take particular care at this time of year
against colds and chills, more especially when throw-
ing off Winter Underclothing for lighter Summer wear,
and the only material which may be relied upon as an
absolute safeguard from the effects of sudden climatic
changes is /ERTEX CELLULAR.
When one wears underclothing of this fabric, he or she
is safe from “taking a chill” as, owing to its peculiar
structure, it operates to retard a too rapid evaporation
of the body’s natural heat in its insensible vapour—the
cause of the “ chill ” —allowing simply any excess of over-
heated vapour to disperse gradually and imperceptibly.
In its functions it resembles in this respect the true
epidermis and acts, in fact, as a supplementary skin, and
for this reason so many medical men order it for invalids
and delicate children, and recommend it to all their
patients for general wear all the year round.
In addition to men’s singlets, pants and drawers, \ve
stock linen-fitted Dress and Day Shirts. Soft-fronted
Shirts of every description. Pyjamas, Hosiery and
Sundries.
For ladies—undergarments of every kind, Corsets,
Hosiery, etc. Children’s garments and Special orders
made to instructions.
Garments stocked in Cotton, Lisle, Wool, Merino, Silk,
etc., in white, self colors, and patterns, and in various
weights of fabric. Any fabric by the yard.
Call or send for full illustrated price lists—post free.
DAVID BRAHAM & CO.,
73 & 75 King 1 St., Sydney (3 doors from Geo. St.)
Sole Agents for riirtex Cellular in N.S.W.
References' throughout Great Britain and Colonies.
ASTHMA
taken from the System.
Nothing remains which can
produce an attack. You can
eat, sleep and stand exposure without slightest return of
symptoms. Cured to stay cured, by elimination and re-
construction. Appetite improved; blood enriched; nerves
strengthened; whole system built up; life made enjoyable.
Reliefs, or change of climate no longer needed. We have
treated over 52,000 Asthma and Hay Fever patients. Es-
tablished 1883. Explanatory BOOK 32c post FREE.
Address: Dr. P. Harold Hayes’ Asthmatic Institute#
Buffalo, N. Y., U. S. A.
Too Stout
I was for years; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to lOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney^
Sending, mention this paper.
“Don’t shout”
I hear you. I can heat now
as well as anybody.
••‘How?’ Oh. some*
thing new— The Wilson.
Common-sense Ear--/
Orum. I've a pair in my
ears now. you can't see them
they're invisible. I wouldn't
know I had them in myself,
only that I hear all right.”
.The Wilson Ear-Dram (s
really a substitute for the
jvorking parts of the
natural ear. Has no
wire. Invisible, easy to ad
just, comfortable ' Totally
different from any other de-
vice Descriptive pamphlet sent upon request
CHAI-HtttS, 229-23 1 Collins &>., Help.
fsd
fsd
CHEAP
AND CURIOUS
NOVELTIES
Puzzles. Games, Toys,
Uncommon
Musical Instruments,
Watches, Guns, Rifles, THAT CANNOT BE
Curiosities, PROCURED ELSEWHERE
Send for our Hundred Page Illustrated Catalogue.
We will post it without charge, and to every applicant
mentioning this paper we will send absolutely free a
PUZZLESOME PUZZLE.
THE ONION MANUFACTURING & AGENCY COMPANY,
359 and 361 Collins Street, Melbourne.
THE BULLETIN STOEY BOOK:
Price, 4s. 6d.
Government Notices.
General Post Office,
Sydney,
15th August, 1903.
ATTENTION is directed to Commonwealth
Gazette notice inviting TENDERS for the
performance of a large number of MAIL SER-
VICES. Tenders, addressed to the Deputy
Postmaster General, Sydney, and endorsed
“Tender for Conveyance of Mails,” will be re-
ceived at this office up to noon on the 21st Sep-
tember next.
J. DALGARNO,
Deputy Postmaster General.
Crone Wrong.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Adelaide Chamber of Commerce has resolved “ that
the expressed intention of the Premier of Victoria to
hasten the construction of extensive irrigation works,
with the object of creating vested interests to enhance
the demands of that State as against South Australia
leaves the Parliament of this State no option but to in
stitute legal proceedings, as they may be ad\ ised, as
speedily as possible to at once protect the rights of the
State.”
Three years ago. it was not thus,
It was— pro tem. —quite otherwise,
“ One Destiny,” we cried, “ for us
One Flag, and wheresoe’er it flies
Fraternal mateship, give and take ;
Not the cold ‘ Where do I come in ? ’
Of greedy States, each on the make
From all the rest, its kith and kin.”
Three years ago of gain or loss
We couldn’t stop our cheers to think—
We cried “ Behold the Southern Cross
And added “ Come and have a drink.
Hang the expense, whate’er it is,
We’ll be a Nation, and we’ll drown
All differences deep in fizz
At every pub. in every town.”
We set them up then. State with State
Shook hands across dividing ropes
That fenced them off, and mate with mate
Quaffed to their high resolves and hopes—
“ White and Australian, that’s the talk.”
vVe swore—“ White skins and Saxon blood
Then steadied down and tried to walk
The new-chalked lines of Brotherhood.
Oh, we felt good three years gone by
Towards our Australian fellow-men,
If one had plugged us in the eye
We’d not have slugged him back again.
But flesh is grass, and all our vows
Were like those made in love or wine—
We still, as a divided house,
Declare “ Thine is, or should be, mine.”
Three Premiers met in Sydney town
To fix and make it past all doubt
How Federal water running down
The Murray should be portioned out,
And when at last they did agree
We shouted “We have been betrayed !
They have conspired, the guilty three,
To sell our rights to Adelaide ! ”
Victoria started digging lakes
And channels deep to fill the same,
And said “ To guard against mistakes
We’re going to play the safety game—
The greed of South Australia’s such
As we must labor to forestall;
While we’ve the chance we’ll take too much
Lest she should leave us none at all.”
Three States at daggers drawn, and one
Effusively fraternal State
About to set the lawyers on
Its sobbingly fraternal mate.
The Murray “ whaler” from our side
Begrudging to his fellow-man
Out of the waters that divide
Enough to fill a billy-can !
And from the North a voice foresworn
Which cries “ Hands off our sugar-cane
Else will the Commonwealth be torn
In pieces ! Give us back again
The right to buy from chief or king,
For colored stuffs his colored ‘boys,’
The right to go forth ‘ blackbirding, ’
Which we surrendered of our choice,”
When points were being figured out,
And Hope told many flattering tales,
The Capital, we had no doubt,
Would be upreared in New South Wales;
But that condition, made express,
And signed, and witnessed, in the deed
Of partnership, the Melbourne press
Implores Australia not to heed !
Alas ! We still are States at heart—
Our chief desires are still the same ;
We swaggered in the better part,
Then lapsed, to play the same old game
For keeps ;to do the best we can
For our own gain, by force or stealth—
Ourselves before our fellow-man,
Our wealth before Our Commonwealth !
WOLLONDALE.
Sydney police allege that they cannot shut
up the gambling shops. The B jlletin favors the
day-labor system as a rule, but it seems to have
failed in this case. Any smart man, given the
use of the police and the law, would contract to
shut up all the shops in a week for £2O, and to
keep them shut at £5 a week afterwards. Why
not let the job out on contract ?
A guaranteed cure for piles.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
cases in six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
only Pde Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
Of Chemists, or from PARIS MEDICINE CO., 28, Shoe-
lane, London, England.*
All necessary importation should be done
by the State; there should be no class whose
interests lie in the direction of suppressing local
industry, slandering local products, lying about
local manufactures, and depriving the local
artisan of his bread and butter lest, in earning it,
he should make goods which will compete with
those imported. Or, if we must have the im-
porter, he should have no vote and be shut out of
Jrarliament.. He ranks as a foreign ambassador—
the industrial ambassador of foreign manufac-
turers and no country lets another country’s
ambassador run its Government.


WE WILL GIVE CASH TO YOU
for any old Gold Watches, Breast Pins,
Chains, Rings, Lockets, Brooches, Diamonds,
Pearls, Sapphires or Rubies; in short, any old
Gold Jewellery or Precious Stones, whether
broken or not. We will send you a liberal
money order the same day the goods are re-
ceived. If our offer is not acceptable your
article's will be returned immediately.
Pack vour articles in cotton wadding or tissue
pfperC small box, write our name and address
plainly on package, and send by registered post,
and we hold ourselves responsible. We refer you
to the London Bank of Australia, Ltd., Broken H 1
SHAW & CO., Jewellers,
(Also at London.) BROKEN HH-L-.
If.B.— We sell 15ct. Gent’s Gold Alberts (double o.
single) at 75 - per ounce—Cheapest in Australia.
sdf
GrO TO HBLX,-
KiOIiANI) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hagco,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
AUSTRALIAN STAMPS
sd
Bought, Sold & Exchanged.
Gibbons’ Philatelic Albums
and all requirements. Price lists gratis.
J. H. SMYTH & CO.,
88 KING ST., SYDNEY
SPECTACLES
fsd
fsd
—FOR—
DEFECTIVE
VISION, r.
COUNTRY READER8
.who cannot visit us
personally, we send,
Post Free to any ad-
dress, with full in-
structions and Price List, our marvellously-accurate
and popular SELF SICHT-MEASUrtING PATENT.
By its use you can Test y ur own sight and de-
termine for yourself the style and quality of the
glasses you may need. Write for it to-
ll. A. BARRACLOUGH. Optician,
385 G orge-8t., Sydney (opposite Strand Arcade).
The growing interest in local black-and-
white art will receive substantial stimulus from
the exhibition of Phil May’s drawings prior to the
sale on 18th September. Such a collection, by
one of the most brilliant of pen-draughtsmen, ha&
never before been shown in this country.
Mrs. ANNA K. PENNICK, Oakford, Bucks-
Go., Pa., writes:
. “ Dr. John Schrack, our family doctor, highly recom-
mends Jayne’s Expectorant. It is a wonderful medicine..
Forty-four years ago I had HEMORRHAGE OF THE
LUNGS. I took Jayne’s Expectorant and inhaled tar, and
the two CURED ME.”*
Hotel
Australia
BATES:
12s. 6d. per Day
and upwards.
This beautiful hotel is fireproof from tower to
basement.
For cuisine, comfort, style, appointments, and
perfection of attendance, The Australia is the
first hotel of the Southern Hemisphere.
It is situated on the healthiest site in the city.
Visitors sleep in a pure atmosphere.
J. URE SMITH (Late of Menziea’), Manager,
Oastlereagh-st., Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The latest want of confidence motion in
Queensland showed the Philp majority down to
four votes.
The trading-coupon disease is apparently
going to be a live question at next N.S.W. elec-
tion, if the matter is not dealt with sooner.
Quaint logic by Melbourne Argus in a
spasm of joy over Lyne’s “ less drastic ” methods
at the Customs :—“The best proof that there is
no organised effort made to cheat the Customs is
the number of mistakes that are made every day.”
Premier Propsting, of Tasmania, will be
remembered, even in this country of amazing
financiers, as the man who abolished a lot of
taxes and then squared the accounts temporarily
on paper by putting down the small-pox as an
asset. «
There is ihore than a suspicion that one of
the reasons why Reid ran away from Parliament
was to avoid voting for or against the Arbitration
Bill, on which he had yes-noed. And the Barton
Government is actually keeping that Bill hung up
until Reid comes back !
Notice of motion has been given in the
Tasmanian Assembly that all unclaimed moneys
held by “Tattersall” should be annexed by the
State and invested for charitable purposes. Tas-
mania supplies very little of the unclaimed money
though it proposes to seize the lot. •
After all, one perhaps couldn’t expect the
Australian Parliament to take much notice of
alleged Senator Reid’s gibe that members don’t
pay their way. Most of them come from States,
and have taken part in the management of States,
that don’t even make an effort to do it.
In the course of a long and ill-spent politi-
cal career, Yes-No Reid has faced both ways on
almost every conceivable question. He once
moved a vote of censure on Parkes for seeking
to take off the ad valorem duties which a previous
Protectionist Government had imposed.
Now that Irvine has clearly intimated to
them that salaries are still to be docked, and that
his Government has only hesitated on the brink
of sacking some hundreds of them, the Victorian
public servants have a glorious opportunity for
reflecting upon their fine old cant phrase of two
or three years ago—“My country, right, or
wrong.” Then they cheered for the Empire’s
Chamberlain taking the Boers’ country, right or
wrong. It is now up to them to cheer for the
Empire's Irvine taking their own salaries, right or
wrong.
BLESSED IS THE PEACEMAKER.
REV. GENT (severely): “ You young scamp , how dare you tease the poor creature?”
JIM : “Nit, blokes, ’ere’s ’er ole man!”
The very latest candid friend of Philp and
Co. is little Cowley, ex-State Speaker, and his
questions lately are waspish to a degree. As the
policy of the Boodlewraith is to either hobble,
nobble, or gobble inconvenient opponents, Cow-
ley’s fate will be watched with interest.
It is announced that a select committee oi
N.S.W. Assembly will be demanded to inquire
4d. a day . „
Last week Queensland s Philp Govern-
ment had the hardihood to introduce financial
proposals involving sundry stamp duties on the
commercial interests of Brisbane. Immediately
the commercial representatives (Poll-taxers almost
to a man) rose in wrath, talked fiercely of a new
P K o ™“‘ti“ifo«»Philp l
MoSt.tlS'™e“naSSfTroSsS"weL“hM!S
srJXss;
than submit to such a humiliation.
The centenary of Tasmania, to
be celebrated on Sept. 12, recalls that
there are no public records from the
foundation of the province to 1811.
When Governor Collins died sud-
denly in 1810, two officers of State
placed soldiers at the door of the
apartment and burnt all the papers.
In a country in which even “ free ”
persons were flogged pretty regularly
on general principles, there was much
to be concealed. Even women were
whipped through the streets of
Hobart for using abusive language
to an English officer. Unsatisfactory
witnesses were quickly ordered to the
triangles. As late as 1823 an English
Judge ordered a witness to be taken
out of court and receive 100 lashes,
with the object of getting more
information from him. And there are
records of men being ordered 25 lashes every morn-
ing for eight days consecutively, to induce them
to make confession. Among the Englishmen who
ran Australia in those days there was hardly one
who couldn’t give a Spanish inquisitor points in
fiendishness.
During the debate on the Crown Lands
Consolidation Bill in the S.A. Assembly, the
astonished legislators were asked to agree to a
clause which said :
That the unimproved value must not exceed the area
of any section. t
Sounds like the efforts of a draftsman with vine
leaves in his hair.
Letter (in S.M. Herald) from an Austra-
lian who, after spending 28 years in the Common-
wealth, was lured to emigrate by the flattering
word-pictures of agricultural prospects in Canada:
It is the biggest swindle I have ever had anything to do
with. It is a case of misrepresentation altogether, both
as regards the land and everything else. The greater
part of the people that can get back are doing so, but it
is not many that have money to get back with.
The arrangement contemplated under the
new Lands Bill extends the Western Division of
N.S.W. —the one which is practically a
desert and a bad debt —so far east that that divi-
sion will constitute a good deal more than half of
the State. It is a dismal commentary on the
“ splendid natural resources ” to see the admitted
desert crawling all over the map in this fashion.
The latest railway management idea in
Victoria is that Sunday labor is not to be paid for.
Yet Bent’s pay goes along on Sunday just the
same. The cost of the carriage of the rich squat-
ter’s sheep, and the interest on the millions spent
on railway land resumptions, when the rich land-
lord sold his property to the State at ten times its
value, and the interest on money sunk in de,ad and
buried railways built in the landowners’ interest,
are all things that must be made good somehoiv.
Somebody must be robbed.
The Bowels of Compassion is making him-
self felt throughout Queensland. Up near
Croydon, an old battler, aged 72, who has been
fossicking and mining for 52 years, was until
recently in receipt of a weekly dole of 55., but
this sum was considered too liberal, so his pittance
was reduced to half-a-crown a week. His case was
discussed in the State Parliament, but as it is
necessary to avert a land-tax at any cost, it was
decided that the ancient warrior must just feel
glad over his 2s. 6d.
Simultaneously with the passage of the
Naval Agreement Act, the announcement is made
that the flagship Royal Arthur is off for a three
months’ gallivant to Singapore. Though de-
termined on long ago, the trip was kept a dead
secret until the Bill became law. So the
first year of the new agreement sees the Common-
wealth with a flagship for nine months instead of
twelve.
Motion to make the sale and manufacture
of tobacco a Federal Government monopoly was
only lost in the Senate on an even vote, 13 for and
13 against. v The chief argument against it was
the citing of “the ghastly revelations as to State
management at Fitzroy Dock, N.S.W,” Fitzroy
Dock has done more to discredit the principle of
State enterprise than all the preaching of all the
Tory papers for a decade.
As a prognosticator, Queensland Treasurer
Cribb would run a bad second to rainmaker
McCarthy of Broken Hill. In 1902 he predicted
a surplus confidently, and got a huge shortage.
In 1903 he was dead sure of a surplus, and got
another deficit. In 1904 he says he will get a
surplus for an absolute certainty—it is a “dead
bird,” so dead that the burial is a matter of
urgency ; and already on figures he is drifting to
leeward.
AT THE AGRICULTURAL SHOW (FIRST
WEEK IN SEPTEMBER).
The principal exhibit.
Sydney Evening News says bitterly that
that dreadful Socialist Tom Mann wants to
establish a system whereby “anybody who had
anything that could be taxed should be taxed.
The Noose evidently thinks it is saying something
severe when it makes remarks like that. A
country must either tax the person who has any-
thing, or the one who has nothing, and the idea of
taxing the former is a shock to the Henniker
Heaton paper.
If Vic. Premier Irvine has the courage
and the honesty to go the complete hog on his
compulsory land resumption scheme, he has a
unique opportunity. For the first time in its
history there is shortly to be a dissolution of the
Victorian House of Landlords, and if the election
is fought in dead earnest on the land resumption
question, the farmers who are crying out for land
may send back a much more progressive House of
Landlords than is generally anticipated.
The Victorian Citizens’ Deformed League,
according to the Argus, is divided in opinion as
to whether it is advisable to go the whole hog
against Liberals and progress generally. One
speaker advocated a conciliatory attitude as a
good many members.of the League were workers,
and a rigorous and aggressive policy towards
Labor might alarm them. The meeting decided
to remain bogus till after next election, iri the hope
of still throwing dust in the people’s eyes.
A “dead set” will be made, next N.S.W.
Estimates, against allowances to charities run by
the various religions. If the State subsidises, the
State must control. Salvation Booth draws £5OO a
year for running a Sydney restaurant that is really
a competitor with the 4d. and fid. secular eating-
houses. Wages in his place are low, hours are
long, and it is probably no safer whistle to
Booth’s holy sausage than to anybody else’s
secular sausage.
The “expert” report on the barrages
required at the Murray mouth, to keep the salt-
water out of the Coorong when the river is low,
has been laid on the table of S.A. Assembly. It
increases the original estimate of £50,000 (for one
barrage) to ,£113,000 for a complete scheme. Old-
timers are recalling the fact that it is just 50 years
this month since Captain Cadell first made the
passage of the Murray mouth in his little steamer,
to be welcomed at Goolwa as a conquering hero.
Robert Reid is going out of Australian
politics—not that he ever was in them to any
great extent, but he hung on to the rim.
M'Millan is going out to devote himself more
completely to “slops.” Now another mem-
ber who hurls a veiled threat of retirement at
his fellow men is Manifold, whose main occu-
pation in life has been to provide board and
lodging for a few thousand sheep. These
announcements are causing consternation in
the Conservative camp, where the dread is
freely expressed that soon none but Labor
representatives will be left.
There’s one way to satisfy the com-
plaint made by some Senators that the
Senate has not a proper proportion of
Ministers —allow Ministers to be mem-
bers of both Houses,; or, at least, to
speak in both Houses.
Some amendments by Senator Higgs on
the Naval Tribute Bill negatived : That the Bill
be referred to a Select Committee. That the
naval forces be prohibited from using expanding
bullets against the enemy. That tiie naval forces
should not take part in any war unless Great
Britain shall have first offered to submit the cause
of the war to the arbitration of the Hague
Tribunal. This last was specially objectionable.
How on earth can Britain annex a square mile of
country every eight minutes, as it did all through
Victoria’s reign, if it submitted the quarrel to
arbitration ?
The S.M. Herald these times can be
almost as unfair as the Telegraph, or quite as
blind. Monson, English Ambassador at Paris,
having reported that “ the higher duties imposed
in France since 1892 had not affected pricer,” the
Herald remarked that, even if it were true, it
proved nothing : “ Other causes have counteracted
the natural effect of high duties.” And it clinched
the argument: “We have only to ask any house-
wife whether the duties imposed in this State a
year or two ago have raised prices to get a uniform
answer that they have done so.” So if prices
don’t go up under Protection, “ other causes have
operated” ; but if prices do go up under Protec-
tion then the ‘ ‘ other causes ’’—drought, failure of
the harvests, the loss of millions of stock—are all
conveniently forgotten. “Any housewife” for-
gets them; and it is natural enough that the
Herald, being an old woman, should forget them,
too.
Attorney-General Wise, of N.S.W., made
some much-needed remarks, the other day, to
Newman, M.L. A., and the latter gentleman was
ridiculously angry. Newman was one of those
who blathered about the sinfulness of interfering
with the process of law as regards Friedman ; and
when he asked the Attorney-General to interfere
with the processes of the law and remit a fine
imposed on one of his constituents, Wise didn’t
address him on the subject of his political
hypocrisy in nearly such forcible language as he
should have used.
Writes “ Melbournian ” :
Premier Irvine’s forthcoming measure for compulsory
resumption of Vic. squattages, shows how Henry George’s
ideas originated, with regard to property in land being a
mere figment. Once allow that a man can be forced to
sell his land, a principle thoroughly established in Tory
England, and logicians will soon run on to the Henry
George length, that land is like water, sunlight, or even,
air, in its relation to man. There was a curious affair at
Liverpool, while Gladstone was Premier, and Lowe was
Chancellor of the Exchequer. Lowe found that the
Liverpool Corporation had no legal right to certain
wharfage dues, of enormous amount, and took steps to-
confiscate them to the Crown. But Gladstone perceived
that the same arguments would undercut all the Earl of
Derby’s vast property at Bootle. So he squelched Lowe.
For the quarter ended 30th June it is
reckoned that the population of Victoria actually
diminished by 521. The situation of Victoria in
recent years has been this: An immense number
of people who lived in one way and another upon
loans were thrown out of employment when the
huge borrowing boom ceased. A lot more, in the
north-west, were driven out by the drought.
Manufactures, which have been growing very
rapidly, absorbed some of these. The rest would
have gone on the land in the well-watered part of
the State, but the Government had practically no-
land to offer, and the owners of the big sheep-
walks either refused to part with their land, or
asked.such famine prices and rents that it was-
cheaper to go elsewhere.
THE STURDY VICTORIAN FARMER, OR-
KYABRAM’S LEGS.
“What we want is a breed of sturdy, small farmers to
counteract the Labor politics of the cities.”- Irvine.
Sydney Evening News on G. H. Reid
(18/8/’O3)
While in one or two instances—notably those of alliance
with the Labor party and the exclusion of colored labor
from mail steamers under contract with the Common-
wealth Government—he promised a distinct reversal of'
the policy with the Barton Ministry, he was somewhat
indistinct as to the details of his fiscal policy. That he is-
prepared to fight the next general election on the fiscal
issue he announced, but the fight is not to be so much on-
a distinct and wholesale amendment of the existing tariff,
as on the necessity for making a revision in one or two
places.
The great fight between Freetrade and Protection,
is evidently going to be the same old thing—the
fight between the people who practise Protection
because they believe it is good, and the people who.
are going to practise it though they say they know
it to be bad. Anything more despicable in the
way of a Freetrade leader than this Reid creature,
who says he is willing to swallow his principles for
the sake of office, it would be hard to find.


WE WANT TO SEND
-TO YOU
23/6
Post Free,
■-.r:
ft
A PAIR
OF THESE
CALLAGHAN
BOOTS,
POST
Because we know
they will please
you and bring
fresh orders.
Men’s Fine French Oalf LAOE,
pointed, medium, or broad toes,
made-to-order appearance,
Price 23/6
POST and DUTY FREE,
all over the Common*
wealth, except W.A.
pay 23/6 for a pair of
ots you get style, elegance,
comfort, fit, as well as the durability re-
sulting from good material and expert workman-
ship. If you could visit the factory and see the
expensive material and thoughtful care that go into
OALLAG-HAN BOOTS you would never think of wearing any other Boots-
If you are not convenient to our premises, our perfectly-systematised Mail Order Department
will lit you to your thorough satisfaction, or refund your money.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 ceorge st., Sydney.
W hen you
CALLAGHAN Be
FURTHER TESTIMONY FROM A
GRATEFUL PERSON.
CONSUMPTION NIPPED
IN THE BUD
BY
VITADATIO
BRUNSWICK, 10 Eveline-street,
Off Glenlyon Road,
Mr. PALMER, March 27th, 1901.
Dear Sir, —My son, who is now fourteen years of age,
has been very ill off and on since he was four years, and
about three years ago he was so ill that the doctor
told me he was developing consumption. He had a ter-
rible cough, which was distressing to listen to; he had
fallen away to almost a skeleton. At this time Mr.
Luxton, Sydney Road, Coburg, advised me to try VITA-
DATIO, which I did. After the first bottle I saw a great
improvement. I continued the medicine ;he gradually
improved until he became quite well. I consider VITA-
DATIO a wonderful medicine, as it has made a different
b oy of my son, whom I never expected to see healthy
again. I can recommend it to anyone, and will be glad
to give any information to anyone suffering from the
same complaint. I remain,
EMILY MACKEY.
Sydney Road, Coburg,
T , , ; 27th March, 1901.
I hereby certify to the above. I have known the boy
for four years, during which time he was in very bad
.•“th. I advised his mother to give Vitadatio a trial,
with the above results.
Yours faithfully
F. H. LUXTON,
Grocer, Coburg.
For farther particulars,
S’. A. PALMER,
Head Office : Clarendon Street
South Melbourne.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
~vS?,E rl ?? T o T f^£ icine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle. J
MESSRS. ELLIOTT BROS., O’Oonnell-street, Sydney,
Sole Agents N.S.W.
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
A STANDARD OF PROTECTION.
rpHE following is a copy of Guarantee given with every
Garment that is sent out from my Store, and I mean
every word it contains:
No. 9869.
CHECK.
Dept. I.
If the bargain is not satisfactory return the clothes
~W 1 j in days and you shall have your money.
If they do not wear well I shall be glad to pay for the
loss at any time.
The prices the same to everybody and as low as it is
possible to sell such clothing for ; and the quality
is as represented.
This Check identifies the transaction—Keep it!
Queen Street,
Brisbane.
CHARLES GILBERT.
Suppose you give me a Trial on these Terms.
New Spring Samples and Self-rieasurement Forms
mailed upon request.
“Steele Rudd’s” second book, “Omt New
Selection ! ’-—will be ready before Christmas.
Better than the first book, if possible; with many
illustrations.
The representative book of Australian humor —
STEELE RUDD’S
“ On Our Sckction.”
f
TO
THE
DEAF
Sufferers from Deafness or Head Noises
desiring a complete and permanent cure
should write to The L. R. VERNON CO.
60 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY, for pam-
phlet describing an entirely new self-
applied method which will be sent post
free on mentioning this paper.
m
m
&
'.'em
JB
HOTEL DANIELL
(Late IHPERIAL),
Cor«er of GEORGE & ADELAIDE STS.,
BRISBANE
ARTIFICIAL
LIMBS^
sdf
We make them on the premises.
We make more than any other firm in Australia.
We also import them from the famous American
firm, A. A. Marks.
Every kind of Artificial Limb supplied at reason-
able prices.
Send for Free Book on Artificial Limbs.
DENYER BROTHERS,
Surgical Instrument
‘ Makers,
281 George St., Sydney (opp. Hunter St.).
Also at Melbourne.
RUN-AWAY PRICES
This Month
to Advertise
our
Ostrich
Tips,
3 Black Tips
with Ospreys.
K*
The Bunch
Post Free.
2 6
Postal Note.
Write To-Day.
Illustrated Price List Sent Free.
MILLER’S FERTHERSHOP,
213 Oiiapel Street, Prahran, Melbourne.
Mention The Bulletin.
Victorian and Queensland Governments
nibble at the very essence of their primary Educa-
tion Acts. The Philp crowd thinks a small weekly
charge would oppress no one, and Irvine thinks a
slight charge on children over 14 would help the
revenue. Free primary schools are the marrow
of the democratic education system.
“ F.”: Apropos Australian-made paper for
book-printing purposes (Bulletin 2/8/03). I have
a curio, a copy of the Report of the Council of
Education, 1867, in which, On flyleaf, is this
memo., in Henry Parkes’ handwriting: “ This
book is printed on paper manufactured in the
colony.— Henry Parkes, 20/5/68.”
One woman with Sunlight Soap
will do quicker work than two
women with common soap.
SUNLIGHT
SOHP
REDUCES
EXPENSE
TYPEWRITERS
sdf
3 of the World’s Best
New riodel No. 10, adopted by Depts. of
External and Home Affairs.
THE No. 5 DENSMORE.
Fastest machine in the world. Used and endorsed
by Messrs. Dalgety & Co., Sydney.
THE NEW CENTURY.
Velvet touch —as supplied to Governor-General and
Governors of N.S. Wales and Victoria.
UNITED TYPEWRITER AND SUPPLIES CO.,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE and PERTH.
BRISBANE— Webster & Co. ADELAIDE—N. York Import. Co. LAUNCESTON— Hedley Button.
Hardy Brothers
JEWELLERS.
Afternoon Tea Spoons.
HARDY BROTHERS have over 50 Patterns
in the Latest Designs. Prices range
from
325. to £ 5.
Goods forwarded at Sydney Prices to all parts of
the Commonwealth.
13 Hunter St., Sydney;
and
118 Queen St., Brisbane.
Six Solid Silver Teaspoons and Tongs in Morocco
Case, 44/-. £'*•
Avoid Inferior Imitations, and see that each pair
bears the Manufacturers’ Trade Mark,
on band inside, as above.
THE NEW
CORSETS.
All Straight-front
Models.
FOR THE WOMAN OF FASHION.
An Ideal Shape for
Summer.
Obtainable from
LEADING DRAPERS
Everywhere.
IN ALL THE BEST SHAPES, AND ALL
Regular Sizes, send to
FOE P.D. CORSETS
Finney, isles & Co.. Brisbane
V nfTh rpn fS p r ;T ni)leS of J a S y P. ra P?, r y , and Clothing Goods you may require; also for
py of their General Catalogue and Fashion Book, and satisfy yourselves that—
“AFTER ALL, YOU CAN'T BEAT FINNEY'S!”


Max Hirsch spoke to a small collection of
farmer persons at Birchip (Vic.) recently, and
condemned the creature Protection wholesale.
Then he promised, if the Freetraders got into
power, not that they would practise Freetrade,
but that they would practise Protection
sufficiently to get revepue. There would be no
duties on agricultural machinery or implements,
said Max ; and the cadging agricultural persons
cheered vigorously. Freetrader Max didn’t say
his party was determined to practise Freetrade
thoroughly at all costs, and take the duty off the
Chinese egg, the Canadian and Argentine fodder,
wheat, etc. If he had, possibly the cheers
wouldn’t have been so hearty. The Freetrader
gets into Parliament generally by promising to
take the Protection away from the other fellow
and leave it with his constituents.
sdf
COON - COON - COON,
I’YE MADE UP MY MIND
TO SAIL AWAY.
The Honeysuckle & the Bee,
I Skedaddled, It’s the Man behind (he
Gun, Sweet Ivy May Jerry Co,
MelindoLoo,Sometimes,When the
Harvest I)avs are Over, also Two
Hundred other Orieina ICpon and
Love Son ers. All 4 he LATEST HITS.
Posted lor ONE SHILLING,
anywhere. Stnmns or Postal Note.
B P. Co. , IJoi 404, G.P.0., Sydney
Banking, Public Companies, Sec.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTJ-REST.
EASY TERMS.
&
WE
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
axr.s.-w.
fQont deplete Co., ttd.
(Opposite Tivoli Tlieatre)
*74. CASTLEREAGH ST., *7 4.
‘ SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
' ~~ '—Till?-.
Colonial Mutual Life
assurance society limited,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
(Offices - * 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
(Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Robsrts
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruch Smith, Esq., M.H.R.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,706,830.
Policies issued 91,305— assuring £27,614,218.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,981,398.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses— equitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
The Bank of ||orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
T P Canny (Messrs. Burns, Philp& Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ...
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
T «q.TOQ - mM*
v? Royal Bank of Queensland
J iAM men. u
CAPITAL PAID-UP £457,354
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 175,997
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 60,000
£693,351
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr. W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Queensland Smelting (Jompg.
** (LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
T3UYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
JD Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
eto. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot,. Queensland, the Branch
Office, 54 Market-street. Melbourne, or IRWIN HINDS,
Branch Manager, 6 Spring-street, Sydney.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident ana uuaramww
Corpn. in Australia.
I)irc-tors —Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Hon. John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jbssop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Ci.yne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlank ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
J ' J ALLE “' a “' I ?J M p"r S ",'sYDNBt“
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited .
Capital Paid-up ...
Reserve Fund ...
Reserve Liability
£1,000,000 0 0
1,025,000 0 0
1,000,000 0 0
£3,025,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
G. J. Cohen, Esq Chairman. _
Hon. H. E. Eater, M.L.C Deputy -Chairman.
Hon. R. Jones, M.L.C. Hon. H. Moses, M.L.O.
Hon. F. T. Humphery, M.L.C.
Auditors:
E. S. Cape, Esq. W. L. Docker, Esq.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T A Dibbs, General Manager: T. B. Gaden,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane
Directors: Sir J. A. Youl, K.C.M.G, F. H.
Danirar Esq : B. W. Levy, Esq. , Hon. H a
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
And in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
Snipping.
nxr. id. l.
(NORD-DKUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Four-Weekly Mail Service
OP
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin-screw steamer.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO SINGAPORE,
eta BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. TANGLIN, 10th SEPTEMBER.
And Regularly Every 6 Weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents.
WEBER LOUMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Natal , Capetown , Plymouth, and
London*
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
MORAVIAN
AUSTRALASIAN
SOPHOCLES
A. Simpson
T. F. Spalding
H. A. Schleman
Noon, Sept. 4
Noon, Sept. 25
Noon, Oot. 9
FARES:
I don . .. £55° 0n * .. 06 SI?S Os.
Cape and Natal .. £31109 .. £l3 13s to £l/ 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £l2O.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
VISITORS TO MEL3QURXIE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Ueaiomfie Id Parade
ST. KILDA.
rplIE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
1 the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, J-hour
by tram. Billiards, etc.
Oceanic Steamship Company,
A. and. A. I jINB.
TWO Gr RA NT XZ> BXOXTRSIO W 9.
YOSEMITE VALLEY and California BIG trees,
UP IN THE HEART OF THE SIERRA NEVADA MOUNTAINS. . ~
Travellers of note who have visited Switzerland say Yoseniite surpasses even the grandeur p
£72 (including everything).
HOTEL DEL MONTE (monterey).
ALL-THE-YEAR-ROUND health and pleasure resort.
£65 (including everything).
Through Passengers to London and American centres may participate in these excursions.
BURNS PHILP and CO., Ltd., flanaging Agents,
’ CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders
2,000,000
500,000
Total Capital ~ .. £2,500,000^
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st-, Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP J. 90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business)
Directors : F. It. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq. ;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M L C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager
UNITED
THE
INSURANCE
CO. (Limited).
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500,000,
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Rates Very Low.
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager.
64
YEARS DYEING
FOR THIS LADIES.
W. C. ZEXjHDIR-lIDa-IE & GO.,
DYERS & GLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from, all the colonies promptly
attended to.
“ ril Try It"
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
(apiilarine
Posted (under cover
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
The Result*
CRAIG
House,
&. AITKEN. N.S.W. Barber’s Supply
680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
uJjj
DEAF
GEE
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
[Completely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address— A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
Free for Asking.
WRITE to us and we will forward you our scientific
book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice.it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magic, and you will be filled with energy,
strength and ambition once more. Posted free. Write
to Armand Gouraud, 82 Little Flinders St., Melbourne.
A Policy for the Commonwealth:
A Handy Manual of Politics. By James
Edmond. Price, 6d. ; post free from The
Bulletin Office, 7d.
CAMADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
CHEAPEST ROUTE
TO
LONDON.
STEAMERS SAIL-
Oot. 5. Nov. 2. Nov. 30.
Illustrated Pamphlets Posted Free on Application.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
Unrivalled Position in LONDON
(England),
The LanghamHotel
PORTLAND PLACE
And REGENT STREET, LONDON, W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality,
riodern Appointments. Moderate Tariff.
“The Challenge”
Latest Scientific
Punching Machine,
♦
A new World’s Record of 12251b5. was established on
the above machine at the Royal Agricultural Society’s
Show, Sydney, 1903, by Mr. X. W. Aulsebrook, of Messrs.
Aulsebrook and Sons, Ltd., the previous World’s Record,
held by Mr. Robert Fitzsimmons, champion pugilist,
being 10851bs.
The “Challenge” is an Automatic Penny-in-the-Slot
Machine, and is especially suitable for Hotels, Billiard
and Refreshment Rooms, Tobacconist Shops, etc.
It is a great attraction to any place, a first class money-
maker, never gets out of order, and requires no attention
whatever.
All other kinds of Automatic Slot Machines kept in
Stock. Illustrated Catalogue posted on application.
J. LANDES,
108 PITT ST., SYDNEY,
Sole Af/ent for Australasia.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK :
By Sixty Bulletin writers. Cloth, 390 pages ;
price, 4s. 6d. From all Bookseile s, or the
Publishers* The Bulletin. Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
214 George Street, Sydney, Australia.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North \V stem Ports
S S. Allinga,
Friday, Sept. 4, at 5 p.m.
(Transhipping: at
Melbourne).
S.S. Marloo,
Saturday, September 12
(Without Transhipment).
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOVVNSVI BUS
And Porta North to Cairns
S.S. Gabo, September 5.
S.S. September 12.
S.S. Rockton, September 19.
Ttest and, Cheapest Ito ate to Gold fields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-S’ate Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Oifice.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
P.
AND
o.
COMPANY’S
ROYAL MAIL
STEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B to .1/7
Ditto Ditto Return, £66 to £ll5
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by Orient-Pacific, Messageries
Mari times and N.D.L, Steamers having room.
/
A. GORDON WESCIIE,
63 Pitt-street. Acting Agent.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY,SUEZ, and
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77.
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT.REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and. give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Custom*
etc., and also accompany them to-Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at (he Company Offices.
Queen's Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
L. BRICARD, Acting Principal Agent.
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
BY THE .
“E. and R.” LINE.
Via QUEENSLAND PuRTS and PORT DARWIN.
Steamer.
EMPIRE
EASTERN
AUSTRALIAN
EMPIRE
Leave Sydney.
October
November
December 23
EVERY UOJN V ciauwMUßi .n. -
The Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans. . ■
Through bookings at special rates to Europen* Canada
and the U.S. America, or the Trans-Siberian Railway.
Forhandbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
BR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
Caution.— Genuine Chlorodyna
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGrHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BfiOHOHITU
DIAERHCEA, oa
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor —•
pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
IHE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS at
Sept. 28 1895. says:
••If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to ba
nost e-enerallv useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlokodyne I never teavd
without it, and its general, to to
relief of a large number simple ailments torrni
its best recommendation.
LADIES'
HAIR
DRESSERS
CRAIG &
AITKEN.
Tel, 1198.
THE most charming and stylish
Transformations and setm-
Transformations you ever
saw from 21/- each. Switches of
hair from 5/6. Your own Qomb-
ings made up into Switches at
2/6 per oz, Specific Lotion, an
unfailing remedy for falling hatr
and eradicating dandruff, 3/6 per
bottle.
.Supply stores wholesale, human
hair merchants, assistants en-
gaged and sent anywhere.
Mail orders receive special
attention.
Price Lists on application.
680-682 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
At Dawn and Dusk:
By V. J. Dalky. In handsome cloth,
with portrait. Price ss.


Anglican Bishop Neligan, of Auckland (M.L.),
at a recent public function, solemnly cautioned
his hearers against encouraging the Government
in making education too easy of access to the
masses. He held that education would be prized
more highly if it were more difficult of attainment.
1 his is the true-blue ecclesiastical way of looking
at the matter, but- no progressive community
wants to prize education in the way of looking
upon it as a rare and wonderful thing—so rare
that a man lies awake at night in sheer amaze-
ment because he has got it. Nor does it want
food, and clothes, and a spare threepenny for the
plate, and being out of gaol, to be so rare that
mi? y P r i ze d in any large, wild way either.
1 hese things should come as a matter of course.
A progressive country doesn’t prize the man who
has education, for education isn’t so unusual as
that. It is simply shocked at the man who hasn’t
got education—which is quite a different mental
attitude.
4.
**. J-A.C." : A few days ago a man who
had been most brutally assaulted by a “ push ” of
Joe book s blithesome lambs applied to a cham-
ber magistrate for a summons against one of the
ringleaders, whom he could identify. It was
refused on the ground that the applicant was
unable to pay for it.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
f/®'* y,® ur Uoger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion r If so, under the skin you have poison that defies al.
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, yon
never can recover, hut go on suffering till death releases
, , r ,i P * your H n * e * are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; tile disease
If allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
, °, u .'! lay have attended various hospitals and had
advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
fnrnv v«r B 7 Ub ? l i t amputalion ; but do not, for I ( AN
ati.r. i;°?i -I d ,°? 1 ,ay Perhaps i but X WILI,. Because
v ® *?* ed ** no reason lor not how being cured,
oena at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
lum !s ur f,'. Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores
AI RPRO** ‘ « Gr w * “ ritain - per box. Prepared by!
ailiJr. s*.. , 7^..^ r l;,‘P* don ' ,trcet > London, England.
1 Sydney. Purchasers should
, th , eregistered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright!.
DO YOU WORK BEST
WHEN ALL IS WELL ?
mk
Robert
John
Me
K
E
N
N
E
Y
360 Jones Street, Ultimo, Sydney,
October 24th, 1902.
Dear Sirs : My little boy suffered
great pain, and became so weak and
emaciated_ he could scarcely raise his little
head ; and the cough so distressed him, that
sleep or rest was out of the question for him
night or day. I was persuaded to make a trial
of Scott s Emulsion. He took it very readily
from the commencement, and it agreed with
him splendidly. It almost at once eased his
cough, and the improvement in his general
condition was speedy and marked. He re-
gained health and strength, and was again
able to eat and sleep well. Faithfully yours,
„ (Signed) Mrs. R. McKenney.
Messrs. Scott & Bowne, Ltd.,
483 Kent-street, Sydney.
DO YOU WORK BEST WHEN
ALL IS WELL? It is but natural for
you to reply that you do. Now, all is not
well if your child is distressed by a cough
which prevents both rest and sleep. Nor can
you do good work, or your best, unless all is
well at home. If your child is weak, or
emaciated, what you do not want to waste
time over is finding out what will cure him.
Scott’s Emulsion will do it for you ; one who
has seen the cure performed has just told you
bo. We will not tell you about emaciation,
and why it comes. All that you desire to
know, at the moment, is the remedy, it is
SCOTT'S EMULSION. That
the great remedy in all cases of wasting.
When any member of your family is attacked,
or any childhood-disease appears, get Scott’s
Emulsion at once, and you will be able to do
your best work—because all will be well at
home. Scott’s Emulsion has cured cases of
emaciation and wasting in every country that
you ever heard of, and will do so in Australia.
You have one precaution only to take; and
that is to see that on the wrapper of the
bottle there is a picture of a man carrying
a big cod-fish; if that cod-fish is not there,
you are not getting what we promise you—
t cure! You can obtain a sample of Scott’s
Zmulsion, and the choicest children’s booklet
o f the year, “A Bunch of Roses,” beautifully
printed in colours, by sending sd. to Scott &
Bowne, Ltd., 483 Kent Street, Sydney, and
mentioning this paper. All chemists sell
Scott’s Emulsion.
A DRU
IN THE SMALL OF THE BACK
is one ot the commonest indications that the kidneys are not doing their work properly.
A more reliable test for
KIDNEY DISEASE
is to place some unne, passed the first thing in the morning, in a covered glass and let it stand until
the next morning. If it is then cloudy, shovvs a sediment like brick-dust, if particles float about in
it, or it is of an unnatural color, then .your kidneys are affected, and no time must be lost in taking
measures to restore. them to health and activity, or you will soon begin to feel the effects by suffering
from Height's Disease, Diabetes, or some less serious but more painful complaint.
Rheumatism, Gout,
Lumbago, Sciatica, Anaemia, Debility, Neuralgia, Digestive Troubles, Stone,
Gravel, Bladder Disorders,‘all arise from defective action of the kidneys or retention of
URIQ ACID
is the system, owing to this defective aotion.
The Kidneys.—lt is the province of the kidneys to separate from the blood, surplus water and
urinary impurities. The kidneys of the average person filter and extract from the blood about three
pints of water in twenty-four hours. In this quantity of water should be dissolved about an ounce
of urea, ten to twelve grains, in weight, of uric acid, together with other animal and mineral matter
varying from a third of an ounce to nearly an ounce. If the kidneys, through weakness or disease,
are incapable of extracting this solid matter, a certain proportion of it remains in the system, acts as
a specific poison, and produces one or more of the diseases named.
Warner’s Safe Cure
!■ the only known medicine which possesses the power to cure all disorders of the
KIDNEYS AND LIVED
and all complaints arising from the inability of those vital organs to remove from the system urinary
and biliary poisons. This is the reason that Warner’s Safe Cure cures so many complaints of
seemingly diverse origin. Warner’s Safe Cure cures Rheumatism, Gout, Backache, Lumbago,
Sciat.ca, Persistent Headache, Neuralgia, Gravel, Stone, Bladder Troubles,
Anaemia, Debility, Indigestion, Jaundice, Torpid Liver, simply because it restores the
kidneys and liver to vigorous health and enables them to cast out the urinary and biliary poisons
which produce the diseases. So potent is Warner’s Safe Cure that it will even cure BrigL J;
of the kidneys, probably the most fatal of all diseases flesh is heir to — a disease even more" insidious
than Consumption.
Mrs. Margaret McMillan, of 9 Bendigo-street, Collingvvood, Vio., says:—“My mother was a
martyr to dropsy and gravel complaint. Her arms, body and legs were swollen to an alarming degree.
She had severe pains all over the body, her water being greatly discoloured. She was under the
treatment of several doctors without deriving any benefit; in fact she was getting weaker and worse
every day. The doctors then decided that she would have to undergo an operation to get the water
away and reduce the swelling. Before allowing this to be done, we determined to give her a course
of Warner’s Safe Cure. The effect of this medicine was soon noticeable. The swelling gradually
disappeared, and she began to improve in health and strength until she was finally cured. She has
had no return of the complaint since.”
Do not despair or be cast down. You may have suffered for years and given up all hope of
recovery, but until you have taken a course of Warner’s Safe Cure despondency is quite unwarranted.
A treatise, containing full particulars relating to Warner’s Safe Cure and accounts of many
remarkable cures, will be sent free on application to H. H. Warner and Co., Limited, Australasian
Branch, Melbourne.
9
ill
Take
4
*
No
Darkroom
No
N
//
JplWNty/DOl
PIIiRYTHI^'
/■l v \
te"
' \ \
this paper
IiIiS)OLUNS ST
MELBOURNE.
:‘g.
IS
GOOD HAIR FOR
• Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY“IT. If it ia
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
m- For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
ALL !
5^
%
All Chemists
Si
«?
%
eg
Washington H. Soul' 4 Co.,
Pitt-sCreet, Sydney*
. , CONSULT HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE
Sold by all Chemists, and by WATKINS & MAOKAY, Chemists, Queen Street, Brisbane
Street, Rockhampton, Queensland, and
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street
HAIR.
Mr. GORDON, 92 Georgo
, MELBOURNE
“OnOur Selection.” By “Steele Rudd.
r * ce ’ The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Ltd., Sydney.
“The Disastrous Effects of Socialistic
Legislation.”
Evert newspaper reader at some period of his
existence has, after breathlessly following the
adventures of a deep-sea diver or the exciting ex-
periences of an African explorer for the best part
of a column, experienced the mortification, just
as the shark seized the diver or the gorilla was
about to hit the explorer on the ear, of discovering
that the hero was eventually restored to health
by the use of somebody’s Pink Dog-kennel for
Pale Dogs, or someone else’s Bile Screams. But
the feeling of disgust, bad as it may be, is as
nothing compared to that prompted by the con-
stant recurrence of irrelevant references to the
“ evil effects of socialistic legislation ” which now
permeate the press of Australia. Whether
it be the account of an earthquake at
Warrnambool, or the story of how Tomjiv
Tanna murdered a girl up at the Gulf of
Carpentaria, the stereotyped phrase stands out as
if written in blood. It is a madness, a disease, a
general break up of the intellect. The bogus com-
pany promoter finds in it a plausible excuse for
the failure of the Jumbuck Brass Mining 1 Co.,
Limited, and impatient shareholders are bluffed
by a profusion of incoherent remarks about tho
“ rule of the minority ” and the “ tactics of irre-
sponsible agitators.” A meeting is held to con-
sider the population question and the exodus from
Victoria, and speakers of the M.L.C. type smile
with the air of satisfaction a man might assume
who had unravelled a complex problem, and
grunt forth the usual “socialistic legislation”
lie. They always have a shocking example
and “know a case in which a man,” &c., &c.
That man was always coming here to start aii
industry which would employ exactly 1000 men
and ahorse, but when he heard of our socialistic
legislation he died immediately from lingering-
consumption in the feet, and left a wife and 27
small children. The constant repetition of the
libel in the press, under the most unexpected
circumstances, gets on the nerves of the most
patient, and though a few may be carried away in
the rush, the undertow will assuredly carry them
back again. The casual reader has no desire to
read that “capital is being driven out of the
country,” when he knows that not one penny
ever left the Commonwealth as the result of
legislation for the improvement of labor condi-
tions. The visionary and mysterious investor
who intended establishing a factory for the
manufacture of post-holes and doorways, but
decided not to do so,” etc., etc., is also begin-
ning to lose his old convincing aspect. We don’t
want any industry established that cannot pay
a fair wage, and conform to our labor conditions
though we have no objections to hearing of it
m the proper place, but when the reference to it
crops up in the account of a dog fight or divorce
case it makes the public feel inclined to throw
down the paper and go out in search of some fat
lory person to kick.
♦
M‘Millan made one candid confession during his
speech on the Arbitration Bill in the House of
Representatives:
This class of legislation was no doubt the corollary of
Protection. It was not the corollary of Preetrade, and,
therefore, he was only consistent in opposing it.
True, down to the ground. Freetrade means the
right to buy in the cheapest market, no matter
where, and to get the benefit of the cheapest
labor, no matter what. Under that system there
might be a pretence of arbitration, but it could
never be more than a pretence; for if it raised
wages, and therefore for a time the cost' of pro-
duction, the goods would be supplied by some
cheap foreigner who has no arbitration courts.
An Arbitration Court can only fix wages; it can’t
keep the work in the country. At any rate, it can’t
keep the work in the country except by fixing tho
rates of pay, etc., very low. If it wants to fix high
rates of pay, then, unless it wants to risk driving
the work out of the country, it must be backed up
by Protection. Two things the working man
expects, and the country generally wants—work
to do and decent pay for doing it. Neither
arbitration nor (within certain limits) Protection
alone can give both ; but, dovetailed together, they
fill the bill. Indeed, arbitration without Pro-
tection may be worse than nothing. Without it
local people may get the work to do at some
price ; with it they may not be able to get it at all.
The Freetrader who worries about arbitration is,
therefore, as ,M ‘Mill an suggests, wasting time.
But that isn’t, as M’Millan thinks, an argu-
ment against arbitration. It is simply an
argument against being a Freetrader. The doctor
who tells you that his medicine won’t do you any
good while you remain drunk isn’t arguing
against the medicine ; he is simply arguing
against the drunkenness.
—
The Federal Arbitration Bill is a horrible thing
altogether to Launceston (Tas.) Examiner; but the
proposal to give preference to unionists in certain
cases simply takes away the lady’s breath. “An
outrage on the large section of workers outside the
unions, ” she gasps; and then calls on this large
section to rise against the horrid proposal to
“brand them as an inferior class.” But, even
though it might fairly do so, the Bill does not
brand the non-unionist as inferior to the unionist.
It merely says that it is better for the country
that industrial disputes should be settled by arbi-
tration than by strikes, and it therefore proposes,
other things being equal, to give preference
to those men who bind themselves to settle
their disputes in that way. The law doesn’t
propose to prefer them as men who hold certain
opinions; it simply proposes to prefer them as
men who have entered into an agreement to do
things in the way which is best for the country.
A similar, privilege is enjoyed by the Examiner
every day. The Government says that it is a
good thing, for the country that newspapers should
be registered ; and those that are registered it
agrees to carry at a specially low rate through
the post. Even the Examiner isn’t foolish
enough to call that an outrage, or “a travesty on
democracy.”
It s a cold time for the railway men in South
Australia as well as in Y.ctoria. At the Adelaide
yards they are now booked off every third day,
bringing earnings down to 4s. 6d. per day. In
Queensland much the same thing is happening,
an .d the employees are dreading “further econo-
mies. So the “vigorous public works policy,”
which has usually been so popular with wage-
earners, comes home to roost. The “ vigorous
public works policy,” in Australia, meant bor-
rowed money spent on works that won’t pay their
way (usually on the pretext that they are to
“develop the country”); and, as Bull Cohen
won t think of accepting a lower rate of interest
than he bargained for, and as the taxpayers are
protected by their special representatives against
further taxation to any great extent, there is only
one alternative the wages of the State’s servants
have to be whittled away in the desperate
struggle to make up Bull Cohen’s pound of
flesh.


The platitudinous Joe Carruthers’ latest is
his announcement at Paddington that, if he
becomes N.S.W. Premier, he will “ alter the
present system of financing so as to restore the
country’s credit.” Being asked if that meant
that he would stop borrowing there was a dead
silence. You can get any number of platitudes
out of Joe, but no particulars..
Attorney-General Wise, when interviewed
about the local manufacture of locomotives, in-
stanced the advantage the State would have in
the closer inspection of the work during con-
struction. To this Sydney Telegraph scornfully
replies :
It may be remarked that we have a highly-paid officer in
London who looks after this work of inspection.
The Telegraph does not complain of. paying a
man to reside in London and do the inspection
there. Not a bit. It is when he is to be em-
ployed here and spend his high salary here it dis-
covers something grotesque.
T. Macdonald-Paterson, M.H.R., just
returned from abroad, told an interviewer that on
the same steamer with him were three emigrants
for Maoriland whose joint capital was £25,000;
also that these were not the only small capitalists
aboard for the same destination. That’s the way
Maoriland’s intensely socialistic legislation is
“ driving capital out of the country.
Discouraged.
The expression occurs so many times in. letters
/
we receive from sick wo-
men, “I was completely
discouraged. ’ And there
is always good reason for
discouragement. Years
of suffering. Doctor
after doctor tried in vain.
Medicines doing no last-
ing good. It is no
wonder that the woman
feels discouraged. Thou-
sands of these weak and
sick women have found
health and courage re-
gained as a result of the
use of Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills. They estab-
lish regularity and keep
the kidneys, liver and
stomach in proper work-
ing order. No man or
woman can' expect to be
well if the food is im-
properly digested, and
becomes clogged in the
intestines. Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills stand
alone as the most perfect
remedy for all complaints
arising from biliousness,
indigestion, constipation,
and disorders of the
liver and kidneys.
Packed in amber bottles,
and sold throughout Australasia.
ACCEPT NO SUBSTITUTES.*
RESGH’
Absolutely Pure.
S SELECT STOCK ALE » LAGER
No Preservatives. BREWERY and OFFICES : DOWLING ST,, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
ASPORTING NOTIONS.
Unless he is of the silvertail variety, the way of
the gambler is hard in Sydney. The other night the
police rushed a kip in Oastlereagh-street, and arrested
about 150 men in the act of two-upping. The names and
occupations of the whole crowd duly appeared in
a portion of the daily press. The members of the
school were fined 50s. each, with the usual alternative,
and in addition to the fine they had to endure a Stiggins-
like lecture from the stipendiary on the evils of gambling.
Now, the question is, would Stipendiary Wilshire have
fired off all that snuffle had the police, in a moment of
mistaken zeal, raided Tattersall’s Club ?
* * * *
True Bill ” s Last week’s police swoop on big
Sydney “ two-up ” school has caused consternation among
the many smaller and one or two bigger ventures in the
same line. Money in the business is astonishing. Pro-
prietors in a large way of two-up accumulate wealth
remarkably fast. Writer has heard of one place worth
£l5O a week to its proprietor. “ Two-up ” schools have
taken the place of the time-honored pub. with the super-
annuated bruiser, who is mostly boss or chief assistant in
the concern Writer knows one pug. who, a few years
ago, started a “ two-up ” school in the centre of the city
with about £5 capital, which went to fix up “ the ring ”
and pay the first week’s rent; now he owns several houses
and has a healthy banking account. Two other Sydney
thumpers, finding themselves unequal to winning any
more fights, embarked in a “two-up joint” six months
since, and thrived to such an extent that t’other day they
bought another show out for £l5O, and are running both
with considerable profit, and recent raid isn’t scaring
many of the ordinary habitues away either.
* * « •
. Ancient, 17-year-old Marvel, by Marvellous
from La Belle, and late Geo. Hill’s sensation of a dozen
years ago, is still in the flesh and apparently able to
gallop some, judging by the fact that owner entered him
for Williamstown (Vic.) Spring Handicap (lm.) Saturday
last. Handicapper, however, settled all likelihood of a
start by weighting him similarly (9.4) to last Caulfield
Cup winner, Lieutenant Bill. Year 1891 saw Marvel beat
Carbine by four lengths in All-Aged Stakes at A.J.C.
Autumn meet. Three years later he went to the stud in
Queensland and has been there ever since.
* * * •
Unanimous verdict of touts, trainers, and early
morning watchers generally of work at Randwick is that
M.L. champion Cruciform tops all ever seen on that
track at galloping, and her stable mate Orloff does more
than well. On Thursday, Cruciform capped previous
records for ljm. on the grass. With hurdles 10yds. out,
she covered first 2fur. in 27sec., the middle half-mile in
51sec., 6fur. in 1,19, ljm. in 2.12, and last mile of journey
went in 1.45 Gallop was extraordinarily fast, but Cruci-
form had a lightweight up and was scantily shod. Orloff
got over a mile in 1.45 J. Same morning Epsom favorite
Famous negotiated 9fur. in 1.58, last eight occupying 1.44.
* * * *
Duke of Grafton won Rawsori Stakes (lm. Ifur.)
at Randwick, Saturday, almost unbacked—tens being
plentiful at barrier rise. On his running, coming A.J.C.
Derby looks fairly good for him, and, unless something
very much out of the way crops up meanwhile, he’ll strip
a warm favorite. D. of G. carried a lOlbs. penalty, as also
did another Derby colt (Cherson). Bassini’s infliction was
61bs. over. Dumont, Belah, and Kitty Grafton had w.f.a.,
while Jacobite and Postulate were allowed 51bs. Bar
Belah, none of the 3yr.-olds was backed for money.
Duke of Grafton, who kept within striking distance
throughout, came up on the rails near the end and,
cutting Ibex down at the distance, outraced Cyanide and
Dumont and won, full of go, with last named second.
Difficult to see how any of the eligibles named can have a
chance against “the Duke” for the blue riband if he
keeps right, especially as there’s every indication that
Dr. Frazer’s crack colt has picked up the form which
pulled him through the Debutante Stakes and Mari-
byrnong Kate—latter with lOlbs. penalty.
* * * *
Present condition of Melbourne Derby and
Cup favorite Emir brings to mind that trouble has
always been experienced in the preparation of Emir’s
dam’s progeny. The New Woman, by Newminster, did
no good. That fine Bill of Portland horse, Eminence,
went queer in the wind early, albeit races were subse-
quently appropriated by him. Wallace’s get, Beanba,
retired at 3 years, suffering similarly to Eminence.
Heloise (full sister to Beanba), though she shaped bril-
liantly at 2 years, has done nothing since ; and now
Emmie’s next (Emir) by Wallace is causing his trainer
and the public generally, who were in a hurry to “ be
on,” considerable anxiety.
* * * *
Sydney Tatt.’s Tramway and Spring Handicaps
at Randwick, Saturday, seemed to disclose winners of
coming Epsom and Metrop. in stable-chums Marvel Loch
and Faithful, either of whom looks good for the first-
named event, while Faithful appears more than a possi-
bility for the double. Marvel Loch (8.12 up) annexed
Tramway Handicap (6fur.) very easily indeed, and shaped
like continuing strong ; while Faithful spread-eagled her
field in Spring Handicap (lm.) and came home lengths to
the good. Such an easy win hasn’t been seen for years.
Faithful humped 8.6 on Saturday, but her Epsom and
Metrop. loads are only 7.9 and 7.5 respectively. Marvel
Loch’s burdens in Epsom and Metrop. are 7.12 and 7.7.
*** , *
Some of N.S.W. Minister Crick’s arguments in
opposition to Mr. Sleath’s Tote Legalisation Bill were
amusing. .The machine would bring betting within reach
of the poorer classes, he said. Not bad this, in face of
fact that many Noses in the paddock lay the odds to
2s 6d., and all rush ss. bets, while they take a “ bob” in
the Leger and a “ tray bit ”on the “ outer-outer.” Tote
couldn’t go that low—the works wouldn’t stand it.
* * * *
Blood stallion Althotas, taken to the Manning
three months ago, kicked a fence and shattered one of
his legs so badly that his destruction was necessary.
Althotas was by Phil Athol from Goldine and a fine per-
former. Among other big things he won the Metrop. 11
years ago. %
Melbourne’s big sale of racehorses on Monday
saw Malster secured for £1350 by N.S.W. studmasters,
Messrs. J. and W. Thompson. Malster (foaled in 1897) is
by Bill of Portland from Barley (imp.), by Barcaldine
from Lonely by Hermit, and was bred by the late M.
O’Shannassy. For Mr. R. Orr (who bought him as a year-
ling at a cost of 810 gs.) Malster did well, winning, among
other things, V.R.CJ. and A.J.C. Derbies, and filling
places in Futurity Stakes, Caulfield Guineas, and Mel-
bourne Cup.
* * * •
Yankee mail, in on Friday, brought information
that world’s mares’ mile trotting record of 2.3 J, long
owned by Alix, was lowered recently. Lou Dillon
covered first quarter in 32J, half-mile I.IJ, 6fur. 1.32 J
and full distance in 2.3 J. Conditions were none too
favorable. Lou Dillon cost her owner 12,500d015.
* * * »
Melbourne’s patent Speedway, which is to
develop the pacing powers of the trotters of the local
naicest, and whereon the common owner of the fast trotter
or speedy pony may not train his nag, was duly
“opened” last' Saturday. Afterwards, Waxellency
Madden, who was presented with a golden key, was driven
round behind pacer Almont. Whatever the Speedway
may eventually develop into, it would at present be
scorned as a training track’by a trainer who knew the
rudiments of his business, being merely a sandy track
with a slight clay dressing atop. This is nice and spongy
for the delicate leg-machinery of the trotters but not con-
ducive to speed, and when the North (vind gets its summer
work in, it will be averitableSaharain motion. Between the
two tracks a few anaemic shrubs and incipient trees had
been planted, but Saturday’s crowd of 6000 or 8000 mostly
walked ov'ir these and swept them into a sandy grave
with its.skirts. Also several stiff-backed seats'have been
placed whereon the multitude is expected to sit
back and admire the trotters. Writer opines that if the
Speedway becomes a popular resort, the club will have to
evolve some way of restraining the local youth and infant
from meandering over the middle of the track, otherwise
it will have to include the maintenance of an ambu-
lance among its expenses. The concern might
become a popular resort if it were open on Sun-
days, but the club is a strictly Sawbath - keeping
institution. Besides the spider-wheeled trotting sulky,
the club prohibits the tumultuous motor and the pesti-
ferous bike. Saturday’s “ parade ” was open to all and
sundry, and the “sundry” duly arrived, including the
milk-oh boy on his pet prad and the vegetable man with
his turn-out. Besides these, there were some splendid
bits of horseflesh whipping lightly along before airy
four-wheeled buggies (bike-wheeled, pneumatic-tyred,
skeleton-framed affairs) that would serve to train them
just as well as the lightest sulky ever built. Also, there
was a crimson-haired damsel who rode her horse, wrong
side, like a centaura, and a lanky youth who rode his like
a monkey on a stick.
* * * *
“Via”: The 5-year-old Mac Donovan (by im-
ported Fitzdonovan) is a “ cunning ” tip for this year’s
Caulfield Cup. Weight 7.1. Having no form, the V.R.C.
Handicapper slung him in amongst the rubbish at 6.7 ; so
should MacD. win at Caulfield his 101 b. penalty for the
2-mile race will only put him 21b. over his Caulfield
weight. Such a paper chance of collecting the two Cups
has not been seen for many a year and if the sturdy little
chap gets one leg in, handicapper Menzies will have an
anxious minute or so on the first Tuesday in November.
It may be a strong point in the horse’s favor that he is
trained by the same man that handled Lieutenant Bill
last year.
• • • •
Crack Victorian mare Athamoora is emulating
one-time failing of Sydney’s speedy nag T.M.S. by
running into places—particularly seconds ; how many
only a crank would take the trouble to find out. Atha-
moora is a high-class galloper on the track, but seems to
have bad luck with the colors up. T’other day she
finished second to Debenture in Club Handicap and,
later same afternoon, squelched everything but
Mac Donovan. Looked as if, with a huskier lad up,
mare must certainly have accounted for Debenture. It’s
not good enough now to leave her alone whenever the
coin comes from the right quarter, hence Mo will
probably gather in further heaps of shekels through the
same medium unless the luck changes suddenly.
* * * *
Consequent on the determination of M.L.
racing authorities to investigate the bona fides of gents
who profess to ride for pure love of sport, but who yet
make a living at the game, some have boldly thrown off
the semi-aristocratic mantle of amateurism, and now ride
in their true colors.
* * * *
Present is certainly a Maoriland year in Aus-
tralian sport. Footballers from other side swept the
fields brilliantly. Arnst closed on Melbourne-Warrnambool
road bike race. “ Bill ” Lyons won biggest Sydney Tatt.’s
billiard tourney ever promoted. Now champion M.L.
nag Cruciform looks an even-money chance against
Wakeful at her best (judging by the visitor’s work at
Randwick every morning), while Orloff must give any-
thing he cuts for a great shaking.
* * * *
Coroner’s inquiry concerning death of Sydney
boxer, Charles Best (“ Young ”), ended in a disagreement,
though ’tis known that ten of the jurors were for a
verdict of accidental death. Post mortem proved the
bodv to be that of a healthy, well-trained man. Bones
of the skull had not been injured, but laceration of the
brain occurred through a blow or a fall —more likely the
latter, judged by the locality of the trouble. Evidence
went to show that the contest was anything but hurtful
to either, and had been absolutely tame till Best went
down the first time in the 16th round. Then he rose and
the next fall ended matters.
* * * *
A padded floor would have saved the life of the
deceased boxer Young. Objection to padding is that it
tires boxers and makes for slow footwork, but a slow
fight is better than a dead boxer, so since Young’s
accident all the floors of Sydney boxing rings have
been padded, much to the disgust of the boxers
themselves. During the past 20 years there have been
only three fatal boxing contests in Sydney, and in the
case of both Oribb and Stewart death was due to the
unhealthy physical state of the unfortunates. Cribb was
so bad that had he bumped a policeman while getting on
a moving tram-car he would probably have dropped dead,
and a sustained course of pick and shovel work would
certainly have proved fatal. The blow on the point does
not cause death ; otherwise, 9 out of 10 boxers would be
killed in short order, as that is generally the hit that
ends the scrap.
* * * •
The Gaiety Theatre (Sydney), in which the
young boxer, Charles Best, was killed, has a strange and
eventful history. A little while back, Otto Oribb,
another young boxer, was killed in the same building,
which is the property of the Australasian Holy Catholic
Guild. The place was originally called the Catholic
Guild Hall. Archbishop Vaughan delivered the
foundation-stone address, and at long intervals lec-
tures were delivered in the hall by many celebrities.
Although still in the hands of the pious Guild, the title
Guild Hall was dropped (except when religious lectures
v/ere delivered) since the place was opened, under
lease, by the late Fred Marshall, the comedian,
with “ Quilp, ” on Boxing Night, 1880. The
Montague-Turner co. gave its first season of opera
at the Gaiety, and “ The Private Secretary” was produced
there for the first time by Frank Thornton. Among
other theatrical celebrities who have appeared at the
Gaiety may be named W. E. Sheridan the tragedian,
Johnny Sheridan the comedian, Mrs. Brough, Annie
Mayor", Marion Melrose, Myra Kemble, Alfred Dampier,
and Wybert Reeve. For several years after it ceased
to be used as a playhouse the hall was let as a
“ dancing academy ”of the cheap and nasty sort. After
the Chows had hired the place for a season of Chinese
opera, the Guild leased the premises to the Gaiety Sport-
ing Club as a boxing saloon. Throughout all the varying
fortunes of the hall the Guild has reserved the upstairs
rooms facing Castlereagh-st. as a council-chamber and
dispensary. *
• * » *
The Victorian Royal Agricultural Society has
positively spent £6OOO this year in new buildings and
general improvements at its Flemington show grounds.
The Melbourne people, whose shillings are mainly
responsible for the prosperity of the V.R.A.S., had given
up all idea of ever getting a smarter show for their shil-
ling, but it now seems that the good old Tory capitalists,
who represent the beef-and-muttonbone of the country,
have been saving up this burst of expenditure for a satire
on the recent fiction of drought and distress which was
urged as an excuse for the rise in the price of meat, etc.
The Kyabrammers are mocking their town victims. If an
amazed Melbournian asks the wherefore of the new
pavilion for dairy cattle, and an outlay of £l9OO in
enlarging the sheep sheds, a jovial farmer slaps him on
his back and says—“ Result of the awful drought, me
bboy.”
* * * *
N.9.W. Gun Club made its purchase of Botany
bird-butchering site at a critical period. The adjacent
ground—part of Lord’s estate—has been cut up into
graveyard allotments and sold to workmen on time pay-
ment, and small cottages are springing up. What may
now be hoped for is that some irate workman who wants
quiet because his wife is struggling at the front gate of
Eternity will get over the fence during a match and
knock the heads of some of the pigeon-shooting crowd
against a rock. A few months ago, by the way, these
lordly hen-assassins protested against the smell from a
humble but useful boiling-down emporium, which was
wafted their way while they were being neither useful,
manly nor ornamental at their weekly bloodshed. The
destroyers of small birds have a considerable opinion of
themselves.
* * * *
Tasmania has the walking craze very bad. Any
Wednesday or Saturday, in a score of places, may be seen
hatless, disordered individuals of both sexes, and all ages,
tearing along a road, with arms flogging the air and legs
wobbling frantically, followed by a howling, perspiring
mob, mostly on bikes. Saw the finish of one match
recently. Couldn’t pick out the successful man, owing
to the crowd, but presently perceived a person lying on
his back, with about 16 others rubbing his chest and
pouring water on his head. “Is he the winner ? ” I in-
quired of a leary-looking person near me. ‘ ‘ Him ? Why,
that’s the judge. The cove as won plugged ’im in the
wind with ’is ’ead.”
Collingwood, the Melbourne plebeian suburb,
whose morals were lately called into question by a sensa-
tion-mongering sky-pilot, owns the most up-to-date tote-
shop in the Commonwealth. The owner always keeps
himself well abreast of the times, and, of course, he
“ toted" the Papal election. Sarto (now Pius X.) paid a
dividend of 16s. ; but had Rampolla, who started as
favorite, got home, the dividend would have been about
l9 ’ 2d ’ ,
World’s champion sculler George Towns’
acceptance of Dick Tresidder’s challenge, issued some
months ago, but ignored then, found Tresidder still not
himself after his recent serious illness, and consequently
unfit to row till February or March next. Mild exercise,
taken during past week or two, invariably left him limp
and tired,
• * * *
Indisputable evidence of the break-up of the
drought. On the Darling, at Bourke, t’other day, four
crews competed in a four-oared race.
* * * *
“San Remo”: Re that Yankee tin-pot yacht
race, Britain has gone under with the old regularity.
Cables say that the British crew was outclassed by the
Yankees. John Bull seems to be inferior to Uncle Sam—
firstly, in ship construction ; secondly, in seamanship ;
thirdly, in originality. This last is plainly seen by
making a comparison of the names of ships. The Yanks
display originality by their choice of national and appro-
priate names —America, Columbia, Constitution, Defender,
Vigilant, Volunteer, Reliance, etc. The Briton, with his
lists of 1., 11., 111. Valkyries, Shamrocks, etc., shows
about as much originality as a Jersey cow. Thechoiceof
an appropriate name for most things is easy enough, pro-
vided you have brains. So, while the Britisher bangs on
to his numbers, this scribe’s money will go on the Yank,
for skill mostly goes with brains, and names indicate the
brain status of the nominator. [As a set off to this, the
Yankee labels his streets in New York by numbers up to
96th street, and the cross streets he numbers as avenues.
And in London you find such strangely picturesque names
as Strand, the Poultry, Threadneedle-street, Paternoster-
row, Bishopsgate-street Within, and such places as Bark-
ing, Tooting and East Ham. —Ed. B.]
* * * *
Guide Joe Warbrick, killed by M.L.’s Wai-
mangu geyser, Sunday, was once amongst that country’s
most brilliant native footballers, and went ’Ome with the
Maori team in 1899. One of the M.L. combination in
Australia nearly 20 years ago, he showed marvellous drop-
kicking. Sending the oval whizzing over the bar from
midway ’tween goals was an ordinary thing to him.
Warbrick chased the leather 17 years, and then took to
farming in the Bay of Plenty district, at which occupa-
tion he prospered. Joe was brother to late Bill (once
famous as a full-back), who died of consumption, con-
tracted while he had charge of Lavender Bay (Sydney)
baths.
• * * *
Poor Mons. Victor left indirect evidence to
prove that he didn’t shoot himself by accident. A little
while before his death he called upon Arthur Russell, the
dentist, and wished him good-bye in a cheery casual sort
of way, at the same time presenting a souvenir to one of
Dr. Russell’s professional assistants. The age of Victor
was the chief thing the matter with him. He had got
well into the sixties, he had lost his reputation as a strong
man by taking up other lines of business and doing no
good in them, the financial outlook was bad, and death
had no terrors for the old athlete.
* * * »
Responses to Australian Amateur A.thletic
Union’s questions (prompted by Q.A.S.A.) re eligibility
or otherwise of aboriginals and half-castes to compete
with the lilywhite section are favorable. Consequently,
henceforth “'Bundaburra Jimmy” and his fellow
Australians (provided it can’t be proved against them
that they have shaped for money) may be seen
rubbing shoulders with Percy de Vere-Jones on the
track and in the dressing-room, though how Percy
will stand the association is yet to be seen.
“Amachaw” athletics have been practically dead
for a long time. The N.S.W. governing body meets
often and deliberates lengthily, but hasn’t struck a blow
worth mentioning for close on three years—this season it
hasn’t, so far, made a move of any sort. “ Let us be an
Athletic Association in something more than name, let
us be alive,” pleaded a disgusted delegate at last week’s
council meeting, but the Association resolutely remained
dead.
* * * *
By incessant cabling of individual performances
in England, the visit of the Marylebone C.C. combination
is being cleverly boomed. When a bowler takes a few
wickets at small cost, the cable tells of it; but when a
bowler has over 100 runs smacked off him and not a
wicket (which happened to Braund in a recent Gentlemen
v. Players fixture) the fact is sternly ignored. Taken all
through, there is a great deal more booming of the coming
team than any previous combination; and it’s getting
wearisome.
* * * *
Plugger Bilmartin left Maoriland for Australia
last week to be in readiness for some of the sugar plums
which are promised for this season. Bill’s retirement
from the track has been announced many times, but he
always goes back to it like the drunkard to his cocktail.
That Austral Wheel Race scandal took a deal of the glitter
off the Yankee’s performance and reputation, and
Bilmartin will have to put up a lot of straight riding,
absolutely devoid of the slightest taint of suspicion, to
regain his lost popularity.
• » * »
Newtown team lined up favorites for final of
N.S.W. Cyclists’ Union premiership decided Saturday.
Course was from Homebush to Granville and back—about
21m. Contest hummed all the way. Northern Suburbs
(other team concerned) made things so hot that end of
the first half of the trip saw four Norths and three New-
towns round the flags simultaneously in 28m. 40sec. Last
400 yards opened with Biden (Norths) leading Ellis (New-
town) by a yard. Close to finish Ellis (amateur
champion of the continent) jumped, and breasted the
tape barely half a wheel best. Right on the back tyres
of the leaders were Jeffrey (N.S.), Kennedy (N.S.), and
Toose (N.). Time (58.22 f) was fast. Norths won, points
being 15 to 21. Successful club now owns amateur road
supremacy for a year and gets the Dunlop shield, while
gold medals go to first four men.
6 * * * »
J. Arnst, winner of the Warrnambool-Mel-
bourne road race is 21 years old, stands sft. 9in, scales ]2st.
in the buff, and was born at Tai Tapu, near Christchurch
(M.L.). His brothers, Robert and William, who
figured in the race, are also splendid types of athletes.
Robert and J. survived that awful Timaru-Christ-
church road race of 112 miles over snow-covered roads,
through oceans of mud, and across flooded rivers. The
Maoriland cycling trade sent Robert over as second string.
When Ralston and Calder came over last year as M.L.
reps, they prophesied great things of the Arnsts, who were
then novices. The brothers accomplished the fastest and
second fastest time for the great road event, and finished
first and fifth. The machines they rode were, of course,
fitted with Dunlop tyres, 7 inch cranks and 88in. gear,
and weighed about 261 b. When they aren’t breaking
records on bikes they graft on their father’s farm, which
probably accounts for their splendid condition.
Concerning J. Arnst’s world’s record. Fastest
time made in Paris at the Roubaix race, one mile more
than the Warrnambool-Melbourne sprint, was Aucou-
turier's 9h. 12m. 30sec. last year—one hour 29m. 30sec.
slower than Arnst. Exact length of Arnst’s ride was
163Jm., average about 21J miles an hour and about
2m 48sec. to the mile.
* * * *
Don Walker and other cracks from this side are
going over to Maoriland to liven up cycling in that now
well-nigh grogless land. From a spectacular standpoint
the tour will doubtless be a success, and popular with the
Pig Islanders ; but the cyclists over there, especially the
budding ones, don’t view the invasion with any enthusi-
asm, as it means a lot of the plums will leave the State.
Walker has started training and will compete in the bene-
fit race-meeting to Bobby Walne on the 26th. For this
good cause the St. Kilda ground has been granted free of
charge, and everything points to a respectable sum
being handed over to that deserving wheeler.
Aptly named French bikist Champion, on
Charles River Park track, Boston (U.S.), July 14, easily
drove his motor bike over a mile in 58 2-5. Same day, in
a paced race, American Caldwell covered a mile in
1.11 2-5, lowering the previous world’s best (Contenent’s)
by 4 3-ssec. ; and, going on, he threw five miles behind in
world’s record time of 5.51 3-5. Many intermediate miles
were startling—particularly the fifth, negotiated in 1 8.
• • • *
First two matches of this year’s rubber between
Victoria and N.S.W. baseball teams, at Sydney Cricket
Ground, Saturday and Monday, went to home team by
an innings and 4 runs, and 11 runs. Same State has won
each year since contests were initiated in 1900 ; last time
they scored the honors in Melbourne. Latest result gives
N.S.W. absolute possession of the championship shield.
Neither side showed high-class form in their initial
engagement, and the game bristled with errors. Things
improved considerably the second time, but there was
nothing to indicate that ’Murka’s national pastime is
going to take on in Australia ; for, though it has been with
us for years now, players generally don’t seem to have
come on, and the public won’t enthuse ever so little
* * * *
Mr. Alfred Yockler’s appropriation of Mel-
bourne Tatt.’s billiard tourney, t’other day, surprised
nobody—he had been favorite for weeks before. A.V.
was a jockey once (in the Seventies), riding for late Hon.
James White, John Tait, Whittingham and other owners.
With one mare alone he won 26 races. Mr. Vockler is an
old cueist and has, with fair starts, at different time 9
beaten such good men as Weiss, Memnott and Lindrum,
and acquitted himself well opposed to Stevenson in a
series of pyramid games.
“Bill” Lyons, winner of Sydney Tattersall’s
fat billiard tourney and a big proportion of the conse-
quent unloading by Mo generally, was a Maorilander
originally, and then a Sydney “ book ” for years, till he
made his home in M.L. again. Well-remembered nags
Too Soon and Cambria belonged to him. This is the
third time he has secured a place in same fixture. Six
years ago he whacked second and third with odds-layer
Oxenham. Then he had a great tussle with a fellow-
“ book ” and friend, Paddy Bourke, in a final. Further
distinctions were the winning of a tourney at Randwiek
Bowling Club, Auckland Tatt.’s big annual event a year
or two back, and the position of runner-up to Mr. Rum-
ball in first amateur championship of N.S.W., two years
since. Like most sporting men, Mr. Lyons is super-
stitious, and through that weakness hedged a few hun-
dreds of the coin that would otherwise have come to him
—the prompting cause being a dream by his favorite
daughter (in Maoriland), some time before the final, that
her father met a man named “ Redhill” and was beaten.
Strangely enough, Mr. Lyons’ last opponent was Frank
Hill, whom, at the time of the dream, few expected to
survive the next round.
• * • *
The success of the Maoriland footbal ets in
Australia has given the Rugbyites of those islands a
slight attack of swelled head. The amateur question is
likely to prove a stumbling block to the proposed Lnglish
tour. The Maoriland appetite for scalps is now so keen,
however, that in all probability a first-class team will be
sent out on the off chance of being recogn sed as
amateurs in a like manner to the Australian cricketers.
Anyhow, King Dick hinted that if funds were not forth-
coming from private sources to send the team away, the
Govt, would finance it!! Even Owe’Sullivan never
dreamed of charging a football tour to the loan account
under the heading of “ reproductive works” : but then
Seddon was always as original as he is masterful.
* * * *
Owing to Melbourne Exhibition track being so
narrow that big fields only court disaster, it’s suggested
that not more than eight cyclists be allowed to race on
that track at once. Something will have to be done,
since the Exhibition track can’t be widened—unless on
the inside, and it is small enough at present; and the
rapidly-growing army of cyclists makes it apparent that
such a minimum number of starters will shortly limit the
running to one race as a day’s programme. In \ ictoria,
the principal events are run over two miles, and the
prospect of about 30 heats of eight riders, with semi-finals
and final, is dreadful. The only remedy is a new and
up-to-date track and ground.


The Pen Carbon Letter Book
v\V'
*
■zm.
A NIB,
A BOTTLE OF INK,
A SHEET OF PAPER,
AND A PEN CARBON BOOK
Makes a complete outfit with which any MAN, WOMAN or CHILD can write a letter, and at the same
time make an exact copy without leaving the slightest sign of copying on the original.
It keeps a duplicate of bills you send out, of orders, receipts, bank cheques. It leaves no vague,
uncertain mark, but a tracing that is often clearer than the original.
It will save any house or family much money by its indisputable record.
Sole Agents (or
Australasia:
E. RICH & CO.,
LTD.,
SYDNEY
BRISBANE.
WOMEN cure DRUNKARDS
The Remedy can be given In Tea, Coffee, or
Food, thus Secretly Curing the Patient
without his Knowledge.
TUIIS CURE FOR DRUNKENNESS has shed a
radiance into thousands of hitherto desolate fire-
sides. It does its work so silently and surely that,
while the devoted wife, sister, or daughter looks on,
the drunkard is reclaimed even against his will.
ETJCRASY SAFE AND SURE.
Mrs. J. HATTON, who cured her husband with
EUORASY, now writes us that she has also cured a
near and dear relative, and makes a most earnest ap-
peal to all other women to save the drunkard. We will
post free books and testimonials from hundreds who
have been cured, and everything’ needed to aid you
in saving those dear to you from a life of ultimate
poverty and disgrace. Write or call at once, and
address— THE EUCRASY COY.,
62 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY
yz-
An Absolute Proof of Speed, Stability, and Easy Running of the
RED BIRD BICYCLE.
Henry Copeland, it is alleged, will prob-
ably return to active politics in N.S.W. when a
High Commissioner is appointed in London, and
State Agents-General become very obscure and
superfluous potatoes. Possibly his present visit
to Australia is with a view to sniffing the
old atmosphere, and deciding whether he can
stand it after the more cultured effluvium of
London.
Be G. H. Reid’s Sydney Town Hall meet-
ing; the following are extracts from Herald of
25th August:—(l) In the verbatim report:
Mr. Frank Grimley seconded the motion. On being put
to the meeting thousands of hands in the vast audience
went up in favor of it amid a scene of great enthusiasm.
Those against the resolution were very few, and probably
did not number 50 all told.
(2) In the commentary (“Granny” evidently
carried away by enthusiasm):
A resolution endorsing Mr. Eeid’s action was.carried
amid excitement, only two youths in the background
voting against it. It was clear that these immature
partisans were simply amusing themselves.
J. Arnst, on his Red Bird, won the Warrnambool to Melbourne Road Race, 165 miles, in 7hrs. 43mins.,
riding the one machine throughout without mishap, and beating all World’s and Australian Records.
GOOLD BICYCLE CO., LTD., 64 King St., Sydney.
SHARPSHOOTIN6
sdf
For Sport and War.
By W. W. GREENER.
HITS THE MARK!
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, 1/- nett, i
Posted, 1/2.
The best 1/- worth ever Published,
IP you wish to get good work and value
you should purchase W.W. GREENER’S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to—
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne*
(Greener’s Representative).
Legal Notice.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Court of
Chancery of the County Palatine of Lan-
caster Manchester District made in an action re
Margaret Bagnall Chadwick v. de Jong 1902 C
128. The person claiming to be Henry Bagnall
Parkinson son of one Adam Parkinson by his mar-
riage with Ellen Bagnall a daughter of the above-
named Margaret Bagnall is by his Solicitors to
come in and prove his claim to be the said Henry
Bagnall Parkinson at the Chambers and by the
time below mentioned. And in the event of the
death of the said Henry Bagnall Parkinson any
person or persons claiming to be his devisee or
devisees or real or personal representative or
representatives and all persons claiming through
or under any such persons are by his or their
Solicitors on or before the 7th day of December
1903 to come in and prove his or their claim or
claims before the Registrar of the Manchester
District of the said Court situate at Duchy
Chambers No. 4 Clarence Street Manchester
England or in default thereof the said Henry
Bagnall Parkinson will be presumed to be dead
and to have died intestate and without leaving
any lawful issue him surviving.
Monday the 21st day of December 1903 at 12
o’clock at noon at the said Chambers is appointed
for hearing and adjudicating upon the said claims.
Any person or persons having any knowledge of
the whereabouts of the said Henry Bagnall
Parkinson if living or of the date and place of his
death if dead are requested to communicate with
the plaintiffs’ Solicitors.
The said Henry Bagnall Parkinson went to
Australia in or about the year 1855 and was last
heard of from Mount Pleasant Crooked River
Victoria.
Dated this 21st day of July 1903.
HUBERT WINSTANLEY
Registrar.
Messieurs Sutton Elliott Turnbull & Mayne
13 Snnng Gardens
M incbester England
Plaintiffs’ Solicitors.
the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
-E ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “Ellis’ Kingr Street Coffee Palace,”
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor — GEO. W. ELLIS.
MEMORY.
Pel man’s system.
A GOOD MEMORY
is the surest factor to success. The worst memory
can be improved and developed upon natural
lines by
PELMAN’S SYSTEM
of MEMORY TRAINING.
WONDERFUL RESULTS.
PERMANENT IMPROVEMENT.
Increases Mental Capacity in Every Case.
Invaluable to Students and Business Men.
Explanatory Book sent Post Free on application
to the Secretary,
Pelman's School of Memory Training
nELBOURNE G.P.0., BOX 402.
London —i Bloomsbury-st., W.C. U.S.A. —1608 Masonic
Temple, Chicago. South Africa—Lynn Buildings, Dur-
ban. Germany—Mozartstr 9, Munich. France—lo 9
Avenue de Neuilly, Paris.
FOREIGN STAMPS
!*m;m
SO <S
/''IHEAP SETS.—4O Japan, Is 6d ;
47 Spain, Is 6d; 6 British
Guiana, 6d ; 8 Egypt, 6d ; 16 Heli-
goland, Is ; 11 Canada, 6d : 15
Roumania, 6d, 6 United States War-
ships, 3d ; 8 Java, 6d ; 5 Oosta
Rica, 4d ; 6 Guatemala, 6d ; 12
Indian Telegraphs, 6d ; 20 Brazil,
Is ; 12 Cuba, 9d ; 11 Portugal, 6d.
New Catalogue of Stamps, &c., Gratis. Stamps purchased.
CHARLES DONNE, 346 Little Collins st., Melbourne.
•I
HAND-IN-HAND
forEIGHTYYEARS
Williams*
Barbers* Bar.
WILLIAMS' Traveller's Shavme; Stick.
You may worry thru a face
scrape on most “Any Old
Soap.” To enjoy the Luxury
of a Perfect Shave you must
use Williams’.
If youdoubt it, send a penny
stamp for Williams’ Changing
Face Puzzle. Tells you why.
J. B. WILLIAMS CO., Glas-
tonbury, Conn., U.S. A. Also
232 Clarence Street, Bydney.
n
Lipton’s persistent efforts with his Sham-
rocks deserve better luck. But to wrest anything
from the grasp of the eager Yank, who keeps his
brain as keen as a razor with D.C.L. whisky, is a
feat for the gods. Of late years, D.C.L. has got
a great hold of the American whisky market. It
wets the brightest intellects in that go-ahead
country, and nerves the strongest determinations.
The discomfiture of Lipton, the tea-man, is directly
due to D.C.L. So says the Australian agent for
that mighty spirit, but Th%Bulletin takes his
assertion with—well, a drop of bitters.*
The fiitile Joe Cook on the Arbitration
Bill: —
He argued that compulsory arbitration was in no way
inconsistent with Freetrade, as some members had in*
sisted, and contended that the Arbitration Court in New
South Wales had been a distinct success.
Certainly the N.S.W. Arbitration Court—which
didn’t start until N.S.W. got Protection—has
been a success. And, with the usual astounding
cheek of the shoddyites, old preacher Joe claims
that as a proof that a legal minimum wage and un-
restricted competition with countries which have
no minimum wage law can exist together.
A picture that is likely to attract the notice
of all those who take an interest in the public affairs of
the Commonwealth (says the Brisbane Courier, of August
21st) wa3 hung in the State Parliament House yesterday,
by permission of the President of the Council and the
Speaker of the Assembly. It is a copy of a painting by
Mr. Charles Nuttall of the opening of the first Federal
Parliament by H.R.H. the Duke of York, now Prince of
Wales. The artist has succeeded in reproducing the
scene with singular effectiveness. Politicians and others
well-known to Queenslanders are easily identified, which
circumstance is a tribute to the actual merit of the work
as a whole. Mr. A. S. Gordon, manager of the Historical
Picture Association of Australia, who controls the distri-
bution of the reproduction of Mr. Nuttall’s painting,
arrived here early this week with the view of establishing
an agency in this State, and has secured the service of
Mr. W. J. Weatherill (American Consul). (Mr. James
Best, York Buildings, has been appointed agent for
N.S.W. ; and Messrs. Eustis and Yonds, of Pirie Street,
Adelaide, are the S.A. representatives.) See full particu-
lars in next week’s Bulletin.*
The pitiable tendency to spend its whole
time in pottering over small things that has come
upon N.S.W. Assembly is strikingly shown by a
perusal of the notice paper. Here are some of
the questions on the paper for 27th August:
Was Mr. Raw of the Architect’s Department granted
three months leave of absence on full pay ?
Is a man named Andrew Wales in the employ of the
National Park Trust? What are his duties and what
salary does he receive?
How many fire brigades are there in the State?
Has the attention of the Government been drawn to
the fact that several deaths have occurred through the
escape of carbonic acid gas from machines used for
heating bath water?
Is it the intention to finish the present session of
Parliament in October next because of the hot weather ?
What is the cost per ton of blue metal spawls from
Minchinbury Quarry delivered at Rookwood ?
Is Mr. Justice Foster alive?
One reason why N.S.W. has no decent Local
Government law and no graduated land tax is
that the Assembly has been busy for 20 years
asking the Ministry what are Smith’s wages,
is Jones alive, and how much it costs to bring
half-bricks and broken crockery from Monaro and
deliver them at Broken Hill.
The original drawings of Phil May, to be
sold on 18th September, include the famous series
of “ Things We See When We Haven’t Got a
Gun,” besides upwards of 100 other likenesses and
caricature portraits.
The recreator who is tempted by the balmy
spring climate to go a-roaming, should be prepared for
humorous contingencies, picturesque spots, or frolicsome
experiences (such as frenzied bulls or snakes on active
service) by arming himself with a Kodak, wherewith to
take sudden “ shots.” He who travels without a Kodak
misses half the fun of life. It is a safe and entertaining
companion, which costs little, and yields a splendid profit
upon the outlay in its photographic results. A Kodak
catalogue can be obtained from 284 Oollins-st., Melbourne.
Write for one.*
From “ F.C.” :
The funniest thing about Premier Irvine’s trip to the
backblocks of Victoria to propound his policy was in con-
nection with the run there and back. The strong, calm
man must needs have a pilot-engine sent ahead of bis
train to see that nobody dynamited him. Bent was with
him, and Bent’s person was precious—also Bent knew his
railways and engines weren’t to be trusted. The blessed
pilot ran hot on the way up and put everything an
hour late, and on the way back, when the Ministers
reached Murtoa, the station was in darkness, the signals
were against them, and the pilot was lost. After
much telephoning it was reckoned to be somewhere
between Murtoa and Lubeck, so the Ministerial engine
was uncoupled and sent slowly ahead till it bumped into
the broken-winded, collapsed pilot far away in the
darkness. It took two hours to get it back to Murtoa,
where it was run on to a siding ; then the distinguished
politicians meandered on gradually. And it was all
wasted energy. Nobody made the least effort to dyna-
mite Irvine, or to throw a dictionary at Bent.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.
There was a dreadful squeal from the
Gippsland coal companies when it was announced
the other day that the Victorian Government
intended to withdraw the subsidy of |d.
per ton per mile on the carriage of their coal.
This subsidy amounts to about £16,000 a year,
and it has enabled the companies to pay dividends
to their shareholders, most of whom are mem-
bers of the reform leagues that whooped so
loudly for “retrenchment over the whole
domain of State expenditure.” Both Mel-
bourne dailies got violently to work on the
matter —one newspaper magnate, by the , way,
is deeply interested financially in the Gippsland
coal companies. So after the Gazette notice was
published a hurried Cabinet meeting was held,
and the strong Retrenchment and Economy
Government will allow the coal companies to loot
the Treasury for another year.
When W. B. Dailey was Acting-Premier
of N.S.W. he wrote a minute to Judge Docker
censuring his antics on the Bench. Parkes,; when
Premier, indited a similar epistle, and almost
every session of Parliament since complaints
of that Judge’s eccentricities have occupied
attention. Another night will soon be de-
voted to the same old theme. Among those
who have denounced Docker’s Bench manners
and insulting loquacity Hansard shows the
names of J. P. Abbott, G. R. Dibbs, W. P.
Crick, John M'Elhone, and men of all kinds of
taste. Dailey’s was the most emphatic of the
reprimands, and amounted to a threat of dis-
missal. That was 18 years or so ago, and the
same old threat; has been hanging round ever
since.
02
23
:3Z
S?
K 5
s t\
winner of
DUNLOP
ROAD
RACE ,905
Warrnamboolto
flelbournc(!6s m?)
ir>
WorldsßecordTimc
Of —hi 55.
'7 43 0
IK
TYRES.
THE DUNLOP PNEUHATIC TYRE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD. t
150 Clarence Street, Sydney;
And at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.


}
ri
V
A
c
1
*»
y
IN LOVE
WITH
OGDENS GUINEA-GOLD
‘THE LANCET” says;
«We found that Ogden’s Guinea Gold Cigarettes were composed of light Virginia leaf, and were
quite free from objectionable flavoring materials.”
BRITISH-AMERICAN TOBACCO CO., LTD, (OGDEN BRANCH), 45 York Street, Sydney.
“ Alba ” : Came upon what I thought from
the noise to be a carpet-beating factory t’other
day. Looked through the window casually and
saw a large, red-faced man with his coat off
pounding a woman from corner to corner. Noticed
that he had on a pair of 6oz. boxing-gloves. The
woman took the stoush in the usual feminine way
—holding his knees, clutching his hair and cursing
him for a coward. The red-faced man punched
her in a smart, scientific way, and finished each
round by helping himself to some beer out of a
jug. Day or two later I met him on a tram, and
in a friendly way mentioned what I had seen
through the window. “Oh,” he said, “that was
my wife Emma. I didn’t know the window was
open. Looked funny, eh? No; I’m not a pug.
We’ve been married seven years, and up till now
she’s fancied that I was a species of human worm
—something that came home at night and wriggled
till it got fed.” The fat, red man breathed
heavily as we alighted from the tram together.
“I haven’t a temper,” he said plaintively, “and
when I hit Emma I feel that it’s all for the best.
She’s a slommoky woman and eats lollies all day,
and consumes biscuits in bed. When I reproach
her, she ” —the red fat man dropped his voice to a
whisper—“she threatens to run away with a
vegetable Chow. She’s been holding that Chow
over me for the last four years. When I refuse
money for matinees and picnics she throws the
Chow at me. I don’t know who put her up to it,
but I know that this suburb is full of women who
blackmail their husbands under that threat. Good
night! ” He stayed a moment at the corner to
light his pipe. “They call me a woman wal-
loper about here, but Emma’s been quite a lady
since I started to put ’em on.” I noticed that
most of the Chows in that suburb wore black eyes
about that time.
Martin’s Apiol and steel pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia. Not genuine
without the signature. Be sure you get Martin’s.
Sole proprietor, W. Martin, pharmaceutical
chemist, Southampton, England.*
“Bill”: Serving a sentence once, the
warder who acted as drill-instructor was directing
us in the salute when marching in file. Wishing
to stand directly in front to watch the movement
of the arms, he placed his cap on the gate to a,ct
as an imaginary governor or other tinpot official
entitled to a salute. Then we were given the
word “ Forward ! ” and each swung his right arm
to the forehead in turn as he passed the greasy
cap. A few days afterwards I asked him casually
if he had ever heard of Gessler, the tyrant killed
by Tell, and he said “No.” I believed him—he
was so hopelessly ignorant; so I put the
cap episode down as a remarkable coincidence.
He was instructing a squad of prisoners before
some visitors and explaining the movements.
“ Bring the ’and to the ’ed with a cirklar motion.
There is three movements in a right habout turn ;
first draw back the right foot till the ollow
presses against the left ’eel .” ihen one of
the visitors chuckled and so did I. He locked me
up two days afterwards on a frivolous charge, and
1 did five days’ cells without work or books waiting
for the visiting “beak,’’ who let me off with a
caution. The drill instructor was satisfied, though.
UP TO YOU.
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy is sold on a
guarantee that if you are not satisfied after using
two-thirds of a bottle according to directions,
your money will be refunded. It is the best cough
medicine in the market, is the only one officially
declared free from all poisons. It is up to you
to try.*
NO CURE. NO PAY.
u
V
Vv
nip
I
V\\N"
Not a penny down. Simply drop us a post-
card with your name and address, and we forward
at once one of our latest Improved High Grade
Electric Belts. You can use it three months,
then pay us if cured, and the price will only be
half what others ask for their belts. If not
cured, you can return the belt to us at our ex-
pense and your word will deeide. -W-e are willing
to trust you entirely, knowing that we have the
best and most perfect belt used in the Common-
wealth to-day, and nine men in ten always pay
when cured.
We Will Trust You.
This modern Belt is the most perfect and
complete ever invented. It will cure all cases
of Rheumatism, Varicocele, Indigestion, Lum-
bago, Weak Back, Kidney, Liver and Stomach
complaints. We will send absolutely
FREE
A beautifully illustrated Medical Book, which should be read by all weak men and women.
This will be sent free in plain wrapper, all charges prepaid. It is free, and can be naa ior
the asking. Don’t neglect this splendid opportunity to regain your health. Write to-day.
The Dr. J. n. Austin Electric Co. ( De P t.M.)
49 ELIZABETH STREET, fIELBOURNE, VIC.
►
HERR RASSMUSSEN
w m guarantee to cure Nervous Weak..
ne cs* Blood Diseases, Piles, Rheuma-
tism’ Corpulency, Liver and Kidney
".roubles. He will send his Book Free.
\\\ correspondence will be nela
A'r confidential.
BRISBANE: 309 Queen St.
MELBOURNE: 150 Bourke St.
WHEN you can be quicklly «md “ESPONDENCy, IdaU i^^
f s h = s d tto ff i
give his skilled advice personally to all patrons o his remed.es FREE OF CHARGE h,s ottrces
communicate with him without delay, no matter where you live. ireatmeiw uy jtusi, « * '
ALF ALINE VITALITY PILLS. Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d., posted.
Blood and Skin Diseases
Blood Disorders, Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, Stone in the Bladder, and Blood
Impurities guaranteed to be removed and permanently cured by
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS. Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d. posted.
Anaemic Women
suffering from Wasting Diseases, Pale, Lifeless and otherwise affected,
R ASSMTJSSEN. His lifelong experience is at their service, and his
should at once communicate with HERR
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS will cure them. Boxes, 6s; Courses, 235. 6d.
.. ■r»kir* v/ mi I C D/\v<vc
LIVER and K.DREV TROUBLES cur.- .. •-» >»»,*“ "^^"i^nS'SliVlL^iSVSSS 1 id
...... : i
The ALFALINE REMEDIES can only beobtained from . . .
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office—
547 George St., Sydney,
AND HIS BRANCHES AS FOLLOW-
ADELAIDE: 15 Pulteney St.
N Z.: 91 Lambtoa Quay, Wellington.
W.A., PERTH: 481 Hay St.
KALGOORUE: 111 Hannan St.
FREMANTLE: 117 High St
BOULDER CITY: Piesse St.


RESULTS WILL TELL.
Suppose yon try Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy
the next time you have a cough or cold. If you
are not pleased with the results after using two-
thirds of a bottle according to directions, you may
return what is left and your money will be re-
funded.*
“ A. 8.” writes:
The motion for adjournment nuisance has reached an
acute stage in N.S.W. Assembly. The Government busi-
ness has been delayed to such a degree that there is little
prospect of Parliament passing any useful legislation
before Christmas. The only retaliatory measure adopted
has been, so far, to sit late on Thursday nights. Premier
See might consider the advisability of flouting all con-
stitutional precedents, and calmly agreeing to adjourn
whenever one of the talkers moves the adjournment—-just
accept the motion and adjourn, leaving the aggrieved
member standing. This would throw the onus of delay
on the persons who move adjournments.
This is an interesting suggestion, but the average
obstructionist politician can stand a great deal of
onus. Onus doesn’t trouble him unless it is
deducted from his salary.
Air-ships are the last invention,
They navigate the air.
In future we’ll be in suspension
Travelling here to there.
We’ll gaily sail up in the sky,
Till us the clouds immure,
And catch bad colds, but won’t say die,
With Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure*
James Martin & Co.
161 CLARENCE ST
Near King St.
SYDNEY
sdf
WE ARE PREPARED TO
ILLUMINATE ANY PLACE,
ANY TIME, ANYWHERE, with
ACETYLENE GAS.
Martin’j Reliable Automatic
Acetylene Gas Generator.
ALL SIZES, from 5 to 1000 LIGHTS.
OVER 500 IV DAILY USE. Send for our “ No. 56
Acetylene Gas Catalogue."
CARBIDE OP CALCIUn at the BEST PRICES.
sd
When you want MOTIVE POWER it will
pay you to investigate the merits of
MA.RTIKT»a
Nonpareil Oil Engine
BURNS ORDINARY KEROSENE.
FULL SPEED AT A MOMENTS NOTICE.
StrongTt Safe, Cheap, Economical, TSJi
ALL SIZES, both HORIZONTAL and PORTABLE.
AW Send for Illustrated Descriptive Circular.
™ E CENTURY THERMAL BATH CABINET
fsd
is equal to A DOCTOR IN EVERY HOME,
THOUSANDS GLADLY TESTIFY TO THIS FACT I
Hot-air and Vapour Baths administered by this Cabinet are
a speedy cure for RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA, BRONCHITIS,
GOUT, LIVER and KIDNEY TROUBLES, INFLUENZA,
COLDS, FEVERS—in fact, there is no disease which can resist
the power of heat as applied by this Cabinet. 800,000 now
heing used in Great Britain weekly.
PRICES, delivered, 30 - to 84/-,
Write to-day for descriptive Booklet—FßEE.
.Century Thermal Bath Cabinet Co. Ltd. (Dept. 8)
I (Sole Agents Wanted for Sydney.)
ALEX. TROUP, Manager,
Royal Arcade, Elizabeth-st. Entrance, MELBOURNE.
THE UNION BANK OF AUSTRALIA LTP.
HEAD OFFICE: 7* CORNHILL, LONDON, E.C.
REPORT OF PROCEEDINGS AT THE 65th ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF THE PROPRIETORS HELD IN
LONDON ON 20th JULY, 1903. MR. ARTHUR FLOWER IN THE CHAIR ’
Mr. A 0. Willis, the manager, having read the advertisement calling the meeting, the following Report of the
Directors and the Statement of Accounts were taken as read
~ “ London, 11th Julv, 1903.
The directors have to submit to the shareholders the annexed balance-sheet of the bank to 28th February
1903, duly audited, which, after provision for doubtful debts, exhibits a net amount of profits of £133 793 3s 6d
inclusive of balance brought forward from the previous half-year. From this the directors have applied a sum of
£50,000 to release a similar sum, being the amount which stood in the balance-sheet as a contingent reserve against
doubtful debts, thus extinguishing this contingent reserve. The £50,000 thus released is restored to the bank’s
reserve fund, which is thereby increased from £950,000 to £1,000,000. They have also appropriated a sum of £4OOO
as a contribution in aid of the pension fund of the bank’s staff, known as the Guarantee and Provident Funds. From
the balance remaining (£79,793 3s. 6d.) the directors have resolved upon the declaration of a dividend at the rate of
8 per cent, per annum, equal to £1 per ehare, which will absorb £60,000, and leave £19,793 3s. 6d. to be carried for-
ward. The directors have much pleasure in reporting further rainfall during March and April and since, which,
coupled with the rainfall of December last, has practically broken up the drought in Queensland and in the’greater
part of New South Wales, but in some parts of the latter State the want of rain is still badly felt. Since the last
meeting branches of the bank have been opened at Casrerton and Hamilton in Victoria, at Narrogin and Northam
in Western Australia, and at Martinborough in New Zealand ; and the branch at Norseman (W.A.) has been closed.”
LIABILITIES.
Capital, £4,600,000.
Less: Reserve lia-
bility, £3,000,000.
Paid-up .. .. £1,600,000 0 0
Reserve fund (invested
—in the names of
trustees —as per con-
tra) 1,000,000 0 0
Balance of undivided
profits .. .. 79,793 3 G
£2,579,793 3 6
Circulation .. .. £497,589 0 0
Deposits (including in-
scribed stock de-
posits) .. .. 15,949,226 12 6
Bills payable and other
liabilities (including
reserves held against
doubtful debts) .. 1,05V91 18 0
18,412,107 11 0
£20,992,700 14 6
Balance-Sheet, 28th February, IPO3.
ASSETS.
Specie on hand, and cash balances .. £3,335,013 18 It
Bullion on hand and in transitu.. .. 251,509 7 5
Money at call and short notice in
London 860,000 0 0
Investments:
Reserve Fund Con-
sols, 1650,000; local
loans (Imperial Go-
vernment stock),
£200,0 0 ; National
War Loan, £150,000 £l,OOO, 0 0
Other Investments:
Consols and other
stocks of or guaran-
teed by the Imperial
Government.. .. 104,453 1 9
India Government
sterling'stocks ~ 265,430 11 3
Colonial Government
and municipal stocks *
and debentures .. 88,355 7 9
1,458,239 0 9
Balance of remittances and draughts in
transitu and bills receivable in London
office 2,572,314 11 6
£8,477,076 18 7
Bills discounted, loans, and other securi-
ties at the branches and at London .. 11,798,9131310
Bank premises and property in the
colonies .. .. .. .. .. 589,019 18 11
London leasehold pre-
mises .. . .. £142,304 19 4
Reserve against same,
£14,363 9s. Id. ; six
months’ interest
thereon at 3£ per
cent., £251 7s. Id. .. 14,614 16 2
127,690 3 2
£20,992,700 14 6
Statement of Profits, 28th February, 1903.
Balance of undivided profits at 30th August, 1902 £134,143 17 10
Less: Amount applied in reduction of contingent account—in terms of last
report .. .. .. .. .. .. .. • .. .... .. £50,000 0 0
Amount appropriated in aid of bank’s guarantee and provident funds—
do . 4,000 0 0
54,000 0 0
£80,143 17 10
Out of which a dividend was declared of £60,000 0 0
Leaving a balance of .. .. .. ■ .. £20,143 17 10
Profits for the past half-year, after making provision in respect of bad and
doubtful debts £238,612 14 4
Less:
Remuneration to the local directors and salaries and allow-
ances to the colonial staff £77,768 19 3
General expenses in the colonies, including rent, taxes,
stationery, &c... .. . .. .. .. .. .. 28,212 9 11
Remuneration to the board of directors and auditors,
salaries of London office staff, rent, taxes, stationery, and
general expenses 15,464 8 8
Income tax 8,417 10 10
124,863 8 8
113,649 6 8
Deduct: £133,793 3 6
Amount applied to ex''nguish contingent account £60,000 0 0
Aopropriation in aid of bank’s guarantee and pro ident funds 4,000 0 0
• 54,000 0 0
£79,793 3 6
Balance of undivided profits at this date
ARTHUR FLOWER
A. P. BLAKE
C. PAR BURY
Directors.
A. 0. WILLIS, Manager.
T. 0. C. SAUNDERS, Accountant.
London, 9th July, 1903.
Auditors’ Certificate and Report.
In accordance with the provisions of " The Companies Act, 1900,” we certify that all our requirements as audi
tors have been complied with.
We report that we have verified the cash, investments, bills of exchange, and other assets in London, and have
had access to the accounts sent to London from the various branches in the colonies, and, having examined the
same, and the books and accounts of the London office, are of opinion that the above balance-sheet is a full
and fair balance-sheet, properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the company’s
affairs, as shown by the books of the company.
WHINNEY, SMITH, and WHINNEY, Chartered Accountants, Auditors.
ENO’S
FRUIT
HEADACHE,
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION.
SALT.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS, &c., EVERYWHERE.
til
\\
if
Machines wilt be supplied
on the hire-purchase system
to clients furnishing good
financial references, on very
easy terms.
HOTELKEEPERS!
Hake Your Own
/E RATED WATERS.
Cost less than
Fourpence per Dozen
when produced by
Eckersley’s Improved /Erated Water Machines.
Owing to the number of unscrupulous imitators attempting to exploit a
trade which by virtue of the superiority of our machines we hold, we desire
to point out to intending :—
(1) That our machines are used solely by His Majesty’s Australian
Squadron, after an exhaustive trial, in which other so-called aerating
machines competed.
(2) That on all the Victorian Railway Refreshment Rooms, after careful
trial and examination, our machines were unanimously selected for
the excellence and purity of the aerated waters produced by them.
(3) That the leading Hotels and Clubs throughout Australasia have dis-
carded all other makes of machines and have given ours the preference.
(4) Being by far the largest importers of Pure, Natural, Liquefied Carbonic
Gas in Australia, we can insure to purchasers of our machines an
unfailing supply of this gas.
A few of the hundreds of users of our machines are given below, and
they will be pleased to furnish inquirers with their opinions thereon:—
The Flagship of the Australian Squadron (H.M.S. Royal Arthur).
George Talmage, Lessee Victorian Railways Refreshment Rooms at
Geelong, Ballarat, and Melbourne (Vic.).
John Rowan, Railway Refreshment Rooms, Warragul, Sale, and
Traralgon (Vic.).
J. P. Rowan, Commercial Hotel, Leongatha (Vic.)
R. G. Drummond, Victoria Hotel, Hamilton (Vic.).
S. J. Carberry, Sportsman’s Arms Hotel, Star of the East, Murchison
(W.A.).
Thomas Barclay, White Cliffs (N.S.W.).
J. J. Kahl, TattersalFs Hotel, Blackall (Queensland).
Descriptive Catalogue
and Full Particulars
from
ECKERSLEY & SONS, 214 Queen St,, Melbourne, Vic.
Bolivia, a rather disreputable South
American State, recently made oyer a whole pro-
vince to an English syndicate which was going to
run things on Chartered Co. lines. And then
affairs happened. The adjacent republics of Peru
and Brazil declared that no nigger-driving Char-
tered Co. methods would be allowed to take root
on that continent, and that no State should give
any encroaching European community a lien on
the country. In short, an invading Brazilian
army cast the syndicate out by the hair, and now
Bolivia has to pacify it with many dollars.
“ Claude ” writes in a controversy which
is hereby dropped
“ j.E.W.’s” (B. July 16) knowledge of W.A. Labor
matters wouldn’t crowd a postage stamp. The A.M.A.,
the younger of the two miners’ unions, does not, as a
union, take any part in politics, but 100 per cent, of its
members on the Golden Mile are members of the Political
Labor Party. There are certainly blatant individuals in
the Labor movement, and perhaps they are not unknown
elsewhere. As for “J.E.W.’s” speculations on forth-
coming Federal elections, there is a saw somewhere about
knowledge, and prophecy, which just fits in here. The
W.A. L-tb.br politicians are not a brilliant lot, yet they
compare favorably with other mediocrities. Since Bigjohn
packed his carpet bag there has not been a strong man in
Groperland. As for C. J. Moran he has grown too strong
for two constituencies, and his rankness is increasing.
“P.L.”: The Queensland Black Labor
crowd lias not yet ceased bemoaning the lot of the
hapless Kanaka who is returned to his island to
be killed and eaten. Meantime here are the latest
figures re Polynesian mortality in Queensland.
For last year there died 327 Kanakas out of a sum
total of 8378—an average of 37 per thousand. The
average death-rate among adult white males whose
ages ranged from 20.t0 40 years was per 1000.
Any sensible Kanaka would do well to chance the
alleged cannibalistic club of his compatriots rather
than take his risks on a Queensland plantation
with a mortality like the above.
Melbourne Argus has executed a complete
change of front over the Preferential Tariff busi-
ness. On May 16th it set forth the awful results
which would accrue to Australia if it followed the
Canadian lead. The proposal for preference was
ascribed to the machinations of the Federal
Government. On June 16th the Argus published
a long article to show (with figures and tables ad
lib.) that Australia had nothing to gain by any
scheme of preference with England. But the
Argus subsequently discovered that the plan did
not emanate from the despised Barton Ministry
but from Chamberlain. Then the old lady wiped
her hundred spectacles, muttering, “ I must have
been dreaming,” and spoke on July 28th on the
necessity of falling in with any scheme which
would tend to consolidate the Empire, right or
wrong An extract:
Whatever policy Great Britain adopts, she should have
the loyal, unflinching support of her children.
The returned farm-burner and purlomer
of dead Boers’ whiskers still attracts attention m
Maoriland. Hardly a day passes but m one or
another of the State’s police-courts he is sent to
gaol for thieving, insulting women, or some other
branch of his original business. A couple ot
years ago all eyes gazed upon him as the saviour ot
his country, but now only the inquiring gaze of
the detective watches him with a view to lumber-
ing him under the Vagrancy Act.
The British Cobden Club is not a fighting
animal nowadays. It meets to hold back-scratch-
ing functions at which the Freetrade members
tell each other they are the salt of the earth ,
but when it was recently challenged to discuss
the country’s fiscal policy with an outside opponent
of some size it decided that brawling and argu-
ment were unseemly things and not to be en-
couraged.
The Commonwealth is already finding out
the disadvantages of “ taking up the white man s
burden ” by acquiring a portion of Papua. Its
proposal to give the colored-labor products of that
possession a preference of 33J per cent, on the
usual tariff rates is likely to be bitterly opposed.
The concession is of far too sweeping a character.
It would allow employers to set up manufactures
of some types in Papua and, by employing black
labor, flood the Australian market with goods
which would receive preferential tariff treatment.
Recently N.S.W. received the glad news
that the State Labor party had decided to set its
face against all borrowing except for reproductive
works. It wasn’t quite such glad news as it might
have been, for some people have extraordinary
idea as to what constitutes “reproductive works,’
but it sounded as if there was at least going to be
some change for the better. Apparently there
isn’t going to be any change, and the alleged new
departure is just plain fraud and delusion. The
other day Tieasurer Waddell put through about
the most utterly villainous and unprincipled set of
loan proposals N.S.W. has yet seen—a set in which
the items were almost wholly unproductive and a
swindle on posterity—and the Labor party went
its draggled way unquestioningly at the tail of
Owe’Sullivan and co., as usual.


Worth Knowing,
LLEWELLIN & CO.,
of Linden Court, Castlereagh St.,
CUT, BUY and SELL
all PRECIOUS STONES.
They manufacture to order, repair, or re-
make in the latest designs, every description of
of hundreds of testimonials for the
excellence of their workmanship.
OPEN SESAME.—Hunyadi Janos Water is
the “open sesame” of the human organism.
Speedy, sure, and gentle, it fulfils every indication
in health and disease. It is a therapeutical
arsenal in itself. Indispensable to millions of
human beings all over the world.*
E NTENAR.Y HALL,
YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
TUESDAY, SEPT. 22,
GRAND VOCAL RECITAL
by the Eminent Mezzo-Soprano,
MRS. FITZ-6ERALD.
From the QUEEN’S HAUL and ST. JAMES’ HALL,
LONDON.
Plan at Paling’s, Sept. 12, J. EDWARD SYKES.
W N. Willis, M.L.A., as a land agent
needs no black-tracker to guide him through the
devious paths of the Land Acts. He fights all
his cases, and the harder the task the better he
like it, and wins all the time. 21 Bligh-street.*
Old Paul Kruger went to war to save his
country from the British brand of foreigner. The
old man’s son-in-law, Whelan, cheerfully contem-
plates the proposal to introduce 200,000 Chinese
into the Transvaal.
amusements.
YCEUM THE A T R E, BYDNE Y.
Lessee .. .. ~ Mr. George Musgrove.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
BRILLIANT SUCCESS.
TO-NIGHT, and EVERY EVENING,
THE WORST WOMAN IN LONDON.
Interpreted by WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS
DRAMATIC ORGANISATION.
Prices —3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Box Plan open at Elvy’s Music
Warehouse, George Street.
the MUTOSCOPE.
WONDERFUL LIVING PICTURES.
KING STREET ARCADE
and 400 GEORGE STREET.
Always on View.
Admission FREE.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney,
Sole Proprietor and Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards
Instantaneous Success of Mr. BOBBY WATSON,
the Popular and Favorite Australian Comedian, and
Mr. EDWARD BLACK, Corner Man.
Continued Success of Mr. W. C. FIELDS.
Splendid Success of THE DE WYMNE BROS.
Miss MAUD PERM AN, THE TWO COULTERS,
Miss CONNIE HAMILTON, Miss MAGGIE FRASER,
Mr. HUGH HUXHAM, Mr. H. BARRINGTON, Mr
SAM WILSON, Mr. GEO. SCOTT, Mr. GEO. WALLACE,
Mr. HENRY DAVIS, and all our Great Co. .
PER A HO US E, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. H. Rickards.
A Furore Created Nightly, by
MADAME MARZEL LA,
Queen of the Feathered World.
FREDERICK \ I . MOLLY
HALL EINT J and \ FULLER
DAN CRAWLEY, London’s Quaint Comedian.
WILL WHITBURN, RUBY CRAWFORD, LILIAN
BISHOP, CLARENCE SISTERS, ERNEST SULLIVAN,
MAUD FANING, LES WARTON, ARTHUR ELLIOTT.
)RI3VCESS’S THEATRE,
Sole Lessee
MELBOURNE.
Mr. George Musgrove.
EVERY EVENING. First Time in Melbourne, Mr. J. G.
Williamson’s New English Comedy Co. in
ARE YOU A MASON?
Introducing the Famous English Comedian, Mr. CEORCE
GIDDENS.
USUAL PRICES. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Theatre royalT^ Melbourne.
, , _ ~ Air. Bland Holt.
Business Manager .. .. C. Simonsens.
EVERY EVENING,
Bland Holt’s Famous Dramatic Company in a Revised Re-
production of the Exquisite Alelodramatie Spectacle,
THE GOLDEN LADDER,
by Geo. Sims and Wilson Barrett.
Prices —3s. 2s 6d. 2s, Is fid and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
HER MAJESTY’S theatre, melbourne.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. O. Williamson.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of IF I WERE KING.
SAT. NEXT, SEPT. 5, Last 5 Nights of Season.
Mr. CUYLER HASTINGS and THE SHERLOCK
HOLMES DRAMATIC CO. in
SHERLOCK HOLMES.
CUYLER HASTINGS as SHERLOCK HOLMES.
Harry musgrove,
19 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Musical, Dramatic, and General Agency.
Sole Proprietor and Manager .. Mr. Harry Musgrove.
Many years Business Manager with
Messrs. J. C. Williamson and Geo. Musgrove
(in Australia and London).
ENGAGEMENTS ARRANGED, PLAYS READ and
placed before Alanagers in Australia, and England.
THEATRICAL BUSINESS of all kinds undertaken.
ENTERTAINMENTS for “ At Homes ” arranged.
Amusements.
■pOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Mr. EDWARD BRANSOOMBE’S
WESTMINSTER ABBEY
GLEE AND CONCERT PARTY
(from London)
in a Unique Programme of the National Music of England,
Scotland, Ireland and Wales, comprising
GLEES, MADRIGALS, CATCHES & BALLADS.
FIRST CONCERT, MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 7.
SECOND CONCERT, THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 10.
THIRD CONCERT, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11.
FOURTH CONCERT, SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 12.
Matinee, Saturday Afternoon.
iSP - Entire Change of Programme Nightly.
POPULAR PRICES -3s„ 25., and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
The new her majesty’s theatre.
Sole Lessee & Manager, Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON’S Famous and Ever Welcome
ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY,
in the New English Comedy Opera, entitled,
MY LADY MOLLY.
Box Plan at Paling’s. KW PRICES AS USUAL.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the Direction of Mr. CHARLES HOLLOWAY.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
THE PRICE OF SIN,
Written by W. Hill-Mitchelson, Esq.
SATURDAY, SEPT. 5, For Positively 12 Nights Only,
A LIFE’S REVENGE.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Paling’s.
■J'HEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Under the Sole Direction of MR. CEORCE MUSCROVE.
LAST 2 NIGHTS of Mr. GEORGE MUSGROVE’S
Shakespearian Company
in Shakespeare’s Delightful Comedy,
A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM.
SAT., SEPT. 5, his Second Magnificent Production, -
TWELFTH NIJHT.
Prices as Usual. Plan Nicholson’s.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Director .. Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Evenings, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
LAST NIGHTS of .v:R. DANIEL FRAWLEY
and his Company of American Players in the Stirling
Military Drama of the American Civil War,
SECRET SERVICE. _ '
SATURDAY, MONDAY, and TUESDAY,
September sth, 7th, and Bth, the Great American Play,
IN MIZZOURI.
Box Plan at Paling’s.
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST CIRCUS.
LOCATION—
PHILLIP PARK,
(Next St. Mary’s Cathedral).
WARM, WATERPROOF TENTS.
BRILLIANT LIGHTING.
COMFORTABLE SEATING.
The Oldest, Biggest, and Most Advanced Australian
Circus, with the Greatest Performing Zoo in the Southern
Hemisphere.
WIRTHS’ HUGE SHOWS.
A PROGRAMME OF UNEQUALLED
Novelty ! Sensation ! Brilliance!
TICKETS—3s., 25., Is.; Boxes, £l. Plan at Paling’s.
Children Half-Price to Matinees.
SOME BOOKS
SOLD
BY
SIR ROBERT!
I
I
1
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
BMBRACma
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1903 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of, this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK
CAN BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
4
Write for my
810
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OB POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
Book of Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated with over 50 engravings,
3s 6d posted. Magic Up-to-Date, Easy Conjuring
Tricks for Beginners, illustrated, Is posted. Ned
Art of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40
engravings, Is. How to Dance, Is ; post, Is 3d. How
to Wrestle, Is ; post, Is 2d. Moll Flanders, a rare
book by De Foe, Is 3d posted. Tailoring for
Amateurs, Is; post, Is 2d. Zola’s Nana, etc., 2s
each posted. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Little Folks’
Reciter, Popular Reciter, Humorous Dialogue
Book, Cd each ; posted, Bd. Nigger Stump Speeches,
Is. Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Me-
chanic’s Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Dog Kefping,
Is 3d. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d. How to
Make Love, Is 6d. Fowler’s Science of Life, 10s 6d.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Nat Gould’s
Sporting Novels, 2s edition for Is 9d, post paid, any
of them. Will Power (Personal Magnetism), Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d posted.
Chiniquy’s Prlest, Woman, and the Confessional,
Is 6d posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-fitting, etc., Is. 3d.
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is. post.
That Rascal Gustave, Is. ; post Is. 3d. Camille, Is.
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning
and Repairing, Is. 3d Modern Etiquette, Is.
Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Horse and Cattle Doctor,
Is. Poultry Keeping, Is. posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is 3d. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, is. 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is 3d ; post Is 6d. Letter
Writer Up-to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts,
Public Speaking Made Easy, Is posted. Kelly Gang
of Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post
Is 3d. Model Plays and Dialogues, Is ; post Is 3d.
Inquirer’s Oracle : What to do and How to do it,
3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self Instructor : Every Man
His Own Schoolmaster, Is posted. Cabinet Makers
Handybook, Is 3d. Cabinet Making for Amateurs,
illustrated, 3s 6d post. Resurrection, Bd. posted.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. tpP“ Established 30 Years.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got It.
How to Make up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is.
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. ; post, Is. 3d.
Sappho, genuine, Is. Advice to Women, Is. ; post,
Is. 3d. *Dr. Milford’s Midwife’s Handbook, 92 prac-
tical illustrations, 2s. 6d. ; Aristotle, 3s. 6d. Clog
Dancino Made Easy, Is. Practical Palmistry, Is.
Love and Parentage, Bd. Secret History Court of
England, Is. 3d. post. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is.
Photography for Amateurs, Is. Morgan’s Free-
masonry, Is. 3d. post. Latest Song Books, 3d., 6d.,
and Is. Tokology, 7s. 6d. post. Voltaire’s Ro-
mances, 2s. Ingbrsoll’s Works, 2s. Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards, Love, Business, Futurity, etc., with
full directions, Is. posted. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is. 6d. posted. Ohbvassb’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s. 6d. posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is. 3d. post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s. each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s. 6d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is. 2d. posted. The Slide Rule and How to Use it,
Is. 6d. post. 100 New Recitations and Readings,
Is. 3d. Nervousness and Its Cure, Is. 2d. posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus., leather bound, my price, 15s. post paid.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Me-
chanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s. 6d. posted. THE
Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is. 3d. 200 Old-Time
Songs (words and music complete), Is. 6d. posted.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted, Is. ad.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, ss. 6d. posted.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney
There is much joy in the Mount David (N.S.W.)
camp. The first di vidend has been declared. It is small
—3d.—compared with the high-flavor promises of seven
or eight years ago when shares were boomed to over £1.
Reports indicate a probability of an average yield of
6dwt. per ton being maintained for a couple of years, so
that an occasional 3d. may be looked for. Working costs
have been reduced to 15s. 8d. per ton, which is satis-
factory, all things considered. Manager “ Jack” Pearce
is to be congratulated on the suocess which has attended
his efforts to pull the mine out of the ditch, and if he
doesn’t get a substantial addition to his monthly cheque
there is no gratitude in the co.
* * * *
W.A. mines during August paid £225,360 in
divs. Co.’s responsible were : Golden Horseshoe £90,000,
Perseverance £87,000, Princess Royal £4000, W.F. Main
Reefs £4000, Cosmopolitan £40,000, and Lancefield £360.
The total for the first eight months of this year is
£1,347,030, against £625,866 last year. For September,
Great Boulder Prop, has declared 9d., or £65,625, and
Oroya-Brown Hill 2s., or £45,000.
* * * *
Queensland Menzies (W.A.) is getting on fairly
well with sinking the main shaft, which is down 480ft.,
and is being sunk 20ft a month. The next level at 626ft.
should be started in three months time. Each 80ft.
vertical gives 150ft. of backs, and about 10,000 tons of
reserves. The co. is making £2400 a month, enough to
pay quarterly divs. of Is. The original 10-head mill is to
be scrapped and 10-head of 12501b. stamps substituted.
This should materially increase next year’s output and
profits.
* * » *
Cumberland, Norseman (W. A.), after its recent
flutter, is unlikely to provide much business till the mill
talks. Various experts have recently visited the pro-
perty, and their opinions widely diverge. Capt. Pleitner,
who knocked Arltunga endways, knocked the bottom out
of the market by damning the property with faint praise.
Directors took advantage of the boomlet to re-construct,
and announce a call of Is. This will provide £4000 if
fully responded to.
* * ■ * *
Black Range goldfield (W.A.), about which a
good deal has been heard lately, looks like trumps. A
lot of alluvial gold has been won in the vicinity, but
prospectors have now started working the reefs and
leaders. A parcel of 7 tons from the Bilbic, treated at
Lennonville, has vielded 165oz. of gold.
* * • *
During July, the W.A. gold mines turned out
the record yield of 212,501oz. The chief contributors
were : —Perseverance, 17,940oz. ; Horseshoe, 17,590oz. ;
Great Boulder, 14,883oz.; Great Fingall Consols, ll,015oz.;
Ivanhoe, ll,066oz. ; Oroya-Brown Hill, 8042oz. ; Asso-
ciated, 6232oz. ; Sons of Gwalia, 5411oz. ; Westralia Mt.
Morgans, 5213oz.; Cosmopolitan, 5448oz. ; Associated
Northern, 3723oz. ; Lake View Consols, 4635oz. ; Kalgurli,
3371oz. ; Peak Hill, 2718oz. ; Princess Royal, 2657oz. ;
Westralia and East Extended, 1639oz. ; Golden Link,
1919oz. ; Long Reef, 2061oz. ; East Murchison United,
1094oz. ; Bellevue, 1555oz. ; Queensland Menzies, 1248oz. ;
Boulder Main Reef, 1233oz. ; White Feather Main Reefs,
1044OZ.; Ida H., 1181oz. ; Hainault, 801oz. ; Lancefield,
759oz. ; Golden Age Consols, 688oz. ; Hannans Star,
251oz. ; Menzies Consols, 962oz. ; Menzies Alpha, 753oz. ;
Fraser’s South Extended, 651oz. ; Golden Ridge, 620oz. ;
and Champion Prop., 682oz.
» * # •
Island Eureka, Lake Austin (W.A.), appears to
be.in a pretty bad way,- judging from chairman White’s
dolorous ditty at recent general meeting. Shareholders
were told that “it would have been a wiser policy to
have paid fewer dividends, and, if dividends had been
continued, shareholders would soon have been obliged to
pay calls. Erection of cyanide plant had been too long
delayed. He would like to see the mine equipped with
rock drills and heavier stamps. Dividends would be
resumed as soon as justified.” The rock drills, heavier
stamps, and cyanide plant were promised in June, 1902,
and shareholders were assured that they could be pro-
vided without encroaching on dividends. Three years’
reserves of ore were also said to be in sight; yet for the
past six months no returns have been published, and
dividends have been suspended. When Tub Bulletin
predicted a catastrophe some months ago directors and
others were, or pretended to be, righteously indignant.
Somebody should be fired out.
* * * *
Queen Margaret (W.A.) appears to have secured
a real good thing in its new property, the South Gipps-
land, at Vosperton. Four levels are'being driven, and
all the ore broken out is being sent direct to the battery,
and is yielding an average of 35dwt., with 6dwt. left in
the tailings. At the 140ft. level the original prospectors
drove 50ft. and stopped on the reef pinching. Co. has
driven another 50ft., and the lode in the face is 3ft. wide
and worth loz. per ton. At 250ft. the lode has been
opened up for 100ft., and ranges from 1ft. to 5ft. wide.
At 285ft. about 250ft. has been driven, the reef averaging
about 20in. wide. The 370ft. level has been extended
150ft., and a rise put up to the level above. At this level
the reef averages about 2ft. A contract for a cyanide
plant has been let, and, when the job is completed, the
battery will run full time and treat from 5000 to 6000 tons
monthly. The accumulated tailings amount to 8000 tons,
on which there should be a profit of nearly £1 a ton.
Prospects look good, though the mine will never rank
among the big propositions.
Oroya-Brown Hill (W.A.) has completed the
addition to its treatment plant, and will in future handle
about 5300 tons for 10,000oz. of gold monthly. Some very
rich ore has been met in rising from No. 10 level, and also
in sinking a winze below it. The ore in both places runs
from 4 to 5oz. per ton. The winze is being sunk on the
incline, following the dip of the chute. This was the
practice pursued on the Associated Northern; and it
enabled the management to say that no sloping was
done, while the winze really gutted out all the rich ore.
The co. should make a very large profit in future. If the
published mining costs of 28s. lid. a ton could be relied
upon, there should be a margin, subject to deduction of
London expenses, of nearly £30,000 a month, or 80 per
cent, per annum on the issued capital.
* * * *
Paringa, Kalgoorlie (W.A.j, is putting down
two bores eastwards from the 800 and 1300ft. levels to
try and locate the Brown Hill lode. The consulting
engineer assured the directors that the lode would enter
the co’s. ground at 1000ft, if the average dip from surface
to No. 5 level in Brown Hill continued. The very nearest
point of the Brown Hill outcrop to the Paringa boundary
is 600ft., so that the underlie would require to be very
flat indeed to bring it into Paringa ground at such a
shallow depth. In any case, the gold chute dips away
south into the Oroya, so that the Paringa can never get it
even if it does eventually get the lode. The co. has done
a lot of legitimate mining since Thomson took charge,
and it is a pity that it has so far proved fruitless.
Millionaire, Mt. Morgans (W.A.), one of A. E.
Morgans’ flotations, doesn’t seem to justify either ex-
pectations or its great name. In the annual report the
ore reserves above the 100ft level were estimated at 14,810
tons assaying 26|dwt., but the published yields barely
average 7dwt., leaving an ounce unaccounted for. Pro-
perty has always been regarded as a low grade proposi-
tion, so that the 26dwt. estimate is pretty certain to be
all wrong. After three years’ work the main shaft is
• only 150ft. deep, and only one level has been driven.
Shareholders were told at the meeting on July 21 that
the approximate profit, after paying all expenses, on the
14,810 tons of ore opened up would be £55,000. As the
results from the mill since it started in May have shown
the ore to be worth barely 25s. a ton, somebody must
surely have made a blunder.
At Poverty Point.
Julius Knight off the stage begins to look older than he
was some years previously, but he battles hard against
ravaging- Time. With his nose adroitly powdered and the
same old kiss-curls arranged upon his brow, Julius is pre-
sumably as effective for stage purposes as when he used
to chase. the Early Christian maiden around the sinful
Pagan sofa.
“ For fifteen long years I was a lighthouse-keeper off
the rugged coast of Almond Rock; a successful light-
house-keeper, till one accursed day a thunderbolt fell and
split the mainbraces —and I had to hold my trousers up
with a life-belt! ” — Slab of rugged eloquence from James
Harvey, burlesquing Wilson Barrett at the Adelaide
Tivoli.
Said, on the most unreliable authority, that Musgrove
chose “ Twelfth Night ” to follow “ Midsummer Night’s
Dream” because of the “local color" that prophetic
Shakspeare put into it. There’s a Sir Toby in it, for
instance. This Sir Toby is in the position of protector
of a fair lady, his benefactress ; but, too fond of late hours
and good company, he weakly assists a bounder to get
possession of her. “This quaffing and drinking will undo
you,” one Maria tells him finally. And another, Malvolio
—Australia knows Malvolio, anyhow—talks to him like a
father : “ Sir Toby, I must be round with you. My lady
bids me tell you that, though she harbors you as her
kinsman, she’s nothing allied to your disorders. If you
can separate yourself and your misdemeanors, you are
welcome to the house ; if not, an it would please you to
take leave of her, she is very willing to bid you farewell.”
Dan Barry told a ’Tiser interviewer in Adelaide that
his first strike was made in connection with the death of
Napoleon 111. He bought a big bundle of the twopenny
“ extras ” issued by the Melbourne papers, took a cab to
St. Kilda, and sold them easily at half-a-crown a copy.
“ We made so much money that we didn’t know' whether
to start a circus or endow a church.” But he went into
the theatrical business on the profits of his sixpenny
shocker, “The Craft, Crime, and Crowds of a Great
City.” “ Was it a true record?” “No ; that’s probably
w’hy it caught on with the masses. But that was a detail.
I sold thousands of copies, and made enough money to
start a small Company. That was in 1883, and I have
been in the theatrical line ever since.”
Sydney is much the same as Melbourne —a great deal of
what its public takes for theatrical criticism is merely so
much puff-paragraphing. Just before a stock co. put on
a piece, a w'eek or two back, the cast was radically altered
—after the programmes had gone out. But the bill was
all the daily-paper “critic” had to go by; and so on
Monday morning Jorkins (who wasn’t “on” at all) read
that he had done very effective work, as usual, and
Smithson was told that he was well-placed as something or
other that he didn’t play. Of course nothing unfriendly,
or even frank, is said in such notices ; it’s grease all the
time.
“J.A.C.”: Apropos the conjuror at Adelaide Tivoli
yarn (B. 27/8/’O3). I remember, at the time of the Mel-
bourne land boom and bank crashes, when everybody
was more or less on his or her “ uppers,” Will Whitburn
giving a burlesque conjuring sketch at the old Victoria
Hall. “ Will anybody kindly lend me a gold watch for
my next trick?” he asked. No reply. “Ah, yes; of
course—l understand. Just hand me up the ticket;
that’ll do as well.”
“ Melb.” : “The Resurrection” will be followed, at
Her Majesty’s, by Hall Caine’s “Eternal City.” Here
the Pope is introduced, the action of the drama being set
in a future time, and curiously enough, Hall Caine
imagined a Pope with the title of Pius X. The name will
doubtless be changed, more especially as Caine’s Pope is
a downright rascal. The scenery of the drama intro-
duces just those parts of Rome which the public is most
curious to know about, at the present juncture. I do
not remember a Pope on the stage in any former play,
but probably there has been such, on the Continental
stage if not the English. Of course cardinals (or at
least one, Cardinal Richelieu) are familiar enough on the
boards.


Some Interesting Facts
about the Manufacture of
The Freeman and Wallace
Electric ‘lnvigorator’ Belts.
4,
An interview with Mr. W. Q. English, M.E.,
Certificated Electrician.
One of the most scientific electricians practising
in Australia is Mr. W. G-. ENGLISH, M.E.,
CERTIFICATED ELECTRICIAN, formerly
mechanical electrician to the Government Rail-
ways, Eveleigh, and the Government Electrical
Tramway Department. Mr. English’s knowledge
is not confined to the practical side of the Science
as applied to national industries. He has studied
deeply the Science of Electro-Therapeutics or the
application of Electricity to the human body for
the cure of such diseases as St. Vitus’ Dance,
Epilepsy, Rheumatism, or any class of Nerve
Diseases afflicting the human species. He is the
holder of a high class certificate granted at the
Sydney Technical College for competency in these
studies, which he received with honors.
Mr. English was recently interviewed by our
special reporter at his extensive laboratory,
Sydney. Replying to questions relative to Elec-
tric Belts generally he said
I think I have at my private residence over
30 different kinds of Electric Belts sold in different
parts of the world. I have specially studied this
science, and when any new Electric Belt or an
improvement is announced I receive it by first
mail from my European agents.”
Have you found any of them superior to the
Freeman and Wallace ‘ Invigorator * Belt, which
they sell for One Pound Only, and which you are
under contract to manufacture for them ? ”
No ! I have not. I have here a Belt adver-
tised largely and for which as muoh as ten
and fifty pounds is said to be paid, but it is
not equal to the Belt I manufacture here. I use
the finest material combined with the latest
improvements. The chief feature of my Belt is
the vulcanite insulation, for which the Institute’s
Specialists hold Australian patent rights. From
a medical point it is most important, for without
this no Belt is worth twopence medicinally, as the
current leaks away instead of being concentrated
on the human body affected.”
And this is most important in cases of serious
nerve diseases, I suppose ? ”
Very important. With the vulcanite insula-
tion the current is directed upon the electric discs
attached to the Belt-sheath and directly associated
with the body. Its benefit is thus directly felt,
no escapement is possible, and the invigoration of
the affected parts is rendered immediately com-
plete. It is a most scientific and effective
method.”
“And you think that Belts sold at £lO or £5O
are useless as a curative agent compared with the
one you manufacture at One Pound ? ”
“ They are not to be compared with it,” replied
the Electrician. ‘‘ I test every Belt I make with a
rigid crucial test. I will give any man or woman
an electric shock from one. The electro-motive
current is continuous and can be regulated by a
recently-patented electrical switch and can be
increased or decreased at the patient’s will. I
have known instances where patients could not
withstand the current generated when the voltaic
°f. b a ßeries have been fully charged.”
« n I s the finest in Australia ? ”
Absolutely. I know for a fact that certain
firms here imitate the vulcanite process and the
Kelt generally. As patent rights are held for this
time 6 ” 8 ' * are bablo to prosecution at any
a lar ff® quantity of the
LNVIGORATORS,’ I suppose?” queried the
reporter.
. Yes. I also manufacture other forms of electrical
instruments. I turn out on an average 100 Belts a
week, or about 5000 during the year. The low
price at which the firm sells them enables the
poorer classes to purchase them. They cannot
do this from firms that ask ten and fifty pounds
for an inferior article.”
t have been worn by many members
of the Sydney public.”
~ Yes. A few who have worn and eulogised
them ,by grateful testimony are Mr. Daniel
P„r° nn °£r M £-l, , In lP® ctor Fowler, N.S. Wales
Police; Mr. Phillip Newbury, the great tenor;
Mr. Patrick Larkin, J.P. ; Mr. Arthur Hill (of
till! and Sylvainy), under contract to Mr. Harry
Rickards; and hundreds of others. I also possess
testimonies from prominent electricians who have
used these belts,at my recommendation, and have
recommended them to suffering persons. These
fraud C ” DOt k® gulled with any fake belt or
“You were for years studying Electro-Thera-
peutics at the Sydney Technical College were you
Yes ; and that study gives students the rie
■? < ? lseases ' 1 took my final certific;
in 1960, which was granted me by the Supt. of t
College. I have also certificates shewing grac
tions of study dating back to 1886. I ha
experimented upon and cured many severe cai
of Lumbago, Locomotor Ataxia, Sciatica, Rh<
rnatism, and Kidney and Stomach Troubles
electric applications. In my opinion this centu
vill see. many wonderful studies in the medii
application of electricity, and diseases will
cured now deemed incurable, amongst them t
cancer - 1 ha ve made spec
studies of the X rays, and feel confident in wh
i say.
At this point Mr. English intimated that t
interview must end, as he was a busy man, ai
proceeded to test a recently-constructed Belt
large dimensions, which was ordered by a sqm
epa,t Inverell, who suffered from dyspepsia.
, w,| at charge will you make for tl
very rich” reporter - “ Squatters are oft.
“n°- nl^i° n l P ? und • ” rejoined the electricia
•;§ } s . fi rm s standing price. They do n
4ate it in any way. Call and see me again,
canalways give you an instructive hour.”
sciZn re i > T? r i le m’, deling certain that in tl
urmciK° f El . ectr °-Therapeutics the future wou
Eaoxe philosop by than is ,
Wear THIS BELT
MENU
Why be Weak ? Why not Listen to the Echo of Thousands of
Voices Raised in Thanks to these Grand Electric Belts ?
THE FREEMAN & WALLACE No. 7 PATENT
ELECTRIC “ INVIGORATOR ” BELT,
which is sold for One Pound Only f sends its currents Leaping over the Nerves, carrying Joy to
the Heart, saturating the Body with the Fire of Youth, the Heart with Confidence and Certainty
of Success. It makes Old Mon Young and Young Men Manly. It gives them the Lion’s Strength,
it Dispels the Glooms of Life, it gives Power where Weakness reigned, and the Sunshine of Happi-
ness where before dwelt the Shadows of Sickness. Every spark is a wave of Animal Life sweeping
into the Body. Every Moment it provides New Energy. Its Touch is the Touch of Magnetism—the
Healthful Essence of Vitality that makes Men Strong.
-"1(011- IgP- V" "V '# V v —v ——-V —v —v —*»-" 'N
Thousands have been cured of Sciatica, Indigestion, Rheumatism, Varicocele, Loss of Vital
Power, Constipation, Prostatic and Bladder Troubles, by wearing this grand Belt. The HON,
DANIEL O’CONNOR, M.P., Ex-Minister of the Crown, was cured of KIDNEY TROUBLE by its use.
Read his testimony—
~ 3
m&m.
m
Si
0 ■
PWa^SS,
; ctMV
I S 3
1
•V
£'f§
; :
.. ’JH
" \
m
m
mm m
m
m
I
1M spvsH|
~ '_• - * * * . • *
■ ■ : ■ - - . . ...■■. . .
Sh'M
V
"V;>, '•---. ■•*'■■•' :.
THE HON. DANIEL O’CONNOR, M.P.
.Photo, by Eden, Sydney.
Mr. O’CONNOR’S TESTIMONY.
Parliament Mouse, Macquarie Street,
Sydney, January 28, 1903.
“1 have worn one of your famous Electric ‘ INVIGORATOR BELTS.”
It has benefited me much. For years I suffered from severe pains in the
kidneys—the legacy of an attack of lumbago—which has now, I am glad to
say, left me. ' “(Signed) DANIEL O’CONNOR, M.P”
THOUSANDS OF TESTIMONIES OF
CURE.
If you suffer you should try this wonderful treat-
ment, and you will be cured, as Mr. O’CONNOR was
cured. Worn for a few hours nightly, while correct and
stimulative medicines are taken, relief is at once felt.
Its Price is only One Pound.
The patient awakes fresh and strong as though he had
partaken of the fabled Elixir of Life. Do not go through
life a Weakling. Be a strong healthy man. Remember !
You are not asked to pay £lO or £5O for this “ Invigor-
ator ” Belt as you are asked to pay for American importa-
tions. It is locally certificated by leading Electricians.
It is the finest Electric Belt Australia has ever seen. Do
not suffer when this system offers you a radical cure.
When under treatment every patient is under the care
of DR. WALLACE, M.D., L.R.C.P., E., L.F.P.S., E.,
L.M., who is Registered by the Medical Boards of New
South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, England and
AMERICA. He is a Specialist and medical Electrician
of Great International Reputation,
and is late of the Homoeopathic Hospital, Melbourne,
and British Army Medical Staff. (See N.S. Wales and
Victorian Registered Practitioners’ List.) All letters
addressed to him are treated with professional secrecy
and replied to punctually. Men’s Disorders are specialities.
Anyone suffering and interested in the cure by Electricity of a medically diagnosed disease, should send to the Sne-ialists of the
Institute, for their 570 PAGE MEDICAL WORK, “CLINICAL EXPERIENCES,” 150 MEDICAL PLATES 31 CHAPTERS It
is a treatise upon Electro-Therapeutics. A chapter upon Electricity deals exhaustively with the methods by which so’many wonderful cures
are daily made at the Institute. It 13 a whole Library of Facts and worth its weight in gold to strengthless men.
The FREEMAN & WALLACE
ELECTRO-MEDICAL and SURGICAL INSTITUTE,
Cor. Bathurst & Elizabeth Sts., Sydney.


Cate was a big bull-faced man who should
have been a pork-butcher but wasn’t. He was a
parson. Cate was leaving his work at the church
one afternoon to attend the sale of a certain
brindled cow he had set his heart on, when Drout,
a farmer, happened along, with his wife and six
large children, and demanded a wholesale
christening. Somehow, in their babyhood, every
one of the half dozen had omitted to call and be
christened. Cate, with only a few minutes to get
to the cow-sale, said a verse of a church hymn
under his breath, ranged the little Drouts round
the font, got the father to write down the proposed
names, and commenced to christen for all he was
worth. But Papa Drout, in writing the names
down, hadn’t taken into consideration that the
parson would want the youngsters in order, and
before he could intervene. Cate, in his haste, had
named Rupert Archibald as Hedley Beaumont,
and Sophia Fredericka had been christened
William John, whilst poor Bill was named Jim
Charlotte. Finishing the ceremony to his own
satisfaction Cate hurried to the sale (arriving in
time to see the cow knocked down to someone
else) and left Mr. and Mrs. Drout bordering on a
state of insanity, and quite unable to say whether
their children were male or female. Moral: Get
christened John, which is a handy name over which
a parson can hardly blunder; and don’t get
christened by a parson who wants to buy a cow.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or Now Zealand.
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per
cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors— Thomas Littlejohn, Esq.,Chairman; The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin Short,
Esq. ; Senator J. T. Walker ; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C. ; F. E. Winchcombe, Esq., M.P.
General Manager and Actuary— Richard Teeck, F.1.A., F.F.A., „
HEAD OFFICE 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Beanie's Bronchitis Cure.
THE FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, <un or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is mos com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consump ion tis
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally su idea ,
and a Complete Cure is certain. „ _
BEWARE OF COUGHS!
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OE HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
“Orange, N.S.W.
Mr. Hearne.—
“ Dear Sir,—l enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
of London, England, from which you will glean that
your medicine has been a perfect God-send to a martyr to
colds and bronchial asthma. Ido not wish any names to
be mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
land. You can see for yourself v. hat an immense succes9
it was.—Yours faithfully, .”
Extract from letter alluded to above
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
arrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
much interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
off. the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
from a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
supplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS* TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“Dergholm, Victoria.
“ Dear Sir,—i wish to add my testimony to the won-
derful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
mpnths, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
I was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
advice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
yours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
first dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
am a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
may depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
wonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
, “Yours faithfully,
\ “ JAMES ASTBURY.”
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myera-street, Geelong, and
ty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS-
“I used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it oured each of them in from one to three
doses.—P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.”
•
“Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of
the medicine yet; but lam sending'for another bottle in case I should want it.—D. M'DONALD, Trinkey, via
Quirindi, N.S.W.”
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.— A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney.”
•
“ My wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and I am glad to inform you that your Brochltis Cure has done us
both a wonderful deal of good, it having quickly cured us both. —R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford,
Victoria.”
•
“ I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletelv left me.—(Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria.”
©
“ I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria.”
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone.—J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W.”
©
“My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses.—C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers,
Queen-street, Melbourne.”
“ I lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miraculous. —F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.”
©
“Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria.”
©
“ Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.—(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.”
©
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once.—
G. SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” 0
“Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle.—W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria.”
9
“I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to everybody.—S.
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” ©
“ I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine,
but I can truly say that I am astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of my brief trial.—JOHN C.
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.”
•
“ Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the dootor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
me any good; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well. —11. HOOD,
Brooklands, Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.”
•
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.”
•
“ Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from you have pulled
me through a long and dangerous illness.—HENßY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria.”
•
“The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects. —OHAS. WHYBROW, Enoch’s
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.” v
Gratitude and Appreciation
HUNDRED 3 CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
“ The Scientific Australian Office,
“ 169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
“Dear Mr. Hearne,—The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom-
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ac-
countant, Collins-street, and the effect that it had was so
marked that he has ever since been continually recom-
mending it to others.
“ VVe are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“ PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.”
Queensland Testimony-
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
" 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Please send us 30
dozen Bronohitis Cure by first boat. We enclose our
cheque to cover amount of order.
“ We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well or.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
“ We are, faithfully yours,
• THOMASON, CHATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemists.
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir,—Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“I am. my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUAKRILL,
“Editor Geelong Advertiser."
“Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sates of your
Bronchitis Cure.” —ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., VYholesa
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARN E, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
branch depot, qjftgg. jj 0i Fi rs t Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
THE
SMELTING » REFINING CO. of
Works: DAPTO, LAKE ILLAWARRA (56 Miles from Sydney).
1901, Limited.
Highest Price paid for Gold, Silver, Lead, and Copper Ores,
. . ... Cyanide, Slags, and Jewellers’ Sweep, etc.
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay* _sZ ? " • "■
For all Information regarding Eates, apply to the Manager, Head Oeeice, Dapto;
or, A. E. EUDDEE & CO., 40 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Forwarding Agents.
BENGER’S FOOD is
not only highly nutritive,
but is most easily digested
and is so delicious that it
is enjoyed by Infants, In-
valids, Convalescents and
the aged.
in
&
The London Medical Record
says“ It is retained when all
other foods are rejected."
The British Medical Journal
says“ Benger’s Food has by
its excellence established a
reputation of its own."
Benger’s Food is sold in tins
by Chemists, etc., everywhere.


Whoever would be “Cock o’ the walk ”
Must open his mouth and crow loud,
For whispers and mutters are plainly not talk,
And very soon lost in a crowd.
We take special care that we may be heard,
Our knowledge we cannot immure,
For bad coughs and colds the stuff that’s preferred
Is Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
No. F5419—18c.
Gold Diamond and
Sapphire Bing-, £2.
No. Gl39s. —Solid Silver Serviette
Ring-, 4s 6d.
No. F2B76.—Pretty Glass-lined Shell
Butter Dish, with Knife, 13s 6d.
No. 30. —15c. Gold and Fine Opal and Pearl Bm
Brooch, £2 10s.
No. Fs93l.—Exquisite Diamond and Ruby-
Brooch, £l3 10s.
No. F74l9.—Novel
Charm, 9et. Gold,
Mouse in a Hat, 8s 6d
Nj. F7393.— 15c. Gold
Rope and Anchor
Oharm, 8s 6d.
Oct. Gold Fashionable
Photo. Pendant, 7s 6d ;
larger, 8s 6d, 11s 6d
With Pearls, 27s 6d.
No. F 3198. — Neat, P’ a : n Onyx and
Gold Mourning Brooch, 13s 6d.
No. F5328.—18c. Gold
Diamond & Sapphire
Ring, £6 los.
No. Fs9os.—Gentleman’s Embossed Solid Silver Visiting
Card Case, 16s 6cL
c^teukMfDawsonB^
fds
“ QETTER QUALITY FOR LESS MONEY.” That Is the Stewart Dawson Idea of
K carrying on a business. It’s our way of winning and keeping your custom.
We admit we are in a better position to buy at the right prices than any
other firm In Australasia, but remember that it was through following the policy
mentioned above that we have grown from one Store to Eight. There is a reason at
the back of everything, and BETTER QUALITY FOR LESS MONEY Is the reason for
our growth and popularity. Orders by post have careful attention, and catalogues
and information are gladly sent to enquirers.
15c. Gold and Pine
Pearl Star Pendant,
£4los; others up to £lO
No. E 7302. —Pearl,
Turquoise and 9c.
Gold Heart Pen-
dant, 17s 6d.
No. 215. Fine
Pearl and Sapphire
Heart, 9c. Gold,
16s 6d.
No. F 7392.—150-
Gold Filigree
Ornamented
Bean Charm,
10s 6d.
No. F 7420— Solid
Gold Perfect
Model Pipe
Charm,
8s 6d.
No. Fl4s4.—Fine
Quality Silver-plated
Centrepiece, 20in.
high, with Stag- Or-
naments and
Engraved (Mass Dish
and Yase, £3 15s.
le* : 1
wpWMaiMar
Wlmiipiiwfaimv
No. Gl399.—Solid Silver Queen Anne Salt Cellars and
Spoons, in Morocco Case, 52s 6d.
DAWSON
STEWART
a
This shows the new Pearl Necklet made from real solid Mother of
Pearl and coated by a secret process to imitate the real
pearls. The imitation is practically perfect, and only an expert
can tell the difference. Prices, £4, £4 10s, £4 15s, £5.
No. F 3738. —Neat Leather Purse, with Handsome
Silver Mounts and Lock, 13s 6d.
No. F9933.—Child’s Cup,
Silver Plated and En-
graved in case, 14s 6d.
No. 086.—Mother of Pearl Silver Plated and Engraved Butter Knife, 8« Cd.
Fo 01306.—Gadroon Edge Solid Silver
Serviette Ring, 11s 6d.
No. FB2lo.—Fine Leather and Solid
Silver Blotting Book, 255.
No. FJ76.— Fine Pearl Set, 15c. Gold 2 Bar
Brooch, 37s 6d.
Illustrated Catalogue
POST FREE.
No. 163.—18 c. Gold
Diamond and Ruby
Ring, £3 10s;larger
The Inky Way.
** The Viotorian Cyclopaedia,” a new publio&tion* gives
the dates of the establishment of the Melbourne news-
papers. Fawkner’s MSS. Advertiser appeared in 1838.
Another proprietary issued the first printed paper, the
Port Phillip Gazette, later, the same year. [But
Bonwick’s “Port Phillip,” published in 1856, says that
Fawkner was printing his paper for several months
before the Gazette appeared.] Fawkner’s printed paper,
the Port Phillip Patriot, appeared in 1839. The Herald
first came out in 1840. The Patriot changed to the
Daily News in 1845. The Argus first appeared in
1846, and the Age in 1854, the first number being printed
in the old Melbourne Exhibition, where the Mint is now.
The Argus and the Herald were the only daily papers in
1852. The Age was started by Cooke Brothers. Ebenezer
Syme, David Blair and T. L. Bright (not Charles) left the
Argus staff for the Age. The Cookes withdrew, and the
paper was carried on by a co-operative company, headed
by Blair, T. L. Bright and Shaw, the printer. Ebenezer
and David Syme bought the Age in 1856. The first Argus
proprietary had fallen into difficulties, and Edward
Wilson bought the paper, being then a small squatter, at
Dandenonsr. James Smith began on the Age. T. L.
Bright started “ My Note Book.”
* • • •
Some day, mayhap, the microbe of devilry will enter
some enterprising ink-slinger’s mind, and he will set about
to collect some, at least, of the weird legends that linger
round most newspaper offices—country ones, especially,
that have had their vicissitudes since the “roaring”
days. A scrap here about the remote editor—a man of
many parts. As effervescent to-day as a squib lighted at
both ends; to-morrow moralising that all the ways of life,
and ink, and drink, are Vanity—with a big V—and ending
his career either as Premier or other political potentate
of his State, or, what is just as probable, in maudlin
obscurity. Another scrap there about strange public
wires pulled, and strange public dodges dodged. A page
further on concerning the organ’s feuds against reptile
contemporaries, black, heavy, and unscrupulous as itself ;
as loopy in their ways and means to an end ; as shaky in
the syntax of their thunders. Then there are the papers’
acrobatic flip-flaps on matters of public policy ; its
unaccountable scuttlings of Ministerial ships ; its friend-
ships and its hatreds ; the axes it ground, the libel suits
it fought; its reasons for digging up the remains of this
buried scandal, and the reasons why it sat down hard on
the tomb of that one ; the men who were connected with
it, and their beginnings, doings, writings, drinkings, and
endings ; its bills, duns, ghosts, bailiffs, its collapses and
its resurrections. Every “rag” in the Commonwealth
has its history, its legends, and memories. Put to paper,
judiciously condensed, verified, and burnished, the
“Story of the Australian Press” still awaits the able
pen-driver for its consummation.
• * • *
“Steff Cassander”: Was in Sydney recently. Called
early on bookstall and asked for morning paper.
Wretched man gave me a dismal stare, and pulled down
from shelf a big assortment of mourning paper—most
deadly-looking kind. I explained. He snorted and
hbtly replied, “ Why didn’t yer say ’Erald ? ” I repeated
“’Erald?” “ Yass.” Thought I ought to drop into The
Bulletin Office just to see how you propel. Young man
intently licking stamps behind counter received me as if
I was a sewing machine ambassador. Explained myself,
and he referred me to the editor’s secretary, a youth evi-
dently in the last stages of choleric agony, or composi-
tion, or something. Introduced me to the sub., as
the editor was away ill. The sub. didn’t seem
too well ; in fact, you all seemed ill. The
sub. was very nice, and talked to me about Maori-
land and referred to the M.L. “Handbook” (dated
1882). There was another gentleman in the room, who
looked as if he was dying. Whilst talking, a waxen-faced
man with stiff whiskers burst in and delivered some
excited news to the man who was dying, but no one took
any .notice of him. All this time the buzz of machinery
jigging was horrible—l think that buzz helps to shorten
your lives. I asked the sub. how he got on. He pointed
sadly to a pile of MSS. on his desk. Occasionally a leaf
seemed to drop slowly (of its own accord) into the waste-
paper crate. I understood, and felt relieved that he had
nothing of mine just at that time. [lt is always cheering
to know how you look to an outsider, but the remark
about the Maoriland “Handbook” dated 1882 is quite
uncalled for. Volume in question is dated 1902.—Ed. B.]
What an awful slump there has been in the Inky Way of
Victorian country newspaperdom in the onetime fat pick-
ings to be had off the bones of Municipal Printing Oon-
tracts. On every hand the prices are a mere shadow of
the stout corpses on which the early newspaper vulture*
fattened, and which seemed to be their sole source of
income. Instances are quoted where shire printing (con-
siderably less of it in the old days and much worse done
then than now) used to cost £2BO per annum ; but, with
the advent of a rival organ, it has come down to £24,
and the successful tenderer expresses satisfaction at the
price. A few years back a Victorian pressman, hearing
no other tenders were in, raised his last year’s estimate
from £72 to £lO5 and got the contract. Before the next
tender-time came round the paper had changed hands—
the aforesaid soft-snap being held out as a bait for the
new purchaser. When next year’s tenders were called for
a rumor got abroad that the old proprietor, who had
another newspaper up the line, intended competing for
the shire work. At the council meeting it was notified
that the local organ had secured the printing contract.
Then the pale-faced representative of the old proprietor
rose and asked that prices be made public, when it was
found that the successful tenderer’s price was £25 ; the
old original’s £4s—or thereabouts 1 If the cost of
municipal printing falls any lower half the country sup-
press will close up from anaemia I
• • * *
One outcome of the row between London Times and
dramatist Henry Arthur Jones over the exclusion of the
Times’ dramatic critic (Walkley) from the opening per-
formance of Jones’ “ Whitewashing of Julia,” on the
ground of Walkley’s alleged unfairness to Jones, is that
the Times has reverted to its old practice of rigidly pay-
ing for the seats it uses for purposes of criticism. Having
come to so dignified a decision, the Times had an oppor-
tunity to allow the whole undignified squabble to drop ;
but instead of going and buying its seats as an ordinary
theatre-goer, it sent to the collective theatre-manager a
pompous note announcing its decision and saying, “We
shall be obliged if you will forward two stall tickets for
each first night’s performance, and we will at once for-
ward payment.” Then a portion of the collective manager
also became pompously polite and wouldn’t hear of the
time-honored custom of the critic’s free seat being upset.
The result is that London was treated to the humor-
ous foolery of England’s inky institution coming out
without notices of certain theatres, because the inky in-
stitution’scritic wouldn’t occupy the free seat, and wouldn’t
simply buy his ticket in a quiet, anonymous way like a
mere human being, and the manager wouldn’t be a party
to any scheme of payment by forwarding tickets. When
the Times becomes heavily dignified it seems to fear that
the fact won’t be noticed quite so much as it ought to,
and it has to draw attention at the top of its voice to its
attitude of quiet and manly reserve.
• * • *
Clermont (Q.) Labor-member J. V. B. Lesina’s reign in
Brisbane Truth’s editorial chair was a short one. Ex-
Labor M.P. Cross took possession during Norton’s recent
presence in Brisbane.
* * * *
Lately, a Queensland bank-owned paper advertised in
the Brisbane dailies for a manager-editor at £3 per week.
Imagine such extravagance ! And he would have nothing
whatever to do, while sweltering in a tropical, Chinese-
infested Northern township, except write leading articles
in the bank’s interests, do paragraphs, use the scissors and
Easte pot, secure ads., report, read proofs, keep the
ooks, make out accounts, keep the subscribers sweet,
etc., etc. Something must have happened to make that
bank so liberal.
• * * *
“ Wurrym ” : The man mentioned in Bulletin (23/7/’O3)
Who reported the current price of “ seed pollard,” put in
a period of pen-and-inky servitude at Perth—at least, he
was reputed to be the same individual—and there became
responsible for the canard concerning a fight between
Piesse and George (now Commissioner of Railways) in the
Assembly. The guileless one heard that the roundsman
on the West Australian had full particulars, whereupon
he gathered up some sort of a yarn which the Herald
sub. had doubts about. Colebatch (formerly of Barrier
Miner), who was doing country wires, cross-examined his
junior, but the latter was confident. So Colebatch wired
the yarn away, and the goldfields papers published
it under “ Late Sporting.” That’s what made old Jarrah
Jack and his crowd squirm. The prosecution of the
Hockings of Kalgoorlie Miner failed ; so to get home on
someone a ukase was issued that Colebatch was to be
debarred the reporters’ gallery. He hadn't been In
the gallery for years, but that was enough to get
him there, and he promptly adorned a front seat. Pre-
sently a messenger came and desired him to withdraw.
You’ll have to put me out,” said Oolebatch as trucu-
lently as he knew how. As soon as the usher’s hand was
on his shoulder up he rose and “ wint quoitely, yer wor-
ship.” Then he issued a writ against the Speaker for
assault, the objectionable order was withdrawn, and
peace reigned again. But the reporter above referred to,
besides this and his “ seed pollard ” experiences, had one
concerning " stud wethers ” before he abandoned jour-
nalism and went back to his old home at the case.
* * * *
Veteran Melbourne pressman, Jas. Smith, was editor of
a newspaper in his native county of Devon, England,
at the age of 21. On arriving in Melbourne in ’53 he
thought of going into business as an auctioneer, but took
up the pen again instead. There were few practised
writers about in those days, and he soon established
himself. He wrote at) ome period or other for seven or
eight different Melbourne papers. In the prosperous
days of the country press he used to contribute articles
to provincial as well as metropolitan journals, and for a
long series of years turned out an average of 20 columns
per week.
< * * * *
“ Com ”: Practically the first newspaper man was the
Court Fool. Kings and wealthy men in the pre-news*
paper days so longed for an occasional comic paragraph
or satirical criticism on a friend, containing a biting
truth, that they engaged a salaried jester to fill the bill.
What a fine career George Reid missed though the
miserable accident of not being born at the time of the
Plantagenets !
* * * *
English politicians now abjure precedent and submit
to the “ interview.” Mr. Chamberlain was interviewed
by several newspapers on his return from S’Africa. The
course that used to be adopted by a public man wishing
jJ’* ve ' rl formation to the press in England was to
address a public meeting or to write a letter to a friend,
who would promptly (as instructed) pass it on to the
press.
* * * *
_ “ J.E.W.” : For its size Perth (W.A.) is the most paper-
ridden town in the Comm on wealth. It staggers along
under the weight of four dailies (one more than Mel-
bourne), half-a-dozen weeklies (one sixpenny, and the
rest threepennies), and a couple of sectarian prints, and,
as if these were not enough, some prize idiot is alleged to
be bringing out. a threepenny monthly. Said that at
least two are beginning to feel the shoe pinch, and no
wonder. [Perth may be the most paper-ridden town in
the Commonwealth, but Christchurch (M.L.) holds the
Australasian record, or very near it. Population about
67,000 ; four daily papers, seven weeklies, one fortnightly,
five monthlies, total 17. Ed. 8.l
* * * *
There was turmoil in an illustrated weekly office in an
Australian capital a while back. The M’Phairson of Loch
Fairgus, or something of the sort, had sent in his photo.
for publication on being elected, for the year, to the
position of Hereditary Grand Chief of the Phillibegs or
some kindred society. The M’Phairson was a big adver-
tiser in the daily, so the weekly felt bound to publish the
portrait of the proprietor of the Caledonian stores, as
Hereditary Grand Chief hereinbefore described, wearing
kilts and sporran and Skein Dhu and other weird articles
of clothing. The day of publication the office was filled
with furious M’Phairsons and M’Tavishes and M’Clay-
mores and other wild and hairy beings, for the title under
the honored chief’s portrait was “Mr. Macpherson in
fancy dress.”
* * * *
Compositors who have been City of London apprentices
are entitled at all times to wear a sword within the City.
They don’t avail themselves of the privilege, but the
quaint old foolishness is regarded as an honorable tradi-
tion in the Inky Way.
Robert Hichen’s latest book, “Felix," describes a
supposititious School for Journalists." The founder of
this school, Mr. Samuel Collingbridge, known to his
young lions as “ Old Sam,” has a number of ambitious
P aj ' £1°0 a year, in return for
which he gives them the benefit of his fatherly advice,
the use of his office, and plenty of ink—“he has noticed
most young men prefer to choose their own paper ’’—and
he graciously allows them to do so. His opening instruc-
tions arefull of sound, but sordid, wisdom. To Felix he
. In .f^ der to be a successful journalist, you
must be either an observant person or an accom-
plished liar. I was both, and made £2000 a year.
The clever journalist must also be an alarmist, one well
able to play upon the fears of his country. I know a
“ adea fortune out of ‘the downfall of
England. The downfall of England is his speciality, but
1 don t recommend my pupils to specialise. You should
study every kind of type, from the palace to the butcher’s
PTj a ! 1 - ?°J t8 of sensations. If you were being
thrashed which Heaven forbid 1—study your sensations.
What is pain ? What is humiliation f What is cowardice ?
If you are being embraced by a Countess who wishes you
t° praise her salon , or by a prima donna who wishes you
to puff up her voice, ask yourself why does the meeting
of lips give pleasure ? You must analyse everyone and
everything. Analyse me. Analyse yourself. Analyse
the girl you are making real love to. Analyse the girl
you are merely fooling. Choose striking forms of expres-
sion. Never be tame. In journalism it is not acrime to be
vulgar. Far from it. But to be tame is a crime. Above all,
be sensational in everything. By sensationalism I don’t
mean blazing accounts of murders and arson, rape and
robbery. Many religious papers exist by being sensa-
tional about ritualism, atheism, bishops, Jesuits, and the
” i Jf ermen t.the public passions, then lull them to
rest. The public likes it. Then again the public likes
humbug. Give the public what it likes. Give it humbug,
lots of humbug. The humbug of England’s mission of
spreading light through the world’always takes well.
Study the art of humbug in the speeches of our great
political leaders. Study women closely ; they are hum-
bugs by nature, often very accomplished ones indeed 1 ”
• • • •
. Toronto Globe publishes, from Burris Gahan, a very
interesting (though in places somewhat incorrect) sketch
of Australian newspapers from a Canadian point of view.
The morning papers strike him as excellent in their com-
ment columns, but poor in their news. “ Newspaper
reports here can usually be trusted, but they are often
very dry and dull. The Australian reporter, however, is
never so aggravating as when he starts fine writing. He
has not yet learned thoroughly the cardinal rule of sum-
marising the main points of his story in his opening sen-
tences. . . . All the press cables come direct from
London, even if they report happenings in China, South
Africa, or America. Twenty of the leading papers in the
Commonwealth have arranged a cable service of their
°wn. The only variation of the cables as they appear in
the two Sydney morning contemporaries is when one or
the other makes a glaring blunder in interpreting the
brief. The news received is very meagre, though judi-
cious padding makes it assume respectable proportions.
... If this powerful press of Australia has an adequate
representative it is Mr. l)avid Syme, the proprietor of the
Melbourne Age. He may be taken as a type of all that
is strongest, if not of all that is best, in Australian jour-
nalism. Locally he is known as ‘ David King.’ . . .
As a newspaper man he is remarkable for his organising
rather than for his literary ability. Although his name
appears on the title page of a volume in praise of Protec-
tion, no one has ever accused him of being its literal
author. ... It is remarkable that the evening papers
should be so poor. They cannot compare at all with the
evening papers of Toronto and Montreal. Their news is
scanty, their style is stiff and sombre, their editorial tone
is either dull or flippant, and their influence is slight.
. . . But the worthlessness of the evening press is
more than counterbalanced by the splendid char-
acter of the great illustrated weeklies. They are a
journalistic development peculiar to Australia
It would be well for Australia if the Australasian could
be called its national paper, but I fear that title must go
to The Bulletin. The Bulletin is one of the cleverest
papers published, but its cleverness is used unworthily.
It is the pride of Australasians, hut its popularity is not
as complimentary to the good taste as it is to the intelli-
gence of the people. Its tone is too often flippant, in-
delicate, cynical and irreligious. When it can be serious,
its independence and fearlessness are admirable. The
unpopular cause is always sure of an advocate here.”


THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, tlie well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth -st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance
is solicited
DANGEROUS.
The greatest danger from colds and influenza
is their tendency to result in pneumonia. If
reasonable care is used, and Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy taken, all danger will be avoided. It
will cure a cold or an attack of influenza in less
time than other treatment. Hoarseness in a child
that is subject to croup is a sure indication of the
approach of the disease. If Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy is given as soon as the child becomes
hoarse, or even after the croupy cough has
appeared, it will prevent the attack. It always
cures, and cures quickly.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It dri\es away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
“Felo de Se,” which, we’ve been told
Is meant for suicide,
Applies to Jones, who caught a cold
Neglected it and died ;
Carelessness won’t make old bones,
Nor health to us secure.
When you’ve a cold, don’t follow Jones-
lake Wood s Gee at Peppermint Cube.*
Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Not genuine without the signature.
Be sure you get Martin’s. Sole proprietor, W.
Martin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
England.*
Our Latest Styles of
GRAMOPHONES
ARE FITTED WITH THE
NEW PATENT “SOUND ARM ”
IT AFFEAI.S TO YOU
HERE
mm
,'AVS.
mm
PURER,
LOUDER and
SWEETER.
One of the many advantages which this attach-
ment possesses is the ease with which
the horn can be turned in any direction.
PRICES
“ Monarch,” single-spring machine, 22in. Brass Horn, and “ Concert
Sound Box,” fitted with new “Sound Arm” £-|-| 15 Q
“ Double=Spring Honarch,” 22in. Brass Horn and “Concert
Sound Box,” fitted with new “Sound Arm” £l4 15 O
“Triple=Spring Monarch,” 22in. Brass Horn and “Concert
Sound Box,” fitted with new “Sound Arm” £l6 5 O
Other Styles, 30s to £3O. All “ Monarch ” styles play 7in. or 10in. records.
Agents all over the World.
s'
4
RECORDS
IN ALL LANGUAGES.
Send for Catalogues and
Price Lists.
Australasian Agents
Victoria—
A- P. Sykes, 227 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne.
South Australia—
Messrs. S. B. Hunt & Co.,
94 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
Queensland—
Messrs. Heindorff Bros.,
210 Queen Street, Brisbane.
West Australia—
Messrs. Nicholson & Co.,
Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand—
Messrs. H. Gentles & Co.,
9 Strand Arcade, Auckland.
Tasmania—
Messrs. Wertheimer & Benjamin,
71 Collins Street, Hobart.
GRAMOPHONE & TYPEWRITER, ltd
163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
KEMP’S PATENT SHEEP BRANDING LIQUID
Is now being used by hundreds of woolgrowers, amongst them some of the largest squatters in Australia.
IT WILL DO EVERYTHING THAT IS CLAIMED EOR IT.
It will stay on the sheep’s hack as long as required. It will not injure the wool and can be scoured from it.
Manufacturers and Sole Agents :
FEETOH HINNIIE * IDEEBOIROE.
BLACK , BED, and BLUE (in 8-gallon Cases):—
PRICE IN MELBOURNE
„ SYDNEY (E. Rich & Co., Ltd.)
>, BRISBANE (E. Rich & Co., Ltd.)
i) HOBART (Wm. Crosby & Co.)
“Polstan”: According to “ Ku-KIux ”
(B. 20/6/’03) booking clerks on the Victorian
railways have a lot to do. Don’t doubt it. They
have. But when “Ku-Klux” is at Spencer-
street he should go into the Enquiry Office and
look on for a minute or two at Bent’s overworked
official there. Last week I found the officer m
charge answering two telephones and hurling
answers to frenzied queries at the seething mob in
the office at the same time. He is said to be
marvellously correct and never to give a wrong or
an insufficient reply, which is to he wondered at
considering the manner in which he is besieged
and the silly-ox questions he is asked. There is
need for three men with the whole time-table in
their heads and with a large stock of concentrated
essence of Job in that office.
An official in uniform politely pointed out
that the front tram was a “through one.” The
bandy-legged passenger asked him if his grand-
mother was a monkey, and got on board. He was
clean shaven, and his face would have scared a
hangman. The tram started, and after we had
climbed the side of the hill we whizzed along at a
great rate. Suddenly the circular-legged passenger
pressed the little electric bell, but the tram
whizzed on heedlessly. “ Yer on a through tram,
boss ! ” said an obliging individual. “ Why don’t
yer tell me something I don’t know?” said the
Owner of the Countenance. “ Well, watcher
ringin’ ther bell for?” retorted the other. “He
won’t stop till he gets to his point!” “Oh, yes,
he will, mister; he’s goin’ ter stop here, right
now ! ” And the person with a hidden crime for
a face seized the rope and removed the overhead
arm from the wire. In a moment the tram was
plunged in darkness and stopped with a bump.
The ponductor^dropped off from .somewhere in
front and came running hack, but, by the time he
had overcome his indignation and was able to
comprehend what had happened, the person with
the space between his legs was a mere shadow
under a distant public house lamp.
They were inflicting the customary pre-
sentation on a telegraph-operator on the eve of
his departure from a M.L. township, and after
the leading lights had plastered him with much
butter, the message-boy rose and spoke at great
length, and incidentally remarked that “ he was
always well satisfied with the way the operator
had done his duty” !
“Morton”: Bulletin, 23rd June, says
re Henry Browne Hayes :
Hayes, nevertheless, opened the lodge on 16th May,
1803, and was deported to Van Diemen’s Land for his
rouble.
Can anybody tell us what became of Hayes after
1803? I’ve gone through files of old papers,
Gazettes and documents of all sorts. The Vande*
monian records of that time are—well, where are
they ? Besides, Vandemonia is hyper-sensitively
intolerant of the man who inquires after its grand-
father. Some time ago, I found this (Notes and
Queries, 3rd S. III., 284):
Towards the close o Hast century, Sir Henry Hayes
abducted a Quaker damsel; and after a day or two’s
detention, restored her to her parents, intact, and
absconded. So she outlawed him ; and a Government
reward was gazetted for his apprehension, which she, by
advertisement, doubled, adding an extract from Black-
stone, that “ it was lawful for any man to kill an outlaw.”
He was taken, tried, convicted, and sent to death. Her
vindictiveness had some share, I suppose, in his reprieve,
and he was sent to Botany Bay, whence, after several
years, he was permitted to return for the purpose of
taking his then grown-up family back with him to
Sydney. About 1816 I saw him in London, just before
his return thither, where he had established a brewery,
and after a while died, a wealthy man.
The vindictiveness of demure Mary Pike is not
inexplicable. Hayes stole her, and then handed
her hack in a cold, respectable way, as a disap-
pointing article. Anyhow, the Knight flashes
picturesquely across our history, and disappears
completely. Why did he disappear, and when ’
The Tageblatt (Berlin) recently asked the
opinions of its readers as to the ten most dis-
tinguished men living to-day. And the result is,
to say the least, interesting. Tolstoy headed the
list with 502; then came Mommsen, the historian
(whom the accurate Webster’s Die., 1894 edition,
says died 1892!), with only 10 behind ; and the
next eight in the following order : Marconi 445,
Ibsen 425, Edison 368, Nansen 270, Rontgen 264,
Nausel (the artist) 240, Koch 228, with—oh,
horror ! —Emperor Bill last with 203. Amongst
those who received between 100 and 200 votes
were Bjornson, Gorky, Chamberlain, Hauptman
and Max Klinger (painter and sculptor). Those
with less than 100 included painter Laubach and
Pierpont Morgan (!); those with less than 50,
Kruger, Pope Leo and Richard Strauss. Among
those who staggered under the weight of one
solitary vote was Mark Twain. A similar ballot
taken, say, by London Times would, it is safe
to say, turn out something like this : King Ned,
Chamberlain, Roberts, Campbell-Bannerman,
Kipling, teaman Lipton (if his yacht wins the
’Murkan Cup), Ranji, Dan Leno, Prince of Wales,
the owner of the next Derby winner (if the
favorite) or Irvine.
“ R.” : We were smoking in the parlor of
the Insane Emu publiebouse, when my friend, the
chemist, said, “You talk about worry ! Why, if
you were in my line you’d he grey in a week. An
instance: Took down the cocaine bottle once to
make up a prescription ; used it, and returned it
to shelf. Stood looking after the customer as he
left the shop, and, on turning round, there was
the strychnine bottle by my elbow. I was stunned,
but, shaking myself up a bit, sang out to my
assistant. ‘ Say, Bob! have you been using strych-
nine ? ’ ‘Yes, sir ; just used it; I’ll put it back in
a second.’ I breathed again ; hut felt as sick as if
I had taken an emetic. But very often there’s no
explanation like that, and then you just wonder
what you put in the prescription, There’s
nothing on earth so fiendish as the poison bottle.
It climbs down from the shelf on its own, and
stands beside you just to make you think you’ve
been using it by mistake, and then you stop
breathing for lialf-an-hour with the shock. But
the bottle’s got no sense. It’ll come down just
the same way if it’s empty.”
" Eton, the insanitary menagerie on the
Thames, where fathers send their sons in order
MoL mayil ° treCeiVeanyeducation -”-^
H. : Re those two joyous idiots who
\ ly wf ted , 1 across , t . he Wainjangu geyser
(M.L.). Where the gamble came in was in the
fact that the geyser gives absolutely no warning
Wh ? I \ lfc 1S e™?* to spout. It is quiet one moment,
and the next it is throwing a column of hot water
and general Sheol 1000 or 1500 feet in the air. If
it had exploded when the two fools were crossing
they and their boat would probably have gone up
a quarter of a mile, and when a boat and two fools
fall on an admiring crowd from that height it is
bad for the admiring crowd.
Dear Bulletin, — The present sea-serpent
is a decadent. Compared with former sea-
pents, he is a mild and inoffensive reptile that a
child might play with. Here is an item from the
United Service Journal of 1831:—
Extract from the log-boolc of the ship Douglas : “ Sailed
May 3rd, from Curacoa. May 6th, at 3 p.m., in lat. 35'
long. 68°40, made, as we supposed, a vessel bottom up’
about five or six miles distant; proceeded within 40ft. of
the object, which appeared in the form of a turtle ; its
height above water 10 or 12ft.; in length 25 or 30ft., and
in breadth 12ft., with oars or flappers, one on each side,
12 or 15ft. in length, one-third of the way from his taii
forward, and one on each side near his tail 5ft. long.
The tail, 20 to 25ft. long, had a large lion face with large
eyes. The shell or body looked like a clinker-built boat
of 25 or 30 tons, bottom up. There were some large
branches on him. This animal was standing south-east,
and in the course of Bermuda, and his velocity about two
knots per hour. A vessel running foul of this monster
might be much injured.”
Now, this is something like a sea-serpent. The
accurate measurements alone would enforce belief,
not to mention the tail with a large lion face.—
Ernest Favenc.


In four charges of robbing churches in and
about Sydney lately, the charge-sheet said
nothing about “ sacrilege.” And the court found
the thief guilty of “larceny.” A few years ago
the theft of a knee-pad out of a church was called
“ sacrilege,” and involved a ten-years sentence-
one year for the theft and nine years for desecrat-
ing Parson Howler’s edifice.
“ G.M.R.” : I enter the rich grandfather
of a baronet in the mean man competition. In
the early fifties a pal of mine was gaining experi-
ence on one of the many stations owned by said
millionaire. A likely buyer for the run having
turned up one day, grandfather and pal set out on
a tour of inspection with him. This was got
through in due time, and, as a final, an adjourn-
ment was made to the men’s hut, with a view of
making a valuation of it and its contents. These
consisted principally of a black, greasy-looking
frying-pan, which was knocked down at Is. Some
dripping, however, collected on one side of the
pan, caught the hawk eye of grandfather, who
firmly declared the sale off unless the buyer
sprung another Id., as he reckoned the dripping
was worth it
From Perth (W.A.) Sunday Times :
Proportion sum for Mr. Commissioner Roe, who in
Perth recently gave a half-starved man two years for
stealing a shilling, and immediately afterwards awarded
six months to a beast who had indecently assaulted a
five-year-old girl:—
A shilling equals two years’ gaol.
A little girl’s purity equals six months.
How many criminal assaults equal a tram fare ?
An occurrence like that in, say, N.S.W. wouldn’t
strike anyone as odd, however—N.S.W. Has,
before now, witnessed the barbarity-cum-bathos of
one of its judges first serving out three years’ gaol
to an old man for stealing a ninepenny tin of
baking powder, and then o0 ,n,encing to three
months’ imprisonment a Chow who had murdered
a white youngster.
RHEUMATISM
IN
THE
mainoHS
m
7
7
•j
Li
(
Stop the Pain
WITH AN
Allcock's
POROUS
PLASTER
This painful trouble ran be relieved and cured by using an
Allcock's Porous Plaster. Warm the plaster before applying—
if not relieved by bedtime, place a hot water bag against the
plaster on that shoulder.
REMEMBER.— These plasters are good for all pains and aches.
They have been in use 55 years, have been imitated more than any article
ever sold, and have made more cures than any other external remedy. They
are infinitely superior to any belladonna, capsicum or strengthening plaster.
Get the best—Allcack’s—The Plaster that Cures.
/J
Rhymes with
Nn
A.
m
«r
1
8
i
Cv
>
m
&
y <s
and so does
PEARS
Sandy’s Selection.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Parkers were friends of Sandy’s and Kate's,
and lived in town, where they were mostly out of
work. Sometimes Sandy sent them a bag of
potatoes; and once Parker sent Sandy a case of
fruit, which the railway people enjoyed.
Jimmy Parker came to Sandy’s to spend a
holiday. Jimmy was about 14, and had never
been to the bush. He had often longed to sed it,
though; and to become acquainted with cattle
and kangaroos was his ambition. Sandy met him
at the railway and took him to the selection in
the dray. Jimmy was delighted to see so much
country, and all the way along nursed a small
rifle he brought with him.
“How ’re y’ on kang’roos?” Sandy asked,
eyeing the weapon. Jimmy said he didn’t know.
“Never had a shot at any.”
Sandy told him there were thousands round his
place, and boasted of the size and ferocity of
them. Jimmy drew deep breaths, and his eyes
rolled excitedly.
“ How do you manage,” he asked, “ when an
old man tackles you ? ”
“ Them’s one of th’ things y’ ’ve got t’ look out
f r,” Sandy answered lightly, giving the old mare
the double of the reins, hard, on the rump, and
making her go a lot slower. “The las’ time one
tackled me,” he went on, “I just took ’im be th’
throat with me left hand till I got out me knife ;
then I stuck it inter ’im an’ ripped ’im right up
t’ th’ bloomin’ mouth, an’ let a heap o’ green grass
outer ’im.”
Jimmy shuddered, and suddenly discovered he
had left his pocket-knife at home.
“ Well, while y’r up ’ere,” Sandy said advisedly,
“you had better borrow mine whenever y’ go
out.”
Silence for about a mile.
Going down the Gap, near Talty’s, a great noise
suddenly broke out. There was wild commotion
in the gully.
“Hello!” Sandy said, stopping the dray;
‘‘ they’re after somethin’.” And he stared about.
“There it comes!” he cried; “look out! . . .
Get y’r rifle.”
A tired, miserable marsupial floundered towards
them pursued by three of the Talty girls and an
old blind dog.
“Sool ’im, sool’im!” the girls were shouting,
and the blind dog sooled in moderation.
Sandy jumped off the dray and heaved a waddy
vainly at the passing ’roo, then joined in the
chase. But Jimmy sat still and grinned and
wondered. A ’roo hunt was new to Jimmy.
When the dray arrived at the selection Kate
met it at the rails and nearly shook Jimmy’s hand
off. Kate always got excited when visitors came.
She commented on his altered appearance, asked
him how his mother was and how his father was
keeping, and if the baby was walking yet, and
why Julia, his sister, didn’t come, and finished
by inquiring how he liked Sleepy Creek. Then
she foraged in the dray for things Sandy had
brought from the store.
“ What about tea? Didn’t y’ bring teal ” she
cried.
Sandy threw down a new rake he had purchased
and stared sheepishly.
“ Clean f’got it ! ” he gasped.
“Well, y’ re a thing” Kate snapped, “ why it
was what we wanted most, an’ I told y’ not t’
f’get it! ” Kate nearly cried.
“Ain’t y’ got noneat all?” Sandy murmured.
Jimmy felt he was in the way, and strolled
over to the garden.
“Got none?” Kate snorted. “Of course I
ain’t.”
Sandy looked very dejected.
“Y’ didn’t f’get y’r old rotten t’bacca, I
know ?”
Sandy made no remark.
“Oh, yer mic/hter thought of it!” reproach-
fully. Then she went inside and slipped out the
other door, and went off to Mrs. Hogan’s as fast
as she could run. Kate was a great one for tea.
Jimmy removed his hat at the door, and
smoothed his hair with his hand. Sandy kept
his on.
. “Y’ know me Uncle?” Sandy said, introduc-
ing Jimmy.
Uncle grinned and leaned round to shake hands
without getting up, and the pumpkin he was
sitting on at the fire rolled, and he slipped off.
Sandy laughed. Uncle recovered himself and sat
staring into Jimmy’s face, as if he was a kanga-
roo, and made him uneasy.
“Pull y’r boxes up,” Sandy said when tea was
ready, and dumped his own down at the head of
the table.
They all sat round. Sandy piled enough corned
beef and. potatoes and pumpkin on Jimmy’s plate
to last him a week, and worried him fill through"
the meal to take more. And when he refused a
third cup of tea Kate became alarmed about his
health. She was sure he was ill, and suggested
he take a dose of oil or something and go to bed
early. But Jimmy shook his head and smiled.
After tea Sandy proposed a “bit o’ ’possum
shootin’, ’’ and he and Jimmy got ready and went
out. They mooned about, falling over logs and
fouling brambles and limbs that nearly poked
their eyes out, until the moon went down, but
didn’t see a solitary ’possum—saw nothing to
blaze at at all.
.“D funny!” Sandy mused. “Any other
night they’d be thick.”
They returned to the house.
“There’s a bed made for Jimmy at the fire,”
Kate called out from beneath the blankets ; “ an’
there’s some bags at th’ foot for him to throw on
hisself in th’ night if he feels cold.”
Jimmy assured Sandy he would be comfortable,
and turned in.
When lie woke in the morning the fire was
made, and Kate was skipping in and out getting
breakfast ready. Jimmy wished to rise and be
about. But Kate was in the road. He watched
her movements closely, and when she went out
the door to yell to Sandy, who was milking at the
yard, that, breakfast was ready, he jumped out,
grabbed his trousers and faoed the fire. Jimmy
never in his life before was in such haste so early
in the morning. He got one leg in and was
dancing about on it, balancing himself and kick-
ing and fumbling with the other when Kate
returned. Jimmy wasn’t a precocious youth—he
was sensitive and shy, and Kate regarded him
more as a son than anything else. She took
no notice of him, but went straight to the fire to
make the tea. Jimmy faced the other way then,
and tangled himself up and fell on the bed. Then
he snatched the blanket and covered himself
again ; he turned red, too, and was in distress.
Kate made the tea, and turned to the table and
commenced to hum a tune. After a while Jimmy
sat up and fumbled with the b’anket; and when
at last he stood on his feet his trousers were on.
After breakfast Jimmy helped Sandy to yoke
the horses; then took the rifle and went in search
of kangaroos. Sandy directed him to a spot
where he would find them in millions.
Jimmy tramped round and round the paddock,
and hunted about till the rifle felt heavy as lead
and the skin came off his heels, but saw nothing
to fire at, save two little brown birds and a jew-
lizard. He returned, and directed his steps to
where Sandy was running about behind two
horses and a plough, and swearing. Sandy was
surprised to hear there were no kangaroos about;
he couldn’t understand it. For a second or two
he stood, scanning the tree-tops waving over the
wire fenc< § '
“ Gen’a.iy a bear or two about here, he said,
scraping the dust off himself. “Don’t seem to
be any ter day, though.” • ■
Jimmy said it didn’t matter, and he looked as
if he spoke the truth. Jimmy was getting tired,
of kangaroo shooting—tired of the bush alto-
gether,
“Have a go at drivin’?” Sandy suggested,
cheerfully; “leave y’r rifle here, and take the
reins for a while, and see how y’ get on.”
Jimmy said he didn’t mind trying—but he
didn’t say it with any enthusiasm ; and in a
weary sort of way stood up and took the reins.
Sandy yelled at the horses ; they woke up and
made a rush at different intervals. The plough
jumped, stopped, jumped again, then scratched
along after then. Jimmy tried to keep up with
it—he limped, stumbled, jumped over some
clumps of burr, and tripped against dry corn-
stalks that hadn’t been cut. Sandy continued to
yell at the horses, struggling all the time to keep
his footing. A withered pumpkin vine that
seemed to be growing all over the paddock,, with
numerous small pumpkins dangling to it, got
twisted round one of Jimmy’s legs. Jimmy
kicked frantically to free himself of it, and fell
down.
The horses dragged him along till he got up
again. Sandy didn’t notice him ; he was battling
hard to keep the plough in.
“To y’!— to y’! ” Sandy called when the black
mare left the furrow. Jimmy pulled the wrong
rein. “Damn it!” Sandy shouted, losing his
temper—“ to y’.” Jimmy pulled the wrong rein
some more ; then Sandy threw the handles down
savagely, and cried : “Blarst it, what’s th’ good
o’ that ? ” and snatched the reins from Jimmy and
nearly dragged the heads off the horses.
A lump came into Jimmy’s throat, and while
the spade was falling heavily on the rumps of the
horses he stole away, feeling mistaken and disap-
pointed in Sandy, the friend of his father. Near
the house he met Kate coming along with a can
of tea and some scones and butter for Sandy’s
“eleven o’clock.” Kate was red with the heat,
and the haste she was making, but was cheerful as
a book agent. She pressed Jimmy to return to
the plough and have some tea. But Jimmy wasn’t
hungry, and said he would sooner “mooch about
a bit.” Kate showed him where he would find
Uncle. “He’s always there,” she added.
“Nothing’ll shift him 1 ”
Jimmy went to the house and put the rifle
away; then sat in the shade of the verandah and
felt lost and lonely. Not a soul about; scarcely
a sound audible ! Jimmy wondered how any one
could live in such a place, and began to think of
home and the town. Some fowls and a few
turkeys came round, stretched their necks and
took side-glances at him, then moved away again.
Jimmy rose and went in search of Uncle. He
found him snoring in the “ retreat?’—an old tent
patched with rag and bagging, standing some
distance from the house. Sandy sometimes used
it as a store-room. At the sound of Jimmy’s
voice Uncle woke up with a start, but when he
saw it wasn’t a policeman or a bushranger he drew
his legs up to give him room to sit on the corner of
the bunk, and settling himself went calmly off to
sleep again. Jimmy stared hard at Uncle, then at
a cat slumbering on top of a bag of flour near his
head, which was all the tent contained. Large
flies buzzed about like bees, and Jimmy felt lonelier
than before.
“How far is it from here to the train?” he
asked.
No answer. Uncle was fast asleep.
Jimmy touched him on the bare foot. “ Hey,”
he said, “ how far ”
Whip-cracks and men’s voices shouting sounded
close to the tent. Jimmy rushed out. Two
horsemen were in the grass-paddock wheeling
a wild-looking, black bull toward Sandy’s yard.
Foam was flowing from the bull’s nostrils and
mouth, and his blood was fairly up.
- “Look out there,” the men shouted when
Jimmy showed himself. “Look out \. . Keep
inside.”
Jimmy sheltered himself behind a large tree,
and got excited. The bull saw the tent, and
instead of taking fright went straight at it with
his head down. Jimmy clung to the tree and
yelled a warning to Uncle. But Uncle was a
hard man to shift. The bull went right through
the tent and levelled it to the ground. The cat
got a great start. It raced in three different
directions before remembering where the house
lay; then to see it light out! But there was
no word of Uncle. Jimmy nearly fainted. The
horsemen shouted hilariously, but they had no
idea the tent was inhabited. The bag of flour
attracted the bull’s attention ; he took it for an
enemy, and dug his horns into it, rooted it
about, and bellowed and breathed into it.
The flour clung to his moist nose and
hide, and went into dough on him, and
turned him white. Meanwhile, Uncle had been
lying low, but the bull tramped on him, and he
thought it time then to shift. On hands and
knees he emerged from the debris, and crawled
some yards, then, like a rat forsaking a log, he
made off as fast as terror and tender feet would
allow in the direction of the house. The bull
caught sight of Uncle, and, despite all attempts
of the horsemen to frustrate him, went headlong
in pursuit. Uncle had 50 yards to cover to reach
the house; the bull had 100 yards to go. Talk
about excitement! Neither Jimmy nor the horse-
men could speak. They stared and trembled.
The bull rattled over the ground like a racehorse
in a straight. You couldn’t hear Uncle moving,
but he got a lot out of his arms and head.
“ He’ll have, him ! ” one of the men murmured,
apprehensively; '‘he will . . . he .”
“ Done it! ” Jimmy burst out, excitedly, just
as Uncle threw himself in the back door, which,
happily, was wide open. Then, almost instantly,
there was a loud crash, and the bull and the slabs
and the roof of Sandy’s new skillion were wildly
mixed up, and the animal was plunging madly
about inside with groceries on his horns.
For a fortnight after, Jimmy was in high spirits,
and never thought of home once.
STEELE RUDD.


RHEUMATISM
Is a form of Blood Poisoning. You will never have Rheu«
matism if your Kidneys are well. For Healthy Kidneys
filter from the Blood all the Rheumatic and other
Poisons that cause Disease. Keep the Kidneys well,
■ and they will keep you well.
Rheumatism is not a
disease in itself; it is but
the symptom of a disease.
It is caused by an acid in
the blood, called uric acid,
of which there is enough
formed every twenty-four
hours to cause certain death
if not removed.
Nature has provided the
kidneys to take this acid
out of the system, and they
are the only means by which
it can be removed. As the
blood passes through the
kidneys it is filtered, and
the acids and poisons are
passed out of the system
along with the surplus
water.
But when the kidneys
get sick they do not do
this work properly, and
some of this acid stops in
the system, causing endless
pain and suffering. It will
crystallise somewhere, and
when it crystallises in the
muscles, the little, sharp,
jagged crystals cut and tear
the flesh, causing great pain.
1
$Jn
<■ N
WM
■yt
V
)s.
That is muscular rheumatism.
They may crystallise in the joints, and that is the cause of gout; or in
the kidneys or bladder, causing stone in bladder or kidney, gravel, sedi-
ment, &c.
The acid will penetrate every nerve and fibre of the body, causing
nervousness, headache, sleeplessness, and interfering with the valves of the
heart; it will affect the eyes, and will cause a general weakness and fagged
feeling, bloating of limbs, &c.
The whole health of your body therefore depends on keeping your kidneys
well. There can be no rheumatism with healthy kidneys, no nervousness, no
headaches, no bad blood. Keep the kidneys well, so they may filter al
impurities from the system, and they will keep you well.
Doan’s Backache Kidney pills
are the great medicine for this purpose, because they give just the aid the
kidneys require to properly filter the blood. They heal the kidneys’ delicate
membranes, and, best of all, they are for th.e kidneys alone.
They do not act on the bowels, as so many medicines do.
SYDNEY PROOF.
Mr. James Fotheringham, Watson’s Bay, late 6th Imperial Bushmen,
writes: “ Whilst in South Africa with the 6th Imperial Bushmen, through
constant exposure to all sorts of weather, sleeping in wet clothes, etc., I got
a very severe attack of lumbago. I was so bad that I could not get up off the
ground—let alone mount my horse. Two military doctors had ago at me.
One blistered my back until all the skin was off; and the other gave me
medicine—but neither of them did me any good. Fortunately a comrade
came along with a box of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and before I had
finished the box I was as right as ever I was in my life. Since then I always
keep a box of the pills handy, in case of the lumbago returning; but, so far, I
am glad to say, I have had no necessity to take them. You may make what-
ever use you like of this, as I consider Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills a boon
to humanity.”
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers
at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes, 15s. 3d.), or will be posted, on receipt of price,
by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
BUT BE SURE YOU GET DOAN’S.
Itching Piles Cured.
Mr. J. J. Gannon, 108 Denison-street, New-
town, this city, says:—“l have been had
witli itching piles for a good many years. It
was only itching piles at first, but after a time
an itchiness of the skin seemed to come from
it, and I had an itchiness to bear in more parts
than one. Between the two my torture was
terrible at times. I tried everything to get
rid of it, was treated by doctors and chemists,
and tried everything obtainable that was
recommended for itching skin troubles. Some
time ago I resolved to try the remedy which
had cured Mr. Gilliver. I knew Mr. Gilliver,
and knew that he was not the man to make a
false statement, and if he recommended a
thing it must be good ; so I got the remedy
which cured him—Doan’s Ointment. This
remedy did me good soon after I started using
it, and by the time I had used two pots I was
quite cured. It is now three months since I
ceased using the ointment, and I’ve not had
any sign of the piles or skin trouble since. It
is my opinion that Doan’s Ointment will cure
anybody of itching piles.”
Mrs. Gannon confirms the above by saying :
“ It is two years ago since my husband made
the above statement, and I am pleased to say
that he has remained free of the piles and
itchiness of the skin ever since. It is simply
wonderful the way the ointment acted. We
have had letters from different parts of the
State asking if it is correct, and we have
replied to each letter advising the use of Doan’s
Ointment.”
It cannot be repeated too often that Doan’s
Ointment will cure itching piles. It will cure
them absolutely; but do not take the manu-
facturer’s word for this. Ask Mr. Gannon.
He knows, for it cured him ; and he lives here
in Sydney. What proof could be better or
stronger ?
Doan’s Ointment is sold by all chemists and
storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per pot, or will be
posted on receipt of price by Foster-McClellan
Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
But be sure it is DOAN’S. —Advt.
“Aux Pauvres Diables!”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If over you happen to pay a
Short visit, when down in the Isles,
To the polychrome town of Noumea
Whereßeauty—bright, black and brown—smiles,
And you feel a desire for some brandy,
Or absinthe, or whisky, or gin
In a street, to the market close handy,
You will notice the Poor Devils’ Inn.
It is not a structure as stately
As some that in Sydney you know,
And if about style you are greatly
Concerned, it is not comme il faut;
Its doors are dirt-brown; its facade is
Of liver-red stucco, and tin ;
Yet the liquor you get not so bad is,
In the same little Poor Devils’ Inn,
The haughty imported officials,
The gendarme with pointed moustache,
Have not on its slate their initials
, (Its motto is French for “Spot Cash”).
But ever the humble and lowly
May fill themselves up to the chin
Very cheaply, and find themselves wholly
At their ease in the Poor Devils’ Inn.
The place had for me a strange glamor;
Its windows did wickedly wink ;
And, though I was weak in French grammar,
I knew how to ask for a drink.
’Twas vain to put airs on or graces ;
Its genial experienced grin
■Said, plainer than words—“ Here your place is,
Bon gars, in the Poor Devils’ Inn ! ”
Behold me, then, sitting, and drinking
Green absinthe and syrup of gum,
And feeling quite Gallic, yet thinking
I would have much rather had rum.
But, ventrebleu ! one must in foreign
Lands di ink their drinks, credit to win—
I spent very nearly a florin
Ere I quitted the Poor Devils’ Inn.
And I saw, though it seems like a fable,
A gentleman shabby, yet fine,
Who hammered his heels on the table
Demanding a bottle of wine.
His face had grown harder and thinner—
Who was he that raised such a din ?
Frangois Villon, as I am a sinner,
At home in the Poor Devils’ Inn !
What brought back this mad rogue from Hades,
Whence seldom a ghost comes at call ?
He said he was tired of dead ladies—
Of Lais, and Thais, and all—
So being of that sort whose star is
A guide that leads surely to Sin,
He returned to pick purses in Paris,
And brought up at the Poor Devils’ Inn.
He showed me a ballad he’d written
About a bright-eyed popinee,
By the charms of a gendarme death-smitten—
He’s sold it to Monsieur Puget,
Who printed it in his smart paper,
And Frangois the coin made to spin,
And cut up the devil’s own caper,
With his friends, in the Poor Devils’ Inn.
I thought it was kindly and witty
To give to the cafi this name,
Suggestive of jovial pity,
And one more last chance at the game.
And I hope, when a country still stranger
I go to, new life to begin,
By the grace of the Gracious Arranger,
I shall find out a Poor Devils’ Inn.
N.o.
VICTOR J. DALEY.
Murphy’s Barmaid.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’ll never forget the first bit of skirt Murphy got
out at the Water Hole. She was a pearl. She’d
take a man’s eye out an’ tell ’im he looked better
without it.
There was only one pub. there then. That was
Murphy’s, and he did all right too, because he
had no expense at all, only just a bit of tucker for
a drunken old bloke who did the slushying. We
had to take our gold into Lawlers in those days.
There was no bank on the Hole then. One time
a few of the boys were in with their bit of metal,
and came back with a yarn about all the pubs,
getting barmaids up, and said the place was going
ahead like wildfire. Well, we’d been out-back
for ages, and had never seen a white woman in
these parts, so this made us hanker after a sight
of one, and we had a bit of a meeting and reckoned
Murphy would have to get one up.
Bill Jones said there was a slashing little girl
at the Royal in Lawlers who would come out,
and he wanted to go in there and then and fetch
her. Murphy was willing too. He was a mean
sort of bloke, and thought to save her fare up;
you see, Bill had a buckboard and pair. But we
told them both that we weren’t taking any second-
hand girls from Lawlers, and Murphy would have
to get something bang up-to-date from below.
After a lot of arguing he sent down to one of
those registry offices for a girl, and one day he
got a letter to say that Miss Devereux was start-
ing the following day, and would be out about a
week after the letter.
You never saw such a week as that was on the
Hole. Saturday was mail day then. The coach
was only a buckboard, with room for one passen-
ger. Well, this Saturday night we got the news;
all hands got drunk, and that spree lasted until
Wednesday. Then Thompson, who ran the store,
said it was up to all hands to get sober for the
lady’s arrival.
Thompson also gave it out that all girls liked
white clothes on men; and, therefore, all hands
made a bee-line for the store to get on early in
the clothing department, and bought white moles
as fast as Thompson could hand them out, to say
nothing of shirts, hats, and boots galore.
We all sobered up before Saturday, and all
hands were at the pub. a couple of hours before
the coach arrived, putting in the time swapping
lies and playing two-up. It was a hot, dusty day,
and there’s always six inches of red dust in front
of Murphy’s, except after rain, when it’s red mud.
We were getting just about full of waiting, when
someone spotted the dust rising a mile down the
road, and a few minutes later the coach rolled up,
and we gave three cheers when we saw the girl
was there all right.
It was like a football match, the rush to help
her off the coach, and some of the moles were
pretty well soiled when it was over. She wasn’t
half bad-looking—a little woman with fair hair ;
but, of course, what with the long journey and
dusty road she wasn’t looking at her top just then.
After she had a wash and a change she came
out, and Murphy introduced us all round, and
we had several rounds of drinks, but she stuck to
soft stuff. Then all of a sudden she said she’d
lost her diamond-ring, and several volunteers
turned her room upside down looking for it, but
it wasn’t there. She suggested it might have
slipped off in the crowd as she got off the coach,
and straightaway went all hands trying to “speck”
it in the red dust, but it was no go. At last
Bill Jones went and got a shovel and sieve and we
started putting the whole roadway through, but
after we had been at it until sundown and were
all the color of the road from head to foot, we
gave it best. She started to cry then and said,
after thanking us for our trouble, that she must
have lost it on the road up. We couldn’t stand
her crying, so Jack Skinner passed the hat round
to buy her another, and got £23. We were all
doing well at the time. She was awfully pleased,
and said we were a dear lot of boys.
About a week after she asked me to get her a
bit of local gold. She would buy some diamonds,
and wanted to have them set in some of our gold.
I thought it was rather a nice idea, and showed
her a few pieces of alluvial I had; the alluvial
was done then, but we all had a few fancy bits.
She picked out a piece and said another one
would make a nice brooch—and, like a flat, I gave
her the two.
After she left the field we compared notes, and
I found she’d done the same thing to 44 other
fellows.
I got on to her once quietly about flirting with
other fellows, but she said she had to treat us all
alike when she was behind the bar or she’d lose
her place, and she couldn’t afford that; she had a
mother and sisters to keep. I wanted to marry
her then, and she blushed and half promised. I
suppose she told the 44 other idiots the same thing.
Then one Saturday a man came into town with
bluey up, looking for work. He was dead stiff, he
said in the bar while he was having a drink with
some of us, and when she heard it she took a note
out of her purse and gave it to him, so nice that
we thought she was an angel, and half envied him
for being broke.
There was no work there for wages-men, for
we were all working our own shows. There was
a ten-head mill going there then ;in fact, it had
only just started. A fellow named Langton put
it up for public crushing—an old, second-hand
rattletrap putting through about 70 tons a week.
Langton was the dottiest of the lot on the girl, so
when she asked him to give the poor fellow a job
he said “Certainly,” and put him on feeding,
and things went all right for a month or two.
Two other fellows were going extra strong there,
Jack Skinner, of the “Mississippi,” and Bill
Wilde, of the “ Oriental ” —the two be3t shows on
the field. They used to be the best of friends,
but after the Mississippi crushing, which was ex-
pected to go 30z., only panned out 30dwt., Jack
got the nark on Bill over the girl, and it ended in
a fight.
It ivas a fight, too. They were like a pair of
old women at the game. In the second round
Jack pushed his nose against Bill’s fist and it bled
like a pig, so the referee gave Jack twenty minutes
to stop the bleeding. Bill, who used to stutter
terribly, wanted to know what sort of a fool the
referee was, and said he only should have given
Jack 10 seconds, and, as the referee was only a
little bloke, he apologised and shouted for all
hands, assuring Bill that it wouldn’t occur again.
Jack came up smiling after the 20 minutes was
up, but Bill was too much of a general for him.
Every time he was getting the worst of it he
started arguing with the referee, and as it took
him about ten minutes to say a dozen words, he
used to get his wind every time. Finally he
knocked Jack out.
This on top of the disappointing crushing broke
Jack up, and he scratched for the matrimonial
stakes. In fact there were very few triers
now, for those moles were too much trouble to
wash. Bill and Langton had the lady a good bit
to themselves. Bill’s crushing was just coming
on ; his crowd had about 300 tons at gras3 and
was looking for IOOOoz. clean-up, and he went
down to see the stone through after the mill
had been running about three weeks on it.
Tommy Bates—that was the feeder who came
there stiff —got a letter about this time and said
he had to go below because his old man was very
ill. So he drew his time, and left by the first
coach.
When they cleaned-up it was a repetition of
the Mississippi—went about an ounce less than
they expected. Of course, there was a row ; there
always is in those cases. The battery gets the
blame, even if there’s no gold in the stone to save.
Bill put the question to her on his return from
Lawlers, but she told him she’d heard he was a
professional pug, and she wasn’t going to marry a
Erize-fighter. Langton was informed that he and
is battery had better clear their names of sus-
picion in connection with certain crushings before
he dared speak to her.
Then she picked a row with Murphy and
hopped aboard the first down coach. After she
was gone a key was found in her room, and when
Langton discovered that it opened the safe down
at the battery—the one he kept the amalgam in—
his language could be heard all over the field.
I saw her, the other day, in Kalgoorlie. I was
standing in front of the court when she came out
and shook hands with me, and wanted a tenner to
pay Tommy’s fine, or he’d get into trouble for
belting a John.
I asked who Tommy was, and she smiled like
an angel and told me he was her husband —also
that he was the same Tommy who came up to
Murphy’s dead broke and got the job at Lang-
ton’s battery.
I didn’t lend her the £lO. And all I said
was “ Damn Tommy ! ”
B. A. LEIX.
About the only point in favor of Pope
Booth of the Salrobbery Army is that when the
brethren and sistern of his alleged religion do
quarrel in public they don’t use very dreadful
language. At Summer Hill (Sydney) two of the
sistern got to blows lately, and the worst lan-
guage used only described tbe addressee as “a
dirty old chaff-bag, tied in the middle.” After a
few other complimentary phrases, in which one
sister described the other as an “old thing,”
which is how the young Australienne occasionally
speaks of her mother, one sister smote her mate
with a hymn book.


We All Use It
Keep Medicine on Hand. Don’t Wait till Sickness Comes.
Treat the Disease Early and Cure Promptly. Keep Well.
Mr. Wm. Allen, Police Constable of North Carlton, Victoria, sends a photo-
graph of his family and says:
“ For many years we have never been without Ayer’s Sarsaparilla in tho
house. When any of us are feeling poorly, just a few doses will make us all
right. My wife says it is a grand medicine for children, especially when they
are growing fast. She finds it of great benefit, herself, when she gets tired
and worn out from overwork. The same
medicine cured me once of a severe
liver complaint, pain through the kid-
neys, and impure blood.”
STS*
'
spt
m
Wa
n
*
NS
n
Mr. Allen phould certainly be proud of bis family. And be shows good
judgment in keeping Ayer’s Sarsaparilla always in the bouse. He knows it
gives bright eyes to the children, makes them have a clear and smooth skin,
brings good color to the cheeks and lips, and gives them the hearty appetite so
necessary to a substantial growth and development.
Don’t make the mistake of experimenting with some other Sarsaparilla.
All other Sarsaparillas are sold because they are said to be like Ayer’s.
AYER’S 8 arsaparilla
The Greatest Family Medicine the World Has Ever Known
WHAT IT MEANS.
“Guarantee” means—A surety of performance.
So when Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy is sold on
a guarantee, it means that it is guaranteed to
benefit you, and if it does not after using two-
thirds of a bottle according to directions, return
the balance and have your money refunded.*
AUSTRALIA’S-—''
SWEET SINGER.
Victor J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk,”
handsomely bound, makes a fine presentation
volume to friends abroad. Post free from Bul-
letin office, ss. 4d.
Works by Francis Adams:
(Publishers’ Remainders, offered as Second-Ha nd.)
Poetical Works, complete edition, printed
in Brisbane by Muir & Morcom. Paper
covers; 4to. Only a few copies remain.
Price, ss. ; postage, 4d.
Australian Essays, printed in Melbourne
by Wm. Inglis & Co. Paper covers, Bvo.
Only a few copies remain. Price, 2s. 6d. ;
postage, 3d.
Songs of the Army of the Night, printed
in Sydney. Boards, Bvo. Only a few copies
remain. Price, 2s. 6d.; postage, 3d.
THE BULLETIN BOOKS.
Sole Distributing Agents :
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
Special Wholesale Agents :
New South Wale* .. Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd.
Queensland .. .. Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd
Victoria George Robertson Proprietary.
Tasmania George Robertson Proprietary.
South Australia .. E. S. Wigg & Son.
Westralia .. .. E. S. Wigg & Son.
Auckland and district Wildman, Lyell, & Arhy.
Others to be appointed.
Sold by All Leading Booksellers.
The Bulletin Newspaper Go., Ltd.,
214 George-st., Sydney, Australia.
Needs must where
INDIGESTION drives.
You have to avoid some favourite dish, or you do
not enjoy your food and have to be uncomfortably
particular about your diet. WHY ? Whether
you know it or nob you are suffering from
INDIGESTION. Instead of your stomach
being the minister of your body’s needs, it is im-
peded in its action by dyspepsia, and you are
being robbed of your nourishment, your sleep, your
pleasure. Kow, if you wish to save yourself from,
perhaps, very serious illness you will seek the
aid of
REECHAM’S
PILLS
and drive away the INDIGESTION*
A course of this famous remedy will, as certainly
as water quenches thirst, impart new vigour to
the Stomach and Digestive Organs. The Liver
and Kidneys will be cleansed and regulated, the
Blood purified, and the general health soundly
re-established.
BEECHAM’S PILLS have done this for many
thousands of suffering and distressed people
Why should they not do as much for you?
BEECHAM’S PILLS
oure Indigestion.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
Corner George & Market Sts., _SYDNEY
The Best Luncheon in Town from ONE SHILLING, served from 12 sharp till 2.30;
Dinner from 5.30 to 7.30, same price.
The Most Convenient Place for Ladies and Gentlemen visiting the Theatres to dine at.
N.B.—Visitors ot)ly pay for wfeat tSjcy anally fyayc.
TERMS.—The Convenient and Modern System of paying for a
room on arrival, and Meais as they are had.
Apartments: BEDROOM, Single, 3s. per day ; Double, 6s. per day.
ENGAGE ROOMS AT ROBERTS’ HOTEL, STPHEY.
NOTE -Send to ROBERTS’ WINE and SPIRIT STORE, MARKET ST., next GEORGE ST.,
for REVISED PRICE LIST. COUNTRY ORDERS PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO.
Dttli.b.SmUh,
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the East
77/£ BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
All
M.D., C.M., L.R.C.P.E., L.8.0.8.E.,
L.P.P.S.G., L.M., etc.,
Registered by the Medical Boards of Great
"Jritain, Victoria, New South Wales,
etc.,
The Eminent Specialist, whose unparalleled success in the Treatment of Blood and Nerve
Diseases has earned for him a reputation unequalled by any other Specialist in Australia, may be consulted
daily, personally or by letter, at “ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 Elizabet H-st., Sydney. Old and Obsolete
Methods discarded. DR. MARTIN’S latest treatment has proved absolutely effective in all cases of Blood
Disease, Nerve Affections, Paralysis, Loss of Energy, Lung, Heart, Skin, and all
Chronic Diseases of Men and Women. His Consulting Rooms are replete with all the
latest and most scientific improvements in Electric Appliances, etc. Country Patients
treated by Correspondence at their own homes. Advice and Medicine, One
Pound. All Sufferers should write for a copy of Dr. Martin’s Latest Medical Work,
“THE ‘ KNOX-MEIICKR’ TREATMENT IN DISEASE.” This work should find a place in every
household as it contains a full and explicit account of the Most Wonderful Treatment of the Present
Age. It has been the means of Curing Thousands who followed out the instructions contained
therein This Marvellous Treatment Cleanses and Rejuvenates the Whole System, and is the Cheapest
Treatment In Existence, as nothing but the Book is required.
Cheap Edition, Is. ; by post, Is. 6d.
“Press Extracts” posted free throughout Australia.
CONSULTING HOURS: 10 to 2 and 7 to 9 Daily.
“ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Beerbohm Tree has been “injuncted” against exhib-
iting on the walls of his Haymarket (London) theatre
the legend, surrounded by electric lights, “ His Majesty’s
Theatre.” Permission had been granted him to cut the
letters on a marble slab in a recess in the wall, but,
instead, he had fixed gilt wooden letters on the slab.
Ihe “head and front of his offending,” however, lay in
his not applying for a license and submitting a design.
In a manner of speaking, he approached the Throne on his
knees when he should have done it on his stummick.
u “ ■ J.A.C.” : Charles Santley, for a very long period
King of English baritones,” completed, a few months
ago, his 69th year. Before entering the vocal pro-
fession he was, like our own beauteous George V.,
a violinist. He studied singing in Milan, Italy, and
while there got so down on his luck that visions of
suicide flitted through his mind. His first operatic
engagement was at a small Milanese theatre, the Santa
Radegonda, where he appeared in the ultra-ungrateful
role oi the Doctor in “ Traviata,” Years afterwards he
SUT H? in “ H Trovatore,” at La Scala, in the same city,
and his rendering of “II Balen ” roused the most critical
audience in the world to enthusiasm. He has been for 4®
years a vocalist, and, besides, has composed several
masses and other sacred pieces and many popular songs.
Touching the little matter of the big theatre hat.
When the local amateurs were frivolling through “Pina-
fore ” at Oamaru (M.L.), a little woman, crowned with an
enormous top-piece, slid in and sat two seats in front of
an angry milliner, obscuring latter’s view. After vainly
endeavoring to induce the wearer to unload, the dress
architect borrowed a stick and tilted the hat to one side.
The performance was repeated as often as the gear was
straightened, and convulsed the house. Upshot was that
the woman with the hat sued her tormentor for assault
and mind anguish, or something, and the beak actually
fined the defendant half-a-sov., with £2 16s. costs ; which
a sympathetic public at once subscribed.
Dion Boucicault’s version of “The Cricket on tha
Hearth,” in which poor old J. L. Toole used to “ star” 30
years ago, is about to be revived and enlarged to meet
the craze for Dickens plays. The dramatist who tries
to improve on Boucicault has a tough contract.
Talking of Jane Hading’s performance in “ Sapho," at
the London Coronet Theatre, a critic says : “ When she
flings her lover’s linen into his trunk, in her hurry to
pack him off, the actress carried the house by storm.
But it only shows how curiously insensible some people
are, that the scene, which was really painful to a degree,
excited a great deal of laughter. Why ? Simply because
the people who laughed at the sight of Jean’s shirts saw
only the shirts and did not see the woman’s bitter passion.
Any article of underclothing is as good as a joke to the
untutored mind. You have only to say ‘ stockings,’ I
believe, to make some people smile.” ’This is true of
English-speaking audiences. The baneful influence of
Mrs. Grundy has given undergarments an “indecent”
character, and jt is the thought of indecency that the
average fool laughs at.
_ “ C.R.” : Re whistling: Years ago a blind girl travelled
Tasmania accompanied by her mother, an old lady who
looked upon her nose when it was red. The girl was an
accomplished mimic, bird-music chiefly claiming her
attention ; and no one, after hearing her clear and correct
rendering of the magpie, Tasmanian jackass, English lin-
net, skylark and canary, could easily forget it. She once
tried her luck in Melbourne. She whistled and the old
lady gathered in the shekels. How much the blind
whistler got for herself I don’t know.
Some musical anecdotes. When Signor Arditi, the
operatic conductor, was with “ Her Majesty’s Opera Com-
panv,’’at St. Louis (U.S.A.) a man walked 20 miles to
hear Queen Victoria sing! At Cleyeland, U.S., Mdile.
Marnnon was announced to open with “ La Sonnambula ”
ta i, l . on . aske( ? her t 0 take Tittle Buttercup in
H.M.b. Pinafore” instead. When Arditi, who was very
bald, went to cash a draft at a New York bank, the cashier
could not identify him. Arditi turned round the back of
his head, and the cashier knew him through having seen
his bald spot at the opera.
‘C.P. .’ There is only one incongruous character in
Dolores, as pourtrayed by Musgrove’s company at
Melb. Princess—the pious journalist! Who ever heard
of a shell fish of this kind anyway ? The next thing will
be a tolerant Orangeman or, perhaps, an honest importer |
The sudden secession of Webster Lawson from the Mus-
grove dramatic co. had a humorous and instructive bear-
ing on the subject of theatrical criticism in the daily
I?PT- -, he . ?f°u ramme f° r first performance of
Dolores at Melb. Princess’s put Lawson’s name to the
Pf rt "f tne Mrtuous young man lover, whereas it was
played by Vernon Steele, who stands more than half'a
foot taller than his predecessor. But the critics of the
v? took th , e programme at its word, and
referred to ernon Steele, the substitute, as Webster
Ti i e moral which mistake lies in
' hat TawBon had appeared with the co. in seven
or eight llamas, playing more or less important parts,
' t ;‘f impressing his identity on the memory of those
LnTUnow 3 abse 'ioe served to inform him that they
chan t know he wasn t there.
“ F.": Apropos Vincent Wallace and “ Maritana.'
Thirty years ago two houses in Sydney were pointed out
to me as being the identical buildings wherein Wallace
composed “Maritana.” One was on the coiner of Castle*
reagh-street and Brougham-place—now Rowe-street, the
Hotel Australia being on the site. The other was in
Brougham-place. My authority was dear old Johnny
Welsh, mummer and white man (R.1.P.), Sydney native
(born in Brougham-place in the thirties), with a well-
stored, clear memory to the last. Said that Wallace
commenced the score in the latter house and finished it
in the former. There are two of the old Brougham-place
houses still intact. The house at the corner of Castle-
reagh-street and Brougham-place was in the fifties occu-
pied by Dunsmure and Stafford, solicitors, and next door
* Bill ” Nash lived and moved and had his being.
Frances Gill shrieks plaintively from afar off that it is
the duty of The Bulletin, in the causeof art, to summon
Dr. Ludwig Wullner to Australia. “He is the great
German singer, now in his first London season. His voice
is magnificent, and he is such an artist that he makes the
whole matter of his song alive before your eyes.” Well,
the German artist can consider himself summoned.
“ £>.” : The Mutoscope has come to Adelaide, and, after
the bright accounts of the machine in Tiie Bulletin, the
disappointment is so keen that one votes it a mockery, a
delusion and a snare, likewise a sham. We have about
30 machines. You put a penny in the slot, turn a stiff
crank, and presently a mild picture offends the view.
Being of a religious turn of mind, I spent one of my few
pennies on “ The Temptation of St. Anthony.” When the
machine shewed a feeble old ‘‘Sign of the Cross” Christian
groping before the vision of a nude woman, I groaned.
Bad enough to look at when the penny does all the work,
but to turn a crank ! However, a better religious picture
may come along, when it will be a pleasure to whirl the
machine.
When Marie Lloyd was appearing at Adelaide Tivoli,
she and a few other members of the co. one day jour-
neyed to Parkside Lunatic Asylum and gave a perfor-
mance. She sang several songs, and just before she
concluded her turn the applause was deafening. Every
madman shouted something different, and Marie
“ thought they had all gone mad.” At length silence
was restored, and a venerable and respectable lunatic
stood up and acted as spokesman. “ What my friends
wish to intimate,” said he, “is that the young lady
repeats the song in which she wears football costume.”
It was one of Marie’s coster items —the one with the
hilarious striped stockings in it—they wished to encore.


WATERPROOF COATS™..™,,
RUBBER BOOTS 18/e to 20/-.
GOLOSHES 2/e to «/e.
Carriage Free
to any part of
N.S.W. if this
advertisement
is cut out and
sent with re-
mittance.
Made to wear—to
give satisfaction—to
look well to the end
of their long service.
See our Stock.
PERDRIAU & CO.,
RUBBER MERCHANTS!
Only One Address-
-270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Self-Inking Rubber Stamps-
Pen & Pencil Combined, with any name in first-class
f
. style,
' 1/6
post free.
RUBBER STAMPS^
made to order in any style, kend rougn
sketch, and we will send.vou our Reduced
Price. PHILLIPS & CO.,
(Successors to Gardiner &Oool), Rubber Stamp
Manufacturers, 91 Market St., Sydney.
sdf
WE SHIP ON APPROVAL
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles. Fully warranted.
%‘;Si}.£2.tot<,£s.s.o
Dunlop Tyres, Steel or Wood Rims,
Free Wheels, Mud Guards and Brakes.
CARRIAGE PAID
To any Port in Australasia.
TYRES, ACCESSORIES,
Sporting Goods and Sewing
Machines Half Usual Prices.
Write for Catalogue and Special Offer
Using c£d. Stamp. Address Dept 316 D
Mead Cycle Co.
•vs-n
•otitismo
SIMPSON BROTHERS
32 & 34 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
WORTH INGTOH.
TRADE MARK*
Australasian Representatives for
Sole
sdf
James Simpson & Co., Ltd.
Worthington Pump Company, Limited, i-ondo*
Warren Webster & Co. "®wje«*y.
Enquiries Invited fob
Worthington Pumps
Webster Feed Water Heaters & Purifiers
Cincinnati Air Compressors
Boiler Feed Pump.
m~ SEND FOR CATALOGUES
TAKTGYBS
OIL ENGINE!!
Stationary and Portable,
For Shearings, Wood & Chaff-Cutting,
Pumping, Electric Lighting, &c.
Sole Representatives in Australia :
BENNIE, TEARE & GO.,
Mining & Engineering Furnishers,
Sydney, Melbourne, Perth, Coolgardie.
IRRIGATING PLANTS a Speciality.
mm.
■
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE,
Engineers * General Machinery Merchants,
Sole Agents in Australia for— Blake’s steam Pumps, Dempster Moore & Co,, Ltd., Engineers Machine
Tools, ‘‘Atlas Works” Engines and Boilers, Fay-EgailS’ Woodworking Machinery, Empire Co.’S Laundry Machinery^
orms of
*
**s
The “ Utopia " Vise holds work of any shape, at
any angle. It has every advantage that could be gained from a dozen
Vises in as *nany different positions. It swings round and over at the
will of the operator and the work swings with it. There are two
forms of the “ UTOPIA ”; one for Joiners and Pattern Makers
(dimensions 7 x 18-|in., opens I4dn.) and the other tor Fitters. Poth
ean he seen in operation at
60 Clarence St., Sydney, THE Ahdkess or
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.
Manufacturers and Importers of Mining Machinery,
Steam Engines and Boilers, Engineers Tools and Supplies, etc., etc,
m
ill!
m
< ?
s*
sdf
T. M. GOODALL & CO., 129 hav st., Sydney
HAVE IN STOCK AND TO_ARRIVE- Portable, Traction, Vertical & Horizontal Boilers,
Engineers and Mining Tools, Saw Mill Machinery, Pulleys, Belting, E
Irrigation and Pumping Plants a Specialty. Hew and Second-Hand Machinery always available. —_
sd
r
mmm
i
Sub, 6J" x Si" x B",
tgT We are Direct Importers
AND HAVE FOE SALE—
Snow Duplex Pumps
(all. sizes for all purposes),
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling
and Punching-Machines, Pulleys, Shaft -
ing, Hangers, Bearings, Collars, etc.
Engineers’ Tools and Fittings, Valves,
Cocks, Gauges, etc. Cast, Tool and
Mining Steel, Wire Ropes and all Requi-
sites for Contractors, Engineers, Saw
Mills and Mining Proprietors.
r. l. Scirutton & Co. LtdL
97 CHarence»st., Sydney.
DODGE STANDARD
WOOD SPLIT PULLEY.
LIGHTEST and STRONGEST.
25 per cent, to 60 per cent, advantage, with
same belt, over any iron pulley.
70 per cent, lighter than cast iron.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED.
N. GUTH RIDGE, LTD.,
A.G-BKTTS,
71 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
HI
*Jhjs CbiflpQ 1
a - -a
fsd
fsd
(gOUCHS;
yeom
K
XrrTtHEMISTS
[TNMUEHQUT (jlffAT SRI WIN 41*1 CCIOR^
v ‘ COAfeUtl N'E ■
fthNSPAttNIA*M AtT^
