

McEWAN’S ALE. GAELIC WHISKY. LAMB’S RUM.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity-”
The Lancet .
r. cs-o *w.£L*i7KJEiKrs co.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR —
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
INSIDE BEARINGS.
Fitting .No. lofi for Fast Wheels.
&xiOvpart round and square
«t ehds. rivetted:
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG.
WONDERFUL VALUE—A packet of Seven different
articles, comprising Yankee Rubber Baby, can be carried
in vest pocket and blown out to life size (causes roars of
laughter), Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
Coin and Card Tricks), the Wizard Fish (gives the defini-
tion of your character—very superior for parlor enter-
tainments), the Vest Pocket Tubular Microscope (very
useful for examining small objects), the Cinematograph
(or book of moving pictures), the great Yankee Bicycle
Puzzle (very ingenious), and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Disappearing Coin Trick (instruc-
tions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australia (Free) on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
710 George-st., Sydney.
X
X
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° 86 pu. street, SYDNEY.
Bole Agents for Samuel Osborn & Co., Sheffield, makers of Muehet’s Titanic Borer Steel for Miners’ Drills, Bessemer Steel, Cast Steel, Mushet’s
Self-Hardening Tool Steel, Mining, Well-Boring, Spring, and Tyre Steel, Steel Castings of all Descriptions, Steel Truck Wheels and Axles.
INDENTS EXECUTED, SPECIFICATIONS SUPPLIED FOR ALL KINDS OF MACHINERY.
—.STEEL CASTINGS, HAMMERS, FILES —^
“HERVEY’S RACKAROCK
17 Years’ Unbroken Record as a Standard Australian Exp’osive. Cor. CLARENCE & KINC STS.,
99
SYDNEY
THORNE’S
Estbd. 1831. WHISKY.
HOBART.
Ijadlegs Orient fiotel.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.
OITY HOTEL
(First Grams).
J. A. TURNER - - Proprietor.
H.M. the King’s
Jury of Experts
awarded them
highest honors
London Exhibi-
tion.
PENFOLDS WINE
“ The Lancet ”
says; “Pnre and
genuine, and
specially suitable
for Invalids.”
PERFECT
t/ Vater
ASSISTS
DIGESTION
LD
SH
BE
E
D
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C.Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
TTC! t -
SPOONER’S
1
SPOONER'S
V
*
*
. % 1
r * <» A****,*.':**- #*•«•••
«THir .&|£ai eoofa
*CI/iESiRIOS«
*•*■**»•
M»sfes W >*** ••*
stefe.-grr.~~-g:
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and 13.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle) .Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressing's,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
Mining and Dredging Plants. Engines, Boilers, &c.
Fowler Traction Engines.
The Clyde Engineering
Desiccating Plants.
Hopper Waggons, &c.
is
k
PROOF
eS£
USE
V *lO BLICH ST..
Office:
10 BUCH ST., SYDNEY
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manuf. Company,
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5 ; '2-Spring Sulkies, £7 ;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia. £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O- Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and made
to Order! HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Bribe List. NOTICE. —Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
->ent. more for your requirements.
193 to 195 Clevelarid-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
Otm SJEMRCIjLL No. *
£8 18/6
Delivered at any Wharf *r
X.S.W. Bail ways, Stattaa
£lO 10/-
Men 1 Why Remain Bald }
D2NT WAIT
F2RTHIS
I am never tired of asking
you this question because I
know you needn’t remain bald
any longer. . . . ...
CAPULA
Hair
Tonic
is the remedy, and it’s a
remedy that will produce a
new growth of hair so long
as there is the slightest down
on the head.
%
All Chemists - = 2s. 6d. per bottle.
W. OLIVER RICHARDS, Sole Proprietor, and
Inventor, City Bank Chambers, 134 Pitt-street.
Sydney, N.S.W. ’
A Policy for the Common-wealth :
A Handy Manual of Politics. By James
Edmond. Price, 6d.; post free from The
Bulletin Office, 7d.
The Bulletin
Vol 24.—N0. 1207.]
[Saturday, April 4, 1903.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Book trade Advertisement.
THE LATE BY THIS MAIL.
Robertson & Co. Prop.
Calverley, Complete Works, 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Tracr Fatal Legacy, 3s p- 6a.
Browning Wars of the Century, 6s, p. Bd.
SSbi.ua Ewing, Progress of Australas,a, 6s, p. Bd.
7ola Truth, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, P* 6d.
p- «■
“ Phonos ” Guide to Hand Reading, 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Crawford, Ave Roma Immortalis, 10s, p. Is.
Life of Robert Buchanan, by Jay, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Sergeant, Anthea’s Way, 3s 6d, p. (Sd.
Davis, Captain .Macklin, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Boothby, Countess Londa, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d
Tytier, Atonement by Proxy, 3s 6d, p. bd.
„ CA3TLEREAGH B T.. SYDNEY (1 D.on, South of Kin s St.) A.t Molhourno. «MU». B ™«"° 4 Loudon
For tlie LXJIffGS, tilt; throat, voic
. . THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
o
A . The Larynx, or organ of
vaice. . , .
IS. The Trachka or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung-
Jj. A lobe of one of thelun„
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG
and
Invaluable to
dINGER
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered).
. . Con tain NO cocaine or other poisonous drug
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, in Tins, 1s 6d ; from the Proprietor, G. HUDSON Chemist, Ipswich,
free or. receipt of stamps. Sydney Depot: 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE, and l? ELTON, GRIM WADE A
Melbourne, Agents.
THE RED pAGE.
CHAMBERLAIN IN AFRICA
It lias become quite clear that the result of
Chamberlain’s peace-making journey to Africa is,
in his own eyes—Failure. Three of his speeches
prove this. At the outset, he was “appalled
by the difficulties that confront me. At the
end, he had realised that the Imperialistic dream
was dead —the colonies must share the burden
of F/inpire or be cast off. And on his return to
England—“l warn you against over-estimating
the results of my mission.”
We have always realised that the South African
war was a national crime. It is Cham her lain
himself, the maker of the war, who now realises
that it was—an Imperialistic blunder. Possibly,
among the execrations that History will pile upon
Chamberlain’s head, the worst will be penned by
his own countrymen.
In a pamphlet entitled In the Court of History
(Toronto; W. Tyrrell) Goldwin Smith—a dis-
tinguished writer, and a writer who, with what-
ever defects, may lay claim to a share of the his-
torian’s breadth' of view—refers to Australian and
Canadian experience during the war as an omen
of the course of events under Imperial Federation.
“ We have been made, incidentally, to see the
difference between a nation and a dependency,
and to know what, under the form of equality, the
real position of Canada, as a member of an im-
perial Federation, would be. In the Imperial
country, notwithstanding the overbearing violence
of the war party, opinion on the other side con-
tinued active and found expression. . . • But
Canada, on the other hand, has been simply swept
in the train of the dominant party m the Imperial
country'’. In our Parliament free speech has been
drowned in clamour. Our public press almost
universally has been a transcript of the jingo press
of England. Thus the main facts of the case have
never been allowed to come before the Canadian
people. How many of our people have ever heard
of the Conventions ; ever heard that self-govern-
ment as to internal affairs had been guaranteed to
the people of the Transvaal, or that the British
Ministers, Mr. Chamberlain among them, had
emphatically recognised the right; ever heard
that the claim of suzerainty was denied by
pendent jurists; or that arbitration had been
tendered by the Transvaal Government and
refused ? So it would always be under Imperial
Federation. Political life and leadership would
centre in the Imperial country. The colonies,
isolated from each other politically, as they must
be would be satellites revolving round the central
orb, subservient to Imperial policy, and drawn
blindfold into Imperial wars.”
EAITH-HEALING
Dowie, the religious charlatan whose mission-
aries are in Australia, and to whose Zion City,
U.S.A., some Australian farmers have recently
emigrated, is alleged to have sacrificed to his in-
sane creed even his own daughter, after the fashion
of the atrocious Jephthah
Dowie’s only daughter was a girl of twenty-one, and,
curling her hair one day with a spirit lamp, a draught
blew the flame in a gust towards her. Her flimsy
dressing-gown caught fire, and she was horribly and
fatally burnt before anything could be done to save her.
During the ghastly agony of her last hours Dowie and
all the elders of the Church knelt round her bed and
prayed for a recovery. Through all the torture the
girl laboured to beg forgiveness of her father—the use
of alcohol in any form and for any purpose being
strictly prohibited by Dowie—and repeated again and
ao-ain that his followers must remember she was dying
because of her disobedience, because of her own un-
worthiness *ler last passionate endeavour seemed to
he to leave Vr father’s reputation unsmirched. .
But, it is alleged, Dowie does not sacrifice himself.
He lives in personal luxury, and at the same time
refuses superbly to account for any of the sums of
monev entrusted to him. His horses are worth a for-
tune in themselves ; his carriages are emblazoned with
armorial bearings ; his wife- is said to dress with the
gorgeous extravagance of an Empress. When he
travels, hemmed round with a little army of liveried
servants, the prophet of humility and self-denial has a
special train chartered, and whenever spiritual burdens
become too great a tax there is a delightful country
residence belonging to him in which to retreat from
the clamour and importunate appeals of the faitniul.
-
Dowie is called charlatan advisedly. The root
of the faith-healing delusion (as preached) is
just this: it is possible to train and strengthen
the will, as a function of the body, just as one
strengthens a muscle by exercise. The nervous
system is a reservoir of forces—some explored and
defined, some obscure and not understood. Much
of our nervous energy is discharged unconsciously,
and it is possible to consciously utilise unconscious
nerve-centres for a given end. Quite truly, it is
said that many people die for want of the Will to
live—like Mrs. Dombey, annoying the doctors
Similarly, many people are ill for want of the will
to be well. The deliberate intention to be well is
sufficient to control and at times to cure some
minor ailments. The process, as explained, is a
deliberate concentration of nervous forces upon
the ailing nerve. As, by an effort of will, or even
by thought merely, you can send more blood to
some muscles, so you can send more energy to
some nerves—and thus (sometimes, in some eases)
lessen or banish neuralgia, for example. Ihe idea
has no particular novelty. “Faith-healing,
under the name of hypnotism or mental sugges-
tion; is a commonplace of medical treatment,
especially in hysterical cases. Auto-suggestion is
a scientific fact ; and power increases with exer-
cise, naturally. Those who advocate the
I nind-bracing habit are right, within un-
iettled limits dependent on the doubt about
•eactions. Just as the development of big
nuscles may ruin a man’s general constitution
ir as the cripple to whom a fire-alarm has restored
;he power of locomotion may become lamer than
lefore, so the deliberate draining of a man’s ner-
vous reserves, if excessive, may leave him weaker
—with a temporary ailment blotted out m a per-
manent disease. The amazing machinery of the
human organism exists in an equilibrium of com-
plicated forces that should be disturbed very
cautiously—either by quacks with degrees and
drugs, or by quacks without them.
&
Of course, the Dowie dogma that faith can set a
broken leg, or extirpate a cancer or even stop
flooding in child-birth, is grossly false— practically
speaking. Faith— i.e., the blind or deliberate
exercise of will, the blind or deliberate trans-
ference of nervous credit from trust account to
current account—can actually or conceivably help
a bone to knit, or fight a parasitic growth, or re-
duce the volume of a blood-current. It is within
the realm of physical possibility that such faith
may remove a mountain—if the faith be great
enough, or the mountain small enough. x>ut
railway contractors have to rely upon barrow
and shovel ; and people of even extraordinary
faith, assailed by serious accident or disease,
usually will do well to trust a surgeon.
If they do not trust, they will probably
die in the faith-not an unattractive end
for some people. (The inviting question whether
on the whole, it is profitable to numamty that
healthy fools should die prematurely, must be lelt
for another day. Even the question whether un-
healthy knaves like Dowie should be killed sud-
denly will bear argument.)
CHAMBERLAIN IN SOUTH AFRICA.
T)AMEN UND HERREN 1 Sie hist hier to see
U Joe Chamberlain, Freund von Humanity !
lek Hebe your schbn land von Transvaal,
Welches mir hat made celebrated überall.
Ids und England haben always loved it wohl ;
We nicht think von you as Russia thinks ton Pole.
Ick hoffe das you the noble motives sehen
Which have gemachten uns steal ihr Land und give you
pain.
Bitte, please, ask your wives und kinder nur
If England not ist der treue Freund of Boer.
Haben win nicht made your wives beautiful to be seen,
Like ein English miss, quite ladylike and lean ?
Und your kinder wir haben transported in Himmel zu
prove, '
Ah kleine angels , our gut old England’s lave.
Und sehen auoh, was fur pour agriculture wir haben
done I
There never war such WohUhatigkeU under the sun.
Jal wir haben manured your Land unit das Blut of so many
Und haben charged you nichts—not ein penny !
Besides, see das interesting farm-house rums wir haben
made,
A lies ready von Mister Cook to be displayed !
Und fur all our services wir wollen nichts at all
(Except das gold-mines) in der ganz Transvaal !
Und now mein speech to das end Ick bring,
So geben drei loud cheers, “ hong live the King !
Jugend ]
MASTER DICKY PLOMPUDDING.
RECENTLY PUBLISHED
I fie sandal tree perfumes the axe that fells it. Bengali
proverb.
Ebenez-er Thorne, a Brisbane resident familiar
s “ Ebby ” to two generations, has wnt * e "The Heresy of
l eetotalisfn, published in London Ebby {asserts
leynolds’s Newspaper) was a long, long time ago editor
f the Good Templars press organ in Canada. ror
aanv years he has been settled in Australia, and his
xperience as the senior member of the Brisbane Pi ess
,nd a Magistrate of the State of Queensland, where almost
rom the establishment of that colony he has taken
, considerable part in public and ’
iroves that Teetotalism is false in the Light of the Bible,
c°ence and Legislation. So it’s all Over with Prohibition
iar the’ “ shouting.” Raise a joyful Ebenezer . and let
lim shout.
At 3s. 6 d. is published a hew edition of Francis Bacon s
vorks—“complete, handy, che ap” Bacon i* he .
jookfellow who observed that “ Reading good books of
no rail ty is a little flat and dead.
Chas. Carrington, a Paris publisher,, issues Oscar
iVilde’s translation of Barbey d’Aurevilly s romance, Ce
2 ui Ne Meurt Pas (What Never Dies.)
De Wet—Viljoen—and now Mrs. De La Rey’s A
Woman’s Wanderings during the Anglo-Boer War. One
looks expectantly to Louis Botha's maiden aunt, if he
tias a maiden aunt.
The author of A Londoner’s Log Book, 1901-2 (Bell; 2s.
id.) reproduces from the Cornhill mag a. a senes of
rather pallid sketches that have little interest for Aus-
tralians. , . , ,
Poor Fellow, by Mrs. J. H. Riddell (Bell; fa. 6d.) might
have been written to support the assertion (by the writer
if The Egregious English) that when an Englishman
-eases to be an employed person he usually makes a mess
of thino-s. Mrs. Riddell writes a matter-of-fact commer-
cial romance that holds the mind without thrilling it ;
and the book has solid value.
The Lucky Shot, by E. Way Elkington (Treharne ; Is.),
is a story ®f love and remarkable occurrences m Maori-
land It is written apparently by a girlish hand.
Zealandia’s Guerdon ( Long; 2s. 6 d.) exhibits the
indomitable William S. Walker still rolling his stone up
the hill of Literature. It has rolled up to moderate
praise in The Athenceum, rolled over and down ; but it
has gathered no moss. William S. has stored in his head
an extraordinary number of vivid impressions of Aus-
tralia and Maoriland ; and he can not vividly express any
of them.
“He was a thinker —enough not to be quite a poet; a
poet—enough to spoil his thinking,” says The Academy
fitly of Robert Buchanan, whose “ Life ” by his sister-in-
law and adopted daughter, Harriett Jay, is just published
(Unwin; 2 s. 6ci.). The book is a plain account of
luchanan, written in plain style,,uncritical and undis-
nguished. It is not the book that was needed ; but
imirers of Buchanan will read it with interest
id some tedium. The most notable of several con-
■ibuted chapters is supplied by Henry Murray, who
ivs that Buchanan was “a born _ gambler, as his
,ther had been before him,” and in later life was
regular patron of horse-racing. “At the time when
e was preparing a long commentary on Renan s views
igarding certain Scriptural episodes we went together
i Sandown, and in an interval between two races I found
im standing in the middle of Tattersall’s ring, serenely
nconscious of the charivari about him, reading his Greek
estament. When the bell rang he slipped the volume
ito his pocket, marking the place with a tip telegram,
nd plunged into the fray, apparently greatly refreshed
y his studies.”
The Circle, by Katherine Cecil Thurston (Blackwood ;
s. Qd. and 3s. Gd.) is a new writer’s book. Plot and
haraoters are always in the air, always a little unreal,
et not unreal in their air : the plot is sufficient, and the
haracters have distinction. The style is simple ; the
nanner original; and novel-readers will find the book s
[uality above the current English average.
For the sake of the story of “ The Girl and the Beetle ”
n In a Canadian Canoe— Barry Pain’s first and best
look—we shall not ask Little Entertainments (Unwin ;
Ls.) why they are not bigger. So many authors do big
ihings badly that we may be (sometimes) content with
me who is content to do little things well. Barry Pain
loes them very well : you see him, in these sketches,
standing away from his canvas with a cocked eye and an
nspiration, and adding artistic touches one by one.
We registered five laughs, besides smiles, and an occa-
sional thrill to Pain’s serious mood. His knack of final
mti-climax is especially neat. At a shilling, the book is
heartily recommended.
Plain and Veldt, J. H. M. Abbott’s second book of
stories and sketches, reminds one of a billabong fringed
by decorative she-oaks, of a churchyard where the monu-
mental statuary is not all ignoble, of the careful house-
keeper’s unused “best room,” breathing tomb-like
odours. The work is neither dead nor alive ; but the pall
of death is over it. Abbott has seen and observed much
and well ;he writes not badly; he has assimilated the
devices of Kipling and Stephen Crane ; and he is sin-
cere, with a mind for humour, a heart for sympathy. He
knows what to write about, though he does not know
precisely how to write about it. Sketches like “ A
Masterful Man,” “ The Majesty of the' Law,” “ The Bush-
rangers,” are of no common calibre. But their impres-
sion is temporary, evanescent. They want pulse of life,
breath of power. The whole book trails, nerveless and
fatigued. Abbott has many of the qualities of a memor-
able writer. He lacks just one quality essential-
strength.
BOOKPELLOWSHIPMENT
IF. \Y. Farrar, Anglican dean of Canterbury, dead in his
73rd year, was one of the disappearing bulwarks of
Christianity. Unintellectual, he dealt in emotions, and
“ put sophistic heotics on the pallors of the wise.” His
Life, of Christ and Eternal Hope were plasters for
the cancer of unbelief—like an Afghan’s canvas patch
sewn over his camel’s sore; and afforded great consolation
to women and fools. His profitable ventures intoithe
boys’ story-book domain— St. Winifred’s; Eric; Julian
Home— supplied prizes for a generation of Sunday-
schools, and gave to Kipling and other satirists a con-
venient summary of the nauseous schoolboy prig. He
wrote according to his lights, and left nothing for
Literature.
lie Goneourt Academy is. established, after six years
tigatiou, and the first monthly dinner of the members
held on 14th January. The brothers Goneourt,
iond and Jules, were celebrated figures in the Parisian
Id of the last half-century—writers, critics, and art
eotors. Edmond died in 1806, directing that his
aerty be sold and devoted to the foundation
a new academy for the encouragement of letters,
heirs-at-law contested the will, but at last
e been discomfited Edmond thought his estate
lid provide a pensioV of £240 a year each for ten
nbers, besides an annual prize of £2OO for a deserving,
iggiing author. But the estate is returning only some
iOO a year, so some of the Academy’s feathers must be
iped. The first Academicians, several of them nomi-
ed by Goneourt himself, are apparently L6on Henniqu*,
m Daudet, the Rosny brothers, Huysmans, Octave
•beau, G. Geffroy, L. Descaves, Elemir Bourges, Paul
rguerjtte. (Apparently f for three French lists to hand
agree/ They are a very mixed lot in aims and
tractorW and already there are rumours of dissension,
fact, one Parisian wit declares that the only way to
,ke Mirbeau sit down with Daudet is to nominate the
sny brothers to preside. “ They are warranted to
,ke everything sleep—even the passions.”
Che life of Charles Godfrey Leland, whose death in his
,h year is reoorded, was many-sided and full. Like the
lerican mediocrity, President Roosevelt, he desired
th the joy of action and the treasure of tranquillity ;
t Leland "had it in him to be what Roosevelt dreams.
>st Australians, found by a verse and fleeing from a
rmon, know Leland only as the author of Haw Breit-
Vnn'g Ballads:- but these are merely one of his
ousand phases-. His blood ran always hot and high,
i a student irf'-'Paris in ’4B he drilled and barricaded.
i a journalist in New York in ’69 he went to the war
id fought for the North. After that, travel, till his
ttlement in Florence in ’B6. Leland loved strange races
te Burton, quaint dialects like Borrow He was a
aster of gypsy lore and language. The labour of his
;e changed from carpentry to Virgil; and even those
■quainted with his versatility read Have You a Strong
'ill ?in 1899 with some surprise. Therein he formulated
discipline against sloth, indecision, postponements—a
•actieal faith-healing. But Leland’s will was backed by
strong body : the nerveless may concentrate their
reams : they cannot supply the initial lack of
sTvous energy, In praising Leland we pay a debt to
is Philadelphian parents, who married to make a Man.
G. K. Chesterton, writer of the chief article in Eng.
‘ookman’s “ Thackeray number,” declares that *
Thackeray, from the beginning of his life until the
end, consistently and seriously preached a gospel . . .
the philosophy of the beauty and the glory of fools . .
. . . amid men of action, men of genius, and heroes
he saw with absolute sincerity only one thing worth
being—a gentleman. And when we understand what
he meant by the phrase, the absolute sufficiency of a
limpid kindliness, of an obvious and dignified humility,
of a softness for noble memories and a readiness for any
minute self-sacrifice, we may, without any affected
paradox, but rather with serious respect, sum up
Thackeray’s view of )ife hy saying that amid all the
heroes and geniuses he saw only one thing .worth being
—a fool. * ■, , ,
Che paradox that'tfubs Thackeray’s gentleman a fool
•emains despite the disclaimer ; and the word “ fool” is
in fortunate. Thackeray admired simple hearts, loving
uearts true hearts, noble hearts; but these are not
necessarily fools’hearts. With the help of .the Pauline
phrase that “ the wisdom of this world is foolishness with
Hod,” you realise Chesterton’s meaning; but it is badly
expressed.
“ I look upon a study of Eucalypts,” says J. H. Maiden,
[, as affording a mental discipline as useful in its way as
Greek or Euclid.” H’m !If t hat were a 11... !
In Tolstoi as Man and Artist, just published, Dmitri
Merejkowski—who should know—refuses to take Tolstoi s
religious conversion seriously, and argues that at bottom
Tolstoi is a pagan with all the pagan characteristics of
extreme sensuousness, abundant vitality, and enormous
power of enjoying the elemental aspects and emotions of
life. But these unconscious depths have warred with his
conscious theory; and a half-hearted “ conversion is
Tolstoi’s compromise.
Herbert Spencer tells that he began First Principles on
the shore of a Scottish loch. His method was to dictate
to an amanuensis for fifteen minutes, then to row for
fifteen minutes in order to stimulate the circulation of
the blood so as to carry him through another fifteen
minutes dictation, and so on. This habit would account
for Spencer’s cold, encumbered style. Dictation breeds
long, involved sentences, and prolonged muscular exer-
cise during composition lessens their heat. Astonishing
that Spencer did not know that for acute thought and
stimulating style you need blood in
your muscles. Force in writing comes wRh congestion
of the cortical capillaries.
QUERIES
F.B. : (1) Janies Bonwick’s An Octogenarian’s Remin-
iscences was published by James Nichols, 46 Station-
Road, Anerlev, London, in 1902. (2) Who edited Ay
Note-Book, a Melb. weekly of 1857 ?
T.Y.R.: Can anyone cite a poetical passage referring to
green perfumes and green song?
CORRESPONDENCE
I His Eminence C******* Sl****: You
icU you are misunderstood by people who str ? ss ., f
'******* at the expense of the Sl*** ■ Only huff
ou is ecclesiastical dignitary ; the other half is W
hoy. My sympathies! “is it lave gaiety all to the
lity i Cannot the clargy be Irishmen too f
The Eight. Honourable J***** C ******** n »' v
’'hanks\ yes ;we understand perfectly. A c <™munj
f interests and sacrifices.” Your interest ; our saci Ji
i dmirable gospel! .
E** * * * Baron B*****: For nine nights in sue-
:ession you have dreamed of ermine! Do we, kno ™,
his portends ? We have not the faintest idea. V
isk Chris ? .
jfl r ***** ****»*_• Undoubtedly you are tm
greatest Australian Writer. Why not ?
****** ****** Certainly you are the Creates
Writer in Australia. Who disputes it?
****** **»**; Qf course you are the creates
Of Australian Writers. In fact, there is no other.
' The Most Exalted K***** W ***** * • JJg.
admitting the justice: of our comment, you ask aci j
how could a verb be placed at the end 'fifthein .
German sentence? It could not; and t} i a f ***** y<
before your reforming day, we never reached the vew.
M * * * *.g *** * * * H ***** : You were astonished
that the professional militaire should be disparage: 111
Commonwealth, and desired to learn if it was a
(adj.) dream. So you pinched Commander-m-tW
Reatf s epaulettes to see. Well, do you see.
Lord J***S**: 'No rain, no crops, ’>»«««*'
Treasury, no holiday on St. Patricks Day . ’ L e
demand , can save our beloved Is eiv South Wales .
gab of O’Sullivan ! t v
The President of N.S.W.AH Gallery ;
have noticed a parson’s statement that the di g
punishment for national wrong-doing... ao w
this refers to the heap of muddy horrors in your
tralian Court ” ? Be easy: a deity unth any
sense would have taken a speedier vengeance.
[?]


OOL
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, and CO., Limited,
WOOL BROKERS AND PRODUCE SALESMEN
S YDNE ST.
BUTCHERS!
Send your -*•
HIDES
SHEEPSKINS
TALLOW
TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
SYDNEY.
The Leading Salesmen. Full Values and Quick Returns,
The Co-operative Wool & Produce 00. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Stores: PYRMONT.
g o i e Commission 3 Per Cent, to tlie Grower
on Large and. Small A.cconnts Alike.
$. FREEMAN * SONS LLTUJEH
. Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES}
BATHO’S baking powder.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE : WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
1
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS'
MAGNESIA:
MAGNESIA
NEITHER CRACK
NOR BURN.
e>°
sBoa
m
c
BB
080 a
SHILLING BRIAR PIPES
QUALITY NOT BETTER
IN A GUINEA PIPE. . .
GUARANTEE.—ShouId any of our Celebrated CAN’T-B-BEAT Briar Pipes Crack or Bara a
New One will be Exchanged for It Immediately on Application.
Sold by all Tobacconists. By Post, Is. 2d.
Quality not better in a Guinea Pipe.
N.
N
i
• . .
%s£*Bsirs*
s.
RICHMOND,VA
>•*'**•
Si'S
TOBACCO
Dark and
Bright
IS THE BEST.
Price, ss. lb., Post Free, all States.
A Perfect Pipe Tobacco.
HAVING secured the Sole Agency for the
above brand of AMERICAN TOBACCO, we
have very much pleasure in recommending
same to our Clients and the Smoking Public.
“SOLID SHOT” TOBACCO, Splendid Aroma,
does not bite the tongue. With the ordinary
smoker this Tobacco is in great demand.
Save “Solid Shot” Tobacco Tags.
For Each 100 you will receive from the
Agents, free, one only C. 8.8. Briar
Pipe and Pocket Knife.
Sole Agent for C.B B. Briar Pipes.
Send for Whole sale Price Lists.
“Arkansas” Mixture
A Blend of the very highest grade Tobaccos.
Packed in |lb. Tins, 7s. 6d. lb.
Sample £lb. Tins, 25., post free.
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney, n.s.w.
FREE TO MEN.
Your Health Restored!
Your Nerves Steadied and Made Strong I
HVTO man should be weak ; no man should suffer the loss of that vital element which renders life worth living. No man should allow
l\ himself to become less a man than Nature intended him ;no man should suffer when there is here at hand a certain cure for Ins
' trouble, a check to his waste of vitality.
Most of the pains, most of the weakness of STOMACH, HEART, BRAIN, and NERVES, from which men suffer are due to an
early loss of Nature’s reserve power through mistakes. You need not suffer for this. You can be restored. The very element which you
have lost you can get back, and you may be as happy as any man that lives.
DR. MCLAUGHLIN’S NEW ELECTRIC BELT
Will cure any case of weakness that ever existed, or we will forfeit £lOOO We mean what we say. It is the acme of mechanical
construction There never has been anything like it. Fakers copy our advertising, and imitate the appearance of our Belt, but they
don’t sell, nor can’t make, a Belt to equal ours. It gives a powerful soothing current for hours at a time while you sleep. It is Nature s
Restorer of vitality and it will cure you. “ Wake up. Get well, and be happy.
FROM 8. A.
Beaufort.
Your Belt freed me from the terrible attacks
of Kidney and Bladder trouble I used to have,
and I am very thankful for the benefits I have
received from it, for I feel like a different
man.
WM. THOMAS.
n.s.w. Upper Meroo.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co.
Dear Sirs,—l am pleased to say that your Belt
is doing me a deal of good. I am slowly mend-
ing, and feel quite a different man - from what I
was when I first applied to you and purchased
your Belt. I have the honor to be, yours truly,
* JOHN YATES.
Angel Terrace, Coolgardie, W.A.
Dear Sirs, —I got your Belt after all the doctors here had
given me up—after all the hospitals had passed me as an in-
curable. I had Sciatica so bad that I could neither work nor
walk. In a week I had no pain and began to mend, and I
would like to meet a man more grateful to you than 1 am.
I don’t think I ever will. Yours truly,
P. W. KELLY.
Our Chief-of-Staff is the only Registered Qualified Specialist in Australia who
devotes his entire time to Electric Treatment. DON'T FORGET THIS!
NOTICE.
H ™ re von S aT htppfae^?™ L ™ild®oi V St™hfs P SdoT»“ C We t Lv£yS»ll'lipWl]t y of'doobl that
$
I
m
i
$
*
The Dr. McLaughlin Co.,
85 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Offices : 167 E Swanston Street.
3 g
mi
m
m
WITH GREENER BOLT AS DRAWN, THE “ WARATAH,”
60-
WITHOUT GREENER BOLT, THE “WONGA,”
50-
BAR LOOKS.
Left Barrel Full Choke
Right Barrel Cylinder Bore.
For accurate and close shooting this gun cannot be surpassed, made of Best
Materials, and equal in finish and workmanship to guns of nnva t „i,i»
price. Barrels are Browned Twist, carrying a high polish. BAB BOOK.S, lreme
Bolt, half-pistol hand. Hammers are well down out of the line of sight. Vulcan t vhndv
heel-plate on best selected polished walnut stock. We will supply one or fifty of these guns to anjbody.
have only one price. Send your P. 0.0. with orders to—
We
CARRIAGE PAID.
T. TOMBLESON, Manager.
Sydney Small Arms Co.
57 P O. Chambers,
Pitt-st., Sydney.
ENO’
COOLING, ‘FRUIT
AND INVIGORATING. SALT/
HEALTH GIVING,
REFRESHING,


/*
SMOKE
The Unrivalled
World Renownec
BRIAR
PIPES
LARGEST DEPOT:
231 Clarence St,
SYDNEY.
The Best Thing %
on Wheels. It
> r ;•
a Oldsmohile
has demonstrated its ability to travel rough roads smoothly in all
kinds of weather. In a long distance endurance run between New
York and Boston in America—soo miles—the Oldsmobile was the
only machine in the 1,000 lbs. and under class to make the run
without a penalized stop, winning the highest award.
This runabout sells for at factory in America
and the freight is not large. f
Starts at will from seat and is under instant control of the
operator. The cheapest reliable
automobile made. 5,000 in use.'
Write for free catalogue.
A gents :
W. A. RYAN & CO., LTD., Auckland.
1;
Olds Motor Works 9
Detroit, Mich., U.S.A.
TOW
•«
The Owl Cut-Rate Drug Co.
Manufacturing and
Dispensing Chemists.
We have special remedies for the correct and effective treatment of Nerve and Blood Diseases. Testi-
monials from all sources proving their efficacy. Write for Printed Price Lists ; they will be mailed free.
NOTICE.—Our ELECTRIC BELT, price 10s., usual price £l, is infallible in the cure of WEAKNESS and
STOMACH DISORDERS. Electricity re-invigorates the vital nerve sections, governing the processes
of digestion and nutrition. It effects a sure cure. DR. CLARKSON’S “ RE-INVIGORATOR,” a
VITALISING, NERVE, BRAIN, MUSCLE, and BLOOD STIMULANT. We still offer £lOO for
any case we cannot cure. Price, 7s. 6d. per bottle. Three bottles, £l. Post Free to all parts of
Australia.
Pyramid Pile Cure.— A certain remedy.
Fincham's Face Bleach.— Clears the skin from Spots, Redness, Roughness, Freckles, Tan,
Sunburn. &c. Invaluable for use in the countrj-.
Finch rm's Infallible Worm Powders.— Specially suitable for children. A certain cure for
worms.
Fincham’s Celebrated Pectoral “Cough I Cure,”— lnvaluable for children. A Reliable
Remedy for Croup, Asthma, Whooping Cough, and all Throat and Lung Affections.
Fincham’s “Gout and Rheumatic Cure. "--Takes certain effect in cases of Acute Lumbago,
Sciatica, Lame Back, Headache, Shoulder and Muscular Pains.
Dr. Hughes’ “ Fits Epilep." —A certain remedy for Epilepsy and Fits in all forms.
Dr. Wilson’s “ Neuralgia Mixture.”— One Dose Relieves, One Bottle Cures the most
agonising Face Neuralgia.
Fincham’s “ Capiline.”— A Nursery Hair-W’ash for Children’s Heads. Unsurpassed. One Bottle
Sufficient.
All these Invaluable Remedies will be posted to any Australian address, securely
from breakage, on application to —
Note the Address : THE OWL CUT-RATE DRUG CO.,
C. P. FINCHAM, Pharmaceutical Chemist. 227 ELIZABETH ST., Opp. Hyde Park, SYDNEY.
ROB ROY pens.
Hinks, Wells & Co. beg to draw attention to this new series of
turned up pointed and other pens, made of the same material, by the
same tools by the same process and at the same works, as the well
known series of Wavcrley Pens, which Hinks, Wells & Co. have for
30 years and upwards (prior to September 1901), manufactured for
and supplied to the proprietors thereof.
&
■ -' • ‘
Sold by all
Stationers in 18
varieties in
6a,, Is. & gross boxes.
HINKS, WELLS & CO., Birmingham, England.
CLOTHED WITH AIR
AERTEX CELLULAR FABRIC
is the ideal form of body covering’, possessing all the neces-
sary hygienic qualities, and being also most comfortable and
....——■—■■■- n of attractive appearance, and for those reasons is recom-
mended by the Medical Faculty wherever introduced.
Aertex Cellular Underwear is a Sure Preventative against Chills
Cellular Neglige Shirts.
Soft fronts of plain or pleated
Cellular Cloth; wrists, French
Print, Linen, or Cellular. Recom-
mended for Golf, Cycling, &c.
White body, 7s 6d ; colored, 8s 9d
Cellular Day Shirts.
Silk neckbands and soft wrists.
White and Self Colors, 4s to 7s 6d
Fancy Designs, 7s 6d to 9s 6d.
Cellular Dress Shirt.
Fitted best Belfast Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 0.8. or 0.F., one stud.
Cellular Cotton Body—
-6s Cd to 8s 6d
Cellular Lisle Body—
-9s 6d and 10s 6d
Cellular Short-Front Shirt
for every-day wear.
Open behind, 2in. linen wrists—
-6s 6d, 6s 6d.
Open front or behind, square
cuffs— 6s 6d, 7s 6d
AERTEX
Cellular Combinations.
High or Low Necks.
s. d.
White Cotton, trimmed
Lace 5 6
White Cotton, trimmed
Embroidery .. ..76
White Cotton, trimmed
Lace 9 6
White Lisle, trimmed Em-
broidery 10 6
AERTEX
Cellular Nightdresses.
White Cotton, trimmed
Embroidery .. ..90
White Lisle, trimmed Em-
broidery 20 0
White Lisle, prettily
trimmed, fine Torchon.. 19 6
rfPI
* l -
S i'
Aertex Cellular Chemises*
White Cotton, trimmed Embroidery,
Bs. White Lisle, heavily trimmed
Real Torchon, 14s 6d and 16s 6d.
Acrtex Cellular Slip-Bodices.
High or Low Necks. All sizes
to 30in ; large sizes, extra.
White Lisle, trimmed Torchon, 6s 6d and 8s 6d.
Send for Illustrated Price List—Post Free.
DAVID BRAHAM & GO.,
73 & 75 King-St., Sydney.
Sole Agents.
Cellular Tennis Shirt.
With Collar and Pocket. The most
comfortable for all out-door sports
of all kinds. A great variety of
patterns stocked.
Plain Colors, 4s. 6d. to 7s. 6d.
Fancy Designs, 7s. Cd. to 11s. 6d.
si
»» 4* ** «», rt A *%;
4P <> « «l>. C*. .4.,,
“•*+> « »■< |> * W* * *3*
i>%,♦,* v„« *v *•» '•'*
' 4+ 4% *P «> «* *P *>/■>
4h
K
'J
A Piece of
Aertex Cellular Fabric.
Fabrics by the yard or piece—ln
Cottons, Bd. to Is. 9d. ; Lisle
Thread, Is. 3d. to 2s. ; Silk and
Cotton Mixture, 3s. 6d.; Merinos
and Wools, 3s. 3d. to 4s. 9d.; Silk
and Merino Mixture, 4s. 6d.
Send for Full Price List.
Aertex Cellular Corsets.
Fitted real Greenland Whalebone.
s. d.
Cl Ecru 13in. deep .. .. 15 6
C 2 „ long waist, 14|in deep 16 6
M White Cotton, 14in., nar-
row spoon busk .. .. 21 0
G White Cotton, 14iin., with
Elastic Supporter .. 24 6
F Ecru, Riding or Cycling.. 12 6
Y Cycling, Boned French
Horn, Elastic Hips .. 15 0
D 1 same shape as Cl, Watch-
spring Steels .. ..86
A
1
There’s SECURITY In
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
iFURRED TONGUE.
I
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
ITTLE
IVER
PILL Si
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price.
They TOUGH the LIVER
Be Sure they are
( M
TATTERS ALUS
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania).
IMPORTANT NOTICE
The Tasmanian Government having imposed a tax of One Penny
on every Five Shilling Ticket issued hy Tattersall’s on and after Ist
January, 1003, clients will please forward Id. extra for each ss.
ticket applied for, or 4d. for every 431, and so on.
NOW OPEN
SYDNEY CUP—Randwick, N.S.W., April 13 ... 25,000 at 5/1
ADELAIDE CUP-Morphettville, S.A., May 13 ...25,000 at 5/1
GRAND NATIONAL HURDLE RACE, Hemington, Vic , July 4, 100,000 at 5/1.
Subscribers will please note that GEORGE ADAMS (“TATTERSALL ”) STILL
CONTINUES his business in lIORART, under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN
GOVERNMENT, and that clients can send their subscriptions by letter to any friend or
acquaintance in HOBART, who will there have no difficulty in delivering the application and
securing the despatch of tickets and results direct to clients.
Money can also be paid through any Bank in Australasia, to the credit of GEORGE
ADAMS, Commercial Bank of Tasmania, Hobart. Clients when so doing will please request
Bank to advise GEORGE ADAMS of amount, with their name and full address.
Small Parcels addressed to me can be forwarded to Hobart through any PARCEL
DELIVER Y CO. doing business with Tasmania.


A great many
people want
long,
heavy
hair, but
how to
get it,
that is
what puzzles
them. The
fact is, the
hair needs a
little help
now and then.
The roots re-
quire feeding.
When the hair is starved, it stops
growing, loses its lustre, falls out,
turns gray. Ayer's Hair Vigor is a
hair-help. It makes the hair grow,
stops it from falling, and completely
cures dandruff.
Ayer's Hair Vigor
If your hair is fading or turning
gray, begin at once with Ayer’s Hair
Vigor. It will positively restore color
to your gray hair, all the full, rich
color it had in early life.
As a hair-dressing you will certainly
like it, for it keeps the hair soft and
glossy and prevents it from splitting
at the ends.
Do not be deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Make sure that you get the genuine
Ayer’s Hair Vigor.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co.. Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
3
insr*.
1
«*a
W. H.Wigzell.
FRINGES : Best Natural Curly
Hair, 3/6, 5 6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each.
TAILS and PLAITS : 20in. long-,
5/6 ; extra thick, 7/6; 24in., 10/6;
extra thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings worked up,
2/6 per oz. Don’t be misled.
Our Plaits and Tails are twice as
thick as sold elsewhere at the
same price. Send color of Hair.
Only one address: 110 WILLIAM-
ST., cor. of Palmer St. SYDNEY.
Gable trams will stop at door. All work guaranteed.
Illustrated Catalogue post free. Prompt attention given
to country orders. Wigs made on shortest notice. All
Hairwork sent to the other States free of duty. Transfor-
mations, entire covering for the head, 30/- each.
t
A
m.
Write To-Day.
Send
Postal Note.
Given
away
THIS MONTH
, ...t0...
Advertise our
Ostrich
Tips.
2/ #5 The Bunch
/O post Free.
3 Black Tips with Ospreys. A Marvel of Cheapness.
Miller’s Feather Shop,
Oorner Bourke and Swanston Streets, Melbourne.
Mention Tub Bulletin.
A
FLUID
OIL
ORUDE FLUID
POWDER
EMBROOATION
80APS
DIBINFEOTORI
INHALERB
FUMIQATORB
■II
•oimj
9WI33JNISH
UN
COLORLESS
FRAGRANT
NON.
POISONOUB
DOES NOT
STAIN
KILLS ALL
DISEASE
CERMB
OXYGENATES
THE AIR.
Sulphur Candles - \
Formic Fumigators /
KINGZETT’S
PATENTS.
“HOW TO DISINFECT" Book Free.
The “3ANITAS” CO., Lid.,
Bethnal Creen, LONDON, Ei
MfflFECflUtt
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when even
other remedy has failed. English Prices, 4/6 and 11 -
Thousands of Testimonials. Of all Oi?emists, Stores, etc
Wholesale Agents: .
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceutical Cherub.
25 High-street, Belfast, Ireland.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Securiy of Freehold or
Leasel old Olty or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury B its of any of the Austi ailan States or New Zealand.
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up te 20 per
cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any f ne.
Directors— Thomas Littlejohn, Esq., Chairman ; The Hon. A. . W. Meeks, M.L.C., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin Short,
Esq. ; Senator J. T. Walker; J. Abbott, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C. ; F. E. Winchcombs, Esq., M.P.
General Manager and Actuary— Richard Teeoe, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT a CAMERON, Secretary.
n
0,
u
Commercial
Bugrgry,
£l4 10*
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-sfc.,
SYDNEY.
t3T Send for a
Catalogue.
/ -V
Went Shaft Sulkies,
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles.
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, i3o Sussex St., Sydney
Straight Shaft 3-Spring Sulkies, £Blos.
Sarven Sulky Wheels Tyred, £2 4s 6d pair.
Discount to Wholesale Buyers. Send for Catalogue.
21f
S3
21/-
MOST MARVELLOUS VALUE
A SOLID SILVER KEVLESS
Hunting Watch.
Heavy Case, Sound Movement,
Perfect Timekeeper
GUARANTEED FOR TWO YEARS.
21 j-
Posted Duty Free to any part of Australia.
Send for my New Illustrated Catalogue.
QUEENSLAND LEADING JEWELLER
H. F. SMITH,
Queen Street, Brisbane
and at IPSWICH and TOOWOOMBA.
*
t*
1
r
3 * 'W * '/■
vt> »* ’
1/ » V
Wi'fr vV'fc r
2$
-i
•<. »Tr-<£«i?P^-
4)
Slfo
VS
REPEATING RIFLES
repeat. They don’t jam, catch, or fail to extract.
In a word, they are the only reliable repeaters.
Winchester rifles are made in all desirable
calibers, weights and styles; and are plain, par-
tially or elaborately ornamented, suiting every
purpose, every pocket-book and every taste.
WINCHESTER AMMUNITION
made for all kinds of shooting in all kinds of guns.
Winchester guns and Winchester ammunition are #
FOR SALE BY ALL IRONMONGERS.
WINCHESTER GOODS.
M‘LEAN BROS. & RIGG, Ltd
ELIZABETH STREET, HELBOURNE.
mv HOJ HIVH aoos
cJi
All Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 6a. ; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice,"6s. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
a
6
t
c/2
Washington H. Spul & Co..
Pitt-streefc, Sydney.
CONSULT HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by WATKINS & MACKAY, Chemists, Queen Street, Brisbane ; Mr. GORDON, 92 Georga
' Street, Rockhampton, Queensland, and .
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE 1
A NEW BROWNIE KODAK
For Pictures 2£ x 3£ Inches.
Limited,
And of all Photographic Deal©; a
The No. 2
BROWNIE
KODAK. .
Prise 10/ ss only.
LOADED AND UNLOADED IN DAYLIGHT.
Send for Illustrated and Descriptive
Leaflet and mention this paper.
284 COtiUNS STREET,
... MELBOURNE.
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Mortgagee.
We bring the wilderness to bounds ;
We grub the bush to meads ;
In sour or sullen savage grounds
We sow Advance’s seeds ;
We grade the mountains, paint the hills
With patterned greenery,
And through Saharas lead the rills—
To feed the Mortgagee.
Our sons have blunted all their wits
With chores of field and wood ;
Their “poddy ” drudgery unfits
Our maids for motherhood ;
Our wives wear rags and yellow grow
With dairy’s agony;
Our own old hopes died long ago—
To clothe the Mortgagee.
We face the drought, that knows so well
To score the brow with care,
To hand us from the bar of hell
The stirrup-cup, Despair.
We live it down; then stem the floods,
Then locust-plagues bid flee—
To put those diamonds in the “ duds ”
Of Mrs. Mortgagee.
All mental joys we sacrifice.
Have no artistic goals ;
The daily press’s slush and vie®
Monotonise our souls.
But yet we tax ourselves to build
Endowed academies
That Culture’s rose may be distilled—
For sons of Mortgagees.
We build us homes in town, in bush;
Where’er we go, bring wealth ;
Plant vineyards, but the grapes we crush
Are soul’s and body’s health.
We see ourselves, wives, children brought
To servitude’s degree—
That high-class husbands may be bought
For Misses Mortgagee.
To dig canals through shifting sand,
Reclaim the wilderness,
And fit the solitary land
For servile Trade’s caress;
With girdling rail and madrigal
Of village greenery,
We pile the cairn of debt —and all
To grease the Mortgagee.
Our “ conscript fathers ” were so wise,
So prescient in their thought,
They “slung” the land as ’twere a prize
To whomsoever sought.
We, hungry, rushed it to a man ;
But ah 1 too late we see
’Twas but a well-concocted plan
To breed the Mortgagee.
vio.
DANTON.
Kate M'Leeson.
Oh ! wandering down the 3moky ways
Of suburb and of city,
The pale girl-faces, through the haze,
Touch all my thoughts with pity;
For I have camped by Goulburn side,
Right through the summer season;
And been for many a starlit ride
With bonny Kate M'Leeson.
Oh, Goulburn side ! green Goulburn side !
From Trawool to Maroona gate,
I long to cross the reaches wide
That lead the way to bonny Kate.
Her brown eyes beam with winsome light.
Her eyebrows arch to match them ;
Her neck and forehead, warm and wh ' te,
Have red-gold hair to thatch them.
She dresses in a frock of snow
That flaunts not spot nor speckle,
But on her cheeks full well I know
The taste of many a freckle.
She is no wee thing, sad and lone,
That fears the changing weather ;
Her head is level with my own
When we stand close together ;
Yet she is sweet as harvest-time
Before the hay is carted,
And homely as the nights of rime
When winter fires are started.
She is too modest to be shy,
Yet, ah! so captivating—
No city maid that I pass by
Seems riper for the mating ;
For she hath mould like Eve of old—
Blood-hot for primal pleasure—
All joy of motherhood to hold,
With grace to fill the measure.
So, Goulburn side, green Goulburn side 1
I’m coming back at lover’s gait
To claim from you my river bride,
My bonny, bright-eyed, buxom Kate.
MILKY WHITR.
A Heart’s Desire.
My soul ia away on the saltbush plain,
Where the ear is soothed by the silence loud ;
And the Bouth wind brings but a sandy cloud—
Never rain.
It wanders away to the gibber bare,
Where the sun-born lakes the senses mock ;
And the rivers are but glinting rock
And dancing air.
There let me go alone and die,
Where the Homeward road is wide and free ;
Vnd the desert god will go with me—
He and I. -
vio.
PIERANI.


Whisky
¥
tp, '
lagfC-S
mK K
;,y
-,.v
V
•- i-fc ‘
Nervous Prostration
A Dreadful Period of Suffering.
“Clements Tonic Saved Me.”
The Case of W|rs. E. WEEOEN
(BY A SPECIAL REPORTER.)
A* grest interest was manifested in all
circles respecting the following subject, a
representative waited on Mrs. Elizabeth
VVeeden, of No. 67 Cleveland-street, Rid-
fern, who is well known in the locality in
which she lives.
“ I am pleased that you have called,
said Mrs. VVeeden, “ as it gives me an op-
portunity to let the public know what was
my real portion at the time \ou refer to,
and also to remove any misapprehensions
which mirht exist in the minds of some of
my neighbours. It appears that the
general assumption was that I had profited
in health by following a certain course of
treatment recommended by my doctor. No-
thing of the sort was the case, for after
carrying out his instructions for a long time
my prospects were no brighter, so I gave
him up and tried to get relief through the
aid of seceral medicines which I had seen
advertised in the papers. They were no
less effective, and as they all failed to reach
the base of my afflictions I thought I was
never going to have my health back aga n.”
“ What was the nature of your com-
plaint ? ” enquired the reporter.
“The doctor said it was nervous prostra-
tion from which I was suffering, and I think
he was right, for I used to tremble as if an
electric battery was at work all through my
body, while the fearsome state of my mind
was most distressing, as I was always
fancying that some terrible trouble was
hanging over me. If the children were not
borne from school to time I worried myself
with the belief that, something had happened
to them, and such anxiety seemed to make
ne very irritable and short-tempered. I
>as alwas tired an(J extremely drowsy,
feoling at 9 o’clock in the morning as if I
could go to bed and sleep all day, such a
th ng as a desire to get my work done sel-
dom entering my head. Careless and in-
different to everything around me, my life
was one omtinual misery., There was a
depressing pain in my head as if a band had
been drain tightly over my e>es, before
which little daik specks frequently floated,
and sometimes , T could scarcely see for a
haziness which appeared in front of me. I
used to imagine I had a touch of ear-ache,
owing to a peculiar sensation like the sound
of a bell ring ng in my ears, while the
shocking headaches I had to endure I shall
never forget. You have no idea how
wretched I felt when I had eaten a few
mouthfuls of food. My stomach became
filled with wind, from which I suffered great
Jiain until sour belehings came on, when I
elt a 1 ttle easier ; but, Jn the meant me,
my chest was proving very troublesome,
with a feeing as if a load of some kind
was g ing to smother me. Then I com-
menced to feel s ck, and be'ore long my
food was retched up again. T had the most
awful pains in my side and shoulders; hut
the manner in which my heart palpitated
caused me many a fright. If I walke i a few
yards my heart fluttered dreadfully, so you
may depend I exerted myself as little as
possible, more especially as I felt faint and
giddy when I moved about. After the least
effort to do a little work I used to collapse,
my feebleness being so marked that if I
tried to sweep a room my strength failed so
completely that I felt powerless, even to
the tips of my fingers.”
“ You spoke about feeling so drowsy all
day. How did you pass your niehts?”
“ Well, I was in such a sluggish condition
that I could always sleep, hut the strange
part about it was that I never felt rested or
refreshed. This was due, no doubt, to the
fat t.that I had horrible dreams and night-
mares, which made me scream out whilst
asleep. The children have often come to
me in the middle of the night to wake me
up so that my screaming would cease, and
bow terrified I was when awakened l My
mouth was in a nasty stale, too, as if I had
been tasting copper, my tongue also being
covered with fur. I thought my skin would
never get white again, it was that yellow,
and I was just about as thin as I could pos-
sibly be. Nobody but those who have had
a similar experience to mine can form the
slightest conception of what mental torture
is involved when pain is endured and all hope
is lost. There was no pleasure in being
alive, but still I clung to what little life was
left, and now you see a different woman al-
together. lam quite well again.”
“ You are very fortuuate. But what
made you so? ”
“ It was a medicine called Clements Tonic
which helped me out of my difficulties, and
but for that remedy I do not know what I
would have done. As the doctor’s and
other medic nes could do me no good it is
only right to say that Clements Tonic saved
me, and I shall always deem it my duty to
make this fast clear to other people. Yes,
it was when I had taken nearly a bottle of
Clements Tonic that I felt warmed and
stiengthened, with a good healthy glow
running right through my body, and my
spirits brighter than they had been ever
6mce my illness began. Getting some more
Clements Tonic, that miserable drowsiness
commenced to leave me, and as I was al-
ready taking a little food I began to pick
up strength. I thought this was splendid
progress, and I was highly elated with
the great success which attended my uss
of Clements Tonic—a fact that was borne
out by the abatement of my tortures. My
headaches became so insignificant that I
hardly noticed them ; then they died out
altogether, and I can say the same about
the pains in my side Rnd shoulders. I
was so thankful to be thus relieved, and
still more encouragement to pe- severe with
Clements Tonic came when flatulence was
remedied and the heaviness was lifted
from my chest. The anxiety** which my
heart had caused by palpitating at every
turn was readily set aside by Clements
Tonic, which seemed to find its way to
every nook and corner of my internal
organs and root out every particle of
disease which had been left untouched by
previous medicines. The sleep which then
came was calm and refreshing, and when
I got up it was with a clean mouth and
a good appetite for my morning meal,
and also with a feeling of energy which
made it a pleasure to have some work
to do. All this time my nervousness was
becoming less apparent in every way. I
could soon tolerate any noise without
trembling, and my mind was , free from a!\
I recognised how different my life
was, and my grateful thoughts were all
centred on Clements Tonic, which I c n-
tinued taking for another week or so, when
I found myself as well as ever, with my
complexion clear and my weight regained.”
“ With your permission I’ll reproduce
this narrative.”
“ You can publish it in any way you like,
as I’ve only spoken the truth.'’
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Ei.izaurth Wkrokx, of 67 Cleveland-street, Red-
fern. In the State of New South Wales, Common-
wealth of Aussralia, do solemnly and sincerely
ri dare that I have carefully read the annexed docu-
ment, consisting of four folios, and consecutively
ni nibered from one to four, and that it contains and
is a true and faithful account of my illness and cure
by Clements Tonic ; and also contains my full per-
mission tn publish in anyway my statements—wnich
I give voluntarily, without receiving: any payment;
and 1 make this solemn declaration conscientiously
believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the
provisions of the Oaths Act, IUOO.
Suhecrined and declared at Redfern, this twenty-
fifth day of Match, oue thousand nine hundred
end two, belote uie,
PATRICK STANLEY, i.P.
Price 6s*
Post frss.
“ON OUR SELECTION.’’
BY
“Steele Rudd.”
£-OK THE bUrfaH WOKKEH
r am-i3uk
j-njszm
n SOOTHING BALM and EMBROCATION. Will be found
A a CERTAIN CURE for Cuts, Burns, Bolls, Barooo.
Eczema. Snralns, Ringworm, Sore Feet, Piles all
forms of Skin Disease or Muscular Affections, eto.
From aH Chemists, 1/6 per Tin. A FREE SAMPLE will
be sent you. Address the
Z AM - BUK CO., 39 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Enclose Penny Stamp lor postage, and mention this paper.
*<»•»
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS^
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilrla Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-si, South Melbourne.
TeUphmu Jfe. Wit. ■^CATERER.
Ifr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
tar the largest and most complete in the
colonies; ami can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered tor
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCIN3 FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
“ They come as a boon and a blessing to men,
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen.”
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEN made by Macniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
separate'y examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.,
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAM
THE MOBT NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATKFUIj—COMFORTING
COCOA
BREAKFAST—SUPPER.
DEBILITATED
Y\7EAK, NERVOUS SUFFERER. Let us send you a
trial course of our CONCENTRATED BOTANIC
REMEDIES FREE OF CHARGE. You will he more
than pleased with the result, and you will show your
appreciation of our valuable treatment by persevering
in its use for a few weeks until you are PERMANENTLY
CURED. Address—
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Victoria Chambers, Ellzabeth-street, Sydney.
DRUNKTIred
Absolutely Conquered In 20 Days.
my proposition to the Government,
November Bth, 1901, wherein I agree to
accept 100 Test Cases, and prove that my
Vegetable Cure for Alcoholism is a positive
and reliable remedy Home treatment
■within the reach of all. No restrictions, no
hypodermic injections. Full particulars free,
W. LANGSTON, M R.C.S., En*.,
IJO CIBII It, .
Rescued
From Drink
by a new discovery, odorless and tasteless, which any lady
can give in tea, coffee or food Itdoesits work so silently
and surely that while the devoted wife, sister or daughter
looks on, the drunkard is reclaimed, even against his will
and without his knowledge or co-operation'. Send name
and address to THE EUCRASY CO., 6 i HUNTER ST..
SYDNEY, N.S.W., and they will send you booklet and
particulars free.
RUPTURE
Thr*w >*lJ
r*or Tru*.
CURED without
operation or pain,
no detention from work, or depend-
ence upon Trusses. The only
humane treatment. Hundreds
cured. Write to-day for illustrated
Treatise No. io. Address:
SURGEON LANGSTON,
H.H.e.S., CM«.,
129 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
J’UTrf It,"
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer,
Capillarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, tOs. 6d.
BOLE AGENTS.
3F
The Remit.
CRAIG &. AITKEIM. N.S. W. Barber’s Supply
Bouse, 6*o-082 QEORCE STREET, BYIMEY.
Refreshing and Agreeable.
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
TOILET SOAP.
A pleasant Antiseptic Soap (containing jntv
pure Carbolic Acid). Should be used reeuUHv
to improve the skin and completion and prevent
infection. r 1
F. C. CALVERT 4 Co., Manchester, Eng.
(MORRIS'S
IMPERIAL
ftl E YE,
CURES
TOOTH-ACHE
CURED INSTANTLY BY
BUNTER’S
Prevents Decay, Saves
Extraction, Sleepless Nights
Prevented.
Neoralgle Head ache* k all Nerve
Paine removed by BUNTER’S
NERVINE. Of aU Store*.
NERVINE
“As a specific for Tooth ache It has no equal. I have
■sed It successfully for years."—Prof. W. Wilson, M.D,
The BEST FAMILY MEDICINE
KAYE’S WORSDEIL’S PILLS
Jure a certain Cnre for Indigestion, Biliousness, Head ache,
Dyspepsia, OosMtipation, User and Kidney Complaints, 4c
Of all 6tor.es,
Rupture
Free Cure.
Wouderful Home Treatment That Cures
Without Pain or Loss of Time.
Dr. W. S. Rice (Dept. 268), 8 & 9, Stonecutter
Street, London, 8.C., has invented a method that
cures rupture without pain, danger, operation, or
an hour's loss of time from the day's work. To
avoid all questions of doubt, he sends free bo every
UR. JOHN WESLEY.
sufferer a free trial of his method, and there can be
no earthly reason why anyone, rich or poor, should
not avail themselves of this generous offer. As an
instance of this remarkable method, the cure oi
Mr. John Wesley, Castle Lachlan, Fnverary, Argyle,
is a welcome intelligence. Mr. Wesley is a w ® ll
preserved and highly respected gentleman, 72 years
of age. After a short use of the Rice method tne
rupture healed entirely. To-day he’s sound as
a bell. If you know anyone ruptured you should
tell them of this wonderful method, which win
be sent for trial free of all costs.
30 Days’ Trial.
' We grant every purchase*
of our
ELECTRIC
KELTS and
AFFLIANCKS
a trial of SO days before
payment, which U fully
explained in our fcL.B.O-
- ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all_ NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore . th '
w earer to robws heaitn.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ink current Lliat can b *
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give »
written guarantee wit#
each Electric Belt that
will permanently cure you. If it does exactly
promptly return the full amount paid. ' e
what we say. and do precisely what we pro ns. gend
NOTICE.- Before purchasing, we prefer thaty
for our Electric Era and Price List (P°® OTH yexES,
illustrations of different appliances for BUiH
also Testimony which will convince the most - l
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY-
ALL CHEMISTS
y' %
An>emia,
Poverty of Blood
and Weakness
from Whatever Cause.
TABLETS
Q/g *-v_
xoa SA3«=l


-ittE SPECIALISE in but one direction, i.e., the
” EQUIPMENT OP OFFICES
on an UP-TO-DATE SYSTEM.
No Business can
succeed without
method.
This METHOD
we supply.
WABASH
expansion
Busmsa
Systems.
L tter Files.
Documf .it Files
Card Index
Systems
For ALT.
BUSINBSSR9.
Write for
Catalogue.
WOOLLEY, BERQIN & CO.,
269 George St., Sydney.
Sole Agents, Australasia.
m
tf&JW EDUCATION
IS PROVIDED by the American
Schco! of Correspondence,
at Armour Institute of Tech-
nology, Chicago, who conduct
Engineering Tuition by corres-
pondence, and aim to extend, at small cost, a valuable
technical education to the great wage-earning classes
everywhere. The courses are especially practical,
and are adapted to the needs of working people who
are willing and anxious to advance. Electrical,
Sceam, Mechanical, Civil and Sanitary Engineering,
Drawing, Mathematics, Architecture, and Textile
Manufacturing, Mining. Catalogue “ B,” describing
Courses, Methods and Terms, sent on request to
r N FERGUSON, Electrical Engineer (Manager
Australia), P.O. Box 629, Sydney, N.S.W.
HYPNOTISM, Magnetic Healing, &c.
'*z
Kiln??
Learn to Hypnotize |
Womlerful, Mysterious. Fas
cinatingl 1 teach you how
to become a hypnotist so
that you can exert a strang]
and magic influence over
otli rs. Celebrate in<<au
taneous method, discovered
and tauuht only by me.
1 asily and quickly learned.
You can perform astonish-
ing feats and produce fun
by the hour. Surprise all
your friends and make your-
self famous. You can give
entertainments and make
money. G rattles eve y am-
bition, compels others to
love and obey you, and
brings health, happiness,
and success in li:e. Cures
di eases and bad habits.
Send two Btamps for my big
FREE BOOK, which treats
on all the wonders, secrets,
and mysteries of the art,
and shows yon just how to
become a Hypnotist.
ADDRESS—
Prof. R. H. Barraden, 89 Pitt Street, BYDNEY.
ipK
MEN
If
you
are
suffering from
exhaustion, Vari-
cocele, Wasting,
Weakness, enclose 6 stamps (postage and
packing), and I will send a trial bottle of my
REMEDY, FREE.
IT COSTS YOU NOTHING
to try my Life Syrup Remedies, which
give back strength of body and brain, renewed
vigor, and development of the vital organs;
not a free prescription dodge, but a trial of
my wonderful remedy free for the asking.
PROFESSOR H. READ,
165 Collins street, Melbourne.
VEGETABLE
Charcoal
THE ROAD
TO HEALTH IS
PAVED WITH
GOOD
DIGESTION.
Speedily cures Acidity Flatulence, Heartburn,
Impure Breath, Indigestion, Diarrhoea, &o. It
destroys all disease germs, and, absorbing all impuri*
ties in the stomach and bowels,gives a healthy tone
to the whole system. Wards off all attacks of Typhoid
and other Fevers. Prevents many an illness.
BRAGG’S PURE CHARCOAL POWDER In
Bottles; LOZENGES and BISCUITS In Tin*
(pleasant to take). Sold by all Chemist* and Stores.
Having had complaints of the injury done by other
preparations,©lease see that each Bottle or Tin bear*
the Trade Mark in monogram, on the wrapper
SKEETO.
Rub "Skeeto” on the skin and Mosquitos
won’t come near you.
TESTIMONIAL.
"The Camp, Jerusalem Bay.
“ Cowan Creek,
"Dear' much pleasure in testily lng toLhe
merits of your valuable remedy « Skeeto,* we «*ed
in our camp on the Hawkesbury. The Q r
plajrue of mosquitos and sand-flies, but on UPP >
preparation we were at once perfectly favor of
and we must all express our -olden op.monsjnfavorof
the efficacy of ‘ Skeeto.’ I shall always recommend it to
my friends.-Yours truly, E ‘
PRICE, 1/- per bottle; post, 14.
Agents for Queensland— HOKFNUNQ & CO., Ltd.,
CHAS. S. V. MILLINGEN & CO.
Sole Manufacturer—
ALEX. J. WEBSTER, 177 Pitt Street, Sydney
OF INTERESfIcTMEM
be pleased to send the means of cure to charge
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to
Mr. ROBERT E. PARKHURSI,
street, Sydney.
s\
Mention
this
Paper.
Wonli
Men WOMEN
Can obtain strength and vigor
hv the line of DR. PIKROE 3
ELECTRIC BELT." A Won-
derful Restorative. Tbe mud
Scientific Kleoirical AppliancS
ever made. Drugs do not cure.
This Bell does. Send stamp (any sort)
for “ Boost, st No. a." (CT "><(e
Pierce Electric C0.,206 Post Bt.
B»a VrmcUco.U■ S. A.7wi Co.>*U Syda.y
FOR BABY’S SHIN
SCALP AND DAK
Something for Mothers to Think Abou£
EVERY CHILD born into the world with an inherited
or early developed tendency to distressing, disfiguring
humours of the skin, scalp, and blood, becomes an object
of the most tender solicitude, not only because of its suf-
fering but because of the dreadful fear that the disfigura-
tion is to be lifelong and mar its future happiness and
prosperity. Hence it becomes the duty of mothers of
such afflicted children to acquaint themselves with the
best, the purest, and most effective treatment available,
viz., THE CUTICURA TREATMENT.
Warm bath 9 with Cuticura Soap, to cleanse the skin of crusts and soale3
and soften the thickened cuticle, gentle anointings with Cuticura Oint-
ment, to instantly allay itching, irritation, and inflammation, and soothe and
heal, to be followed in the severer cases by mild doses of Cuticura Resol-
vent Pills (see below), to cool and cleanse the blood, are all that can be
desired for the alleviation of the suffering of skin-tortured infants and
children and the comfort of worn-out, worried mothers. A single set is
often sufficient to cure when the best physicians fail.
Millions of Women Use Cuticura Soap
Assisted by Ccticura Ointment, for preserving, purifying, and beautifying the skin, for
cleansing the scalp of crusts, scales, and dandruff, and the stopping of falling hair, for
softening, whitening, and soothing red, rough, and sore hands, for baby rashes, itchings,
and chaflngs, in the form of baths for annoying irritations and inflammations, or too free
or offensive perspiration, in the form of washes for ulcerative weaknesses, and for many
sanative, antiseptic purposes which readily suggest themselves to women, especially
mothers, and for all the purposes of the toilet, bath, and nursery.
CtmctntA Resolvent Pills (Chocolate Coated) are prepared to meet the wants of
delicate women, and sensitive children, and are pure, sweet, and tasteless. They are
beyond question the most successful blood purifiers and humour cures yet compounded.
Cuticura Remedies »r« sold throughout the world. Australian Depot: R. Towns * COm Sydney. British
Depot: 27-28. Charterhouse Sq . London. French Depot- « Rue de la Pail, Paris. Potter Drug and Chlm.
Coat-., Sole Prop.., Boston, Vl* S. A. ** All about th. Skin," free.
ARE YOU WEAK ?
Low-spirited, Tired of Life, Have you utterly
failed in your efforts to regain Health?
Go to the Fountain Head
And consult Old Surgeon Langston, who will Cure
you. Forty years’ practice as a Specialist is sufficient
Guarantee of the doctor’s ability.
AVOID unskilled pretenders, flaming advertisements and specious
cure-alls.
Vigor and Strength desire it.
OLD SURGEON LANGSTON,
Member Royal College of Surgeons, England, located in Melbourne
since 1386 ha 9 so perfected his method of treatment that it can
almost be said there are no hopeless or incurable cases.
Be the equal of your fellow man.
r*
If vou are a sufferer from any nervous, chronic Blood or Skin diseases, or interested in the subject of
Neurasthenia and associated evils, write at once for book of information, blank forms, etc., and have the
old doctor diagnose your case.
Seels, tiie Trutla, it; costa KTothing.
All communications strictly confidential. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, 129 Collins Street, Melbourne.
2S
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
■(BRACING
THE POPULAR “ Pl-AIN HOME TALK.”
Bt Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Chronios. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are ansvvered, in plain language, a thou-
gand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they teel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The hew 1902 edition just arrived. ' ' -
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy ; Is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d. |
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is.
The Art of Wrestling, post Is. Hoyle’s Games, post 2/6
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), Is 3d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor. Is.
Acst Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, Is posted Camille, Is 3d.
Secret History of the Court of England, 1 6 post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history), Is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Chiniquy's Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle's Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d.
G W. Revnolds’ Court ok London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted. S vppho, Is.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want.
Tiie Wife's Handbook, Is 2 1 posted.
Tub Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post.
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 ill ns. Leather hound, m.v price, 15s post paid
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore's Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic,
1016 pages, cloth hound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance. Is 3d.
Voltmhe’s Romances, 2s posted.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music eomple e Is 6d.
The Age of Reason, hv Paine, posted Is bd.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, os 6d posted.
Send for my Illustrated Big Book
Catalogue- post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney.
ASTHMA and BRONCHITIS CURED
Posted to any State) ss.
J. W. CASE, Chemist, 140 Wiekham-st., Brisbane.
~ ~ Ditttvkiv when Wpi tin O'.
r> NSECTIODE:
l , & Kills
s^ll
"’insects
Of /IMITATIONS
jfe
A
a*
AsK
Kruses
* v -=s«?r*
fOH
BLAIR’S
GOUT S RHEUMATIC
The Great English Remedy for
G3UT, RHEUMATISM, SCIATIAA.
LUMBAGO & NEURALGIA.
The acute pain is quickly relieved and cured in *
few days by this celebrated Medicine.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and at e certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, and sold at Is. ljd. and 2s. 9d.
per box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
ASTHMACURE
GRIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
For Asthmaue people who suiter irom
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimahlt’s Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, eut short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest.
GRIMAULT & Co., Paris. Sold by all Chemists.
EVERY WOMAN
is interested and should know
about the wondeiful
Marvel Whirling Spray
The new FEMALE SYRINGE
Injection and Suction. The best,
safest and most convenient.
It Cleanses Instantly.
\ W
SR
IS
If your druggist cannot
supply the MARVEL,
accept no other, but write us for
Illustrated Hook, sent free
sealed. It gives price by mail,
particulars and directions invalu-
able to ladies. Kndorsed by Physicians.
j Times Building, N. Y.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS-
THE MARVEL CO. OF AUSTRALIA,
CAMDEN BUILDING,
418 George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
LADY SPECIALIST IN ATTENDANCE.
Postal Address, Box 623, Q.P.0., Sydney.
Write for Booklet. Sent free, sealed.
Health,
Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks toy the use of
RX CORO's
gssfc** ceof V.X F
7 he only InjaUil/le Remedy for WEAK2USS3.
Used lor a quarter of a century with unparalleled and
unprecedented success throughout the World.
Dr. Rieard’s Rssence of Rife restores Health and Strength
a the must shattered constitutions , regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 128. or four quantities in one for 365. 1< reigh#
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope
Agents for & CO., 47 Queen St,
Uel bourne ; Wholesale Agents for ISew South Wale*-
H Fauld ng & Co., 16 O’Connell St.. Sydney.
DEAF
The New Patent .
SOUND DISCS
I Completely overcome Deafness
ami Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
uddmi—Jk M. NAST, 145 Colllnß St., M«lbourn«,


HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
BRANDY
Hennessy’s
Old Battle Axe
Brand
is Known
and
Appreciated
all the
World
Over.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
THE
4 PLUM’
THE
‘PLUM’
Y^ENTLEMEN.— This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, ring
like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind ol
edge that is required to ensure an easv shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM" RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Raaor, 7* M
“RAZOLES" LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
Prick
/ Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Oase, lift
\ Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful oase, 30*
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st. ( Sydney.
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300 pages ; price, 4s. 6d. ; postage, 6d.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
1b Bulk and BottU bib aaireraally acknowledged
I*o DKFY COMPJBXITIOia,
WINES *• ** *£•* °*'" SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS of mineral waters, CORDIALS, &0.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Wcm i&
rts
i»
vX\V
Id
1
a*
I
m
/v/p
m
'm
VA
«//tall
N.
m
i
Ruberoid Roofing
is made in four thicknesses, called “ plies,” but only one quality (the Best) and one color (Grey). The
thickest (3-ply) is a shade under an eighth of an inch thick. All plies must be laid over some kind of a
foundation, such as close boarding, 3m. by iin. battens or 36in. x 3in. x i6in. gauge galvanized wire
netting. Painting is not necessary, but it is recommended at the end of 18 to 24 months. Each roll is
one yard wide, twenty-four yards long, and if used according to our recommendations, Ruberoid will
make the face of every user beam with satisfaction. Genuine Ruberoid Roofing, properly used, will
“ well,” “ wear well,” and give excellent satisfaction for many in this or in any other climate.
Caution! Be sure you get the Genuine.
If in doubt, write direct to- AGENTS—
Fremantle, W.A.
J. M. Ferguson, I/td.
Adelaide, S.A.
A. W. Sandford & Co.,
Melbourne, Vier
Brooks, Robinson & Co,
Launceston, Tas.
Hedi,e;y Buttow,
Wellington, N.Z.
Jamiss W. Jack.
E. RICH <3: CO., LIMITED, B”*“
SYDNEY.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a. Newspaper.
Yoi.. 21.—N0. 1207.
SATURDAY, APRIL 4, 1903,
Prick 6d.
LACK OF WORK: ITS REAL CAUSE.
UNEMPLOYED : “Why can’t we get work making some of these things instead of importing them?”
IMPORTER : “No! Australia’s £40,000,000 worth of annual imports are the backbone of its prosperity. Imports are the only true test of a nation’s
greatness. It becomes great by buying things, not by making them. These imports represent the factories you haven’t got, and the
work and wages you haven’t got—and that’s where I come in. Get to relief works!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.’'
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
A* 214 George Street North, Sydney
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS AFTER
Ist NOVEMBER , 1902
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum w ... C '
Half-yearly ~. nvn
Quarterly
NOT ICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J r.
Archibald.
\
Special Notice.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number, is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence” column aU contri-
butions submitted, whether in the .form °f Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Put we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To A mateurs in lilaelt. and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or ivash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photographillustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e. any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa — Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown;
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal! Solomon
and Wilson, n Hout St., Capetown; Solomon and
Wilson, Commissioners Street, Johannesburg ; Granger
Bros,, Johannesburg ; Isaacs and Co., Durban ; Argus
Printing Co., Rhodesia; Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
Ceylon.— Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
B.C.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., tt Queens Road, Hong
Kong.
TT^^xxZlelztfi.
SATURDAY, APRIL 4, 1903.
A Petty Navy and a Bumptious Admiral.
Speaking at a luncheon tendered to him at Otago,
Admiral Fanshawe said: “No war could be waged
against us by any Power without a navy. Next time we
have a war we must come on the navy before we can put
a single shipload of soldiers on the sea, and we must see
that the sea is clear. I can conceive nothing more serious
than that the transport of the bravest and best soldiers
in the world should be exposed to attack by some fast
cruiser or torpedo-destroyer, and we must keep the
command of the sea. I think that had better be done by
one great navy. Why should we set up our little petty
navies? Let us stand to the old service which has done
everything for us in the past.”— Cablegram from Maori-
land.
Before the next meeting of the Australian
Parliament it would be well for this country
to come to some definite understanding about
the naval question. The eternal shiftiness
of Britain’s policy makes it difficult for Aus-
tralia to know exactly where it stands. Up
to a very few years ago Britain strongly en-
couraged this country to maintain a naval
force of its own, and the separate States
began to do so in a small way. They engaged
British officers to command their vessels,
and one of the results of this policy was that
Queensland had to send police to seize its own
under-sized cruiser to prevent a British officer
taking it away contrary to orders—bolting
with it, in fact. Queensland’s recovery of
its partially embezzled squadron was a thrill-
ing comic opera episode. Then Britain flew
off the handle in a fresh direction, and pro-
posed that Australia, following up
the new policy of maintaining vessels of its
own, should contribute to the support of a
British fleet, which was to remain at all
times in the South Pacific, and be available
for Australian defence. Australia fell in
with this idea, and the Naval Tribute policy
started. The first unpleasant reflection that
was cast upon the new system came in the
candid statement of a British naval officer
that in time of war he would not hesitate to
take the subsidised British Vquadron to
wherever the seat of hostilities happened to
be—to India, China, or anywhere else.
This was such an unvarnished declaratioh
that the solemn promise, league, and coven-
ant of Britain might not be worth the paper
on which it was written, that it ought to
have made Australia chary of further naval
agreements, but the unwholesome incident
passed over. Now Australia is requested to
increase its subsidy, and to abrogate the
arrangement by which the subsidised fleet is
devoted to Australian defence—to pay
heavily for a fleet which is to remain on these
coasts in peace time when it is of no earthly
use, and which, in time of war and danger,
may be 10,000 miles away. And a fat and
“feckless” Federal Premier has pledged
himself to this astounding proposition. It
is also rumored that the proposal includes
the handing over to Britain of the Austi-a-
lian coast defences and the few alleged war
vessels that Australia possesses, but about
this last astounding item there is no definite
information as yet.
* * * *
Under these circumstances all true Aus-
tralians naturally revert to the idea of
creating and gradually strengthening and
building up our own fleet, and against this
view the present British Government has set
its face hard. Its servile subordinates
naturally follow its lead. The ill-bred sneer
of Admiral Fanshawe at the “ petty fleets,”
which would naturally represent the first
beginnings of the Australian marine, reflects
the latest turn of the British political kalei-
doscope. Yet Fanshawe’s tall, bloated
scoff comes badly from the representative of
a country which was glad so very lately to
get the aid of Australia’s petty army, and
which is cadging so hard for Australia’s
petty cash in the shape of a naval subsidy,
and which boasts so much of the petty
dependencies which, added together, make
up its empire. If a separate Australian
marine force is a matter of such utter
absurdity, then a separate Australian land
force is equally ridiculous, likewise a separate
Australian subsidy. Britain’s own marine
force was petty enough at one time, and had
its first beginnings in the days of a petty
potentate called Alfred, of whose petty
doings England brags greatly to this day.
The beginnings of all things are petty, but
that doesn’t show that nothing should begin
at all.
♦ * * • *
The real difficulty lies in the bumptious-
ness of the British officer and the grudging
jealousy of the British politician. A petty
Australian army is strongly commended and
approved—so long as a British general is in
command and does the ruling and the order-
ing about. It is so much approved, in fact,
that schemes have been drafted for placing
it at the disposal of the British authorities
so that, in time of need, it can be sent away
under British commanders to fight Britain’s
battles in other parts of the earth, leaving
Australia practically defenceless. An
Australian navy, provided a British
admiral did the commanding and the
cursing, and could take the vessels where
he pleased, and provided that the officers
were British aristocrats, would be just as
acceptable. In fact Britain is even now
strongly urging that very idea. It proposes
that Australia shall pay for the fleet on the
instalment plan, and supply some at least
of the men, while British officers mono-
polise the cocked hat and the glory and
shout the commands. A petty fleet, so
long as British officers monopolise the
cocked hat and the glory, is no more ob-
jected to than is the petty army or the petty
contribution. The British conviction that
the British person who had courage and
energy enough to go abroad and help to ex-
pand the empire is, necessarily, an inferior
being, and that the British person who
stayed and festered in the old spot is the
only real representative of the empire and
the only person to be entrusted with
authority, is incurable.
m * • •
So long as Australia does not provide for
its own defence its dependence on its
aged mother for protection is the scoff of
the insulting British cheesemonger, and the
British magazine- writer, and the subject of
grave condemnation by the bald-headed man
at the back of the British twopenny omnibus.
If it does attempt to so provide, it is the
jeer of the British horse-marine who ridi-
cules its proposed fleet as petty, simply
because everything must have a beginning.
It is deluged with silly British verse about
“sons of the sea ” and “ boys of the bull-
dog breed,” and it rouses the indignation of
the narrow-minded British nautical character
when it proposes becoming a son of the sea
itself. If the Australian wants to emulate
the partly real and partly apocryphal naval
and military glories of Britain, he may
be a subordinate person in the Austra-
lian military forces with a British
officer over him, or he may (should the
latest Naval Tribute idea become a reality)
be a cleaner of decks and a polisher of brass
fittings on one of the ships of the subsidised
squadron, with British officers over him. If
he aims higher than these things he may go
to England, and become an officer of the
British army by going through the usual
routine—and then be boycotted out of the
service by the gilded cads of the Grenadier
Guards or some similar individuals, for not
being ofi purely English origin. There are
many Australians whose ancestors, before
they became Australian, helped to save
Britain at Trafalgar and Waterloo; also
there are many purely British persons whose
ancestors stayed at home on those dangerous
occasions and pushed the sale of swine and
agricultural products. And these latter now
desire to know what inferior Australian per-
sons can possibly mean by proposing to
meddle with defence matters, except in a
subordinate capacity and in humble subjec-
tion to the superior Briton who stayed at
home.
* * * •
Australia some kind of a military force
of its own, and when Britain lately got into
war, and was being knocked endways by a
foe one-hundredth part of its own size,
that force was placed at Britain’s dis-
posal in a way which, considering that^Aus-
tralia had no voice whatever in the making
of the war, was lavish in the extreme. Aus-
tralia had no interest in the war, and wasn’t
driven to take part in it by any special
personal danger, yet it took part in a toler-
ably large and reckless fashion. It would
be ten times more likely to take part in a
naval war, assuming that it had the
means, simply because in a naval war it
would be personally interested and it
would be urged on by a personal danger.
In view of the very recent past, the
British assumption that Australia can’t
be trusted with a navy of its own be-
cause it would, as a matter of course, refuse
its aid to the empire in time of need is a
shabby, insulting, low-down attitude of
mind. Australia is practically driven to
establish its own naval defence by the bad
faith and the vacillating conduct and the
overbearing attitude of Britain. It sees
Britain, with its Channel fleet, and its
North Sea fleet, and its coast defence
fleet, providing most carefully for the
security of its own shores in time of
war, and the absurdity of the Austra-
lian providing in like manner for the
security of his shores isn’t so visible
to him as it seems to be to the Britisher.
The Australian fails to see why a petty
Australian squadron hereabouts should be
more conte taptible than a petty British
squadron here, or a petty British squadron
anywhere else. The seas are dotted all over
with petty British squadrons, and the land
with petty British garrisons, and the news-
papers with the remarks of petty British
individuals on a large variety of subjects.
The Australian doesn’t see, either, and
possibly never will fully appreciate, the
British idea that a person of British descent,
because he went out to help to expand the
“glorious British empire” is therefore a
“ mere colonial,” only fit to be a private on
land or a swabber of decks at sea. He is
tired of the inferior scoffs of the British
Podsnap. because of his dependence on his
venerable parent for defence, and equally so
of the superior scoffs of the British salt-horse
individual when he suggests providing for
his own defence. He has received notice
from Chamberlain that he must quit the
empire if he doesrc’t protect himself, and he
is denounced as “petty” by the gorgeous
Fanshawe if he does. And these things
make him feel tired of many British persons
and many British circumstances.
Things Copeland Left Unsaid.
Agent-General Copeland, of New South Wales,
has written to the London press in fierce denuncia-
tion of the paper which asked “Is Australia
Bankrupt ?” It was natural that he should do so;
he and the other Agents-General are paid to do
such things, and if they didn’t do them some other
men would presently get their jobs. But though
Copeland replies with great fury he, unfor-
tunately, leaves Australia looking just as bankrupt
as it was before. He dashes about large masses of
rage, figures, and assertions, and doesn’t once get
down close enough to details to touch the real
questions at issue. He even mentions this
country’s luck at cricket and such-like as a proof
that its solvency is past all question. The follow-
ing are some of the points that are in Copeland’s
angry and futile yarn, and the answers thereto—
which represent the points that Copeland un-
happily left out:
Let me now deal seriatim with a few of Mr. Wilson’s
fallacies. He states that “each Australian is saddled
with £59, as against the £l9 per head that the British
population has to support.” Let me show the other side.
.Each Australian is privileged to ride on his own railways,
and, in some States, in his own tramway-cars, and the
fares which he pays go straight to the consolidated
revenue of his country, instead of into the banking
account of some rich railway company, the policy of Aus-
tralia being that the people who own the lands should
also own the railways with which to develop those lands.
And the fact which Mr. Copeland carefully
avoids is that, apart from money spent on rail-
ways, tramways, telegraphs, and telephones, the
Commonwealth owes as much per head as Britain
does. With no costly wars, and with all its
splendid land revenue, it has got as deeply
involved in unprofitable debt in 50 years as
Britain has in 200 years. And no Australian
rides in his own railway cars on the State lines of
this country. He rides in cars which are mort-
gaged to Cohen for the full value they represented
when they were new, and Cohen’s engine drags
him over Cohen’s railway till he reaches Cohen’s
station.
* * * •
Then here is the Agent-General again :
In developing and settling our Australian estate of
1,902,600,000 acres, of which only 113,990,000 acres are, so
far, either alienated or in process of alienation, we have
deemed it advisable to come principally to the London
market, and have borrowed up to 1901 a total of
£205,419,352, of which we have invested the sum of
£130,742,963 in constructing and equipping 13,821,mi1es
of railways, in addition to State-owned tramways. We
have expended £26,673,956 in water supply and sewerage ;
in telegraphs and telephones, £3,741,070, making a total
of £161,158,989, for the use of which the public pay
in the same manner that they would had these works
been carried out by private firms or companies, the only
difference being that the revenue is paid into the public
treasuries instead of into companies’ banking accounts.
In addition to the above, we have expended £44,690,000
in other works and services, such as fortifications, bridges
over rivers, and public buildings, instead of paying rent
to private owners.
The last clause is extra special foolishness, for
Britain and other countries don’t pay rent to
private owners, as a general thing, for “fortifica-
tions, bridges, and public buildings.” As regards
the land still unsold in Australia, it is mostly soil
with a five-inch, or less than five-inch, rainfall, and
practically desert. A huge proportion is sand-
drift, salt, chaos and Sheol. As for the great
“development ” idea, the trouble is that the land
has been developed with borrowed money, and
then it has been sold, and the proceeds, instead of
being used to repay the “development” loans,
have been used as revenue. In the last 21 years
N.S.W. has received £40,000,000 from land, fully
£30,000,000 of this from the sale of land. It has
spent all this money to pay ordinary current ex-
penses and borrowed £40,000,000 as well. The
“developed ” land is mostly sold and the proceeds
eaten up. The money spent on development, and a
lot more money as well, is still owing.
* * * m
Then there is this further outbreak :
“To say, however, that the £161,158,9.89, which has
added enormously to the value of our large public estate,
ought not to be treated as an asset is an infinitely greater
absurdity than to say one of your large railway
Panes was insolvent because it had a large nul»“i
current debentures unpaid, representing the sums it Li
borrowed with which to construct its railwaysjna mnn
assuch railway company would not possess the bounS
areas of land through* which its railway ran as l a
Governments of the several Australian States. Or L
would be thought if a merchant were deemed insolven
because he happened to have an overdraft for sav£in ana
which the banker was only too glad to continue inas’
much as the merchant aforesaid had £20,000 or £3O me
worth of commodities in his warehouse which cmdd hi
turned into cash at any time, just as our railways would
if we were foolish enough to be willing to sell them ’
And the Britisher, reading this, will probablv
almost imagine that in Australia the State does
own the “boundless areas of land through which
its railways run.” But it really owns very little
of them. It is possible to ride by rail from Bris
bane to Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide and
hardly see any State-owned land in all that vast
distance. The railways did add to the value of
State lands to some extent. Now the lands are
sold, and the proceeds spent with no works to
show for them, and there remains a fading land
revenue, a railway system which returns less than
3 per cent, and which would sell for about two-
thirds of its cost, and nearly £90,000,000 of debt
over and above the money invested in the rail-
ways. And our banker isn’t glad—at least not
very glad—to continue our overdraft just now.
• * «
And then (passing by a lot of less interesting
matter) there is this peroration :
A people like the Commonwealth of Australia, possess-
ing property to the value of £1,083,838,000, with an
annual private income of £221,336,000, exclusive of the
revenues of the various State Governments, do not talk
or think of repudiation, but send annually to Great
Britain £16,644,000, of which £9,016,000 is paid by way of
interest on our Government and municipal indebtedness
and the balance of £7,628,000 finds its way to the pockets
of private individuals as income from property, &e.
I hope I have now said sufficient to answer the question
“ Is Australia Bankrupt?" and I think I may safely say
that, so long as the residents there retain British blood in
their veins, Australia is not likely to become bankrupt •
and at least it is time enough to talk repudiation when
some one of the States is half-an-hour behind time with
its interest or in retiring any matured responsibility.
It sounds very beautiful and convincing no
doubt. But in 1»90 the private wealth of
all Australasia was estimated at £1,169,000,000,
and the public debt was then £192,000,000!
In 1901 the private wealth had dropped
to .£1,083,000,000 —a decrease of £86,000,000;
and the public debt had grown to about
£260,000,000—an increase of £68,000,000. The
private debt had likewise increased, and the absen-
tee had multiplied greatly. Also, the public wealth
held by the State had diminished, for what the
State gains by the ownership of new public works it
more than loses by the sale of public lands. And
Australia doesn't send £9,000,000 a year to England
as interest on its public debt; it sends about
£2,000,000 or £3,000,000 and borrows the rest in
England. And whether, when it can no longer
borrow that £6,000,000 or £7,000,000, it will send
the £9,000,000 to England the Lord only knows,
for nobody has tried that experiment yet.
m • * *
Agent-General Copeland certainly casts him-
self into the fray with tremendous energy, but the
circumstances are against him. And these circum-
stances principally are : This is a country which
borrows more and more as the years go on ; which
spends more and more of its borrowings for purely
revenue purposes and less and less on productive
works ; a country where the aggregate value of
private wealth has been diminishing while its
debt increases; where the deficit has become a
regular institution; where all the revenue and all
the land sale money that can be extracted from
that great, boasted State asse£— the public lands
—doesn’t seem sufficient to keep the public
accounts square (and how these accounts will be
in future years, when there is much more debt and
less land revenue, heaven only knows); a country
which, to pay interest on its unproductive debt
only, has to raise nearly twice as much per inhabi-
tant by taxation as Britain does to cover the
charges on its whole debt; whose roads, railways,
telegraphs, telephones, bridges, tramways, water
and sewerage works, culverts, harbors, dredges,
public buildings, are all owned by Cohen,
the money-lender, and where the debt
§er head is always growing a little larger.
till there is no thought of repudiation
or default —any more than there was thought
of the great bank downfall till it came. There is
no thought of default while the new loans keep
coming in, just as the banks never thought of
default while the new deposits kept coming in.
But the question is: Will there be thoughts or
default or reconstruction when the new loans
cease to come in ? The British blood in our veins
didn’t prevent the great banking downfall. Ihe
British blood in our veins doesn’t alter the fact
that Australians treat default in a municipal
capacity somewhat lightly when the loans stop
and there is only the sordid bill left. And the
British blood is hardly good enough evidence in
any case ; no British community ever had such a
bill as ours to meet before.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The House of 35 Moderately Bloated
Landlords.
What is called a ‘‘satisfactory settlement or
the Victorian deadlock was being arrived a as
The Bulletin went to press last week, it w
“satisfactory” just so far as the lion didn «
the whole of the lamb ; it spared its hind-quarters
and its bleat. The “ reformed ” Parliament is to
consist of a Council of 34 members and one f°i
public service, and an Assembly of 66 and two mr
the public service. For the Council the ele
qualification is fixed at £lO freehold an
leasehold, and the members' ( l ua J l^?a^ l • n c
.£5O freehold. As to the rest, all that is m
any importance is that a process for the
ment of deadlocks is contrived, but con
in such a way that for ordinary Purposes
it is useless. For extraordinary purpo
may serve some day —possibly the day p '
lias concluded that the real reform of its
inent consists in the abolition o
second House. Only in two P 1
visible ways can that real refon
accomplished: one by tacking to a •
to extinguish the Council a provision for p y
a handsome pension to every councillor
sideration of his past invaluable servic ,
other to use this deadlock machinery to
same execution while saving the annuities,
deadlock provisions have thus an im P° ~ t
which, for ordinary legislative purpose.,
not belong to them. Unhappily, as'
marked, they don’t constitute a handy P. ‘
First, the Houses disagree, and the Assemop
dissolves, though it must not dissolve if it ls a
six months of its natural death. .Then, ,
has dissolved and a general election ha
place, the Assembly may wrestle witn
again ; and if it passes the Bill and the sail
culty again arises with the Council, the b
may grant a double dissolution, though, aga ,
dissolution mustn’t occur if it is l«s


nine months or more than 12 months since
the prior dissolution of the Assembly If
by a remarkable run of luck, a dispute has
got as far as this, both Houses “ will at the same
time be required to go before their constituents on
the definite point at issue and to obtain from their
constituents a settlement of the question in dis-
pute.” But there isn’t anything to oblige the
constituent who is more interested in the repair
of the ricketty bridge over the dry creek alongside
Mulligan’s than in any constitutional question—
there isn’t anything to oblige him to speak on
“ the question in dispute ” ; and so there will be
no more certainty that the country's voice on the
constitutional question is sounding through the
Assembly than there was before, and the Council
will probably be no more inclined to bow its head.
And after the double dissolution there will not
be any certainty that its constituents have spoken
on this particular question to the Council either ;
in any case, as they will still be allowed to elect
none but Rich Landlords to the Council, it is
difficult to see how they can give a vote against
the Landlord interest. The Assembly 0 will
send up its Bill, and the Council will say “No,”
and that will be the end of all the elaborate
“reform” provisions. The Commonwealth Par-
liament has deadlock machinery which is like this
up to a certain point; but, instead of leading up
to this final and almost inevitable fiasco, there is
in the Federal scheme a reasonable hope of finding
a way out of the trouble through the joint sitting!
which apparently doesn’t come into the Victorian
State scheme at all. Of course, things may, by a
run of accidents, turnout better than this. The
only at all substantial ground for the hope, though,
lies in the fact that possibly the Council may come
back from its constituents with instructions not to
go on making an ass of itself. Still it isn’t likely;
for, though the qualifications of both elector and
member of the Council have been slightly liberal-
ised, the electorate still consists of essentially the
more Conservative section of the people, while the
House will still remain the House of the Landlord.
The Forty-eight Rich Landlords no longer, per-
haps ; for the future, the House of the Thirty-five
Moderately-Bloated Landlords.
The Riot Act.
At Wyalong (N.S.W.) a sectarian meeting,
addressed by that industrious stirrer-up of the
boiling pot of strife, Rev. Dill Macky, was
violently interrupted by a sectarian mob of
another color ; the Riot Act had to be read, so
serious was the position, and several persons
named Patrick and Michael were arrested. It
is to be reasonably expected that, very shortly,
when Cardinal Moran, or some other violently
indiscreet person of his religious complexion, rises
to make the usual insulting reply, there will be
another row, and another recitation of the
Riot Act, and persons named Ebenezer and
Jabez will be arrested. All this is the
natural and inevitable result of religious
leaders stirring up strife in the name of Heaver,
and of the daily newspapers assisting them witn
reports of their inflammatory speeches. It is as
much the fault of the round, sleek man of God
who is called a “Father,” as of the thin, soured,
scantily-bearded man of God who is called a
“ Pastor,” and what of the responsibility for the
riots they do not bear, falls upon papers like the
Sydney D.T., which search out and record with
huge headingsevery foolish priestly and parsonical
invitation to the other fellow to come and have it
out. But all the damage falls on the community
the damage of the nervous irritation caused by a
dog-fight in the streets, or a melee in a park, or any
other public rowdiness; the damage to property
when sticks and stones fly around ; the damage to
that section of the community which really needs
some sort of a religious belief to keep it decently
behaved, and which is forced by these rows into a
contempt for all religious professions ; the damage
to the great aggregate nose and ear and window
of the community, and the destruction of the
community’s collar, and the casting of mud on the
community’s clothes. And the community—
especially a moderately sane and right-thinking
community like that of N.S.W., which refuses to
allow ordinary non-religious riots, and which won’t
allow industrial differences to run to strikes and
disorderliness—-should take steps to put an end to
this religious larrikinism. Perhaps it would
be a good thing to prosecute any parson
or priest making an inflammatory speech or
sermon, and any newspaper publishing the same.
Perhaps it would be better to insist on all
religious bodies contributing to an insurance fund
to make good any damage to property or to nerves
caused by their leaders. Then the broken win-
dows would be repaired at the expense of the
congregation, and the shattered nerves would
voyage to Europe under circumstances of extreme
comfort out of the same fund. And since what
the congregation had to put into the insurance
fund it would certainly deduct from the Sabbath
thrippence, the priest and parson would ulti-
mately find that stirring up strife didn’t pay.
And no clerical person nowadays is intentionally
guilty of anything that doesn’t pay.
4
A Victorian Landlord.
The simple-minded reporter who was sent by the
Argus into the Victorian Western district to sing
the praises of the big landlords is still hard at
work, and the resultant articles, printed on the
cable page of his paper, continue to furnish its
country readers with material for scorn and
derision. The following remarkable statements
were published on March 23rd :
The younger generation of these wealthy families, men
of education and refinement.. . have thrown themselves
with praiseworthy energy into the work of rural produc-
tion. They have thrown open their estates, in many
cases on liberal and generous terms, to the tenant farmer
• . . clear-headed, temperate, hard-working, they have
been true captains of rural industry.
The men on the share-dairies receive a penny per gallon
for all milk delivered at the factory, and a share of the
profits on all pigs fattened and calves reared.
The article from which the above extracts are
taken refers solely to the Manifolds, of Cainper-
down, and it is only fair to add that the last-
quoted clause deals with the operations of one
member of the family only, William Thompson
Manifold, of Purrumbete., Throughout the
Western District this “captain of rural industry”
is known as “ Penny Billy,” by reason of the
above-quoted penny per gallon. How on earth he
came to allow the fact to be blazoned abroad in
the Argus is a mystery. The true nature of this
extortion can be seen at a glance. The Camper-
down butter factory has, during the past 18
months, paid its suppliers at the rate of 4.9 d. per
gallon, or practically fivepence. The dairymen on
“Penny” Manifold’s estate, therefore—the men
who do the actual work—receive about one-
fifth of the proceeds of their labor. On share
dairies in this district the usual share of the
dairyman is a third; a few — “Penny” Mani-
fold’s brother Chester, for example have
allowed two-fifths ; wtiile a fourth is considered a
starvation rate. The feat of this captain of rural
industry in securing people who will do the work
for a fifth is, therefore, something extra. It is
airly easy to get at the earnings of the unfortu-
na e tenants. A man milking 60 cows will be
ery fortunate if he can average two gallons a cow
per day through the year. This gives him a daily
age ot LOs. to distribute amongst five milkers,
after paying for food and clothes. The few
pounds received from his “share ” of the profits on
pigs and calves are hardly worth considering,
ane work, of course, is seven days a week, and
anything from 10 to 15 hours per day. Of course,
w .n°l e business would be utterly impossible
re it not for the fact that the dairies are taken
by men with grown-up families, and the young men
and women work simply for their food and clothes
and sixpence to spend when they go into Carnper-
i Saturda - V n '& ht - Certainly the poo r P old
squatter- oving Argcs is, unintentionally, doing
nf S, W ?[ k T ‘Rowing light on the awful methods
of aq u after- land lord ism all over the West. The
tact that it calls the great aggregate Western Vic.
landlord a captain of rural industry ” instead of
a pirate of rustic energy doesn’t make any material
difference in the case.
•»
Cricket as a Proof of Solvency.
having been cast upon the credit
11 ,1 'o' m .London, and it being generally
alleged that since the day when old George
Dibbs went out of office the State has made up
tor the deficiencies in its revenues by reckless
borrowing Agent-General Copeland, with the
brief for the defence, opened his case with these
paper* 7 Un ‘ pertment remarks in a London
moinhs of a fh A o c BtraHa d ° ne to P ufc such a taste in the
m°uths of these venomous critics ? Have not our neonle
proved themselves British to the backbone? Have we
shown any deficiency in manly sports? Have not our
boatmen beaten the best of yours on your own waters’
Have not our cricketers and footballers mTvoure on
i'n ihp^r^'" heath, without showing- any weakness or decay
in their stamina ? When the war tocsin sounded, were
our men slow to draw the sword, or did our untrained
troops show the white feather in the face of the enemv
or were they lacking in intelligence when met with rUffi*
culties on the field of battle?" Why then should IS
tralian statesmen, of all others, be branded by their co-
Britishers with ignominy; and the political policy of
country be subjected to outrageous misrepresen ta-
ll 1 is not to be wondered at that the London
Oohen looks with eye askance at NSW
securities when, in addition to the irrelevant'ex-
planation of John See, and the further (from the
point) explanation of Owe’Sullivan, and the yet
further (from the point) explanation of B. R Wise
Henry Copeland puts in his little oar The
question is one of cold, hard cash. The issue is
whether there is an absol u te certain ty that N. S. W.
will, or can, pay up her vast loans, and
whether future borrowings can be negotiated
on the damaged security. And Mr. Cope-
land says Australia is British to the back-
bone, and George Towns can row anybody
“ l Country, and Trumper can hit
the ball with a whack like all Gehenna,
and Australian soldiers are brave and intelligent
farm-burners. If any Australian citizen wishes
to plumb the full depths of the inanity of repre-
sentative championship of Australia’s finance let
him drop into the Mont de Piete and ask for a
loan on the grounds that he can run 100yds. in
LOfsec., that he plays a decent hand at solo whist
and is a plucky and skilful boxer. From the
reluctance of Moses to shell out the corn of Egypt
on these grounds, he will learn the effect of
Copeland’s eloquence on the British investor.
♦
The Highway Gospeller.
At the recent annual Wesleyan Wail—or was it
Congregationalist Corroboree’—in Melbourne the
necessity for carrying the Gospel forth into the
highways was vigorously asserted by Parson
Edgar. This shepherd has a weakness for loud
assertion. It was he who said a number of awful
things about Tom Bent, what time bull-necked
Thomas was Speaker of the Vie. Assembly, but
when they summoned the reverend gent to the
Bar of the House and asked him what he meant
by it the roar of the accuser dropped suddenly to
a mild whisper. Rev. Edgar’s attempt to play
the dervish reminded one, somehow, of the bygone
Bent episode. He swelled with enthusiasm when
he spoke of scattering the Master’s Word in the
Master's manner, but O ! what a difference when
he came to put his precept into practice in
Bourke-street t’other Saturday night. Probably
Mr. Edgar has a faint sense of humor,
sufficient to show him the absurdity of walk-
ing up and down Bourke-street—a tall plump
gentleman in clerical garments—uttering the old,
old platitudes of professional Gospelism in open
competition with citizens who were crying : “This
way to Rickards’s!” or “ Waxworks' tickets
here ! ” It is so easy for a man to put a bold front
on the platitudes he talks in church. And so hard
for the same man to practise peripatetic preaching
in a crowded unholy thoroughfare as though he
were filled with the Spirit, and really believed
himself to be saving somebody’s soul. Rev.
Edgar’s experiment furnished a striking example
of the hollowness of mere Word preaching. He
delivered the Word as he strode beside the tram-
track, with his hands behind his back, and
as the tram whizzed past the passenger on the
dummy caught a disjointed expression—something
about sin, or blood, or the devil, and he just
remarked to his fellow-passenger that the tall
bloke would get run over if he didn’t take care.
Nobody was aggressive enough to make sport of
the new departure. It was viewed just in the
same blank way that an aboriginal views the
Encyclopedia Britannica. The preacher’s dis-
comfiture was written on his face, and though
Parson Edgar professes to be anxious to carry
some more Word tli rough the streets, if the police
permit, he is not likely to repeat the foolishness
of marching without a drum. A modern highway
preacher needs the moral support of a drum. The
instrument of sound being frankly and aggressively
hollow, is at least more respected (for its honesty)
that the Word which professes to be full of com-
fort and joy. Besides, the drum is the only
universal awakener of mankind’s immortal soul.
Hundreds of millions of sinners in China, India,
and elsewhere haven’t got the Word and don’t
want it, but they are all of them staunch believers
in the everlasting tom-tom.
-♦
John See's Explanation.
Premier John See has informed the N.S.W.
public that he is, on the whole, rather proud than
otherwise of the great Cornstalk Public Debt, and
looks upon it as a blessing and a desirable
acquaintance. He does this because but for it
our railways and other public works would have
been impossible. This candid statement opens
up a large and pleasing avenue of considerations
for the State’s creditors, though it is quite pro-
bable that Mr. See didn’t in the least realise that
fact. Here are a few questions suggested by Mr.
See’s observation :
If it is quite impossible for N.S.W. to pay for its rail-
ways and other works out of revenue, then'is it not quite
impossible for it to pay off its public debt ? Paying off its
debt is paying for its works out of revenue.
If It wai quite impossible for N,S,W, to pay fnr it*
public works out of revenue at the beginning of its
career, when it had nothing to meet but the ordinary
charges of Government, what kind of a condition must it
be in now when it has to meet, not only the ordinary cost
of Government, but has to pay about £500,000 a year to
make up the loss on its public works —the amount by
which they fail to meet interest?
If it was impossible to pay for public works out of
revenue when the revenue from land alone was £5 per
inhabitant annually, what show is there of paying off any
part of the debt (which is the same thing) now that the
land revenue is down to about £1 9s. per inhabitant?
If it is impossible to pay for public works out of revenue
—either to pay for new ones by building them without
loans, or for old ones by paying off the loans contracted
to build them with —then do not two things follow : (1)
That, when loans are no longer procurable, public works
must stop; (2) that if, at any time, Cohen refuses to
renew an existing loan, then Cohen must whistle for his
money ?
Lastly, wouldn’t it be better for the O’See Government
to drop the loan subject, seeing that it seems to put its
foot in it a little worse each time it alludes to the matter?
Alleged Senator Reid’s Resignation.
At the time of The Bulletin going to press
there was no announcement that importer Robert
Reid intended to resign whatever claim to sena-
torial office the almost certainly illegal choice of
the Victorian Parliament gave to him. But,
presumably, that announcement will shortly be
made. The matter is not really of importance.
It is almost certain that Robert Reid has no
legal right to be considered a senator, and to
resign what you haven’t got doesn’t leave you
with much less than you had before, nor does it
alter anything very much. And, anyhow, if Mr.
Reid is able to establish a legal claim to a
Senate seat and does decide to take it, the
fact that his firm has been convicted of
frauds on the Australian customs won’t make
him any worse sort of a legislator than any
other typical member of the importing class. If
the seat is to be filled by one of the importing
class —that class whose aim and object is neces-
sarily to damage Australia, to keep the Australian
as a hewer of wood and a plucker of wool for the
peoples of the earth, a poor, slavish creature not
to be entrusted with occupations requiring brains
and enemy—well, it might as well be Robert
Reid as anyone else. It would amount to stupid
prejudice and a wilful blindness to admitted facts
to pretend that Mr. Reid is a dishonest member
of an honest class—an exceptional case of wicked-
ness among his fellow importers. For it is as
clear as noon day that the importers as a class
justified, not only in using
their best efforts to retard the progress of the
country in defence of their unpatriotic calling, but'
also in swindling and robbing the revenue to as
great an extent as possible. They have as little
public honesty as public spirit. The essence of
their business is to import from abroad some fake
of cotton and to sell it to the Australian as silk,
whilst passing it through the Customs as
anything at all on which no duty, or very
little duty, has to be paid. Mr. Reid’s misfortune
is that he has been found out, and that he was
donkey enough to make the matter prominent by
an expensive defence and by alleging that the
prosecution of his firm was a personal-motive
persecution by the malignant Minister Kingston.
Therefore, there is no special reason why Robert
Reid, if he can get a seat, shouldn’t sit in the
Australian Parliament'whilst that body and the
electors admit other importers and agents of
importers,
When Cohen Frowns.
n*r < ci i x ßESl>ONnENT *he on t^lo Tam worth
(N.S.W.) bye-election (hia warning was given
guarded approval in the leading columns next
day)
V ie c^*el causes of the great depreciation of New
south Wales stocks is that the financial authorities at
home are in fear of the alleged Socialism of the labor
party, arid another is the reckless extravagance of the
present Ministry. If Tamworth now elects either a labor
man or a direct supporter of Mr. John See, the news will
be at once cabled to London that the people here are
determined to endorse the Ministry’s past action, and
give it carte blanche to continue in the same way. On
the other hand, if a strong opponent of the Administra-
tion be returned, the effect at home will be very salutary,
and result in a rise in our bonds and in our credit -gen-
eraby. London will then think that the present
Ministry is doomed, and that we shall soon have wiser
and more economical men at the head of affairs.
So, to please Cohen and Co,, London, the Tam-
worth electors should elect Garland ! It is not
the sort of advocacy that is likely to be of
advantage to that gentleman ; in fact it is difficult
to imagine a plea more likely to prejudice his
chances at the polls. But it is of great value,
nevertheless, for it is the first timid note of what
will one day be a great volume of advice to the
same effect. The fate of the private individual
who emulates the Prodigal Hon, and plays the
deuce with his possessions, and mortgages all that
he has and a good deal that he hasn’t, is not in
real life, as a rule, Fatted Calf ; it is hard labor
as bond-slave to the money-lender. The same
fate comes to nations following the same course,
unless they can, when the mortgages fall due.
repudiate, and back up the repudiation against an
armed protest. The borrowing community in time
comes to eat the bread of bitter humiliation, and
to find that it must cringe and crawl before its
financiers, and add its immortal soul, and its flag,
and its traditions, and its honor, and its inde-
pendence to the goods under pledge in Shylock’s
safe. The timid request now that, for Heaven’s
sake, the Tamworth people should abandon their
convictions and their independence and vote for
Garland as the man who will grease the way
which leads to Shylock’s heart is the little cloud,
no smaller than a man’s hand, on the political
horizon in N.S.W.
4
New Anglican Bishop of Melbourne has evidently
the Marrow of the Matter in politics. To a Mel
bourne unemployed deputation, the other day, he
said
that he was surprised to find in this city that there
were not more mills, factories, and workshops. No great
city could live on itself, it must have established in its
midst productive and remunerative undertakings. This
country was full of raw material. They had wool, timber,
and plenty of coal-mines and precious metals, but this
was not a manufacturing country, and it struck him as
being strange and singular that wool should be sent from
Melbourne to England to be manufactured in the looms
of Lancashire and Yorkshire, and then sent back to Aus-
tralia, not even the high duty imposed making up for the
loss of the people of the country, incurred through not
having manufactured goods on the spot. One of the first
needs was more mills, factories, and workshops, to enable
them to manufacture for themselves, and not depend so
much on other countries outside.
The Rev. Clarke is the most sensible bishop The
Bulletin can just now call to memory. It is, in
fact, a puzzle why such a clear-headed man should
be a bishop.
4
The people of N.S.W. hear every now and then
of a proposed Bill for the regulation of servants’
registry offices, but the document never makes
much progress. A large section of the community
would be glad to see that Bill get a little extra
velocity on it. As one reason for this : A few
days ago the wife of a Bulletin man engaged a
new maid at Hittmann’s Labor Agency, “head
office, 87 Imperial Arcade, f-__driey ” (no charge
is made to Hittmann for this advt.), and the
usual half crown was paid. In most cases the
girl also pays half-a-crown. About a week after-
wards a long letter was received from Hittmann’s
Labor Agency to the effect that it claimed the
whole of the girl’s first week’s wages (lIs.), and
requesting that Bulletin man’s wife to see that
the girl discharged the obligation.- Being
tired the lady did not exert herself specially
to see that Hittmann’s got 18s. 6d. in all for finding
a girl an eleven shilling job, and the matter rests
there. In New York city all agencies of this kind
are licensed, and the fee is one dollar ; but if the
registry office keeper doesn't find Ms client a job
inside a, month he has to refund the dollar on appli-
cation. And if he takes anything beyond the
regulation fee, a remorseless mayor and corpora-
tion shut his office with a bang. It is a very
simple law, and N.S.W. would do well to copy it.
What view Hittmann’s might take of it The
Bulletin doesn’t profess to know.
4
The South Australian State Government still has
the idea that it is the wise and upright 12th man
of the jury, compelled to sit with 11 bad charac-
ters. Some time ago the subordinates of Jenkins
Iscariot, it is alleged, behaved badly towards a
Dutch ship which happened to be in port there,
and, it being clearly an “external affair,” repre-
sentations were made by ths British authorities
(to whom Holland had complained) through the
Australian Government. Jenkins Iscariot, how-
ever, obviously prompted by Attorney-General
Gordon, refused to recognise any such channel
of communication, which resulted in the British
Government speaking coldly to Jenkins, and
hinting to him that he had greatly over-rated
his own importance. Yet, even now, accord-
ing to a memorandum just forwarded through
the local Lieut.-Governor, “Ministers respect-
fully decline to acknowledge the Common-
wealth Government as an intermediary in
such cases in the future.” What if they
do decline? Even Jenkins probably got, in
his history-book, as far as the story of Canute, or
in some other book as far as Mrs. Partington ;
or, if he only reads contemporary newspapers, he
will remember that in Sydney, t’other day, the case
against Digby Grand proceeded notwithstanding
that, from the prisoner’s dock, Digby Grand
withdrew from the case. Meanwhile the question
has to be considered whether an American is
allowed to throw mud (even if he throws it “re-
spectfully ”) after this fashion at the Imperial
Government on Imperial territory. In his book-
canvassing days Jenkins doubtless declined to
accept a refusal, else he would never have sold
the book, but this isn’t a book question.
4
The Owe’See Government has taken in J. L.
Fegan as a Minister without portfolio and pay,
and has received the hearty daily newspaper-curse
which it can rely upon getting no matter what it
does or doesn’t. But the Government- reply is
complete : Fegan was a fairly satisfactory Mines
Minister, and is an intelligent, useful man; and
why, if it costs the State nothing, shouldn’t the
State have the benefit of his brains in the Cabinet ?
Also (the Govt, doesn’t say so plainly, but it is,
nevertheless, true) Fegan takes to the Cabinet a
practical mining knowledge which no other
Minister has, least of all the Mines Minister.
Wlmt. is not altogether healthy in the arrange-
ment is that, having joined a Government even as
honorary Miniateri a man cannot thereafter put
Our Own Navee!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They were calling, “Come and help us in our
fight along the veldt,
And give a fall to Dopper scout and ranger ; ”
So we shouldered gun and bay’net, joined the
Saxon and the Celt,
And we helped to pull their Empire out of danger.
But now they coolly tell us at their banquets
oversea :
'* You’re a happy band of children round your
British mother’s knee,
And she’ll guard you and protect you whatso’e’er
your perils be,
But you’ll never , never do it with your own
Navee ! ”
And our rulers and our statesmen echo back the
silly tale,
And they bid us send abroad a tribute duly ;
For a fleet beneath our banners here would never
stand a gale
Or meet a foreign foe in battle truly ;
We were men when British Tommy met his master
in the Boer,
There was little he could teach us in the grisly
game of war,
And we proved it (ye were witness) we were quite
as good as he,
But we can’t defend our country with our own
Navee !
We have fought with drought and famine—met
the demons in the mine,
Faced the devils they know naught of in the old
land ;
We are sons of men who battled when they’d
crossed the bitter brine
Through the desert-hell to fortune in the gold
land;
We have striven, we have conquered, planted
cities in the waste,
And the land it beareth witness of the perils we
have faced,
And our nation bears a banner now of splendid
Unity,
But we cannot guard our country with our own
Navee !
But they tell us in old Britain, “ Ye have shekels
in your store,
And it is but meet ye render us assistance :
For we fend you from the dangers that may
pounce upon your shore
With the vengeance of our vessels in the
distance.”
Let us answer Britain kindly: “We have pon-
dered well, and Lo,
It were pity we should burden weary Britain with
our foe;
If we prize the fame of freemen we shall keep our
country free
By our native thews and valor—and our own
Navee!
L.


NOTICE TO AGENTS, &c.
THE BULLETIN will be published
next week on Wednesday instead of the
usual date (Thursday). This alteration
is necessary to suit the requirements
of a large number of the more remote
districts, where delivery would be inter-
fered with by the Good Friday holiday.
The equitable life assurance society
FINANCIAL STATEMENT
FOR YEAR ENDED 81st DECEMBER, 1902.
assurance in force
INCREASE IN ASSURANCE IN FORCE ..
£.265,597,775
£19,915,124
ASSETS •• t
INCREASE IN ASSETS
£.73,855,783
£4,889,175
SURPLUS .. •• £15,418,151
INCREASE IN SURPLUS .. .. . . .. £620,434
THE NEW BUSINESS EXCEEDED THAT OF 1901 by ... £6,565,178
Local Directors have power to issue Policies, Pay Claims, etc.
Sir WILLIAM M'MILLAN, K.C.M.G., Chairman ; Hon. C. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C.
F. NORTON MANNING, Esq., M.D.
C. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager Tor Australasia.
F. C. COWLEY, Secretary. ALEX. JOBSON, Actuary for Australasia. DAVID FELL, Auditor.
8. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, F-S.S., Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland.
SAWMILL machinery.
Single and Double Cutting BAND MILLS for
hardwood logs, CIRCULAR SAW MILLS, Com-
plete Outfits of any capacity. Band Resaws,
Engines and Boilers.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
HISTORY REPEATS ITSELF.
About the time Australia was taken possession of by Captain Cook, the following
was law in some of the then British Colonies of America : “That whosoever kills, or
suffers to be killed, or sells or disposes of to any person whom he has reason to believe
intends to kill, any Ewe Lamb shall be guilty,” &c., &c.
Most of the thoughtful and patriotic colonists of New South Wales are of opinion
that our Legislature might do worse than enact something of the same kind for the
protection of the remnant of the State’s flocks which have been decimated by,“) e
droughts of the past seven years. If our Statesmen should rise to the occasion and do
what is necessary, Mutton and Sheep’s Tongues would of course be much enhanced in
value. In any case, you can now obtain the ROSEWARNE PACKING CO. o
brand, which is the best in the market, at the same price as they were in the time ot
plenty. Try them; they are delicious, wholesome, and economical.
his own personal brains into the work of Parlia-
ment ; he must thereafter be more or less a phono-
graph. But, anyway, so long as he is in the
Cabinet there is a bit of him in the phonograph ;
while, under our present system of party Govt-, if
be weren’t in the Cabinet he would still mostly be
a phonograph, with the added disadvantage of
barracking for a policy which he had no hand in
making. Perhaps if all the Government followers
were made honorary Ministers—but that idea
wants thinking over.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Lyceum “War of Wealth."
Royal “Zaza.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Palace “On and Off.”
Belmore Park Fitzgerald Bros.'Circus.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess's “The Fortune-Teller."
Her Majesty’s “The Emerald Isle.”
Theatre Royal “ Honor Thy Father.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
4
“Zaza” ends its tempestuous career at
Sydney Royal on Friday, and after that there will
be a week of gloom and reticence till “Dick
Whittington ” appears on the scene on Saturday
of next week. Williamson and Musgrove are
joint owners of the new spectacle, and it
is understood that they are putting into
it all the combined magnificence they can
rake up. The brevity of Zaza’s career is, in one
sense, a disappointment. “Zaza” is a moral
lesson to a certain extent. It shows that a woman
with a great stormy love in her heart, and a dirty
table-cloth and her other pair of boots on the
table along with the tea-things, and her spare
clothes on the window sill, can’t permanently hold
her own in a man’s affections against a nice
woman with a clean cloth on the table and her
other boots and her spare clothes in their proper
place. To that extent “ Zaza ” inculcates a great
truth, and the fact that it is going away before
the lesson has properly soaked in is to be regretted.
** « 0
“ Thie War of Wealth” fills the closing
nights of Bland Holt’s season at Sydney
Lyceum. It is a localised drama on the
“Breaking of the Drought” lines, but dealing
with mining shares, robbed banks, and other city
troubles. The plot is sufficiently absurd to suit
any respectable audience. Helen Raymond
(Frances Ross) hides in an impossible manner
behind a meagre Australian tree at North Shore
and hears the bad man tell Pa Raymond that
Helen is his wife, “but only in the sight of
Heaven,” and that if Pa wants him to reinstate
her in decent society he, Pa, must help to rob
the Antipodean Bank for him. Helen confides
to'the tree that this anecdote of her fall is a
black lie, but does not rush out, as any other
Australian girl would under the circumstances,
and make remarks. Pa Raymond seems to think it
very reasonable that Helen should have deflected
(perhaps he has been reading Coghlan’s statistics);
anyway, he goes out merely saying, “My Gawd,”
and prepares to rob the bank forthwith from the
noblest of parental motives. Helen allows him to
go, and then appears before the villain and informs
him, as 999 heroines have done before her,
that “she will reveal all.” Whereupon he
waits till she is on the Look-Out, and
then precipitates her into the calm blue harbor.
Naturally Baker and other good people rush to
the Look-Out, and after Helen has had time
to drown comfortably and oompletely ? Baker is
lowered by the flag rope, and reappears with Frances
Ross and himself both wrapped in the flag, the
orchestra braying wildly as at some patriotic
achievement. Act 11. deals with Helen s mind,
which, in the usual novelette manner, has lost all
recollection of the last month; however, she
remembers the proposed robbing of the bank
almost in the usual nick of time, but not quite.
The two good men enter the robbed bank
separately, so that the villain has time to lock
one of them to suffocate in the strong room
before making off with the spoil. Baker has
thus to waste valuable time in blowing open the
strong room with an explosive that happens to
be handy, but as the effect of the explosion
is very fine, the audience forgives him. A
“Run on the Bank” is thrilling in spots, but
the glimpses of an empty-looking George-street
and deserted Post Office are not convincing.
Everything comes right (including the blight
on Helen’s character) at North Shore; the
good people who stood by the Bank and brought it
bags of money are rewarded with shares in a pay-
ing gold-mine, and the villain goes off with three
or four policemen.
* • • *
Miss Frances Ross enacts the heroine with
her usual spirit, and Mrs. Holt has a part that
suits her —as a bright, impulsive woman, with a
noble heart and plenty of good dressing. Miss
Harrie Ireland has nothing to do with the plot,
but acts a wild colonial girl and marries a South
Sea missionary, well played by A. Harford.
Baker is solemn and good, and much as usual, as
the blameless hero; and Bland Holt, as an ex-
squatter, bullooky, and several other things, shows
what he can do with the Australian language at
its worst.
** * m
“On and Off,” at the Sydney Palace,
makes fresh fun at every representation. It is an
exceptionally well constructed farce, and the
“situations,” thanks mainly to Mr. Willoughby
and Miss Watts-Phillips, are made the most of.
The play, whilst travelling with some daring on
the path which leads to “ Zaza,” is always discreet
enough to stop at just the border-line which
divides the giggle of the young person from her
blush. At the same time, it gives the older and
wickeder person opportunities of immoralising on
the probable state, in the original French,
of the incidents that have been Bowd-
lerised. There is a great deal to be said
on behalf of a comedy which can thus be enjoyed
alike by the just and the unjust. The just see an
eminently respectable play. The unjust, with
wider experience, recognise the places where the
jokes that weren’t respectable used to be, and out
of their long-established sinfulness they guess
what these jokes were, and that makes them
almost feel better than if the jokes were really
there.
m* * *
Fitzgerald Brothers’ circus is to open a*
Belmore Park, Sydney, on Saturday. Herr
Pagel, the gentleman who throws lions and
elephants in the air and drags the full-grown boa-
constrictor round the premises like a tail, or
something to that effect, is on the programme.
Likewise the Zenobias, who do a “marvellous
rolling globe act in the dome of the tent ”
(which seems a very unstable place to roll
a globe), and many other marvels, beasts,
acrobats, clowns, horses, girls, dogs, kangaroos,
and impossibilities. The list of performers in-
cludes Oura, Gilleno, Reano, Marotto, Benato,
Pedro, and many others. The programme is too
vast for particularisation, and the evil-smelling
wild animals constitute a side show where they
can be avoided by anybody to whom that special
smell is unwelcome.
*» * *
The “ Lady Slavey ” is in the second week
of its revival at Sydney Criterion, but, after
Friday, will move off, followed by a compensative
benediction for the drama, and a cheerful curse
for some of the actors therein. The Sheridan
season closes with the “ Lady Slavey.”
** * *
The great attraction at Sydney Tivoli now
is provided by Hill and Sylvainy, trick cyclists
from Paris. Whether it is that Mme. Sylvainy
is an exceptionally piquant Parisienne, or because
Hill is more than usually expert, the “turn”
evokes heartier applause than the Tivoli has
known for some time. Fred Rivenhall, a comic
singer, is another good feature on the programme;
he sings with some freshness, and gives the im-
pression that he is at any rate amusing himself.
The average comic singer grinds out his banalities
with a ghastly simulation of humor that suggests
the smile on the jaws of a skull.
#* * *
A revival of “ Ma Mie Rosette ” follows
“The Emerald Isle” at Her Majesty’s, Melb.
There couldn’t be a better advt. of Nellie Stewart’s
versatility than a production of “Ma Mie Rosette”
whilst she is playing Zaza. The name of the opera
is associated with Nellie Stewart and Wallace
Brownlow in this country, and it is a standing
lament with many theatre-goers that they didn’t
happen to see the original Rosette at the time
when Brownlow of Navarre was a new-chum. Ten
years hence, when she is starring in heavy tragedy
Eirts, people will regret that they never saw Miss
lien Stewart as Zaza, and then, by special re-
quest, she will have to appear at a matinee in
selections from all sorts of her best characters,
ranging from Aladdin to Lady Macbeth. A
matinee was the occasion of her last appearance
in comic opera. Some two years ago George
Darrell arranged a benefit for himself at Her
Majesty’s, and he persuaded the principal boy in
the Princess’s panto, (that was Nellie) to play her
old part in the second act of “ Ma Mie Rosette.”
Result, a crowded house and a big success for the
principal item on the bill. Half of the crowd had
never heard of George Darrell, but he doubtless
accepted the overflowing audience as an army of
personal admirers. It is usual for the beneficiare
to reckon himself the attraction. When Melba
sang for the benefit of Armes Beaumont and
brought him a net profit of £750 the old familiar
tenor —but that is another story.
m* « «
Gus Glover, who died in Maoriland last
month, might have been a very distinguished
actor but for his tremendous voice, which took
possession of him some 30 years ago, and made
him its slave. The best work Glover ever did in
Australia was Shakesperian acting, when he tra-
velled with the Bandmann co., and his finest
effort was Othello, because the character of the
Moor allowed him to roll his eyes as much as he
pleased, and gave him just cause and reason for
indulging in great roars of passion. The voice
didn’t confine Glover to a seriously melo-dramatic
style, although it unfitted him for ordinary young
man parts, and put him out of drawing-room
comedy. He was a capital low comedian of the
broad, heavy extravagant type —witness his Por-
thos in “ The Three Musketeers,” and his Yankee
colonel in ‘‘ My Partner ” —but Gus’s colonel is
almost as forgotten as his Othello. In fact he
was the one man in Australia who had played
Bumble the Beadle almost as effectively as he
played Bill Sykes. Nobody could present a more
lurid stage ruffian, drunk or sober, than the ruffian
of Augustus the Terrible. Anything in that way,
from murder to delirium tremens, came easy to
the man with the Voice. His last character was
Cregan in “ Sherlock Holmes,” a small but con-
genial part. When Professor Moriarty wanted a
hideous crime committed he made a point of order-
ing Cregan to be laid on. “ Cregan for that.”
G ENERAL HECTOR MACDONALD, who
committed suicide, a few days ago, in Paris.
Photo, by Eden, Sydney & Melbourne.
Poor old Glover! He will send no more people to
their last account.
** * *
Musgrove’s experiment with “ A Midsum-
summer Night’s Dream” must bid, in a great
measure, for the patronage of a generation that
has grown up since the time when George Rig-
nold staged the fairy tale so beautifully. All who
remember Rignold’s show (Australia owes its
brightest recollections of Shakespeare to “ Hand-
some George ”) will go and pay their respects to
Musgrove’s production, as a matter of course.
But the question of profit or loss for the manage-
ment will rest with the young people. “Mid-
summer Night’s Dream ” is a spectacular poem
assisted by music. It is a delicate appeal to the
artistic taste and imaginative faculty of that
general public that roars at “ local allusions, ” sub-
mits to advt. curtains, and prefers melodrama to
any other sort of serious play. All the money-mak-
ing plays produced of late—from “Sweet Nell”
down to “ When London Sleeps ” —have been
melodramas. Perhaps Shakespeare’s unique
comedy is for that reason likely to prosper exceed-
ingly. And perhaps it isn’t. Musgrove is an
interesting speculator, anyhow. Hilda Spong,
then a slim young damsel, played Titania, the
Fairy Queen, in Rignold’s setting of the “Dream,”
and Miss Watt-Phillips was her King. Rignold
was Bottom. John Cosgrove and Cyril Keightley
were the two young men mortals, and Miss
Claudius appeared as Hermia. The Puck was
Miss Mabel Russell, who nowadays assists her
sister (Mrs. Jack Parsons) in managing a Mel-
bourne pub. And Ethel Buckley, the cockney
gal of Anderson’s co., frisked around in the
juvenile capacity of Cobweb, an elf.
*# # *
The Woods-Williamson Co. finished its
struggle at Melbourne Bijou on Saturday night.
“ Hands Across the Sea ” is too large a melodrama
for the Bijou stage; all the same the work of
Pettitt on any stage is a blessed thing as melo-
dramas go, and if the W.W. Co. could manage
to retire temporarily from the quarter-
deck of a British ship without seeming
to walk into the ocean every time its per-
formance would win greater respect. For the
next few nights the theatre will be closed, re-
opening in a swept and smartened condition on
April 11th, when the Willoughby-Geach Co.
appears in a new farcical comedy.
** # *
At the Opera House the impending change
of programme is slow to happen, but it may be
expected to occur by Easter at the latest. The
temple of Rickards will inaugurate its Easter
season in a fitting manner by holding a
Sacred Festival on Good Friday. The fes-
tival will be directed, it seems, by Napoleon
Boffard, also Madame Gay, and other well-,
known concert singers, will assist, and the story
of a Christian martyr, “with living pictures,”
is promised for the occasion. The living pic-
tures of a martyrdom should be both gory and
improving.
*« * *
The Anderson co., now in the last lap of
its long Melbourne season, is passing hence to the
slow music of “Honor Thy Father” or “The
Fatal Wedding.” “Honor Thy Father ” sounds
a little unfair to the heroine’s mother, while
“ The Fatal Wedding” is also open to objection.
From beginning to end the plot leads to nothing
so cheerful as a wedding. At the start, the father
of the deceived village-beauty is “dishonored,”
not by his chee-ild’s wedding, but by her omission
thereof. The villain’s other dupe (an heiress, by
the way) at one stage goes so far as to send her
bridesmaids to church on foot, while she herself
follows in carriage and pair to be ecclesiastically
joined to the schemer. But the bad man’s sin finds
him out just in time to postpone the function,
indefinitely. Villain Willard has a miserable
time, although he describes himself as “clever.”
Whenever injured Innocents call him hard names,
which they do as often as he injures them, he
smites them with his heavy-headed stick. This is
foolish, for on the stage muscles and morals
always go together, and on Saturday one grew
quite accustomed to seeing Hero Inman or
Father Carey grasp the Scorpion by his side-
curls preparatory to forcing him to his im-
penitent knees. In due course, the Viper’s
knaveries lead him to visit a lunatic asylum,
where he has immured the village-beauty’s dis-
honored father (Carey). The dishonored mother
(Helen Fergus) arrives there, too, to rescue her
husband, with the result that escaped lunatics dis-
honored parents, asylum-keepers, a doctor’and
the villain are all tumbling over one another
in the same room with an electric torture-
seat, invented by a mad scientist (,T. H. Nunn).
Saturday night the gallery was greatly worried
for fear the wrong people might squat on the
bogie-stool, so it came as a relief when Sinner
Willard was impounded, per favor of the mad
scientist, and blinded by electricity. Unre-
formed by blindness, he behaves worse than ever
keeps the torture-chair, with improved agonisers’
in his study for the undoing of Inman, and coaxes to
the altar on false pretences heiress Mercy (Ada
Lawrence). The quality of Mercy is not strained
-that is to say, she’s not too particular to take
up with a new love vice her slandered old flame.
If the “Fatal Wedding” had not been post-
poned, Mercy would have become a villain’s
bride and lived happily afterwards. Ada Guild-
ford, as the fallen angel, dies on the day appointed
for the fatal wedding, and becomes a risen angel in
view of the audience. Expiring a thin, brunette
penitent, she departs heavenwards, a blonde,
buxom seraph. Bert Bailey, as a cheerful mis-
creant, helps Ethel Buckley to sandwich the layers
of villany and woe with passable scraps of low
comedy ; and the acting all round is good. Some
of the woe grows wearisome, but the performers
deserve credit for not making it insufferable.
** * m
“The Fortune-Teller” has another week
to run at Melbourne Princess’s, and meanwhile it
proceeds as usual. Perhaps the ballet girls, who
take their tuneful dancing lesson in a court-yard,
are rather lighter footed than at first, but their
costumes are a little more dusty, so the general
effect of those pleasing pupils remains about the
same. Also the Count, who wants to marry into
the ballet for mercenary reasons, continues to be
a beauteous young man of the barber type,
although his intended victim speaks of him as
an old horror. “The Fortune-Teller” is a fair
success, in spite of numerous faults in the per-
formance. A reconstructed co. might make it
better than a new opera at some future time when
the “ Hungarian ” music has been acclimatised by
the local barrel-organ. Which suggests that
managers ought to seriously consider the question
of employing barrel-organists as advertising me-
diums. The best class of popular music obtains
the bulk of its popularity through being ground
into the public soul by the man who turns the
handle.
** * *
“A Midsummer Night’s Dream” follows
“The Fortune Teller” on Easter Saturday. A
company has been specially imported to deal with
this Shakespearian matter under the direction of
Robert Courtneidge, whose old and varied ac-
quaintance with Australian audiences entitles him
to predict that the forthcoming show will astonish
them.
** * *
“ The Emerald Isle,” at Her Majesty’s, is
also fated to retire on the eve of the annual
Holy Bun. Melbourne speaks kindly, but not
excitedly, of the serio-comic opera. Carrie Moore’s
weird endeavor to assume an Irish accent is
deplored, because Carrie’s casual remarks and
solemn appeals to “Bli-i-nd Murphee” break the
charm of her natty little Colleen character, and
discount the value of Murphy Bathurst’s brogue.
Another unfortunate drawback to the entertain-
ment at Her Majesty’s is Lauri’s singing voice.
Two of the most humorous numbers in the opera
make a demand upon Lauri’s warble, one of them
being a song and dance for himself and Maud
Chetwynd. Neither artist is very musical, except
about the feet, but in a top-note competition with
Hugh Ward they would doubtless carry off the
honors. Ward makes full atonement for his
minor indiscretions as a vocalist by .dancing Irish
jigs and reels until he drops, and subsequently
that fine comedian crowns his success by walking
off with an elderly piper who can very well be
spared.
# * # *f
An exhaustive statement of Wirth Bros.’
Circus can wait until next week, when the tent
will be the only Melbourne theatre which isn’t
changing its bill. The Wirth show was to have
opened last Saturday at 8 p.m., but a mighty
thunderstorm clashed with the arrangements and
smote a portion of the electric-light plant, and
there was wetness over the land, and the perform-
ance didn’t take place. Judging from the number
of people who arrived early and got their
money back, and the larger number who were
turned away from the pay-box the Circus
has come to supply a want. The tiger on the
tight-rope, likewise the football dog and “ the
whole avalanche of amazing attractions” were
introduced to Melbourne notice last Monday
night. The Howard Bros., a special item in the
avalanche, had been previously introduced at the
Athenaeum Hall. They are a remarkable—in
fact, a startling—improvement on the old masters
of second-sight business. A blindfolded Howard,
who talks like a red-hot cockney in a furious
hurry, gives descriptions of the artioles which a
lynx-eyed Howard is handling as he moves
among the audience. The Howard who draws the
information from his partner has a unique kind of
American accent. The swiftness of the blind seer
is wonderful. He states the character and the
number of a watch or a hat, maker’s name and
owner’s name, almost as soon as the other fellow
has discovered them. And sometimes be can fire
off a little volley of facts without getting a word
from the Howard with the lynx eye and the un-
paralleled dialect. At these moments the mind of
the seer is vaguely understood to be at work in
his brother’s head, or vice versa.


r
Ml
TRAMWAYS FOR MINES.
STOCK'? in SYDNEY and MELBOURNE include—Steel Rails, Bridge Rails
Steel Side and End Tip Trucks, Portable Tramway, Portable and Permanent
Switches, Ball-bearing Turntables, Axle Boxes, Wheels and Axles, Jim Crows,
Dog Spikes, etc., etc. IN DE NTS.— LOCOMOTIVES from 10 to 400 h.p.,
including Compound Locos, and every description of Light Railway Material.
CENTRAL MINING &. TRAMWAY APPLIANCES
Prop. Ltd., 40 Hunter St., SYDNEY. A. E. LEP LAS TRIER, Manager,
Representing Orenstein and Koppel, Ltd., London, Berlin and Paris.
Branches—Melbourne, Brisbane, Cairns and Zeehan (Tasmania).
“ et knowledge grow from more to more.”
Gasoline furnaces defy competition. Plumbago and all
crucibles, assayers’ outfits are supplied by Ernest de
Beer, Bourke-street, Melb.*
• * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Caatlereagh-atreet, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, of Melbourne, reports
that there has been a great improvement in the general
outlook of the engineering business since the new year
started, and that his pipe making works in Melbourne
and Perth are working full-handed. Amongst the orders
now being executed at Footscray works is one for 7 miles
10 chains of 18in. diameter light steel spiral-riveted pipes
for the Victorian water supply; and at Perth works a
contract is in progress for over 6 miles of lOjin. diameter
spiral-riveted pipes, flanged joints, for the Greenbushes
Tin-Mining Syndicate. About two miles of these pipes
are to stand a test pressure of 8001 b. to the square inch."
• » * »
A. Kozminsky, 106 Queen-st., Melbourne,
having returned from England, is now prepared to
purchase paying mines, and mining properties (not
merely surface shows), situated in any part of
Australasia requiring further capital for development and
machinery. Only genuine and legitimate ventures,
capable of bearing the strictest examinations will be
entertained.*
It is not generally known that in the treatment
of ore as much ot the valuable minerals is often lost in
the tailings as is saved by the appliances. This is due
in most instances to the inefficient machines used and
the difficulty in saving the fines and slimes. The best
machine to treat the latter classes are Luhrig Vanners.
These machines are in successful daily use in the principal
gold, galena, copper and tin mines in Australia and
Tasmania, proving their superiority over other so-called
slime machines. Messrs W. & J. Lempriere, 506 Little
Oollins-street, Melbourne, are the general agents, and full
particulars can be obtained from them.*
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develop, with option of
purchase “big prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address : “ Option,”
Melbourne.*
• • * *
H. Brandon Skertchly, geologist, mining engi-
neer and assayer, is prepared to furnish scientific reports
and plans to British and Australian investors. Assays
undertaken, and enquiries re mining properties, properly
attended to. For fuller information apply to H. Brandon
Skertchly, 7 Central Chambers, Queen-st., Brisbane.*
• • * *
The attention of all mine managers and others
interested in mining is directed to the advantages claimed
for the Wilfley Concentrating Table. First: It will
handle several times more material than any belt concen-
trator made without any exception. Second : It will
save a higher percentage of the values than any other
table, and will catch any float gold, amalgam or quick-
silver which may escape from the amalgamating plates.
Third : It will make cleaner and more valuable concen-
trates ; thus saving useless expense for transportation of
valueless material, and also reducing smelters’ charges.
Fourth : It requires little or no attention when once
adjusted and no expert is required either to adjust or
to run the machine. Fifth : It handles the pulp with
less power and less floor space per ton than any other
concentrator. Sixth : It has no expensive belts to crack
and wear out, and no complicated machinery to keep in
repair. Illustrated catalogues with valuable notes on ore
dressing can be obtained free on application to the sole
Manufacturers in Australia, the Austral Otis Company,
South Melbourne*
, * *
The Policy-Holder, July, 1902, writes: “The
last report of the Colonial Mutual shows that this
important institution is maintaining its hold upon the
assuring public.” * , »
W. J. Hayes, late manager of the Cosmopolitan
(W.A.), on retiring from that mine, purchased the Pine
Lodge mine at Niagara in conjunction with his brother
George. After several months of development, a test
crushing of 211 tons has just been treated for a return of
4660 z. Mine is looking well, and appears to have a bright
future.
• • • •
Some big Australian wills proved recently:
James Milson, £155,177 ; Daniel Cooper, £558,000 ; Soft-
goods Sargood, £680,000; Dr. Morgan Thomas, of Ade-
laide, £90,400.
INSIST OTT CETTIMG
Km
ujeefjlked Mango?
GreenWco,Cashmere
k- MADRASI- , •
l/'V'd v c vv ' # MADRAS** »
All Crocer?andsllDreK.eeper>,LveryuJheTe.
oV
SCHWEPPES DRY GINGER ALE
A record established by no other Mineral Water Company in the World.
SCHWEPPES Mineral
Waters have held the
Royal Warrant contin-
uously since 1834
The Wild Cat Column.
On Jan. 1 next, Vic. bonds for 5$ millions will
fall due; before the end of 1910, Vic. and other Australian
States will have to provide for 24£ millions. Nearly the
whole of this money was borrowed at 4 per cent. ; it was
shown the other day that N.S.W. cannot now borrow
at that price. What is going to be done about this
25 millions or so 7 With care and honesty, and a
run of fair seasons, credit may. and, no doubt, will, im-
prove ; but it certainly isn’t likely to get very far a’long
that road before Vic. has to do something with regards
to its first 5£ millions. And the question arises, seeing
that the 25 millions has to be provided for somehow*
whether it would not be best to induce the Australian
Government to take over the debts, and undertake a
conversion. From several points of view the present
appears to be a most suitable time for such
a movement. In 1898, before the Federal
Convention struggled with the financial problem
and, in the end, more or less swept it into thi
corner and left it there, N.S.W. 3 per cents, were at 101.
Lately they have been at 87. Now, when conditions of
boom, or even of normal prosperity, prevail—such as
prevailed when the State stock was at 101—there would
be no anxiety to change one security for another, even
though the latter might be somewhat better ; the thing
that the people already held would look good enough.
And, of course, they couldn’t be compelled to change it ;
if you have agreed to supply a man with aone-eyed horse’,
you can’t comoel him to accept an animal with two eyes.
When, however, State stocks are down to 87, the money-
lender is naturally a good deal more anxious about his
security ; the price proves it. And, being anxious in that
way, he will naturally he a good deal more inclined to
jump at a better security with both feet, even though its
superiority is no greater than it was when formerly he
didn't reckon it worth while to jump at all. If a con-
version scheme is ever worth while, it is, therefore, prob-
ably worth while just now. What the saving would be
The Bulletin does not know. But whatever the saving,
much or little, it ought all to go one way—not in reduc-
tion of interest (which would only mean reduction of
already insufficient taxation), but into a sinking fund for
ultimately getting the country out of pawn.
* m *
The Civil Service Co-operative Society of
N.S.W. (Syd.) has had one of its best half-years
5 p.c. div.
m i and 10 p.c. Added Re-
Prnfit-n bonus on to Re- serves,
rroncs. purchases, serves.
Jan., 1899 .. £4681 £4374 £307 £11,835
July, 1899 .. 4501 4463 38 11,873
Jan., 1900 .. 6024 4583 441 12,314
July, 1900 .. 4720 4834 12,200
Jan., 1901 .. 6206 5237 969 13,169
July, 1901 .. 5371 4953 418 13,587
Jan., 1902 .. 6322 5164 858 14,445
July, 1902 .. 5870 5576 294 14,739
Jan., 1903
Approximate V 6871 6250 621 15,360
figures J
What the exact profits are, or precisely how much wil. oe
consumed in bonus on purchases, can’t be said yet,
because, in the first place, it isn’t shown what bonus the
staff will draw, and in the second place it will not be
known for six months exactly how much customers’
bonus amounts to. The reserves, practically all put into
stock and used in the co.’s business, are now more than
twice as great as the paid-up capital (£6998). The cash
receipts are growing steadily ; last half they were £89,558
against £63,576 in the corresponding half of 1899. And
the society isn’t allowing its prosperity to hustle it into
extravagance : for every £1 of cash receipts in 1899 its
working expenses were 3s. l£d., while in the period just
concluded they were only 2s. IOJd.
• * *»
Treasurer Gardiner, of Westralia, wnere the
surpluses come from, lately took the trouble to explain
that he still believed in having an “uncle” and a debt.
He seemed almost sorry in a way that his State wasn’t
spending more than it earned; and, in order, presum-
ably, to clearly show that he has not sunk into the heresy
of thinking that it is good to pay your way as you go, he
has now announced that he will ask for a quarter of a
million at an early date. There is less excuse for Mr.
Gardiner than for some other Treasurers, because, prac-
tically without an effort, and in spite of what is alleged to
be a much over-manned and badly-organised public
service, a surplus of £280,574 has been accumulated
during the eight months of the current financial
year. Moreover, if any country in the wide world ought
now to pay its way, and ought to have done so for the
last eight or 10 years, that country is Westralia. Great
as many of its mines are, they will, in the natural course
of things, peter out some day; for a mine isn’t like a
potato-patch, which will go on growing potatoes eternally
provided that certain essentials are complied with.
Every public work, therefore, which serves a mining field
ought to be charged with a stiff sinking fund ; and most
of the works built in Westralia have been designed more
or less to serve the goldfields. Nine times out of 10—99
times out of 100—the surface stuff of a mine is the richest;
and if in the early years of its life a field doesn’t pay for
its public works out of its cream, it is generally hopeless
to expect the skim-milk to do it subsequently.
• m s *
With moderate luck the Australasian Mutual
Live Stock Insurance Co. (Melb.) will soon break its long
run of dry seasons with a dividend on its small capital:
Deficit
(goodwill
Carried not
to reckoned
Profit. Dividend. Reserves, an asset).
Jan., 1899 .. £471 .. .. £471 .. £1750
Jan., 1900 .. 492 .. .. 492 .. 1258
Jan., 1901 .. 519 519 .. 739
Reserves.
Jan., 1902 .. 758 758 .. 19
Jan., 1903 .. 771 771 .. 790
The paid-up capital is £3089, so it will cost the co. less
than £2OO to break into the monotony with a 6 per cent,
dividend. Last year’s profits represent nearly 25 per
cent. The goodwill item has now disappeared altogether,
and, of the assets of £4782, all but a few pounds’ worth of
desks and blotting-paper appears to be in cash. Busi-
ness, however, is almost stationary ; in fact, last year’s
was a trifle less than that of either of its two prede-
cessors.
* • • *
The disgustingly fat A. A. Co., which had the
rare luck to strike this country before a way had been
found into the inland desert, and which has not, there-
fore, come to regard a drought as all in the day’s work,
refuses to regard its special fodder bill last year as a
proper charge wholly against the year ; it is going to
spread the total expense, set down at £49,734, over a
number of years, and begins with £20,000. This cuts
down the profits to £61,228, out of which it is only pos-
sible to pay 255. per share—a beggarly 6 per cent.; and it
was 17£ per cent, in 1900. But though the co. refuses to
charge all the year’s drought cost against the year, it
isn’t above taking credit for all the extra profit derived
from the wool clip, including the rise in price from 7fd.
to about 9d., comparing the last two years. To make
things square, why not spread that over a few years too?
• • * *
Pointed out by one daily paper correspondent
that the Australian Gas Co. and the Sydney City Council
have both borrowed money recently at a cheaper rate
than that charged for the State’s last pawn. By-and-bye,
perhaps, when Premier John See brings the State security
to the pop-shop, he will be asked if he can get the Ga B
Go’s endorsement.
• • • •
There is cable news that the London Bank
ok Australia has adopted the heroic measure of writing
its capital down by £368,272 ; which is at the rate of
£7 10s. per share, in order to make “ the fullest provision
for losses of stock and depreciation.” The paid-up capital
previously stood at £915,865, of which £743,935 was
represented by ordinary and £171,930 by 5£ p.c. pre-
ference shares—the preference shares for which the wise
depositors exchanged their 4£ p.c. deposits in 1893. On
the cabled figures, on which it certainly isn’t possible to
build much and be sure of it, it looks as though profits
had shrunk considerably during the past year. They
are said to total £85,206, of which the 4£ p.c. deposits
absorb £71,516, leaving a shareholders’ profit of £13,690,
against £23,354 in 1901; but the latter figures were a
very substantial advance on anything the reconstructed
bank had previously known. Another 18 months’ divi
dend is provided for the preference shareholders, and this
payment for an extra six months wipes out the last of
the arrears. Reconstructed deposits compare with those
of the past in this way :
London Bank’s Reconstructed 4£ p.c. Deposits.
Dec., 1896 .. £3,716,087 Dec., 1900 .. £1,911,964
Dec., 1897 .. 3,260,678 Dec., 1901 .. 1,591,092
Dec., 1898 .. 3,159,09 S Dec., 1902 .. 1,569,271
Dec., 1899 .. 2,232,675
The progress in wiping off this incubus—for a 4£ p.c.
debt of this sort is an incubus—is not too satisfactory.
The year’s profits apparently equal the year’s preference
share dividend and leave £4234 to carry forward, bring-
ing up the reserves (so far as any of these things can be
yet stated definitely) to a total of t'10,024. On the paid-
up capital as proposed to be written down, the surplus
would yield £1 2s. 6d. percent.
* * • •
H.H. : Cant tell the size of your grievance
because you give no particulars of the policy. No doubt
the co. has “had the use of your money”; but, then,
the co. had to pay itself for taking the risk of the man
dying a year after insuring, and some men are not con-
siderate enough to wait even that long Insured :
Better let it drop if you have only paid one half-year’s
premium... .Working Miner : The annual report of the
Queensland Mines Department refers to the “limited
nature of the operations on the small fields of the
district ” (Gladstone). That would not indicate that it is
a desirable place for you to go to in quest of work....
W.F.T. (Wilcannia) : There is no alluvial field in N.S.W.
where a man can make a living for “ a certainty.” He
might live at many places if he would be satisfied with an
unchanging diet of ’possum and damper... .Cockie :
Send us their balance-sheets.. . .N.S. : Your explanation
unfortunately makes no difference in the fact that good-
will ought to be shown separately. When a co. proposes
to write a definite amount off an indefinite liability, and
leave an indefinite amount still owing, the situation is
ridiculous.. ..H.J.J. : Don’t know why you should think
the Hydraulic Co. “ feeds ” the Engineering Co. The
Hydraulic Co.’s profits last half-year were £13,140 against
£10,058 previous half, and a good deal more than they were
in any other half but one ; so at present it doesn’t look
as though the Hydraulic Co. were starving itself, anyhow.
N.S. (Ciarence R.); The balance-sheets of most of
the Farmers’ Co-operative co’s. are built with a pitch-
fork and a rake, and the harrows are then run over
them. Coastal Farmers’ Co-operative Society, in. the
year to March, 1902, made a profit of £1528 ; 6
per cent, went to shareholders and 20 per cent,
to consignors. The co. had reserves of £4lB,
and was badly in need of more. The Farmers’ Co-opera-
tive Co. apparently made a profit of £2617 in the year to
June last, of which £2082 was distributed among share-
holders and consignors ; but the harrows got into the
ballance-sheet at this point, and how the money was cut
up can’t be stated. It apparently has reserves of £3052.
* * • *
The city of Sydney, which has been paying a
one-and-tenpenny rate, is going to have its burden re-
duced to Is. 9d.; and this alleged saving of Id. in the
£ is presented as a great victory and a justification of the
Reform policy. Some day, possibly, even aldermen will
realise that reform doesn’t mean saving a ha'penny by
not buying a cake of soap. There are so many—so very
many—things that a civilised, up-to-date municipality
should do which Sydney leaves undone, that its case calls
loudly for more rates—not less. Moreover, in most other
places the case would not call in vain. Here, for
instance, is a small list of the rates which a few English
cities pay, and which presumably they find it pays them
to pay —anyway, they go on paying them, and prosper:
s. d. s. d.
Sheffield .. ..8 5 Bristol 7 4
Middlesborough .. 8 1 Manchester .. ..7 3
Nottingham.. .. 7 8 Leeds .. .. ..7 3
Stafford .. ..7 6 York 7 2£
There are some municipalities which pay more even than
this ; but the foregoing list is restricted to cities which
are making rapid progress and are more or less earning
a commercial reputation which Sydney might envy.
* » * *
x ne rumor that the Maoriland Govt, intends to
do something definite in regard to the £2,000,000 which
was guaranteed to the Bank of New Zealand in da} T s of
trouble and adversity grows a little less vague. The
idea is now said to be “ to convert the loan into per-
manent stock, thus giving the Government control of the
institution.” That plan, or almost any other, is better
than the existing arrangement, which was rushed through
wildly before breakfast one morning in 1894, and is just
the sort of thing which, in those circumstances, one would
expect it to be. Its most conspicuous virtue is that its
life is limited to 10 years ; its most conspicuous vice is
that, no matter how much profit the bnnk may make, the
Government is not empowered to draw more than 4 per
cent., which is exactly what the £2,000,000 costs the
Government. As to controlling the institution, the
Government has been doing that for some time past :
four of the six directors are appointed by the Governor-
in-Council, and instead of either the heavens or the profits
falling in consequence of this “ fiddling with Socialism,”
the dead loss shown in the last year of private manage-
ment changed to a profit of £289,502 in 1902 ; and no
serious reflection on the heavens has yet come to hand
either.
■ • * »
One great reason why the usually accurate Trea-
surer Turner persistently finds the revenue ahead of his
calculations is that his colleague. Customs Minister King-
ston, is constantly dropping on the Freetrade importers’
customs swindles and bringing in unexpected revenue.
Something like £300,000 of much-needed cash will
probably be gained this year, merely by the stoppage of
old-established frauds and steals done by the bell-toppered
gang of whited sepulchres.
* * * *
City of Newcastle Gas and Coke Co. (New-
castle, N.S.W.), has had an unusually good half
Added
to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends, serves serves.
Dec., 1900 £42,901
June, 1901 £3137 15 per cent. =£lBBs £1252 44,153
Dec., 1901 2494 15 ~ = 1885 609 44,762
June, 1902 2660 15 „ = 1885 775 45,537
Dec., 1902 3499 15 „ = 2180 1319 46,856
The paid-up capital of the co. was, at the close of the half-
year, £5255 10s. greater than at the opening ; hence the
difference in the dividend figures. The reserves, never-
theless, remain 50 per cent, in advance of the capital. Of
the assets £16,676 is in N.S.W. stock ; the balance is used
in the business.
Cobar Gold Mines (N.S.W.), with 100 stampers,
and Mount Boppy, with 40 stampers, run a close race for
supremacy. January return of the former is valued at
£9163 ; working and development charges £5457, leaving
the substantial amount of £8696 to the good. Boppy had
22180 z. from 2550 tons. With increased treatment
appliances, the immediate erection of which would be
quitfc justifiable, Boppy would be far and away the lead*
ing gold-producer of the State. What a difference it
would have made to the sanguine Eissler if he had made
this the “star” mine of the Anglo-Australian Exploration
Co.’B holdings instead of the Gibraltar or Gallymont 1
• • • •
Lawyer Lyons is persevering with the old
Junction Deep mines near Mandurama (N.S.W.). These
mines have achieved distinction in the past as the
disillusioners of inventors of appliances for saving fine
gold, and as wreckers of the fortunes of honest, enter-
prising men. Nothing is now being done with the large
bodies of decomposed iron pyrites. The deeper ground
is being worked for sulphide ore, which is treated in a
water-jacket blast furnace —that which was built for the
ill-fated Milburn Creek copper mine—copper ore being
purchased as a base. The plant is now idle for want of
water. If individual exertion will achieve it, Lyons will
get from these mines what no one else ever succeeded in
getting—a fortune.
• * * •
A strange story is in circulation respecting a
N.S.W. coppermine. Co. was floated about two years
ago on most glowing reports. Capital was freely sub-
scribed, and as freely spent on extensive development
work and in making preparations for prospective produc-
tion on a large scale. On reports that the work done did
not reveal prospects which would justify further expen-
diture mine was closed down, the shaft dismantled,
and most of the machinery removed. Allegation now
made is that a really valuable lode was passed through in
the deepest workings. This assertion may be absolutely
false, or it may be a wild exaggeration, but the fact
remains, as The Bulletin learns on good authority, that
the majority, if not all, of the men who worked in the
mine are eager to get it on tribute on anything like
reasonable terms. The mine has been practically aban-
doned by the co., yet it is said that fair prosposals made
by the working-men were promptly rejected.
• • * •
The bodies of the two men who, three months
ago, got under the falling ground in the deep levels of
the South Broken Hill and Central mines, are still buried ;
and, as the coroner cannot sit upon them, the Govern-
ment has appointed him a commissioner to inquire how
it happened, anyhow. So far as it has gone, the inquiry
has resolved itself into a row between the managements
of the two mines interested. Each accuses the other of
breaking a compact not to gouge out the ore within 15ft.
of its boundary. The commissioner has to suggest means
to prevent similar accidents, and it probably will not be
hard work for him to do it—he will propose legislation
compelling mining companies to leave pillars of ore
standing on their common boundary-line. Something of
the kind has been repeatedly recommended by mining
inspectors ; why the recommendation hasn’t been adopted
is a mystery which it will probably take at least two royal
commissions to solve.
• • •
A little of the big advance in .eaa has been .ost,
though the price still keeps about £l3, or £2 3s. better
than at the opening of the year. It is significant that
the jump hasn’t yet been explained. Advices at the end
of last year were that, though statistics were unfavorable,
the price was going up ; apparently it was expected that
the huge American Smelting and Refining Co., which
controls the bulk of the ’Murkan output, was “ going to do
something.” If that is the explanation—if, that is to say,
the jump is simply the result of monkeying with the
market —outlook is not very bright. The distinctly un-
favorable point about the statistics is that, whereas in
1900, when the mean price was £l6 17s. 9d., the imports
to Great Britain were 195,380 tons, in 1902, when the mean
was £lO 19s. 6d., the imports reached 231,818 tons. This
certainly seemed to show that the world could go on
supplying lead in increasing quantities at the lower price,
though for how long isn’t bv any means certain. Those
who ought to know believed that a steady advance would
come ; but certainly the statistics offered no encourage-
ment to expect anything rapid. What has most likely
happened is that, recognising that' a steady move was
assured, a few big producers have combined to discount
the future by rushing the price up at one step.
Copper also has moved back a trifle, the price at
the opening of the market this week being £64 17s. 6d. ;
but this is £l2 12s. 6d. better than the quotation with
which the year began. The large movement is also
alleged to be due mainly to ’Murkan operators, who
control this market more absolutely than they do even the
lead market. The Wallaroo and Moonta (S.A.) directors,
who have had longer experience with the metal than any
other body this end, have settled down to the conviction
that it isn’t the slightest use attempting to forecast
fluctuations. Meantime the ill-paid Moonta miners are
making out a good case for the advance in wages which
was more or less promised when they accepted the
reductions that followed the slump of 1901. The only
other notable movement in S. Aus. copper mining, the
result of the present jump, is the decision of the French
co. which owns the Parramatta mine, a mile or two from
Moonta, to turn its tailings dumps into cash by the now
popular cementation process.
• • • •
Its tailings dumps last year saved the Wallaroo
and Moonta Copper Co. (S.A.) from showing a loss. The
gross profits were £29,957 ; but from this £24,793 is
written off for depreciation of plant, leaving only £6164
to go forward. As the profit on the re-treatment of the
tailings was £26,247, the co. would have shown a deficit
of £2i,083 on the year’s operations but for this new idea
of cementation or salt-water leaching. Wisely, no doubt,
the silver-lead smelting works having proved so sorry a
fiasco, the directors write off the cost as quickly as
possible ; and £9325 is charged to last year on account
of that dead and buried experiment. As to the
mines, it becomes every year clearer that the
end of Moonta is not far away, although the
lower-grade Wallaroo property maintains its old pro-
ductiveness. The two mines together only showed a
gross profit last year of £8978, compared with the
£26,247 got out of the formerly-discarded tailings ; and
the supply of tailings can’t last for more than, say,
another six years.
The cementation process, as carried out at
Moonta and Wallaroo, where it was introduced a couple
of years ago hy a Spanish engineer, consists simply of
digging holes in the tailings dumps, loosening the sur-
face, pouring in sea-water pumped up from the Gulf a
few miles away, and throwing old horseshoes and other
iron scraps in’the ditches into which the copper-stained
water trickles at the foot of the dumps. The iron lays
hold of the copper, and the metal is then scraped off m
the form of a paste, dried, and smelted. By the time it
reaches the furnace the cost per ton is £lB ; by the time
the metal reaches the ship 50 per cent, has been added to
this.
• • • *
Adelaide Critic, of 28th March, opines that
The Bulletin has a “ serious pain in the stomach ’’ over
the Arltunga field. Par. was written, probably, on the
25th, when Weinecke’s Reward shares were £llO, but on
date of publication they were below £6O. Critic must
now have an uneasy sensation in its lower chest. “ Ade-
laide brokers have not boomed Arltunga,” it is alleged ;
«■ the field has talked for itself,” which is quite true—it
has been all talk. Paul Northev is now the best-cursed
man in Adelaide ; even the saintly newspapers join in
denunciation of him ; he is only a Ballarat man, and his
opinion is of no consequence. The dozens of other prac-
tical men who have sent condemnatory telegrams are
ignored, which is supreme flattery for Northey. As a
matter of fact, the only persons who, up to date, have sent
favorable reports have been Dr. (whatever that may
mean) Chewings and the “ special correspondents” of the
Adelaide papers. Chewings’ latest message is a bombastic
defiance of all the practical men ; he is conscious of the
soundness of his own judgment, and w-ill be content to
let the battery silence the croakers. The Bulletin chal-
lenges Chewings to publish a comparison of his estimates
of the value of several reefs in and around Ooolgardie and
the actual battery results, and to Btate how many mines,
the purchase of which he recommended, are now being
worked. The statement will be promptly published when
he sends it. As for the opinions expressed by “ our
specials,” they are worse than valueless. No Adelaide
paper was ever known to employ a qualified man to do
mining work ; the general-utility man has had to tackle
it, even though he could not distinguish ore from
mullock—a polite variation of a Oornishism common to
the bowels of the earth.
• m • •
How some of the shows floated during the 1902
Charters Towers boom are fairing. The Queen Central
Block is inviting applications for 14,650 forfeited shares.
Several other shows have swags of their contributing
shares in their offices, thrown in owing to inability to
pay calls. With such a large amount of divs. leaving the
field, it is doubtful if many of the shows will succeed in
getting in sufficient calls to keep working. Exemptions,
partial and total, have been common lately.
*** . •
Those who knew him knew that it would not
be long before general manager Greenway discovered
that new machinery was necessary at Chillagoe (N.Q.).
That is his weak point—he will pile up plant. His pro-
posal to spend £lO,OOO on concentrating machinery
amounts, however, to an admission that the ore isn’t of
the grade it was cracked up to be.
• • • *
Bendigo divs. last week totalled £12,524, of
which the Three Moon mines—Clarence, South New Moon
and New Moon—contributed £7lOO. A long succession of
handsome profits from these mines is assured. Interest
in deep-level mining on the field has been revived, as the
result of a payable crushing from the deepest workings
in Lansell’s 180 mine, taken out by tributors. There is a
large body of stone, the trial from which returned Bdwts.
per ton, which is highly payable—at Bendigo. It is
about time that some new development took place on
the New Chum line, which, in olden times, was the main-
stay of the field, but which of late years has been an
absorber of profits from other lines. It will not be long
before the New Chum Railway is testing the ground at
about 4000 ft.
■ a • •
A Victorian stock worth watching at the pre-
sent time by people who are disposed to treat mining as
an investment business is Long Tunnel Extended.
Within the next fortnight the lode should be intersected
in No. 21 crosscut, and if the expectations of the manage-
ment are realised, shares are bound to have a good rise.
The new battery will be ready for work in August, when
co. will show a larger proportion of profits to earnings
than it has done in the past.
( Continued on pope 30.)


.
David Jones & Co.
“ORIENT” BOOTS.
Special Purchase of American-
made Boots, Black or Brown
Vici Kid,
Price
21/=
By Post
22/-
George & Barrack Sts.
-^SYDNEY.
No Better Value Procurable at
Three Times the Cost.
Selling by the Thousand!
Tiik ..
CRAGKSHOT
7/6
POSTAGE EXTRA.
THE CRACKSHOT is not a toy, but a thoroughly practical Magazine
Hand Camera for taking Portraits, Groups, Views and Moving Objects, giving
sharp, brilliant pictures of the popular size, 3J x 2£ inches. Built of well-
seasoned wood and covered with hlack leather grained material. Rapid Lens,
3 Stops, 2 View Finders, ever set Time and Instantaneous Shutter, Magazine
carrying G plates, Reliable Changing System, by which 6 Photographs may be
made in as many seconds.
A book of simple instructions enabling any novice to make good photos,
is supplied with every Camera.
Send for Copy of New Illustrated Catalogue, Post Free.
HARRINGTON & CO.,
Photographic Merchants. 66 King St Queen-st.,Brisbane
w
§3
Society
[?]
[?]
S. Australia is developing the bad habit of
CASUAL.
LADY BOARDER (at hotel, to chambermaid): “Mary, I think I shall get
married.”
MARY : “ One does feel a bit like that sometimes — don’t we, Miss?”
falling into its liquor. A few weeks ago it was a
vat of stout that was spoiled ; now a Malay work-
man, employed to stir wine, topples into a tank
holding lOOOgal.
* • • *
The mild and gentle Kanaka has been
displaying his virtues at Mackay (Q.) rather
prominently. One of the sweet and patient
islanders was in gaol charged with murdering,
under revolting circumstances, a white girl.
Knowing the good character of the Kanaka, the
gaol people allowed him to exercise with four
other prisoners. He seized an axe and mur-
dered one of them, and, when a warder appeared
on the scene, murdered him, too. Then authority
reluctantly did violence to the colored brother,
and he is now enjoying the Christianising influ-
ence of Queensland life in a solitary cell.
An inquest at Melbourne Morgue on the
remains of a former inmate of the local Benevo-
lent Asylum revealed the fact that the rule of that
charitable institution is to transfer the shirt of a
defunct lodger to a survivor. Sometimes the name
of deceased is marked off his underwear, and
sometimes it isn’t. In the case which came to
light at the inquest aforesaid, the name of the pre-
vious wearer had not had a line put through it.
Probably it was quite a young shirt, likely to be
passed on to a long succession of wearers, in which
case the marking-off rule would seem calculated to
have a depressing influence upon distant future
tenants of the garment. The man who got into it
in its last stage of decay would feel like a walking
death-roll of Benevolents as he sang his doleful
“Song of the Shirt
The Bulletin
has received the
following letter: —
To the Editor.—
Sir : Would you be so
good as to tell me
the way in which I
can be cured of any-
thing—l mean cured
so as to have my pic-
ture in the papers
with a nice lot of
print underneath say-
ing “this is the pic-
ture of Miss Minks,
who owes her bright
and amiable charac-
ter to the use of our
pills.” I am not really
ill, you know, except
for getting a head-
ache sometimes,
which a cup of good
strong tea does a
world of good for.
But Mrs. Brass, in
this street (she only
buried Mr. Brass
hardly a year ago, and
she is now setting her
cap at every young
man in the place),
she's had her picture
in the papers as “ a
charming and attrac-
tive young widow
who owes her good
health and her un-
doubted power of fas-
cination to-day to the
use of Slink’s Slush
for Sour People. And
I think I ought to
have my picture in.
I’ve had a real nice
photo, taken, show-
ing me in evening
dress ; and it would
look well in the
Eapers, I’m sure—far
etter than that
stuck-up Mrs. Brass’s,
who is 30 if she’s a
day, and who powders
and paints. But I
don’t want to be put
in as being cured of
anything nasty. Con-
sumption or appendi-
citis or nervous pros-
tration, due to high
society, please. Mrs.
Brass was cured of
something with bile
in it, and mentioned
her stomach. I don’t
want, please, to men-
tion my stomach. I
don’t think it is pro-
per for a respectable
single girl, whatever
these widows may care to do. But you might say I was
fading away like a flaver until I took Rock’s Gigantic
Upbuilder of the Constitution ; or that I was ill and
languid and had no energy until I tried Buckup’s Bitters.
I leave it to you, and hope to see the photo., which I en-
close, published soon with some testimonial.—Yours very
faithfully, Theodora Minks, 904 Tellobody-st., Oarling-
hunt.—P.S.—l have brown curly hair, bright expressive
eyes, and an amiable nature ; these might be mentioned
in the cure.—T.M.
Will some medioal firm please oblige ?
• • • •
A clerical witness in a recent Melb. will
case said that testatrix, whom he had always
regarded as a practising, as well as professing,
Christian, on one occasion swore for 15 hours con-
tinuously. This lamented sister would come in
handy just now to adequately express public
opinion on several subjects.
PALPABLY TRUE.
TALL PARSON (who has been to hear the old man
preach): “But, my dear brother, didn’t you
put the butter on rather thick?”
THE OLD MAN : “Well, well! It’s only bread
and butter, after all.”
An incident at Parnell, near Auckland
(M.L.), to some extent explains why so many
Boers were left alive after the war. Some
residents heard five revolver shots, and as there
did not happen to be any special occasion for the
shooting they set out to search of the tumultuous
one. They found a young man on the ground
with a five-chambered revolver, with all its
chambers discharged, lying by his side. The man
rose up and explained that he was a returned
cohentingenter, and had been rejected by his
young lady whose love had faded with his kharki.
He admitted shooting at himself and stated that
his intention was to die for the girl. On examina-
tion there was no trace of any wound. The papers
called it a determined attempt at suicide. Next
day he was charged with attempted suicide, but
the magistrate thought there could have been no
serious intention, and merely fined him a sovereign
for discharging a weapon without sufficient cause,
which is not flattering to the girl. Problem
arises:—lf a cohentingenter misses himself at a
range of six inches five times in succession, how
often would he hit a Boer behind a rock 800 yards
away.
* • • *
Extract from an unusually vigorous S.M.
Herald leader of recent Saturday :
One would think that with all the patent ad-
vantages which the continuance of speedy and
commodious mail steamships confers on the Com-
monwealth, our obvious duty, if anything-, would
be to encourage them in every possible way. Cer-
tainly we should not go out of our way to impose
harassing restrictions and conditions. Let them
run their business in their ovvn way, employing
whom they please and paying the wages which
they and iheir employees consider adequate. Why
should we interfere by seeking to apply to these
companies the peculiar ideas of legislation which
commend themselves to a section of our lawmakers ?
If the Navigation Bill, which the Prime Minister
promises us next session, should have the effect
of reducing the quality and regularity of the steam
communication between Australia and the rest of
the world, or of making Fremantle the Australian
terminus, we shall have abundant cause to regret
the day when so-called “advanced” legislation
took the place of common sense and minding our
own business.
But surely there are compensations. In
former times it was the British or inter-
state newspaper that was penalised in
N.S.W. If you wanted to post a Courier
or Age or London Chronicle to a par-
tially-dead friend at Parramatta you were
charged half the value of the paper, while the
Herald, by a silly piece of “advanced” and
wholly un-English legislation, went gratis. The
Commonwealth Government has put that right,
and the Herald might give it credit for doing
some good in its day and generation.
* * • *
“ A.J.W.” writes :
A Sydney importers’gathering was holding high revelry
recently, and the dead marines lay around in heaps. One
after another the guests had arisen and splashed oratori-
cal gems around in showers. They had toasted the King;
they had requested the Deity to bless our dear, deaf,
painted Queen ; they had drank bumpers to George Reid,
and cheered M'Million with a three times three ; and
apparently they had come to the end of their tether when
one gentleman scrambled up, gripped the table and
spake thusly : “ Shgenel’men, we’ve forgotten ter pro-
pose ther health of the shairman (hie), the shecretery,
to whose energy and geniush we owe the shuccessh of
the resourches of the asshembling together of this great
gathering. I’ve learned a little Latin in me time,
shenelenien, and I now recall one quotation which
fillsh billsh. It ish this: ‘ Honey swoy key mally
prong,’ meanin’, ‘ Honor to whom honor is due ’ ” (hie).
Then he sat down suddenly amid cheers, and the com-
pany struggled into an upright position, and poured its
liquor over the table-cloth.
“L.W.” : Have just returned from a
flying visit to Maoriland. The country is mad on
uniforms. There’s always some craze raging
there. First there was the borrowing fever in the
days of Vogel ; then came the drink madness,
which in time produced the cold-tea fanaticism ;
and to-day the country is delirious on uniforms
and Imperialism generally. You notice it on the
railways most. In the old days a railway
station-master was an individual who dressed
neatly in good, locally-made tweed, and the rest
of the hands went about in quiet, sensible serge
uniforms. The engine-drivers wore a cap with a
numberon it, which betokened their identity when
a stranger came along and found a train and
engine lying at the bottom of a lonely hill with a
dead driver under the fire-box. Nowadays a
station-master is a man with much gold lace and
frill. He wears a frock coat and an array of gilt
buttons, gold braid round the cuffs, and a gilded
ridge about two inches wide down the outside
seam of his pants. If he is a first-class station-
master he has another ridge about two inches
wide round his cap, with a crown of red and gold
in front; a second-ranker has the same sort of
bands, but a shade narrower; while a third-
ranker has only golden cords round the cap, but
all the rest is as massive as the clothes of a field-
marshal. At Dunedin I saw a man with enough
gilt about him to satisfy an emperor, pulling up
weeds in the station garden, and at a distance he
scintillated like a hunk of New Jerusalem. Alas,
Maoriland, my mother !
* * * *
Bulletin rejoices to see advice, which it
has repeatedly given, at last taken. From a M.L.
paper
There was an uncommon incident during the Supreme
Court sitting at New Plymouth on Friday night. By
9.45 p.m., after the long day’s sitting, the case for the
prosecution in the Moturoa tent fire charge had closed.
Mr. T. S. Weston, sen., submitted that after the fatigue
and anxiety of the day it was physically impossible for
him to proceed and do justice to his client, Ince, who
was charged with murder. Mr. Justice Conolly was
anxious to get on with the business, and, after some dis-
cussion, said he would leave it to the jury. Mr. Weston
again protested, and said if it was decided to go on he
would have to throw up his brief. The jury decided that
the case should go on, and then Mr. Weston positively
refused, to do so himself, and said he must throw up his
brief. The jury thereupon held another consultation,
and finally decided to adjourn. Next day, after hearing
Mr. Weston’s defence, a verdict of not guilty was brought
in.
Trial by candle-light, with a tired Bench, and a
weary bar and a worn perfunctory jury, has been
the cause of many deaths. The man who is tried
late at night is sure to be hanged early in the
morning.
• * * *
Murray Independent (a religious paper)
asks: —
How far can a man be honest, and yet retain his pulpit
in one of the conventional churches of the day ? Many of
the churches as at present constituted cannot endure pul-
pit honesty. Christ could not occupy the pulpit of any
one of our denominational churches for six months. And
for very good reasons. The fact is the churches -do not
want honesty, and will not have it. They want ortho-
doxy, which as a rule means colorless platitudes.
« * • *
How is this for canniness ? At a recent
meeting of the Dunedin (M.L.), city council a
letter was read from a Wellington resident stating
that he purposed
visiting Dunedin,
but first of all he
would likesome in-
formation regard-
ing cab fares
charged in that
city. If it was a
city where sax-
Eence might go
ang at any mo-
ment he wasn’t
coming.
A ST. PATRICK’S DAY SKETCH.
“Buy a shamrock, sir?”
“No, t’anks, I’ve got one.”
The Centenary of St. John’s (C. of E.),
Parramatta, was celebrated on Sunday. All that
remains of the old church of Parson Marsden is
the towers. When the church was built Governor
King ordained that it should be named St.
John’s out of compliment to his predecessor,
John Hunter, Governor. John Hunter was a lot
more important in N.S. W. than John the Evan-
gelist those times.
MY SWEETHEART.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A little, chubby face, with a peach for a mouth;
A fickle, naughty “ case,” is this girl from the South {
But she’s mine.
A saucy, cheeky face, but a dream for a mouth;
A racy, flirty face, has the girl from the South;
But she’s mine.
A little angel’s mouth ; a devil’s heart it hides;
A dreamy, god-like mouth ; a devil’s eyes besides;
But she’s mine.
An eerie, fairy kiss when on my lips hers fell—
A devil’s very hiss—but ’twill lead me on to hell,
’Cause she’s mine.
lUh
ROA.
When this same shirt was new
That soon will be in ribbons
It bore the name (the man was lame)
Of poor old Hoppy Gibbons ;
The next to come was Brown,
And when he died of shivers
His shirt was wore—three year, or more—
By bandy Sandy Rivers.
Then Wilson (dusky bloke—
We knew him as " the Persian ”)
Says “ That fits me ”: and so, you see,
He got the next reversion.
But Wilson’s reign was short;
His lungs was always ailing ;
His soul took wings, and all his things
Passed on to Peter Grayling.
And when good Peter went
Away to regions fairer,
His shirt, alack 1 did clothe my back.
And I’m the final wearer.


Wild’s, in the Sydney Arcade, is the most
fashionable gentlemen’s hairdressing saloon in
Sydney. Every attention possible is paid to the
customers by six expert hairdressers. Address.—
30 Sydney Arcade, entrance f rom George-street
or King street, Sydney.*
SILVER
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
1
A
w
Pi
r
9
ESPIBI
The Law made a painful apology for its
past stupidity at Melbourne last week. It was
the usual trouble of a girl who went astray with
a man. He was charged with abduotion on the
ground that the lady was under the age of 18
She was herself willing enough to be abducted’
but her mother objected, hence the first trial last
December, resulting in conviction. The Full
Court, on appeal, ordered a new trial on the
ground of Chief- Madden’s misdirection as
to the girl s consent At last week’s trial accused’s
lawyer raised the question of the damsel’s
age, and as nobody could prove it the
case suddenly fell through. The infant looked
about 18, but she might have been 21 or 14 for all
the jury knew. Her mother thought her daughter
was born in 85, but wasn’t sure ; she knew the
family had been in Melbourne quite a while, but
oouldn’t say how long ; also she thought the pre-
sent year was 1802 She couldn’t even give the
date of her marriage or birth ; in fact, she was the
solidified essence of vagueness as to dates. The
abducted one’s sister was equally discrepant.: she
said the other was her youngest sister, there being
another between them, but that valuable piece of
information got things no forrarder, so the Law
had to give it best. The question that is left
unsolved is how on earth the man was ever con-
victed of abducting a girl under 18 when there
was not a shred of evidence to show that she
wasn’t over 20. The fact constitutes a very grave
reflection indeed on Justice Madden ; in criminal
cases a judge is supposed to take nothing at all
for granted.
* * * •
It was a sordid tragedy, that of Thomas
John Grimes, who committed suicide at Bruns-
wick (Vic.) the other day because of the rent. He
suddenly remembered that he hadn’t paid it for
two weeks, and smote his wife with a tomahawk
preparatory to finishing himself on the back
verandah. Mrs. Grimes stated afterwards that
she could not get the rent because she had to get
boots. All the family, except the father, were in
employment, but evidently didn’t make enough
for shoe leather and landlord both The daughter
stated that she took her tomahawked mother, who
was covered with blood, out into the street and
appealed for assistance, but most of the passers-by
merely looked at the mother in an uninterested
fashion and went away, saying nothing. A com-
munity must be growing very much accustomed
to tragedies when it can’t even stop to look at the
bloodstains.
IN THE FASHION.
PHOTOGRAPHER: “ Cabinet or panel, madam?”
MADAM: “ A miniature, please; my ’usband
wants to put me on a chain.”
“Vul.”: Re Bulletin par anent the
system by which the German criminal is com-
pelled, by useful work, to support his wife and
family while in gaol. A decent-looking woman
with five carefully-tended children attended Rich-
mond (Vic.) Police Court the other day and
applied for assistance, explaining that her husband
had recently been sentenced to seven years’ penal
servitude for a shocking offence, with the result
that she was left to support herself and seven
children, who, thus far, would have starved but for
the kindness of neighbors. When the magistrate
explained that she would have to part with her
children before the State could assist her and
them, she left the court, tearfully affirming that
she would rather struggle along as best she could.
What a barbarous system is ours which forces on
that woman and her children, all innocent, dire
and undeserved privations, while the father passes
his seven years doing no useful work in prison !
Also, what’s to be said of a State aid system which
forces the child from its mother, to be cared for
by somebody else, before it will assist her !
* * * *
Something which the W. A. Govt, botanist
says is a very promising collection of tapeworms has
been blocking the water-taps at Perth ; and
pending the definite settlement of the matter,
there is even more swearing-off of temperance
principles than usual. At first it was supposed
chat what was getting tangled in the meters
was a vegetable of some sort, the result of running
luke-warm artesian water into the pipes ; but the
botanist says tapeworms, though he adds for the
consolation and encouragement of the W.C.T.U.
that, so far as he has found them, all the animals
are broken up into short lengths. What length
they were before the breakage he doesn’t say.
# * * *
“T.D.”: Great doings this week among
the Melb. Salvartny people, and the streets have
been dotted with little squads and processions of
uniformed gutter saints. I counted forty-eight
female “soldiers” form fours and march. Every
girl in the squad was thin and shapeless, and
walked with the stoop that comes of blended
anaemia and semi-imbecility. There was not one
in the whole crowd that a patriot would care to
see become the mother of Australian childien.
A lady in reduced circumstances
recently advertised for a
position as house-
keeper. A literal
copy of one of the
replies:—
Dear madam. —in
ancer to your adv in
the herald, i beg to
tell you that i re-
quire a House-
keeper. madam
i must tell you
that she must
bee a sober,
and, Clean
respectable
woman with
no Children,
and must
bee also a
prot. ma-
dam i must
tell you
that i am
a mid-
dled
aged
bache-
lor and a
sober man and
a prot. madam
i must tell you
the place is my owen. and
if you Come to me you will
be your owen master, madam
* must tell you that it is as nice
a Home as aney woman wish to hav.
their is no work heir onely to look after the house and
keep it clean and cook for me madam if it will suit you
please ancer this at once by return of post and state age.
madam you must be a prot.
....
“Argo”: Apropos “R.Q.’s” definition
of the note of Australian scenery as “weird
expectancy.” Was once talking to a lady friend
m front of the office of the registrar for B.D. and
M. The R. came out, locked the door, looked at
Wfen *' a f evv steps, then turned back into his
office and sat down. I saw him watching us
through the window. By-and-bye, I proposed a
move on. Looking back, I saw the registrar
bolting down the street to make up for lost time.
Presumably he thought I was proposing to the
i a dy, and wanted to be on hand to get his guinea
in case we decided to get married immediately, or
to register the infant, or something.
Current daily paper headings reveal
something of the unconscious cynical con-
tempt with which royalty is regarded by
civilised people. For a royal person to
marry the woman he loves, and thus sacri-
fice his throne-prospects, is “a royal scan-
dal.’’ Kings and such give scandal to
their kind when they behave decently and
honorably. When a Queen runs away
from her husband with a tertium quid , it
is a “royal romance,” and current com-
ment shows a sort of sympathy with the
woman. The public recognises that royal
t marriages are generally such disgusting
business arrangements between people
whose kindred of blood should keep them
apart, that a Queen is better justified
than the ordinary married woman in kick-
ing over the traces.
• • * *
By way of a slight measure of relief
why not admit all the unemployed to the
Bar? Many eminent barristers have spoken
severely about the exclusiveness of trades
unions. This would be a chance for the profession
to show that it, at least, had no such sordid taint.
* . • *
A correspondent to the Sydney Freetrade
and cheap labor press on the blasting effects of
the N.S. W. Arbitration Act:—
To-day a baker friend is charging Id. for a roll which,
till this month of March, he sold for 4d. “ Not,” as he
tells me, “because of dearer price of flour. In former
times, before we were harassed and afflicted with legal
quips interfering with business, such change in the price
of flour as experienced would have passed without any
immediate advance in the price of bread. But of late the
expenses of carrying on even a moderate concern are so
increased that bread is fully 2d. per loaf higher than
should be necessary. We are really glad of any oppor-
tunity to try and adjust our income with the vastly in-
creased cost of carrying on our business.”
Accepting this as true—we don’t accept it, by the
way, but regard it as an inartistic and clumsy
fake —what sort of a robber must that baker friend
be who advanced his prices 100 per cent, because
of a very small increase in bread-carters’ wages
decreed by the Arbitration Court 1 The Court
fixed the minimum wage for bread-carters at 455.
a week, and that was practically the only change
it made in the baking trade conditions.
. * . *
Melbourne’s gaud mayor struck a very
pointed snag of reminiscence the other day when
a deputation of unemployed waited upon him.
One of the workless citizens reminded Mayor
Gillott that they were brother officials in a subur-
ban lodge of Oddfellows more than 30 years ago,
and that the one now looking for a job was then a
more important Oddfellow than the future Samuel,
K.C.M.G. Gillott took a little time to remember
his old acquaintance before shaking hands with
him. After which he glanced nervously at the
other unemployed, as though wondering whether
any of them had ever belonged to the same Order
of Unusual Blokes as himself. The true signi-
ficance of the term “ friendly society ” is beauti-
fully revealed, when a beaming capitalist receives
an appeal for assistance from a long-lost Ancient
Druid or Enslaved Bricklayer who “lodged” with
him 30 years ago.
m • • *
At Newcastle (N.S.W.):
A consignment of 57 rabbits was seized by the city
sanitary inspector. AH the carcases were unfit for human
consumption, many of them being putrid. One contained
a “ beautiful” hydatid cyst. On the previous Saturday
the inspector made a similar seizure, with a similar
result.
It isn’t too pleasant to think what is liable to
happen in the hundred towns where the sanitary
inspector is also the town clerk and isn’t really
expected to use his nose, being a town clerk first
and a sanitary inspector a long way afterwards.
A START, ANY-
HOW.
“Is it true that Flossie
has reformed? ”
“ Oh, rather t Why, on Sundays she never lets
anybody kiss her but parsons.”
Charters Towers (Queensland) has also a
violent outbreak of typhoid fever. The hospitals
are crowded, while outside cases keep the few
medical men on their feet night and day. The
origin has, just as in Coonamble, been traced to
a soft-drink and milk-shake shop. One medical
man says that in his opinion few of the cases are
true typhoid, but rather a form of malaria.
Another leading northern medico of much tropical
experience states that, although closely resembl-
ing typhoid, they are not such. He had many
cases in this outbreak which he regarded as 44 out-
laws,” inasmuch as the symptoms resemble noth-
ing he had previously met in his professional
career or in medical works. He considered it
44 one of those yet undefined tropical epidemics
which have become so common of late, and have
never been accurately diagnosed.”
* • * *
Fierce language from under rigidly waxed
moustaches is the order of the day among the
volunteers who have sworn to defend New .South
Wales from invading foes. The language is
against the Government. The cause of it is worn-
out breeches. Times are so bad that the usual
supplies of clothing were withheld, and warriors
who had almost got down to their bare pelts com-
plain that they were finally appeased with second-
hand duds of faded colors, and with moths or
humming-birds or something in them. What is
the use in such a rig of trying to captivate a nurse-
girl?
* * * *
Two Adelaide constables have had an un-
pleasant experience of “touting.” The practice
is not common in that virtuous city—-perhaps
through the vast expanse of park lands on every
side making it too difficult for sportsmen to track
down their game. Anyhow, an indignant young
man explained in the city police-court, the other
day, that he was sitting harmlessly on the river
bank with a lady, when various larrikins came up,
struck matches, and “simpered” at him. He
made it quite clear to them that they would be
grievously mauled and battered if they didn’t go
away, and they went. A few minutes later, they
came back, and he battered them furiously. Un-
fortunately it was not the same “they,” but two
policemen, who had been attracted by the first
disturbance, and came up just in time to get hand-
somely bashed about the head. This cost him 70s.
But it must be a moral and well-behaved city
where being “simpered” at by the push is so un-
usual that it arouses a citizen to nearly slay
two large men with his bare hands.
Sydney Restaurant and Caterers’ Em-
ployees’ Union met t’other night for the purpose
of prevailing on the women workers to join. The
men urge that the union is useless for all practical
purposes while the women stand out, for the
reason that the employers discharge the men
wholesale, and fill their places with girls at
sweating rates. As an indication of what depths
of sweating this position of affairs is responsible for
some of the speakers declared that, in Sydney to-
day, females were working in 4 4 disgusting, insani-
tary, and nauseating surroundings” 90 hours per
week for ten shillings—less than three-hdlf-pence
an hour l The trouble seems to be that the
females won’t join the union for the fear that,
male and female wages being fixed at a like rate,
employers will take the men from preference, and
so leave the women without employment at all.
* • • *
“ N.” discources in vigorous capitals on a
public grievance :
Here is a current form of robbery, which runs in all
kinds of shapes. One species is the Hospital Saturday
contribution by the employees of a great firm. Goldbug
and co. make a race with Giltgore and co., and, of course,
every employee has to put in something like a day’s
screw. Then the firm mops up all the glory. This is
Robbery, unless the man, or the poor girl, really wants
to give. But that case is not so bad as the Testimonial
Robbery. Some clapper-claw of a Koo-tooing Cringer is
seized with the idea of currying favor by getting up a
Testimonial to a Boss. Well, there should be no more
need for me to write another line. A chorus of fifty
thousand voices will arise—“ We’ve been there ' ”
A few days ago at Singleton (N.S.W.) a
woman was charged with horrible cruelty to an
“ adopted ” child two years and three months old.
Evidence showed that the accused brute regularly
tied the unfortunate mite to a tree, bound her
hands behind her; then putting a gag in her
mouth, left her without a hat in the sun for hours
at a time. The medical evidence showed that the
hair had been rubbed off a portion of thechi Id’s head
at the back, where a scab had formed in its place,
s Hair similar to the unfortunate girl’s was found
adherring to the tree to which she was in the
habit of being tied, demonstrating conclusively
that the agony endured had been frequent and
prolonged. After listening to the revolting
evidence, and seeing the condition of the unfortu-
nate child, an intelligent Bench remarked that
there was little doubt that the child had been
cruelly treated, and fined the brutal defendant
£1 and costs I From present indications, the
next Mrs. Makin who transpires will be fined the
staggering amount of £5, and be given twelve
months to find the money. The average police
court functionary seems to really love the worst
forms of cruelty, so anxious is he not to discourage
them more than he can help.
* * • •
At the turning of the first sod of the
Gladstone to Rockhampton (Q.) railway, t’other
day, Queensland’s Governor took off his frock
coat, spat on his lily-white hands (at least, he
ought to have done so), and, taking up a shovel,
filled a barrow-load in true navvy style. Then,
getting between the handles, he wheeled it about
twenty yards off, where he tipped it up and
returned to his starting point with his barrow.
This spectacle of a Governor spontaneously (as it
seemed) doing something useful so astonished the
crowd that it cheered enthusiastically ; then some-
body upset the whole thing, and showed it to be
premeditated circus, and but an obeying-of-oi'ders
by presenting his perspiring Ex. with a miniature
silver barrow. Of course, the local Governor is
imported only to obey orders, circus and other-
wise, but the responsible fathead really oughtn't
to obtrude the fact so cruelly before a disrespect-
ful crowd.
* * * *
The law squabbles over old Tyson’s money
are still bobbing up and affording employment to
the legal profession. Latest is an application for
leave to appeal to the Privy Council on behalf of
Margaret Tyson, the lady whose claim to a share
of the estate has hitherto failed, because the old
yellowy-browny documents on which her case
rests are insufficient, and the recollections of the
eldest inhabitant are too hazy, in the opinion of
our courts, to be of much value. The old man’s
dollars are flying gaily.
» * * »
What part of Townsville wasn’t blown
away the other day is, at time of writing, mostly
under water, nearly a foot of rain having fallen on
it inside two days. It looks as if Townsville
would have no luck till it returns a Labor
member.
* * • •
“G. 8.”: In King-street, Sydney, t’other
day, noticed a frilly female with arms painted
bright salmon pink plainly showing through
open-worked sleeves; also noticed padded hips.
Likewise, I diagnosed elevated heels, stuffed
bosom, painted lips, false
teeth (displayed in
perpetual smile),
painted cheeks and
neck, pencilled eye-
brows, and false
hair! All these
are common
enough, but surely
the lady with
the painted arm.
is something be-
yond the average.
THE TRAILING SKIRT DIFFICULTY
OVERCOME.
The Westralian Government is gradually
feeling its feet in connection with the manage-
ment of the new State hotels. A deadly proposal
to pay the manager a commission on the sales has
been flattened out; profits, it has been settled, are
to go, for a while at any rate, in supplying the
premises with the comforts of a club (mostly the
new pubs, will be on those goldfields which iie at
the back of civilisation); and every three months
samples of the liquor on the shelf are to be sent
for analysis, and the results will be published.
THE WINE GATHERER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The vineyard of the skies
She wanders thro' and thro’,
To gather from the clinging grape
A soft dream-giving brew.
And when a fearful gloom
Doth cloak our souls o’ night,
She comes with wine-stained hands to spill
Forth sensuous delight.
THOMESON.
THE STAR SHOWER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I saw a tide of stars
That rippled down the sky.
The planets turned, it seemed,
To watch them flowing by.
They vanished into space,
I saw them disappear,
And found them all again
Within your eyes, my dear.
ELISE ESPINASSE.


C3&~ In the Matter of Dress attention to Detail Indicates Breeding.
EVERY LADY KNOWS
KLEINERT’S HOOKON
is this only Correct Hose Supporter
To Wear with the NEW FORM CORSET
Sold only at the Best Shops.
MR. J. SPENCER NOLAN, R.D.S.,
DENTAL SURGEON, 43 Oxford-st., Sydney
(between Mark Foy’s and Riley-st.). HIGH-CLASS
DENTISTRY at lowest prices. Guaranteed absolutely painless extractions by latest American system—a great
success. Beautiful and perfect-fitting atmospheric suctioa sets of American teeth, giving the wearer ease,
comfort and natural appearance. Coraline gum plates, without springs or wires. Elastic Gum Coraline is the
most reoent, up-to-date plate for mounting teeth. All wrinkles and hollow cheeks disappear. It is so natural
that it defies detection. For comfort, strength and lightness it surpasses everything previously introduced.
Coraline is perfectly tasteless, and remains wholesome and pure. Badly fitting plates remodelled on this new
system. Up-to-date gold crowns. Call and see specimens of latest methods. Upper and lower sets from £1 Is.
Single teeth from ss. Teeth filled, scaled and bleached. Country visitors fitted in one day if required.
IS*
<b
o*
O
o
G
G
c'i
V
si
V'
WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW
w
WTW
A BARGAIN.
The Cheapest Costume in 8/dney, none to
oome near it for Ya us and Style.
FLECKED ZITIUNE COSTUME
with smart American Blouse, trimmed
satin, bell-shaped sleeves, double box-
pleated skirt, front and side panel
trimmed satin bands, to be obtained in
“ 10olor *' Prtc. 29/6.
Write for one at once.
They will not be here long.
W. T. WATERS & CO. LTD.
“ The Leaders of Fashion ,”
King & George Sts., SYDNEY.
Dress Fabriss
TRADE MARK
Are Stocked by the
Leading Drapers.
THE VARNISHED BOARD
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, Marcli SI, 1903.
My Dear Artni.—
In an article on “ Decay of Home Life in
England ” in current Ladies’ Realm, Marie
Corelli sears her sex with a red-hot nib for their
neglect of home, indifference to domestic duties,
and general jostle and rush and love of dining in
public at swagger hotels. The old-world chatelaine
who surrounded herself with choice furniture,
sweet linen, fine books, preserves of her own
making, and who took an interest in the welfare
of her, retainers, is well nigh extinct, the writer
says. Mothers aspire to seem as young as their
daughters, and among the vanishing graces of
Society is the grace of growing old. Men of 60
wed girls of 16, and women of 50 lead boys of 20
to the sacrificial altar —that’s a good phrase for
Mrs. Langtry and Lady Randolph Churchill, and
womenki nd with means and ti me patronise the d yer,
the steamer, the padder, the muscle improver, the
nail polisher, the wrinkle remover, and eye em-
bellisher. “ Our gracious Queen Alexandra,”
remarks the writer, “supports her years with
grace and scarcely diminished beauty,” but she
does not hint that the beauty parlor has anything
to do with the support. Perhaps it is the Queen’s
example that is somewhat responsible for other
women’s efforts to look thirty years younger than
their age. Emily Soldene notes that the Queen’s
hair is “ dernier cri ” in Venetian red.
Miss Corelli also refers to the case of many
leading “ beauties ’ who never scored a success in
their teens, but who are now, in their forties,
trampling triumphantly oil men’s hearts. Men’s
hearts cannot be hard as of yore, when they
wouldn t be trampled upon by anything over 20
years and natural blushes.
“ The decline of the body,” says the authoress,
“ is the natural withering ot the chrysalis which
contains the ever-young and immortal Soul.”
Personally, I think that thb ever-young soul in an
old body is rather a mistake, and I don’t blame
women for trying to even-up tilings and keep the
chrysalis up to date. The 50-year old woman who
marries 25-year-o!d Guy may have a 20-year-old
soul, but nobody gives her any credit for it. On
the other hand, many women (and men) have
chrysalis only, and no soul, so it behoves them to
keep the only thing they have nice and glossy.
The horde of richly-garbed ladies of whom
Corelli writes, who drive up in smart broughams
and motor-cars, and fight and scramble for seats
in a divorce court during the hearing of a fashion-
able suit, and who neglect their husbands and
homes, probably haven’t a soul among them—
catechism and Corelli notwithstanding—and a
good job, too. This belief in the prevalence of
souls goes too far. Look at the hordes of youths
in our city who stand at the intersection of King
and Pitt streets, day in, night out, and expec-
torate as they lean against posts and think of
nothing. Could you imagine a soul amongst
them ?
One wonrfers how Lady Macdonald, the late
H motor’s wife, liked her husband’s frequent pro-
motions. He was a sergeant when he married
her, and she was in Egypt with him when he got
his captaincy. It was generally understood that
Macdonald was unmarried. In the rush of news-
piper articles alxiut him during the last few years
there wjis never a mention of his wife. No
doubt, the poor woman found her position as an
officer’s wife among other officers’ wives, who
were daughters of belted earls, an anomaly—very
much what Dinah Shadd’s would have been had
Sergeant Mulvaney risen as Macdonald did.
Dinah was a lovable, industrious woman, and
nothing but her husband’s “consumin’ thirst”
stood between them and high military rank—and
splendid isolation. You couldn t expect the
Colonel’s wife (who was the Hon. Miss Something)
to bring into her circle the Captain’s wife who, a
few years previous, was ironing her crested frills
at a rupee a score.
A certain drapery firm has had a losing experi-
ence. The shop-walker saw a quietly-dressed
woman coming out with a parcel properly tied up,
but which she seemed to be carrying in a suspicious
way. He challenged her right to it, and demanded
that she produce her receipt. She said it was in
the parcel, and refused to open the same.
He took her to the police-station, her husband
was telephoned for, and the package was opened.
The receipt was there, and now that firm has just
paid £5OO rather than go to court. Another well-
known firm never prosecutes, but it is alleged
that it has a quaint way of dealing with shop-
lifters. It generally compels them to swallow a
box of pills in lieu of being given in charge. But
the other day one of the proprietors caught a
woman hiding a certain article of underclothing
in her umbrella. He promptly compelled her to
put it on over her clothes, and made her stand
there in the shop for an hour or so.
The man who yearns to buy pictures by Aus-
tralian artists, and complains that he cannot
because the canvasses are mammoth, will next
■week have his excuse plucked from him.
Art Society holds an exhibition of small work—no
picture to exceed 18 inches—and the artists are
resorting to the dodge of wide frames to escape the
limit. Examples of the new method of painting
with sticks of solid color will be on view. Most
of the artists have had a try at it and say it is
like working with putty on glass. Sid Long has
finished his portrait of State Premier See, and
Fred Leist has a fine portrait in French pastel of
Miss Murray, a Gore Hill girl—fine brown eyes,
dark brown hair, sensitive face. But these works
will be shown at the Spring exhibition.
The really artistio event of the year up to date
was the unveiling of “ Pliryne before Praxiteles,”
at Sydney Art Gallery last week. The work cost
£B5O, ana weighed two and a half tons. This is
an awfully Philistine statement, but it will inter-
est people of tbe Peter Amos stamp (“Niobe”
farce) who say there is no money in art, far better
than any heroics on the beauty of the nude
hetaira. It is proposed to model more bronze
every five years, until tlie six niches of the Gallery
which ache for art are filled. Perhaps within the
next decade local art will have attained such a
pitch as to allow the modelling to be done in Aus-
tralia.
A local tenor told a certain Italian conductor
that his friends were about to get up a benefit
concert to send himself home for further study
and a Career. The conductor was very unsym-
pathetic : “ It ees yust as bad,” he said, “ as eef
my friends would get up a benefit to send me
home to learn ze box. ”
At Rosehill races on Saturday some of the new
gloves were on the old hands that reached out to
back the horses. Kid to a little above the wrist;
the other half lace or embroidered net with butter-
fly, dragon-fly or flower designs. The other kind,
the all-the-way kid glove, with its three rows of
narrow velvet or chenille threaded through the
top of the kid, the ends fashioned into rosettes or
sprawling loose, displa3 T ed itself under very
transparent sleeves. There was a mild outbreak
of the blue and green mania which fashion writers
promise is going to be acute. One advanced
person displayed under a navy blue dress an
underskirt of regular St. Patrick’s day green, and
on her dark blue hat a green bird.
Music-loving Sydney public has been com-
plaining of the want of good chamber music, and
the moan has found recognition. A quartette
has l>een formed under the name of the ‘ Sydney
Chamber Music Society.” First and second
violins will be bowed by Henri Staell and Mowat-
Carter, respectively. Mr. H. A. Jacques will
operate on the viola, and Herr Gerard Volimar on
the ’cello. Four concerts will be held during
the season, and, amongst others, there will be
rendered works of Mendelssohn, Brahms, Boc-
cherini, Haydn, and other big eagles of the
musical atmosphere. Vocalists and pianists will
be selected with the most rigid care. Mr. John
Laure, of Paling’s, will give you further par-
ticulars.
Sydney stopped yawning for half-a-minute last
week to smile at an item in the telegraphed inter-
view with Edward Lloyd. The great tenor, in-
stead of saying the usual tiling about his combina-
tion of artists—that it was the biggest combine
the world had ever seen —explained that the
artists (the Misses Foxcroft, Jean Newman, and
the basso, Peterkin) were not yet famous, but that
they all hoped to be.
The engaged girl’s sister doesn’t seetn to be such
a blister as the deceased wife s sister, but she was
part cause of a breach of promise case in Sydney
this week. The young barrister who appeared
for the plaintiff girl must be quite used to this
kind of business by now. His office is sodden
with tears, and his blotting paper has lost the
power of absorption through the deluge
of weeping upon it. But in this case he
failed to get more than £2O damages—a sum which
plainly disgusted him. The smallest heart frac-
ture is worth at least £5O. Defendant was a
returned soldier, who now holds a billet as hos-
pital attendant. Plaintiff sent her younger sister
May to say good-bye to the departing warrior
when he was leaving for the front some
years ago, and from that time forward he
saw only May. Every month was May to
him, and from behind the kopjes and on the
veldt and in the midnight watclffires floated the
face of May. Yet still he continued to write
lovingly to his fiancee, the elder sister. On the
margin of a circulating library novel I once saw,
scrawled opposite a tender passage in which a
man is musing on which of two girls he loves
best : “The pangs of love is grate—so grate that
a man can love 2 women as much as he can
love 1, no matter what peeple say, and which-
ever one he marries, he’ll find he loves the other
one best.”
Friends of Mr. Charles Bright, the well-known
lecturer and journalist, who took charge of the
Unitarian Church when Worthington “went up,”
will regret to hear that he lies seriously ill at his
house in Darlingliurst.
The Chilian training ship, General Baquedano,
has gone after a stay of 12 days in Port Jackson.
The officers picked up enough English during that
time to ask their way to the G.P.O. and be mis-
directed. Tbestock phrase among them was: “Are
you ver tired?” They used it in the sense of “How
d’ye do ?” The captain spoke English and French,
but his company was only at home in Spanish, yet
two of the officers were named O’Brien and
O’Reilly respectively. They probably came from
the Chilian province of O’Higgins. At a private
dance, one Spanish-Irish warrior, not being a good
dancer, breathed softly into the shell-like ear of
his partner, “Excuse me, please; my feet are
chump 1 ” Then he went on to explain in French
that his good English was due to the fact that he
had studied the language four years before taking
the trip.
On a day last week an influx of passengers by
three liners broke the record of our biggest hotel’s
booking. Over 100 persons registered within a
few hours. The lady, who for some weeks made
herself a centre of interest to the guests of this
hotel by coming to meals with a live chameleon
wriggling on her bodice, lias gone. He was a
good sized reptile, and he was fastened by a
slender gold chain and safety pin to the corsage,
and the only time when he really annoyed the lady
was when he took a header into her soup, and then
climbed back embroidering the crepe de chine with
a wiggle-waggle pattern of mulligatawny. Per-
haps if this lady visits W. A. she’ll meet the tribe
of blacks who wear a wreath of live lizards (and
nothing else) and come back to exhibit the fashion.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“Senator Sargood’s will, proved at £680,000,
shares everything equally among widow and
children, except that the former has in addition
the income derived from £15,000. The sons get
their shares, absolutely. The widow and daughters
are to draw the incomes of their portions, which
will be invested for them. At death, the
daughters’ money passes on to their children, the
widow’s goes back into the estate. More than
half-a-million of money made out of drapery !
Some people have cause to congratulate them-
selves that Old Man Adam and his wife fell into
the fix which led to the adoption of clothes.
“ The old terms of Melba’s intimacy with the
Governor Clarkes are stated to have undergone a
change. The public hasn’t had much chance of
judging, for the reason that, since Christmas, the
Clarkes have not been about the exact spots where
the diva has whirled. But after many"uncertain
arrangements as to Miss Mignonette’s assistance
at the Grange fete, where Melba was to play the
Person of Most Importance, personal pars in the
daily press confirmed the rumor that Miss Clarke
would take part in the scone or d’oyley stall. She
didn’t. And the thickest-headed at length begin
to see evidence of estrangement or disinclination
to revolve in the same orbit.
“Melba, flanked by the Federal chiefs —civil
and military—coughed and used her cambric
vigorously to afford the mixed gathering at the
Grange fete a reason for her backing out of the
opening speech. Anon she grinned and as good
as winked at chums in the crowd while Barton
did the business. She made no pretence of lis-
tening to Toby’s platitudes, but played with
a gold chain purse, and giggled. But when a
most gaunt shepherd started along discourse on
the Braille Charity, which the fete proposed to
help, she murmured her tiredness and impatience
in an undertone to General Hutton, who had to
look innocent and serious under severe provoca-
tion.
“ Society presided at carrot, cake and pin-
cushion stalls, in its best bib and tucker, at that
Braille Fete, and the suburban flutterers stood
around and took in dress and manner points.
One stall, where the Elect stood for
‘counter’ attractions, had the cream of the
visitors within its tarpaulin walls. There
Janet Lady Clarke, in a swell resurrection garb
of grey silk p’anted thickly with lace plots, was
welcomed back to the whirl. Mostly elderly
dames led these particular stall junkets, but
simple white frocks, artless pinafores, and shady
hats, went bond for their youth. The most
startling of all the kiosks, held by Miss Landale,
Hall Thornley, and one of the Fisken brothers,
ran a race-game with a remarkable amount of
go. Mrs. Thorley and a Landale s ster sat
by the gamble machine, and supplied fair pic-
tures in profile.
“ Second day of the Braille fair, Melba loomed
large in white muslin, inserted with fine silk
Irish crochet and embroidered chiffon. A lovely
gown, but Melba and white muslin are best apart.
The majority of the diva’s bazaar colleagues—
smart matrons, mostly with grown-up children —
affected toilettes of the girly type : white muslin,
green sashes, pink roses, transparent-lace blouses
—the sort of springlike garnishings that on a
sultry, tiring day “turn dog ” on a wearer out of
her teens and .show up her proneness to spread or
sharpen, as the case may be. Cornmandantess
Hutton looked pleasant and dignified in pale-
blue ; Mrs. Edward Miller toned down the sum-
mery tints of hot-weather plumage with a big
black hat, untrimmed, save for a gauzy white
scarf twisted round the crown. There were few
girls on view and fewer belles. Among the pro-
fessionals giving a hand, Eugenie Duggan (Mrs.
W. Anderson) caught most notice, thanks to
flowing lace polonaise over billowy, silk draperies,
trailing sleeve ruffles of chiffon, and rings hiding
most of her fingers to the knuckle. Edward
Lauri, sporting one of his gay little tan vests, with
V of pearl buttons, apparently rather shocked an
old clergyman, who introduced the artists, by bis
song of a widow who showed a good lot of leg
when crossing the street.
“ The woman mterjector is becoming a known
quantity at Federal political gatherings. The
other night, when C. C. Kingston held the floor,
some feminines in the front pews showed a con-
tentious spirit, and hurled remarks now and then
across the reporters’ table at the speaker. Some-
times be caught the remark and dealt with it—
respectfully. Other times it missed aim, and
Madam Malcontent repeated it, as a wise utter-
ance, to her bonneted neighbors, and the lot
rumbled incontinently till the men hushed them
down. The woman heckler is a fact to deal with.
At present she is courteously invited to come and
hearken, and is bowed (the very shabbiest of her)
into a reserved row, and consequently her con-
spicuousness makes her shy. In a little while
she will get over this, and she will yell her com-
ments. Fancy a woman of good nag-power at an
election meeting !
“Asa plain utterer of plain truths, a simple-
fact man, Charles Cameron Kingston is most
attractive. He fails as a ‘ pretty speaker,’ and it
is because he so fails that he revels in a personality
that grips a throng, and holds its ear in leash.
The broken sentence, the jerked word, the short
cut to a meaning, the colloquial term, the phrase
in the rough, the rugged inflections of the voice,
the nervous force that, at times, leaves the arms
quivering at the sides—all combine to show the
very heart of the speaker. No clap-trap, no
balderdash, no pause for polish, no gilt, no grand
period*. A simple, spasmodic, sincere talk—such
is the Kingston platform address.
“ C. C. Kingston is just now a man of'impaired
health, lie is paying for his 18 high
pressure, with its great loads of recrimina-
tion and abuse from all parts of the Common-
wealth, by well nigh a break-down. On Satur-
day, prior to leaving for Brisbane, he had to
submit to a medical test, and be tonicked for the
trip.
“So there was a Lady Macdonald ! Victorians
who feted the warrior when here were loud in
praise of the ‘genial bachelor.’ Some of our
smartest matrons were quite willing to be extra
kind to the mateless hero—but he didn’t permit.
The greatly-eulogised General passed from place
to place rapidly, and was hardly ever seen out of
tweed sac suits and hard boxer hats.
“The Austral Salon was bustling away last
week at fan-fare practice for the self-arranged
visit of Melba on the 80th, when word—same old
word—came along. ‘Sorry—had to defer—plans
uncertain’ —etc., etc. So the Salon took its
toupee off. and swallowed its disappointment.
“ Gov. Clarke got going on floriculture, last
week, at a little autumn bulb show, and convinced
a knot of the watering-can sjiecies that he knew
what he was talking aliout. The little man floated
upward on the breeze of his enthusiasm, especially
over the bigonia, the beauty of which he dwelt
on with the zeal of the culturist.
“ The excitement over a Ladies’ Cricket Match,
between a team of University under-gratis and a
set of erudite young Misses, may be imagined
when it is mentioned that at the end of the con-
test, the winners slung their red-haired Captain—
Miss Taylor—on their shoulders, and in that fashion
of risky homage, trotted her over the grounds.
You have noticed the ordinary Eve of to-day sit
down. It is an elaborate ceremony. She draws
her skirt to position, mindful of creases and pins
and nails, and, after a glance at the seat in a pre-
cautionary manner, settles down on it. Now a
female who is suddenly swept from terra-firma
and slung on to the uncertain seat of feminine
shoulders, risks a lot. There’s the possibility of
various punctures, leg display, skirt reefing, and
lots of unpleasant things.
“Little Dunky Gillies is on the mend. He
waxes jovial. The other day he fraternised with
Jimmy Mirams on the Brighton platform, and
told so ticklish a joke that the small man, of the
ever-green gamp and Parliamentary folio and
bank-boom records, grinned as he hadn’t grinned
for years.
“There’s method, as a rule, in Love’s madness.
A large circle of friends mourned the action of a
suburban girl a while ago in dismissing her lover,
almost on the eve of the nuptials, on account of
his agnostic principles. Everyone fretted over
the waste of pillow shams, etc. But they needn’t
have. The dear girl promptly wedded the curate
who had pointed out the iniquity of the agnostic.
“ For naive innocence and lieautiful high
seriousness how is this distress scrap from Age
(Marcli 28):
Will Finder of Piece of Fair Hair, pins in it, send
address to Reward, P. 0., Prahran?
“ The present cold season fashions run to mealy
materials. We have the oatmeal liopsack and
flake tweeds aspiring to flavor. Tartans, too,
have arrived. It is quite a braw Scotch season of
clothes. Head mounts are of too-military a
character to ‘ cotton on.’ After the chic and
shady Panama, with its style dependent on its
manner of skewerage fore and aft, the bold, curt
hussar cap and the cake-tin toque attract only the
class of indomitables who get away early in the
season with all its oddities —the odder the better.
Saw a smart, snub-nosed fashionable at the Fete
the other day in a hussar cap of blue felt, with
remarkable skewers of gun-metal. Front
view was Aunt Sallyish, but the profile plum-
puddingish. Why do the button-nosed go for the
round hat and the baker’s toque ?
“ Lady Chermside and her sister, Mvs Webb,
left pleasant and amiable memories in Healesville
after their trip a few weeks ago. The two
Englishwomen have more than the ordinary cubits
to their stature, and took wonderful walks over
the ferny lanes of the honeymoon district. When
Miss Webb was asked how she negotiated the
fences of one quarter, she replied simply and
directly, ‘Stepped over them.’ Now, Melba
while there—but that’s another story.
•‘ Many Victorians and not a few Northerners
lament the untimely death of Mr. HUneas Gunn,
on a station in the Gulf country from malarial
fever. The dead man, before he went to manage
the cattle-station where he ended his days, was
librarian at Prahran (Vic.). Before that again,
he did much exploring and roughing in the Gulf
Country, and still earlier in his career, he edited
a paper in the vicinity of Melbourne. He was an
honorable, kindly, whimsical soul, rich in good
stories and odd experiences, unable to content
himself long in one groove. In town, he felt as if
‘ the wilderness was drawing him,’ in the bush,
he fancied ‘the pavements were calling him.’
When he returned to the wilds, this last time, he
took a young wife with him, a regular brick of a
girl, and seemed more restful in consequence. He
wrote to bis friends that, even when he made his
pile, he doubted whether he should have the heart
to desert the ‘sun-baked plains.’ He used to
relate in pathetic tones the story of his missionary
friend, ‘John Sweetman,’ who was eaten by a
cannibal. The lecturer caught the cannibal, so
he said, and tattooed on him a funeral inscription
to ‘John Sweetman,’ ending with the letters,
* R.I.P.’
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


IK3SGESTION.
x
Poor, miserable dyspeptic ! The sweet savour of appetising food is only an aggravation to you.
A fresh grilled steak or a rich pudding is far beyond you. Plain fare and sloppy food must be your portion.
And you know right well why you can’t digest a hearty meal—you know your blood is to blame.
Your digestion depends upon your blood. When your blood is weak and watery, your system oannot
possibly get strength for the work of digestion. *
But Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills actually make new blood. That is how they sharpen your appetite, strengthen
your stomach, stimulate your liver—and make your digestion perfect. Read :
Hospital Nurse Cured.—Mrs. Sarah Turner, professional nurse, residing at 224 Young-street, Annandale,
says : “ Four years ago indigestion attacked me. The smallest morsel of meat seemed to stick in my throat or lie on my
chest like a heavy, immovable weight. Nagging pains between the shoulders added to my misery. I was so weak and
despondent that I could hardly walk. Sometimes l lay awake all night. I had excellent treatment, but no cure came.
Then I began using Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills—for I knew they cured all blood diseases like Anaemia, Dyspepsia, Bilious-
ness, and Backache. By enriehing my blood, they strengthened my digestive organs. Six boxes cured me completely.
I recommend these pills frequently when nursing, for they actually make new blood.”
Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney. 2s. 9d. a box; six boxes, 15s. Bd.
Medical advice given absolutely free. Refuse all substitutes and avoid all poisonous patent purgatives.
I
%
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Reported John Norton intends again
Reeking a seat in the Senate.
Like the N.S.W. Government, parson
Tremayne Dunstan never paid interest out of
loan moneys. He always did it with his own
cheques.
Mrs. Ellen Close died last week in Riley-
st., Sydney, aged 90 years. She had lived on
Surrey Hills since the place was known as “the
hill outside the town.”
Died lately, at Port Elliot, James Long,
about the last of the ancient whalers of S. Aus.,
who made their headquarters on Kangaroo Island
and the neighboring mainland.
The N.S.W. portion of Daniel Cooper’s
estate comes to not much over half-a-million. He
was first Speaker under Responsible Government
in N.S.W. Of the eight Speakers since his
retirement, about one-half left large estates.
Lowthef Clarke, of Melbourne, is one
more bishop who promises to stay in his new
corner of the vineyard for life. They mostly say
things like that, but then later on they get a
“call ” and reluctantly tear themselves away.
Late Justice Moorhead (Westralia) pans
out financially with £7OO over debts. Admitted
to W.A. bar in 1891 he rushed into a large prac-
tice, became K.C., politician, M.L.A., Attorney-
General and Judge. Then finis, with £7OO to
credit.
William John Taylor, solicitor, who “ went
over ” recently, at the age of 50 years, will always
be remembered at Coonamble (N.S.W.) as the
man who demanded that the Court should provide
30 roosters with which to swear a batch of Chinese
witnesses.
A reminder of Jules Joubert’s poor little
attempt to run a Melb. Exhibition cropped up in
the local insolvency court the other week. Calixte
Denat, chef, of Little Collins-street, filed his
schedule. He was a partner in the Exhibition
fiasco, which included a scheme for attracting the
public with the offer of a French dinner for ss.
Inscription on late Police Magistrate
Grsiha;Webster’s tombstone in St. Helena (Vic.)
cemetery :
Here lies Grah-am Webster, the last of his race, who
descended in one unbroken line from father to son for a
period of 779 years.
Is the habit of descending from father to son so
unusual as to be worth this careful record ?
Concerning a very old man who has
dropped out of politics :
After 30 years of membership
Thomas Reibey retires from the
Tasmanian Assembly. He was
born in 1821. The son of Thomas
Reibey (whose real name was
Raby) and “ Richenda, his wife."
Thomas Reibey was for many
years a parson of the Anglican
frill and persuasion, and climbed
to be Archdeacon of Launceston.
In 1871, when he was already 50
years old, he retired from the
church, and later he decided
to give the tail end of his life
to politics The rather dreary
and ineffefttual old man repre-
sented Westbury for 29 years.
He was Premier for 12 months
in 1876-77 ; Colonial
Secretary in Dr. Crow-
ther’s Cabinet (1878-
79); Speaker of the
Assembly, 1887-91, and
held an honorary port-
folio under Braddon.
Thomas Reibey’s father
was the eldest son of
Mrs. Mary Reibey, said
to be the veritable
Margaret Catchpole,
which she was not,
and was born on a
farm on the Hawkes-
bury about 1796.
Father Reibey was a
sailor and traded in
early days among the
Islands, and on the
Maoriland coast —in
1817 he sailed his
mother’s brig, the
John Bull, and after-
wards the Governor
Macquarie. iHe
brought the old
Norfolk Island
people to Tasmania,
being employed for
the purpose by the
N. S. Wales Govern-
ment.
The will of
James Milson, of
North Shore, Syd-
ney, was proved
for probate at
£155,177. The
property is
shared among
three sons and
three daugh-
ters. The old
gentleman was
SENATOR JOSIAH
SYMON-PURE, OF S.A.
evidently resolved that his carefully garnered
“ splosh ” should not be dissipated in litigation.
His will provided that in case of dispute a barris-
ter of at least seven years’ standing should be
chosen to arbitrate, and his finding should be
final. Any discontented legatee could go to law
only at the cost of losing all interest in the estate.
Dr; Arthur Renwick has advertised the
sale by auction of all his Hyde Park (Sydney)
properties. The corner at Liverpool and Eliza-
betn-st. (N.W.) is somewhat historic, having at
one time belonged to Mrs. Mary Reibey, the
alleged Margaret Catch pole.
Major-General Hutton has to deny so fre-
quently nowadays that “he intends to retire”
that there must be a strong effort proceeding to
foroe him to leave. As the Australian command
is the General’s last probable chance of active
duty he is not likely to be pushed out of it easily.
Mr. Gonsalves, a dark-colored gent., run
in with the ruck of Melbourne palmists, the other
day, and fined along with the job lot, shows in his
window a signed portrait of Lord Hopetoun, given
him by that gentleman himself in token of appre-
ciation of his skill. Is this Adding and Abetting ?
“Revilo” writes :
Seddon justifies his acceptance of national charity with
the yarn that he is a poor man, and also by making the
ill-mannered remark that “ he didn’t want compassionate
allowances made to his family the same as were given to
the wives of Harry Atkinson, Julius Vogel, and Jock
M'Kenzie.” This is both a feeble and miserable excuse.
The ex-shanty-keeper must be fairly wealthy. He has
had some real good pickings in his time ; raised his screw
on two or three occasions, and received iarge salaries
when connected with foreign mining syndicates and
other schemes The Seddon family has considerable
monetary interests in a Wellington brewery and news-
paper. Some of their intimate friends reckon they’re
worth anything over £50,000.
MORE SUITABLE TO THE CASE.
DOSSER : “ No, I’m sayin' nothin’ agin water —
water’s better’ n all yer beer—but gimme beer.”
Westralia’s new Judge, Mr. Burnside
struck a murder trial and a death sentence in his
first day on the bench.
Stated that Minister Crick (N.S. W.)
intends to proceed against ex-Minister T. M.
Slattery for alleged slander and against the wild
whirroo R.C. paper of N.S.W. for alleged libel.
If the cases comeinto court there should be much
entertaining bedevilment. It’s all over St.
Patrick’s Day.
Lionel Fegan, N.S.W.’s new Honorary
Minister, is an Englishman, just twenty years
Australianised. He worked at coal-mining in
Greta and Newcastle, and took to Sunday
preaching, total abstinence and Labor politics
with zest. The Labor party elected him for
Wickham, and since that date he has travelled
through the House with a shake hands for almost
every political principle.
Mr. F. Wegg-Horne, General Secretary of
the People’s Deformed League of N.S.W., is not
the first of his name who has dabbled in Australian
politics. In the first O’Shannassy Ministry (1857)
George Samuel Wegg-Horne was Commissioner
of Crown Lands and Survey. In the second
O’Shannassy Ministry (1858-9) he was Coup-
missioner for Public Works. He was a failure in
politics and became obscure.
Bill Lyne will be 59 on Sunday, April 5-
Much as the Sydney papers slang him, Lyne is
almost the most popular member of the Federal
Parliament. He is even popular among his col-
leagues, who are particularly taken by the happy-
go-lucky way in which he spends money. ‘ ‘ Oh,
put it down to the Government” is the response
of Home Secretary Bill to every legislator who
wants to visit anything or anywhere.
The defunct “Mint Sauce” Jones, when
he was tailoring at the top of Bourke-st., Mel-
bourne, long before the mint sauce episode, was
an ardent Freetrader, and was secretary to the
Banquet Committee which “ate’’Edward Lang-
ton, the Freetrade Brunswick-st. butcher, when
first defeated for a seat in the Assembly. After-
wards Jones became a Protectionist. Jones was
the sort of man who was liable to become almost
anything.
The just-deceased “Mint Sauce” Jones
was the politician who faced a hostile meeting in
his constituency once and commenced his address
in a tremendous voice which made itself heard
above all the din of battle: “ Gentlemen of
Ballarat and savages of Bungaree.” The Ballarat
part of the audience was so surprised and pleased
at hearing that it was a gentleman that it sup-
pressed the smaller Bungaree faction, and Jones
got a hearing.
In a very slumbrous Victorian town lives
a lady who has been twice widowed, and is now
in her 79th year. Trouble
arises in the extensive family
because she desires to marry
a lame person of 81, who is
an old-age pensioner and a
preacher of the Gospel.
No. 1 hubby was a cantan-
kerous bald-headed man,
and No. 2 was almost blind.
To get a cripple
for No. 3 sug-
gests a kind
of luck whose
badness is
fiendish in its
intensity.
Charles
Pharazyn,
who commit-
ted suicide
down under
recently (un-
less the cable
lied), was one
of Maori-
land’s cham-
pion boomers.
His father and
also his late
brother were
members of the
Legislat i v e
Council of Sed-
don’s Land,
but Charles
had no time to
waste on poli-
tics, and stuck
to his big station
in the Wairarapa,
and looked after his
property in
the suburbs
of Welling-
ton. Quite
recently he
engineered a
land - boom in
Wellington, and
had a lot to do with
tram extension in ttie windy capital. He was
mixed up with another Maorilander in some
colossal scheme to grow bulls’ wool in Arnheim
Land (N.T.), which was recently flung on a jaded
London market.
William Henry Thornton, an old Sydney
identity of the military era, died last week at
Woolwich, Lane Cove River ; aged 86 years. He
was in command of the 11th Regiment when the
corps occupied the old barracks in George-street,
Sydney, and first commandant at the new Vic-
toria Barracks, Paddington.
Hector Macdonald was, perhaps, theluckiest
officer in the British army, barring only Lord
Roberts. He gave himself heaven only knows
how many chances to get killed before and after
his first visit to S’Africa, when the Boers had him
alone at their mercy on Majuba Hill, and forbore
from shooting him. Of his 20 immediate comrades
at Majuba 12 were killed outright and 8 wounded.
Macdonald’s was a charmed life or he never could
have lived to become a major-general, with a
handle to his name. And when his luck, not less
than his pluck, had carried him to proud distinc-
tion circumstances compelled Hector Macdonald
to put a bullet through his brain.
“ M.” writes •
Par. re George Fisher, Maoriland M.H.R. (B. 28/2/’O3) is
quite correct, but there has been a sad happening
since then. A few weeks ago his curse (the curse
of many a better man) led to his appearance before
the magistrate’s court at Wellington on a charge
of being an habitual drunkard. The prosecution
was merely to have him looked after, and as a result
he was sent for 12 months to the Inebriates’ Home at
Waitati. Writer saw him as he passed through
Christchurch. There was no trace remaining of
the old joviality that made him the darling of the
crowd and that enabled him to be returned on the
strength of one vinous burlesque of a political
address. Yet he has always upset prognostica-
tions of his being a spent volcano, and his
sojourn in the House of Sadness may set the
broken man up again. The late J. Evison once
described him thus : —“George Fisher, Esq , M.H.R.,
with a full-blown speech in his head, and a look of
deathly determination to fire it oft in his eye, is a really
sublime spectacle. When that gentleman can be detected
with a flower in his buttonhole, and the disjecta membra
of an erstwhile curly head of hair as unscattered as
circumstances will permit, and when the roof of his
revered head resembles not the white but the red bil-
liard ball, then it may be known that he is going to
electrify himself, the House and the country with a
40-horse power oration.”
Lately deceased Paul Castella, wine-
grower, was a blue-blooded species of vigneron
who frequently entertained Governors and such,
in his lovely home beyond Lilydale (Vic.). Once
when something in the way of a strike had
occurred in his household, and every domestic had
taken herself off, intimation came at very short
notice that vice-regality was bringing some dis-
tinguished Britishers to St. Hubert’s. Two of
Cas-tella’s pretty daughters cooked the lunch that
day, and a third, disguised in cap and apron,
posed as parlor-maid. Months after, at a Govern-
ment House ball, an aide expressed to the third
sister his regret that she had not been at home on
the occasion of the Governor’s visit. “But I was
at home,” said the lady ; “it was I who smacked
your face when you tried to kiss me behind the
hall door ! ”
The proudest class of men in Sydney when
General Hector Macdonald visited Australia
were the martial wielders of the yard stick. Most
drapers are military volunteers, and because the
General, in early life, was alleged to have been
for a short time some kind of a draper, they clove
to him and claimed homage through him. A
movement was started in York-street to present
the visitor with a special souvenir from Sydney’s
counter-jumpers, but it stopped short under the
raillery of Major-General French.
“ Harum ” : The late Mrs. E. H. Dicken-
son, whose death took place in S’Africa in
February last, was well connected in English
aristocratic circles. It is said she made applica-
tion for a position as a British spy, her services
being, however, refused. Have a memory of her-
self and the late Dr. Dickenson, when he was an
insurance doctor in the middle north of S.A.
Mrs. Dickenson studied anatomy, and the land-
lord of the hotel where I was staying would often
say to me, “Mrs. D. is a very dirty woman—a
very dirty woman. She has just been dissecting a
lizard on the parlor-table”; or “she’s just been
skinning a snake in the passage.” She was always
doing something of the sort.
A Melbourne pressman sends this :
Moulton, the Melb. Protestant Alliance secretary, who
is not likely to be extradited to answer the charge of
embezzling £428 from the society, had ambitions in other
directions than the stage and lecture platform. Shortly
before he left the dust of Melbourne behind him, Moulton
invited a number of pressmen to talk over a project for
establishing a new and up-to-date weekly journal in Mel-
bourne. In an eloquent little speech he touched on the
evident need for a high-class periodical which, although
sold at a price which would bring it within the means of
the masses (“ the democratic penny, gentlemen ”), should
yet appeal to the “ better class people in our community,”
Moulton urged his circle of prospective contributors
to assist him in his attempt to “ found a journal
which shall reflect lustre on both its editor and
staff” —one which, Moulton explained, would combine the
best features of the English weeklies with the brightness
and daring vigor of the American press. He wanted the
advice of his hearers with regard to the choice of a title
which would indicate in one short, expressive word the
characteristics of the journalism he had in view. Just at
this juncture a veteran pressman, who scented a fat
addition to his income as the result of getting a wealthy
young novice into the newspaper game, ventured to ask
Mr. Moulton the amount of capital he was prepared to
sink in the speculation. “ Well, gentlemen,” was the
reply, with deliberate impressiveness, “I am prepared to
put £6O into the scheme.” It was a very disgusted little
gang of freelances that collectively seized its hat and dis-
appeared down the stairs. “ This is the damnedest prac-
tical joke that was ever played on me,” snorted the
veteran. But Moulton, to do him justice, had no idea
that it took more than a “ pony ” or two to finance a
paper that would uplift humanity and point the way to
better things.
PERHAPS HE
CAN'T—A DIF-
FICULT POINT
IN BRITISH
MILITARY ETIQUETTE.
Mrs. Lightly , of Toorak, wonders whether she
ought to ask her caller from England (who is
in a fashionable regiment) to sit down.
Olcl George Coppin will close his 84th
year on Wednesday, April 8. Yet he has been
publican, actor, and all sorts of things which are
conventionally believed to have a tendency
towards shortening life.


THREE STAR
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Reach’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors. —ln the case of ethnological and
natural history items, etc., always give date and
place of experience ;or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific
value.
Melb. Age tells of a farmer, Kyabram way,
who has sold his hay for £5 a ton, whose wheat
crop averaged four bags, and whose grazing pro-
fits have been glittering. The land is “watered
by. the Rodney trust ” ; and the case is “ a striking
evidence of how irrigation pays.” Possibly irri-
gation does pay ; but the Rodney trust doesn’t—at
least, it hasn tup to now. Doubtless, with this
affluence staring them in the face, the Kyabram
reformers will see that it does.
A VETERAN.
MR. MICKIE CONNELL: “ Good mornin ’, Missus
Ay gin”
MRS. EGAN: “ ’Tisn’t good marnin ’ at all. I've
cum to tell ye ye'll hov to kill that rooshter
of yors. He woan’t let my boardhers sleep
av a noight wid his crowin'. Why it's more
like a calf cry in' than a croaw.”
MR. M. C.: “ See here, Mrs. Ay gin, he crew
before you wor bom, he crew before I wor
born, and he crew before St. Pathrick wor
born, and he'll crow whin yore in the
depths of- . Gud day to yez."
A Sydney street-episode :
A Chinaman’s hat—a light straw thing with a blue
ribbon—blew off a Sydney tram. John smiled blandly
and awaited the issue. The tram had to go a good way
to the next stopping-place, but the conductor indicated
to John that the hat was all right and was coming duly
along. When the train stopped, an out-of-breath
aboriginal panted up and exultantly waved the hat.
John held out a hand, his smile broader than ever, but
the blackfellow’s" mouth shut like a rat-trap when he
found it was a Chow’s hat he had been running with
Ke swore 47 swears, spat on the hat, threw it on the
ground, and danced on it. Then he kicked the battered
article right into the Chinaman’s arms. The Chinaman
grabbed his property and still smiled.
The oncoming rabbit has scared out the
owners of Mandra Bellae, the best known station
between Eucla and the Westralian goldfields,
after they had held it for 30 years. The pest
has up to now done them little actual harm ; bub
they remembered that on the 8. Aus. side of the
border, holdings which, a few years ago, fed 120,000
sheep are now starving 20,000, and they quitted
while there was time. In the country the damage
isn’t all done by the rabbits ; the dingoes which
follow them are almost as great a scourge.
* * * «
“ Chass ” : Some of the Yic. agricultural
societies are urging the Agriculture Dept, to
advocate a law whereby the mixing of straw with
hay, and selling the chaff as the pure article,
would be punishable. This adulteration has so
long been practised without any fuss being made
that cookies and chaff-cutting firms have ceased
to regard it as a swindle. In fact it has been re-
duced to a science, and the latest chaff-cutting
plants have even an apparatus to do the mixing
swindle.
* * * •
In the land of Seddon they are painting
out the sweet-sounding Maori names and replacing
them with the cognomens of Imperial Ministers.
Not long since some euphonious Maori name was
replaced by Salisbury, and now the pretty little
Canterbury town of Opawa is to be re-christened
“Chamberlain.’’ If this sort of thing continues
it will result in a queer mess. Britain is changing,
like the Roman Empire after the establishment of
Byzantium as the capital, when the men who ran
the empire ceased to be Romans; and if they go
on calling the Maoriland towns after Imperial
Secretaries of State the time will come when the
land will be filled with such horrors as Cohen-
opolis, Beitville, Jurgenstein, Wernertown and
Port Ikey.
'•* * *
Description of a Westralian farm, in the
old, settled district of Busselton, by an Eastern
visitor:
The buildings and fences were in a shamefully dilapi-
dated condition ; although there were six cows with
calves at foot, they were never milked except occasionally
when a little milk was required bv the family ; no thought
of making butter ever entered the head of the farmer ;
kangaroo flesh was the only meat served up at meal times,
and the five strapping boys and girls of the family were
nothing less than a lazy, poorly-educated and badly-
clothed crew of good-for-nothings. And this sort of
thing had been going on at this place for 28 years.
“E.” writes :
Once took a holiday on my uncle’s station*
Don’t know if uncle is a typical Australian-
The property was left him by his father, and,
when the old man died, the place boasted 50
well-bred horses, and there were fully 20 acres of
land under cultivation. The property has now
.gone to rack and ruin ; all the horses are sold, and
grass is now growing where the land was once culti-
vated. Snakes are in the house, and occasionally drop
from the ceiling into the bedrooms, hut uncle is too
tired to shift camp. The first three weeks of my trip
I wasn’t allowed to have a wash—we had to cart the
water fully a mile—but, on the fourth week, I braved
uncle’s anger, and had a bath in the waterhole. On
arriving home, cleanliness was looked upon as
such a novel thing that I was closely questioned
as to where I got the water to have a wash with,
and, on uncle finding out where I had bathed, he
gave me the best hiding I ever had in my life. I
became so uncivilised and dull in three months—l
never chanced a wash again—that when my father
came to see me I thought he was a stranger and
ran away into the bush. Dad suggested I should
come home with him, but I didn’t like the idea of it,
as I was beginning to abhor civilisation ; however, he
dragged me into the buggy. The last I heard of
uncle he owned a sawmill and had several men hew-
ing timber, and was just as tired as ever.
» * * »
N.S.W. Education Minister Perry, fol-
lowing a United States and Victorian prece-
dent, is considering the advisability of running
“school coaches ” in certain sparsely-populated
parts of the back-blocks. In those districts
where there is a cluster of seventh or eighth
class schools, no two of which are more than
four miles apart, the Perry idea is to sub-
sidise, say, four farmers living at the four
corners of the district, and have them drive
along and collect the scholars and deposit
them at a central school every morning, and
return them again in the afternoon. The
central school would be a large one, giving a first-
class education, not a mere dog-box with a boy-
teacher, and it is reckoned that the system would
cost less than the present one.
• » » *
“Yarrum”: A contributor (B. 21/3/’O3)
asks if flying-foxes carry their young about with
them. Certainly they do—in their pouches.
They carry fruit well up under their wings. I
have shot the varmints in nearly every part of the
State thousands about Albion Park, South
Coast; and claim to know as much about ’em as
the next man. Have rarely seen more than two
youngsters in a bag. On one occasion found
three, but it struck me at the time that the old
girl was up to a bit of baby-farming; she looked
disreputable enough for anything. The male
bird does all the fruit carrying.
• * • •
Justice as known in the early days.
Officially recorded that on October 24th, 1798, a
convict was charged “on a violent suspicion of
feloniously and privately stealing from His
Majesty’s stores in Sydney a cake of soap and
secreting same about his person in order to take
away the same.” Soap (produced) was found to
be of the same quality as that belonging to the
stores, but the act of stealing was not established.
All the same the convict received 50 lashes for
being “suspected.” Which, after all, is very like
the law of to-day which gaols a man for “ property
reasonably suspected of being stolen.’’
THAT FOOD ADULTERATION.
"Well, I don't mind my apple-jam bein’ pumpkin,
an’ my orange marmalade bein' melon, but I
draws the line at Bathurst burrs in my
pickles.”
Said that Wycheproof (Vic.) farmers find
the storms which pile sand yards high against
their fences, and distribute it feet deep over their
land, not an unmixed curse. In places where
the sand was but spread a quarter of an inch
thick, it is alleged that the soil kept, in a remark-
able degree, the moisture it had received from
rains 12 months ago. Seeing which, some of the
farmers propose to remove the sandy accumula-
tions about their fenoes and distribute it thinly
over their wheat-lands, whilst others intend to
drill it in as a fertiliser !
• • * •
“Maccoo”: Will any Bulletin botanist
say whether the so-called ‘ ‘ Cape ” gooseberry (the
cherry-shaped and cherry-sized tomato found
everywhere in the virgin forests of the Tweed
River district, N.S.W.) is indigenous to Aus-
tralia, or is merely the American Solanum
Lycopersicum gone wild? Also, is the “Cape
gooseberry” (common in the N.S.W. Ulawarra
district and in N. Queensland) an Australian
indigene ? And why “ Cape ” ?
MISS MAUD BEATTY.
Poisoned baits, laid for
the destruction of rabbits,
are the cause of a large
number of dead fish being
found in the Molong and
Queanbeyan Rivers (N.S.
Wales). It is supposed
that the baits were washed
into the rivers by the re-
cent heavy storms.
* *
Every second inob of
cattle met with nowadays
on Queensland stock routes
belongs to Sid. Kidman.
He and his buyers are con-
tinually mak i ng record
rides to get ahead of the
other fellow, and are reach-
ing out for the Gulf herds,
which, while fattening on
good grass, were long hem-
med in by an uncrossable
belt of country. Expected
that late rains will enable
thousands of animals from
this quarter to pour into
southern markets.
MISS MAY BEATTY.
Photo, by Talma Studios, Sydney & Melbourne.
“ Jaf ” : A coach traveller in the far west
called for whisky at a wayside pub., and a bottle
of venomous-looking stuff was handed down from
the shelf. The traveller, after peering at it
thoughtfully, decided to try brandy, but a cursory
glance at that was enough. “What sort of rot-
gut is this to offer to a superintendent of police?”
demanded the traveller. “Why the didn’t
you say who you was at first! ” exclaimed Bung
as he dived beneath the counter for a different
bottle.
“ Vril ” : Once struck a railway carriage
full of road-repairers out Bathurst way and
drank m the followingßen had a’close
shave with lightnin’ near Bathurst. Knocked
kickin’, and would ha’ been done-for if t’other
chaps hadn’t covered him with sand, right ud
to his neck.” Thirsting for knowledge I
inquired reason of 90-per cent, burial
“Mister,” said one man with undisguised
pity, “ don’t you know that if you touches a
chap as has been struck, the lightnin’ comes
out of him and knocks you over?” I admitted
ignorance and was advised—“ Never touch ’em
or let your shovel touch ’em. Stand off and
throw the earth on ’em till they’re nearly
covered. It draws out the lightnin’ and saves
em. Look at them coves, near Orange ; they
leaves the boy lyin’ without sandin’ him, and
runs for the doctor. Course the boy was dead
when the doctor come. You see, they give
the lightnin’ time to its work.”
* * * •
The straight talk of Dr. W. Harvey, de-
scribed as one who has held a number of offices
under the Westralian Govt, in the north-west nf
the State, and now in Adelaide
No notice appears to be taken of the illicit intercourse
between the races, and often the native gins are to be
seen in the townships, going about in male attire in
company with white packers and others. Diseases are
very prevalent. In reference to labor, the indenture
system of contracts between whites and blacks is in
vogue, and, as it is practised, appears nothing less than
legalised slavery I have seen and heard of many cases
of ill-treatment of the natives. In one township a gin ran
away three times from the hotel people who employed
her, and on each occasion she was brought back to her
duty under the lash of a stockman’s whip, while herblack
“ boy,” standing outside the store, was knocked down
without warning and so injured that his shrieks were
heard all over the township ; this merely because the
poor black did not wish the woman to live with the
brutal white. In this case the police were not very will
ing to proceed against the party, as one of their own
number was maintaining a lady of a color which contrasted
strikingly with her turkey-red dress. I also know of a
case in which a woman held the whip to enforce obedi-
ence from her black sister.
The same man, by the way, is authority for the
statement that the pearling industry is recovering
from the temporary shock which the Federal
Government’s White Australian policy gave it.
• * * .
T. “ Hillier ” : Be recent Bulletin query
about large mouse families. In ’94 I kept a
general store in Berwick, Gippsland, and once, in
removing some bags of sugar that had remained
undisturbed for four months, I found, between
the last two bags, a nest containing sixty-seven
young mice, apparently only a few days old.
Both bags had been eaten away to a depth of 3in.,
and the nest was about Bin. in circumference. I
can hardly believe that these mice were all of one
family, but I am positive about them being all in
one nest, and I could not observe any difference
of size marked enough to suggest different ages.
“ A.Q.R. ” : Some hunks
of the wealth of billy-lore still
un - aboriginaiised. Pot - boiling
contests are frequent in the
bush. At lunch time the con-
testants start each with a box
of vestas, a quart-pot full of
water, and the wide bush full
of fuel before them. White
box-wood is preferred, though
some fancy apple-tree for its
excessive heat. Gum-wood is
unspeakable. The first pot that
boils over wins. The races are
very close and exciting. An
old, well-worn pot boils quickest.
One min. 40sec. is record time,
but the stoking necessary to
achieve such is like to bring on
nervous prostration. On the
plains, where wood is a curiosity,
fires are made from thistle-stalks
(when they grow). The Govern-
ment has to periodically replace
the mile posts
there, as mis-
creants splinter
them up for pot-
boiling. The
chill of despair
felt, when having
boiled the quart,
you find there is
no tea, or having
put in your last
pinch of tea the
dog knocks it
over, is une-
qualled in the
whole gamut of
human passions.
» *
In the Pro-
serpinesugardis-
trict, near Bowen
(Q.), 84 per cent,
of the cane-
growers have this
year registered as
employers of
white labor, and
they represent
over 87 per cent,
of the total quan-
tity of cane to
be crushed this
year. Last sea-
son, 11,000 tons
out of a total of
18,000 were cut
and delivered by
white labor at
Proserpine. The
“Black Austra-
lia ” brigade is
very silent about
these facts.
“ Lind ” : The codlin moth has in the
Myrtleford (Vic.) district completely destroyed
acres of potatoes. Hitherto the pest has confined
its ravages to fruit gardens. Many farmers con-
sider the dry year has favored the moth’s taking to
the ground, and thriving and multiplying under
new conditions. The reckless laying of poison by
farmers and squatters is killing insectivorous
birds by thousands, particularly magpies, and the
wanton slaughter is bringing its own punishment.
The Reign of the Insect is at hand.
A REGRET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The backblox bard sat down outside
The bush-hotel a “ broker.”
He wiped his brow and sadly sighed
The dry sigh of the soaker.
An Army lassie chancing by,
In search of souls a-straying,
Distinctly heard the poet sigh
And rushed the chance for praying.
“ Dear friend,” she asked in tender tone,
“ Oh why, why this depression ?”
And from beneath her bonnet shone
A heavenly expression.
“ Has true remorse,” she asked, “ at last
Saved you from dark damnation ?
Do you regret your beery past,
And now sigh for Salvation ? ”
The poet sadly shook his head :
“ Ah, no, that’s not the reason
Of my regret,” and then he shed
A boozy tear in season.
“ I sigh,” he cried, and clenched his fist,
“ As I sit here a-thinking,
For, ah ! the many drinks I missed
Before I started drinking.”
6 x 8.


A Drink! A Tonic! A Medicine!
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Call for WOLFE’S Schnapps and make sure that
you take nothing' else.
The Latest Marvel-^
A Large Number of SOLID SILVER
BRUSHES, at 12/6 each.
They are Solid Silver English Hall-marked.
They are large brushes.
They have hand-drawn bristles.
They are in Art designs.
New bristles may be fitted to them.
Nothing in Australia has ever come near them in price.
Solid Silver Brush, full size, hand-drawn bristles 12/6
Extra long bristles, 15/6.
They will last a lifetime.
They are simply astounding value.
Our Prices do not exceed London figures.
London Prices
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
Fairfax & Roberts,
The Oldest JewelUry House in Australia,
23 HUNTER STREET.
“Right-Angle”: Re the finding of the
North point on a cloudy day. In bush country or
on the plains where there are shrubs this is easy.
According to the blacks, the branches pointing
northwards are always the longest and the growth
on that side stronger as a whole. This rule applies
to shrubs as well as large trees, and the difference
of growth is more easily detected on the top
branches. This method of finding the north is
also followed by the Maoris. Writer, when tra-
velling througli the bush with them, used to
wonder why, from time to time, they would stop
and look up to the tops of the kahikitea trees.
Saw a German once in the King country (M.L.)
find the north by means of a pocket-knife, opened
with the blade at right angles to the handle. He
wouldn’t explain the “ howness ” of the thing, but
came out right every time. Perhaps
letin reader can throw a light. The simplest
plan, however, is to carry a compass—cheap by
prefeience, for then, when funds give out, the
bushman won’t be able to “negotiate” it, and
will have the North point always with him.
* * * •
“ A. 8.” on the “ Has-Been ” :
One of the nuisances that infest this country is the
ancient prodigy. This old person spends most of his
time relating his own marvellous career. When he was
a boy about nine years of age he used to walk eight miles
to school, and milk 40 cows before doing the trip. He
always got up at 4 a.m., and went to bed at nightfall
Later in life he was a champion athlete. He fought ter-
rific battles against overwhelming odds, and blew his
opponents off the face of the earth. If, by any chance
his enemies sprang upon him unawares he could always do
a double-back-airspring and stretch them cold and'flat.
If he disobeyed his parents they flogged him for three
days with a stocking full of blue metal, and fed him for a
fortnight on boiled corn and dry bread. Despite this, at
18 he could do two men’s work, and he loved to do it. As
he grew older he mastered all the sciences, and soon after
shifted a cubic yard of dirt in 3min. without any great
mental effort. He didn’t make the world—not that he
lacked the capacity, but because his father wouldn’t let
him. Nothing, now, is as great as it used to be ; and the
majority of things are complete break-ups, compared to
what they were in his time.
* • • •
“T.T.”: The “goanna” is one of the
most amusing acquaintances one can have about a
camp, always provided you don’t keep fowls. He
can swallow anything, and bring it up again as
easily if it doesn’t suit him. Once saw one take a
large knuckle bone, with little meat attached, and
climb his residential tree. On attempting to
round the first fork the weight over-balanced him,
and round he swung, wrong way up. Like the
illustrious Scottish spider, he tried again—several
times—but same result. Then he reposed head
downwards below the fork, and thought deeply
for several moments with his bone in his mouth,
after which he rounded the obstruction slowly and
cautiously, travelling backwards, and climbed to
his hollow, triumphant.
* * » •
An Australian man of science tells an
interesting story :
I only once helped to hang a man. It was in the Islands,
and we were doing a good business in copra ostensiblv—
copper really. Anyhow, the cargo was mostly that color.
There had been a row between the captain and one of the
crew, and the old man got a cracked skull.
Tilings happened pretty suddenly those days on
board a black-birder. And one day, when the
o’d man came round, four of us were sent
ashore with the offender, a spar, and some
rope. Having borrowed a piano case and
a couple of gin empties from the nearest
missionary, we lashed the spar to a con-
venient palm and invited the culprit
to walk up/ When he had mounted
the top g h case, and the noose
was gently placed round his
n:ck, and the gin cases kicked
away by a white-faced sailor-
man, no one looked. One of
us was violently sick. After
what seemed about three
hours, the victim re-
marked that if we
were satisfied he
was, and might
he come down ?
(He didn’t say
it in quite
those words.)
We’d forgot-
tsn to
grease
the rope!
You can
easily
imagine
the awk
ward
position.
The cri-
minal ar-
gued, in a
voice some-
what choked
with rope, but
eloquent in lan-
guage, that he
had hew hanged
enouglj JVe young-
sters acquiesced. The
senior held out till the
man was pretty black and
gurgling, while his body
jerked considerably. Another
one of us was violently sick.
a signal gun came from
the boat and the only young one who
wasn t too sick, cut the rope and we
cutfor the boat without looking be-
hind. The climate of the South Seas
soon after became too warm for my con-
stitution, so, acting on medical advice, I
7 e -!n , < l4 lel '*y Europe and eventually
drifted into science. Disguised in a degree,
I came out here and went up North.
round myself one hot day at .
Sought a pub. and was served by a
jnan with a very crooked leg, evidently
the result of a badly-set fracture of
jthigh-bone. Professionally inter-
egted, I made farther inquiries. “Well, you see,” said
h’i ' broke that falling on and off a piano-ease.” Then
he leered at me and called me by m3' front name.
* * * "• *
“Nym ” : Often spend an afternoon
chasing foxes—combining business with pleasure ;
for Reynard’s scalp means half-a-crown to his
destroyer. Generally my pack consists of a grey-
hound, a mongrel sheep-dog, and two fox terriers
mother and son. This combination is a deadly
one where vermin is concerned. The old fox
terrier bitch tackled a big dog-fox single-handed
t other day. When I arrived 011 the scene she had
her prey by the windpipe and Reynard was
chawing her front paw. Neither made a sound !
POEMS FROM THE
CANNIBAL ISLANDS.
“ While the Billy Boils,” &c.
* l S c °tfcy the Wrinkler ” to “Barbara,’
li U uu™ N : “ You are right, Barbara.
7$?;?" } n S ‘helps ’ have played out generals.
Kitchen-boys’ (with us) have done ditto.
1 hey get 6s. a week and do everything. They
ar ® £ 00( t men as ever they will be—norai-
nally 18 years old ; really 35. In their spare time
they boundary ride, garden, milk and kill. Tutors
elderly tobacco-chewers, grammerless wastrels
an< J °j a^Q P ens i° n ers—also keep books, garden
and dress children. Tn their spare time they
whitewash, paint, dry dishes, and play the piano
if they can. But they are called ‘ Mister.’ Half-
a-crown to a crown is the pay. Then, again, never
go t° a com-fortable homt*:’ An old stager at the
othces m Melbourne said, truly, that if a ‘ home ’
was advertised it meant toil from daylight till
dark. > As a compensation he could" sit at a
cockie s or tradesman’s table and attend prayers
(perhaps church).”
■* • » *
“ .T. A.C.” (8., 21/3/’O3) states :
It is reckoned that it will take £200,000 or more to
repair Townsville alone after the recent hurricane.
A hurricane can hardly be reckoned as “a useful
thing to have in a house,” but I know of an
instance where one came as a blessing in disguise to
very same North Queensland. In the summer
ot 1897-8 a cyclone did great damage to Mackay
and neighborhood. But it did more. In con-
junction with an accompanying flood it opened up
a new channel from the bay to the township.
1 his channel had been surveyed and reported on
by the eminent engineer, John Coode, years pre-
viously, but the estimated cost, £300,000, had
prevented its construction. The obliging hurricane
took the contract at a very much lower figure,
and, if I mistake not, the channel has been in use
ever since.
* • » *
Thokan ’ : A phase of the tuberculosis
question. In Kangaroo Valley (N.S.W.) owing
to spasmodic hygienic activity on the part of the
foorce, much of the local meat sent to the city for
slaughtering has been condemned. The loss falling
largely on the local cookies, some of the latter
have discontinued selling their worn-out and
lumpy cattle-slaughtering them themselves
instead for family consumption. Money’s tight
and the “tubercle” seems afar off.
* * * *
“ Lul ” : While carrying a goanna by tail
to a dam, to see if it could swim, the tail-up
position disagreed with it, and it sacrificed quite
a natural history collection: Three unfledged
sparrows, two minah’s eggs containing young
birds, one large moth, and two large brown
beetles similar to cockroaches. Have disturbed
goanna,s eating live rabbits, dead horse, hen-eggs
and chickens. Is there anything, bar cathedrals,
that they don’t eat!
• * * *
Harry Stockdale writes re those crocodiles
recently mentioned in Bulletin as having been
shot on the banks of inland Flinders waterholes :
Very likely these were the “ estuary,” or larger Aus-
tralian crocodiles, generally spoken of as alligators. I
remember, in ’B4, at the telegraph station,
Katherine River, N.T. (south nearly 200 miles
of Port Darwin), Fisher and Lyons’ manager
was swimming a big horse over (behind a
boat), when the animal was seized and carried
away by a huge crocodile. Besides, I have
seen several of the larger kind quite 50
miles above the reach of tidal waters on
the Victoria, midway between Port
Darwin and Cambridge Gulf. I
have also seen them on the fresh
waters back from Port Essing-
ton, and in North Kimberley
district, and have shot them
on small fresh-water creeks
a long way from any tidal
influence. Of course the
croc, usually found in
the upper or fresh-
water reaches of our
Northern rivers is
the smaller variety
(Gavial John-
stonii), which
has slender
teeth and a
much
longer
and
narrow-
er snout
than
the
large
estuary
croco-
dile. The
gavial is
harmless to
man, and rarely
exceeds 6ft. in
length, whilst the
salt - water fellow,
at times, goes over
20ft. Captain Bill Mars-
den, of Darwin, shot one
27ft. long. It was buried
under a high, sandy point,
with the intention of after-
wards digging up the skeleton,
but, unfortunately, a big land-
slip rendered the exact locality
uncertain.
• • *
“ M. 8.” re big breezes:—
I had a look along the track of one that
on Ist Jan. last passed through the heavily-
timbered ranges near Kiandra. Neither man
nor beast could have lived in its route as I saw
it. Huge gum and ash trees lay up-
rooted, broken and burst into splinters
(in many cases as if struck by light-
ning), and many of the trees had huge
masses of earth and rock clinging to
their roots. This wind blew from the
west across the ranges, down into deep valleys, where
one would have thought the timber would have
escaped, but, on the contrary, the destruction there was
greatest. The southern edge of the ruin-track runs per-
fectly straight for miles, but on the northern edge the
margin veers in and out to the extent of 20yds. or so.
♦
It isn’t healthy to get converted when you
are under the care of the Yic. penal system. A
prisoner, who described himself on admission as a,
Dry Baptist, or some such irregular religion,
finding himself without the ministrations of a.
spiritual adviser, changed his denomination at
Pentridge to the customary C.E. Thereupon he
got seven days extra “hard ” for “making a false
verbal statement.” Seven days for being con-
verted, in fact.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
So notice (except of a hostile character) will betaken of
communications insnficiently stamped. Name ami
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken in any case re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted, whether sent by post or handed in ; and in
no case will MS. be returned unless stamps (of any
State) accompany.
Baker : Don’t like to jeer too violently at another
paper’s bad tips. Our own are none too good at times.
.... Dudley : There was 2d. to pay on your mixed bathing
item.. ..Geo. B.E. : The Federal Government now holds
all the coinage powers formerly held by the States, but
the States had no power to coin silver. In that matter
it doesn't appear that we are any further forward
Kink : Don’t believe your herbalist; don’t believe your
Chinese doctor; don’t believe anything Te Whai :
You ask if 27 wet days in a month in your obscure
Maoriland district is a record for that locality. If you
don’t know, how can we be expected to? Nox : Can’t
see any sign of literary dawn in you P. 0.8. : Too
headlong. You’d do better if you didn’t rush things....
Arden : Glad to note that you are “ perfectly confident”
about such a lot of things... .South B. : Quite wrong,
Patagonia is from Spanish “ patagon,” a big, clumsy
foot; and Labrador, from the same language, means
“ cultivable,” as compared with Greenland... .G.W.D. :
Hardly up to the mark.... A.P.R. : “ Drought Scenes ”
may do. The others are not up, and The Bulletin
wouldn’t publish aseries, anyhow.. . .Slogger : You don’t
slog us hard enough, anyhow Raroa :An occasional
native expression helps to give local color, but when a
yarn fairly bristles with Maori the effect is merely show-
offish William A. : You first insinuate that our opinion
is worthless, and then ask for “ impartial criticism.”....
Quilp E. : Verses obscure. Please choose another pen
name. The one above is too close an imitation of “ Quilp
N.” W.M.W. (M.L.): Too stiff and prosy, and the
Bulletin doesn’t care for a series, anyhow... .Frank B.:
Very poor stuff... .Eidas : Hardly interest enough....
W.W.S. : Rather childish George Y. : Has no life or
spirit about it Robert Hage : Interesting, but we don’t
want to give instructions to anybody how to acquire the
drug habit... .Lewis: “ Wreckage” neither a story nor a
descriptive sketch. Anyhow, don’t grope about among
dead women for your yarns M. G. Intar : “ An Unfor-
tunate Slip ” rather well-written, but hideously melo-
dramatic.. ..G.A. P. : Printer’s ink cannot express the
emotions with which your amazing “ Bleed that Won the
Empire ” was consigned to limbo. What do you take us
f0r?....Q. Rix. : “Glamor of the Bush” decidedly neat,
but so hackneyed a subject and situation require very
exceptional treatment, and yours is merely good. Try
some other paper....Bon. : Sorry. Don’t care for
“ Phaz’s”.... Imax : You reach out boldly enough, but
you don’t quite “ get there ”... .Caro : Seems to have some
merit, but it is difficult to deal with stuff too closely writ-
ten for interlineation S.F.M. : Of no Bulletin interest.
Returned... .Lilian E. : Not amiss ; but theme is so hack
neyed as to require very powerful treatment. .J.M.G. :Con-
sideringyour age, itis a pretty fair attempt. .Canard: Mere
rubbish... .Maud P. : Much too long for Bulletin
Hugo : Your theory that, in all countries where abortion
is practised, population “actually retrogrades,” is thin.
Can you name any country on earth, except moral Ireland,
where population “ actually retrogrades” ? The idea that
France has a decreasing population is mere ignorance....
Mary H. : “Storm Picture” doesn’t depict worth two-
pence... .W.R. : Not much demand for dialect poems
about happiness in a “ cot.” The British stone or brick
“ cot ”is good enough sometimes. Australia’s cockroach-
haunted wooden cot standing on stumps, with a goat
underneath it, is a horror F. Paul: “ Scrub ” doesn’t
fall on us in the right place M. G. Tinar : “ Unforeseen
Difficulty ” is strong, but the central idea needs an awful
lot of disguising, and it is hard to see how it can be suf-
ficiently disguised. Will print “ Unfeeling Intrusion.”
.. ..T.B. : No hope for “ Birds and F10wer5.”....11.W. :
First sentence of your yarn : “ A peaceful village scene
is presented to the eye which had lately been denuded of
timber by the woodman’s axe.” How did the timber get
on the eye? J.D. : “Gum Ridge” given up as a bad
job. Too grandiloquent, and too many other things
L.: “ The Lion, the Tiger and the Lady ” clever, but too
horrible. Don’t mind corpse, but like to select our corpse.
... .Uloola :We can’t refer to a case which is still waiting
decision in the criminal courts The Watcher : Just
missed the mark.... Mallee Hen: Your lay is nothing to
cluck about....E.E.E. : Don’t fear; such yarns have
their origin in soured jealousy and have no basis of truth.
.... J.A.G.: Trite idea, no special grace of treatment....
J.T.S. : The gentleman you inquire about is living in a
lunatic asylum at present Rusty : Too much of a
coincidence Revilo : Maoriland licensing question
already dealt with Frank K. : Yes, and the woman-
voters should beware of Joseph, too. No Joseph has
ever proved satisfactory to them. But it is very hard to
mention a politician whom they shouldn’t beware 0f....
Polstan : Mechanical satires of the monkey-foolishness
of Oddfellowship and Ancient Order of Goatship are too
common to be worth noticing E.F.L. : Musical criti-
cism in poetry respectfully declined. We get lies in
poetry, truths in poetry, sermons, girls, bush yarns,
leaders, essays, dissertations on economics—all in poetry,
and wish to be spared “notices” of singers in that
medium Big Ben : “ Cooraminta ” neat in places, but
it’s not worth the space. It’s no use for a woman to have
neat feet if she is seven feet high and very angular. One
other verse accepted Maoriland er : Flat Jason:
Just miss Uloola : Will print “Spuds.” T. Clark :
The plant you forward is a well-known member of the
lobelia family, and there is not a scrap of reliable
evidence that it ever cured snake-bite 0.A.8. :
“Flower-Girl” is still rather conventionally unconven-
tional... M.L. : Hardly enough in it....A.J.5. : Rather
dull and prosy Malmaison : Worth consideration....
Edid ; Please send address Albacutya : Don’t care for
either. There’s some force, but the style over-involved
and affected....G.B. : “Fall of Night” got its metre
broken by falling too hard. Next time put something
soft nnder it (say the Lap of Day) to break the shock
R.T.O. (Adelaide): Gold digging reminiscences not
suitable. Please send address for return of M. 5... Wasp :
“ An Average Young Man ” would just suit a nice ladies’
journal.. ..F.L.G. ; It’s unhealthy in sentiment. As
Jones put it in “ The Liars ” : “ No 1 : ‘My love is not a
physical one.’ No. 2: ‘ Then it ought to be.’ ” Rebel
(1): Edwin Arnold and the late Matthew Arnold are not
related. E. Lester Arnold is the son of Edwin... .Bung-
wahl: Fancy that restriction has been now removed ;
inquire at Colonial Sec.’s office Holder M. : Hardly
up Industrious: Long yarn about very little....'
Lambda : Can’t tell now, as story has faded away from
our memory. We get hundreds of stories every week
and can’t remember all of them Jno. B. : The fact that
a poor verse is “ only a little one ” is not sufficient reason
for publication Union : Yes.inN.S.W. Z. : (1) Yes,
it should be a good place. (2) Manitoba. (3) The Cana-
dian Government has a special agent in Sydney. All the
same we should feel inclined to say “ Give Australia
another chance.” When there is proper Protection here,
with vastly greater mineral resources, the Commonwealth
should get ahead of the Dominion G.F.L.C.W. : Your
poem shows the enervating effects of carrying about a
name like that Machaon :It would be gravely libellous
....J.A.P. : It’s hardly worth worrying about now.
“ F.,” in The Bulletin, at the time pointed out
that Beauchamp never denied sending the message.
Interest in the indiscretion has now vanished
A.P.R. : “ Drought-scenes ” accepted J. A. Porter:
Will print “On Tram.” Wild Flours : Your poem will
be printed in all its naked awfulness Viator: You
plod conscientiously along to nowhere in particular, and
it is heavy going R. J.K. : Regretfully declined. Thh
B. doesn’t answer decent correspondents that way ; it is
only the howling bounder who is treated to “ rudeness.”
... .The Watcher : Goes too close to other verses on the
same subject ... .J. A. : A little germ of fact in a great
husk of padding, and it wasn’t worth while winnowing it
out.. ..J.T.K. : We’re not much interested in Arabia
Wiljar : Obstetrical stuff only suitable for a vet.’s paper.
Edid : You didn’t strike it this time Mark M. :
Declined after some hesitat’on John R. : The term
appears to be a recognised Americanism for business-girls
living in lodgings... .R. Westaway : Too long and dis-
cursive Sid. F. : “Trumps” to hand. Don’t know
which piece of verse you refer t 0... Old Cove : Thanks
for letter... .Nemo : Not all bad work, and gives pro-
mise of better.... Bert M.: Too awkwardly constructed
and too much spun out General : Verses rather weak.
Prose sketch has some humor, but is too fantastic....
Poleaxe: Sorry unsuitable... .Medora : Some graphic
power, but great lack of skill Andrew B. :It was duly
returned.... Unsuitable Raymond 'Democrat, Typo,
Desmond, Jason, Dick H., Lubra Y. : Decide that
“Hospitality” is rather a mixed yarn G.L.: Will
print “ Episode” and “ Fall of the Dice ” Alcheringa :
“Love and Sacrifice” rather vague and uncertain....
E.K. : “Idyll” nearly gets there, but doesn’t quite
arrive Swellington : Your civil letter stating that
Wellington is the finest, largest, best, and brightest city in
Maoriland received with gladness—we like to see that civic
patriotism... .M.C.K. : The page of Borrowed Literature is
permanently abolished Weels : “ Vain Longings” indi-
cates that the time has arrived for you to get another boy.
“ Camell&ra ”as poetical as—as a camel.. ..F.E.P.W. :
“ Break-up at Carey’s Creek” good material, but lacks co-
herency. .. J.M‘C.: “ Who Loved Me Not” will do. Others
returned. Who is the alleged person who said.there are
two women to every man in this world? Principal
countries where men preponderate, according to latest
available census returns, are Italy, Servia, Bulgaria,
Roumania, Greece, South Africa, India, Japan, United
States, Canada, Brazil* Argentina, Peru, Uruguay, Aus-
tralia, and Maoriland .In the least manned and most
womaned country that has a census (Portugal) there
are 542 women to every 500 men. Taking the world all
over, men predominate... .Otto J. : Too crude and goty
a horror... .Wombat : “Strong Man” question is
degenerating into mere bald assertion that some person
unknown to us is ready to swear that be saw an equally
unknown person carry a cart-horse two miles 36 years
ago Adonis : “ Ode ” nicely versed, but idea too weak
....The Hack: “Geo. Meredith” is nice verse, but
obscure meaning.. ..Joseph A.C. : “Two Songs” good.
6xB: “Traveller’s Retreat” in type. Will print
“ Regret.”
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
W.H. : One will do as a suggestion....H.F. : Don’t strike
us as jokes... .Grace R.: Yes, we pay for any accepted...,
J.D.G. : We can’t see the jokes O.K. : Sorry, but
nothing is suitable—gag, drawing, or paper... .Unsuit-
able : Frank M., W.R.D N.C.R. : One for publication.
ANOTHER INSULT.
THE NEW-CHUM: “Oh, I say,
farmah, when's the close season for wabbits
he-ah? ”
THE COOKIE: “ Close season! ” (Then his usual
stock of profanity failed him and he fainted).
Photographs on page 16 represent Maud
Beatty, as Boccaccio, and her sister May. Both
are natives of Christchurch (M.L.), and made
their first appearance there with the Shakespearian
actor, George Miln. They afterwards joined that
excellent operatic school, the Pollard Lilliputian
Opera Co.—now\the Pollard Operatic Co. May
Beatty is just 21, being two years younger than
her sister. She joined Pollard’s co. when she was
10, and has the respectable record of G 8 parts in
50 operas during her brief career. She appeared
last year with J. C. Williamson, as Carmenita, in
“ The Runaway Girl,” and then joined Geo. Mus-
grove, making a hit in the low comedy part of
Pt-Fi, in “ The Chinese Honeymoon.” She, how-
ever, regards O-Mimosa-San and Alicia, the Doll
as her best parts. Her sister retired from the
stage on her marriage, but rejoined Pollard again
prior to her departure for England, last April.
1 hough only on a pleasure trip, she was engaged
by Arthur Collins as principal boy for the Drury
Lane annual. Ihe latest English reports indicate
that she has managed to keep her end up in the
city of 10,000 sorrows.
Mr. THOS. McGUTRE, Wellstown, Ohio
writes :
“ Jayne’s Expectorant cured me of A SEVERE COUGH
after all ourdoctois had failed.”


Admiral George Dewey, of the United States navy, recently interviewed, is
reported to have stated that the U-S. nary was the greatest in the world
The German navy was, he de-
clared, an entirely different organ-
isation of human material. Us efficiency
was greatly over-estimated. The men did
not begin to compare in education and
intelligence with the Americans, and
looked to, and depended upon, their
officers for specific instructions upon the
least matters.
&Ai3Eit Bill : “ Ho ! varlet, lord oiy
the olothes-press, bring hither,
my latest uniform of A Pirate S
King ; soap my moustache^.
‘anew, ami send for the court photographer../
jl’l! send the result of the sitting to v
'President Roosevelt, and let. the
parvenu potentate tremble ! ”
A deputation recently waited upon the N.B.W. Govt, to
ask it to reimburse Mr. Wragge for expenses incurred in
connection with the weather station on Mt. Kosciusko.
“Was it necessary,” Mr. Hurley asked, “to have
whisky up there 1 ”
Mr. Wragge said there were only one or two bottles, and
they were medical comforts. If there was £2O for whisky
he had nothing whatever to do with it. He would not
allow such a thing for a single moment. “ But, surely,” he
went on, “ my poor lads who have to live in that fearful
solitude must have a few cigarettes?”
Tf.mora,
Saturday.
I)r. Dill
blacky ar-
rived yester-
day from Wya
long, and hold a
meeting.
Early in the evening
trouble was anticipated.
After about huif-an-hour
the noise began, and stones
were thrown on the root In a
few minutes the storm burst.. Win-
dows were smashed, and the front
of the building was damaged, stones
and bricks being thrown through
the broken windows.
One man was hit on the jaw,
two of his teeth knocked
■jout, while several were cut about»
the head and face.
Xy
/v"W
/ .<> *■
*V c*y-
AUSTRALIA FELIX.
Dr, ' st ‘eoe,
' lot her „
*"' ««&>., f »r'
THE REID CUSTOMS CASE.
The Judge said that as this was the first conviction,
lte would fix the penalty at £5O, but if hereafter
another conviction were recorded against defendants,
the fytll penalty would be imposed.
Thi* is the heaviest lawsuit tried in Queensland for
tnany years. It occupied 26 days, with a strong Bar
on each side. In addition to which there wa3 the
Icost of the commission which took evidence in
' England.
SQUEEZING THE FATMAN % AND WBaT
CAME OF IT.
A GENERAL LOOK ROUND.


"TsejoKe y ew cofT?r»7l3slcm sboulci Kc>/iSc tfie
hjcorrje TV Sascys “ °f M • wfeM>
$< 'fancier *r]*.Yc\)bfiX~. “
nof
An €'ff 0 ' r I
bzirjff trj\de N.
design * uniform N.
-ftfi Fie del'll \
en.Hutf'on \
approved of one CV *'
be a S either for f*N
or purpose}
' Tije iri,pbitigi lendny s«■
fjlclTTres^X. Cv> T>< y
iJ x!r t > l«*y* re y
I'j <^«ltjen7enf^
, gsM
still w W<fx of- ict
b\nne.r wifij "tlje device
h&rigSK <&e^-
C°«»7cil ; , n?y
i
[fte oflfcMW
»*** « W in. s ***
l?e *n
V b,
- *4«S,
' -r
It! /A^sSe^bly.
l— you Kywc-
bfm^e'- —" 0 1 , I've <vy h°n ou^ !
TtmbU Conflict"" rXeura •*>
SWe vow HayetiT: Seen _ r
m r y gingWn r
gna.cA'Kies
* I ' ICo " Je Tv-
°\ ‘
Rfy yottVe PoT" x .
lx/pe |o*i«S — V/ 7 C, 7 youre. So ><>oK | •
Jm,«l (X, <Ww«-}i»M+) " a °' s ’ rJnT 'iy
DidVr it 10-vM
~jije Spor'Kl? KldA-j
jtj«
" H<V*l4 hov> tf[|eb 1)«
Ci,*> geX "'rv| e »»> Oerwjv’]
'ttjV' sell &X
e js y i
«j-
Bill (Wrili 3 ) ; '• Editor
\ My wife 3 m
Q»oy - art 1 M c "T /
"fey .
Goil 7£__J* , \ x- C
,-A °P ! °
SOME VICTORIAN DOINGS.


A. SAUNDERS
FOE WEDDING PRESENTS, USEFUL AND ACCEPTATION
Showrooms: 815 GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
A. SAUNDERS.
Two SERVIETTE RINGS, in Silk-lined Case,
Pure Silver-plated on Hard Nickel Silver,
in three similar patterns of ferns, 12s 6d, 15s 6d ;
Pure Solid Silver, 30s, 355. £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
ENTREE DISH, makes Two Dishes,
Pure Silver-plated on White Nickel Silver, 40s.
Other styles, £2 10s to £6.
a
mm
‘J&
538*
A--
A. SAUNDERS.
0102 lIOT WATER KETTLE and STAND,
Silver-plated on White Metal, Extra Chased, £2 10s.
Similar Designs, £2, £3, £3 10s.
m
TEA POT, Extra Heavy Silver-plated, 27s 6d.
Similar styles, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, 80s, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class Silver-plated CRUET,
as above, ‘2ls.
EGG CRUET, Pure Silver-plated,
with Spoons, 255.
Other styles, 30s, £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM DISH, White or Coloured
3mamented Glass, Pure Silver electro-
plated on Hard Nickel Silver, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Beautiful 8-Day, striking hours and half-hours, Marblette CLOCK, £2 2s 6d.
Reliable Timekeepers.
A MOST ACCEPTABLE PRESENT.
Post Free Anywhere.
JAM or BUTTER KNIFE,
Pure Silver-plated on Hard
White Metal, 2s, 2s 6d, 3s 6d,
4s 6d. Special Value.
CANDLESTICK,
Pure Silver-plated, 12s 6d.
Leaf Pattern, 8s 6d.
<1
A. SAUNDERS.
Oak DINNER GONG, Silver-plated Mounted, £2 10s.
Other styles, 17s 6d, 2Cs, 255, 80s.
A NICE PRESENT.
®gg“ WE GUARANTEE YOU THE UTMOST
SATISFACTION.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST FREE.
A. SAUNDERS.
Silver-plated
FLORAL STAND,
Ruby Glass, 12s 6d
h pair.
"Very Cheap.
SALTS,
Silver-plated Stands,
6s 6d, 7s 6d, 8s 6d.
m
V"
/
A. SAUNDEBS.
Handsomely Chased, First-class, A 1 TEA and COFFEE SET, £8 10s. B Quality, £6 10s. TEA SET only £3 10s and ti
Other styles, £5 ss, £6 6s to £2O. Send for Illustrated Book.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR SCUTTLE,
Silver Electro-plated, Handsomely
Chased, 16s 6d and 20s ;
extra quality, 255, 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver BOOK MARK, 2s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
A 1 Quality 4 o’clock CAKE PORKS, Pure Silver-plated
Hard White Metal, 10s 6d and 12s 6d half-dozen.
Our Silverplate is England’s
Highest Quality.
A. SAUNDERS.
Bm.-Ofik bi S cdit , Silver-plated
Moimted 20s; Shield only, 15s :
Huted Runs, 255; Eloral China
Mounted, 15s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s.
Mi
KaSHea
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAD BOARD and KNIFE. Pure Silver-plated on Hard
Nickel Silver. Beautifully Chased and Ornamented 35s-
can be used as Cake Dish or Salver. Similar stvles 21s Ms’
80s, £2, £2 10s. A USEFUL PRESEJNT. ’ ’
A. SAUNDERS.
CAKE BASKET, Beautifully Chased,
355, £2, £2 10s, £3. Cheaper styles, 20s, 255, 30s.
-sp
3
t- :?
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class 4-Bottle CRUET,
Silver-plated, 355. Similar. 255, 30s.
M
A. BAUNDERB.
Oak INKSTAND, Highest Quality, £2 10s.
Other styles, Silver-plated, 30s, £2, £2 10s, £3.
V-/
A. SAUNDERS.
Beaut fully Chased and Carved JEWEL CASE,
Pure Silver-plated, Silk-lined, 15s 6d.
POCKET SPIRIT FLASKS.
All Sorts, Prices, and Styles, 7s 6d, 10s 6d, 15s,
20s, 255, 30s, £2.
A. SANDERS.
Double JAMS, Floral Ornamented China, 255, 80s.
In single, 15s 6d, Pure Silver-plated Rims.
A. SAUNDERS,
JEWELLER AND SILVERSMITH,
815 AND 817 GEORGE-ST.,
NEARLY OPPOSITE
RAILWAY STATION,
SYDNEY.


VJ
g o t o xartn. r.-
KJOI.AN l> for l'relty Stnnps, but
if you want real stood stamps, send to
Fred. Nageo,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
DRYSDALE’S ANTIBILIOUS PILLS
for biliousness, indigestion, headache, loss of appetite,
giddiness, &c., are prescribed by physicians of the highest
standing, who acknowledge their thorough efficiency in
all cases. 1/1 per box, post paid. F. J. Timbury,
chemist, Petrie’s Bight, Brisbane.*
r
AFTER DINNER
thirty drops of Seigel’s Syrup ensure complete di-
gestion, and prevent the pain and torpor consequent on
indigestion. Seigel’s Syrup builds health on good digestion,
for ’tis not what you eat, but only that which you digest
nourishes your body and sustains your life.
“For several years,"
says Miss Ethel Williams,
of 9, Wemyss St., Sydney,
N.S.W., “my life was rendered miserable by indigestion and
general debility. I could not sleep at night and was often
afflicted with severe sick headaches and bilious ttacks.
An old triend recommended Mother Seigel's Svrup.
Within a week I discovered it was doing me substan-
tial good. Eight bottles completed my cure.”
AIDS DIGESTION.
SORE
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT i
FOR SORE AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, /.HD
RESTORES EYELASHES-
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES.
I'M EVER RAILS.
Ask your Chemist fop the Little Book
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
CURED
£lO BICYCLES
From the FACTORY to the RIDER.
THE " EARL” SPECIAL 1903 MODEL
Westwood Steel Rims and Dunlop Principle Tyres
Complete with Lamp and Bell.
tvj P i rei ! ald t( r “® arest seaport town outside N.S.W. Trainage prepaid to any town i
JN.b.W. Reduction of ]os. per machine where three ordered at once. Less .£1 nermachi
where six ordered at once. F
j. F. McDermott & CO., SO Pitt-st., Sydney
Sole Factory Agenls. Telephone 2671.
More Union.
There seems to be a general concensus of opinion
among the followers of the Australian Ministry—
both the direct supporters and the Labor Party
adherents —to let the tariff issue rest at the next
Federal elections. The disappointment that this
will be to genuine nationalists can hardly be
over-estimated. The present tariff is not so much
a Protectionist as a compromise one. As originally
framed by Mr. Kingston, it was strongly Protec-
tionist, though not even then a high tariff •
as it finally passed the Legislature it was—partly
owing to the Foreign-trade party, but more on
account of the mistaken attitude of the Labor
party far from being a scientific shield for native
industry. Still the excuse was put forward
with some reason—during the early days of
Federation, whilst so many machinery Bills
pressed for attention, a compromise of some sort
was necessary ; and if the compromise had been
of avail in facilitating business and hastening the
process of settling down to Federal housekeeping,
the excuse would have had due weight. But that
was far from being the case. The foreign-trade
party fought the “ moderate ” tariff with as much
bitterness as if it had been a M'Kinley Act, and
propose, even now that it has been modified into
something not very much better than a revenue
measure, to raise again the fiscal issue. The Pro-
tectionist Government, in the circumstances
would have done better at the outset, and
would do better now, if it were to abandon
the low-lying marshes of compromise and take
up a definite position on the high ground
of principle, and unfurl the banner of High
Protection. But it is impossible to get certain
weak members of the Barton Government to see
that, and Nationalists must perforce support its
tariff attitude--inadequate though it be—in pre-
ference to turning to Mr. Yes-No Reid and his
Freetection system of throwing all the poor little
dogs that can’t swim into the sea and letting the
big and powerful ones stay on land. Provided
that the Barton Government doesn’t commit the
irremediable error of fathering the preference-to-
England idea, it will probably have the support
of Protectionists, in the hope of a better tariff
some day, when the initial work of union has been
completed and the Foreign-trade party in the
Legislature has been lessened. Still, the Govern-
ment must have some progressive planks in the
platform on which it goes to the country ; it can-
not expect any Nationalist enthusiasm over a
timorous policy of letting things be; in some
other respect, if not as regards the tariff, it will
have to announce for national progress.
• • » •
That could be done in no more obvious and
natural manner than by a declaration in favor of
a closer, completer union—not necessarily by any
immediate drastic change in the Constitution, but
by a steady effort towards a further assumption
of the powers already given by the Constitution,
and of a settled policy of extending and liberally
interpreting those powers. Nor would it be well
to shrink from a definite forewarning of the
dangers incurred by the jealous limitation of the
Federal power under the present Federal Consti-
tution. That instrument of government, like the
tariff, was largely a matter of compromise. Like
the tariff, it had to encounter throughout the
bitter opposition of the Foreign - trade party
in New South Wales and of all those in the
other States who look to Downing-street and to
Linendrapers’ Hall, London, for light and
guidance. Therefore, like the tariff, it makes
concessions to the enemies of Australian unity
which, however expedient and necessary at the
time, should be done away with at the first oppor-
tunity as obstacles to the fulfilment of the national
ideal.
* « • •
The framers of the Australian Constitution had
two models on which to pattern their work—the
constitutions of the United States and of Canada.
The first was a union among States which had
been populated by vastly different types of
colonists; by mutually antagonistic Puritans,
Quakers, Cavaliers, and Roman Catholics; by
States which had been accustomed to act, in peace
and war, quite independently of one another ;
which had, in fact, actually, in some cases,
waged war on one another; States which,
forced into some sort of unity by the War
of Independence, had promptly broken asunder
afterwards, and which were only forced into
union again by the fear of outside conquest ;
States which represented such opposing ideas of
government as the aristocratism of Washington
and Hamilton, the demagoguey of Jefferson,
and the sansculottism of a strong pro-French
revolutionary party; The second was a union,
peacefully formed an'd carried out under every
circumstance of deliberation, of a set of provinces
which had for many years amicably co-existed,
and which were vexed by only one problem—that
of the reconciliation of the French and English
sections. Naturally the union of the United States
reflected the internecine jealousy of the States, and
hampered the central power as much as possible.
Just- as naturally the Canadian union gave
generous power to the Federal Government
and reduced the status of the provinces to one of
practical dependence In their working, the two
constitutions have shown the results which might
be expected. The stimulus of Republicanism and
of high Protection has given the United States
a magnificent material prosperity, but in matters
of government its Constitution has not proved a
success. Already its tolerance of State rights
and jealousies has caused one cruel civil war, and
it is to-day the cause of ever-recurring
strife, and of unfair and injurious anomalies. The
State of Maine, having passed prohibition laws,
sought to establish the right to control the
Federal post-office so far as to prevent it carrying
parcels of liquor within the State’s borders; and
the contention (whatever side the right was on)
caused grave trouble. The right of the various
States to control divorce laws within their own
boundaries has caused serious scandals. To
quote a local authority :
Dakota newspapers are filled with advertisements by
lawyers offering to obtain divorces “at cut prices.”
“Success certain; no delay.” “ Absolute secrecy,” etc.
There have been hundreds of divorces in which the
divorcees have not known of the fact of the nullification
of their marriage ties until long after the event. Divorce
judges are usually elected through the influence of the
divorce lawyers, who make certain that none but “ safe ”
men are put on the bench. Any cause suffices for the
obtaining of a decree so long as the applicant from
another State has the necessary £5O or £6O.
It is not healthy for a nation that its Constitu-
tion should shelter such abuses. There are many
other respects in which the Federal system of the
T rated States fails, for lack of proper power being
centred in the Union Government—the difficulty
ot maintaining order in a State, the possibilities
or harassing citizens by successive prosecutions
or suits in different States, the tediousness in
securing finality in legal proceedings, etc. On the
other hand, the Canadian Federation has worked
practically without a hitch, by reason of its logical
acceptance of the fact that there must be a
supreme power and that that power is naturally
the Federal one.
* * * *
t Australian Constitution-makers fol-
lowed the United States rather than the Canadian
pattern. .Timorously deferential to the clamor of
“ he .. foreign” sympathisers in the States, and
roolishly regardful of the dignity of petty parochial
they hesitated at every grant of power
to the I ederation and eagerly accepted every pro-
posal to safeguard so-called “State rights.”
Whereas the Canadian Constitution left most
ot the provinces with single Houses of
Parliament, and all of them with “ Lieu-
tenant-Governors mere subordinate officials
appointed by the Governor-General—the Aus-
tralian Constitution preserved the State Parlia-
ments and State Governors in all their pristine
glory. The Canadian Federal Government can
disallow the Acts of the provincial Parliaments :
that power is not given to the Australian Federal
f'Uthority. The Canadian Federation took over
the debts of the provinces and grants them defi-
nite subsidies and per capita allowances out of its
revenues. The Australian Federation was only
given uncertain powers as regards the consoli-
dation of the State debts, and is constitutionally
bound to distribute its customs and excise revenue
after an arbitrary method. Further—and most
important of all—the powers not secured to the
provinces in Canada by the British North America
Act are, by mere reason of that, vested in the
' ederation. In Australia the Federal Govern-
ment has only the powers secured to it by the
Constitution ; all that remain vest in the States.
Canada gave the Federal Government the benefit
of the doubt every time; in Australia the States
have it every time.
* • • «
The short experience which Australia has had
of the Commonwealth Constitution in working
has shown that in every case where the Canadian
model was departed from, as a concession to State
jealousies, a mistake was made. The reform work
which the Australian Government might under-
take is hampered at every turn by the limitations
of the constitution : financial reform, uniform in-
dustrial legislation, a national as opposed to a
dependent defence policy these are ideals
which are at present difficult of attainment
because of constitutional obstacles. A great
deal could be done by a firm and liberal
interpretation of the Federal Constitution, by
treating with a contemptuous resolute “shoo ”
the small yelpings of the small State Premiers—
the Jenkinses and Philps, and also the Sees and
the Irvines. That should be done in the first
instance; and, at the same time, the way prepared
for such amendments of the Constitution as will
allow of the Australian Government undertaking
more completely its natural duties as the supreme
governing power of the continent. More Protec-
tion and more union should be the keynotes of the
National programme ; and, if the first is postponed
for the present, the second should be impressed
with the greater vehemence. The National party
must not go to the polls, like the Yes-No Reid
party, with office-hunger as its sole claim to con-
sideration.
Extracts from Sydney Telegraph’s present
serial story. This is where a Labor candidate
addresses the people :
There are thousands of you who are willing to work
who are out of employment. Igo to the manufacturer,
and I say to him : “ Why don’t you find employment for
your hands?” “ For two reasons,” he answers. “First,
because I have lost my colonial and some of my home
trade through American competition, and, secondly,
because of the universally depressed condition of every
kindred trade throughout the country, which keeps
people poor and prevents their having money. . . . The
furniture and joinery trade of England is bad. There are
thousands of good hands out of employment. They are
out of work because the manufacturer has few or no
orders. I want the immediate cause for that, and Igo to
the manufacturer. I ask him why he has no orders. lie
tells me because every steamer from America is bringing
huge consignments of ready-made office and general fur-
niture, at such prices or such quality that the English
shopkeers prefer to stock them. Consequently trade is
bad with him, and he cannot find employment for his
men.
The Telegraph’s serial story appears to know
a great deal more than the Telegraph’s leading
article.
♦
“ J.E.D.” on Things We Eat:
A ham and beef establishment opened a few doors awav
from my house on March 3, and to-day (March 12) I make
my report, the result of personal observations. A plate
of pressed tongue, which occupied the central position in
the window on opening night, and which has been daily
moved to the various corners of the window, in a futile
effort to disguise its identity, expired on the fifth day ;
at least, it wasn’t in the window nor on the counter
inside. It had been gradually fading, so I fully expected
it to go suddenly, more so on account of the ham and
beef man putting a funeral wreath of parsley around
it the day before —then I knew it was doomed.
Fourteen pigs’ trotters occupied a position to the
left of the tongue on the first day, but they manoeuvred
all round the window for three days, losing seven of their
number. The remaining- seven must have been ambushed
on the fourth day and cut off suddenly. The piece of
corn beef had its back (the fatty part) turned to the
enemy for the first day, but turned its front on the second
day. It kept up this movement till the sixth day when
it was reduced to a skeleton and was bought by a small
boy for a penny. I could swear to that piece of beef, for
it had a skewer mark up one side which it wore to the
last. I noted several marks on the penny pies for future
reference, as I thought they looked like “ stayers,” but
the ordinary penny pie is like a Chinaman, difficult
to swear to. So I reluctantly leave them alone,
but I have seen the ham-and-beef man put fresh ones in
on top of the old ones (which should, by rights, have
first chance), so it would mostly be a matter of luck in
purchasing. The bolognas and a few other accessories
have a familiar look to me, but I am not certain
as to the actual length of their tenancy. I think
the ham and beef man thought I was watching
him, for his efforts to mislead me with differ-
ent plates, different arrangements of the window,
and bits of green parsley, were worthy of all
praise. A bit of parsley is a great thing in a ham and beef
shop. When the germ thinks it is all up with the pressed
tongue, it crawls on to the parsley wreath, and on the
“ dispersal ” of the tongue the wreath is shifted and it
gets a front seat on the corned beef. A cunning germ
who knows the game has a real good time of it in a
suburban ham and beef shop.
A bold correspondent on “ the virtues of the
red-tape worm ” :
Circumlocution is being criticised (with all the bluster-
ing ineffectiveness to which that newspaper has been
latterly prone) by the Melbourne Age. After all, with
all its delays and annoyances, red-tape is and has been
the most effectual safeguard to all but the subjects of an
autocrat from the plunder, favoritism, and malversation
of their public servants, Ministerial and subordinate.
Certainly, the ideal Minister with ideal strength of will,
intellect, and body, could administer public affairs with-
out regulations, or advising bodies, or officers, in a post-
haste and inexpensive manner. But the ideal
Minister has missed this planet in his incar-
nations. Regulations, dry as they are to read, and
meaningless as many of their restrictions appear at first
glance, are, when carefully analysed, among the most
interesting of all public documents. They are a concen-
trate of the official experience of generations, containing
great constitutional safeguards in disguise, but in full
activity. They are the results of bitterly expensive
events in the past. The geological jurist can show you
in them the marks of different strata of political wisdom,
the shells of old forgeries, perjuries, dummyisms,
nepotisms, abscondings, and frauds, and the basic granite
of as solid an equity as the statemanship plus
experience of the past has been able to give us.
There are Land Act regulations in Australia which,
if dissected and historically illustrated, would simply
startle the public by their story of the ways their lands
were filched from them, ways, however, which cannot be
used any more. There are stamp duties and audit regu-
lations which, if similarly illustrated, would give us a
complete Newgate calendar of official embezzlements and
frauds, which are barely possible again. Such red-tape
(and most tape is of the same colour) is simply profiting
by past experience to protect the public against fraud and
the insidious encroachments of the great and powerful.
By all means, let us get rid of mere work-making
regulations ; but it is assuredly not wise, after the race’s
long experience of the consistent fallibility of those to
whom “discretion” is entrusted, to extend that dis-
cretion as is being done nowadays. The red-tape worm
appears, at first sight, as objectionable and useless as
others of that ilk, but on examination his structure and
functions are by no means useless.
The sectarian campaign in N.S.W. is
bearing its bitter fruit. In one town in the South
two homes have been broken up since the visit of
a clerical incendiary. The husbands were Protes-
tants and the wives Catholics; and they had
rubbed along all right in mutual forbearance of
each other’s ignorance until the row was set on
foot. Then came quarrels, and finally separation.
“ Sanitas ” writes :
We, the tree and enlightened people who flourish under
British rule, are rather fond of poking it at slow-going
countries, but in some respects we could copy the cus-
toms of those ignorant foreigners with much profit to
ourselves. Among even the top-shelf families of Brazil,
a man or woman about to marry is bound to produce a
certificate from one or more physicians that he or she is
perfectly free from all diseases that are transmittable to
offspring, and is thoroughly sound in wind and limb.
The Brazilian belles are also compelled to prepare for
matrimonial duties by wearing clothes that will not
distort their bodies or imperil their health, the result
being that Brazil turns out some of the most shapely and
healthy wives in the world. There is none of the stunted
“ pony ” breed there as there is here, puny tom-tits, hip-
less and flat-chested, all hat, heels and husband-beaters
—not as in the old healthy Hawkesbury times- when the
average woman could show cheeks as ruddy as a rose, a
billowy bust, and calves that would do credit to a cham-
pion oarsman. The prosperity of all countries depends in
a great measure on the health and form of its women,
and we might do worse here than offer annual prizes for
the best made women in the State. This is done in
respect to cattle, pigs and poultry. Surely the well-being
of human kind is of more importance than these ?
This is very good in theory, but the writer of this
dejected footnote has looked at the stunted,
under-sized Brazilian, and can’t see where the
above yarn conies in. The Brazilian is the South
American pony, and looks “stiff” at that.
Indigestion Cured.
PERMANENTLY AND FOR GOOD.
“For a period of over four years I was a
sufferer from indigestion,” says Mr. Elliott
Watkins, of Lady Robinson’s Beach, Rockdale,
Sydney. “The symptoms which troubled me
most being a dizziness in the head, accompanied
by a languid feeling and a most perpetual and
intolerable headache. My stomach was distended
after eating, and violent gnawing pains attacked
me in the chest, breathing being, at times, most
distressing. I was also greatly troubled with
fits of vomiting, when I would be utterly prostrated
and temporarily deprived of sight. Bile Beans
were recommended to me, and the contents of the
first box gave me great relief, and, continuing
with them, for a month, I was completely cured.’’
Bile Beans have now a world wide reputation for
curing biliousness, headache, indigestion, con-
stipation, piles, debility, female weaknesses, ner-
vousness, bad blood, pimples and all skin erup-
tions, bad breath, anaemia, loss of appetite, sleep-
lessness, lumbago, rheumatism, in fact all ailments
that owe their origin to defective bile flow,
assimilation and digestion.
The Melbourne papers duly chronicled
the appointment of Bent’s railway scouts, but
they were painfully silent about the adven-
tures of those gentry and the manner of
their leaving the State’s service. The railway
men quickly got to know them, and duly laid
themselves out to lend them every assistance.
One rode up to the porter’s room at Spencer-st.,
stood his bike against the door and strolled round
to the back to listen. He had, of course, been
seen, and the porters’ remarks were of a strictly
Sunday school character, highly eulogistic of
Bent, who, they agreed, was the greatest states-
man in Australia—but when the scout started to
re-mount his bike the tyre was like a wet rag, the
handle-bars suddenly came unscrewed, and the
chain unaccountably slipped off. Another scout
inspected the repairing sheds at Newport. Every-
body was most civil and obliging, but it was truly
surprising the number of small boys who acci-
dentally spilt oil over the visitor’s new pruts, and
how bolts, nuts, and things uni countably
fell from the roof, where titters were replacing
some steam pipes, until, finally, a pot
of red lead fell with a dull thud just behind the
spy, painting his shoes a beautiful pink. Another
scout, overcome by the heat and burden of the
day, slipped into a cool-storage truck for a rest.
Certain evilly-disposed shunters thoughtfully closed
the door so that he shouldn’t be disturbed ; others
ticketed the truck “ Traralgon,”and hitched it on
to a train of empties, bound for Gippsland. The
confinee seems to have entered several strong pro-
tests on the way up, but they were unheeded, and
it was not till he was bumped up alongside the
platform at Traralgon that the stationmaster
opened the door and dragged him out dirty,
bruised and disgusted. That official promptly
sent for the local constable, and it was only after
much hard protestation and the despatch of
several telegrams that he wasn’t arrested for riding
without a ticket.


TO CURE SUFFERING ANIMALS.
A most useful Veterinary Book is attached
to every bottle of Condy’s Fluid. This
Book contains instructions for curing most
of the ailments and accidents affecting
Horses, Dogs, Sheep, Cattle and Poultry.
In this Book eminent Veterinary Surgeons
recommend Gondy’s Fluid as a certain
cure for Sore Shoulders* feore Backs,
Broken Knees, Grease,Thrush,and Cracked
Heels in Horses. —Scab, Foot Rot, Fly,
etc., in Sheep.—Hoove, Foul in the Foot,
Wounds and Sores in Cattle.
Condy’s Fluid is made by Condy and
Mitchell, Ltd., of 65, Goswell Road,
'London, England, and is sold by all
Chemists and Stores. Beware of Local sub-
stitutes. Inoist on having Conav’sfduid.
AUSTRALIAN STAMPS
Bought, Sold & Exchanged.
Gibbons’ Philatelic Albums
and all requirements. Price lists gratis.
j J. H. SMYTH & CO.,
88 KINO ST., SYDNEY.
Before booking: your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers’
Gazette & Sailing List, with map.
THOS. COOK & SON,
Collins st., Melbourne. 4 Hunter-st., Sydney.
SPECTACLES
Si
*
—FOR—
DEFECTIVE
VISION, t.
COUNTRY READERS
who cannot visit us
personally, we send,
Post Free to any ad-
dress, with full in-
structions and Price List, our marvellously-accurate
and popular SELF SIGHT-MEASURINC PATENT.
By its use you can Test your own sight and de-
termine for yourself the style and quality of the
glasses you may need. Write for it to-
ll* A. BARRACLOUGH* Optician,
385 CeOjjre-sLjJiydney (opposite Strand Arcade).
I “Don’t shout’
I hear you. I can hear now
as well as anybody.
"‘How?’ Oh some- |
ihingnew— The W-llson
Common-sense Ear-
Drum. I've a pair in my
ears now. you can't see them
-they’re invisible. I woman
know I had them in
only that I bear all right.
The Wilson Ear-Drum
really a substitute for me
working parts of the
natural ear. Has no
wire. Invisible, easy to ad
just, comfortable Totally
different from any other de-
; vice Descriptive pamphlet sent upon request
■». CH ALHfgV 229-281 Collins
POLITICAL
POINTS
N.S.W. evidently needs a short Act invali-
dating any evidence against the Crown by an ex-
Minister in a case arising from his own executive
acts.
Bully Bent is mad because some Vic.
railway men give “ wage reduction ” as a cause of
their insolvency. “ There has been no reduction,”
yells Mr. Bent. He is, in a way, right. Robbery
ia the correct term.
The Victorian railways have fallen into
such utter chaos that lately the department
couldn’t find trucks to shift its own coal. This at
a time when the Gippsland coal strike and the
failure of the wheat and wool crops have reduced
the demand for trucks to zero.
Mr. Owe’Sullivan, at Temora :
No doubt, with a few years’ development, the land
would be covered with the homes of brave and industri-
ous yeomen.
Doubtless “bones” was the word Owe’Sullivan
used. The fiendish compositor again.
Reid’s statement that Kingston was in his
wrong place as Minister of Customs brought forth
the prompt reply that Reid was in his right place
as the man who was out of office, but was trying
to get into his wrong place as Premier. Reid has
been ever since trying to think out a retort.
The political mill grinds with some intelli-
gence at times. Kyabram returned Tory Sammy
Lancaster. Sammy Lancaster’s mana being
immense 'biile the Kyabramapootra was at his
best, the great Waranga Basin water job was
promptly started in Sammy’s electorate. And as
a result there are 500 democratic navvies at work
m Sammy’s electorate who have hopes that their
\otes will be sufficient to eject Sammy next
election.
TEN DRINKS.
“ Wot was the accident, Bill!” “ Old gentleman gave me ’arf-a-crown in mistake for a penny.”
The King has increased the numbers *of
Knights and Companions of St. M. and St. G. —not
that the Companions matter much. Only Mayors
and such are likely to be caught by C.M.G. fodder.
Oughtn’t Australian radicalism to be rather shy
of the erection of Courts of Investiture on
this side of the world? We will have the Gov-
ernor-General be-titling people by accolade next,
and after a banquet he might miss the political
flunkey and strike a waiter instead. That would
bq awful!
The cable informs white Australia that it
has been arranged to attach British officers for
duty with the Japanese army, and, later, to simi-
larly attach some little brown Jap officers to the
British forces. A truly beautiful moral lies in
this grafting of the Rose and the Peach Blossom.
Australia may yet have to take care that it doesn’t
find an undesirable immigrant appointed com-
mander of its forces. Also, the unsophisticated
little brown “ officer and gentleman ” will now be
able to learn, at first hand, how to correct his
brother “officer and gentleman ” by making him
doff his pants, and belaboring him on his sitting-
down parts with a waddy.
The most wearying item in the daily papers
nowadays is that perpetual headline “Australia s
Need of Population.” When Australia makes
such a lamentable hash of the job of finding work
for the population it has got, the less said about
the need of more population the better.
It is a bitter commentary on the N.S.W -
Freetrade idea to see in a Sydney provision shop
the notice: —
Fine Canadian Geese and Turkeys.
N.S.W. has had the importing disease so severely
that it has got out of the way of even keeping its
own poultry.
The Reform Bill Conference between
members of the two Victorian Houses made no
approach to a settlement till it decided to meet in
secret. One secret meeting did it. There are
many persuasive things which one man can say to
another when no third man is listening, but which
he can’t say otherwise.
It came out in evidence during the
hearing of the master tailors’ dispute in the
Arbitration Court, that a Sydney employer
worked a coat hand 16 hours a day for a weekly
wage of 155., and that his mate, on a similar
salary, sometimes fainted at his machine. And
this is only one incident selected at random from
a list of sweating horrors.
In a recent murder case the foreman of a
Westralian jury so successfully kicked against its
recommendation to mercy being disregarded that,
at latest, the execution had been delayed for a
week to allow of further inquiries. Yet it ought
not to be necessary for any further inquiries to be
made to at least save the man’s neck, since the
jury’s recommendation can’t possibly mean less
than that.
In a recent letter to the Age, the chair-
man and secretary of the Kyabram Reform
League urged the various league branches to
refrain from making personal remarks about
either House of Parliament. The reformer who
doesn’t make unpleasant remarks might as well
retire from the business. The first beginning of
reform lies in showing that the unreformed thing
is an utter hog.
The petition to upset the Bruce (M.L.)
local option poll (prohibition was carried) on the
grounds of irregularities, was heard some time
ago, but the magistrate reserved his decision. On
a recent Saturday it was announced that he would
give his decision on the following Monday, and,
on the intervening Sunday, prayers were offered
up by all the teetotal parsons “ that the magis-
trate might have Divine guidance in arriving at
his decision.” On Monday he declared the poll
null and void, and left the parsons considering
whether to say that their prayers were of no avail,
or that the Lord guided the magistrate to decide
against them.
A weak point in the Maoriland Arbitration
law is that the contractor has little or no pro-
tection under it; and probably half of the miners,
to name only one class, are contractors—the mine-
owner lets contracts instead of putting men on
wages, expressly to dodge the law. Almost the
last case in the long list lately wiped out at Auck-
land ended in a judgment that “if this class of
workmen is to be brought within the law it must
be by distinct enactment.” That distinct enact-
ment had better hurry.
There should really be some means of
making Parliament responsible for neglectful
work. Take the Early Closing enactment in
New South Wales. Parliament, philanthropically
inclined, fixed an hour for closing shops in the
large centres, which was all right, but no provi-
sion was made for the opening hour. The result
is that an oystermonger, who shut up by law at
midnight and opened again almost immediately,
escaped penalties, the magistrate declaring that
the Act is badly constructed.
Turley .and Givens, two solid and reliable
Queensland Labor men, are mentioned as Labor
senatorial candidates to run with Stewart, the
retiring Labor Senator. At last State election the
property vote and energetic bulcocking of the
roles only kept Givens out at Cairns by 95 votes,
and Turley caine within 112 votes of Minister
Fox ton at Carnarvon. And the Federal rolls
aren’t bulcoeked.
Premier Seddon adds four members to his
Legislative Council; and after every name there
has been a chorus of “Whaffor”? Two of the
four are amiable politicians who have failed ; the
other two have nothing beyond the reputation of
being men who have looked well after the local
drain and the wandering local cow. Certainly a
Council built of this sort of material may not stick
out against reform like an elective body; but
that’s a very negative virtue, and there isn t even
standing room for a negative virtue in politics it
is all required for the positives.
The Auckland (M.L.) furniture-makers
who decided to close their factories and start as
importers’ houses rather than obey the Arbitration
Court’s order to pay journeymen £3
per week may yet find themselves
in the soup. Premier Seddon has
decided to hold a searching investi-
gation into the trade, and if it is
proved that the rate of £3 per week
does not prevent the local article
under-selling the imported clothes-
horse and wardrobe, then the em-
ployers’ union will be prosecuted
for contempt of court and perhaps
for conspiracy. Its case looks
rather bad in the light of the
fact that the Southern employers
are paying the rate awarded, and
apparently not being ruined there-
by. The Auckland employers have
always borne a bad name, and the worst
exposures of sweating in Maoriland have invari-
ably happened in the Northern ex-capital.
Cairns Argus, published in that Queens-
land town where a white man feels proud all over
when a Chinaman nods to him, says that Joe
Chamberlain “stands unchallenged, the foremost
man not only in Great Britain but in the whole
civilised world.” Only in the civilised world, you
see. Even in his wildest moment the Cairns editor
won’t offend his beloved Chinaman by putting
Chamberlain above him.
Vie. Premier Irvine, in patching up the
row with the Upper House, allowed that body to
persuade him to have eight Ministers instead of
seven. This means more expense, but it provides
a billet for Sachse, M.L.C., who was feeling a
little annoyed because he didn’t get Robert Reid’s
Education portfolio when that calico patriot found
that too much of his time would be taken up
arguing matters out with Kingston.
A vacancy having occurred in the Victorian
House of Rich Landlords an “ election ” has just
been held with the usual results. Only one per-
son was found in the district rich enough to stand,
and he was returned unopposed. Hopes are
entertained that when the scrap of reform that
Premier Irvine has in hand is secured, there will
occasionally be a contest for the Council. We
are a sporting people, sir, and this walk-over
business palls.
Lord Onslow, who was Governor of Maori-
land for three years ever so long ago, now poses in
Britain as an authority on Australasian affairs
generally, and the other day he explained to a
startled House of Coronets that a certain cable
from Queensland meant that the Federal
authorities were shipping Kanakas home to their
islands, where they would be promptly killed,
cooked and eaten by their loving relatives. Did
Onslow ever see a Kanaka ?
The “ backbone of the country ” is always
breaking out in fresh places. Among the appli-
cants for charitable seed-wheat allowances in Vic-
toria there turned up recently a pathetic and
broken-hearted individual, whose tale of woe
almost broke the Commissioner’s heart, till it
transpired that he owned .£4500 worth of land in
a well-watered part of the State, with only £640
mortgage on it. He came from up Kyabram way,
as usual —ever begging, ever cadging Kyabram.
That double-barrelled creature, the Tax-
Dodgers’-Union-cwm-People’s-Reform-League, got
it where the chicken got the axe over the Tam-
worth election. The Government flouted it, and
then Joey Carruthers kicked it, and nominated
his party’s candidate, and Wegg-Horne, who is
secretary to one half of the creature, almost wept
when word came that his candidate, Nankervis,
had thrown up the sponge by retiring from the
contest. Now the peculiar two-headed arrange-
menv is backing up Garland, the Opposition
candidate, for all it is worth, but it is worth very
little.
Minister Kingston “ rubbing it in ” to the
dishonest importer:
“ Some merchants plead that they make mistakes, that
the clerk was hurried. Well, employ more clerks. Don’t
sweat ’em more. They say, ‘ Oh, the clerk was young.’
Well, pay older men. You have to pay more wages, but
you get better service, and avoid fines. They say it was
written in French. Well, employ Frenchmen to translate
for them. They send up boys in knickerbockers, boys
not up to my shoulder, to see my chief officer. Well,
they should send more experienced persons. Some mer-
chants complained that they were brought before the
police court. It was not in attending the police court
that there was anything wrong—it was in the offence.”
The decision of the Brisbane jury that the
great softgoods importing firm of Robert Reid
(alleged Senator Reid, late Vic. Minister of Edu-
cation) and Co. intentionally defrauded the Cus-
toms revenue with doctored invoices will, per-
haps, be appealed against on all manner of legal
points. But since the unanimous verdict of a
long-considering jury on a multitude of points
there hasn’t been so much talk of appeal.
Anyhow, the episode tends to sink public
opinion of the importing clan a little lower,
and it was so low before that it is likely
soon to touch bottom. The adventures of Leah
Abrahams, of Melbourne, are alone sufficient to
bring importing into disrepute. That lady ap-
pears in a fair way to put up a record as the most-
fined person in Australia.
The great object of the present Victorian
Government is, apparently, to undermine demo-
cratic laws by underhand means. Bent’s Railway
Department now calls for tenders with a minimum
wage clause in the conditions, and then gives the.
work to foreign sweaters because, not being subject
to the minimum wage, they can do it a shade
cheaper. The law that was meant to secure the
Victorian a decent wage is thus distorted into a
means of depriving him of any wage at all.
The Victorian Government presumes pretty
far on the elasticity of the public service. Clerks
of courts have just received an intimation from
the Attorney-General that they are to obtain
copies of the voters’ rolls and tick off thereon the
names of all parties whom they believe to be in
receipt of an income of £l5O a-year and upwards.
One of- these days the public
servant will be strained beyond
the “limit of perfect recovery,”
as the engineers say, and
snap like over - stretched
rubber.
THE CONFIDENCE MAN.
“With sound finance, economy, return of good season*
and more enlightened (!) views on commerce, &c., we may
expect a return of the confidence of our creditors.”—
AROUS.
COHEN (of London) : " As soon as you chuck up
Protection and Labor Politics, Pm ready to
show you the three-card trick again.”
In reply to Brisbane Courier, which
asserted that Bishop Webber’s cathedral-cadging
tour was injuring Queensland’s financial credit, a
Brisbane clergyman, Archdeacon David, replies
husly :
If all the Bishops in Queensland, Anglican and Roman.
Catholic, were to make a simultaneous appeal for help,
their united efforts could not do one tithe of the injury
to public credit accomplished by the issue of Treasury
Bills for the purpose of meeting deficits in current
revenue. English .financiers regard this method of bor-
rowing as illegitimate. Ihe State is in the position of a
man who, when the bank has refused a further advance,,
has to raise money by promissory notes.
The Yankees don’t seem to have any over-
whelming regard for our trade. A recent ship-
ment of fruit from Sydney by the Sierra was held
up by the California State authorities till the
Legislature could pass a Bill authorising its des-
truction at the garbage crematory —and then it
was landed and reduced to ashes with almighty
celerity. The ostensible reason was that a fruit
S3Bt, which this country originally imported from
alifornia, might be imported back into America.
Exports are always liable to strike snags like that.
Better devote ourselves to supplying the local
market.
The Labor candidate at Tamworth holds
that “State borrowing should be gradually re-
duced.” This is consoling in a way, but it would
be pleasing to know how much he is prepared to
reduce it to, and how gradually he proposes to
arrive at that point, whatever it may be. In the
absence of definite information on this matter the
people should gradually vote for him and every
other man of his way of thinking —very gradually.
Asa rule this vague sort of aspiration after better
things means that this generation should make
good resolutions and the next one should do the.
actual swearing off.
If, as has been suggested, the Sydney
Municipal Council can take over the Resumed
Rocks Area in sections from the State and re-
build it, a solution would be found for a serious
difficulty. It is quite evident that the State
Government, unless it cuts down expenditure so
as to have some revenue money available, will not
be able to do anything to carry out its finely-
conceived but miserably-managed resumptions
policy for many years to come ; but the Municipal
Council, with better credit and a better chance of
economical management, might carry a splendid
project to a successful conclusion.
“ M.” writes :
The “ slight unpleasantness” referred to in your parrs
the resignation of Maoriland Police Commissioner Tun-
bridge (B. 28/2/’O3) was slight to the extent of being the
biggest scandal that the force in Maoriland ever knew.
A police sergeant and two constables in the execution of
their duty found it necessary to arrest some gilded youth*
of Nelson. Their fathers “had influence,” which
secured the dismissal of the officers in question.
An inquiry was urged by the Opposition press, and the
folks of Sleepy Hollow kept holding indignation meetings
till they got the investigation the}' wanted. Tunbridge
exonerated the men and recommended their reinstate-
ment, but his decision was calmly overridden. The
affair is going to cause Seddon some trouble when
Parliament meets in July.
While Premier Irvine vaunts the “finality
provisions of the Reform Compromise, he would
do well to consider a specific instance of their
effect. The Victorian Factories Act comes up
next October for re-enactment. The newly-
elected Council, knowing its power, will probably
so amend this as to make it utterly useless. The
matter then proceeds after this fashion : Amend-
ments'rejected. Bill then laid aside by Council.
Assembly dissolved and Bill re-passed. Former
amendments insisted on by House of 35 Moder-
ately Bloated Landlords. Assembly returns re-
inforced. Council, chosen from the select coterie
of large landowners, also returns re-in forced
opinion, and once more rejects the Bill. What
then ? There is no joint sitting, no referendum,
nothing. Where is the finality ?


CALLAGHAN
BUTTON BOOT
pglgpg
24/6
POST
AND
DUTY
FREE
Except to
West Australia.
WEAR
GOOD
BOOTS
AND
SAVE
MONEY
Men’s French Calf, to Button,
Pointed or Medium Toe, Fins Made-
to-Order Appearance, price, 23/6
THE SAME BOOT IN TAN AT THE SAME PRICE.
Post and Duty Free through the Commonwealth, 24/6, except Westralia.
We want to convince sceptics that all the Style, Fit. Elegance and Durability that
seems possible to be put into a boot is put into every pair of Callaghan Boots.
A GENTLEMAN WRITEB :
“Messrs. CALLAGHAN & SON,
“Gentlemen,—! am thoroughly pleased, the boots being to my liking in shape, fit, and
finish. T ey are as comfortable as a glove on me. Should they prove up to expectations in
wear, I will not only continue our patronage, but will recommend others to you.— R. A.C.”
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 ceorce st., Sydney.
VITADATIO
FOR INSOMNIA. TRY IT!
Pains in Chest, Loss of Appetite and
Sleep.
Half-Moon Bay,
Stewart Island, N.Z.,
Mr. S. A. PALMER, June 23, 1899.
Invercargill Depot.
I have much pleasure in testifying to the benefits
received from VITADATIO. I have been a great sufferer
for the past six years, and have had the best medical
advice in Dunedin and Invercargill, without receiving any
satisfactory results. I was told my disease was incurable,
my lungs badly affected, and terrible pains in the chest,
and never had appetite or good sleep for months.
After taking five (5) large bottles of Vitadatio I feel a
different man.
I will never go without a bottle of Vitadatio in my
house. lam now enjoying good health, and thankful for
the great remedy.
You have liberty to use this letter as you wish,
Yours faithfullv,
(Signed) TOM ROBERTS,
Half-Moon Bay, Stewart Island.
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER,
184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The price of medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
Glorious Rains at Last!
More Hopeful Prospects.
Now that the drought really appears to have
broken, and prospects seem more hopeful, you
will feel inclined to invest in a Waterproof or
Oilskin Coat. In which case, post your orders to
Charles Gilbert, the Specialist in Men’s Wear,
Queen-street, Brisbane, whose values in these
goods are notoriously the best in the Common-
wealth. All coats guaranteed Waterproof, with
sewn and taped seams, at 215., 255., 30s. to 50s.
Oilskins, 15s. 6d., 17s. 6d., 225. 6d. (leather-bound
and double-lined). Carnage paid to any address.
Send a trial order to-day for anything in Men’s
Wear.
FOR^>»
VARICOSE VEINS
TRY OUR
Silk Elastic Hosiery,
Stockings, Kneecaps, Leggings,
Thigh Pieces, Anklets,
Abdominal Belts, &c„ &c.
Manufactured specially to order.
Write for our Measurement Forms.
DENYER BROTHERS,
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Opp. Hunter-St. And at Melbourne.
FREE
BY POST, A MEDICAL
TREATISE by that justly-
celebrated FREVCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST,
DR. RABONSKI, 'showing- sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OP ALL NERVOUS 'TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.
Free for Asking.
WRITE to us and we will forward you our scientific
book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magic, and you will be filled with energy,
strength and amhition once more. Posted free. Write
to G. Specific, Elizabeth Street, North Melbourne.
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, 1s
The Life, Adventures
and Confesssions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
5=
3*
Send stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books arui Novelties
Madame Panza,
BOX 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY
Professor W. Hodgson Ellis, Official
Analyst to the Canadian Government,
certifies that Sunlight Soap contains no
free alkali and no adulteration whatever.
Sunlight
SOHP
REDUCES
expense:
FLAVELLE, ROBERTS
The Most Highly
Qualified Opticians
in all Australia,
>ISANKEY,
Queen St., Brisbane,
Rockhampton, London.
Scientific
Manufacturing
Opticians . .
Save Double Profits by Procuring from the Makers.
,f III 1 •»
x\
illmll hsJ v/stf)
X*
,u A. V w\v
y <5
Sight-Testing
FREE.
SEND FOR FREE BOOK,
44 The Human Eye
and its Care.”
BEST LONDON SMOKE SOLID NICKEL
OOQGLES FOR LIGHT OR GLARE, 3s.
SPECTACLES TO ORDER, from ss.
Oculists’ Prescriptions of
all Kinds made up.
ASK FOR PRICES.
SPECIAL ATTENTION given to Prescrip-
tions by Pest from any Part of
Australia.
Moderate Charges.
Good Work,
ALL REPAIRS BY RETURN HAIL.
FLAVELLE, ROBERTS *SANKEYi«
Optical Workshops
150 Queen St., Brisbane
East St., Rockhampton
Under the direction of Mr. 0. Sankey Fraser, F.S.M.C., Fellow of the Worshipful Company of Spectacle Makers,
London ; Diploma, British Optical* Association ; Diploma, Visual Optics, Northampton Institute ; Diploma,
Applied Optics, Northampton Institute. (All the above honors were gained by examination.)
wmmi
I§1) i
-;6S«)V
i^.;«
'TSXttt
'1
S.CT
CORSETS
The Recognised Standard
High-Class Corsets
LATEST SPECIALTY
STRAIGHT FRONT
NOUVELLE FORM
Obtainable from Leading
Drapers Everywhere.
Avoid Inferior Imitations, and see that
each pair bears the Manufacturer’s “Trade
Mark ” on band inside, as above.
N.S.W. Acting Chief Justice was surprised, the
other day, by the statement that a public work
costing £100,000 can be carried out without
authority of Parliament. How innocent some
Judges are ! To carry out a work in sections,
each section costing something less than
£20,000 (all works costing over £20,000 must
be submitted to the Works Committee)
has for years been the commonest of
administrative tricks. There is probably not a
roads and bridges member, and there has not been
one for the last ten years, who has not besought
some Minister or other to practise it. “Joey”
Carruthkrs, the alleged financial purist of to-
day, was about the first to do it on a large scale
when he was at the Education office ; and the
vicious system has drifted on until nowadays the
healthy provision of submitting every large
works proposal to the semi-judicial Works Com-
mittee, and through that body to Parliament,
is very nearly an expensive and elaborate
farce. The law has been in this way dodged and
defeated with regard to public buildings, sewer-
age and similar works, telephone tunnels, tram-
wavs, and half a dozen other things. Only a few
weeks ago the start of a work, ultimately to cost
at least £200,000, was found to run into £21,000,
but the difficulty was soon got over—three or
four feet were temporarily knocked off the top of
a proposed wall, and, the estimated cost being
thus squeezed below £20,000, the Minister bowed,
and the importuning M.P. went away happy.


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security. M
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
&
&
BILLS
DISCOUNTED-
3xr.s,^7\r.
fl]ontdepieteD.«|.o->[td-
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74
CASTLEREAGH ST.,
SYDNEY
74
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
'-THU-^
Colonial Mutual Life
assurance society limited,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offioes - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Robirts
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,595,870.
Policies issued 88,299 - assuring £26,826,380.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,767,115.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses —eauitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
file j}ank of Dorth Queensland
mm men.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manasrer- Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
j p canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
“’Told Sb ". ; 250 'WO £350,000
Royal Bank of Queensland
J LI MIT.KB.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. .. •• •• £456,927
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 176,239
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 58,000
£691,166
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Queensland Smelting jjompy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
•DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
JD Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, the Branch
Office, 54 Market-street. Melbourne, or IRWIN HINDS,
Branch Manager, 6 Spring-street, Sydney.
The savings bank
HAS MONEY TO LEND in VICTORIA
at 4i per cent., in sums of £5OO to £15,000, on Town
Properties ; and £2OOO to £25,000 on BROAD ACRES
FOR FIVE YEARS, with option of paying off part
half-yearly.
FARMERS’ CREDIT FONCIER.
Loans from £5O to £2OOO at 4£ per cent, for 31£ years.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
29 Market-street, Melbourne. ■
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors —Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Hon. John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.
Managers : Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farouhar J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australia
r arquhar. u 181 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Building's, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders
2,000,000
500,000
Total Capital ■ • £2,500,000
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Coliins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) _ £9576 13 i
Directors l F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant. Managei
our No. 56 ACETYLENE GAS Catalogue
•- -J. '.
■
s the MOST COMPLETE
and COMPREHENSIVE
ever issued.
Tells all about the Best
ACETYLENE CIS GENER-
ATORS, LAMPS, arid
everything in connection
with ACETYLENE.
Nearly 4-00 of our
Reliable Automatic
Acetylene Gas
Generators
in daily use.
Large Stocks of the
Best
Carbide
ofCaicium
Quotations on application.
James martin & co.,
161 Clarence Street.
Nr. King-st., Sydney.
Shipping.
]\r. d. l.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin-screw steamer.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
Interstate First Class Return Tickets are now available
for Return by the Steamers of the P. and 0., Orient
Pacific, or M.M. Co.’s.
TO SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. STETTIN, isth MAY.
And Regularly Every 6 Weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents.
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
TH€ A3€RD€€N LINC.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
•MORAVIAN
AUSTRALASIAN..
SOPHOCLES
A. Simpson
T. F. Spalding ..
H. A. Schleman
Noon, April 10
Noon, May 1
Noon, May 22
London
Cape and Natal
•Calling at Hobart.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
.. £55 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
.. £3l 103 .. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £l2O.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
Huddart, parker & C°’s C ine
—TO —
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
sac jni i rr
ajjiv
via
San Francisco,
California.
FASTEST AMP BEST
ROUTE
TO
ENGLAND,
Via America and Canada*
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited,
Capital Paid-up ...
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
£1,000,000 0 0
1,010,000 0 0
1,000,000 0 0
£3,010,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
G. J. Cohen, Esq Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.O Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. R. Jones, M.L.C. Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. F. T. Humphery, M.L.C.
Auditors:
W. L. Docker, Esq. James O. Fairfax, Esq.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager: T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane
Directors: Sir J. A. Youl, K.C.M.G; F. H.
Dangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq. ; Hon. H S
Littleton. Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
CO. (Limited).
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS* SYDNEY*
CAPITAL “ £500,000
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks . ■
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Bents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Rates Very Low.
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find ever}- comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. KILDA.
mHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
-L Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
J-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
tforDuset [Lights
GCeaLUrty JnfhiUs
TRY
Dhc
J&esL
FOOD
Refuse a// f/n/fa f/ons
Salisfying. Strengthening Soothing for Infants
Agreeable Digestible, Nourishing
AGENTS TOR SYDNEY.
SAYERS AUPORT 4- POTTER
,r »r»ES FOOD MILLS LONDON. E*c
The Bulletin Stoi’y Book:
By Sixty Bru.i ri.N Writers. Cloth, 300
pages ; price, 4s. 6d.; postage, 6d.
THE GREAT
/ OVERSEA 1
\ OVERLAND J
HIGHWAY
TO THE UNITED KINGDOM,
Via NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH SEAS, and AMERICA.
The NEWEST, LARGEST (6000 Tons each), FASTEST,
and ONLY TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS engaged in
the TRANS-PACIFIC PASSENGER SERVICE from
Australia and New Zealand.
Round the World Itineraries compiled.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Managing Agents,
Pitt and Bridge Sts. SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
STEAMERS SAIL—
April 20, May 18, June ,15
July 13.
Moana, on May 18, is the
Most Popular Steamer on
the Pacific.
CHOICE OF CANADIAN PACIFIC LAKE ROUTE,
WITHOUT EXTRA CHARGE.
Cheapest lioute to London.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
Unrivalled Position in LONDON
(England),
The Langham Hotel
PORTLAND PLACE
And REGENT STREET, LONDON, W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con=
venient and Healthy Locality.
nodern Appointments. Moderate Tariff.
Hygienic (Hater Filters
AVOID TYPHOID, ILL-HEALTH, and DISEASE
BY USING OUR
Hygienic Water Filters
With Rubber Attachment to fit any Top.
THE CHARCOAL AND SILEX
which these Filters contain is the very
Best Water Purifier Known to Scientists as it
Removes all Germs and other Impurities
When ordering- mention size of tap in use.
PRICE :
LARGE
SIZE,
45.,
MEDIUM
SIZE,
25.,
POST
PAID.
Agents—VICTORIA: WARTZKI, FREEDMAN and CO
GEELONG, VIC.
Agent-QUEENSLAND : ARTHUR BRAY,
92 EAGLE ST., BRISBANE
Agent-TASMANIA : WERTHEIMER, BENJAMIN am
ANDERSON, HOBART and LAUNCESTON.
Agent—SOUTH AUSTRALIA : AUSTRALIAN TRADIN
AGENCY. GENDERS BUILDING, ADELAIDE. '
Agent— N.S.VV. : ANTHONY HORDERN and SONS
HOLDSWOR TH, MACPHERBON & CO., SYDNEY,
and all Hardware and Ironmongery Stores.
If not obtainable at. your Storekeeper, send to
Sole Agent, Australasia,
J* LANDES, 108 Pitt St., Sydney
! At Dawn and Dusk:
i • J- Palkv. In handsome doth
with portrait. Price ss.postage, Id.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
as. Rockton,
Friday, April 3
(To Melbourne Only).
S.S. Wollowra,
Saturday, Aprjl 11.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oairns
S.S. Warrego, Sat., April 4.
S.S. Rockton.Sat., April 11.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
D AND Q COMPANY’B
ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON-Single, £3B to £77
Ditto Ditto Return,£66 to £ll5
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by Orient-Pacific, Messageries
Mari times and N.D.L. Steamers having room.
63 Pitt-street.
A. GORDON WESCHE,
Acting Agent.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with tbs
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows:
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meat)
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Custom*
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
State Ports are available lor return by P. and 0.,
Orient Pacific and N.D.L. steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Office*
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydnev.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. . BY THE . .
“E. and a.” LINE
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Steamer. iTns; Commander. |LeaveSydney.
♦Does not call at Port Darwin.
EVERY CON > ENIENCE FOR A TROPICAL VOYAGE.
The Saloon Ca <ins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Europe via Canada,
U.S. America, or the Trans-Siberian Railway.
For handbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LI).,
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-st., Sydney.
OR. J. GOLLIS BROWNE’S
CHLORODYNE
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyna
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, <kc., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—■
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
IHE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ot
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlokodynk. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
ORNAMENTAL hair.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers 4, Wigmakers.
Send, to us for Price Lists of Anything you uiant.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Eoyal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to
any Part of Australasia
CRAIG & A.ITKEN,
N.S.W. Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 George Street, Sydney.
GENTS.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREi. BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Addkkss. L.D.1., 300 Collins St., Melbourn®


THE! AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, tlie well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send ti.eir parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance
is solicited
The Broken Hill ice-cream man’s advertise-
ment :
PUBLIC NOTICE.
T BEG to thank my numerous Customers in Broken
Hill for the liberal patronage accorded me up to
the present time. I make my living by selling little
Lollies and Ice Cream, and I blow a sound. I have no
connection whatever with another sound that tra-
verses my rounds ahead of me. Since you have dealt
with me I have had the assurance that I have always
given satisfaction ; and I respectfully solicit the
patronage so liberally accorded me in the past.
Charley’s motto : “ Quality, quantity, and satisfac-
tion.”
I will, as hitherto, call on my rounds at the usual
time.
No connection with any shop in town.
Look out for the RED CART.
Your obedient dealer,
Charley Ice Cream Man.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR,
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.
FREE!
Send your name and
address to —
Chamberlain Medicine Co.
64 Elizabeth St., Sydney
(A Post Card will do).
and they will forward you a
Free Sample of
Chamberlain’s
BMP*'
Stomach and
Liver Tablets
JUST WHAT YOU NEED.
JM, fK VULK&hXK
wen
WEfiVjVATE. IVUL UN
<A r \ ~NO
Vft XCw^tw
/ VI \
§#'<: •Sp
BETTER THAN PILLS.
The question, has been asked : “In what
way are Chamberlain’s Stomach and
Liver Tablets superior to pills?” Our
answer is—they are easier and more pleasant
to take, more gentle and kind in their action
and more reliable, as they can always be
depended upon. Then they cleanse and
invigorate the stomach and leave the bowels
in & natural condition, while pills are more
harsh in effect and their use is often followed
by constipation. Try and be convinced.
NOTE.—If not able to obtain Chamber-
lain’s Stomach and Liver Tablets locally,
a package will be sent, post paid, upon
receipt of 1/6. or six packets for 8/-, by
addressing Chamberlain Medicine Co., 64
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. 11 9
UNDER THE ROYAL PATRONAGE OF
H.M. THE QUEEN OF GREECE.
H.R.H. PRINCESS MARIE OF GREECE.
H.R.H. THE DUKE OF SPARTA.
ilgli
H.R.H. THE DUCHESS OF SPARTA.
H.R.H. PRINCESS HOHENLOHE.
H.R.H. PRINCE GEORGE OF GREECE.
(High Commissioner oj Crete, &c., &c.)
EDWARDS’
99
FOR
THE
Photo d specially for the " Harleue - Jo., by Langf h ■ w .
Hay market Theatre, ..^■■uon.
Miss JULIA NEILSON
writes —
“ / am at. present trying your ‘ Hartene ' jvr my
hair, and / find it one of the best Hair Tonics and
Restorers / have ever used, and I have tried many.
Will you kindly send me two more bottles.
THE GREAT HAIR
PRODUCER and RESTORER.
THE FINEST DRESSING SPECIALLY PREPARED AND
DELICATELY PERFUMED.
A LUXURY AND A NECESSITY TO EVERY MODERN TOILET
“Harlene” Produces Luxuriant Hair. Prevent its Falling Off ana lurning
Grey, Unequalled for Promoting the Growth of the Beard and Moustache.
The World Renowned Remedy for Baldness. For Preserving, Strengthening
and Rendering the Hair Beautifully Soft, for Removing Scurf Dandruff, &c.,
'also for Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Colour.
Crown Prince’s Palace, Athens.
H.R.H. PRINCESS MARIE OF GREECE
writes—“ Messrs. Edwards’ Preparation, ‘Harlene’ for the Hair, has given entire
satisfaction. H.R.H. wishes six more bottles of ‘ Harlene ’ sent as soon as possible.”
Kitegybaza, County Bikis, Hungary.
COUNTESS DENIS ALMASY
writes—“ Please forward me three more bottles of‘Harlene,’ as I am particularly satisfied
with the two bottles sent me to Switzerland, and have been using it ever since.”
Full Description and Directions for use in Twenty Languages supplied with every
Bottle. 1/-, 2/6, and (three times 2/6 sizel 4/6 per I «*4tle, from Druggists, &c.,
all over the World.
Plioto’d specially lor tbe “ Harlene Co., by Lancfier. Bond St., W.
Ganick Theatre, London.
Miss VIOLET VANBRUGH
w) ties —
'' / am very pleased to testify to the excellent
qualities 0/ \Harleneit is most refreshing and
invigorating and I have found it very Stimulating
to the Growth 01 my Hair.
“ P.S. —/ hope fate will never take me to any
quarter of the globe where 1 ‘d'ould be unable
to procure • Harlene.' "
.EDWARDS’ “ HARLENE ” Co-, 95 & 96, Hoibem, London, W*C
Business, Robbery, etc.
“0.0.”: Maybe I got the impression from
reading the Owe'Sulli van’s speeches, but my idea of a
contractor was a soft-handed gentleman, with a bay-
window on his front elevation, who merely waved his
hand at his sweated employees, and said, “Make this
building arise!” and it rose, and great was the profit
thereof. Since I let a building contract my ideas on the
subject have altered. The first man on the job arrived
about daybreak, and had put in a couple of hours’ work
upon the foundations before the rest of the men arrived.
Two of them rode bikes, and another, whom I took to be
the contractor, arrived in a sulky. They greeted the
first arrival as Bill, and then leisurely peeled off, and
started laying bricks. I noticed that Bill, in addition to
his own work, had to “ chuck a few more bricks here,”
and “another barrow-load o’ concrete there,” for his
mates, while they pulled their pipes. I concluded he was
the slave and derelict of the party. At 6, after all the
others had ridden or driven away with a “S’long Bill,”
that tireless individual was still working, and, when I
inquired why he didn’t leave with the rest, he staggered
me by replying : “In these times a contractor has to
take advantage of all the daylight he can get. I can’t
afford to knock off with my men.” And it was dark when
Bill trudged off to town in the tracks made by his “ sweated
workmen” on wheels. I never met another contractor
like Bill; has anyone else encountered him or his dupli-
cate?
* * • *
At Warrnambool (Vic.) Insolvency Court an
insolvent groom lately applied for a discharge. The debts
amounted to only £l2, and the smallness of the amount
seemed to work the Judge into a fury. “He had never
heard of a man going insolvent for such a sum, and he
would not grant a certificate until the insolvent had paid
20s. in the £. If the practice of going insolvent for small
gums were to be allowed, the courts would be swarming
with these absurd insolvencies.” Of course, a man who
owes £l2 would deserve better of the community if he
paid his debts instead of “finking.” But the effect of
the Judge’s remarks will be to create the impression that
while he will receive with open arms the shark who finks
for a sum right up to the capacity of the court, he
despises the mere amateur linker who cannot beat his
creditors for a bigger amount than £l2. And the
prospective insolvent, more logical than the Judge, will
decide to owe more than £l2.
* • • •
“C.W.R.”: yRe the fiscal atrocities placed to
the discredit of Minister Kingston. Some years ago I
held the exalted position of invoice clerk to a firm of
importers. We generally received an invoice for customs’
purposes; another for ledger entry. They used to
vary considerably, the customs passes being 50 per
cent, below our ledger entry for the same goods.
It was none of my business to inquire into the
anomaly. 1 only learnt the truth, over beer, from the
customs clerk, who was daily passing bogus invoices
which never reached the ordinary clerical staff.
The trick must be now known to Minister Kingston and
his officers. It is simple. The exporter sends an invoice
specially prepared for customs purposes. In it he states
that so many yards of calico are l£d. per yard, and so many
yards of velveteen are lid. per yard. In the genuine
invoice, which is never seen by the customs authorities,
the same goods appear as linen, 2s. per yard ; velvet, ss.
ditto. Take it from me, the biggest swindlers in the
community are those smug, suave tricksters who hold up
their hands in horror-stricken amazement when some
poor wretch is found guilty of purloining a pound of
steak or a loaf of bread. Kingston is doing for composite
Australia what separate Australia neglected to do for
itself. All honor to him.
* * * •
“J.F.D.”: The small tailor who has got an
order from out back and a letter thanking him for the
fit and style of the garments is unscrupulous in dealing
with his correspondence. A Sydney snip displays a
letter in his window wherein a grammarless gent from
Cooney’s.Creek way, after thanking him for the suit, tells
him confidentially that he proposed to his girl the first
day he wore it, and was accepted. And how many of the
fools who write to the “specks before the eyes” man
know that their letters are often exhibited, with full
names and addresses in the specialist’s window. Knew a
man who was running a new strength-giving medicine,
one bottle of which enabled you to lift two tons. Ha
went round wherever a specialist exhibited his correspon-
dence and took all the names and addresses, and then
deluged the “ completely cured” and “ restored to life "
crowd with his advertising pamphlets. He got much
business that way, too. When once a man gets the habit
of being completely cured he keeps on at it.
“ Adelaide ” : Re recent discussion in Bulletin
as to weighing paper with what is wrapped in it, the
English Weights and Measures Act expressly deals with
that practice. A recent mail shows that a tea co. in
Wolverhampton was fined £4, the manager £2, and
the assistant manager £l, for “ fraud, by weighing sugar
in bags of a very heavy nature.” It was a special case,
the magistrate saying that mineral matter was worked
into the paper solely to increase the weight.
* • • *
A Bulletin contributor gives a personal ex-
perience of the mone3 r -lender. “Pressed for money I
interviewed a financier and negotiated a loan of £5 —
security a sale note transferring about £l5O worth of
household furniture to lender. This note was designated
“ a mere matter of form.” Interest was fixed at £1 for
30 days. At end of month I renewed the loan and paid
the interest £l. Meantime I was sued for an
old-standing disputed claim, and verdict for £l4
15s. was recorded against me. After interval of
24 hours an unsavory bailiff took possession of
my front parlor. In order to remove him I was
compelled to borrow £l4 15s. on a bill of sale, from
money-lender No. 2; interest £4 ; debt to be repaid at
the rate of 10s. per week. On registration of bill-of-sale,
financier No. 1 pounced down upon me and threatened
gaol for mortgaging his property Gave me 24 hours to
pay £5 (original amount borrowed), £1 interest, and £1
10s. for disturbing his peace of mind—or some-
thing of that sort. Situation looking desperate,
I compromised, and gave No. 1 £1 in cash
and the actual possession of about £2O worth
of books, a £23 bicycle, and a marble timepiece-
same to be redeemed within a month on payment of £8
10s ; if not redeemed, to be sold, and proeeeds appro-
priated by lender. When 1 called at the end of the
month, I was told that the property had been disposed
of for £4, leaving a balance of £4 10s. to be paid I 1 was
asked what / intended to do. Pent-up wrath supplied
the answer, and physical violence raised two lumps on
No. l’s countenance. I have not heard from him since,
although I expect to receive a doctor’s bill one of these
days, with compound interest added, and the sum of £4
10s. interest “ brought forward.” The matter there-
fore stands thus: I borrowed £5, and within four
months paid £2 in cash and sacrificed fully £5O worth of
property, and I still owe a balance of £4 10s. ! At pre-
sent I am wrestling with No. 2, who lent the £l4 15s. He
seems likely to go on for ever.
« • * •
“ Petrainos ”: Know an Adelaide chap who,
though only 19, is manager of a department in a big soft-
goods warehouse. Firm is short of hands and he does
considerable overtime. Been with the firm four years
and gets 15s. a week and an occasional tea-ticket. Also,
instancing the benefits of education, am acquainted with
a University fellow holding a responsible position in
an office who ekes out 10s. per week. Could name
quite half-a-dozen fellows over 21 who earn from 10s. to
20s. weekly in one of the biggest businesses of its kind in
Australasia.
* * • •
“ E.”: Buying and selling businesses is not a bad
game if you have some luck. Know a man who has started
seven shops in the last nine months and sold them all as
going businesses, getting a reasonable sum for goodwill.
He deals in businesses for sale, and starts shops as a side
line.
* * * •
“J.A.C.”: In Bul. 14/3/’O3, “ Eko ” says re the
pawnbroker : “ He pays a big license fee, must keep the
article six months, can charge only Is. in the £, &c.”
Now, I hold a pawn-ticket for 55., on which sd. per
month has to be paid. That is £1 in the £ per annum,
or 100 per cent. Can “ Eko” reconcile this fact with his
statement?
m * • •
“Eleda”: During height of land boom (Vic.)
was travelling by rail N.S.W.-wards, when a canny old
Scot confidingly told me that he had just sold his sheep
run at Donnybrook to a Melbourne syndicate, which pro-
posed laying out a township there, as it was then ex-
pected that D. would shortly become an important rail-
way junction. The terms were a small cash deposit, and
the balance by bills over several years. Being about the
only boom sceptic I ever heard of, I asked the ancient if
there was any doubt as to his obtaining the balance in the
event of the scheme proving a failure. “Na, na, mon,”
he chuckled, confidently ; “why the chief mon on the
syndicate’s B. J. Fink.”
• • * »
A cheque written in the Irish language was
recently refused payment at a bank in Navan, County
Meath. Enough to make King Nial of the Showers turn
in his stone coffin.
* * • *
Report from Adelaide Evening Journal re a
prospecting party :—“ They will go first to Arltunga,
their outfit preceding them ; but will not confine their
prospecting to the Arltunga district, having information
of another locality further out, where god is known to
exist.” Hitherto the district referred to has been looked
upon as rather a God-forsaken country, but evidently the
Journal has exclusive information on the point.
» * » *
“Scotty the Wrinkler” (indignantly), to
“ J.F.D.” (Bulletin, 14/3/’O3) : If I know nothing of tea,
I know logic. I never said that the 3d. pot of tea, in
which I and all my mates delight, cost more than swell
tea ; I only said it was better. As I wrote before—the
best tea, barring Dakins’, Empress of China, some Assam
Flowery Pekoe, and Ladakh Brick Tea, that I ever tasted,
only cost 6|d. per lb. Whether it was sold in error or
not I know not, but I copped the box. What writing a
list of the ll£d. tea-buyers has to do with the point
J.F.D. may know. Again I state that I know a dozen 3d.
pot tea-houses, where you get fresh tea, fresh scones,
butter, milk and sugar, good enough for me. But there
is a tea that I have seen only at £1 Is. per oz. or so, and
I believe it is superb. J.F.D. —Just Flap Doodle.
1 A.B.S. : While waiting for a train at
Spencer-street station (Melb.), I observed a
porter pick up a voung woman’s dress-basket and
fj nd a seat f or j )er j n a train. After he had shut
door, and she had «,ted herself, he put hie
hand through the window for a tip. Ihe girl,
not being acquainted with the art of tipping,
shyly took hold of his hand and shook it, and, as
t he tra j n started, said timidly, “ Good-bye, and
thank you ! ” And the porter being a mercenary
, J . , 1 . - • , A f t
scml-as most porters have to be in the land of
Thomas Bent didn t feel as if the gratitude or a
bright, fresh child of nature made up for the
absence of 6d.


| FACILE PRINCEPS. | | SEMPER IDEM. |
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
In these times of drought and financial depres-
sion it is like an oasis in the wilderness to come across an
Australian manufacturing firm that is not only holding
its own but extending its business by leaps and bounds.
This happy position is the envied one of the Dunlop Tyre
Co., who, despite working double shifts at their big Mel-
bourne mills, are still unable to cope with the demand for
their goods. During the past few months the output of
Dunlop cycle and vehicle tyres and general rubber goods
has increased 40 per cent.—a result that speaks volumes
for the material and workmanship embodied in the
Company’s goods.*
* m * m
During the past few months the output of
Dunlop cycle and vehicle tyres and general rubber goods
has increased 40 per cent.—a result that speaks volumes
for the material and workmanship embodied in the com-
pany’s goods.*
A Sceptic Convinced.
Doubt Turned to Faith.
The sceptical unbeliever is a man often to be
shunned. Without faith he goes through the
world endeavouring to combat truths which he
cairtiot understand, and often throwing cold
water upon others’ firm convictions. Mr. J. H.
King, of 11, Jersey Terrace, Sydney, was once
a sceptic. He doubted that years of agony and
pain could be turned into joy and pleasure.
To-day he is a firm believer in the truth of those
things he once so persistently doubted. Read
what he writes:—“On the recommendation of
a friend, I purchased a bottle of Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills. I put little or no faith in
them, but in a few days I was surprised and
pleased to find that my digestion was decidedly
improved. For me this was something to be
more than thankful for. Many years I had
suffered from chronic dyspepsia. Years of pain
had undoubtedly dulled my senses to the fact
that a cure for me somewhere did exist, but
year in year out I suffered from this dire
complaint, and try what doctors or medicine I
could, no change for the better resulted. Purely
in the spirit of curiosity, at last I took Dr.
Morse’s Indian Hoot Pills. They did in a few
days what years of other medicines and doctors
had failed to do. lam now entirely free from
any trace of my old complaint. My appetite is
good, and I can digest with ease and comfort all
kinds of food, and it is with feelings of the
deepest gratitude that I thank Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills for my complete and absolute
recovery to perfect health.” Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills are a perfect blood purifier, and a
positive cure for biliousness, indigestion, con-
stipation, headaches, sallow complexion, liver
and kidney troubles, piles, pimples and blotches,
and for female ailments. Put up in amber
bottles and the full name blown thereon.*
Hotel
Australia
RATES:
12s. 6d. per Day,
and upward*
This beautiful hotel ia fireproof from tower to
basement.
For cuisine, comfort, style, appointments, and
perfection of attendance, The Australia is the
first hotel of the Southern Hemisphere.
It is Sydney’s great summer hotel, being
situated on a lofty site, and catching every
breeze. Visitors to The Australia sleep in a cool,
pure atmosphere.
J. URE SMITH (Late of MenzieT), Manager,
Oastlereagh-st., Sydney.
RESCH’S SELECT STOCK ALE... LACER
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives. BREWERY and OFFICES DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
A. J.C. has at last shifted from that ridiculous
position taken up with regard to places where members
may bet. Hitherto, registered Noses were debarred
from betting at coursing, trotting and other meetings
taking place on vetoed grounds, but the absurdity of this
attitude was driven home by deputations armed with
invincible arguments, and now the raucous-voiced may
roar their luugs out anywhere and at any thing—bar pony
meetings.
• • • •
Acrasia (8.9) and Street Arab (6.13) had their
third tussle in Rosehill Handicap, Saturday. Prior to
former visiting Melbourne for Australian Cup, Street
Arab led her in Warwick Farm Handicap, but she battled
up in last few strides and won. When Acrasia came back
•he met Street Arab again at Rosehill, and he made the
running to the distance, but she beat him easily after-
wards. Latest occasion saw the tables turned. Race
was between them near the close. S.A. rounded into the
straight with a telling lead, and Acrasia went after him,
but there was a much bigger difference in the weights
this time, and the Jeweller horse got the money by
lengths.
• ■ • • •
Saturday week, in Rawson Stakes at Rosehill,
punters laid odds on Great Scot winning, but Cyanide
proved too good. Saturday last Cyanide was absent, and
Abundance went out at 6 to 4, while 5 to 2 could be had
about Great Scot, who, with Barden up, went to the front
from flag fall and held a good lead to the finish. Abun-
dance was last into the straight, and then, after swinging
right out, made a brilliant effort from the half distance—
too late ; he just beat Purser out of second place. Rose
Petal also shaped well.
• * • •
To punters who fancy The Idler for Doncaster
Handicap this scribe’s earnest advice is—wait until the
day and see how the gelding looks. If The Idler looks
rather fat and lolly, and the money is on, he’s a fair
investment. If he looks “ trained to the hour” the race
will probably go to a less uncertain beast. The stable
reckoned that the son of Far Niente could win last Caul-
field Cup when he was apparently in good condition, but
he either couldn’t or wouldn’t run up to his best public
“form,” not to mention private trials. Three days
previously he had made a bold show in the Coongy
Handicap, finishing fourth, and between the two races
The Idler must have got out of sorts.
• • • •
ProbabilifV is that nine left in Tsoming A. J.C.
St. Leger after first forfeit Monday week will be reduced
to Great Scot, Abundance, Chantress, and Balfour, and
at that the race is sure to prove inte esting. Though
Abundance has been doing well on the track, his showing
at Rosehill Saturday wasn’t too taking, while Great Scot’s
success in same race brought back troops of friends who
had deserted him through his downfall on same course a
week before. But for doubt as to whether Chantress can
get the distance, she would be given a good “ look in,”
though fact of her being among Cumberland Stakes and
A. J.C. Plate entrants would seem to indicate that the
“ stable ” is satisfied on that point. Manner of Chantress’
vanquishment of Wakeful over a mile suggests that if first
part of the Leger isn’t over fast she’ll probably be close
up at the end, but ’tis odds on that Great Scot will make
the pace a cracker all the journey, in which event
Chantress must be an out-and-out stayer to live.
Bananalander Balfour will go from end to end, but has
he the necessary foot? Since his advent at Randwick he
has done nothing approaching watch-breaking.
• • * *
Australia’s win of Carlingford Mile at Rosehill,
Saturday, carrying top weight (10.4) in a big field, makes
her look worth an investment for A. J.C. Doncaster Mile,
wherein she will hump only 7.4—35 t. less than in her
latest success. T’other day big bookie Oxenham is said
to have laid £2OOO to £lB the double—Australia and
Patronage—for Doncaster and Sydney Cun ; and former’s
trainer prepares Oxenham’s nags. Australia cost a big
sum as a yearling, but, though four years old now, she
has only secured three races- Filly Stakes at Flemington,
a six-furlong handicap at Maribyrnong, and last Satur-
day’s success. Previous question as to her ability to stay
a solidly-run mile should be settled now. Australia’s
speedy sister Carinthia hasn’t much liking for distance,
but a half-sister (Eleanor) sees a lengthy trip out well.
This scribe’s view is that what beats Australia will scoop
the coin.
• • • *
Hurdle Race at Rosehill, Saturday, saw two
nags come croppers—Snowstorm (with M’Kenna up) and
Bengal (ridden by A. Colley). M’Kenna had a forearm
broken, and Colley looked more seriously hurt than was
revealed by a surgical examination. Bengal had to be
shot. Such happenings are treated as common every-
day occurrences, but if the blood comes from a man’s
nose in a boxing contest, all Methodism is up in arms and
one of the great Sydney dailies sermonises over 1J cols, of
space in the best part of the paper. The ways of some
people are indeed inscrutable.
• * * »
Ex-M.L. ’chaser Levanter, who gathered a
“ double ” at Randwick seasons back, is yet going strong
at ’Ome. Late in February he finished second (unbacked)
for Handicap Steeple at Manchester.
• * * •
“Le Chasse ”: The horse high-jumping at Ade-
laide’s March show (21/3/’O3) recalls the fact that a geld-
ing called Canary, once owned by old-time Paddy Pigott,
jumped 6ft. 10in., clear, in Kirk’s Bazaar, Melbourne,
Jan. 24,1870. Also, a saucy Scotch lassie, Miss M’Kelvie,
while following the Rangitiki (M.L.) hounds, during a
meet in 1883, cleared an iron gate sft. 6in. in height, the
distance from take-off to landing being 22ft. “ Yon was
a braw skip,” was her comment on looking back at the
gate ; and the red-coats heartily endorsed the remark.
• * * *
A smart sporting* publican in a somewhat
•portive northern town recently picked up a slippy mare,
and after a quiet private trial decided to run a little
weight off and then “ go for the gloves” at the next big
meeting. Accordingly he entered her for a small stake at
some races held on a neighboring course, and gave the
mount to his black-boy with strict orders to take hold of
her head at the start and hang on to it hard, so that he
could drive his field home before him. But the mare shot
out of the barrier like a rocket, took possession of affairs
(and her tiny rider also), and to the unspeakable disgust
of her owner, won by the length of a street. The poor
little nigger was so excited and fearful of getting a dose
of ‘ stirrup-oil” when he got home, that as soon as he
rode into the weighing-yard and saw his angry boss he
kept shouting at the top of his voice : “ Me couldn’t
‘stiff’ her, Bill, like you tole me to ; she got it bit in her
teeth an’ baal me able to ‘stiff’ her at all!” As the
racing officials were close handy, Bill’s feelings may be
better imagined than described.
* • • *
“Le Chasse”: Concerning the youthfulness
of old Byron Moore (B. 28/3/’O3). What about the age and
racing record of T. S. Olibborn who was appointed secre-
tary of the A.J.O. as far back as 1873? Randwick course
was opened with Sydney Subscription Races, April 30,
1834, when Bayley’s Whisker won the double, Town Plate,
6080v5., and Ladies’ Purse, £25. Whisker died about a
week afterwards, his owner having refused £I4OO for him
only three days before. Nothing seems more fatal to a
good horse, bull, or ram than the refusal by its owner of
a good price.
* m m #
S. E. Gregory, in his insolvency examination,
announced that his various trips with Australian Elevens
panned out thusly : 1890, £400; 1893, nil; 1896, £500;
1899, £7OO ; 1902, £BOO ; which seems to indicate that the
cricket touring business is an expanding one. The in-
crease in the trip just finished was due to the takings in
South Africa, and as this field is likely to improve, the
competition for places in the 1905 team is to be keener
than ever. Trumble, Darling, Howell, Carter, and
Gregory himself may already be considered back numbers.
So there is a fine chance for a few energetic pushing
young men (with a knowledge of bowling preferred) to
acquire a lucrative job in 1905.
• • • *
On performances the stolid, steady-going R. A.
Duff has easily eclipsed the dashing public idol, his first
wicket companion, Victor Trumper. Only on one
occasion in a big match this season has he missed the
century, the time he made 94 against S. Australia; co-
incidently, including the match against Warner and Cos.
Duff’s average for this past season is 94, and his best
score 194.
•'• • •
Jack Reedman, who has played cricket con-
tinuously in the S.A. XI. sinoe 1890, and has been a
member of the North Adelaide football club all the time,
is to be given a “ benefit ”by his club. Reedman, like
Giffen, is employed in the G.P.0., but has not nearly so
good a position. He got into a Combined Australian XI.
just once—the first match against Stoddart’s first team
in 1894.
• • • •
Except for the one good (on paper) bowling
performance when he got N.S.W. on a bad wicket,
Albert Trott’s return to Australia with the team-which-
isn’t-Lord-Hawke’s must be described as disappointing.
Warner relied on him for any chance of success against
N.S.W. and Victoria, and in each match, when success
seemed certain, the utter failure of the side’s bowling
meant defeat.
• « • •
Dear B. —Warner, the captain of the departing
English cricket team, was “sounded” on the chance of
his bringing out a representative side next season. He
seemed to share the general impression that Maclaren
had a mortgage on the job, though why, beyond the fact
that Maclaren claims it, heaven only knows. Your
Society for Getting Rather Tired of Shakespeare might
be well adapted to the arrogant Lancashire gentleman-
professional.—X.B.
• • * •
Decadence of S.A. cricket. Lord Hawke
team’s 553, Saturday, tops everything they have done in
Australasia ; previous best in an XI. a-side match was 380,
opposed to M.L. Burnup’s 103 is his highest, and
Taylor’s 105 equals figures credited to the same bat in
South Island of M.L. match.
• * • *
Recent match —Lord Hawke’s team v. N.S.W.—
brought a £6OO gate during the three days it lasted.
M.L. Cricket Council gets half this and pays exs. of the
amateur section of the visiting combination. This sum
verged on twice as much as the Melbourne “gate,” and
the Sydney crowd, second day (13,000), was the biggest
the Britishers had seen in any part of the continent.
* « * •
“M.” : There are many shining lights of
English cricket who are thirsting for a smack at Aus-
tralians on their own hill—and consequently Maclaren’s
refusal to bring out a team has turned the search for a
leader in other directions. Amongst those mentioned
is smiter Jessop, captain of Gloucestershire. Jessop is a
picturesque player—when he’s knocking the runs up, it
is just lovely to watch him, and his fielding is an object-
lesson. But, all the same, Maclaren’s yarn is a very lame
one—that he can’t get bowlers sufficiently strong and
good enough to undertake the trip. If the idea is to wait
until such trundlers are available, then Australia will
never see another English team—since champion county
Yorkshire won’t listen to the attempt to bring with the
team any of its professional players.
• * • •
Sydney Cricket season closed Saturday, when
Waverley easily beat Redfern. Sydney settled North
Sydney. Waverley succeeded to the premiership with six
triumphs, two beatings, and one drawn game. Lowest
compilation by the side in any match was 141. Eight
times runs notched exceeded 200. six times they were
above 300, and once beyond 400—6 wickets for 495.
Skipper A. O. K. Mackenzie did best individual work, he
made 3 “hundreds,” and missed getting another by 2
runs only ; his aggregate was 626—134 better than the
next man’s, O. Gregory. In the second grade Redfern
against ’Varsity hit up 729 for 8 wickets, a record for the
grade.
» * • m
A Queenslander’s remarks ononeform of suicide:
The Victorian football game has certain advantages. It is
fast, and easy for spectators to follow. Its disadvantages
are fairly numerous. It requires a full-sized cricket
ground, and a central umpire of great speed. In Victoria
the umpires do not often ppve satisfaction. Their atten-
tion is fully occupied with keeping on the ball, which
they have to throw in as often as it goes out of bounds.
This leaves chances, frequently taken, for players to deal
with too prominent opponents. The rules themselves add
to the difficulties of the umpire. Forinstance, amanwith
the ball must drop it on being tackled ; if not, free kick
against him. But if he drop it and the other does not im-
mediately let him go, free kick for him. No other game
has a Morton’s fork like this. Who can tell if either
broke a rule in a question of seconds ; yet, strictly, one
must have done so. A biassed umpire at Rugb3" can give
or withhold free kicks, but he cannot take them from one
side and give them to the other, which happens in the
Victorian game. Too much discretion is left to the
umpire in other ways, notably in the matter of rough
play. To know the umpire is worth many points in
deciding a team’s tactics. If the game were played for
its own sake it would be perfect. Played simply to win,
as it always is, it compares badly with Rugby.
* * * m
Encouraged by nearly £SOO profit on last year’s
transactions, Sydney Metropolitan Rugby Union intends
establishing a medical fund for the benefit of injured
players taking part in club competitions. It has long
been the custom of the Union to insure players, but the
scheme hasn’t worked smoothly. The proposed idea
is very puny, only £l5O being endowed, added to which
will be 5 per cent, of gross receipts of all matches. Still,
it may fulfil all requirements for years, bub it mostly
depends upon how the public roll up. The medical fund
won’t be an enormous one, and a few bad smashes on the
field will well-nigh break the bank.
• • * *
At the Glenelg (S.A.) sea-baths the manager
has trained a young bulldog to rescue-work, and his per-
formance is now a feature of all aquatic sports. At the
ringing of a bell he jumps up from his sleep on the shore,
runs 100yds. or so along the platforms to deep water, and
then goes for his drowning man. The “man” is gen-
erally a dummy, it having been found that the faithful
hound, in his anxiety to save life, is not too particular
where he takes hold. His average time for rescue, from
the bell, is well under 90 seconds.
* » 9 *
“Dudley”: Re modesty of Australian women
(8., 7/3/’O3). At the Br ghton (Vic.) Ladies’ Swimming
Club races, the masculine element was rigorously ex-
cluded. Some difficulty in arranging a site for the band
resulted in it being requested to make its noise outside
the baths ; but said band took this as an insult, and
“ regretted,’’ &c. At this awkward juncture the resource-
ful secretaryess engaged the Blind Asylum band. And
even then some dainty, dripping little swimmer would
hurry past the musicians, blushing right down to her
feet, in her scrap of pale-blue clothing. I don’t think
there was one who didn’t run for her life as she passed
the blind music-makers.
m m * m
Popular notions of the diving capabilities of
South Sea natives were completely shattered at a Sydney
swimming gala, Saturday, when seven much-advertised
Solomon Islanders gave a display which hadn’t the merit
of being passable, though it was funny frequently—
mainly through the state of fear and trembling they
were all in on the perch, perhaps 30ft. above the water.
One of them point-blank refused to jump when he looked
at the water, and went back down the ladder. All but
one leaped feet first, and their flight through space was
mostly helpless ; they reached the water back first,
stomach first, or anyhow. There are scores of Sydney
schoolboys who would do the thing, and do it well, any-
time, for a bit of fun. After this the man who says South
Sea Islanders can dive ought to be flattened out without
ceremony of any kind.
That human fish, Dick Cavill, beat his own
previous world’s record (59sec.) at Fort-street (Sydney)
School swimming club gala, Saturday, by l-ssec.,
which is just that fraction less than his 58 3-5 accom-
plished in England last year, and which sapient ’Ome
swimming authorities disallowed because'twas done in a
handicap though Cavill swam from scratch. This couldn’t
occur in any other country nor in any other branch of
athletics in England. Cavill finishes up the season the
biggest swimming wonder the world has known through
proving a top-notcher over all distances from 25 yards to
a mile.
■ • ■ •
Hopper, of Sydney Thousand fame, came here
from Yankeedom with Plugger Bill Martin, Palmer, and
Beauchamp last November. Ranked high as an amateur
in the U.S., Martin fixed him a third-class man. Sydney
carnival tempted Hopper here, and he waited patiently
for it. Though shaping well from the outset, he was
mostly beaten out of prize money, and only £3 came to
him till the big coup, for which he was a strong tip
before leaving Melbourne through coming on considerably
soon after the handicaps were published.
■ • * •
When it was given out to the Australian public
that the Sydney Thousand was the largest prize-money
ever offered for a bicycle race, many imagined the state-
ment included all kinds of motoring as well. _ Such is not
the case, however, for the biggest road race in the world
will be run in France during June and July. It will be
run in five heats over 1367 miles, and the prize-money
amounts to £4OOO. The mammoth contest is under the
auspices of the Auto journal (owned by Count Dion, of
De Dion Bouton motor fame).
* • » »
Looking through the latest catalogue of
“ bicycle accessories,” one is inclined to wonder if there
can be space enough on an average-sized machine to
hold them all, and what a jigger will look like when
completely fitted out with every invention which makers
declare to be a boon and a blessing to the cyclist. The
latest accessory is a self-registering attachment, which
delineates automatically every rise and fall of the road
passed over. How this is done is a mystery, but the
result is a long strip of paper on which is recorded what
looks to the uninitiated like a pen and ink sketch of a lot
of scalded Cochin China chickens chasing a herd
of “Daddy-long-legs” through a stretch of Bathurst
burrs. This the inventor declares to be a true record of
every hill and hollow, and the steepness of every gradient.
It is further claimed that this new idea will be of great
value in military matters, owing to the rapidity with
which a road may be surveyed, nothing more being
necessary for the surveyor than to do a ride along the
road in question. He propels the bike; the machine
does the rest.
• • • •
S.A. bike League’s meet —the biggest thing
it has tackled yet—opened Saturday, before, ’tis stated,
the largest crowd that ever looked at cycling in Adelaide.
Gate panned out £42o—considerably less than that £550
of the “ Lesna” meeting in ’97, which means the latter
mentioned was the more largely attended or higher
priced. Negro Taylor, whose presence cost £l6O,
was the star attraction, and so good were the
results that the full cost of the three days’
show is already nearly covered. Taylor was in
capital form, and got home first in every race
easily, bar the seventh heat of the Walne Stakes, when
Thorn pipped him on the post, but the black (qualifying
through being second in the fastest heat) got even in the
final by several lengths from Walker, who squelched
Thorn handily. Sir E. T. Smith Stakes were Taylor’s all
the way, and Lady Smith pinned the blue ribbon on his
coal-hued chest. Subsequently, Taylor was presented to
Lieut.-Governor Samuel Way and Mrs. Way. Wonder
how America will look to the despised “ cullud pusson ”
after this ?
• * • »
Negotiations are in progress to bring the fastest
cyclist in Europe to Australia next season. Ellegaard is
most likely to be the choice, and since he has scooped in
the world’s championships for the last two years, he is
certain to be as great a draw as imported Taylor.
• • • *
S.A. League of Wheelmen intends to found
a fund for injured cyclists, and will donate 5 per cent, of
the total profits of race meetings to the project.
Hitherto, the fines and fees —a very trifling amount —
have been used for the purpose, and have been insufficient
for requirements. The idea is worthy of adoption by the
leagues of the various States, more especially since motor-
racing has become a feature of bicycle-track race meetings
nowadays.
• * • •
Evidence of the popularity of bowls is the fact
that Victoria is sending representative teams to N.S.W.,
S.A., and Tas. next week, and a Ballarat combination is
also coming to Sydney. Strongest lot go to S.A., where
they are least wanted, as that section’s bowlers are only
just “ coming on.” Most important tussle is with N.S. W.,
wherein, owing to errors of judgment in selection and
through other causes, neither State will be fully repre-
sentative. Both teams are weak.
• * • »
Yic. bowling champion of champions final is
down for decision Thursday, this week. Individual cham-
pion and once fore-front cricketer, W. H. Cooper, went
under to Hardham with unexpected ease in semi-finals.
Cooper—consistent usually—was not so this time. Hard-
ham is among the most finished rollers of the “woods”
Victoria boasts. Old-hand Cuddon had a tough time
with comparatively unknown quantity Barr. Latter
went away, holding a big lead, then they were “ 17 all.”
Thirty ends saw scores—Cuddon 20, Barr 26. Close play
brought 29-28 in favor of Cuddon, but Barr got 3 next
end and won the best bowling match seen in Victoria
this season.
• * • *
Rawson Challenge Cup competition, engaged
in by Sydney bowling clubs and played on the same lines
as pennant matches (excepting that one defeat puts a
team out) has been fined down to St. George and Peter-
sham. Petersham has already secured the pennant and
“B” events this season, while St. George got into the
semi-finals of each, but no further. Petersham and St.
George never met in either event named, which fact in-
vests Rawson Cup final with more than ordinary interest.
Singular that in all the big bowling things of present
season (Individual Championship, Champion Rink, Pen-
nant and “B ” competitions) Petersham got the bye in
the penultimate stage.
* • • •
In these Federal times the game laws are pecu-
liar. Game may be shot with impunity S.A. or N.S.W.
side of the Murray, but woe betide the sportsman (if he
is caught) who tries to get his “bag” on the opposite
bank. Heaps of ducks are offered for sale in Melbourne
during the close season—all shot across the dividing
stream, of course. Why not Federal game laws—not
uniform, but marked by climatic limits to meet the dif-
ference in the breeding seasons?
* * * •
Bruise for N.S. W. bantam supremacy at Sydney
Golden Gate A.O. Saturday night ’tween Peter Toohey
and Ted Green was warm from round four. Green forced
and Toohey responded. They jostled and clashed like an
ice pack. Green was best after fierce fighting in the
fourth round, but things were more willing in the next,
and they were equal on points. Thence on ’twas Green
mostly—though not by much, till the 14th, when a right
swing sent Toohey with a heavy bump to the boards,
whence he rose dazed and weak but came again. Subse-
quent rounds showed Toohey never quite got over the
knock down thump. At the close of the 20th round
Green got the verdict amid great cheering. This was
their third fight; Toohey won the other two. Probablv
they’ll get together again and Green will most likelv
repeat his success. v
• • • •
One of the most skilful and vimful fights seen in
Sydney for long was that between bantams Bert Weel™.
and Dibley, at Sydney Gaiety A. 0., Monday nilhf
Weekes especially shone, his blocking and ducking bein£
high class. Often the pair stood toe to toe and punched*
with loads of weight behind the thumps, and the crowd
cheered incessantly. All manner of blows delivered in a
way reminiscent of the best days of Sydney’s boxing-i*
or 13 years ago-were seen. Never did excitement fW
once, neither was there any let up in vigor. Ultimately*
in the midst of hard fighting, Weekes landed a left swim?
on the jaw, sending Dibley to the boards for Bsec. Some
confusion here caused a cessation of hostilities till the
minute's spell ended, then Weekes got to work all life
aud soon had his man counted out while the building
rang with cheers. K
• * • *
Fifteen hundred people watched Lenton and
Truscott fight 20 gritty rounds at Sydney National S 0
last week. The pair stripped excellently, after weeks’of
thorough preparation out of town. Truscott stood un
better and reached longer than his sturdier antagonist
Lenton rushed the fighting, and scored well in the first
few rounds, while partisan shouts greeted every good
punch. Truscott—cool, clever and strong—waited and
watched, and punched a hard one in now and again
When he copped anything severe his “ devil ” got loose
and he made things buzz until the fit went off, then
Lenton notched again. So it went on, with Truscott
nearly always in the lead, and Lenton two or three times
apparently done. Grit and remarkable recuperative
power kept him going under a heavy pummelling till the
20th round closed, and then the referee declared Truscott
best on points amid approving applause.
• • * •
Heavyweight pug. supremacy of Tasmania was
contested at Queenstown, t’other day, ’tween Zeehan’g
production Alf. James and Falstatfian-bellied Fred
Preston, of Melbourne, said to fight better that way
James was best from go, and beefy Fred, threw it up
midway through the fifth round. Attendance was
enormous, and at 10s. 6d., 55., and 4s. must have
brought over and above the £l3O offered as inducement
James subsequently stated that he purposed meeting
Felix or Doherty for Australasian supremacy. Where the
matter of premierships comes in with either of the two
is puzzling, as both Creedon and M’Call (the champion)
beat Doherty, who previously defeated Felix for the title
and M’Call has since laid Creedon low. If Tassy’s fore-
fronter wants the top-notch title he’ll have to treat with
the winner of coming Scanlan-M’Call battle, which even-
tuates at the Sydney National S.C., May 5.


COUNTRY FRUITERERS
Should send to us for their supplies.
We keep on hand the Best of every kind of Fruit in season.
We don t deal in low-grade sorts. We aim to supply
only the very best at lowest current market prices.
It will pay country fruit-dealers to get into communication
with us.
THE N.S-W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO. Ltd., SYDNEY.
HOPPER’S RIDE
in the Sydney Thousand,” in World’s Record Competition time, on a
MASSEY-HARRIS BICYCLE
the 3 ‘‘MASSEY >P r * 8 nee<^e^ —to the sterling speed qualities of
There has scarce'y been one important event on the Cycling
Path that has not been won, in recent years, on a “MASSEY.”
CANADA CYCLE & HOTOR CO., Ltd.,
Branches in Every State. 357 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Open
Saturday
Afternoons
Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER
YOU GET THE BEST VALUE FOR YOUR MONEY WHEN YOU
BUY A
REMINGTON
Double-Barrel . .
Hammerless Gun.
Thoroughly Guaranteed.
Kept n stock by the Largest Gun Stores in Melbourne and Sydney.
riemington Arms Company,
Head Office: 315 BROADWAY, NEW YORK, U.S A.
REMINGTON GUNS, £5 ios. to £u
REMINGTON RIFLES, 23/6 post free
McLEAN BROS. & RIGG, Ltd., 107 Elizabeth-St., Melbourne.
OUR NEW
RED
MODELS f or 1903 are now ready for importation.
They eclipse all our previous efforts to make
WHEELS
As perfect in construction as their predecessors. We point with pride to our new models for Ladies and
Gents, as being just the daintiest, strongest, and fastest little jiggers that have yet been imported.
GOOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 King-st., Sydney.
a mo,
A BOTTLE OP INK,
A SHEET OF PAPER and
A PEN CARBON BOOK
makes a complete outfit with
which any
MAN,
WOMAN OR
CHILD
can write a letter, and at the same
time make an exact copy without)
leaving the slightest sign of copy-
ing on the original.
It keeps a duplicate of bills you send out, of orders, receipts, bank checks. It leaves no vague
uncertain mark, but a tracing that is often clearerthan the original.
From its testimony there can be no appeal. It will save any house or family much money by its
indisputable record.
There is no man or woman, professional or not, who would not at some time or other find
THE PEN CARBON LETTER BOOK
v A True and Valued Friend.
For fullest particulars, price, etc., write to the sole
Agents for Australasia: E. RICH & CO. LTD. f SYDNEY BRISBANE
*
w'-^V
rrarnTTiTn
oinm m
*
Tli i i i m n i 11
Lina-u±ii.L,.Li
\ m
PlElfCj
ms
CJ3
□OTTi fi □ M
aurm nmim
'TT'OR the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
x ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “Ellis’ King Street Coffee Palace,” ~»!s
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Olfiee. P-npriflor — GKO. IT. ELLIS.
Too Stout
1 was for years ; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to lOst. V2lb., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney
Seudinif, mention this paper.
WE SKIP ON APPROVAL
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles. Fully warranted.
Latest .
Models*
£2.10 t0£5.5.0
Dunlop Tyres, Steel or Wood Rims,
Free Wheels, Mud Guards and Brakes.
CARRIAGE PAID
To any Port in Australasia.
TYRES, ACCESSORIES,
Sporting Goods and Sewing
Machines Half Usual Prices.
Write for Catalogue and Special Offer
Using 2£d. Stamp. Address Dept 340 ii
Mead Cycle Co -
Chicago.
l/.S.A.
By Special
Appointment.
G. H. SMITH and SON,
-V \
TROPICAL HELMET
with special air-space,
in while drill, Jec. and.
in all colors in felt.
10/6 and 12/6
Hat and Cap Manufacturers
and Importers,
302 Ceorge-st. Sydney
jombrero Soft Felt Hats,
All Shades and Sizes.
Soft Felt Hombergs.
In all Sizes and Colors.
Straw Hats. Stetson Hats.
Polo Caps, Military and Naval
Caps, Li very Hats, Clerical Silk
Hats, Etc., Made to Order
SHARPSNOOTIN6
For Sport and War.
By W. W. GREENER.
■ ____
HITS THE MARK l
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, 1/- nett.;
Posted, 1/2.
The best 1/- worth ever Published,
IF you wish to get good work and value
you should purchase W.W. CRcENER’S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to—
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
(Greener’s Representative).
XiOR NIGH A CENTURY
x WILLIAMS’ BARBERS’ BAR
has been the FAITHFUL FRIEND of the
TONSORIAL ARTIST.
TO-DAY, Tub Potent Phrase, “THIS SHOP USES ONLY
WILLIAMS’!” is a Sure PASSPORT TO PUBLIC FAVOR.
Send a Penny Stamp for Williams’ Changing- Face
Puzzle. Can vou explain it? J. B. WILLIAMS CO.,
Glastonbury,Conn., U.S.A. ; and 232 01arenee-st., Sydney
Martin’s Apiol and steel pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia. Not genuine
without the signature. Be sure you get Martin’s.
Sole proprietor, W. Martin, pharmaceutical
chemist, Southampton, England.*
i
ink
j
TRIDI
MAiiiv
ALL CYCLISTS
should note that
the new :: ::
VULCANISED
[ Duniqp Tyres j.
are absolutely the finest yet seen in
Australasia. They are manufac-
tured by machinery under a
hydraulic pressure of 1200 lbs. to
the square inch, thus rendering
parting of Rubber and Fabric an
impossibility.
No More * *
Tyre Troubles
The new Vulcanised Dunlop will
prevent most of the troubles usually
associated with pneumatic tyres.
The Vulcanised Dunlop is Faster
and more Durable than any other
Tyre procurable.
Ask your agent to show you
a sample.
TRASS
N
W\
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Australia, Ltd.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.
N.S.W. Treasurer Waddell has stepped to
the front in the new role of calamity howler. He
says that, “in view of the terrible times,’’ some-
thing must be done, and hints at reducing the
wages of railway men, which were increased so
gaily a year or so ago, and cutting down the staff.
But seeing that Treasurer Waddell is enjoying the
largest revenue ever handled by any N.S.W.
Treasurer, and that he has Owe’Sullivan’s assur-
ance that the new works built by the Owe’ person
with the Owe’ money are bringing in 4 and 5 or
even 6 per cent. —which must mean a lot more
revenue in the near future —what is Waddell
calamity-howling about ?
Herbert Nicholls, M.H.A. (Tasmania), on
the poor tawdry ham-frills of State Governorship :
We can’t afford to pay for mere ornament. We don’t
want to set up a court; we want a man to carry on the
constitutional functions of the Government, and not to
set up a small and poor imitation of Windsor. We could
afford very well to govern this State on the lines of the
small Canadian provinces, where the Governor is Mr.
Jones—that is the name of one of them—with a salary of
£1200 per year. I have not heard anyone say that Mr.
Jones is inefficient, and that they require in his place a
viscount or someone with a distinguished career in the
English service. They don’t want anything of that sort,
and when we get rid of that sort of ornament it will not
be very long before we shall be very glad that we have
done it, and shall wonder how we endured the thing so
long.
It looks as though a whole lot of trouble
was being taken to save from prosecution one of
the very biggest of Westralian firmsj—a firm, too,
with the name of the very best known of Wes-
tralian families at its head. The charge is that,
by a series of very remarkable misunderstandings,
15 cattle, obviously suffering from pleuro, were got
through to the goldfields boxed with a large mob,
and that, by another remarkable mistake, these
15 were dropped at Coolgardie, while the sound
ones went on to Kalgoorlie, where an inspector
was in waiting. The story goes that the Stock
Dept, has been aching to prosecute, and so sift the
allegations, but cannot get authority, although
the Minister has now undertaken to personally
conduct an inquiry. The objection to that
arrangement, though, is that the Minister’s chief
is also the head of the law-firm which is the other
firm’s advisers.
Dill Macky’s careful pouring of oil on the
troubled flames was responsible for a fine flare-up
at Wyalong and another at Temora (N.S.W.) At
Wyalong revolvers were used freely, the Riot Act
read, and one miner is now lying in hospital in a
critical condition. If he dies there will be trial
for murder, and possibly another death. At
Temora there was more trouble, but, fortunately,
only property was injured. Dill Macky can now
lay to his soul the flattering unction that he is a
power in the land.
Messrs. W. P. Crick and T. M. Slattery
are already breathing defiance at one another in
the advertising columns of the S.M.H. If they
really get “ to holts ” in the law courts there will
be some “splendid divarsion.” Mr. Slattery was,
in a sense, the legal sponsor of Mr. Crick, and
possibly has some claim to be considered his
political sponsor, too. Now Mr. Slattery is ex-
pretty well everything, whilst Mr. Crick bulks
largely in politics; and the Coningham case, in
which Mr. Crick figured prominently as a legal
friend of Dr. O’Haran, though the “case” was
Mr. Slattery’s, caused some bad blood.
A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
cases in six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
only Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
Of Chemists, or from PARIS MEDICINE CO., 28, Shoe-
lane, London, England.*
Sydney D.T. in its summary column,
March 30:—
Mr Kingston, Minister for Customs, left Melbourne on
Saturday for Queensland. He was jubilant at the verdict
given against Robert Reid and Co.
Impression given : that Mr. Kingston was very
joyful (“jubilant” is a strong word) at the verdict.
Insinuation sought to be made : that Mr. Kings-
ton had a personal interest in the case. But the
truth about Mr. Kingston’s “jubilation” from
D.T., same issue, in the body of the paper:—
The Minister did not care to discuss the administration
of the Customs Department, but expressed himself
satisfied with the result of the Reid case in Brisbane, not,
he makes it clear, in any malicious sense, but because it
justifies him in the course which he considered it his duty
to take.
A proper and a manly statement. Why the
mean, false insinuation of the summary column ?


—x r \ s
I nutation I
2?).
CJ
( \
otjyAi'’
>
i-
O o
'Hcui Scnrt’ve. % ■
That is to say , gently But 'firmly
refuse; oßt JmLtatiotis of
IBIEIM 9
9
ARETT
The Danger of Smoking Paper.
wßmßsssssEgsmaamaammmmmammmammmmmmmmmnaßßßmammmmmmmmmKmmmmmsßmmmm
Unless very pure material is used for making the paper which is put round cigarettes, the smoker of those cigarettes, if he 3tnokes to any extent, stands a chance of permanently
injuring his constitution. Again, arsenic is a chemical which is used largely in cigarette paper manufacture, to make it white and keep it alight when once lit. Arsenic is poison,
therefore it stands to reason, if a person draws the fumes of this paper constantly into his mouth, he must be continually taking poison into his system. Can it be good for any man or
vouth to do that? It is incumbent on all cigarette smokers to satisfy themselves that what they smoke will not harm their health, or else to leave smoking alone altogether. The paper
which is wrapped round GUINEA GOLD CIGARETTES is made from absolutely uninjurious material and manufactured by a process which excludes harmful chemicals. Therefore
smokers of this brand need not have any fear of being poisoned, no matter how many they may smoke in a day.
BRITISH-AMERICAN TOBACCO CO., LTD, (OGDEN BRANCH), 45 York Street, Sydney.
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion V If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, lor I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Ilousemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
Price, in Great Britain, l/lsd. per b x. Prepared by
AIBEKI', 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents •. ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney Purchasers should
look for th “registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
UR
PAIN!
7-
1
m\u""
I *|“HE Dr. Austin Electric Belt is the only never-failing;
* cure for Rheumatism, Lumbago, Weak Hack or
Kidneys, Nervousness, Liver, Bladder and Stomach
Troubles, Pains in the Head, and all those ailments from
which men and women suffer. It cures after all other
remedies have failed.
I Don’t Ask Anyone to Take
Chances on my Invention.
It Doesn’t Cost You Anything
if I Fail.
All you lose is your time, and if my Belt fails to cure,
you will have the satisfaction of knowing; that the best,
strongest and finest electric body appliance in the worltl
- ONE WITH 50,000 CURES TO ITS CREDIT- has
failed, and that there is no cure for you in electricity.
Remember, m.v terms are—PAY WHEN CURED.
CALL TO-DAY and test my Belt Free. No charge for consultation.
FREE BOOK.—If you cannot call, write for my beautifully-illustrated Medical Book, which
explains my method of treatment, and how to regain your strength without using drugs. Every adult
should read it. It is sent sealed, Free. WRITE TO-DAY.
The Dr. J. H. Austin Electric Co.
39 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
'
v
_
HERR RASSMUSSEN
will guarantee to cure Nervous Weak-
ness, Blood Diseases, Piles, Rheuma-
tism, Corpulency, Liver and Kidney
Troubles. He will send his Book Free.
Ail correspondence will be held
confidential.
WEAK, NERVO
WHY SUFFER
W H EN you c an b eqn ic l dy and permanently cured bv talcing Ilerr Rassmussen’s ALFALINE Vitality Pills which have cured so many
thousand sufferers from DEBILITY, POOR MEMORY, WEAK SPINE, DESPONDENCY, and all which robs Manhood of that which
is eares 01 ita strength. Herr Rassmussen will guarantee this remedy to cure every case, no matter of how long standing, and he will
. f lve .,/ s v s . 1 er ? advice personally to all patrons of his remedies FREE OF CHARGE, either in his offices or by post. So don’t despair, but
communicate with him without delay, no matter where you live. Treatment by Post a Speciality. Pamphlet sent Free.
ALF ALINE VITALITY PILLS. Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d., posted.
Blood and Skin Diseases
Blood Disorders, Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, Stone in the Bladder, and Blood
Impurities guaranteed to be removed and permanently cured by
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d. posted.
Anaemic Women
s ? ase ' s ’ >a^e ’ Lifeless, and otherwise affected, should at once communicate with HERR
xt AoSMUSHEN. His lifelong experience is at their service, and his
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS vy ill cure them. Boxes, 6s; Courses, 235. 6d.
LIVER and KIDNEY TROUBLES cured at once by the ALFALINE LIVER and KIDNEY PILLS, Boxes Is.
His RHEUMATIC PILLS are World-famed, and his PILE POWDERS never fail ; 6s per box each.
The ALFALINE REMEDIES can only beobtained from . . . m* A
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office- 04/ breOFge St., Sydney,
AND HIS BRANCHES AS FOLLOW
BRISBANE: 309 Queen St.
MELBOURNE; 150 Bourke St.
ADELAIDE: 15 Pulteney St.
N-Z. = 91 Lambton Quay, Wellington.
W.A., PEBTH: 481 Hay St.
KALGrOORLIE ; 111 Hannan St.
FREMANTLE: 117 High St-
BOULDER CITY'- Piesse St.
“ C.H.L.” : For healing caries of the
bone in the living body Professor Mosetig, of
Vienna, has discovered a new method which con-
sists chiefly in filling the cavities of the diseased
bones with a mixture of iodoform, sesame-
oil, and spermaceti. During the last session
of the Vienna Medical Society Dr. Mosetig
showed Rontgen pictures of the bones of patients
who had been thus completely cured.
“Burglar Bill” on a point of gaol eti-
quette : —
A peculiar institution “ inside ” is the “ prisoners’ dele-
gate ” who is sent to the cookhouse to represent the
prisoners and look after their interests. Each prisoner
takes the position in turn (holding it for one day only)
and goes to the gate in the morning to receive the daily
rations of meat, bread, hominy, etc., and to see that the
said rations are fit for consumption. Special rules are
laid down for the delegate’s guidance—in the event of
any part of the rations being, in his opinion, uneatable,
he has to draw the attention of the deputy-governor to
the matter. He is then induced to make a specific
charge against the quality of the ration, which
promptly lands him in No. 36 (the lockup cell).
Ration (or portion of it) in dispute, is placed
before the doctor on his arrival, and if that
important functionary rules that it is eatable, the
delegate is accused of “ making a false charge likely to
create dissatisfaction in gaol,” and before the visiting
“ beak ” may receive three to seven days’ cells, according
to the humor the “ beak ” may be in. The doctor is not
called as evidence, his report being given verbally by the
warder who charged the delegate, so the delegate is con-
victed on the alleged word of a man not in court, whose
alleged statement is retailed by the prosecutor. The
charge-book of one gaol contains numerous charges
against delegates for condemning food which was unfit
to eat, and which the prisoners returned untasted in
their “kits.” I have seen myself 40 tins of sour
“hominy” returned, the delegate being afraid to con-
demn it, and the authorities too negligent to take any
notice of this sign of disapproval. A prison doctor who
can deal with 15 sick prisoners in 2)4 minutes would say
anything was fit to eat.
Harry Morant and his sorry fate, told of
in “Bushman and Buccaneer” (now in its second
edition). The history of the Breaker and his
verses and letters, including photo, reproduction
of the Pietersburg gaol MS. Price one shilling.
Booksellers and Bulletin office (post free Is. Id.)


HOW CAN YOU MIS-
TAKE THE SIGNS?
tJ
Jj hoaa-zoHoz
123 Trafalgar Street, Annandale,
Sydney, August Bth, 1902.
Dear Sirs: I was weak and had a
very bad cough which caused frequent
spitting of blood. This suggested that my
cnest and lungs were affected. My mother,
who had derived great benefits from Scott’s
Emulsion herself, gave it to me. The result
was remarkable. It at once relieved my chest,
eased my cough, stopped the spitting of blood,
increased my weight considerably, and even-
tually restored me entirely to good health.
I used to suffer greatly from sore throat and
colds; now I find my throat quite strong, as
my system has been built up so thoroughly
by Scott’s Emulsion. Faithfully yours,
(Signed) Stella Torrington.
Messrs. Scott & Bowne, Ltd.,
483 Kent Street, Sydney.
HOW CAN YOU MISTAKE
THE SIGNS? It is a very vital thing to
you that you should not mistake the signs,
and how can you mistake the signs when you
have such evidence before you as is related in
the above letter ? On the slightest suggestion
of symptoms so severe as these, or even if you
have only a bad throat and cold ; send at once
for Scott’s Emulsion. It is the thing of all
things that you need at such a juncture and
is exactly what will restore you to your normal
health. Do not forget what you need is
SCOTT'S EMULSION. There can
be no doubt about it What has just been re-
lated has been the common experience of
people in all parts of the world who have
taken Scott’s Emulsion, and naturally the
same experience is being repeated here among
those who have known the name of the proper
remedy—Scott’s Emulsion. Scott’s Emulsion
has always and always will cure. You have
only one condition to observe; and that is to
see that on the wrapper of the bottle there is
a picture of a man carrying a big cod-fish ; if
that cod-fish is not there, you are not getting
what we promise you—a cure! You can
obtain a sample of Scott’s Emulsion and the
choicest children’s booklet of the year—“A
Bunch of Roses,’’ —beautifully printed in
colors, by sending sd. to Scott and Bowne,
Ltd., 483 Kent-st., Sydney, and mentioning
this paper. All chemists sell Scott’s Emul-
sion,
WARNER’S SAFE CURE
THE KIDNEY AND LIVER SPECIFIC.
ITS POWER EXPLAINED.
It has been a source of wonder to many how any one medicine can possibly cure so many disorders
of apparently diverse origin, but to the scientific mind the curative properties of Warner’s Safe Cure
supply no element of mystery. Warner’s Safe Cure is simply the result of years of earnest research
for a remedy, which possessed the power to restore to health and activity both the kidneys and the
liver. Physicians were aware of the fact that, so long as the kidneys and the liver were working
strongly, nine-tenths of the ailments, with which the human race is afflicted, could not exist. The
difficulty was the finding of a safe and speedy medium which would act directly upon the kidneys and
liver m such a manner that their health and vigor should be restored when once they had become
either weak or diseased. Patient investigation terminated in the discovery of the medicine now
known throughout the civilised world as Warner’s Safe Cure. This remarkable medicine possesses a
curious and stimulating effect upon the kidneys and liver. Not only does it re-impart a healthy
action to those vital organs, but the stimulus is permanent. The importance of this great discovery
will be fully realised if the functions of the kidneys and liver are considered.
THE KIDNEYS
filter from the blood of the average person about three pints of water every day. In this water should
be dissolved about an ounce of urea, ten or twelve grains, in weight, of uric acid, and other animal
mineral matter varying from a third of an ounce to nearly an ounce. If the kidneys are weak or
diseased a piece of this solid refuse matter remains in the system, and becomes actively poisonous.
Minute crystals of uric acid form in the blood and are deposited in the joints and tissues of the body,
causing the acute pain experienced when we have
RHEUMATISM, GOUT,
liumbago, Neuralgia, Sciatica, &c. Sometimes the uric acid crystals aggregate in the kidneys
and form Gravel and Stones, and cause Kidney Colic, and Irritation and Inflammation of
the Bladder.
THE LIVER.
So intimate is the relation between the work done by the liver and that of the kidneys, that Tt is
almost impossible for either of them to be deranged without the other being directly affected. The
liver is an automatic chemical laboratory. In the liver various substances are actually made from the
blood. Two or three pounds of bile are thus made every day. The liver takes sugar from the blood,
converts it into another form, and stores it up so as to be able to again supply it to the blood as the
latter needs enrichment. The liver changes uric acid, which is insoluble, into urea, which is com-
pletely soluble, and the liver also deals with blood corpuscles which have lived their life and are
useful no longer. When the liver is inactive or diseased we suffer from Indigestion, Biliousness,
Jaundice, Anaemia, Sick Headache, Blood Disorders, and Debility.
Warner’s Safe Cure cures all the disorders named safely, surely, completely, and permanently,
simply because it restores to vigorous health and activity the kidneys and liver, and enables them to
efficiently perform their function of removing from the system the uric and biliary poisons which
cause the sickness.
Mrs. May Edwards, of Joseph Street, Balmain, N.S.W., says:—
“ I had kidney disease, which was brought on by a cold, for nearly eight years, causing great pain
across the back and loins, and making me sick at the stomach. I could neither eat nor sleep. I had
swellings in my ankles and pains in my legs, and was so ill that I had to hire a girl to do my work.
Reading in a book accounts of Warner’s Safe Cure, I decided to try the effect of this medicine in my
own case, and found immediate relief. The swelling left my ankles. I could eat well and sleep well
again. I took altogether eight bottles, which I procured from Mr. G. L. Harvison, Chemist, Western
Road. I never suffer at all now, and am really and truly cured. The medicine did me all the good
in the world.”
The commonest first symptoms of kidney disorder is
PAIN IN THE BACK.
A surer test is to place some urine, passed the first thing in the morning, in a covered glass, and
let it stand until the next morning. If it is then cloudy, or there is a brick-dust like sediment, if
particles float about in it, or it is of an unnatural colour, then the kidneys are not healthy and
Warner’s Safe Cure should be instantly resorted to or Bright’s Disease, Diabetes, or some less
serious but more painful illness will surely result.
A treatise containing full particulars relating to Warner’s Safe Cure, and the diseases it cures
together with accounts of many remarkable recoveries, will be sent free on application to H. H.
Warner and Co., Limited, Australasian Branch, Melbourne.
ROOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIACE CUIDE, 50 engravings, 3/6 ;
posted, 4/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/-; Magic
Up-to-Date, 1/3; Metal Working, solder-
ing, brazing, 1/6 ; Camille, 1/3 ; How to
Plat Billiards, 1/3; How to Vamp, 1/3;
Piano Toning and Repairing, 1/6 ; Modern
Etiquette, 1/-; Card Games, 1/-; Great
Book of Wonders, Secrets and Mysteries,
1/-: Poultry Keeping, 1/-; Horse and
Cattle Doctor, 1/-; Parlor Magic, 1/- ;
Dream Book, 1/-; Every Man His Own
Builder, 1/6 ; Carpentry, 1/6 ; Lightning
Calculator, 1/2 ; Australian Doctor, 1/6;
Letter Writer, 1/3 ; Speeches and Toasts,
1/3 ; Kelly Gang of Bushrangers, 1/3 ;
Book of Dialogues, 1/-; Enquirer’s Oracle,
3000 subjects, 1/6 ; Self Instructor, 1/3 ;
How to Dance, 1/3 ; Art of Boxing, 1/3 ;
Art of Wrestling, 1/3 ; Moll Flanders,
1/6; Tailoring for Amateurs, 1/3 ; Ven-
triloquism, 1/- ; Comic Reciter, 150 gems,
18; Irish Oomio Reciter, 1/3; Little
Folks’ Reciter, 1/3; Nigger Stumf
Speeches, 1/3; New Tricks with Cards,
1/3; That Rascal Gustave, 1/3 ; Plain
Home Talk, 7/6; Sappho (genuine), 1/6;
Fortune Telling Cards, directions, 1/6;
Advice to Women, 1/3; Midwives’ Hand-
book, 92 practical illustrations (better than
Aristotle), 8/-; Palmistry, chart and guide,
6d.; Clog Dancing, 1/-. Above prices in-
clude postage to any address. Stamps or
Postal Notes of any State will do. Free
Catalogues—Plays, Conjuring Apparatus,
Racy Novels, Useful Books, Private Books
for the Married, etc.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK AND MAGIC
ARCADE, -
201 Bourke-st. ? Melbourne.
THE DEAF HEAR.
Deaf persons need no longer despair. Out of the mass of failures has come a
genuine success. Head noises can be cured and the deaf made to hear so
effectively that they wonder if they really were deaf. Particulars of a startling
discovery, based upon the science of Metallic Galvanic. Electricity, that will
assist all persons suffering from deafness, fully described.
FREE.
By sending your name and address to THE L. R. VERNON CO., 60-64 Hunter-st., Sydney, you
will receive a full description of this remarkable method, which will enable you to restore’ your
hearing at a very slight expense. The description is posted to you free, and you will be delighted to learn how
easily you can obtain relief. It will pay you to write to-day. Don’t neglect to do so.
s9s4oy AB4O PUB $l4lO 4!Bl
Olitb
Other Uerses
By WILL H. OGILVIE.
ir’aftial Xjist of Contents •
Fair Girls and Gray Horses
The Township Lights
When Horses are Saddled
for Love
His Gippsland Girl
In Mulga Town
Where the Brumbies Come
for Water
From the Gulf
The Riding of the Rebel
Four-in-Hand
The Stockyard Liar
The Coach of Death
Off the Grass
The Dingo of Brigalow Gap
How the Chestnut Horse
Came Home
A Draft from Tringadee
Taken Over
The Station Brand
The Man who Steadies the
Lead
Out of the Chains
How the Fire Queen crossed
the Swamp
The Near-side Leader
How We Won the Ribbon
Northward to the Sheds
At the Back of Bourke
A Scotch Night
The March of the Flood
“ The Men Who Blazed the
Track ! ”
Abandoned Selections
Auld Lang Syne
Black Sheep
The Wallaby Track
Rainbows and Witches
To a Bunch of Heather
The Bush, My Lover
The Graves out West
Bowmont Water
The Land of Dumb Despair
To the Overlanders
“ The Most Charming Book of Australian Verse. ”
Handsomely bound in purple cloth, gilt top, with portrait; price, 55., postage, sd. *'• Admirabl
for presentation. From all booksellers ; or forwarded on receipt of postal note by the Publisher,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co„ Ltd., Sydney, Australia.
The Blot on the Commonwealth.
During the first weeks of the Australian Parlia-
ment a proposal was tabled for the appointment
of a Royal Commission to inquire into the treat-
ment of the Westralian aborigines. The motion
was never reached, and Westralian squatters’
influence was sufficiently strong in the Cabinet to
prevent the Government from acting in the matter
without the spur of a Parliamentary resolution.
Yet the position of the unhappy natives calls for
some immediate relief in view of the innumerable
reports of cruelty which, at any rate, appear to be
well authenticated. The position has not been
made any better by the Westralian Act of 1902
which, among other provisions, enacts that a
single J.P. may try an aborigine and sentence him
to any term of imprisonment up to two years or
to be flogged ; and that
Any aboriginal who neglects or refuses to enter or com-
mence service, deserts, or quits work, without his
master’s consent, or shall commit any other breach of his
contract, is liable to three months’ imprisonment, with
or without hard labor.
The Protector (save the mark !) of the aborigi-
nals pleads that floggings are few and not severe :
As to the use of the cat-o’-nine-tails, about which so
much has been said, I find that the cases where flogging
has been ordered are few. In answer to my close in-
quiries as to the sort of whip used, I find that the lashes
are small cord, about a quarter of an inch in diameter.
But, however few the floggings may be, and what-
ever the dimensions of the implement used, it is a
foul blot on Australia that, in any State, a single
J.P. (in many cases a squatter, and himself
an employer of indentured aboriginal labor) can
order a native to be flogged. It is a Simon
Legree system, with the added infamy that in
Australia Legree needn’t stain his hands as well
as his soul with the whip. He orders, and the
State does the flogging.
4
The chances of dying in N.S.W. keep
pretty good ; 16,646 people passed out last year,
against 16,021 in 1901, and 15,118 the year before
that. Of all mortal diseases cancer makes the
most steady progress along its horrid way ; the
regularity of its movement is scarcely disturbed.
Five years ago it had 544 victims per million
people ; last year, 624. In the last two dry years
pneumonia has bulked largest; in 1902 the start-
ling rate of 977 per million was reached, or an in-
crease of about 70 per cent, on the figures of three
years back. Of the others, phthisis, enteritis and
violence run almost neck and neck, each with
about one victim to every 1200 people ; while the
habit of dying of old age occurs annually pretty
regularly to about 700 people in every million.
The Importer.
Australia, thanks to the honest and rigid
administration of Customs Minister Kingston, is
beginning to size up its old acquaintance, the
softgoods importer. Being sized up he proves, in
a large proportion of instances, to be a conscience-
less swindler, a whited sepulchre, a liar, and a
ir harisee in a bell topper. A great lack of prin-
ciple appears to pervade the importing class in
general, but the softgoods importer stands up
like a tower as. the worst specimen of his
order. The habit of defrauding the revenue
e “Ogus invoices appears to have been
of such long continuance with this class
that it had ceased to regard it as in any
way disgraceful. The softgoods importer is
deafeningly '* loyal ” in a large proportion of
cases, but his scruples about defrauding his
Majesty out of his Majesty’s just and lawful cash
often appear to be nil. Of course, all importers are
not equally blameable even among the swindling
class; some of them started the swindle system,
and some followed suit because the man who
doesn t swindle is at a grievous disadvantage com-
pared with the man who does; but, even allowing
for that, a lamentable moral odor attaches to the
trade. Arid the importer, honest or dishonest, is
by the necessities of his trade, in a great measure
a public enemy. He lives on the absence of local
industries to employ the people. Every new indus-
try that is started for the enrichment of Australia
damages the importers business and his profits. He
wants Australia to have enough money to enable
it to buy his goods—money begged or borrowed,
or money made at any kind of toil, however un-
remunerative, that doesn’t interfere with his im-
porting business. Therefore he constantly im-
presses on Australia that its sole destiny is to
make a miserable living at wresting wheat out of
a barren soil for export to a not too remunerative
market at the far end of the world ; at herding
sheep and cattle on the dry plains; at getting
poisoned in the lead mines of Broken Hill; at
specking for gold ; at tearing the country’s irre-
placeable coal capital out of the ground and selling
it to the foreigner ; at building unprofitable public
works out of loan money. But he doesn’t want
it to fake to the more remunerative manu-
facturing industry, and become rich in a
way that would enable it to dispense
with him. If he had to choose between an
almost starving Australia, which could still buy a
little from him, and a rich Australia, which didn’t
require his goods at all, his interests all lie in
trying to make this country the former kind of an
Australia. So, whenever great new industries are
threatened, he rises, as a matter of sordid necessity,
to point out that such things are disastrous, ruinous,
and impossible, and that though Germans and
Frenchmen and Americans may possess them,
there is some unexplainable reason why the in-
ferior Australian can’t. That he should say such
things isn’t wonderful, for almost anybody will
lie when his living depends on it. The thing that
is wonderful is that Australia should take him
seriously as a reliable witness in such a case—
should listen to him in Parliament when he
assures, the country that the only thing that can ,
save it is not to start new industries and thus dis-
turb his profits, and should buy the papers which he
controls, and which set out, in his interest, that the j
country’s wealth and greatness depend on not
having work for its people, but rather in letting !
them stand idle and hungry on a wharf and watch
the products of other people’s labor being hauled
ashore from other people’s ships. The importers’
journals complain bitterly that the Protectionist
party talks of the importer as if he were a public
enemy. What else can he be ?
«.
A Maoriland correspondent:—
Experience has convinced me that the grant of female
franchise has augmented the political influence of the
parsonical element. The new Parliament contains a con-
siderable proportion of Prohibitionists and lay-preachers,
and in spite of all we hear about the separation of Church
from State and the divorce of politics from religion, it is
mere humbug to say that these ranters don’t blend the
two. The Prohibition crusade is very largely a religious
crusade; in fact, cold-water principles are now prac-
tically dogmas in certain churches, and the ordinary
member “in communion” has a horror of being
seen even in the vicinity of an hotel. I have an
idea that a heavy onslaught will be made next
session on the totalisator, and if the “goody-goodies”
get their way, we ll have no Sunday trains very shortly.
The influence which these water-weepers have gained in
this country is making Maoriland a loveless, joyless land
—a land where the man takes his best girl for a walk in
the cemetery on a wet day, and they sit together on the
tombstone of the late Rev John Howlkr and discourse on
the blessedness of never drinking anything but cold tea
and always being home before 9 p.m.
——4,
Dr. Canute Wilkinson’s notion of a dis-
pensary for the consumptive sick in Sydney is an
excellent one ; such an institution would be a
valuable aid to future hospital organisation. It
would tend to locate consumption cases in then-
earlier stages ; would give opportunities to impress
upon sufferers proper precautionary and remedial
treatment; and would doubtless contribute to
many cures.
“ Darkholer,” or some such name, writes :
“ Burglar Bill’s ” facts (B. 21/2/o’3) from one gaol cannot
warrant an inference of general applicability. I spent
nearly two years in a N.S.W. “ first-timer’s ” gaol. I
listened to many prisoners. Hardly 8 per cent, acknow-
ledged being guilty. Only one admitted to a revolting
crime. He, with another, murdered a hawker. He
declared his motive was to get a silk handkerchief for his
mother ; he considered this an extenuation. A prisoner’s
account of his fall must generally be accepted with a ton
of rock-salt. Truth is little regarded either by prisoners
or warders. I once knew a warder, though, to tell a
noble lie to save a prisoner from the dark cell. Another
generalisation of mine is that convicts and their keepers
have little veneration for an oath. “ The system ” does
not make prisoners truthful or manly, but it tends to
make them more prudent, cautious, dissimulative, and
cynical. “ It’s in gaol you hear the truth about a case,”
says “Bill.” The listener, like the purchaser, must
beware. Here are two instances for a sample : A prisoner
who“smooged” to me for tobacco said he was in for
“passing a cheque”; I discovered it was for crimi-
nal assault on a child. Another admitted “horse-
soldiering”; he was convicted for sneak-theft. The
number system can’t hide a man’s identity for
long. A small percentage of the prisoners are black-
mailers (for tobacco), “blabs,” and official “crows.” I
overheard the chief warder tell a lifer to keep watch on a
new warder, who was recognised as an ex-phrenological
lecturer of Sydney Domain. Next day the lifer told me
the new warder would soon get “shot.” “Why?” I
asked. “Because he don’t rouse on the prisoners
enough,” was the reply. This lifer was untruthful, decep-
tive, and malicious. The warders feared him like corn-
tiers a king’s mistress. “The chief,” the lifer told me,
promised to get him out in about three years if he “saw
that the screws and prisoners did nothing wrong.” The
lifer’s prediction was verified. The new warder got the
sack three days afterwards. The warders know all the
tricks and plants ; but they dislike increasing their dis-
agreeable tasks. A great number of the warders are
easy-going fellows, who want to get their salary with as
little trouble as possible. Generally it is from a prisoner
“crow" that the higher officials'first learn of a new
trick, plant, or “ telegraph.” >'he warder hurries
through the search, and blinks. The foolish prisoner
brags about how smart he was. The “ crow " hears and
reports, and then a new order is issued. “ Bill’s” facts
about bush crimes and bush prisoners don’t agree with
my examination. I found that the towns and settled
farming districts contributed 18 revolting cases out of 22.
I also found the bushmen morally the best fellows in
gaol. But they ware not, a* a rule, “ good prisoners."


The man on the land is always
but his troubles end when he places
in the hands of Land Agent \V. N.
Bligh-street. No results, no fees in
shingle.*
in trouble,
his business
Willis of 21
his business
REFORM WITHOUT REVOLUTION.—The
great and particular merit of Hunyadi Janos is
that it relieves without discomfort, in other words,
it effects reform without revolution. This is
because it is the best and safest natural aperient.*
Judging from the result of Vic. Reform
Conference the chief factor in winning success—
D.C.L. Whisky—was more honored in the observ-
ance by the Council managers, who won all along
the line, than the Assembly representatives.
Trust Fatman to discover what’s what in drinking
material. To neglect in the smallest degree to
draw true wisdom and strength of purpose in any
time of emergency from the correct brand is to
risk the best chance of achievement —D.C.L. The
Whisky of The Wise.*
A compact and ingenious contrivance is Tre«
whella Brothers’ (Trentharu, Vic.) Patent Log and Stump
Jack, which is so rapidly becoming a favorite for stump-
grubbing, log-rolling and weight-lifting purposes. These
jacks are in three sizes, the smallest of which, though
weighing only 491b5., is equal to a 2J-ton lift. The
double-purchase make weighs but 561 b., yet will lift 4
tons, while a special double-purchase sort (made to
order) is equal to 6 tons. H. H. Hinds, 17 Loftus-street,
is the Sydney agent.'*
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It dri\es away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Royal Agricultural Society of N.S.W.
jjrand metropolitan Exhibition
Moore Park, Sydney April Bth to 16th
/EA6TER\
\ WEEK )
£3500 PRIZE MONEY £3500
THE GREATEST AGRICULTURAL EXHIBITION in the SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE.
Hunting and Jumping Contests. Trotting Exhibitions in Saddle and Harness.
Automobile Racing and other Exciting and Interesting Ring Events every day.
IMMENSE DISPLAYS AND ATTRACTIONS.
UNPRECEDENTED ENTRIES RECEIVED IN EVERY SECTION.
ADMISSION Is.; GRANDSTAND, 2s. Extra; FEDERAL STAND, 64. Extra.
Horses and Vehicles, other than Exhibits, allowed on the ground, and can be placed in the horse and
vehicle paddock, entrance from Cleveland-street, charge Is. F. WEBSTER, Secretary.
Amusements.
MUTOSCOPE.
JH E
WONDERFUL LIVING PICTURES
now on view at
KING STREET ARCADE CORNER
and
74 OXFORD STREET.
Real Life Portrayed with a Vividness and Realism
Never Before Witnessed.
ADMISSION FREE.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee .. .. Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Under the Direction of MR. GEORGE MUsGKOVE
LAST TWO NIGHTS and FAREWELL PERFORM
ANCES of MISS NELLIE STEWART and
Mr. George Musgrove’s New
ENGLISH DRAMATIC COMPANY.
in the Famous Comedy Drama,
Z^VZAI.
(NELLIE STEWART’S MASTERPIECE).
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
pALACE THEATRE, “
Under the Management of Messrs. WILLOUGHBY
and GEACH.
THE LAST SEVEN NIGHTS of the SEASON
THE
LAUGHING SUCCESS OF FOUR CONTINENTS NOW
ON AND OFF.
A COWAN, Manager.
CITZGERALD BROS/
* HUGE MOVING CIRCUS CARAVAN,
together with
THE NEW AMERICAN, LONDON, AND CONTINENTAL
HIPPODROME AND MENAGERIE.
Coming by Special Boats and Trains.
THIS HUGE CONTINENTAL COMBINATION
Opens its Australasian Season in
BELMORE PARK, SYDNEY,
on
Saturday Next, April 4.
NOTE.—Messrs. Fitzgerald Bros, desire to draw the
attention of the public of Sydney to the New Company
which they will present to their patrons.
The Great Sensation, the Strongest Man in the World,
HERR PAGEL. The Flying Meteors, Mademoiselle
Onra, Little Selig, Gilleno, Eric and Reano, The Jlarottos,
Zenobia Bros., Benato.
Besides these Star Acts there are specially engaged
Equestrians, Equestriennes, Jongleurs, and Jongleuses,
Acrobats, Knockabout Clowns, Dummies, Pedros, Jockeys,
Pantomimists, Leapers.
THE NATURAL HISTORY ANNEXE
contains Animals from all parts of the World.
The Splendid Band; under Herr Von Der Mehden,
Every Evening. Matinees, WEDNESDAY, SATURDAY,
and ALL HOLIDAYS. PRICES—4s., 35., 25., and Is.
Box Plan at Paling and Co.'s.
HAL GEORGE, Secretary. FRANK JONES, Agent.
Tivoli theatre, sydney.
Sole Proprietor and Manager—Mr. Harr* Rickards.
ANOTHER GREAT SPECIALTY,
HILL AND SY LVAI NY.
Pronounced Success of the Clever Young Character
Comedian, MR. FRED. RIVENHALL.
Continued Success of MISS VIOLET WELBY COOKE,
LILLIE WILLIAMSON, NEVA CAKR-GLYNN, PEARL
LOVELL, and all our Great Tivoli Co.
Rickards’ new opera house,
MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager—Mr. HARRY RICKARDS.
EVERY EVENING, at 8 p.m.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS at2.3op.m.
Enthusiastic Reception of MISS CRACIE EMMETT.
Splendid Success of SEELEY and WEBT, JOHN COLEMAN
SCHENK BROS., ERNEST FITTS, MISS RAY JONES,
and all members of Company.
Prices—2s. 6d., 25., Is. ‘tdl
Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
LAST SIX NIGHTS of Mr. GEORGE MUSGROVE'S
GRAND COMIC OPERA CO.
in
THE FORTUNE TELLER,
A New and Original, Romantic Hungarian Comic Opera.
The Finest and Most Expensive Production of oomic
Opera Ever Given in Australia. ,
USUAL PRICES. Box Plan at Allans. __
Theatre royal,
Lessee
MELBOURNE.
Mr. Bland Holt.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. William Anderson.
Bus. Manager, James Hendy. Treas., Julius
FAREWELL PRODUCTION of
WILLIAM ANDERSON'S Famous Dramatic Organisation
in an Original Domestic Drama, entitled,
HONOUR THY FATHER.
Prices—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, la 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allans
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNt
Under the Direction of Mr. J. 0. WilliaMSO
Bus. Manager, Geo. Tallis. Treas.,
LAST NIGHTS of THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA C °. in
the Last Work of the Late Sir Arthur Sullivan,
THE EMERALD ISLE.
MA MIE ROSETTE
Box Plan at Allans-
B »T S’
SATURDAY, APRIL 11,
PRICES AS USUAL.
B L B O XJ
GRAND FINANCIAL and ARTISTIC SUCCESS
THE GREAT WIRTHS’ SHOWS,
CIRCUS HIPPODROME,
MUSEUM, WILD WEST,
And Menagerie of Wonderfully Trained Wild ni
THE GREATEST, GRANDEST, AND BEST OF AUS
TRALIA’S BIG TENTED AMUSEMENTS.
LOOATION-WIRTHS’ CROUNDS (Just Over Prt
Bridge, MELBOURNE).
Honorably Conducted, Honestly Advertised.^^^
Purest, Cleanest, Mightiest, and Most Magnificen a y&(t
ment Institution of the Twentieth Century. j| ool
Audience Astounded and Mystified t ufRS
Exhibitions given by the Mysterious BHvJ I “
HOWARD, the Human Race Bafflers.
MELBOURNE 8 GREATEST EASTER ATT RAO
Maloolm G.M. (W.A.), after its third recon-
struction, has made a fresh start. Co. owns 144 acres at
Mt. Malcolm, on which a main shaft is down 500 ft. In a
west crosscut at this depth the reef has been cut, and
driven on north and south for 150 ft., and a winze sunk
below this level. Going north is a blank, but, in the
south drive, the reef is 3ft. wide and worth loz. per ton.
00. owns a 30-head mill and cyanide plant capable ot
treating 3000 tons monthly. Vigorous development is
now going on under new management, and co. snouia
soon be a regular producer, as the mine is all right, but
has been very badly handled. Co. is in 325,000 shares a
rather tall order for an undeveloped proposition.
• * * *
Hampton Plains Co. (W.A.) is not yet satisfied
that its huge property is a wild cat, and intends giving
it a further test with diamond drills. Directors are to
follow the cue of the Associated Northern, and raise pro-
specting funds to the tune of £25,000 by promoting a
syndicate in Is. shares. At present work is confined to a
very big formation on Block 50, known as Hampton
Boulder. The ore only averages sdwt. per ton, but this
is alleged to more than cover costs. The area of the estate
is so extensive—l6,ooo acres-that no single co. could
possibly prospect it thoroughly, and co.’s only chance i
to give fossickers exceptionally tempting terms to induce
them to co-operate. Instead of doing so they have (until
quite recently, when it was too late) offered worse terms
than Government. Co. is badly handicapped by not
having a railway to its property. This was projected,
but the Labor party blocked the Bill in Parliament
• * • *
Great Fingall (W.A.), is evidently going to be
run for all it is worth by Bewick, Moreing and Co.
Two years ago, in order to afford their employees no
excuse for gambling in scrip, the general meeting,
on the proposal of the late secretary m his
capacity of director, agreed to allow the stan
two per cent, on all divg. declared. Yet the trouble
came just the same—likewise the bogus scrip, the
subsequent proposal to issue 30,000 additional
shares at £5 each, probably to meet shortages, was
bad enough, but the suggested purchase of the West
Fin gall for £lOO,OOO cash is perfectly scandalous, me
property consists of some leases pegged out h.V B.M. and
Co., and sold to the Great Fingall 00. for 5000
shares. Two years ago they were floated off as west
Fingall, a co. of 250,000 shares. Of these the Great Un-
gall got 100,000 shares, and B.M. and Co., for putting
through the deal, got a similar quantity. At time of
flotation it was specially' stipulated that the underlay oj
the reef, if in the West’s property, still belonged to, and
could be followed by, the Great Fingall co. Two y earB
prospecting by diamond-drilling has proved these west
blocks practically worthless.
* • * •
South Kalgurli (W.A.), has now expended
£188,500 of Bull’s hard cash, in addition to another
£220,000, proceeds of gold w’on, and seems as far off the
dividend stage as ever. To instal the Merton s furnaces
and other treatment plant recommended by Boulder
Hamilton, it is proposed to raise more capital. Some of
the long-suffering shareholders object to this, and are
taking active steps to have somebody fired out first. The
costs, which were estimated by the management at 405.,
have been 625. per ton, and the grumblers want to know
the reason why. The mine is in a dicky' state, and it is
taking the management all its time to maintain a monthly
return of any sort. A serious collapse in output may
occur at any moment. The nest-egg is entirely' exhausted,
so that future monthly returns are bound to be more or
less fluctuating. For the amount of money spent, the
mine and its equipment make about the poorest showing
of any mine on earth. The recent rise in scrip is due to a
bear squeeze.
• * • ■
North Kalgurli (W.A.) has decided to erect an
up-to-date 20-head battery of 12001 b. stamps, capable of
treating 2000 tons of ore monthly, and supplemented by
filter presses to treat the slimes. This is a much more
extensive plant than the manager recommended, as he
limited the expend ture to £5OOO, and the public should
not jump to the conclusion that, because such a plant is
to be ordered, the present position of the mine in any
way warrants it. Where the purchase price of the
machinery is to come from is not stated. As here re-
marked, the lodes in the mine are very much faulted and
erratic in values, more especially in the lower levels, the
longest pay chute being only about 200 ft. As the lodes
on the field are, in places at least, much wider
than the drives, breaking down ore for the battery
often discloses unexpected treasures. This happened in
the case of the adjoining Hainault, and may occur with
this mine. Some 2000 tons of pay-ore are already on the
dump, in addition to the amount blocked out below, so
that the battery is pretty safe for a 12 months’run, at
least, on 15dwt. ore. The purchase and erection of bat-
tery will more than exhaust all available funds, and co.
will have to depend on revenue to keep things going—a
rather unsatisfactory prospect for such a patchy proposi-
tion. The erection of the battery is bound to boom scrip
and give sensible shareholders a long-looked-for chance
of passing on the baby to others to nurse.
• • * *
Kalgoorlie Amalgamated (W.A.), with its
£50,000 fresh capital, is busy diamond-drilling on its ex-
tensive propertv. Two bores have been put down to
1000 ft. each, a third to 600 ft., and a fourth to 400 ft. All
these bores have passed through lodes of sorts, but none
of them showed payable results. 00. has secured some
further blocks in the same neighbourhood as its Block 45,
and now owns 142 acres in all. The most promising pro-
perty is the Hannan’s Croesus, on which a fairly good lode
is beino' worked. The True Blue West, a small lease,
adjoining the Brown Hill Co. on the west, may be worth
something as a position block. Tributors have done well
on several of the leases, and are very anxious to resume
work if allowed.
• • • •
Westralia is just now getting a clear view of the
worm which is at the root of all efforts to fix wages. The
“ boss,” when his business isn’t too flourishing, points to
his profits, or the place where the profits ought to be,
and demands that the wages shall be low accordingly ;
and the workman in that case points to the cost of decent
living and asks us to glue our eye to that. In the
Westralian case the court has said that Kalgoorlie must
pay its miners 11s. Bd. per shift. The workman, taking
that 11s. Bd. as a standard, says that the cost of living is
much higher on the out-fields, wherefore the Peak Hill
miner must have 14s. fid. ; while the “ boss ” points to the
fact that Kalgoorlie averages 1‘420z. gold per ton of stone
against Peak Hill’s '840z., wherefore the Peak Hill miner
ought not to be paid as much as the other. Of course,
the worm is there, no matter how the fixing is done ; so
its appearance in this case is no argument against the
Arbitration Court. It rather illustrates the difficulties of
arbitration and the hopelessness of laying down hard-and-
fast rules and governing principles.
* * * •
Queensland Local Govt. Act, in force from the
end of March, deals with the hotlv-dehated question of mine
rates in a fashion which will not yield much revenue to
the interested municipalities. The value of a gold mine,
is deemed to be 20 times the rent of the lease; other
mining lands are deemed to be worth as much as any
other land, unimproved, in the neighbourhood—and land
in the neighborhood of mines is generally a wilderness of
rocks and jam tins, worth half-a-crown or so an acre. It
isn’t clear, in any case, why a mostly-absentee mining co.
should not pay something 'substantial outof its profits to
improve the odious natural conditions of the district
where the miners have to put in their live*.
• • • *
Apropos the great fire at Miller’s Point, Sydney :
What would some insurance shareholders of to-day think
of the dividend mentioned in the advertisement in the
g M Herald, July 26, 1839 “ Australian Fire and Life
Assurance Company. Notice is hereby given that a divi-
dend of 50 per cent, on the original capital of this com-
pany has been declared, and that the same is payable on
Ist September next to all proprietors being parties to the
original deed of settlement. 7- J. C. Phelps, Secretary.
®*' « t •
The fire which started in the Broken Hill Pro-
prietary mine about six years ago is still smouldering;
and whenever a crack occurs in the loose wall which
they have built around it a sickening gas pourß through,
and the miners have a worse time than usual. While it
stays where it is the fire is doing little harm ; but it has
to be constantly watched, and there is, besides, the
gnawing expense of keeping the neighboring workings
reasonably clear of the leaking gas.
At Poverty Point.
An Adelaide Waxworks show advertises: “Just landed.
Now on view. Mrs. Sangal’s baby.” What a life’s
beginning!
A comedy company with the capable Harry Plimmer in
command, and Miss Florence Seymour for leading lady, is
going to play some of Brough’s old pieces. The tour
starts at Auckland in May or June, and three fine selec-
tions from the Brough repertoire will be staged—
“ Second Mrs. Tanqueray,” “The Village Priest,” and
“ The Tyranny of Tears.” Miss Seymour and Plimmer
should make an interesting Tanqueray couple, anyhow.
Latest Chicago (U.S.A.) theatrical attraction is an
actor who takes fits in a masterly and horrible fashion.
He had to simulate an epileptic in a yellow drama, and
his realistic fits were the main draw of the piece. Now
he is in great demand for music-halls, afternoon teas and
“at homes”—getting huge fees for throwing a fit in a
life-like fashion.
The tremendous Augustus Glover, who died in the
hospital at Napier (M.L.), lies buried in the cemetery of
that pleasant, sleepy little town. There are few quieter,
cooler, greener places to die in than Napier, and when a
man goes to sleep permanently in a town that never was
quite awake he has the satisfaction of knowing that he
isn’t so widely different from the rest of the inhabitants
after all.
Said that J. C. Williamson is going to introduce the
haka dance into the production of his Maori opera. The
haka, carefully sandpapered, bevelled at the edges,
varnished and polished, and properly clothed with as
much rag as the average ballet, is a thing to make the
hair of the front stall Johnnies stand up like a church
tower. But if the Maoris, who are said to be specially
engaged for the show, get a few drinks in some night,
and the music gets to their heads, the mats will be
whirled off, and the audience will pour out in wild haste
to bring in a medical man to help some old Maori wahine
to get her stomach back from over her shoulder. The
few hakas this writer saw danced by the natives in a
certain portion of the King country were marvels of con-
tortion and dislocation.
A well-known theatrical manager is said to have
recovered a large sum of money from an employee whose
defalcations amounted to an act of madness.
Cremated on the 18th March, at Sydney, in the presence
of a good many pets of her profession, Milly Adams, a
once popular actress. She was cabled for to Shanghai,
where a sister lay very ill, and, on arrival, was herself
stricken down by typhoid. By her own wish her body
was brought to Australia and given to the flames.
Melba, booked to make her farewell appearance at the
Melbourne Exhibition Building on Saturday night last,
finished up her Australian tour in characteristic Nellie
Melba fashion—had a royal row with manager Musgrove,
and absolutely refused to do any farewelling at all.
Hardly any publicity was given to the abandonment, and
the first that wrathful ticket-holders knew of it was
when they rolled up for their seats and were glumly told
that the diva wasn’t on tap just then. The harassed
Musgrove states that, he being responsible to the public,
he wanted the farewelling done according to his ideas
(whatever they were), but that Melba wanted them run
on her lines (whatever they were); the result being that
the well-advertised “absolutely last appearance” wasn't
an appearance at all. But what was the difference of
opinion between the two? What did Musgrove want
done that Melba wouldn’t? And what did Melba want to
do which Musgrove wouldn't ?
“A.H.”: Apropos of Tub Bulletin’s complaint that
Grundy, in “Mrs. Hilary Regrets,” gives his “county
family ” people the manners of the kitchen and stable, it
would seem a habit of some English writers to discourse
of “high life” in absolute ignorance of its customs.
Arabella Kenealy, in the much-boomed “ A Semi-detached
Marriage,” makes the bridegroom, a wealthy man of title,
stipulate for the semi-detachment on the ground that
“ no one could continue to love a woman after seeing her
clean her teeth.” The absurd would-be epigram showed
complete ignorance of the ways of civilised life. If
dressing-rooms are not a matter of course in well-to-do
homes, a bathroom, at least, may be presumed. George
Moore, from whom Arabella plagiarises, shows the same
simplicity when he lets his hero declare that “ No man’s
love survives the sight of his bride washing over a hand-
basin.” By the way, about 15 years ago a London society
paper stated, as proof of the alleged uncivilised habits of
Scotchmen, that even wealthy commercial men in that
country habitually washed their faces at the kitchen sink.
“ Melb.” : “ Midsummer Night’s Dream ” is in rehearsal
at Melb. Princess’s. Up till a comparatively recent time,
the dictum was that this piece could not be staged, but
Shakespeare knew what he was about. You will not find
a notable production of “Midsummer Night’s Dream”
till Phelps gave it at Sadler’s Wells, with Rose Edouin,
our Mrs. G. B. W. Lewis, as Puck, and himself as
an unapproachable Bottom the Weaver. G. Kean
brought it out in rivalry at the Princess, with Harley
as Bottom. Douglas Jerrold hated Kean, and there is
hardly such a glowing dramatic criticism anywhere as
Douglas’s account of the Sadler’s Wells production.
The piece has recently been done in London severally by
Beerbohm Tree and Benson. There have been two pro-
ductions in Melbourne. The last was Rignold’s. The
other was at the former Princess’s, with Jefferson, Heir,
Lambert, Stewart, Mrs. Heir, Rosa Dunn, Emma Neville,
and Julia Matthews.
John Tait achieved a satisfactory settlement of his
action against Melba for breach of a verbal contract made
by her brother-in-law, Patterson. Plaintiff, who had been
promised the management of Melba’s run through Maori-
land, got £125 and costs. The four Melbourne brothers
Tait—young in fact, old in tact, and mere boys in appear-
ance—are a smart quartette of musical and theatrical
business men. Charles Tait, the eldest, is identified
with Allan’s music warehouse, and all concert arrange-
ments appertaining thereto. He has also had experience
on tour. It was the astute Charlie who went to Westralia
with the Italian co. last year. E. J. Tait, apparently the
youngest brother, acts as treasurer at the Williamson
theatre in Melbourne. James Nevin Tait takes charge of
the Dolores tour in America, and John, the lawyer of the
family, takes compensation as aforesaid for his disappoint-
ment in the Melba matter. The four of them are so much
alike that they advertise one another. To meet one
brother suddenly is to think of the other three, and
wonder which Tait he isn’t.
“Haresfoot”: Re the late Augustus Glover: In the
London AniEN.tuM, for 1867, he is referred to as a
promising actor, in one important part. Pascoe’s
Dramatic List, 1879, says Glover’s real name was De
Fivas. He had a rather foreign appearance. What a
finely set-up, stalwart, well-preserved man! Had the
school of Macready, Phelps, Brooke, and Creswick con-
tinued to flourish, he would have attained a high position.
He might have been as good as James Anderson in such
parts as Ingomar or Macbeth. But he did not get the
practice to keep him out of stereotyped melodrama.
The son of a well-known Mount Morgan-
aire, whose death was mentioned in this paper
last week, writes to point out that the deceased
was Thomas Squire Morgan, not James Morgan,
as printed.
Pastor Bailhache, Church of England, for-
merly a fashionable London Baptist preacher, is
dead. Came to Melbourne in 1875 to replace
Chas. Clark. The church proved a frost, and
Bishop Moorhouse converted him to a better-paid
faith at the same time with Congregational
Pastor S. C. Kent, formerly of Sydney.
Melbourne Age lost no time in notifying
the conviction of Robert Reid’s firm for defraud-
ing the customs. Half-an-hour after the news
came through, the block strollers were enticed
across Collins-st. by a large placard, only to learn
that their softgoods joss had fallen in on every
charge and been fined £5O, just like a common
drunk or vagrant. The foreign-trade Argus was
discreetly silent on the matter.
People remember now with some interest
that in 1901, before the new Australian Govern-
ment had fully taken charge of the customs,
alleged Senator Robert Reid and some other im-
porters formed an influential deputation to pro-
test against customs leakages and the sinful,
wholesale way other importers swindled the cus-
toms, especially at Brisbane. The investigation,
which Mr. Kingston started on hearing from
these importers what a darned bad, fraudulent lot
importers were, led to many things—the prosecu-
tion of the principal deputationist for one.
Victorian Labor-member Bromley has ob-
tained a verdict for £5OO damages from Melbourne
Table Talk, which published an article insinuat-
ing that he had stolen money from his union (the
Tinsmiths). There was not one atom of fact on
which to base such an insinuation ; but the news-
paper, possibly, thought that a libel, if insinuated
only and not said straight out, would be safe.
There could be no greater mistake. Mr. J. Woolf
had charge of Mr. Bromley’s case, and this vic-
tory, following on that in the Trenwith case,
makes him a proud Woolf indeed.
Next Wednesday (April 8) will witness the
opening of the N.S.W. Agricultural Society’s
great exhibition, and it is expected that the
carnival will he one of the most successful yet
promoted. The entries far outnumber those
received for any previous show. The jumping dis-
plays are expected to be especially good, the
nominations including all the State’s best timber-
topping talent. Trotting and motor-car parades
and races will be held daily, and many innovations
are promised.
“ Melb.” : Last night I went to our suburb
of Newmarket, and heard Kingston for the first
time, outside the House of Representatives. He
spoke at a meeting of Manger’s, the attendance
about 1200. This is Kingston’s trial gallop, before
his Queensland campaign. His first Victorian
meeting, and a memorable occasion. Seldom have
I known a speaker sit down with such a fusillade
of cheering. He gripped the people all along,
with a style utterly different from that of any
other man they ever heard. His earnestness was
tremendous and overwhelming. Watch him sweep
the board in Queensland. What a contrast to
Reid s funnyisms, and Barton’s nonchalance !
The brassy Law of Balmain (N.S.W.)
doesn’t now conceal the fact that he is a rene-
gade from the Labor party, and he is stumping
the Tamworth electorate in favor of Garland, the
candidate who is being championed as the one
man whose election will please the London Cohens.
And the unspeakably brassy Law is talking about
the Friedman case:
He believed that he uttered the Gospel truth when he
said that the Government had committed a great political
crime in polluting the fountain of justice over the Fried-
man case.
Yet this same Mr. Law voted with the Govern-
ment on a definite vote of censure on the Friedman
case. Later, he failed to get £75 for the Balmain
Choral Union, and then things began to drop.
A Brisbane correspondent:—
One of the most remarkable figures that Brisbane h.»
known was Mr. Entwhistle. who has just left for M L on
a strange mission. He is now in his 85th year ’ /ft,
much active service as a soldier in India he emigrated tl,
M. L. in '7O, and went thence to Melbourne, where he
mainly instrumental in the formation of the Victoria
Electric Light Company, which first installed electricity,
at Paddy’s Market. After roaming Australia he settles
in Brisbane in 1902. Entwhistle’* experience of marr ed
life has been curious. He was the father of five childreT
two years after his first marriage. He has buried seven
wives, and has 27 children. Some time ago his tenth son
disappeared mysteriously in M.L., and has not been heard
of since. The old man, therefore, a few weeks threw
up a permanency of £4 a week, and is now traversing
Maoriland in a lingering hope of finding and giving the
last resting place to the bones of a favorite boy. b


ELECTRICITY IS LIFE.
BENJAMIN
FRANKLIN
drew Electricity
from the clouds.
We confine elec-
tricity in our
Electric “Invig-
orator ” Belts,
from which it
issues in cura-
tive currents
for the benefit
of sick men
PROGRESSIVE SCIENCE.
What do the world’s scientists declare to-
day? That Electricity is a useful agent in the
cure of disease. They are aware that nerve
life in the body is the electric power by which
we live, breathe, and have our being. What
do the electric X rays do for the cancer-
stricken patient ? It cures in many cases. So
with the anaemic, nerve-palsied man, walking
the earth like a shadow amongst men, he
electrifies his run-down nerve-system and
lives to enjoy his life. Let any man deficient
in nerve-power, no matter how powerless he
may be, wear our Electric “ INVIGORATOR ”
Belt, which we sell for ONE POUND ONLY, for a
few hours each night and undergo a course of
our Electro-Medical treatment and he will in a
few weeks be a new man. Power will return
to his vital organs, strength to his brain, vitality to his nerves, and the perfect working ot every organ of
his body will endorse a new lease of life. The cured and the healthy say of this wonderful curative system.
11l
m
f!S
m
hfc .!
11
I
%
tiS
■- -
9Mm
»
1
I
si
>SS
lllto, f, |Ng
'/l,t///s
///
' / f / // /// /
/////// ■'
'///////
I
A
?v
I
i
A
M' i*
fl
1
Si
13
IiSI
IlSliiiiixiiiitiiir,;
IiLWiS, ’
!*K-'l
1
I
I
Fin
Bufiii
a
111
a*
lili
V,«l
m
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Mr. DANIEL O’CONNOR, M.P., ex-Minister
of the Crown, one of the most active associates
of the political and commercial life of New South
Wales, in a recent letter declares to us :
“I have worn one of your famous
‘Belts,’ and it has benefited me much.
For years I was troubled with severe pains
in the back and kidneys, the legacy of an
attack of lumbago, which has now, I am
happy to say, completely left me.”
AFRICA.
Mr. CHARLES AVINGTON-DUNLOP, sta-
tioned officially at Durban, sent us the follow-
ing lines after a two-months’ course of our
treatment:—
“I can assure you your medicines
have done me much good. I have
every sign of ultimate restoration to
health, for which I thank you. Your
Electric ‘ INVIGrORATOR ’ has cer-
tainly stimulated me very much.”
MAURITIUS.
The manager of a large sugar plantation,
Mr. 0. R. CASTLES, in Mauritius, treated for
chronic liver, tells us we restored him to health.
Here is an extract from his letter :
“In reply to yours of the 20th inst.,
I continue to improve, and I am
better now than I have been for
years. Your Electric ‘Belt’ has done
me much good. I shall continue to
wear it.”
NEW ZEALAND.
Me. T. M. HUNTINGDON, mining expert,
writing from Christchurch, N.Z., notifies us as
to his progress and recovery from diabetes, from
which he was a sufferer for years. He says :
“I cannot question the efficacy of your
treatment of Nerve and Kidney Diseases
by Electricity and Medicine. The elec-
tric current from your ‘INVIGORA-
TOR, ’ has, with your medicines, worked
wonders. ”
NOTE ! Our Fees are : Advice and Medicine, ONE POUND ONLY.
BEAR WELL IN MIND that Electric currents to patients should be adminis-
tered under the care of a skilled Physician whose knowledge of Electro-Thera-
peutics is reliable. In some cases certain functional nerve-diseases may be cured
by the wearing of an Electric Belt alone. There are THOUSANDS OF DISEASES WHICH
IT WILL NOT BENEFIT and is dangerous to the patient when worn.
When under our treatment you are under the care of a qualified Physician, registered by
the Medical Boards of Australia, England and America. (See N.S.W. Registered Practitioners’
List.) Dr. Richard Wallace, Physician-in-Chief, is an internationally registered physician, and
a specialist of great reputation in the treatment of NERVE, BLOOD, STOMACH and
BRAIN and KIDNEY DISEASES.
Our Electric " INVTGOR.&.TOR” Belts are the best sold in Australian medical prac- {
tice. They are not expensive. But they are genuine. They are locally certificated, locally
manufactured. We publish a certificate of efficiency from a high electrical official. Bead it, I
then read our prices. ,
Copper Plate ... £1
Silver Plate ... £llO
Solid Silver ... £3 <
Solid Gold ... £lO (
Always remember our £lO Belt contains 2oz. 18ct. gold, and £8 is allowed in exchange if (
it is necessary to return. We pay duty to all Australian States.
Book Explaining Disease.
The latest compilation of the Medical Staff of the Institute,
“ Clinical Experiences,” a magnificent work of 550 pages,
150 medical plates, thoroughly explains, in an illustrated
chapter of 30 pages, the application of Electricity to diseased
nerve-centres. It is full of valuable information of interest to
residents in the country, where medical men are few. It is
not a mere pamphlet, but a fine, genuine adviser.
Post Free, All Addresses,
ONE SHILLING IN STAMPS.
Electrical Expert says.
MR. ARTHUR C. F. WEBB, M.1.E.E., a high official in
the Electrical world and late President of the Institute Elec-
trical Engineers, Sydney, says, after testing our Electrical
“ IN VIGOR ATOR ” Belt
“The current is a continuous one as is
used for medical purposes
We are the only registered firm in the possession of such
valuable local certificates granted in favor of an Electric Belt.
physician-in-Chiefs Diplomas.
The Physician-in-Chief to the Institute, Dr. Richard
Wallace, M.D., L.R.C.P., E., L.F.P.S., E., L.M., is regis-
tered by the Medical Boards of
NEW SOUTH WALES
VICTORIA
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
ENGLAND
and
AMERICA,
Late Homcepathic Hospital, Melbourne, and Imperial
Army Medical Staff.
SIR DOMINIC CORRIGAN, Bart., Phyaician to the
late Queen, says of him :—“I entertain a high opinion of Dr.
Wallace, in respect to his professional qualifications.”
In cases of INSOMNIA, PALPITATION, RHEUMATISM, GOUT,
INDIGESTION, DYSPEPSIA, BLADDER INFLAMMATION, VARI-
COCELE, KIDNEY TROUBLE, or LIVER DISORDERS, electricity care-
fully applied lias immediate beneficial effects, Where the blood is charged
with uric acid through bad kidney processes, the current stimulates the
nerves governing the kidneys into healthy activity. Mr. Philip Newbury, the
eminent tenor, who suffered from uric acid in the blood for years, says :
“Since wearing your ‘ Invigorator' I am completely cured."
FREEMAN & WALLACE
ELECTRO-MEDICAL and
SURGICAL INSTITUTE
ELIZABETH and BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
HOWARD FREEMAN, Director.
Dr. RICHARD WALLACE, M.D., L.R.C.P., E., L.F.P.S., E., L.M., Physician-in-Chief.
Medicines packed Free from Observation and sent to all parts of Australia.
Letters treated with Professional Secrecy and promptly attended to.


“ Burglar Bill ” asks a question :
Why don't the authorities provide in every new police
station an entrance for the prison van where that vehicle
can load and unload in seclusion ? At the newly erected
No. 2, in Regent-street, the van loads up in a side street,
to the amusement of a crowd of street arabs and dirty
s'atterns who gather round on its arrival. Passed the
other morning, and an Irish policeman was assuring two
slovenly women “ They’ll be out in a minyet
now.” Generally the unfortunates who are taking
the journey have to stand a few minutes on
the pavement while some small matters are being
attended to, and the slattern with the huge, mouldy
infant, and the pale, fat woman, and the long:, gaun t
woman with the short skirt and the unlaced bo an ."
the innumerable small boy, all collect round. There is
too much publicity about the removal of \\ ith
myself, the worst few minutes of my ‘lagging- \\ere
spent in marching up Sydney platform to catch the Gou -
burn mail. I was offside leader in a team of six, one of the
six being aged 75 and a confirmed jibber, who hung back
in the harness, despite vigorous requests to hurry up-
Mv trousers were 3in. over my boots, and refused to have
anything to do with the vest, and my hat was three sizes too
small, and I carried a bundle, and was handcuffed to the
chain, and held up the string supporting the leg-irons,
and I hadn’t a hand free with which to brain the nearest
of the crowd which ran silently alongside, with its eyes
wide open and its mouth gaping.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK
A Handsome Cloth-bound Volume of over 300 pages.
The Best Collection of Short Stones and Literary
Sketches yet produced in Australia. Price, 4s. 6d.;
postage, 6d.
earne’s
famous remedy for
fOITOIIS BRONCHITIS* ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
VAJ l b I 1 05 J3l \.V^\ V <_^ rirn X c , . T ’ rn? A W riTTFST M EDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
TTiq thf LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
HAS THE L , f f Bronchitis Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers f rom y is invaluable, § as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are sioj Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption lias
k b. i,». - *.»— * *- - ■—*—*
uid a Complete Cure is certain. __ m _» ■ ■ ;« coughs 2
REMEMBER THAT AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THXS RULE.
A Lady in London.
MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
'TIRED BV ONE BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
HIE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
“Orange, N.S.W.
•Mr. Hearne.— . .
“ Dear Sir,—l enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. - ——,
if London, England, from which you will glean that
,-our medicine has been a perfect God-send to a martyr to
-olds and bronchial asthma. I do not wish any names to
ie mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
mrtion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
lefer anybody toTii’.
“ 1 heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Jtng-
and. You can see for yourself what an immense success
t was.—Yours faithfully,
Extract from letter alluded to above
“You will be interested in hearing that 1 think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
irrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is ver V
mich interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
iff the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
tom a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
upplied priyately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS’ TORTURE.
TIT I EYED BY ONE DOSE OF HEAHNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“Dergholm, Victoria.
“Dear Sir—l wish to add niv testimony to the won-
lerful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
uonths, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
was obliged to up and sit by the tire. I had medical
dvice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
»ours, and never had a fit of couching after taking the
U-st dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
m a different man, and the coueh lias vanished. You
nay depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
loiideiful remedy to anyone 1 see afflicted.
“ Yours faithfully,
“JAMES ASTBURY.”
We the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
learne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
ectlv and rapid I \ successful under circumstances which
ndoubtedlv prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
be Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, M.vers-street, Geelong, and
fty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS-
-I used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
doses.—P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria. ’
Quilindi, N.S.W."
Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.— A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney.”
both
Victoria.”
•‘I have used one bottle of vour Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me.—(Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria.
‘•I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.-JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria.”
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffl-
eulty of breathing has all gone.—J. HARRINGTON, B.ngegong, Morundah. N.S.W.
M y cold, bad as it was, disappeared after tw! doses.-C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers,
Queen-street, Melbourne,”
•« I lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine wdth splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miraeulous.-F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.
“Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria.”
“Kindlv forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine. —(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.
lam very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at onoe.-
G. SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” •
“Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle.—W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria.
“ I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the b° t I ever had. lam recommending it to everybody.-*
STEELE Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” ®
“ I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until Itriedyour medicine,
but I can truly say that I am astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of my brief trial.-JOHN C.
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.”
“Last year 1 suffered severely from Bronchitis, add the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
me any good 1 but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well.-H. HOOD,
Brooklands, Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.”
9
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of vour Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.-A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria."
•
„ Vm ,, Urnnohitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
took uTade me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from you have pulled
me through a long and dangerous illness.-HENRY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria.
“The bottle of Bronchitis Cure 1 got from you was magical in its effect*.-CHAS. WHYBROW Enoch’s
Point, via Darlirigford, Victoria.”
Gratitude and Appreciation
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
•* The Scientific Australian Office,
“ 169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
"Dear Mr. Hearne,— The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“ This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom-
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, an-
countant, Col'lins-street, and the effect that it had was so
marked that he has ever since been continually recom-
mending it to others.
“ We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintance.
" Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully..
"PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO."
Queensland Testimony-
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
" 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
"Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Please send us 36
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose our
cheque to cover amount of order.
“We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a chii d
of his with most remarkable result, the child bem<, quite
cured by three doses.
"We are, faithfully yours,
• THOMASON, CHATER & CO., __
“ Wholesale Chemists.
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NdCWSPAPEII
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRAILMjL
appreciation.
“W G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir,—Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Pure I had! some months ago, a severe attack o
Bronchitis, and took your medicine with the result t jut
ot thp pnd of ten days the complaint had completely
me We are now never without the niedicuie ... Ujj>
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
"I am, my dear Sir, Yours^aßEfully^^^,
"Editor GkKLO.NO Advertiser.”
“Upon looking through our hook, w* ore .wok w»
Druggists, Sydney, N.S. W.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
branch depot nffi™. "w ft v\v*t "Firmr Greer’ s Chambers. 522 George Street, Sydney.
4.' Si SViEU. ..d Medicine Vendek S ~
SMELTING & REFINING GO. of AUSTRALIA
Works: DfIPTO, LAKE ILLAWARRA (56 Miles from Sydney)* 1901, Limited*
Highest Price paid for Gold. Silver, Lead, and Copper Oregi
Cyanide, Slags, and Jewellers’ SwggßJt-g:
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay. —sZ z_~ ——— "
For all Information regarding Bates, apply to the Managek, Ukau Omocb, Damo;
or A. E. RUDDER & CO., 40 ITIT ST., SYDNEY, forwarding Agents. _
BENGER’S FOOD is
not only highly nutritive,
but is most easily digested
and is so delicious that it
is enjoyed by Infants, In-
valids, Convalescents and
the aged.
Bugggas,
Immk
wfg!z*
mm
®|lj
■SI
■ft
m
The London Medical Record.
Says it is retained when all
other foods are rejected.
The Pritish Medical Journal
savs ■“ Benger’s Foot! has by
its excellence established *
reputation of its own.
Benger’s Food is sold in tins
bv Chemists, etc., everywhere.


Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Not genuine without the signature.
Be sure you get Martin’s. Sole proprietor, W.
Martin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
England.*
Queensland, during the last two or three
months, has lost a good many of its young far-
mers, principally from Darling Downs, who
have emigrated to Canada. 1 he Moana, last
trip, took several families from Warwick,
representing a considerable amount of capi-
tal. The Canadian Government, it is under-
stood .allots 160 acres of _ good country to
each immigrant, and supplies implements, etc., on
long terms. The settler is required to clear and
cultivate 30 acres within three years, when, he wi 1 1
receive the deeds of his holding. Granting the
land is good, and the conditions as simple as
stated, Australia will have to hustle to keep the
cream of their settlers in Debtland. It s the
provident hard-grafter, who has a little means,
who generally responds to offers of this kind, ana
these are the men who can be ill-spared.
THE PIANOLA
Y,*tL
n
f-
v
K.
V -a.
sew:
What
It
Means
To
You.
If you are the owner of a piano which is seldom or never used, little
benefit is derived from it by either you or your family. By the purchase
of a Pianola every member of your family can play the piano, although he
or she may never have played one note in their life.
The striking of the notes of the selection, in proper time and place, is
ao concern of the player. This is correctly done by the Pianola.
The player’s only task is to decide how slow or how fast the notes shall
be played, or how loud or soft he wants them to sound.
Three little levers serve to impart the player’s wishes to the piano.
Should the selection not be familiar, a very simple set of markings is given
on the music-roll which unwinds in front of the player, directing the proper
movement of the levers.
If you will write us, asking for Catalogue B, we will mail you one
free, explaining more fully the Pianola.
The price of the Pianola is £6O prompt cash, or £65 on moderate
monthly payments.
HENRY M. BIRGE & CO.
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA.
SYDNEY : 323 George St.
MELBOURNE: 185-187 Collins St.
The High-Class Smoking Mixture.
Has
NO EQUAL
IN ■
QUALITY.
CPe l
W Tobacco
Cigarette
m
Factory
V
X
hark
C PURVEYORS c*
PURE TOBACCOS
niLD,
MEDIUn,
FULL.
In £lb. Aib Tight Tins.
Manufactured by t'he ARDATIi TOBACCO CO., LONDON.
SICK MADE WELL
WEAK MADE STRONG.
Marvellous Elixir of Life Discovered
by Famous Doctor-Scientist That
Cures Every Known Ailment
Wonderful Cures are Effected That
Seem Like Miracles Performed—
The Secret of Long Life of
Olden Times Revived.
The Remedy is Free to All Vtae Btlfl
Heme and Address.
After yean of patient etndy, and delving into
tl)e dusty records of the past, as well as following
modern experiments in the realms of medical
science, Dr. James W. Kidd, 4Rfi First National
Bank* building, Fort Wayne, Ind„ U. 8. A.,
*
DR. JAMES WILLIAM KIDD. I
makes the startling announcement that he
has surely discovered the elixir of life. That
he is able with the aid of a mysterious com-
pound, known only to him self, produced as a
result of the years he has spent in searching
for this precious life-giving boon, to cure any
and every disease that is kn own to the human
body. There is no doubt of the doctor’s earnest-
ness in making his claim and the remark-
able cures that he ft daily effecting seems to
bear him out very strongly. His theory which
he advances is one of reason and based on
sound experience in a medical practice of many
years. It costs nothing to try his remarkable
“Elixir of Life,” as he calls it, for he sends
it free, to anyone who is a sufferer, in sufficient
quantities to convince of its ability to cure, so
there is absolutely no risk to run. Some of
the cures cited are very remarkable, and but
for reliable witnesses would hardly be credited.
The lame have thrown away crutches and
walked about after two or three trials of the
remedy. The sick, given up by home doctors,
have been restored to their families and friends
in perfect health. Rheumatism, neuralgia,
stomach, heart, liver, kidney, blood and skin
diseases and bladder troubles disappear as
by magic. Headaches, backaches, nervousness,
fevers, consumption, coughs, colds, asthma,
catarrh, bronchitis and all affections of the
throat, lungs or any vital organs are easily
overcome in a space of time that is simply
marvellous.
Partial paralysis, locomotor ataxia, dronsy,
gout, scrofula "and piles are quickly and per-
manently removed. It purifies the entire
system, blood and tissues, restores normal
nerve power, circulation and a state of perfect
health is produced at once. To the doctor all
systems are alike and equally affected by this
great “Elixir of Life.” Send for the remedy
to-day. It is free to every sufferer. State what
you want to be cured of and the sure remedy
for it will he sent you free by return mail.
Remember, a letter to America requires 2JcL
postage. ffVWrite your nnme very plain, and be
sure to eive 5 our full address, so there can be
HO mistake in delivery.
“ON OUR SELECTION”
“ 3RTJDD.”
PRICE 6s.
Postage Bd. extra.
Direct from BULLETIN Office, 214 George St., Sydney
TWO POINTS OF MUCH IMPORTANCE,
Sllenburgs Foods.
Tbe great success attending the use of the “Allenburys” Milk Foods is in a great measure
due to the two following important facts :
(l) Their similarity in composition to human milk ; the constituents being in
the same relative proportions. _ .
Mixed with water according to the directions a humanized milk is provided.
(a) The readiness with which they can oe digested and assimilated by
the infant,both foods being as easy of assimilation as maternal milk,
and much more so than ordinary modified or diluted cow’s milk.
The “ Allenburys ” Foods are especially valuable in hot climates. They are in the
form of powder and keep perfectly.
IFT
Pamphlet on “ INFANT FEEDING ” (48 pages) free,
from 495 , Bourke Street , Melbourne.
Allen & Hanburys, Ltd., @ourt, Lombard St., Jsondon.
MILK FOOD No. 1.
From birth to three months.
MILK FOOD No. 2. e
From three to six months.
MALTED FOOD No. 3.
From six months and upwards.
I AYNE’S EXPECTORANT
CURES THE WORSTCOUGHi.
The Downfall of Billie.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
" Who,” said the Man Who Had Endured Much,
"was Billie?”
"Oh!” said the Ordinary Girl, with a start;
"how did you know ?"
"I don’t” (hunting for a match); "but I’m
willing to learn.”
“It’s not particularly interesting,” said the
Girl, with a meditative frown. “ But I ’ll tell
you.” Then thoughtfully. "You see, it hap-
pened while you were away.”
“Things generally do,” murmured the Man,
sadly. The Girl looked reproachful.
“Think of the monotony,” she said.
He who endured tried to smile hypocritically.
“He had such nice manners,” reflected the
Girl; "at least at first,” settling comfortably
into reminiscence. "He reminded me of you,”
meditatively, sinking a dainty chin into a fluffy
pink cushion.
“ Where,” said the Man, sternly, ignoring the
flattery, “ did you run against him ? "
“At the Slommers’ At Home,” moving the
cushion, tentatively. “It was so slow ;it was so
hot; then Bell introduced him just as I was about
to flee, and we grew mutually enthusiastic over
strawberry ice, the general deadliness of ‘at
homes,’ and—and—other things,” vaguely.
"As per usual," said the Man, with his eye on
the oushion.
She smiled guiltily. “ I don’t think it is very
interesting,” appealingly, and moving the oushion.
Silence.
“Oh, well,” replacing it pettishly. "If I can
remember” (wrathfully), “I met him at every-
thing after that” (in a tired voice). “He went
everywhere. He was really an indefatigable
youth ; never dodged duty calls ” (sitting up, with
a stern eye), “ and never pleaded football meet-
ings as excuses for nasty old dinners.”
The shoulders of the delinquent opposite shook
slightly. ...
“He never” (speaking in a stern voice)
"fled gardenwards to avoid Minnie Askew’s
demand for dances ! He did his duty ! ” (loftily).
“He even” (in an awed whisper, clenching the
oushion) “took Mrs. Scoffer down to supper ! ”
“By Jove ! ” said the Man, startled. She sank
back demurely, and continued lazily : “He took
me for drives with the sweetest pony ” (mali-
ciously), “ and the first time I drove, but not the
next ’’ (virtuouslvl.
“Why?” (stiffly).
“Why,” said the Girl, sweetly, with uplifted
brows, “do I always make you take the reins ?
Satan finds some mischief still, etc., applies in
both cases.”
The Man Who Endured grinned dubiously.
“Of course, I lectured him” (in a complacent
tone), “and he seemed very meek, and I really
began to think ’’ (patting the cushion softly) “ he
was awfully nice. Do you know” (breaking off
abruptly) “ when you shut your mouth like that,
you don’t look pretty. Aren’t you interested ?
His real name was Donald,’’ she went on, “ but I
called him Billie. It’s so much shorter and nicer.
We were having a really good time. You see, he
was so jolly, so good-tempered, and never minded
waiting quite half an hour. And then he went
and spoilt it all ” (resignedly). " l was never so
disappointed in anyone.”
Her listener choked : * How did he fall from
grace ? ” he queried.
The Girl shook her head regretfully: “It was
at Alice’s dance, and I was having such a lovely
time ” (in a mournful tone). “How people can
be so selfish, I don’t know. We were sitting out,
for he danced atrociously, and—and —he took my
fan away and said such ridiculous things ” (appeal-
inglv). i .
“At first” (in pretended confusion, with one
cheek buried in the cushion), “I thought lie
was trying to be funny” (lifting innocent
“and—and —and— ”
" And ?” (grimly).
“Oh, I can’t remember anything •
aggrieved voice). “I know I was very angry.’
Silence. >.
“And I told him so” (breaking the silence).
“He was so rude” (opening shocked eyes very
wide) “and said things. I boxed his ears” (blush-
ing just a trifle and hugging the cushion tightly).
" I was so disappointed in him I nearly began to
cry. Then he fled and-sent the Infant frantically
to find me curled up on a seat weeping ; my feel-
ings were so injured. When the Infant came I
howled on his shirt-front and felt so horrid.
Poor Infant” (with a giggle), “he patted me on
the back and besought me to ‘ be a good chap and
not to howl,’ and then he took me home.”
(Heaving a sigh of relief.) “I had such a head-
ache next day ” (gazing up pitifully). It was a
whole week before you came back” (sinking into
a reproachful silence).
The Man Who Endured Much moved uneasily.
“But I suppose”(sighing a little) “a football
tour has more attractions than—than—anything
elBe”(in the softest and most plaintive voice).
The Man who Endured took the cushion.
"Of course” (went on the small voice un-
steadily) “ sport is ever3 r thing, it doesn’t matter
much about —” (stopping uncertainly).
The cushion flew to the other end of the room,
to be joyfully seized by a puppy. Somehow it
and Billie must have been forgotten, for it was
dusk when the Infant put his head in at the door,
to be greeted by a down-covered impudent dach-
shund and two very indifferent people. “You
little animal,” said the Girl, bundling the puppy
into her arms. But she kissed him on the top of
the head all the same.
C.A.R.O.


No. F5419—18c.
Gold Diamond and
Sapphire Ringr, £2,
F 2876. —Pretty Glass-lined Shell
Butter Dish, with Knife, 13s 6d.
No. 3d —16c. Gold and Fine Opal and Pearl B<
Brooch, £2 10s.
No. FB93l.— Exquisite Diamond and Ruby
Brooch, £l3 10*.
No. Ku*. —Novel
Charm, 9ct. Gold,
Mouse in a Hat, 8* 6d
No. F7393.—15c. Gold
Rope and Anchor
Charm, 8s 6d.
No. F5328.—18c. Gold
Diamond & Sapphire
King, £5 10s.
No. Gl39s.—Solid Silver Serviette
Bing, 4e 6cL
15c. Gold and Fine
Pearl Star Pendant,
£4 10s; others up to £lO
9ct. Gold Fashionable
Photo. Pendant, 7s 6d ;
larger, 8s 6d, 11s 6dL
With Pearls, 27s 6d.
No. F3l9B.—Neat, Plain Onyx and
GolcU Mourning Brooch, 13s 6cL
lie Cuuu
SM
No. F69o6.—Gentleman’s Embossed Solid Silver Visiting
Card Case, 16s 6d.
„ -BETTER QUALITY FOR LESS MONEY.” That Is the Stewart Dawson Idea of
R ™y.!g on a business. If. our way of winning and Keeping your custon,
” We admit we are in a better position to buy at the right prices than any
other firm In Australasia, but remember that it was through following the policy
mentioned above that we have grown from one Store to Eight. There is a reason at
r. S.f .»r„h,n e .ana BETTER QUALITY TER «*« '*»« S
our growth and popularity. Orders by post have careful attention, and catalogues
and Information are gladly sent to enquirers.
Ko. E 7302. Pearl,
Turquoise and 9c.
Gold Heart Pen*
dant, 17s 6d.
No. F7592.—15c
Gold Filigree
Ornamented
Bean Charm,
10s 6cL
No. 215.—Fine
Pearl and Sapphire
Heart, 9c. Gold,
16s 6d.
No. F 7420— Solid
Gold Perfect
Model Pipe
Charm,
Ss 6d.
No. F 4454. —Fine
Quality Silver-plated
Centrepiece, 20in.
high, with Stag Or-
naments and
Engraved Glass Dish
and Vase, £3 15s.
No. G 1399.
-Solid Silver Queen Anne Salt Cellars
Spoons, in Morocco Case, 52s 6d.
This shows the new Pearl Necklet made froir
Pearl and coated by a secret process
pearls. The imitation is practically perfect,
can tell the difference. Prices, £4, £4
l real solid Mother of
to imitate the real
and only an expert
10s, £4 15s, £5.
GS
a
8
m
m
/A
No. F373B.—Neat Leather Purse, with Handsome
Silver Mounts and Lock, 13s 6d.
No. Fd933.—Child’s Cup,
Silver Plated and En-
graved in ca e, 14s 6d.
No. 886.— Mother of Pearl Silver Plated and Engraved Butter Knife, 3s 6d.
wk
m
■vate m
No. G1396.—Gadrooii Edge Sclid Silver
Serviette Ring, Us 6d.
No. FB2lO. —Fine Leather and Son.'
Silver Blotting Book, 255.
9 0
nin
No. F976.—Fine Pearl Set, 15e. Gold 2 Bat-
Brooch, 37s 6d.
Illustrated Catalogue
POST FREE.
No. 163.— 18c. Gold
Diamond and Ruby
Ring, £310s; larger
T
here are several . .
TALKING MACHINES
.. but there is only one
mHOPHOME
WHICH IS MADE BY
The gramophone Typeuiriter [td.
This is a “JUNIOR fIONARCH ” GRAMOPHONE,
Price £6 10s., and it is unsurpassed by any
Talking Machine at any Price.
Other Styles, £3 to £l4 10s.
T is well to remember this when discussing the artistic merit of sound reproducing contrivances. There is little
difficulty in reproducing a sound. There is, however, a gigantic difficulty in reproducing good music, and the actua
voices of famous singers. We would ask you to remember that THE GRAMOPHONE made by The Gramophone
akd Typewriter Ltd. does this. How do we do it? Why, because we have unlimited capital at our back, and because
we do not hesitate to obtain the services of the finest and most celebrated artistes of the day to sing for us. The better the
artiste the better the song. The public are the best judges in the world of tne intrinsic value of an article. Me are selling
FIVE MILLION RECORDS
per annum and why ? Because our records are real reproductions of these singers. Our catalogue includes records made
by Carusa, Plangon, Kenaud, David Bispham, Ben Davies, Andrew Black, Richard Green, Joseph O'Mara, Mesdames Calve,
Suzanne Adams, Kirby Lunn, Esther Palliser, Percival Allen, Connie Ediss, and Marie Tempest. Also Dan Leno, George
Robey, Louis Bradfield, and Maurice Earkoa, besides hundreds of others.
»♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦»♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦
Australian Agencies—VlCTOßlA: A. P. Sykes, 227 Little Collins Street. Melbourne.
Represented all over
World.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Messrs. S. B. Hunt & Co., 94 Grenfell Street. Adelaide.
WESTRALIA: Messrs. Nicholson & Co.. Perth.
TASMANIA: Messrs. Wertheimer. Benjamin. & Anderson, 71 Collins Street, Hobart.
QUEENSLAND: Messrs. Heindorff Bros., 210 Queen Stieet, Brisbane.
AGENTS IN EVERY TOWN.
WHOLESALE DEPOT FOR AUSTRALASIA -
The Gramophone and Typewriter Ltd., 163 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.


m
i
OF
%
KIDNEYS, LIVER ANO BOWELS.
NATURES
PLEASANT
LAXATIVE.”,
THE ORIGINAL
AND
GENUINE.
California Syrup of Figs is the one True Natural Laxative. It acts
gently, pleasantly and beneficially on the Kidneys, Liver, and Bowels,
and permanently overcomes Habitual Constipation.
Words of Advices
Ask for CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS, and see that
the package bears the welLknown Name and Trade Mark
of the California Fig Syrup Co,, the Manufacturers of the
only Original and Genuine. Imitations are numerous, but
as you value your health you cannot risk taking a substL
tute. California Syrup of Figs is sold in Australia in two
sizes at 1/3 and 1/11. Worthless substitutes are often
offered at less as an inducement.
Of all Chemists and Stores.
California Fig Syrup Company, 32 Snow Hill, London, E.C.
Australia : 7 Barrack Street, Sydney.
1
mu
H 1, “Wh&M&ZZ.- iZWzis,z f•'
> 44 ' ,
* ,f p
iflßiih
K
I
■
-
Wmk
m
wm.
an
Quits.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The man who deals with stock is not, as a rule,
the owner of a highly cultivated mind ; and it
generally happens that, the more the bucolic indi-
vidual is successful in his business, the less he
knows or cares for anything else. Hence, in bush
districts, the practical joke is cultivated and
cherished as an expression of the highest form of
wit of which the human mind is capable.
M'Murdo, overseer at an out-station of Glen-
tavish, was quite famous in the district for the
number and variety of successful practical jokes
he had played. A good deal of his spare time
and cash were devoted to literature of the Jack
Harkaway and Deadwood Dick type, and the
fruit was quite worthy of the tree.
The township and district were policed by Ser-
geant Farrell, a clever, hard old Irishman; two
troopers, one named Dennis Burke ; and three
foot-police, including a senior-constable. Trooper
Burke was regarded by the sergeant as one of his
smartest “weaners,” as the old fellow named a
new-chum policeman, and had only recently been
drafted from the depot. He was young, keen
and cocksure about things, and preternaturally
suspicious of everybody out of the force. Thus
he fell easily to M'Murdo when that worthy tried
his irreverent hand en the police; a thing which
only a despot of the calibre of Bonaparte can
afford to do in most countries. M'Murdo found
this out later.
The trooper had been on patrol, and, reaching
M'Murdo’s out-station about sundown, had put-up
there for the night. Several strangers were there
who did not impress the young policeman favor-
ably, and he suspected them of something or
other, in consequence; more especially as
M'Murdo was obviously uneasy. He had supper
and a smoke, and turned in. He awoke suddenly
in the night, and suspicion was changed into
certainty, for he heard M'Murdo say, “Oh, he’s
asleep all right; he got a fair dose in his last pint
of tea, so go ahead.” And they went ahead.
There was to be a raid by two notorious cattle-
stealers on Bardoo, a neighboring cattle station ;
present company assisting. The rendezvous was
carefully named and described ; the names of the
thieves as carefully mentioned ; and the time—
day after to-morrow. Trooper Burke saw glory
and promotion awaiting him.
He slept no more that night, and was up bright
and early next day. M'Murdo said that the visi-
tors had left ; Burke doubted this, for he saw
several horses feeding about which had recently
been ridden hard, and he saw enough saddles to
match them leaning against the wall outside, the
station saddles being still on the pegs under the
verandah. He said nothing, however, but saddled
up and rode into town. Unluckily for him the
sergeant had left leaving word that he
would not be back until night. The senior con-
stable (a footman) was in charge, so youthful
inexperience, ambition and desire for immediate
action had their way, and Burke left for the
cattle-stealers’ rendezvous, hoping that the ser-
geant would be up in time to help him secure his
*The sergeant got home at 5 o’clock, hot
and dusty, and receiving his junior’s report before
he had time to cool, nearly took a fit. He got a
fresh horse and tried to overtake Burke before he
had committed himself too far, but only arrived
in time to receive a share of the contumely thrown
about by a wild lot of youngsters who were assist-
ing at a muster of the Bardoo cattle. M'Murdo
wasn’t there ; but the sergeant knew.
The laugh ran up and down the river at
another of M'Murdo’s successes, and for a long
while the force squirmed at allusions to listeners
and cattle-thieves. The sergeant contented him-
self with slating Burke privately. He wound-up
his lecture by saying : “To let the divils pull yer
leg like that! —we’ll be laughed at until the cows
come home, and ye’ll be axed, till ye die, ‘ Are ye
listenin’, Trooper Burke?’ But wait till I get a
chance at M'Murdo ! Go to yer jooty.”
It had been 116° in Doodney’s bar (the coolest
place in town) during the day, and at 7 o’clock
the sun had gone down, and the wind with it.
The rolling cloud of dust which had been charg-
ing across the surrounding plains, and through
the straggling township, since an hour after sun-
rise was now settling down on everything. The
barman at Doodney’s was wiping the grit out of a
quarter column of glasses—the arrears of a big
shout—with a dry and dusty rag, while he lan-
guidly watched an ancient drunk in the corner
slapping at the walls with his open hands, trying to
kill freckled spiders with blue eyes and with their
red hair done up in a knot at the back of the head.
The coach had just arrived at the Post-office, a
few doors up, an hour late, and the people were
waiting in front of the building for their mail, too
tired or too full of luke-warm whisky even to
talk. v
“Anything stirring up the river, Dave? ” asked
the sergeant.
“Nothing much,” said the driver, “exceptin’l
saw old Smallman, the bush missionary, about five
miles back. He sung out something of a murder as
I passed him.”
At this the sergeant stiffened like a terrier at
a rabbit-hole.
“Murder, Dave? Where?”
“ Dunno. I didn’t stop for his pitch ; late
enough as ’tis. He’ll be here soon, be the way
he’s graftin’on the old grey. See yer later. ” He
reached over for the mail receipt handed to him
by the Post-office official, ari l with a “Right
y’are, sonny! ” gathered up his drooping team
and drove off to the pub. to drop his passengers.
The sergeant got his mail from the police box and
went back to his quarters.
A little later a man rode up to the police-
station. He was tall, bony and elderly, Small-
man by name, a bush missionary, and better
known for his enormous appetite than his piety.
The horse, too, was tall, bony and grey, and
nearly as old as his owner; the turnout being
known locally as the “Woodheap.” He dis-
mounted, and walked over to the sergeant, who
was now leaning on the verandah rail.
“ Ye’re back soon, Mr. Smallman,” he said.
“Yes, sergeant, I am returned much sooner
than I anticipated. lam come to report a dread-
ful murder.”
“S-s-h! Not another word; come inside. Sit
down, me good mahn, and wait a minyut.
Constable Burke, tell the black boy to bring up
Dandy and Spider, and do ye fetch Gaylad, and
get ready for a ride yerself. Now then, Mr.
Smallman, tell the story in yer own way, but be
quick.”
“ As you know, sergeant, I left town to-day on
my monthly circuit, intending to get to Glen-
tavish out-station by evening, and stay there for
the night. I got to the gate leading into the
house-paddock surrounding the huts, when I saw
a man, bareheaded, running hard towards me
from the hut. Presently another came out of the
front door with a gun in his hand. He fired at
the fugitive, who still ran on. The murderer then
dropped on one knee, and, taking careful aim,
fired a,t the man who was running, and dropped
him like a log. The murderer then made over
towards me, and, being unarmed, I turned my
horse and fled, to report the frightful affair to
you.”
“ And did ye re-cognise anny of them ? ”
“ I did, sergeant. The man who was cut off in
the full blossom of his sins I did not know ; but
the murderer I fully recognised as M'Murdo, the
overseer there. I always considered him an evil
man.”
“M'Murdo?” The sergeant was silent for a
little. Then he asked, “ What time was this ? ”
“ About 5 o’clock.”
Had the coach passed before the shooting? ”
“No ! for it passed me at Bardoo waterhole,
five miles back.”
The sergeant went out, and, after a search,
found the coach-driver spooning the freckled bar-
maid from Doodney’s. A few short questions and
replies satisfied the sergeant, and he turned back
to the station. He wasn’t nearly so keen on the
matter as he had been, and walked leisurely on
his return. Suddenly, he hastened his steps, and
entered the office like a man who has thought of
something brilliant, and is in a hurry to carry it
out. He gave instructions to the missionary not
to. leave the town until he had returned, and ten
minutes later was on the road with Burke and a
black boy. They rode silently for a few miles,
and then the sergeant said : “ Would ye like to be
even with M‘Murdo for the 13th of last October,
Dmny ?” And Burke said, fervently, “I would.”
They rode steadily until they reached the gate
of the out-station paddock, and it seemed to Con-
stable Burke that the Sergeant took singularly
few precautions considering that they were come
to arrest an armed murderer, or possibly a mad-
man. He rode up to the huts amid a clamor of
dogs, dismounted, and walked straight into the
front room, where M'Murdo, in pyjamas, was in
the act of lighting a candle; roused out, no doubt,
by the barking of the dogs and the thud of the
approaching horses’ feet.
“ Hello, Sergeant! ” he said ; “ welcome home.
Are you looking for cattle-duffers ? ”
“We’ll see, me boy—put up yer hands. I
arrest ye, James M‘Murdo, in the King’s name,
for murder ; and I warn ye that anything ye may
say will be used against ye at yer trial. Produce
the handcuffs, Constable Burke.”
“ Hold on, Sergeant ; it’s all a joke.
“ Ye’ll find it’s no joke.”
“ But it is, I tell you. One of the station-men
brought me a message from the head station, and
has not long been gone home. We were just
going to have tea when we saw old Smallman, the
bush missionary, at the gate, and as the ration
cart is not due for two days, it meant a famine if
he had three meals here, so, to bluff him off, the
man who was here ran, and I got the gun and
after him. I fired two shots at him, and he fell at the
second, as was arranged. You’d have died to see
the parson and old Woodheap travel away. Of
course, I am sorry you have had a ride for nothing,
but I can put you and Burke up ”
“That will do,” said the sergeant, sternly.
“On yer own showing, yer damned inhospitable,
and we came prepared, and yer a desperate
villain, and I’m going to gather ye in.”
M'Murdo put up a very good fight, but he was
quite overmatched, and at last they had him
handcuffed, leg-ironed, and helpless.
“ To-morrow, ” said the sergeant, in his official
voice, “Constable Burke will search for the corpse
until he finds one, or the remains of one. He
knows ye, and will do his jooty.” M'Murdo
groaned when he remembered that Burke did
know him.
The next day the town turned out to see the
sergeant leading a horse carrying his prisoner,
who was handcuffed and had his feet tied under
the horse’s belly. He came at mid-day past the
school where the children were playing, and down
the main street. They had met the coach opposite
the out-station. It was filled with passengers.
One, a new-chum on his way to take up ;i>,
appointment as jackeroo on a station higher up
the river, commented audibly on the villainous
looks of the prisoner. The coach-driver and the
sergeant solemnly winked at each other. The
sergeant asked after the health of the driver’s
blue-eyed beauty, and allowed no communication
from the prisoner. After leaving the coach the
sergeant did not speak a word, and M'Murdo had
time to think things over. He had read a good
deal of police literature, and had a very fair collec-
tion of Deadwood Dicks at the station, and he
particularly remembered that in one he had
recently read, called “The Sleuth’s Revenge,”
the police had fraudulently produced or pro-
vided a body, to the very great inconvenience
of the hero. So that, by the time he reached
his narrow cell, he was sorry that he had
ever been born. The sergeant told Smallfnan
the prisoner’s version of the affair and it lost
nothing in the telling, so that when the missionary
left the lock-up after the interview allowed by the
sergeant, M'Murdo gathered the impression that
the man of peace would prefer, rather, to swear
his life away for “ the gross insult to a servant of
the Master ” than for a real crime.
It took ten clear days to straighten up matters.
Burke spent that time looking for the body.
During the ten days M'Murdo had an experience
of offended justice in the shape of a revengeful
policeman. The cooking was awful. The worst
drunks were put in his cell and his rest was broken
by policemen pounding on the door.
When he came out, his troubles had not ended,
for when he saw his owner (M'Tavish of that ilk)
he was told that “she hass no use for a man to
play practical jokes in working hours ” (5 a.m. to
la.m.) “ She wass too expensive for a station in
dry times, so she’d better go somewhere else
whateffer, where they did not refuse hospitality
to the man of God also.” A Homily on Hospitality
from M'Tavish broke M'Murdo up completely,
for he was quite dumb, and folding up his things
he stole silently away.
The sergeant said, “Are ye satisfied, Dinny ?”
And policeman Dennis Burke said in a deep voice,
“ Oi am ! ”
TARBOY.
It would be interesting to know in what
position some of the Australian drapery firms
stand in respect to the Copyright Act. In their
various catalogues of fashions they scissor whole-
sale pages of designs that have appeared in the
Ladies’ Pictorial and the Queen and such-like
influential publications. There is no acknow-
ledgment made whatever, the illustration being
boldly claimed as “our own design.” Doubtless
the retail drapers’ safety lies in the fact that none
of these pirated catalogues reach England. Were
the various Art Societies not too busy quarrelling
about subsidies they might devote a little atten-
tion to this question, for it affects them to a very
material extent. The heaviest expenditure in a
fashion catalogue is the artists’ drawings, and if
these can be filched, the dishonest softgoods man
will spend no money among the long-haired fra-
ternity with the paint smudge on its clothes.


Is a form of Blood Poisoning. You will never have Rheu-
, matism if your Kidneys are well. For Healthy Kidneys
filter from the Blood all the Rheumatic and other
r Poisons that cause Disease. Keep the Kidneys well,
and they will keep you well,
Rheumatism is not a
disease in itself; it is but
the symptom of a disease.
It is caused by an acid in
the blood, called uric acid,
of which there is enough
formed every twenty-four
hours to cause certain death
if not removed.
Nature has provided the
kidneys to take this acid
out of the system, and they
are the only means by which
it can be removed. As the
blood passes through the
kidneys it is filtered, and
the acids and poisons are
passed out of the system
along with the surplus
water.
But when the kidneys
get sick they do not do
this work properly, and
some of this acid stops in
the system, causing endless
pain and suffering. It will
crystallise somewhere, and
when it crystallises in the
muscles, the little, sharp,
jagged crystals cut and tear
the flesh, causing great pain.
If*
<-\
X
&
% • «
w
» <
/
X\
/
That is muscular rheumatism.
They may crystallise in the joints, and that is the cause of gout; or in
the kidneys or bladder, causing stone in bladder or kidney, gravel, sedi-
ment, &c.
The acid will penetrate every nerve and fibre of the body, causing
nervousness, headache, sleeplessness, and interfering with the valves of the
heart; it will affect the eyes, and will cause a general weakness and fagged
feeling, bloating of limbs, &c.
The whole health of your body therefore depends on keeping your kidneys
well. There can be no rheumatism with healthy kidneys, no nervousness, no
headaches, no bad blood. Keep the kidneys well, so they may filter all
impurities from the system, and they will keep you well.
Doan’s Backache Kidney pills
are the great medicine for this purpose, because they give just the aid the
kidneys require to properly filter the blood. They heal the kidneys’ delicate
membranes, and, best of all, they are for the kidneys alone.
They do not act on the bowels, as so many medicines do.
SYDNEY PROOF.
Mr. .T. Bickell, 12 Chapel-street, Woolloomooloo, says : —“ Being a sufferer
from Kidney trouble, Mrs. Mullins, 49 Hunter-st., told me to use Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills. She told me they had cured her of a similar trouble to mine.
I procured a box, and found that much good resulted from taking them. I used
to have very bad pains across the loins and down the thighs. At times I could
scarcely move. I always had urinary weakness, which was very annoying; the
secretions contained sediment. lam glad to speak up for Doan’s Pills; they
deserve it.”
Mrs. Bickell, when seen by our representative, states that her husband is
still free of kidney trouble, and attributes his cure solely to the use of Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers
at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes, 15s. 3d.), or will be posted, on receipt of price,
by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pibt-street, Sydney.
BUT BE SURE YOU GET DOAN’S.
Itchiness of the Skin.
Evek have any irritation of the skin ? There
are many forms of it, any of them bad enough
to tax your patience. Hemorrhoid, a plague
of the night—no rest for the sufferer from that
complaint. Eczema, too. Hives don’t sound
dangerous, but they cause much misery to
those unfortunate enough to be troubled with
them. Doan’s Ointment is “a wonder” for
any such trouble. No troublesome irritation
of the skin can resist its healing, soothing
influence. Lots of Sydney people know this
now.
Mrs. Silva, 56 Duke-st., Woolloomooloo,
says :—“ A year or two ago I informed you of
the immense benefit I derived from the use of
Doan’s Ointment. My little girl had a skin
trouble which affected the leg. It was not
unlike ringworm, only a lot more spread out.
It was so irritable that she scratched it until
it became raw. We applied a lot of ointments
at various times, but they did not seem to
benefit her. When I made the statement
that I have seen published in the Sydney
papers, Doan’s Ointment hadn’t quite
cured her. I gave that testimonial for the
marvellous way this preparation used to
bring ease, but since then the Ointment cured
it thoroughly. We used two pots. She has
been free of the rash over twelve months now.
We think the world of Doan’s Ointment.”
Doan’s Ointment is splendid in all diseases
of the skin, piles, eczema, hives, sores, insect
bites, chilblains, etc. It is perfectly safe and
very effective. Very often two or three pots
have cured chronic cases which have resisted
other remedies for years.
Doan’s Ointment is sold by all chemists and
storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per pot, or will be
posted on receipt of price by Foster-
McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-st., Sydney.
Remember the name—DOAN’S.
"Our Respected Townsman.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mild as the dove of Peace,
I waxed exceeding fat;
I saw my flocks increase,
And thanked my God for that;
And smoked my pipe at evening glow, and softly
spat.
Through green to gold my grain
Eacli year sufficed my soul,
And year by year my brain
Found pleasure in the roll
Of notes that marked my careful progress to the
goal.
Was the earth flat or round ?
It mattered not to me ;
Good friends thereon I found,
Rarely an enemy.
So what to me was time, and what Eternity ?
No bickering kings brought down
The price of greasy wool;
Sunk ship or blazing town—
There still was fruit to pull ;
And kingdoms might go bung—my peaceful cup
was full.
Our Road Board meetings were
My sole affairs of State;
I occupied the chair
And gravely held debate
Of which work should be done next year, and
which should wait.
I saw my sons grow tall,
And marry, and the grace
Of God was over all,
And round about the place,
For when I died they would perpetuate my race.
Wars flamed in alien lands,
And kingdoms rose and fell;
Anarchy burst her bands,
And stalked red-robed from Hell.
But these were far-off, distant things, and all was
well.
No fame I left to fade,
No obloquy to grow,
And in my exit made
No panoply or show,
But peacefully subsided to the worms below.
Now, crawling through my frame,
The worms say, “Peace! Have peace!
Since flesh is more than fame
And glory less than grease.”
And, after all, the final arbiters are these.
M.li
M. CORMAC.
A Woman, Her Property, and
Some Men.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The matrimonial advt. is a thing that is hung
around with mystery and clothed with a faint
aroma of wickedness, and is therefore attractive
to many classes of society. For a month I had
read the column regularly, half inclined to open a
correspondence with some of the advertisers, and
see if there really are men and women who seek
their life-companions in such questionable quarters
as the columns of a daily newspaper.
At last I decided to advertise on my own
account, and I bribed a youth to take my adver-
tisement into a newspaper office. This was how
it read in print:
YOUNG French lady, widow; of refined education ;
possessed of landed property ; desires to meet
with honorable man of loving disposition with means.
Address, “ Ad6le,” G.P.O.
This, I thought, would fetch ’em.
It did. Two days later I called, and a brusque,
unsentimental clerk, slightly bald in front, advised
me to get an express.
“ Are there so many ? ” I asked in astonishment.
“Tons !” he replied, laconically.
I went away, and, returning with a carry-all,
took it home in a cab stuffed with nearly 500
letters. Arrived, I sat down in the middle of the
room and commenced to open and sort out those
whom I would answer.
They were varied, and very hard to choose from,
but I managed to select 16 for a start. A friend
in the city had offered me the use of his office for
interview purposes. It consisted of two rooms, in
one of which I was to receive my would-be wooers,
while in the other my friend was to wait silently
with a club to come to my rescue if necessary. I
wrote asking two to call next evening at 8 and
9.15 p, m. respectively.
• • * *
I had shaded the gas, and placed the other chair
so that the light would fall on my prospective
husband and leave myself in the shade. My
greatest dread was that some scamp of my
acquaintance would walk in and say, “ Blessed if
I didn’t think it was you, and that was why I
answered.”
He arrived at 8 sharp. He knocked lightly,
and came in with the stealthy tread of a man
who knows he is doing wrong, but is determined
to see it through. He was tall, well set-up, and
walked with an easy swing into the light. He
peered at me sitting in the shadow.
“ Won’t you sit down?” I said in my lowest
audible voice.
He threw his hat and stick on the floor and col-
lapsed into the chair, which was a wicker easy
one, and mumbled, “Thanks, awfully!”
I waited for him to begin, but he sat there
silently looking round the room, gaping at a
picture on the wall. The silence was so great that
I could hear my friend next door changing the
position of the club. In desperation I said in my
highest respectable voice:
“ Been a beautiful day, hasn’t it?”
“N.T.8.5.!” lie replied enigmatically.
‘ l Wtiich being translated means —”
“Not too blooming slow!” he continued.
This broke the ice, and he launched out, “I say,
would you mind if I come a bit closer ? ”
Remembering the club, I assented sweetly,
“Not at all!”
He came within reaching distance. Isay, he
began, “ I like you. You know, you’re not half a
bad-looking girl.”
I bowed ; my heart was too full for words.
“Do you really want to get married, or did you
just advertise for a lark ?”
“ Oh, no ; I advertised for a man !
He went off into a wild yell of laughter, as
though I had said something desperately funny :
“Oh, I say, you are sharp, bai Jove! But
what do you want him for—a husband, or just a
walking-stick ? ”
“Both ! ” I replied, emphatically.
“Oh !” he sniggered. “I know an awfully
nice place for a honeymoon.”
“ Do you—don’t you think you are a bit rapid ? ”
I asked, innocently. He came a little nearer—as
though lie felt sure of his ground—and, if I hadn’t
eluded him, he would have embraced me.
“Yes, we could leave to-morrow morning, by
the early train, and, if the beans are all right, we
could have a d d good time .”
“I beg your pardon !” severely—but the club
fell with a loud crash in the next room ; there was
a sudden oath, and my suitor had vanished through
the door.
My friend poked his head in at the other door and
made some facetious remarks, and explained how
the club came to bang suddenly on the floor. It
was pure accident, but it was also providential,
for, although it was not nearly 9.15, a determined
footstep was heard on the stair—we got into posi-
tion once more.
I was not sure whether it was a man or a
baboon that entered in answer to a pleasant
“Come in!” In appearance he was about 4ft.
Bin., with a large, bushy beard, and much grey
hair; his trousers were half-mast over a pair of
blucher shoes; his coat was of a fashion of 20
years ago, and was green with old age, and on his
head was a stove-pipe hat from which the nap had
long since disappeared. A weather-beaten um-
brella completed his remarkable get up. Before
speaking he carefully placed his umbrella in a
corner and poised his hat nicely on the handle.
I was tongue-tied. He settled himself into a
chair, and after a long stare through his steel-
rimmed glasses, lie commenced:
“Well, my dear, how are yous?”
“I am quite well, thank you; are you Mr.
Smithkinson who answered my advertisement?”
“ Yes, I’m old S. Let’s have a look at yous ! ”
He came closer, and I noticed that his beauty
was further enhanced by a wart on his nose. I
shuddered. I wondered would it be even possible
to kiss that toothless mouth. The old man seemed
satisfied with his survey, and re-commenced :
“You’re a purty gal—are yous strong enough
to milk?”
“ To what ? ” I asked.
“To milk—cows !” he explained. “ Yer see I
owns a bit o’ land and a bit o’ money put away,
and when I sees as you ’ad a bit o’ proputty, I
thought as how you’d be just the one fur me.
See?”
“ How good of you, ” I murmured.
“I’m a bit old —I s’pose” (with a horrid leer),
“ but I’m better nor many young ’uns knocking
about; and if yous can milk an’ be handy about
the place, you won’t have no call to complain
about my lovin’ness.”
“I’m afraid your offer wouldn’t suit me. I
don’t know anything about milking, nor how to
do any work, and, although you are really very
nice, I think I should prefer a younger husband.”
“ Well— er course-all young ’uns do be flighty ”
—with a sudden change of tone. “How much
did you say your bit o’ proputty was worth, my
dear ?”
“I didn’t say it was worth anything, and I
wish you would go away.”
What on earth were my friend and his club
doing. I couldn’t hear a sound from the next
room. The horrid old man was now in a towering
rage and shaking his fist within three inches of
my nose. Suddenly he sci’eamed out that I was
a painted “Jezerbel” and lots of other things
quite unfit for publication and rolled on the floor
in a fit.
• * * *
It was awful. We poured water over him, and
rammed his stove pipe on his head, and bribed the
watchman with ss. and expenses to carry him out
and put him in a cab and send him anywhere—to
a hospital preferred.
* * * ft
During the week I interviewed the other 14.
There were two well-known politicians and one
doctor (all married). Then there was a gentleman
who offered me an easy billet as governess of his
three children without salary, and who was pre-
pared to give his written promise that he would
marry me within three weeks of his wife’s demise.
Then there was a young man who wanted to
take a position as a married couple, and as he
knew Frenchwomen were good cooks, he thought
I would just suit him, and that we should be able
to ask at least £BO per annum, and be dirt-cheap
at that.
A fat man, with a silk waistcoat, beautifully
and skilfully cut to his rotundity, who offered me
a suburban villa, a cheque-book, and lots of dia-
monds, “ my tear ! ”
Two were auctioneers, who offered to sell my
little bit of property on most advantageous terms,
and charge merely “nominal commissi s.”
My friend complained bitterly that, so far, he
had had no sport out of it. I retorted meekly
that something of a sensational natui’e might
happen which would satisfy him. Twenty
minutes later his brother-in-law turned up under
the name of “Truth ’’—and there was great sport.
The club did splendid work, and I have often
wondered how Truth accounted to his six-months’
bride for his black eyes and damaged suit.
The exception was a most charming man ; tall,
intellectual and honorable. He came in easily, as
though paying an ordinary call. I rose to meet
him, and we were both at our ease immediately.
We discoursed art and literature, science and
political economy. He breathed refinement. His
nails were manicured and his clothes must have
been made in St. James’-street. In the course of
conversation he told me that he was visiting Aus-
tralia and was proceeding to Japan and then to the
East generally. He was looking for a travelling
companion, and asked gracefully :
“ Do you believe in free love ? ”
I blushed. I wasn’t sure if I did or not.
He quoted :
Some for the glories of this world, and some
Sigh for the Prophet’s Paradise to come I
Ah ! take the cash and let the credit go,
Nor heed the rumble of a distant drum.
I looked at him, and thought how handsome he
was. The air was charged with electricity. He
bent closer; his look was mesmeric, his voice a
caress as he murmured :
Thou art for happiness with me, love :
Then love me as thou wilt.
I care not, so I live with thee,
For goodness, or for guilt.
I was suddenly brought back to my senses by
hearing an ominous thud in the next room. He
looked at the door and breathed hard—the silence
was intense. I said in a loud voice :
‘ 4 No, I do not believe in free love. ”
Then I hastily opened the door. He looked at
me quickly, then at the other door; and, stooping,
he kissed my hand.
* * * *
My friend behaved like a hog. I almost thought
he was going to use the club on me—he brandished
it about so fiercely and yelled at me :
“ This d d tommy-rot is going to stop right
here.”
And it did.
SABAH JONES.


A Weak Stomach
Indigestion, No Appetite, Exhaustion, General Weakness,—All Due
to a Sluggish Liver and Impure Blood.
Mr. G. A. Boxall, of Prahran, Vie*
toria, sends ns liis photograph and says:
“I wish to tell every one the great
help I received from Ayer’s Sarsapa-
rilla. I suffered terribly from weak-
ness of the stomach, indigestion, and
biliousness, and I had no appetite. I
felt tired all the time. Sometimes it
seemed almost impossible for me to
keep about. But after using Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla for a short time for my
blood and as a general tonic to my
nervous system, and with an occasional
use of the Pills to keep my bowels in
good condition, I rapidly improved, and
am now enjoying better health than I
have in a long time. I now keep these
medicines near at hand and take just a
little whenever I begin to feel badly,
for, you know, l a stitch in time saves
nine. 1 ”
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
Of course you cannot enjoy good health if your stomach gives out. You
must have an appetite, must digest your food, and must keep your liver
active. Muscular strength, nervous strength, desire to be active, and a feeling
of general good health may be yours by keeping your liver active and your
blood pure. It takes just two medicines for this: Ayer’s Pills for the liver,
and Ayer’s Sarsaparilla for the blood.
It’s Ayer’s Sarsaparilla you want. Insist upon getting “Ayer’s,” for it’s
stronger, contains more ingredients, and cures quicker than any other kind.
AYER’S S arsa P ar| M a
Strengthens the Stomach and Aids Digestion
Ayer’s Pills keep the liver in a healthy condition.
Prepared by DE. J. C. ATEK Sc CO., Lowell, Mass., U. 8. A. ___
%
ON
On Our Selection, written by A. H. Davis
(“ Steele Rudd ”) and published by The
Bulletin Co., has earned the title of “the
jolliest book ever printed in Australia.”
There is laughter on every page ; yet the
book remains grimly true to the facts. As
a picture of life on an Australian selection
it has never been surpassed. Since 1 it was
published, little more than two years ago,
upwards of 12,000 copies have been sold at
the comparatively high price of 6s.—making
an Australian publishing record. The reason of the sale is not far to seek : the
people who have bought the book know they have got value for their money ;
and they recommend it to others. The price is comparatively high because the book is expensive to
produce. It is well printed, and strongly bound in cloth in good style. There are numerous pictures
by such well-known illustrators as Mahony, Leist, Lambert, Fischer, Fullwood, and Vincent. From
cover to cover the book is Australian —the product of Aus-
tralian workmen. If it were produced by cheaper labour
in England, it would cost less, and could be sold at a
cheaper rate. The publishers prefer to employ Australian
labor only. When you buy On Our Selection you pay
a little more than you pay for an English book ; but
you get 100 times the Australian value, “ Steele Rudd’s ”
book has gone all over Australia, and wherever it has
gone it has become the treasure of a household, often
the delight of a township. People never leave off
reading it until it is thumbed to rags; and then they
buy another oopv. The characters of “Our Selection”—
“Old Dad,” “Joe,” “Dave,” “Sarah,” and the rest— , > V ■V ■ „
have become famous throughout the country ; and their imitation by weaker writers proves the force
of their grip on the public mind. Any bookseller will sell you the book; or if you send a postal
order for 65., with Bd. postage, direct to The Bulletin office, it will be forwarded to any address
by return mail.
m
V!
OUR
i
Sweet cts Roses.
When you think how any
ordinary soap 'factory smells, and
that in such places it is that
Toilet Soaps are made, you should
bear in mind that >Vinolia Works
are sweet as a kitchen, and
Vinolia Soap purest, safest, best
for the complexion.
&
_ - L
%
£UT
ome
oi\
ito
old farmed rvi^Kt-cap
m-yes.
liefer w^ht-capf
of a liquid nature.-
efi what?
udoubtediy wheayou
feve M but of 50$
M the best c
4
m s
<sJust 50 !
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
Corner George & Market Sts., SYDNEY
The Best Luncheon in Town from ONE SHILLING, served from 12 sharp till 2.30;
Dinner from 5.30 to 7.30, same price.
The Most Convenient Place for Ladies and Gentlemen visiting the Theatres to dine at.
N.b.—Visitors ooly pay for wfcat tb«V actually ba^c.
TERMS. The Convenient and Modern System of paying for a
room on arrival, and Meals as they are had. |
Apartments : BEDROOM, Single, 3s. per day ; Double, 6s. per day.
ENGAGE ROOMS AT ROBERTS’ HOTEL, SYPNEY.
Ddf.li.SmUh
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.*
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the East
THE BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY. ‘
y
I
M.D., C.M., L.R.C.P.E., L. R.C.S.E.,
L.F.F.S.G., L.M., etc.,
Registered by the Medical Boards of Great
Britain, Victoria, New South Wales,
etc.,
The Eminent Specials, whose unparalleled success in the Treatment of Blood and Nerve
ni«oa<ies has earned for him a reputation unequalled by any other Specialist in Australia, may e consulted
Diseases • „ ELM |_EY HOUSE,” 151 Elizabeth-st., Sydney. Old and Obsolete
Methods^discarded. DR. MARTIN’S latest discovery has proved absolutely effective in all cases of Blood
Disease, Nerve Affections, Paralysis, Loss of Energy, Lung, Heart, Skin and all
rlmnic Diseases of Men and Women. His Consulting Rooms are replete with all the
auLmost scientific improvements in Electric Appliances, etc. Country Patients treated by
latest an V • homes. Advice and Medicine, One Pound. All Sufferers
toulTwrite for a copy of Dr. Martin’s Latest Medical Work, entitled, “Mind Over Matter; or, How to
\ ' a N ew Lease oMife without Drugs, Medicines, or Quack Nostrums.” This work should find a place
every household, as itcontains a full and explicit account of the Most Wonderful Treatment of the Present
aVp It has been the means of Curing Thousands who followed out the instructions co.tained
f*; •„ This Marvellous Treatment Cleanses and Rejuvenates the Whole System, and is the Cheapest
Treatment in Existence, as nothing but the Book is required.
Price, 55.; by post, ss. 6d.
CONSULTING HOURS; 10 to 2 and 7 to 9 Daily.
“ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 ELIZABETH STREET, BYDNEY.


ASBESTOS . . .
BOILER COVERING
fias Proved its Economy Times without number,
PACKED WET, ready for use, in 3cwt. casks,
/s., os., 9s. cwt.
PACKED DRY, in Bags, each lewt., 125,, 14s.
lbs. cwt.
It Saves 25 per cent, in Fuel.
perdriau & CO.
ONLY ONE ADDRESS—
-270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE BULLETIN STOKY BOOK:
Price 4s 6d, postage 6d.
RARE.
BOOKS
FRENCH,
ENGLISH,
GERMAN.
2/-
Largest Catalogue, with
Specimen Photo. Apply
Box 116 PARIS.
LADIES.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address—L.D.l., 300 Collins Si.j Melbourne
00
YEARS
DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. O. EILIDIRXIDa-IE & 00.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
Conntry Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
(Sole Australasian Representatives)
WORTHINGTON.
H'Hi
TRADE MARK.
$
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
For all Services kept in Stock.
Send for Catalogue.
BENNIE, TEARE & CO., Representatives.
\
*3
A
m 5
%
stocks at Sydney 9 Melbourne, Perth, Coolgardie.
H. P. CSKEGOftY & CO.. 74 Clarcnce street > Sydney.
Have for Sale and to arrive 3 MELBOURNE : 435 Bourke Street.
PUMPING MACHINERY of every description, Woodworking Machinery, English and American Engines, Boilers,
Injectors, Reducing Valves, Steam Gauges, Steam Traps, Laundry Machinery, Painters’ and Bakers’
Machinery, Engineers’ Machine Tools, Shafting, Plummer Blocks, Pulleys, Hangers, Couplings, Collars,
Lubricating Oil, Rrunton Pocket Transits, Shedd’s Electrical Fans, Hoisting Engines and Boilers.
Wy
PARKE & LACY CO.
LIMITED,
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS,
Manufacturers and Importers of
MINING MACHINERY, STEAM ENGINES & BOILERS.
IN STOCK:
Knowles Steam Pumps, Ingersoll Rock Drills and Air Compressors,
Nagle Horizontal and Vertical Engines and Boilers, Pennsylvania Return
Tubular Boilers, Buffalo Blowers and Exhaust Fans, Morris Dredging
Pumps, Bullock Diamond Drills, Dodge Rock Breakers, Roger Rolls,
Cates Rock Breakers, Challenge Ore Feeders, Huntington Quartz
Mills, Wood and Iron Working, and Laundry Machinery, and Mine and
Mill Supplies.
And at San Francisco and London. 60 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Bushman
Harry Morants
His ’Ventures
and Verses.
and Buccaneer
By FRANK RENAR.
Price 1/1 £& V/ 400 -
Size, s|" x 3£" x 5".
We are Direct Importers
AND HAVE FOR SALE—
Snow Duplex Pumps
(all sizes for all purposes),!
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling
and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shaft-
ing, Hangers, Bearings, Collars, etc.
Engineers’ Tools and Fittings, Valves,
Cocks, Gauges, etc., Cast, Tool and
Mining Steel, Wire Ropes and all Requi-
sites for Contractors, Engineers, Saw
Mills and Mining Proprietors.
R. L. Scrutton &Co. Ltd.
97 Clarence-st., Sydney.
A GO-AHEAD FIRM
PATESON & CQBCROFT,
231 Sussex Street,
SYDNEY.
Auctioneers, Commission and Live Stock Agrents,
and Produce Merchants. ...
Goods forwarded and received from this or any State. Agents for celebrated Corn Cob Bacon.
AUCTIONS ANYWHERE.
D RIN ■* —nn—n—r
GARDNER’S SPA WATER
From our Springs at Helidon. OWEN GARDNER & SONS, Brisbane (Head Office) & a t Helidon.
N. GUTHRIOGE, Ltd.
71 Clarence-st.,
SYDNEY.
Will Crush
to
any Fineness.
Hand or
Power.
. •
Easily Packed
in Small
Sections.
INVALUABLE *>r
PROSPECTING.
PANKLAST DRY CRUSHER.
NERVOUSNESS.
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY,
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS of SELF
CURE, will forward the same, free of
charge, to anyone interested.
Address: A. MINER, G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
Trewhella Bros.
PATENT
LOG AND STUMP JACKS
If you have Stumps, Roots, Stones, or Log's to clear, or
Threshers or Machinery to move, try these Jacks. They
are used by thousands throughout Australasia, and the
sales are rapidly increasing, which proves their value.
You can obtain them from the ironmonger with whom
you deal, or I will supply you direct.
The Melbourne and Sydney Prices are—
Lift, Tons Prich
4 65/-
6 75 -
21 40/-
Double Purchase Jack
II
II
Single „ „
With AUTOMATIC LOWERING GEAR, 5/- extra
, Full Information and Trade Discounts from
W. TREWHELLA, Trentham, Victoria,
ok H. HINDS, 17 Loftus St., Sydney.
