

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
IRROY’S CHAMPAGNE
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
107 Ken t: Street, Sydney,
■ —roß
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
290
PRIZE
MEDALS
AND
GRAND
PRIX
PARIS
1900.
rn
r'-fA
mmm
tf.xc.l f*J-
: J 5 Err--, -.
26,000 Steam Engines Soldi
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
WONDERFUL VALUE—A packet of Seven different
articles, comprising Yankee Rubber Baby, can be carried
in vest pocket and blown out to life size (causes roars of
laughter), Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
Coin and Card Tricks), the Wizard Fish (gives the defini-
tion of your character—very superior for parlor enter-
tainments), the Vest Pocket Tubular Microscope (very
useful for examining small objects), the Cinematograph
(or book of moving pictures), the great Yankee Bicycle
Puzzle (verv ingenious), and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Disappearing Coin Trick (instruc-
tions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australia (Free) on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. U HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Hay market.
XNEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
710 George-st., Sydney.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C°- m k« street, SYDNEY.
SOLE AGENTS FOE
Huston, Proctor & Co.,
HAVE IN STOCK and TO ARRIVE—PORTABLE
VERTICAL, FIXED and SEMI-FIXED
STEAM and OIL ENGINES, BOILERS and PUMPS.
Eccentric Motion Tlarasliina Machines, Saw Benches. &0., &c.
Send for Prices and Particulars.
“HERVEY’S RACKAROCK”
17 Years' Unbroken Record as a Standard Australian Exposive. Cor. CLARENCE & KING STS., SYDNEY
THORNES
Estbd. 1831. WHISKY.
HOBART.
——
fiadleys Orient fiotsl.
FREE
BY PO§T, A MEDICAL
TREATISE by that justly-
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN aud
PARISIAN SPECIALIST,
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address —
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.
SYDUEY.
H.M. the King’s
Jury of Experts
awarded them
highest honors
London Exhibi-
tion-
“ The Lancet ”
says: “ Pure and
genuine, and
specially suitable
for Invalids.”
£
*
SPA
PIONEER
LEATHER
B E LT i N C
every belt guaranteed.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St, Sydney
The Australian Sailorman’s 800k —
E. J. BRADY’S
“Che Ways of many maters."
A rattling collection of Sea Chanties. Price
ss. 3d. post free from The Bulletin office.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswan - Lamp.
S,’'
mniiililiiiHl HI
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
TBS EDM & SWAN
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian /Branch : 16 Carrington-street,
WYNYAIRD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
S’nsland Pepoti-Central Buildings, Ed ward-st., Brisbane.
Mining and Dredging Plants. Engines, Boilers, &c.
Fowler Traction Engines.
the Clyde Engineering C?y
Desiccating Plants.
Hopper Waggons, &c.
PROOF
On vi
USE
Head Office:
10 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY
ROYALTY DRINKS IT.
EXPERTS APPROVE IT.
DOCTORS PRESCRIBE IT.
PATIENTS RELISH IT.
BRANDY
Judges award it Prize Medals wherever exhibited.
Too Stout
I was for years; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from I7st. to lOst. 12tb., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 9t Pitt Street, Sydney
Sending, mention this paper.
USE
SPOOLER’S
m
m
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL. CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning' and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Lnrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Ere., Era
Sold by aU Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, eU.
The Bulletin
Vol 24.—N0. 1206.]
[Saturday, March 28, 1903.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Book trade flaoertlsetnents.
NOW READY.
THE RED WEST ROAD.
KNGINE-nROOH SONGS and SEA-VEBSES, by
“ QIJILP N.” Illustrated ; Price, Is. 6d.
Sole Agents for Australia : Stasers. Goo. Robertson & Co., Proprietary Ltd. AH Booksellers
in Maoriland.
THE LATEST BOOKS AT t
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Wabner, Ventilation in Mines, 12s 6d, postage 9d.
Gardiner, Commonwealth & Protectorate, Vol. 1,65, p. *d.
Crawford, Are Roma Immortalis (cheap edt.), 10s, p. Is.
Boothby, Countess Londa, Ste 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Sturge, Christian Science, 3s 6d, postage fxL
Baker, Roads and Pavements, 255, p. Is 6d.
Life of Robert Buchanan, by Jaj', 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Glssivgr, Henry Rycroft, 2s tJd & 3e 6d, p. 9d.
Send to us for awy Book or Magaaiiko %ton Wumt.
We are almn ,ys pleased to answer 1 ntfuiries.
71 CABTL.EREAOH ST., SYDNEY (4 Docks South of Ki«g St) & at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane & Landau
Hudson’s Eumenthol Juiubes.
For
COUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
and all
AFFECTIONS of the
THROAT and
LUNGS.
IN TINS, Is. 6d.
(REGISTERED).
The Great
Antiseptic Remedy
for the Cure of
INFLUENZA and
Prevention of
CONSUMPTION.
Invaluable for Singers
' 1 Public Speakers.
_ u ■ ■ L - OTEM,STS ' OR POST RRRE from the protrVjsiob,
G. HUDSON, CHEMIST, IPSWICH, Q.
BEFOT ; 5 "" 7 PLiCE • “<* ™™». ORIMWabe fc 00.. MRLBoS, AOkSk
Thay ease a Tired Threat, and are helpful In Indigestion and \Byspepai%
THE RED PAGE.
SUPERSTITION.
'J'HO fT who standest at the threshold of the charnels of
the dead,
Looking eastward where the sunlight gloweth gloriously
red, >
And, with f rightened eyes, beholdest how the sides grow
bright o’erhead :
Thou with pallor on thy lips and the dry blood on thy
hands,
Trembling, seest how the Morning spreads above the
waking lands.
And how Man, with eager glances, in expectant waiting
stands.
All the earth extends before thee, and from out the very
stones
Comes a curse upon thy horrors, and the winds are filled
with groans:
Tea, before thee stand the living, and behind thee lie the
bones . . .
Thou has kepi the people darkened from thy childhood
until now —
Smothered Truth and bound opinion, but a mightier than
thou,
Science, rising strong, majestic, has brought low thy
brazen brow.
Crown thy head with foulest ashes—hater thou of Truth
sublime !
Cry aloud and rend thy garments to the utmost bourne
of Time :
Thy Eternity would scarce suffice to expiate thy crime.
For the mind of Man rejects thee, rising as from out a
tomb,
And the world of brain denies thee and thy history
of gloom ;
And there is no resurrection for the dead that Truth shall
doom.
“DARUS HYETASTRS"
THE BIBLE SOCIETY’S PLEA.
A REPRESENTATIVE named F. Klick-
mann, writing on behalf of the British and
Foreign Bible Society of London, requests
notice of the Bible Society’s work, and offers a
lengthy summary. The Bible Society, which claims
to have distributed 180 millions of Bibles complete
or in parts—either in King James’s version or in transla-
tions based upon that version—is indeed a remarkable
agent for the dissemination of discredited superstitions.
As the parish of Australia still contains many supersti-
tion-ridden people, I hasten to add that this condemna-
tion of the Bible is endorsed by the new Encyclopaedia
Biblica, a work edited and written by professed
Christians, who have been unable longer to shut their
eyes to the mass of evidence which convicts the
Bible Society’s panacea of being the receptacle of
a thousand falsities and absurdities uttered in the name
of God. Some of the errors in the Bible were so gross
and obvious that a few years ago a committee of Christian
scholars prepared a Revised Version, which is certainly
entitled (if any version is) to be regarded as the canon of
Scripture. Nevertheless, the British and Foreign Bible
Society keeps hundreds of translators at work busily pre-
paring King James’s version for “ the heathen." In
other words, when the Truth, as ascertained by the
highest scholarship of the Christian church, is in its
hands, it deliberately continues to circulate Lies. And
in this policy of suppression the Bible Society is imitated
by the Christian clergy everywhere. From worship of a
garbled version of the garbled Bible the transition is easy
to the worship of The Garden of the Soul— -the Roman
Catholic devotional book concerning which Mary Cl-eary,
a witness in a London court recently, declared “ This
is my Bible," and upon which, as well as upon the Bible,
she was sworn.
THE BIBLE-BTJRNING AT SUVA
Considering the absolute mendacity of the asser-
tion that the Bible is other than a tissue of tribal tradi-
tions and theological fables, tinctured with Hebrew
poetry and idealistic piety, it may be doubted whether
the Roman Catholic Church does ill in discouraging its
use by all but “persons of discretion.” The burning
of New Testaments in Fiji is a proof that sectarian strife
and animosity still exist, and should still be denounced.
But if all the 180 millions of Bibles that the Bible Society
has circulated were burned to-morrow, the progress of
knowledge probably would be increased rather than
lessened. At every step one meets ignorant people who
still cling fondly to the notion of the verbal inspiration of
the Bible, in blind defiance of the fact that the theory of
verbal or even textual inspiration of the whole
book has long ago been abandoned by the heads
of the church they belong to. All over the world
Christian divines, who feel it incumbent upon them to
defend the citadel of their faith against the assaults of
critical science, are discussing the evidence of the Fall,
the evidence of the divinity of Jesus, the authenticity of
the Gospels ; and are yielding shred after shred of belief
to the resistless onset of testimony accumulated against
them. Rarely does a whisper of the conflict and the sub-
mission come to Australia. The devotees of the creeds
continue hearing from the pulpit, and believing from
the pew, doctrines of Scriptural infallibility that
were exploded fifty years ago; that have been
given up long ago by intelligent Christians elsewhere.
It matters little to the Fijians whether they go to their
death in one creed or another : they continue to go.
Religious tyranny and governmental slavery are fast
weeding them out of existence—in the blessed name of
civilisation. The native population of the Fijian islands
is estimated at one-third less than it was twenty-five
years ago : very soon we shall be celebrating the funeral
of the Last of the Fijians. The story is the same through-
out the South Sea islands : a story of depopulation and
racial death. Thus, in its endeavours to give every
“ heathen ” a Bible, the Bible Society is being met half-
way. Every year there are more Bibles : every year
there are fewer “heathen."
FROM SUVA TO BERLIN
While Australian Protestants rage because the
“Word of God” is committed to the flames in Suva,
Professor Delitzsch, a famous Assyriologist of Berlin
University, is confirming to the German Kaiser, by the
indisputable evidence of inscriptions from the ruins of
Babylon, that “ there is no greater mistake of the human
mind than the belief that the Bible is a personal revela-
tion of God.” Delitzsch’s discoveries, indeed, only but-
tress well-known facts. It is a commonplace of religious
history thak the Hebrews took many of the leading
tenets of their religious belief and worship from the
Babylonians and Akkadians they dwelt among. The
Sabbath was an Akkadian institution long before the date
of Moses. The Hebrew god, Jehovah, was merely a local
god, identical with the Babylonian Jah or Jahveh.
Professor Delitzsch, in adding, by the light of later
exploration, that the law of Moses and the Ten Com-
mandments were taken from a Babylonian source, simply
adds fuel to the flame which is burning up the essentials
of Christian belief. And there is no possible debate about
the evidence which is the basis of these allega-
tions. In a dozen European museums you can see
the Assyrian tablets, read the translations by eminent
scholars ol their inscriptions preserved for upwards of
6000 years, and see the origin of Biblical legends m
Assyrian sculptures and paintings; As a body of doc-
trine, as a s.ystem of morals, Christianity will doubtless
linger long. As an explanation of the universe, as a God-
inspired revelation, it is already dead, whatever its disin-
clination to lie down. The British and Foreign Bible
Society 7 may continue for many a year to circulate as the
Word of God the account of the dogmas, observances,
and traditions which the Hebrews borrowed frankly
from an Assyrian source. The Society’s business of
transferring myths from the “ heathen ” of six thousand
years ago to the “ heathen ” of to-day is a fresh
illustration of the permanence of the human
cycle. Nevertheless, Christianity must follow the other
supernatural religions to oblivion. “The dim and
shadowy outlines of the superhuman deity' fade slowly
away from before us ; and as the mist of his presence
floats aside, we perceive with greater and greater clear-
ness the shape of a yet grander and nobler figure—of Him
who made all Gods and shall unmake them. From the
dim dawn of history, and from the inmost depth of every
soul, the face of our father Man looks out upon us with
the fire of eternal youth in his eyes, and says, * Before
Jehovah was, I am !' ”
A.G.S.
MELBA AND MUSICAL CRITICISM
Some of the best musical criticism printed in Aus-
tralasia comes in The Triad, a M.L. monthly. As a rule,
local musical comment is limited by the commentator’s
incapacity, and coloured by his desire to ingratiate him-
self with singers and managers. Instead of judgment,
discrimination, the truth firmly grasped and clearly
expressed, we get glozing nullities or pretentious non-
sense. In a review of the Melba concert at Christchurch
The Triad says
Melba's voice, though of slightly nasal quality in the
middle register, in the upper is sublime. Her method
is excellent, and her management of the mezza voce in
particular is exceptionally fine. But she has been
heralded as the absolute Queen of Song, and the
suggestive line at once leaps from the store-room of
casual quotation : “ Oft expectation fails, and most
oft there where most it promises.” Granted that she
has a voice of great compass and wonderful flexibility,
a voice of rare quality and magnificent cultivation, the
greatest voice that has ever been heard in Maoriland,
the conviction still remains that she is not by any
means the greatest artist who has sung in the colonies.
The tears in her songs are not reproduced in her voice ;
her singing is not a passionate intuition, but is rather
the result of indomitable energy and perseverance. A
superb voice is like a perfect piano, or a magnificent
Strad ; each should be the vehicle of emotion and
thought. It is the mind and spirit behind the voice,
the piano, the violin, that is of supreme importance . . .
In fine, Madame is a great artiste, and doubtless one
of the greatest coloratura singers living. Nature has
endowed Madame Melba with the full physical equip-
ment of the vocalist, but while giving the voice and the
stage presence, she withheld the temperament.
Madame is not a genius ; but I could hear her again
with pleasure at—strictly reasonable prices . . .
In other words, Melba is a remarkable “mechanical
nightingale,” destitute of “temperament”; and all her
art and artifice cannot supply the passionate, hot heart
of melody. Which was, of course, the conclusion of
European judges.
Jl
Some notes from a Triad interview with Melbar—
In talking of method in singing, Madame tells me
that she always sings in practising from F sharp to D
or E flat in altissimo softly ; but in the middle register,
from F above middle O to F an octave higher, she
always uses the full volume of her voice. Melba con-
siders Madame Marchesi, of Paris, who is now over
eighty, as the last of the teachers of the bel canto,
Italy is no longer the home of singing. The old Milan
tradition of Lamperti and Bordogni is dead, and there
are now no great teachers in Italy. When asked if she
could recommend any teacher in Europe to the budding
vocalist in Maoriland, Madame said that if she had a
sister and Marchesi were still alive, she would recom-
mend her to go to Marchesi, but, failing that, Madame
did not know any great teacher in Europe.
Madame thinks there are no young singers at home
who are likely to develop into great artists. Calv 6 is a
great actress, but not a great singer. Sembrich is
growing old. Tornina is the greatest living artist, but
she is very delicate.
A story somewhat on this wise has been going the
round of the press : Melba made her debut as a vocalist
at the age of eleven. After the concert, she eagerly
sought out her little girl chum, to receive her childish
praise and sympathy, but the youngster’s disheartening
and somewhat irrelevant criticism was simply : “ O,
Nellie Mitchell, I saw your petticoat” [The Triad
has it]. I asked Madame if this story, like so many
told of celebrities, was apocryphal. But Madame
assured me that it was quite true.
Madame Melba takes a gloomy view of the future of
singing. There ’are no great teachers, and no young
singers of promise. Melba likes Ada Crossley, but her
voice is incomparably inferior to Clara Butt’s. Clara
Butt has a God-given voice, but no brains. Madame
does not think much of Amy Castles’ chances of de-
veloping into a great vocalist.
To say that Ada Crossley is “incomparably in-
ferior” to Clara Butt is to exaggerate the difference.
Among English contraltos, Ada Crossley ranks consider-
ably below Clara Butt, both in fact and in critical and
popular estimation ; though, reading the puffs printed in
some Australian papers, you wpuld think they were
rivals on the same footing. Yet Crossley' is deservedly
praised, and need not be disparaged unduly. Clara
Butt, with a magnificent voice, has precisely the
emotion and the temperament that Melba lacks.
The graces of art often fail her ; sometimes she
sings quite badly 7. But it was Florence Schmidt, a singer
herself, who said to me : “Well . . . you know I’ve been
through the singer’s mill my'self. I ’ve heard all the best
singers. I know Clara Butt’s singing is full of technical
faults. But when she comes on to the platform, on her
good day, and sings . . .! I forget how to criticise. She
just takes me in her two hands and kneads me like . . .
that! She looks so big and happy 7, and she sings with all
her voice, with all her heart—such a voice ! such a heart 1
. . . you want nothing more.”
Our own Regina Nagel has a voice with something of
the warmth and sympathy of Clara Butt’s ; but she seems
to have been unable to master even the rudiments of cor-
rect singing. London critics admit her quality ; but say
she cannot succeed, she has been unable to learn, she
lacks musical brains. Given only a tithe of Melba’s artistic
intelligence, she would make her mark.
FAINTS AND PAINTERS
“ Ah, painting with the brush is a thing of the
past. It is dead, quite dead. We no longer need it."
Thus the French artist, Raffaelli, who has been exhibiting
in Paris and London pictures painted by his new method
of smearing the canvas with sticks of colour—a
mixture of dry powder colour with wax and a
very little oil—used as you use a pastel. (Pliny,
by the way, represents Parrhasius as being enthusiastic
about P.olygnotus’s “new method” of painting with
coloured wax laid on with a hot iron,—the gross body of
the wa« being afterwards evaporated by heat, leaving its
imperishable spirit of colour behind.) But critics do not
AN ARGUMENT.
“ Cheer up, dear brother! Plainly, religion must exist or how should we live?”
[Simplici[?]simus.
speak kindly. The defect may be in Raffaelli, or it may
be in Raffaelli’s method; but they do not speak kindly.
Lister and others, who have tried the paint-stick locally,
think it will prove a valuable adjunct to the brush, but
doubt its capacity to serve alone.
A quaint quarrel is enraging English art “circles”
is the unbefitting word. Alfred Stevens, who died in
1875, was a painter and sculptor.of undoubted talent,
self-thwarted. His ideals were too high for his power of
execution. Yet Edward Poynter, President of the Royal
Academy, characterises his unfinished Wellington monu-
ment in St. Paul’s as “ by consent the finest piece of monu-
mental sculpture ever produced by an Englishman ”
even “by any artist of modern times.” And Poynter has
persuaded the British Govt, to provide £2,000 for com-
pleting the monument by addition of the equestrian
statue Stevens contemplated. But meanwhile the New
English Art Club—the Academy’s rival in aim, its enemy
in method—has been working independently, unknown
to Poynter. It has collected another .£2,000 by private
subscription ; it has secured the consent of the authori-
ties of St. Paul’s ; and it has commissioned John Tweed—
a pupil of the unconventional Rodin, not a member of
the Academy—to finish the monument from Stevens’s
sketches. Tweed is busily at work ; and Poynter, and his
.£2,000, and his Academy tradition, are declared to be
aesthetically and actually superfluous. So there’s a
pretty mess!
New R.A.—Waterlow. New Associates—J. H. F.
Bacon, painter ; Arnesby Brown, painter ; W. R. Oolton,
sculptor.
Tom Roberts has left for England to get portraits to
complete his picture of the Opening of the Commonwealth
Parliament, which is to be presented to King Edward.
A replica is to be painted for the Commonwealth’s Parlia-
ment House, when it gets one. Roberts has been busy
so long, and the work is so difficult, that his commission
has not been exceptionally remunerative. Luckily, the
Australian painter is humble (sometimes), and does not
disdain “a living wage.” And the subscribers express
satisfaction with the picture.
W. C, Piguenit’s commission (from N.S.W. Art Gallery
trustees) to paint Mt. Kosciusko paid nearly £200;
and the picture hangs in the Gallery. It is a large can-
vas—three-fourths of the space devoted to a brown and
barren ridge of rocks, with the accompanying purple
clefts, grey mists, and sullen clouds, running diagonally
from corner to corner. The right lower corner of the
picture has a foreground piece of turfed and boulder-
dotted cliff —too obtrusive in size and colour. The worst
part of the painting is in the clouds above this green
patch, which say nothing, mean nothing. The picture
as a whole is a striking and not completely satis-
factory work ; though the painting of the rock-
ridge itself is admirable, and unexpectedly strong ;
Piguenit has been noted hitherto for fidelity and
charm rather than for fidelity and power. More :
the picture conveys a real sense of solitude, of
grandeur, of barren desolation : it is worthy of the
subject, and impressive. Figures are not wanted,
nor is it clear that treatment from a greater dis-
tance would make a better picture, or that a view in
winter would be more effective. The blot is the want
of harmony in the foreground piece : detach eye and
mind from that and the picture is memorable.
BOOKFELLOW’S MEMORANDA
Ernest Vizetelly remarks that Zola worked by
preference in a cold room : “ heat sapped one’s energy,”
he said ; “ cold spurred one on.” Probably Z. meant a
degree of cold that did not obtrude itself, or his practice
would have been unscientific : cold that gnaws and per-
sists surely would have distracted his attention and
reduced his vitality. Dry, pure air, heated to (say) 85°,
tends to stimulate thought by quickening the blood-cir-
culation. For long-continued cerebral labour, not in-
tense, a temperature of 65° would be doubtless better.
Probably Zola was exceptionally warm-blooded : we must
make an exqeption for fever. Th6roigne de Mdrieourt,
the celebrity of revolutionary days, whom Sarah Bern-
hardt has been representing on the French stage, was
consumed by such fierce internal fires that in her last
days at the SalpStriire she is pictured as perpetually
plunging herself in icy water, to gain relief.
At the circulating library. Charming young person,
with a smile that ripples right down to the librarian’s
lumbar vertebrae ; “ Oh, have you got a book by an author
called Neechy—.ZcM-atAus-something?” “No, madam;
it is ‘ out’ at present.” “ Oh, never mind ; — Confessions
of a Wife, then ; or that new book by ‘ Rita.’ ”
Another memoir of Lionel Johnson is promised by R. B.
O’Brien, biographer of Parnell and of Russell-of-Killowen.
Of Johnson’s work the partial Yeats has said that it
both wearies and exalts ; that “ he has made a world full
of altar lights and golden vestures, and murmured Latiq
and incense clouds, and autumn winds and dead leaves,
where one wanders remembering martyrdoms and courte-
sies that the world has forgotten.” (Note the Pater-nal
accent upon even the least fragment of Yeats’s prose.)
The unkindest cut. A Berlin paper says that in
name and blood Kipling is a Jew, with a nose worn down
by alien admixture. Why not?
An Eng. war correspondent, discussing preparations
for the Somali expedition, remarks that the convenient
“ dittoes ” in the lists of stores seem interminable.
When a quartermaster-sergeant who had caught the
infection was dubbed chaplaitfs assistant, the hymns
were given out to the assembled Tommies in this fashion :
“ Three-six-three. Hymn. Art thou weary ? Ditto,
languid? Ditto, ditto, sore distressed?”
The Academy of Feb. V (one must drop the cumbrous
prolongation and l.iterature ) is a capital number: this
page is indebted to it. In no other Eng. literary journal
do we find so often the just word well spoken.
That local imagination of “ The Poets’ Corner" pre-
figured a fact. Seventy lyrical poets of Germany have
decided that they are i'll paid, and have made a compact
to accept henceforward not less than sixpence a line.
“We must band together ! We must make our influence
felt ! ’’
“Mark Twain” was inspired recently to ask for ante
mortem obituary notices. The best came to him by tele-
graph “ Deeply regret hear Clemens’ demise, while
recognising inscrutable wisdom Almighty God.”
A writer in Blackwood’s is satirical at the expense of
the Kailyard novelist. His parody opens “ God wots I
am but a feckless loon, atid the ongoings I herewith give
to the world only the clavers of a dreich and waesome
peat-hag ; yet it behoveth all men to speak of what they
have seen, particularly should the profession of the
ministrv have given them as by the grace of Providence
it has given me) the gift of what they call in our parts
the gab ; and so will I e’en take up the tale upon a frosty
morning in the latter part of November towards the close
of the Fatal Year. Fatal indeed it had been for the old
house of Auchterfechan. Two braw sons snippit awa’ by
the tattie-bogles, the kye blithered but and ben, and the
winsome bit lass Miss Buttercup wrestling now with the
dread curse of the Drumwharrochs.’’ —“What an astonish-
ingly familiar air it has ! ” says a commentator.
W. E. Norris, the writer of Mademoiselle de Mersttc
(and sixteen other novels) was advertised as travelling
to Tasmania last month.
Progress of Australasia in the Century, by N.S.W.
Statistician Coghlan and N.S.W. Federal Representative
Tom Ewing, is just published in London.
G. R. Sims follows T. P. O’Connor with a new penny
paper, Men and Women. His first leading article is
headed “ Are We Too Sentimental?” On the whole Sims
thinks we are, and ... he ought to know (says The
Academy).
New books promised include a biography of W. W.
Story, the Amer. sculptor and poet, by Henry James ; a
biography of America’s great cartoonist, Thomas Nast
(“ I don’t care what they write : it’s the pictures as kills
me,” said Boss Tweed); a book on Lovely Woman by T.
W. H. Orosland, the satirist of the Scotch. '
The Light that Failed, as dramatised and played in
London, gives Dick and Maisie “a happy ending ’’! So
much —so much more—for the British public.
In a new book about Samoa, Samoa ’Uma, Llewella
Pierce Churchill disdains Stevenson's “ dream tissue
woven out of South Sea moonshine ” ;—and declares that
kava is unintoxicating, neither stimulant nor narcotic,
without appreciable effect whatever. Perhaps the ladv
was unlucky in her kava-makers.
J. J. asks for address of recitation entitled “ A Night
with Burns at Jackandandy.”
J.M.D. : On Sunday, March 15,1 enquired at N.S.W.
Public Library, Bent-st., for Baynton’s Bush Studies —on
sale in Sydney book-shops since January. Could not get
it. Why not ? [The book has since been made available
for the public.!
At the annual meeting of “ Bovril, Limited," in London
last month, the chairman lamented the drought in Aus-
tralia and the diminished supply of beef. “ I learn from
recent returns that the number of cattle in Australia was
reduced by about forty per cent, in 1902 alone. . . . The
future is not for us to predict. The cessation of the
drought does not lie in our hands, or 1903 would show
very differently.” (Tears.) What commercial pathos in
the reflection that “ Bovril-for-strength” is not Almighty !
The rivalry between Caine and Corelli becomes
acute to the point of anguish. Caine published a master-
piece, The Christian ; Corelli showed in The Master
Christian how it ought to have been written. Caine sur-
passed himself in The Sternal City ; Corelli resurpassed
Caine in Temporal Fower. But at worst Corelli has
nob Caine’s Shakespear-forehead. At worst she does
not own a castle, and in that castle a bust of the
immoral Bard, and in that bust a likeness to Caine which,
it is declared in paragraphs, “grows more noticeable every
day.” No; butshehas fixed herself where Shakespearlived,
at Stratford-on-Avon, and she champions Shakespear’s
cause. “ Miss Corelli has published a protest against the
erection of a ‘ Carnegie Free Library ’ next to Shake-
spear’s birth-place.” Triumph at Stratford! Alarams
and cursings in the Isle of Man ! A pity—a great yitr.
Even the log-rollers are shocked. Birds in their little
nests agree ; and ’tis a shameful sight when children of
one family fall out, and chide, and fight. Cannot our
Methodist Conference interfere?— Advt.
“ Verboten ist!” The Kaiser has forbidden the use of
the cherished German verb at the end of the intermin-
able German sentence. It was the only thing in all
Germany' that remained to be “ forbidden.” Hoch der
Kaiser !


woo
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, and CO., Limited,
WOOL BROKERS AND PRODUCE SALESMEN
S YDNE Y.
Send your_^»
HIDES
SHEEPSKINS
TALLOW
TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & GO., Ltd.
SYDNEY,
and Quick lletuvns .
The Go-operative Wool & Produce Go. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Stores: PYRMOiIT.
Sole Commiaalon 3 Per Cent, to tlx© drawer
OXI Large sxxxca. Small Aceounta Alike.
S. FREEMAN # SONS
[JMiTEP
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
bead office: WTNYAED SQUARE, SYDNEY.
E
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affection*.
IDINNEFORDS 1
IAGNESIAi
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
j neither crack
>sSoa
mss
NOR BURN,
6°
ssoa
CBB
Saor
SHILLING BRIAR PIPES
GUARANTEB.—ShouId
New One
Sold by
QUALITY NOT BETTER
IN A GUINEA PIPE. . .
"»?•* °“ r Celebrated CAN’T- B-BEAT Briar Pipes Crack or Barn a
will be Exchanged tor it Imm (diately on Application.
all Tobacconists. By Post, Is. 2d.
Quality not better in a Guinea Pipe.
--
S
Him- 1
■mS-ST
.
RICHMO
VA
TOBACCO
Dark and
Bright
IS THE BEST.
Price, ss. 1 b., Post Free, all States.
A Perfect Pipe Tobacco.
HAVING secured the Sole Agency for the
above brand of AMERICAN TOBACCO, we
have very much pleasure in recommending
same to our Clients and the Smoking Public.
“ SOLID SHOT” TOBACCO, Splendid Aroma,
does not bite the tongue. With the ordinary-
smoker this Tobacco is in great demand.
Save “Solid Shot” Tobacco Tags,
For Each 100 you will receive from the
Agents, free, one only C. 8.8. Briar
Pipe and Pocket Knife.
Sole Agent for C. 8.8. Briar Pipes,
Send for Whole sale Price Usts.
“Arkansas” Mixture
A Blend of the very highest grade Tobaccos.
Packed in Jib. Tins, 7s. 6d. lb.
Sample Jib. Tins, 25., post free.
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney, n.s.w.
Every Man may
Possess It.
Are you a weak man? Are you nervous, fretful and
gloomy ? Is your sleep broken ? Have you pains and aches
in different parts of your body ? Is your back weak and
painful 1 Do you feel that you are breaking up ? Are you
Rheumatic and Gouty? Have you Varicocele? These are
all the result of the waste of vital force. The gentle stream
of electricity from DR. ELECTRIC
BELT going into the weak nerves for hours every night soon
replaces all the lost energy and makes every nerve and muscle
perfect. It cures permanently in every case.
Wear Dr. McLaughlin’s
Electric Belt.
To the man whose vitality is exhausted and who finds
himself, while still young in years, a broken-down wreck of
what he ought to be, the DR. McLAUGHLIN ELECTRIC
BELT is full of encouragement. It is the success of the ao-e
in elevating the condition of men suffering from impaired
vitality.
It is worn while you sleep. For six or eight hours every
night it pours a steady stream of electricity into the nerve
centres, saturating the weakened tissues with its life. This
is strength. From it comes the vim, the energy, the fire of
perfect physical and mental action. It renews the health and
happiness of all men.
Is unlike any other appliance made; it does all we claim for it; it is the only Electric Belt THAT CURES WITHOUT THE AID OF DRUGS-
THE DAY OF FORTY GUINEA DRUG FEES IS PAST. No more tremendous prices to pay. All over the world our BELT has driven quacks from business-
Where enme« in tl.ev have to" It feeds the hungry nerves and tissues, develops by natural methods the tissues and organs; it gives life, vigor and vitality
to every part of the worn out system. It is ages ahead of anything compared “as similar." There is no other like it, they are all simply poor imitations.
OUR TESTIMONIALS COflE FROiT ALL AUSTRALASIA.
12 Durham-street, Port Melbourne.
Dear Sirs,-It is with great pleasure that lam able to give y°« “g
testimony as to the wonderful curative powers of your High-g pnnc - es t? o n
Belt. I was suffering for a long time froni rheumatism, lumbago, congestion
of liver and kidneys, and chronic dyspepsia, and was badly r ,
now after four months wearing your wonderful Belt, I f ree froni aUmy
former troubles, and am my own man again. I give you this s J jj
publish it in the interests of fellow-sufferers. Anyone maj P vours
they want further information, and I will gladly give it. ® lee. ’
The Dr. McLaughlin Co. . _, wi Pn f r i<, Belt
Dear Sirs, -I am pleased to say that since I have ...j. stronger
I have derived great benefit from the use of it, and am fe g {
in every way, though I have not as yet fully recovered, the nature of my
work preventing a rapid recovery, but I will send you a
I consider your Electric Belt the best remedy I h*™
such have recommended it to my friends.—l SWANSON.
Mt. Crosby, Queensland. .
Mittagong, N.S.W.
Th* Dr. McLaughlin Co.
Gentlemen,—The first night I wore your Belt I slept splendidly, and have
improved wonderfully since—in fact, I can eat anything, do anything, and
sleep anywhere. Nothing in the way of drugs did me any good before.
Wishing you every success, and trusting that other sufferers will procure
one of your Belts, as I am sure they will never regret it, —
I remain, yours gratefully, J- BARR.
Angel Tt rrace,
Coolgardie, W.A.
Dear Sirs,—l got your Belt after all the doctors h£re had given me up
—after all the hospitals had passed me as an incurable. I had Sciatica so bad
that I could neither work nor walk. I wore the Belt two nights, and the
pain stopped. In a week I had no pain and began to mend ; in a month I
was out prospecting again, and I would like to meet a man more grateful to
you than I am. I think I ever will. p w KELLy
. . „ . , , c n^!n ii«Hn Australasia who devotes his entire time to the exclusive use of Electricity.
Our Chief-of-Staff is the on y eg s e Rnd w 0 will allow you f or it i n exchange. We do this not because the old Belt is
with concerns selling a cheap, worth,less article. Call and have a D ree lest, ana get
Write for FREE BOOK.
For the benefit of all persons interested in this
Grand Remedy, we publish a Beautifully Illus-
trated Book, giving cuts, and showing how we
apply Electricity in all CHRONIC AILMENTS.
It gives also many names of people cured. Write
for it. You may find the names of some of your
friends in it. Call and have a Free Test. See the
ease and comfort with which our Belt can be used.
Don’t delay, but call to-day, and get a book. It’s
full of good things a sick man likes to see. Advice
and consultation, either in the office or by mail,
are absolutely free. Write or call.
THE —i
Or. IjlcCaughlin Co.,
85 King Street, Sydney.
Melbourne Offices: 167 E Swanston Street.


hJ 4
SMOKE
The Unrivalled
World Renownet
BRIAR
PIPES
LARGEST DEPOT :
231 Clarence St,
SYDNEY.
Sir*
rif
PATENT
V.'.
V
a*‘Qms'
(oucrSmu
rb“6Ktis
OxsitShM
DOUBLE
THE LIFE
* OF YOUR
CORSET
“Prevention is better than Cure”
and the Oktis Corset Shields, put into a new Corset, prevent split seams
and broken bones, and more especially that ugly ridge that so soon
appears, and spoils the appearance of the best fitting gown. ®
It does not Increase the Size of the Waist
Ask for the oktis, and see that you are not put off with Imitations.
On each one appears the name “P. & S.—OKTIS—P. & S.”
All Roads Alike to
2: Oldsmobile
The enduring and reliable qualities of the Oldsmobile were recently
proven in a long distance run held in America between New York
and Boston— 500 miles.
It was the only machine in the 1,000 pounds class that made the
run without a penalized stop, winning the highest award.
It is made to run and does it. The motor is of simplest construc-
tion, the result of 17 years’ experience in building of Gas Engines
and Automobiles. Starts at will from seat and is always under
instant control of the operator.
Sells in America for
and the freight here
is not large. The cheapest
reliable automobile made.
Write for free catalogue,
illustrated.
A gents :
W. A. RYAN & CO., LTD., Auckland.
Olds Motor Works,
Detroit, Mich «
U.S.A.
JJI
aertex cellular fabric
mended by the
Medical Faculty wherever
Aertex Cellular Un
is the ideal form of body covering, possessing all the neces-
sary hygienic qualities, and being also most comfortable and
of attractive appearance, and for those reasons is recom-
introduced. . .. . ._. ...
derv ear is a Sure Preventative against Chills
Cellular Neglige Shirts.
Soft fronts of plain or pleated
Cellular Cloth; wrists, French
Print, Linen, or Cellular. Recom-
mended for Golf, Cycling, &c.
White body, 7s 6d ; colored, 8s 9d
Cellular Day Shirts.
Silk neckbands and soft wrists.
White and Self Colors, 4s to 7s 6d
Fancy Designs, 7s 6d to 9s 6d.
Cellular Dress Shirt*
Fitted best Belfast Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 0.8. or 0.F., one stud.
Cellular Cotton Body—
8s 6d to 8s 6d
Cellular Lisle Body-
Os 6d and 10s 6d
Cellular Short-Front Shirt
for every-day wear.
Open behind, 2in. linen wrists—
-5s 6d, 6s 6d.
Open front or behind, square
cuffs— 6s 6d, 7s 6d
Cellular Tennis Shirt,
With Collar and Pocket. The most
comfortable for all out-door sports
of all kinds. A great variety of
patterns stocked.
Plain Colors, 4s. 6d. to 7s. 6d.
Fancy Designs, 7s. 6d. to 11s. 6d.
;-s>tf
L*
ji!
m
AERTEX
Cellular Combinations.
High or Low Necks.
s. d.
White Cotton, trimmed
Lace 5 6
White Cotton, trimmed
Embroidery .. ..7 6
White Cotton, trimmed
Lace 9 6
White Lisle, trimmed Em-
broidery 10 6
AERTEX
Cellular Nightdresses.
White Cotton, trimmed
Embroidery .. ..9 0
White Lisle, trimmed Em-
broidery 20 0
White Lisle, prettily
trimmed, fine Torchon.. 19 6
i?
i! h, n
Aertex Cellular Chemises. ™'
Real Torchon, 14s 6d and 16s 6d.
Aertex Cellular SUp-Bodices.
White Lisle, trimmed Torchon, 6s 6d and 8s 6d.
Send for Illustrated Price List—Post Free.
DAVID BRAHAM & GO.,
73 & 75 King-St., Sydney.
Sole Agents.
ft ;*ra»; 4*; , «>P3
.»♦' fr- anfam » Afrft®
tmm&m f*
# srfX Vlf W<M t*. 4 ?>** <@l*sl ’ • %*i
ifc; ft ft
Nt*. • «*#
<*: 3|i&
'* ft . «♦' *fsB
« M.*V* < *■+ ><>'« ♦' M
ri& » «,.•••. V •*.;*< » *,*.
V£ v*s3 ftyfti #*
A Piece op
Aertex Cellular Fabric.
Fabrics by the yard or piece—ln
Cottons, Bd. to Is. 9d. ; Lisle
Thread, Is. 3d. to 2s. ; Silk and
Cotton Mixture, 3s. 6d. ; Merinos
and Wools, 3s. 3d. to 4s. 9d. ; Silk
and Merino Mixture, 4s. 6d.
Send for Full Price List.
Aertex Cellular Corsets.
Fitted real Greenland Whalebone.
s. d.
Cl Ecru 13in. deep .. .. 15 6
C 2 ~ long- waist, 14£in deep 16 G
M White Cotton, 14in., nar-
row spoon busk .. .. 21 0
G White Cotton, 141 in., with
Elastic Supporter .. 24 6
F Ecru, Riding or Cycling.. 12 6
V Cycling, Boned French
Horn, Elastic Hips ..15 0
D 1 same shape as Cl, Watch-
spring Steels .. .. 8 6
>5
ARTERS
There's SECURITY In
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
\ FURRED TONGUE.
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
'ITTLE
IVER
PILL S«
aiAn ai, » Hanoi Aaqj.
Small Pill, Small Dose. Small Price.
Be Sure they are
TATTERS ALL’S
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania).
IMPORTANT NOTICE
The Tasmanian Government havino-
on every Five Shilling 1 Ticket issued * ax One Fenny
January, 1903, clients will pE e f Lw 8 ? n a »* after Ist
ticket applied for, or 4d. for every .£l, and so on' extra for each ss.
NOW OPEN
DONCASTER H’CAP—Randwick, N.S.W., April 11- 25,000 at 5/1
SYDNEY CUP—Randwick, N.S.W., April 13 •• 25,000 at 5/1
ADELAIDE CUP-Morphettville, S.A., May 13 . 25,000 at 5/1
G. N. HURDLE RACE, Flemington, Vie., July 4 100,000 at 5/1
Subscribers will please note that GEORGE ADAMS (“TATTERSALL”) STILL
CONTINUES his business in HOBART, under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN
GOVERNMENT, and that clients can send their subscriptions by letter to any friend or
acquaintance in HOBART, who will there have no difficulty in delivering the application and
securing the despatch of tickets and results direct to clients.
T rOUgh any Ba ” k Austral asia, to the credit of GEORG
Bank to advise GEORGf' AD \ W,Mm - S ° doin * wiU P lease re( l uest
Sniall Parcels addressed their name «d Ml address.
DELIVERY" CO. t<J tbr ° U * b PAROEL
fed


I Colds often hang on.
You try this thing and
that thing, every kind
of home remedy and
cheap cough mixtures,
and yet your cold con-
tinues to hang on.
You must not deal
lightly with these old
colds. You must get
rid of them just as
soon as possible. You
must take something to
break their hold.
Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral
soothes irritable throats, heals inflamed
bronchial tubes, and quiets congestion
in the lungs. This is why it so quickly
controls these old coughs and pre-
vents pneumonia and consumption.
“I was troubled with a very hard
cough which I could not get rid of.
When I read of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
I sent to Johannesburg and procured
a bottle. It completely cured me, and I
have many comrades here who have had
hard coughs cured in the same way. ”
W.M. Sessions, Company C, Second Royal
Berks. Reg., Nel’s Spruit, Transvaal, S. Africa.
There are many substitutes and imi-
tations. Beware of them! Be sure
you get Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral.
Two sizes. Large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
W. H.Wigzell.
KK.INGES : Best Natural Curly
Hair, 3/6, 5 6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each.
TAILS and PLAITS : 20in. Ion"',
5/6 ; extra thick, 7/6; 24in., 10/6;
extra thick, 12/6 up to 4 )/ . Cut-
tings and Combings worked up,
2/6 per oz. Don’t be misled.
Our Plaits and Tails are twice as
thick as sold elsewhere at the
same price. Send color of Hair.
Only one address : 110 WILLIAM-
ST.', cor. of Palmer St. SYDNEY.
Cable trams will stop at door. All work guaranteed.
Illustrated Catalogue post free. Prompt attention given
to country orders. Wigs made on shortest notice. All
Hairwork sent to the other States free of duty. Transfor-
mations, entire covering for the head, 30/- each.
r.
Write To-Day.
Send
Postal Note.
VT AWAY
THIS MONTH
...t0...
Advertise our
Ostrich
Tips.
2/ f* The Bunch
/ ® Post Free.
3 Black Tips with Ospreys. A Marvel of Cheapness.
Miller’s Feather Shop,
Corner Bourke and Swanston Streets, Melbourne.
Mention Tub Bulletin.
THE No. O . .
FOLDING
POCKET KODAK
WU,;
PUT
IT
IN
YOUR
WAISTCOAT
POCKET.
PRICE 31/- ONLY.
Pull Particulars of all Dealers or of
KODAK Ltd.,
284 Collins Street, Melbourne.
PLBASB MENTION THI3 PAPER.
S€ND US
YOUR PHOTO6RAPH
I p you sendL a Photograph of yourself (or frien
Mr. Mark Blow, Crown Studios, Sydney,
he will reproduce from it a very beautiful and
Artistically Finished
Permanent Enlargement
In Black and White, equalling a rich Steel Plat'
handsomely mounted on an Indian-t
Plate, sunk mount, and as good in every way as r.n uig
meiits now being supplied at from 30/ to 50, eacn, ai
will carefully pack it and send it Carriage Pan
address in Australia, Tasmania, or New Zealand tor ID
Your Photo. Returned with Order.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established
For Lite Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
has money to lend
On Becu:iy of Freehold or
Leasel oIJ City or Suburban
Properties, or on
AT lowest current rates of interest.
~
HEAD F ' , A " *' F ' A - r - S S E» DEBT B. CAMERON, S „„L, ' '
vwvufcSV.
Commercial
Bugrgry,
£l4 109.
H. Hillier,
130
SYDNEY. ,
4?T Send for a
Catalogue.
I>v
Went Shaft Sulkies,
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buj-ers of Light Vehicles.
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, i3o Sussex St., Sydney
Straight Shaft 3-Spring Sulkies, £8 10s.
Sarven Sulky Wheels Tyred, £2 4s 6d pair.
Discount to Wholesale Buyers. Send for Catalogue.
KING
2h.p. to lOOh.p.
MARINE OIL ENGINES.
Launches built 20ft. to 80ft. overall.
ffff fjw?
Noiseless Uuderwater. .
Exhaust.
Perfect Gas Generator.
Double Cylinder.
Automatic Oil Feed.
Simple Electric Ignition
with Dynamo.
J. F.
WITH THE KING ENGINE— ONE LEVER CONTROLS
McDermott &
THE WHOLE.
C O M F A TXT V,
Telephone 2671.
30 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Sir
Hotelkeepers, make your own
WATERS
THE “AUSTRAL” CRATED WATER MACHINE occupies
only Four Feet square, will produce 160 dozen BOTTLES
per day of Finest Waters (Lemonade, Ginger Ale, Sodawater
&e.) at a COST BELOW FOURPENCE PER DOZEN. These machines
ire now working in all the Australian States, New Zealand, and
South Africa.
Write for Frices and Particulars.
Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers—
ECKERSLEY AND SONS,
214-216 Queen Street, Melbourne.
“New Rival ” and “ Repeater ”
WINCHESTER
Shotgun Cartridges
Rival” loaded with Black powder, and “ Repeater”
loaded with Smokeless powders. When buying, always
insist upon having them, take no others, and you will get
the best Cartridges for the price that money can buy.
NO TROUBLE TO GET, ALL DEALERS KEEP THEM,^
WE STOCK - ALL W | N£|-| GOODS.
iVPLEAM BROS. & RIGG, Ltd.
ELIZABETH STREET, fIELBOURNE.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks Frea.
PLAYS
French’s Acting Edition.
Rare Books
French Novels
Books the Married
l£xtra Special Catalog tie o{
Hooks Free.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne
0013 HAIR
FOR ALL l
w v/
■
m
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Ha* gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature "Decay, Promoting the Growth, andl frjvmg Lust e
to the Hair If your Hair is falling oft, lKr ft- “
Thin, TRY IT. Price-35., 45., ss. Postage, Od. extia.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
fc/FM4 RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES, Price, 55.; postage, yd. extra
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
For Ri'sTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
f V,OR t acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively.
COLOR. H w . u () d . extra.
A U. CIIKMisTS. HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE
CONSULT ® s & \CKAY, Cheuiiets, Queert treet, Brisbane ,
Sold by all Ihennsts, and by WATI - Rockham p to „, Queensland, and
HOLLf Ml\ Ha r Sp£C alist, 193 Go3ljn>*3fci'e3t
HAIR.
Mr. GORDON, 92 George
, MaB9URNS
Washington H. Soul & Co.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Girl 1and a Paradox.
“ 1 Un P° lish ed ! ” she said to her friend •
Never a brute like that for me!
Only this evening it came to an end :
We were out by the old gum-tree,
“ 4 nd h 6 CrUBhed blouse and tossed my hair-
Never asked if I loved him ! No •
look it for granted ! Held me there
Breathless, trying to gasp, ‘Let go !»
“Said : ‘ You’ll come to my station-nest
Down at Tarangar-by Wannon side.’
Crushed my breast to his iron breast-
high ! the monster ; I almost cried.
“ Then he let me go ; and I flung my hate,
‘'Corn and loathing for such as he ;
Told him a gin was his destined mate—
Left him there by the old gum-tree.”
He comes no more : when they meet by chance,
Under the glare of the public eye,
Bows his head ; to her challenging glance
Comes no sign as he passes by.
Hates himself for that moment’s haste,
} Roused by the touch of her finger-tips—
Passion that flung him to clasp her waist,
Ravish the charms of her rosy lips.
And every night as from town he rides
Past her room on his homeward track,
Someone s face in the pillow hides
A blushing prayer—“ Oh, send him back !”
VIC.
L.M.D.
The Beaches and the Sea.
The voice of many waters is coming back to me—
The roaring of the rollers where the long swells
break,
And the whispers of the wooings of the beaches
and the sea.
Oh, the long, drowsy murmur when the wind blows
lazily !
Ob, the deep, hoarse baying that the storm-winds
make !
The voice of many waters is coming back to me !
When everything was silent for the sea-borne
melody
I have listened to the ripples in the moonlight’s
wake,
And the whispers of the wooings of the beaches
and the sea.
And I think me of the majesty of water tumbling
free,
When all the sea is dappled with the white foam-
flake . . .
The voice of many waters is coming back to me.
Who is it that hath ever seen the deep sea’s
mystery ?
Or who may tell the ways that the deep-sea fishes
take,
And the whispers of the wooings of the beaches
and the sea ?
And the clouds come up from seaward, from the
place where I would be,
And back among the mountains I am weary for
their sake —
The voice of many waters is coming back to me,
And the whispers of the wooings of the beaches
and the sea.
M.L.
ERNEST CURKIE.
Cape Terawhiti.
Scar, that hast heard the thunder in all time,
Of wave and tempest, shattered on thy stones,
And art a monument above the bones
Of sailors buried in the ocean slime ;
Though thou dost daunt me, haggard and sublime,
By me more loved the penitential tones
Of brooks that murmur their melodious moans
Through clerestories the ferny traceries climb.
Thus is the spirit vexed from life's renown,
The fret, the fury, and the wantonness
Of Fortune, immemorial as the sea,
And turned to where the long light lingers down
Some quiet vale of Love, that shelters Peace,
To brood within her moated sanctuary.
HUBERT CHURCH.
The Affinity.
There was a void within me, and my soul went
sighing
Out on a lonely search for the smile of another
soul, s
For the touch of hands on my hands—utterly
satisfying,
For sweet, strong arms to hold me—and make me
whole.
But I passed your window blindly, till my soul
flew back and said
He is theie— your love and my master-go in and
see—
-0 the trees that day were passionate in their
twinings overhead,
And the .kiss of the sun on them made me long
for your kiss on me.
0! lips, you have kissed me dearly-0 ! arms,
you have held ir.e sweet,
In a circle of bliss that swathes me still in fire,
1 have touched the outer edge of a joy that n
complete ;
I have found you to love—but you? -All, my
desire.
v.
PHIL SPKXCE.


««
A Quiet
Nip
• •••
Four Crown
Whisky
5*
m
si
r
m.
y?
m
*v-
H
A Champion Athlete
PAYS THE
Penalty for Continuous Training
And Finds a Welcome Antidote.
The Case of Mr. S. MAHALM.
(FOR THE LEICHHARDT “ STAVPARD.”)
To judge from the numerous successes i»
all kinds of sport which have been placed
to the credit of Australians it appears that,
as a people, we possess the necessary
stamina and skill required to excel in various
departments "of athletics; but, as Mr.
Samuel Mahalm, of'Augustus street, Leich-
hardt, told our reporter, it is quite possible
to overtax one’s constitution, and then
trouble ensues.
“ In your palmy days as an athlete you
did not think that y so much training and
racing was likely to do jou harm, I
suppose?” remarked a Standard reporter.
I did not give it a thought, .to tell you
the truth,” replied Mr. Mahalm. “I was
too enthusiastic in matters of sport to
trouble about the future,.but now that I am
all right again I do not regret having in-
dulged in exercise so heavily.”
“It was in rowing that you principally
excelled, was it not ? ”,
“ Well, yes; I did meet with a fair
amount of success in that line, as I won the
champion sculls for youths under 21 three
years in succession, and was pitted against
some of the old-time champions besides. In
running, rowing, and sailing I won twenty
races out of twenty-seven starts, so I have
not much to complain about in that respect,
although, when my health broke down, I
thought the game was not worth the candle,
as the saying goes. It is an awful strain/>n
one’s system to keep at such heavy work
continuously, and when I got very ill I
considered that my success was dearly
bought.”
“ What was the first sign you had that
your health was breaking down ? ”
“ Nervousness. The frequent strains
upon my system had a bad effect on my
nerves, for they became so unstrung that I
could not keep them steady, and the most
simple thing in the world could give me a
start and make me excited. I went on like
this for a little while, thinking that I would
soon be all right again, when I was greatly
surprised to find that I was suffering from
indigestion. That was an every-day sort of
complaint, I thought, from whieh some
pqople suffered severely through not treat-
ing it promptly, and, making up my mind
that I would not make the same mistake, I
started taking medicine for it.”
“Avery sensible procedure,” ejaculated
the scribe.
“It would have been had I known the
proper medicine to take, but I had had no
previous experience, so I took whatever I
saw advertised, and xVhen one thing did me
no good I tried another, thinking that I
would sure to strike the right one in the
end. Sure enough I did, but it was not till
after endurirm several years’intense torture
that a friend’advised me to give a trial to
Clements Tonic, but by that time my health
was completely wrecked. The food I per-
suaded myself to take was harder to digest
than ever, and the after effects were much
more trying. A heavy pain settled on my
chest, which gave me great trouble in
getting my breath, especially at nfeht time,
when I often had to sit up in bed, because
I felt as if I would smother if I lay there
any longer, and paroxysms of pain were
caused in my stomach through wind arising
from the decayed fool. By these and other
means I was prevented from obtaining any-
thing like a requisite amount of sleep, the
consequence being that when 1 ought to have
been leaving my bed I was too dead tired to
do so. I got so miserably weak and low-
spirited that I felt as if I could not speak to
anybody, whilst the mere thought of doing
a little work seemed preposterous, because I
had no vitality in me to do it. For another
reason I did not like exerting myself. That
was'because my heart palpitated and pained
me when I put my body in motion, and I
grew so anxious on that score that I resolved
to take the greatest care of myself and not
throw any chances away. But at last X got
so disheartened that I thought I would never
be well again, a sharp pain catching me
between the shoulders and across the lower
part of my back, while sometimes I could
scarcely see out of my eyes for the terrible
headaches I had. My tongue was in a dis-
agreeable state, being almost white, and
everything I tasted seemed bitter ; not that
I tasted much, as 1 had no appetite at all.
I could not have sat in a wager boatifor the
life of me, as I ha'd turns of giddiness,
which inconvenienced me even when stand-
ing on my feet. What had once been hard,
solid fleshJbecame nearly all skin and bone,
so that there was no light task in front of
elements Tonic when I started taking it.
Another circumstance which I should not
overlook was that I used to have very un-
pleasant dreams on any of those rare
occasions when exhausted nature claimed a
eeuple of hours’ sleep, so you see what a
perpetual drain there was on my system
through want of proper rest ; and nothing
could ease my pains sufficiently to allow me
to sleep, save Clements Tonic, which gave
me a new feeling of content before the first
week was out. It seemed a marvellous
thing that Clements Tonic could have such
a desirable effect upon me so quickly, con-
sidering that I had been suffering so long ;
and further use of that medicine showed
that all others were outclassed. The la.zy
sense of drowsiness which had made my life
so dreary was given plaee to a feeling of
exhilaration and activity as a result of using
Clements Tonic, whilst that medicine’s
action on my nervous system was more
beneficial than I had ever deemed possible to
be obtained. #My nerves became toned to the
state of perfection they were in when I
could go over a three-mile course at a ding-
dong pace ; and I have such a high opinion
of the strengthening qualities of Clements
Tonic that if I were young enough to start
racing again I would take that medicine for
the purpose of supplying the vitality which
is lost whilst training. For putting my in-
ternal organs into a healthy and machine-
like condition, and driving away headaches,
giddiness and chest pains my acknowledge-
ments go to Clements Tonic,
claimed my gratitude for remedying the
palpitatious and heart pains. With each
bottle of Clements Tonic I came nearer the
end of my afflictions, for I was gating well
and could digest all manner of food. Windy
spasms and back pains were done away
with by the same medicine, and there was
not an ache left in me. I can frankly
admit that my liver and nerve troubles
were qu te cured by Clements Tonic, and
you can publish all I have said in any way
you think advisable.”
“ Thank you,” replied our representative
“ but it is pro able some of j-our old friends
already know this experience of yours.”
“Some do, I know; but I can’t tell all of
them, as I know so many th ough living in
this suburb twenty years, while for the last
five } 7 ears I have been proprietor of the
Leichhard; Swimming Baths.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Saw hi. Mahalm, of Augustus street, Leich-
hardt, Sydney, in the State of New South Wales,
Commonwealth of Australia, do solemnly and
sincerely declare that I have carefully read the
annexed document, consisting of four folios, and
consecutively numbered from one to four, and
that it contains and is a true and faithful
account of my illness and cupe by 'Clements
Tonic, and also contains my full permission to pub-
lish in any way my statements—which I give
voluntarily, without receiving any payment; and
I make this solemn declaration conscientiously
believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the
provisions of the Oaths Ae), 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Leichhardt, this twentv
at Ai , sr h>om ""A
W. B. WRAGGE, J.P.
Price 6s.
Pest Pres.
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
BY
44
Steele Rudd.”
j?OJK THEBU9H
w o BKEiI
&
w am-Bu/c
Ointment
Eczema, |P ral "®’ J? Mueouter Affeotlone, eto.
Kan ffi JSKjr FBEE SAMPLE
b '4'fJ°BUK r CO ' 39 p|t , str ,, t SYDNEY.
111 ’^
jq-OTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS^
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite. St
Kilda Railway Station and Gable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF or
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
NENRY SKiNNER,
Olarendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone Xo. 10US. CATERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very, extensive and carefully
Elected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Catered for
on M@st
Banquets and
Private Balls
Reasonable
Terms.
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCINp FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
“ They come as a boon and a blessing to men.
The Pickwiek, the Owl, and the Wkverley Pen."
THE WAVERLEV PEN.
. Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEH made by Macniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
separately examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
tar~ BEWARE OF IMITATIONS. ~m
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAM
v THE MOST HUTKITIOCS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
DON’T MISS THIS
OPPORTUNITY, if you are suffering with WEAKENING
NERVOUS, and DEBILITATING Diseases. Our CON-
CENTRATED BOTANIC REMEDIES will CURE YOU.
So CONFIDENT are we of this that we will gend to any
sufferer a TRIAL' COURSE (Free of Charge) and abide
by the RESULT. Send NOW and your ultimate CURE
Address—
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Vletoria Chambers, Ellzabeth-street, Sydney.
ENNESS
CURED
DRUNK
Absolutely Conquered In 20 Days.
my proposition to the Government
November Bth, 1901, wherein I agree to
accept 100 Test Cases, and prove that my
Vegetable Cure for Alcoholism is a positive
and reliabie remedy Hopie treatment
within the reach of all. No'restrictions no
hypodermic injections. Full particulars free
W. LANGSTON, M R.c.s . Eng.. ‘
129 Colllus.st., Melbourne.
Rescued
From Drink
sssar,ss£B:
nd address to^THe'EUCRA^ ra^on • Sel >d nan'i
YBNFV Ns w E PVF RASY C0 -> 62 HUNTER ST
JKS * a y Wl " sen<? you book,et »»«
RUPTURE
CURED
with©,it
Throw away
your Tru«§.
_ operation er pam.
no detention from work, or depend-
ence upon Trusses. The only
humane treatment. Hundreds
cured. Write to-day for illustrated
Treatise No. io. Address:
SURGEON LANGSTON,
C.S., ENG,,
129 COLLINS STREET,
Melbourne!
i’ll Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Capillarine
Posted (under coven
to any part of Austral
la*a or New Zealand
Price, 108. 6d.
CRA.IG &, *MS,W. Barber's Sum-.'
Housa. 680-682 CEORCE STREET, SYD.IE V. ‘
The Remit.
Always use at Bedtime
to prevent Mosquito bites,
CALVERT’S
20 per cent.
Carbolic Soap.
A delightful soap for toilet purposes.
Most useful t'o prevent or cure insect bites
or stings, itch, piles, ringworm, etc.
F. C. CALYERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
f *LUHG
tyes
tr •
£
4
4
MORRIS'S
IMPERIAL
ft EYE
oihtmeht
TOOTH-ACHE
CURED INSTANTLY BY
BUNTER’S
Prevents Decay, Saves
Extraction, Sleepless Nights
Prevented.
Neuralgic Head-aches & all Nerve
Pains removed by BUNTER'S
NERVINE. Of all Stores.
NERVINE
“As a specific for Tooth ache it has no equal. I have
used it successfully for years.” —Prof. ,W. Wilson, M.D,
The BEST FAMILY MEDICINE
KAYE’S WORSDELL’S PILLS
Are a certain Cure for Indigestion, Biliousness, Head ache,
Dyspepsia, Constipation, Liver and Kidney Complaints, &c.
Of all Stores.
Rupture
Free Cure.
Yonderful Home Treatment That Cures
Without Pain or Loss of Time.
Dr, W. S. Bice (Degt. 268), 8 & 9, Stonecutter
Street, London, E.C., has invented a method that
cures rupture -without pain, danger, operation, or
an hour’s loss of time from the day’s work. To
avoid all questions of doubt .-he sends free to every
MB. JOHN WESLEY.
sufferer a free trial.of his. method, and there can be
no earthly reason why anyone, rich or poor, should
not avail themselves of this generous offer. As an
instance of this remarkable method, the cure of
Mr. John Wesley, Castle LaChlan, Inverary. Argyle,
s a welco.me intelligence. Mr. Wesley is a well
preserved and highly respected gentleman, 72 years
if age. After a short use of the Bice method the
rapture healed entirely. To-day he’s sound as
i hell. Jf you know anyone ruptured you should
tell them of this wonderful method, which will
be sent for trial free of all costs.
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every purchaser
of our
KTjISCTRZO
IiKLTS and
a rrLiA Ncm
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Beits will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Eleotrio
Bells give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt, by the wearer through
all the weak pant.
Remember, we gire a
written guaran tee with
each Electric Belt that it
■viH permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what w>e say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTICE.— Before purchasing, we that yon send
tor our Electric Era and Brice List (post free), giving
llustrations of different appliances for BOTH BE am,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
Grerman Electric Appliance Agency
G 3 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
§- -
%
PROF/INSfifS
ALL CTHlitv'Hia ,
Anaemia,
Poverty of Blood
and Weakness
from Whatever Cause.
TABLETS
PER BOX
AT 3/6


W F SPE^[ J I I 1 S ® in but one direction, i.e„ the
EQUIPMENT OF OFFICES
| on an UP-TO-DATE SYSTEM.
No Business can
succeed without
METHOD.
This METHOD
we supply.
WABASM
EXPANSION
Business
Systems.
Letter Flies.
Document Files
Card Index
Systems
For all
Businesses.
Write for
Catalogue.
•
Esli
WOOLLEY, BERQIN & CO.,
Sole Agents, Australasia!* Ge ° r,?e St * Syd "W
AN EDUCATION
IS PROVIDED by the American
School of Correspondencs,
at Armour Institute ol Tech-
nology, Chicago, who conduct
Engineering Tuition by corres-
pondence, and aim to extend, at small cost, a valuable
technical education to the great wage-earning classes
everywhere. The course* are especially practical
and are adapted to the needs of working people who
are willing and anxious to advance. Electrical
Steam, Mechanical, Civil and Sanitary Engineering
Drawing, Mathematics, Architecture, and TextiTe
Manufacturing, Mining. Catalogue “ B,” describing
Courses, Methods and Terms, sent on reouest if,
R. N. FERGUSON, Electrical Engineer (Manage?
Australia), P.O. Box 629, Sydney, N.S.W.
HYPNOTISM, Magnetic Healing, & e .
¥?*%*&'■
Learn to Hypnotize t
Wonderful, Mysterious, Fas
oinating! I teach you how-
to a Hypnotist so
that you can exert a strangl
and magic influence over
oth rs. Celebrate I install'
taneous method, discovered
ami taught only by me.
Kasily and quieJSiy learned.
You can perform astonish-
ing feats and produce fun
by the hour. Surprise all
your friends and malseyour-
stlf famous. You can give
entertainments and make
money. Gratifies every am.
bitiun, compels others to
love and obey you, and
brings health, happiness,
and success in life. Cures
diseases and bad habits.
Send two stamps for my big
FREE BOOK, which treats
on all the wonders, secret?,
and mysteries' of the art,
and shows you just how to
become a Hypnotist.
ADDRESS—
Prof. R. H. Ba.rra.den, 89 Pitt Street, BYDNEY.
MEN
If
you
are
suffering from
exhaustion, Vari-
— cocele, Wasting,
Weakness, enclose 6 stamps (postage and
packing), and I will send a trial bottle of my
REMEDY, FREE.
IT COSTS YOU NOTHIN©
to try my Life Syrup Remedies, which
give back strength of body and brain, renewed
vigor, and development of the vital organs;
not a fnee prescription dodge, but a trial of
my wonderful remedy free for the asking.
PROFESSOR H. READ,
165 Collins street, Melbourne.
RRACCSr”
Charcoal
THE ROAD
TO HEALTH IS
PAVED WITH
GOOD
DIGESTION.
Speedily cares Acidity, Flatulence, Heartburn,
Impure Breath, Indigestion, Diarrhoea, &c. It
destroys all disease germs, and,absorbing all impuri-
ties in the stomach and bowels,gives a healthy tone
to the whole system. Wards off all attacks of Typhoid
and other Fevers. Prevents many an illness.
BRAGG’S PURE CHARCOAL POWDER in
Bottles; LOZENGES and BISCUITS in Tins
(pleasant to take). So>ld by all Chemists and Stores.
Having had complaints of the injury done by other
preparatio.ns,please ss.e that each Bottle or Tin bears
the Trade Mark 4 J.L.8., in monogram,’ion the wrapper.
Rub “Skoeto” on the skin and Mosquitos
won’t come near you.
TESTIMONIAL.
“The Camp, Jerusalem Bay.
“ Cowan Creek,
" Mr. A. J. Wbestbr, . 2/3/’O3.
“ Dear Sir, —I have much pleasure in testifying to the
merits of your valuable remedy * Skeeto,’ which we used
in our oamp on the Hawkesbury. There was quite a
plague of mosquitos and sand-flies, but on applying your
preparation we were at once perfectly free from them,
and we must all express our golden opinions in favor oX
the efficacy of < Skeeto.’ I shall always recommend_it ( to
my friends.—Yours truly, 0. E. EGLESE.
PRICE, 1/- per bottle; post, 1/4.
Agents for Queensland —HOKFNUNG & CO., Ltd. ,
CHAS. S. V. MILLINGEN <fe CO.
Sole Manufacturer —
ALEX. J. WEBSTER, 177 Pitt Street, Sydney
OF INTEREST to MEN
T\EAR SIR,—I have been cured of weakness and De-
bilitv by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers,
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to
Mr. ROBERT E. PARKHURST,
Pitt street, Sydney.
fi
Rupture
i Dr. Pierce’s Electric Truss
is a Marvel. Nothing like
it. Best Retainer on earth
and a Genuine Cure for Rupture.
World-renowned. 27unprovem ts.
If ruptured, send a stamp, (any
sort), for new “Booklbt No. L
MAGNETIC E. TRUSS CO., 206 Po fJ “s‘'
■Francisco,U.S, A.; W. H. S0HI& C0-. Agents, Stphw.
BAD
Dry Thin and Falling Hair and Red
Rough Hands Prevented by
CUTICURA SOAP
PTTT.TfYNrQ n
FrFl“-““-^5
form of totha for ’ -° r by rashes > itobi,l g s > and chafings, in the
rSS^"^?s£SS
No toto
skin Idntr it for preserving, purifying, and beautifying the
N ° ot^ er foreign or domestie toilet soap,
th a+Uf.?!?’ to be compared with it for all the purposes of
Phick th’ fl T d QU T ry * ThuS * *»«*» in One Soap at One
baby soap Storid C ° m P ,exion «■*“* *• “ SI toilet aad
COMPLETE EXTERNAL AND INTERNAL TREATMENT FOR EVERY HUMOUR.
f k V n °in cr "f ts scales, and soften the
Bsaf^asaa^^^w5 s ™^BKSCigf«E»i£fi3fsaaa.*a2
s^ss^ssssssm
CUTICURA RESOLVENT PILLS
(Chocolate Coated) are a new, tasteless,
*s*r> wjr?*-*.*™, a, wssSKgsr#? sssm ass
1f ®®*. in screw-cap pocket vials, containing 60 doses. Coticußa Pills are
alterative, antiseptic, tonic, and digestive, and bevond question the purest, sweetest.
bi ««> “> ■“* issr&ssz
0
ARE YOU WEAK ?
Low-spirited, Tired of Life, Have you utterly
failed in your efforts to regain Health?
Go to the Fountain Head
And oonsnlt Old Surgeon Langston, who will Cure
you. Forty years’ practice as a Specialist is sufficient
Guarantee of the doctor’s ability.
AVOID unskilled pretenders, flaming advertisements and specious
cure-alls.
Vigor and Strength £ ho
OLD SURGEON LANGSTON,
Member Royal College of Surgeons, England, located in Melbourne
since 1886, has so perfected his method pf treatment that it can
almost be said there are no hopeless or incurable cases.
Be the equal of your fellow man,
If you are a sufferer from any nervous, chronie Blood or Skin diseases, or interested in the subject of
Neurasthenia and associated evils, write at once for book of information, blank forms, etc., and have the
old doctor diagnose your case.
Seelc tiie Truth., it costs Nothing!
All communications strictly confidential. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, 129 Collins Street, Melbourne.
NOME CYCLOPEDIA
RMBRACWO
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.’ 1
Ry Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 80 Chromoe. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shews up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1902 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE. w.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy ; is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d.
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is.
The Art of Wrestling, post Is. Hoyle’s Games, post 2/6
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), Is 3d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune -Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), priee Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, Is pasted. Camille, Is 3d.
Secret History of the Court of England, 1 6 post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history), Is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Chiniquy’S Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, is 6d
posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
Up-to-Dath Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budgbt Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted. Sappho, Is.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want.
The Wife’s Handbook, Is 2d posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is fid post.
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus. Leather bound, my price, 15s post paid
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic,
1016 pages, doth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance. Is 3d.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s posted.
200 Old-Time Songs (words.and music eomple e Is 6d.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d posted.
Send for my Illustrated Big- Book
Catalogue—post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney.
ASTHMA and BRONCHITIS CURED
Bv using CASE'S'ASTHMA CURE, made from'the Q
Plant. Relieves instantly, eventually Cures. 4
Posted to any State, Ss
ueensland Asthma
■s. 6d. large bottle;
J. W. CASE, Chemist, 140 Wickham-st., Brisbane.
Please mention Bulletin whe« writing.
USES
Insect i cide
~ *■ Kills
| ALL
NSECTS
jgew/we/ i^i o f/J^'TATiONa
n
m
USES
4*» *
m
fOE^
GOUT
PILLS.
for gout,
RHEUMATISM.
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO.
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with eonfidenee, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorder, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Pbout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAUtTS INDIAN CIGARETTFS
For Asthmatic people who suffer from
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault s Cigarettes l'ender the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest.
SRIMAULT <fc 60., Paris. Sold by allQberojstn.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout, Rheumatism,Seiatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Faee, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Rented, >.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingmcstkk & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials frejn all
parts of the World. Is by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
soi.i) in rwo sizus, 9d. it Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUJUAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can oceur.
Prepared by Poi.ngdkstre & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonie§.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
R* CORO'S
'Die unly Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
L'btd for a quarter of a century with unparalleled and
unprecedented success throughout the World.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Health and Strength
to the mod shattered constitutions, regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 128. or four quantities in one for 368. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope
Agents for Australasia— PERRY & CO., 47 Queen St,
Melbourne ; Wholesale Agent* for Neut South Wales—
T. H. Paulding & Co., 10 O'Connell St., Sydney.
DEAF
m 3
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
land Heau Noises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months-without remo'val.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address-A. M. MAST, 145 Cslllns St„ Melbourne.


HENNESSTC
THREE STAX
BRANDY
Hennessy’s
Hold the
Largest
Stock
on
Earth
of
Genuine Bottled
Cognac
Brandy.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
m
AARON’S
Exchange Hotel Co.,
i i
SYDNEY.
The system of paying for Room only and
Weals as required is adopted here.
£3 3s. per Week
9s. per Day
W. W. AIKEN, Manager,
30 Years in the Establishment.
GEORGE MARE, Secretary.
Visitors to the Old Country
SOUTH KENSINGTON
HOTEL
Queen’s London.S.'W?
CONSIDERABLY
ENLARGED-NOTED
FOR ITS COMFORT
& CONVENIENCE
** R OYAL
ONE OF THE
MOST FASHIONABLE
HOTELS IN
LONDON
\NE\NfLL fIISS D!NNEF\ TODAY
Oh.'/Ydx/dr hind that old rjflsl.
wove qor or
m
fw
V
V'*
m
-x?
l-l.
mm
BE
*
br-
at
i&E
i-zj
31 II
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
SYDNEY
Opposite Union Club and two minutes from
entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
Tariff, 10s. 6d per day, or apartments may be
secured separately by the day from 3s. and upwards.
Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted on applica
t ' ou to The Manager.
THE
‘PLUM’
PLUM’
Hke a bflf and never 0 any » er ' 11 s P eeia H.V tempered, perfectly hollow ground, ring
, a bell, and ne\ er reqmres grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves we know the exact kind o!
edge that is required to ensure an easv shave and having fvT„ • our ? elve8 > we u anow one exact Kina oi
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TVVO YEARs!" * nUmber of years ' can te3Clfy 00
i *™ R J™ OP ’ specia,ly made fo >- this Razor, 7s. 6d.
RAZOLES LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake
Prick (|? n^'e S azor ’ !" strong Leather Case, 10s 6d j Pair, in beautifiil Morocco Leather Casa Ila
t Single Razo,, m Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles,Tn bSStifSo we. 30*
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sola Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
■X
*4,
-
T he GANZ
Electric Apparatus
are built right.
Let us give you some
evidence of their
superiority.
uanz Direct Current Ari-Propeltir.
SOLE AGENTB
The flustral Qtis Engineering Jo., [td., South fflelb.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK
BY SIXTY BULLETIN WRITERS.
CLOTH, 300 PAGES.
PRICE, 4s. 6d.; POSTAGE 6d.
Sole Distributing Agents—
lid wards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd Sydney and Brisbane.
To Smokers of High Class Mixture
WILLS’*
ti
MIXTURE
(Registered.)
C hoice Blend of High Class and Carefully Selected TOBACCO,
Packed only in patent air-tight tins.
Manufactured in two grades—Medium and Full.
Price, Is. per 2oz. Tin.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. 24.—N0. 1206.
SATURDAY, MARCH 28, 1903.
Pirate
STATE TREASURER WADDELL'S LATEST:-"IT'S SUCH A LITTLE ONE!"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
"Au strati a for the Australian**”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Jjtd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 Georoe Street North, Sydney
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS AFTER
Ist NOVEMBER, 1902
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ...- ... ... £1 ® 6
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 IS 0
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
NOTICE. '
By sending direct to Thb Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have Thu Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed t» 3 P.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number, is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, 8000 words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand . that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
4 . ■■■
To Amateurs in. TtlaeTc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa — Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetovm ;
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal; Solomon
and Wilson, 88 Hout St., Capetown; Solomon and
Wilson, Commissioners Street, Johannesburg ; Granger
Bros,, Johannesburg; Isaacs and Co., Durban; Argus
Printing Co., Rhodesia; Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia. *
Ceylon. —Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
B.C.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., St Queens Road, Hong
Kong.
7^e'^xxllelx^L.
SATURDAY, MARCH 28, 1903.
More Tasmanian Politics.
A few weeks ago Attorney-General Wise, of
New South Wales, assured a British public
which just then was feeling bad about Aus-
tralian credit and the eternal Australian loan,
that the real security of the British money-
lender lay in the State Parliaments’
power of taxation. The statement was less
comforting than it might be, because, in
Australia, Parliament is, to a more or less
absolute extent, just the peeple ; and Par-
liament’s power of taxing the people, in
order to meet the public liabilities, is merely
the people’s power, if they feel so inclined,
to tax themselves to meet their own liabili-
ties ; and that is merely the people’s indubi-
table right to pay their debts with their own
money, if they have the money and care to
part with it; and the community’s indubitable
right to pay its debts is just the same as the
community’s unquestionable right not to
get into debt at all if it feels like keeping
out of debt. And judging from this country’s
past and present record, that final right,
which is what the whole thing boils down to,
is not all that a security might be. Of
course there is, in a sense, the Federal
security at the back of the State security.
Premier Barton has declared that there is
no possibility of any State going insolvent
because the Australian Government would
interfere to prevent such a disaster. But
unless the Australian Government interferes
with loan money, which would be only post-
poning the trouble, it must interfere with
tax money. And as the Australian Govern-
ment is the people again, its security, also, is
only the right of the people to part with
the money if they happen to be so inclined.
» • • *
The whole question at issue is this : When
the supply of loans stops—and everything
stops sooner or later—will the people think
that pale abstract thing called the Public
Credit worth preserving at the cost of treb-
ling or quadrupling the present direct taxa-
tion, and inventing new taxes, and retrench-
ing heavily as well. That is what it will
mean, in some, at least, of the States. The
Public Credit has hitherto been a thing that
brought money in, and people spoke well of
it, and admired it, and patted it on the back
as if it were a cat, and vowed to defend it to
the last. When it becomes solely and wholly
a thing that takes nnsney away, how will it
be regarded 1 The present Tasmanian elec-
tion does not hinge on the question whether
the people are willing to repay any part
of their public debt, to cease adding
to their public debt, or even to cease
using loan money for revenue purposes—the
island isn’t definitely asked to do any of
these things ; the bitterest row turns on the
question of whether the Lewis Government
shall be thrown out for trying to raise
enough money to pay the interest. The
security which B. It. Wise pointed out so
enthusiastically to the British people—the
security which consists simply of the cheer-
ful readiness of the Australian people to
pay up—is, in a small way, being put to the
test.
• * • *
’The condition of Tasmania’s finances has
boon alarming enough of late. That island
isn’t so deeply in debt as some of its neigh-
bors, still its unproductive debt is, in pro-
portion to population, one of the biggest
things in the world. Last year, when the
cost of working the railways was deducted
from the revenue, more than half the balance
was absorbed by interest. Tasmania, with
177,000 people, has to find nearly . £300,000
a year out of taxation to pay interest with,
which is fully three times the interest bur-
den per inhabitant that the United Kingdom
carries. And its progress during the last
few years has been in this fashion :
Alleged
Loan Moneys used Surplus
as Revenue on Con-
(Unproduetive Loan solidated Net
Expenditure). Revenue. Deficit.
1896 .. £110,960 .. £13,025 .. £97,935
1890 .. 64,801 .. 47,732 .. 7,069
1897 .. 66,226 .. 59,993 ... 6,233
1898 .. 84,245 .. 78,055 .. 6,190
1899 .. 111,290 .. 72,516 .. 38,774
1900 .. 163,709 .. 131,249 .. 32,460
Deficit.
1901 .. 249,526 .. 44,279 .. 293,805
The complete figures for 1902 are not yet
available, but they are known to be no better
than those for 1901. • The situation is suffi-
ciently alarming to be a fair test of that
security which the British money-lender is
expected to rely upon—the readiness of this
country to part with its money like a man
and a hero rather than see its credit en-
dangered.
* * * *
The measures taken by the Neil Lewis
Ministry to meet the emergency are at least
not wholly undemocratic. * There are very
few ornamental functionaries in Tasmania to
abolish, and the Government justly re-
fused to further retrench to any great ex-
tent the already very ill-paid public service.
It proposed a graduated income-tax
which falls much more heavily on the
rich than on the moderately affluent;
a graduated land-tax which does like-
wise, and a revision of the land
assessment with a view to roping in
certain large estates which were hitherto
grievously under-valued. These, with a
revised railway tariff and some new stamp
duties, were its principal proposals. Its
land and income-tax schemes were certainly
more democratic than those of New South
Wales where the 6d. income-tax and the Id.
land-tax fall on all parties indiscriminately.
The imposts which Premier Lewis proposed
to put on the people were not equal to those
which had been taken off the people by the
abolition of inter-State customs. He pro-
posed to leave a community which was
lightly taxed in 1900 a little more lightly
taxed than it was in 1900. And yet
Sheol has broken loose in Tasmania—
such Sheol as there is in Tasmania—over
Premier Lewis’s taxation proposals, and if
he goes down, which looks very probable,
it will be the income-tax which will cause
his fall. His proposals to amalgamate the
two Houses of Parliament, to pay off' the
accumulated deficit, to enlarge the Public
Debt Sinking Fund, to establish a new and
improved Local Government system, and
the like, have passed almost unnoticed in the
general blast of execration at the income-
tax.
• • * *
If the Tasmanian Opposition demanded
the total abolition of the Lewis Ministry
because it didn’t impose its new taxes a year
earlier, or because it hadn’t the courage to
impose more taxes and thus meet the situa-
tion more thoroughly, it would have a good
case. But the British money-lender, who is
assured that his great, solid, indubitable
security lies in this country’s readiness to
tax itself for the preservation of its sacred
credit, is invited to consider the spectacle of
a State (with a deficit in peace time, which, in
proportion to population, is equal to a seventy
million shortage in the United Kingdom)
where the Government is tottering to its
fall because it adopted the “ heroic measure ”
(to quote one Opposition paper) of levying
an income-tax ranging from 4d. to 6d. in the
£ (the stolid Britisher pays 15d. in the £ all
round). Also, it sees that Government de-
nounced because it levied £130,000 too much
taxation in 1900 (when ends didn’t quite meet
after all by a fair computation). The British
money-lender will naturally ask if there
are many more communities like that in the
Commonwealth, and if he inquires closely he
will find that they are mostly like that.
Whether the Lewis Ministry goes down
with a crash as the result of its attempt to
pay the interest out of the State’s own
revenue, or whether it comes back with such
a narrow majority as will be practically a
warning to it not to be found attempting
such a thing again, the effect will be much
the same. The money-lenders’ satisfaction
in knowing that he has for guarantee the
fact that Australia cin pay all its liabilities
out of its own resources if it feels so inclined
can’t last for ever Some day he must needs
begin to wonder if it will ever feel so inclined,
seeing that it obviously feels so unanimously
disinclined just now. Considering all the
things that have fallen on Neil Lewis for
his attempt at public solvency, it is interest-
ing to speculate what might have fallen on
him if he had adopted English ideas—if he
had proposed that police, charitable and
education expenditure should be paid out of
local taxation, thereby raising local rates to
about 6s. or 7s. in the £, and had stopped
all foreign borrowing, and put the income
tax up to 15d. in the £ of income, and levied
a house-tax, and started paying off the public
debt out of these exactions. Probably his
battered remains would have been found in
the Hobart Rivulet.
PLPLAIN AIN ENGLISH.
A Hard Winter.
The winter that is approaching promises to be a
bitterly hard one all over Australia. The last
year of drought put the finishing touch to this
country’s misfortunes, and the interior is (tem-
porarily) a corpse. No new goldfield has broken
out at the critical moment, for Arltunga can
hardly be called a goldfield. The new Adelaide
trams are not being built. Jenkins Iscariots
90,000,000-acre steal private railway to Port
Darwin hasn’t happened. Sydney North Shore
Bridge doesn’t materialise, and even the most
magnificent railway station in the world is under
an eclipse. * ‘ Settling the people on the land,
won’t solve the problem. Most of the land is
hardly fit for a crow to settle on just now;
where the land is good the great private
monopolist can hardly be killed off in time;
most of the unemployed know nothing about
land and haven’t the money to get there
if it was offered them gratis, to say nothing
of getting seed, tools, and shelter; also land
doesn’t yield an immediate return even to the
man witli money and knowledge. The winter is
not far off, and for a good many people something
approaching starvation isn’t far off either. The
trouble can’t be remedied by cursing the Barton
Government or taking off the food duties; a loaf
at 3M- is as inaccessible as a loaf at 3d. to a man
who hasn’t got 2d. Anxious deputations with
strange remedies to suggest are calling on the
State Premiers. A very large one waited on
Premier See of N.S.W. the other day, and pro-
posed to that distracted man all manner of costly
public works schemes (which, at best, would only
stave off the trouble for a few months), down to
cleaning the silt out of all the rivers in the State.
It all seems a sad, sorrowful, hopeless groping in
the dark—and yet the remedy is assuredly there, if
only it could be applied. Australia is still importing
£40,000,000 worth of goods every year—an im-
mense proportion goods that our own people
could make. The heavily protected Yankee
artisan can hardly get his proper sleep through
his frantic haste to make things for us, while our
own people implore the Government to invent any
kind of bogus job for them, even a job at lifting
buckets of mud out of rivers. If New South
Wales would absolutely and unanimously swear
off imported boots (seeing that the tariff, unfor-
tunately, isn’t heavy enough to make it swear off)
there would be work for about 3000 more people
in that one State alone, and it would be almost
equal in one year to a £500,000 subscription, with-
out costing the country anything. A State cotton
factory would be worth trying ; even if it failed
(which it need not do) it couldn’t fail so badly as
a State sand-shifting job of the same size,
for at the worst it must produce something.
A State distillery couldn’t yield less profit than
a State reclamation work—and it might pay for
itself and furnish a dividend. The necessity for
employment is going to be terribly severe soon ;
and the question is: Shall it be employment at
making something or at making nothing ? So long
as there is any article on the list of imports that
could be manufactured here with only moderately
skilled labor and the local production of which
would employ any considerable number of people,
there is a resource to fall back upon. Surely the
fear of offending the blessed importer might be
forgotten at such a crisis !
Tamworth Election.
The Labor candidate for the Tamworth (N.S.W.)
by-election must feel the handicap of his party’s
failure to take up a definite and aggressive atti-
tude on the land question ; for the contest is being
fought in a town whose progress is choked by
landlordism and oppressive land monopoly. The
Peel River Co., an association composed largely
of foreigners and absentees, holds locked up
enormous areas of rich lands in the district—areas
which would support thousands of families
'f put into cultivation, but which have
been for decades “held for a rise,” and
are now only grudgingly permitted to pass
into the hands of users at a price which must
impose an almost intolerable burden of interest
on the purchaser. Land sold recently by the
company averaged £4O an acre. And this was
land for which little or nothing was paid by the
Peel River Co. at the outset, and which for many
years had been barred from useful occupation
whilst the farmer, aspiring to cultivate a little
estate for himself, was forced to “select” in the
arid west. It would be difficult to over-estimate
the harm done to the Commonwealth by the
system of landlordism which has been established
here. The comparatively well-watered coastal
strip in New South Wales alone could sup-
port twice the whole population of Australasia
by agriculture. If put to its full use in
conjunction with a Protective policy, encouraging
manufactures, and thereby extending the local
market, it could do even more. But most of the
best land is held by rack-renting landlords; much
of it by absentees. The fertile Bathurst Plains
the Emu Plains right at the threshold of
Sydney, the fat South Coast dairy lands, the rich
valley of the Hunter, and the Liverpool Plains
are all—to a monstrously large extent, considering
the short term of the European settlement of
Australia and other circumstances—monopolised
by corporations or individuals who, without
labor of their own, draw all the profit of
the soil to themselves, leaving to the fanner
only a bare subsistence to be won with difficulty
by the most exacting toil. Landlordism in Aus-
tralia is almost as bad as in England, and
threatens one day to be worse. Yet the Labor
party of N.S.W. has practically nothing to say on
the subject. It does not put in the forefront of
its fighting platform a demand for a progressive
land-tax, falling more and more heavily on hold-
ings as they increase in value, and imposing a
special rate on the absentee landlord/ It might
easily demand, and secure, this, for as yet the land-
lord class is weak politically ; but, with strange
blindness, it neglects to attend to so vital
a reform. And when it faces a constituency like
Tam worth, where the grasp of the land monopolist
prevents a small town from becoming a large city,
the Labor party must surely feel the inadequacy
of its land reform policy. Instead of having to
display to the electors as a record the present
small, inefficient and undemocratic land-tax, it
should be able to boast of having destroyed two
Governments and of being prepared to destroy
two more in the effort to get a land-tax which
would make land monopoly impossible and impose
on the big absentee landlord a rate suggesting
to him the possibility of its one day reach-
ing 20s. in the £ of his income. With such
a reform realised it would not be neces-
sary to borrow money from London to pay
old age pensions, nor to cease the minimum wage
when Cohen frowns. N.S.W. Labor party has
succeeded in the past to an extent, and still
attracts radical support in the present, because, in
its aims and platform, it is vastly superior to the
other nondescript parties. But it will shortly
have to amend its policy or give way to a genuine
Reform Party—a party ready to war to the knife
with land-monopoly and the pawn-broking idea
of running the country.
•
Quite Ridiculous.
Some Protestant parsons having petitioned Vice-
Admiral Fanshawe to investigate Cardinal
Moran’s allegations as to cruelty by the British
naval forces in Samoa in 1899, that gentleman
climbed up to his fore-top-mast in full uniform,
flapped his wings, and instructed his secretary-
bird to write back:
It is impossible for his Excellency to take any notice of
slanderous and ridiculous attacks made by irresponsible
persons on the character of officers and men of the Royal
Navy. Such attacks can only be treated with the con-
tempt which they deserve, and his Excellency considers
that the character of the officers and men of the Royal
Navy is too well-known to suffer any harm from sucli
scurrilous statements.
Which, as a piece of fine, large, magnificent,
unsupported assertion, put in the rudest way
possible, beats anything that ever Cardinal Moran
has been responsible for. Calling attacks “slan
derous and ridiculous ” does not prove them so,
nor is “irresponsible person” quite a correct
description of Cardinal Moran. Further, the
character of officers and men of the Royal Navy is
not too well known, etc. (The characters of some
officers of the Royal Army are a darned sight too
well known just now, as witness the hogging
scandals and other disgusting episodes, but
that is another story.) There is a considerable
impression in Australia that a naval officer doesn t
always pay his tailor, and that a naval man
has sometimes a bad taste in flossies, and a worse
taste in liquor. In short, Australia isn’t exactly
prepared to guarantee all British naval men as
saints, and Admiral Fanshawe shouldn’t get as
rude as a theologian on the assumption that it is.
If Cardinal Moran did say anything against the
character of the British navy (what he said or
didn’t say on a particular question is usually a
dark Apocalyptic mystery), the navy should either
remark politely that it doesn’t care a darn, or
disprove what he said. To assert magniloquenti}
that the navy simply couldn’t do anything wrong
is not convincing.
♦
The Deadlock.
For the third or fourth week in succession The
Bulletin goes to press with the news that tne
deadlock over the Victorian Reform Bill remains
just about where it was. The Assembly proposes
a Council of 28 members elected by 28 sing e-
member constituencies, every ratepayer to have a
vote and every ratepayer to be eligible to sit l
the Council. The House of Landlords wants a
Council of 42 members elected by 14 constituenci
with three members each, nobody to have a v
unless he represents a £l5 rental, and ,
be qualified to sit in the sacred and bloa
precincts of the Landlords’ Chamber UI “® 88 ..
derives £5O rental from property.
Assembly 7 seeks to abolish the plural >
to make the Council dissoluble, and to s
differences between the two Houses y
joint sitting, and the Council blocks the 7
on all these points. It insists especially 0
right to absolutely reject democratic mea
without any possibility of being over-ruled 7
joint sitting. Over these matters, the con e
of the two Houses has wrangled week by '
and made no progress. In a dull, sodden,
headed way, tne Council is immovable. 1 .
tude is that it is a reasonable body, always
to bow to the will of the people; its streng» _
in always denying that the people have as
anything it doesn’t want to give. Over an „
again the Victorian people have ret U . rn f ...
bly containing a huge majority pledged
hood and womanhood suffrage, andthe Bi ,
effect to these reforms passed the Asse y
large majorities. The Council threw t ,
decisively, saying “ The people haven t de ,
them.” Beingasked how the people could
these or any other measures except byre u ,
Assembly pledged to them, the Gmnc
The Lay of the Fatman.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Folk were wiser long ago.’
Thus they speak who ought to know;
Wrinkled Fatmen, old and gray,
Chant the doctrine every day.
Sad the burden of their song—
What is new is mostly wrong—
Innovations lead to woe—
Folks were wiser long ago.
Women wore a sweeter smile,
Had a gentle modest style
When the angry cynic’s hair
Curled upon his forehead fair,
And his teeth were all his own.
Now the harder grown.
When the world seemed not so vile
Women wore a sweeter smile.
Weary Fatvnan, gray and old,
Bores his children, young and bold.
From the ancient’s point of view
Poison lurks in teachings new ;
All the nonsense talked of late
Threatens danger to the State :
Endless troubles are foretold
By the Fatman gray and old.
Like the father, like the son—
Still the adage travels on.
Foolish youth and aged fool,
Blowing hot and blowing cool.*
Ever since the world began
Both have been the wiser man ;
Each, when all was said and done,
Like the father, like the son.
E.F.


“ Dunno.” Asked what the people could do or say
that would satisfy the Council that thev wanted
anything that was contrary to the Council's Tory
instincts, xt said “Dunno.” Asked if it would
pass a Bill allowing a popular vote to be taken on
this one question, so that the people could show
beyond all doubt whether they wanted it or not,
the Council said “No.” Asked if it would listen
to reason under any conditions whatever, it said
“No.” Now, when Premier Irvink has swept
the country with his Reform programme, the
dull-witted blocks of the Upper House repeat
their old parrot cry: “ The country doesn’t want
this measure. Nothing the country can do will
show us that the country does want it. Even if
every man in Victoria voted for it we would keep
on replying that the country didn’t want it."
The time is very close at hand now for a reallv
strong reforming Minister to fold up his Bill and
put it in his pocket, a.nd tell the Council
managers that he is going away to declai-e
war, to stop supplies, to withdraw the
Government balances from the Fat Man’s banks,
to suspend the whole machine of State—
courts of justice, public service and all—and
generally close the State up till the Upper House
comes to the senses it hasn't got. Then the Aus-
tralian Government would presumably take pos-
session of Victoria as a territory that had been
mislaid, and things would' happen. This would
be a really beautiful time to try such an experi-
ment. There is a £5.000,000 loan shortly falling
due, and if the Ministry and the Assembly had
courage to go on strike now the scare that would
take place in the ranks of Capital would be some-
thing memorable. There are various things that
a strong reforming Premier could do, but a general
strike would be the most picturesque of all.
4
The Missing Federal Loan.
The Australian Government has announced that
there is no intention of floating a loan in the
coming session of Parliament. The promise is
good, yet it hardly goes far enough, and it is
hardly good enough. Certainly it is a great thing
to have even one Legislature which has put in two
sessions without borrowing—one Legislature
among the seven that legislate and borrow for a
Commonwealth of barely 4,000,000 people ; and
the longer that solitary good example keeps up to
its present record the better the chance that it
may learn to keep off loans permanently. But
merely keeping off loans isn’t enough—or
nearly enough. Various States have tried—at
least partially—to do that in times of stress,
but they have all tried in the same
inefficient, half-finished, dunderheaded way, and
consequently they failed. They stopped, or
nearly stopped, borrowing ; also they stopped
public works, stopped the development and pro-
gress of the country, and even stopped repairs,
and let school-houses become old, battered and
insanitary, and railways fall into decay. They
took it for granted, just as the worst borrowing
Governments did, that Australia is necessarily a
country which can’t have new roads, bridges, rail-
ways, wharves, &c., without borrowing—which
can’t keep a roof over its head without borrowing
—which can’t avoid relapsing into barbarism un-
less it borrows. And, naturally, when the roof over
its head became too shattered to keep out the rain
borrowing was resumed. Even occasional thrifty
Governments have tacitly laid it down, by the
stoppage of necessary works, that borrowing is our
natural state, and that the period when loans are
“ off ” is a diseased interval and a departure from
the ordinary course of things. And the Federal
Parliament is starting, to some extent, on the same
lines. Last session the Government drew up a list
of necessary works and proposed a half-million
loan. The Representatives decided against the
loan, so the most urgent works were charged to
revenue and the rest were postponed. No one
inquired when they were postponed to—in fact no
one thought of inquiring. They were postponed
from sheer force of habit till the loan should come.
It has been decided that there will be no loan this
coming session either. So the most intensely urgent
w orks will doubtless be again charged to re venue and
the balance postponed till the loan comes. When
sufficient of these postponed works have accumu-
lated the loan will come—the presence of alleged
necessity will overcome the Representatives’
scruples. The only way to do any permanent
good is not to postpone necessary works, but to
tind enough revenue to construct them as we go
along. The Labor party was largely responsible
for the abandonment of the loan idea last year,
and therein the Labor party did splendid service
to Australia. But if it allows any necessary work
which would be done if there was a loan to be
postponed because there isn’t a loan, it is only
allowing Australia to be taught over again the
rotten, lying lesson that loans are necessary to this
country. The Australian Government has un-
limited powers of taxation; and it should use
those powers to make it reasonably certain, not
only that it is not borrowing now, but also that it
won’t need to borrow in the future. It should
appoint certain extra taxes, outside the existing
customs and excise taxation, the proceeds of
which will be paid, not into the general revenue,
but into a Public Works Fund (or which, if they
are paid into general revenue, must be imme-
diately transferred to a Public Works Fund).
Then it will show Australia that the stoppage of
loans does not necessarily mean also the stoppage
of progress, and that lesson will be a new revela-
tion to Australia.
4
The Widow’s Portion.
Among the worthier attempts at social legislation
by unofficial members of Parliament, the Bill in-
troduced into the Vic. Assembly for such an
amendment of the Wills Act as will tend to protect
widows from the capricious injustice possible
under the present state of the law takes a
prominent place. Legal systems have always
varied as to the degree of liberty properly allow-
able to owners of property to direct its post mortem
destination. In England, and in most of the Aus-
tralian States, there is practically no limit to the
power of a testator, and the arrears of injus-
tice perpetrated by whimsical or spiteful testators
against their wives have gathered volume to
such an extent that all over Australia de-
mands for securing to the widow an un-
doubted right to some portion of her husband’s
estate are gathering volume also. They find
the justification of precedent (if that is neces-
sary) in the old, equitable, and well-tested English
Statute of Distributions in the case of the pro-
perty of persons dying without a will. It repre-
sents the normal conscience in matters testa-
mentary. That is to say, it divides a man’s
property on his death without a will among his
wife and children, as the average man (if
there is any average man) would, in ordinary
circumstances, divide it if he made a will.
It is no interference with rational liberty if un-
conscientious and callous testators are compelled
to give to their widows, as the Victorian Bill pro-
poses, the proportion of their property which the
normal conscience of the community allots to
them, in the event of intestacy. Great care must,
of course, be taken—and there are provisions in
Smedi ? Tl POSed 8111 with~this object—that the
linih measure should not interfere with a
husband s present power of depriving of any share
NficrHo-a r ?^i a - wort^^ess . faithless wife,
v.-Jj J; , nt legislation on this matter, as on the
ine- P° wer of disinherit-
, unfihal children, would tend to re-
■ by . law atrocious domestic treasons.
inr« P I? VlSl °u' howev t r ’ isin this Bill that wanton
~ U nc l l f*^ s fc l ty shall not be effectively cast
upon their widows by mean-minded or insanely
- uspicious testators or tlieir legal representatives.
Ihe burden of proof that a wife has been un-
d,«ri B ’oe°i aS l lepr L ,ve her of h er right to a third
'‘, , b le a st in the testator’s property, is pro-
per 3 o be placed upon those contesting her right.
Instances of husbands who have proved them-
selves unworthy of a free hand in disposing of
leir possessions by their vanity, callousness,
vindictiveness, or want of sense of duty, are so
frequent as to commend the present proposal to
the favorable notice of all liberal legislators.
♦-
Tlie Westralian Miner and tlxe Cheap
Loaf.
Notwithstanding George Keid’s assertions to
the contrary there is a distinct reaction in favor
ot Protection on the Westralian goldfields. The
hr-,t, or almost the first, real awakening came
rough the new Arbitration Court, when Judge
Burnside insisted on fixing wages according to
the cost of living. The mining community sat
down to do a long hard think over the fact thus
biought under its notice. The great alleged
advantage of Freetrade is that it reduces the cost
of living; there is no other known or visible
advantage seriously alleged on its behalf, either
in heaven or earth or in the other place that isn’t
mentioned in _ respectable society. And if the
cost of living is reduced, then Judge Burnside is
there, as the administrator of the law which the
capitalist and long custom have jointly estab-
lished, that wages are to go down as
the cost of living goes down ; that the capi-
talist (mostly, in Westralia’s case, the foreign
capitalist), and not the worker, is to profit by the
saving, if there is a saving, in the price of exist-
ence ; and that all the advantages of Freetrade,
if there are any advantages, are to belong to the
capitalist. And if the Westralian miners buy
from the foreigner under Freetrade, instead of
from their own people under Protection, they
must necessarily throw some of their own people
out of work, and by so doing increase the compe-
tition for employment on the goldfields. So the
prospect is, even at the best, lower prices ; lower
wages to correspond with these prices, so that
the worker will be, in that respect, just where
he was before; and greater competition
for the lower-priced job. Long ago the
Freetrade school of politicians discovered
the great and solemn fact that in this
bad, muddled old world “wages always tend
to a minimum which will give the worker a bare
subsistence.” The Westralian miners are be-
ginning to realise that, whether the subsistence
costs much or little, the tendency is there all the
time. The cost of living on the goldfields is far
less now than it was a year or two ago, and if
there is any change in the miner’s condition, it is
a change for the worse. If Freetrade came, and
if it did make the cost of living still lower, the
change would probably be again for the worse.
The time when wages are nearest to the limit of
bare subsistence (whatever that limit may be) is
when labor is plentiful; the time when they rise a
reasonable distance above the limit of sub
sistence (whatever that limit may be) is when
labor is scarce. Cheap food imported from
Asia and elsewhere will only tend to bring the
Australian food producer on to the goldfields
looking for a job, and (if bread does become
cheaper) to bring miners’ wages down closer to
the bare level of (say) a threepenny loaf than they
are at present to (say) a fourpenny loaf. The
worker’s pursuit of a cheap the saddest case
on earth of running after the unattainable. The
loaf may get cheaper, but the corresponding fall
in wages makes the struggle to get the loaf quite
as bad as ever. It is time the worker lost all
interest in the cheap loaf.
A National Liberal Union (! ! !)
The “National Liberal Union of Queensland”
has issued a manifesto in view of the Federal
elections that are coming. Its attack is mainly
upon the Labor party, which it accuses of the
following sins and crimes :
(1) It has absolute control over, or a dominant influence
upon, 80 per cent, of the Federal representatives of the
State.
(2) It holds the balance of power in the Federal Parlia-
ment. .
(3) Tt holds an undated resignation paper signed by
every one of its members.
(4) Its legislation will gradually shut Australia out of
every money market in the world.
(5) It opposes the “ safe and substantial ” Protection
of Australia under the proposed arrangement with the
Imperial naval authorities.
(6) It has “arrogantly ” asserted that an honest, in-
dustrious, and respectable British workman, being
neither pauper nor felon, shall be treated as a felon if he
ventures to put foot on our shores.”
To which The Bulletin disrespectfully makes
these few remarks :
(1) If under Queensland’s first experience of manhood
suffrage one party gets 80 per cent, of the representation,
though it can only get less than 40 per cent, in the State
Parliament, the business of a “ Liberal ” Union is to see
what is wrong with the State franchise, and amend it.
That 80 per cent, of the people should have 80 per cent,
of the representation really ought not to give a “ Liberal ”
union any sort of a shock at all. What ought to shock it
is that 80 per cent, of the people can get less than 40 per
cent, of the representation in the State Assembly.
(2) Why a State, 80 per cent, of which supports the
Federal Labor party, should kick when that party is
getting things which it was sent to Parliament to get,
isn’t clear. The State might a lot more reasonably be
invited to kick if the party were doing the other thing.
(3) Also, it isn’t clear why electors should kick a pafrty
for trying to protect them from the rat and the turncoat.
If the people support the rat and the turncoat, well and
good. All that the Labor party does is to give the people
a voice in the matter.
(4) It unfortunately isn’t a fact that the Labor party as
a whole is deeply averse to getting Australia into pawn,
though the Federal Labor party is opposed to borrowing.
Why it is a good thing to get into pawn the Queensland
“ National ” Union omits to say. In its haste to tell
what isn’t true the National Union here accuses the
Labor party of a virtue it hasn’t quite got.
(5) The proffered “safe and substantial protection”
with which the Labor party is not satisfied, is the protec-
tion of ships which, in time of trouble, may be transferred
to China or anywhere else, Australia’s only reliable pro-
tection is one which is in Australia’s own hands ; and that
one isn’t.
(6) This is just a falsehood without any frills about it.
What the Labor party and every true’ Australian na-
tionalist does say is that the foreigner, British or other-
wise, shall not be landed in Australia under foreign
contract. The honest British workman can come as often
as he likes provided he comes a freeman and not a bond-
servant—and that is as much for the good of the British
workman as of the Australian.
It isn’t necessary to say anything by way of
summing up the case. To call the National
Liberal Union a liar would be a laborious ex-
pounding of the obvious, a needless painting of
the nigger black and the sky blue, and a waste of
energy generally.
♦
The Mere Australian.
After many months of “ pigeon-holing ” tactics
the Drayton Grange incident has been at last
thrown out on to the rubbish-heap by Australian
(?) Minister Forrest and his guide, Imperial
officer Hutton. The S’African war is over;
there is no immediate prospect of Australian
soldiers being wanted for Imperial purposes for
a while, and therefore there is no call to punish
the persons responsible for the avoidable deaths
of a few mere Australians. This Drayton Grange
incident should, however, be kept in the
memory of all citizens of the Commonwealth.
The S’African war having suddenly ended, a
large body of Australian soldiers was rushed away
home in a vessel that was not large enough to
accommodate the number on board. The fittings
and medical stores were inadequate; and, worst
of all, the vessel was deliberately sent to sea with
an infectious disease (measles) on board. The
results were tragical. During a voyage of squalid
misery several died, and many others were landed
with ruined constitutions. The persons respon-
sible for this manslaughter were the Imperial
transport authorities. They have not been even
called upon for an expression of regret. The only
Australian in any way blameable was the comman-
der of the troops on board, who possibly might have
avoided some of the horrors by protesting against
going to sea under the circumstances. He has
been promoted. The one man whose actions
were courageous and commendable was the chief
medical officer, who did his best to save life and
insisted on an inquiry into the scandal. He has
been punished. That’s what Imperial authority
thinks of the mere Australian soldier when he is
done with.
♦
Victoria’s State Governor — one Clarke —to keep
himself in evidence, has lately been going round
opening fruit-shows and urging the apple and
peach manufacturers to lay themselves out to cap-
ture the foreign markets—of England, Japan,
California (!), Germany and Southern Europe. (!!)
And the local fruit-fossicker didn’t smile at the
absurdity of proposing that a State, which still
imports quantities of preserved fruit and wine,
should send such green produce away to Cali-
fornia and S. Europe; he even applauded and
talked to himself about the great butter-export
trade “which would be nowhere without the
English market.” Yet the sober fact is that, last
Jear, the sudden entire disappearance of the said
Inglish market would hardly have been noticed
by the Vic. butter-growers. England last year
took only one-eleventh of what Victoria sent
beyond her borders. Of 15,000,0001 b. exported,
Westralia took 3,620,000; Natal, 2,537,000;
N.S.W., 1,789,000; S.A., 1,621,000; Queensland,
1,605,000; Britain, 1,394,000; Cape Colony,
1,282,000; Tas., 441,000; the rest went to such
trifling places as Burmah, Ceylon, Fiji, India,
Guam, and Java.
S.M. Herald is reminiscent. In a leader it says,
with a pained inflection in its voice—
In former days a man who had no means of livelihood
was glad to accept the first opportunity offered him, and
he was not keen to examine into the question of wage or
of social status. What he wanted was to be able to live
honorably, and it has been the general experience that
the better born the man in search of a livelihood the less
was he inclined to insist upon the minimum wage or any
other fad.
That better-born type of man who wanted to live
honorably, and didn’t care how little a week his
employer gave him, belongs to the golden era of
Australia. His brother or his cousin seems to
have occurred in the golden eras of all countries.
But he’s dead. Best realise the fact that he is
dead. Or, mayhap, he is in gaol. At all events,
he’s not in the market square to-day, here or any-
where else.
- «
New South Wales has seldom had a Government
that was more hopelessly full of good intentions
than the one it owns just at present, and its latest
proposal for the relief of the unemployed is another
evidence of the kindly helplessness which pursues
it in all its works. Minister Owe’Sullivan, who
is a man with a kindly heart and the largest kind
of sympathies, suggests that 300 of the workless
should be put on to cut firewood for sale in Sydney.
Sydney, unfortunately, has already all the fire-
wood it wants, and gets it very cheaply. If the
unemployed go cutting firewood and do it success-
fully, then the men who are just now making a
precarious living at cutting, firewood must be
unemployed instead of, them,.and .the.thing will-
only be an attempt to obtain 1 nourishment
by eating our own tail. Also, it is an attempt
to make the blanket longer by sewing on one end
the bit that is cut oft the other. The fatal
objection to most of the Owe’Sullivan’s schemes
is that they don’t, tend to increase the amount of
work in the country. No people can live wholly
by making or repairing roads, railways or bridges
for each other to travel on, or wharves for each
other to embark at, or digging holes for each other
to climb out of, or by taking in each other’s wash-
ing, or massaging each other, or polishing each
other’s boots, or sponging each other’s face, or
cutting each other’s hair, or chopping each other’s
wood, or conducting each other’s lawsuit. All
these are mere variations of the art of living on
our own tail, and no animal can live long unless it
has something more to put in its mouth than its
tail. Still there is a certain amount of sustenance
in our own tail if we had it entirely for our own
support. Unfortunately, under the great import-
ing system, so many outside workers are also living
on our tail that the supply runs short. Let us
abolish the importing business as far as possible,
and keep our tail for otir own support.
«
An ordinary every-day item from the Sydney
papers:
Some time ago, Mr. Georoe Anderson, M.L.A., made
representations to the Minister for Works with the vjpw
of inducing the Government to put Dowling-street in a
proper state of repair. Mr. Anderson has now received a
letter from the Department of Public Works intimating
that the Government will bear part of the cost of the
work on condition that the City Council will agree to put
that portion of the street within the city in repair. Mr.
O’Sullivan intimated that he could not comply with the
request that half the men employed on the work should
be residents of Waterloo, but special consideration would
be given to workmen of ■'that locality when the work waft
putin hand. Mr. Anderson has forwarded the letter to
the Waterloo Council.
Now why didn’t the Owe’Sullivan simply tell
George Anderson that his borough was a lazy,
helpless, cadging institution, and that he was also
a shameless cadger, and that local government
bodies were formed to keep the streets in repair—
not to come to the State to do it for them ? The
one gleam of promise in the record of the O’See
Government was when it turned its deaf ear to
Begging Law with his brassy demand for State
money for the Balmain Choral Union, but it
doesn’t seem able to live up to that gleam.
+
“Junior Clerk” : At a recent meeting of the
Civil Service Council, an elective body allegedly
representing the civil servants of N.S.W., it
was decided to collect subscriptions on behalf of
the sufferers from the drought. It was suggested
by these long-coated and high-salaried officials
that every C.S. in the State (presumably in-
cluding those stationed out at such places as Hay,
Bourke, and Hungerford, who are themselves
drought sufferers) should contribute 6d. in
the pound on a month’s salary. The C.S.’s
are also being “circularised’’ by their under-
secretaries to the effect that “a meeting
with a view to relieving the distress
was held, the Minister being in the chair.”
asking them to give this matter their attention
and to bring it under the notice of the officers
under their charge, “but at the same time it must
be distinctly understood that all contributions
must be voluntary.” When these “voluntary”
subscriptions have given out, the civil service will
probably be retrenched — i.e. if rumor can be relied
on. That profoundly educated myth, the General
Public, seems to imagine that the civil servant is
exempt from the ravages of the drought, and that
the increased price of commodities does not affect
him. It is to be hoped that when the Gov-
ernment attempts to apply the pruning knife
there will be a unanimous protest against this
class taxation by those who are now reaping
the benefit of the official imposition forced
upon the public servants. If the Govern-
ment had the backbone to suggest that
every person in the State pay sixpence
in the pound on a month’s earnings for the
purpose of paying off part of those big debts
which constitute the “silken cords which bind us
to the Empiafi,” I would gladly make one. So
soon as I am entitled to vote I’ll plump for the
Government with the backbone aforesaid ; and
when the country, is carried on with revenue
instead of loans, I’ll vote for the decoration of
Pinchgut with the surplus. Australia could then
“ face the dawn ” with a clearer conscience.
Dr. Taylor, N.S.W. Government Medical
Officer, in a case of criminal assault, at Sydney
Court t’other week, made a few pertinent remarks.
Accused, it was shown, had been sentenced to
three years for a similar offence in December,
1890, but was released in July of the following year
on the ground that he was dying, and it would be
more humane to let him shuffle off outside. Since
that time he had been guilty of other similar
offences at odd intervals, and had been sentenced
to 10 years’ penal servitude. On his release re-
cently, he almost immediately committed the
offence for which he stood charged. Dr. Taylor,
in giving evidence regarding accused’s mental
condition, said that he was both physically and
mentally weak, and that there were signs that he
was suffering from a degeneracy which should be
classed as a disease, though it was not generally
recognised by the medical profession as such. Dr.
Taylor’s belief is one widely held, and is gaining
more ground every day; but Dr. Taylor is the
first to courageously state his conviction in public
court, and if other medieoes of repute would but
follow suit, perhaps we might soon seethe useless-
ness of temporarily gaoling the sexual maniac
for an offence which he will straight-
way commit again as soon as he iv released.
More point was given to the doctor’s remarks by
it transpiring that accused had three brothers,
three uncles, and a cousin in the lunatic asylum !
The idea of giving a man three years hard labor
for leprosy, with a further sentence if he repeats
the offence, wouldn’t commend itself to any sane
community. The degenerate who is a confirmed
sexual criminal is a mind-leper, and like his rela-
tive with the outward disease should be kindly
and regretfully but firmly shut up for life. Some
day science may find a remedy for both diseases,
and then the shutting up won’t be necessary,
but till then it is necessary. Every doctor of any
intelligence or repute tells the Law this, and the
Law admits the truth of it —and goes on the even
tenor of its admittedly exploded way, because
habit has soaked into its mind, and the old legal
rut is worn so deep that the top of the judicial
horse-hair can hardly be seen out of it.
♦
The Victorian police held their first meeting last
weekto protest againstthesudden Order-in-Council
which raised the retiring age of the foorce from
60 to 65 years. It was necessarily a mild-spoken
demonstration of Bobby. Chief-Commissioner
O’Callaghan sanctioned it only on the under-
standing that “no discussion as to the action of
the Governor-in-Counci 1 would be permitted, nor
any criticism of the Ministerial head, nor of any
member of the Government, nor the Govern-
ment generally.” To protest against Govern-
ment action without criticising it was
obviously impossible, but the malcontents
assumed an attitude of deep respect in resolving
that the new law is “a great injustice to many
efficient and deserving men, whose claims to pro-
motion have been blocked after years of faithful
service.' 1 The real strength of Bobby's grievance
was not insisted upon. He entered the service on
a contract which had been altered to his disad-
The Bitter Cry of the Cohentingenter.
The State Governor of N.S.W. has unveiled, at Glen
Innes, a monument to sundry deceased cohentingenters.
—News item.
It was a weary bloke
Who tramped along the street,
Dead-hungry and dead-broke,
Dead-thirsty, and dead-beat.
He scarce had strength to smile,
Or lift a glass of ale;
But he cursed deeply while
He read this touching tale.
His form was lank and lean,
His raiment was threadbare ;
He was—or he had been—
A Cohentingenter.
He tapped, with trembling hand,
His head, as one in doubt —
“ I cannot understand
How glory is served out.
" These dead ooves can contrive
To get it by the pail,
While I who am alive
Can't get a pint of ale.
“ A Governor can come,
And, with uncovered head,
Speak his eulogium
Above the noble dead.
“ I faced the music hot,
When Boer blood ran red,
And for reward I got
Some half-a-pound of lead.
“ I put this question fair —
They seized the chance to die —
If these coves Heroes were,
Then what the am I ? ”
CREEYE ROE.


SAWMILL MACHINERY.
Single and, Double Cutting BAND MILLS for
hardwood logs, CIRCULAR SAW MILLS, Com-
plete Outfits of any capacity. Band Resaws,
Engines and Boilers.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 CLARENCE BTREET, SYDNEY.
THE LARGEST AND BEST IN THE WORLD!
The Mutual Life Insurance Co. of New York
Admitted Assets, January l, 1902, £78,528,000.
Principal Agency in Australasia; Company’s Building, Martin Place Svdnev
C. _BENNJE, General-Manager. - ’
HISTORY REPEATS ITSELF.
was law in some "of T° f by C *?tt Cook ' the followin 2
suffers to be killed or sells nr Hl™” Colonies of America : That whosoever kills, or
intends to kill, any Ewe Lamb sffn be°£Sty“E Wh ° m he has reason t 0 believe
that our Legislature" mi P afcr^ c colon ’ sts °f New South Wales are of opinion
protection S th °; e mm!i t ofTw'W of the same kind for the
droughts of the past seven war, e o- tate s flocks which have been decimated by tiie
what is necessarv Mutton nnH qv, pur Statesmen should rise to the occasion and do
value. In any ckse voT el Sheep S , Tongues would of course be much enhanced in
brand, which fs the bit in the the ROSEWARNE PACKING CO.’S
plenty. Try them • thev are at , fc i’ e Bame pnce as fche y were in the time of
* 7 ’ U,ey are delicious, wholesome, and economical.
vantage without his consent. And the excuse
offered for that breach of contract is a financial
excuse, arising, in a large measure, from alleged
Government misappropriations of police pension
funds. The financial difficulty, is mainly a
Governmental sin, but Bobby is called upon to
pay the penalty.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOE COMING WEEK.
Lyceum "War of Wealth."
Royal “Zaza."
Criterion “ The Lady Slavey."
Tivoli.. Rickards'Co.
Palace..... “On and Off.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess's “The Fortune-Teller.”
Her Majesty's .„.....“The Emerald Isle."
Theatre Royal ... “ Honor Thy Father.”
Bijou “ Hands Across the Sea.”
Opera House Rickards’Vaudeville Co.
Wirth Bros.’ Circus.. 8t Hilda Road (below Princes’
Bridge).
“On and Off”—a farce adapted from the
French—was prockioed at Sydney Palace on
Saturday night, by the Willoughby-Geach co., for
the first time in Australia. It is a bright,
bustling, well-constructed farce, abounding in
comical situations and witty withal; also, it was
well played and well received. The materials
of a French farce are almost invariable—a hus-
band who is deceiving his wife or a wife who is
deceiving her husband, and a tcrtium quid. But a
French cook can make many dishes from the
same meat; and “On and Off,” if it is, at
base, the same old, frequently-hashed mutton, is
so piquantly cooked and so well garnished as to
taste like new meat altogether. The scene in the
last act (which is, as it should be, the brightest and
best act), where the erring husband, breakfasting
en famille with the young woman who is going
to be his next wife and her parents, is discovered
by his legal mate and her parents, is ludicrously
funny. The two women—tne wife de facto and the
wife in posse —plan together for the too previous
man’s, discomfiture. He is not aware of the pre-
sence in the house of family No. 1 as he breakfasts
with family No. 2 Leaving the room for a
moment No. 2 takes the place of No. 1 at the
table, and this quick change is repeated when he
rushes distractedly from the table to destroy his
flask and swear off the drink for ever. The unhappy
man is convinced that he has lost his reason and
is so thoroughly frightened that he returns to the
path of virtue. Probably in the French original
he doesn’t return, but John Bull has a pawky
conscience and won’t forgive a farce any flavor of
spice unless the conclusion shows everybody
settling down to strict propriety. The breakfast
scene is only one of many wildly-farcical develop-
ments. There is a mother-in-law who communes
with the spirits and has conversations with the
Archangel Michael; a phonograph arranged by
the plotting husband to speak for St. MichaeJ ;
and _ a wine-merchant who touts for orders by
passing off a giddy winking young thing as his
wife, her business oeing to persuade eligible men
to kiss her —an irreparable insult which can only
be wiped out by an order for five dozen of claret.
* * • •
On the whole the farce is played with
brightness and verve. Mr. Willoughby, as the
giddy husband, has the chief part, and bustles
through it with much animation. Miss Roland
Watt-Phillips plays the comic mother-in-law, and
■ is such a mother-in-law as only the wicked see in
their dreams. As Madeline Godfrey, the wife of
the wandering husband, Miss Roxy Barton looks
well, and plays to match her looks. Mr. Lester,
Frank Denton, George Leopold and Miss Ethel
Appleton also do good work.
• • * *
“On and Off” is preceded by “Mrs. Hilary
Regrets,” a comedietta by Sydney Grundy. It is
difficult to believe that Grundy could be respon-
sible for such an amateurish and stupid little piece,
The doctor, who is the chief character, is abso-
lutely unnatural and impossible. Grundy puts
his characters in the drawing-room of a “county
family,” and then gives them the manners of a
kitchen-wench and a stable-boy. The curtain-
raiser makes some little fun, but it could with
advantage be omitted. “On and Off ”is in itself
quite enough for an evening’s entertainment.
» m # Hf
At Sydney Royal, the Lady of the
Delirious Kiss and abnormal longing for supper
still tempts Dufresne to oysters. That is a salient
feature of the play. Zaza, whatever her faults,
does not tempt Dufresne to sin—she merely lures
him to bivalves; and, inferentially, it was
Dufresne wlm lured Zaza to sin afterwards. The
Bulletin begins to suspect that the playwrights
never intended to make Zaza a wicked woman, but
merely a woman who was always abnormally
hungry, and whom good food deprived of the power
to say “ No, certainly not! ” with any degree of
emphasis, and, being a logical creature, as she
undoubtedly is right through the piece, she
decided that if it was not said emphatically, it
was not worth saying at all. A worse actress than
Nellie Stewart might make the play seem more
possible, which dark saying will not be explained
m this issue. There are certain little mannerisms
of Miss Stewart’s that are all her own ; one is a
habit of placing her hands on her hips, and smooth-
ing them down a few times, after the manner
of a woman who dreaded that the sawdust or
sheep-skin packing might have worked up; then
shaking her head considerably. She did the same
thing in “Sweet Nell,” when she shook her curls
defiantly at Jeffreys. There is a connection
between the two characters. Zaza is Sweet Nell
sunk a bit lower, with less gilt on the edge of her
vice, and a wild animal passion for a wooden,
drab individual whom no other woman was likely
to try and steal. Dufresne was probably a better
man than the king, but that doesn’t count. There
is a certain amount of kudos about mashing a
monarch, even if that monarch was only Charles
Stewart. Charles wasn’t drab or ordinary.
“The World,” in the second and last
week of its brief career at Sydney Lyceum, con-
tinues to make a pleasant impression, though the
conduct of the hero and heroine in making violent
love in the midst of the ship’s passengers is
to be reprobated as too public. Bland
Holt, whose worship is described on the pro-
gramme as being that of the Golden Calf, grows,
perhaps, a shade more oily and exhibits a deeper
depth of grease as the nights pass. The villain-
hood of “ The World” is its most striking point.
Most of the bad men who form conspiracies in
offices have casually committed crimes that bring
them in danger of the hangman, but they go
calmly down m lifts or otherwise depart quietly
from the room when they hear that the detectives
are on their track. The detective force is wholly
inefficient, and always admits itself baffled if it
doesn’t find the murderer at home on the first
attempt. Next Saturday Bland Holt puts up the
“War of Wealth,” which is built of the same
material as the “ World.”
** m m
“ The Lady Slavey" was revived at
Sydney Criterion under slightly worse circum-
stances than on previous occasions. The “Lady”
in question makes good comedy, and points a fine
moral on the beauty of domestic toil; but the
characters that do this good work are not so well
placed as formerly. Miss Minnie Hooper has not
enough snap or go for a soubrette, and looks best
when merely graceful and not much more.
Phyllis, the Slavey, is acted as before by Miss
Mavis, and Sheridan is as good as ever as various
different people, including the millionaire with
the lighted lamp in his shirt-front for a diamond.
Wentworth enacts Bailiff No. II with consider-
able credit to himself, and the hilarious Major
O’Neill is played with great sadness by Bert
Rowley.
** * «
New-comers at Sydney Tivoli on Saturday
were Hill and Sylvainy, very clever trick cyclists,
who make even so worn an affair as trick-cycling
attractive. John Cosgrove has a new dramatic
recitation now, of much better quality, and J. W.
Winton, by the introduction of new dummies and
new comicalities, has given his turn a fresh lease
of life. The last week is announced of the Push-
ball game.
** * *
“ The Emerald Isle,” new to Australia, at
Her Majesty’s (Melb.), is not such a whole-souled
Sullivanesque creation as it appeared in the
preliminary advt. Some of the music was
sketched, and a little of it was actually scored, by
the late Arthur Sullivan. Por the rest, the opera
is due to Edward German, a composer fully quali-
fied to take up the job. “ The Emerald Isle ”is
satisfactory, insofar that the music has strength
of character. It gets a respectful hearing. You
raise your hat to it when you leave, with-
out looking forward to the pleasure of a
closer acquaintance, although this is one
of the honest, substantial operas, which
improve on acquaintance. Estimable, not
attractive. In his anxiety to carry out the
work in Sullivan style, Edward German seemingly
confined himself to the religious order of music.
Arthur Sullivan drew his first musical inspiration
from the Church, and every one of his operas has
a smattering of distinctly hymnal airs among the
dainty and humorous numbers. Mr. German’s
imitations of the dead master have a certain
solemnity of tone. There may be genuine Irish
touches in their sadness, suitable to the occasion.
All the same, an equally Hibernian opera might
have been more variously racy of the Ould Sod.
• • * *
Basil Hood tried to write a Gilbertian
libretto which would be an amusing satire on the
typical Irish melodrama of Boucicault. The
librettist failed to do this, and he must have
recognised his own failure, for he let himself drift
into reminiscences of “ Floradora,” and only
returned to his Gilbertian method at the last
moment, which is the feeblest moment of all.
The “book ” is not contemptible, like those of the
worst musical comedies. There are a few bright
lines and ideas, and one. effective Irish character
in it—a bogus blind fiddler, played by Bathurst.
As a successful fraud, imposing his sham afflict
tion upon the pity of colleen Carrie Moore, the
fiddler _is an impossibility, yet he gives a
dramatic interest to the yarn. The plot is trivial.
A pompous Lord-Lieutenant of Ireland hopes to
Anglicise the natives by means of elocution
classes, but the natives are a musical crowd of
rebels who hold secret meetings outside the gates
of Government House when they are not rebelling
in the Caves of Cleena. The daughter of the
imported potentate loves the rebel leader, and
Professor Tweedlepunch from “ Floradora ” (alias
Prof. Bunn) having been enrolled as a rebel, pro-
poses to turn traitor. Then he turns round and
proposes to scare the soldiers with ghostly
apparitions, but the soldiers arrive in spite of the
ghost, and the rebellion terminates in song, like
the lawless career of the Penzance Pirates.
* * * *
Florence Young, whose strong voice seems
to grow prettier with every new part, makes
a happy, tuneful daughter of the L.L., and
Ihorley, as that egregious Englishman, is a
highly efficient personage. Likewise Miss Ghiloni,
as the Countess, his wife. They suggest modified
versions of the Duke and Duchess of Plaza Toro
Hugh Ward might have hopped out of a Hogarth
picture to play the doctor of divinity, dancing and
deportment, by appointment to His Excellency.
Lauri s present Tweedlepunch is not so fat a part
as the old, original professor. Carrie Moore,
playing the artless colleen, strikes a note of
tender simplicity once in a way, whereas
nimble Maud Chetwynd never once touches
the character of a cockney lady’s maid
either does Reg. Roberts, with his hybrid drawi
and his unsympathetic voice, fill the bill as an
heroic rebel tenor. Two pretty scenes were
painted for “The Emerald Isle,” but the show is
not remarkable for dazzling splendor. In an
interpolated ballet, some “shamrock children”
look as though they had escaped from a panto-
mime
** * *
Nothing new happened at the other Mel-
bourne theatres last week. “Boy Jim,” the
drama which libelled Conan Doyle’s novel by
presenting an old-time prize-fight as a mild and
modern boxing-match, was announced for the last
time at the Bijou on Saturday. “ Hands Across
the oea was billed for Monday, and the British
*lag is probably being hoisted with undue
emphasis every evening. “Hands Across” is a
partly nautical fiction wherein the Flag aforesaid
makes a pretence of working an extraordinary
HUGH WARD IN THE “EMERALD
ISLE”
effect upon a French officer who boards the ship
in a simple way of business. The French Flag
on a French ship would affect a British intruder
in exactly the same way, but the drama doesn’t
l lvite attention to that fact. It drops the curtain
on the foreign gentleman’s discomfiture, and the
boys of the bulldog breed in the adjacent orches-
tra play “Rule Britannia.” They are mostly
German bulldogs in the orchestra as a rule.
** m *
“ The Fortune Teller ” continues to main-
tain a bold Hungarian front at the Princess’s, and
will go on ignoring the protest of its angry
“ Hungarian critic ” until Easter Saturday or
thereabouts.
** * *
At the Royal they are preparing to shift
“Man’s Enemy” in favor of “Honor Thy
Father, or The Fatal Wedding.” The old man’s
claim to reverence is so rarely talked about now-
adays, outside of the Ten Commandments, that
Anderson’s change of bill deserves the encourage-
ment of parents and guardians.
*« « *
Wirth Bros’. Circus, likewise “Museum,
Wild West, and Menagerie of Trained Wild
Animals,” will resume business in Melbourne
next Saturday (28th) at a new pitch on the eastern
side of St. Kilda Road, by Princes’ Bridge. The
whisper of rumor and the shrill, shriekful advt.
state that Wirths’ present circus is a show of
exceptional magnitude and peculiar novelty.
Things which never happened in any
previous canvas-town are brought to pass.
The educated lions are lineal descendants
of the animal who knocked out the apocryphal
unicorn, and the tigers must be seen to be believed.
Any citizen who doesn’t see them must go un-
believing to his grave. A special feat of super-
naturalism is contributed by two human members
of the co.—the Howard Bros., and in order that
these thought-readers may be broken gently to
the Melbourne public, they will give a private
seance at the Athenaeum Hall on Friday after-
noon.
** * m
. At the Opera House the wonderful Schenks
are now putting their heads together in place of
lnaudi, who has gone away. Grade Emmett
Coleman, Fitts, the new bioscope, and other
matters, remain as before until Friday, or later
but a managerial appeal for 77 handsome chorus
ladies to apply, m all their loveliness, at the stage
doer suggests that some overwhelming attraction
will shortly appear.
** * *
The Adelaide Tivoli, with no opposition
relies chiefly on the dry humor of Mark Anthony
and the warble Of Wallace Brownlow, who has
a!ways been a particular favorite in Adelaide
Also Pope and Sayles, as corner-men, have brought
back to the revived “First Part ” something of its
ancient standing. Armes Beaumont announces a
lown Hall concert which is really to be his “final
appearance m public.”
A Melbourne man asserts that he has discovered a
means of banishing the biograph flicker which is now
Tf°c nBr v, S ° v. lUC £i tO . ln j u . re the eyesight of theatre-goers.
If so, he should stand m for a fortune ; and after that
there will be another fortune for the man who succeeds in
coloring the films in a natural way. To judo'e bv their
frequency on the programmes at concerts and the variety
alls, the animated pictures have come to stay for a few
years, at all events. ■' * lew
omri A £ e and the calculating boy” (B
21/3/ 03). G. P. Bidden, a celebrated engineer of over
a J» n fl turya^ 0 ’.. 8 o d ’.- 1 think - President InsfcOß
wav Rnia nn ? o . x Parliamentary committees on Raib
way Bills by giving, from right-off mental calculation
solutions of abstruse arithmetical problems which some!
was laboriously endeavoring to “figure-un"
Show exhibitions of this kind, however, are always
open to suspicion of “ fake,” although E certainlv ,W?
impute anything of the ’kind Enaudb the
way, is lnaudi am de theatre ? lnaudi or n Wito
means, in Italian, “Unheard-of.”) Again I knew in
Glasgow, in the 60’s, a sergeant of Royal Engineers
engaged on the Ordnance Survey of Scotland, who wouTd
habitually add up columns of four figures taking
columns together. He could even do so cofen, 1 of
pounds, shillings and pence. columns of
The Wild Cat Column
N.S.W. Govt, confesses to almost desoeraf*
penury by going to London for money before London ha*
had time to even begin to forget the recent exposures of
the State 8 financial methods. Of £3,000,000 authorised
the State has only got £600,000, and even for that muoh
it has to pay in excess of the maximum stated bv Parlh.
merit. Of course, the Govt., true to its nature in matter!
of finance, will wriggle, swearing that Parliament author
lsed it to pay 4 per cent., and 4 per cent, it is paving -
but, as investors have had to be “ tipped ” 15s. per cent’
in order to induce them to accept 4 per cent., and as th»
country has to pay that tip, it is painfully clear that th!
country is paying more than 4 per cent. The bills Vrl
payable in four years : so for each year the tip comes to
3s. 6d. per cent.-that is to say, the rate of interest
is really £4 3s. 6d. per cent, without taking into
account charges. And this, the Premier says i ,
glorious victory. A country which a few years ago
could borrow for long periods at 3 per cent.'is trusted
now for a few months only at £4 3s. 4d. per cent -and
that is a glorious victory ! Only twice in the last 20 years
has N.S.W. paid so much—once in the black days of 1803
the other time away back in 1883. ‘ ’
*
Treasurer Waddell, mindful that it had lately
been affirmed in half-a-dozen places that NSW never
never paid interest out of loans, takes pains to 'explain
that, though two-thirds of this loan will be used n
London to pay interest, none of it really will be used n
pay interest. He explains this Yes-no by saying that the
amount “used m London for the purpose will be
recouped from revenue simultaneously here We transfer
from the revenue account to the loan account a similar
amount of money’.” The Bulletin hopes that Thl
Treasurer will. But when the inevitable deficit comes
along—when the revenue falls short of the expenditure bv
say. this £400,000-what then ? If you owe inters &
own a dog, and sell the dog to pay the interest, and
then borrow money to buy back the dog, you certainly
haven't paid interest out of borrowed money but ™
have got too close to it to feel the difference,’and have
involved the dog into the bargain. It is certain]!
possible for the Government not to use a penny of thu
money wherewith to pay interest either directly or
indirectly. But it must do more than simply transfer an
amount from one account to another. It must do these
things besides : (l) ft must avoid a deficit; (2) if it has !
mu* 4 n ot In any way wipe it out by borrowing
and (3) it must not avoid a deficit by charging to loan
account what ought to be charged to revenue account
And all the swearing on earth can’t alter the fact that at
least 3s. 6d ner cent, per annum of the interest is being
paid out of loan. That fact is as fixed as the Rock of
Gibraltar—more so, for the Rock is a good deal under
mined. r
* * * ,
The best that can be said of the Emu Bat (Tas 1
Railwat Co. is that its losses for last year were less than
Losses Preliminary Deficit (Goodwill
on and Debenture items not
Business. Expenses. reckoned as
1898 £1396 _ f^o]'
1899 60/8 £39,066 148 537
1900 9181 01 J 57 779
1901 8078 _ i«5 857
1902 4256 _
Among the assets the 00. includes £lOO,OOO for “ rights
and concessions ” ; In the foregoing this item is, of course
wiped out, along with the other goodwill item “nre
® x P enBeB ’. £ 4°.l2sJ Against the co.’s capital of
£360,000 it is now impossible to say what tangible assets
there really are, because, though the cost of keeping
the_ rolling stock in order has been charged
against revenue, no provision is made for re-
placements; and neither a patched-up engine nor a
patched-up line will last for ever. The actual deficit is
therefore, probably already a good deal more than is
stated here. A hopeful feature is the steady improvement
revenue returns :-1899, £24,648 ; 1900, £26 625 • 1901
£39,005 ; 1902, £42,131. But, ’non’e the’ less! the Emu
Bay Co. remains a shocking example of the ways of
private enterprise as applied to railway construction.
ui,'F I JL- pOS jJ io ?^ f J :,ie -? mu Bay C°- is something
iwinon- tvr Btart<? / , vv,th ordinary share capital of
£260,000 , this was followed by an issue of 100,000 8 ner
ht n p9on re ,®;. 4 K PeF . Cent ' cum . u,at 've, and these, again,
by £200,000 of debentures, nominally at 5 per cent The
co., instead of receiving altogether £560,000. has how-
%nhnn e i e ir d net - a J itU ? over £510,000-the other
fL g ! ne n fc ? e Btru^le to get the balance.
!n!i !f i^o he 4 p . er . cen t- e° es on accumulating: to the
e "f.° h f 19 P* a , clai ® £11,207 had accrued. This
inM L ai , rly be u ftdded t 0 the deficit) isn’t
included in the balance-sheet as a liability ; but it will
have to go there as soon as ever revenue overtakes ex-
penditure. Further, the debenture-holders are waiting
on the doorstep with a demand, contained in the trust
deed, that out of profits shall be paid £7OOO a year as
from Jan., 1901 toextinguish that debt. All this time
there is over £lO,OOO ay ear to be paid for the rent of the
Emu Bay and Mount Bischoff hne-the line which the co.
might buy for £198,000. On this item it is thus also pay:
mg something over 6 per cent., whether it earns it or not.
ho, altho the working losses will probably disappear
be , ore !°, n l’, the ord,nar y shareholders must wait in the
cold while the arrears are wiped out, and while the other
co. caHs regularly for its 5 per cent., and while the prefs.
get their 8 per cent, and while the debenture-holders get
their 6 per cent., and while the £7OOO sinking fund is put
away in the cupboard. And the “ ordinaries ’’ will be
very tired and very cold and hungry before the door opens
for them to get their first bite. f *
It might all have been very different. If the
State owned the whole concern, the leased line included,
the capital cost would probably be about £489,000.
r urtner, the State, although it does many foolish thiners
ln connection with its money matters, would not be
guilty of the awful folly of borrowing on debentures at
something like 6 per cent, (taking into account the fact
that money had to be bought at a huge outlay in ex-
penses), or of raising money in another way at 8 percent.
Bast year the co.'s revenue was £42,131. Its traffic ex-
penses were £25,289 ; leaving a surplus of £16,842. That
would not quite pay interest at 4 per cent, on £480,000,
but it would be only £2358 short. It would, anyhow,
pay more than 3* per cent And then there is that
appalling incubus, the V.D.L. Co., to consider.
, A JUF7 Sent is locking up a great area of
country which this line should serve; and
if the State owned the line it might see that the countrv
provided traffic. A stiff land tax would do that. Yet
they point to Private Enterprise and its methods, and
say that the State should go and do likewise
• * * •
The Howard Smith Co. Ltd. (Melb.) has not
done so well as it did in the eigrht months which consti*
tuted its first year, but it has still done handsomely:—
Deficit
.. Depre- (Good-
Profit*. Dividends. ciation will not
. Written reckon'd
y off. an
1000 asset.)
100? " ~ ~ £40,000
(Srath's) £57 ' 7W OrdL 10 pic! 1 £18,782 £20,668 21,716
1902 .. 60,435 Ord!‘l0p!c!/ 28 > 864 19 > 626 19 - 771
Almost the only item in the balance-sheet which is not
satisfactory is the decrease shown in the earnings : in
™° n^ hs of 1901 they were £106,239; in all 1902,
£139,/97. On the previous scale they would have been


iSA
at""-"
TRAMWAYS FOR MINES.
STOCKS in SYDNEY and MELBOURNE include—Steel Rails, Bridge Rails
Steel Side and End Tip Trucks, Portable Tramway, Portable and Permanent
Switches, Ball-bearing' Turntables, Axle Boxes, Wheels and Axles, Jim Crows,
Dog Spikes, etc., etc. |N D E NTS.— LOCOMOTIVES from 10 to 400 h.p.,
including Compound Locos, and every description of Light Railway Material.
CENTRAL MINING 4. TRAMWAY APPLIANCES
Prop. Ltd., 40 Hunter St., SYDNEY. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager,
Representing Orenstein and Koppel, Ltd., London, Berlin and Paris.
■Melbourne, Brisbane, Oairns and Zeehan (Tasmania).
Let knowledge grow from more to more.”
Gasoline furnaces defy competition. Plumbago and all
crucibles, assayers’ outfits are supplied by Ernest de
Beer, Bourke-street, Melb.*
* * • *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Casllereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * • «
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, of Melbourne, reports
that there has been a great improvement in the general
outlook of the engineering business since the new year
started, and that his pipe making works in Melbourne
and Perth are working full-handed. Amongst the orders
now being executed at Footscray works is one for 7 miles
10 chains of 18in. diameter light steel spiral-riveted pipes
for the Victorian water supply; and at Perth works a
contract is in progress for Over 6 miles of 10]in. diameter
spiral-riveted pipes, flanged joints, for the Greenbushes
Tin-Mining Syndicate. About two miles of these pipes
are to stand a test pressure of 8001 b. to the square inch.*
• • * *
The New Zealand Fire and Marine Insurance
Co., whose head-office for N.S.W. is at No. 81 Pitt-street,
Sydney, is the largest colonial Fire and Marine Insurance
company, and a large amount of their reserves of
£520,305 is invested in the States. Net revenue (1902)
£408,923. Lowest rates and prompt settlements.*
* « * *
A. Kozminsky, 106 Queen-sfc., Melbourne,
having returned from England, is now prepared to
purchase paying mines, and mining properties (not
merely surface shows), situated in any part of
Australasia requiring further capital for development and
machinery. Only genuine and legitimate ventures,
capable of bearing the strictest examinations will be
entertained.*
• * * •
The Westport N.Z. Harbor Trust lately
arranged with the Austral Otis Company of South
Melbourne to convert one of their Steam Hopper Barges
into a Suction Dredge. This has now been satisfactorily
completed. The Otis Company fitted one of their
Centrifugal Sand Pumps with driving engine on the deck
of the barge with suitable winches to work the suction
pipe and drag. The plant has now been at work for some
weeks and at a late trial by the Board’s Engineers was
found to be raising over 180 tons of sand and gravel per
hour and worked equally well in tne heavy swell on the
bar or in the river. The result has given the Harbor Board
the utmost satisfaction. The sand pump used is of
similar type to that employed in alluvial gold and tin
mining, with which the Austral Otis company has been
long identified.*
* * * •
Money Market Review, July, 1902, writes re
The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited :
" The report is one of the most gratifying the manage-
ment have issued for many years, for in addition to the
satisfactory growth of the business the finances are in a
very strong and sound condition.’ *
• * * *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develop, with option of
purchase “big prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral! in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address : “ Option,”
Melbourne.*
• • • •
H. Brandon Skertchly, geologist, mining engi-
neer and assayer, is prepared to furnish scientific reports
and plans to British and Australian investors. Assay's
undertaken, and enquiries re mining properties, properly
attended to. For fuller information apply to H. Brandon
Skertchly, 7 Central Chambers, Queen-st., Brisbane.*
• * * *
Cobar Gold Mines’ annual report to 30th Sept,
last just to hand. It states that, owing to the drought,
operations were suspended for seven months of the term!
In five months 30,730 tons of ore were crushed, and 18,291
tons of tailings and 9965 tons of slimes were treated for
£32,641 worth of gold, the gross profit being £10,591.
After charging depreciation on plant, &c., administration
expenses in Australia and London (the latter being the
unreasonable amount of £1506) and writing off the whole
cost of development work for the year, amounting in all
to £9874, there remained a balance of £717. Managing-
director’s report contains some interesting information
specially important being the statement that the so-called
copper ore (it assays 0.85 per cent, copper only) from the
deeper workings, of which there is about 7000 tons at
grass, contains lldwts. of gold per ton. In view of this
marked improvement in the gold contents, it is quite in-
explicable why co., which has been in existence for about
five years, has not worked below 216 ft. to prospect the
copper zone. Mine manager’s report is a marvellous
document. It is a long string of the minutest details,
and is minus a line of information that would be of use or
interest to shareholders. One omission is noticeable—
there is no record of how many lbs. of nails were bought.
Local report has it that Mr. Fox is relinquishing his
position and contemplates taking a trip to England.
IMSIST ON GETTINGS^
<r " ' •
Cheena\ango,Cashmere;
7" V/\/Vi 0 * MADRAS*- , •
All Grocery and 3 roreKeeper>, lvcryujh e?e.
SCHWEPPES DRY GINCER ALE
A record established by no other Mineral Water Company in the World.
SCHWEPPES Mineral
Waters have held the
Royal Warrant contin*
uously since 1834.
£160,869. On the other hand, running expenses h»v«
amounted to £89,363, whereas, on the scale ot the nra
vious term, they would have been only £72,767 Put In
another way, the running expenses (including overhauls
general charges, rebates, law costs, &c.) amounted in
1901 to 46 per cent, of the earnings ; in 1902 they amounted
to 64 per cent. And that obviously isn’t healthy.
“Owen 0.” : Glad to consider your grievance
If you will send us the facts, without any frills on one
aheet of paper—W.O. (Brighton): Can’t see much reason
for you to worry ; co.’s position will be dealt with,
• • • •
The Melbourne Steamship Co. continues its
prosperous career:—
Added
to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1901 £67 744
Dec., 1901 £16,701 124 p.c. = £3750 £12,951 80 695
June, 1902 16,015 94 „ „ 8000 13,015 93 710
Dec., 1902 15,090 13} „ „ 4500 10,590 104*300
The capital is steadily increasing, which accounts for
the variable appearance of the dividend. The reserves
now consist of insurance fund, £40,800 (£BOO added
during half-year); depreciation fund, £36,750 (£6750
added); fund for new boilers and repairs, £7500 •
and undivided profit, £19,250. Of the co.’s property’
totalling £189,693, £168,793 is taken in at cost, so that
the net reserves must be a good deal less than the amount
stated. Even allowing for that, though, the co.’s position
looks very solid.
• • • •
A feeling is growing in some quarters that if
the City Mutual Life Assurance Society could manage to
have fewer rows of one kind or another, and Manager
Crowley’s name didn’t get in the papers so often, and if
people didn't drop letters about so awkwardly, and if the
old directors didn’t hang on to office quite so hard, it
might be a lot better for the City Mutual. Every office is
better for an occasional change in the directorate, for
reasons that are too obvious to be worth mentioning ;
and various people seem to think that unnecessary efforts
are made to keep the old crowd in possession and prevent
a new eye being fixed on the internals of the institution
• • • •
The Northern Tasmanian Permanent Build-
me Society (Launceston, Tas.) has done a fraction better
than it did in ’01:
Added to Re-
Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1898 £13,596
1899 £lBO2 About 7 per cent. «= £1347 £455 14 051
1900 1782 „ „ „ 1335 447 14,498
1901 1595 „ ~ „ 1462 133 14,631
1902 1745 „ „ „ 1633 112 14,743
The society’s capital on Dec. 31 was £23,628 against
£21,962 a year before; the total funds, including
deposits and reserves, are £70,989, against £Bl,9l9—the
deposits have shrunk from £45,302 to £32,598. Never-
theless, for 1901 the profits on shareholders’ funds
amounted to about £4 7s. per cent., while for 1902 they
reached £4 9s. lOd. per cent.
» * • *
The ghost of Melb. Premier Permanent Build-
ing Society, which brought its founder, little Jimmy
Mirams, to grief and woe in the long ago, made a reap-
pearance in the law courts lately. Col. Templeton, the
liquidator, came along with an application to have the
reward of his 13 years’ labor fixed by Judge Holroyd, and
some of the creditors employed counsel to check the
items in the Colonel’s undertaking bill. The funeral of
the M.P.P.B.S. is now practically concluded.
• • • *
The affairs of the Brighton Gas Co. (Brighton,
Victoria) for the past few half-years have been
like this:— “
_ Carried T ,
Profits. Dividends. Written to Re- Ke *
off. serves. 86 rves
Dec., 1900 £2294
June, 1901 £1729 6 p.c. =£lll7 £378 £234 2528
Dec., 1901 1686 5 p.c. „ 1117 391 178 2706
June, 1902 1462 5 p.c. „ 1117 465 2586
Dec., 1902 1524 6 p.c. „ 1117 324 83 2669
The co.’s paid-up capital is £44,667, though all but £5OOO of
it came to the present co. in the shape of plant, &c. The
amounts referred to as written off have been applied to
repairs and renewals, the latter provided for out of a
special fund, which is now £1565 in credit; this amount
is included, of course, in the above stated reserves. As
the plant, buildings, &c., are presumably crumbling in
spite of repairs and renewals, the increase in the reserves
appears to be by no means too rapid. The divs. are
not large as it is ; yet it looks as though every pound is
going that way that can safely go—in fact, it is doubtful
whether even the 5 per cent, is warranted.
* • • •
The Malting Co. op N.S.W. now winds up its
year at Feb. 28 ; hence its present accounts are for eight
months only. They compare with those of the other
four years in the co.’s life this way :
Pre-
limi-
Dividends Written Carried nary
per off to Re- ex-
annum. Goodwill, serves, penses.
June, 1899 _ _ £741
t L° S3 - Deficit.
June, 1900 £735 _ _ 14 7 6
Profit.
June, 1901 720 —. £720 756
Nominal
. „ Reserves.
June, 1902 1859 3} p.c. = £763 1096 340
Feb., 1903 2278 6} „ „ 763 £BOO 715 1055
The co. is improving, though it has some distance to
travel yet. The improvement lies in the fact that it has
started to write down the intangible item of goodwill ;
but it does not j et say what it reckons its goodwill at —it
lumps land, buildings, plant, machinery and goodwill
together. Whether there is £lOOO or £lo',ooo to write off
is therefore uncertain ; and for the same reason (goodwill
n being fairly reckoned as an asset) it is not certain
whether the co. realty has a deficit or a reserve. To these
""a? 8 !' 18 ’ nla( * e * n sorrow rather than in anger, has to be
vt u *'* >a * l 00 8 P rc, fits are increasing handsomety.
Month for month they are almost twice as large as they
were in the previous year, and nearly five times what
they were in 1901.
* • • •
The Squatting Investment Co. (Melbourne)
did a little better last year :
Added
Profit. Dividends. to Reserves.
„ Reserves.
£19>283 3 P.C. = £8,760 £10,523 £19,720
1891.. 26,244 6 „ „ 17,520 8,724 28,444
Loss.
1892 .. 11,206 3 „ „ 8,760 » - 8,478
iono Deficit.
1893.. 9,232 Nil 754
10 . 4 Profit. Reserves.
1894.. 774 Nil 774 20
1895 .. 22,001 Nil 22,001 22,021
r§99 •• 7,793 Nil 7,793 29,814
t°97 .. 12,131 Nil 12,131 41,945
1898 .. 39,624 2} p.c. = 7,300 32,324 74,269
Loss.
38,092 » - 7,300 28,877
1900.. 27,060 Nil 1,817
Deficit.
1901 .. 11,967 Nil 10,150
Profit.
1902.. 3,847 Nil 3,847 6,303
This on a paid-up capital of £292,005. Of the improve-
mDonaibUl fn B ri« o « mpai ? ng 1902 with 1901 ' the’clip is
a sasar ">» - Jku a s
• • • •
•« Jrwi 1 ?!? 5 ?* iner (Etheridge): " 8.G.," the
ouW^ur U dSr e B r f whi,key *" and yourself, had better fight
vo ,. y w . r ; f -‘ fference3 at one of the local pubs. Judging by
y ? u 0 m . ust have a “dirty right”.. ..Quid
~^ C : , s Piteful. It’s a mean spirit that would
gloat so over another man’s failure
• • •' «
tronb.t Westralian Mineral Oil Co. haa struck
nwted’Jirh W t a h'r barrelB ° f ' lt ‘ , Nearly embody eon-
a»-ainsf I ? lana ff emen t is making accusations
«? dy e -f ’ B r eral of the directors have re-
whofe inf nf aud , l , tors have specially reported that a
p." ) ! J o 1 of things ‘require explanation”; the Drilling
nuraprmfsm i against the co. on one writ; anf
Dressing th! n i- r ‘ bl l tlnfrBharehold er3 are magnanimously
the < lir ectorB t 0 take over their interests “for
sharehoidei, CTS& promYse°d report S. sSS
18 not satisfactory, there is an-
• • • .
W-fidim for February only totted up to
£4owi •,„h ■lv !■ r ® 9 ?°" sible being Princess Royal,
£4OOO , and Westralia Mt. Morgans, £14,437 10s. During
f an “ ary fi y e oo.s distributed £146,800, making the year’s
“ far Z l65 ’ 237 108 ‘ February appears to be
bifhl?f d by ?' re j l . ors a 8 unlucky for div -paying, as
hnr h vi rt ° leryI ery JT dl , VB ‘.have been declared in that month,
but March and April will improve the record.
* * * *
A fresh attempt is to be made to prove the low
ground to the east of the Hannan’s belt (W.A.). For
some time fossickers have been searching there for what
they cail the Brown Hill deep lead. They bottomed at
m it on what appears to be the cap of a lode. Quite
recently some rich slugs, which were embedded in this
f ° r ™ at ‘? n ’ hav ® been won . The lode has been driven
s for a width of 60ft., and has a very promising
appearance. An option on the property has been
acquired on behalf of a knowing and energetic syndicate,
and work has already begun.
, ■ • • *
Eclipse (W.A.), owned by Golden Link Co.,
has made a hard-to-beat record with its 10-head battery.
During February, mill ran 24 days, and treated no less
than 1899 tons for 1116 oz. of gold, worth £4 2s. 6d. per
oz. ; this shows a daily duty per stamp of nearly 8 tons—
a world s record. A cyanide plant is shortly to be erected
on this mine to enable the battery to be run on Sundays,
inis is admitted to constitute a continuous process, by
introducing which the Sunday Closing Act is evaded, a
clause to that effect having been inserted in the Act at
the instance of the astute A. E. Morgans.
• • * •
Associated Northern (W.A.), will now shortly
have the long-promised treatment plant. Prof. Liveing
and Capt. Rodda are busy inspecting all the different
plants working on the field with the view of deciding
which is the best. As every new plant, even of the same
maker, is always an alleged improvement on its pre-
decessor, and as every manager naturally thinks his
goose a swan, the Prof, and Captain have a nice contract
ahead of them. The fiasco attending the proposed
amalgamation of this co. with its immediate neighbors
has stirred up a most acrimonious and heated debate in
London journals, and a wholesale firing out of directors is
suggested. Shareholders in this co. may thank their
stars for having, at least temporarily, escaped the tenta-
cles of the octopus.
• • * •
Lake View and Boulder Junction (W. A.), after
eight years of fruitless exploration, has now started cross-
cutting at the 1100 ft. level. Property consists of 101
acres, next Brookman’s Boulder, and appeared to have a
good position in the early days ; but, unfortunately, the
country is faulty to the east, which knocked things end-
ways. When last seeking to extract more cash from the
unfortunate shareholders, chairman told them, as an
inducement to pay lip, that they would, in any case, get
their money back, as their manager assured him that the
surface rights were worth £50,000, and were increasing in
value every day. The exit of the Forrest Government
upset the co.’s apple-cart, as the new Ministry once and for
all put an end to trafficking in surface rights, and refused
to grant compensation on the relinquishment bf leases.
To force the Government’s hands, co. has recently given
notice of eviction to all dwellers on its sand patch, and
created consternation among thousands. The Govern-
ment can retaliate by refusing perpetual exemption and
cancelling all leases not fully manned, and then the co.
will fall in the fat.
• • * •
Bayley’s, Coolgardie (W.A.), is still driving on
the Reward reef at 1000 ft., and shareholders are being
buoyed up with hopes of certain improvement if work is
only continued. Already 100 ft. has been driven, but the
long-looked-for improvement has not come. At the 900 ft.
level, the reef is also being followed. The few miserable
crushings, which are rooted out by picking the best
stone, serve as a bait to string on shareholders. The
sooner they cut their loss and admit themselves beaten
the more will they save from the wreck. Bayley’s
Reward, like the notorious Londonderry and the Wealth
of Nations, appears to have been a mere surface blow of
phenomenal richness.
• * • •
The future of Boulder Main Reef (W.A.)
becomes less hopeful every day. All pay ore has long
since been treated, and the small patches of picked ore
now going through the mill are not payable, though the
proceeds help to keep the pot boiling. The February
result of 13dwt. 12gr. per ton doesn’t cover working costs.
Directors, some months ago, rejected an offer of £1 per
share for the property.
* # * *
Lorna’s Luck, Leonora (W.A.), recently floated
in London, may prove something out of the common.
The prospectors put in some solid work on the leases,
which consist of two detached blocks of 18 and 12 acres,
before disposing of the property. They sunk one shaft
on the 18-acre block, known as the Teutonic, to 180 ft.,
and drove a level at 140 ft. At this level the reef runs
up to 7ft. wide, and carries from 2 to lOoz. per ton.
The property is now under the charge of John Nuttall,
who has a very good opinion of the show. As he is a new
chum, the value of his opinion is problematical. The
owners themselves are so satisfied with the ultimate re-
sult that they accepted 18,000 shares in full payment.
As these shares are not negotiable for a year, they will
not make a bean out of the transaction if the concern
proves a wild cat. John Bull has provided funds to sink
the shaft to 500 ft., and to fully equip the mine with
every requirement, including a 10-head battery. The
resuit of this experiment will be watched with much in-
terest,
* * * •
Westralian Mt. Morgans (W.A.), in spite of the
jeremiads of the prophets, continues to go pretty strong.
The purchase of the Guest mine last year for a paltry
£7700 was a very cute move of the great A. E. Morgans,
as it greatly increased the reserves of low grade oxidised
ores, and allowed time for further development. The
February return of 53050 z. from 6SOO tons shows that the
mill is running fairly well, the daily duty per stamp
averaging fully 4 tons. A div. of 7Jd. per share was pay-
able on Feb. 22.
* * * •
A wire from Adelaide, presumably passed along
from Alice Springs, that Captain Pleitner “believes the
Arltunga fields to be permanent,” is a fair sample of the
stuff with which the present boom is being fed. Pleitner,
who is a man with a good deal of experience behind him,
said, in his written report to the people who sent him up,
that he saw only one good surface show at Winnecke’s
Depot, and he doubted if even that one would go down.
The larger outcrops were too poor to pay up there, he
added, and the richer ones too small; moreover, " the
best stone is just at the surface.” Of the, at present,
neglected White Ranges he thought better, though even
there the pick of the shows was under exemption—deadly
proof that there are no millions in it.
• • • *
Broken Hill is angry with the Owe’Sullivan,
and at one of many local meetings it has been seriously
proposed to tell King Ned about him. It is the everlast-
ing water question that has exposed the clay feet of the
god. The silver-mining town has a water supply, owned
by a private company, which would probably be ade-
quate in a country with a decent rainfall; but out there,
where between showers 18 months may easily drag by,.
and where, to make matters worse, wind and sun lick up
between 10ft. and lift, of water a year, there is almost
constant dread of a water famine ; and in these times,
when the whole output of the Broken Hill mines has
necessarily to undergo a preliminary water treatment on
the spot, a water famine would simply shut up Broken
Hill with a bang. The crude stuff couldn’t be carted
away for water-tjeatment elsewhere; the water is
used to separate one ton of mineral from six
tons of rubbish, and no mine on the Barrier
could afford to pay for carting that much rubbish
300 miles or more. Three years ago the question of
adding to the water supply was sent on to the Parlia-
mentary Works Committee ; but Broken Hill is a very
tired place, and the people, who nearly all hope to be
able to get away next week or the week after, did not
trouble to explain that the existing dam is very shallow,
and the evaporation very great, and the numerous other
things which are on the side of new works. On the other
hand, the Water Co., which doesn’t make very gorgeous
profits out of its monopoly, naturally took a lot of trouble
to explain what a very good service the town had ; and in
the end the committee decided against doing anything.
The decision was wrong on the facts, though no doubt
right on the insufficient evidence available; anyhow,
twice since then the supply has got so low that
typhoid has swept through the town and the
water has been unusable, even for steaming pur-
poses. It was like that in the dying days of the last
session of Parliament; wherefore the Owe’Sullivan rushed
through a motion authorising him to spend £20,000 on
building a dam at Yanco Creek for a start. But then his
chief engineer for water supply reported that there is a
better dam-site in Umberumberka Creek ; and the Owe’
Sullivan, who just then found the loan money running
short, used the report as a justification for building no
dam at aIL So the Barrier’s cheers for Owe’Sullivan have
turned into curses.
**. " *
The lead market retains nearly the whole of its
recent spring, and Broken Hill hums again in a moderate
way. The British has re-opened, with three shifts under-
ground and two in the mill; the North is getting things
ready for a start, and is calling for a general manager ;
the Junction is proceeding a little more warily; and
Block 14, which is always rushing in where companies
with more money to lose will not, is “ considering
a method for dealing with its large dumps of zinc.”
On account of this rush most of the mines
are suffering from a shortage of skilled hands ; the fact
is that, though nominally the wage-standard wasn’t
lowered during the recent depression, contract prices
were so cut that many of the best men cleared to other
parts. Block 10, which has lately made about the worst
reputation for “ cutting,”is naturally now suffering most;
at the first chance its men have left it for other mines.
The Central (Sulphide Corporation), which has lately
limped under a heavy swag of troubles, is suffering from
still another underground movement, though this one
doesn’t seem to be particularly serious and, happily,
didn’t kill anybody.
* • • •
Crowl Creek mine, Shuttleton (N.S.W.):
Latest reports are most satisfactory. Lode, where cut in
the 270 ft. crosscut, was somewhat mixed with slate, but
in a few feet of driving to the South it changed to dense
sulphide of very high grade, the full face of drive (neither
wall showing) assaying over 25 percent, copper. Con-
sidering the wonderful record of production for the past
12 months, the large quantity of ore broken ready for
the smelters, and the prospectively great merits of the
mine, the mystery has been why the shares have been so
markedly out of favor in Melbourne. The explana-
tion appears to be that there is a serious dis-
crepancy between the printed prospectus and the
particulars supplied to the Stock Exchanges in
the applications for the “listing” of the stock.
The prospectus states that 25,000 contributing shares
were offered —at 2s. fid. per share on applica-
tion and 2s. on allotment. “Of the money thus sub-
scribed, £5OOO will be placed to the credit of the co. and
the balance (£625) will be paid to the Crowl Creek Syndi-
cate for expenses incurred and advances made in connec-
tion with the mine.” The statement supplied to the
Exchanges shows that the syndicate is to receive over
£14,000 additional from the sale of ore, and further,
that although co. was registered late in Dec.,
and was then supposed to have £5OOO to credit
available for the working of the mine, there
was a bank balance of £6OO only at the be-
ginning of the present month. It seems impossible for
£4400 to have been spent on the mine in two months,
and more than that, large shipments of high-grade ore
have been continuous. The original vendors of the pro-
perty disclaim any knowledge of any right of the syndicate
to claim from the co. £14,000 additional to the amount
specified in the prospectus. Anyhow, if any such right
or understanding existed, it ought to have been speci-
fically mentioned in the document on which public were
asked to subscribe for shares. When writer visited the
mine a month ago he expressed surprise at the policy of
rooting out the rich bunches of ore which was being pur-
sued, and the only information which he could get was that
instructions from headquarterswerebeingcarried out. The
reason why seems now to be plain. The registrar of
companies in Victoria ought to call on the promoters to
explain the omission from the prospectus of the material
fact that they were to receive £14,000 as well as 55,000
fully paid-up shares and 25,000 contrib. shares paid to 2s.
In last week’s Bulletin it was stated that the bottom
crosscut was 15ft. below the winze where sulphide was
first met with ; this should have been 50ft. Writer
asserts, without any reservation or qualification, that,
on present showing, mine belongs to the front rank of
N.S.W. copper shows. Pity, then, that the initiatory
stages of the co. should have been beset with so many
complications and troubles, and, generally, so enshrouded
in mystery.
• • • •
Reported that Mr. Dyson is retiring from the man-
agement of the Lloyd copper mine, Burraga(N.S.W ) Co.
said to be nearly £65,000 to the bad, including a deben-
ture issue of £50,000. Failure of co. is incomprehensible.
Writer is positive that had the late Lewis Lloyd retained
possession of the mine and continued to work it in the
old-fashioned way, he would have earned more out of it
in the four years since it was sold than he was paid for it,
and this without touching the big asset in the enormous
heap of seconds, or making any extensive inroad on the
ore in the mine. According to reports, mine is looking
wonderfully well, there is abundance of water, the
concentrating plant is doing fairly good work,
and large shipments of copper are being made. With
copper over £6O per ton the debit balance ought soon
to be materially reduced. The danger is that the new
manager—who is most likely to be a stranger, ignorant
of local conditions and difficulties—will discover that
everything is being done in the wrong way, and will
attempt to make a clean sweep. In that case reconstruc-
tion of co. will be inevitable. Part of the costly blast-
furnace plant ordered by present co. in the first instance,
on theadviceof its then consulting metallurgist, but never
erected, remains on the ground. As indicated in this
column some timesince.apartyofworkingsmeltersoffered
to run one of the blast furnaces for three months as a
trial, on the principle “ no success, no pay,” but they
were laughed at. Information is to hand from London
that a similar proposal was recently made to the direc-
tors, and rejected, despite the offer of a substantial
guarantee. Had the offer been accepted co. could not
possibly have lost anything, but it might have gained
something' ; certainly if failure were the result it would
know that blast-furnace treatment would not be the
means of salvation. Writer would not be so foolish as to
assume that, as a rule, the notions of a working smelter
should be set up against the dictum of a scientific
metallurgist, but he knows of a case in which a
1000 guinea fee man asserted that it was not possible to
treat the bulk ore from a N.S.W. mine in a blast furnace
except at ruinous cost, yet non-scientific workers ran the
ore through such a furnace at the lowest cost ,per ton
recorded in the State. Lloyd Co. has spent many
thousands of pounds for “ expert ” advice. Now it might
do worse than let the common working smelter demon-
strate what he can do.
••• 5 •
Cobar Chesney (N.S.W.), buyer 2|d. ! This is
the latest quotation from Melbourne, where shares are
principally held. What is the meaning of it? At this
price £lB5O as the value of a mine which has hundreds of
thousands of tons of 4 per cent, copper ore (allowing for
gold contents) ready for stoping and on which there is
machinery that, at a knock-out sale, ought to realise
£10,000; a mine, too, which, unlike the rest of Cobar
mines, has an adequate water supply regardless of rain-
fall ! It has been an unlucky show from the time it was
first taken in hand as a gold mine by the late Xlacnamara
Russell and J. S. Vickery. It has been under
option in every form of agreement. Failure to
complete negotiations has invariably been attributable
to the abnormal greed of would-be first-robbers, who
would take the mine under offer for, say, £50,000, and
hawk it around at £250,000, mostly in cash. A project
for the amalgamation of the Chesney and Blayney mines
has long been talked of, but as a local proposition there
would be little hope of accomplishing it, for purely finan-
cial reasons. As a practical scheme there is much to
recommend it. Lately, a well-known English copper
firm was induced to consider the project, and
negotiations were proceeding on a basis which ought
to have satisfied both parties, but at this stage
the Chesney people declined to have anything to do
with it. The suggested association was not pleasing to
them, which, after all, seems very much like the pot
calling, the kettle black. Now it is said that some
mysterious American is dangling t 500,000 dollar bait
before the Chesney men. If they can persuade him to
put up alO per cent, deposit, well and good. There will
then be money available to pay the fees to which the
directors claim to be entitled, “ whether the mine is
working or not.’*


David Jones & Co.
“ORIENT” BOOTS.
Special Purchase of American-
made Boots, Black or Brown
Vici Kid,
Price
21)=
By Post
22/-
George & Barrack Sts-
•^SYDNEY.
SOCIETY
[?]
ANXIOUS TO DO BUSINESS, ANYHOW.
CANVASSER (who is collecting for the Drought
Belief Fund): “ Can I put your nam down,
Miss, for something?”
F IRST LADY: “I haven't any change?"
CANVASSER : “ Then you Miss? I'm sure -”
SECOND LADY : “ No; I haven't any change
either. ”
CANVASSER : “ Well let me put you down as
applicants for relief."
“T.K.S.”: Touching the modesty of
woman. Once, on a hot summer’s afternoon, at
South Melbourne beach, with crowds of people
watching the bathers, saw a pretty nurse-girl of
17 change her last under-garment in the shadow
of a six-inch pole. For a few seconds she was
stark naked and with a pleasant smile on her face.
She had confidence in her figure. Marie Bash-
kirtseff wrote in her diary that feminine modesty
means consciousness of a poor figure.
Fire Brigade Superintendent Webb pub-
licly states that his men had a hopeless job in
attempting to grapple with the big blaze in the
bonded store at Miller’s Point, Sydney, where
£loo,ooo' worth merchandise vaporised _in a
couple of hours. Architectural defects in the
building made it impossible to attack the fire
from within —its only vulnerable point. Yet the
building was splendidly adapted, by means of the
lift wells, for the spread of the flames. Supt.
Webb states that he had pointed this out before-
hand. Would it not be well for the authorities to
publish a list of seriously defective buildings ? If
the sacred rights of property are too sacred for
this, it is evidently the duty of the Govt, to push
along a Building Act on modern lines. Sydney’s
main buildings seem to have grown up anyhow,
like its streets.
• » • *
American private railway companies some-
times organise special excursions at cut rates to
bring the public to a nigger-burning or any other
special lynch attraction. N.S.W. Governmen
(or rather Tram Supt.-Kneeshaw) the night of tho
big Sydney fire thought of this and organised a
special tram service to the scene —a piece of
enterprise which brought in many scores of
pounds.
* • • •
In this civilised community, the other day,
a woman, demented with starvation and general
misery, after carrying her infant about the streets
of Sydney for 10 days, wandered down to Cowper’s
Wharf and let the poor little starveling drop into
the water. Immediately a man pulled it out, it
toddled back to its broken-hearted parent, and
then the constable came along and took her to the
lockup. After nursing her round in the gaol
hospital the Government medical officer deposed
that the woman was fit to be put in the dock, and
she was accordingly committed to take her trial
for attempting to drown her baby. Up to the
present no one has proposed to do anything to a
community that allows a woman to wander round
the streets homeless and foodless for 10 days with
an infant in her arms.
**• ' . ,
“J.F.D.”: Noticed in a shop window
this sign : “Letters may be addressed #here. A
fee of one penny per letter is
charged.” The helping hand to in-
trigue. Brown can receive Mary
Ann’s letters without letting either
Mrs. Brown or the office-boy into
the secret, and it is so much more
private than the Post-office. And
if the lady who runs the establish-
ment doesn’t steam the letters in
search of information for the sup-
pression of which Brown will be very
glad to pay later on, the shop is an
undoubted convenience. To find
out whether she does steam the
letters or not, as good a way as any
is for Mary Ann to write to Brown
saying that the police are on the
shopkeeper’s track for tampering
with correspondence, and her arrest
may be expected any moment. If
the lady isn’t in hysterics when that
letter is called for there is a chance
that all is well.
» * * •
The Bulletin has just struck
a curiosity in the shape of the usual
Xmas complimentary almanac is-
sued by a Hebrew storekeeper in a
N.B.W. country town. The litho-
graph depicts a room wherein lies a
child dying. On the wall of the
room is a small picture of the,Cruci-
fixion, the central figure and the
two malefactors plainly visible.
Above the dying child and beside the
small picture of the Crucifixion hangs a
huge portrait of the storekeeper himself,
his nose overhanging the death-bed like a
balcony. The two people who should not
do things like that are the Jew, whose
countrymen were crucified, and the Italian,
whose ancestor, Pontius Pilate, was un-
pleasantly mixed up in the business, and is
afterwards supposed to have been drowned while a
lunatic in Switzerland.
* * • *
The sentencing to death at Perth (W.A.)
of three men and three women for the murder of
a Swiss orchardist is certainly a wholesale order.
The criminals are French and mostly persons
whom the Federal Immigration law would have
firmly shut out as undesirable immigrants. The
murder was apparently premeditated ; they called
on the Swiss and first assaulted and then shot him,
and finally kicked his remains. They took their
arrest in a humorous frame of mind, and accepted
the death sentence in a perfectly friendly spirit as
the sort of thing that might happen to anybody in
passing. The alleged terrors of the law never
struck against a harder surface.
* • * «
Mr. Bill Sykes, of Adelaide (address Hot
known to letter-carriers), is working hard lately
for little remuneration. One recent night he blew
open an old safe in a jam factory and found a
stray threepenny piece ! A few nights later he
attacked the Government safes at Islington, and
found nothing in one and a paltry £1 in the other.
Bill puts these bad hauls down to the drought
and general depression:
A FORGOTTEN ASPECT OF THE CASE.
“ I thay, there t oath a nith row about them burn-
ing thothe Billth in Fiji, eh? ”
“ Don't know, my boy, haven't time to read it.
Were the Bibleth inthured for much? ”
Mostly the parson has all the say, but
Tremayne Dunstan, last week, struck a stand
where it wasn’t quite so. Put into the pulpit at
the Bankruptcy Court, he told how a humble
preacher may receive a salary rising from £2OO to
£750 a year and yet wind up £3OOO short inside
14 years. But he didn’t go into details —beyond
making some vague references to 30 per shent
loans, he threw little light upon his achievements.
Certainly, if he was half so eloquent in the pulpit
as he seems to have been in the money-lender’s
office he was worth his £750. He was nearly
always able to tap the deacons for a quarter’s
salary in advance; from one financial firm he got
20 sovereigns for a =£2l cheque, which hasn’t been
honored yet; and from another he borrowed £lOO
without being asked to produce the security. Also
a hard, unsentimental bank gave him an overdraft.
With scalps like these at his belt the widow
wouldn’tgivemuch trouble; while already swamped
by debt he borrowed from one £250, and when
another lady lent him up to £3OO, partly on the
strength of an insurance policy, he isn’t sure that
he did not thereafter let the policy lapse. Finally,
when his eloquence or his nerve failed, his typist
took a ticket for “T. Duncan,” and he left
swiftly and silently. So much he has told the
Court, and in telling it he has left the case almost
as dark as ever. His struggles to raise money
have been explained pretty fully, but why he
needed all this money isn’t anything like so clear.
The “ trading parson ” has been getting into
trouble in Westralia, too. In this case they are
Methodists who are concerned; and the
Methodies have a rule strictly prohibiting their
men from “ the pursuit of private emolument ”
though if private emolument pursues the Metho-
dist the rule doesn’t order him to sprint to keep
ahead of it. One parson has resigned and another
has struck the hairy chest of sin with the paw of
repentance, and promised to chase the earthy
shekel no more.
• • « •
It is announced, on the authority of a
fashionable London corset-maker, that England’s
male curled darlings are at present suffering from
an attack of “ corset fever ” ; and that, in
the swell London army clubs, “ stays” are
as seriously and as deeply discussed as if
they were a weighty problem of State.
The hump-backed man, who might use
corsets with advantage, caught tne idea
from the comical De Wet chasers of the
army; then the dude, who daily parades
Rotten Row, thought his “figure” would
look much more fetching encased in whale-
bone ; after which the waxed, belltoppered
sparks of the Stock Exchange “caught on.”
As a result, in London to-day, the male
corset is worn openly and without a blush,
and men of fashion and social weight bail
each other up to consult anxiously about
their respective whalebones and to con-
sider whether they would look better if they
tightened in a little.
* • * »
A well-known literary man, who found
that his new bride was of artificial con-
struction in many places where he would
have much rather found natural plumpness,
gathered the artificial portions of her together
one morning and ticketed them—“ The Mysteries
of a Padded Sell.” Then he went out hurriedly
and remained away till the storm blew over.
• * * *
The noble family of Gordons, some of
whom have been figuring in a divorce case, fol-
lowed by a beautiful case of disputed paternity
and child-abduction, are a notoriously disrespect-
able crowd. There were “gay Gordons,” pro-
fligate Pagets,” and “wild Waterfords” long
before the modern “Smart Set” provided food
for the London weeklies. The particular Lord
Gordon who claims to be the father of his cousin’s
wife’s baby ere he ranked as her co-respondent in
the court, is heir-presumptive to his brother, the
Marquis of Huntly, a youthful pal of the “Wales”
who now presides over the Heinpire. The Mar-
quis of Huntly’s farewell bachelor supper was
recorded at the time as a glorious feast of reason
and flow of fizz. It concluded with a general
ejection of furniture. All the goods and chattels,
including a piano, were thrown out of window into
the street, after which it was time for the bride-
groom elect to sober up for the marriage ceremony.
The Huntly title dates back to 1450, and is in no
visible danger of dying out.
• « * •
The Melbourne honorary beak really seems
to be a good deal of a plain lunatic. The latest
outbreaking of this person arose over the case of
a jam factory girl of 16, who, seeing a strange girl
in the street, knocked her down, and kicked her
over the heart till she was insensible. She was
removed to the hospital, and it isn’t certain that
her injuries aren’t permanent. And when the
murderous female was fined one shilling with' £1
costs, and allowed eight weeks to pay, the follow-
ing dialogue took place:
Mr. Phipps, J.P., who said he thought it was scandalous
for a girl sixteen years of age to be sent out to earn her
living at a jam factory, dissented from the decision
Mr. Witt (chairman) : Look at that poor girl, probably
injured for life. r J
Mr. Phipps: Look at the other poor girl, sent to earn
her living at a jam factory !
Ihe humanity of the J.P., when he has any, seems
a quaintly idiotic and one-sided sentiment.
Because he thinks a girl shouldn't work at a jam
factory he holds that she should be allowed to
nearly murder another girl with impunity.
The English Gordon-Granville case over
the custody of the Gordon-cum-Granville, or possi-
bly cum-Somebody-else, child Cecily, is rather out
of the common, and would provide abundant
material for a comic opera. The petitioner
Gordon, having divorced his wife on the grounds
of her adultery with her cousin, Lord Granville,
was given custody of the child. Before he could
get the child, however, mamma had departed with
her to the continent and married the noble lord,
her seducer. Then she petitioned for the custody
of Cecily on the ground that immoral relations
had existed between herself and her present hus-
band right through her married life with her late
husband—that this was with the knowledge and
connivance of the late husband; and that the
present husband, not the late husband, was
Cecily’s father. The present husband says this is
so, but the late husband says it isn’t After most
expensive legal argument the judge thought the
facts bore out the late husband’s statement, and
ordered that Cecily be delivered over to him.
During the summing up, however, mamma (there
isn’t any dispute about mamma !) quietly flitted
from the court with her harassed waif, and, when
the verdict was given, their whereabouts was as
great a mystery as Cecily’s papa himself. A few
days later, present husband allowed that the lady
was on the continent again with the child;
that she would stay there till things quiet-
ened down some; and that he intended to remain
and keep an eye on matters in general. He gave
it as his opinion (which looks suspiciously like a
hint to the late husband) that the only way in
which the child might be recovered would be by
kidnapping her. What sort of a finish the case is
likely to provide it is hard to tell. It wouldn’t be
surprising if it ended by both fathers repudiating
Cecily, and the lady alleging that the child
belonged to a third party ; that she had Cecily’s
birth certificate in her pocket; that the child
carried the birth-mark of her poor but honest real
father’s family ; that she had shown these proofs
to the nearest policeman on the corner, who had
pronounced them quite correct, and had straight-
way delivered up the lost will and handed her
the stolen estate ; that they might both now do
their worst, and she was going to live wickedly
ever after. And amid all this hard swearing of
the British aristocraoy, Cecily’s own feelings don’t
seem to come in anywhere.
* m * *
A recent Melbourne Argus, announcing
that a sermon in Gaelic was to be preached in St.
Francis’s Church on St. Patrick’s Day, stated that
this would be the first occasion on which a public
address in that language had been delivered in
Victoria. Yet, during the ; 50’s and ’6o’s, a
Gaelic church flourished in Carlton. And at
a Supreme Court trial in Melbourne, 30 years
ago, present writer heard a barrister say to the
Judge: “As my next witness is a foreigner
and cannot speak a word of English, I desire to
be allowed an interpreter.” “ What countryman
is he?” asked his Honor. “A Scotchman,” was
the reply. Only a few of the Skye crofters who
emigrated to Victoria in the ’so’s could speak
English.
• • * *■
It looks as though a four-horse team can
henceforth be driven unopposed through the
badly-working Vic. Sunday Closing Act. Con-
stables lately watched a city hotel and saw 100
persons enter in the half-hour before 10 p.m. on
Sunday. Investigating, they found sundry “ re-
freshers,” and seized on a lady toying with a glass
of ale and a sandwich as a test case. The house
had no accommodation for boarders, and she was
admittedly not a “traveller.” The prosecuting
inspector held that a sandwich wasn’t a meal—
was, in fact, merejy a blind, as the lady left it;
"TIS COMING.
SHOP WALKER: “ Which department, madam? ”
NEW WOMAN (with emphasis): “Trousers!”
but the P.M. strongly advised him to let a sleep-
ing dog lie, and the charge was withdrawn. So
apparently every suburban pub. can now do as
much Sunday trading as it likes, provided it offers
a more-or-less fresh sandwich with each pint.
* » * •
The divorced Crown Princess of Saxony,
whose darling French tutor has already left her,
or wants to leave her, was not quite so unlucky in
her love affair as her brother, the Archduke Some-
body. His Nibs the Archduke sold his birthright
and expectations for a modest .£lOOO a year,
threw away his title, and converted himself into a
“ Mister ” in order that he might legally marry an
actress and be loved for “himself alone.” As
soon as the actress realised that her gilded ducal
slave was practically a thing of the past, and the
thing of the present and future was a helpless
nobody with a small income, she broke the con-
tract. The ardent johnnie had misjudged the
effect of his “splendid sacrifice.” When he held
out his arms and cried —“My Ada ! the obstacle
to our happiness is now removed, there is nothing
now between us,” the lady said, “ My oath ! there
isn’t. It’s all off.” A repetition of the story of
the King of Illyria, in Daudet’s “ Kings in Exile.
His ex-Majesty came to his siren with the news
of his abdication —“ It is no longer the King of
Illyria who loves you, but a man who will give up
his whole life to you.” Then he explained the
difference between a renunciation (for cash) and
an abdication. The woman said “You fool,
and left him. “Without a penny, without a
crown, without a wife or a mistress, he looked
indeed a pitiful object.”
• • • *
“Do you want your likeness for iatnily
use?” asks a Sydney photographer, as he seats
his victim, “or for reproduction in the news-
papers ? ” The price is the same, but the likeness
is not.
DREAMS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They come again to haunt me when the sun is sinking
lou^-
The idle dreams, the careless dreams, the dreams of long
ago.
Thro’ the wattle’s feathered, fretted boughs the reddened
sunlight gleams.
In the stillness and the quiet ’tis a fitting hour for
dreams.
Par away from care and sorrow—far away from toil and
strife—
Wasted chances, hours of folly, and the failure of a life.
All the blackness lies behind me and the brightness lies
before.
I have done with Sin and Care (for just an hour, perhaps,
or more).
Dreams of day-time—dreams of May-time—dreams of
light and laughing hours,
With the odor of the gum-leaves and the fragrance of
the flowers.
as they come again to haunt me when the sun is dropping
low,
The idle dreams, the careless dreams, the dreams of long
ago.
vio.
Kathleen Walker.


Wild’s, in the Sydney Arcade, is the most
fashionable gentlemen’s hairdressing saloon in
Sydney. Every attention possible is paid to the
customers by six expert hairdressers. Address.-
30 Sydney Arcade, entrance from George-.-,tree;
or King street, Sydney.*
d.c.l:
GrO TO HBLL-
KjOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nageo,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
WOLFE’S
STARCH
STAR
SILVER
WORLD
IN
THE
THE
BEST
Australia’s
Leading Tonic
Beverage.
The Cresswell question, as it appears to
disinterested outsiders, is not a question of Cress-
well’s identity or non-identity with the real Roger
Tichborne, who ought to be satisfactorily dead by
this time, anyhow. It is a question as to whether
Parramatta Lunatic Asylum is such an earthly
paradise that Cresswell would lose any happi-
ness by being transferred to the care of Mr.
Priestman. If that inveterate champion of the
alleged Roger wants to take him to England, why
deny a long-imprisoned baronet or butcher the
benefit of a sea voyage? The authorities wouldn’t)
fight so hard for the custody of any other old
lunatic of Cresswell’s harmless type.
“Delta ” : Some queer things are happen-
ing on the Victorian railways just now, and if
Premier Irvine is wise he will cable to the new
commissioner to put a change of clothes in a
handbag and leave for Australia per first boat. I
was at an excursion the other day, consisting of
three long trains. Coming: home in the evening I
formed, just before the first train started, one of a
group of interested spectators who listened to a
violent argument among the three engine-drivers
as to whose train should get away first. We were
many miles froir .Melbourne, and it seems
that, after getting-rid of the excursionists, the
trains had to be taken back to Melbourne. The
drivers were, therefore, not unnaturally anxious
to get away, and the dispute became furious. The
station-master was appealed to, but he declined to
interfere, his business being only to get the trains
away. At last one driver swore that, if he went
second, he wouldn’t wait at A , where he was
supposed to pass a regular train coming up, but
would push on to B , and this comfortable
assurance led me to put up at the local hotel for the
night. I heard afterwards that he did go on to
B . The wonder was that he escaped a col-
lision, when he probably would have gone to
H 1
MELTING MOMENTS.
FAIR MAORILANDER: "Yes, we had a terribly
rough trip. I lived on ice the whole way over.”
SYDNEY CHUMP : “ Oh, then, that accounts for
you being so cold.”
Reported at Melbourne Women’s Hospital
the other day :
The staff had had to refuse admission to five cases of
septicaemia during the week owing to lack of accom-
modation. Two of the applicants were able to pay
for medical attendance, but one unfortunate woman was
not, and, after unsuccessful attempts to get her into the
Melbourne Hospital and the Alfred Hospital, she was put
into the Melbourne Gaol.
The “economy” of the Bent-Irvine Government
seems to be producing a good many such incidents.
A Government that was all Bent might carry
economy further and abolish all hospitals, instead
of merely providing inadequate accommodation.
There are many ways of saving money open to a
Government run on the lines of making bonedust
of one’s grandmother when she can’t wash-up any
longer, and it is those ways only which seem to
strike the present Victorian crowd.
THE SCIENTIFIC SPIRIT.
IST. SPIRIR : “ Why does the new spirit sit apart
on a cloud and mope so sadly?”
2ND. SPIRIT: “ Well, you see, he was an inventor
of flying machines on Earth, and it annoys
him to find we fly so easily, in spite of scien-
tific theories.”
Told to the writer by a cabman recently :
“ In post haste the other morning I drove to the
hospital with .a woman who had attempted to
commit suicide by taking a solution of match-
heads. She was accompanied in the cab by the
man who should have been her husband but
wasn t, and he seemed intensely concerned about
her recovery. For hours he and I and the cab
waited around. By the afternoon she had re-
covered sufficiently to be removed, and then her
lover brought a policeman and had her arrested
on a charge of attempting to commit suicide. Two
hours later I called at an hotel, by appointment,
for the same man. I drove him to a swell-looking
house and hung about for two hours, when, ac-
companied by the wife he had just wedded, I took
him to the railway station. The unfortunate in
the cell was remanded next morning for a few
days, but subsequently released. Of course if she
had died, enough of her story might have appeared
in the evening papers to prevent him marrying a
rich wife that evening. And if he hadn’t had her
arrested when she was brought round she might
have turned up at his wedding and said unplea-
sant things. So he did his best to make sure of
her recovery, and then attended to the arrest
to make sure of that also.”
A man sends this from Orange (N.S. W.) in
the desperate hope of clearing his character :
The other Sunday evening I went to church to escape
the awful gloom that settles over western towns on the
Day of Rust. When the plate arrived at me I dived into
my waistcoat top pocket, and from amongst some loose
silver I passed out sixpence. When the service was over
(it passed all too quickly, for I shared the hymn-book of
the girl next to me, and she was an awfully nice girl),
and I had got outside the sacred premises, the thought
struck me with staggering force that I had put a half-sov.
into the plate instead of sixpence. Investigation proved
my fears only too well grounded. After a severe mental
struggle I decided to try to recover the 9s. 6d. Inside
the church I found the minister and wardens busy count-
ing the boodle. I explained. No gold coin was found in
the cash. Then I investigated again, and found the half-
sov. in my pocket. My abject apology was received
coldly, even suspiciously, and I retired discomfited—it
being evident from the lofty snorts of the good men that
I stood condemned as a sacrilegious confidence person
whose scheme to take them down for 9s. 6d. on the off-
chance of there being half-a-sov. in the collection had
been glaringly exposed.
• • • •
Encouraged by Fifcchett’a success in Mel-
bourne, the S. A. Methodist 3 established a “ladies’
college” a year ago. But they didn’t have a
Fitchett with half-a-dozen magazines to boom the
business, and the 12 months’ accounts show a bad
loss. Way College, which was founded by the
Bibie Christians, is now to be shut up as one
result of Methodist union, and the girls are to be
turned into those fine college buildings, which
were put up originally for an eye and ear hospital.
Anglican Bishop Clarke was formally em-
braced by his fellow-Masons of Victoria the other
night, and that Past Provincial Grand Chaplain
Cockalorum of the craft assured the meeting it
was delightful to be one of'them—comforting to
the soul, and refreshing to the body, when the
lodge feeding time comes round, “To his mind,
there is no brotherhood of its kind so real as the
brotherhood of Masonry, which is based on the
brotherhood of man.” P.P.G.C. Clarke, being
blessed with two aprons, episcopal arid Masonic,
has probably made himself believe that the craft
is chock-full of Christianity in general, but his
common or worldly kind of brethren don’t seem
to share the Bishop’s faith. Membership nowa-
days is referred to by recruits as a commercial
investment. A new Mason puts something into
the lodge with a brotherly hope of getting more
out of it. He doesn’t even attempt to disguise
his fraternal designs. As soon as he has sworn to
maintain the existing order of things like a loyal
apron-man, he goes around the lodge seeking
orders from his new acquaintances, and surrep-
titiously showing samples to the brethren.
* * * *
A Bulletin correspondent :
The vagaries of the Vic. Railways Department are
apparently unending. To try and overcome the shortage
of locomotive engine power, it has of late become the
practice to increase (from 10 to 401bs. per square inch)
the maximum boiler pressure, often without any corres-
ponding increase in the strength of the boiler. This is,
of course, intended to add to the power of the engine.
But it does not work out so satisfactorily as it appears it
should on paper. When the locomotives were built the
valves, link-motion, eccentric gear and injectors of the
engines were constructed in proportion to the boiler.
Now the increased boiler pressure is not in accordance
with the rest of the machinery. Consequently things
frequently go wrong. The steam pressure is higher, yet
the heating surface is the same ; hence it is difficult,
often impossible, to keep up the steam to “ blowing off ”
point. As the train load is increased in the same ratio as
the boiler pressure, it can at once be understood how
trains often “ time." Again, the injectors of the
engines have not, in most instances, been altered to suit
the higher boiler pressure, so very often the engine-men
cannot get any water into the boiler, until it gets so low
that they are compelled to let the fire go down and re-
duce the pressure to save the boiler. If passengers knew
the anxious time the men on the footplate sometimes
have they would not sit so easily in the carriages and
grumble at the slow progress made. Instead, they would
feel disposed to leave the vicinity of the locomotive as
rapidly as possible. Only the other day I heard of a
driver v/ho arrived at a watering station without water
in his tank, and none showing in the gauge-glass of his
engine. This owing to the disproportionate injectors
wasting more water than they put into the boiler.
• • • •
Never build a brick church in a boom
suburb; build it of wood, or tin, or old bags.
Build it of anything, in fact, that you can get
away with when the boom evaporates. The
Methodists of Blackburn, which used to be a
Melbourne suburb, but is now chiefly a sad
memory, made the mistake of putting £750 into
bricks and mortar; wherefore it must stay there,
although there now remains only one family to
put its threepence in the plate. And, as the
threepence will not satisfy the gentleman who
waits at the door with a bill for accumulated
interest in his pocket, the General Conference has
at last been compelled to advance £5OO to keep
the bailiff out of the tabernacle.
* » * *
A Maoriland man tells a tale of Bones :
In Christchurch, the other day, excavations for sewer-
age reconstruction revealed a skeleton. The workmen
heaved it to one side, and an unpleasant-looking person
got permission to take it away. He brought it to the
police station, and urged the police to hold an inquest on
it. But the inspector looked and sniffed, and then con-
cluded that the bones were those of some ancient
warrior of a de-
funct Maori tribe,
and he fired them
off the premises,
on the ground
that the owner
must have died
with the moas,
and there was no
one to arrest on
suspicion, and it
was a clear case
of extreme dead-
ness anyway. So
the greasy person
carried them back
in a bucket to the
contractor, and went
sadly away. In the
meantime, the
contractor had ,
moved along the
street, so h«
merely buri e <t
them while filling
in the trench there.
The bone-gatherer who
was disappointed of his inquest proved, on in-
spection, to be an old acquaintance of mine. As a
pressman, in the city, it was once my lot to “do”
the inquests, and I always noticed a sad man on the jury
He was as regular in attendance as the corpse itself. H«
had been on every coroner’s jury in the city and suburbs
(at 4s. a time) for years. I afterwards found that th:s
particular buzzard had followed the sewerage operations
rio-ht through, in the hope of inquestable remains. He
has also discovered 90 per cent, of the river suicides for
15 years, and he sees every fatal accident for miles
round. , . , ,
“Died suddenly—after a hearty meal”
is a stereotyped cross-heading for the newspapers
nowadays, and it recalls to mind Bishop Moore-
house’s remarks, years ago, on the evil effects of
devouring Great Masses of Food. The sudden
death of a Melb. meat salesman occurred the other
night immediately after his hearty meal of steak
and tomatoes. He passed out in a fit due to
kidney disease, the doctor said. Every man can
die of some disease or other if he aggravates it
with a big steak poultice, applied internally.
• « •
The somewhat unconventional Bishop
Stretch, Dean of Newcastle (N.S.W.), Hares up
over an alleged kissing of R.G. Bishop Murray s
ring. But what if he did kiss the ring ? The
symbolic meaning of jurisdiction, which Bishop
Stretch finds in the alleged proceeding, has been
dead for ages. • The act is now as formal a cour-
tesy as the kissing of a young lady’s hand, and
not nearly so interesting as kissing her mouth.
There were fights in the Middle Ages about ring-
kissing, but people then took religion as a serious
matter, and Bishops were really supposed to
believe in what they said.
“T.D.” : Defendant Fitzgerald, of last
week’s Melb. breach of promise case, was possibly
of a type more numerous than most people
imagine, unable to resist the temptation to pro-
pose matrimony, but never quite meaning it
Present writer has a friend who has tangled him-
self up in this way with three girls, is particularly
ardent with all of them, but directly he gets away
expresses vain regrets that he should be such an
idiot. The law of propinquity again, aided ap-
parently by an unrecognised form of dementia.
The folly is one to which Teutons seem particu-
larly addicted.
* * * *
Claimed by W.. G. Voliva, Dowie’s general
agent in Australia, that nearly 40 people have
already gone from Melbourne or Sydney to Zion
City (the city whose construction is said to have
stopped short for want of funds), the third and
largest batch having left last week; also that 10
morearegoingfrom Adelaide. Voliva tolda Regis-
ter interviewer that “those who have gone are
all people of means, who will be able to purchase
their land and build residences of their own” (pre«
sumably they will buy the land from Dowie).
Questioned as to a poor man’s chances, the
apostle replied, guardedly, that “if he we 3
in America everything within the power of
Zion would be done consistent with good business
sense to help him.” Shylock himself would
have done as much as that. Voliva has taken a
three years’ lease of the Adelaide Federal Hall,
so that he may there expound the cult of the
Bogus Elijah with the flapping wings. Dowie’s
success, such as it is, sets one thinking. He runs
a bank, a great building enterprise, and a religion,
and they prop up each other. If the Premier
Permanent Building Society had also started a
new religion, with a commandment in it that all
good believers must ’put their money in the
Society, and that he who took his money out wl e i
the Society happened to be short was a b ickslic er
of the backest description, the P.P. might be
alive to-day.
• * » #
“ Nil ” re “00100 ” (B. 14/3/ 03)
“ 00100 ” puts his “tale of horror” in a very unfair
way. One has no right to doubt his “ tale ”in so far as it
refers to the case of his friend. But it is full of innuendois
and half-truths. Admittedly there must be many ignor-
ant and reckless doctors. Aiso there are ignorant and
reckless engine-drivers and lawyers and even occasional
reckless correspondents to journals. The unfair pre-
judice in “ Ooloo’s ” statements lies in his suggestions
that ignorant recklessness is comparatively common
amongst doctors, and that when it is discovered by their
professional confreres these latter gloze it over and sup-
press their knowledge of it to the danger of the public.
This is not a just inference, nor is it a correct one. On
the contrary, I say that if he (the patient) had died of
the wound made by No. 1 (doctor) it is highly probable
and nearly certain that the foreign body found at a post-
mortem would have been heard of and the friends in-
formed, in which case they would have been at liberty to
bring a charge against No. 1. “Doctors stick together
as close as wax ” to about the same extent as shearers or
sailors or pressmen. That is, honest doctors. And the
percentage of honest men amongst doctors is probably
about the saine as amongst the ordinary run of humanity.
* « « •
“ Melb.” : The other day I wrote sr me
thing about one of the pretty Methodist Nuns.
Another man went and told her he wrote it, and
wanted her to marry him. They go off like smoke.
Do these finq women pay a premium to enter the
sisterhood ? It’s worth £lOO. In the Protestant
Nunship they almost always marry after a few
months of disinterested labor in the slums.
Catholic contempt for this kind of amateur nun is
tremendous. It is a more fetching business than
the “bally.”
AN EXPRESSIVE DETAIL.
HER : “Now don’t look as if you didn't like the
dress.”
HIM: “I'm not. I’m looking as if I didn't like
the price.”
Decided by the Adelaide police-magistrate
that “offensive” language is a thing not known to
the law, and that by-laws imposing penalties for
it are consequently ultra vires. “Suppose I
called Inspector Shakespeare ‘ B&,con,’ ” said the
defending counsel, “he might consider it very
offensive ; but that would not make it illegal.”
So a cabman who had told his friend in a loud
voice that a passing pedestrian and wife were
“ too dashed mean to hire a cab,” and a tram-car
passenger who had called another a liar, both went
out of court without a stain.
ELIZABETH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ I want upon a plate of gold
“ The round green Earth,” I said
“ As dark Uerodias of old
Had John the Baptist’s head.
“ And if to get that guerdon great
The lack of gold debars
I’ll beat the sun into a plate
And set it round with stars.
“ I take the blood of Life and write
Upon the mask of Death
Across the day—across the night—
Thy name—Elizabeth.”
V. J. D.
HELP AT LAST!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Scotchbyterian churches gave their collections for
Sunday, March Bth, to the Drought Fund. Some of the
collections were good, but Oowra and Tumberumba
panned out with ten shillings and twelve-and-sixpence
respectively.
Better days should now be hoverin’ ;
All our troubles we can fix 1
{Cowra’s stumped up half-a-sovereign !
Tumberumba twelve-and-six!)
London won’t refuse us millions,
Rawson sack his front postillions,
See and Barton camp in skillions,
Nor our “ members ” work for nix 1
London Jews will be discoverin’
All our debts we’ll now be coverin’
(Cowra’s stumped up half-a-sovereign I
Tumberumba twelve-and-six!)
Every run shall have rich clover in !
Ten feet high and cut for ricks !
(Cowra’s stumped up half-a-sovereign I
Tumberumba twelve-and-six!)
Every scribe, from rep. to editor,
Now shall fill the role of creditor !
Every comp, his take shall lead it, or
Set with gold and diamond sticks I
Where’s that forme ? Lock up and shove her in !
Don’t you see that we’re recoverin’ ?
(Cowra’s stumped up half-a-sovereign 11
Tumberumba twelve-and-six lit)
W. T. GOODGX.


In the Matter of Dress attention to Detail Indicates Breeding.
EVERY LADY KNOWS -
KLEINERT'S HOOKON
Correct Hose Supporter
To Wear with the NEW FORM CORSET
Sold only at the Best Shops.
MR. J. SPENCER NOLAN. R.D.S.. £ E " TAL43 Sydney
npvTicrov ,i - ~ , , '' I (between Mark toys and Rilev-st.). HIGH-CLASS
DENTI._ TR\ at lowest prices. Guaranteed absolutely painless extractions by latest American system—a "rcat
success Beautiful and perfect-fitting atmospheric suction sets ot American teeth. giviii** the wearer ease
comfort and natural appearance. Com ine gum plates, without springs or wires. Elastic Gum Corahne is the
JTfl « H P t r P v forr r teet u h - A:l "Tinkles and hollow cheeks disappear. It is so natural
that t defies detection Lor comfort, strength and lightness it surpasses everything previous! intr<!dueJd
Corahne is perfectly tasteless, and remains wholesome and pure. B.idlv fitting plates remodelled on this
s\stem. Lp-to-date gold crow ns. Call and see specimens oi latest methods. Upper and lower sets from £lls
bleached. Country visitors fitted in one day if required.
-aN %
<:>
WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW
WT
WT
W
WT
WT
W
W
WT
WT
W
WT
WT
W
w
WT
WT
W
WT
WT
W
WT
WT
W
w
WT
WT
W
W
WT
WT
W
w
WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW
ARASO COVERS
The Best Invention on earth,
by means of which
You can Recover your Old UMBRELLA
in One Minute at a trifling cost.
Come in and see for yourself the advantage
of having
A Detachable Parasol Cover.
You can have a New Umbrella to match every
Costume you possess at Half the Usual Cost
SOLE AGENTS—
W. T. WATERS & CO. LTD.
“ The Leaden of Fashion,"
King & George Sts., SYDNEY.
sty
lisl\
“eEAv’EMETTEs”
Are the Ideal Fabrj^-S
FO R
RAINCOATS.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, March 24, 1903.
My Dear Arini,—
A correspondent from London of the newly-
founded Austral Club triumphantly announces
Lady Linlithgow (formerly Hopetoun) as Presi-
dent. The titled names of Duff, Kintore,
Gormanston, and Lamington, also appear
on the preliminary circular. To belong to
this club it is not necessary to be an Australasian
by birth; it is sufficient for one to have lived
Australasia, or to have had associations
with it. (Shares in a dividend-paying mine
are understood to be “associations” enough.)
Meantime, it seems the Ladies’ Empire Club,
which is run by Lady Jersey, has offended
no end of Opossumites. “ Why ” (writes my
correspondent) "the L.E.C. blackballed the
sister-in-law of one of the most prominent
members of the Commonwealth Senate, and
also the mother of a South Australian M.P. ! ”
Isn’t this new-milk innocence ? A Senator isn’t
great enough to project rays of glory on to his
sister-in-law who may be running a laundry, or
“ wuss.” And the S.A. M.P.’s mother miyht be the
sort that smokes a pipe and laps her tea off a
saucer. It is further complained that the
haughty L.E.C. gave a ball at Coronation
time, but only certain members were given
preliminary information of the frisk. The
majority knew nothing of it till it was over.' This
sort of “slimness” must be peculiar to
women’s clubs. Will the Melbourne Austral Salon
ever forget the little game played by the executive
on some of its committee and members during the
Brasseys’ time? Certain of its officers invited the
athletic Sybil Brassey to “an evening,” and kept
the invitation a dead secret, but, before the evening
could eventuate, a committee member was invited
to a Sunday evening at Government House*
and there Lady Brassey quite innocently trumped
the committee’s trick. Her consternation at
the Committee Woman’s ignorance of the in-
tended honor was amusing. The horrid Com-
mittee person next morning blabbed, and when
the evening arrived, and the Brasseys also, every
member of the Salon was present. The atmos-
phere was earthquaky, and the Brasseys must
have felt it, for they left very early.
Madame Melba’s drought matinee at Sydney
Town Hall brought the fund £6OO, and Madame
was most kind in the matter of encores. She
wore a gown that might hang in the National
Gallery as a flower-piece, with its bunches of
wisteria and foliage on a silk muslin of French grey.
Her hat was a huge one, with heliotrope plumes.
Madame’s new tenor, Walter Bradley, was on the
programme, and warbled beautifully; but somehow
the audience took him coldly. Theydidn’tknowhim.
Sydney audiences would treat the angel Israfel
coldly if they didn’t know him, and if that cham-
pion singer had neglected to flood the town with
advertisements done in dark-red on jasper back-
grounds. Mr. Kirby sings “Good-a-bye! Good-
a bye!” By now he has probably heard of it
from Melba. Never was such a patient audi-
ence; the concert was advertised for 2 o’clock,
but it was upon three before the organ blared the
opening notes of the Irrational Anthem. The
State Exes. Rawsons were accompanied by that
viking-like personage Excellency Le Hunte,
Governor of New Guinea. His Papuan Ex. is
now in Brisbane with a gem of a new private sec.,
Mr. Jewell; but will be back in Sydney at Easter.
His Ex. was also accompanied from the Great
Smoke by Dr. Hancock, who yearns to make the
acquaintance of sago-palms, malaria, alligators,
and the poor Panuan with untutored mind and no
dress clothes.
Ethel Mollison, loaned by Uncle Sam Land to
play lead in Williamson’s new play, “Are You a
Mason ? ”, looks as if she would make the pulse of
Johnniedom do a century a second. She is an
olive-skinned and dark-haired nine-stoner or so,
with chocolate eyes, wastefully large. Also she is
a widow—a 24-year-old widow ! A Canadian by
birth, but of Scotch parentage, and has been act-
ing eight years. Her first appearance was with
Olga Nethersole. One of her latest tours was 25
weeks in the States playing the tearful, ill-treated
damsel in “Sherlock Holmes —Cuyler Hastings
in the name-part. Readers of the “Smart Set ”
may recall some of Miss Mollison’s short stories,
for she is a traveller on the Inky Way, and has
written a number of Canadian folk-lore sketches.
Miss Mollison gives a pathetic account of the
American ex-star actress, Clara Morris, whose
autobiography, issued, last year, was read so
widely in Australia. You may remember the
autobiog. left Clara Morris with, apparently, a
devoted husband and a comfortable financial out-
look. She is now, it seems, blind, in a sana-
torium, and dependent upon theatrical benefits,
with which the New Yorkers are most generous.
Whilst on the topic of star mummers : What a
difference between the menageries (that’s my own
plural for mdnaye) of Mrs. Cora B. Potter of
to-day, compared with that at St. Kildawhen she
was in Vic. some four years ago. Her rise has
been rocket-like in its suddenness. Now “ her
house below Maidenhead Bridge ” rivals Melba’s
humpy on the Thames, and Society reporters are
like to die (in print) in aromatic pain of her
gardens and hot houses. She has other houses,
and a motor car and jewels, and many servants,
and she goes about with high church vicars and
princes. When in Melbourne she and Yda
Hamilton rented a cheap, furnished house at St.
Kilda. When they had visitors to dine, hosts
and guests scrambled in and out of the kitchen
with a mighty fetching and carrying of mutton
and cauliflower.
Sydney Liedertafel starts its season on the night
of All Fools’ Day, and a ciroular bids its patrons
note that the new conductor with the horticultural
name of Orchard (front name Arundel) will make
his first appearance. Also, in sorrow if not in
anger, Liedertafel requests that evening dress be
worn, and says the attention of the committee has
been drawn to the fact that “the custom which
has been in vogue for twenty years is frequently
overlooked by a large section of the audience.”
That attitude is a mistake and may bring about
a decrease in the attendances. There are many
people who have very decent ordinary clothes, and
who are passionately fond of music, but who will
not go to the expense of an evening suit to attend
Liedertafel concerts. Also, there is a larger pro-
portion which, these times, cannot afford evening
dress. And yet another section, which owns
evening dress, is too tired to crawl into it on
a hot evening, and will hear “The Cannibal
Maid ” in cool serge or not at all.
“On and Off,” Willoughby and Geach’s new
farce at the Palace (Sydney) might well have been
named “ The Two Moods of a Man ” ; for, on the
two pegs of two moods hangs the play, with its
terrible mother-in-law, its winking girl, its soda-
water syphon and fat, good-natured, dissatisfied
husband. But the farce by any name is just
as droll, and everyone in it plays the fool in
season to the top of the audience’s bent. Miss
Watts Phillips as the acid mother-in-law.
in a witch-like make-up and top-knotted hair,
plays a capital man-scaring sketch. Miss Roxy
Barton’s talents are hidden as under a billy-can,
but she adorns some very satisfactory gowns and
looks as fine as an orchid. Miss Asc-oli who, as
Madame du Paty, lures men to kiss her by wink-
ing and tossing her head, does her small part like
a marionette, probably bearing in mind that the
blackmail wile is said by her husband to be “a
nervous affection.”
Sydney is now blessed with a Womeift Political
Education League. It meets, I understand, at
Sydney School of Arts and discusses the proper
use of the vote. Already there is a split, one
party ad vocating the support of measures and not
men, while the other section insists that woman’s
destiny is to purify politics, to examine the lives
of candidates, and if they are tinged at all with
blue, to “put their political lights out.”
How glad are the women who work for the
eternal charity fancy fair and bazaar of the idea
supplied them in “Zaza,” of the cushion stuffed
with dried rose-leaves. Already heaps of rose
petals are drying preparatory to being bagged in
Bilk.
“ Great is tea and will prevail ” was the motto,
in Latin, used by Mrs. Bland Holt on the pro-
grammes at her farewell “ At Home,” last Friday.
Such a mingling of Society and Stage and Church,
and on the hostess such a beautiful bizarre
daring gown of red with geometrical symbols
all over the skirt, and the signs of the
zodiac all over the bodice, and Masonic-looking
squares and compasses on the tail, and in her hair
a nigh Spanish comb showing from behind a big
red bow. The comb and bow must be “the
thing somewhere. Miss Ethel Mollison
adopts it.
In “Some Stray Shots from S’Africa,” in Syd-
ney D.T., mining man D. K. Inglis tells that'he
got a charge from London friends—“ Buy me
some ostrich feathers at Capetown ; they are so
cheap there.” D.K. tried for the plumes, then
advised the requesters to try Boud-st., where they
would get them at comparatively cut-throat rates.
There is no such thing as a decent empty house in
Capetown, and the rent you’d pay for one would
buy you a villa in Sydney. Shopmen and women
are too bored with much custom to serve you
other than absent-mindedly. A cubby-hole in a
hotel, even near the tiles, is reminiscent in its
price of the Waldorf-Astoria, for the military and
naval operations of the recent war have glutted
the seaport with gold.
A teacher, haying just explained the difference
between masculine and feminine, called on her
young ideas for an example of both. Up jumped
a little girl and exclaimed : “Please, masculine,
socks ; feminine, stockings ! ”
It isdreadf ul to get letters from drought districts.
On some stations, the women can’t bear to peep
outside, because the aspect of the run makes them
feel as if all creation were “ drawing its breath in
pain.” In the house, it looks as if the agony were
over, for the furniture is shrouded in sheets to
preserve it from ruin by daily dust-storms.
“ Himself ” keeps wonderfully cheerful, hoping
on and on, but at all hours of the night, one hears
him stealing out to scan the sky for some sign of
change. Until lately, he always said, “Wait long
enough and the drought must end,” but he has
left off saying that, since the native timber on the
place began to droop and die.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
11 The Australasian officially confirmed the
‘ engagement ’ of Miss Mary Clarke and Captain
the Hon. Robert Lindsay by publishing their
photos. Some day, perhaps, we shall have the
photographer called in to take a snapshot of every
matrimonial engagement in ’igh life—the gentle-
man grasping the dear little hand he covets and
the lady turning away her head to murmur “This
is so sudden.”
“ Miss Violet Clarke is packing her music folios
and travelling trunk for Paris—and Marchesi.
She leaves by the Orontes. Meanwhile, to fare-
welling proposals, she says, ‘ Please, don t. It is
too good of you.’ It has to be acknowledged,
even by the most begrudging, that Miss Violet
has done a good deal towards making the vice-
regal family popular. She is young enough—she
has the bloom of the twenties yet—to tell her
chums that 18 months will quickly pass, and then
she will sing them songs of Marchesi. ‘I am
really very raw. I do love Australia, and Mel-
bourne very muoh ; but Marchesi calls. ’ If any-
one needs evidence of the magnetic personality of
that ancient instructress-in-chief of the world’s
voices, she had better start Miss Violet Clarke on
the subject.
“ Mr. and Mrs. Fred. Fairbairn with their
three children have now joined the ranks of Mel-
bourne fashionables abroad. Mrs. Fairbairn, a
gipsy-eyed daughter of Central Queensland, is
envied by chums (now that babies are popular
again) as the mother of one of the prettiest
juveniles about. Another absentee is a dame of
the same clan, pretty Mrs. Steve Fairbairn, who,
like her sister-in-law, ‘ blushed unseen ’ (more or
less) in Bananaland baekblocks till her matri-
monial capture of one of Melbourne’s most eligible
bachelors. Nowadays, she spends most of her
time in Europe within eoo-ee of her small sons,
who dwell in a continental boarding-schooL
“’Tis feared that the coming winter will be
deadly dull in Melbourne. Society mothers, con-
cerned lest their pretty daughters may lack
adequate opportunities of showing their paces,
grumble because so many hostesses, usually looked
to for an entertainment or two during the cool
weather, are getting away to England. The
George Chirnsides have gone abroad with their
delicate only child, a daughter. The Percy
Chirnsides followed, t’other day, with a valet for
‘Himself,’ a maid for madaine, and a nurse for
their two boys. The elder of these urchins,
though kilted like a Highlander, and nicknamed
‘ Possum ’ like the Australian he is, is trained by
his owners quite on the lines of an old English son
and heir. There were ‘ rejoicings among the
tenantry ’ when he was born, and subsequent
revels at the ‘ manor ’ when he was sprinkled and
officially labelled with the name ‘of a Cavalier
ancestor.’ Mrs. P. Chirnside has with her a just-
out sister, Miss Tommy Fenner, a fortunate
young thing, who had no notion of the jaunt in
store till a week before sailing, when her rich
brother-in-law suddenly announced that, ‘if she
could get her blouses ready in time,’ she might as
well join the party. Said party is booked for a
week in a tony London hotel, prior to moving into
a fashionable flat. In September the pilgrims
turn their backs to Australia.
“ The large lumbering figure of ex-Commissioner
Chomley and his tiny Dolly Varden dame took
themselves off to the Cold Country last week. The
dutiful pair will be missed. Dame Chomley has
turned up to every function, every sewing bee,
every gossip-gathering, year after year, full of
hope, animation, and grey-haired fidelity. Her
big, slow, kindly spouse generally followed, a
gamp his support and companion when feminine
secrets drew the petticoats together, and left him
isolated. The little lady had souvenirs from all
sides before her boat bore off, and her cabin was
crowded with flowers and other gifts. Bound for
London by the same steamer were Captain
Vallange with his wife, children, and Miss Lesly
Madden. The W axellenev lingered affectionately
over his final benediction.
‘■‘Rippon Lea,’ the Sargood place, with its
acres of ground, is to be put up for auction
(April 17). Furniture and effects will come to
the hammer on May 6, 7 and 8. ‘ Oma,’ a Toorak
mansion (owned by James Grice), is to be auc-
tioned on March 28, its furniture going in the
same lot, if desired. ‘Summerlee, ’ a fine old
place at Hawthorn, was put up this week with its
contents. Twenty sales of furniture in private
houses (three of them at Toorak) were advertised
in Saturday s papers, not to speak of vendings
galore in city- auction rooms. In Australia,
possessions, like persons, are-apt to find no settled
home. Grand pianos, victorias, old bronzes,
choice china, rare engravings, are thrown upon
the world just as lightly as bentwood chairs and
plush photo frames.
‘•Just as well, perhaps, that a famous singer will
soon be gone, before she quarrels with everyone.
home of the bitterest grudges nursed against her
began with her cavalier treatment of private invi-
tations. Too' good a business woman to slight
public or official hosts, she is punctuality itself
when a representative function is in question
which makes hercasualness on other occasions seem
.all the worse. Her treatment of two Toorak sisters
who arranged a smart luncheon-party in her honor
still rankles. The principal guest" had said she
was dying to come,’ and the gratified sisters had
bidden the Salt of their circle to meet her. At
the last moment, a telegram came, saying that
the singer had overlooked till then an important
prior engagement. The party had to go on, but,
next day, a gushing note arrived, asking that
the absentee might lunch on the following Friday
instead. Fresh invitations were issued, and an-
other fatted calf met its doom. Exactly the same
disappointment came along on Friday, followed
by an epistle pleading for permission ‘ to toddle
in for a snack next Tuesday.’ This time the
sisters were not taking any toddle, but the Great
Unes of the Earth seldom hear the truth which
would do them so much good, so the delinquent
was merely informed, with polite regrets, that
they were engaged for Tuesday.
“ A Melbourne she-club made a regulation quite
recently permitting the admittance of men at a
specia l shivoo. The evening appointed arrived
so did the women in extra crimp and curl, but not
a solitary man. Each spruced-up Eve looked at
the Polished other and groaned. The frill was
wasted All put m the same explanation. Each
had suffered from too much shyness to iassoo a
man, and each had hoped as an alternative to share
the other s bag.
“Questioned a bright, fresh, intelligent little
T.^ ay her view of anti-
iVfadr» 11 S ta k ~ Jl i st the outcome of a lot
ot talk. Une woman influences another. And
that's how the mother scare oame about. Talk of
this kind travels and spreads. When fresh from
°ur homestead, where I had passed all my married
life with seldom a town interval, we settled in a
suburb, I heard all this new-fashioned dread of
mfanthood for the first time. I couldn’t tolerate
it at first—and I argued. Finally, the majority
ruled, and I began to think as they did. When
little Jack came I fancied all the horrible pains
and experiences woman evsr had. He was my
eighth living child and my last. So the talk took
effect.’ Eight! and she is blithe, fresh and
younger-looking than most of her contemporaries.
“A bishop’s wife’s visitors must alwaysinvoke
a smile from the gods. A person who knows her
Melbourne well, laughed outright when viewing
the frisky and giddy and impromptu persons in
the swim at one of the new Mrs. Clarke s ‘At
Homes.’ The Pharisaical looked demure and
basked before the Social Elect with winning
smiles. Mrs. Clarke didn’t know who was who,
and probably confounded parson’s dames with
smart divorcees. Her ‘At Homes ’ were open to
all—and all went. The smart, sporting, pious
and frothy, made up a queer medley.
■“Walter Barnett, photographer, in temporary
camp at Falk’s last week, is understood to hold
‘I am photography at its best.’ He talks well
of London social lights. Eleanor Glynn, authoress
of “The Visits of Elizabeth,” is a sprightly and
fascinating woman, he says. Though the risky
romanticist has a daughter in the social swim, a
Barnett mezzo tint picture shows her to be' a
pretty sort of modish lady with a chic aii l , and a
coquettish look of challenge in her frank eyes.
“ Intimate knowledge of a smart bride’s under
and over wear is no longer acquired only by those
admitted to the private boudoir view. One publi-
cation details in its chiffon column how, and of
what, the trousseau of a bride of Monday last was
made. The ‘nighties’ (whatever they may
signify! came in for special description, and the
under-garments were minutely detailed.
“ A newly-married couple gave out a while back
that time didn t allow them to take a fortnight’s
spell of sweet idleness. They went without the
orthodox honeymoon, and spent a jolly week
immediately after their two-in-hand start, in a
round of farewell junkets with their friends.
Then they set off for S’Africa. Gradually the
honeymoon custom fades.
“A prominent Government official in a Com-
munication branch has been negotiating for
maids for his Joan. He sends aloug a list of
virtues, requirements, qualifications, to the Regis-
try marm, and the chosen are sent up to the boss
in his office for approval. Goodness knows what
tests or cross-examinations he puts them through.
However, he arrives at a choice, and the choice is
final. The wife of his bosom accepts what he
sends and murmurs not.
" The prudishness of the she-bather is curious.
A madams who bares as much as the police permit
in public on any evening occasion, scampers, after
a dip, into her dressing-cell as if the Demon of
Impropriety were at her heels. Seemingly, the
modesty of the sex counts for far more among
themselves than on mixed occasions.
“One hears more of opium, ether, and morphia
in the wool country than in the homes of Mel-
bourne's rich. Narcotics play the mischief with
the wealthy station women, whose time lags super-
fluous on their hands. The town whirligig of
Society life rarely leaves time to spare for the
cultivation of drugs. The only illegal stimulant
the busy social butterfly of this State allows her-
self is an occasional nip of eau-de-cologne—and
that, after a time, alarms, and she usually ‘ rings
off.’ /
“Johnniedom looks like profiting by the pre-
sence of the new Bishop’s hign-collared and neatly-
tailored son. The sons of parsons are prover-
bially up-to-the-world. It is the daughters mostly
who inherit the sacred halo.
Mrs J. Purves (nee Miss Sadie Greene) has
given birth to a boy in London. Grandpapa
Purves received a cable to that effect recently.
“ Two returned Durbarites are the bright, fresh
daughters of Justice Hodges. One comes back
en ? a ffedi and intent, like Miss Cliveden Clarke,
on a trousseau stock.
. “The Mayoral reception by moonlight comes
into vogue. At Hawthorn, the other night, some
thousands collected at the local gardens to shake
the Mayor s hand in tepid greeting. The supply
of electric light was lavish—too lavish for the
multitude of mixed couples who went searching
for nooks of snug darkness. Inquiries for weeks
before as to what was the correct dress led to
no degree of unity of opinion, and there was a
strange clothes jumble. The Mayoral couple
turned out —the one in evening garb and official
additions, the other in neckless frock and picture
hat.
“ The announcement of Miss Blanche Watson’s
engagement excited much interest. The bride-
elect is the only daughter of Mr. George Watson,
former master of the Melb. hunt. Miss Watson
has been a prominent figure in the hunting field,
and, first time Lady Hopetoun left Australia, she
gave Miss Watson the hunter she had used out
here as a parting gift.
“ Is ice middle-aged dames with settled daugh-
ters are turning their attention to Irish crochet.
Classes are being formed in Toorak. As lace-
work requires a great degree of patience, it is
only possible for the advanced matron or the
resigned spinster to ply the necessary needles.
Young wives haven’t the time or inclination.
They usually have had enough of netting for a
while.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


AFTER FEVER.
After fever come many miserable months of dreary, weary weakness. This is the time of greatest danger.
The wasting fever thins the blood, weakens the heart, destroys the tissues, wrecks the nerves, and leaves
the whole system in a helpless, strengthless state.
That is the time when weakness slips into decline —chronic debility, pernicious anaemia, heart disease, or
consumption. That is the time when you may fall an easy victim to influenza, pneumonia, indigestion, diarrhoea,
neuralgia, rheumatism, or kidney disease.
But Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills will give you strength to fight debility, disease and death. They actually
make new blood. They are the one sure, true means to health and strength after fever.
Typhoid Effects Cured. —“ Typhoid left me pale, thin, shaky and piteously weak,” says Mrs. W. Plunkett,
Fitzmaurice-street, Wagga. “ I had no strength for the lightest housework. I ate almost nothing, and so grew thinner
and weaker. My nerves were so run down that rest and sleep were both impossible. The least sound made me start in
terror. I often thought my head would split with headaches. Sometimes I lay in fainting fits for two hours. My bones
came almost through my skin, and there were aching pains in my stomach, back and shoulders. Then Mr. Connor, of
Spring-street, Forbes, recommended Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. Half a box did me good. After taking them for a month
I felt so much better that no one would recognise me. Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills braced up my nerves and made me the
active woman lam to-day. They are a wonderful strength-giver.”
Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.; Queen’s Place, Sydney. 2s. 9d. a box; six boxes, 15s. 3d.
Se that the name DR. WILLIAMS’ is on every box you buy. Substitutes are poisonous. Write for Free Medical Advice.
Dr Williams pink pills for pale people.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
The biggest and about the brainiest of
the big flock of Methodist parsons in S. Aus. has
completely broken down, and has been ordered
absolute mental rest for a year at least.
New English Labor member Crooks (Wool-
wich) was born in a workhouse, has always taken
an interest in the Labor movement, and in 1901
was Mayor of Poplar, a London Labor borough.
One of Sydney’s best-known doctors is in
a sanatorium suffering from nerve break-down.
That markedly able Labor member, W. m!
Hughes, is also under treatment for a bad nerve
attack, caused by the strain of studying for the
Bar.
The omnipresent Scot. Senor MacEachen
is the favorite candidate for the Presidency of
Uruguay. And Kaid Maclean commands the
Moorish army, and has of late been very busy
propping up the tottering throne of his Shereefian
majesty.
“G.A.A.”: Commissioner Tait, the new
Victorian railway manager, was born at Mel-
bourne (Canada), and is a son of Sir Melbourne
Tait, Chief Justice. I never knew what a crowd
of Melbournes there are in the world till I wanted
to wire to one of them from Yokohama, and
learned that there were seven of them.
Miss Edith Spring, who was drowned
under pathetic circumstances when coming out
to Australia by the German s.s. Rhein, was the
daughter of a nearly-forgotten N.S.W. politician
of years ago. Gerald Spring was Minister of
Lands in the last Robertson Ministry, a brief
combination which held together for 66 days.
Dr. Keith Napier, who years ago came to
the assistance of the Kingston Govt, at the
Adelaide hospital, when the local doctors were
attempting to boycott it, has severed his connec-
tion with the institution. The old crowd is now
in control again, and once more the patients are
left to the tender mercies of University students,
who climb to knowledge up a stairway composed
of the sick beds of the poor.
FALSE PRETENCES ,
M IEE(indignantly): “ Shure, the dirty loir said he could foight, an' I just tapped him on the
head wid a pick-handle, and down he dhropped."
Callous way in which Sydney D. T.’s Mel-
bourne correspondent chronicles a death :
The State was relieved from paying one old-age pension
to-day, when an old man, Henry Madlin, a cripple, aged
64, cut his throat with a butcher’s knife, and died just as
he was discovered by his landlady.
Dowie, of the Purple Wings and Zion
City, indignantly denies (by his agent in Australia)
that he has (as formerly published) “had to dis-
gorge .£lO,OOO bequeathed bv Frederick Sutton,
the Maoriland sheep-farmer. ,f He is hanging on
like a cormorant to every penny of the money.
Dr. Paton, Sydney Government medical
officer, who has been granted six months leave, is
the darling of the Sydney “bobbies”—whose
health he supervises—and a rich mine of post-
mortem and other medical reminiscences. He is
one of those “mentioned” as a possible successor
to Police Inspector-general Fosbery.
Ex-solicitor David Chenhall seems likely
to become an institution in N.S.W. Bankruptcy
Court. The struggles of the court to find out
something about that gentleman’s accounts, and
that gentleman’s assurances that he can t find out
anything about his own accounts and has given
up all hope of ever understanding them, are
almost pathetic.
The name of that holy and now almost
forgotten swindler, solicitor Grey, of Geelong
(Vic.), turned up casually the other day in the
courts, when Justice A’Beckett tried to sort out
the claims of twenty-two persons who all held an
alleged mortgage on one property. It is hard to
count up the list of Grey’s swindles, and after all
he fell in less heavily than the poor little Jew who
got a hog by false pretences, and not a very
good hog either.
B. D. Morehead, in Sydney the other
day, and looking old for his years, recalls early
times. .He is still an Upper House politician, but
the pursuit doesn’t greatly interest him. He was
a fighter when M'llwraith and Palmer were
powers. He had a caustic tongue and a more or
less Attic wit, and if he did not do a big thing him-
self, he often pricked the bladder of some other
body’s foolish pretentiousness. The Rev. Langley,
present Bishop of Bendigo, was his schoolmaster
for a time, and planted in him certain texts of
Scripture that seemed to grow with heads down.
Morehead gained the Premiership of Queensland
at a troubled period, but professes not to care
about another turn at the helm. He is an old
Sydney man, and trotted about Pitt-street for
years as dark in the Bank of New South Wales.
Mary M‘Brian, who died last week, at
Parramatta, in her 96th year, was grand-daughtei
of one of the first genuine Australian goldfinders.
Assistant Surveyor M‘Brian made his discovery
near Bathurst in 1823, and entered the record in
ms field-book, where it can be seen to-day in the
Government Survey Office, Sydney. He made
little stir about his find, so a convict wha showed
gold, a year or so after, was promptly flogged, on
general principles, for want of corroboration.
Anarchist J. A. Andrews announces in
Melbourne Tocsin that his life’s work is done and
Mf under sentence of death from phthisis.
Writing from Melbourne Hospital he says :
I am trying to arrange for a number of my scattered
verses, which have appeared in this and other papers, to
be brought out in book form, and if I live to correct the
proofs I suppose I must be satisfied—if to see the com-
Pleted volume, then delighted—with the length of time
allotted to me. However, it would be a very sorry world
if people did not die somehow or other, especially those
who write verse.
One of the saddest sights of the Tasmanian
election campaign was Oppositionist Reibey who
j j Premiership for 12 months, 26 years ago,
addressing a meeting at Westbury. The old
gentleman occupied the platform with a quantity
°f dim notes in one hand and a candle in the
other, and the grease guttered down on him while
he tried to decipher his memoranda and at the
same time to explain that even in his 82nd. year
he was still the man to save the country. The
audience didn’t scoff—a Tasmanian audience
seldom does—but it thought about the art of
growing old gracefully and felt sorry.
The Crown Princess of Saxony, who
was so effusively guaranteed by “A Lady
who Knew Her,” in Melbourne Argus, as a
person who, because of her birth and breeding,
simply couldn't do wrong, comes of a particularly
giddy family. Her great-grandfather was that
amorous Due de Berry, who was assassinated in
1820, and whose Duchess was also of a loving
disposition. The daughter of those married
Charles 111., Duke of Parma, who was killed by a
father whose daughter he had corrupted ; and
from that marriage came the mother of the lady
who recently levanted with the tutor. The tutor
is the lodger of royal circles.
The head of the British Army nursing
staff is one Miss Brown. The name Brown is
somehow synonymous with quiet usefulnsss. Con-
sidering how numerous it is,
it rarely cuts a dash in
sassiety, or a shameful
figure in the Criminal
Court. Solid, humble
worth is represented by
the name given to a
halfpenny.
“E.F. : Not surprising that versatile
Byron Moore, the V.R.G. secretary, should be
reckoned a young-looking man for his age when his
age is considerably over-stated. At the present time
he is about seven years on the sunny side of 70 ; nor
was he ever supposed to be far into the sixties
until a Melb. sporting paper paragraphed him as
a septuagenarian. The mistake seems to have
arisen through a previous paragraph—in the
Argus —announcing that Byron Moore came
to Victoria 50 years ago, and omitting to mention
that he was a boy at the time. A man easily gets
a few years added to his tally if he is a well-
known identity. It is pathetic to hear “the
evergreen J. S. Butters” complain that some
people would make him out to be 100. A veteran
who achieves a reputation for wearing well is
promptly found guilty of an enormous age because
he doesn’t look it. One might just as well look
it.
“Nick ” Fitzgerald, the wild-eyed Demos-
thenes of Vic. Council, and most rigid obstruc-
tionist at the bi-cameral reform conference, entered
the House of Rich Landlords 39 years ago, and
has never since found anyone wealthy enough to
oppose him. Yet brewer Fitz. repeatedly had the
gall to declare that his was a representative
House and laid great stress upon the fact that its
members occasionally had to go before their con-
stituents, from which he concluded that they
“ voiced the popular will ” just as much as the
Assembly did.
Obit : P. F. de Castella, the great wine-
grower of the Upper Yarrra (Vic.), aged 75. He
was a native of Switzerland, and held a commis-
sion when little more than a boy in the Sunder-
bund army during the Swiss revolution of ’4B.
When that short-lived attempt at secession was
wiped out by the Federal forces he came to Aus-
tralia, and, in 1856, married the daughter of
Lieut.-Colonel Joseph Anderson. Castella’s revo-
lution is about forgotten now, but his wine will be
remembered for a long while yet.
Among the dead, James Morgan, of Mount
Morgan fame. After a strenuous early life, h®
passed his later years in retirement at Bishops
court, Rand wick (N.S.W.), in a seclusion partly
enforced by repeated attacks of hydatids on the
liver, brought on originally by his bush life. Some
years ago he went to Europe for surgical treat-
ment, which promised for a time to be a cure, but
the symptoms returned again and led to other
complications. He was a kindly and charitable
man who didn’t advertise.
J. E. Mackey, M.L.A., is steering through
Vic. Assembly a Bill to admit women to
practise as barristers and solicitors.
Already one woman LL.B. has gradu-
ated in Melb. University and another
is coining on. The first is Miss Florence
Matilda Greta Greig, sister of the woman
doctor of that name. It is a large name, and
heavy to carry.
Old A. B. Murray, who died in Adelaide
the other day, aged 87, was one of the pioneer
squatters of the State. He sat in the first
Assembly under Constitutional Government
(1857), and was afterwards a Legislative Coun-
cillor. He did not show much brilliance, how-
ever, at anything but breeding sheep, at which he
was wonderfully successful. He was over 6ft.
high, with a patriarchal beard and, even to the
last, a fine upright figure. The house in which
he died had been his residence for sixty years.
Actionable language by Wellington Even-
ing Post :
Scene: Lyttelton Wharf last evening, Rotomahana
moving away from the wharf. A local public man,
loudly : “ Now, boys, three cheers for Mr. Seddon ; Hip,
hip—” No response from the crowd. L.P.M. (appeal-
ingly) : “ Come on boys, Mr. Seddon’s leaving us. Three
cheers for Mr. Seddon, Hip, hip .” Once more the
solitary voice startled the silence of the night, and an
unresponsive crowd watched a stern-faced national-
purse-laden Premier pass out into the darkness of the
harbir with stony indifference. Twelve months previously
20,00) signatures had been secured to the testimonial
which the now cheer-less Premier was carrying away
with him.
“ H.P.” writes :
“Dick” Toutcher, M.L.A. for Ararat (Vic.), threaten B
to develop into a red-hot radical. Before he entered Par
liament, he was a prominent A.N.A. man, and also did
good work as secretary of the Australian Federation
League. He has dropped out of active A.N.A. work—
seemingly to his advantage. His former high-flown,
flowery style of oratory contained little promise of the
solid horse-sense which his Parliamentary experience has
doubtless helped to bring out. Toutcher has gained some
popularity owing to his prominence in several straight-
going movements recently—notably, the M'Kenzie busi-
ness and his anti-State Governor move. But his best
work is in connection with land reform. He writes or
inspires much solid land-tax matter that appears in the
press, and is doing much to demoralise the old lying
arguments of the city landholders, who pretend to be
very solicitous of the farmers’ interests—in order to save
their valuable tax-dodged holdings. Toutcher is a strik-
ing instance (for Victoria) of a man more than holding
his own against the united opposition of the Melb.
morning press.
“ F.C.” writes :
I know at least one brave, sturdy, self-reliant worker
in our great natural industries. Seven years ago he was
a compositor. His sight failing, he bought 10 acres,
cleared them and put in fruit. On peas and strawberries
he and the wife battled along till the advent of the fourth
baby. Then she died. Gradually his sight grew worse,
until I have seen him feeling his way home along the
fence. A kindly Melbourne specialist slowly brought
back the sun to the darkened eyes, and then things
began to improve. To-day he is just beginning
to feel his feet; his trees are coming into full bearing—
and his orchard, though small, is easily the finest around
Melbourne. I know nearly every fruit-garden within a
16-miles radius of the city, and, for care of the soil, atten-
tion to the trees, proper pruning, spraying, &c., I know
none to equal his. Yet, beyond the casual hints of a few
neighbors, his knowledge has been gained entirely from
such scientific works as he could get. When I read that
the rich and swindling Rodney farmers are cadging on
the State for more irrigation works in addition to the
Waranga Basin and the old works that they refused to
pay for, and think of this man’s solitary dam—laboriously
scooped out in the spare hours of his strenuous battle—l
want Sammy Lancaster’s head on a plate.
Townsville, the dilapidated, was named
after Captain Bobby Towns, ’aT’one-time wealthy
shipping trader who married a sister of W. C.
Wentworth, and lived at Rose Bay, in the property
now known as the State Government House.
The Captain was an M.L.C., and was the hero of
the occasion when, with President Sir W. W.
Burton, the members re f ired from the Chamber
as a protest against the addition of some 20
new men appointed to pass a Robertson Land
Bill.
One of the ablest and most modest of
N.S.W. Supreme
Court J udges has
a place on the
Blue Mountains,
and retires there
to rusticate now
and again. On one
occasion, aggrieved
by the trespass of
somebody s cow, he
called on the local
policeman to com-
plain, and to state
what steps should
be taken. Now,
me little malm,”
said the constable,
majestically, “don’t
you be worrying
yourself about
things which
you don’t know
nothing about,
sich as the law
as to poundage.”
The Judge was so
impressed that he
looked up the point,
and was shocked
to find that hedidn’t
know how to get
a cow legally into
a pound. He
knew almost
everything else,
but not that.
When Tenny-
son’s name was
first suggested as
that of a possible
Governor it is
said that a sur-
prised British
Cabinet Minis-
ter rose hur-
riedly among
the red tape
and the cir-
JOS. SYMES.
cumlocution, to ask if this wasn’t the fellow
who had written something. Whereupon a bitter
person remarked that there was still hope for
Britain when one of its rulers remembered, even
faintly, that a person named Tennyson had
written something.
An old gold-hunter :
Died recently at Charters Towers (N.Q.), Frederick
Pfeiffer, commonly and affectionately known as “ old
Pfeiffer.” He was born at Frankfort-on-Main in 1833.
First struck Australia as a ship apprentice in ’5l, returned
in ’56 and “rushed” to Mt. Blackwood (Vic.). After-
wards mined at Castlemaine, Dunolly, Back Creek, Tar-
rengower, Ballarat, and a score of other places. Followed
the gleam to Maoriland when the Young Iniquities flocked
there in ’62 and hustled at Gabriel’s Gully, the Moly-
neaux and Lajse Wakitipu. In the early ’7o’s was at Ade-
long (N.S.W.). In ’74 tried the Palmer (Q.), got stranded
in Townsville and struck for the Towers, and in ’7B held a
fourth in the phenomenal Day Dawn P. Co., which in
nine years paid £396,399 in divs. and was then sold to
Bull, “old Fred.” receiving over £lOO,OOO for his interest.
After that Pfeiffer stuck to the Day Dawn line, and
within the last few years spent £50,000 in the D.D. Free-
hold Consolidated, actually taking up all the contributory
shares.
C. E. Jones is dead. He was a tailor,
about the largest and most robustious ever seen.
The gift of the gab, to an unlimited extent, took
him out of his Bourke-street firm of Jones and
Thomas (ladies’ riding habits a speciality) into
politics. After fighting M'Culloch, that wily per-
son took him into a Cabinet, as Railway Minister,
and he lasted just eight months. Then came a dis-
pute with one J. W. Randell, who alleged that
Jones was paid =£so (which seems an absurdly small
sum) for a Conservative job. This led to a libel
aotion, in the course of which Jones’s famous
“ mint sauce ” letter was produced. The upshot
was Jones’s expulsion from the Assembly. This
was in 1869. He was again returned to Parlia-
ment, and led a straggling existence there till ’7l,
when he was thrown out. After that he drifted
round America for a while, and came back to
stand for Ballarat again in ’B3, and be defeated by
the casting vote of the returning-officer. He got
in again in 1886, and was utterly defeated in 1889,
getting only 113 votes. He was at the bottom of
the poll again in 1892. After that the Good Tem-
plars gave him a short-lived billet as travelling
agent, and he descended even to lecturing on
“Love, Courtship, and Marriage.” He went to
Westralia and tried unsuccessfully to enter Parlia-
me!i r there, and he was a badly-defeated Federal
candidate at Fremantle. And now, after 34 years
of struggling to live down that £5O episode, ex-
Railway Minister Jones is dead.


THREE STAR
BRANDY.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Res'hs W.irerley BreTMjr,
Aboriginalities.
To Coxtrxbctom — ln the ease of ethnological and
natural history items , etc., at trays give date and
place of experience ;or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will hare scientific
value
“ E.D.” : Ee “G.J.M.” on March flies
(B. 7/3/03). “G.J.M.” should observe more
closely. Increase in size of March flies is by no
means perplexing. The “ 1903 March flies are
monsters ” ! Certainly, because their numbers
have decreased. “ G.J.M." saw the fittest which
have survived ; monsters because cannibals. The
new diet to which they have been driven has
given great development. Caniue teeth of March
fly this year are abnormally large. If “G.J.M.’’
keenly observes, he will notice the next genera-
tion of March flies, if droughts continue, as large
as sparrows ; and so season after season until they
are of the dimensions of ostriches. This, of
course, is dependent on dry seasons ; one wet
year will spoil aIL
• • • •
“ Bullfrog ” : Brer rabbit is keeping quite
up-to-date. Two of us were stuck with small
boats in the lower Darling last winter, close to
several large warrens, and the rabbits were mud-
fat. although there was not a sign of feed of any
sort. We were trapping a few, and always found
the paunch full of good dry grass. This puzzled
us till we started to dig out a big lime-stone
warren full of natural cavities, and found one
hole packed full of dry grass—two kerosene-tins
full. A boundary rider who came along said he
had often noticed the bunnies taking dry grass to
the burrows the previous spring, but thought it
was for nests. There must have been plenty
more “ sflos ” through the hollow lime-stone
country.
Just an ordinary bush tale, by “0.A.R.0."
a C R T girl:
One drought item impressed itself hxunticglj on my
mind. _lt happened on a Lachlan station, not a month
oeer U'* IH 51 crdhiary bush
heat, which can give points to all others. A drove of
wretched cattle had been driven through the run, on a
forlorn hope of grass ran her down. One poor suffering
be * 5 *» “d dying, had fallen out, unable to travel,
leil ? ehLl ? L Mtun? . “ *« «»
kill for mercy's sake ; the crows alone are attentive to
ibe dying. All the men had left the homestead eariv on
their usual weary rounds, and. in the midst of a glaring,
blazing noon, I heard a puppy yelping its heart out in
the yard. Crawling amid protests from beneath the bed
(always the coolest place), I trotted kUchenwards, and,
peering through a window, saw a pitiful sight. In the
yard stood the dying bollock; it must have got upon its
feet and stumbled m the house. It was the most awful-
looking thing Just covered with shrunken skin, as of
* b»g dead ueast : one foot staked badly, and caked with
blood and dies. It stood sawing its bead at the puppy,
aod ;ts eyes were wells of blood. An iron lack,
filled with water, stood in the comer of the yard, beneath
what had once been a trellis of vines. The beast made its
wa . v over. and. smelling the water, made a wild attempt
10 >?* U °J knocking the tank down—it was too feeble
to do any damige-and then fell to ticking the iron with
a black, withered tongue. A dish being handy, I levered
it from the window and filled i: by means of the doper.
The poor beast smelt the water direetlv. and in its awful
hurry upset upoa the ground. I will never forget, as
it licked the dust ravenously, its moan of utter pain. I
50 .ffled free sympathy, and ventured a small tub next,
throwing water into it from above. How it drank 1 Its
head being in the tab got in the wav of mv aim oeca-
amity, but neither of us minded. At last it'could dr nk
no more, and simply slobbered its mouth in the water I
ani ~'-- to driri but keeping guard over the tub.
1 kep * il “PP w^n nten
retoroeii they took it away, and shot it in the paddock-
As the report rar.g out, I was jxi.klug, with i swelled
nase, for home.
THAT GAME CHICKEN.
NEWLY-I MPORTED MAJOB(looking at pet emu): “Bai
Jove! what a wonderful place this Australia is for
growing things. Fancy producing poultry that size!”
The following explains the absence of
young Hopeful from the morning’s lessons :
Mr. HirarEAßD. —Dear Sr. the Cause of Claude
absence from school this mong be—no work to do what
wer he dordled about until so late and the Cause of Mary
Joane's I am bossy and my baby is so Cross so i am
obliged to keep her at home to mind the baby and
yesterdy evenig she had to go away on a mist perticuUr
perpose and Claude absence on Wednesday afternoon he
come home to dinner holding his head in his hand Crying
and saying it was pein so i could not send him and after
an hour I was sorry i did not him because he was rung
about her and i had a mind to send him at three Oclock
Tours truely Mrs. A. Bsarup.
• • » •
They’ve got a freak at Gennanton
(N.S.W.). A foal was recently thrown there
without the sign of an ear in the usual place, but
there’s a big growth like an ear in the side of the
face. The off side nostril is the usual size and
shape, though the other is much distended and not
used for breathing purposes. Surmised that the
large nostril takes the place of an ear, and that
the foal hears with it. Top jaw, shorter than the
lower one, inclines to the left. The freak eats
grass with his head between his legs and sideways,
and is a well-proportioned animal about the
body, with four fine legs.
• • • •
Winton is, perhaps, the hottest and driest
town of Western Queensland. The air there is
often a furnace blast; the ground is usually blaz-
ing brass, and the local bore gives out a lovely
stream of water jnst a trifle below boiling point.
In consideration of these facts, the Reform party
of Winton recently stirred up the police to e’ose
the pubs, on Sunday. Hitherto Sunday has
always been the wet spot in Winton’s dry exist-
ence, but now the wet has ceased, and the average
Wintonite goes abroad, grim and speechless on
the Sawbath, and gasps a dry. uncanny curse at
the droughty heavens and the local Reform party.
A party of men engaged once
in making a road in Monaro
(X.S.W.) district erected a num-
ber of huts to serve as dwellings
pro. -fern., and the facetious man of
the camp affixed to the door of his
mansion a board bearing the legend
“ Dew-drop Inn.” The contractor
went under for lack of funds when
the job was half through and a
local Hebrew storekeeper was in-
duced to finance him. This help
notwithstanding, the contractor
went to the wall, and the kindly
financier had to w istle for his
shekels. The camp broke up. but
not before the aforesaid facetious
individual reconstructed his sign,
which still testifies for the informa-
tion of the passing traveller " i :.e
Jew dropped in.”
• • • *
If the Vic. Lands Depart-
ment knows its business, it will see
that the regulation forbidding des-
truction of timber on lands held
under grazing License is strictly en-
forced. In the Upper Glenelg large
areas are held for grazing under
rules which prohibit ringbark;: g,
Ac. Until about four Years ago
sheep-raising appeared to be all that
this district was capable of. Since
then, however, bee-culture has been
tried, and the eagerness with which
the settlers from the plains further
south are moving upwards to es-
tablish apiaries is sufficient testi-
mony to the value (hitherto un-
suspected of these tracts of red-
gum, smooth iron bark, and yellow
and grey box. But in spite of
- •> - \ . .• - : t
graziers are ruining some of the
choicest honey-yielding trees by
ringharking. A Dur.keid bee-farmer
Mr. T. Bolton shows the value of
the “busy be©” in this class of
conn try:
After rmgaaxking. she grass return > > *K' t
per awifl per iqniit aalt. B«t u tpian of SamlMuw
oq three square cures the Knr: at which br-e- . .
give »too* of borer, with w money value of f ix' tvr
square nai>.
• • » •
A novel sight on the Tsieri Plain M.LA
is that of horses wearing fecgiugs while pkv ghiug
to protect :..eu- from the prickly thistle.
“6 i 8” : The lyrebird—in
Gippsland wrongly called pheasant—
is certainly Australia’s shyest bird,
and the 12-apo«tle* bird the tamest.
Bit down anywhere in the bush and
these noisy, dirty-brown-colored birds
will hop all over yon, without any
sign of fear. The butcher-bird will
dive down from an adjacent tree and
snatch a piece of meat out of your
hand, so will the rninab, or soldier-
bird, but neither of them will come
up to you like the apostles. By the
way, the legend and reason for the
name of that bird is that it is alleged
to always travel in parties of 12.
But, dating many years’ bush ex-
perience, I have never once seen
exactly 12 in a mob. The story also
goes that they always build 12 nests
in the one tree, which is also wrong.
They certainly build colonies of nests
in the branches of one tree, but rarely
more than four or five. [Possibly
the bird was really named on the
theory that anybody wantonly killing
it should be fined 12a. by a magistrate
looking as venerable as an apostle.]
• • • •
“ 00100 ” : Went round one
Sunday with a trooper who was in-
specting hotels, in order to see that
the Sunday trading law was being
carried out. The trooper, whenever he
came near a hotel, would make his
horse rear up, and generally create a
clatter sufficient to arouse the whole
neighbourhood. Then he would alight
and, giving me his horse to mind,
tramp heavily up to the hotel door
and demand admittance. It must
have been a very law-abiding district,
for we did not come across a single
case of Sunday trading.
“Marie B.” : Ee strong men (“Tom
Collins,” B. 21 6 "02). One of the strongest men
the Australian bash has known was “Black
Andy,” an American negro with legs like young
oak-trees and a back like a bullock's. For years
he was a cook, a celebrity, and a “character”
on the Lachlan and Murrumbidgee. A favorite
feat of his was the carrying of a cwt. case of corru-
gated iron ; and he could also carry a barrel of
cement 50yds. or so. Another very strong man I
knew was a Peak Downs (Q.) digger, who was
able to walk off with two 2001 b. bags of flour, one
under each arm. He was a man of the sub-femi-
nine type, with abnormal hips and small waist,
and weighed only 11-stone.
• • • •
“ Yabba” : Bcßiverina’s par(B. 22 3/ 02).
I know a family in the Gladstone district (Q.) the
heights of the various members of which are: —
Father, 6ft. 2in.; mother. 6ft. ; eldest son, 6ft.
3in. (weighs 15 stone's: eldest girl (aged 20), 6ft.
The second son, at 17, 6ft. 7in.; a second girl at
do., sft. lOin., and the youngest son, at 13, 6ft.
9in.
• • • •
A voice from six inches above The Bulle-
ttx’s head wails thus:
Re numerous Bctlstis pars, about tall men, strong
men, etc. Wear's the good of being a tall man—or
even of being an extra-strong one? A big man gets no
more for his work than an ordinary toiler —simply because
he is worth no more, if: re. the exceptional man, physi-
cally, is often at a disadvantage—especially to himself.
A specially biz bosh laboring-man can't get clothes, hats,
boots, socks, braces, or belts big enough from the ordi-
nary country store. Consequently he's a misfit all over
Also, especially amongst soearers and bush-workers, a
big man gets so ae ostemed to being looked-up-to (in
more senses than one) that he comes to expect it, until
some little chap comes along and knocks the stuffing out
of him. Present writer stands 6ft. Sin. and weighs 17j
stone ; so kt knows something of the disadvantages of
“ out-aira” He has ret to learn what are the advantages.
N. C. HOPPKE (Xinncs of the Sydney Thousand. the
richest cycling ONe in the World), on his Massey-
Harris race.
Photo, by Mera. Sydney.
“ D*«by " : H&rd-pressed for s«. me thing to
oat, tho of to-day samples some queer
~ T , , ,
» siaocHerrag camp-fire I lately
* turtk »d some mossd shells that
** **** oeeeatly baked in w« ashes. The fresh
vo * u ' r ott-ssel has a BASseocs earthy favor, but
wri tnrthhnkod iith tali ail .in linplj mvnltinn
THE MAX FROM JAMBEROO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We were penned up on an islet up the Murrumbidgee
way,
Where we’d stumbled after nightfall; then, before the
break of day,
Down the peaceful-lookin’ channels we had clambered
over dry,
The flood came rushin’ round us, an’ was runnin’ bankers
high.
We ’ad but a single johnny-cake, an’ that we had to
halve,
An’, as we couldn’t swim, it looked a case of drown or
starve.
Three days went by, an’ then the fourth, an’ things
looked pretty blue,
When there came a bearded bushman from the town of
Jamberoo.
He stood upon the bank awhile, an’ gravely shook his
head,
An’ absently remarked, “ Ter-night will see them waters
spread ”
For it had been rainin’ heavily that mornin’ up the range,
An* if that islet wasn't swamped he'd think it mighty
strange ;
He knew them bilUbongs around, knew how them waters
ran
By the capers of the bubbles where he stooped to fill his
can;
“ There’s an undercurrent runnin’ that is dangerous for
you,”
Was the Mum enunciation of the man from Jamberoo
He serenely lit a fire, an’ put his billy on to boil,
An’ in a leisured manner took his bfuey out of coil;
He emptied out his tucker-bag, an’ measured out his tea,
An’ stood his beef an' damper where our hungry eyes could
see.
When we beseeched him abjectly to throw a feed across.
He feebly flung a stick an’ said, “ Ter see, ’twould be a
loss."
He ate his dinner peacefully and smoked a pipe or two,
jn his never-hurry fashion, did the fiend from Jamberoo.
A SCENE OUT BACK.
Photo, by J. Brokenshirt, Broken Hill.
We couldn't Hand it longer, so we up an’ offered him
A pound apiece with each of us across the hood to swim
He said it was like courtin' death to tempt that current
then ;
To face it twice for such a sum was underratin' men ;
.. ’
He d risk his precious carcase if we multiplied by five,
An* if he didn’t get us o’er he'd never land stive.
We fcaegted an* we argued, but we couldn't make a do,
So we pledged our aH-earned sarin s to the thief from
_
Jamberoo.
~ . . , .. .. . . . . . .. .
He stripped upon .he soadened sank , ne looked a hero
hold ;
Then dipped his finger in the flood, an* said twas “ pun v
" '
- . ■*,... ... ~ ~, .
But suddenly he braced himself an’ cleft the water;
brown ;
The current seized an’ spun him round, an’ thrice it
sucked him down ;
... .... . , . , , , , , ,
Bat sr... he gashed an spattered on, an struggled to
the isle '
With just sufficient energy to muster up a anile.
“Vo mistake, that stream* a noser K-; i mean ter
, F m€afi l€T
rescue you.
Said the bearded Ananiiwaa who came from Jamberoo.
.. _ . . ,
**'* T eT toe * open yer head, he an watch wot
you're about,
Lay still upon me back, an' mind ver keep ver !e*-s
straight out • *
_.T, . . ... ...
Twiil be touch an go wuh us, but jest you put yer faith
in me,
An", bv the jumpin' platvpus, 111 land ver cafe an' free ' "
Then one bv one he took us, an be hattied hard an' low
„ . ' w .. ...
Ef * - h ?iJ rot 115 “■* wh.r ;• <:.* of that seethin'
n uaboog.
We wrung his hands an’ blessed him, an’ we wept with
gladness, too,
While we vowed he was a credit to the town of Jamberoo.
He left us half his tucker, an’ we pressed him hard to
stay ;
But he seemed to get uneasy, an 1 made haste to get
away;
Then we saw the mailman cornin’—right across the
flooded creeks.
Yes. he landed on that island where we’d got our haggard
cheeks ;
Then straight across the billabong he rode his drippin’
moke,
An’, spare me days, there wasn’t need to swim a blessed
stroke !
An’ now we’re huntin’ high an’ low this droughty
country thro’,
For a certain base impostor who came from Jamberoo.
EDWARD S. SORES SOX.


Used at table and in cooking, Cerebos Salt is
not only dainty and economical, but it makes all
the food more strengthening; because it con-
tains the Bran Phosphates (absent from White
Bread) out of which Nature forms Nerve and
Brain, Bones and Teeth, and Healthy Body.
From Grocers and Stores
Wholesale Agents Harrison & Attwood, Sydney.
Patents fob Inventions. —Arthur Griffith
and Allen, International Patent Agents and Con-
sulting Engineers, University Chambers, Phillip-
street, Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyright
throughout the world.,
“ Flabby Paul ” : Saw a unique specimen
of the lizard tribe the other day. Ordinary body,
but tail spread out at end, to exactly resemble a
frying-pan. Locals say they are fairly common
here (Geraldton, Q.).
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. Ib drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Private Houses
As well as institutions, require one thoroughly
reliable Clock—the Clock that all the house knows
can be relied on. The others are usually a long
way out, but there is wanted the clock of reference.
WE ARE JUST NOW OFFERING THAT CLOCK.
It is the same as are used on the Railways in large numbers.
It is a regulator. It is absolutely reliable. It bears any reasonable vibration.
It hangs up. It lasts a lifetime. It is guaranteed for fifteen years.
It costs 58/-
It saves—well, it saves one’s temper.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney, . .
23 HUNTER ST.
‘ Fx. & R.” Regulator Clocks,
15 years’ guarantee, abso-
lutely reliable, 58/-
HE HAD LOCATED HIMSELF.
Drunk: “ One siting, (hie) once I yer ra thish
tree in the front garden I'm (hie) all ri.”
During the late harvesting season in S.A.
many farmers, from drought-stricken parts of the
north, went to the south-east and obtained work
there. Some of these men, a few years back, were
among S.A.’s most successful agriculturists, and
employed 30 to 40 men themselves at certain
seasons of the year.
* * * •
“ Hugh Macdonald ” : The ruling (Austra-
lian) passion. I saw some youngsters (boys of
8 or 9 years) holding a race-meeting on a
s'oping footpath. A number of empty
coiion-reels were ilned up at the top of the
incline, held in check by a tape. The
s’arter dropped his flag and said “Go,”
the tape was raised, and the reels ran down
the incline towards the gutter. I slackened
my pace sufficiently to learn that “an
outsider had won,” and to hear the owner
of the favorite pacifying some remonstrat-
ing backers, who evidently had their
“ pieces ” on, by saying : “My filly ought
to have won only she run wide at the
turn.”
* • * »
A hut near Grenfell (N.S. W.) has an
unenviable record. It belongs to Wheogo
Station, and the duty of the occupier is to
mind a gateway and keep sheep from pass-
ing from one paddock to the other. About
nil e years ago, when the ration-carrier
came with his weekly dole of flour and
mutton, he was horrified to find only a
corpse stretched on the rude bunk. The
body was buried near by. It was that of
old John Bevan, who, in his younger days,
was one of Grenfell’s gayest bucks, owning
a crushing-machine and considerable pro-
perty in the town. John Cossar was next
installed as gatekeeper; he also had been a
n ted character when young, living a high,
fast life at Ballarat, Bendigo, and other
1 laces, where he made money fast and
spent it freely. He existed miserably at
the hut for something like two years, then
died, and his body was three days in the
hut before an Indian lhawker chanced to
call and find it. Cosear’s successor was
nimmy Banfield, an active, cleanly man, who
made a garden and gave the lonely hut a home-
< a PP ear anoe. And now his body has been
found by a chance caller.
* * • •
“ H.K.” :
Somebody has been pulling the public’s leg. I have
oeen on the table-lands as far as the Macarthur, west, one
way, and Ebagoolah, north, and I never heard of any
wagged Thirteen. "6xB” says they were ’9l shearers
no got away, but there was only one "wanted"
snearer who got away, and he went down south and
ecame an employer of labor and a pillar of a church,
s tor Ben Bridge, he worked long on Elderslie station,
s everybody about the district (but the police) knew. He
as perfectly straight while there ; in fact, his only
Queensland offence was breaking out of the Burketown
iock-up. As for killing cattle with impunity in station-
nu, etc -~ tha t’s all rot. Why, two years ago, two men
on Carrandotta run, with meat in their camp they
urn not account for, got six months’ “ hard ” ; and
carrandotta is 400 miles west of Winton. The men out
e ’u a so ’ are not a law less crowd ;in fact, they haven’t
anv U • e i n f r ?y * n them for that. Any man who has
irWr VlD c! • ' n won ’t stop out there. For instance,
• * n ‘iter, who shot Mr. Henderson in Rockhampton,
Han P e , ec tb’ safe out there ; but he came into Uran-
gie for the races, was snapped, and got 12 years.
said ofhe i A go ° d deal haa been
animals ° r uncann y spots that
tnfov 1 approach. A doctor
informed me that there is a gorge in
‘„ ha “ no S rd “ i» evlr
mad with r f near 'u ■ Hor ? es taken there go
mad with fear, becoming absolutely un-
manageable. Yet there is nothing in the
° f the ? ,ace to accost for
flowed and' i! I s tuU ?j '«”» “ d "Id
While ’in n °° ks - ln ldeal Pmnic spot,
week conversation with a cocky a
The ooek’w | W ?f to d an °ther mystery,
his vard (It- iad a s ' mdar haunted spot in
flowers) L W f n 4 full of ferns and wild
mZtn \ n hls animals used to dodge
round tW 7 ' , Ev ; en the d °g would sidle
you coSd Particular bit of ground, and
you could mark the exact area of the
it ft SP< l! 11,8 '“‘Prints round
so bnilf co ° k y hated to see land wasted,
hens n 0n ifc ’ and Pat the
niio-hi 7 main force, so that they
m ght get over their foolishness. At
continued f deUCe ° f a row arose ’ and
wTnif d f ° r S , ome time ’ The c °cky, not
W L a , d / ghosts, lay low till morning,
when he liberated a score of very badly
groiTml C10 ? ks ’ fo u und a dead one on the
£ °Vad- and another that was undoubtedly
and had just laid a deranged egg (the
egg is my addition to the story). The
next morning revealed two more dead
!j!ri an u four , mad ones - He then burnt
tne henhouse down.
* •
X-O. ’ from Philp’s country :
cursed wiih NO rf. th Q ueensland >8 fairly well blessed, or
Oharte’rs TLerrrstrTcr'Th A CaSe in ,-P oi " t is the
aldermen nnH dlstrict - The municipality has nine
stS coarse ’. a mayor. The suburbs con-
a Th W '!r el = ht ordlnal T councillors and
BoarH A.h X - h aadjacent , nt country forms a Divisional
k » ~ua io and flve other boardsmen. There
tin l°, ard ’ Traffic Board, Fire B.igade Board,
two Hospital Committees, an Ambulance Committee,
nd several sets of public trustees. All these for a
population of about 30,000 people. About the only
. h e ? etlt noticeable is that, as the honors are so common,
to body calls a mayor “ your washup,” or an alderman
sk —they are just called “Freddy” or “Bob.”
* * * •
mtPt “mean man” competition,
R.L.G.” asserts : A widow friend of mine, who
had saved a few hundreds, married a man who
evidently intended to shepherd her boodle very
carefully. It was a common trick of his to break
down the morning milk (which the milkman had
previously done pretty successfully). His wife
was suffering agony from a bad eye, which she
eventually lost. One afternoon, on returning
home from a walk with her daughter, the latter
remarked, “Why, mum, there is more eye-lotion
m the bottle now than there was before we went
out.” The old lady, knowing her “streak’s”
parsimonious ways, taxed him on the point, and
he admitted having watered it a bit t
NO FEAR OF ENNUI.
N EW-CHUM: “ Ah, how do you yet on for amuse-
ment up here. Have you a theatre or any
other means of enjoying oneself?”
BLASE BILL: “ W-e-ll, there's Cassidy's cow ’ll he
karvin' 'n about two weeks, 'n Hairy Bill 'll
just he about gettin’ th' horrors t’-day or th'
day after; 'n if yer care about warkin’ to
th' stashun, it's ony about ten mile or so,
yer'll be able t’ see th' evenin' train shunt.
There's plenty o' fun if yer care t’ look fer it
round ’ere.”
“J.F.D.”: The drought is hunting them
in. Three swaggies—billy, Matilda, etc., com-
plete-called at my shop in George-st. West, this
week, stranded for everything. One, who was
hardly aware of the fact that he had arrived in the
Big Smoke, informed me that there was damn
little water along the road (by the way he spoke I
concluded he meant from Burwood into town),
and the rabbits were very bad. He took a black
view of everything. I had a parrot in a cage and
he mistook it for a crow.
“ C.A.R.0.” tells the old tale once again :
Spent a week in the desolation and drought; and now,
hack among the fleshpots, am haunted by the animals—
the silent, tortured animals, whose pitiful eyes are their
only protest turned upon the world. The stricken bush
is not a land of “ crying woe,” as someone wrote the other
day, but a silence of desolate despair—a silence of
finality. It seems as if it were finished ; as if already the
end were here ! What can city people know of it, who
see the clear harbor waters day by day, and grumble at
the curtailed water supply that diminishes their button-
holes. But out West, what will it matter now for most
if rain does come? Can water pay for blood? Will it
bring the ruined, drifting families back ? And those
awful desolations of deserted homes standing dumbly in
their nakedness? And the bones —the millions of them t
Can they ever be washed away? They will only gleam
the whiter if the grass ever comes. Grit-covered fences
with rusty wires (how they shrill and rattle in the
stillness) show alone where the road runs, for everything
roads, plains and paddocks—is one blistered, glaring
desert. All day long in the utter silences, crows fly
circling from barren tree to tree, whose branches know
no other living thing, for the little bush songsters have
all gone, and their silence is a horror in the bush. The
wattles have not bloomed for years, and the gums never
blossom now. On those flatnesses of sand not even a
bush fire could exist, and the dancing whirlwinds of dust
are the only traffic. Shut your eyes and you go back to
the old horizons of drifting sheep and the thin, incessant
bleat of lambs. Open them to the whirling dust and the
flapping scavenger crow. The old bush life is killed.
Perhaps, with the rain that must come, the land will live
again. But the old settlers are gone, and their passing
lies heavy on the weary, sun-cursed, crow-damned land.
KEEP ’EM CHAINED!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
"So the lodgin’s doesn’t suit yer,” said the lady, with
a sneer ;
"This ain’t equal to the backblocks and its social atmo-
sphere,
But I rather wonder whether, when you ’re campin’ in
the weather,
If yer sleep on beds o’ feather, sech as these pervided
here ? ”
“ Well,” said the bushy, firmly, “ I will speak my feelin’s
plain ;
It isn’t of the feathers in yer beds which we complain,
But the things wot aggravate us is them cursed alli-
gators !
An’ I wish ter observate as yer should keep ’em on the
chain 1 ”
N.B.W.
GOBUNG.
An Interview With. George Willoughby.
“My glad rags,” says George Willoughby, “aren’t
they saucy ? And my stockings ! Oh ! aren’t
they passionate ? ” And, so saying, he does a
dance upon the stage. So far, his glad rags and
his stockings and his kiss-curl have won success
for him in over 40 Australian theatres and halls ;
although, as he says himself, he was not bred for
a pretty actor, and although he is one of the few
men who, coming to this country as a salaried
member of a company, has speedily gone into
actor-managership, and made a win of it as star.
It is no easy thing to do that in Australia. Only
a little while ago, Brough came to us with .£7OOO
he had made in the East, only to lose it all in
producing London successes.
“A character well made up is half played, and
the other half, the better half, is secured when the
actor gives an individuality, a personality, to the
character over and beyond the author’s con-
ception. Only an actor possessing invention and
resource can do that. In fact it is seldom that
the actor is allowed the opportunity. The author
as a rule regards himself as a genius and regards
the actor as an automaton whose mission in life is
to obey the genius’ will. The genius demands
that the automaton shall speak and move
and act as the genius directs. In some of
the London productions it is considered gross
presumption to make even a suggestion to an
author. Of course it cuts both ways. If the play
succeeds, the author gets all the credit. If it
fails, he gets all the blame. But in any case the
author regards himself as a genius, understood or
misunderstood as the case may be.” Mr. Broad-
hurst, however, allowed Mr. Willoughby to inter-
polate dialogue, actions, situations, and almost
entire scenes into “The Wrong Mr. Wright.”
And the success of the farce in Australia shows
the accuracy of Broadhurst’s judgment, and the
wisdom of the latitude he allowed to Willoughby.
“ Oh, you mustn’t ask me anything about
Bernhardt ? If I begin criticising the great stars,
my brother actors would send me to bed ; they
would say of me, ‘ the young man’s had a lucky
rise and ’e’s talkin’ through ’is ’at.’ But I can
say this. That an actress to become great must
have depth—depth of soul, a truly feminine soul
and a beautiful conception of harmony. For
instance, the woman who’d begin the honeymoon
by throwing the crockery about could never hope
to enlist the sympathies of her audience.
“ ‘Othello?’ Oh, that’s not my class of goods.
I couldn’t begin to talk ‘Othello.’ < If I did I
should get bricks ; I should get hot pie. I should
have the heavy tragedians glowering upon me,
striding up to me, tapping me upon the shoulder,
and exclaiming, ‘ Wot a terrible cheek you’ve
got! Why don’t you poultice it?’
“You know, I got into trouble once before. I
was in the sitting-room of a fashionable hotel,
and I remarked to the friends who were with
me that Charles Arnold went to sleep in the
Erst act of ‘Sign of the Cross,’ and did not
wake up till his wife shook him and told him
the show was over. I had hardly finished this
story when the door was flung open, and there
stood before me a short, portly man of
Roman aspect, with very high heels —a frowning
man, who said: ‘ Young gentleman, it is all
very well for Arnold to go to sleep while watching
the ‘ Sign of the Cross,’ but when I saw ‘Jones ’ I
wept, it made me so sad. As for the ‘ Sign of the
Cross,’ let me tell you that women who never
went to a theatre, religious women who shunned
the playhouse as the house of sin, fat old women
of pious temperament, dear, religious old ladies,
•came by the thousand to see me play Marcus
Superbus. And in the great situation, where,
with my Roman frenzy, I rush upon the Saint to
bite her, women used to faint, sir, ladies used to
faint, so much did I thrill them with the reality
of my performance. And, sir, it was the great
theatrical spectacle of this decade to see those
fainting, fat, old ladies taken out of the theatre,
taken out and laid in the cool—laid on one side
like so much stale cake.
t i“The difference between the Broadhurst farce
and the English farces is that the Broadhurst
dialogue is crisp and humorous to read, and that
the Broadhurst farce is a long way ahead of the
English in the reality of its situations. There is
not a syllable wasted, and you can get the pace on
to the piece not only in the dialogue, but also in
the action. Nobody sits down and soliloquises.
All the same, ‘ Jones ’ lost money during its first
ten weeks at London Strand, and it was only by
persisting with it after that, that it pulled up and
reaped a harvest. You cannot make a piece run
like that in Sydney or Melbourne* Here you
must get your money back in the first week or
two ; or else take the piece off and replace it with
another. This state of things means very hard
work for actors and actresses, especially to fun-
builders, who have to throw all their energy into
their parts, so as to keep an audience at boiling-
point all the time. Don’t ask my opinion on
competitive shows. I don’t want any competitor
to come to my door with a ‘Just before the battle,
mother ’ expression. I don’t want any bloodshed
in my house. A young actor like myself on his
first tour as star, must only say things conducive
to piety and health.
GEORGE WILLOUGHBY as SINGLETON
SITES, in “ The Wrong Mr. Wright.”
Photo, by Talma, Sydney.
“ I have played in four London theatres—the
Strand, Lyric, Globe and the Garrick. I began
originally in the chorus at the London Savoy in
’B7. Brownlow, Shirley, Piddock and I were all
in the same company. All in the chorus. We
were all triers, if we were not flyers. And all of
us are now in Australia. For a number of years I
played the comedy-baritone parts in the Gilbert
and Sullivan operas. In ’9B I played in comic
opera, with Flo Young as prima donna, right
through Africa, a six months tour under Edwards.
And I was in Pietermaritzburg with Arnold when
Colenso was fought. We saw all the wounded
come down. And that night all the foreign
attaches came in from the battle-field for the pur-
pose of seeing us play ‘Jones.’
“The only mishap I’ve had upon the stage
occurred during the first act of ‘ln Town.’ I was
playing Captain Coddington. The staircase
slipped from under me. I fell to the floor and
broke my thumb. Even so I was more frightened
that hurt. I was frightened—l was nearly dead
with fright; with fright of Alice Barnett, the
biggest woman who ever stood upon the stage.
She struggled for three seconds, and then just
managed to save herself from falling down on top
of me. Oh, Lor’ ! Oh, Lor’ ! Where would 1
have been with my glad rags and my kiss-curl
and my passionate socks, if Alice had toppled
over !
“ Are we continuing? We are, and on a bigger
scale than at present. George Broadhurst, the
author, is acting for us in New York, and Mr.
Charles Arnold is acting for us in London ; both
selecting the pick of the plays that are put on at
the two great centres of play production.”
And then he of the glad rags and the kiss-curl
and the passionate socks ceased conversing all of
a sudden.


MELBOURNE AND THEREABOUTS.
(,^ n) cn-r'
iy An 'Ay
y
.13 - i
°jf I
•frauli 11 ** ,r *V
/ -
/ ''" , t '~ U^
: §3S>s'§f^lHH. Upl : gg ; iSMl.ll(§BjH§fl|BS!Bi i|ljg
'» £ ijbr4r/
v _ ' - tjL \ 'L'tr
n P
nl aJI
-% ij A f o #" 1 ** "°
A^
ijp*— «n» :cT B***i««l A^y-
* -+ ~ I saw fT *A t &l(»«7£' c^cwn
rjc- & 'TC-tn: ,r *
Y|Hloli^neoos
y nsr
. A fonv'crcion
«f P&frr
S l #*®*** » %* %s*<**-
- -.— fes;
*' .' C '
is* f 7 \ Govtrnor -% w^rPe^r.
wH M* !»““
Q? >fc- r ,**£«<=■ I
...
r^B'
srSSrllSl^
S. "'="' ' '■
D ijtre once
Jmbirc
Vs b< ■ Of *np.*.
when *« »-» ■
or* m «f s
' y»e Were
dic\<£e* *£f"
no
’fello ! *y
ii4He
%*<r£ djt
'joM TlO'+f
Cr W
K 15;£ Vu Roll
W«*«n VC o<4" I+* I
Tailor . C&r; Ot> 4r* s ir -
,>vtrrf — * ci'aH'r!
._ free ?
“V*sf.— * -
t «j»?jkh W** .7*tnfr-
-A\£»o,i
. _ 2>><\K •*<« )
■J**' RtUtVr
"' 7 .<»■*


A LOOK ROUND.
No. 1. O’SULLIVAN’S LATEST . —This is not a “ Weary Willie” picture from an American comic paper, but it is very like it. The unemployed ask
for a “little work,” and O’Sullivan points to the wood-pile. No. 2.—A Peep into the Future. —British Money-lender : “ Mein Gott! I lent you a few
shillings on der vood, and now you coom already to pawn der axe!” No. 3. —View of Mount Arltunga, as seen through The Bulletin telescope. The
creature upon the summit is a wild cat. No. 4.—At the inquiry by the Federal Capital Sites Commission, sitting at Orange last Friday, a local
brewer stated that the beer of his brewery was made from water drawn from a well 33ft. deep. After gazing into the pellucid depths of this well for a few
hours, the Commission adjourned to the brewery to make further investigations. No. 5.—This is what may happen to an “ officah and a gentleman ” in
the British Army. The verdict of a humorous court-martial is being put into execution. It would appear that a subaltern who has not been bastinadoed
within an inch of his life a few times has not “seen service.” No. 6.—Missing Friends.— “lsay, have you seen anything of Geo. Reid lately?”
No. 7. Is Black Labor a Failure ?— At Brisbane the other day a man blew his brains out with a revolver. Some time ago he offered a Kanaka £$ to
cut his (the suicide’s) head off, but the “ boy refused.


A. SAUNDERS
for jewellery, watches, clocks, optical goods, leather
GOODS, AND SILVERPLATE OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAD BOARD and KNIFE, Pure Silver-plated on Hard
Nickel Silver, beautifully Chased and Ornamented, 355.
Can be used as Cake Dish or Salver. Similar styles, 255,
80s, U, £2 10s. A USEFUL PRESENT.
J. DIXON nnd PONS’ Famous English Plate.
iiiiniiiniiiiPi. 1 riniiiiiiiiiiiiniitinmiiHiwip
mini
.tieaunoerg:
UONPOI^*«AV,6Ng.V,ra^~
IpcS*!
pxPßs6nppp£fi
A. SAUNDERS. ,
CAll VERS, KNIFE, FORK, and STEEL, Joseph Rodgers' Sheffield make. In silk-lined case
Will give every satisfaction, 20s. Other styles, 3Cs, £2, £2 10s.
GUARANTEED SATISFACTORY.
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class Cabinet Striking
hours and half hours, las, 15s 9d, 17s tj
Other styles, ‘2ss to £2 10s. Add 2t
CLOCK,
1,20 s, 22s 6d, 253.
extra postage.
t'ri
m
Pi#
EKE
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class 4-Bottle CRU ET Silver-plated, £2.
Simi'ar, 255. 30s, 355.
JAMES DIXON and SONS’ Famous
English Plate.
fC
Iff
A. SAUNDERS.
PICKLE. Fii'ft-elass English Fancy Glass,
pure Silver-plated frame, £2.
Single Pickle, 255.
mm
A. SAUNDERS.
Four o’clock CAKE FORKS, Pure Silver-plated
on Hard White Metal, 20s.
Similar style, 12s 6d. A bargain.
JAMES DIXON and SONS’ Famous
English Plate.
A. SAUNDERS.
“ LADIES’ COMPANION.” pure Solid Silver
mounted, 18s 6d ; smaller, 15s 6d,
A NICE PRESENT.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ New PURSE. REFERENCE, and
TICKET BOOK, 10s 6d, pure silver mounted,
large size, 12s 6d.
Our own Special Design.
a. SAUNDERS.
0102.—HOT WATER, KETTLE and
STAND, Silver-plated on White Metal,
Extra Chased, £2los.
Similar Designs, £2, £3, £3 10s.
DIXON and SONS’ Famous English Plate.
A. SAUNDERS.
EGG CRUET, very neat, effective, 4 Cui s
and Spoons, Pure Silver-plated on White
Nickel Silver, 21s. Other styles and pat-
terns, 255, 80s, 355, £2, £2 10s.
SMiIMH
A. SAUNDERS.
White China, silver-mounted, 10s.
All pure Silver-plated, nicely chased and
engraved, 15s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
• >■
A. SAUNDERS.
New Design, A 1 Quality, Silver-plated
BUTTER DISH, 12s 6d.
DIXON and SONS’ Highest class plate.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR SCUTTUE, square, pure
Stiver electro-plated on White
‘Metal, beautifully hand-chased,
255; similar, 21s.
Child's Pure Silver-mounted
Nursery Rhyme CUP, 10s.
In case, with Pure Silver Spoon,
255.
.First-class Gent’s
SHAVING
BRUSH, 5s 6d;
extra mounts,
7s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s,
21s.
A. SAUNDEftS.
CANDLESTICK,
Pure Silver-plated, l‘2s 6d.
Leaf Pattern, 8s 6d.
Specially made by JAMES DIXON and SONS.
Famous English Silver-ilxied 4 O’clock TEA BLTS,
£3, £3 10s, £4, £4 10s.
KINDLY CALL AND SEE OUK DISPLAY SHOW ROOMS.
A. SAUNDERS.
FISH SERVER and FORK, in Silk-lined Case, 20s, 255, 30s, 35s to £2 10s.
An Acceptable and Useful Present.
Pure PEBBLE SPECS, 4s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s ; American Gold, 12s 6d, 15s ;
Solid Gold, 255, 30s, 355, £2. Scientifically adjusted to suit you.
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class English made. Pure Silver-plated on Nickel Silver,
CAKE, £3 Ss.
Other styles, similar, 21s, 255, 30s, 355, £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Doable JAMS, Floral Ornamented China, 255, 30s.
In single 15s 6d. Pure Silver-plated Rims.
A. SAUNDERS’ LATEST STYLE.
FRUIT OR CAKE STAND,
Silver-plated Stand, with Fancy Glass, 30s.
Similar stand, 27s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
FLOWER STAND, Silver-
plated Base, 8s 6d per pair.
Larger styles. Tls 6d, 15s 6d,
21s.
Choice Table Appointments.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Crocodi e Leather
WALLET and PURSE.
Silver mounted, 5s 61 ;
with shield, 7s 6d.
SPECIAL VALUE.
A. SAUNDERS.
8124.—0ak BISCUIT, Silver-plated
Mounted, 20s ; Shield only, 15s ;
Fluted Rims, 25s ; Floral China
Mounted, 15s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM DISH, White or Fancy
Coloured Glass, Pure Silver Plate
on hard White Metal base,
Frame and Shield, 15s.
BTJTTEB. DISH, White Glass, Pure
Silver-plated, £l.
Other Designs, 255, 30s, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
FIELD and OPERA GLASSES,
First-class Lenses, good effect,
12s (id, 15s, 20s, 255, 30s, £2, £2 10s, £3,
and £4 10s to £l2 10s.
mm
nns
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class ENTREE DISHES, pure Silver on Hard Nickel,
£3. Will last a lifetime.
A. SAUNDEHP.
TEAPOTS, very pretty and useful, Pure Silver-
plated, Hand Chased and Ornamented, 255,
Other styles and Patterns, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s, £2,
£2 10s.
JAMES DIXON and SONS’ High-class English
plate.
A. SAUNDEKS.
Salad HOWL, Ornamented China, with Servers, 30s.
Similar, 255, 355, £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS. .
Pu.eSilve JAM SPOON, BUTTER KNIFE, and
BREAD FORK, in silk-lined Case, 35s
Simila , with Sifte. instead of Bread Fork, 2os.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR ann CREAM, Pure Silver-plated on hard
White Metal, Gold-plated inside, with spoon, £2 os»
A. SAUNDERS,
LEADING ART JEWELLER,
809, 811 813, 815, & 817 G€ORGE-STREET,
& SYDNEY, NEARLY OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION.
JAMETDKoS“*na , BONB.
Higli-tlass Quality, s -


Prof. Loeb’s Discovery.
— 1 ■»
THAT ELECTRICITY IS LIFE.
IS GOING TO MAKE A STRONGER RACE
OF MEN AND .WOMEN.
HOW ELECTRICITY RESTORES YOUTH.
(From the San Francisco Chronicle.)
You cannot possibly estimate the true import
of this discovery of Professor Loeb,” said Dr.
McLaughlin yesterday, in discussing the scientific-
announcement that “Electricity is Life.” “It
means more happiness to the civilised race than
has followed any discovery for years. It will
bring about the general recognition of the great
possibilities which exist in the application of elec-
tricity for the preservation of the \igor of youth.
“ I have for years contended that old age was
nothing but the freezing of the blood when there
was no longer sufficient vital heat in the body to
keep the blood warm and the organs active. I
have said that years did not cause decay, and
proved it by citing cases where some men have
been made vigorous under my rejuvenating treat
ment at 80, while you have examples all about you
of men who are old and decrepit at 60.
“Now, Professor Loeb says that the animal
heat is Electricity. That I know to be true. We
get that heat from the chemical action of the
acids and juices of the stomach upon our food.
That is combustion. This combustion produces
carbonic heat, and carbonic heat is Electricity
That is the basis of life in every vital organ. As
long as the stomach is able to generate enough
of this heat to replenish the wear and tear upon
our vital energies we are strong and active. It is
when the stomach finds the strain too heavy that
we grow old and begin to decay.
“ This is upon the same principle that an engine
pulls a train of cars up a hill. On level road it
goes easily, but when your engine, making power
from the burning coal, just as your stomach
makes it from burning your food, is taxed beyond
its limit, it is unable to go further, and, exhaust-
ing all its steam in the effort, breaks down.
“The human body is just like that engine. It
breaks down when the physical energy is over-
taxed. That energy is electricity. I have here
a means of replenishing the electricity of the
body, and that is the basis of my treatment.
“ Decay in old men is similar to general debility
in younger men. Years have nothing to do with
it. In each case it is the failure of the stomach to
generate sufficient energy to supply the demands
made by the vital organs.
“How quickly we fail when the stomach fails
to digest the food ! That shuts off the supply of
energy.
“ 1 have on record hundreds of instances where
men of 75 and 90 have returned to the hard labor
of their youth with a vim after having worn my
appliance three months.
“ One decrepit old man of 75 had in youth been
a blacksmith. After using my appliance he took
up his tools and says he can work as hard as he
did at 35. He says he is an old man made young.
“ Another man of 72 said he had been crippled
with rheumatism for forty-five years. He pro-
nounces himself cured and as vigorous as he ever
was in youth.
“ Another, who was a wreck at 49, and said
that he had been so for twenty years, was cured,
and three years later undertook the severe hard-
ship of a trip to the Klondyke. He returned a
few months ago and said that he had stood the
terrible privations*hetter than hundreds of young
men.
“I could cite thousands of similar incidents.
When you see that I have fifty thousand volun-
tary testimonials, and that there is not a hamlet
in any English-speaking country without one or
more cures by my appliances, you will understand
that my experience has been broad.
“My treatment is a success in any case where
strength is lacking, whether in the nerves,
stomach, heart, kidneys, liver or any other part.
My appliance gives a soothing, constant electric
glow, which is taken by the body just as a sponge
takes up water. It cures rheumatism in any
guise, as well as every other form of pain.
“lam an enthusiast, you say ! Why should I
not be ? I have the gratitude of thousands of
people who have been cured by my Electric Belts
after the failure of the best physicians. lam
enthusiastic because I know that I offer suffering
humanity the surest cure for the least expenditure
of money that is known to-day.
“ I have gained my success by learning how to
treat my patients and then curing them. I know
how, others do not. I charge nothing for my
knowledge, knowing that it helps my business to
do all I can for every patient. My patients are
my friends. They are building my success.
“ I want every person interested in my treat-
ment to read my beautifully-illustrated book. It
tells truths plainly, and is full of the things a man
likes to read when he wants to be strong and
healthy. I send it, sealed, free.” Address Dr.
M. B. McLaughlin, San Francisco, Cal.
One of these valuable books can be obtained
from the New South Wales office of The Dr.
McLaughlin Company, if anyone desiring one will
call at their Sydney office ; or write to them, they
will send a book, free and post-paid. Address,
The Dr. McLaughlin Co., 85 Kmg-st., Sydney,
opposite A. J. Waters.*
21/-
.
21/-
MOST MARVELLOUS VALUE
A SOLID SILYER KEYLESS
Hunting Watch.
Heavy Case, Sound Movement,
Perfect Timekeeper
GUARANTEED FOR TWO YEARS.
21 J-
Posted Duty Free to any part of Australia.
Send for my New Illustrated Catalogue.
QUEENSLAND LEADING JEWELLER
H. F. SMITH,
Queen Street, Brisbane
and at IPSWICH and TOOWOOMBA.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £.900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Botble are universally acknowledged
I*o DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES ne Bat B r ,s M ’ * SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
ALSTON S improved PATENT portable steel
FRAMED GALVANIZED STOCK TROUGH.
The BEST TROUGH Ever Invented
WILL NOT CRACK, LEAK,
RUST, or ROT
Packs in Small
. KLSTOv
-MAKER^
Supplied
In All Lengths.
THE CHEAPEST & MOST DURABLE
TROUOH EVER INVENTED.
Send for Price List.
JAMES ALSTON
PATENTEE & MANUFACTURER
Windmill Factory,
QUEEN S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE
Will Last a Life-time.
Patented Throughout Australia.
At Poverty Point.
“ H.” : That alleged new play, " A Message from Mars,”
is not so very new, after all. That worthy ancient, John
Dunn, played The Man of the Earth in a farce called
“ The Man from the Moon ” in Melbourne, ever so many
years ago, The Moon Man comes to the Earth ditto
while the latter is doing a nap after a big dinner, and
explains that he got bushed along the Milky Way—for the
Moon people can take long journeys Into space so long as
they keep within the radius of the Moon's attraction.
“ We don’t do anything so vulgar as eat up there,” ex-
plained the Selenite ; “ when we are hungry we just
unscrew our stomachs, send them to the restaurant and
get them filled, screw them on again, and there you are.’*
“Good Lord 1” replies the Earth Man, sympathetically,
“ what a lot of fun you must have missed.” The Earth
Man teaches the Moon Man to drink champagne, and he
takes so much that he doesn’t want to go home. Finally
he agrees to go if his host will accompany him, and he
lends him a pair of wings for the purpose. The pair rise
from the earth together, and the Earth Man can already
hear the Moon trumpets sounding “ Lights out! ” when
he is awakened by his wife, who says : “ Whatever is the
matter, dear? You were snoring like a fog-horn. Never
lie on your back after a heavy meal.” “ Well, if I don’t,”
asks the dazed husband, “on whose back must I lie ? ”
Curtain right there.
“ Melb.” : The “ Emerald Isle ” will awaken a chain of
memory about Irish drama. The first noteworthy Irish
comedian, for those specialties, was Johnstone, a century
ago. Then followed Connor, and Tyrone Power, the first
who had Irish pieces written round him. In Australia,
John Drew was the first noteworthy man, with his striking
performances of Handy Andy, the Irish Emigrant, and
Ragged Pat in “Ireland as it Was.” This will be somewhere
about the time when Boucicaultdescended upon London
with the “ Colleen Bawn.” Falconer, his Danny Mann,
achieved a good thing with “ Peep o’ Day.” Wheatleigh
brought the “Colleen Bawn”to Australia. O’Neill, who mar-
ried Anna Maria Quinn, was another good Irish comedian.
Boucicault's great London hit of “ Arrah-na-Pogue” soon
found its way to Australia. The first Melb. cast, at the
Royal, included: Shaun, Barry Sullivan ; Feeney, Har-
wood ; Arrah, Mrs. Heir. Rogers was Feeney in Sydney.
Harwood, though highly effective, could not get
quite so well into the oily skin of the “ Infawrmer.”
Barry Sullivan gave little Sheil Barry his good chance as
an Irish comedian, at the Melb. Royal. I will not be
sure but that Grattan Riggs, while in America, was the
best of the Shaughrans. His facial map of Connaught
suited the part of Conn, exactly.
“J.A.C.”: “Louis Paul” (B. 14/3/’O3) re “legitimate
opera,” whatever that may be, says much that is per-
tinent and of interest, but he falls into a common error
as regards “ grand opera. An opera performed in a Lad-
ing theatre by a leading company is not necessarily
“ grand.” Rossini’s “ Barber of Seville ” has been pro-
duced in the best theatres, and by the best artists in the
world, but by no stretch of the imagination could it be
looked upon as a “ grand ” opera, and the same may be
said of Mozart’s “ Le Nozze di Figaro,” one of those
mentioned in “ L.P.’s ” par. The title “Grand Opera”
is, technically speaking, applied only to such operas
as are in the repertoire of the French Theatre
National de 1’ Opera, otherwise the Paris Grand Opera
House, and a few others, and these include Rossini’s
“William Tell,” Meyerbeer’s “Huguenots,” “Prophet,”
“ Robert the Devil,” Halevy’s “La Juive,” Verdi's “ Don
Carlos,” “ Aida,” and many others. I merely name a few
of those best known out here. Even Gounod’s “ Faust ”
and his “ Romeo and Juliet,” although indubitably in the
very front rank, were not originally classed as “grand
opera,” the former having been first produced at the
Th&itre Lyrique, and the latter at the Opera Comique, in
Paris. The French group operas in a very systematic
manner. First, Grand Opera, already mentioned ; then
Opera Comique, which includes nearly all Auber’s operas,
and others of a like genus ; afterwards comes Opera
Bouffe, a trifle lighter and more frivolous in treatment ;
and, finally, Operette (our “ opera bouffe ”), such as the
works of Offenbach, Lecocq, Audran, and others.
G. 11. Hunt, a registered bookie who runs Melbourne
B jou, put in a hard day’s work one recent Saturday. After
roaring out the odds at Caulfield he took the part of Ted
Wilson, pugilistic champion in the W. W. production of
“ Boy Jim.” Hunt walked the stage confidently enough
and spoke his few lines like a “metallician ” and a man,
of course. He had filled the part in Westralia when he
first became connected with the Co. But Heaven knows
how he came to fancy himself as a stage bruiser. The
fight he put up for the championship was a very wooden
exhibition of half-educated boxing; Alf. Woods, who
strips imposingly and is quite tricky with his hands and
feet, could have won the belt in half a round.
Local allusion in “ The Fortune Teller,” at Melb. Prin-
cess’s : Some gipsies seize Lauri’s hand to read his palm,
when he protests, “ Oh, you know, this is illegal! ”
Rickards described his ten push-ball girls in the advt.
as “Mesdames.” A departure from the traditional stage
“ Miss.” It seems frivolous for ten married ladies to be
shoving a big nail on the stage.
One of the Elton family, in the generation before last,
was a tragedian of some weight, and the original Louis
XIII to Macready’s Richelieu. He was drowned off a
steamboat between Edinburgh and London.
“S.T.S.” : The late Kate Vaughan was not “ without a
rival in her pourtrayal of the London street arab.” It
was her constant associate, Nellie Farren, who shone in
that line. The dainty K.V. could not have looked like a
street boy to save her life.
Touching “ the moral influence of the theatre,” it is
wisely remarked that although a good play can have as
powerful an effect on some minds as a good sermon, the
drama didn’t originate, like the church, in a desire to
teach. It arose from the human instinct for mimicry.
The motive of religion is not there. Religion will be the
principal moral influence of humanity’s Mother in the
so-called Christian world as long as that world lasts.
A casual absurdity in the first act of “ Zaza,” as played
by Musgrove’s co., is the little snatch of nursery rhyme
sung by the frivollers in the “ star’s ” dressing-room. By
way of giving local color to the situation, they chant
“ Au clair de la lune ” as though it were the latest thing
in Parisian music-hall choruses. Presumably the Aus-
tralian stage-manager borrowed this little bit of French
from “Trilby.” It was quoted in Du Maurier’s novel,
and in the play adopted from the novel, as one of the
simple little things which Trilby used to sing. Even in
the time of Trilby, which was the time of Du Maurier’s
youth, when Englishmen wore long Dundreary
whiskers and “ Ben Bolt” was only a moderately antique
ballad—even in the early ’6o’s the friends of Trilby
marvelled at her warbling of the aged “ Au clair de la
lune.”
“ H.” : Kate Vaughan, the actress who recently died in
England, was one of the first performers who made skirt-
dancing popular on the stage some 26 years ago. Letty
Lind and Sylvia Gray, who came to Australia on the
occasion of the first visit of Fred Leslie and Nellie
Farren, were her close imitators. Skirt-dancing quickly
superseded the old style of ballet-dancing (with the
briefest of garments and unpicturesquely developed leg
muscles), which had greatly deteriorated since Taglioni,
Eissler, and Cerito (whose graceful movements as they
floated like a film of smoke across the stage, never
allowed the knee to be seen) were the leading exponents
of the art. The last kick to the old-time ballet-dancing
in Australia was given by a troupe brought out by the
late Martin Simonsen from Port Said. “ Look at the
blooming emu !” was the comment of one of the gods in
Melbourne Opera House when the tall and ungainly
premifere danseuse first pirouetted on to the stage.
Poet Laureate Austin has made an attempt to outshine
Tennyson in one particular. He has written a poetic
play, “ Flodden Field,” which Beerbohm Tree is going to
stage this .year. It can hardly prove a duller acting play
than “Beeket,” or “ The Cup.”
( Continued on paae SO.)
“ Burglar Bill ” : The Bulletin printed,
a few weeks back, a story entitled “A Wrinkle
in Crime,” explaining how an intelligent prisoner
could “ ring the changes ” and be released under
another name. Tt came evidently as a surprise to
an intelligent Penal Department, which now
sends a warder down with Black Maria to note
that Tom Smith, on remand for burglary, will not,
on arrival at Darlinghurst, answer to the name of
John Brown, his mate, who is only doing three
days or a fine, and expects his fine to be paid that
evening.
Some of the Methodists begin to object
hard against a law of their denomination that the
parson gets £8 10s. a year extra for every addi-
tional child. But in a land where children are so
much needed the rule should be extended rather
than abolished. The squatter demands people
‘ without encumbrance,” and practically pays the
bushman and his wife not to have children. The
Methodist parson is paid to have children—he is
the only man in Australia who is so paid.
Lady Jeune, the self-advertising wife of
the London Divorc o Court judge, has vented her
orthodox opinion that the publication of divorce
reports does more harm than good. Not being in
need of newspaper reports herself (she can get all
the details she wants from her husband), Lady J.
suggests that only the judge s summing-up (her
husbamd s little advt.) and the jury's verdict
should be put into newspaper print. But if the
Kespeetable Press is to forfeit the liberty of
corrupting the community ” with a full account
of how Mary Jane saw the countess and the captain
under compromising circumstances, what about
the publication of murder-case details, and the
daily glorification of condemned prisoners, termi-
nating in a gory sketch of the culprit’s drop ? The
newspaper reporter is the actual cause of many
murders. W itness the case of the Melbourne man
who, some few years ago, sought the bubble
reputation at the cost of his wife's life. Before
starting to bash the woman’s head, he announced
that he was going to give the Herald something
to talk about.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
So notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken in any case re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted, whether sent by post or handed in ; and in
no case icill MS. be returned unless stamps (oj any
State) accompany.
Patric Dare: Not much account. Is "brown”
•apposed to rhyme with “ death ’’ in verse II ? Demos :
,ot a wildly fresh joke H.O.R. : Too long in dialect
irm Peripatetic Pressman : A labored yarn
“t. Walker : “ Too Late ”is good. Will print. Likewise
Dreams." M. Cruise : There was 2d. to pay on your
• lleged joke....Lepto : All rather feeble Marathon :
3oth weak and ungrammatical Suva: Has been done
before—and better Jenny Jones : Has some spirit, but
:he rhymes are rough and the metre ricketty ... A.C.O. :
3ood enough stuff, but too long-winded and sloppy....
A.W.E. : Clumsy sarcasm. The bludgeon’s your weapon
—not the rapier 8.8. J.: Notill-written, but interest
tot strong enough.. ..J.L.B. : Yes; certainly it is worth
your while trying to do better Breelong Bill: Neither
up to the mark Pat: “Road Incident” well enough
written, but interest too slack Bowby : Rather
funny, but not skilfully enough treated E. Parker:
“Jack’s Girl and Bill’s” for Christmas. Please
send address to “ The Accountant, Bulletin office.”
Meeah : Not too bad. With practice, you should do fairly
well at that kind of work Stanna : Rather pathetic,
but not enough in it The Gem: Would require a lot
more “cutting.”.. ..A.W.J.H. : Rather tame and dull. A
skit should sparkle.... Nancy OF. : Sketch mediocre.
Take another pen-name ; “ Bohemienne ” is that of a
well-known Sydney writer.... Kodak : “Boarder” in-
ferior; “Fugitives” may have a show Zadig : Total
lack of style and spirit... Barbara: Not too bad, con-
sidering obvious want of experience.. ..J.B. (Vic.): Too
gushful and gorgeous. Art is largely self-restraint
John R. : Rather belated, except as regards the remark
that Australia has nothing in the way of snake-banish-
ment to thank St. Pat f0r.... Honor Bright: Goes pretty
well in places, but “slumps” badly in others W. Law-
son : That writer has more enthusiasm than marine
knowledge and doesn’t wish to be taken literally
T.H.N.B. : Dirty yarn about a horse received S.P. :
“Bush Musical Critic” pleasant little trifle, but too
trifling for B Ku Klux : “Abner’s Word” too Dead-
wood Dickish: this paper is not a Chamber of Horrors....
M. Byron: “A Sight from Oti er Days” for print; will
appear shortly. .Nil. : Thanks, will fall on that plagiarist.
....Annie Low: Sorry cannot trace story R.F.S. :
“Experiences of a New Chum Out Back,” after nearly
crushing the editor by the weight of its title, was safely
removed from the office on a 10rry....M s. S. : Janetta
appears to have descended into W.P B. Another search
being made.... J. M. Prentice : “ Dead and Buried.” Yes;
in the W.P. basket.. ..Hugh Ross : Hardly enough in it.
....Camille: Not well enough told, and situation too
brutal, anyhow Lola: Might do, if it were re-
written distinctly. Returned Matchbox: Hardly
impresses us enough... .Frank Harvey: “Regret’ is
the best, but even that is not good enough
Dick: Twice in four verses you make “hands'’ rhyme
with itself, which shows a dismal scarcity of ideas....
M.R. : Tea discussion off ; we have now plumbed the
depth of Australian knowledge--and ignorance—on the
subject W.A.B. : The law has no means of “ getting
at ” such lotteries, which, anyhow, are probably' legalised
in Britain.. . .Owl-light : A crude ghost story.... Myall :
Very uneven... .Frank K. : Too stilted... .Nawala : The
cony (which is American for rabbit)lives in burrows ; and
there are other holes in your rather stilted yarn
Lamlida : Too much “built-up.”....L.1.P. : But that’s
the business of nearly all birds, and not a monopoly of
Australian ones. Did you ever notice that birds produce
eggs?.... Ku Klux : It is, as a rule, of no use to re-submit
anything once rejected, unless specially asked to do so.
lxion : Suggestion has been published before
True Bill: True, but trite.. ..Unsuitable : Caspar Verde,
Lotrame, H.0.G., E.J.M W.I. : A naive record of
absolutely uninteresting facts E.K. : “Idyll” is the
best, and that may be used. “ Driftwood ” shows con-
fusion of figures. “..Eger” too familiar in thought....
Vanitas: An aggressive statement of familiar thoughts in
an unfamiliar metre.. ..Plumbago : Uninteresting record
of uninteresting attempts to get several men the same
billet... .Bidgegah : Don’t fear and tremble; as good a
yarn in an Australian setting would have passed.
....Jack Brown : Not for The Bulletin, though it doesn't
missi by much W.H.P. : Too long and far-fetched
Kiwi: Why not cat the discussion short? Freetrade is
the art of making this country like England, which has for
many years abstained from Protection, where two-
thirds of the (national and local) taxation is direct, and
where, according to Mulhall, 1$ per cent, of the people own
80percent. of thewealth. In Freetrade Britain the average
wealth of a working class family is £l5O ; in Protectionist
France it is £594.: G.B. : “Mut” returned
Lola Ridge: Has many good points, but your rhymes
lead you into trouble. . .Uloola : On hackneyed lines
Unsuitable: L.L.W., Aster, Hamlet 11...... M.C.: Pretty
album verse....Bandar: You tackle very difficult sub-
jects, where only trained simplicity succeeds The
Prince : Don’t try verse again for half a century (this
mortal will be dead then); pars all right... .V.H.G. :
You must better cook your stuff for these pages ...
Alpha : All rather thin J.F.N. : Sickly sentiment.. ..
W.E.W. : “Beauty” very plain poem Leah: More
whirl and rush than meaning... .Nicota : You say it’s
true. It’s dull enough for gospel Elmore; “Jack
Brown’s Mare ” not sufficient literary merit to justify us
encouraging horse-racing... .Tommie : You heave bricks
at female franchise because you say women will vote for
the best-looking men. M.L. and S.A. have proved they
don’t. Also, you are probably the enlightened sort of
elector who will vote for George Reid because he can
crack a joke, or whoop for a candidate because he plays
cricket for your club C.C.H. : “Feet of Clay” fine
idea : handling rather crude Battle Axe : Your poem
on “ The Dying Chief”—a bit of it:
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Ben L. : Joke not original... .F.M B. : An inartistic
irreverence.. ..K.V.T. : Drawing very moderate. Joke
got the same disease as drawing P.E.J. : Suggestion
hardly good enough.... E.M.B. : Many thanks. . H.D.
(Hobart): Drawings not skilful enough ; subjects badly
chosen; we want ideas distinctly Australian.... J.
Auld : Drawing will be used E. Jolly : As suggestion.
....C. S. Jamieson : Two as suggestions, three thrown
out Jabour : Ash Wednesday pictures dreary as sack-
cloth L. Booth: Pictures good, gags weak. Will
try and supply.... Bandar : Hardly good enough. ..
M'Gregor : Joseph used to tell that story to Potiphar
between drinks.... Hochkirk : One promising. Another a
trite idea that has been used scores of times..M.C.C. :
Artistic (and inartistic) contributors who send their wares
insufficiently stamped needn’t be surprised to have their
letters rejected with an artistic swear. There is now a
Federal post-office in the land, and it watches for revenue
with the eye of an eagle.... Unit : Unsuitable “gag,’'
and far too crude a drawing... .H.W.T. ; Your “ gags ”
are stale.. .Unsuitable: J. Le 8., Duffer, N.D., J. 0.5.,
Pam., H.V., W. 0.8., Uachlander, E.S.M.
Under the scorching Australian sun, a western black is
lying:,
His career on earth is nearly run, that native he lav
dying.
King Billy lay dying in agony—he was their acknowledged
chief—
They little thought his stay on earth was going to be so
brief.
The convulsive sobs of those around told me his end was
near,
And that death had taken from their ranks a leader brav e
and dear.
With aching hearts they laid him down, with his shield
upon his breast,
Beneath a mulga, on Mumba run, to take his hard-earned
rest.
It’s a refreshing little poem and puts the Australian
native in a new light.


HOW TO KEEP COOL.
We strongly recommend all who suffer
from the heat to add a few drops of Condy’s
Fluid to the Daily Bath or Foot Bath.
A Condy’s Fluid Bath imparts a most
delightful sensation of coolness, freshness
and purity, it invigorates the body and
brace? the nerves. The strengthening and
cooling effects are Simply Magical. Tired
or Tender feet are instantly relieved. Book
on bottle contains full directions.
Condy’s Fluid is sold by all Chemists
throughout the British Empire. Beware
of substitutes. Insist on having “ Condy’s
Fluid.” Condy & Mitchell, of London,
England, are the only Makers and their
name and address is at foot of label.
AUSTRALIAN STAMPS
Bought, Sold & Exchanged.
Gibbons’ Philatelic Albums
and all requirements. Price lists gratis.
J. H. SMYTH & CO.,
88 KING ST., SYDNEY.
Before booking your Steamshi]
passage, write for Travellers
Gazette & Sailing List, with map
THOS. COOK & SON,
269 .oliins st., Melbourne. 4 Hunter-st., Sydney.
DEFECTIVE
VISION, to
COUNTRY READERS
who cannot visit us
personally, we send,
Post Free to any ad-
structions and Price List, ou r ma^vello^sly-acrarlte
and popular SELF SIGHT-MEASURING PATENT
By its use you can Test your own sight and del
te rmine for yourself the style and quality of the
glasses you may need. Write for it to- 7
H. A* BARRACLOUGH, Optician,
Svdney Copposite StrLd Arcade
“Don’t shout”
” I hear you. 1 can hear now
as well as anybody.
“ ■ How ?' Oh some |
thingnew— The Wilson
Common-sense Ear-
Drum. I've a pair in my
ears now, you can't see them
they're invisible. 1 wouldn’t
know I had them in myself,
only that 1 hear all right."
The Wilson Ear-Drum ts
k really a substitute for the
working parts of the
natural ear. H-as n«
wire. Invisible, easy to ad
just, comfortable Totally
different from any other de*
vice Descriptive pamphlet sent upon request
>• CM Ai ntglS. 229-231 Collins St., Hylm
POLITI CAT
POINTS
After all, State-rights jealousy is the most
dangerous form of Sectarianism in Australian
politics.
Premier See has again been talking about
the “marvellous resources” of N.S.W. Can’t
we have a close season for these marvellous re-
sources ?
An inspection of State documents shows
that about the first act of every N.S.W. Premier,
on entering office, has been to cable to the Agent-
General directing him to interview the Bank of
England and ascertain how a new loan would be
received.
Bent’s attempt to save money by letting
oontracts for weeding the Vic. railway lines panned
out very badly after all. He called for tenders
for 206 sections, and only in 18 cases did the
lowest offer represent a saving on the existing day
labor system.
For the first time, in the current Tas.
elections, Queenstown, Gormanstown, Zeehan,
and Waratah run each a Labor candidate; and
-the prospects are reckoned good in three cases at
least. The N.S.W. State pledge and platform
have been taken over almost bodily.
Campbell, one of the extremest old fossils
in the Vic. Leg. Fossilery, told a country audience
last week that “ Councillors work for glory only.”
Substitute “tory” for “glory,” and Campbell is
Quite right. If it is glory the M.’sL.C. work for,
their wages are about 40 years in arrear.
Already trouble has come to the Westra-
lian Labor editor who succeeded the man that
threw up the billet, declaring his preference for
the-hangman’s job. The present row is between
the pressman and Johnson, Labor M.L.A.; and
goldfields unions are excitedly barracking for one
Or the other.
From a Tasmanian Opposition paper :
The great majority of the candidates have avowed a
determined opposition to the income-tax.
Premier Lewis’s darned foolishness in trying to
raise enough money to pay the interest bill and
keep the State solvent is a ghost that rises up and
gibbers at him everywhere.
Sydney D.T., March 19 ;
“Canada has vast tracts of rich land to cultivate, and is
near the world’s great markets. In that respect she
enjoys large natural advantages over Australia. The
prosperity of the country as compared with the condition
oi Australia is not all due to mere oircumstance, how-
ever. Canada’s resources have lately been skilfully de-
veloped and brought into use.
Yes, by high Protection. But the D.T. didn’t
explain that.
NOT HEALTHY.
“ Billy, wot’s an octogenarian ? ”
“ Dunno; hut they can’t he very healthy things;
they are always dyin’.”
The retirement of Westralia's military
commandant, Lieut.-Colonel Campbell, by the
Federal Defence Dept., has given rise to a nice
little row locally. Campbell’s case is somewhat
of a parallel to that of JS T .S.W. Police Inspector
Fosbery—a little matter of a pension almost as big
as his screw postponing his hardly-earned retire-
ment indefinitely. The Defence Department,
however, saw things only from the point of view
of the officer’s fitness, and retired him forthwith,
leaving it to Premier James to find the merited
pension as provided by the laws of his own State.
Premier James is wrath in consequence, and
heatedly affirms that, as Mr. Campbell has been
retired long before he might have been had State
control continued, the Australian Govt, should
pay a big proportion of the pension. Which isn’t
probable.
“ Agitator ” : Re Vic. Railway Dept, com-
pelling its employees to live in its houses (B.
14/3/’O3). “Compel” is hardly the word.
But if a man refuses to live in the house
he is moved somewhere else—to the most out-
landish place possible for preference—and another
man sent to occupy the house. If he refuses, he is
moved, and so on, until a man is found who is
humble and insanitary enough to occupy the
Department’s “crib.”
The D.T. has a Saturday leader on “ The
Usefulness of Millionaires.” The people sweat
the millions, and the millionaires restore the
thousands ; so they are useful. Which reminds
The Bulletin that it has a beautiful article in
the pot, stewing, on “ The Blessedness of
Bunions.” Paragraph I. : Happiness and bunions
in general. Paragraph 11. : The man who hasn’t
got a bunion doesn’t know the joy of having
it released from under the heel of a 15-stone
stranger. Paragraph 111. : Brethren, cultivate
bunions.
“Chass.” : Bulletin (14/3/’O3), on possi-
ble leaders of the Victorian Opposition. Why not
include R. F. Toutcher, member for Ararat?
David Syme’s pat on the back in a recent leader
over his action in the M ‘Kenzie business is very
significant, considering Syme tried his best to
oust him at last two elections. Toutcher’s position
in Peacock’s Ministry, and his prominence in
present Parliament, entitle him to consideration.
Andrews opened brilliantly, but has been a dead
letter ever since.
George Reid proposes to fight the next
Federal election on the fiscal issue and have a
fresh tariff row in the new Parliament. The
last tariff debate lasted 63 days, and George Reid
only turned up 18 times to fight over it. Now he
wants the thing argued over again because he was
too tired and fat to be there when it was argued
last. What is the use of a man who was absent 71
per cent, of the time complaining because a 20 per
cent, tariff was passed while he was away loafing ?
Barton’s tariff is at all events a great deal more
moderate than Reid’s laziness —51 per cent, more
moderate.
Just before the Commonwealth was estab-
lished, when every State was heaping up expenses
with a vague idea that the Federal Government
would pay, Victoria enacted that every civil ser-
vant in that State who was transferred to Federal
control should be paid not less than the best paid
civil servant of the same class in any other State.
And now Victoria realises that all this extra pay
comes out of its share of the Federal surplus in
the end, and it is sorry. Also the State Govern-
ment, as the body responsible for passing the Act,
is being sued by great hordes of civil servants for
salary said to be due them, which makes it still
more sorry.
Treasurer Waddell’s needless muddlement
of himself over the N.S.W. Liquor Bill looks
unaccountable considering the experienced and
capable Ministers who sit with him in Cabinet.
Yet, it is hard to say. Jennings had a sound steady-
drinking Cabinet, but put the liquor question
aside, saying “ It’ll only draw attention to us.”
Parkes had liberal liquor ideas and also many
hard-drinking colleagues to refer to, but when he
tried to put their joint wisdom into law he failed
badly. Judging from past experience it is hard
to say whether a teetotal Cabinet or a Cabinet of
hard drinkers or a mixed Cabinet is the best to
deal with liquor problems.
The Federal Postal Department is
doing good work by its crusade against the
registration of some alleged newspapers.
Already several papers have been re-
moved from the list, and instead of en-
joying the postal rate of 20oz. for Id.,
they will now come under the magazine
tariff of Id. for Boz. Every alleged trade
paper with more than half its space filled
with advts. will be removed “ without the
option, ” and publications which are known
to be issued by individuals and firms for
the especial purpose of pushing their own
wares or advertising themselves are to be
rigorously dealt with. The end the
department has in view is to safeguard
the revenue, and keep the newspaper
register as far as possible |for legitimate
newspapers only.
Enfranchised woman should turn
a deaf ear to those who urge that her
duty is “to find out the probable can-
didates and institute a searching inquiry
into their moral character and history.”
That might mean voting for the res-
pectable sweater who lives a life of con-
jugal propriety, and by means of
starvation wages drives many women on
to the streets. It certainly would
mean that every political organi-
sation of women would become
a scandal-collecting machine, and
that’s not the way to do good
work in politics. A safe working
principle for the female voter is
that every man’s morals are questionable, but
that not every man has been found out.
The Queensland police are occupied in
preparing the Federal rolls, and, to the astonish-
ment of the Bananalanders, who aren’t used to
that sort of thing, instead of huge attempts being
made to keep every possible man off the roll,
every attempt is being made to put every avail-
able citizen on. It has been for so many years
almost a crime to be found on the electoral roll in
Queensland that this new departure causes the
police to be suspected of insanity.
The offer of a piece of land by Joseph
Induni, the Queenscliffe barber and ardent land
nationalist, to the Victorian Govt, on condition
that it never again parted with the fee simple, has
been refused by Lands Minister Taverner on the
ground that “the area in question is too small to
hold except for sale.” Which is a ridiculous
reason, seeing that it couldn’t be sold but to be
held by somebody. Also, if it could be sold, it
could be used, and, if it could be used, it oould be
let.
A CHIP OFF
THE OLD
BLOCK.
THH AUCTIONEER’S YOUNGEST (as the bell goes
for the last lap): “Fader, is the sale going
to commence?”
A remarkable case of unconscious sugges-
tion, or an aggravated instance of the wish being
father to the thought, or a gross piece of wilful
misrepresentation, ocourred lately when both
Argus and Age reported Education Minister
Davies as having said in the House, “The
Ministry could save £300,000 in the Education
Department by charging parents who could afford
to pay for the education of their children.”
Hansard proved that it was stodgy old fossil
Campbell who made the brilliant suggestion.
Even Davies hasn’t reached that stage of illogical
absurdity that believes £300,000 a year can be
saved by making people pay their education bill
individually instead of collectively.
N.S.W. Premier See spoke this little
piece of wail at the banquet given to Joseph Ward
of Maoriland :
New South Wales, as everybody knew, had recently
gone through some severe trials. We had been ex-
periencing an unprecedented drought, and had suffered
great losses of stock and harvest, and it did seem to him
to be cruel on the part of those who belonged to us to
devote their best efforts towards bringing our trials into
greater prominence. The man who belittled the credit of
the country and accentuated our difficulties in times like
the present with the object of making political capital
was no true friend of the people, of the country, or of the
Empire. When a man became prostrated with illness,
that was not the time to wreak vengeance.
True; when a man is prostrated by illness it is
rough to jump on him. But when a Treasurer is
prostrated by getting a million and a half more
revenue than his predecessors did, and even then
he runs the country into deficits, the country has a
right to ask for a gentleman of more perpendicular
habits and a less horizontal turn of mind.
From “ loyal ” Canada. Some remarks by
Toronto Weekly Sun :
Mr. Chamberlain defends the South African war on the
ground that it was “ inevitable.” That is to say, he and
his confederates were bent on it from the beginning.
Instead of being inevitable, the war, to bring it on,
required the joint efforts of Cecil Rhodes, Dr. Jameson,
the South African Company, the Jews of Johannesburg,
their bribed press, The Times, Lord Milner, and Mr.
Chamberlain himself. It required also unscrupulous
breach of a solemn covenant guaranteeing “complete
self-government'’ to the Transvaal Republic and the
revival of a claim to suzerainty which had been un-
questionably renounced and abandoned. Was it
“inevitable” that British statesmanship should
leave the path of honor and good faith to which,
with all its errors and weaknesses, it had thereto-
fore been true, and act on the principles of Mr.
Ohamberlain and Mr. Cecil Rhodes?
For the benefit of the people who
are complaining so bitterly of Drake’s
management of the Australian Post Office:—
Stated by Henniker Heaton that an Australian
Bishop, recently in England, sent round 500
“P.P.U.” cards on leaving, and because those
letters were added in writing, “ the next morning
500 people here had to pay 500 pence in fines for
his lordship’s cards.” According to Henniker:
“ I will undertake to say that over one million people are
fined every year by ours, the meanest and greatest P.O.
in the world, for these miserable breaches of the postal
laws, which are unworthy of a great department making
a profit of over £5,000,000 per annum. . . . Fromaleading
authority I learn that only two officials in the P.O. under-
stand the half-penny post regulations—and these gentle-
men disagree 1” In Australia a slightly torn or dirtied
postage stamp will pass muster. In England you are
liable to a fine if one four-hundredth part of the corner
of the stamp is torn off.
The nasty interchange between Vic.
Treasurer Shiels and his colleague, Tom Bent,
at the Reform Bill conference between the
Council and Assembly (Shiels told Bent his
remarks were improper, which is strictly true, for
they generally are so) was not the first incident of
the kind. More than once recently the blustering
Bent has shown resentment in Parliament at
interference by Raven Shiels, who would like to
be the talk monopolist of the Cabinet. The two
were off “speaks” for years before their political
necessities brought them into the Irvine dovecot.
Also, there is no love lost between Lands Minister
Taverner and Shiels, nor between Taverner
and Bent, nor between Bent and Premier Irvine
Irvine must have a very lovely time at some of
his Cabinet meetings.
Vic. Premier Irvine’s reputation for uni-
form urbanity and politeness was still further
shattered the other day when he curtly refused to
see Prendergast and two other Labor members
on the unemployed question, alleging that he did
so because they had no appointment. Members
of Parliament on public business are supposed to
hav© priority of entree to a Mmistorial sanctum, and.
the Labor representatives are the only ones whose
right in this respect has so far been questioned
On the very day that Prendergast, Billson and
Elmslie were “ shoo’d ” away from Irvine’s door-
mat, the iceberg Premier devoted nearly the
whole afternoon to a consultation with the bosses
of the Kyabram Reform League, no doubt getting
his famed Backbone into good working order
The drivers on the Victorian
railways used, in days gone by, to look
dejected if anything went wrong with
their locomotives while they were in
charge. It was reasonable then, in
most cases, to suspend the driver for
neglect, or carelessness, if his vehicle
broke down. But now, pretty well
every day, an engine starts out from
some station or other to return lugging
a disabled old train behind it, another
loco, having gone bung in one of the
many worn out parts. And the driver
and fireman of the crippled loco, sit on
the coal, and tell yarns, and are not
afraid. It isn’t neglect now, and Bent
can’t suspend the whole driving staff.
Writer is going, henceforth, to travel
in a dray. It’s safe, and just as fast as
the ordinary Vic. train.
First Victorian electoral return
under Federal law shows the Tory char-
acter of the Victorian franchise. Be-
nambra, a country electorate, has 820
male voters, many of whom have no
State votes; but the plural property
vote raises the State roll to 1347. The
electorate of Melbourne, with 2486
male voters qualified by manhood, has 4474
names on the State roll—the difference re-
presenting property votes. How Property looms
up as compared with mere manhood !
A statement of why he went to Tasmania,
given to a local paper by a man who is establish-
a carriage factory there :
His removal from the N.S.W. capital is largely due to
receiving a mandate from the Union requiring him to
pay 4 *P ec / fied minimum wage, and also restricting the
number of apprentices kept, which decided him to
<< p ac k U p anc ] leave,” as he tersely remarked; if other
carriage builders were agreeable to carry on under such
conditions, he was not, so he resolved to transfer his
business to Tasmania, where the Union’s power is prao-
tically unknown.
This constitues a challenge to every Liberal and
Laborite in the Federal and State Parliaments—a
challenge to stand by those States that do give
the workers some decent protection against those
don’t.
The Victorian House of Landlords made
~ . • n f T ..„
on© oner to comproniise on the .Reform Bill,
which was magnificent in its cheek. It proposed
that it should agree to a joint sitting of the two
Houses in case of deadlock, provided the deadlock
d i d no t arise on a taxation measure or a measure
r r n „ _ T ,1
lor Ibe reform of the constitution. In other
words, on any question relating to land-tax,
income-tax, absentee-tax, any other tax, manhood
suffrage, woman suffrage, abolition of the property
vote, reduction of the property qualification for
M’s.L.C., or amendment of either House in any
way, the House of Landlords’ power of obstruc-
tion was to remain absolute. But on Bills relat-
ing to the Registration of Dogs and the like it was
willing to take its chance of being over-ridden by
a joint vote of the two Houses—both elected on a
property vote. And in consideration of this the
I ? °- f Landlords asked that the Assembly
should B lve way on all other P° ints -
SNAKE YARN.
“Father! Father! Come and see the snake."
“ Great Scot, child! Where?”
“ In my new picture hook.”
The Bulletin’s London correspondent :
Behind and below the scandal of the Grenadier Guards
lies the horror of the “ fearful unclean ” the thought
alone of which curls the stomach and tangles the under-
standing of every healthy-minded, God-fearing man. The
rugged advice of the Marquess of Queensberry—“ disband
the regiment”—is too thorough and drastic a remedy to
be followed by those in power at present, but such a
lesson would have been worth the battalion’s weight in
good red gold to the blue-black-blooded officerdom of the
British Army. How the scandalous picture-papers of
France and Germany will wallow in this human sty ! In
London the emasculated St. James’s Gazette alone holds
the brief for the exposed degeneracy, crying shrilly to let
none but ex-public school-boys judge the accused. If
this blackguardism, and worse, is the breeding of
England’s public schools, then let us pray for a healthy
holocaust that will dessicate every one of those institu-
tions and its inmates at the earliest date.
C. J. Moran, M.P. for West Perth (W.A.),
has been preaching secession from the Common-
wealth. To an Advertiser interviewer in
Adelaide he said, re the S.A. objection to a rail-
way from Perth to Port Augusta :
Without this railway West Australia had better gird
up her loins and prepare her own defence. She is both
able and willing to do so infinitely better than is being
done now by the slipshod Federal system. But to do
that she must first pick up her belongings and quietly get
out of the Federal conclave. To her it is a farce without
railway communication. . . . All she wants is a deter-
mined, united people, united by bitter experience. She
will either get her Federal rights then —her only possible
Federal return for her generous trusting of her neigh-
bors, and for the millions she has sent to help them in
bad times—or else she will go out of the Federation.
Every State seems to have at least one foolish
Jeff Davis of this sort.


U/ye v® s®
ESTEY ORGAN.
)
Estey Organs are manufactured
m America.
We have small portable Organs
suitable for mission use
weighing only a few pounds
—Cheap but good.
Parlor Models, with handsome
mirror bacKs and good stop
combinations.
Church Models at lowest prices
(We allow a liberal discount
to Churches and Sunday
Schools.)
Two Manuals with pedals, cap-
able of leading large Choirs.
&/>e Estey is the standard of
America.
*
Sold on Easy Terms. Old Instru-
ments taKen in Exchange.
Catalogues Eree.
W. H. Paling'®. Co., Ltd.,
338 GEORGE ST.. SYDNEY.
PALING’S (Patented)
VICTOR PIANOS.
JShe Victor Pianos are specially
I made to o\ir order, designed I
and patented by us, Known as
Vidor I, Vicftor 11, and
Id he New Vicftor Upright
Grand (with 3 pedals).
These Pianos at the price are the
best value obtainable.
Uhe tone is full and rich, touch
excellent, handsome cases,
and durability guaranteed.
If you want a good grade Piano
at a moderate cost
BUY A VICTOR.
That’s the Piano you want.
6
Old Pianos taKen in Exchange.
New Pianos Sold on Easy Terms.
Catalogues Free.
W. H. Paling <SL Co., Ltd.,
338 GEORGE- ST., SYDNEY.
VITADATIO
CURES INSOfINIA.
A LAUNCESTON CITIZEN’S TESTIMONY.
November 14, 1900.
To the PROPRIETOR of VITADATIO.
In the early part of the present year I suffered very
much from sleeplessness and depression which caused
me considerable anxiety. I was recommended to try
VITADATIO. This, at first I did not feel disposed to do,
as I considered it improbable that a blood mixture could
cure a nervous complaint. Eventually I consented to
(five it a trial, and began to improve from the first. After
taking six bottles I felt better and slept better than for
years before. This improvement has, I am thankful to
say, been maintained. My friends compliment me upon
m.v altered appearance, which I can attribute solely to
your valuable remedy, as I have not taken any other
medicine. ' f
The writer of the above unsolicited Testimonial is a
well-known Launceston resident', for whose bona tides th-
proprietor of VITADATIO can unhesitatingly vouch
For further particulars,
S A. PALMER,
18dl Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The price of medicine is 6/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
Newman’s
Antiseptic Pastilles.
The Best for alp Affections of the Tiiroat.
try them, price-one shilling.
S- HARRIS, M.P. S., Pharmaceutical Chemist,
Telephone22BB. 82 KING-ST., SYDNEY.
Missing Friends.
|F CEORCE KENNEDY (son of GEORGE and MARGARET
KENNEDY), formerly of Ararat, Victoria, will
ommunicate with the undersigned, he will hear of some-
thing to his advantage.
R dead, his representatives should communicate
A ny information acceptable. ,
R. j. McCullough,
Solicitor, Barcaldinr,
QUEENSLAND.
PERSONAL.
In °f ROBERT BRENT, late of
i Voodbury, in the County of Devon, Eng-
And, Doctor of Medicine, deceased.
*pRANCIS FREDERICK BRENT, Com-
on or **? lssi °h Agent, Hobart, Tasmania,
com rr«n ? ut 19th November, 1901, is requested to
hews f nicate with the undersigned, who have
self as b^ rea u ac^Yanta B e and importance to him-
to }jj m nis share in the above estate is now payable
ttfgSntly des°ired reBPeCting hiS whereabouts is
SUTLER, MoINTYRE & BUTLER,
Solicitors,
Murray Street, Hobart, Tasmania.
A correspondent to London Daily
Chroniclk on the visit of Mr. Chamberlain to
Jewhannesburg:
The hardest nut he has to crack is the supremacy of
German Jew influence in this place, which practically
means the Transvaal. Their operations are nothing short
of tyrannical, and they have effectually stifled the public
voice by capturing and controlling part of the daily press.
Certain papers are already completely in their power,
and at this moment negotations are going on for the
further absorption of three papers in Cape uolony.
A Sydney inquest, reported in S.M.
Herald, March 17, reads curiously in these times
of hospital funds and prolific collections-in-aid-of-
the-poor-and-sick. Evidence showed that a
drapery assistant’s wife, who had given birth to
her eighth child, was, by reason of poverty, with-
out the services of a doctor at the birth. A nurse
officiated for 11 days and then left, but, the
patient getting worse, a doctor was called in. He
told the husband his wife was unlikely to live 48
hours without the immediate assistance of a
trained nurse, nourishing food, etc. While able
to pay for medicines, the husband admitted his
inability to meet nurse’s, or even doctor’s fees.
Upon learning this the doctor (by his own evi-
dence) “ did not propose seeing the patient again,
and received no further message on her behalf.”
Possibly, had the husband permitted the doctor
and nurse to go ahead and save his wife on false
pretence of sure and speedy payment, she would
have been saved at the sacrifice of his “honesty.’ -
And it would have been a worthy sacrifice and a
splendid lie.
Glorious Rains at Last!
More Hopeful Prospects.
Now that the drought really appears to have
broken, and prospects seem more hopeful, you
will feel inclined to invest in a Waterproof or
Oilskin Coat. In which case, post your orders to
Charles Gilbert, the Specialist in Men’s Wear,
Queen-street, Brisbane, whose values in these
goods are notoriously the best in the Common-
wealth. All coats guaranteed Waterproof, with
sewn and taped seams, at 215., 255., 30s. to 50s.
Oilskins, 15s. 6d., 17s. 6d., 225. 6d. (leather-bound
and double-lined). Carnage paid to any address.
Send a trial order to-day for anything in Men’s
Wear.
ARTIFICIAL LIMBS^
with AA marks
PATENT
RUBBER
FEET and
HANDS
ARE THE BEST
PROCURABLE.
Sole Agents and Manufacturers:
denyer brothers, 281 SYDNEY, S
land at cor. Lonsdale &-Swanston Sts., Melbourne.
Catalogues and Prices on application.
MORE ABOUT
The Callaghan Boot
FOR MEN.
Full Description Follows :
SOLES—SoIid oak-tanned stout walking soles,
stitched on a Goodyear machine, with best
Irish Flax Thread, warranted not to rip open.
UPPERS—Uppers and vamp are cut from plump
skins and are not skimped in any way.
LINING —A good grade of leather.
The inner sole is milled perfectly
smooth on the surface and free
from nails, creases or thread
HEELS —Square trim-
med, size 1 inch,
properly nailed.
PRICE 16/6
POST PAID... 17/6
TAN LEATHER 17/6
POST PAID... 18/6
to
*7
•»
%
■
>'
Black 16/6
In Tan 17/6
POST and DUTY FREE
to any address in the Commonwealth,
except W. A.,
In Black, 17/6; In Tan, 18 6.
We look to sell Thousands of these Hard Wear Boots for Hard Times.
Sir,—A more satisfactory boot at the price you have NEVER worn is now to be obtained
from us, and the price is 16/6 —not 20/>. ue omainea
You will know it; as it is
Our Hard Wear Boot for Hard Times.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 39s ceorce st., Sydney.


Banking, Public Companies, tea.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.— -
LOWEST INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
BILLS
discounted.
35T.J3.-W.
IDontdepieteOJl.CoM Ltd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74:
CASTLEREAGH ST.,
SYDNEY
74
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
TH E—>
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices * - 106 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. 3 F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Robert*
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,595,870.
Policies issued 88,299- assuring £26,826,380.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,<67,115.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses— equitably distributed.
Head Office: 1
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
The Rank of north Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manaeer- Local Director-JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J P CANNT. (Messrs. Burns, Ph.lpftjOc l Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... - • L 700.000
Capital Paid-up ... £lOO,OOO
Rea holde‘rs ability °. f Sl ' are ~ -250 900 - £350.000
Royal Bank of Queensland
CAPITAI PAID-UP £456,927
RESERVE LIABILITY OF ISHAREHOLDERS 1.6,239
RESWIVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 58,000
£691,166
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. MngrW. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the. World.
Queensland Smelting Qompy.
** (LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
•DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
X> CoDDer Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. Fo? tariff, ’apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN. Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot Queensland the Branch
Office, 54 Market-street. Melbourne, or IRWIN HINDS,
Branch Manager, 6 Spring-street, Sydney.
The savings bank
HAS MONEY TO LEND in VICTORIA
at 41 per cent., in sums of £5OO to £15,000, on Town
Properties ; and £2OOO to £25,000 on BROAD ACRES
FOR FIVE YEARS, with option of paying off part
half-yearly.
FARMERS’ CREDIT FONCIER. .
Loans from £5O to £2OOO at 4J per cent, for 314 years.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
29 Market-street, Melbourne.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.{Hon. John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L A. Jessop Esq.
uSSSSSi 6 ' K." °vS ;*&£? A * f
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. ••
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital
£2,500,000
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’*
business) . 4
Directors: F. It. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
C M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORItOWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Managei
our no. 56 ACETYLENE CAS Catalogue
* : >
s the MOST COMPLETE
and COMPREHENSIVE
ever issued.
Tells all about the Best
ACETYLENE CAS GENER-
ATORS, LAMPS, and
everything in connection
with ACETYLENE.
Nearly 400 of our
Reliable Automatic
Acetylene Cas
Generators
In daily use.
Large Stocks of the
Best
Carbide
of Calcium
Quotations on application.
James martin & GO.,
161 Clarence Street,
Nr. King-st., Sydney.
Shipping.
(NORD-DKUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OP
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
*Twin-screw steamer.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
Interstate First-Class Return Tickets are now available
for Return by the Steamers of the P. and 0., Orient
Pacific, or M.M. Co.’s.
TO SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. TANGLIIM, Ist APRIL.
And Regularly Every 6 Weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents.
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street,Sydney.
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
-A-UNT 33
I
3Nr E
L
via
San FranciBoo,
California.
FASTEST AND BEST
ROUTE
TO
ENGLAND,
Via America and Canada*
Bank of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office—GEOßGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital 2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. ». ... ►. 1,300,000 0 0
Reserve Liability .. ... ►. 2,000,000 0 0
Total 5,300,000 0 0
Directors:
Hon. Chas. K. Mackbllar, M.L.0., President.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator James Thomas Walker.
Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L C.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors:
Harrington Palmer, Esq. Frederick W. Uther, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies, New Zealand
and Fiji ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
T.ie Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
Unrivalled Position in LONDON
(England),
The Langham Hotel
PORTLAND PLACE
And REGENT STREET, LONDON, W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality.
modern Appointments. Moderate Tariff.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will And every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. KILDA.
r iSihe Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
-*- Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
J-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
bfvr&'LLLoL iligtiLs
%£ea,LUay Jnfcuits
RIDGES
FOOD
Refuse a// Z/n/faf/ons
Satisfying. Strengthening Soothing for Infants
Agreeable. Digestible. Ncur^ng
AG£/\ZrS FOR SYDZZfV.
SAYYPS ALLPOPT 6c POTTER
IDGES FOOD MILLS LONDON. Enc
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300
pages; price, 4s. 6d.; postage, 6d.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN.
Twin-screw 12,000*ton Steamers.
RUNIC, to Sail on or about 11th APRIL.
MEDIC, AERIC, SUE VIC, and PERSIC
to follow.
FARES—Capetown
London
New York, &c.
£l6 16 0 to £23 2 0
19 0 0 to 27 0 0
25 2 6 to 33 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation-
Pamphlets, Timetables, and aU other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
agents.
Huddart, parker & C 8 ’ 8 C ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORI’S.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Hates.
THE GREAT { OVERLAND } HIGHWAY
TO THE UNITED KINGDOM,
Via NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH SEAS, and AMERICA.
The NEWEST, LARGEST (6000 Tons each), FASTEST,
and ONLY TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS engaged in
the TRANS PACIFIC PASSENGER SERVICE from
Australia and New Zealand.
Round the World Itineraries compiled.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Managing Agents,
Pitt and Bridge Sts. SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
STEAMERS SAIL—
April 20, May 18, June 15,
July 13.
The Moana, on May 18, is
the Finest and Most Popular
Steamer on the Pacific.
CHEAPEST ROUTE TO LONDON.
UNION BTEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing. Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
Medical.
ASK FOR
ROSE’S CELEBRATED
Eye Lotion.
Cures All Affections of the Eyes.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers.
Free for Asking 1 .
WRITE to us and we will forward you our scientific
book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magic, and you will be filled with energy,
strength and ambition once more. Posted free. Write
to G. Specific, Elizabeth Street, North Melbourne.
Hygienic Water filters
AVOID TYPHOID, ILL-HEALTH, and DISEASE
BY USING OUR
Hygienic Water Filters
With Rubber Attachment to fit any Top.
THE CHARCOAL AND SILEX
which these Filters contain is the very
Best Water Purifier Known to Scientists as it
Removes all Germs and other Impurities.
When ordering mention size of
PRICE : LARGE A ~ MEDIUM
'V\ s SIZE, “O.j SIZE,
tap in use.
O c POST
paid
Agents—VICTORIA: WARTZKI, FREEDMAN and CO.
GEELONG, VIC.
Agent-QUEENSLAND : ARTHUR BRAY,
92 EAGLE ST., BRISBANE.
Agent- TASMANIA : WERTHEIMER, BENJAMIN and
ANDERSON, HOBART and LAUNCESTON.
Agent—SOUTH AUSTRALIA : AUSTRALIAN TRADING
AGENCY, GENDERS BUILDING, ADELAIDE.
Agent—N.S.W. : ANTHONY HORDERN and SONS:
HOLDSWORTH, MACPHERSON & CO., SYDNEY,
and all Hardware and Ironmongery Stores. ’
If not obtainable at your Storekeeper, send to
Sole Agent, Australasia,
J* LANDES, 108 Pitt St., Sydney.
At Dawn and Dusk:
Y. J. Daley. In handsome cloth,
with portrait. Price 55.; postage, 4d.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
_ (LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Warrego,
Friday, March 27
(To Melbourne Only).
S.S. Marloo,
Saturday, March 28.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oalrna
S.S. Allinga.Frid., March 27.
•S.S. Warrego, Sat., April 4.
S.S. Rock ton, Sat., April 11.
Beat and Cheapest Monte to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. 8. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
P.
AND Q COMPANY’S
ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
* Via Hobart.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B to £ll
Ditto Ditto Return, £66 to £ll3
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by Orient-Pacific, Messagerieg
Mari times and N. D. L. Steamers having room.
A. GORDON WESCHE,
63 Pitt-street. Acting Agent.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows:
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines. •
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters nieel
the passengers for London and give them every assistanos
in landing and passing their luggage through the Custom*
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
State Ports are available lor return by P. aud 0.,
Orient Pacific and N.D.L. steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company OlHces,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN*
. . BY THE . .
“E. and A.” LINE.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwm.
Steamer. iTnsr Commander. |Leave Sydney.
EMPIRE .. 4500 \V. G. McArthur. JApril 15
♦EASTERN . 13800 Winthrop Ellis ..May 13
AUSTRALIAN ..3000 P. T. Helms ..June 10
EMPIRE .. 4500 VV. G. McArthur.. July 8
♦Does not call at Port Darwin.
EVERY CONVENIENCE FOR A TROPICAL VOYAGE.
The Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Europe via Canada,
U.S. America, or the Trans-Siberian Railway.
Forhandbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.,
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-st., Sydney.
DR. J. DOLUS BROWNE’S
fNLORODYNE
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARKHfEA, 011
the Government Stamp the minis
of the Inventor—•
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
IHE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to a
most generally useful, to the exclusion of a
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I ?i? ver .^ ra
without it, and its general applicability to
relief of a large number of simple ailments torn
its best recommendation.”
ORNAMENTAL hair.
Naturally Curlv Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each.
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders re
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers &. Wigmakers.
£>end to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock. ,
Agents for the Itoyal Lounge Hairdressing o
lag*” Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Srook.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to
any Part of Australasia
CRAIG & AITKEKT.
N.S.W. Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 George Street, Bydney.
GEIMT S.^ v BOOU
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BO
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address.— L.D.l.. 300 Collins St., Melboum


A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
cases in six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
only Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
Of Chemists, or from PARIS MEDICINE CO., 28, Shoe-
lane, London, England.*
QUEENSLAND GOVERNfIENT.
Issue of £600,000 Treasury Bills.
PRIOE OF ISSUE, £lO2.
The Treasurer of the State of Queensland, through the Queensland National Bank Limited,
invites APPLICATIONS for the PURCHASE, at a fixed price of £lO2, of £600,000 TREASURY
BILLS, bearing interest at the rate of Four (4) Per Cent, per annum.
Six months interest will be payable on the Ist July, 1903. Principal and all interest will be
payable, free of exchange, in Queensland, Sydney, Melbourne, or Adelaide.
Income arising from Queensland Government Treasury Bills is exempted from income tax under
“ The Income Tax Act of 1902 ” (Queensland). *
Full information will be given, prospectuses may be obtained, and applications will be received
at the Queensland National Bank Limited, in Queensland and Sydney, and the National Bank; of
Australasia Limited, Melbourne and Adelaide.
The LIST of APPLICATIONS will be closed on or before TUESDAY, the 31st MARCH, 1903.
The Treasury, Brisbane, 18th February.
Use
That Bald Patch will get larger
if you don’t do something.
CAPILLA HAIR TONIC.
All Chemists, 2s. 6d. per bottle.
SORE
SINGLETON ’S EYE OINTMENT i
FOR SORB AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, £LIZD
RESTORES EYELASHES-
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES.
IN EVER FAILS.
Ask youp Chemist fop the Little Book •
‘HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES
CURED
THE DEAF HEAR.
Deaf persons need no longer despair. Out of the mass of failures has come a
genuine success. Head noises can be cured and the deaf made to hear so
effectively that they wonder if they really were deaf. Particulars of a startling
discovery, based upon the science of Metallic Galvanic Electricity, that will
assist all persons suffering from deafness, fully described.
FREE.
By sending your name and address to THE L. R. VERNON CO., 60-64 Hunter-st., Sydney, you
. will receive a full description of this remarkable method, which will enable you to restore your
hearing at a very slight expense. The description is posted to you free, and you will be delighted to learn‘how
easily you can obtain relief. It will pay you to write to-day. Don’t neglect to do so.
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manuf.
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5 ; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7 ;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia. £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and everv description of vehicles in Stock and made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
'■ent. more for your requirements.
Company,
193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDiVEY
OUU SPECIAL No. *
£8 18/6
Delivered at any Wharf er
N.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
A SPLENDID NATURAL REMEDY
FOR
Rheumatism, Neuralgia, Gout, Hemorrhoids, Gall Stones, Gravel,
Constipation, Liver Torpor, Biliousness, Indigestion, and Headache.
We Define what it will do.
Firstly, ■ —Kutnow’s Powder will clear and expel every atom of poisonous
and putrefying matter, which constipation and other irregularities have stored
up in the bowels.
Secondly, —Kutnow’s Powder will clear the sour stomach, sweeten the
breath, and create a healthy appetite. It will promote the flow of the gastric
juice, thereby inducing good digestion.
Thirdly. —As a painless and agreeable antiseptic aperient it will
thoroughly cleanse the bowels, kidneys, and bladder, promptly stopping all
fermentation and germ action—cool, refreshing, palatable, safe, and will never
gripe.
Fourthly, —lt will clear away all skin eruptions, such as Pimples, Boils,
and Eczema.
Fifthly, —lt will brace up the nerves, banish headache and insomnia,
prevent despondency, and invigorate the whole system.
Sixthly. It will eliminate all the excessive
Uric-Acid Poison, thereby preventing and eradicating
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Diabetes, and Bright’s
Disease.
In conclusion, we do not ask you to accept these
statements as facts without proof. Ihe proof lies in
your own hands by sending at once for a bottle of
Kutnow’s Powder.
KUTNOW’S i
IMPROVED EFF*IWSSCIt.T CARLSBAD
POWDER.
Hiisch*nsprun4 or Deer Leap
1
T—* —SLGISTERtO TRADE MARK .
(tMERED AT STATIONER'S HAtU
NOTE.— KUTNOW’S POWDER can be obtained from all Chemists and Stores
throughout the world.
Beware of accepting any suggested substitute; if the dealer suggests anything
else which he says is “just as good,” then leave the shop, and pass your order on to a
reliable dealer who is above practising these deceits for the sake of extra gain. All
imitations are worthless and injurious.
KUTNOW’S POWDER KUTNOW’S POWDER
Testimony that Tells.
The Rev. Canon Norgate’s Endorsement:
“ Eoxley Parsonage, East Dereham, Norfolk,
, sth August, 1902.
“ Gentlemen,—Your bottle of Kutnow’s Powder has been tried by me for the relief of
flatulence and a tendency to corpulence ; and finding it decidedly useful for the purpose, as well
as pleasant. I will thank you to send me another bottle, for which and postage I enclose P. O.
“ Y °urs truly, L. A. NORGATE, Canon.
Sir John B. Monckton,
Late Town Clerk of London, wrote:
Guildhall, London, E.C., Nov. 4, 1901.
Gentlemen^— I have much satisfaction in stating that for the last two years I have
regularly used KUIhOW S POWDER, with the result that troublesome and frequent
attacks of lumbago, with other gouty symptoms that had troubled me for years seem to
have entirely disappeared.
“Yours truly, JOHN B. MONCKTON.”
Sluggish Liver.
“78 King’s-road, Bootle, Lancs.
“ Gentlemen,—l have used your Kutnow’s Powder for some
little time now, and liave derived considerable benefit from its
use.. It is an ideal liver medicine, and as a remedy for bilious-
ness has no equal.—Believe me, faithfully yours,
“ THOMAS H. WILSON.”
55SSS5
■
, KUTNOW’S I
IMPRDVCD EFfffIVESCENT CARLSBAD
POWDER.
fllischer,sprung 0 r Detr Leap
Brr,r-r^^ f , rAPRIMC(W, * R OAa EX..+ f
REGISTERED }
fcNtCREO ATSTAIIQWWs MALi^
Proprietors: S KUTNOW & CO.. Ltd., 41 Farringdon Road, London, E.C. Proprietors in US A. : KUTNOW BROS., Ltd., 853 Broadway, New York.
[4-10]
The Cookie.
“ X ” has a cut at the cookie :
Poor cookie farmer ! What sympathy he has won 1
How everybody has hastened to his assistance ! Thou-
sands subscribing to relief funds ! Government rushing
him with favors; carrying his starving stock free ; supply-
ing him with seed wheat ; allowing his rent to stand over
for 12 -months, &e., &c. Now does he deserve all this ?
Things are horribly bad in the building trade, and in
the streets of Melbourne unemployed carpenters are as
common as dudes in a boarding-house. No talk of assist-
ing them. If a farmer’s crop fails, he has a negotiable
asset in his land ; but, if a carpenter's job peters out, God
help his children.
Ninety per cent, of the cockles deserve as much sympa-
thy as a rat in a trap. Here’s the average cookie’s year :
He ploughs his land and drills in his seed by machinery.
No hard gFaft for him ! Then he sits down and prays for
rain, or goes into town and melts his previous year’s
cheque. Don’t know which plan is the better, but the
first is the cheaper.
If the rain comes, and he gets a good harvest, he growls
because it isn’t better. He sells every grain of wheat,
burns off the straw (“ not worth cuttin’ ”) and, when the
grass goes, buys feed.
Then he gets drunk.
If he has no crop he also gets drunk—only quicker.
Why doesn’t he make a provision against failure of the
wheat crop ? Several Wimmera farmers (Germans) saved
themselves from mortgages by their heavy yields of
grapes ; others made money by sale of surplus ensilage,
and others with honey.
Some years ago I asked a boss cockie why he didn’t run
an orchard at his place. “ Like them blanky Deutschers 1 ”
he said, contemptuously. “Look ’ere, farmin’ is farmin’
—and that’s growin’ wheat—not ’angin’ round bees’
stingses or botherin’yer head about Muscatels or Black
’Amburgs.” This year, however, he says farming is a
darn fool’s game.
The cockie is the best treated man on the continent.
He gets his land with 20 years to pay for it in ; he gets his
machinery on his promise to pay after harvest. He taps
the storekeeper for groceries, etc., for six months—till
after harvest.
He “ sticks-up ** for his meat and his beer till after
harvest: in fact he straps it at bootmaker, baker, and
candlestick-maker till after harvest ; and if there shouldn’t
happen’to be any harvest that particular year— his
blanky troubles ! He simply curses the place and shifts
to another district. Government resumes possession of
the land ; the machinery-agent may get his machinery
back, but the storekeeper, the butcher, and the publican
are left in the lurch.
The farmer “ the oackbone of the country ” indeed ! If
the country has any backbone, besides the Dividing
Range, it’s the bush-storekeeper.
The English Labor Party.
English labor unions have evolved from their
experience of the futility of spasmodic efforts at
labor representation in the House of Commons a
scheme for the financial maintenance of as many
as 50 labor members, if they can secure seats.
Woolwich election, successfully contested by the
English Labor Party last week, was the' first
fruits of a movement which may mark a turning
point in English political history. For if 50, or
even a lesser number of labor members can
secure seats in the Commons, can find a
leader with brains, and can learn to obey
him as the Irish members used to obey
Parnell, the power of such a phalanx would
be enormous. It would naturally—assuming
the leader with brains—turn its attention in the
first instance to the land question, and this would
bring it into line with the Irish party, which is
essentially (whether it recognises the fact or not)
an anti-landlord party. -Combined, the Labor
party and the Irish party (and, in time, the Scotch
Crofter party) with a programme of “ bursting up
the big estates ” and returning the people to the
land, would not only hold the balance of power
between tb* Ins and the Outs (or the Tories and
*ou!d aSolttai!? 7 m, ‘ r tn “died) but
as r*•£’- & 2W£
|\ di a rr»a.ar to pa r^ f
Sul°ts which 11 ! 1 ! ByB iT of Fra ° ce - The evil
in the hanrk r Wavs follow from monopolising
are acoent^^- a a natlon ’ 8 Uncled heritage
that the f m 16 v Se of Britain b y the fact
inat the land monopolists there, in very many
3E not mt’h thoKt of
pa?«’ n ;„ b d ,t diaf,t t , he '” T t? to * r W
ntilisinrr fiT , torests . or of inefficiently
the y oLI T„Tn h -?V'™ lks - * n consequence!
y omanry of Britain is a rapidly diminishing
&£*“**“> ““W* 1 Me. «nd ite fiS
i seems possible m the near future That
means, in effect, that England is treadina-
ever°exi s t to th? f g * ave ’ - for no natio ” has
d oen 6XISt ’ v a time of crisis, when
aependent on foreign supplies for the food which
its lands should produce. Thinking men not of the
Cobden school, in England are tSginning to re
tIF\TJ hlS ’ and i a Labor parfc y- which g was an
the r syt^°iT PO y / aFty ’ WOuld be able to att ract
steb ”?*?£! th ?' and Bu PP°vt- A natural “ next
step, after returning the land to the people in
Brt ai n would be Protection, so that tfieycould
petition TW foreign cheap labor com-
P®;^° n - That would be forced on the Labor
P"/ r , and that - too, would command much
fmnti 1 sup P° rt - ft is, in fact, difficult to
imagine a country m which a well-led Labor
KL- JT l, rgent work to do, and a more
England 6 battle ' Cry to raise than landlord-cursed
♦
When N.S.W. Arbitration Court has to consider
the question of wages and conditions of labor in
the retail grocery trade, it should give special
attention to the subject of Chinese competition.
Chinese of late have been crowding into the busi-
ness, and by paying low wages and working over-
hours are able to undercut prices. On which
point “E.D.” writes:
„A Bborfc While b . a l ck > the master grocers associated to
among other things, the assistants’ union and
the Chinese invasion. They decided it was far better to
become a brother of the Chow than to fight
{J*™’ and , th ® Ch ° w "dffingly enough said he would
become a brother, but continued his unfair competition.
The Arbitration Court is expected to award a general
advance in assistants’ wages and reduced working hours
Boss grocers foresee that the Chinese competi-
tion will then be more severe. The “ Chow ” seems to
be able to dodge all trade legislation. Instance Early
Closing Act. He’ll close his doors, but all hours of the
ni<>nt and on the half-holiday afternoon, he works at
weighing-up. He employs no white labour, and as the
Chow employee never turns traitor, it is difficult
to force on him fair wage rates. The Masters
talk fight in an absurd way. They declare if the Chinese
do not conform to certain selling rates they’ll boycott
wholesalers who supply Chinese.' But if one big Jew
wholesaler, whose trade is mostly Chow, were to give up
the Whites, and cater for and get the Yellow, he’d be the
largest wholesaler in the Commonwealth. There seems
to be only one “clear-cut” way—have no Chow at all.


1 FACILE PRINCEPSH | SEMPER IDEM. |
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
Troubles in a Heap Successfully
Overcome.
“ When troubles come, they come not single-
handed.” ’Tis an old saying, but a true one,
How difficult it often is, too, in endeavouring to
avoid each successive trouble not to jump into
more that are even greater than the first. This
was what Mr. David Dunne, of 396 Oxford-street,
Paddington, Sydney, found himself doing. First
he suffered for a number of years with kidney and
liver troubles. Unable to obtain relief, which he
sought at the hands of more than one doctor, he
rapidly sank into a complication of ailments that
quickly follow a derangement of either the kidneys
or the liver. No wonder he became despondent
and melancholy. Thoroughly ill, sick beyond
description, suffering the most intense agony,
unable to obtain aid from doctors of long standing
and repute, he was justified in giving way to
despair. When his case, however, almost seemed
hopeless, Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills were
brought to his notice. To use his own words —
“ I determined to give them a trial, and am most
happy to say that they have effected within me a
complete cure. All my old symptoms and pains
have entirely left me, and for the happy and
healthy state I am now in, I have only Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills to thank.” Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills are a perfect blood purifier, and
a positive cure for biliousness, indigestion, con-
stipation, headaches, sallow oomplexion, liver and
kidney troubles, piles, pimples and blotches, and
for female ailments. Put up in amber bottles
and the full name blown thereon.
RESCH’S SELECT STOCK ALE »o LAGER
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives. BREWERY and OFFICES: DOWLING ST., REDEERN. SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The Victory is to have a chance to redeem his
lost character at the Randwick Easter meeting. The big
little winner of the Melbourne Cup and his stable mate
Patronus are new to tne A.J.O. ground, but they were
being galloped “ right-handed ” before they left Mel-
bourne. By the way, they are pretty certain to run at
Rosehill on Saturday.
• • • •
Emir and F.J.A., the dandy two-year-olds from
Ballarat, are about to start for Randwick on serious busi-
ness. Emir, the son of Wallace and the pridg. of James
Scobie, only wants ordinary health and a fair run to prove
him the best of “good things” for the Champagne
Stakes. The dux of his year is Emir, but that doesn’t
necessarily make him a Derby and Gup winner in 1904.
Last year Brakpan won the Champagne and Easter Stakes
at A.J.O. Autumn Meeting, but the only notable thing
Brakpan did after that was to get Frank Kuhn dis-
qualified.
• • • •
Port Adelaide Racing Club at its recent meet-
ing paid a totalisator dividend to the second horse when-
ever there were 10 starters (which turned out to be in
every race). With favorites winning, and outsiders
running well up, the div. on the second horse was, in
four cases out of six, bigger than that on the winner 1
In the hurdles the figures were : Ist Valor, £1 2s. fid.; 2nd
Clinker, £6 2s. 6dL
* • * •
Chippy Norton’s success in March Stakes, at
Rosehill, Saturday, brought joy to Israel; he went out
absolutely unbacked at 20 to 1, and never gave anything
else a chance from barrier to judge’s box. In the
running, one Mo., knowing the nag wasn’t supported,
did his best to lay 50’s against, but couldn’t. Ultimately,
O.N. cantered home a comfortable winner, much to the
astonishment of all concerned. Said, afterwards, that
fact of the horse getting away from his trainer and having
a good fill-up of water from one of the troughs, put the
“ stable ” off him. As Chippy Norton ran a deal better
on Saturday than at V.R.C. meet, a week or two ago, Tub
Bulletin suggests that the accidentally discovered stimu-
lating effects of a bellyful of water might be tried again
when the o&oney is on.
• * • *
Big thing (Club Handicap) of Rosehill meeting,
Saturday, fell to first favorite Acrasia, who repeated her
Warwick Farm display, shown prior to going Melbourne-
wards for recent Australian Cup wherein she ran third.
Strangely enough the “pinch” of the latest race was
with same nag (Street Arab) as at Warwick Farm, but
second time Acrasia conceded t’other a bit more weight.
Though in their prior battle Acrasia, after a bitter
struggle, just cut Street Arab out on the post, the
second tussle saw her squelch him at the half-distance,
and, while he finished out of a place, Acrasia scooped the
coin a length to the good from Torchon and Fairy Prince
as named. Greater merit attaches to Acrasia’s win
through the fact that sfur. from home she was second
last in a spread-eagled field of 11, and apparently badly
bothered. Interesting that Acrasia was Cerise and Blue’s
eighth foal, and is half-sister to Laura, Watercolor, Mul-
grave and Pansy, and full sister to those whilom good
ones Syerla and Lygon. Same dam had two more foals
subsequently, and all were bred by owner of Acrasia, Mr.
H. Oxenham.
• • • •
With a view to coming big things— Sydney Cup
especially—most closely watched nag in N.S.W. just now
s Patronage, seen out at Warwick Farm Saturday week,
the first time since his big flop in Melbourne Cup.
Though fatter than ever, he looked like improving fully a
stone during few weeks intervening between then and
date of Sydney Cup wherein his load is 8.4. Rosehill
Autumn Stakes Saturday saw Patronage, with lllbs. in
excess of his Cup weight, finish well three lengths behind
second nag after apparently galloping short during earlier
stages and being last till reaching the straight. Question
is, can Patronage get 2m. ? He has never yet done it
publicly but ’tis told that prior to last Melbourne Cup his
trial was such that a well-known Vic. trainer thought
Patronage’s going under impossible and planked money
down accordingly. But the nag cut up badly, though
subsequently he ran third to Flagship and Falkirk in
V.R.C. H’cap (lfm.) won in Australian record time.
Patronage being only a little ’un it’s just possible he was
overdone for Melbourne Cup.
• * • •
Hero (Great Scot) of recent V.R.C. Autumn
meet stripped at Rosehill, Saturday, and went out with
extravagant odds freely laid on him for w.f.a. Autumn
Stakes (lm.). Jumping off in front he made his own
running, which, ’tis said, suits him best, but, getting into
the straight, Cyanide (3 to 1 against) drew up to the
alleged “cert.” and, in a hot duel, Great Scot swerved
some from the whip, while Cyanide, answering gamely,
drew away and passed the post an easy winner in 1.43.
Time wasn’t good enough, and licking too easy, for that
to be Great Scot’s true form, hence those who have
already backed him for Sydney Cup need not lose hope.
Cyanide looked strung to concert pitch, and, on that
account and through her previous deeds, was well backed
by some good judges. There was 61bs. ’tween Great Scot
and Cyanide in the Autumn Stakes, but there’ll only be
41bs. in Doncaster Mile and 21bs. in Sydney Cup.
• * * *
Some Victorian racing clubs are indignant at
the treatment meted out to them by the V.R.C. in the
matter of recommended disqualifications, &c., but if all
stewards act as intelligently as did those of the Ararat
Turf Club at their recent meeting it is no wonder the
V.R.C. refuses to take them seriously. After one of the
earlier races the feather-weight infant who had charge of
Spoilt Girl was hauled up for not trying (S.G. was a bad
last). He explained that he couldn’t get the mare to
shift, although trying his best. The stewards let him go.
In a later sprint Spoilt Girl, with the same jockey, went
like a startled streak from start to finish and won easily.
Then the stewards recommended that the mare, rider,
and owner, be all disqualified. The V.R.C. refused, and
it is hard to see how this decision can be cavilled at.
The Ararat stewards accepted the explanation that Spoilt
Girl didn’t travel in the first instance through a fit of
cussedness. To disqualify her and her connections
because she didn't continue in that state of cussedness
seems illogical.
• • • •
Pilgrim’s Progress filly, secured in Melbourne
recently by Randwick trainer, Tom Payten, for Dr. Ewan
Frazer at a cost of 270g5., dropped dead Friday last.
• • • •
Winner (Kruger) of Kyneton Cup last week is
nine years old, and was bred at Kirkham (once James
White’s stud farm), by Gosoon from the Drummer mare
Pretoria, and is therefore half-brother to Pretence and
Precaution.
• • • •
Cabled that M.L.-bred Nelson-Moonga aged
nag Seahorse, owned by M.L. sport, Spencer Gollan,
gathered in the Brook Maiden Hurdles (2m.) at Gatwick
(Eng.) March meet t’other day. Australian gelding Oban
was successful in same event last year. Seahorse did some
big things in M. L.—notably his appropriation of M.L. Cup,
Derby, Canterbury Cup, and Auckland Plate in one
season. Following year he came Australiawards after
Melbourne Cup, but influenza rendered starting impos-
sible.
• • • •
Take the average bookie out of a paddock and
put him on a different sporting “ lay,” and the odds are
he’ll “fall in,” hard enough to hurt himself too. Not
long ago a certain peneiller, after filling his bag with
“shiners” at a horse-race meeting, attended a coursing
carnival and opened a book, although he knew no more
about the doggy diveraion than a bandicoot does about
biology. Just as two greyhounds were in the slips lor a
course a pal asked him how he was doing. “ Oh, a bit
allrigbt, I think,” was the ready reply. “ I’ve laid £l2 to
£8 against one dorg, and £lO to £8 against the other
dorg. The chumps do take short prices here. I intend
to come agen and come often.” “ Take my advice and go
home before the cows eat you,” said the other. “ Can’t
you see that you must lose £2 any way the flutter goes,
and you may lose £4. If one dog wins you pay out £l2
and receive £B, and if the other wins you pay out £lO
and receive £B. You are a full-blown mug and no mis-
take.” “No I’m not,” replied the smart “Tommy."
“ Ain’t the blanky hare got a chance ? You forget I’ve got
the pussy goin for me, too t "
* • * *
Once prominent gelding’chaser Euro succumbed
to snake-oite in Warrnambool district, t’other day. More
than one National at Flemington and Caulfield saw him
placed, the “ Great Eastern ’’ at Onkaparinga came his
way, also “ Grand Annuals ” at Warrnambool and Ben-
digo.
• • • »
Closing of general entries for A. J.C. Autumn
meeting revealed a shortage of 60 compared with last
year’s. Melbourne nominations this time are only 26.
Total for 1902 was unusually good —628 to 619 in 1901.
• • • «
First acceptances for Doncaster Handicap and
Sydney Cup saw S 4 left in former. Chief malcontents
were Chantress, Cyanide, Great Scot, Balfour, and
Heloise. Sir Leonard is now top of the lot. Cup has 29,
most important withdrawals being Wakeful and Metrop.
winner, Queen of Sheba. Melb. Cup winner, The Victory,
has the biggest load, and close to him are Cyanide, Sir
Leonard, Abundance, Great Scot, Australian, Patronage,
Balfour, Postilion, and Vanity Pair. Quality of the
“cattle” engaged shows no deterioration. Victorian
reps, are not as plentiful as in former years; they’ve
fallen off much more than anticipated. Vanity Fair,
Sinnang, F.J.A., Emir, The Idler, and Australian will,
however ('tis said), oppose N.S.W.’s cracks in w.f.a.
events, wherein Cyanide, Chantress, Postilion, Sir
Leonard, Inkstand, Patronage, Great Scot, ana Air
Motor are to do battle for the home State.
• • • •
Match N.S.W. against Mr. P. F. Warner’s (not
Lord Hawke’s—he has nothing to do with it) team
opened in Sydney , Friday last week, and further illus-
trated the great uncertainty of cricket. Through winning
the toss and sending home side in on a wet wicket,
visitors only had to face 144 in their first essay with the
bat. Ex-Australian Trott bagged six of the wickets.
Britishers accumulated 282, and Saturday’s play ended
with three N.S.W. men gone for 120, but at stumps draw,
Monday, their figures were swelled to 463, while visitors
had notched 32 without loss. Remarkable that at one
time Monday N.S.W. had lost 7 for 176, which gave them
an advantage of only 37 over the opposing combination's
first innings’ compilation, but here Hopkins joined his
fellow North Sydney player, R. Duff, who had so far
shaped excellently, and, ere these two were separated, the
aspect of matters was completely altered, for between
them they added 236 in brilliant fashion. Hopkins’ was
the more attractive work of the twain, his 133 including
21 fours ; but Duff stayed longest, and had 20 fours in his
total (194), thus emphasising the extraordinary consis-
tency evidenced by him during present season. English-
men opened their second effort wanting 326 to win, and
then rain stopped the match.
* * * •
Victorian cricketers make things mighty willin’
at times. The True Britons and another junior Mel-
bourne team got so excited lately that the bashed and
battered umpire had to have his assailants hauled into
the police-court. Giving evidence, he said that he was
taking no more umpiring business in future. And from
the country comes news of an encounter between Moy-
ston and Cathcart, which seems to have exhausted all the
adjectives of press reporters, hon. secs., onlookers, etc.,
and to be still left improperly described. If Victorians
would only take their politics as seriously as their cricket
there would be one wild yell, a brandishing of clubs, and
all that would be left of the House of 48 Rich Landlords
wouldn’t be equal to muttering “ Socialistic legislation.”
* * * •
“ X.”: “ Sporting Notions ” may well snort at
the foolishness of leaving the whole question of the next
England Eleven for Australia to be settled by Archie
Maclaren, Esq. For touring purposes (also for Test
matches in his own country) Maclaren has been an ill-
starred captain, anyway. The English teams under any
other leadership might have fared as badly, but they
certainly couldn’t have done much worse. On his appear-
ance Mac is not the one a physiognomist would select for
leading a forlorn hope. He hasn’t a strong jaw, nor is he
a happy, genial sort of person. Judging from the
recreations of the pro. members of the last visiting team,
their captain had no restraining influence over them, nor
did he put any heart into the amateurs. All the news-
paper talk at the time about Maclaren’s cleverness in
managing his bowlers only went to show that he was
being boosted up by the Melbourne Cricket Club people,
who commissioned him to bring the team out. The
weak-looking Lancashire man is a very over-rated per-
son. The Jonah of English test cricket, he gets as much
reverence as though he were an Alexander. The Aus-
tralian public would like to see a more solid, democratic
sort of battler in charge of the next visiting Eleven.
• * • *
That exasperation, the four o’clock afternoon
tea adjournment, a thing unknown in cricket outside
“ Big cricket,” was pushed to an absurd conclusion in the
match against the Lord Something’s English XI. On
Friday at one minute to four the ninth N.S.W. wicket
fell, and on Saturday at three minutes to the hour the
ninth English ditto, ditto. In each case the incoming
last man was a duffer and ordinarily could not last more
than an over or two. Yet on each day the players
solemnly adjourned for twenty minutes; sallied forth
again for a couple of strikes, and the innings being over,
play immediately ceased for 15min more. Of course last
wickets have been known to make a very substantial
stand, but only rarely. If your modern “ Big Cricketer "
is too tired to do without his afternoon tea (he wouldn’t
dream of adjourning on an ordinary Saturday afternoon)
a rule should pass that, if the last man is in at 4 o’clock,
the tea knock-off should wait, say to 4.15. If the last
man shows signs of sticking to his wicket, and the field
is physically collapsing at the idea of going on until he is
out let them adjourn. The crowd would have the added
excitement of watching the last men beating the clock,
anyway.-
• * • •
George Giffen is a letter-sorter at Adelaide
G.P.O. ; Reedman, of same State, is a postman ; Travers a
shop-assistant; and Newland, the latest wicketkeeper, a
solicitor, and partner of Fred. Young, the baby of the S.
Aus. Assembly.
• • * •
“Adelaide”: In “Sporting Notions” (8.,
14/3/’O3), George Giffen’s second innings work against
Victoria is, by an evident slip, given as 1 wicket (in-
stead of 8) for 110. Print his record for the match once
more, that it may go down to history unquestioned 7
wickets for 75 and 8 for 110 ; scores of 81 and 97 not out—
and this on a beaten side. And Giffen is a veteran of 44
* * * *
The proposal, formulated by Frank Iredale,
“that the N.S.W. Cricket Association take steps to send
home the next Australian Eleven,” fell very flat at the
last meeting of the N.S.W.C.A. The matter now remains
in a somewhat worse state than before ; and the result is
that if the N.S.W. body wants anything from the M.C.C.
it.will have to “ crawl ” for it.
• • • *
Doesn’t appear as if M.L. toe-ball team will go
Englandwards before 1904-5 season, as ’Ome authorities
are seeking a postponement of the visit till that date, so
that time may be available to perfect arrangements for a
succession of first-class matches, including one each
against the four International teams.
0 • * •
The profits and emoluments of football. Bal-
ance-sheet of Oollingwood (Vic.) Football Olub—last
year’s premiers—shows receipts, £2670; expenditure,
£1209. Sundry items under latter head are: Travelling
expenses, £ll2 ; training do., £65 ; uniforms, boots, &c.,
£6B; refreshments to players, £46 ; trip to Tasmania,
£240 ; group photos., £59 ; theatre parties, £3O ; testi-
monials and presents, £24 ; insurance of players, £3O.
• • * *
Belmore (Sydney) meeting last week was first
coursing event this season—at least six weeks before proper
time. Why does the National Coursing Association allow
this t Hares and hounds suffered from excessive heat—
most of former ran “ strange ” and many of the latter
shaped only half fit, several dropped out more or less
crippled, and two concerned in first course on second day
didn’t go to slips. Master Toffy, liberally supported for
Puppy Stakes, was crumpled up by the hard going and
couldn’t continue. Best dog seen at the meeting was
Bathurst dog Loyalstone, by Blarneystone from Miss
Revel, who should be worth watching. Heaps of things
indicate present will be busiest coursing season N.S.W.
has known. Kensington Club’s “added money” will
boom matters considerably, as previously coursing men
had always competed for less than their own coin through
clubs deducting 10 per cent, from subscribed sweeps.
$ $ * 0
Claimed as a world’s record golf-drive, 382yds.,
recently driven by a Mr. Travis at New York.
... *
A recent event in Ravenswood (N.Q.) was a
drilling contest between Barsby, of Ravenswood, and
Logan, of Donnybrook. The time allowed was 20 minutes.
Result was a dead-heat, both men drilling 17iin. in the
time. A match for £lOO a-side is to follow. The rock is
solid granite. What is the Australian hand-drilling
ringer’s record ?
0 0 0 0
Much the most promising pigeon slaughterer on
this continent is young E. Pickering, son of “ Rowley ”
Pickering, for long S.M. Herald’s chief sporting writer,
under pen-name of "Nemo." Among other big feats
credited to E.P. was whacking 10 of 16 sweeps at
Hampden Grounds recently, and also a N.S.W. Gun Club
Single right-out trophy best—42 straight, and all but
eight first-barrel kills.
• a • •
“ J.A.C.” : Re “Schue’s” record pegging score
for one hand at cribbage (Bulletin 21/3/’O3). The follow-
ing combination is one which might occur in every 1000
years or so, and represents the highest possible scoring
for one hand at five-card crib. A wants five to go out,
and holds Queen, or any other 10 card, barring “ his
nob,” 7 and 6, and has the lead. B requires 56, holds
three 6’s, and has four 3’s in crib. A 9 turns up. A leads
off with his 7, and B follows with a 6, which A pairs and
makes 2. B. plays another 6, and pegs 6. The score is
now 25, and A can’t “ go.” B then plays his remaining 6
and makes 31 with 14 holes, making in all 20 he has
pegged. A holds 2 in hand, 6 with 9 turned up, and
“dies in the hole." B. has 12 in hand, three 6’s and 9
up, and in “crib.” he has four 3’s, which, with the “turn-
up,” count 24. Total 56 ; the amount required.
• • • •
’Murkan bikist Hopper secured Sydney Thou-
sand (biggest sum ever given for an Australian cycle
event). Starting from 75 yards (virtual scratch man
being Don Walker on 5 yards), Hopper won 15 yards
from Walker, in 1.53 2-5, a world’s best for a competition
mile. Back men to 45 yards combined in Walker’s in-
terests, while all ahead excepting two operated for
Hopper. Pace was as hot as could be made from go.
Limit man, Simon (120yds.), Whitson, Foster, and Thorn
each had a turn in front during earlier stages. Entering
finishing lap first batch was 30 yards clear of Walker,
with Morgan pacing him superbly, while Payne did the
needful in front of Hopper. Soon rear bunch closed in,
and then Walker made his run, and, while every man of
20,000 onlookers roared with excitement, Hopper streaked
out like lightning, and, shaping the champion every
inch, moved away and won as stated. Walker was
travelling the faster of the twain as they neared the line,
and, had his pacing been better, he would have finished
closer, but Hopper must still have won.
• • * •
“E.D.”: Smash-up in final of Oxford Plate
climaxed the League’s long-drawn-out carnival. ’Twas
the last race, last night of carnival, last chance of seeing
Taylor jump his wheel across the line, and one man only
rode the distance. Smash viewed end-on about 20yds.
in front of where it occurred was sensational. Taylor
was a mark, the other riders were undistinguishable,
being bunched together ; they whizzed past the northern
end of the “ bob” stand, Taylor in centre, to all appear-
ances blocked. The howlers yelled, “ Taylor’s blocked.” A
rider dashed out, the negro in his wake, and Taylor’s front
touched the other’s rear wheel. A crash, like a lot of
iron hoops thrown in a heap—and a man dived from his
machine and slid along the track. Taylor sat up, slewed
his machine up the embankment, but toppled over side-
ways, third. He never lost his presence of mind for an
instant, and displayed monkey-like agility in avoiding
the other falling riders and their skidding machines. He
was assisted to his feet, and limped off a much-scared
coon. Meanwhile leading man, Cameron, had raced
away. Another, tied up in his machine, gathered his
scattered wits together, gave a look round, and, seeing
one figure only on a machine, ran drunkenly, dragging
his wheel along the track, for second money. Another
rider also had “ pulled ’’ himself together, mounted his
machine, cut across the turf on to the track, passed the
running man, and secured second place, whilst the other
staggered across the line, third. Finished howling, the
most satisfied and talkative crowd I ever saw filed out
through the exits.
* • • »
“Scorch.”: Must have come home to bikist
Taylor after his vanquishment that he was wrong in not
entering into some friendly arrangement about pacing
he had no hope of squelching the field entirely on his
own. 'Twasn’t likely either that a lot of men, who look
to the game for a living, were going to unselfishly fetch
him along to win. A “ little bit to nothing ” would have
fixed the thing nicely, and Taylor might now have had
the first money to swell his already substantial bank
balance. Conditions compel contestants to make arrange-
ments for mutual assistance, and there’s nothing wrong
about it either. Officials' attitude with regard to pacing
is often absurd and contradictory. Case of Pye and
McDonald f’rinstance. One night they were disqualified
for pacing each other—doing nothing worse than several
more did ; then a day or two later the same pair were
shut out for three months for not pacing with others If
this way of running the show were closely adhered to
Hopper and Walker should have been disqualified in the
final, while the rest of the front and back batches were
“sent up” for combining in the interests of the two
n 2?V ! , The remedy is simple. Appoint experienced
officials.
* * • •
Wherever two or three are gathered together,
whether it be in the bar or the sulphuretted
factory, ‘pacing on the cycle track” is the siVject of
discussion. Hitherto the rule in Sydney has been that
unless speoial pacers were put on for the purpose, all com-
petitors had to take a share in the pacing. It is a curious
fact that no man on a bike can make the same pace on his
own effort as he can when following something which reels
away just in front of him. The brain is not capable
of such a sustained effort when under the
strain of high speed. In the semi-final of the
Sydney Thousand the back-mark men refused to make
any arrangement with Taylor as to pacing (probably they
could not agree upon what portion of the £750 they were
to get if they paced him up to the front so that he could
Theoretically, everyone was to help in the pacing
till the last lap, and then all were to fight a wild cat
struggle on their own for the prize. Practically it meant
that the man who paced last before the final rush
never had the slightest chance; and no one ever
wanted to be that man till the habit of compensating
him set in Then the practice spread. The back-mark
men would pick the man whom they would pace up to
the front-markers, on condition that he shared the
winnings with his assistants ; and the front-markers
responded by choosing their man and pacing him aw a „
at such a rate that the back-markers couldn't overtakl
him-on condition that he shared his winnings with th™«
who assisted him to victory. This has now been
recognised in the U.S., where, before a race is run off
the pacing combinations, or teams as they are called
are announced, and the spectators bet accordingly The
result is better cycle racing. This plan was frankly
adopted by the back-markers and front-starters in the
final of the Sydney Thousand. The back-markers chose
Don Walker for their winner and the front-rankers picked
on Hopper. It was really a race between those two with
the rest assisting them. Pour men paced Walker and
five men paced Hopper, and the result was a new world's
record for the competition mile. The practice is Quite
legitimate as long as the public knows the composition
of each team, which should be carefully announced on
the programme.
• • * •
Major Taylor’s fall at Sydney Cricket Ground,
last week, was his first (while racing) in two years.
• • * *
Victorian crack, Mr. Upward, is spending his
holidays tutoring N.S.W. eight d*ily, up Lane Cove
River, to meet Victoria on an equal footing. No teacher
ever got down to business more thoroughly or earnestly •
he has his men out in pairs so that the thing may be
better done and they’ve made much progress with a style
strange to them. As it’s six weeks or so till the date
of the race the crew will probably be served up readv
Difference ’tween what N.S.W. oarsmen have been
accustomed to and what Mr. Upward teaches is big
Previously the shoulders followed the hands and then the
body came forward on the slide. The new way of work-
ing is to slide the body up then bring the shoulders into
action.
* • • *
Sydney pugs., electing to “go” for the “gate”
instead of accepting reasonable purses, have had some
hard knocks lately. Champion middleweight “Soldier
Jack ” Thompson and Jim Richardson were offered £l5O
and refused it; they “drew” a little over £BO, and had
to disgorge 2S per cent, to the promoting club. “ Soldier
Bill ” Thompson and footballer Cripps could have had
£75, but preferred going “ on their own,” with the result
that empty benches were conspicuous at the Gaiety A C
on the night fixed—Tuesday last week—and Thompson
suffered from an attack of “ colic,” which prevented the
contest.
’Murkan Jim Scanlan and Billy M’Coll have
been matched again. This will be their third fight-
previous two saw M’Coll win, once by a narrow margin
after 20 rounds and next in 4 rounds, but Scanlan has
improved a great deal since, and is confident of winning
this time. M’Coll, covering the Yankee’s £25 for abet
of £lOO a-side, said he would make the sum £5OO if
Scanlan liked, but latter couldn’t get that amount.
M’Coll further stated he was prepared to fight Dan
Oreedon again for £2OO a-side and under same conditions
as their contest early this month. Doubtful whether
Oreedon will come, as he didn’t show too much heart for
the game in the last match.
* * * *
Third struggle ’tween topnotch welterweight
bruisers, George Johns and black Tom Mitchell, at Sydney
Gaiety A.C., Monday, didn’t attract as big a crowd as
other two battles, but still it numbered 1500. Colored
man hadn’t the same heart as before—respect born of
two previous lickings was probably at the bottom of this.
Judged by jeers and hoots from a section of the crowd
they sized the match “cronk,” but it wasn’t. Johns
“ kidded” beaten a deal in the second round—perhaps to
give his party a chance to get their money on at offered
odds of sto 2 and 3to 1. Mitchell introduced some
“plantation walk-round” business into his work.
Every time he led the left he would raise the left
knee high as his chin and stamp his foot on the
floor, while the house roared its joy at the fun. Beyond
a good left or two and an occasionally heavy right, the
black did little scoring, but his opponent forced the work,
sending home right and left on either side of the head
and getting in short-arm jolts on ribs and stomach that
made the darkey wince and squirm. Twice Mitchell was
floored for close on the full count, and during the con-
cluding couple of rounds experienced a sorry time gene-
rally till, in the tenth round, he was so palpably beaten
that the referee stopped hostilities and gave the palm to
Johns. ’Tis to be hoped the same pair won’t be inflicted
on the public again. Johns or Mitchell and anyone else
a good match, will always be acceptable, but Johns and
Mitchell a fourth time would mean an absolutely empty
house.
* « • •
Concluding events (quarter mile, 100 yards and
mile) of Australasian swimming championship closed at
Brisbane Saturday last, only served to further emphasize
Dick Cavill’s superiority over all contemporaries; he
played with the opposition. Nothing hair-raising
occurred. Time (3.36) for the 220yds. wasn’t over fast
compared with figures accomplished during past couple
of seasons. Speed of the Half-Mile (12.48 J) fell consider-
ably short of Caviil’s recognised Australasian record
(11.511-5) made last year, and that is slower than his
11.8 at Wanganui (M.L.), a month later, which the
N.S.W. A.S.A. has refused to accept, why is difficult to
fathom. The quarter was little more in the way of effort
than a “ swim” over, for Cavill went to the front when he
liked, and won bv 20yds. in 5.47 4-5. Same man closed
on the “Hundred” in 59 7-8, and the pule in 28 4.5.
Plunging fell to M.L. representative Hamilton, who
covered 68ft. lljin,— much behind previous holder
M’Donald’s (who didn’t compete) 68ft. 7Jin., and 69ft. of
a couple of years ago ; but plunging doesn’t catch on,
and why it remains in the championship list puzzles
many, for it’s no use, and there’s little art about it
—a weighty man generally performs best.
* * * *
Probably the biggest crowd ever seen at that
always liberally patronised Sydney suburban course,
Rosehill, attended last Saturday, and, though a majority
of the results were against the “books,” they had two
uncommonly good “ turns up '* (Chippy Norton and
Cyanide), which must have very nearly evened matters.
Ninety-six nags sported silk in half-a-dozen events—but
in Autumn Stakes only four started. Eighty-five of the
horses went from Sydney by train ; t’other 11 were pre-
pared locally.


Should send to us for their supplies.
We k w P e do^ a deaM„^ eSt ° fkind ° f Fruit “—'
only the T', Srade . Sorts - We aim to ™PPIy
y the very best at lowest current market prices. * '
lft a h y us° Untry frUU - dealorS t 0 get into communication
THE N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO. Ltd., SYDNEY
REPUTATION.
Open
Saturday
Afternoons
■ ■ > _ T"' Imu“ 1mu “ “* ™ '* Hh " -»« »l«Wta noun*
MASSEY-HARRIS BICYCLES
always reliable?*' reBU ' tS °" R ° ad and Path
CANADA CYCLE & HOTOR CO., Ltd.,
HOPPER won • 1,1 357 ° EORQE ST - SYDNEY.
1 AUOUB AND in world’s record time on a MASSEY.
WE ST RIVE TO MAINTAIN OUR REPUTATION.
™ nk Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER
YOU GET THE BEST VALUE FOR YOUR MONEY WHEN YOU
REMINGTON
Double-Barrel .
Hammerless Gun
Kept
Thoroughly Guaranteed.
n stock by the Largest Gun Stores in Melbourne and Sydney.
Remington Arms Company
Head Office: 315 BROADWAY, NEW YORK. TTS a
REMINGTON GUNS, £5 10s. to £ i s
REMINGTON_RIFLES l 23 6 post free
McLEfIN BROS. & RICC, Ltd., 107 Elizabeth-St- Melbourne.
OUR NEW MODELS, otlBM „ e „„ r^,ortoporMo „
They eclipse all our previous efforts to make
RED bird wheels
As perfect in construction as their predecessors. We point with pride to our new mnHda f„- ra- j
Gents, as being Just the daintiest, strongest, and fastest little jiggers that have yet been imported* an<l
GOOLD BICYCLE CO t| 64- King-st., Sydney.
Open
Saturday
Afternoons
The seamstresses for the N.S.W. State
p°uv* n o fa 9 tor y are gravely chosen by the
.Public Service Board, which presumably puts the
young persons through an examination in gussets
and seams, and button-holes, and plackets, and so
on.
Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Not genuine without the signature.
Joe sure you get Martin’s. Sole proprietor, W.
Engf'H’d chemist, Southampton,
‘T.S.” : Met the most behind-hand man
in my experience, one day last week. It was
close to the office of the Excited, Scattered and
Astonished Bank, between Mark Tart’s shop and
he premises of the Uncertain and Temporary
Pudding Society, that it happened. The bushiest-
ooking person I ever met —a person who looked
v I m” e hailed from the backest Out-back of the
A. territory, where the mail arrives twice a year
—came along with a glazed, unseeing, far-off ex-
pression in his eye, talking thickly but excitedly
about the relief of Ladysmith, or some such place,
xle stopped and gave a dull sort of whoop, and
asked my mate and me if we weren’t glad. We
oth said we were. Then he threw a piercing
ow] into the office of the Excited, Scattered
and Astonished Bank, and blew off a loud
roar on the doorstep of the Uncertain and
emporary Building Society, and put his head
in at Quong Toy’s shop-door and said “ Hooray”
again and then went his way. Now, where
i that man come from ? Are there places
ik. ar in this large land of wool
people thereof haven’t had their Lady-
smith drunk yet?
, jwy.«KwW)g
*B a millionaire, there is ONLY
rv-*t .92*™ PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
litvntJn 4 FJ 1 !?’ Kln 8T Btreet Coffee Palace,” ""»!
q« KING STREET, and near the General Post
ce ' Proprietor — OEO. W. ELLIS.
miiinnliri
“ Colocynth ” sits hard on “ 00100
Re “Ooloo” (B. 14/3/’O3). The failure to find the
appendlX a , fc an operation for its removal has
been the expenence of some of the most eminent surgeon
of the world, and has about it nothing- particularly
heinous ; and for the purpose of drainage a piece $
medicated gau ze is often placed in the wound by surgeons
of the highest repute, and by all authorities in surgery is
a, recognised part of the technique. The “ foul state ”of
the wound attributed by “Ooloo” to the ignorance or
carelessness of the country doctor might have depended
on a set of circumstances that even his (“ Ooloo’s ”1
™S Pr Tfi d Melbourne surgeon could not have pre-
«poo- d ' A ® u £* eons kn P vv that the maintenance of
asepsis, on which surgery depends for its success, is diffl-
cult even under the most favorable conditions in
hospitals, but in a private house to keep a wound aseptic
is frequently an impossible task. p
JiOR NIGH A CENTURY
WILLIAMS’ BARBERS’ BAR
has been the FAITHFUL FRIEND of the
TONSORIAL ARTIST.
w°t't D wT J^ F m 8 ..? OTE 5 T Pf,rase - “THIS SHOP USES ONLY
WILLIAMS ! is a Sure PASSPORT TO PUBLIC FAVOR.
Send a Penny Stamp for Williams' Changing Face
Pilule. Can you explain it? J. B. WILLIAMS CO.,
Glastonbury, Conn., U.S.A. ; and 232 Clarence-st. Sydney
SHARPSHOOTIN6
For Sport and War.
p B y W. W. GREENER.
HITS THE MARK!
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, 1/. nett.'
Posted, 1/2. ’ ’
The best 1/- worth ever Published.
■ Fyou wish to get good work and value
■ you should purchase W. W. GREENER’S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to—
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
(Greener’s Representative).
gTNGINEMAIM’S MASTER KEY.-All subjects
““ relating to Examinations for Certificates of Com-
petency in airthe States. 365 Pages, 106 Illustrations •
6s. 6d. posted by L. F. R. SCHNABEL, Consulting
Engineer, 443 Bourke-street, Melbourne. Algo, Coles
Mejbourne, Adelaide, Sydney. '
The sect® meet with little success in their
to stir up holy bitterness in South Australis
nowdays. Even the Bible-burning episode passed
witnoutcausing any religious recriminations. Arch-
a j OR Keily is one of the most highly respected of
delaide public men, and he is never out on the
rampage. The other Adelade parsons are also of
a peaceable nature, and so, even in the church.
wIV 0n , y , pre J Vails 1° a reasonable extent, and
brotherly kindness flourishes as much as can be
expected.
Martin s Apiol and steel pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia. Not genuine
without the signature. Be sure you get Martin’s.
P r °P n ®. tor ’ w - Martin, pharmaceutical
chemist, Southampton, England.*
There can be no better indication of the
efficacy of Capilla Hair Tonic treatment than the
tact that the rush of business has temporarily
swamped the time of Mr. W. 0. Richards, the
Sydney hair specialist. Out of 700 cases, there
'ho V f e^r een D bU u tw S failu F es > and the consequence is
that Mr Richards has been obliged to cry a halt
for about five weeks before he will be ready to
taclde a fresh army of applicants for treatment.
Mr R s offices are in City Bank Chambers, 164
-t itt-st., Sydney.*
“ H.P.” shifts:—
Th“°l e l my w , ite - fami, y and furniture the other day.
™n ftHl nVO Ved a railway journey. The time fixed
upon for the journey was a week ahead, so we decided to
start packing up m the evenings. We thus gradually re-
duced our little luxuries, then our necessaries, until we
were finally starved out, like rabbits on an island in a
kniff f B „ tr u am h We Were Just down t 0 the la «t plate,
f °h k and 8po ? n ’ 844 on the boxes and slept on the
our P’ an « were altered, and theshift was
naek?n^ ed w rano fH 1 . erweek - J 14 wasn’t worth while un-
packing. We just managed.” We engaged a carrier to
X’f 1 i, UrnitUret °u the railw ay. Hesentanew-chumem-
ploj ee who came an hour late, and threw things promiscu-
PP 8 crockery, cats, bedsteads, hens, clocks, and fire-
fl Af 0 4he vans his haste. When he had put all the
heavy things on top of the light things, he drove like
Nimshi s son to the station. The officials there also care-
P u4 4h ,® crockery the glassware, and the household
of them h Th ttom - he truck - and P ut 4he Btove on top
of them. They said it was one of Tommy Bent’s new
hfThf 10n f- After p 44in £ loaded up it was discovered
till 1 way people that no train could take our goods
till next day. The wife said the fowls must go, “as eggs
were so dear ” The children each had a pet 4t or two
and they had to go at whatever cost. The unexpected
ean * fc t « at l he birds and anlnials would have no
food or water for about 30 hours. Decided to either get
f tb T° u4 , or Provide them with food. Found it impossible
4 ? ‘ ffc three tons of household goods and chattels off
4 p m ; 80 decided to let them suffocate. Spent
the rnght at a boarding-house. By an effort on the part
of the railway officials (and ourselves), we reached *our
destination next day, but too late to get into the new
house. Again, failing to get three tons of goods off the
an I d , C u hook , e ; y ®' 1 decided once more to let them suffo-
? at , e ‘ l thought I could hear one cat calling out faintly
in the basement of the truck, but wasn’t sure. The new
of if" ev > de . nt 'y thought there was nothing left worth
lw| 8 n he JUB , fc , f an £ ed things about, and pretty well
finished them. Two moves is equal to one fire,” it is
said. We concluded that one move is equal to two
™L canoes - " e p fc into the new house at last. The live
f° ok P. r ° v . ed 40 be alive after all, but in a horrible temper
and off its head. As soon as it was unpacked it left for parts
unknown shouting at the top of its voice as it went.** My
wife spends most of her time prying into the neighbors’
back yards and calling “ ch-o-o-o-o-k, chook, chook.”
Children ditto with “ pooss, pooss, po-o-o-o-sey.” First
day 19 butchers, bakers, grocers, eta, called and asked
thff C f tom ’ , N °t being responsible for my actions
that day I promised it to all of them, and they meet
Uabb f °? f doorste P- And-this is whaf l have
all thf gl° lead U P 4 ? all 4he time-if the row among
baker’s f e une ,y Wh ° Pay * ,0r the dead
One of the most surprising features of the
present prosperity of Maoriland is the gradually
decreasing proportion of Jews in that State. The
census returns show a proportion of - 5 per cent, in
.3 psr cent, in 1881, *2 in 1891, whilst barely
that in 1901. Where the carcase is, there the
flies will be, but the flies can be shoo’d off the
carcase if you only shoo hard enough.
r , TO , darken GREY HAIR
Ix»ckyers Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest*
safest, best restores the natural color. Lock
vers, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is, everywhere.
The disciples of “Elijah ” Dowie and kin-
dred apostles will be pleased to hear that there
has arisen among a tribe of naked savages, living
in Borneo, a prophet who has induced great num-
bers of people to surrender to him all their
possessions in return for the power of flying
which he confers on them. The prophet dues not
fly himself, but his devoted followers ascend
trees, and cast themselves into the air, and break
their necks and limbs in the fall. The apostle
oxplams matters by asserting the disciples lack
sufficient faith—hence the trouble. The devotee
is the same all the world over.
A SIMILE AND A MORAL.— “What the
dustman is to the dwelling in which we live, that
ilunyadi Janos is to the local habitation of the
human spirit.” Thus, writes a well-known
medical writer.*
Elsewhere appears “ weather prophet ”
YVragge 8 appeal to the people of Sydney to
. sa ''® Kosciusko, help science, and hear Wragge ”
in his special entertainment, at the Lyceum
Iheatre, Sydney, commencing 3 p.m to-day
(inursday). The object of the entertainment is
to liquidate debts upon the Kosciusko observatory
A feature of the affair will be pictures of the
Wonderland of Australia.”*
writes''— ALVIN BIXBY < Garden City, Minn.,
“ My two nieces were taken with WHOOPING-COUGH
Jbert " a Tn P lh Ced f H nder C ? re . of our best doctor, but she
Sh. m fln °H‘ er We administered Jayne’s Expectorant.
She got well. She was by far the worst of the two.”*
There were 12 “ villas" in the terrace,
and the commercial traveller who had just got
married moved into the one with the lamp-post
right in front. The day after he went up country
an interfering corporation shifted the post two
doors up. A week later the C. T. came home after
dark and made a bee-line for the house with the
an ?i P 's°- S V n f F ont \ f° un d the door open, and
walked into what should have been the trim little
drawing-room of peacock-blue and old gold. The
Venetian blinds were down, the table was littered
with the dirty crockery of two days’accumulation,
and over the fireplace bent a dim figure in white
dropping a bilious-looking crab into a pot of boil-
ing water. The C. T. was crushed at the degenera-
tion of his happy home, and when he tried to
(ipeak a lump rose up in his throat and made him
wheeze horribly The figure in white heard the
wrnrd sound, and slowly turned her head, revealing
a face that was black all over, a flattened nose
and a smile like an open carpet-bag. The C.T.
saw, gasped, and then finding his voice, shrieked
in his agony Heavens ! Maria, has mortifica-
tion set in Then he fled into the street and
saw his own wife at a window two doors higher
up. Later on he braced himself up to go and
apologise to the dim figure with the boiled crab
m its hand, and somehow things sort‘d them-
selves out.
c.
71
Ip—*
V *
W*7T^tm
7.
S!
To
Vechicle
Owners
<1
on K<U7
There’s IMo Comparison
between vehicles fitted with the populer
Dunlop- Kelly
Solid Rubber
Carriage Tyre
N.S. W. DEPOT:
150 Clarence Street, Sydney.
“bra 0 t?o e ßf teteS th o? r t^iir n t^r^ t 5 e fo J mer « ,ldes alon < wlthaut nsis'e and
IF VO wm fn«PnDT T *“* vlbratlon "**** th iro " *T«L
Sole Australasian Agents—
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre 00. of Australasia Ltd.
108 Fllndora Stroat, Malbourne,
And at Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.


■
P'
V
■’
pm
' ♦ V s
• .*
&
— % —
r
. ;
mm
y
■
>5
.
-7
V
>
mmtm:
kmmm
■ i
IL>
SS»¥c;- >
\‘ r P
* **
STEER CLEAR
WORTHLESS IMITATIONS
v of
OGDEN’S
“GUINEA-GOLD”
CIGARETTES.
OGDEN’S arc famous for their Quality
and Purity, and cannot be beaten.
Perhaps the most beautiful and wonderful
houses of any age were those of the prehistoric
inhabitants of America, constructed of opal, agate,
jasper and onyx, obtained from incalculably
ancient petrified.forests.
“Burglar Bill” on prison warders :
The man who pawns his soul to hold his job is the
prison warder. I have made a study of him for years,
and find him, in nine cases out of ten, totally devoid of
ambition. The long hours of lazy monotony seem to dry
up any small well of energy that he might have had
when he joined the service, and the disease gradually
gets worse. I have “ drawn ” the new recruit, and his
tale was—“ Oh, times are pretty hard outside ; a man
must take something. I’m looking out for a better job.
■ Three months later : “ A man has no time to look out for
anything better than this after working twelve hours a
day.” At the end of five or seven years he will
say, “ Oh, a man ain’t much use outside when
he has spent five or six years here.” A system
of “prisoner spving ” exists in some N.S.W. gaols,
and is fostered, by officials who obtain information
regarding warders from “pet” prisoners. Awarder is
always open to a back-door complaint from this kind of
prisoner, who tells how Warder Brown gave No. 28 a
“chew” or carried out a “stiff” for No. 43; and
“trafficking” is the nightmare of the present Comp-
troller-General of Prisons. In any case, where a warder
gives offence at head office, the punishment is swift ; he
receives 24 hours’ notice to report himself at Wilcannia
or some other hole away in the, God-forgotten country.
No explanation for the removal is given, and it is rank
mutiny to ask questions, so the warder packs his carpet
bag and gets. Ten years after, if his conduct has been
exemplary, he may be brought by easy stages back
towards civilisation. This is why warders who have been
through the mill are generally reticent, stolid, unthink-
ing blocks of human flesh. The only difference between
him and the prisoner is that he is allowed to go home at
night and is addressed by his name instead of a number.
Also the warder’s sentence is generally for life.
Less Paper —More Tobacco.
Owing to the use of modern machinery, our Cigarettes have a narrower “ lap ” (pasted edge) than any other brand. This necessarily means more
tobacco and less paper. Compare our GUINEA GOLD CIGARETTES with any other line and see for yourself if this is not true.
BRITISH-AMERICAN TOBACCO CO., LTD, (OGDEN BRANCH), 45 York Street, Sydney.
Harry Morant and his sorry fate, told of
in “ Bushman and Buccaneer ” (now in its second
edition). The history of the Breaker and his
verses and letters, including photo, reproduction
of the Pietersburg gaol MS. Price one shilling.
Booksellers and Bulletin office (post free Is. Id.)
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEO
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releasee
you. Perhaps y.our knees are swollen, the Joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
wa lk- You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURD YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not how being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours. Abscesses, Sore Th —* " *-**•-
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all <
&c. Price, in Great Britain, l/]sd. per l
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, Lc
Agents ; j'SLLIOTT BROS., Sydney. P
look for theregistered trade mark of the
green label on each box. (Regd. copyrig:
roar, nroncnitis.
Chemists, Stores,
>ox. Prepared by
►ndon, England,
urchasers should
Grasshopper on a
A
7
%h
v \w
tillflittr
1
mw"
THE Dr. Austin Electric Belt is the only never-failing
cure for Rheumatism, Lumbago, Weak Back or
Kidneys, Nervousness, Liver, Bladder and Stomach
Troubles, Pains in the Head, and all those ailments from
which men and women suffer. It cures after all other
remedies have failed.
I Don’t Ask Anyone to Take
Chances on my Invention.
It Doesn’t Cost You Anything
if I Fail.
All you lose is your time, and if my Belt fails to cure,
you will have the satisfaction of knowing that the best,
strongest and finest electric body appliance in tte world
—ONE WITH 50,000 CURES TO ITS CREDIT-has
failed, and that there is no cure for you in electricity.
Remember, my terms are—PAY WHEN CURED.
CALL TO-DAY and test my Belt Free. No charge for consultation.
FREE BOOK.—If you cannot call, write for my beautifully-illustrated Medical Book, which
explains my method of treatment, an,d how to regain your strength without using drugs. Every adult
should read it. It is sent sealed, Free. WRITE TO-DAY.
The Dr. J. n. Austin Electric Co.
39 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
ak.
HERR RASSMUSSEN
will guarantee to cure Nervous Weak-
ness, Blood Diseases, Piles, Rheuma-
tism, Corpulency, Liver and Kidney
Troubles. He will send his Book Free.
All correspondence will be held
confidential.
BRISBANE: 309 Queen St.
MELBOURNE; 150 Bourke St.
WEAK, NERVOUS
w
5
WHY SUFFE
ALPAI.INE Vitality Pills which have cured so many
communicate
Treatment by Post a Speciality. Pamphlet sent Free.
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS. Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d., posted.
Blood and Skin Diseases
Blood Disorders, Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, Stone in the Bladder, and Blood
impurities guaranteed to be removed and permanently cured by
ALF ALINE BLOOD PILLS. Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d. posted.
Anaemic Women
suffering from Wasting Diseases, Pale, Lifeless,
R ASSMUSSEN. His lifelong experience is at
and otherwise affected, should at once communicate with
their service, and his
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS will cure them. Boxes, 6s; Courses, 235. 6d.
LIVER and KIDNEY TROUBLES cured at once by the ALFALINE LIVER and KIDNEY PILLS Boxes Is
HjS PlLLS_arc Wond.fa.oC, and His P.LE POWDERS never Tail ; 6, per box each.
The ALFALINE REMEDIES can only beobtained from . . . jm _
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office- w 47 George St., Sydney,
ADELAIDE: 15 Pulteney St.
N-Z.: 91 Lambton Quay, Wellington.
AND HIS BRANCHES AS FOLLOW-
W.A., PERTH: 481 Hay St.
KALGOORLIE: 111 Hannan St.
FREMANTLE • 117 High St-
BOULDER CITY: Piesse St.


try it in your bath
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc«
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
CLEAN BLOOD.
THE KIDNEYS ARE THE CLEANSERS.
. For a person to enjoy good health it is essential that the blood be kept free from all contamina-
tion. It must be purified by the kidneys and liver. As the blood flows through the veins it becomes
laden with certain matter which has been used up by the tissues. When the blood, in the course of
its circulation, reaches the kidneys, the kidneys extract this waste matter and cause its removal from
the system. If the kidneys, from weakness or disease, are working feebly, a portion of this waste
matter remains in the blood and becomes actively poisonous. The kidneys of the average individual
filter and extract from the blood about three pints of urine in twenty-four hours. In this quantity of
urine should be dissolved about an ounce of urea, ten to twelve grains in weight of uric acid, together
with other animal and mineral matter varying from a third of an ounce to nearly an ounce. These are
all solid substances, but they pass from the body in complete solution if the kidneys are working
efficiently. It is easy to realise the important functions which the kidneys perform. Unless the solid
substances are removed suffering must ensue. In fact, to the retention of these urinary poisons in
the system nine-tenths of all pain and sickness is due. Sometimes minute crystals of uric acid form
in the blood and are deposited in the joints and tissues of the body, thus causing the acute pain felt
when we have
RHEUMATISM, GOUT,
Lumbago, Neuralgia, Sciatica, &c. Sometimes the uric acid crystals, aggregating together in
the kidneys, form Gravel and Stones, and cause Kidney Colic, and Irritation and Inflam-
mation of the Bladder. When the kidneys are working perfectly we experience none of these
pains and disorders, as the causative poisons are then duly removed in a natural manner.
WARNER’S SAFE CURE
is an unfailing specific for all disorders of the kidneys and liver. It aots directly on those vital’organs
in such a manner as to always restore them to vigorous health. So intimate is the relation between
the functions of the kidneys and those of the liver that it is essential, in order to cure any disorder of
either, that an agent should be employed which possesses an equally curative action upon each. In
other words, when the kidneys are sick the liver is sick also, and the contrary is likewise true. The
supreme power possessed by Warner’s Safe Cure in the treatment of diseases of so, apparently, diverse
nature as Rheumatism, Gout, Lumbago, Neuralgia, Sciatica, Gravel, Stone. Bladder
Troubles, Blood Disorders, Indigestion, Biliousness, Jaundice, Sick Headache,
Anaemia and Debility, is entirely due to its ability to restore to health and robust activity both the
kidneys and the liver, when all urinary and biliary poisons are duly expelled from the system as
required by nature. The blood is then clean, and we cannot suffer as the cause of suffering is
removed.
The most common symptom of kidney disease la
PAIN IN THE BACK.
A surer test is to place some urine, passed the first thing in the morning, in a covered glass, and
let it stand until the next morning. If it is then cloudy, or there is a brick-dust like sediment, if
particles float about in it, or it is of an unnatural colour, then the kidneys are not healthy and
Warner’s Safe Cure should be instantly resorted to or Bright’s Disease, Diabetes, or some less
serious but more painful illness will surely result.
Mr. F. Elliott, of 52 Surrey Street, Darlinghurst, N.S.W., says:—
“Having been a sufferer for over five years from kidney and bladder complaint, I went to
all the principal doctors in Sydney, Melbourne and New Zealand, and they all gave my case up as
hopeless. I got thin and lost my appetite. I kept getting worse every day, and often wished that I
could die. One day I read one of your books, and decided to try the effect of Warner’s Safe Cure in
my own case. I began to feel better after taking the first bottle. My appetite came back, and I
began to put on flesh. I took six bottles in all, and am now quite well.”
A treatise containing full particulars relating to Warner’s Safe Cure, and the diseases it cures’
together with accounts of many remarkable recoveries, will be sent free on application to H. H*
Warner and Co., Limited, Australasian Branch, Melbourne.
The NEW CENTURY RIFLE
BMBBBHBBSS i r I
15s
Each.
Full Length, 35in.; Weight, 31b. ; Fires 8.8. Cap, or
22 Long, or 22 Short Rim Fire Cartridge. Takes down
witli a single screw. All parts of Best Steel. Per-
fectly Machined throughout. Accurately sighted and
well Rifled for Perfect Shooting. Will kill at 300yds.
A
Carriage Paid to any railway station in N.S.W. Orders despatched same day.
P.O. Orders payable to
Sydney Small Arms Co., 57 Post Office Chambers, Sydney.
AND CROSSED E.S. AND A. BANK.
Full Stock of D.8.8.L. Guns, Rifles, and Revolvers always on hand.
T. TOMBLESON, Manager.
STATE EXPRESS Cigarettes.
Made from the
FINEST
VIRGINIAN
TOBACCOS
HAND MADE,
FREE FROM DUST,
HARMLESS to tbe
THROAT.
A\aoTuWf :
warns
MV DARLING,”
“ASTORIA,”
“QUO VADIS,”
“ Waldorf,”
NO. 999,
NO. 555.
UNEQUALLED
for
FLAVOR and
AROMA
MANUFACTURED BY THE ARDATH TOBACCO CO.,
LONDON.
MELLIN’S
FOR INFANTS FOOD AND INVALIDS
Is adapted for use from birth.
Send for Pamphlet and Samples to GOLLIN & 00., Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide and Wellington.
Business, Robbery, etc.
Stated by the London D.T. (which suggests
Delirium Tremens), that of 35,000,000 gallons turned out
by Scotch whisky distillers every year, only about half is
malt spirit. The rest, being made direct from unmalted
grain, is merely grain-spirit, a pernicious drink, and onlv
costing about one-fourth as much as the real thing A
lot of blending is done, and the whisky sold with no grain-
spirit in it is set down as about 5 per cent, of the whole.
The sins of the wholesale softgoods firms are
not confined to Customs frauds. Cruel swindles are
worked upon greenhorn clients, who come along to get
started on their own by these obliging capitalists The
prospective publican gets more humane treatment from
a usurious brewer than a confiding young draper gets
from the house which finances him. On the strength of
lying assurances re some “ snug little business ” the
client takes over a lot of bad stock on terms—part cash
and the rest in bills—and then it is good-bye to his £250
or whatever sum he was able to plank down. The busi-
ness, in five cases out of six, is a mere trap for the
unwary. One purchaser after another is put in—and put
out—by the bowelless mortgagee.
• • » •
“S. the w.”: The proof that there is no skill
in “ two-up ” is that the coin turns a half-turn, making
head or tails, in three to six inches. No man can regu"
late the spin to a foot. Temora Tommy made a rise
Where is dat Tommy now? Back your runs of luck if
playing among squareheads. Back anyone with a special
black kip lfjthere’s spielers about. Better back nothing.
“John R.”: Rc remarks (B. 21/2/’O3) anent the
recent sale at Tamworth of land from the Peel River Land
Co.’s monopoly—areas which averaged £4O per acre. I
would like to know at what rate said land was assessed
for land tax contribution to the revenue of this im-
poverished State. The P.R.L. Co. is a syndicate mainly
of aristocratic British absentees, who, like many other
British investors, give precious little to the Statei’n which
they gather big dividends from properties acquired at
nominal cost. The Hon. P. G. King, manager for the
Company, has long sat in the Nominee Chamber (and will
probably do so for life, as stipulated in a rotten State
Constitution). As a Legislative Councillor, Mr. King also
owes allegiance to the State. Perhaps the Commissioners
for Taxation may receive some notification of arrangement
re discrepancy (if any exists) between the ascertained
value and previous assessment estimates.
* » * *
“F.C.” : To one who gets a first view right
“inside” the big warehouses and shops of Melbourne or
Sydney the shameless conscienceless swindling, and
retaliatory thieving that go on are positively para-
lysing. What would the guileless public say to
lace, retailed at 6d. a yard, being bought at 2d. a
dozen ; to Panamas, sold at 7s. 6d. and 10s. each, costing
18s. and 20s. a dozen ; to tea, for which it pays Is. and
Is. 3d. a pound, costing the blenders Is. a chest? One
shilling a chest! 1 Fifty chests of this stuff were lately
blended with 150 of a better sort at a big tea warehouse.
Here is a sort of balance-sheet of the Items of sweating
and retaliatory larceny. Above-mentioned tea firm has
many employees ; few get £2 a week, many less. Married
men are working there for 255. and 20s. a week ; lads of
15 to 20 for 10s. to 15s. Per contra, nearly every man
carries his lunch in a Gladstone bag—which goes home
filled with tea ; the lads fill their pockets. One man lately
sent to a beyond-the-State firm 20 chests of such
“acquired” tea, the proceeds of 12 months’savings. A
Melbourne drapery firm pays its shop-girls 2s. 6d. a week
for the first year, 6s. the second then sacks them and
takes on fresh ones. Per contra, should these girls want
calico, flannelette or dress pieces, they mostly steal them
if they can. At another soft-goods shop, a big suburban
house, a girl behind the counter was requested, just
before closing time, one evening, to step upstairs and
undress before the forewoman. The process discovered
a choice new petticoat with the shop-ticket still
attached. This game had been going on for long, and
was practised by all the hands, but the boss didn’t prose-
cute ; the smallness of her wages may have been
the incentive to mercy—or it may not. Another woman,
a white-worker, perpetually advertises for apprentices “ to
teach thoroughly.” These she pays 2s. 6d. a week. They
are not taken on at all unless they can work a machine (ap-
prentices, mind you); in a few weeks they are at least im-
provers, if not competent white-workers ; at the end of
the first year, when they must he paid 55., they are
sacked and fresh girls taken on. And here is the per
contra to this account. No girl has been there a week
before she is impressed with the desirability of pocketing
and taking home unconsidered trifles —thread, needles,
lace, calico, sheeting—nothing is too small or too big, so
it goes into the pocket. It is robbery, no doubt, strietly
speaking ; but doesn’t the boss set the example when he
pays a married man 20s. for a week’s work ? It is useless
to prate of morality in the face of this. This is one result
of the system of sweating, retrenchment and thrift
so persistently and shamelessly advocated by all good
Tories.
m m m *
“F.C.”: To those -/ho were lately disputing
over the merits of “billy” tea I am inclined to say its
peculiar flavor is due to something quite different from
billies, or from tea either. Was taking tea lately with
a friend who works in a big Melbourne tea warehouse.
The boss came home and, taking off his boots, emptied
about a spoonful of tea out of each. I casually inquired
how it got there. “Pressing the tea in the chests.” I
became interested. “You don’t mean to tell me you
press the actual tea with your boots? ” “ Bless you, yes.
You see, we open the chests to check the net weight, and
as it is put in under pressure ” (he didn’t say whether the
original pressure was from naked Indian or Chow feet or
not) “we have to stamp on it to get it back again.” “ I
should think a machine press would be quicker and
cheaper, as well as cleaner.” “ Perhaps so, but we haven’t
got one. Anyhow, that’s nothing. Nearly all the tea
we send out is first emptied on our floor and then swept
down the shoot into the blending-box below, and, of
course, the boys are tramping over it all day.” Then I
wondered if cheap tea is tramped on more recklessly than
the better-class article, and if it is boots that give its
peculiar flavor to “ billy ” tea.
* ■ • •
Overheard in a tram. “D’ye underthand me
—d’ye underthand ; I stharted him in bithness” (much
gesticulation)-“ my monish, my monish stharted him.
Oh, yeth I—yeth, my tears I—he1 —he paid me back—d’ye
underthand me? How did he do it? Here —I have the
betht cutter in Sydney, d’ye underthand, who cuts a
sthuit out of three yards of cloth, and he—the . . . hath
found a man who can get a sthuit out of two yards 7-Bths,
and so the . . . thellth his sthuits a bob scheaper than I
do—d’i'e underthand me? How doth he do it? Oh,
yeth, I’ll tell you ; we’ve found out how the . ._. makes
hith profit. He thuffth the .. . shoulders with saw-
dutht instead of horth-hair ! —Oh, yeth I ”
* * • •
It is wonderful, these hard times, what some
people are doing for a crust. Writer knows a man who
knocks out £2 a week by swiftly informing tradespeople
when anyone moves into the district. _ If the tradesman
gets the new arrival’s custom the fee is 2s. 6d., so includ-
ing butcher, baker, grocer, and milkman, the new
resident may be worth 10s.
. ihe underwriters of London Lloyd’s are now
issuing sporting guarantees against appendicitis. For a
premium of 6s. you can insure yourself against the ex-
pense of an operation—up to £2OO, and in case of death
your estate gets the full amount. Most fashionable
scares are treated in the same way ; the half-crown small-
pox guarantee was a perfect success. In fact, the nervous
citizen can get insured against anything at Lloyd’s, from
twins in his own family to the death of the sovereign.
* * * *
“ J.P.D.”: The bald-headed man in the corner
told me, a few days back, that a certain Sydney plumber
was constructing, to order, beer-adulterating pumps—
pulling a gill of water to the “ long-sleever,” and a pro-
portionate amount to the “ medium ” and “ Tommy
Dodd,” The idea is a“ V ’’-shaped pipe, one end in the
water and the other in the beer, the water-pipe being
much the smaller of the two.
• • * *
On the N.S.W. tramways, the guards have to
make good all shortages in their takings. But, though
mistakes occur in the way of overcharges and short
change, which make the guards’ cash greater than the
ticket-sales indicate, no mention is made of moneys over,
nor are such sums allowed to go against the next short-
age.
• • • •
A dentist who advertises “ guinea sets ’’ states
that, although he had made about 1000 sets, he only built
10 of the guinea sort. “The ad. gets them here,” he
said ;“I do the rest.” Presumably, the customer has it
explained to him that such a high-class and extra special
countenance as his wants a much better set to do it jus-
tice, though the guinea set is quite good enough for the
features of the common herd. And, if that fails, he can
be told that nothing short of a 10-guinea set would make
a face like his look other than a public calamity. A
matter like that can be put either way.
* • * »
A curious fact, dug out of the records of Lloyd’s,
is the reviving popularity of the sailing ship. For several
years hardly a new one appeared ; last year from the
Clyde alone there came four 3000 tonners ana over, six of
between 2000 and 3000 tons, and six of between 1000 and
2000 tons.
• » • *
Some time ago the Maryborough (Vic.) Chinese
lottery was beautifully “ had.” A pair of youths obtained
a sixpenny ticket, “ marked ” it, and were unsuccessful.
Then, however, they got a “ bank ” ticket- -a duplicate of
the drawing, the winning marks displayed upon it, and
only differing from the customers’ tickets through dis-
tinguishing marks on the margin—clipped away the
margin, replaced it with that from the ticket they had
already marked, lined up to the camp with the fake, drew
the prize, and cleared. For several nights after that the
enraged Celestials awaited the pair with tightly-clenched
bamboos; but, wise in their generation, the swindlers
stayed away.
• • * *
Australian tradesmen, who contemplate shifting
to S’Africa, are commended to read this ad. from a
S’African paper :
WANTED
rjOOD COLONIAL CARPENTER and JOINER to
take charge. Must be good man. Apply between
6.30 and 10 a.m., or after 2 p.m. No Australians.
WONNACOTT & CO., Murchie’s Passage, off West
Street.
• • • *
How money grows. In 1862 W. C. Wentworth
gave to Sydney University £445, to be invested till the
fund would bear the expense of a travelling fellowship.
The authorities invested it, and in December, 1901, the
fund amounted to £2296 Is. 3d.
* * * *
“Ooloo”: We were discussing coins, and one
of the company said, in all good faith, that a friend of his
had a coin dating from before Christ. He added in
support of his statement : “ You can see b.c. on it as
plainly as possible.” And he really believed it.
• • m * -
Usury is rampant in Victorian public depart-
ments. A P.O. employee, lately in the Bankruptcy
Court, was forced thereto by the demands of a fellow-
employee who had discounted his bill. The railway
department is over-run with usurers. An ex-Board of
Works employee lately told the Bench a moving tale of
having his salary garnisheed for four weeks by a fellow-
employee, who had tided him over his difficulties (at an
enormous rate per cent.). The Board was so shocked
at the thriftlessness of this individual that it promptly
sacked him. The 150 per shent disease is equally
rife in N.S.W. public departments—especially the Water
and Sewerage Board offices.
• • * •
The arrest and committal for trial of bank clerk
M’Lagan, for victimising the Bank of Australasia for
about £lO,OOO, is another illustration (whether accused
be guilty or innocent) of the way a wealthy corporation
like the ’Asia remunerates the rank and fiie of its staff.
M‘Lagan was employed in a post of great trust, with a
heart-breaking struggle to “ keep up his position” in a
place like Kalgoorlie at a salary of £175 a year, in a bank
which has just trumpeted the fact that it pays an
11 per cent, dividend. A part of his duty consisted
in taking charge of damaged and withdrawn bank notes
sometimes amounting in a week to years of his salary.
And this temptation is daily before hundreds of others in
the 11 per cent. bank. Silently and quickly they balance
day by day to the last penny thousands and hundreds of
thousands sterling, earning the 11 per cent, for others,
while they themselves draw paltry salaries, are not even
allowed to marry until they, attain a certain status, and
wear the gaudy belltopper of respectability to disguise a
life of genteel misery. M’Lagan, like his brethren in the
11 per cent, bank, did not even draw his miserable £175
net. He was docked a yearly contribution to the
guarantee-fund, out of which fund the shortage at Kal-
goorlie will be made up. There will be no inroad on the
11 per cent, dividend. It all comes out of the pockets
of the employees, the dishonest ones being paid for by
the honest, and the 11 per cent, goes on its way rejoicing.
• * * •
“P.F.F.” : A low-down practice common with
Sydney business firms is to advertise for several
employees when they only want one—thereby securing a
larger number of applicants to choose from. Present
writer knows a comp, who, the other day, parted with
his last coin for steamboat fare to answer an advt. for
compositors—only to be told that “compositors” was a
printer’s error, that the word should have been in the
singular, and that the position was already filled. Next
morning same man responded to a similar advt. and saw
one man chosen out of over 50, who were all under the
impression that several hands were wanted.
• * • •
Talking of adulterated liquors. Melbourne
people are learning to distrust the lager beer sup-
plied by grocers in a patent-corked bottle. No trade-
mark label or seal is placed across the patent fastening as
evidence that the bottle was refilled at the brewery ;
consequently when the alleged lager beer has the taste of
tanglefoot and the flatness of ditch-water, the purchaser
wonders whether the grocer is refilling the returned
empties from his own barrel of mystery. The lager
brewers should take a hint from the milkman, whose
“ certified ” bottles of milk have a label gummed over the
fastening of the stopper.


DRYSDALTS ANTIBILIOUS PILLS
fcr MfeKiM, headache. '•* of *zr*z*e
te.. are pee*:— ted hrpt iwaa of :ce htxiest
s»aefcat. who aekiw® edx* dbeir tborooch tßutw; is
Li a«n. LI per box p»: paid. F. J. Sst-in-,
«h»»nw. Pecrie* sjt:. Bnshoae •
T. B. Browne’s Drrectorr for 190? is now to
bnad, showing aE the rmreiijati.rsss c< that err*;
arfr-rnacag VTJa-r. The press of -he wheie werSd is
rfprei*:ii:*d. the , a*dio tuls :o
ia tee asuriets ■>* ;ae p-A~s; m sad hew ~and where - -
<*» it frotn this eacwefefmfia of joaraali and -.',-»re
of isx’KUfc.Tioa, r»Tcs of fah?cripsioa
“ ‘ **“*? ret-ree «C 4. .-4 pipers and ■Mganea pobfisbed
m the L eited Ktssdcm ire there, and then a separate
dvrsoei of the wars is demoted to the tress «( ---
“ Britons reread the Seas.’ In another tfraea fall
I®***®“® are «..ren of the best piners in the Catted
states, and Centra: and Sccth Aaserioa. China,
•f* the foremlyM parts o< Africa. Need ess to «.
taese ■**£*?■ «»»« «:rlrr? of \
aaates tie Pxasss in Ger- jnr
tae ir:tij.tviiv i VVKBoncwTVT in Kcssii • and oshe-i
eren :re dreadfsL*
If the man on the land wishes to remain
there in peace, be should employ W. X. W’K«
Land Agent. 21 Bligh-street. as his Agent.*
Royal Agricultural Society of N.S.W.
Qrand metropolitan Exhibition
Moore Park, Sydney
April Bth to 16th
EArrtß'
V W«K
£3500 PRIZE MONEY £3500
THE GREATEST aGRJCIITIRaL EXHIBITION ia SGITTfERN HEMISPHERE
3tartin§ and Jsnnpiug C cozens. Trotting EihiTatjotis in 4IK j ’ r ; ST^
AuiosiobZe ocher ELsdr=r aad Ring Events every dsr.
IMMENSE DISPLAYS AND ATTRACTIONS.
UNPRECEDENTED ENTRIES RECEIVED IN E'ER> SECTION
ADHJSSIO.\ Is. ; GRWDSTAyD, 2s. Extra; FEDERAL STA\D. 6d. Extra
Hird T*> is, zrter :iia KiMkl<. am the rr:n<i. ud ea* b* nfe s_ .v. v
ertnaet fm OertiwMacec. tferx* I*. r w z £STS% ~ Svrw**-,
Amazements.
-p h ■ mutoac oTr ~—
WOJTDEBro. UTIXG PICTURES
KINO STREET ARCADE CORNER
led 1
74 OXFORD STREET.
B«*J life Pcetrajel *nt& s Yiridnea. ud R«aH,„
JFerer Before 1
XW ADMISSION TREE
IYCEUM THIATRE, 8Y D *Ty
!>**** Mr. f B . A-idenwn.
Sob Le&nob
Bland Holt.
LAST TWO SIGHT* of BLAND HOLT’S
GmtX M-'rsinzLLiXic Attraction.
TECBW O R L u
BAT. STIT, MARCH SB, THE VAR OF WEALTH.
POPLLAB PRICES—3*. St. I*. Box Plan at Elw'-:
CHRMTOB miOMBa. Bat Hanger
QRITERION THEATRE, Byl> N~EY,
SOLE LESSEE .. .. Mr. JOBS F. SHERIDAV
M—grr Mr. Frame ffeajhmby. '
LAST WEEK Or THE PRESENT SEASON’.
Tht S»»s»fo! MracaJ Comedy,
THE LADY SLAVEY.
JOHN F. M&DMfI m
{
E-'-seru, the Bailiff.
Jemmea, the Flanker.
M-£»o*an, the Scotchman
Per Pott* Point Morgan
the Millionaire.
LAST
slattt- MATINEE, WEDNESDAY
NEXT, APRIL L
PRICES—3a, St. Is. fid. A Is. Box Plan and Dar Sal-i
a.: White 2/>*e Caof~xx**TT, Rojal Arrade. 359 Pitt-st.
T M E A T R E ROYAL, 8 Y D N EY
■ Lewes .. .. Mr. i. C. WILLIAMSON.
Under tbs Dfr«etk>B of ME. GEORGE MCsGBOVE.
SEN NATIONAL SUCCESS of Ml S 3 NELL!'. STEWART
aad Gerrare W-scrroTe'i Xtw
ENQLISH DRAMATIC COMPANY.
i* As ?is<sa CotaedT Dniu,
Z A. Z A.
(XELLIE STEWARTS MASTERPIECE),
Pry*g n UstaL Box PAn at Nicholsons.
pALA.CE THEATRE, BYDNEY~
Under toe Ma-amt-; of Mean WILLOUGHBY
and GEACH.
ETERY EVENING. EVERT EVENING.
THE
LAUGHING SUCCESS OF POUR CONTINENTS NOW
ON AND OFF.
A COWAN, Manager.
T , = V , OLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ sc*e Prtyreaoraad Manager—Mil Haiit Rickards.
ANOTHER GREAT SPECIALTY,
HILL' AND SYLVAINY.
MR JL V. WIN TOW.
SpteySd Reception of Mr JOHN COSGROVE.
E? ~~'--teaE of Lc*t’so*~_ * jre-as Coeaesri’m and Raconteur.
MR. W. C. HUNTER
SPRY led MOTT. PEARL LOVELL, MALVENA
MOORE, PROFESSOR MaOCAXX, EDXA SEATON,
acd ill ccr Grets Treofi Col
RICKARDS’ NEW OPERA HOUSE,
yr t \t
S<xe Propri-ette tad HARRY RICKARDS.
EVERT EVENING, at ; p.m.
MATINEES. WEDNESDAYS A SATURDAYS at 2.30 p.m.
Eetit3iae»; Rec*ewic<a of MISS C RAC IE EMMETT.
RplraifiH 5 1 -teas cf SEELEY And WEST, JOHN COLEMAN
SCHENK BIOS. ERNEST FITTS, MISS RAY JONES,
usd a. of Coopur.
at. it -a
Plan it Allan’s.
PRINCESS'S
Soue Lessee
THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
Mr. George Muagrove,
K«=n of Mr. GEORGE MUSGROVE’S
GRAND COMIC OPERA CO.
EVERY EVENING, ltd FOURTH WEEK of
THE FORTUNE TELLER,
AXnrtaf Cr - ; tiL 3nrrarlan Comic Opera.
Tie FttesC and Mas; Expessi'e Production of Comic
Open Etst GN er. is Atsssnlia.
- - - aL PRICES. Bax Plan at Allan’s.
THEATRE ROYAL. MELBOURNE
■ Lessee Mr. Bland Holt
ltd Mir:vrgr .. W -ir-Am Anderson.
Bus. Misater. . a—ea Headr. Is», Julias Grant.
WILLIAM ANDERSON S Famous Dramatic Organisation
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
M TNT * s E TNT E ad Y,
beaded hr Mis? EUGENIE DUGGAN.
SATURDAY NETT. MARCH 25. an Orizinal Domestic
Dnur-k. entitled. HONOUR THY FATHER.
Frees—&=. 2s -Si. 2s. Is fd asd la Box Plan at Allan's.
UER MAJESTY'S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
1 ■ Urder the LXreesfea of Mr. J. C. WsiiANSOS.
Bas. Gwx Tati*. Treaa, E. J. Tait.
SECOND WEEK aad EVERY EVENING of
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO. in the Last Work of
the Late Sr Arthur StSirmn,
THE EMERALD ISLE,
PRICES AS USUAL. *Si Box PUn at Allan’s.
QPERA HOUSE. MELBOURNE
w AnuftaMt with Mr. Rickards on
GOOD FRIDAY EVENING,
Under the Kreeckm of E. NAPOLEON BOFFARD,
GREAT SACRED FESTIVAL,
laedad# CMMi Plated*. with Lining Pictures.
POPULAR PRICES—JK. 2a. la
\'ER> SPEC!\L ENTERTAINMENT.
THE KOSCIUSKO OBSERVATORY.
WKAGGE WRAGGE : : WRACKtE !!
LYCEUM THEATTE. SYOWEY (hr khsdresscf KandHolt)
MATINEE. S p.m. THURSDAY. MARCH 28.
•*SC 1 OSAO a-ss the WONOCRLANO OF AUSTRALIA
JfA G-V iPTCMST PICT CRUS.
vV'vV „n* > deer K two take Help Science!!
HEAR WRaGGSI ALL COME. 3h. 2a. ard Is TS
M elbourwe.
WIRTH BROS.’
ENORMOUS UNITED SHOWS,
CIRCUS HIPPODROME,
MUSEUM. WILD WEST,
- w Meowrr-e *f T-v-ed Wtd A~i=*l*, will Oper
hi MELBOURNE M ail Opaiaet TaMaem
SATURDAT, MARCH 28,
; ust CSee tbttveY Brd**. - a CSky tf Sacw.white Tents,
TW« LAKOtJT TENTS EVES ESECTED IN
_ MEISSUKNE
„ r * n *W6 WfTH NOVELTIES.
**** '* «*y tehee C-. -.s on Earth. “SI
AN vv v. avcHS i" OiAIIXG SENSATION.
ntM * NM P*Vh OkHhWA heMhf the Marrelloui
aad Hjsema
brothers h
Ahnert she firs person who me: Melba ia MaorOand
»m* a Government official with aa income-tax paper.
Wten Melba the Magnificent wag in W. A. the Kal-
foorue quartette party serenaded her. When the
warbhng was over, Melba requested the conductor to
step forward and receive a " souvenir of her visit in
return for the compliment rendered.” The -tret-wielder
(fid so, fully expecting a diamond -studded baton, or some-
thing of that sort, but on unrolling a few yards of brown
paper he came across a wwwpenjsj (or so) f*Kbet-
fcawdierer, ig.fi And be hadn't even a cold to give special
point to the gift.
Rumored that Adelina Patti has the refusal of an offer
of £fiD.C*3o for a six months’ farewell tour through America.
If this ia even half true a wealthy section of the American
public has adopted the old theatrical and musical fetishes
of Bruin with something more than British reverence.
In Patti s cage there is the excuse that she was educated
in America and made bet ieb’ji in hew York in IK£. AD
the same, Patti has been mainly a British institution for
*0 years, and especially since sae became an old woman.
As the age of 6fi she can't sing worth a £6:>.COC> engage-
Qmte a pretty parlor pastime has been invented by one
Dumaresq, a wealthy Parisian degenerate, the leader of a
smart set, cn whom all the world's previous tide-show*
seem to have palled. He managed to obtain a set of
cinematograph films, which recorded a particularly
dangerous operation performed upon a hands'me woman
in a private hospital. After Dumaresq's party of giddy
genu had fed :o a finish at his epicurean tabled the lights
went out, and the cinematograph began to roll off the
operation scene. Toe pastime " took well, and cave
pleasure to all,” until cne night a large and influential
spectator rose and belted the cinematograph into chips
with a chair, asd began to set fire to the place and brain
the people. And then the police came al-oeg and arrested
the fragments. The man who broke things was a near
relative of the woman on the operating table. The sur-
geon who, for a huge cash consideration, allowed the
cinematographic pictures to be taien is never likely to
practise in Paris again.
** Bob ” Henry, otherwise NicboQs, itinerating raa'-ager,
is again ia trouble. This time toe ** Wrong Mr. Wrght *
is the trouble : list time it was “ What Happened to
Jones. " What happened to the Wrong Mr. Henry ” will
be the next query.
Edward Lloyd (he starts his Australian concert boor in
Penh this week'! came into the muacal profesmon by way
of the Anglican church. like Arthur Sullivan, Ce.lier. and
ever sc many mere of them. As a kiddie Lloyd sang in
the Westminster Abbey choir, and before he became
know-, on the concert platform be was principal tenor
soloist at a fashionable London tabernacle.
J. Kerin Tail, who has been identified with the Dolores
concerts for a long time, will acromptr.T that adorable
Sttie lady to America and England as business manager.
Wirth's Circus is pitched oa a suitable fiat ; : uss upon
the east side of teat high embankment which" leads to
Prince's Bridge, frees the south. No circus ever tried
this spot before. All the others have gone to the south-
west of the bridge. Storms have come, invariably from
the south-west, and ripped their tenia. Consequently
Wilis and FtUgenud bud: ttieir tin circuses. The Wirt is
positicn is perfectly sheltered by the embankment and
the high gerund on she axeth. capped by the Immigrants'
Hotne.
Alfred w cods, the actor, disonsed of a recent summ-c-scs
case in Melbourne by announcing through his solicitor,
that be bai mst filed his schedule (assets is, lie his proper
came :f Ed ward Alfred Corke. The creditor wbc bad
obtained jndsment for an old debt of £5 was a uscian,
of coarse. The vigilance of an unpaid hasten is
proverbial!
The R's London rorrespoadeat : “ On a Sunday night
on a Brghtoc pier 1 heard Aiiee Crawford recite—'by
permiss :a of W Ison Barrett.’ Her last encore ard her
best piece *is Th-cmas Bracken's * Net I'&ierscood.’ It
was » bet above the audience —is. to 6d.—but to my nr-
priss it went really well. With the full yet rasping rem-
nants of her once—fire voice Midi—* Ant-tinette Sterling
* giggled the gels.’ Melody and ever thing else attrac-
tive had fed, but the audience had paid and stayed. Her
tor., Sterling Mack-inlay, has a capital baritone and give*
every promise-of a good future.
Wbea the musbeal critic rets a fair to let hi—.-seif
gc. he can certainly dash off the greatest amount of rot
iad drive! ever penned outside cf a lunacy asylum. Not
loog ago. ft prime specimen of this class was engaged by
lb? Lrcodoo Mrs'tit Odcihx to write a Chopin article,
and tbss "cs the sect of wash he slopped over the Ber-
ceuse. Op. 57. dedki*i to Mile. El se Guard : "■ A rock-
ing theme is set over a s**#> a/timet* ; the rhythm never
alters ia the bass. a»i against the monotone cf a dark
grey sky Is arranged an astonishing hurst of fireworks,
•cine florid, seme quite subdued " (w»-t sqtribs. no doubtir
“ Modulations from ptgw-egg bine to Nile green—most
atistt and subtle mortniatiens—dissolve before one’s eyes.
Fcr a moment the sky is peppered with tiny stars in
doubles, etch Independent in tinting. Within a small
segment of the chromatic bar Gfafn has imprisoned
new, strangely Isooial colors It cs a miracle, aod
after she drawis-out cord of the cnm.r.au: seven in. and
tee rain of silvery fire ceases, ooe realises that the whole
piece is a de&doH ilusioc. It is but a nlulati-oa of toe
key of D far, the wocseo® of pyroteebniea] eekntnn.*
Walter Moacguotry was a fine actor, aod his canaaonn-
ness cf the fit-: amounted to a disease. Also he carried
the art of seif-advertise meet to the pciat at which it
became a misery to all who knew him. Once Mont,
gomery wanted to m co tear and asked eld Deck Stewart
if be could reemmeed ft rood advertising agent. “Oh,
you don't wan; anything cf that tad.’ said Stewart
shareriy. tt rat you wan: is a good actor. You are the
heat advertise' -g i rest I ever saw.” “ Mad ” vis term
for the way Walter felt, and he n«v*r poke to Stewart
again. Then Stewart rubbed in the insult with a paeto-
mime song, 'The Cantering Cad of CoHias-street,”
which definitely closed the door of recoocCsaßca.
Montgomery sat his horse like a pair of ariaeors amiss a
gate, ’and the awful prancing of hes aired hack in CcClina-
■treet was ooe of the sights of Mri'ccara* ia those days.
“ T.D.” I Aa uakir.i Ames critic reprove* A,; red
Woods fcr gotag into the ring as “ Boy Jim ”to fight fcr
the British pug. mump: ossitip withcat fire: n:-- inc vff
Ms kaHteoaa curiy thatch. But it :be for-
. gotten that Alfred is oely supposed to be a boy amateur
loddealy thrust into the arena in souiebody rise's rla.ee.
and the ft rest giade in which the ec-cocnter takes "nlnce
doesn't seem a likely place for bothers’ shoos anyway.
Mere ccuid be made of this reteresting sham-fight." The
hairy Alfred and firs opponent ret to grips too often. A
xttle mere Kberufisc sparring would hela the fight along
materially frees a point, and if either cf trie
coGtessan 3 were to save his cure; tapped twee or twice
a week the affair would gain in realism, and there would
really be '.ess Inarm done than at present. T'e retreated
bare’ gripping bas rubbed away a lot cf Boy Juris lev sly
pink skis] and Ms clothe* are uscooftfenable to »w in
consequence.
The Krilermanss. 'emery of evdney. and bow of
Victoria, are ft generally useful rarely. Madame has aa
extensive and higri-cias* ess c-teacfciag ccoaectics. aad
is a frecusnt perfnrsoer at social fuactioes ESisss sen
Maurce freque-tlv ftcccrepaniis her at these, ri.j fire
Mag the vaaS* ; he as: teaches otmsitly. Eldest
daughter Ac rente a sports herse'i ix the gist deep fw a
Srvrag, and houds big classes at the d “ ere- ’. baths, where
she a the fashiocjac 1* swimming teacher She bas for
*vi —- re ycurirest brother Fredd e and small r«ter
Mareeffe (who dee* the hccaekeereng reewsen times'.
The Acuarimm autbcrties have new secured Annette
•nd Freddie aged 7). who are to rr= and dive *—ocg
She fishes every aftereoee bef-nre an admiriag pub Se.
Meanwhile Fatoer Keljermaca tsurwue* the Arts in
flyd*ey.
The Melbourne J*rura>m Cycicrema ksers a Maf
MnEab. or Derrieh, or hcree-Vghtener. »s a fivtag idver-
SLwert of what a frsqoesher of Jsnsasts was like ia
the Ugh aad far-c* time*. This persec wears a ff.juiag
rche of dingy »te« serge, which rapes over a brlHiaatlv-
wafped spenss of peuiooat. His head i* ecrel-cced ia a
gaudy berrems. and he is ah fid with heavy sand ils, with
mturced pc- -t* severai :n«cee» kmg. His tallic.g and
riecticc are mspayed oa a basser. which he wav** About
oo the end ota- jut spear, The exhibit preme-ads* the
Keck most rf each aftereccn.
Last Sunday, when it was raining pretty
widely in any case, the churches of N.S.W.
prayed for rain. In a few places people cooldn’t
get to church to pray for rain because it was too
wet. In a good many places, ho we Ter, it cleared
up after service.
THE PEACE CRT.—(A HALF-HEARTED
CHAMIPION.)
“ Xmrthdtss, i; cxnoos be :oo strongly inserted on
that if this Conference is to bear such fruit *s the country
desres, no member of it muss come down with ultima-
tums ml threats of no surrender. The Con fere roe
shock! ae the Tery stmcepbere of surrender, or it ts a
farce and a pretence.
“ Be; we cannot reach to all Reform in a day. The
Conservative chrysalis must hare time to shed its tioogh.
The ‘ ekxstered peace ’ of Toryism need not be too rude r
•hocked. ” —As*.
Stjce echo is a bit of i Fat Ifan himself, to
Irnne) - “ Ton are quite «a the right, and he
is nrmg; but for peace take perhaps vent'd
better partly gw in.”
Tomurvilla—WTiat is Left of It.
The people of Townsville hare at last collected
their thoughts sufficiently ard crawled sufficiently
from under ;ne ruins of tueir iallen domiciles, to
write letters about what struck them. Here is
one just to hand :
Years ago blunt old Hugh Xeisoo ;oid a certain
Townsville delegation ” There oughtat to be any Tcwns-
vu>.~ Another dmaster of the "Sigma” or *' Lewta"
type ard Irene wear be any Townsville. and Bower will
be rid of a riba., ard Queer sand of an iucabusin icesha~e
of a dreadful ircScsa oartor, proof aga. :S every' hisg t-us
•id weather. Tre iate gale seemed :o d reel its principal
fury against gaoh, pubbe-b: uses, and churches. The fine
boad-il was practically laid in mine, and seres of the
pat ent? per.sberL One of these was an unfortunate
baseman, »hc . rufertog from biirfis, had attempted to
True cis trochie with aroinungs of eartafic oil ard had
thereby lost bus sight entirely. ' Jus: think of it—blight,
carbolic oil, bli-xirese. and a grave a— ~i the ruins of a
cycioae-rtven hospital ! Frcii the Red River to
Tovn-svtoe not a tingi* waiting scot or station
along The ins was left Intact, seme were unroofed ;
soese lifted o 3 the blocks, and seme practically inverted.
A missive two-storey hotel -us lifted’ cC the clocks aid
left ti-Ted by the wayr.de. Toe gale played some moss
pera tr pranks. Wr. ;er saw a workman's cottage
literally -.own to shreds. Xext door, a cottage cf
arparer tly sccri-ar build and material w»* lert in-
tact. Down the Train screes the casual w ayfaren
ran. chased by fiying sheets of galvanised iron,
ard oecsks-ocally ssakare a ng-raru r de viatic a to avoid
other perauc satiating deiris. Hotels were struck para-
lytic, and for some days after the storm a stranger could
go to pub. after pub. ic search of a dinner - and find
cis ee-arca fruitless. (Beer, however, was always
~4e. The lovely harbor was of scant eceic
-to shipping, for ooe craft sank, anocher was
landed high and dry beyond hope of recovery, while
steamers _ke the B*icoo and Wodooga parted steel
hawsers by the donee (Wcdccga broke hi) or drew out
me pile beads and drifted oe snore. B: wen fared some-
what better, but toe biass of SO miles per hour was
severely feft in toe latter town. Pussciy sooe dav
a casual cyckme will lift both citi-ev in "toe air and
carry them away to fight out Their ancient quarrel
in tee wikis of c stit: nans. But Townssv be has teen
pecoiiariy unfortunate. Her Harhcr Board is jus;
vent ; her back cognTry ravaged by drought : lid now a
ga.e has d:-ee nearly hifa-a ' --.- pc-un-is worth of
damage in The bean of The town. “There oagfetn't to be
m.r To*Kiliße,” said Hugh Xilsoa. Appwren:y, >kccre
thicks so too.
Melb. Akgcs hid only a belated foor-lin©
pvr about Tie death of C. E. Jonas. ex-M.L.A_.
and once Minister oi Railways. Jones, m "*><
referred publicly to the editor of the Asses as
’* the o.eAgmoos cherub. "* Perhaps the paper still
remembers.
Weather notes from Brisbane Cockier :
The eydtne did little ianctge alto:T Ingham, but from
25 to $1» ine os* cc tain fell in me district.
Ahorjt Karka i, toe wsatoer ha* been threatening for
■oree iiys. a>u yesterday toe ■hoods broke, g-.--.cg owe
s- vaf of ri a. Tos sky has now deared agam.
The habit old bush men are getting into of
baking suers of alleged money left to them
unexpectedly wil] rave to be ruppressec. The
money never, or nardiy ever, t-urrs up bat other
peep.e go and get drunk in the excitement of
wondering what taey woold do if the same son of
thing happened to teem. Latest yarn is aheot an
old mas in poor cnrmstsucts lit is always an
old ruan in poor circumstances at Glen lures
who r.as come in for £BlOBO (it is always a
Aree round sum like that—never £9376 2s. ldd
Tse money for once isn't in Cnxccery; i;
is in This is a departure from the tssoal
orcer of things, and sc-oold :e pat down as a dis-
orderly proceeding. For so very many years the
immense sum that ns suddenly left to the o4d
man in poor circumstances has ceen in Chancery
that it is a re:k.sss an d untidy banting up of a
g:cd tradition for it to be in BoetcKs. Next
tme it happens it rcig tbe in Thibet or on a table-
land in Central Africa.
Farther details about the unsavory and
unlawful flogging habits of the British army keep
coming in, and the disgusting brutality of the
British army doesn t improTe on inspection. For
instance here is one account:
The coart ccnsists of a prorldent (the
senior sabnltern) sod two members, the
attendance of all other subaltern* be ng
exacted. These courts were held much more
frequently in tbe Ist battalion than in tbe
others, and in the Ist batta-con the coionel
was in the habit, to use the corner-rated
term, of “ banding over ” young officer* to ne
dealt with by tbe sensor waiters), Which
Dearly invariably resulted in their being sen-
tenced by this iiregular tribunal to be flogged.
This flogging waa administered on tbe lower
par: of" the back, which was bared for
punishment by tbe remora! of their nesber
garments, and blow? of great severity ap-
plied with a cane or (tick in numbers ra r> :-»g
from si to forty. A young officer -a*t
year who received the lafer number fainted
under the cruel teTeritv of tbe punishment;
but even six blow* with the irntrumeot em-
ployed were sufficient to make Mood flow,
as was constantly the cace. What greatly
added to the inhumanity of these proceed-
ings was that all tbe officers present were
compelled to administer their share of the
•trokes if the number* pertoitttd, and comrades were
oi)!xsd to apply blows to tlwr own person! friends
threats of recetvinr similar ponishrcent thenmlve*. If a
roanr of&cer, ir compass/tn for his frimd. applied a
strike considered too light bjr the president, he was
railed on to repeat the blow.
Australia will never look at the eotveotis aide-de-
camp now without wondering if be carries t:*e
marks of merciless whacking* on his Linder parts,
fast like the old-time convict.
“C.H.L.”: At a medical congress in
Cairo ■, Egypt) towards the end of last rear an
Italian doctor named Term recommended im-
mediate operation in cases of bubonic plague—
especially the removal of the swollen glands. He
stated that in this way he had saved 990 plague
patients oat of 1000 cases treated Inf him dunag
the recent epidemic.
C. G. Gurr. editor of Adelaide Feeß-axct
(now rechristened Weekly Record*, is the second
editor after the one that was gaoled for his reck-
less assert: of is re the morals of the early Cohentm-
genter. Caleb G. started his career :n a so;seitor’s
office, bat left it for a billet in the Postal Service.
Resigned to act as accountant for as auctioneer-
ing firm and then started to shoot “Going,
going, gone." for himself. Yelled “gone * for the
last time and was next land agent, then mining
secretary, then auctioneer again. Time of writing
be is an editor; time of printing be might be
anything else.
“ The Year Book of Australia ” is a full
store of information which every Australian
ought to have at his disposal Some of its con-
clusions. especially with regard to national debts
and assets- are faulty ; bat the 800 well-ordered
pages of facts, upon which people may boild their
own conclusion*, atone for that. The features
which hare earned for “ The Year Book" its past
success are ml. rere; while the 1901 census has
allowed of the inclusion of a number of new aod
helpful tables.
A bit of old Sydney :
Tbs &mi M eor*■ (Sydney) ejectment case beard
sever* times in the Sities by jodge Dickinson crooned
up asaia lately in the Equity Cam. >:ri Devine came
oct in tae fret fee; as Siperictendeat at Agrieuicare.
bat « there w*s no igrxcu’.tarr te superintend Governor
Phillip appointed six Superintendent of Conviru. which
billet be he’d until Macquarie superseded hhw he being
then feeble, deaf and nc-t far from blind. He bad a free
grant of 2.0 acres at Kewtowa, called bv hvr Barren,
after his native Irish muage. In 132 when be was
aLeged.T I<K years c4d, his body servant, an ex-convict
named Bernard Rocfcfotd, induced him tc make a deed of
gift cf the grant tc himself. Devine died at the are of lCd,
in 13S1. sis wife ha via* pre-deceased him bT a few rear*.
Soon after Device's death Rocs feed scid the’ whole of the
rreperry and left the coartry. Devine"? relations in
Ireland, hearing of the tnwictiap, sen: a member of
the famDv to Sydney to make inquiries, the result being
that the deed of 132 was attacked as a forgery. Several
■eii-known datas had purchased portions of"the estate.
These sy-rft.cajed theuisfcT** to defeed their holdings.
The first trial ended in a verdict for the hnlfiii i
Ob appeal to the Privy Coaneil a new anal was ordered.
Tt-s took place in 18K. and arain resulted in a verdict
foe the holders. Further Etigaooa was avoided br the
defendants corn peesa ting the Devine famCy. One of the
ouyers from Rochford was Scott, who renamed what he
porcuased the Gowrie Estate. In the following year 1831)
•■ehfccd sokd an ocher pr-rfcc. knows as Isliurtoc Estate,
to Rev. George Ersiine. who also owned the adjtvnusc pr>
perry now known a* Ers'cneTiHe, a-d he scid tc the
fairer of the defender t of last week. Laacevoc Frederick
Utber Iredale. In ISRS. the latter became the registered
prcprtetov of bis father t land Is the latter was a po-r-
-tion rial-ned by the Kt-ccassors of Scott, and thev
so-cceeded. TSe case tried in IS" w-as conducted bv a
•Craig tar. inefoding J. H. Plunkett. L J. Rake. Peter
Faucet*, Edward Butler. W. R DaEev, R. JL Isaa-re. .’a*.
JLarun. A. T. Hclrcyd F. W. Meyxc-it. and Edward w*
Xartin- Apparently scene Path kind of a curse bancs
o* she o&d grant of >tck Devfee. for it seems never
quite iooe supplying bread and cheese to the Devils
Brigade.


TRIUMPHANT PROOF
STRIKING
are the mcdieal possibilities di s el°s e d by Seicnec. The mysterious, agonising, “ incurable ” diseases of yesterday are to-day
TXTW'pctt \' e< ! T^ ct^ve 'y speedily. Students of Electro-Physiology declare that those ailments (such as
P a p T J T L v T J? N T^JixTS R COMPLAINTS ’ neuralgia, gout, general debility, sciatica, ruptures,
DISORDERS which maybe traced to EXhIuItIONOF NERVEPOWFH MENTAL IMPAIRMENT, WEAKNESS, and FUNCTIONAL
exhaustion) are specially amenable to cure bv a * ‘ ER / E P °WER and to the diminished energy of the vital functions consequent upon this
especially effective in the cure of NERVOUS DTSOP nFP<f S - & ,7‘ n \ t ! ve a f® nt lt , lS faSt b ® co I min » mosfc beneficial, established upon a sound scientific basis. It is
its power. k " ln dissipation of pain and the enticement of sleep. There is no questioning the certain quality of
The Freeman & Wallace Electric “ Invigorator 99
ONLY "hi(T extra Xeitlng a P ow e>’ful influence upon the whole system. It is a genuine Electric “Belt,” which is sold for ONE POUND
instantaneous relief in cases of acute"ln!? 18 e ': er^here - This wonderful instrument, similar to those used by European scientists, gives
a few hours its influence is felt in a Speedy \nd HeRtT Ver . fails t 0 relieve the most insistent cases. Worn round the waist nightly for
O’CONNOR MP ex-Minister of fh/rW <? a ? to Health and Happiness. Read the testimony published below from THE HON. DANIEL
O CO* U±t, M.R., ex Minister of the Crown, Sydney, and one of the best-known members associated with the commercial and political history of N.S. Wales.
READ THIS
For the good that it lias
done during a long term
of ill-health, MR. P. R.
LARKIN, J. P., a promin-
ent Sydney commercial resi-
dent, writes to the Phy-
sician-in-Chief of the Insti-
tute in the following grateful
terms :
Dear Sir,
The Electro-
“ Invigorator ”
Belt I received
from you six
months ago, I
have worn con=
sistent with
your instruc=
t ions. I am
pleased to say
I have found
much benefit
from it. I am
satisfied it gives
vigor to the
system and im-
proves the
general health.
(Signed)
P. R. LARKIN, J.P.
■
k.
s’ 3&Z£ % . \L>-^
r»>'
. I' >
**-*•*•, -.' -
V
f (*i
-•' -
Ersfem
igp s *»W
:>H j^i
■:o'v fr
;/£vC* ; ‘
r*^Tv''i.
'-•/: V
v • iy
lu ;^
it * i
jfe !*• ' , •$? .
&
m
SV/ ’ ‘-y^T.
LSifeiwiV. ; 5" «'"''>
Sg
l,f» ;-
v^4yAC*
Yt
V-
\-x, -.■
pto
X-" 5?
THE HON. DANIEL O’CONNOR, At. P.
[Photo, by Eden, Sydney.
AND THIS
Inspector F. FOWLER,
an highly-esteemed officer
of the New South Wales
Police Force, who con-
sulted us some months since,
chronicles his improvement
to us in a recent letter.
Here is an extract
“ Since wear=
ing your ‘ Belt ’
my health has
improvid, and
the trouble 1
was suffering
from I hardly
ever feel. As you
are aware, I was
so much bene=
fited by the use
of your ‘ In=
vigorator ’ I re=
commended my
l friends to try it.
(Signed)
F. FOWLER
Mr. O’CONNOR’S TESTIMONY.
Parliament House, Macquarie Street,
Sydney, January 28, 1903.
“I have tried a course of your Electro-Medical treatment, during which time I
have worn one of your Electric “BELTS ” It has benefited me very much . For some
years I teas troubled with severe pains in the back and kidneys—the legacy of an
attack of lumbago—which has now altogether, I am happy to say , left me.
“(Signed) DANIEL O’CONNOR, M.F.”
THIS IS BUT ONE TESTIMONY FROM MANY THOUSANDS.
CAUTION !
Our Electric “ INVIGORATOR ” Belts have been eulogised by Mr. Chas. Kenningham, principal tenor Royal Comic
Opera Company, Sydney, Mr. P. R. Larkin, J.P., Inspector Fowler, N.S.W. Police, Sydney. Countless others testify
daily to their wonderful efficacy in curing Nerve and Blood Diseases. •
When you wear our Electric “ Belt ” you don’t require any expensive medical treatment. But you require sound
medical advioe. We have now under treatment a number of persons who have had THEIR MALADIES AGGRA\ ATED by the wearing alone of an electric
“ belt ” without the necessary full directions as to its use and possibilities. Therein the danger lies. Our “ Belts ” are locally certificated and manufactured at aij r
special factory. They are NOT imported. They are cheap, but effective. Here are the prices ;we pay duty to all Australian States :
COPPER PLATED
(Specially
Recommended)
£1
SILVER-PLATED £1 10/-
SOLID SILVER £3
SOLID GOLD (2ozs. 18ct. Gold) £lO
A high authority upon Electrical Science, Mr. ALBERT N. LIBBY, representing ALLIS-CHALMERS COMPANY the
largest electrical firm in America, and who arrived in Australia under contract to the N. S. WALES GOVT., and practically super-
vised, in conjunction with others, the formation of the present Electric Tramway System now in vogue in Svdn’ev niv« t-v,,, f^n'
certificate to the SUPERIORITY and EFFICACY of these wonderful Electric “ INVIGORATOR » Belts : S lonowing
“I have made several electrical tests of your Electric ‘ Belt’ and find it gives a steady current of good strength It Is elsrtriraiii/
perfect. I have tested other Belts on the market, and have not obtained the same results. It convinces me vou have’ nnn «f th«
parfect Electric ‘Belts’ on the market to-day. 1 ono 0T tne moBt
Electrical and Mechanical Engineer for Allis-Chalmers Co., Chicago, U.S.A. “(Signed) ALBERT N LIBBY ”
\
o
%
\
%
<y *
V
%
V *
\
X
•v
- %
Our Fees are; Advice, with Medicine, One Pound Only.
MEN ANP WOMEN!
If you are ill try this new system, which is endorsed by the scientific
world and praised by thousands of rescued people.
The Freeman & Wallace Electric “Invigorator”
will cure you. We will send'you, Post Free, a special brochure of testimonies, illustrated, showing you
what this grand method has done for others. IT STANDS TO REASON, if it has cured them, it
will cure you. If you cannot call, write to us. We reply to all letters punctually and privately.
REMEMBER: The Physician-in-Chief to the Institute is the only internationally regis-
tered medical practitioner advertising Electric Belts in Australia. He is registered
by AUSTRALIAN, ENGLISH, and AMERICAN BOARDS, He is a qualified
Specialist of great European reputation. When purchasing a “Belt,” see that.,
your physician’s name is entered in the list of qualified medical practitioners 'f
New South Wales.
The Institute, Sydney.
Our 550-page Medical Health Guide, “CLINICAL EXPERI-
ENCES,’’ 150 Medical Plates, explains thoroughly the
cure of Nerve Diseases by Electro-Medical Methods. Send
for it. POST FREE ONE SHILLINC in Stamps


Recent Bulletin par, “Every woman is
at. heart a widow," got a leg up when a New York
fortune-teller was charged with practising medi-
cine illegally. She declared that she was fre-
quently visited by women who wanted poisons
which would leave no trace, to kill their husbands,
so that they might marry again. She said she
charged such patrons a liberal fee, but gave them
only harmless concoctions of sugar and water.
But how did her business keep together under
such circumstances? A woman can t advertise,
“ Husbands Removed with Celerity.' _ Her busi-
ness could only spread, one would think, by the
widow passing the word along to the prospective
widow.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s (Ltd.)*
CIRCULAR-POINTED PENS
Neither scratch nor
spurt, the points
being rounded by a
new process.
Attention is also
draton to their new
-GRADUATED
SERIES OF
PENS.”
Seven Prize Medals Awarded.
Ask
Etch pattern being made ... r degrees of JlexioUiVj and t I,l ’■ PVfil .»>>
your Storekeeper for an Assorted Sample Box of either series. VV orks : BIRMINGHAM, ;
Dr. Gresweii having warned Victorians re
their dved raspberry vinegar and numerous saly-
cilieated drinks, might as well drop a few remarks
concerning the chemical preservatives of dead
fish. The embalming of a founder, for instance,
is one of the fish-shopkeeper’s finest arts nowa-
days. A flounder, caught or. Monday and sold
for one - and -si x pence on Wednesday, is not so
altogether wickedly bad as a black oyster fried in
breadcrumbs. It is medicated. It has a weird,
peculiar smell, and although it looks fairly white
in places, it smacks of sanitary precautions. By
what means does the wily Greek restaurateur pre-
serve the flounder’s corpse in an unnaturally sale-
able state ?
tis Cure
THE EiVIVIOTJS REMEDY foR T\mr/-\
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICI}. E IN AL SIR
, ~ . „ c rr t f- >rTri of Bronchitis. Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pam or
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Su^V r ® rld ' the chest lt j* invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those “ 1 or sthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
No house should be without it. -. uk« * the beginning, . dom »general sufficient,
Mtd.ComplotoOuioUc.rttm. T=tT’V7\r /\ T=? Tn OF" COUGHS!
remember that evert disease has its commencement, and consumption is no exception to this role.
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE
Mr. W. O. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—l air writing to tel! you
about the wonderful cure your medicine has effected m
my case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in tor chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
mv case to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had l>een tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks. —Yours gratefully,
J, BLAIRi
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE
RELIEVE© AT ONCE AN© COMPLETELY CUBED
BY HEARSE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir.—l suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wontferf ul medicine ; does good at once,
and “can’t be licked.”—Yours sincerely,
ilodewarre, Victoria. V". TR EM ELLEN.
A Child Seven Months 014.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE'3
BRONCHITIS CURE
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
small bottle of vour Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from rou before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
cin for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, vours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGK
Violet Town, Viotoria.
Three Cases Completely Cared by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Care.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CUBED BV
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IK ENGLAND.
** Uenwellvn,
“ Katanga, Vic.
“Mr. Heame.— ... _ .
“ Dear Sir,—l am very much pleased with the effects
of Tour Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of mv chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them.' The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirelv lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I alwavs keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anvone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to rov mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
"JOHN'S. MORTIMER”
The Relative in England, who is SO years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
"Mr. W. G. Heame, Geelong.—
“ Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure vou will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased aronce. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus—as walking caused me such pain and distress in
the chest. I alwwvs walk now. and never feel it, and I
am stronger than i have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindnes* in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
“Yours very truly,
“M. MORTIMER
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN' VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE
CURED BY HEARNE S BRONCHITIS CURE
The extract rnns as follows: —“ As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years- 1
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne a
Bronchitis Cure was again successful I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
44 I must a*k von to send me six bottles more of tne
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to he could do. He tells me Una
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send for more. I have never kept in bed ene day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time alwavs. and after,that for months I
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
verv ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night’s rest, and was spitting up blood
verv much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and to-d
her to trv it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send' it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she*’
•was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Tears’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT
■« sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry congh that could not
be remove! or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried ;
but I am happv to sav that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure.—l remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
“ WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales."
A Five Tears' Case.
CUBED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.— Dear Sir,—Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. I am more than
pleated with the your wonderful medicine, as a
email bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be withou
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethauga, Victoria
A Seven Years’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“ Dear Sir,—Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered foe upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely eyer free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in mY case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained vour medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope ef recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
ana I steadilr improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as I amnov, quite well.—Yourssincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney."
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS’ CASE
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Sharlevifle,
Queens]and, writes “After suffering from Asthma for
17 Years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne*
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the 4sthma, and
which was in the beginning of 1888— l 5 ? ear ®^ o I h “
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine qu
cured me, and I have much pleasure in rew) rum ending! t.
Writing again on the 4th Apnl, 1899, he states,
am keeping very well now. Never have the slights
erurn of the Asthma.”
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large. 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to my Address when not obtainable oca y
THE
SMELTING & REFINING CO. of AUSTRALM
Works: DAPTO, LAKE ILLAWARRA (56 Miles from Sydney).
1901, Limited.
Highest Price paid for Gold, Silver, Lead, and Copper Ores,
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay. Cyanide, SlagS, and Jewellers’ Sweep^gtg.
For aU Information regarding Rates, apply to the Head Office, Dapto;
or, A. E. RUDDER A CO., 10 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Forwarding Agents.
“ Retained when
all other Foods are
rejected. It is in-
valuable.'’
London Medicai. S.ecokd.
•“Bengep's Food’
has by its excellence
established a repu-
tat on of its own.”
British Medical Record.
GOLD MEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
Benger’s Food
For Infants, Invalids, and the Aged . Delicious, nuirm**, Digest/die.
Benger’s Food is sold by Chemists. &c., Everywhere
Extracts from Private
Letters.
«■ \f\- last little boy was
fed entirely upon it f r° w
birth, and a healthier
child it would be difficu
* tind. My wife sounds
the praiee of ‘Bengal
Food ’ everywhere.
kne w


SHIRTS.
lor Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
per H mlf-deetpi, free ‘hi/ jioxt tit re ttr/hmitt
A ustrafia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTGASTLE & SONS BRISBANE.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Upals, Sapphires, Pearl 3 and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period df 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance
is solicited.
Apropos of the present cancer craze. A
one-time cancer “specialist” of this country died
a year or two ago in a far land. In the time of
his greatness he had many profitable patients—
mostly women. A woman would consult him for
(m many cases) slight indisposition, and he would
question her as to the life and death of her father,
-mother, grandfather, great-grandfather, &c. After
looking at her tongue, he would say an examina-
tion was necessary. He would then talk learnedly
qf cancer (if in the meantime he had discovered
that she possessed money), till he had thoroughly
convinced her that her life hung on a hair, and he
was the hair. She would go under his treatment
for ten or twelve weeks, and then suddenly blos-
som out as cured of malignant cancer—and
generally with her health ruined for life. But the
doctor got a big advertisement out of the cure. If
there was money enough in the case he would
operate—in other words, he cut up his victim in a
general way, trying his best not to do her fatal
injury, while yet endeavoring to cut her up suffi-
ciently to lend color to his story. Once a young
lady, who suffered from nervous headaches,
consulted him. _ He gave her afternoon tea,
and chatted with her about her familv, but
was darkly reticent about her condition, and
asked her to tell her husband to call Her hus-
band did call, and, being passionately attached to
his young wife, he was broken-hearted to hear that
she was suffering from cancer in the stomach, and
unless an operation was immediately performed
she would not live six months. The operation
would cost 50 guineas (paid in advance), and the
private hospital fees would be £6 per week for
10 weeks—but he would guarantee a perfect cure.
An appointment was made for the following
Monday at 11 a.m., when the lady was to be
examined in the presence of another alleged
specialist. When she heard the news she didn’t
lose her head, but consulted a leading physician,
who assured her she was thoroughly sound. Some
of her relatives kept the appointment for her.
One specialist broke away and fled without his
hat in the middle of the fifth round. The other
one was left in the coal-scuttle.
Headaches
Banished
. . BY . .
Chamberlain’s
Stomach and
Liver Tablets
Price, 1/6.
JUST WHAT YOU NEED.
Headache is most often caused by con-
stipation or a torpidity of the liver. When
the bowels are constipated the poisons in the
excreta are absorbed into the system and
cause headache. When thp liver is torpid
and fails to perform its functions, the bile is
absorbed into the blood resulting in head-
ache and often in a derangement of the
whole system. Two of Chamberlain’s
Stomach and Liver Tablets taken im-
mediately after supper will correct the dis-
orders of the liver and move the bowels
This should ,be followed by one tablet each
day until the bowels become regular.
Sick Headache arises from a disordered
condition of the stomach and a torpid liver
Take two of Chamberlain’s Stomach and
Liver Tablets; they will cleanse the
stomach and tone up the liver to a healthy
action. Those who are subject to such
attacks usually feel dul’l, have little-or no
appetite, and are constipated the day before
the attack comes on. In such cases the
attack may be warded off by taking three
tablets as soon as these symptoms appear.
NOTE.—It notable to obtain Chamber-
lain's Stomach and Liver Tablets locally,
a package will he sent, post paid, upon re-
ceipt of 1/6, or six packets for 8/-, by
addressing Chamberlain Medicine Co., 64
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. 122
EVERY WOMAN
is interested and should know
about the wonderful
Marvel Whirling Spray
The new FEMM-fc GYRIN'.E
Injection and Suction. The best,
safest and most convenient.
It Cleanses Instantly.
!
fra
Ss~
K
If your druggist cannot
supply the MARVEL,
accept no other, but write us for
Illustrated Book, sent free
sealed. It gives price by mail,
particulars and directions invalu-
able to ladies. Kudorsed li-y Physicians.
Times Building, N.Y.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AO ENTS-
THE MARVEL CO. OF AUSTRALIA,
CAMDEN BUILDING,
418 George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
LADY SPECIALIST IN ATTENDANCE.
Postal Address, Box 623, G.P.0., Sydney
Write for Booklet. Sent free, sealed.
JBmrmf
The "KEELAH”
Plane Camera
For which the BAKER & ROUSE
PROPY., LTD., have been appointed
Sole Agents In Australia, is the latest
addition to their stock of high-class
Photographic Materials. It combines
every recent improvement with the
most perfect construction and finish. Roller Dark Slides
and Changing Box, and the Shutter works to 1-1000th of
a second. The renowned “ PREnO ” and “ POCO ”
Cameras in all sizes and designs. “AUSTRAL” BROHIDE
PRINTING PAPERS and “ SUN ” P.0.P., free from all
defects and blemishes; fresh weekly supplies from the
factory. No prolonged shipments.
auaqsuq
■apwiapy
■aLunoqiarj
THE LATEST EDISON NEW MOULDED RECORDS
. . AT . . .
The Baker & Rouse Proprietary Ltd.
375 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and BRISBANE.
ENO’S
HEALTH GIVING,
COOLING,
‘FRUIT
REFRESHING,
AND INVIGORATING.
SALT.’
THERE IS NO DOUBT THAT where it has been
taken in the earliest stages of a disease, it has, in
innumerable instances, PREVENTED what would other-
wise have been a SERIOUS ILLNESS.
CAUTION.— -See capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’ Without it you have a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. O. ENO, Ltd., ‘FRUIT SALT WORKS, LONDON, ENG.,
by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
TRADE
MARK
FOX Bros. & Co,, Ltd., warn the public that their Trade Mark consists
OMLY OF THE WORD POX
which is a guarantee of soundness of material and quality of dye of all
Worsted Coatings, Serges & Tweeds
on which it is stamped.
As the result of many years of experience . . .
FOX’S PURE INDIGO DYE
is recognised as the best in the market. All FOX’S Standard Cloths are
stamped every two yards on the back —
FOX
PURE INDIGO
and without this stamp are not genuine. These celebrated serges can be
obtained from the leading Tailors and Drapers throughout the Colonies.
FOX BROS & Co., Ltd., WELLINGTON, SOMERSET, England.
POOR MAN’S
FRIEND
m
NTMENT
HAS STOOD THE TEST OF TIME.
In over ioo years' world-wide use it has proved itself the best Heal-
ing Ointment extant. It is particularly recommended for the cure of
Ulcerated Legs, Piles, and all long standing and painful
wounds; also for Blotphes op the Skin, Pimples Eczema, Cuts,
Burns, Bruises, and all Skin Affections. Prices (in England) 1/1 %,
2/9. 11/-, and 22/- pots.
Dr.ROBERTS’ALTERATIVE PILLS
Purify the Blood. Cure Skin Disease.
A Gentle Aperient and Perfect Liver Pill.
40 in a box, 1 /1 % ; 3 quantities, 2/9.
Of all Drug Stores and Patent Medicine Vendors, and made only by—
BEACH & BARNICOTT, Ltd., BRIDPORT, ENGLAND.
C. L. ROBERTS, H.P.
Bom 1766. Died 1234. ®
IAYNE’S EXPECTORANT
CURES THE WORSTCOUGHS.
The Inky Way.
Will Ogilvie writes i —The other day a man sprung
upon me this simple question : “ Did you ever see Thb
Bulletin?" I was obliged to confess that the red-
covered weekly was not altogether a stranger to
me As a matter of fact, I have met it. I have
chased it round the Darling bends, hoisted its red
flag u P on Macquarie, blessed it on the lonely Bogan
camps. In station huts without number I have con-
demned much of its policy ; in managers’ houses I have
defended it vigorously. I have used it for a tablecloth
time and again, when the tinware rattled on the bark
and the cook’s hearty grace before meat took the form
of “Now then, you blanks, wijg in 1” The best bush
feed I ever had—at a ringbarkers’ camp on Cannonbar—
was spread on one of “Hop’s” most successful cartoons
picture of the then newly-arrived Reid baby, with
long clothes, feeding-bottle—and eyeglass !
I have, on one occasion, slept in The Bulletin. It was
some years ago. We were heading to Cowra with
4000 old ewes on the dusty Canowindra track.
It was summer time, and Hugh and I had only one
possum-rug between us to save unnecessary baggage.
We camped in a lane which required watching at both
ends, and that meant dividing forces and blankets?
Well, we tossed up for the rug and Hugh won, and stalked
away, with his pound’s worth of ’possum over his shoulder,
like an understudy to Wilson Barrett. The night gave
promise of being colder than usual, and I cast about for
covering. Only items available—a saddlg-cloth, a thin
strip of calico used as a tablecloth, anti last week’s
Bulletin 1 I spread the saddle-cloth on the ground, then
the bulk of the Bulletin. Then I lay down and drew
over me the absurdly-thin table-cloth and the red page of
the leading Australian weekly. There was a pretty warm
story on the last page, I remember, but it was cold
enough before morning !
I have, on occasion, written doggerel for The Bulletin
myself—in fact, I may say I know it pretty well, all things
considered.—Advt.
• ■ • •
The present dearth of front-rank journalists in Aus-
tralia is partly due to the establishment in recent years
of the rule “once a reporter alway's a reporter.” It is
the most difficult thing in the world to find a man with
the all-round reporting instinct which is the first requi-
site on a big daily—the instinct which enables a man to
write a high-faluting “introduction” bo some big event,
report a mining meeting or a prize-fight, or get an inside
knowledge of politics, all with equal facility. Naturally
the youngster who tackles press-work has this held up to
him as the be-all-and-end-all, and, for the time being, it
appears to him a glorious destiny. But when he gets to
the top as a reporter, and is rewarded with £3OO a year
orsoAhe ean’t go any further, because when the boss
finds 'man who can bring in news he wants that man to
keep on bringing in news. Therefore the ripe journalistic
tigs fall into the mouths of the Pastor Fitchetts and the
Gnrnows, and the real all-round pressman becomes a
discouraged old man at 40.
• * * *
Some 30 odd years ago a Melb. Awe sub-editor, walking
home at 3 o’clock on a Friday morning, was knocked
down by thieves in Fitzroy Gardens. When, having gone
through his pockets, they found that he possessed only
one penny, the rascals gave him an unmerciful hiding for
disappointing them. All the result of want of education.
Had the robbers been decently-inforrned men, they would
not have expected a journalist bo have any coin on him
so late in the week.
« • • *
It is reported that the poets, paragraphists, and other
free lance pressmen and Bohemians of Sydney propose to
formaunron and apply to the Arbitration Court to fix a
higher rate of remuneration for verses, to decide as to
the need for a more conciliatpry attitude on the part of
editors towards bards and other outside contributors, to
deal with the importation of seqond-hand verses, to
prohibit the supply of'gratis verses fiy bumptious persons
of independent means who only desire to see their names
in print, and to discuss the question of salaried press-
men who occasionally throw in poems without extra re-
muneration, thereby reducing the piece-work rates.
* * * »
The bosses of Sydney daily newspapers met lately and
growled fiercely over the character of recent cables. One
manager designated the information as “stuffy,” but on
it being pointed out that the public, if dissatisfied,
hadn’t go enough to start a rival service, the subject
dropped. As an afterthought, however, it was proposed
to reduoe the London representative’s salary'.
» * * *
The man who started a “personal” column in his
paper has a lot to answer for. Among the hayseeds it
has gofte this (clipped from a S.A. sh'eet) :
During the past week Mr. Pat Carmody has been suffer-
ing from a bung eye.
• * • »
One Vic. drapery firm now issues a monthly Free
Trade Journal, Is. a year post free. The Journal is
strongly Freetrade, and tries to capture the newly-
enrolled. women voters of Protectionist Vic. It is run
with Freetrade and Kyabram money 1 . What could be
more convincing than the statement that the wonderful
blouses from their Ladies’ Paradise could be sold for half
the money were it not for the iniquitous high tariff ?
* • * *
“H.”: Blowitz knew naught of journalism till he was
45. Even the Times oannot pierce the secret of his
parentage and youth, except to find out that he was born
in B.ohemia, about 1825. At 19 he had travelled pretty
well all over Europe, and obtained the position of teacher
of languages, at a Frenoh He worried on for a
long time as an unsuccessful inventor, and blazed into
publicity in 1869. Napoleon 111. then wanted badly to
carry the Marseilles election, and pi/t up Lesseps as a
candidate, against Thiers and Gainbetta, but Lesseps was
ostensibly an Independent. Blowitz found out the secret
and published it, spoiling Lesseps’ chance. That mide
Blowitz a marked man. The Emperor ordered his ex-
pulsion from France, but this was stay ed by the influence
of Thiers. Apparently Blowitz did no newspaper
work in the war. Iu 1871 Thiers appointed him Consul
at Riga, but he did not go. His friend Laurence
Oliphant was Parisian Times correspondent-in-chief, with
F. Hardnjan as assistant. Hardman being on a
holiday, Oliphant persuaded Blowitz to be locum tenens.
Blowitz had never seen the Times newspaper ! O.iphant
had to explain the requirements to him. Blowitz could
not write in English, and never learned to do so. All his
Mork had to be translated from the French throughout
his career. His first telegram to the Times made a sensa-
tion, being copied into the Paris papers. Thereafter, he
was permanently added to the stuff, as third man, after
Hardman. In 1872 Blowitz made a hit. He and Delane
listened to a great speech by Thiers in the Versailles
Assembly. Blowitz cabled two-and-a-half columns to Hie
Times, entirely from memory. In 1873 Oliphant resigned.
Hardman was appointed, with Blowitz second. Blowitz
carried through his proposal of a special wire for the
Times. Hardman died in about a year. Yet Blowitz was
only Acting Chief for a number of months. He did not get
firm in the saddle till his great coup of 1876, when lie dis-
posed the planned onslaught by Germany upon France.
This seems to have been got up by the Emperor and
Moltke without the concurrence of Bismarck, who
managed to convey the news to Decazes, French Foreign
Minister, through Biron, the Berlin Ambassador. Decazes
informed Blowitz, who gave the scheme away in the
Times. Russia interfered. Next came Blowitz’s grand
climas at Berlin, 187 S. He published the 64 clauses of
the Berlin Treaty complete, in the Times, on the aery
morning that it was signed. No other journalist (except
Marvin) gpt*the faintest whiff of it. The source of
Blowitz’s information has never been divulged, and specu-
lation ranged over all the Plenipotentiaries, including
Bismarck, Disracdi, and the French representative—the
most qnlikely. After this, Blowitz’s highest successes
were interviewing the Rope and the Sultan. He talked
two hours with the Pope, but never published a word
about it. His bitterest disappointment was in 1892, when
the Times was afraid to publish his accurate news of the
allianoe between France and Russia.


No. F7989.—9ct. Gold Leaf and Wishbone
Brooch, 11s 6d.
No. G 537. —Solid Silver Bean Shape
Match Box, 8s 6d.
No. FBl9O. —9ct. Gold Bamboo Bar, Leaf
and Heart Brooch, 8s 6<L
V
No. Gl4. —The Nurses’ Watch, Keyless,
Open Face, Engraved Silver Case, fine
Jewelled Lever Movement, Warranted
Reliable, 32s 6d.
We have looked long for a good
Nurses’ Watch, and at last we
believe we have secured the
very one wanted.
No. 112.—Handsome 9ct. Gold and Fine
Amethyst Brooch, 18s 6d.
Our Variety makes Suitable Selection Easy.—
BUYING as we do for Eight Stores, each as Well-Stocked as our Sydney one, means that we
have advantages offered us such as no Jewellery business in Australia can claim. We have
our own warehouse in Hatton Garden, London, manned by Experts who see more goods
in 24 hours than most buyers see in 12 months. You see thus that we can offer you the
very pick of the Home market at fascinatingly low prices. We don’t keep all the advant-
ages we get to ourselves—we pass them on to you. A most important point, and one we adhere
to is, we never sacrifice the quality for the sake of being able to quote a very low price for an
article. Quality is our first consideration. Remember this when you want anything in our line,
as quality must count with you as well as with us. Illustrated Catalogues Free on application.
No. BBS4l.—Solid Silrer and Pearl Book-marker, 3Jin., 4s ; larger, 6s 6d.
No. F 7550. —9ct. Gold Bamboo Bar and
Leaf Brooch, 8s 6d.
No. FBlS6.—The Latest
Lace Pin, Emu or
Kangaroo, 7s 6d.
No. F773l.—jNovel Style Salt
Cellar, with Spoon, Silver-plate,
4s 6d.
No. FB2ls—Cut-Glass and Solid
Silver Toilet Bottle, 5J inches
high, 22s 6d.
17065. —9ct. Gold, two-bar Ornamented
Brooch, 11s 6d.
No. G298.—Polished English Oak and Nickel-mounted Double
.. Inkstand, £1 os.
No. E4933.—Fruit Dish
China, 7 inches square
Silver-plated Stand,
of Pretty
. strong
7s 6d.
No. F2J3o—Silver-plated Fern
Pot, handsomely chased;
4in., 22s 6d ; sJin., 37s 6d.
No. Fs9oB.— Solid Silver Bowl on Ebony Stand, 54 inches
high, inches wide, £lO 10s; in best Plate, 84s.
Illustrated Catalogue Post Free.
No. F 5588. —Case containing 2 Pearl and Silver-
plated Butter Forks, 14s 6d.
No. E 8759. —Best Quality Silver-plated Tile Centre
Teapot Stand, 10s 6d.
No. E 6797. —9ct. Gold Brooch, set Sapphire, Ruby
and Diamond, 16s 6d.
No. F 4938- Case of 2 Cut-Glass
Silver Mounted Knife Rests, 11 6.
No. F 8704. —Remarkable
Value. Diamond, Ruby and
Saj jiVire Scarf Pin or Pin
and atud, Fine Gold Settings,
£3 in s .
No. E 5627. —Strong 9ct. Gold Twist Bracelfet.
A Pretty Style, 32s 6d
T
HERE ARE SEVERAL ....
TALKING MACHINES
. . BUT THERE IS ONLY ONE . .
BUM
WHICH IS MADE BY
The gramophone *»« Typewriter [td.
This is a “JUNIOR HONARCH ” GRAMOPHONE,
Price £6 10s., and it is unsurpassed by any
Talking Machine at any Price.
Other Styles, £3 to £l4 10s.
j|j|T is well to remember this when discussing the artistic merit of sound reproducing contrivances.
There is little
difficulty in reproducing a sound. There is, however, a gigantic difficulty in reproducing good music, and the actual
voices of famous singers. We would ask you to remember that THE GRAMOPHONE made by The Gramophone
and Typewriter Ltd. does this. How do we do it? T\ by, because we have unlimited capital at our back, and because
we do not hesitate to obtain the services of the finest and most celebrated artistes of the day to sing for us. The better the
artiste the better the song. The public are the best judges in the world of tne intrinsic value of an article. We are selling
FIVE MILLION RECORDS
per annum —and why ? Because our records are real reproductions of these singers. Our catalogue includes records made
bv Carusa, Plancon, Renaud, David Bispham, Ben Davies, Andrew Black, Richard Green, Joseph O’Mara, Mesdames Calve,
Suzanne Adams, Kirby Lunn, Esther Palliser, Percival Allen, Connie Ediss, and Marie Tempest. Also Dan Leno, George
Robey, Louis Bradfield, and Maurice Earkoa, besides hundreds of others.
Australian Agencies—VlCTOßlA: A. P. Sykes, 227 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Represented all over
World.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA : Messrs. S. B. Hunt & Co., 94 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
WESTRALIA: Messrs. Nicholson & Co.. Perth.
TASMANIA: Messrs. Wertheimer. Benjamin, & Anderson, 71 Collins Street, Hobart.
QUEENSLAND: Messrs. Heindorff Bros., 210 Queen Street. Brisbane.
WHOLESALE DEPOT FOR AUSTRALASIA— AGENTS IN EVERY TOWN.
The Gramophone and Typewriter Ltd., 163 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.


/ W
iVv
«sfi Ss;
mfr-
-1
f.T 4<
*£\ i
I
/w
"1
v'T
PD
CORSETS
The Recognised Standard
High-Class Corsets
LATEST SPECIALTY
STRAIGHT FRONT
NOUVELLE FORM
Obtainable from Leading
Drapers Everywhere.
Avoid Inferior Imitations, and see that
each pair bears the Manufacturer’s “Trade
Mark ” on band inside, as at«»ve.
THE PIANOLA
E3i
=~Q
n
z>
f- h-
What
It
Means
To
You.
If you are the owner of a piano which is seldom or never used, little
benefit is derived from it by either you or your family. By the purchase
of a Pianola every member of your family can play the piano, although he
or she may never have played one note in their life.
The striking of the notes of the selection, in proper time and place, is
no concern of the player. This is correctly drfne by the Pianola.
The player’s only task is to decide how slow or how fast the notes shall
be played, or how loud or soft he wants them to sound.
Three little levers serve to impart the player’s wishes to the piano.
Should the selection not be familiar, a very simple set of markings is given
( n the music-roll which unwinds in front of the player, directing the proper
movement of the levers.
If you will write us, asking for Catalogue B, we will mail you one
free, explaining more fully the Pianola.
The price of the Pianola is £6O prompt cash, or £65 on moderate
monthly payments.
HENRY M. BSRCE & CO.,
SCLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA.
SYDNEY : 323 George St.
MELBOURNE: 185-187 Collins St.
The School of Gately.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When Victorian hangman Gately disappeared
beyond human ken, the choice of the experts fell
upon John Upjohn, a benevolent-looking old
fellow who had grown to be loved whilst serving
innnmerablefsentences for trivial offences. Among
the aspirants for the position, Upjohn’s appoint-
ment was regarded as a gross piece of favoritism,
and loud were the complaints of political patro-
nage. The age of Upjohn was regarded as a
disqualification, for he was well into the seventies
on the date of his elevation to the scaffold. But
the authorities had had enough of ambitious
youngsters. The temporary hands who had
endeavored to replace the great Master of the
Profession—Gately—had shown how untrust-
worthy they were, and it was properly decided to
secure a staid, sober man whose grey hairs were
a guarantee that he would hang conscientiously
and flog with care.
Upjohn was of the school of Gately, which is as
distinct in the art of execution as that of Rubens
in painting. Long years he had sat at the feet of
the master, and watched him turn off malefactors
with the certain touch of the born artist. At
times he had respectfully begged to be allowed to
assist the great man, and had helped at the
preliminary rites of soaping and weighting the
rope. This latter ceremony is performed on the
day prior to the execution, the rope hanging for
some hours with a hundredweight of bluestone at
the end, to prevent its stretching at the moment
of stress. It was Gately whose mind conceived
the idea of weighting the rope. His predecessors
had been content to obtain the article from the
stores and chance it. The genius that was the
faculty of taking infinite pains took no chances.
After the weighting was finished, Gately would
spend hours soaping the rope until it was pliable
as string, and, at these times, Upjohn would stand
by respectfully with the hot water and the tin of
soft soap.
But unliK* Gately’s, Upjohn’s was
marked by extreme respectability. There was
none of the wild infidel abandon that marked
Gately’s days of freedom about the intervals that
Upjohn spent at liberty. Both in and out of
prison, he was a devoted attendant at church, and
even his crimes were accomplished with due
respect for the conventions. Like Benvenuto
Cellini and other artistic geniuses, Gately feared
neither God nor man. Upjohn was the earnest
craftsman rather than the artist. His talent was
acquired by dint of study and practice and assi-
duity. Gately was the man to wonderingly ad-
mire and envy; Upjohn the man to hold up as an
example to the young.
He had none of Gately’s grim, primitive humor.
After he turned off a Western District murderer,
found guilty of killing two of his mates and
beheading them to prevent identification, Gately
informed the reporters that the culprit remarked
in the privacy of the condemned cell: “ I done
six of them altogether.” The news created an
immense sensation, but those who knew the emi-
nent hangman realised that the old man’s desire
for dramatic effect was at the bottom of the alleged
confession. Upjohn, the upright hangman, was
incapable of such deceit.
Yet the name of Upjohn, the tradesn*jn, will
live in the hearts of the people when that of
Gately, the artist, is forgotten. For it fell to the
former during his term of office to be the execu-
tioner of Ned Kelly, thelastof thebushrangers. He
was 80 years of age at the time, but, fully im-
pressed with the dignity that attached to the
slaying of a great outlaw, he waited upon the
medical officer of the gaol and took lessons in the
anatomy of the neck. His devotion was rewarded
by a triumph in strangulation. Kelly, 29 years
old at the time, was dull-witted and morose, ex-
hibiting, during his lifetime, none of the romantic
attributes of the traditional outlaw. In death, he
rose to the heights of cynicism, and stepping on
the drop with the epigram, ‘‘Such is life, ’ he was
neatly and instantaneously killed.
The story of Kelly’s death was Upjohn’s stock-
in-trade until he went his own way to join those
he had sent before. Seated on the handle of the
wheelbarrow that he was wont to wheel about
Coburg, he would describe the last hours of the
last bushranger to the delight of the juvenile
population of the suburbs, making a collection on
promising occasions to “defray expenses.” At
last, when his palsied hand could no longer be
trusted to give the lever that sharp, smart pull
that is the requisite of a perfect execution, Upjohn
was passed into private life and shortly after-
wards died—some say from grief at separation
from his work.
Upjohn’s place was taken by Jones—short,
thick-set, bull-necked, and manifestly deficient in
brain power. A house-painter by trade, Jones
graduated for the hangmanship through the great
university of crime. But he was not a criminal
in the true sense. Jones was a sexual offender,
and an attempted offence on a child caused him to
relinquish the painting of houses for a term in
Pentridge, where he visited the triangles to be
scourged by Upjohn’s deputy. Having acted as
assistant at the later hangings of Upjohn, Jones
proved to the authorities that he knew the
business and was appointed to the vacancy. He
was not a genius in execution and flogging.
But he did his work to the best of his ability, and
took a keen interest in his jobs. In the museum
of Melbourne Gaol is a scrap-book belonging to
Jones, which contains all the newspaper cuttings
descriptive of the murderers who passed through
the drop in his time. The volume also includes
the history of many crimes not expiated on the
gallows ; but that was not Jones’s fault. He had
anticipated a capital sentence, and if maudlin
sentimentalism led to acquittal or commutation, he
could not be blamed tame and incomplete
endings to the stories. Personal profit did not
enter into his enthusiasm, for the office of hang-
man was abolished in his time, and that of “ gaol
messenger” substituted for it. In place of re-
ceiving £5 and the defunct s suit of clothes, the
messenger was now paid £2 a week all the year
round, and was expected to do any hanging and
flogging that was necessary.
Another treasure of the Melbourne Gaol museum
is a small note-book containing particulars about
every man whose life Jones took. It is illumi-
nated, like one of the missals of the Middle
Ages, in ornamental texting, which showed that,
had Jones not chosen to be executioner, he might
have fallen to preparing addresses for ex-mayors.
In private life Jones scarcely took his calling as
seriously as his predecessors. He would discuss it
with anybody, however lowly, and l.mgh over it.
He was the sort of man who is called a “jolly
little chap, ’ and those who did not know him,
generally mistook him for an undertaker’s
assistant.
Justus Upjohn enjoys fame through hanging
Kelly, so will Jones be remembered as the
slaughterer of Deeming. In reality, the greatest
act of his life was his manner of leaving it. Over
a score of years had passed without a woman
being sent to the gallows in Victoria, when Mrs.
.Knorr, a large, fat young Englishwoman, who
had earned a precarious living after the manner
of stray young women in strange lands, decided
to turn respectable and make larger profits by
slaughtering superfluous infants. This business
she carried on until one day the police unearthed
a multitude of small bodies, and the lady was
sentenced to death. From the time of the trial
Jones worried over the fact that he’d have to hang
a woman. Developing an unexpected streak of
sentiment, he made up his mind that he would
not do so, and followed the movement for a
reprieve as closely as the friends of the convict
herself. Hoping against hope, he took no action
until four days before the fatal Monday morning.
Then he realised that the last chance had gone,
and, scorning to abandon the office which he had
so brightly adorned, he cut his throat in his bath.
His end proved that the hangman washed himself
just like any common mortal.
Among the mourners at Jones’ funeral was a
tall, dark, young man with a black moustache—a
man almost as handsome as the villain in a melo-
drama. He was well dressed, and a certain air of
distinction marked him. When he spoke, his
words showed him to be a man of refinement.
This was Jones’ particular intimate, who had
helped him to pinion the prisoner and draw the
white cap at many an execution—a mysterious
personage, who chose to veil his identity under
the nom de rope of “Roberts.” So well and
favorably was he known that the mantle of Jones
fell promptly upon “Roberts,” and he won his
spurs by turning off Mrs. Knorr with all the skill
of his predecessor.
“Roberts” had a history. He was the son of a
big English brewer and had had a public school
education. _ Coming to Australia with £5OOO to
start a business, he had promptly squandered it in
riotous living, and, after a brief period as a traveller
and a suburban publican, joined the police force.
There he was the idol of the city. His face had a
place in many a society heart, beside that of
Charles Ryley. After a couple of years in the
force Roberts left to try his luck with a further
remittance, but the luck was ill-starred and he had
to find a living as temporary warder at Pentridge.
There he was so taken by Jones’ method of
flogging that he struck up an acquaintance, which
developed into a warm friendship. Soon they
became associated professionally, and thus it was
that “Roberts” acquired the ability which led
him to inherit the office of his departed friend.
But, in spite of his success as a hangman,
“Roberts,” delicately nurtured as an English
gentleman, failed at his first flogging, and after
six strokes the prospective recipient of the
dozen was cut down to await a more able
performer. ‘ ‘ Roberts ” felt th e reflection bi tterly
and, setting to work with a cat, he spent the early
mornings in the parks flogging gum-trees until, in
a week, he was able to satisfy the gaol doctor that
he could draw blood with the best of them.
When the malefactor was next triced up, he
was able to pronounce an opinion as to the differ-
ence of the last halt-dozen and the first. From
that time onwards, no breath of suspicion rested
on the name of “Roberts.” During his term, he
hanged three women. But, like so many others,
he finally fell in with evil companions, and, one
day, failing to keep his engagement, another
hangman had to be looked for.
The other was found in a middle-aged suburban
shopkeeper, who had long had aspirations for the
profession. Gibbins was his name, and, in con-
versation with cronies, he had often been heard
to deplore the lack of opportunities in modern life.
In the golden Elizabethan age, he was heard to
say, no less than 20,000 persons went to the scaf-
fold. In the present degenerate times, a whole
year sometimes passed without a hanging. There
was no chance for a man who wanted practice as
an executioner nowadays, and the whole of Mel-
bourne might be filled with mute, inglorious
Gatelys for all the chance they had to display
their talent. When Gibbins received, one day, a
blue envelope in reply to his frequent applications,
he was able to rush home to his wife and family,
excited and elated, with the good news that he
had been installed as hangman.
Gibbins resembled none of those who went
before him. He dressed well, spoke well, and fed
well, being portly in form ; he seldom referred to
his calling. Like “Roberts,” he had had no ex-
perience of gaol life ; but success spoiled him, and
in place of continuing a devoted husband and
father, he began to lead.a fast life. In the pursuit
of pleasure he offended against the Amended
Crimes Act. To-day Gibbins lies in Pentridge.
A few weeks ago, when he had to hang Tisler for
the Dandenong murder, he came out in prison
clothes, with the beautiful waxed moustache and
the short side-whiskers he formerly wore, as evi-
dences of respectability, stripped from his face.
Snout.
“ Appendix Last Thursday I read a
Bulletin par re passion fruit and appendicitis to
an intelligent Dago friend who runs a fruit
emporium in the city. “Ah!” said he when I
had finished, “is dot a de reason people no buya
de passion fruit dis year? Now I understand.
Last year I sella de plenty passions and make-a
de ni’ summer drink. Now not one. An’ grape !
No sella many either. You tinlc make-a de
penderci—what you call ’ims, like de passions?
Corpo Diavolo ! Ino sella any fruit at all soon,
people get so frighten’ to eat they all die of the
starvation. Some year one Jack of de ass say
tomato brings de cancer. All-a rot, I eat ’em all
de time, not get ’em cancer. De water me lorn got
it big seeds. You tink de melom burst de belly
too ! All-a rot. When you got a die, you die,
spose you live on de sodabuscuit an’ de milk only !
Yesterday I trow two case passions away. Pretty
soon I trow all-a dam shop away—-vat you do
then ? Vat I do ? Vat anybody do, hey ? ”
“ Vul.” : Our area of mixed odors held an
election for local aldermen recently. Four of this
species were required, and an enlightened locality
proceed to get them in this wise : The followers
of the Scarlet Woman got up early, and, hauling
four bull-headed parh-ans from their blushful
obscurity, put the < ffici d seal upon them, and
stood them in a row. Tile followers of the Yellow
Pup got up and hauled out four thin, sour
partisans, put their official seal on them likewise,
and also stood them in a row. Then the local
official representative of each color blessed his
team in open day, with much emotion, and called
upon his hock to be obedient sheep and wii-e in.
Then things hummed. When it was all over, and
the lady of the red hat could show but one suc-
cessful candidate against the three triumphant
followers of the yellow dog, one of the winning
party arose, and opened his speech of thanks
thusly: “ Feller Prodistans (cheers), wen yer
called on me as yer representative to down th’
Church o’ Rome, it was th’ ’appiest day in my
life (prolonged cheers).” Then the council met,
and, out of the vastness of its intelligence, it
started a new tip, discharged its inspector of
nuisances, and expressed its sympathy with a rate-
payer who had just been fined for selling milk
from a diseased cow.
“N.”: That yarn ab6ut the Melboufne
lady finding a finger in the jam is a reminder of
the pauper who fell into the soup copper.
Perhaps the largest stingaree ever caught
in Australia was hauled up recently in Port Mel-
bourne by a steward who was fishing for sharks.
It measured 6ft. from tip to tip of the flaps, and
9ft. from the snout to the tip of the tail.
“ Chass.” : Re Bulletin’s comment on
the absence of poetic hymns. The Yankees have
exploited the world, not only with machinery,
but with hymns also. Pushing evangelical Yankee
bagmen have introduced 90 per cent, of the hymns
used by Christian denominations in their churches
and Sunday-schools. First came Sankey and
Moody’s samples ; and many others followed, till
Torrey and Alexander brought up the rear with
their cant phrases and faded blasphemies about
the “Blood,” and tunes borrowed from nigger
minstrelsy. Amidst all the Sankey and Moody
sickly sentimentalism and Torray’s blasphemous
humbug, writer was quite soothed to strike, lately,
one Sunday-school superintendent who still
adheres to the old Bateman hymns. The kiddies
singing the pathetic hymn, “Had I the wings of
a dove I would fly far, far away, far away,” was
like a morning memory—very sweet after years of
the American bagman husks.
“ Scribo ” on a forgotten murder :
Reported for a Melbourne daily at Oastlemaine in ’66
the trial of David Young, the alleged Daylesford mur-
derer. Arrived at the conclusion that the Crown had
faded to prove its case ; also, the Judge (Barry) summed
up in favor of the accused. So I was greatly surprised
when the verdict of guilty was returned. The counsel
assigned to the prisoner by the Crown was a decrepit old
country barrister, whose services were of no value against
the Crown Prosecutors, C. A. Smyth and B. O. Aspinall.
A smart man would have made mince-meat of the Crown
case. I determined to write a letter to one of the inorn-
ing papers, showing the weakness of the case against
Young, but the day after I got back to Melbourne both
Argus and Age came out with strong articles demand-
ing the execution of the condemned, and being a
mere youngster at the time, I thought it useless to face
such odds. The murdered woman was the wife of a
miner, and she was killed while alone in a tent, her hus-
band being at work on the night shift. There was a
feeling that someone ought to be hanged for the protec-
tion of persons so situated on the goldfields. Detective Ber-
liner quarrelled with his superiors over this case, and left
the force, having asserted that the late Detective Williams
placed Young’s pipe on the safe in the murdered woman’s
tent. Certainly, the pipe was not found there on the
occasion of the first search. Young admitted on the
scaffold that he was a bad lot, but solemnly protested his
innocence of the crime for which he suffered. Some years
after the execution it was rumored that an Italian, a
former lover of the woman, had confessed the murder on
his death bed. There were also other rumors afloat for a
long time. The truth of the matter will probably never
be known now.


JL>»
ft*
wmr
%
vaj.
:W V /I
f
1
uffttil**
IT is appalling to think of women who
go on day after day suffering with-
out any hope of being cured. It is
just these apparently hopeless cases
that medical science seeks to cure by
some new method. Because one treat-
ment has failed, it does not follow that
others will be equally useless. The
woman who drags about the house feeling lifeless and without
energy knows that something is wrong, but cannot state any
definite ailment, or find the cause of so much weariness. The
cause does not matter; forget that and all the other medicines you have tried in vain
BUT REMEMBER that there is one medicine which has earned the gratitude of
thousands of women in all parts of the world, women who have been in quite as hopeless
a state as that depicted above. Now their lives are happy, and they bless the day when
BILE BEANS FOR BILIOUSNESS proved their wonderful powers. This statement
is NO MERE ROMANCE, but can be fully proved by evidence upon evidence. Just as
one example, take the following case : —
Mrs. Sarah Lewis, of 5 Avon-street, Glebe Point, Sydney, saysSome twelve
months ago a friend of mine told me she had used your Bile Beans, and that they had
cured her of Biliousness, and as I was at that time run down from anxiety and overwork,
she advised me to try them. I needed a real ‘pick-me-up as I felt as tired in the
mornings as when I went to bed, and my appetite was greatly impaired ; m fact, I was
quite done up, and did not know what to take to recover my strength, and although I
was a little prejudiced against medicines in general, I was persuaded to give your Bile
Beans a trial, and it is with much pleasure that I tell you that a very few of them worked
a miracle with me, and I began to feel the benefit at once by being quite bright after
taking one or two at night, and my usual health began to return to me, and I would now
have no other medicine in the house. My daughter was also troubled with pimples on
her face, and at times neuralgia, and both these complaints were cured by careful use of
Bile Beans. These few words may not voice my full _ y° ur medicine, but will
give you an idea of the high estimation in which I hold Bile Beans.
BILE BEANS have been proved to be an undoubted specific for BILIOUSNESS, INDIGESTION,
CONSTIPATION PILES BAD BLOOD, PIMPLES, AND ALL SKIN ERUPTIONS, BAD BREATH,
WEAKNESS FULLNESS AFTER EATING, NERVOUSNESS, DYSPEPSIA, SICK and NERVOUS
HEADACHES, DIZZINESS, LOSS OF APPETITE, INSOMNIA, AN AMI A, SUMMER FAG, and a
host of other ailments that owe their origin to defective bile flow, assimilation, and digestion.
From all Medicine Vendors, Is. lid., or 2s. 9d. large box.
u
CAUTION.
The genuine BILE BEANS
FOR BILIOUSNESS are never
sold in bulk, by the dozen or
hundred, but in sealed boxes
bearing the signature of the pro-
prietors—THE BILE BEAN
MANUFACTURING COY.-
printed in red ink on outside
wrapper. Be Sure you get
the Genuine.
A. ®> F.
S
9
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SOAPMAKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
llotice
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedngs
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
Ltd.
Theorists.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was a Parson, round and red,
With white, plump, pretty hands:
He spoke of martyrs who had shed
Their blood in heathen lands.
He made the tears of pity pour
Down his rapt hearers’ cheeks —
For they could almost see the gore
And hear the dying shrieks.
“ They were not by rewards enticed, ’
He said, in trumpet tones,
“Those missionaries who for Christ
In China left their bones.
“ Then show your faith to be as true,”
He cried, with shining eyes,
“ O young men ! and O maidens, too !
Goforth and do likewise.”
They may have sailed across the foam
To die in Heathen Lands —
The Parson stayed and prayed at home,
With white, plump, pretty hands.
• * * *
It was a lank-jawed Lecturer
Who raged at Wine and Ale ;
Upon his chin a wisp of hair
Grew weedy, weak, and pale.
“ The Devastating Fiend of Drink ”
Right bitterly spake he —
“ Has made of this fair Earth a Sink
Of black Iniquity.
“ As through the city’s streets I go,
And peer into the pubs,
I see in each a face I know
It is Beelzebub’s.
“ I never suffered from the curse
Called Bacchanalian ;
I kept my money in my purse,
As no poor drinker can.
“ And what I cannot understand
Is why the People cheer,
And say the British Empire grand
Was built on British Beer.”
. * • *
It was a Spinster, sour and thin,
Straight-haired and wearing.specs.:
She said, “ Th’ unpardonable sin,
It is the sin of sex.
“The wicked Poets sing, I know,
Of Love that Joy can bring—
I never felt the fire, and glow,
And rapture that they sing.
“ I see my Fallen Sisters weep—
For that I do not pine !
Their priceless virtue they should keep,
As I have treasured mine.
“ They say that men with ardour keen
Have conquered them —maybe ;
No man that I have ever seen
Has tried the like with me.
“I would not,” said that Spinster lean,
“ Have let Her kiss my feet —
I would have sent back Magdalene
To where she lived —the Street.”
* » « •
It was a merry little Bard
Who sat at home at ease,
And sang of pains and perils hard,
And storms upon the seas.
He rhymed about the dawn so green,
The sunrise glowing red—
But evermore he had, I ween,
His breakfast brought to bed.
He wrote of Pioneers that push
Their way through wastes, sore-spent,
But never nearer to the Bush
Than Parramatta went.
He wrote of strange, sad tragedies,
And of the Life austere,
And sat at home, and took his ease,
And smoked—and drank his Beer.
N.S.W.
CREEYE ROE.
“ Vul.” tells a tramway yarn :
Passing Victoria Park, Sydney, in the tram, t’other
day was suddenly transported into the midst of some
violent commotion. A dense crowd, three or four deep,
extended for about 100 yards along the outer railings,
while another black mass could be seen packed round
one of the artificial lakes in the grounds. We were going
at a pretty fair bat, but the tram man spotted an
imaginary passenger in the distance and pulled up dead.
“ Must be a murder,” he said. “ Killed one er th’ pro-
fessor blokes,” said a fat passenger with conviction ; “ I
alwaz ’eard them scolard coves waz a bit skylarky.” Cer-
tainly something momentous had happened, or was hap-
pening. Suddenly an excited cheer arose, and the crowd
became violently agitated. “Go and see what’s up,”
invited the guard, casting a hasty glance round ; “I’ll
wait ” I went, and struggled through the crowd to the
railings, but saw nothing. I looked carefully, but, with
the exception of the crowd round the lake and a solitary
policeman standing immovable by the margin, I still saw
nothing. “What’s the matter? what are they cheering
about?” I asked of a woman near. She looked up,
beaming. “One o’ them nearly got caught, but he
slipped out of his grip.” “Whose grip?” “ Why the
copper’s! Don’t you know? Look, he’s standin’ on
their clothes, the coward ! He caught ’em swimmin’ in
th’ pond, but before he could nab ’em they cleared on
that island in th’ middle. They’re there now hidin’in
th’ bushes. O’ course, they ain’t got nothing on, so he’s
waitin’ fer ’em ter come out fer their clothes ter get
dressed. If I waz them I’d wait till,it got dark, and then
clear, nothin’ on or no nothin’ ort I hope they ain’t
copped—l’m going ter wait an’ see; are you?” I
wasn’t. The driver had evidently sighted the inspector,
and wa# making frantic, dumb appeals to hurry. I
hurried Its I got my first foot on the car, the fat man
ejaculated a pent-up “ Well ? ” “You were right,” I said.
“My Gawd!” “They’ve found two arms and a leg,” I
continued with deliberation ; “ but of the other leg and
body they can’t find a sign.” “ Oh, my Gawd ! ” As the
car glided up the hill another enthusiastic cheer split the
ear. “ Found th’ other leg, I suppose,” said the fat man
in an awed voice. I nodded encouragingly; but my
private conviction was that the naked criminals had just
successfully potted the policeman with a clod. Three
naked kids and an embarrassed bobby awaiting their re-
appearance, and Australia, 300 strong, prepared to lean
all day against a post and contemplate the result with
a straw from its face !
The Land of Ram Bux.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In this amazing land, where the dwellers often
measure distance by lamb-bleats, where the
women modestly veil their faces and leave their
stomachs bare, it is difficult to seize on any salient
fact before another still stranger pushes it out of
memory. Every character in “Kim” passes
along the Grand Trunk Road near my camp once
a day. No European can hope to know more than
the shadowy outline of what native life
is. One sees a score of questions in an
eye-flash, and few answers. Why do Sikhs
and Hindus button their coats to the left side
and wear red, while the Mahometan buttons his
to the right and abhors red, yet dyes his beard of
that hue ? The Sikh regards blue as a holy color; to
the Hindu it is an abomination ; the Sikh may
drink but may not smoke, the Mussulman smokes
but drinks not. The Hindu may use earthen
vessels painted in stripes to cook in many times,
but only once to eat from ; the Mahometan may
eat often from such a vessel, but it must not be
striped. Thus you may tell whether a camp was
occupied by Hindus or Moslems from the number
of earthen saucers cast away by the former after
each meal. The newcomer may often distinguish
a Mahometan by his dirt, since he is not bidden
by his faith to bathe as the Hindu and Sikh. The
Jain dare not, lest he thereby destroy life. Of
caste-marks there is no end, for are there not 33
scores of gods in India ? . .
A group of women go by, chattering m the key
of all peasant women. Hip-poised, each bears a
glossy brown baby, well-nourished from the deep
breasts of these strong - limbed field - workers,
taking its journey with the inscrutable philosophy
of the Asiatic infant. They are away to make
offerings to Sitala, the smallpox goddess, whose
shrine is on the mound near the tank, encircled
with the lesser abodes of her six sisters, who rule
the other pustular diseases. It is known that,
when an adult has recovered, a pig should be let
loose to Sitala, lest another attack occur. Should
an epidemic break out, Sitala’s offerings are sus-
pended until she is brought to reason, and the
potter and his donkey who guard the shrine grow
thin at their post. In the village near my
camp are a score of children called Kurria (he of
the dunghill) or Maru (the worthless one) or
Mangtu (the borrowed). These are dressed in old
rags begged from neighbors, and now and then
a new-born Maru or Mangtu is sent round the
village in a dust-pan to show his worthlessness.
As all good Indian mothers know, the stupid god-
dess will turn up her nose at such small game,
and the dreaded smallpox will pass them by.
They know, too, that there are certain Sahib rites
by which the small-pox goddess is cheated of her
prey. But they like to make sure. We inquire
thus —
“When was the child scratched (vaccinated) O
mother of a man ? ”
“But last month, Sahib.” This with a crossing
of the child’s fingers to avert the evil eye of the
Sahib aforesaid.
“ Will you then sacrifice also to Sitala ? ”
“Igo to lay offerings. It is my only man-child,
Sahib, and the gods are strange-tempered.”
There is a bestial-faced fakir camped at the
village gate, and this afternoon he was demanding
of the elders whatever of girlhood the village could
produce. If they do not please him, he will lay
a curse on the place so that the wells will dry up
and the very sweepers’ pigs will die. He shook his
sacred tongs—these and his ash-smeared, lilac-
colored face and body proclaim him as Saddhu —
at the head-man, till that respectable Government
official turned green and prayed for mercy from
the irate priest. Now the officials are beating up
the village to supply the fakir’s vicious needs, and
under the pepper tree where the shrine is, he sits,
brewing the curse that failure will merit. But
they will not fail, and he knows it. The girl;will
be sent out to-night and the village will sit down
as usual, to its caste-communal pipes, to discuss
the averted danger. One can tell to which caste
the hooka-owners belong, for a piece of red
cloth is tied to the stem of a Hindu pipe, of blue
to a Mussulman, of leather to a Chumar, and
string to a sweeper, so that the stranger who longs
for a smoke may not defile himself by mistake.
A Sikh policeman lounges at the bridge, and
springs to attention with a salute as you pass, if
you be a sahib. If you are not a sahib, but an
ordinary traveller, he will demand an utterly
unauthorised toll. The Sikhs are, with one pos-
sible exception, the only “ loyal ” people in India,
for they despise all other native races, and realise
that Edward in England is a less expensive and
exigent ruler than was Runjeet Singh at Lahore.
The Parsees of Bombay are the other ‘ ‘ loyal ”
class, realising, as the Bengali does not, that
within 48 hours after the removal of British rule,
those Parsees who dodged the sword and the
gallows would be doing sweeperb’ work instead of
driving to their offices in ricketty barouches.
The shadows are lengthening across the dust,
and the honeycombed earth is darkening to treacle.
A few buggies and gigs are beginning to show up,
some with oily babus, others with vacuous, fat-
eyed, unseeing Englishmen, on their way to the
club for a whisky and soda. These see nothing of
the life around them, and care for nothing except-
ing drink and a wet, foggy island in the North
Sea. They also make of the horse a god, but
their worship causes an Australian to laugh.
Some can ride, but these can seldom do aught else.
The sun drops down rapidly at evening in these
latitudes, as if it were tired with the work of
lighting up such a complex world. The whole
western sky is a blaze of brilliant red, shot with
curious shimmering green in patches, like to
Queensland hail clouds. It has been thus at sunset
for many months, and the village soothsayers see
red war and pestilence in the lurid afterglow.
The birds cuddle and chatter sleepily in the trees,
and the shadow of the earth climbs slowly up the
face of the Himalayas till only a single snow-peak
is left hanging from aloft in the blue-black sky
among the shimmering young stars. Then it too
is wiped away, and jackal answers jackal from the
maize fields.
PUYYAKA.
A Cairns (Q.) man has applied for Govern-
ment reward for discovering the secret of per-
petual motion, alleging that his “ball-bearing,
two-armed windmill has never stopped since it
was started six months ago.” Writer knows a
gaol warder who has been inventing the same old
perpetual at intervals for the last 17 years.
Visited his little brick cottage once, and found
peculiar wheels and other perpetual mysteries
strewn about in every room, while stacks of iron,
wire, pieces of wood and tin littered the back
garden and front yard. Even on the walls were
grotesque drawings and figures. The only
perpetual thing about perpetual motion is the
hopeless struggle of those who pursue it.


Tired All the Time
A Terrible Feeling of Exhaustion. Unfit for Business. Debilitating
Effects of Hot Seasons. All Easily Removed.
Mrs. C. McDonald, of Nprthcpte,
Victoria, Australia, sends us her
photograph and says:
“I was a great sufferer from some
of the most terrible forms of indiges-
tion. I was all tired out from morn-
ing until night. My languor made me
unfit for work or business of any
kind, and I was about ready to give up
discouraged. My liver was all out of
order, and this made me suffer from
constipation and biliousness. Two
remedies completely cured me. I took
Ayer’s Pills to act on my liver and
keep my bowels in good condition,
and Ayer’s Sarsaparilla to purify my
blood, strengthen my nerves, and put
my digestive organs in a healthy
state.”
“The World’s Createst Family Medicine.”
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is of great help to almost every one in this debilitating
climate. It prevents exhaustion, keeps the nervous system in good order,
and takes away all that tired feeling. Don’t wait until you are down sick.
It’s much wiser and easier to prevent sickness. When the stomach fails,
sickness comes very easy. Profit by Mrs. McDonald’s experience and put your
digestive organs in a healthy state.
We must caution you against imitation Sarsaparillas. Be sure you get
“ Ayer’s.” There’s no risk to run with this old, reliable medicine.
AYER’S s arsaparilla
The Oldest, Surest, Strongest, and Best Sarsaparilla
Ayers Pills act on the liver and keep the bowels in good condition.
Prepared by SB. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass.. USA
DN
On Our Selection, written by A. H. Davis
(“ Steele Rudd ") and published by The
Bulletin Co., has earned the title of “the
jolliest book ever printed in Australia.”
There is laughter on every page; yet the
book remains grimly true to the facts. As
a picture of life on an Australian selection
it has never been surpassed. Since it was
published, little more than two years ago,
upwards of 12,000 copies have been sold at
the comparatively high price of 6s.—making
an Australian publishing record. The reason of the sale is not far to seek : the
people who have bought the book know they have got value for their money ;
and they recommend it to others. The price is comparatively high because the book is expensive to
produce. It is well printed, and strongly bound in cloth in good style. There are numerous pictures
by such well-known illustrators as Mahony, Leist, Lambert, Fischer, Fullwood, and Vincent. From
oover to cover the book is Australian—the product of Aus-
tralian workmen. If it were produced by cheaper labour
in England, it would cost less, and could be sold at a
cheaper rate. The publishers prefer to employ Australian
labor only. When you buy On Our Selection you pay
a little more than you pay for an English book ; but
you get 100 times the Australian value. “ Steele Rudd’s ”
book has goue all over Australia, and wherever it has
gone it has become the treasure of a household, often
the delight of a township. People never leave oft
reading it until it is thumbed to rags; and then they
buy another copy. The characters of “Our Selection"—
“Old Dad,” “Joe,” “Dave,” “Sarah,” and the rest—
have become famous throughout the country ; and their imitation by weaker writers proves the force
of their grip on the public mind. Any bookseller will sell you the book ; or if you send a postal
order for 65., with Bd. postage, direct to The Bulletin office, it will be forwarded to any address
by return mail.
SELECTION !
AIL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
JAN OBTAIN
3Y USING
&
&
&
fit*
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.'
BOTTLES, 6d„ 1/- &. 2 6.
Sole Makers —M. BEET HAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
Felton, Grimwade & Co
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
'US
m
Li 076-Frait Juice
The “LANCET” says:-
“We counsel the public to drink Lime-Fruit Juice
whenever and wherever they list. It is a far more
wholesome drink than any form of Alcohol.”
* Montserrat ” Lime-Fruit Juice either with water or
aerated water is a delightful thirst quencher.
Sole Consignees :
EVABB SMS, LESCUEB, S WEBB, Limited) »
Leaden and Liverpool.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
~ Bel
PILLS
Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush"
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Cosriveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis*
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no Action. Every sufferer ia
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
GUINEA A BOX.”
BEECHAM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud op Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beeckam’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieinein
he world, Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold livery where, in Boxes, Is 14 d, and 2s 9d each.
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
HIS MAJESTY
THE KING.
MOIR’S
“MAYFAIR”
TABLE-JELLY
IN PIKT
PACKETS.
li
i
“Made in half-
a minute by
the mere ad-
dition of boil-
ing water "
CRYSTALS
manufacturers—JOHN MOIR & SON, LTD., LONDON, ABERDEEN and SEVILLE
Head Office: 9 & 10, Great Tovrer Street, LONDON, E.C.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
Corner George & Market Sts., SYDNEY
The Best Luncheon in Town from ONE SHILLING, served from 12 sharp till 2.30 ;
Dinner from 5.30 to 7.30, same price.
The Most Convenient Place for Ladies and Gentlemen visiting the Theatres to dine at.
N.B.—Visitors oply pay for wfcat tfccy actually bayc.
TERMS.—The Convenient and Modern System of for a
room on arrival, and Meals as they are had.
Apartments : BEDROOM, Single, 3s. per day ; Double, 6s. per day.
~ SINGLE ROOn, with Full Board, 6s. per day, £2 2s. per week.
engage rooms AT ROBERTS’ HOTEL, SYDNEY.
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the East
THE BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
M.D., C.M., L.R.C.P.E., L.R.C.S.E.,
L.P.P.S.G., L.M., etc,.
Registered by the Medical Board* of Great
Britain, victoria, New South Wales,
The Eminent Specialist, whose unparalleled success in the Treatment of Blood and Nerve
Diseases has earned for him a reputation unequalled by any other Specialist in Australia, may be consulted
daily, personally or by letter, at “ ELMLEY HOUSE,” ISI Elizabeth-st., Sydney. Old and Obsolete
Methods discarded. DR. MARTIN'S latest discovery has proved absolutely effective in all cases of Blood
Disease, Nerve Affections, Paralysis, Loss of Energy, Lung, 'Heart, Skin, and a'M
Chronic Diseases of Men and Women. His Consulting Rooms are replete with all the
latest and most scientific improvements in Electric Appliances, etc. Country Patients treated by
correspondence at their own homes. Advice and Medicine, One Pound. All Sufferers
should write for a copy of Dr. Martin’s Latest Medical Work, entitled, “ Mind Over Matter; or, How to
Secure a New Lease of Life without; Drug’s, Medicines, or Quack Nostrums." This work should find a pbvoe
in every household, as itcontains a full and explicit account of the Most Wonderful Treatment of the Present'
Age. It has been the means of Curing Thousands who followed out the instructions contained
therein. This Marvellous Treatment Cleanses and Rejuvenates the Whole System, and is the Cheapest
Treatment Hi Existence, as nothing but the Book is required.
Price, 55.; by post, ss. 6d.
CONSULTING HOURS s 10 te 3 and T to 9 Daily.
“ELMLEY HOUSE," 154 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.


ASBESTOS...
BOILER COVERING
Has Proved its Economy Times without number.
for use ' in ** «*•.
PA I E ?w? RY ’ in BagS ’ each lcwt -> 12s -- 14 »'.
It Saves 25 per cent, in Fuel.
perdriau & CO.
ONLY ONE ADDRESS—
-270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK:
_ Price 4s 6d, postage 6d.
RARE.
french,
ENGLISH,
GERMAN .
2/-
Largest Catalogue, with
Specimen Photo. Apply
Box //6 PARIS.
LADIES.
WRITJi FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONUi RNING YOURSELVES.
Address—L.D.l., SOO Collins St., Melbourne
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE XtADIES-
w\ c. ZELDIR-UDG-IE & co.
DYERS & CLEANERS, *
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
C onntry Orders by post from, all the colonies promptly
attended to.
BOTHERS
(Sole Australasian Representatives)
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK.
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
i
For all Services kept in Stock.
Send, for Catalogue*
Spoons. Forks,
Pocket-Knives & Scissors
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
MARK.
3. k 3. MAXFIELD, Propbb., SHEFFIELD
At the Showroom*—
Empire Chambers, 93 York-St.
SYDNEY.
Also m
“THE BLOCK,*’
Coliins-st.. MELBOURNE.
'
H. P. GREGORY & CO., 74 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
for Sale and. to arrive 1 MELBOURNE: 435 Bourke Street.
PUMPING MACHINERY of every description, Woodworking Machinery, English and American Engines, Boilers
Injectors, Reducing Valves, Steam Gauges, Steam Traps, Laundry Machinery, Painters’ and Bakers’
Machinery, Engineers’ Machine Tools, Shafting, Plummer Blocks, Pulleys, Hangers, Couplings, Collars
Lubricating Oil, Brunton Pocket Transits, Shedd’s Electrical Fans, Hoisting Engines and Boilers. ’
M
PARKE & LACY CO.
LIMITED,
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS,
Manufacturers and Importers of
MINING MACHINERY, STEAM ENGINES & BOILERS.
IN STOCK:
Knowles Steam Pumps, Ingersoll Rock Drills and Air Compressors
Nagle Horizontal and Vertical Engines and Boilers, Pennsylvania Return
Tubular Boilers, Buffalo Blowers and Exhaust Fans, Morris Dredging
Pumps, Bullock Diamond Drills, Dodge Rock Breakers, Roger Rolls,
Cates Rock Breakers, Challenge Ore Feeders, Huntington Quartz
Mills, Wood and Iron Working, and Laundry Machinery, and Mine and
Mill Supplies.
And at San Francisco and London.* 60 Clarence St-eet, SYDNEY.
Bushman
Harry Morant:
His ’Ventures
and Verses.
Buccaneer
By FRANK RENAR.
Price 1 1
Post
Free
. V
EDWARDS, DUNLOP & CO..
SYDNEY._>»
Size, 6J"x3£"xs".
HIT We are Direct Importers
AND HAVE FOR SALE—
Snow Duplex Pumps
(all sizes for all purposes),
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling
and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shaft-
ing* Hangers, Bearings, Collars, etc.
Engineers’ Tools and Fittings, Valves,
Cocks, Gauges, etc., Cast, Tool and
Mining Steel, Wire Ropes and all Requi-
sites for Engineers, Saw
Mills and Mining Proprietors.
R. L. Scrutton & Co. Ltd.
97 Clarence-st., Sydney.
wau QV3HV-00 V
PATESON & COBCROFT,
23
I Sussex Street,
SYDNEY.
and Live Stock Agents,
I 1 ’ Auctioneers, Commission
„ . . » J and Produce Merchants.
o s forwarded and received from any Stat^Agents for ce.ebrated Corn Cob Bacon
GARDNER’S SPA WATER
From our Springs at Helidon. OWEN GARDNER & SONS, Brisbane (Head office) &at Helidon.
N. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd.
71 Clarence-st.,
SYDNEY.
Will Crush
to
any Fineness*
Hand or
Power.
Easily Packed
in Small
Sections.
INVALUABLE
PROSPECTING.
PAWKLAST DRY CRUSHER.
NERVOUSNESS.
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH.
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS of SELF
CURE, will forward the same, free of
Charge, to anyone interested.
Address S A. MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Trewhella Bros.’
PATENT
LOG AND STUMP JACKS.
••
Vl*-'
If you have Stumps, Roots, Stones, or Logs to clear, or
Threshers or Machinery to move, try these Jacks. They
are used by thousands throughout ‘Australasia, and the
sales are rapidly increasing, which proves their value.
It ou can obtain them from the ironmonger with whom
you deal, or I will supply you direct.
The Melbourne and Sydney Prices are—
Lift, Tons Pricb
Double Purchase Jack 4 65 -
ft ii n 6 75/-
Single „ „ 2i 40/-
With AUTOMATIC LOWERING CEAR, 5/- extra.
-. ,■ Full Information and Trade Discounts from
TIIEWHiJX.LA, Trentham, Victoria,
or H. HINDS, 17 lioftus St., Sydney.
