

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
PIG STOUT.
Absolutaly
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet,
107 Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS
Plant Engineers’ F and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
and GENERAL IRONMONGERY •> NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
McLAKEN'S Compound
Traction Steam Engine.
f \ I
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG.
WONDERFUL *VALUE—A packet of Seven different
articles, comprising Yankee Rubber Baby, oan be carried
in vest pocket and blown out to life size (causes roars of
laughter), Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
Coin and Card Tricks), the Wizard Fish (gives the defini-
tion of your character—very superior for parlor enter-
tainments), the Vest Pocket Tubular Microscope (very
useful for examining small objects), the Cinematograph
(or book of moving pictures), the great Yankee Bicycle
Puzzle (very ingenious), and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Disappearing Coin Trick (instruc-
tions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australia (Free) on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Hay market.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
710 George-st., Sydney.
X
X
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° 8 s ntt street, SYDNEY.
. . fnr A U MCLAREN Leeds. England, Makers of Bteam Ploughing Taokle, Traction Engines for Haulage, General and Special Work.
*“ “™*“ an db. ™ Dinned Teflon enp.ee.; RdSTOH’S Pertabt. H.r te .n«l and Vert,™.. ...an. Enp.ee.;
BROADBENT’S Hydro Extractors; KIRCHNER’S Saw Mill and Wood-Working Machinery.
COMPOUND TRACTION STEAM ENGINES
“HERVEY’S RACKAROCK”
17 Years’ Unbroken Record as a Standard Australian Exposlve. Cor. CLARENCE & KING STS ,
THORNE’S
Estbd. 1831. WHISKY.
kcobart.
-—^ —
Radley’s Orient fiotel.
FREE
BY POST, A MEDICAL
TREATISE by that justly-
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST,
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.
s3r3D3sr:E3r-
SYDNEY
Royal, April, 1903.
CHAMPION COP
and
SIX FIRST PRIZES.
, MELBOURNE—
August, 1902, Grand
Championship of
Australasia.
ADELAIDE —Champion
Cup & 8 First Prizes,
DIGESTION
D
SPA
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, JOU
pages; price, 4s. 6d.; postage, 6d.
A Policy for the Commonwealth :
A Handy Manual of Politics. By James
Edmond. Price, 6d. ; post free from Ihe
Bulletin Office, 7d.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswan - Lamp.
EDISV/AN
ECONOMY IN*-
- - CURRENT
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthiest
Imitations.
THE EDM i SWAM
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch : 16 Carrington-street,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Q’nsland Depot— Central Buildings, Edward-st., Brisbane.
Mining and Dredging Plants. Engines, Boilers, &c.
Fowler Traction Engines.
3 NSW v
eClyde Engineering C
mg
Hopper Waggons, &c.
Desiccating Plants.
im
PROOF
Qn ev
Head Office
10 BLICH ST., SYDNEY
YALTY DRINKS IT.
PERTS APPROVE IT.
DOCTORS PRESCRIBE IT.
PATIENTS RELISH IT.
AON Vida
Judges award it Prize Medals wherever exhibited.
%
INSTANTANEOUS
BATH HEATERS,
For Gas, Kerosene, or Wood,
from 50s.
Large Stock of
ROOM WARMERS,
For Gas and Kerosene only.
Send for Catalogue.
BRANDT BROS.,
236 PITT ST., SYDNEY
XTSB
SPOONER’S
SPOONERS
A.
MINT LEATHER 800t$
< GLAZED WO 5 «
••««•* t* «h t*t im*++
l {
siSMi
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressing's,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
The Bulletin
Vol 24—No. 1214]
[Saturday, May 23, 1903.
Registered at the General Post Offioe, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.^


Book Crade Advertisement
THE LATEST BOOKS AT
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Marlineait.'National Duties, 7s, postage Bd.
New Let. era Ot Napoleon, ss, p. Bd.
Hope (G.), Count Osternnmn. 2s Gd & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
GWynne, Pilgrims at the Shrine, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Schofield, Nerves in Disorder, 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Hall, The Soil, 3s 6d, p Cd.
Castle, Star Dreamer, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Compton, Palace of the Spies, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Send to us for any Hook or Magazine you Want.
We are always pleased to answer Inquiries.
71 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doors South of Kinjj St.) & at Melbourne. Adelaide, Brisbane & London
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
Contain no Cocaine of
other Poisonous Drug-
For COUGHS,
COLDS,
LOSS OF VOICE,
BRONCHITIS,
and all Affections of
the Throat and Lungs.
JcSXis
?Os\S>'
52
■o’o^°v
The Great Antiseptic
Remedy for the Cure
of INFLUENZA and
PREVENTION of CON-
SUHPTION.
Invaluable for Sin gers
and Public Speakers.
Sold by all Chemists, tins, 1/6.
Sole Manufacturer: G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Australia.
SYDNEY DEPOT : 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE. Agents in all the Australian States and New Zea an
Melbourne and Australia
South Australia FAULDING & C>\
Launceston FAIRTHORNE & CO.
Hobart
New Zealand
FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO.
A. P. MILLAR & SO*N
” SHARLAND & CO., Ltd.
THE RED RAGE.
A FOLK SONG.
I came, to your town, my love,
And you were away, away!
J. said “ She is with the Queeits maidens ;
They tarry long at their play.
They are stringing her words like pearls
To throw to the dukes and earls."
But 0, the pit / !
I had but a mom of windy red
To come to the town where you were bred,
And you were away, atvay !
I came to your town, my love,-
And you were away, away !
I said “ She is with the mountain elves
And misty and fair as they.
They are spinning a diamond net
To cover her curls of jet."
But 0, the pity !
I had but a noon of searing heat
To come to your town, my love, my sweet,
And you were away, alvay !
I cams to your town, my love,
And you were away, away !
J said “ She is with the pale white saints,
And they tarry long to pray.
They give her a white lily crown,
And 1 fear she will never come down.”
But 0, the pity !
I had but ah even grey and wan
To come to your town and plead as man,
And you were away, away l
JEARIE MACKAY.
Jessie Mackay's Verses.
THEY are healthy girls in Maoriland, and
their verse is usually a healthy and regular
secretion. On Sunday evening, after church, is
a favourite composition-time. Then you may
see the plump and rosy maiden, cet. 17 to 25, a little with-
drawn from the massed family, polishing off the idea that
came while she wasn’t listening to the sermon. The
metre may be borrowed from the hymn-book ; the matter
from The Otago Witness and Annie S. Swan ; the noble
and uninspiring sentiment is all the maiden's own.
And the Muse of Comedy smiles, noting the shadow of
knickerbockers upon the paper. Next Saturday week, if
one is fortunate, there will be a small illumination of the
poet’s corner of The Canterbury Times or The Otago
Witness; and “Perdita” or “Celia” will glow-, and
dream, and wonder it He will see it, and what He would
say if He knew, and whether-
After marriage, the secretion ceases; but “Celia” is
faithful to The Otago Witness, and presently a birth-
notice illuminates another corner of the paper. Another
“Celia” is launched to write verses in the shadow of
next-generation knickerbockers ; and ... such is the idyll
of Maoriland life. Literature, with its thrills and flushes
and pangs, being necessarily another matter altogether.
We can draft from the mob of Maoriland girls
three whose verses are not composed precisely in this
manner and to that issue. There is Mary Colbourne-
Veel, who, generally flat and unpalatable, occasionally
makes a little sunshine in the shady verse-places. Her
“Saturday Night "holds some sincerity of emotion. Dora
Wilcox, too, has written several pieces of verse of finer
mettle than the average. One remembers particularly
that singing-to-itself dirge of the Maori—“At Onawe.”
Then there is Jessie Mackay, a writer of decided minor
promise. “Promise” is a word often misapplied—some-
times in a reviewer’s too-kindly mitigation of blame.
One is not “promising” merely because one is young.
In some of the booklets of youthful verse that come
timidly or brazenly for notice, you can see the bent
taken, the style formed, the narrow limitations of mind
and character already and for ever set. Nor does a
second book assure “ promise,” if it be only a repetition
of the read, a re-statement of the barriers to progress.
But Jessie Mackay is in different case. She has pub-
lished two books of verse— The Spirit of the Bangatira,
and Other Ballads as long ago as 1889 ; The Sitter on the
Bail (ugh !) and Other Poems in 1891. The second book
improves on the first ; and her uncollected work of past
five years is best of all. The gradual advance justifies
the hope that she will do still better. We need only a
sufficient number of lyrics such as “ The Grey Company ”
or “ Spring Fires ” (here printed Dec. 1, 1900) to hail
her as the equal of—Ugilvie, say—in our little Austral-
asian class.
Already she has the purest, finest note we have heard
from Maoriland—and Domett and Adams are not ex-
cluded. Domett was an agreeable maker of “ literature,”
in Verlaine’s sense; but he could rarely sing. Adams
weaves a throb through pretty fancies, but one’s sense
of the weaver, maker, manufacturer is too evident.
Jessie Mackay is a singer—natural, unalloyed, sincere ;
and though she has written only some dozen pieces that
at present hold her best, those dozen are sufficient to
assure her rank. (One verse may settle rank : it needs
a volume or more to settle place.)
Miss Mackay is of Scottish Highland parentage,, and
was born at the foot of the Southern. Alps in North
Canterbury, Maoriland. Her childhood was passed-on a
sheep station ; she was educated at Christchurch, took a
teaching certificate, and taught school. She wrote early,
and has contributed many storiesand sketches to Maoriland
papers. These are not remarkable ; though of late years
her prose has shared in the distinction that is beginning
to attach to her verses. Her life has been quiet and
domestic : to-day, at past thirty years of age, she is still
teaching in a ladies’ school at Christchurch, and con-
tributing regularly to the Maoriland press
&
Her first book of verse, The Spirit of the Bangatira,
contains fifty-two undistinguished pieces. You can see a
young spirit turning, attempting, inquiring ; but the re-
sults want force and value. Only in “Strath Erran,”
where an ancestral fibre thrills, is there more than a hint
of better work to come. It is the emigrant’s lament
enshrined again in “ For Love of Appin.”
I am weary o’ your city wheels: I choke amang the
stour;
0 for heather hills again, the mavis on the moor !
An’ the deeiri thirst is on me, an’ I lang an’ lang in vain
To kneel upon the grassy bank an’ drink an’ drink again
O' the clear, cauld burn in the wood o’ Strath Erran.
In The Sitter on the Bail, two years later, Miss
Mackay’s wings are expanding. She tries many metres,
and fills them with a stronger, more individual emotion.
Sometimes she wastes herself in trying to translate the
poetry of Maori legends—a difficult task that Adams has
accomplished better. We can snatch lines and verses—
Mine was a youth of dreams, of wild and wandering
aims. ..
0 ha’e ye mind, o’ the fisher-folk
That lo’ed an’ lined ye because ye were bonnie t
The hame hearth-stane wi’ its bleeze an’ smoke,
An’ the wither that held ye dearest of ony,
Maisrie, Maisrie ?...
“The Passing of Macphaii ” is a strong ballad, with the
final verse —
lan Darroch played on, unknowing still
His pibroch of the wars
Had carried the soul of the last Macphail
Out and away to the stars !
Last in the book is “ Corrivar,” a woman’s cry.
“ Chain her with the whirlpool song ;
Heart and soul that weary are,
Chain them fast and chain them long,"
Sing the waves of Corrivar.
“ Chain her with the solemn roar
Deep in stilly mountains set ;
Sleeping, waking, evermore,
Chain her, that she may forget., „
I am sick of feigning well;
Take me, keep me, Corrivar !...
Weary lips ivould drop the smile ;
Weary tongue the stammering jest;
All tke harmless, dreary guile
Of a woman worn would rest.
Then my soul erect ivould rise,
Bathed in silence, veriest balm ;
Free at last of alien eyes
In the dark and icy calm.
Then the bitter, burning heat
At the heart would freeze and die;—
Oh, 1 see her rest complete,
Frozen thing that once was 11..
*s*
Here is true poetry ; though the verses are not
flawless.——But Miss Mackay’s talent is seen most fully
in her most recent verses, such as those that commence
and close this outline of her work. (It is believed that
these have been published, and regretted that due ac-
knowledgment cannot be made.) “A Folk Song” is of
rare beauty; and “For Love of Appin” is best of
the pieces in which Miss Mackay commemorates the
pathos of a father’s-land she has never seen. But in
nearly every new piece that comes to notice Miss Mackay
gives us colour of phrase, warmth of feeling—
-0 my love, Dunedin town, the only, the abiding,
Who can look undazzled up where the Norn is riding,—
Watch the sword of Destiny from its scabbard gliding I
Dark and. rich and ringing true, word and look for ever,
Taking to her woman-heart all forlorn endeavour,
Heaven’s sea about her feet, not the bounded river 1...
Honey of Hoya, Olympian dewdrop !...
O garnets, garnets, heart’s blood o’ garnets !
Dark wine o' garnets, the garnets for me !...
Often there are faults of epithet, wrong- words fitted
into rhyme : a pity, though Miss Mackay's force and
melody carry us over them. Sometimes we seem to hear
an echo :
Pale lief.h Poetry
Passing and dying —
Have they no care for her.
Selling and buying f
Have they no ruth for her,
Cozening and canting ?
Have you no tears for her,
Dreaming and ranting ?
revivifies the impulse of J. S. Neilson’s “ Sheedy Was
Dying,” in The Bulletin of Dec. 7, 1901. “In the
Tower ”
All honours, all names,
All labour, all pleasures,
All fetters, all claims,
All Earth and her treasures
Drop away in the drift, and we face the Hereafter
Alone with the flood-demon’s impotent laughter—
appears to catch inspiration from Boake’s verses for Rider
Haggard’s “Jess,” printed in The Bookfellow in 1889.
This is noted only for the interest of seeing how Miss
Mackay has based new poems on the older suggestion,
the older motive; it deducts little from her credit,
nothing from her value.
Jt
Enough has been said and cited to show how high
is Jessie Mackay’s claim to a place in our new-iiorn, faintly-
shining galaxy. “The Valley of Rona” could be added
to her list of worthies : it is touched with magic into
calm delight. Some of these days we may ask permission
to reprint it, in tribute to the fine and true talent of a
Maoriland girl.
FOR LOVE OF AFPIN.
[The people of Appin, evicted and deported to America
in the 18th century, wailed and sang “Lochaber No
More ” long after they put out to sea. It is said that the
older men never smiled again, lest they should be thought
to have forgotten Scotland.]
The hand is to the plough an’ the e’e is to the trail;
The river-boatie dances wi’ her held to the gale ;
But she ’ll never ride to Appin ;
We ’ll see nae mair o’ Appin ;
For ye ken we crooned “ Lochaber" at the said sea’s gate.
It’s a land o’ giantrie ;
Its lochs are like the sea.
But it’s no’ a desert fairly ;
The corn ’s/m’ an' early ;
Ye 'll hear the laddies dafling ;
Ye’ll hear the lassies laughing ;
But we—we canua tine
What lies ayont the brine :
When we sang “ Lochaber ” then
We were gray, gray men.
We ’ll smile nae mair for ever
By the prairie or the river,
Lest ony think perchance that we forget
The rainy road to Appin —
East awa’ to Appin—
The rainy road to Appin that the leal men went...
It’s no’ a desert fairly, it’s grand an’ young an’ fine;
Here the sons o’ Anak might live an’ press the wine ;
But it’s 0, for hame an’ Appin —
The heather hills o’ Appin —
The thousand years o’ Appin, where the leal men lie l
oor face is set as stane,
But we ’ll thank the Lord again—
Gang saftly a’ oor days ;
An’ u’ark shall be oor praise.
The bairns will tak’ a root
By the mighty mountain foot;
But we, we canna sever ;
It’s no for us whatever ;
We hear nae earthly singing
But it sets “ Lochaber ” ringing,
An’ we ’ll never smile again
I’ the sunlight or the rain
Till oor feet are on the lang last trail —
The siller road to Appin —
East aiva’ to Appin —
The siller road to Appin rinnin’ a’ the way to God t
JESSIE MACKAY.
ODD CONTRIRUTORS
“X” challenges disproof of the following nega-
tive : As to Kipling’s knack of faking, consider the
Australian stanza in “ The Flowers ” :
Buy my English posies !
You that will not turn —
Buy my hot-wood clematis.
Buy a frond of fern,
Gathered where the Erskine leaps
Down the road to Lome —
Buy my Christmas creeper,
And I ’ll say where. you were btrrn :
West away from Melbourne dust holidays begin—
They that mock at Paradise woo at Cora Lynn —
Through the great South Otway gums sings the great
South Main,
Take the flower and turn the hour and kiss your love
again.
Lome is perhaps the most beautiful spot on the
Victorian coast; but Kipling was never there ; never saw
the Erskine, nor Cora Lynn, nor an Otway gum. He was
in Melbourne from Nov. 18 to 24, 1891—five clear days
(including Sunday) and part of two oEher days, and
could n’t have gone to Lome in bet ween the social engage-
ments he kept, even if he had flown there and back like a
pigeon.
How, then, came the Lome verse to be written ? Thus:
Kipling met Donald Macdonald, who gave him a copy of
his volume of nature sketches, Gum Boughs and Wattle
Blossom. Turn to the chapter called “Silver Gums” in
that book. It consists principally of a description of Lome
scenery; and contains all Kipling’s “properties”—
clematis, fern, leaping Erskine, Christmas creeper,
Paradise, Cora Lynn, and Otway gums—the box of
tricks complete. K. saw nothing of the country.
Yet a recent lady visitor to Lome said that she
“ saw the bed Rudvard Kipling slept in!”—with much
about the same solemnity of tone as if she had seen
the “mattress-grave” from which Heine jested death-
lessly, or that “second best bed” which Shakespear
' willed to his widow. ,
J*
Ignotus : When rabbits became a pest in Maori-
land they were hunted and trapped at a cost (say) of Id.
each. The carcases were destroyed. The Wellington
poulterers bought them, but could not sell them, since
most people regarded them either as domestic
pets or vermin. A street hawker invented the cry
of “ Wild Rabbit! ” and now they sell well. The
exact nature of the appeal seems to be this *
A great many people here pictured rabbits as tame, fat
things. To them the cry “Wild Rabbit” suggested
something fleet and timid, the flesh perhaps spicy with
eating Wild herbs. They conceived it as a contrast to
the insipid mutton and massive beef that form our usual
fare.
The cry is varied with another one, “ Blenheim
Lambs!” The peculiar appeal of this lies in the vivid
picture of the sheep ousted by rabbits, so that the pas-
tures produce young rabbits instead of lambs. Blenheim
is the seat of the trade in rabbits, as we know it in
Wellington.
Mariquita : Replying to the request of T. Y.R.
for poetical passages referring to green perfumes and
green song: Baudelaire writes in the sonnet “ Corres-
pondances ”
II est ties parfums frais comme des chairs d’enfants,
Doux comme les hautbois, verts comme les prairies . : .
[There are perfumes cool as the flesh of babes,
Bland as hautboys, green as meadows . . . ]
As to green songs, G. d’Annunzio has an exquisite
line—
Canta la nota verde d’un bel limone in fiore..
Sings the green note of a flowering citron, beautiful...
Garducci, on the other hand, speaks of green silence.
Rimbaud, in his celebrated sonnet of the Vowels, de-
fined
A noir, E blanc, I rouge, TJ vert, O bleu, voyelles..
U, cycles, vibrements divins des mers virides,..
[A black, E ivhite, I red, Ugreen, 0 blue, vowels...
U, cycles, vibrations divine of virid seas... ]
I presume all this comparison of equivalent sensations is
a part of what constitutes modernism in literature. A
Spanish writer some months ago said that its origin must
be. sought in the progressive evolution of the senses,
which tend, in multiplying their differing perceptions, to
multiply also the correspondences between them that can
be combined in a single sensation—as Baudelaire has
already combined them—
...O metamorphose mystique
De t.ous mes sens'fondus en un !
Son haleine fait la musique,
Comme sa voix fait le parfum.
[0 mystic metamorphosis
Of all my senses blent in one 1
Her breath makes music
As her voice makes perfume .]
“Ne’er-do-weel” : You draw a pathetic picture
of a sane democracy gazing with disgust at “tom-fool
Barton, tom-fool Reid* tom-fool Dibbs and the rest,”
posturing and grimacing in bedizened array before the
Governor-General. A sorry spectacle, as you say ; but
where do you find the “sane democracy” to gaze
disgustedly at it? King Demos is himself about the
worst offender in his insane desire to bedizen himself in
gorgeous apparel. On any democratic gala day note the
sturdy sons of toil, how bravely they carry themselves 1
Talk about walking an inch taller—six inches would be
nearer the mark ! And why ? Simply because they have
some preposterous red and green, or purple and yellow,
or blue and red rag tied round their chests, ora ridiculous
apron girt about their middles, denoting the particular
fool lodge to which they belong.
I have even seen a mob of sturdy bushmen of all ages,
from fathers of families to sons of the same, solemnly
display themselves in various hideous combinations of
crude colours —sashes, bulging where they ought to be
flat, dragging where they ought to be loose, not one
fitting ; aprons, ridiculously abbreviated on large men,
farcically large on small men—and, headed by a dis-
cordant band, march solemnly and out of step through
the main streets of a township, for no earthly reason that
any one of the participants in the particular folly could
give. Why cannot the work of the lodges be carried on
without all the mummery and flummery, rags, ribbons,
frills and feathers which now play such an important
part in the proceedings?
As to royal accents : I have frequently heard King Ned
and Prince George speak, and it never struck me that
either had the faintest suspicion of German accent.
BOOKFFLLOH'S MIXTURE.
What preventable disease kills n„« «
one m seven of all mankind? TnberculosU f ° Ur to
The law prevents the sellintr nf t-,,? 13 '
Tuberculous milk is consumed ah over t^h erCU OUS mea t.
our children are fed with the baciUi on non °° Untry - A »
not matter that uncooked milk is an unsaTe^food 11 d ° es
thouirh the bacteriologist finds milk the mnsf / ° d ’ even
material on which to make his ? ment
that the short walking-skirt is eoaiine- intn t
the li rat sign of sanity since EuXan, lion he o " 11 »
Minos’ female toreadors, who mkctised tLhmf ? with
Orete four thousand years apb. The dus?
consists, for practical purports, of tLTL°L U " d '®
tion of five thousand tons from the horse COntnbu '
this matters much-and of tuberciilous^numn 01 at
inexpressibly filthy and indecent habit wK The
a woman to trail her skirt on the pa7em ‘ h Permit 9
the bacilli shall be rescued fronf the , tl aat
which would soon kill then,. They are brLlht U , nhght
house, where they can nestle in' some dark mto the
infect the boy who cleans tie infected boot? or?h?’ and
who brushes the infected skirt. I came across a v ma . ld
Herodotus, the other day, who beheaded kg ln
spat before him. oeneaded anyone that
We have lost a possible sixth ode from Keats iv,., ■
movement of Schubert’s noble symphonv th!’ th aBt
work of Chopin and Mendelssohn Jnd P lozart and «£ tU "
son, and the rare genius of Emily Bronte- and the Ven '
hut a few at random. They had in B nnel> heS ? are
Spencer’s fourth class of knowledge : they^ou’u”? 1 ?
beauty. But his first class, the knowledge how tnT te
oneself alive, they had not. They probably kJ? t ep
bedroom windows shut, and they did not know fchatwh?
the casual spitter spits is sometimes spittle *
spittle and death.-5. W. Saleeby, k
Van Houten, a Dutch writer quoted in The
Spectator, comments that “At Queen Wilhelmina’s coro
nation foreigners discovered to their surprise tw tl
Dutch are a cheerful people. The SpanHrdVcavit'
Napoleon, hayl successively clouded their existence'
But they were a cheerful people before tit
Reformation, and of late years there has been
a revival of the old gay Dutch-Flemish soirit
In the second half of the nineteenth century toi
spirit of Goethe has expelled that of Calvin from Holland
It mig-ht be indiscreet to ask how that sameGoethean
spirit has fared during the same period in Germany "
That stresses one of the things that surprise a
stranger visiting Europe. The Dutch are no longer the
Dutch in the mental connotation we are used to. Heavy
slow, dull, phlegmatic, sullen—these are the adjectives
that the word Dutchman brings to the Australian mind
But the typical Dutchman corresponds with these
adjectives no longer. _ He is gay, cheerful, light-hearted
sociable, polite ; it is the typical Englishman who is
narrow and stolid, intellectually barren. With manv
exceptions granted on both sides, naturally. 3
Yet the comparison holds good through a whole series
of national features. Take two only. Look at the
average English girl, the girl that represents the millions'
and look at her mouth. Perhaps five times out of six it
turns down at the corners—a significant attribute. And
DANCER
LINE
CLEAR
(GO AHEAD)
SWEET
TANE
CARC
ENTRCZ
five times in six the Dutch girl’s mouth turns up at the
corners : a most kissable mouth ! Again : look at the
small shipping on Mersey or Thames, on any English
river. The craft are uniformly dirty—painted in black
or brown, and set afloat to accumulate unheeded grime.
Holland’s skies lower like England’s ; but go into any
little port on the Dutch coast, and see the difference!
Nearly all the small canal craft and coasting craft are
painted in bright colours—pink, blue, and green : you
can see the spirit of Mark Tapley defying fogs and
weather-gloom. The light heart, the gay courage have
deserted England; but they have found refuge and a
welcome in Holland. And "English” now means
“ Dutch.”
I have read that W. E. Henley— (to whom the
British Govt, in 1898 awarded an annual pension of Mi s
“ in recognition of his literary merits and of his inade-
quate means of support”: the Australian Govt., on
the highest public grounds, should follow the example
in the case of Victor Daley)—started working life as a
carpenter and house-painter, and in his avocation met
more than thirty years ago the accident which made
him a life-long cripple. Fate’s irony thus sentenced to
crutch and stick a man who delights above all things to
fling limbs and mind freely—a passionate lover of action
and" motion. Now, in his fifth decade, the motor-car
is bringing Henley compensations ; and in The World's
Work for April he writes a characteristic piece of verse
in honour of the New Speed. It is singularly like the
parody of Henley’s style that Arthur Waugh included in
Legends of the Wheel —
Winger of woman,
Banishing petticoats,
Bringing the female
(Long since irrational)
Rational dress.
Ho ! then, the polish
Aml pride of of my ministry.
Ho ! then, the gleam
O f my glittering nickel-plate.
Ho ! then, the Park
And the pledsaunce of Battersea.
Ho ! then, the hose
Of my deft y-shod womankind.
1, the übiquitous
Angel of Exercise,
I am the Bike.
So Henley trills of patron Harmsworth’s motor-car-
Hence the Mercides !
Look at her. Shapeless?
Unhandsome ? Unpaintahle ?
Yes ; hut the strength
Of some seventy-five horses:
Seventy-five puissant,
Superb fellow creatures:
Is summed and contained
In her pipes and her cylinders.
Thus Henley runs rhetorically- with, better• paSj
sages, of course— through upwards of ithree nmd
vigorous lines which occasionally skirt the b , se
nonsense. Henley’s devoted disciples lo' plowing
he is a trumpeter, great-brained, great-hear > ljte
from great lungs a high, courageous note, hue an(J
years his instrument has sometimes mastered mm,
his tune has gone past music into blar . verse
thought of a man like Henley dedicating a piece
to a Sian like Alfred Harmsworth makes one writhe.
A.O.S.


WINCHGOMBE, CARSON, and CO., Limited,
WOOL BROKERS AND PRODUCE SALESMEN
S "5T 3D 3NT EJ "ST.
FUR SKINS!
Kangaroo, Wallaby, Rabbit, Opossum.
SEKT33 To
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd
THE MOST SUCCESSFUL SALESMEN.
SYDKTEIY,
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Stores: PYRMONT.
®°l e Commiagioia. 3 Per Cent, to tla.e Grrower
oin. Large and Small Accounts Alike.
S. FREEMAN * SONS JJfUTEP
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.'
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO'S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN'S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD-OFFICE-: WYNYAED SQUARE, SYDNEY.
m
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affection*.
DIMNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
NEITHER CRACK
CP
5806
CBB
5807
5808
NOR BURN.
SHILLING BRIAR PIPES
QUALITY NOT BETfER
IN A GUINEA PIPE. . .
GUARANTEE.—ShouId any of our Celebrated CAN’T-B-BEAT Briar Pipes Crack or Bara a
New Ono will be Exchanged for it immediately on Application.
Sold by all Tobacconists. By Post, Is. 2d.
Quality not better in a Guinea Pipe.
is
is
RICHMOND.VA
TOBACCO
Dark and
Bright
IS THE BEST.
Price, ss. lb., Post Free, all States.
A Perfect Pipe Tobacco.
HAVING secured the Sole Agency for the
above brand of AMEKIOAN TOBACCO, we
have very much pleasure in recommending
same to our Clients and the Smoking Public.
“SOLID SHOT” TOBACCO, Splendid Aroma,
does not bite the tongue. With the ordinary
smoker this Tobacco is in great demand.
Save “Solid Shot” Tobacco Tags.
For Each 100 you will receive from the
Agents, free, one only C. 8.8. Briar
Pipe and Pocket Knife.
Sole Agent for C. 8.8. Briar Pipes.
Send for Whole sale Price Lists.
Arkansas” Mixture
A Blend of the very highest grade Tobaccos.
Packed in |lb. Tins, 7s. 6d. lb.
Sample |lb. Tins, 25., post free.
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney, n.s.w.
RHEUMATISM can be CURED.
mORTURING, GRINDING, RASP-
I ING, AGGRAVATING PAIN!
Let it come in the guise of Lumbago,
Sciatica, Muscular, Inflammatory, “Come
and Go ” ; in the joints, in the chest, in the
back—anywhere.
It comes all from the same general
cause, and can be cured by the same
methods of treatment.
ELECTRICITY PROPERLY AP-
PLIED IS A CERTAIN AND SURE
CURE FOR THIS DREADED DEVAS-
TATOR OF THE HUMAN BODY
AND MIND.
Laughliiis
Will cure any of these troubles. It is the modern remedy
for all chronic ailments. Worn at night while you sleep,
it pours the soothing, invigorating nerve life into your
body for hours at a time. WITH EACH APPLICA-
TION you take on new vitality; new energy comes with
each night’s wear, until, and the end of three months, the
most stubborn CASES SUCCUMB ENTIRELY, and you
can lay the Belt aside a healthy and strong man or woman.
It is as Good for Women
as for Men.
171LECTRICITY CURES RHEUM A-
li TISM because it can be directed to
and directly through the ailing part.
IT STRENGTHENS AND CORRECTS
THE ACTIONS of the ORGANS that are
responsible for the supply of poison in the
blood, warms and invigorates the afflicted
part, first relieves the pain, and then
entirely eradicates the trouble from the
flesh. The ONLY SURE and PERMAN-
ENT METHOD is in using the SAME
REMEDY THAT HAS CURED
THOUSANDS AND IS CURING
THOUSANDS EVERY DAY.
ELECTRIC BELT
Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt is the production of years of
scientific investigation. Tt is the only adjustable body Belt that
has ever been made to produce a strong current that could be
felt at all times by the wearer that is absolutely under control of
the patient, , The current can be made mild or strong in an
instant, and does not burn or blister the flesh. It is guaranteed
to last a year and, with care, will last a lifetime. USE IT,
AND YOU WILL ALWAYS BLESS THE DAY.
Sciatica.
Invercargill, N.Z.
c/o J. A. Mitchell & Co., Auctioneers.
Dear Sirs,—Yours duly to hand. I would have written sooner,
but wanted to give the belt a fair test before doing so. I have
much pleasure in saying to you that this last month or six weeks
1 have had very liltie, or I may say, no pain, in comparison to
the way I used to suffer. There are several others here slightly
troubled with sciatica and rheumatism, and I have been trying
to persuade them to get one of your belts.
Yours respectfully,
a. b. Mclntosh.
Disordered Liver and Kidneys.
Glenorchy, Tas.
Dear Sirs, —I have much pleasure in testifying to the efficacy of
your Electric Belts. It is now three months since I purchased
one of your No. 7 Belts, and my improvement has been marvellous.
As you are aware, I was troubled with a very bad back, together
with disordered liver and kidneys, etc., but I had only worn the
belt for about three days when I began to realise that I had
found the right remedy at last, and I shall never regret pur-
chasing the belt, and would heartily recommend all fellow-
sufferers to place thfemselves in your hands. Wishing 3'ou every
success. Yours gratefully, J. J. PEACOCK.
Desperate with Sciatica.
Angel Terrace, Coolgardie, W.A.
Dear Sirs,—l got your Belt after all the doctors here had given
me up—after all the hospitals had passed me as an incurable. I
had Sciatica so bad that I could neither work nor walk. I wore
the belt two nights and the pain stopped. In a week I had no
pain and began to mend. In a month I was out again prospect-
ing, and I would like to meet a man more grateful to you than I
am. I don’t think I ever will.
P. W. KELLY.
FREE.
On receipt of a post card or letter we will send you a BEAUTIFUL, ILLUSTRATED FREE BOOK
which will remove the cloud from your future, which will show you how you can elevate yourself, mentally
and physically. It tells of nearly 25 years spent in the enthusiastic study of vital nerve force, finding what it
conies from, and how to restore it when it is lost. We all like to be at our best, and if you are down we can
pull you up.
Study our method. Out of all our experience we have built a method of infusing the system with vitalising electricity, which is the
functional and organic vitality. Our Book tells what we know of this. We will send it sealed', free, if you will but write for it. If you can
call we will make you a FREE DIAGNOSIS and explain how we invariably cure. ALL DUTY PREPAID.
The flr. (I|c[aughlin Co.,
100 W. MARKET ST., SYDNEV
Melbourne Office—l67E Swanston street.


SMOKE
The Unrivalled
World Renownec
BRIAR
PIPES
LARGEST DEPOT :
231 Clarence St,
SYDNEY.
nOTHERS! ! ! Stop that Cough, check it right away;
FINCHAITS ** Cough I Cure” cures it without delay*
Fincham’s Celebrated Pectoral
“Cough I Cure.”— lnvaluable for Children.
A Reliable Remedy for Croup, Asthma, Whoop-
ing Cough, and all Throat and Lung Affections.
Once used, always used. Stops the awful tickling
and wheezing in the throat. The enemy of the
hacking cough. It induces sleep by its soothing
influence. No mother should be without a bottle.
Fincham’s “ Gout and Rheumatic
Cure. ’’--Takes certain effect in cases of Acute
Lumbago, Sciatica, Lame Back, Headache,
Shoulder and Muscular Pains.
Dr. Hughes’ “Fits Epilep.” —A certain
remedy for Epilepsy and Fits in all forms. Won-
derful cures are registered from its use.
Dr. Jones’ Obesity Cure. —Will cure ex-
cessive stoutness in a few weeks. The friend of
stout people.
Dr. Steel’s Celebrated Indigestion
Cure. —The enemy of Indigestion and Dys-
pepsia.
Pyramid Pile Cure.— A certain remedy.
Dr. Wilson’s “ Neuralgia Mixture.”—
One Dose Relieves, One Bottle Cures the most
agonising Face Neuralgia.
Fincham’s “Capiline.”— A Nursery Hair-
Wash for Children’s Heads. Unsurpassed. One
Bottle Sufficient. A sure destroyer of vermin in
the hair. Removes dandruff, leaving the hair
healthy and free from disease.
Fincham’s Face Bleach. —Clears the skin
from Spots, Redness, Roughness, Freckles, Tan,
Sunburn, &c. Invaluable for use in the country.
Makes the skin soft and fragrant, fair to the
sight and fine to the touch. Ladies’ other re-
quisites of any description for use in the Boudoir
or Nursery.
Fincham’s Infallible Worm Powders
Specially suitable for children. A certain cure
for worms.
Dr. Steel’s Celebrated Influenza Cure.
Invaluable in cases of epidemic Influenza. A
speedy relief.
All these Invaluable Remedies will be posted to any Australian address, secure
from breakage, on application to—
THE OWL CUT-RATE PRUtS CO.,
227 ELIZABETH STREET (opp. Hyde Park), SYDNEY.
C. P. FINCHAM, Pharmaceutical Chemist.
TOBACCO.
Smoking Mixture, Mild, Medium and Full.
(XPR.ESS
CIGARETTES.
TURKISH
TOBA<
LEAF
rco
&
CG
TTES.
“MY DARLING,”
“ ABTORIA,”
“ QUO VADIB,”
“ WALDORF,”
No. 999,
No. 555.
HAND MADE
FREE FROM DUST
Manufactured by the ARDATH TOBACCO CO., LONDON.
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300 pages ; price, 4s. 6d. ; postage, 6d.
DOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE CUIDE, 50 engravings, 3/6 ;
posted, 4/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/-; Magic
Up-to-Date, 1/3 ; Metal Working, solder-
ing, brazing, 1/6; Camille, 1/3 ; How to
Play Billiards, 1/3; How to Vamp, 1/3;
Piano Tuning and Repairing, 1/6 ; Modern
Etiquette, 1/-; Card Games, 1/-; Great
Book of Wonders, Secrets and Mysteries,
1/-: Poultry Keeping, 1/- ; Horse and*
Cattle Doctor, 1/-; Parlor Magic, 1/- j
Dream Book, 1/-; Every Man His Own
Builder, 1/6 ; Carpentry, 1/6 ; Lightning
Calculator, 1/2 ; Australian Doctor, 1/6 ;
Letter Writer, 1/3 ; Speeches and Toasts,
1/3; Kelly Gang of Bushrangers, 1/3 ;
Book of Dialogues, 1/-; Enquirer’s Oracle,
3000 subjects, 1/6 ; Self Instructor, 1/3 ;
How to Dance, 1/3; Art of Boxing, 1/3;
Art of Wrestling, 1/3; Moll Flanders,
1/6; Tailoring for Amateurs, 1/3 ; Ven-
triloquism, 1/- ; Comic Reciter, 150 gems,
1/3; Irish Comic Reciter, 1/3; Little
Folks’ Reciter, 1/3; Nigger Stump
Speeches, 1/3; New Tricks with Cards,
1/3; That Rascal Gustave, 1/3 ; Plain
Home Talk, 7/6 ; Sappho (genuine), 1/6;
Fortune Telling Cards, directions, 1/6 ;
Advice to Women, 1/3; Midwives’ Hand-
book, 92 practical illustrations (better than
Aristotle), 3/- ; Palmistry, chart and guide,
6d. ; Clog Dancing, 1-. Above prices in-
clude postage to any address. Stamps or
Postal Notes of any State will do. Free
Catalogues—Plays, Conjuring Apparatus,
Racy Novels, Useful Books, Private Books
for the Married, etc.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK AND MAGIC
ARCADE, -
201 Bourke-st., Melbourne.
[NHHiHIMYiHiMia
Guard Against Chills and Colds
CLOW)
vV
AERTEX
tPNDO^i
BY ALWAYS WEARING
VERTEX
AERTEX
fcPNDON
Cellular Underwear
More especially during Changes of Season.
THE leading medical men now order their patients to wear Aertex Cellular
Material for Underclothing, because that fabric in its uses, and method
of its contruction approaches more nearly that of the natural skin ; and for
that reason, even in
cases of the most deli-
cate constitutions, ad-
vising Cotton Cellular
in preference to the
old - fashioned plain
flannel. Still for those
who will wear nothing
but wool next the
skin, we have all gar-
ments of Underwear
made in pure wool,
merino, silk and wool,
etc., for both ladies and gentlemen. Children’s
and particular orders made specially.
Aertex Cellular Pyjamas, all kinds of
Shirts, Pants, Singlets, Socks, &c.
AND FOR LADIES—
Combinations, Vests, Nightgowns,
Corsets, and Underwear of all Kinds.
4/
to
>
c
c
o
<o
V
o
/E.Q
A Piece of
Aertex Cellular Fabric,
Fabrics by the yard or piece—ln
Cottons, Bd. to Is. 9d. ; Lisle Thread,
Is. 3d. to 28. ; Silk and Cotton Mix-
ture, 3s. 6d. ; Merinos and Wools,
3s. 3d. to 4s. 9d. ; Silk and Merino
Mixture, 4s. 6d.
Call or Write for fully Illustrated Catalogue—POST FREE,
DAVID BRAHAM & CO.
VERTEX CELLULAR DEPOT—
-73 & 75 KING ST., SYDNEY BEST
A
1 /. •> y/ii
/s' </'.V
■'// <'yV
N
There’s SECURITY in
ARTER'S
■ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER,
i FURRED TONGUE.
l
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price.
They TOUCH the
LIVER
Be Sure they are
Carter's
H
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania)
IMPORTANT NOTIG
The Tasmanian Government having imposed a tax of One Penny
on every Five Shilling' Ticket issued by Tattersall s on and after Ist
January, 19D3, clients will please forward Id. extra for each ss.
ticket applied for, or <£d. for every jfil, and so on.
i
Subscribers will please note that GEORGE ADAMS ( I All EItSALL ) BULL
CONTINUES his business in HOBART, under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN
GOVERNMENT, and that clients can send their subscriptions by letter to any friend or
acquaintance in HOBART, who will there have no difficulty in delivering the application and
securing the despatch of tickets and results direct to clients.
- PEIWCE OF WALES STAKES, Randwick, N.S W., June 3, 50,003 at 5/1.
GRAND NATIONAL HURDLE RACE, Flemington, Vic, July 4, 100,000 at 5/1.
ADELAIDE GRAND NATIONAL HURDLE, Victoria Park, SA., August 8, 25,000 at 5/1
Money can also bo paid through any Bank in Australasia, to the credit of G hORGB
ADAMS, Commercial Bank of Tasmania, liobai't. Clients when so doing Will please
Bank to advise GEORGE ADAMS of amount, with their name and full address.
Small Parcels addressed to me can be forwarded to Hobart through any PARCEL
DELIVER V CO. doing business with Tasmania.


03
yer:
“ We are old friends, this bottle and
I. We have known each other for over
sixty years. When a boy I was always
taking cold, but a few doses of this
medicine would at once set me right.
“ When a young man I had a weak
throat and weak lungs. My friends
feared some lung trouble, but
Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral
greatly strengthened my throat, cleared
up my voice, and took away the ten-
dency for every cold to go to my lungs.
“ Last year I had a bad attack of la
grippe. The only medicine I took was
from this bottle, and I came out all
right. I know it’s good, too, for
asthma, bronchitis, pneumonia,croup.”
There are many substitutes and imi-
tations. Beware of them! Be sure
you get Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral.
Two sizes. Large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
W. H.Wigzell.
FRINGES : Best Natural Curly
Hair, 3/6, 5 6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each.
TAILS and PLAITS : 20in. long,
5/6 ; extra thick, 7/6; 24in., 10/6;
extra thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings worked up,
2/6 per oz. Don’t be misled.
Our Plaits and Tails are twice as
thick as sold elsewhere at the
same price. Send color of Hair.
Only one address : 110 WILLIAM*
ST.', cor. of Palmer St. SYDNEY.
Cable trams will stop at door. All work guaranteed.
Illustrated Catalogue post free. Prompt attention given
to country orders. Wigs made on shortest notice. All
Hairwork sent to the other States free of duty. Transfor-
mations, entire covering for the head, 30/- each.
FREE TO ALL!
Amateur
Photographic
Competition
Over £7O in PrizeSa
Entries Close June 30, 1903.
Full Particulars on application to all Photo-
graphic Dealers, or of
KODAK LIMITED,
284 Collins St., Melbourne.
S€HP OS
YOUR PHOTO6RAPH.
JF you send a Photograph of yourself (or frien
Mr. Mark Blow, Crown Studios, Sydney,
he will reproduce from it a very beautiful and
Artistically Finished
Permanent Enlargement
In Black and White, equalling a rich Steel Plate
Engraving, handsomely mounted on an Indian-tinted
Plate, sunk mount, and as good in every way as Enlarge-
ments now being supplied at from 30/- to 50/- each, and
will carefully pack it and send it Carriage Paid to any
address in Australia, Tasmania, or New Zealand for 10,6.
Your Photo. Returned with Order.
*
Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Produetr.
(Japillarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, 10a. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
The Rttuit.
CRAIG &. AIT KEN. N.S.W. Barber’s Supply
House. 080-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDMEY.
The representative book of Australian humor-
STEELE RUDD’S
“On Our Selection/'
o&mrak
$
MOSS
The besr remedy-
INFLUENZA, *
coughs;.
COLDS,
_ BRONCHITIS.
ASTHMA.
Ask for Bann ing ton’s
and seethatyou get it.
Commercial
Bugrgy,
£l4- 109.
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-sb.,
SYDNEY.
£2T Send for a
Catalogue.
Went Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE t«
buyers of Light Vehicles,
The Best and Cheapest,
H. HILLIER, i3o Sussex St., Sydney
Straight Shaft 3-Spring Sulkies, £8 10s.
Sarven Sulky Wheels Tyred, £2 4s 6d pair.
Discount to Wholesale Buyers. Send for Catalogue.
21/-
Wi.
21/-
MOST MARVELLOUS VALUE
A SOLID SILVER KEYLESS
Hunting Watch*
Heavy Case, Sound Movement,
Perfect Timekeeper. ....
GUARANTEED FOR TWO YEARS.
21 1-
Posted Duty Free to any part of Australia.
Send for my Hew Illustrated Catalogue.
QUEENSLAND LEADING JEWELLER
H. F. SMITH
Queen Street, Brisbane
and at IPSWICH and TOOWOOMBA.
Most makes of .22 caliber cartridges are as variable as some
men’s watches. Cartridges out of the same box won’t
shoot alike. Some go high, some go low and some don’t
go at all. This is not true of
WINCHESTER
.22 Short and .22 Long Cartridges.
They shoot well all the time, and shoot just where you hold.
Special powder made according to carefully determined and
tested formulas is used in loading Winchester Cartridges
and every bullet is swaged by special machinery which
makes them uniform in size, weight and density. This
modern method of manufacture coupled with a rigid sys-
tem of tests makes Winchester Cartridges better than any
other brand on the market. A trial will convince you.
W B .... W | NCH RSTRP GOODS.
M‘LEAN BROS. & RIGG, Ltd.
ELIZABETH STREET, HELBOURNE.
mv vro.T uivh cioo-o
c/i
All Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it 19
Thin TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATUR ALINE.
m- For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
Washington H. Soul & Co.,
Pit>t-3treet, Sydney.
CONSULT HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR*
Rold bv all Chemists, and by WATKINS & MAOKAY, Chemists, Queen Street, Brisbane ; Mr. GORDON, 92 George
DU 1 Street, Rockhampton, Queensland, and
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Coilins-street, MELBOURNE
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
“X’O DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES **• Btd B r ls OvIy SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, Sea.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Too Late.
Where soft wreaths of mist are curling
Round by rail and ruined stone—
Where wild gusts of Night are whirling
Brown leaves, scattered wide and blown
O’er the graves of silent sleepers,
Kneeling weary and alone ;
Hating now with Hate’s own essence,
Wedding ring and binding vow ;
Loathing, too, his very presence, .
Bound with gilded fetters now ;
Thro’ the elm tree and the cypress,
Loud the breezes sob and sough.
Oh ! to clasp your hand, my true love,
Just a long look at your face !
There is neither old nor new love
That could ever take your place,
Tho’ your voice is hushed for ever
And the grass grows o’er your face.
Many seasons, many changes
Rise and gather, fade and fall;
But my heart ne’er roams or ranges
From the truest love of all,
Tho’ the years have bound me closely
Prisoned in a hateful thrall.
Only here in God’s Own Acre
Where the silent sleepers rest,
I may pray to God, my Maker,
In the regions of the Blest,
To forgive my sins and follies
While the moon sinks in the west.
And before the gray of morning,
Just to set my spirit free
From all weariness and scorning,
And, throughout Eternity,
Just to dream the old dream over,
As in days of used-to-be.
Where the wreaths of mist are curling,
Where the silent sleepers lie,
Where the wild night winds are whirling
’Neath the dripping winter sky,
In the close of God’s Own Acre
Maybe He will hear my cry.
via.
KATHLEEN WALKER.
The Question of Beer.
Within a city’s workhouse walls
(This happened but the yester-year),
The Council gathered to discuss
The paupers’ right to Christmas beer.
“ ’Twere well,” a kindly pagan said,
“That pauper faces, pinched and pale,
Should glow for once this Christmas Day
Beneath the charm of English ale.”
“It were a cursed thing,” quoth one
(A follower of the Man Divine,
Who sat at Galilean feasts
And changed their water into wine !)
“ ’Twas cursed drink that brought them here,
And some at least will spurn your gift.
Well, let the paupers’ votes decide.
Some will, at least, no hand uplift.”
Within the hall the paupers sab
Bleak-faced, in rusty suits of grey :
“ Now, hands on high ! all you who claim
A mug of beer on Christmas Day.”
One hundred paupers thronged the hall,
And ninety-eight at his command
Raised piping cheers and withered arms;
Two lifted neither voice nor hand.
“Oh, noble twain ! ” the cleric cried —
“ Oh, heroes, like the Noble Three,
Who moved unharmed through heathen flames
Nor bent to pagan god the knee.
“ In every church your names shall sound,
And Christian papers spread your fame.”
“Please, sirs,” a wondering grandsire cried,
“Poor Bill and Jakes, they ain’t to blame.
“ Don’t chaff ’em, for they feel it sore
(Though like us joyful and surprised)
To think they can’t show ’ow they feel,
Poor chaps, through being paralysed ! ”
N.S.W.
CONSTANCE CLYDE.
The Dry Sea.
When the roll-call of Jehovah sounds along the
farthest shore,
And the ebbing seas shall gather by the coast line
never more,
There’s a sea to south, far inland, with no waters
in its bed,
Bound with rock and swept with sand-storins —
it shall give up many dead.
There the sons of God lie sleeping—some c f
Ishmael’s stock that strayed—
Hawkers, swagnun, shearers, drovers, by thePiy
Sea’s shore are laid ;
Bronzed and bearded, tanned like Arabs, droving
down the dusty plains,
Driving cattle to the market, riding homeward
with their gains.
Teamsters toiling up the roadways—men and
horses red as rust;
Wheels and bed and axles covered with the
“Never Never” dust.
Chaff and beer, and goods bound outward—great
red bales of wool bound in ;
Flies and dust and heat and curses (no one thinks
the cursing sin).
Long, dry stretches ’tween the campings, panting
horse and thirsty kine,
For the bores and tanks lie sparsely out beyond
the Border-line.
Only they can know who live it—may their souls
find rest with Thee
When their spectres leave off watching by Aus-
tralia’s Dead Dry Sea.
N.B. W.
J. RUGBY.


QWINQ TO INCREASED DEMAND FOR THE
HIGHEST CLASS OF SCOTCH WHISKY
. THE PROPRIETORS ARE NOW PLACING! ON THIS MARKET THEIR
’ “EXTRA SPECIAL" QUALITY
FOUR BED CROWN WHISKY,
OLD AND MELLOW, -
the same as supplied under ROYAL WARRANT, and sold largely in Great Britain.
IN BULK AND BOTTLE.
From all Hotels and Spirit Merchants.
Wholesale Agent, NORMAN SHELLEY, YORS STREET, SYDNEY.
No Heart. No Energy,
Tortured for a Year.
Weakness and Weariness Replaced by
Health and Vigour.
The Case of Mr. H TREMAIN.
(by oub ekporter).
Australians are neither short-sighted nor
reckless, and they always think it well to
brush aside irresponsible rumour and gossip
and to enquire without prejudice into the
history of the affair in question. Hearing
that investigation was courted on a certain
matter, a reporter called on Mr. Richard
Tremain, of No. 131 Macquarie-street
South, Surry Hills, who answered a question
by saying :
“ When I was living in the northern
district of New South Wales, about five
years ago, my health appeared to be drift-
ing away. I felt that I had neither the
heart nor the energy to do my work, and
the gloom and depression which hung over
me took every pleasant thought out of my
mind. Nearly all day I felt as if I wanted
to be lying down, the drowsiness which
affected me being quite overpouring. It is
awful to have work to do and not have the
necessary vitality to get it out of the way,
and that is exactly what was the matter
with me/ "breams at night whenever I
slept took away all the refreihing influence
which rest generally produces, and when I
left my bed in the mornings it was with a
feeling of being utterly exhausted and worn
out, while my limbs ached to an extent
which was almost unbearable. It was
absurd to think of eating any breakfast, for
as soon as I sat down my stomach revolted
at the smell of the food, and I often got up
without touching it. The nasty taste in
my mouth had something to do with this,
I believe, because later in the day it was
not quite so bad, and then I sometimes ate
a little, but I even felt worse after taking
nourishment than if I had let it alone.”
“ That is remarkable,” asserted the man
with the note-book.
“Not at all, under the circumstances,”
was Mr. Tremain’s reply. “You see, the
trouble was that I could not digest what I
had eaten, and the suffering of pain was
only what was to be expected. I felt it
very much just a little below my neck,
where the shoulder-blades are situated, and
the stomach became distended with gases
which seemed to rise to my chest and
prevent my breath from escaping freely. I
could hardly move myself about for the
terrible aches in my loins, and if I stooped
for any purpose my head became quite
giddy. The wretched headaches which dis-
tressed me seemed to produce a feeling
ibout my eyes as if they had swollen, and
my nervous system was altogether run
down. It was the wretched condition of
my nerves which made my life a misery, for
[ became afflicted with the maddening pains
of neuralgia, from which I suffered for
twelve solid months. I was nearly dis-
tracted with it, and as I now got less sleep
than ever I gradually wore away to a com-
parative shadow, and with scarcely an ounce
ttf strength in my body. From eleven stone
add I came down to nine stone, so that will
tell you how greatly reduced I was. It was
»nly natural that such an alarming state of
iffairs should prey upon my mind, but,
thank goodness ! when everything looked as
ttlack as could be, a happy thought sud-
denly came to my mind. ‘ I will try some
Elements Tonic,’ 1 said to myself.”
“ Why was Clements Tonic suggested to
gour mind ? ”
“ Because people coming to my store had
10 frequently spoken in praise of it, and I
thought when so many folks agreed on the
tame subject there must be truth in what
they said.' And what a blessing it was that
remembered their conversations, for I can
honestly state that several bottles of
Clements Tonic thoroughly cured the
neuralgia which had tortured me for a year,
and I knew that I was now towed to safety
bo far as my digestive organs were con-
cerned, as the systems of indigestion soon
began to leave me. To feel a sense of ease
after my meals was a treat which I enjoyed
through Clements Tonic removing the dis-
comforts arising from flatulence, and I was
glad to get rid of the nasty bilious taste of
a morning, for I could now ett heartily of
anything that was put before me After
experiencing weeks and weeks of sleepless-
ness you can understand how grateful I was
to find that the taking of Clements Tonic
meant plenty of sound rest every night, the
mornings bringing feelings of content and
animation, which had deserted me for many
months. I made up my mind not to part
company with Clements Tonic so long as
there was anything for-it to do, and a final
obliteration of all my aches and discomforts
resulted. Indeed, it was a complete release
from painful captivity brought about solely
by Clements Tonic, which also toned and
strengthened my system so well that all
nervousness vanished. Before this I had
been treated by a doctor, and had also
bought various medicines from chemists,
but I did not get the slightest relief from
any of these physics, the only one to wh'ch
I am indebted being Clements Tonic, which
was a perfect success, as it went to all parts
of my body and left health ani vigour
where weakness and weariness had dwelt so
long. What I have already told you is
something which the most ungrateful mortal
in the world would be thankful for ; but
there is part of my experience which you
have not yet heard.”
“ I would like very much to hear it, if
you do not mind,” interrupted the reporter.
“ Well, this is it: From the time that I
was sixteen years of-age I was subject to
rhe imatism. It had me crippled so much
that I could not get out of bed, and for
three years I was almost helpless, although
I had some of the best doctors in the city
attending me. This will help you to form
an idea of the great pressure that had been
placed on my constitution previous to my
taking Clements Tonic, and I think that
medicine is entitled to all the more credit
for making me as sound as lam to-day. It
was when I was taking Clements Tonic for
my other ailments that I discovered its in-
trinsic value as ai remedy for rheumatic
pains, for, as I said before, it found its way
to all parts of my body and gave me relief,
and as this came after trying all sorts of
medicines to no purpose, it is easy to under-
stand why I regard Clements Tonic as the
most effective physic. Mine was a com-
plication of complaints of a most obstinate
and distressing character, and as Clements
Tonic proved itself to be master of them all
I think I would be doing a wrong to the
public if I did not place my experience on
record, so that anybody in a similar position
can act as he thinks fit. In any case, these
facts may prove serviceable to many
sufferers, so you may publish them in any
way you like.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Richard Tremain, of 131 Macquarie-street
South, Surry Hills, Sydney, in the State of New
South Wales, Commonwealth of Australia, do
solemnly and sincerely declare that I have carefully
read th* mnexed document, consisting of five folios,
and executively numbered from one to five, and
that it contains and is a true and faithful account of
my illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and algo
contains my full permission to publish in anyway
my st dements -which I give voluntarily, without
receiving any payment ; and I make this solemn
declaration conscientiously believing the same to be
true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths
Aot. 1900.
'uid
Subscribed and declared at Sydney, this fourteenth
day of April, one thousand nine hundred and tws,
bofore me,
P. J. BRENNAN, J.P.
Second -
Edition.
USHEftAN and BUCCANEER:
Harry Morant
His 'Ventures,
and Verses.
Price 1/1 Frtt V By FRANK RRNAR, Dtnlop & Co„ Sydney
FOR THE BUSH WoRKKB
jJrh/n -jB t/Jr
QZ32250T
A SOOTHING BALM and EMBROCATION. Will be found
a CERTAIN CURE for Cuts, Burns, Boils, Barcoo,
Eczema, Sprains, Ringworm, Sore Feet, Piles all
forms of Skin Disease or Muscular Affections, etc.
From all Chemists, 1/0 per Tin. A FREE SAMPLE will
be sent you. Address the
ZAM-BUK CO., 39 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Enclose Penny Stamp for postage, and mention this paper.
JJOTICE TO MffICBOURNB VISITORS,,
WIM POLE'S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 10US.
Hr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OP TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered tor
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
& Cameron’s Pens
“ They come as a boon and a blessing: to men.
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen."
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEN made by Maeniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
separately examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS. -»Q|
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.,
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAM
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
E PPS’S
GRATEFUL-COMFORTINCk
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUFPEK.
DEBILITATED
TSTEAK, NERVOUS SUFFERER. Let us sertd you a
vv trial course of our CONCENTRATED BOTANIC
REMEDIES FREE OF CHARGE. You will be more
than pleased with the result, and you will show your
appreciation of our valuable treatment by persevering
in its use for a few weeks until you are PERMANENTLY
CURED. Address—
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Vlotoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
DRUNKumh
Absolutely Conquered In 20 Days.
my proposition to the Government,
November Bth, 1901, wherein I agree to
accept 100 Test Cases,, and prove that my
Vegetable Cure for Alcoholism is a positive
and reliable remedy Home treatment
Within the reach of all. No restrictions, no
hypodermic injections. Full particulars free,
W. LANGSTON, M R.c.s.. Eng.,
129 Colllns-st., Me bourne.
RUPTURE
CURED
withMt
operation or pain,
Throw away
no detention from work, or depend-
ence upon Trusses. The only
humane treatment. Hundreds
cured. Write to-day for illustrated
Treatise No. 10. Address:
1 SURGEON LANGSTON,
M.R.C ENG.,
129 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
RESCUED from DRINK
By a new discovery, odorless
and tasteless, which any lady
can give in tea, coffee or food.
It does its work so silently and
surely that while the devoted
wife, sister or daughter looks on
the drunkard is reclaimed even
against his will and without his
knowledge or co-operation.
Miss Edith WILLIAMS, who
cured her father after years of
misery, wretchedness and almost
unbearable suffering, says :—“ I
Shall be so glad if you publish my
experience, for it will reach
many others and let th~m know
about the wonderful EUCItA 6Y.
I will do all I can to help any
suffering sister who will write me.” Send name and
address to THE
Eucrasy Co., 62 Hunter-st., Sydney,
and they will send yon Booklet and particulars FREE.
fHx
The Australian Sailorman’s Book—•
E. J. BRADY’S
"Che Ways ef many maters.”
A rattling collection of Sea Chanties, Price
Bs. Sd. post free from Thb Bulletin offlee,
largest sale of any dentifrice
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
Tooth Powder.
cleansing the teeth and is^ShSbS'S^
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng,
MORRIS'S
IMPERIAL
°ihtmeht
-
CURES
TOOTH-ACHE
CURED INSTANTLY BY
BUNTER’S
Prevents Decay, Saves
Extraction. Sleepless Nights
i 'e■ented.
Neuralgic Head aches it all Nerve
Pains removed by BUNTER’S
NERVINE. Of all Stores.
NERVINE
"As a specific for Tooth ache it has no equal. I hare
uned It successfully for yearB."-Prof. W. Wilson, MU.
The BEST FAMILY MEDICINE
KAYE’S WORSDEIL’S PILLS
Are & certain Cure for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dyspepsia, Constipation, Liver and Kidney Complaints, Sc
Of all Stores.
Rupture
Free Cure.
Wonderful Home Treatment That Cures
Without Pain or Loss of Time.
Dr. W. S. Rice (Dept. 268), 8 & 9, Stonecuttei
Street, London, E.C., has invented a method that
'cures rupture -without pain, danger, operation, oi
an hour’s loss of time from the day’s work. T*
avoid all questions of doubt, he sends free to ever
e
MR. JOHN WESLEY.
sufferer a free trial of his method, and there can be
no earthly reason why anyone, rich or poor, should
not avail themselves of this generous offer, Af an
instance of this remarkable method, the core oi
Mr. John Wesley, Castle Lachlan, Inverary. Argyle,
is a welcome intelligence. Mr. Wesley is a well
preserved and highly respected gentleman, 72 years
of age. After a short use of the Rice method tne
rupture healed entirely. To-day he’s sound as
a bell. If you know anyone ruptured you should
itell them of this wonderful method, which wui
ibe sent for trial free of all costs.
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every purchaser
of our
JSLKCTJiIO
KELTS and
A EKIjIANCBS
a trial of 30 days below
payment, which is M
explained in our Ebro>
TltlC ERA.” Our Electrifl
Belts will cure all Mhtt-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore
wearer to robust healtn.
Our Marvellous Eleotrio
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer throJ„b
all the weak part.
Remember, we give »
written guarantee w
written k ua,i - ifc
each Electric Belt that it
ill permanently cure you. If it mean exactly
omptly return the full amount paid. .
hat we say, and do precisely what we p ■ sen( j
NOTICE.-Before purchasing, we prefer t y
r our Electric Era and Price List otß SEXES,
ustrations of different appliances sceptical
so Testimony which will convince the most scei
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY
ALL CHEMISTS
£
s
3/6 rj ER BOX
AT
FOR
Anemia,
Poverty of Blood
and Weakness
from Whatever Cause^


SPECIALISE in but one direction, t.«.,
YV EQUIPMENT OF OFFICES
on an UP-TO-DATE SYSTEM
No Business can
succeed without
METHOD.
This METHOD
■ we supply-
WABASH
EXPANSION
Busnsss
Systems,
letter Flies.
Document Files
Card Index
Systems
For all
Businesses.
Write for
Catalogue.
the
jMggjgg;
WOOLLEY, BERGIN & CO.,
269 George St., Sydney.
Sole Agents, Australasia.
AMERICAN SCHOOL OP COERES-
PONDENCE, POST OFFICE BOX.
629. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Please send me Catalogue and par-
ticulars of the Technical Education
you give for the position, before which
I have marked X.
Electrical Engineer
Mechanical Engineer
Steam Engineer
Marine Engineer
Civil Engineer
Mining Engineer
Sanitary Engineer
Surveyor
Architect
Draftsman
Textile Designer
Carpenter
Builder
Plumber
Gas-Fitter
Navigator
Chemist and Dyer
Telephone Engineer
Name
Street and No.
City or Town
FREE BOOK ON
MAGNETIC HEALING
Reader, why not be able to use the most mysterious
and powerful force of nature? By my method you can
learn to Hypnotise in a few hours’ time. You can per-
form all the many marvellous feats that are possible to
the Hypnotist. Through Hypnotism you can cure dis-
ease, conquer pain, gratify your ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs you nothing to find
out all about it. I have issued in book form a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or KEY to HYPNOTISM, which fully
explains the mysteries and secrets of the Art. It con-
tains beautiful and artistic engravings, and is the most
elaborate and extensive thing of the kind ever published.
For a short time I will send this magnificent book FREE,
on receipt of two stamps to cover postage. Order to-day
and learn to Hypnotise. It is a chance of a lifetime.
ADDRESS :
PROF. R. H BARRADEN,
89 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.3.W.
II
you
are
: suffering from
'exhaustion, Vari-
cocele, Wasting,
Weakness, enclose 6 stamps (postage and
packing), and I will send a trial bottle of my
REMEDY, FREE.
IT COSTS YOU NOTHING
to try my Life Syrup Remedies, which
give back strength of body and brain, renewed
vigor, and development of the vital organs;
not a free prescription dodge, but a trial of
my wonderful remedy free for the asking.
PROFESSOR H. READ,
165 Collins str:et, Melbourne.
MEN
Charcoal
THE ROAD
TO HEALTH IS
PAVED WITH
GOOD
DIGESTION.
Speedily cures Acidity. Flatulence, Heartburn,
Impure Breath, Indigestion, Diarrnooa, &c. It
destroys all disease germs, and,absorbing all impuri-
ties in the stomach and bowels,gives a healthy tone
to the whole system. Wards off all attacks of Typhoid
and other Fevers. Prevents many an illness.
BRAGG’S PURE CHARCOAL POWDER in
Bottles; LOZENGES and BISCUITS in Tins
'pleasant to take). Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
Having had comulaints of the injury done by other
preparations,please see that each Bottle orTin bears
the Trade Mark ‘J.L. 8., in monogram,' on the wrapper.
OF INTEREST to MEN
TvEAR SIR,—I have “been cured of weakness and De-
bijit.v by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. J
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to
Mr. ROBERT E. PARKHURST,
Pitt street, Sydney.
PHOTOS
Models from Life, Beautiful Stereo-
scopies, etc. List with 100 Minia-
ture and 3 Cabinet size photos.,
58., P. 0.0. or stamps.
S. REOKNACEL NACHF, Munich, 1 Brieffach, Cermany
THE BALLE^GIRL
H?r Theatricil and j
Domestic History.
Post Fras, 1s
The Life, Adventures
and Confesssions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Past Free, is.
; & ]
ibid stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and yoveltie.-
Madame Panza,
■OX 913, Q.P.0., SYDNEY.
WILD WITH ECZEMA
And Other Itching, Burning,
scaly Eruptions with
Loss of Hair.
Speedy Cure Treatment.
Bathe the affected parts with Hot Water and Cuticura Soap, to
cleanse the surface of crusts and scales, and soften the thickened
cuticle. Dry, without hard rubbing, and apply Cuticura Ointment
freely, to allay Itching, irritation, and inflammation, and soothe and
heal, and lastly take Cuticura Resolvent Pills, to cool and cleanse the
blood. A single set is often sufficient to cure the most torturing, dis-
figuring, itching, burning, scaly, pimply humours, eczemas, rashes,
Irritations, and chafings, with loss of hair, when all else fails.
The agonizing itching and burning of the skin, as in eczema; the fright-
ful scaling, as in psoriasis; the loss of hair and crusting of the-scalp, as in
scalled head; the facial disfigurement, as in pimples and ringworm; the
awful suffering of infants and the anxiety of worn-out parents, as in milk
crust, tetter, and salt rheum, all demand a remedy of almost superhuman
virtues to successfully cope with them. Such are the Cuticura remedies,
the purest, sweetest, most speedy and economical curatives for the skin,,
scalp, and blood ever compounded. Mothers are their warmest friends.
Millionsof Women UseCuticura Soap
Assisted by Cuticura Ointment for preserving, purifying, and beautify-
ing the skin, for cleansing the scalp of crusts, scales, and dandruff, and the
stopping of falling hair, for softening, whitening, and soothing red, rough,
and sore hands, for baby rashes and chafings, in the form of baths for
annoying irritations and inflammations of women, or too free or offensive
perspiration, in the form of washes for ulcerative weaknesses, and many
sanative, antiseptic purposes which readily suggest themselves, as well as
for all the purposes of the toilet, bath, and nursery.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT PILLS
(Chocolate Coated) are a new, tasteless,
odourless, economical substitute tor the cele-
brated liquid Cuticura Resolvent, as well as for all other blood purifiers and humour
cures. Put up in screw-cap pocket vials, containing 60 doses.
Cuticura Remedies are sold throughout the world. Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co., Sydney. British
Depot: 27-28, Charterhouse Sq., London. French Depot: 5 Rue de la Paix, Paris. Potter Drug and Chem.
Corp., Sole Props.. Boston. U. S. A.
ARE YOU WEAK ?
Low-spirited, Tired of Life, Have you utterly
failed in your efforts to regain Health?
Go to the Fountain Head
And consult Old Surgeon Langston, who will Cure
you. Forty years’ practice as a Specialist is sufficient
Guarantee o I the doctor’s ability.
AVOID unskilled pretenders, flaming advertisements and specious
ture-alls.
Vigor and Strength
for all who
dosire it.
OLD SURGEON LANGSTON,
Member Royal College of Surgeons, England, located in Melbourne
since 1886, has so perfected his method of treatment that it can
almost be said there are no hopeless or incurable cases.
Be the equal of your fellow man.
If you are a sufferer from any nervous, chronic Blood or Skin diseases, or interested in the subject of
Neurasthenia and associated evils, write at once for book of information, blank forms, etc., and have the
old doctor diagnose your case.
See,lt tlio Trutla, it coats TJotliing!
All communications strictly confidential. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, 129 Collins Street, Melbourne.
HOME CYCLOPEDia
BMBRACIHS
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.’*
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questihns that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1902 editionjust arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy ; is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d.
Dr.'Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 8s 6d posted.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d.
How to Become a ventriloquist, post free Is.
Ti(e Art op Wrestling, post Is. Hoyle’s Games, post 2/6
Love and Parentage, 8d posted. ■'
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.). Is 3d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, Is posted. Camille, Is 3d.
Secret History of the Court of England, 1 6 post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history), Is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free.
How to Read Hbads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d ported.
Chkvassk’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted. Sapfho, Is.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want.
The Wife’s Handbook, Is 2d posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post.
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus. Leather bound, my price, 15s post paid
Complete Farrier and.'Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore's Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic,
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is 3d.
Voltaire’s Romances, -2s posted.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music comple e Is 6d.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6(1.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d posted.
Send for my Illustrated Big Book
Catalogue - post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney.
ASTHMA and BRONCHITIS CURED
By using CASE’S ASTHMA CURE, made from the Queensland Asthma
Plant. Relieves instantly, eventually Cutes. 4a. 6d. large bottle;
Pos ed to any State, ss.
J. W. CASE, Chemist, 140 Wickham-st., Brisbane.
Please mention Bullbti.n when writing.
_ evctf» ts
,’S
rß °nd
Euca
\# wS
Yv\e^^ Y c
. „ v aV^ Y A cu^ es
Vs atvd roV ds-
caU°^ c atv d C °
Co^g^ S
V&°
,\d
\t*
\taU
otis*
r GOUT v
PILLS.
for GOUT,
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO.
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of *the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.
ASTHMA CUR
GRIAULT'S INDIAN CIGABETTEB
Fop Asthmatic people who sutler trom
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault’s Cigarettes render the respiration
easies, cut short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest. '
GRIMAULT & Co., Paris. Sold by all Chemists.
EVERY WOMAN
is interested and should know
about the wonderful
Marvel Whirling Spray
The new FEMALE SYR4NCE
Injection and Suction. The best,
safest and most convenient.
It Clegnses Instantly.
If your druggist cannot
supply the MARVEL,
accept no other, but write us for
Illustrated Book, gent free
sealed. It gives price by mail,
particulars and directions invalu-
able to ladies. ' Endorsed by Physicians.
Times Building, N. Y.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS-
THE MARVEL CO. OF AUSTRALIA,
CAMDEN BUILDING,
418 George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
LADY SPECIALIST IN ATTENDANCE.
Postal Address, Box 623, G.P.0., Sydney.
Write for Booklet. Sent free, sealed.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by using
£*= RX CORO’s
tssfcttcSofu F e-
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS, DEEILITY,
VARICOCELE, etc.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life affords lelief and permanently
cures all who suffer from wasting and withering of the.
nervous tissues; restores Energy, Strength l and
Vitality to the most weak and shattered constitutions
matter from what cause) and regenerates all the
important elements of the human frame.
Price 128., or four quantities in one, 365. Freight extra,
Is. and Is. 6d. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope. >;
Agents for Australasia —PEBRY & CO., 47 Queen Bt,
Melbourne; iV.N. IK.— Fauldlng & Co., 16 O'Connell,
St., Sydney ; Newcastle, Adelaide and Perth.
0 EAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
I Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
*-ddrm—A. M, NAST, 145 Collim St., Melbourne.


IUIIT
Hennessy’s
Hold the
Largest
Stock
on
Earth
of
Genuine Bottled
Cognac
Brandy.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
mw
II fi
ili
AARON’S
Exchange Hotel Co.,
SYDNEY.
The system of paying for Room only and
Meals as required is adopted here.
£3 3s. per Week
9s. per Day
W. W. AIKEN, Manager,
30 Years in the Establishment.
GEORGE MARE, Secretary.
\frsito*s to the Old Country
SOUTH KENSINGTON
HOTEL
Queen’s < slerre.ce,London,S.'W?
CONSIDERABLY.
ENLARGED—NOTED
FOR ITS COMFORT
&. CONVENIENCE
*****
ONE OF THE
MOST FASHIONABLE
' HOTELS IN
LONDON
n
The.
p
*1
1
f
w
Q
vy
\s
'f
l
E
SI
£ITI
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
SYDNEY
Opposite Union Club and two minutes from
entrance to Domain and Circular Quay,
Tariff, 10s. 6d per day, or apartments may be
secured separately by the day from 3s. and upwards.
Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted on applica
tion to - The Manages.
The KTBW CENTURY RIFLE
15s
Each.
Full Length, 35in. ; Weight, 31b. ; Fires 8.8. Cap, or
22 Long, or 22 Short Rim Fire Cartridge. Takes down
with a single screw. All parts of Best Steel. Per-
fectly: Machined throughout. Accurately sighted and
well Rifled for Perfect Shooting. Will kill at 300yds.
A
Carriage Paid to any railway station in K.S.W. Orders despatched same day.
P.O. Orders payable to
Sydnay Small Arms Co., 57 Post Office. Chambers, Sydney,
AND CROSSED E;S. AND A. BANK.
Full Stock of D.8.8.L. Guns, Rifles, and Revolvers always on hand.
: T. TOMBLESON, Manager.
No Rivals.
The three new “AUSTRAL” Cameras,
built for Australia to order of the
BAKER & ROUSE PROPY., LTD., are
the best and cheapest yet imported.
“ AUSTRAL ” Nos. 1 and 2 are roller films, loaded in
daylight. Pictures 21 x2£ and 3£ x 2£. PRICE, 6s.
and 10s. respectively.
“ AUSTRAL” No. 3 is a 2-plate magazine of great
excellence.
These Cameras are beyond all comparison for strength, finish, and
accuracy of fittings in every detail.
The Baker & Rouse Proprietary Ltd.,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and BRISBANE.
Sydney-
Melbourne
Adelaide.
To Smokers of High Class Mixture.
WILLS S “ VIPiE-RF.GSI, MIXTURE
(Registered,)
Choice Blend of High Class and Carefully Selected TOBACCO.
Packed only in patent air-tight tins.
Manufactured in two strengths-Medium and Full. Price, Is. per 2oz. Tin.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
o. 1214.
SATURDAY, MAY 23, 1903.
Price od.
THE LABOR PROMETHEUS.
“I FEEL AS GAY AS A BIRID’-BENT.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the A astralia as.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK. v
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ...
Half-yearly ... ... 0 0
Quarterly ... ... ••• v / u
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary communications to be addressed to the Editor.
Special Notice.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number, is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknoniedge in the “ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social , or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, 8000 words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is ' specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To A inatenrs in lllaclc and White.
Anyone supplying to Tiie Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e.. any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludjate Circus.
South Africa — Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown;
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal; SoU*~*n
and Wilson, 22 Hout St., Capetown;
Wilson, Commissioners Street, Johannesburg ; Granger
Bros,, Johannesburg ; Isaacs and Co., Durban ; Argus
Printing Co., Rhodesia; Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
Crylox.—Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver.- Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
B.C.
Hong Kong .—Brewer and Co., S 3 Queens Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
TTi^&tdZefztfi.
SATURDAY, MAY 23, 1903.
A Cool, Calm, Strong Equity Lawyer.
Important as was the point at issue in the Vic-
torian railway strike, it will not be able, in future
records, to quite overshadow that legislative
curiosity—the Irvine Strike Bill, which was
one of its by-results. A few years hence
there will probably be no interest taken in Irvine
personally ; the creature of the daily newspapers
—when their breath ceases to buoy him up his
bubble reputation will burst with a hardly notice-
able exhalation. But his Strike Bill will
surely live for ever in the laughter of his country-
men and perhaps, by some chance, his name will
be linked with it, to become a proverb or a new
word in the language :
An m ine : An hysterical, vain fellow, a pinchbeck revo-
lutionary, a man with the instincts but not the ability of
a Jack Cade— said to have originated some years ago
from the crazy proposals of an Australian Labor leader,
who wished to give everybody the power to break the
laws.
It may be accepted as a certainty that, even
with this generation, if Irvine’s name is rescued
at all from oblivion, he will be classed as “ a
Labor member,” because it is now alleged to be —
and probably the slander will survive—the peculiar
prerogative of that party to go off its head. Or
lie may be saved from that, to him, dreadful form
of remembrance by being confused with a promi-
nent personage of the time and survive as
Irvine : A very well-known actor, who had great vogue
in his impersonation of Marat, and in acting that
character used to promulgate some extraordinary legis-
lative edicts.
But, whatever the future ideas of him which will
follow close upon the heels of the discovery
(almost due now) of Irvine as a lath painted to
look like iron—or, if the metaphor may be
stretched, as a drain pipe masquerading as a
pillar of State—this generation has the privilege
of enjoying the humor of the Irvine Strike Bill to
the full, of recognising it, not as the beer-cask
promulgation of some Jack Cade fighting law and
order with his mouth in a back slum, not as the
extravagant satire of a mummer impersonating a
revolutionary, but as the deliberate work of a
responsible Premier—a Conservative Premier, a
man with a newspaper reputation as a “ cool,
calm, strong Equity lawyer.” These are mourn-
ful times, but the Irvine Strike Bill is not
to be denied the tribute of a laugh. There is
something irresistibly ludicrous in the spectacle
of ‘‘the cool, calm, strong Equity lawyer” of
the Torv newspapers playing the part of a richer,
rarer Bent— a Bent who wished to be no
ordinary Caliban, but aspired to smash up laws,
long-inherited customs, great charters and fixed
constitutions.
• * • •
The Irvine Strike Bill began with a clause
(to match which in English history it would be
necessary to grope back to the Middle Ages, when
a great plague had decimated the working popula-
tion) providing 12 months gaol and a fine of £lOO
for any person employed on the railways in any
capacity who left work without giving 14 days’
notice or without gaining the consent of the
Crown. The British Constitution trusts so much
to the good sense of Parliament that it would be
unwise to say, dogmatically, that in the 20th
century the Crown is unable, with the consent of
Parliament, to make it a misdemeanor punish-
able with imprisonment to refuse to work for the
Crown (note that, in the case of the railway em-
ployees, no question arises as to the Masters and
Servants Act), but it is at least extremely doubtful
that that power remains with the Crown, and no
State Governor with any sense of the duties of his
position would assent to such an enactment with-
out a reference to the highest constitutional
authorities. Clause 2 violates the one basic
principle of Common Law by declaring that
a person charged with striking from the railway
service must prove his innocence or be held
guilty; it would be impossible for any
honest court of justice to administer such a clause
in a penal act. So as not to leave a shred of the
British Constitution intact, this cool, calm, strong,
Tory Equity lawyer then proposed in clause 6 of his
Bill—after reciting a list of new crimes—to enact
that bail should be refused to any person commit-
ting any one of 40 offences (mostly harmless
actions made crimes under the Bill). The right
to bail was first established in Magna Charta
(1215), and was afterwards clearly enacted in the
Habeas Corpus Act of Charles 11. (and again
still more fully and for a wider range of events in
an Act of George III.). The clause of the
Charles 11. Habeas Corpus Act is perhaps not
so familiar as to make quotation unnecessary :
That on complaint and request in waiting by or on
behalf of any person committed and charged with any
crime, the Lord Chancellor, or any of the Judges in
vacation, upon viewing a copy of the warrant, or
affidavit that a copy is denied, shall award a habeas
corpus for such prisoner, returnable immediately before
himself, or any other of the Judges ; and upon the
return made shall discharge the party, if bailable, upon
giving security to appear and answer to the accusation in
the proper court of judicature.
The right of an accused person to claim bail, and
the absolute denial of the right of the Crown to
keep him from getting bail—that matter being
left to the unfettered discretion of the Judges—is
an integral part of the British Constitution. The
average schoolboy knows that ; the only person
known to question it in an English-speaking com-
munity for centuries, and to seek to replace it
with a system of lettres de cachet is the cool, calm,
strong Equity lawyer of Victorian politics, on
whose head the daily newspapers so persistently
throw the limelight aureole of Conservative
respect for the law.
• • » *
Having, in the above provisions of his Bill, torn
to tatters the British Constitution, the cool, calm,
strong Equity lawyer raged through the Austra-
lian Constitution, and proposed to leave it in
shreds with the following clause :
7. (1) Every person who prints, publishes, distributes
any notice which appears to have as its object the en-
couragement, maintenance, furtherance, extension, or
continuance of the strike, or the collecting, receiving,
keeping, or distributing of any fund or moneys for any
such object, or containing any insulting or abusive lan-
guage with respect to persons continuing in or accepting
employment in the railway service, shall be guilty of an
offence against this Act. Any such notice or notification
may, without further authority than this Act, be seized
and destroyed by any member of the police force, or by
any person whomsoever.
The Australian Constitution gives to the
Federal Parliament, absolutely and irrevocably,
the control of the Post-office and the control
of inter-State commerce. The Irvine Bill
proposed to authorise the Victorian State
police (or any Melbourne pushite) to pre-
vent the Federal Post-office from distributing
newspapers favoring the cause of strikers,
and subscription lists or cheques in connection
with strike funds. Since the Federal Post-
master - General, in obedience to Australian
law, must distribute through the post any cor-
respondence or newspapers not forbidden by the
Federal Postal Act, Premier Irvine proposed to
make him, and all his officers, liable to 12 months’
gaol for carrying out their Federal duties.
Further, since a newspaper (such as The Bul-
letin, which favored the cause of the strikers) is
a commodity, it is protected by Federal law
whilst in inter-State transit, and for carrying it
from Albury to Melbourne—as they were bound
to carry it by Federal law — Bent and his friends
were made liable to 12 months’ gaol. Yet again,
every person in Victoria, a policeman or a civilian,
was empowered under the Irvine Bill to seize and
destroy any printed matter “ appearing to have
for its object ” the encouragement of the strike or
the monetary relief of the strikers. Thus any
person was given authority to hold up and destroy
the Federal mails, and to destroy goods in transit
protected by the Federal authority.
* * * •
Complete as is the triumph of the Irvine
Strike Bill over the Australian and British
constitutions, its rout of common-sense is even
more thorough. It sought to make it criminal for
a man to leave his State employment for a better
employment ; criminal to use insulting language
to any person who was in the employment of the
Railway Commissioners, who sought to be in their
emp’ oyment, or who had been offered their em-
plo' ..lent, or was striving to get someone to accept
their employment—to such person, his wife or his
children (that his mother-in-law was omitted
shows that Premier Irvine could have been
a little funnier than he was); criminal to be
found, however innocently, in the vicinity of
the house of any employee of Bent ; criminal to
act as a banker for any trades-union or other funjl
for the support of railway strikers (in this casual
way the funds of all trades-unions were prac-
tically sequestrated); criminal to do anything
which might have the effect of encouraging the
railway strike (such, for example, as refusing to
salaam three times and cheer twice when meeting
Thos. Bent, or the cool, calm, Equity lawyer
Irvine). The British Constitution hacked down,
the Australian Constitution smashed, and
common-sense in picturesque ruins, Premier
Irvine seems to have contemplated his anti-
strike law with the calm satisfaction which comes
from viewing a perfected work of art, and brought
it down to the Victorian Assembly with his
usual cool strength (vide the daily newspapers),
and that extraordinary body actually passed
the measure through its second reading with
protests from the Labor members and one
or two others only They, perhaps, being
dull fellows, didn’t see the humor of the situa-
tion. Since then the developments of the railway
strike have probably restored Premier Irvine to
something approaching reason, and now the Bill
is never likely to pass through the Legislature of
bumpkins, and have, by its utter failure, its cool,
calm, strong author more effectively exposed in
his hysteria to the derision of men. If Irvine
were an elderly female, how dangerous a fellow-
passenger in a railway train he would be !
* » * *
But the ludicrousness of the Irvine Bill, how-
ever obtrusive, cannot be allowed to altogether
keep from consideration the serious problem which
.it creates. The measure showed that a Tory
leader of a Tory party—that party which so
clamantly professes its sacred regard for law and
order —was willing, with the enthusiastic support
of his followers and his servile newspapers, .to
trample down every great tradition of law and
every safeguard to order and constituted authority.
The Strike Bill of the Irvine Government out-
raged all principles of human law and Divine
justice. A logical complement of the lawless
action by which a reckless administration forced
on the railway strike, it showed the Tory party
as ready to violate the Constitution and the law,
to destroy the liberty of the press, to deny the
rights of private property, to drive the Supreme
Court from its tribunal and substitute an Irvine
or a Bent, and to establish a Reign of Terror
comparable only with the times of the Trench
Revolution. A party with no respect for the
Constitution, por for the law, nor for individual
liberty, nor for the rights of private property, is a
party which, for the public safety, must be driven
from public life as speedily as possible ; and
newspapers which were prepared to support that
party in such a revolution constitute another
public danger which the Commonwealth must
seriously take into consideration. Premier Irvine
in effect proposed a coup d’etat, a legislative act
which Would have given his Cabinet absolutely
supreme power over the liberty and the property
of all the citizens of Victoria, which would have
enabled him to deal with Parliament as Cromwell
did, and to imprison whom he wished and to con-
fiscate what he wished. That he proposed it m
such a way as to be a farcical instead of a dan-
gerous attack on liberty was because there was a
limitation on his sense and on his legal knowledge
but none on his recklessness. Apparently Premier
Irvine was blankly ignorant of this principle of
British law :
Acts of Parliament that are impossible to be performed
are of no validity ; and if there arise out of them collater-
ally any absurd consequences, manifestly contradictory
to common reason, they are, with regard to those col-
lateral consequences void.
His ignorance, of course, does not lessen the
malignant nature of his purpose. _Nor does the
fact that he was also, presumably, ignorant of the
limitations placed on him by Federal authority
detract anything from the evil of his intentions.
He proposed more than he had power to do ;
but the degree of offence is to be judged
not by the extent of the power but of the
proposal. The Irvine Government is obviously
a danger to the Commonwealth. That it is
stupid as well as lawless has proved so far
some protection against its attacks on th® law.
But the people cannot rely upon its stupidity as a
sure security. There are constitutional means
not yet tested in Australia, but undoubtedly
existent —by which it can be impeached, and if
Australia can still boast of cherishing political
liberty, these should be taken. It is dangerous to
allow the hysterical Irvine to continue in power
until the next Victorian State elections. Men
who have attacked the first principles of the law
should not be allowed to administer the law—even
if their stupidity makes it unlikely that their
attacks will succeed.
Irvine’s Bill.
Acts of Parliament being a species of literature
but little understood by the multitude, Thb
Bulletin considers it advisable to reprint, in
plain, simple language, for purposes of record, the
Bill which the Bent-Irvine Government intro*
duced for the suppression of the Victorian railway
strike. These are the main features of the measure
as it was introduced, with nothing added, but with
much left out for want of space. As regards the
strict accuracy of the translation, the public is
invited to inspect the Bill itself as published in
the morning papers of 14th May :
Clause I. Any person employed by the railways in
any capacity who leaves without giving 14 days’ notice
shall he liable to £lOO fine and 12 months’ imprison-
ment. If he leaves through illness, or because he has the
offer of a better job, or because he feels physically unequal
to the work, he is still liable to £lOO fine and 12 months’
imprisonment, unless the magistrate or J.P. chooses to let
hirp off. If the latter has an objection to him he needn’t
let him off. N.B.—The Commissioner isn’t bound to give
14 days’ notice to the men.
Clause 11. specifies that the Railway Department
doesn’t need to prove the above person guilty, but that
he has to prove himself innocent.
Clause 111. specifier that the railway men who have
gone on strike shall lose the pension or compensation
rights which belong to them by Act of Parliament, and
shall never again be employed on the Vic. railways. It
also specifies that Bent’s Department may dismiss any
or every “loyal" employee— every man who didn’t
strike, but who stood by Bent to the bitter end
and drove his engine for all he was worth— and
thereupon he shall lose his pension, his compensation
money, and all the rights nominally secured to him by
Act of Parliament. The powers of “ sack ” and for-
feiture are made to apply to every employee however
faithful. Under this Bill every “loyal” worker is
made expressly liable to be thrown out penniless
into the cold world and deprived of all the money
privileges and concessions that Irvine and Bent pro-
mised him. Every “ loyal ” person thus sacked is ineli-'
gible for further employment. It particularly appears
that disobedience to any order, however impossible (even
an order to change his religion or shave his head), in-
volves sack and forfeiture of pension.
* • • •
Clauses IV. and V. deal with appointments, and are
comparatively unimportant.
> • • •
Clause VI. provides a large number of things as
follows :
(а) Anybody who threatens or insults any “loyal”
railway employee or any person who has been offered or
has even asked for a job on the railways, no matter if
that person has kicked, cursed, insulted or spat upon
him, is liable to £lOO fine or 12 months in gaol. Any
woman who speaks coarsely over the back fence to the
wife of the employee or possible employee above men-
tioned, because that wife is beating her neighbor’s
child, or is throwing slops into her neighbor's yard, is
liable to £lOO fine and 12 months in gaol. Any “kid”
who quarrels at school over a game of marbles with the
“kid” of the non-union railway man, or the man who
has asked for or been offered a job on the railways, and
calls that “kid” a beast, is liable to £lOO fine and 12
months in gaol.
(б) Anybody who follow's that employee or prospective
employee or applicant about trying to collect a bad debt,
or for any other honest purpose, is liable to £lOO fine and
12 months in gaol.
(c) Anybody who tears that employee or prospective
employee's or applicant’s collar in a scuffle, even in
self-defence, is liable to £lOO fine and 12 months in gaol.
(d) Anybody who “lurks” near the employee’s or
applicant’s house, even if he is only waiting for a
friend, or is a harmless visitor like the Sultan of Johore
or a Japanese naval officer, and doesn’t know there is
a blackleg'within 100 miles, is liable to £lOO fine and 12
months in gaol. If, in the words of the Bill, he even
“ happens to be on the approaches to such house or
place,” he is liable to £lOO fine and 12 months in gaol.
In fact, all the criminals and pushites of Melbourne, by
merely asking for a railway job (even if no one would
dream of giving them one), become above the law, and
get privileges that the King doesn’t possess, and for a
poet, artist, minister, or philanthropist to be found on
the road leading to the house _of the drunkard or burglar
who has once asked Bent for a job makes him a criminal.
(e) Is b over again.
(/) Any person who offers the railway employee or
person who has applied for a job on the railways a
billet is liable to £lOO fine or 12 months in gaoi for
persuading him away from Bent’s Department.
( g ) Any person w’ho interferes with the liberty of a
railway employee, a person who has applied for a
railway billet, or a railway passenger, even if that person
is running off with his money, wife, daughter, u'atch or
dog, is liable to £lOO fine and 12 months in gaol
C h) Any person who takes the railw'ay commissioner’s
handkerchief or throws a stone at the commissioner’s
dirty dog is liable to £lOO fine and 12 months’gaol for
interfering with the property of the commissioners.”
( i ) Anybody who has any strike funds in his possession,
or (k) who does anything which may have the effect of
continuing the strike (who knows what effect „■ ,
act may have?) is liable to £lOO fine P ' e6t
imprisonment. nne and 12 months’
Further, a policeman may charee anvW„ /
anybody he owes money to) with especia,l y
down to and including Aor anvbodv nial ° ffenc( *>
into custody charged with any "of these nifo^ lVe an J , t )0 <iy
person shall then be run in 4£out ' waS VfT
magistrate is not allowed to take h a n 5 and the
charged then goes to gaol for some neriL T ? e person
to await trial. This cfause comes in
who -JJrt. to „,..h hi. n«i e hbort .„« 3
printed irattlr
nutted theft, murder and bigam/ and th! i Com ‘
refers to these matters. The pushmay raid On, .”^ age
Arcade and tear up things generally if hU m Esßook
effectually destroyed Col! can’t prov tha^^l 8
appear to encourage the strike. Cole may be filfS
and imprisoned for 12 months if any book d £lo °
phlet in all his vast stock seems to O nA paperor pam '
All the gutter-snipes and sneak-thieves o^Melh" 1168 '
may apparently invade houses and shops 1 00 W 7
literature which appears to encourage the strike i °. r
master-General Drake, and the whole postal sUff a
possibly the whole Federal Cabinet may be fined a
imprisoned for 12 months because the Federtl^ 1
distribute papers which sympathise with the JS*
Bent may possibly be fined £lOO and imprisoned or d
months for carrying such papers on his trains ' 12
Clause VIII. Any meeting of six or more strike™
sympathisers may be fined £lOO per head and !!
for 12 months. The police may break into an “ho L^t
see if such a meeting is being held there tv.- . to
things shall last till the Government styi?'
at an end, which may be 20 years hence. 6 9tr ke
Thus o are the exact and literal features of the
Bill which the crazy Bent-Irvine Government
introduced. Such a Bill might be passed tha
way, yet not administered quite that wav in
every case, but these are the powers that the
Bent-Irvine Government demanded. It i sa ui v
the measure did not pass in all its outrageous
silliness. In that case, the very first hour that an
attempt was made to put it in force some of the
best legal talent in Australia would have appeared
in the court to apply for an injunction on the
ground of half-a-dozen glaring illegalities, and to
denounce Equity barrister Irvine as a man who
apparently, knew less law than a Jew solicitor’s
office-boy. And then even the Victorian Parlia-
ment would have found that there are some things
it cannot do—the legalising of riot, robbery and
destruction of property being among them! As
for the vice-regal person who assented to the Bill
—if any vice-regal person could be so foolish—it
is practically certain that his career as a vice-
regal person would end shortly afterwards, and
his official sun would set permanently.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Irvine’s Other Bill.
The craven Victorian Parliament might as well
££ & ft KSS
Q ne: —
whereas a large number of persons are possessed of
votes within the State of Victoria; and whereas such
persons have liberty to exercise such votes as their judg-
menf may direct; and whereas, by conspiring together,
disaffected persons may put Irvine and Bent out of
office ; and whereas it is accordingly desirable to restrict
such liberty of the electors. Be it enacted, &c.-
(1) Every person possessed of a vote within theSute
0 f Victoria who, without the approval of the Government
of Victoria, shall vote for anybody but Irvine and Bent,
or such person as they may nominate, shall be deemed to
have committed an offence against this Act.
(2) Every person shall be deemed to have committed
an offence against this Act, and shall, if called upon, be
required to prove his innocence, and Irvine and Bent
shall not be required to prove anything. Every person
who cannot prove his innocence to the satisfaction of
some person appointed by Irvine and Bent shall be liable
to a penalty of £lOO and 12 months’ gaol,
(3) Every person who has not voted for Irvine and
Bent, and has thereby incurred Irvine and Bent’s dis-
pleasure, and every person who, when called upon here-
after, shall refrain from voting for Irvine and Bent, shall
be for ever disfranchised.
(4) Any person who shall have yelled “ No Surrender,’
or otherwise encouraged Irvine and Bent, may be re-
warded with any number of votes in the discretion of
Irvine and Bent.
(5) Any such person may be otherwise rewarded as
Irvine and Bent may determine,
(6) Every person shall be guilty of an offence against
this Act if he (a) refuses to pay proper respect to every
person who has voted for Irvine and Bent, and his wife
and his family ; or (6) wilfully remains in the same street,
or railway carriage, or tram car with them ; or (c) makes
any suggestion to any other person that liberty has gone
out of the land ; or (d) does any thing or act against the
interests of Irvine and Bent, and on behalf of the
liberty of the elector; (e) does any thing or act with
the object, or which might have the effect, of restoring
the liberty of the elector. For any of these offences any
person may be arrested without any warrant, at the dis-
cretion of any person appointed by Irvine and Bent,
and no such person so arrested shall be released on bail,
and every such person shall be dealt with as guilty until
he shall prove his innocence to the satisfaction of some
persoi appointed by Irvine and Bent.
* (7) shall be permitted to print anything
unless it te in support of Irvine and Bent and of the
restriction or destruction of liberty. Any book, or paper,
or other document of any other character may be seize
and destroyed by any person whomsoever, and it snai
not be necessary 7 for any such person to have any uarran
whatever for such action. _ .. .
(8) Every gathering of six or more persons at
anything is said that is not in support of Irvine ana •
and of the destruction of liberty shall be an un
meeting, and every person present at such meeting
be guilty of an offence under this Act; and any pe >
headed by one appointed for that anti other sunu p
poses by Irvine and Bent, may fire upon such a m F
whether Irvine and Bent or liberty have been men
or not; and any person appointed for that an
purposes by Irvine and Bent shall have tne rt
enter and remain in any private house where,
presence of his wife and four children, any person my
suspected of an intention of saying anything msresp
ful of Irvine and Bent, or in defence of liberty, an
disperse such meeting with gunshot or otherwise.
This Act shall continue in force so long as 1R
Bent darn well please.
♦
“ Puir Creature.”
Aus T R ALIAN Premier Barton comes out of the
lAry rl ™. u as a “uuir
critical events of this month showing y.
creature.” By violating a principle ot tne
tration law which is in force already in some
the States and which the Commonwealth has
nnolinPP d’its intention of enforcing within its
announced its inten f l ] £rp an( j bluster,
borders, and by much brutal la g strike
Bent and Irvine had forced on a ran y t 0
in Victoria. The mails were held up, mte ‘
trade interrupted, much misery caused, it
dutv nf Premier BARTON to interfere ami
• • t , neioeful settlement by arbitration,
lnsl ® t ° n , a P eacetul ,ml«w Be.VT and
as he had the power to do, if * d for
Irvine were prepared to carry their ~,1
the law to the point of insurrection against *
authority. Premier Barton did nothing.
r-ontinuine- his caniDaign against law and orach
, Slate Legislature a Bi«.
then introduced to Ins ota b , ou t r ages
which professed to legalise numo * L iV tf
on the Federal Constitution, on the'^ o[U n, nr o\’s
and on Common Sense. It was Mr. D* ’
business as the Premier of all Australia, to ■
.mWI ’ with a sharn sentence of warning, in,
p -“PP ed ; w ‘ t . h a • T -to have said a woid
outbreak of hysterical rabies , Parliament
or two to protect an Australian state a , j eig
from being led into such extravagant anu


folly Mr. Barton did nothing. Mr. Barton’s
capacity for doing nothing has developed to such
an extent as to make him an impossible leader of
the Australian Parliament. The Commonwealth
will welcome his transference to some more con-
templative sphere of effort.
The “Evening News” as the Worker’s
Friend.
As soon as the Victorian railway strike seemed to
be over, the Tory papers which cursed the workers
by bell, book and candle, begin to hedge a little—
presumably with a view to the workers’ pennies.
As a notable instance, the very day it was
stated that the strike had collapsed (Saturday),
Sydney Evening News came out with this sort
of language in its leading article :
Now that the strike is over, and the parties resume
the status quo ante helium, it is once more a Question
for serious discussion whether the action of the Victorian
Government in denying to the railway men the right to
associate themselves with their fellow-operatives of the
Trades Hall was sound constitutionally The
question whether the railway men were rightly ordered
out of the Trades Hall is a much deeper question than
that of mere expediency. It raises the question whether
any man, or any body of men, should, for the sake of
employment, be compelled, or compellable, to sacrifice
his, or their, UNDOUBTED POLITICAL RIGHT IN A
FREE COUNTRY to join -uch lawful associations or
bodies of men, whether political or otherwise, as he, or
they, may see fit.
It looks like a mean, crawlsome and degrading
bid for a continuance of the worker’s penny to
admit that he was wrongly treated only after he
has lost the battle ; to acknowledge cheerfully
that Irvine and Bent started the trouble by
making a shamefully illegal demand after the
Noose has done all it could tp help Irvine and
Bent to enforce their illegal demand ; to begin to
sympathise with the wronged worker when it is
sure that sympathy will do him no good ; to
condemn the wrong doer when he has carried his
point and it is certain that a little mild condemna-
tion won’t do him any harm or deprive him of any
of the plunder. Irvine and Bent, on the Noose’s
showing now, did an illegal act in starting to sack
the railway men for belonging to the Trades Hall
and attempted to deprive them of an “undoubted
political right.” The men did not do an illegal
act by going on strike, for there is no compulsory
arbitration law in Victoria, as there is in New South
Wales, to make strikes illegal. All through the
battle the Noose was on the side of Irvine and
Bent, who broke the law, and against the strikers
who didn't break the law. The world is full of
pa,pers which preserve a thin veneer of liberal-
mindedness by speaking kindly and almost honestly
about the Labor cause when Labor is in no need
of assistance ; which, when the pinch comes, are
fiercely and uncompromisingly on the side of
Capital however glaringly wrong Capital may be;
and which, when Capital has won, again cadge
for popular support by remarking that perhaps
Capital was wrong after all. While the strike
was on, it was,' in the vocabulary of these papers,
a desperate, wicked and most reprehensible
attempt on the part of the workers, to obtain
control of the State. When it is over, and the
workers have lost, but not till then, it becomes an
effort on the part of the workers to resist the un-
lawful demands of the law-breaking Irvine and
Bent and to assert their “ undoubted political
rights.” The Irvine-Bent crowd doesn’t mind
mild condemnation of that sort., jit quite under-
stands that it is advisable to gather in the worker’3
penny again, so that the paper may be in good
OOndition to fight against the worker when next
he really needs assistance. The Evening News’s
new departure really puts things thus
(1) Irvine and Bent tried to deprive the men of an
undoubted political right, and started a lock-out by
ordering certain men to cease work for not giving ud
their undoubted political right. r
(?) ,*n en . offered to surrender that undoubted
political right if Parliament said, by passing an Act to
tnat effect, that they should do so, and Irvine and Bent
spat on Parliament and said, in effect, “We are Par-
liament.” ’
(3) Irvine and Bent refused to produce any legal
?t )l " , ° n >. fror n the Supreme Court or any other authority,
/A fc r ir n ? vel demand had a shadow of law behind it.
W I nen, Irvine and Bent having declared their in ten*
tion of starting a partial lock-out to enforce their unlaw-
iui demands, the men went on strike to enforce their
undoubted political rights.
It is a very cheap kind of sympathy that only
admits these things now. Sheol is full of that
kmd of sympathy.;
«
A Cool Proposal.
The Bulletin is eagerly anxious to see the
present poisoned news supply system supple-
mented by a source of information likely to be
less prejudiced. And for that reason it cannot
avoid condemning a proposal—announced in the
labor organ, The Worker, and announced only
to be opposed—for the establishment of “ a daily
labor paper ”in Sydney. The substance of the
proposal seems to be that 50,000 workers
shall provide 265. each in instalments of
25., and that, on this consideration, some
co * i or other will print a daily paper,
will allow the workers three directors on the
board of management, will give the subscribers of
the funds a copy each of the paper for a year, and
will, in addition, give them one share each in the
co. It is not stated how many directors there are
be - Apparently there might be a dozen, and
the three Labor directors would then have no real
influence on the policy of the paper. It is not
stated how many shares there are to be in the
company. Apparently there might be a million,
and the 50,000 given to the unions would then be
an insignificant and practically useless twentieth of
the capitalisation. But even if, on those points, the
proposal is not so objectionable as it might be,
there is no sense at all in the workers joining in
such a scheme. If they can find 50,000 people
willing to subscribe 265. each on condition of
receiving a copy of a daily paper for a year, then
they need no outside financial assistance, and,
provided that they get a suitable manager and
editor, can establish a successful paper and own it
absolutely themselves. For the unions to devote
their funds to this project would be to inflict
another staggering blow to the ideal of a truly
democratic daily paper. The strong antagonism
to the project expressed by Mr. H. Lamond, as
manager of the N.S.W. Worker, will be shared
by every trades-union official who has any
common-sense.
A Letter from Tom Mann
The Bulletin receives the following letter,
delayed through the muddling of Bent’s trains'
from Tom Mann, the highly-respected democrat
and labor leader, who was severely commented on
in a recent issue :
In to-day’s issue of The Bulletin I am taken to task
for having advocated a six-hours work-day, and the
writer of The Bulletin article assumes that I have
advised a reduction of hours in Australia, irrespective of
what takes place in other countries. I have done no
such thing, and everyone who has heard me at the meet-
ings when I have dealt with the subject knows that I
invariably deal with this and kindred industrial matters
with due regard to international bearings ; but the brief
pars, that appear as reports in the press deal only with a
few sentences likely to strike the reader as absurd or
revolutionary, and it is quite clear that The Bulletin
writer has concluded that I really was as stupid as the
reported, isolated and detached sentences make me
appear to be.
Allow me to say, therefore, that I was dealing with the
economic effect of reduced working hours as a general
principle in any or all countries when I declared that it
was one of the best means to ensure progress, as it
secured to the worker a better share of the results of his
labor, and raised the standard of living generally; and
declared that taking into consideration the great strides
made in wage-saving appliances, by which the workers
produced so much more wealth than formerly, there
is a greater necessity for a six-hours day than there
was in 1856 for the eight-hours day. And at the
unveiling of the Eight Hour monument, referred to
by The Bulletin, I specially emphasised the desirability
of steps being taken to bring about an Inter-national
Conference to admit of a general proportionate reduc-
tion of working hours, in order to guard against the
handicapping of one country by going ahead of the
others. Further, I regularly defend the necessity of
maintaining the standard by refusing to admit of under-
cutting either by persons who would be foolish enough
to work for a lower wage, or the admission of commodi-
ties into a State under conditions that will jeopardise
the development of industrialism in that State. This
being so, The Bulletin has no case against me, and never
would have thought it had, had a full knowledge of my
attitude been clear to The Bulletin.
As to finding work for the unemployed, The Bulletin
will agree with me that if the land now locked up under
the dominancy of the squatters were opened up
as the Maoriland Act opens up the big estates, very
much could be done right away to cure the unemployed
difficulty, though that would not be a complete cure.
This explanation leads The Bulletin to with-
draw some of its remarks, but not all of them.
At the best, it shows Tom Mann was wasting
valuable time preaching a beautiful theoretical
gospel which won’t be wanted here for some time
yet. Australia’s present case is this : Wages are
higher here than in some countries, and hours are
shorter here than in most—and it is right that
they should be so. Also, the Australian workman
is not more expert than the average to compensate
for this, consequently production is dearer here
than in many countries—and it is right that that
should be so also, for cheapness that is bought by
long hours and low wages is a curse. And because
the tariff is not high enough to counter-balance
these circumstances, which help to make produc-
tion dear, this country’s imports are enormous
and its manufactures small. Thus we have
a huge proportion of unemployed ready to
take the place of the workers when a dis-
pute eventuates, and always ready to cut
down the wage-rate for the sake of a job,
and unionism is weak. Also, there is little immi-
gration—to the worker of dozens of varieties who
would like to come here, the answer is simply,
“ There isn’t a single factory or workshop of the
kind you want in all this Commonwealth, ” so he
doesn t come. And there is a constant borrowing
of millions and millions to pay for imports, to
provide funds with which to pacify the unem-
ployed with stone-breaking and sand-shifting, and
to keep up the semblance of solvency, and there-
fore our pawned children are being born into a
pawned land, where the ghost of Repudiation is
already looming in the distance. Australia
doesn’t require to begin dreaming about a six-hour
movement until it has made a better success of the
movement it has got. And Australia is less fitted
for a six-hour day than almost any other country.
This is (per head) the most foreign-indebted
country on earth, and we have not only to earn
enough to support ourselves, but three years’
earnings of the whole Commonwealth are required
to pay off our foreign debts, public and private. We
want to work eight hours for ourselves and two
extra to wipe off the old mortgage. And the remedy
doesn’t lie wholly, or even in great part, in going on
the land—the dry, dry land. The unemployed who
is put on the land, if he prospers, generally becomes
an employer of labor. Australia hasn’t yet suc-
ceeded in extending the influences of unionism to
the agricultural laborer, and he is the most help-
less, over-worked, under-paid toiler in Australia.
And while it is the case of producing for export,
instead of for the supply of a local manu-
facturing population, it seems he must remain
so, for he must compete in cheapness with
every other exporting slave on earth. If
unionism, which is mainly a product of the
manufacturing districts, had no better remedy
to offer for lack of employment than the multipli-
cation of an ill-paid, non-union class, then
unionism would be in a bad way. Fortunately,
it has something better to offer.
4
The threats of litigation between the States and
Commonwealth, and the fact of such frequent liti-
gation within the States themselves over the
interpretation of their own Acts, call for some
better principle of revision before Acts become
actual laws. There should be a competent final
revision and a certificate that the clauses are not
confused, contradictory, tangled, obscure or un-
grammatical before the Governor’s signature is
attached. This principle exists with regard to
Acts in the United States, and it was the rule in
the early days of Australia. Chief-Justice Forbes
attached his signature to that effect to the
measures passed by the Legislative Council, and
on a couple of important occasions he declined to
certify on the ground that the measures weren’t
clear or understandable. Bills are so knocked
about in committee that the intention is often
obscured, and often contradictory clauses are
imported. The Legislative Council is supposed
to put these matters right, but more often it does
some knocking about on its own account, and
expensive suits or actions are inevitable. In
other words, litigants have to find out what the
law is.
The '‘Assembly” of the Broken Hill Political
Labor Leagues has recommended the central
body to re-admit W. J. Ferguson ; and so the
N.S W. Parliamentary party will win back its
most effective speaker— W. M. Hughes and J. C.
Watson having gone to the Reps. The party’s
■personnel has gone through remarkable changes in
its 12 years’ life. Of the original 35 who came in
after the ’9O general strike, only two, M‘Gowan
and Cann, have since sat continuously as Labor
men. Four others, Edden, Fegan, Nicholson
and Newman, have continued in State politics;
Edden, who was only outside the party for a few
months and never quarrelled with it, is now its
deputy leader. A fifth, Joe Cook, its first leader,
is in the Reps, (the only man of the whole 35
original Laborites to get there); a sixth, A. J.
Kelly, one of the early deserters, repented, and
is again in Parliament and the party; and a
seventh, E. M. Clark, is again in the House,
though now in the Shoddy interest. That leaves
26 of the 35 who are either dead (that list includes
downright T. M. Davis and Dr. Hollis) or out
of politics. In ’94 the “solidarity” party was
reduced to 15, who are now distributed in this
way:—ln the Reps., Watson, Hughes, Wat-
kins and Thomas ; in the State party, Cann,
M‘Donald, M‘Gowan and Griffith ; in the
balance, Ferguson ; in the State Parliament but
not in the party, Law and Sleath ; dead, T. M.
Davis ; disappeared, Smailes, Willard (un-
seated), and Kirkpatrick.
♦
Just when we were re-developing a large respect
for the D.T. as an accomplished liar that was fast
recovering old form, it began to drift back into
bad habits of clumsy, casual, amateur lying. For
instance :
The train which left Melbourne this morning for
Albury arrived at Seymour three hours and a half late,
owing to the engine breaking down. . . . The train
which left Melbourne yesterday morning, owing to an
accident to the engine, could not leave Wangaratta. ...
The engine was in charge of a man named Bennys, 76
years of age. He had seen 29 years of service, but owing
to disqualification as a driver was pensioned off 15 years
ago. He has not been on an engine since till he was
called upon by the Government. The accident at Wan-
garatta was caused by the water becoming exhausted in
the boiler to such an extent that the lead plug melted.
In the service in normal times instant dismissal of the
driver in charge follows anything like this occurring, as
an explosion might result. . . .
And same page same day :
A sheet has been published in the interests of the
strikers . . . and the public is pathetically warned not to
travel by the trains. Unfortunately for the strike com-
mittee, the drivers are doing their work excellently, and
up to date, without mishap of any sort.
The D.T. will begin to get its word doubted if it
goes on like this.
4
When the Crooked-Irvine Ministry came into
power in Victoria, there was a great and hilarious
assurance from the daily suppress that the Cabbage
Garden had at last got a “ strong Ministry.”
When it cut down the hospital vote, the great
Australian suppress stood petrified at its daring.
Then it went for the poor, almost powerless, old
age pensioners, and shouts of applause greeted
that amazing exhibition of strength and courage.
(At this stage the Irvine Ministry reminded the
casual reader with any human sympathy in his
composition of the Liver Push, when it kicked
one old, grey-haired man at Miller’s Point.)
Flushed with its victory over the sick and aged
poor, the Irvine rowdies proceeded to disfranchise
the Civil Service and reduce its wages ; and the
great daily suppress was simply knocked paralytic
at its strength. It passed an income-tax which
attacked even little salaries of £125 per annum,
and the daily suppress could not find words to
express its admiration for the vast muscle of the
legal shark and the old market gardener. But the
Irvine Ministry didn’t demonstrate its strength
by passing a land-tax—which would hit the power-
ful and wealthy owners of landed property in
Melbourne, and other big cities of the State, and
apparently that is a point to which its courage
will not carry it.
4.
Sydney Telegraph reported one of George
Reid’s Tasmanian speeches with disastrous frank-
ness :
In his speech AT BURNIE (Tas.), Mr. Reid made the
following reference to the Bill which was introduced by
the Federal Government last session to grant a bonus of
a quarter of a million for the encouragement of the iron
industry : “ I voted against the Iron Bonus Bill because
a duty was to be put on if the industry were set going.
If the Government would bring in a Bonus Bill and leave
iron free on the tariff, I don’t think you would have
much trouble to get the bonus, or that you would find
me fighting very hard against it.” The remark was
received with cheers. BURNIE IS VITALLY INTER-
ESTED IN THIS IRON BONUS. Edward Braddon,
who lives in the district, supported the Government pro-
posal when it was introduced last session.
Reid, the Freetrader, voted against the iron
bonus, but when he got into the iron-producing
district his cordiality towards it became quite
remarkable. And Braddon, the Freetrader, who
lives in the iron-producing district, has been
friendly all along to the iron bonus, and to Pro-
tection for the iron industry as well. Wonderful
how these Freetraders all want to see “that
loathsome creature Protection ’’ roosting on their
own doorstep.
Nothing has been heard lately of the precious
“British and Indian Empire League of Aus-
tralia,” a scheme started in Melbourne by a
certain Teepoo Hall (president) and Hakkumal
(treasurer), with a view to convincing this
country re the private virtues of the Hindu
hawker, and the public benefit to be derived
from a large increase in black population.
Tepoo and Harkumal aforesaid invite all friends
of the Commonwealth and admirers of the
Empire to contrioute 10s. 6d. per annum towards
the good work. The liberty of the prowling
Hindu is threatened by Commonwealth legisla-
tion, and whereas the desirable alien means to
shut out bad immigrants of “the ignorant,
pauper, and immoral class,” he begs to notify
Premier Barton that the learned moral capitalist
from India is a colored brother who will stand no
white Australian nonsense. Teepoo and Harku-
mal showed their teeth and rolled their eyes
ominously in their Empire League circular.
They quoted Queen Victoria’s proclamation of
1858 as an insurmountable bar to the Immigra-
tion Restriction Act, and they insisted on the
urgent necessity for a “continuous flow’’often
and sixpences. But seemingly the friends of
liberty have not cashed up to expectations, and
the overthrow of the Government is indefinitely
postponed.
4.
All the talk about the falling off in immigration
to Australia may be summarised thus : Immigra-
tion was abundant till the year of the infamous
bank smash, and there has been practically none
since. In 1891 five banks went; in 1892, four did
likewise, and in 1893 there was an almost general
burst. As for the collapse of small land banks,
that was going on all the time from 1891
onward. In 1891 the Commonwealth gained
nearly 28,000 people by excess of immi-
gration, and that had been about its average
for many years. Since then it hasn’t gained
one ; the years when it gained being more
than set-off by those when it lost. Immigration,
to all intents and purposes, stopped dead with
the bank breakages and never resumed. If ten
bank managers and 100 directors had been
gaoled for life for the damage their lack of
principle and their infamous stupidity did to
this country’s good name on that memorable
occasion, instead of being left free to blame the
consequences of their misdeeds on the Labor
party, it would have been less than justice—much
less.
4
It is worse than getting blood out of a stone to
extract information from Carruthers as to what
he will do with the Labor party if it gives him
support. Joseph the Saint says he won’t, under
any circumstances, be dependent on the Labor
party. Consequently these questions arise :
If the See Government is defeated by 18 votes in a full
House (53 for See, and 71 for Carruthers, 23 of these
being Labor votes, which Carruthers can’t help the
Labor party giving to him, if it feels that way, and 48
being the votes of Carruthers’ own followers), and See
resigns, will Carruthers take office ?
If Carruthers won’t take office, and See (with a
minority) can’t hold office, and the 23 Labor men can’t
form a Government by themselves, what will happen?
If Carruthers takes office and a vote of censure is
afterwards carried against him by the Labor votes, will
he go out of office ?
If he won’t go out of office, what will he do ? And if
he does go out of office, how will he differ from other
Premiers who have held their jobs by the grace of the
Labor party ?
The North Queensland cattle-owners allege that
a combine exists among the meat works to keep
down the price of fat stock. The N.Q. meat-
grower is, in most cases, a Freetrader, and
believes in exporting natural produce. He is
now striking the natural consequences of insuffi-
cient Protection. If our iron-works, brass-works,
cotton, wool and saw mills, etc., were here, he
could sell his meat to the employees in its fresh
state. He would have a big local market. As
these works are in England he has to send the
meat there, and to get it there he has to pay cost
of tinning or freezing, also freight, insurance,
exchange, and the commissions of about four
middlemen, and then the meat must reach
England at a price which will enable it to
compete with the beef of countries which, because
they are better watered, can produce three times
as much bull to the square mile as Australia can.
So the meat works naturally combine to keep
down prices, so that they can put tinned bull on
the English market at a profit. What else do the
owners expect ?
The law-issue between the State Governments
and the Australian Government, as to whether
State Government imports are liable to pay
customs duties, is to be referred to the Privy
Council. It will probably decide in the common-
sensible way that the fiction of “the Crown,”
raised for necessary administrative purposes by
the State Governments, ceases to be valid when
the necessity for it passes away from them to
another body. Briefly, the State Governments
claim that no customs duty should be charged on
their imports, for they represent the Crown ; and
the Crown’s goods are not liable to taxation.
But, as a matter of fact, the Federal Government—
and not the State Government—is “ the Crown,”
so far as customs matters are concerned and,
whilst the State Governments can maintain the
fiction of the Crown to administer those depart-
ments left in their control, such as Lands and
Works, they cannot claim to do so in matters over
which their authority has passed away. That
seems to be the common-sensible view, but it was
not the view of the N.S. W. Supreme Court, and
it is just possible that it may not be the view of
the Privy Council. Certainly, however, it would
be the view of a Federal High Court, which would
be bound to give a “sympathetic” interpretation
to the Constitution under which it was appointed.
Premier Barton should hurry along that Court.
4.
Up to now the Labor party in the State Parlia-
ments hasn’t protested with much vigor against
the borrowing policy, and the working people
outside Parliament—the men who give the Labor-
ites their votes—haven’t protested with any vigor
at all. Their usual attitude has been that finance
is a subject they don’t understand, and so it’s no
use their bothering about it. But they’ll have to
bother—or break. The railway strike illustrates it
over again. No sooner was it set going than, in
order to alarm the public and stiffen Parliament
it was announced that a loan of 5£ millions would
have to be renewed in a month or two, and that
the renewal would be jeopardised if Bent
wore defeated. Negotiations had already com-
menced, and the Acting Agent-General wired :
Leading financial authorities thoroughly sympathise
with the stand taken by your Government, and hope
they will be entirely successful, even though present loss
and inconvenience are occasioned. They sincerely trust
you will have the active support cf the other States.
Thus the men who hold the bill-of-sale over us
dragoon the public into accepting their view, or
what is alleged to be their view; for the public
The Fading Infant.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh, The Baby in the cradle— he is fewer than
of yore.
And his mother isn’t burdened as her mother was
before,
She is sometimes neat and natty and a credit to
her clime,
But the baby keeps decreasing in the cradle all
the time.
And the l' at Men sit in conclave and they wonder
how it is,
And they mourn the parting prattler and his dis-
appearing phiz,
And they say, “When We were Infants—Oh, the
Babies on the Block,
They were thick as flies in treacle and as hardy as
a rock.
" What We want are Wives and Mothers who will
raise up half a score
Sturdy brats of bone and muscle to the glory of
our shore;
True, Our families are scanty—seldom more than
one or two,
But the workers must be breeders, and the State
must have her due.
“ Wives of Workers ! Do your duty to the State
without a grudge,
Raise a lusty band of babies while you slave and
sweat and drudge;
Never mind the outlook gloomy for the puny ones
you’ve bred,
Thank your stars and bless the kiddies though
they sleep without a bed.
“For the greatness of a country (sound the
trumpet, beat the drum !)
Is its teeming bandy baby in its teeming slimy
slum ;
Never mind the Sort of Baby—never mind the
Sort of Man,
Give us every sort of Baby that your grimy alleys
can!
Look at London—look at London—all ye woman
folk who tire,
Think of London’s toiling women with their
millions in the mire ;
Think of all your husband’s transports when he
finds his boys of age,
To commence a competition with their father for a
wage.
“ And—rebellious wives of workers—if our wild
appealing thus
Have no power to move and mend you—will vou
think at least of Us ?
If your cradle keeps on yawning for your Babies
scant and few,
If the horde of slaves decreases—what, in pity,
shall We do?”
PHILANDER FLAM.


THE LARGEST AND BEST JN THE WORLD !
The Mutual Life Insurance Co. of New York
Admitted Assets, January 1, 1903, £78,528,000.
Principal Agency in Australasia; Company’s Building, Martin Place, Sydney.
Z. 0. RENNIE, General Manager.
Patriotism Exalteth a Nation.
* * * ♦ * ♦
This may not be quite orthodox, but it is nevertheless true. It is also afact that in N.S.W.
patriotism is sadly lacking- in its people. Parochialism and selfishness are rampant every-
where—in Parliament and People. Instead of AUSTRALIAN MANUFACTURED GOODS
of equal merit to the Foreign-made Article being preferred, they are only taken if CHEAPER.
The very men who cry the loudest, “ AUSTRALIA FOR THE AUSTRALIANS ! ’’—even to
the extent of keeping out the English Hatters—are those who, from pure prejudice, call
for the Foreign-made Article in preference to the Australian production. This is not the
spirit that prevails in America, and which has made it the greatest country on the face of
the earth. There nothing is good unless it is “ ’Mqrkan,” and so it must be here if we are
to become a Nation. The Rosewarne Packing Co., Limited, have lately added to the other
branches of their canning business the manufacture of Potted Ham and other Meats, in
U^°rT ai four-ounce tins. The packages are neatlv got up, the contents are AT LEAST
EQUAL TO, AND THE PRICE IS LOWER THAN, THE IMPORTED ARTICLE. Be
patriotic enough to give them a trial, and you will find that they-are REALLY GOOD,
they may be had from all the Principal Storekeepers and Grocers. -
knows (or a good part of it does) what awkward
things the man with the bill-of-sale can do. The
democracy that has put itself in pawn isn’t,
therefore, a democracy any longer. It doesn’t
govern itself; it is governed by Bull Cohen, and
Bull Cohen is a person in a silk hat who is on
the side of cheap labor, and disorganised labor,
every time.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Lyceum “The Face at the Window.”
Criterion.... “ Little Ray of Sunshine.”
Royal “Circus Girl."
Tivoli. Rickards’ Co.
Palace “Oh! What a Night!”
Belmore Park Fitzgerald Bros.’ Circus.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ Midsummer Night’s Dream.”
Her Majesty’s “ My Lady Molly."
Theatre Royal “ The Price of Peace.”
Opera House Rickards' Variety Co.
Town Hall Mark Hambourg.
»
Further consideration of the fragmentary
upheaval at Sydney Royal convinces The Bul-
letin that, after all, Manager Williamson is wise
in serving up such picturesque rot as “ The Circus
Girl.” The people apparently like it, and nightly
roll up in crowds to giggle at the gorgeous flap-
doodle, where the Broughs played masterpieces to
unpayable houses. Sydney theatre-goers ap-
preciate the two pink legs of “La Favorita”
better than many epigrams, and where the gloomy
grandeur of “The Village Priest” depressed
them, the sordid domestic squabbles of the fur-clad,
bald- headed circus proprietor appeal to their push
instincts and keep up a simmer of mirth. There-
fore J. C. Williamson gives the sovereign people
just what the sovereign people like; that they
choose husks is not his concern. They want husks
—gilded, tinselled husks, with nice, shapely legs ;
and they get them. In the meantime a hand that
can’t be too highly commended has drawn a blue
pencil through the “ book,” and removed many
weary excrescences, and, on the whole, the show
is distinctly improving.
** * *
“The Strange Adventures of Miss Brown”
made a pleasant revival at Sydney Criterion on
Saturday, Robert Buchanan and Charles Marlowe
(the authors) being mostly responsible for the
same. It is one of the comedies wherein Frank
Thornton dresses up as a female personage, on this
occasion in order to get his wife, a ward in Chan-
cery, away from a boarding-school, it being ex-
plained that a ward in Chancery has less right
to get married hurriedly than ordinary persons.
The plot consists largely in Frank Thornton, as a
fiendishly ugly girl, being hugged by sundry other
girls who are not ugly. His maidenly gambol 1 ings
over the furniture also inspire motherly affection
in the school-mistress, and when he is obliged
to stoush the detective and sit violently
on the music-master’s chest, she remarks
that he is but a helpless girl, and takes
the disreputable-looking young female to her
heart once more.
** * *
Frank Thornton has less opportunity in
this play than in “The Private Secretary” or
“ Charley’s Aunt,” as, during all the first act, he
is merely an ordinary young man in an eyeglass.
He makes up for this later on, however, and
makes Miss Brown a thorough discredit to
her sex as only Frank Thornton knows how
to do. Carden Wilson, as the afore-men-
tioned German music-master, gets in a capital
bit of acting after being sat upon by the muscular
Miss Brown, and Joseph Wilson is good as the
detective who falls a victim to the maiden wiles
of the man he was sent to catch. Somewhat more
might have been done by the schoolgirls. Mrs.
Walter Hill, as their preceptress, is fair, and
Miss Vera Fordyce commendable as the school-
girl bride who sticks to her wedding-cake in the
midst of all her anxieties, and finds consolation,
when troubles thicken, in the almond icing. The
g resent show is on for one week only. “ A Little
-ay of Sunshine ” follows on Saturday.
*m * *
The reason why the “Face” appears at
the “Window” in Sydney Lyceum on Saturday
night is explained early in the evening. It
appears from the dialogue that somebody
known as the Wolf, who is really a Chevalier,
is in the habit of advertising any little
murder he may commit by giving three long
invisible shrieks beforehand, and likewise by
planting his unpleasant face at any win-
dow that may happen to be adjacent. In
a thoughtless moment the Chevalier puts his
countenance to the glass once too often, which
gives Gouffet, the Parisian Sherlock Holmes of
the moment, a favorable opportunity to stab his
hand' Next act or two, after a few minor dis-
guises, Gouffet makes for the Rogues’ Retreat,
where he keeps 40 desperate criminals at bay with
one revolver, and likewise smacks them with pieces
of chimney on the roof. Incidentally he rescues
Ada Guildford, who has been lured thither on the
usual pretext of clearing her lover’s name. When-
ever the stage heroine receives an anonymous letter
stating that her lover’s name can be cleared in a
damp and unpleasant cellar, or that his innocence
can be established on the roof, she always believes
the statement, and invariably goes, to be rescued
later on at great spectacular expense to the
management. A little later the detective is writ-
ing a statement of things in general, when the
three shrieks are heard and the customary face is
jammed against the window. Gouffet is then
partially murdered; and, rising to state on paper
who did it, dies completely before the name
is written. The Mad Doctor, however, is of
opinion that the dead person may be helped to
write the name by means of electricity. This is
accomplished in an effective manner with great
display of grave clothes in the presence of sundry
persons, including the heroine, who attends the
funeral of the man who saved her in a cheerful
pink frock. The villain thereupon rushing for-
ward to smack the corpse is naturally electro-
cuted.
* • * *
Robert Inman makes a strong and effective
detective, and his difficult death scene is
worthy of praise. Laurence Dunbar lacks
spirit as the lover, but H. O. Willard as
the Wolf shows plenty of force. Miss Georgie
Leighford is an excellent bad old woman in the
Thieves’ Den, where it is etiquette to have a
disreputable and unwholesome looking old female
always on the premises ; and Ada Guildford is
the usual absurd young person who tells the
villain that he may speak to her, and when he
proposes honorable marriage, snub»him for daring
to exist in her presence. Ethel Buckley is a
dainty soubrette, and Bert Bailey, as her sweet-
heart, is the usual comic man who makes the
customary alleged joke about the expected infant.
The scenery, which includes the Luxembourg
Gardens by night, is quite up to standard.
* * * *■
At Sydney Palace, “ Are You a Mason 1 ”
retires on Saturday, May 23, and “Oh ! What a
Night 1” by the same company, takes its place.
There is a suggestion of hilariousness in the title
which promises that that feeling of something
wicked about to happen which marks the success-
ful farce will not be absent.
At Belmore Park Circus, Sydney, the diving
horses rush nightly through the atmosphere and
plunge into the 300,000gal. tank without showing
any symptoms of displeasure at their environ-
ment. The horse that leads is said to be the first
that learnt the feat, the other two having
acquired the art from him. The other items
on the programme are as good as before,
and if the circus was made of materials
that kept out the wet, things would be
still better. The ancient Romans had some
arrangement to that effect; anyway, no one
seems to have heard of Caesar holding a damp
umbrella over himself while he watched the lions
and the Christians settling an argument. On
Monday the Circus gives a benefit to Sydney
hospital. Brother Dan has just arrived with the
other Fitzgerald Circus from Maoriland, and a
great combined show starts on Saturday.
* # * *
Hambourg’s master-buffeting of his
Erard’s ivory keys is over till next Spring. He
smote his last chord in Sydney in triumph, and
has made money enough to keep him in vodka
and samovars and sturgeon, with a little surplus,
if he feels that way, to give to the Fund for Aged
and Infirm Nihilists. Meantime classical music
will not die —it will not sleep. Sydney Chamber
Music Society still flourishes, and Laurence
Phillip gives a recital presently.
* * * *
Something new is announced for Tuesday
night, May 26, at Centenary Hall, Sydney, in
the shape of a “Dual Art Recital ” by Messrs.
Flohm and Maurice Price. This means that Mr.
Flohm recites, whilst Mr. Price gambols on the
piano—or something to that effect; and it is
understood to be very enjoyable.
* « * *
Sydney Tivoli promises for Saturday,
May 23, the Boissetts in a new pantomime—
“ The Bricklayers.” Otherwise, the programme
at that theatre will remain very much as before.
Bland Holt’s latest production at Mel-
bourne Theatre Royal is not his happiest venture
in polite melodrama. “The Price of Peace’’
opens with a long yarn by a dying lodger in a
hospital ward, and ends with the Rescue from a
watery grave of a lovely limelit lady and her
youthful maid servant, whose rescues are not
essential to anybody else’s happiness. They can
give certain evidence re the misbehavior of the
villain, but the villain has already been choked
by an angry Chinaman, or drowned by the mercy
of Providence, and his false statements were dis-
proved previous to his decease ; therefore the pair
of damp females floating on the vasty deep might
very well be left to perish. The spectacle of two
right-thinking citizens getting lost at sea in a
plain, ordinary way would bring a true odor of
brine across the footlights anyhow, and it would
give deeper tone to this particular narrative. The
“ Price of Peace ” is an episodical drama, depend-
ing largely on its supers for support. The supers
do not support it in a convincing manner. Bland
Holt has been pleased to place them in a
station of theatrical life where their awful
frock coats and shocking bell-toppers invite
criticism. When they assemble in the House
of Commons or thereabouts, the bulwark of
British liberty looks in danger of being squared
for half-a-crown a head and a barrel of beer,
which is the more regrettable because Walter
Baker gives a forcible sketch of the Prime
Minister. His performance deserves a brighter
assortment of Ministerialists and a more present-
able Opposition. A fine old Tory personage is
Baker in the present instance. He commands
respect for his make-up. manner and elderly
voice. Being called upon by a sense of duty
to murder Styan (a Russian spy) for the
Hempire’s sake, Baker carries his audience
with him, and although Styan plays his part
well enough he has no sympathisers. Charles
Brown, as an elderly colleague of Premier Baker,
shines by comparison with the other British
legislators. The wicked leader of the Opposition
is no way different from the usual Albert Norman;
whereas Bland Holt makes a few straggling efforts
to resemble a Wesleyan parson. Among the
ladies, Misses Ireland, Frances Ross and Brightie
Smith are the most effective, especially the first
named charmer.
#* * *
At Her Majesty’s (Melb.) the season of
Williamson’s Opera Co. is not for long, and the
days of “My Lady Molly” are numbered. If
“ Molly ” (borrowed from an ancient farce) had a
glaze of reality on the surface, and the perform-
ance tended to conceal the story’s weakness instead
of making it more evident, this opera might have
been bracketed with “Dorothy”in popular esteem.
The music, tuneful and graceful, takes many
humorous turns. Some of the lyrics are remark-
ably good verse of their kind, and the first act is
fairly brisk in movement. But the second act
seems hopelessly foolish. Harold Thorley has to
hurl defiance at Florence Young, in the belief that
she is a young man masquerading in his (Thorley’s)
clothes. He doesn’t recognise her as the girl he
loves, or note the glaring fact that the garments
he left in his portmanteau couldn’t possibly
fit a figure 6in. shorter than his own. There is no
appearance of genuineness about the gullibility of
Thorley and others as regards the she-male fraud.
The situations are so thin and puerile that pretty
music seems wasted on them. Moreover, the
castle hall where the second act transpires is
almost bare of furniture, and the wedding guests
range themselves on either side like the mechani-
cal grand-opera choristers of old. Also, the
orchestra is far too loud. At Her Majesty’s the
stage comes much nearer to the d.c. than at
other theatres, and when the musicians play to
the gallery, so to speak, the daintiest melodies are
noisy.
** * *
The last nights of “Midsummer Night’s
Dream ’’ will probably carry that charming show
.to the middle or end of next week. Between the
close of the “ Dream ” and the commencement of
“ As You Like It ” there will be a brief outbreak
of modern comedy, for the purpose of re-intro-
ducing Robert Courtneidge to Melbourne notice
in “ On ’Change,” before he ships himself back to
England. Thusfar, Courtneidge has made only
one public appearance this trip, and then he had
to be dragged forth by George Musgrove to re-
ceive a roar of thanks for what he had done to
the Immortal Shakspeare.
** * *
Rudinoff still whistles and makes pictures
at Melbourne Opera House ; also, Hill and
Sylvainy are thankfully received. The rest of
the performance has received marching orders,
and will make way on Saturday for several people
who are quite new, or moderately fresh.
*» * *
At the Town Hall, where Marshall Hall
gave a fine orchestral concert on Saturday last,
the first appearance of Mark Hambourg falls
due this next Saturday. A thoughtful manage-
ment desires to remind Melbourne that Mark is a
rare event, who will probably be unable to occur
again in Australia for many years. The magnetic
young man with the irrepressible head of hair is
truly a most exciting pianist, so the managerial
prediction may be accepted as a timely warning
and a business-like idea.
** * *
Willoughby and Geach, late of Melbourne
Bijou, announce their intention to go touring
around Victoria, en route to Adelaide, if the
engine-drivers have quite decided to forget Irvine
and forgive Thomas Bent. In that case, the
Willoughby co. will resume operations at Ballarat
on Monday next, and invade the rural restfulness
of Geelong two days later.
*« * *
“The Fortune Teller ” did excellent busi-
ness at Adelaide Royal, the houses (quite contrary
to custom) improving as the run progressed. Cup
Week may have had something to do with this
(though Fortune Teller himself, in the Goodwood
Handicap, made a very poor showing). Lempriere
Pringle and Madame Slapoffski make the piece
very nearly grand opera for two acts, after which
it falls all to pieces; but Lauri, Courtenav, and
Shirley patch it up briskly with variety business.
The Tivoli has closed its doors for a while, and
will be sub-let later on. Winton and M'Ginty
will be much missed ; but not so the humor of
Spry and Monti, which was apparently making
Adelaide rather tired towards the end.
George R. Sims pleads guilty to having compiled 60
volumes of press cuttings concerning himself and his
evanescent works. An awful admission. And yet
G.R.S. gives many personal reminiscences in the London
Referee which are worth preserving for a while. For
instance : “ Not long ago I asked a young dramatic critic
if he had ever seen Sheridan’s ‘ Trip to Scarborough.’
No said the young D. 0., ‘ but I have heard my father
speak about him as the Widow O’Brien, in «Fun on the
Bristol.'"
Scene—a hospital in London, where a dead-beat, growing
cold;
Implores a nurse to listen to the yarn he would unfold ;
He states that for another’s theft he did a term in quod,
His name was—(exit dead-beat, he has gone to meet his
God.
The nurse exclaims “ O ! doctor," and the doctor gives
a nod).
On the Terrace dedicated to the House of Commons
crowd,
We meet the Earl of Baker, poor, but honest, also proud.
You would judge him by his title to be one of Hingland’s
peers,
Yet he leads the House of Commons like a Gladstone, it
appears,
Midst the plaudits of his party, and the Opposition’s
jeers.
The toney Nurse aforesaid is the daughter of the Earl,
And the Opposition leader wants to woo the gentle girl.
He is played by Albert Norman, yet she doesn’t think
him Bad,
But she chooses Wentworth Watson, to oblige her doting
Dad
(Wentworth’s wooden, though a good ’un) and the
audience is glad.
On the Terrace other people help to push along the plot.
(Whilst the supers in the background form a seedy look-
ing lot).
The Holts are there, and Brown presents a Minister of
State,
And they all attend a Carnival, where Bland attempts to
skate
Till he’s overcome by whisky which he thought was cider
“ straight.”
You see some damsels wrangling in a peaceful convent
ground ;
Then enters Harrie Ireland and casts her eye around
To pick a wench as servant; who will, later, serve to
show
That the nameless man, now sleeping where the dande-
lians grow,
Bore the guilt of Albert Norman, out in China, long ago.
But Norman, meanwhile, prospers, and he forms a risky
plan
To steel Nurse Ross’s heart against the wooden-like
young man,
And when she’s at the altar, bridal vision white and tall,
Prepared to speak the awful words that hold mankind in
thrall,
She makes a scene, refusing to get married, after all.
A Russian spy (that’s Styan) learns a secret of the State,
Which somehow threatens woeful war to Britain, known
as Great.
The Earl of Baker saves the lives of all who might have
died
By murdering that Russian spy. “ The Price of Peace 1 ”
he cried ;
Then shot his victim in the back, and called it suicide.
Scene: House of Commons. Noble Earl falls corpsed
upon the floor;
The Empire mourns. The workers work. The fatmen
sleep and snore.
And Norman meets his fate at sea : he runs his gallant
craft
Against a dauntless British rock which smites it fore and
aft,
And Harrie Ireland ends the play by roosting on a raft.
The Wild Cat Column.
The secretary of the Independent Oddfellow*
offers fits explanations of the eccentricities in the Order’*
last three reports, reviewed Bulletin, May 16 Form™ J
them he blames the printer ; though the LO .O.F Zh!To
know that the printer » a person who can’t be relied Won
The other eccentricities, mainly inconsistencies between
the reports for various years, are, it is explained, due to
the Order having, on the secretary's advice, repented of
some of its former sins. For example, the Grand Lodre
(or insurance) funds were formerly inflated by including
upwards of £4500 of “ accrued interest.” In other worth?
it built a hall, and went on adding accrued interest in t ’
value of that hall, in the table of investments; that i, it
had continued the process long enough it would have had
in fact, a crumbling ruin, worth a little for old bricks while
its books showed an investment (mostly accrued
interest) worth £lOO,OOO. The foolishness of this dawned
at last on somebody ; wherefore, though in 1901 the
1.0.0. F. said that in 1900 it had investments worth
£27,662, in 1903 it had repented, and said that in that
year (1900) it really had only £23,074, the rest being
bogus. At least, it didn’t say that-it just reduced the
amount alleged to be invested, and said nothing about it
All of which indicates that, if the 1.0.0. F reports had
come under notice before the Order began to repent it
would have had some severe things said about it As' it
is, it is satisfactory to find that it has repented,’ and as
remarked last week, appears to be now doing things in a
reasonably reputable way. The present sec. has been in
office only some four years or so.
• * • •
The Wkstralian Bank (Perth, Westralia):
Profit, less Carried
sums to Re-
written off. Dividends. Reserves, serves
Dec., 1896 £13,703 17* p.c. = £8,750 £4,953£165 425
June, 1897 16,686 17* „ „ 8,750 7,936 173 361
Dec., 1897 18,251 17* „ „ 8,750 9,501 182,862
June, 1898 18,542 17* „ „ 8,750 9,792 192 654
March, 1899 29,762 17* „ „ 13,125 16,637 2G9’291
Sept., 1899 13,737 17* „ „ 8,750 4,987 214 278
March, 1900 11,779 17* „ „ 8,750 3,029 217 307
Sept., 1900 12,811 17* „ „ 8,750 4,061 221,368
March, 1901 11,787 17* „ „ 8,750 3,037 224 405
Sept., 1901 17,476 17* „ „ 8,750 8,726 233,131
March, 1902 17,416 17* „ „ 8,750 8,666 241 797
Sept., 1002 15,489 17* „ „ 8,750 6,739 248 536
March, 1903 18,780 17* „ „ 8,750 10,030 258,566
With the single exception of that made during the
dazzling period at the end of 1898 and the beginning of
1899, this is the bank’s largest profit. Ten years ago
—in the first half of 1893—the profit was £7976. The
earnings this last half-year represent £lO 15s. 6d. per
cent, per annum on the funds (capital £lOO,OOO and
reserves £248,536) at its commencement. This compares
with recent results in the following manner:—
Mar., 1901 ..£7 6 8 Sept., 1902 ..£9 13
Sept., 1901 .. 10 15 6 Mar., 1903 .. 10 15 6
Mar., 1902 .. 10 9 1
The Westralian’s reserves, in proportion to capital, are
larger than those of any other Australian bank; and,
considering the somewhat violent fluctuations in earn-
ings (the natural result of the fact that the bank is
wholly dependent upon a State which, so far, is mainly
dependent upon the most violently fluctuating of alt
large industries), it is a very wise thing to keep them
large. Some other facts with regard to the bank, with a
comparison of the position 12 months ago :
March, March,
1902. 1903. Increases.
Profits £17,416 £18,780 £1,364
Deposits not bearing
Interest .. .. 1,034,861 1,104,565 69,704
Public Securities .. 64,000 66.250 2,250
Advances .. .. 990,714 1,078,467 87,753
Bills in Circulation _ 19,869 21,939 2,070
Decreases.
Deposits bearing
Interest .. .. 767,913 554,303 213,610
Note Circulation .. 140,578 119,357 21,221
All liquid Securities .. 1,261,263 1,067,263 194,000
Some of these changes are rather remarkable. It was
expected that as Westralia “settled down” the extra-
ordinary proportion of the deposits not carrying interest
would diminish ; instead there has been a considerable
increase. This seems to show that Westralia hasn’t yet
“ settled down ” to any extent worth speaking about. A
bank acting to so large an extent as a people’s safe-
deposit might easily be landed in very serious difficulties
if it did not maintain a very large reserve of liquid secu-
rities ; and, though the Westralia holds £56 12s. against
every £lOO which it owes to the public, even this large
amount is probably not much larger than it ought to be.
• • • *
Australia here and there shows signs of getting
tired of the borrowing system. S. Brisbane (Q.) munici-
pal councillors recently thought they might just as well
borrow a few thousands as anybody else. The matter was
put to the poll with the result that the borrowing push
was beaten by a majority of 97. For Loan : 361; against
the disease, 458.
• • • *
The Intercolonial Investment, Land and
Building Co., Ltd. (Sydney), has completed a half year
above the average in prosperity :
Added
Written to Re-
Profits Dividends ofl Reserves serves
1892 .. .. £lOO6 Nil £lOO6 £7,293
1893 .... 831 „ £5OO 331 7,624
1894 .. .. 1822 „ 1000 822 8,446
1895 .. .. 3209 „ 3557 8,098
1896 .. .. 6854 10 p.c. =£3200 769 2885 10,983
Forfeited Capital added to Reserves, 1781 12,764
1897 .. .. 6123 10 p.c. = 3295 1000 1828 14,592
1898 .... 4916 8* „ 2785 2131 16,723
Forfeited Capital added to Reserves, 512 17,235
1899 ... .. 4235 7 „ 2326 1910 19,145
Forfeited Capital added to Reserves, 16 19,161
1900 ~ .. 4392 7 „ 2339 2053 21,214
1901 .. .. 4911 7 „ 2448 2463 23,677
1902 .. .. 5261 7 „ 2537 -2724 26,401
Half-year to
Ap., 1903 2836 7 „ 1287 1549 27,950
The weak feature of this co. has been its rush to put
every penny into its land business, leaving nothing
wherewith to meet the angry or nervous creditor
who may some day unexpectedly appear at the door.
This weak place is now being strengthened; the move-
ment during the last few half-years has been as follows:
Bank Balance. Cash in Hand.
April, 1901 .. i. Debit £2440 £67
Oct., 1901 6531 27
April, 1902 6014 *
Oct., 1902 .. ... „ 2014 9
April, 1903 .. .. Credit 4120 220
The real position isn’t quite as good as this might
suggest, because the co. closes the half-year with more
sundry creditors than usual; still the movement is the
right way, anyhow. The co. has liquid assets, counting
in the office chair and door-mat, worth £4439, against
liabilities (deposits and sundry creditors) amounting to
£21,300.
• * * •
George Reid, the most utterly impudent and
shameless political bounder Australia possesses at pre-
sent, got off this remark in a farewell interview in Tas-
mania
“Mr. Lyne thoroughly deserved the snub he got by
the ‘ beggarly array of empty benches ’ in the Albert Hall
on Wednesday, if only because of the mean charge he
made against me in reference to the finances ofN.S.VY.
No one should know better than he did how unjust ana
baseless these charges were, so much so that they never


TRAMWAYS FOR MINES.
gyOCK in SYDNEY and MELBOURNE include—Steel Rails, Bridge Rails
Steel Side and End Tip Trucks, Portable Tramway, Portable and Permanent
Switches, Ball-bearing Turntables, Axle Boxes, Wheels and Axles, Jim Crows,
Dog Spikes, etc., etc. IN D E NTS. -LOCOMOTIVES from 10 to 400 h.p ,
including Compound Locos, and every description of Light Railway Material.
CENTRAL MINING &. TRAMWAY APPLIANCES
Prop. Ltd., 40 Hunter St., SYDNEY. A. E. LEPL/ STRIER, Manager,
Representing Orenstein and Kopped, Ltd., Loudon, Berlin and Paris.
ranohea - Melbourne, BrUbane, Cairns and Zeetaan (Tasmania).
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, of Melbourne, reports
that there has been a great improvement in the general
outlook of the engineering business since the new year
started, and that his pipe making works in Melbourne
and Perth are working full-handed. Amongst the orders
now being executed at Footscray works is one for 7 miles
10 chains of 18in. diameter light steel spiral-riveted pipes
for the Victorian water supply; and at Perth works a
contract is in progress for over 6 miles of lOjin. diameter
epiral-riveted pipes, flanged joints, for the Greenbushes
Tin-Mining Syndicate. About two miles of these pipes
are to stand a test pressure of 8001 b. to the square inch.*
• * * »
A. Kozminsky, 106 Queen-st., Melbourne,
having returned from England, is now prepared to
purchase paying mines, and mining properties (not
merely surface shows), situated in any part of
Australasia requiring further capital for development and
machinery. Only genuine and legitimate ventures,
capable of bearing the strictest examinations will be
entertained.*
« • • •
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develop, with option ot
purchase “big prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address : “ Option,”
Melbourne •
• * * *
H. Brandon Skertchly, geologist, mining engi-
neer and assayer, is prepared to furnish scientific reports
and plans to British and Australian investors. Assays
undertaken, and enquiries re mining properties, promptly
attended to. For fuller information apply to H. Brandon
Skertchly, 7 Central Chambers, Queen-st., Brisbane.*
* * * *
The New Zealand Fire and Marine Insurance
Co., whose head-office for N.S.W. is at No. 81 Pitt-street,
Sydney, is the largest colonial Fire and Marine Insurance
company, and a large amount of their reserves of
£520,805 is invested in the States. Net revenue (1902)
£408,923. Lowest rates and prompt settlements.*
* * * *
Compound gauge glasses (Schott and Genossen)
as used by the Victorian Railways and the Melbourne
Trams are worth a trial. De Deer, Silberberg and Co.,
Bourke-street, Melbourne, the newly formed partnership
to which we referred last week, are sole agents for
Australasia. *
* * » *
The balance-sheet of the Great Southern Con-
sols G.M. Co. (Vic.) for the last half-year shows that the
underground electric haulage plant, which was supplied
and erected about seven months ago by the Austral Otis
Engineering Coy., South Melbourne, sole representatives
of Ganz and Co. Ltd., Budapest, Hungary, has effected a
saving of 60 per cent, in manual labor required to operate
the mine. This excellent result, and the great satisfac-
tion the plant has given, has influenced the directors of
the Berry Consols Extended Company in placing an order
for a similar plant with the same firm. The plant will
consist of a generating station, three underground loco-
motives, and a complete electric lighting installation.
This order furnishes further evidence of the high esteem
in which Ganz’s apparatus is held in Australia.*
* * * *
The Policy Holder, July, 1902, writes
“ Established in 1873, the Colonial Mutual from the out-
set has had a surprising amount of energy and enterprise
infused into its management. In all 88,299 | olicies
covering £26,826,380 have been issued.”*
INSIST OTI GETTING
5 I ic ed A\an& o,
a a r* <!r\\p> Gf\eenA\amgo,CasHmere
S? MADRAS#* , t
jfocer? andStorefeepeftE.veryuihera,
carried any weight in my own State. When I became
Treasurer of N.S.W. in 1894 I inherited a deficiency from
him and his colleagues, as Bhown by their published
statements, of more than £1,200,000. I asked Parliament
to establish a new system of accounts on a cash basis,
and refused to load the new system with that deficiency,
which had existed three years before I took office.
Parliament agreed to this, and gave me power to raise
Treasury bills to cover the deficiency. My system began
on July 1, 1895, and from that time until 1 left office I
kept the finances free from deficiencies."
Think of that when the published figures of Reid’s
own State Statistician, Coghlan (“ Statistics of the Six
States of Australia and Maoriland” for 1901, page 45)
show these as the result of Reid’s financial bungling :
Revenue Expenditure Deficit
June, 1896 £9,270,088 £9,877,611 £607,523
„ 1897 9,288,359 9,495,726 207,367
Surplus
„ 1898 9,482,092 9,476,619 5,473
„ 1899 .. ... .. 9,754,185 9,743,509 10,676
Deficit
Totals £37,794,724 £38,593,465 £798,741
The man who, with such a record as that standing
against him in the published figures of his own State
official, issued from his own Government Printing Office,
still brazenly asserts that he “ kept the finances free
from deficiencies ” would, in a community with more
self-respect, be a political outcast whom no constituency
would touch at any price.
• * • *
When the M.L. Insurance Department was
being organised, the Cold Tea Brigade, certain that it
would score over the sinful citizens who touched the
Accursed Thing, successfully insisted upon the division
of insurers into two sections, the General and the
Temperance, each with its own distinct division of
profits. At the bonus distribution of 1890, the sections
received an equal bonus ; then Cold Tea and Co. said the
Accursed Thing was slow and insidious in its deadly
action, and that in a year or two more their own great
and glorious principles would be magnificently vindi-
cated. Next distribution was in 1893; the Temperance
section received the larger bonus, and there was great
joy at the tea-meetings and bun-feasts. Every speaker
drew harrowing pictures of how the teetotal people had
been taxed for the support of the drunken, and had been
robbed of the fruits of their virtue ; and they were now
all going to get rich promptly. They were still talking
like that when the third distribution came along, in 1896.
And then there was a great silence at the bun-feasts—
this time the advantage was with the General sec-
tion. Since then Cold Tea hasn’t scored once. In the
distribution just completed the Drunken and Depraved
have received a 20s. per cent, bonus, while the Virtuous
have got only 19s.
* * • *
The Northern Steamship Co. (Auckland,
M.L.) has had less luck than usual this past year:—
Added to Tojal
Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Res'erves
Mar., 1900.. 7 p.c.=£3589 £37,825
„ 1901.. £7380 „ „ 4967 £2413 40,238
Taken from
Reserves.
„ 1902.. 4397 „ „ 4875 478 ’ 39,760
Loss
„ 1903.. 1808 „ „ 4875 6683 33,077
In these figures for the past year it is assumed that the
shareholders voted the usual £4OO “ honorarium ” to the
directors as the directors advised them to do ; and as the
shareholders have now got into the habit of doing it, the
amount might just as well be shown in the accounts in
the customary way. The co’s. position, so far as
ordinary trading goes, is not as bad as the
figures might suggest ; in fact, if it had not
been for the loss of the steamer Gairloch a larger
profit than last year’s would probably have been shown.
The mysterious item, “ Accounts owing by company,
£36,118,” which appeared in the 1902 balance-sheet, has
now partly disappeared, the shareholders having put up
£28,773 of fresh capital. Even now, however, the co.
carries £17,313 of liabilities, against which it has agents’
balances and other amounts owing to it and cash equal
to £9512. Even, now, therefore, it looks as though it
will be a good many years before the liabilities
will be wiped out, especially with a continuance
of the present policy of paying 7 per cent, whether it
is earned or not. Still it doesn’t now seem possible for
the co. to pay 7 per cent. On the increased capital 7 per
cent, would call for £6889 ; and as the new capital doesn’t
appear to have added much to the earning capacity, on
the last two years’ records even 5 per cent. (£4920) seems
a good deal to hope for.
* * * *
Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd., shipowners and
traders, of Sydney and most other places maintain about
the recent high level of prosperity :
Added
Written to Re-
Mar. 31 Profits Dividends off Reserves serves
1896 £106,062
1897 .. £36,187 8 p.c. =£21,400 £lO,OOO £4787 110,849
1898 .. 48,289 „ 21,400 5,000 21,889 132,738
1899 .. 42,212 ~ 21,400 8,550 12,262 145,000
1900 .. 53,072 „ 22,000 31,072 176,072
New Share Premiums added to Reserves, 598 176,670
1901 .. 46,410 ~ 22,000 24,410 201,080
1902 .. 55,219 ~ 22,000 33,219 234,299
1903 .. 52,629 „ 22,000 30,629 264,928
Probably the reserves are £293,886, because there is an
item “ Sundry reserves at branches, £28,958.” Hitherto
this has appeared simply as “ Sundry reserves,” and,
there being nothing to explain where it came from
or what it was for, it wasn’t treated as a reserve, though
attention was directed to the fact that it was on the
premises. With the slight explanation now furnished, it
looks more like a genuine reserve ; and if it has been so
all along the reserves would have moved in this fashion
during the last year or two :
1900 .. .. £190,748 1902 .. .. £255,112
1901 .. .. 219,036 1903 .. .. 293,886
Still, where it comes from isn’t any clearer than it was
before. The directors grieve that drought, and wreck,
and cyclone, and unsettled conditions have affected
results; but as the profits on the total funds at the
commencement of the year (£275,000 capital and £234,299
reserves) are equal to £lO os. 7d. percent., there is no
apparent reason why the house should go into mourning
just yet.
* * * *
The Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Co.
(Sydney) continues its career of gorgeous prosperity,
although its fire losses have been rather heavier than
usual. The capital originally embarked in the co. was
£6250 ; this has been increased to £50,000 out of profits,
and reserves have also been enormously strengthened.
As there is little difference, therefore, in this case between
capital (at any rate, the bulk of the capital) and reserves,
the two are hereunder shown together, though the per-
centage profit is computed on the shareholders’ original
capital:—
Dividends on Total
Capital (£6250) Bonus Added Capital
actually paid to to and
up by Policy- Funds. Re-
Mar. 31, Profits, shareholders, holders. serves.
£, £,££>£
1891 .. 13,155 78 p.c. = 4875 3875 4405 87,937
1892 .. 15,596 80 „ ~ 5002 4002 6592 94,529
1893 .. 15,377 79£ ~ ~4965 3965 6447 100,976
1894 .. 15,069 77| ~ ~ 4848 3848 6373 107,349
1895 .. 15,667 ’ 94 „ „ 5862 3862 5943 113,292
1896 .. 15,087 92 „ „ 5728 3728 5631 118,923
1897 . 15,851 90 ~ ~ 5651 3651 6549 125.472
1898 .. 17,647 91£,, ~ 5720 3720 8207 133,679
1899 17,530 97 „ ~ 6055 4055 7420 141,099
1900 .. 17,213 1131,, ~ 7087 4087 6039 147,138
1901 .. 19,963 112 i ~ ~7036 4036 8891 156,029
1902 .. 17,952 131 J „ ~ 8224 4224 5504 161,533
1903 .. 17,184 132 „ „ 8248 4248 4688 166,221
On the capitalisation as it now appears in the balance-
sheet (£50,000), arrived at, as before explained, through
sending undivided profits that way, the dividend is equal
to 16£ per cent. ; while the combined dividend and
amount added to the funds are equal to a dazzling 207
per cent, on the original investment. The income from
investments was £6490, or something more than the
original capital, and from all sources £42,064, as against
£41,198 in the previous year.
* • • *
S. Australia’s “Royal” Agricultural and Hor-
ticultural Society, which a little while ago had pints of
greasy praise poured over it because it had intimated
that it was willing to accept a reduced Government
grant, seems to be in a very good position to earn more
grease and applause by a further intimation that for the
future it will be able to do without any spoon-feeding at
all. After paying all expenses the society, in the year
ending March 31, 1903, made a profit of £646. It would
still have made £146 without any grant. A show society,
or any other society, which in these times runs as good a
business as that ought to blush violently at the idea of
dipping into the State Treasury for as much as a
ha’penny.
• » • *
The Rivertna Frozen Meat Co. (Melb.) has
had a disastrous year :
v .. Divi- Written Added to Total Re-
rronts. dends ofE Reserves. serves.
1896 ... £2920 Nil £2920 £2,920
1897 .. 2429 ~ 2429 6,349
1898 .. 1898 „ 1300 598 5,947
1899 .. 197 „ 646 5,598
1900 .. 2578 „ 2578 8,176
1901 „ 7413 „ 998 6415 14,591
1902 .. 267 „ 676 14.182
LOSB.
1903 ... 2867 „ 171 H.U4
The co.’s reserve fund account has been brought
down from £5OOO to £2835 ; the balance of the reserves
is in renewal and displacements account. Outside
the business there were no investments, while the
cash balances had got down to below £2 at the end of
the year. Taking fat and lean together, the co. has
earned a trifle over 7 per cent, per annum ; but, as by far
the heaviest streak of fat was apparently due to S’African
war business, and as that sort of business fortunately
doesn’t often happen, whereas, on the other hand, the
effects of the drought will be felt for some years, the
immediate future of the co. looks gloomy. With very
little to do now, and little prospect of doing much for
some time, it has to struggle under a debenture debt of
£15,000 and a bank debt of over £6OOO ; and that it can
hope to pull through is simply due to the fact that it has
hitherto put its profits into reserves. For that alone it
deserves better fortune.
« * * •
What a robber the average shop-keeper is. In
Sydney they' actually raised the price of butter, eggs,
prunes preserved in France, lemons grown at Parramatta
or in Italy, asparagus grown and tinned in California,
and other articles too numerous to mention —on account
of the Victorian Strike ! ! !
m • • »
Maoriland’s year closed on March 31. The
position, as stated by the Treasury, compared with that
of previous financial year is as follows :
1902 1903
Revenue .. £6,152,839 £6,447,435 Inc. .. £294,596
Expenditure.. 5,895,915 6,214,019 Inc. .. 318,104
Surplus .. 256,924 233,416 Dec. .. 23,508
Revenue, it must be remembered, is partly bogus, as it
includes an annual steal of the sinking fund. It is just
as easy to make a paper surplus in Maoriland as it is
anywhere else ; all that has to be done is to charge
war-heroes’ gravestones and other “ permanent and
reproductive” works to loan instead of to revenue. In
the past two years £700,000 has been transferred from
accumulated “ surplus ” to Public Works Fund. Out of
that fund, in the two years ending 31st March, 1902,
£3,452,273 was paid for immigration, railways, roads,
development of gold-fields, telegraph extensions, public
buildings, lighthouses, thermal springs, health and
pleasure resorts, and a great many other “services.”
This was, of course, mostly loan money. If the amount
which went in unproductive works properly chargeable
to revenue exceeded the two alleged surpluses of
£490,340, then Maoriland really had a deficit—possibly
an enormous deficit—even if the annexed sinking fund
moneys are treated as revenue. Maoriland is the only'
State which charges practically none of its public works
to ordinary revenue, and if its finances were put on the
same basis as those of the Commonwealth States, it
would now probably compare badly with at least four of
them. The “ surplus ” is now less than half what it was
three years ago; the expenditure is £1,100,000 more than
it was three years ago ; and the velocity with which the
debt is now increasing is something extraordinary.
• • « *
Queensland, which has just completed its stock
census, finds the figures not quite so bad as it thought
from the preliminary estimates that they would be, but
still ghastly. Some comparisons
Sheep. Cattle.
1860 ... 4,093,381 560,196
1870 7,403,334 1,168,235
1880 8,292,883 3,618.513
1885 8,994,322 4,162,653
1890 18,007,234 5,558,264
1892 (high water mark) .. 21,708,310 6,591,416
1895 19,856,959 6,822,401
1900 " .. .. .. 10,339,185 4,078,191
1901 ' 10,030,970 3,772,707
1902 ’ 7,213,985 2,543,471
• • • •
There are 92 Otago (M.L.) dredging co.’s, which
are either still alive or have been dead only a month or
two. The biggest of them employs under 30 men, and
most of them get along with eight. Their nominal
capital runs from £60,000 down to £1000; the average
for the lot is about £9OOO. Gold worth £388,195 was
sucked or scooped up last y'ear ; and, as £312,765 was spent,
the profit was £75,430. In some cases something has
been written off the tremendous wear and tear from
which every dredging plant suffers; in other cases,
nothing. The best records for the year were made by
the Alexandra Lead, which, on a nominal capital of
£lB,OOO, won gold worth £19,270 ; after this—Electric
(£26,000 capital), £19,931; Earnscleugh(£ll,ooo), £17,719 ;
Perseverance (£14,000), £15,606. At the other end, just
before yields fade away altogether, are Golden Chain,
whose £lO,OOO earned £35, and New River Molyneux,
whose £6OOO earned £45. The most prolific of Otago
dredges—Hartley and Riley—has paid £62,562 on a £7OOO
capital. Though not now right in the first flight this co.
was still able, last year, to bring up £8092 worth.
* * » *
The committee which runs the Renmark (S.A.)
pub. on the Gothenburg plan doesn’t coin money at the
game. On bar receipts of £3577 for the 12 months to
Feb., 1903, the profit was only £251, or about 7 per cent. ;
and even then no very great allowance was made for
the further crumbling of the ruin where the State sells
the beer. Either the committee doesn’t know its busi-
ness, or there isn’t the profit in the bung trade that there
is supposed to be ; the former looks the likelier.
* • * *
Launceston is the green place in the financial
and political wilderness of Tasmania. Among several
municipal enterprises the most ambitious is the supply
of electricity for lighting, heating and motive power.
An analysis of the accounts for the past four years gives
the following results :
1899. 1900. 1901. 1902.
Total Capital ex-
pended .. ..£91,639 £98,794 £105,616 £111,366
Revenue .. .. 6,414 8.305 9,653 11,180
Working Costs .. 2,889 3,339 3,996 4,549
Net Interest .. 3,274 3,477 3,465 3,718
Added to Sinking
Fund .. .. £O3 964 991 1,046
Total Sinking Fund 3,487 4,541 5,532 6,578
Deficit for vear .. 656 Nil Nil Nil
Profit for year Nil 525 1,201 1,867
Oostp.c. of Revenue 45 p.c. 40 - 3p.c. 41 - 3p.c. 40'7p.c.
The profit, which is now increasing in a handsome way,
is arrived at after wiping off an average of about 1 per
cent, of capital expended as a sinking-fund contribution.
Presumably, in view of the larger profits which are being
made, a larger contribution will now be made to this
sinking-fund. The working profit compared with capital
is increasing in a very large way indeed. In 1899, taking
the mean of the capital in the' concern, the return was
3.86 per cent.; last year, it was 6.02 per cent., and the
advance to that point had been by regular stages. No
doubt Launceston municipality is very happily situated to
carry on this enterprise ; but, even making allowances on
that account, its experience is decidedly encouraging to
other similar bodies.
• * • *
S.A. Government Geologist Brown is back in
Adelaide from Arltunga. He was implored to say some-
thing which might resurrect some of the cats which his
wires had killed : but he only proceeded to make them
deader than they were before. The Reward claim hasn’t,
he says, anything on the surface to encourage deep sink-
ing ; it hasn’t a reef —and it takes a good deal of skill to
miss including something that at least looks like a reef
when you take up a lease in the Far North ranges. The
Coronation has a reef, he says, which may go down ; yet
he could only trace that formation—the best marked on
the field—for about 100yds. Coorong and Junction are
also possibles. Everything, however, is small —and a
small thing 425 miles from the nearest railway station,
said railway station being 688 miles from the nearest city,
is a very small thing indeed. “ Geology ” Brown’s pre-
viously-formed favorable opinion of the White Ranges,
up in the same general direction, where the Government
has had a small plant at work for some time, was, how-
ever, further confirmed by another look-round this trip.
* * * *
Melb. people, advised by somebody with ex-
perience of the Russian oil wells, threaten to give the
alleged Coorong oil formations (S.A.) a trial by boring ;
36,500 acres have been taken up by the Australian Oil
Concessions and Development Co. The locality is low-
lying land near the Murray mouth, where the swamp
water often carries a thin film of oil. The late J. B.
Austin wrote several cwt. of letters, spread over 25 or 30
years, trying to induce somebody to give the place a
trial, but never succeeded. Oil-film can be found in*
many places along the coast right down to the Vic.
border.
• » » •
A Broken Hill prospecting party is back from
Arltunga. “We brought no specimens with us, be-
cause,” the leader told the interviewer, “ we are not
forming companies. And, anyway, specimens for that
purpose can always be got if they are wanted.” That
ought to give comfort to quite a number of Arltunga
syndicate shareholders who have bought in on the
strength of a “ slug.”
• • * •
Cope’s Creek Dredging Co., Tingha (N.S.W.),
now three years old, pays its first div. of 6d., equal to
£9OO, or 10 per cent, per annum. Profits (exclusive of
any writing-off, but with a deduction of £4Ol for main-
tenance and new plant) amounted to £4011; but £2OOO of
this had to go to wiping off a debt on preference shares.
The preference now ceases. There is a surplus of liquid
assets over liabilities of £102“. The “paddock” from
which most of the tin was got has, however, been worked
out, and the dredge has lately been working in another
place. Two-and-a-half barren years, winding up with a
deficit on profit and loss account, follow'ed by a half-year
such as this, sufficiently show what an erratic business
tin-mining, and especially tin-dredging, is.
June 17 will be an important day in the history
of mining in N.S.W., as it will mark the throwing open
of large areas of copper-bearing land to the prospector.
Through an oversight in framing the Mining on Private
Lands Act, copper was exempt from its provisions.
Session after session the Upper House rejected a Bill to
remedy this defect, but ultimately gave way. Private
owners are allowed until the 17th prox. to make applica-
tions for leases in the ordinary way, after which date
there will be no restriction on the prospector. Wardens
are sure to have a busy time issuing “authorities to
enter.”
• * * *
The Lloyd copper-mine, Burraga (N.S.W.) is in
full swing again. There is a plentiful supply of water,
and no further stoppage for lack of this element is
probable. Since the resumption of work the monthly
despatches have averaged about 185 tons of copper. On
this output, which, it is said, can be maintained for
years from ore actually in sight, there ought to be a good
profit. Shares are in demand in London at about 12s.—
a rise of over 4s. on February quotation.
• * • *
Mount Boppy (Cobar, N.S.W.) return for March
was 21320 z. from 2438 tons. Latest mail from London
reported buvers of the stock at 355., with sellers wide.
It is stated that the co. will shortly add 40 stampers to
the battery. Local reports indicate that the mine con-
tinues to develop well at the deeper levels.
* * * *
Lead is worth £lllls. 9d., against £l2 12s. 6d.
a month ago ; and, though this weakening will prevent
the systematic working of the northern group of Broken
Hill mines, managers are being appointed to get things
ready. J. H. Stockdale, lately engineer of Block 10, has
been appointed manager of Junction North. The plant,
never of much account, has fallen into a shocking state
of disrepair. Still it is probably as good as the mine.
The North mill, most of which is new, is being got ready
by D. Edwards, re-appointed engineer. Block 14 has
been kept fairly ready throughout.
* * • *
The sensitiveness of the spelter (zinc) market
was shown last week when, apparently on the cable that
the Broken Hill Prop, had decided to put up a plant to
work the Delprat process, the market slumped 15s.—
from £2l 17s. 6d. to £2l 2s. 6d. And yet the B.H. Prop,
directors had been advised that market prospects of
spelter were brighter than usual.
* * • *
Great Boulder South (W.A.) has been recon-
structed in conjunction with the Boulder Bonanza. The
new co. is to have 350,000 shares, of which Great Boulder
South shareholders are to get 200,000, or one for each
share held, and Boulder Bonanza 80,000, or one for each
two held, while 70,000 are to be held in reserve. Why
the shareholders of one wild cat are to receive better
treatment than the shareholders of the other is unex-
plained. There is an assessment of 3s. per share on the
issued scrip, which will realise £42,000. Frank Gardner
told the meeting that he held 100,000 shares in the former
and all the shares in the latter co., and consequently
would have to fork out £27,000, or nearly two-thirds of
the funds required. Shareholders have been buoyed
up bv the yarn that the two properties are the “ deep
levels ”of the Golden Mile. In the S’African sense of the
term, this is flam ; all the Kalgoorlie lodes dip west,
while these blocks are south of the payable belt. The
chutes, as a rule, dip south, but by the time they reach
these wild cats, if they continue so far, they will he down
deeper than the few thousands to be raised are likely to
go. However, Kalgoorlie is dull and full of unemployed,
and £42,000 will do something.
• * * *
Fremantle (W.A.) smelting works, now owned
by still another co., are to be once more remodelled and
“ a new and more economical process ’’ installed. Which
experience only goes to prove over again that the mining
or ore-treating co. which doesn’t write off at least 25 per
cent, per annum of the cost of construction must, sooner
or later, go into the melting-pot itself. In 12 years the
Broken Hill Prop. 00. has put £1,249,963 into plant and
machinery, which is now valued, even by the co. itself, at
only £414,000.
* * * *
At one bound the nominal capitalisation of
the Bull-owned Perseverance (Westralian) mine springs
from £175,000 to £1,500,000. Later on, when the gilt is
off the ginger-bread, somebody will point out that the
concern is only returning 2J per cent, on the watered
capital, and the workpeople who resist a reduction of
wages will be denounced as selfish and rapacious
brigands who haven’t any sympathy with capital, and
the public will agree that it’s a case in which the men
ought to concede something. Sooner or later it always
happens. And still the work people “ can’t be bothered
about finance,” and on the whole are rather glad than
otherwise when mining shares are booming.
• * •
Millionaire (W.A.), floated three years ago by
one-month Premier A. E. Morgans, owns 72 acres, and
has a nominal capital of £125,000, of which £12,000 in £1
shares is held in reserve. Mine is now equipped with
5 head of 17501 b. stamps and cyanide plant, and is
expected to treat 800 tons monthly. Some months ago
200 tons from the 100 ft. were treated for 2200 z., but this
was a picked parcel, and the general grade is not con-
sidered better than 15dwt. The mine may be expected
to give a fairly good account of itself, and add 600 oz. to
the monthly output.
• * • •
Associated Northern (W.A.), has been going
dead slow with the sinking of No. 1 shaft, which was
expected to reach the rich chute, located by the diamond
drill, quite a month ago. However, before the month ex-
pires, the ore should be reached. The proposed amalga j
mation with adjoining properties has evidently fizzled
out, as the ordering of the treatment plant, hung up
on that account, ha» at last been accomplished, and th*
Plant should be going this year. Meantime shipments of
°re to Dapto smelters continue. The result of the bore
On the co.’s Iron Monarch lease, one of the three outside
blocks owned, was much better than expert d ; it is
alleged that a body of ore 20ft. wide, worth 26dwt., was
cut at 300 ft. A second bore is now going down, and, if
it confirms the first, a shaft will be sunk. These outside
blocks have been utterly neglected hitherto, owing to
loose administration of mining laws. Co.’s third div. of
55., payable 30th inst., brings total to £262,500. All this
in four years, on an original working capital of £lOO,OOO,
which is still intact.
• • • •
Atlas, Kalpini (W.A)., which has been greatly
hampered by scarcity of water, has completed a water
shaft, and its 10-head mill is now in work. The mill and
cyanide plant will treat 1000 tons monthly for an esti-
mated yield of 600 oz. Enough ore has been developed to
employ the mill for two years, so the mine should be a
regular producer in future. The mine is splendidly
equipped ; the whole process from the time the ore
enters the skips is automatic, wherefore it is expected
that 5 to 6dwt. will meet all costs.
» * * •
Associated (W.A.) is still groping for the con-
tinuation of the Oroya-Brown Hill chute. Three bores
have been put down without success. As the Oroya
management took months to locate the chute, owing to
its having been thrown quite 100 ft. to the east, the
Associated’s failure is not surprising. From its outcrop
on the Brown Hill the lode has already been proved
nearly 3000 ft., and there is no reason why it should
suddenly vanish. Expert Ledoux is still trying to reduce
costs, but the plant handicaps him.
» • * *
North Boulder (W.A), since its amalgamation
with the adjoining Bank of England, is again getting to
work, and has transferred the Bank’s surface equipment
to the Boulder. A. G. Charlton, president of London
Institute of Mining Engineers, has been on the spot
giving his advice, but, as he can’t provide the co. with
a pay chute, his co-operation is of no practical value.
As in the case of the Brown Hill Extended a rich chute
crossed the nor’ west corner, and, on its depletion, the
glory of the co. departed There has been considerable
activity in the shares of late, but, as there are 315,000
issued and 85,000 in reserve, it is a risky stock. In any
case it is a gamble, as eight years’ fossicking on its three
blocks has failed to disclose anything of value bar
the short length of chute already referred to and long
since worked out. The co. has paid Is. 9d. per share in
divs., but part of the cash was obtained by issuing re-
serve shares at a premium.
• » » *
Princess Royal, Norseman (W. A.), is not going
to John Bull, after all. Its shareholders wisely refused
to accept two shares for one in a new co., capitalised in
300,000 shares of £1 apiece, and give London boodlers
140,000 for engineering the deal. The present co. can
pay, or at least is paying, Is. a month, or £48,000 a year.
Moreover, the slimes plant will shortly add to the yield
and enhance the profits. This co. is far the most suc-
cessful of the Australian-run mines of W.A., and it would
be a pity if it were handed over to the tender mercies of
Bull. North and South P. Royal have been enjoying
some reflected glory ; apart from that, there appears to
be nothing to justify the attention paid to them by
ecrippers.
• • » *
Lake View Consols (W.A.) has recently been
prominently, not to say hysterically, brought before the
public, because of the discovery of an alleged new lode in
the north drive at 300 ft. This is probably nothing but
the main lode, which was lost in the drive, and has been
found by a short crosscut. It has often been alleged that
this lode was purposely lost at the 300 and 400 ft. levels,
some years ago, in order to suit certain market manipula-
tions ; and as hundreds of feet were driven in country at
the 400 ft. level, there may be something in it. If such
should prove to be the case, it will of course place the
mine in a far better position ; but it is yet too early to
jump to conclusions.
Tower Hill Park estate, S. Vic., has been let
tor a term of years at from 455. to 655. per acre per
annum. When normal years come round again up North,
there will be a relief fund In full blast for distressed
cookies down South, who have taken land on long lease
at famine prices, with the idea that the starving stock
business would last for ever.
(Continued on page SO.)


JONES AND COMPANY,
High=Class
Hatters
Gent’s Black, High-Grade Fur,
Semi-Stiff, Felt Hats.
10s. 61, 12s, 6d„ 14s, 6d„ 15s, 6d.
George and Barrack Streets, Sydney.
Society
[?]
[?]
A CHANGE TO JUMP AT.
“The bazaar held in aid of the new Catholic Church,
at Townsville, was a great success. The refreshment-
stall had the best takings.” —News Item.
CLISTIAN CHOW (at the church-bazaar): “You
take a ticket alonga blide cake; suppose you
loin ’em, you malty me.”
In Brisbane the plague has taken a fresh
“holt,” but the scare is as dead as some of the
patients, and in one of the thickly-populated
suburbs they refused to put on an additional half-
penny rate, and are dismissing two health inspec-
tors on the ground of economy. This in a dirty
district where the worst type of plague has
appeared, and where typhoid and scarlatina are
doing the undertakers a good turn.
After all, the first practical use made of
the Adelaide Crematorium (except for the vile
goat on which the experiment was tried) was not
at the expense of one of the enthusiastic pro-
moters. One of the very few Sikhs in Adelaide
died recently, and his friends, not being able to
arrange for the burning between two piles of
wood (required in strictness for his eternal
welfare), obtained the use of the Governmental
furnace. The eventual product, which made a
very small parcel, is to be sent to India to be
scattered upon a sacred stream there.
• » * •
“ C.C.” : Owe’Sullivan’s out-spoken ness
upon the railway strike, and the way he has of
throwing himself into the collar when his
colleagues want to sit down in silence, reminds
me of an accident to a mixed team in Tassy. A
farmer was bringing a heavy drayload of potatoes
on to a jetty for shipment. Between the shafts
was a fine heavy draught horse, and in the lead
two staunch working bullocks. The driver put
on his brake and shouted “ Whoa ! ” The horse
at once sat back in the breeching for all he was
worth, but the bullocks went stolidly forward
towing the broken shafts behind them —leaving
their flabbergasted owner staring stupidly at his
faithful horse struggling beneath an avalanche of
spuds. Now, in my mind’s eye, Owe’Sullivan
tows the wrecked State cart at his heels, and
Owe’-See is buried up to his neck in spuds.
» • * *
Sydney Telegraph could not fight fairly
if it tried—not that it ever did try. Seeking to
inflame public opinion against the strikers, with
a variety of scare heads it printed on Saturday
“Prospect of famine prices.” Then a close
inspection of the column disclosed a par. in
which, on being interviewed, persons in the
provision trade stated that there was NO pros-
pect of famine prices. Yet if a rival rag pub-
lished the heading “Horrid Murder_ by the
Editor of the Telegraph,” and then said below
that there wasn’t the least reason to believe he
had ever committed any crime at all, he would
probably be quite angry.
“ J.F.D.” : A man who wit-
nesses a Sydney tram accident has
greatness thrust upon him. One
tram was following another in
front of my shop the other day.
Rear tram playfully butted the front
one, and it was all over. A female
passenger fell off in a faint on my
side of the road, and I picked her up
and carried her out of the smoke
and din of battle to the footpath.
Failed to bring her to, so a police-
man hailed a cab and took her
to the hospital. When he
returned about an hour
afterwards, I had been in-
terviewed by five different
tramway officials, who
took my name and ad-
dress in five separate
pocketbooks, each spel-
ling it a different way.
The policeman also
took it, and spelled
it right (it’s an
Irish name). I ex-
plained the collision
thoroughly to 32
different persons
who were hanging
about, also to eight
neighbors who stop-
ped me when going
down the street. Fi-
nally I contradicted a
rumor which was spreading
in the back street that I
was seen carrying my
mother hopelessly drunk
across the road. After
everything had regained
its normal condition a man
nine parts drunk inter-
viewed me and represented
himself as the fainting
lady’s husband. He greeted
me effusively, and informed
me that he was going with
my help to knock green
Sheol out of the Tramway
Commissioners. I excused
myself from going to drink
success to his claim on the
ground that it wouldn’t be good form for a
witness to be seen drinking with the plaintiff, but
he returned after closing time, and adjured me
through the keyhole to stick to him and give lots
of strong evidence as to the frightful injuries his
wife had sustained.
* * » *
Re that Charters Towers lady who was
suddenly interrupted by the president of the
Women’s Franchise League just as she was
explaining how she had visited the Jap. quarter
of the Towers and been rushed by the immoral
brown ladies with cries of “Gimme five bob,” a
correspondent writes to explain why the interest-
ing lady was so violently suppressed. His story
is that she was just beginning to give the names of
the leading gentlemen she met in Jap.-town when,
in a metaphorical way of speaking, an avalanche
of horrified female fell on her and smothered her.
Gallantly the Courtship sails,
Braving many storms and gales.
When it strikes the Marriage reef
Gallant Courtship comes to grief.
THE ETERNAL PROBLEM.
“ This is the hinquiry hoffis, hain't it? ”
“Fes.”
“ Well, tell me, is my ’at on straight? ”
A letter from Westralia :
The rush out from Australia isn’t all Africa-wards.
The N.D.L.’s 10,000 tonner Rhein left Fremantle, the
other day, crowded like an immigrant ship. Third-
cabiners included English, Scotch, Irish, Kangaroosters,
Norwegians, Scandinavians, Germans, Austrians, and
Italians. There was an Australian farmer intending to
“take up” land in Ireland, and another bound for
Canada, and some were heading for the States, and the
rest were bound for all parts of the earth.
This time it’s Alderman Joshua Stokes,
mayor of Bowral, who wires (presumably at
Bowral’s expense, and Bowral wall be asking
presently for more State grant to mend its foot-
paths with): —
Consensus of opinion in this town is that your action
as regards the railway strike is the only honorable stand
that could be taken when a small section of the com-
munity endeavors to make the Government subservient
to law and order. Accept our congratulations. Trust
your Government will stand firm.
The infamous idea of making Government
subservient to law and order is one which
can’t be too strongly condemned, and Aid.
Jehosaphat Spooks has earned the gratitude
of his country by protesting against it—even
at his country’s expense. No Government
ought to be subservient to law or to have
any foolish regard for order; and any small
section of the community that thinks otherwise
ought to be pulled up with a sharp jerk and then
jumped on with great vigor. Doubtless Aid.
Jonah Snooks didn’t intend to tell any great
truth, but he did ; and what Irvine and Bent said,
when they got Bowral’s congratulations for pur-
suing a policy of lawlessness and disorder, is
probably unfit for publication.
* * * •
The first train that left Echuca for Bendigo
during the strike had three passengers, five
policemen, three men on the engine (two of them
quivery old sexagenarians, with a younger man to
see that neither.of them fell off the footplate) and
a guard. There were several such trains wandering
helplessly over Bent’s railways in those early,
stormy days. As a rule, when the affair hove in
sight ii days late and valiantly doing six miles an
hour, trie first thing that attracted attention was
two or three great masses of white whiskers hang-
ing like clouds about the locomotive. Then the
big iron insect crawled nearer and the half-
blind venerables became visible, groping for the
right handle to turn, and looking anxiously
through their spectacles to ascertain if it was a
railway-station or a tree they had arrived at.
Finally the local storekeeper, the local alderman,
and the local butcher cheered vociferously, and a
dog rushed along the platform at top speed, and
the local goat looked through the fence, and the
local editor fled back to his office to dash off an
item stating that the country was saved.
* • • •
Hector M‘Donald’s self-destruction was
the cause of at least one suicide in Maoriland, and
how many more it may have caused will probably
not be known till the last day. Hardly anyone of
note goes out of the world by the backdoor with-
out drawing the attention of others to the seldom
used exit and inducing them to try it. Yet
suicide is possibly very futile. Before John Jones
is cut down he may, with the last expiring rem-
nant of his consciousness as Jones, be hearing the
doctor congratulating Mrs. O’Flannergan on her
bounding youngster, and John Jones be that
youngster, starting again the same life he had
taken so much trouble to finish.
“T.D. : I rise to defend the sixpenny
restaurant against the implied aspersion
° f “^??> rge Collingridge” and
Robert Hap.” The six-
penny feed is no
more a matter of
fuesswork than the
ive shilling meal.
In the sixpenny shop
I have had succulent
steaks and chops, which
were oases in the desert
of meat
obtained , elsewhere-
potatoes boiled to the
very moment when a
potato is something to
rejoice over; and other
stuff which, if mysteri-
ous, was no more so
than half the things
one gets at the swell
eating-house.. “Colo-
nial goose” fa leg of
mutton boiled in a
jacket of dough) used
to be a big thing in the
sixpenny shop until a
decade ago. It seems
to have disappeared
from most menus. The
“sprat” three-course
dinner used to look
clean, which is more
chan I could always say
for swell places, which
gave me cockroaches in
oyster souc, and similar
As a boy, I
used to deiTght in watching
the rats, tarantulas, and
other large brown insects,
wandering about the kitchen
of a very fashionable Sydney
hotel. Later in life, a quarrel
between the two Chow cooks
at a swell afternoon resort led
me into the kitchen. It wife so abominably dirty
that I went out again hurriedly and was very ill.
• * f
Governor Raw'son, at Lismore (N.S.W.),
made a strong effort to stir up trouble
and strife in that peaceful, sleepy little town.
His Ex., evidently without forethought, said “he
desired to see the names of all the early pioneers
recorded in the town halls or agricultural
halls as those who had borne the burden and
heat of the day.” If the suggestion bears
fruit, it is safe to predict a warm time while
the names are being chosen. The original
pioneers of the district where writer was
born have mostly retired years ago to paupers’
graves or the Liverpool poorhouse. The men
whose names will, in all probability, be painted
up are Murphy, the cheap cash draper and the
present Mayor; Dolan, landlord of the Royal,
who will be Mayor next year ; Moses Slush, the
solicitor ; and a few more of the tin-pot aldermen
of the town ; also the town-clerk and the preacher.
The men who punched bullocks and built the little
ruined farmhouses over there on the hill will be
forgotten. And, by the way, what right has
every little fleeting Mayor to stick his name on
every horse trough and dog fountain erected in
his borough ? Writer is shortsighted and when he
first visited Sydney Town Hall he strained his
eyes to read an inscription running over the big
organ. He fancied it might be some great thought
or gem of immortal inspiration. And it was
“John Harris, Mayor.”
• • • •
How the Fatmen suffered during the rail-
way strike ! From Melb. Argus (11/5/’O3) • “ City
merchants crowded into trams or cabs beside their
employees and clerks.” Terrible ! terrible !
* • * *
Vic. railway strike was a godsend to the
Melb. tram co., which estimated that its takings
were swelled by between .£llOO and £l2OO a day
while it continued. The co. was allowed to
freely break the law as to overcrowding. The
Irvine-Bent crowd has a natural sympathy for
law-breaking.
• • * *
Sydney University this year lets loose
29 more fledgling medicos on the community-
all men. Though the medical profession is
already overcrowded, it is increasing in popu-
larity with the “ What-to-do-with-our-boy ’ papa.
Still it is not so with the “ What-to-do-with-our-
girl ” mamma. Experience shows that the
feminine doctor is rarely a success. She either
grows rapidly old through hard work and long
and trying hours, or she marries Dr. Sawbones
opposite, a result which, though perhaps satis-
factory enough to all concerned, makes the out-
lay on her professional course sheer waste.
THE OBSTACLE.
“Corsets for men are now fashionable.”— ltem.
HE: “ Audrey, my angel, why should your mother
object to me?"
AUDREY: “ George, dear, ’tis so painful, but she
says that you tight-lace.”
N.S.W. Arbitration Court has effectively
blocked the attempt of some of the Northern
collieries to reduce wages, by ordering a, contin •
ance of the present hewing rate during
Some of the proprietors—not the union ones, u
co.’s which wished to secede from their own E
ployers’ agreement —suggested the reduction, l
had been enforced a bitter strike would nave
lowed, but the law prevents that trouble, a
refuses to allow any reduction until it is prove
be justifiable. . *
RHE RAIN AND THE SEA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The patter of rain on the window, the boom of distant
sea,
Through dull-grey mists of morning are calling, are call-
ing to me :
“ Come, free thyself from the fetters ; loosen thy soul
from its clay;
Part from the sinning and sorrow ; trust not the hope of
to-day 1
“ Let the earth whirl with its millions, swing on its old,
weary round; *
Hunger and hatred and cunning, falsehood and vapor
and sound I
List to the chorus of laughter that’s chanting the old
refrain,
Mocking the song of the dreamer, stinging with pitiless
pain 1
“ Peace, dreamless peace never ending. Nature is
kindest of all;
Gently to Lethe she’ll bear thee, gently the shadow will
fall! ”
Thus, in the grey gloom of dawning, the rain and the
wise old sea,
Across the roofs of the city, their voices are calling to
me.
J.J.B.
AN UNANNOUNCED ARRIVAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
N.S.W.
He arrives without display,
Beat of drum or trumpet’s blare—
Is, in fact, a stowaway
From we know not where.
In his wardrobe you will find
Naught whatever ; his array—
And I cannot call to mind
Anj’ change—is grey.
Yet his presence sends a thrill
Through the city. >len of size.
Shiver as if winds were chill,
And have terror in their eyes.
And his name is widely known
To the public—and the cat.
If you meet him, kindly stone
That bubonic rat!
PERCY MILNE.


A recenb estimate of the number of lepers
in the world gives China and Siam 2,800,000, and
India 200,000. All things considered, Australia
has had a lot of luck not to have got a great deal
more leprosy with its cabbage.
Wild’s, in the Sydney Arcade, is the most
fashionable gentlemen’s hairdressing saloon in
Sydney. Every attention possible is paid to the
customers by six expert hairdressers. Address.—
30 Sydney Arcade, entrance from Georg ;-street
or King street, Sydney. *
SILVER
STAR
STARCH
THE
BEST
IN
THE
WORLD
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
Australia's
Leading Tonic
Beverage .
The strongest proof that a certain hot and
objectionable character looks after his own was
afforded by the fact that Bent’s amateur drivers
got through their first day’s graft without killing
anyone. Two of them were on a suburban engine
about to start when the gauge-glass burst —-a
common enough occurrence and easily remedied.
These two promptly jumped from the foot-plate
and “got” for their lives, the loco-boiler blowing
itself down till a foreman shut the steam off
and took it away. Another let his water run so low
that tbe lead plug, inserted in the fire box crown,
melted. He had a roaring fire in at the time, but
whether the escaping steam put the fire out, or
the latter withstood the damping process and
finally blew up the boiler, didn’t worry him. He
was half-way down the street before the shed
foreman could draw the tire. Up at Benalla,
where the yokels were particularly “loyal,” a
couple of donkey-pump drivers volunteered to
run a belated goods train down to the city. They
got as far as Avenel, and there the dilapidated
machine ran off the line, and for days the whole
outfit lay straddled across the metals.
* * * »
An extraordinary suit for nullity of mar-
riage, said to be the first of its kind in Australia,
has just finished its course in Brisbane. The
plaintiff alleged coercion and various mesmeric in-
fluences against her husband and stated that he had
aloaded revolver ready for instant use if she didn’t
come right along and be married there and then
at the Registrar’s. She claimed to have been
married at the cannon’s mouth, so to speak. But
the cold, unfeeling Registrar considered rather
that she had come to him as a bright glad female
who had no cares upon her mind ; also various
lady “ friends ” spoke a piece—several pieces, in
fact. Finally, Chief Justice Griffith cast a lack-
lustre eye and a d'af ear on to the lady’s plaint,
and she is still a Mrs. against her inclination.
* • • *
Old Thos. Elder would turn in his grave
if he could see what has been done with the
money he left to build cottage homes in Adelaide.
The ‘cottages’ are fine houses, worth every bit of
15s per week, and are let for about 11s. They
are tenanted by some fairly wealthy folk, and
the poor person doesn’t stand a show, but, all
the same, it was the poor person for whom Elder
left the money.
* * • •
The grotesque British institution that
(for cash) supplies family trees to the wealthy
lower orders is doing well just now out of
Australians. A dozen years ago it
was only K.C.M.G.’s. who applied
with marked cheques ; only a dozen
years ago C.M.G’s. grew rampant
but now Ministers of the Crown,
and even honorary Ministers place
applications on the books. They all
want it to appear they “came over
with the Conqueror,” or something
like that. And the S.S.P. (snobs
supplied with pedigrees) insti-
tution will show, for a suf-
ficient consideration, that your
ancestor arrived in England
with Canute, or that Julius
Cjesar found him on the shore
upon arrival. Woefully uncon-
vincing are these pedigrees,
but they seem to bring comfort
to a certain class of mind. If
the world were only half as
ambitious to be an ancestor as
it is to have one it would be a
much more strenuous world.
• •
Victoria’s recent regula-
tion that the small boy who
smokes “butts” on the rail-
ways shall pay full fare, has
had just as much effect as
the similar rule in N.S.W.;
that is to say, Bent bel»
lowed something to that
effect in a loud voice, and
the insignificant infant replied by smoking
and riding the same as before. Also, he now
draws on the carriage walls sketches of a man
with a large bingie and a small head wearing
a big cigar, with insulting observations at the foot
of the picture. The small boy has even less
respect for Bent s roar than the grown-up citizen
has.
• * * •
A fashionable Adelaide church also runs a
“ mission,” and has always felt good and snuffled
a great deal about “ making a sacrifice ” in the
interests of “ poor people who can’t afford to sup-
port a church of their own.” But lately somebody
analysed a Sunday’s collections, and "found that
nearly three-fourths of the coins which the
snuffling big-church people slipped into the box
were “thrummers,” and that, though only every
eighth coin in the boxes at that church was a
shilling, every sixth coin in the “ poor people’s ”
mission-hall box was of that size. The discovery
ought to end the snuffle and patronage, but it
pretty certainly won’t; for quite a lot of people’s
religion consists of snuffling over and patronising
some “poor brother ” or “sister.”
• * »
Dear Bulletin. —The Fox v. Tremvith
case (now profitably dead) has enabled me to solve
the hitherto unsolvable riddle—“ What happens
when an irresistible force meets an immovable
obstacle?” Answtr: “Each side pays its own
costs ! ’’ —O.C.C.
There is a sort of genial and easy swindle
worked in most country towns, and often as it is
worked the dupes never seem to drop. Most of
the inhabitants are stationary, and
never leave—except occasionally
ina violent hurry. But there is
a small, itinerant section, in-
cluding civil servants and bank
officials, and it works tho
oracle thus Say Mr. Bink,
the bank manager, is leav-
ing ; then Jink, the postmas-
ter, proposes that a purse of
sovereigns be presented to
him for his services. It is
done. Then, when Jink de-
parts, Wink, the road super.,
suggests a gold watch for
Jink. And when road-super-
intendent Wink is removed,
Fink, the C.P.S., suggests, &c.
And Link, the grocer, and Kink,
the publican, subscribe their little
ss. every time towards the testi-
monials of Bink and Jink and Wink,
and will subscribe to that of Fink later
on ; but because they never leave (except
hurriedly), their testimonial never arrives.
Whaffor ?
• » •
Be the Hebraic aboriginal
(8., 11/4/’O3) (One of the cranks who
discovers the Lost Tribes of Israel in
the Welsh or the Red Indians of
America, goes one better than all
predecessors (according to the Jewish
World), and locates the Germans
as representing the tribe of Judah, the
British Ephraim, and the Japanese Manasseh !
The Japanese Jew is an entirely new idea. After
all, one could wear down one’s nose a good deal
in 3000 years.
• • • *
At a meeting of the N.S.W. Sanitary
Inspectors’ Association in Sydney recently, some
allegations were made, which, if only half true,
ought to erect the hair of the average citizen so
suddenly that he’ll lose his hat for good. One
speaker pointed out that a potent factor in causing
ill-health and disease, especially in towns, was
the insanitary habits practised in many important
trades, such as barbers, butchers, fish and oyster
dealers’, &c. Fish and rabbit hawkers, as well as
the festive “ bottle-oh ” were also commented
upon for their unclean habits. The speaker then
complained that it was quite useless to try and
make this class of dirty person conduct himself
and his business with proper sanitary pre-
cautions, as in N.S.W. there were no laws on
the Statute Book by which he could be made to do
so. Several other speakers mentioned cases,
which had come under their personal observation,
where persons in the last stages of consumption
were employed actively in dairies, milk shops,
bakeries, &c.
* * • *
N.S.W. Governor ftawson observed (or
might have) much about Australian back-country
life on his recent Western tour. At one ball, the
local M.P., after presenting every lady in the
room to the Governor, danced the lancers with a
neglected damsel weighing 18st. (Note, there is
womanhood suffrage in N.S.W.) The undertaker
in one town was asked to meet the Governor, but
he couldn’t; he had loaned his pot-hat to a civic
dignitary. (Note, the pot-hat convention prevents
many worthy people from meeting the Governor.)
FASHION PLATE ITEM.
HE: “ Oh, I beg pardon, I did not know this
was the bathroom.”
According to Judge Docker’s logic, the
N.S.W. First Offenders Act can only be applied
to persons who plead guilty. In the case where
Docker reached this eminently Dockerian con-
clusion, the accused was a lad charged with
assaulting a girl. He swore to his own innocence.
It was word v. word, and the jury believed the
girl, and Docker refused the benefit of the Act,
accordingly. Therefore it appears (1) that the
man who, by his own showing, is certainly guilty
is set free, while the man who may be innocent
and convicted by mistake goes to gaol; (2) that if
the person accused of a first offence is innocent, it
is better for him to tell Judge Docker that he’ is
guilty and be convicted and set free under the
Act, than tell the truth with a fair chance of
being convicted and not set free.
* * • •
The new religion set going at Bendigo
(Vic.) by Flitterer is “orlright.” “ The adherents
do no work, refusing even to chop wood.” If the
Flitterers can make suie of three meals a day on
that basis, there is a great future ahead of them.
AT THE TELEPHONE.
THE PANAMA YOUTH : “ Aw—is that —aw —
Seraggs, the butcher?... Aw — well, y’know
—aw — you’ve left vs without brains — aw—the
last two days — aw.” (And he wondered why
the housemaid giggled.)
Previous to the engine-drivers’ strike, and
whilst the trouble was in its first stage, the Mel-
bourne police were distinctly favorable to the
prospect of a row. They wanted the strike to
scare the Government, and thus ensure a repeal
of the Order-in-Council wherewith Chief Sec.
Murray aggrieved the whole force last year by
putting back the age of retirement from 60 to 65.
But when the inevitable rough element—the
camp-followers of strikes, Jingo demonstrations,
or any. other sort of public excitement—gave
indications of restiveness, poor “Bobby’s” sym-
pathies veered to the side of lawangovernment.
The “ blokes ” who revel in disorder are
“Bobby’s” natural enemies all the time, and
his safety lies in moving them on. All the same,
the strike has served to remind Irvine that
a Government which has no military force of its
own, and which steals the policeman’s super-
annuation money and deprives him of five years’
pension, and otherwise irritates him to even a
thought of rebellion, is taking serious risks.
The order by which the policeman must keep on
duty till he is 65 is pretty certain to be cancelled
shortly.
• • •
“ D.” : I lately sojourned a month in that
excellent institution, the Carrington Convalescent
Hospital at Camden (N.S.W.)
I found the incessant growling
of the foreign section of the in-
mates most depressing. They
had always a grievance of some
sort. Some grumbled because,
being rheumatic subjects, they
were given eggs for breakfast
instead of fried sausages; others
because the tea was not sweet-
ened to their taste; while others
complained of not receiving
enough medicine. I was parti-
cularly pestered by the wrath
—which he grunted out in an
unbroken monotone and in
broken English—of a greasy-
looking Russian Jew. One day
I recounted to the inmates my
experience of a similar hospital
in Southern Russia, and there-
after the Russian would merely
frown and glare when he saw
me. There were also a German
and an Austrian who seldom
sat to a meal without enlarging
on the superior diet provided
in similar institutions in their
country, and this, too, with
grilled steak in front of them
for breakfast. Yet none of
these ungrateful malcontents
were contributing one cent
towards their maintenance.
One of the sensations of Sydney just now
is the Malone-Magon-Schaffer case, in which a
married woman and her mother are charged with
extracting, at the point of a huge carving knife
and the muzzle of a revolver, or some similar
artillery, an admission from Miss Schaffer that
she was guilty of impropriety with Mrs. Malone’s
husband. Every week the case moves on a stage,
and then is remanded, generally to a court in
another suburb ; and a well-dressed crowd of idle
women are following it around, to the great
advantage of the tramway revenue.
* • * •
At a recent meeting of the Norwood
(Adelaide suburban) municipal council one of the
chief subjects of discussion was a pathetic request
from the Town Hall porter for a vote for repairs
because the seat of the pants of his uniform was
worn out. The alderrnanic business is pretty
squalid when it won’t raise enough rates to keep
the back part of its liveried menial’s habiliments
presentable.
“K.K.”: Be widows marrying. It’s not
the deceased hubby’s coin that is the widow’s
chief charm. It is the manner she has acquired
in her chase and capture of the wily Willie.
Nothing teaches a man the art of fishing for
salmon like the handling of a rod and the actual
landing of a fish. Same with women and hus-
bands. Let a female get a husband out of the
water of courtship on to|the dry land
of matrimony, and she goes up
immensely in skill as an angler.
It is the confidence given by
success. Hence their successful
whipping of streams that virgins
have tried and declared hopeless.
Perhaps it’s just as well. The
taste for husbands is an acquired
taste, which becomes a passion.
The straits to which Irvine and Bent were
driven to obtain engine-drivers capable of taking
trains along the track without smashing either
the passengers or the rolling stock within the first
half-hour, is shown by their action in respect to a
late employee who was doing a term for vagrancy.
Every name on the list of men discharged for
drunkenness, accident, or criminality was care-
fully looked up, and endeavors made to trace the
owners; and, eventually, Irvine found that this
particular individual, after dismissal for drunken-
ness and two or three gaol experiences, had been
once more sentenced under the vag. A special
pardon was immediately prepared, and arrange-
ments were made to transfer the prisoner from
the stone-yard to the footplate; but, unfortunately,
when the penal authorities were communicated
with, it was found that the prospective “loyalist”
had died in gaol three weeks before the strike.
* * * *
“Melb.”: Chief Justice Madden has a
neat gift of sarcasm. One night this week they
had him up at the Cairns Memorial Church, East
Melbourne, expatiating on the fact that this grand
memorial of one of Melbourne’s noblest men, Dr.
Cairns, was at last out of debt. And the violent
old Presbyterian’s own church, the Chalmers’
Church, Eastern Hill, has been sold to the Roman
Catholics, who have pulled it down, not leaving
one stone upon another. The stones have been
used in building a conventital edifice. Cairns was
a bitter Pope-hater all his days. Just fancy his
ghost hovering over the congratulatory meeting !
• • *
Science is not a strong point in daily
paperdom, so the Sydney papers last week pub-
lished in great excitement a cable that Professor
Darwin had announced a lengthening of the days,
as if the fact had been discovered all of a sudden.
Of course as the cable had to be paid for, it was
NOT A PSYCHOLOGICAL
BARGAIN-COUNTER.
HE: “ I’ve taken tickets for to-night,
my dear; of course you'll come."
THE BARMAIDEN : “ Oh, yes, if yon
promise to behave.”
HE: “ Behave! What’s that mean? ”
THE B. M. : “ Well, some johnnies think
a theatre-ticket gives them a mortgage
on a girl’s soul."
just as well to parade it as a wild, fresh, and rare
item of knowledge. But the slowing down of
Mother Earth and her diminishing whirl on her
axis is a well-worn bit of knowledge. Whatever
startling scientific discovery the savant did
announce got lost as the news filtered through to
the Australian reader.
A MAN’S VALUATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
[He “My Lady’s Gown,” 25/4,’03.]
If you were here, the flrelit glow
That shimmers on each furbelow
Would flatter your fastidious eye.
You’d praise my waist in words, that vie
With Poet’s fine and cadenced flow.
You’d watch the color come and go
And vanish where my hair coils low •
Then draw your chair a little nigh •
If you were here.
But would you even care to know
That souls ’neath silken gowns may grow
That throbbing hearts may underlie
The quiet smile, the dreamy sigh ?
You’d rather steal a kiss or so
If you were here.
ALAN.
POOLING THE DEBTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
One great land, and one huge debt,
One silverfish in one big net:
One great line, uniform gauge ;
One simple sum, one long page.
One strong pull and one great strain,
One finished drought, and one long rain ;
One common wage, one common State,
One common sense in each to mate.
One great sweep, and one great gain,
One loud Fatman’s cry of pain ;
One big asset, one big pool,
One big dividend, one less fool.
E.E.F.


the Matter of Dress attention to Detail Indicates Breeding.
EVERY LADY KNOWS ’ rw * ,r -
KLEINERT’S HOOKON
1S the onlv Correct Hose Supporter
To Wear with the NEW FORM CORSET
Sold only at the Best Shops.
Women ! why be thin and undeveloped .
Lacte, the wonderful skin-food, plumps the fles
where thin and undeveloped, gives a beautiiu
roundness to face, neck, bust, and arms. -
quick, sure and safe home treatment. Jars
7s. 6d., post Bs. 2d. Thousands of women using it
daily, all of whom testify to the wonderful results
from its use. Write for pamphlet to H. "® s
Guest, Vice-regal chemist, 229 Bourke-stre ,
Melbourne.* -
,eral Fay,
nnoieso
C°
<b
Sr
0
X
o
&
&
o
A
«
€T»
O
V'
WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW 1
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
w
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW
A SMART BLOUSE
Made of best French flannel, tucked and
strapped in the latest styles.
ALL COLORS 11/6 each
OUR PRICES SPEAK IN TONES OF
TRUE ECONOMY.
Write to us for any of your WINTER
WANTS. We can please you always.
W. T. WATERS & CO. LTD.
“ The Leaders of Fashion,"
King & George Sts., SYDNEY.
SV
§ PIETIES*
lioU Are the Ideal Fabi
lion FOR
raincoats
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, May 19, 1908
Mr Dear Arini,—
I’ve been seeing the Queensland capital—
Brisbane, with its fronded cocos palms, brushing
its sky (such a blue sky—a sapphire set in this
planet’s ring). Henceforth when I hear the
name Brisbane I shall see jacarandas in their gay
lavender blossoms, giant stag-horns, brilliant
poinsettias, and the soaring white palms with
their green hair ; I shall hear the silken sing-song
of the bamboo groves, and smell the winds that
blow over the pine-apple farms.
Brisbane, in the matter of foliage, is not domin-
ated, as seem to be so many other Australian
cities, by the Calvinistic cypress pine, and the
half-mourning of the untidy Moreton Bay fig.
One must respect the gum family as owners of the
soil, and charming in their aesthetic tone of sub-
dued melancholy, but why introduce dingily clad
trees which grow in North Europe to suit dingily-
minded people? It is a cheerfully treed place, is
Brisbane, and the Lord knoweth we want all the
joyousness in Nature which we can get, being so
biliously inclined ourselves.
Open-air dining, breakfasting, luncheoning in
the Botanic Gardens, which used to be such a
feature in Brisbane social life, has not the status
of a while ago. The chef who cooked the meals
that were set under the spreading Indian fig, and
whose cooking routed indigestion in the northern
capital, has gone elsewhere; perhaps now Indi-
gestion will return and kill off some of the black
labor coterie. But the mighty fig is still there, and
in the shadow of its beauty it matters little what
you eat—if your digestion and imagination are
robust. It carries a chopped reddish mane of
would-be roots from all lower branches. Wasn’t
it Moore who had some ladv-like verses on the
Indian tree which would not be quite beguiled by
sun and air, but always wanted to grow down and
take a fresh clasp of its mother earth ?
The city of the patrician palm is sociafly dull.
The Chermsides are making a vice-regal progress
in the north of their share of the sub-tropics, and
Government House is inhabited chiefly by holland
overalls and two diplomatic, ornamental young
men—the private sec. and aide-de-c. Miss Rawson,
our State Gov.’s cousin, is staying at an hotel in
the neighborhood. Someone told us that we
should find an exasperating inaction brooding over
Brisbane. Not so. The people ran about the
streets like conies (the Bible animal) and ants ;
and as it was very hot the running was scarcely
done for fun. -
For the first time in my seafaring T was
not a bit sea-sick—travelled in a half-mile of
steamer, the Federal liner Essex. She is a
blushing debutante in Australian waters (indeed
in any waters, for she is a new creation), and has
the honor of being the biggest craft to go up the
river to the Brisbane city wharf. She is the
dandiest thing in the way of an 11,000 ton vessel
that ever rode on white sea-horses. The way she
eeled up that curly narrow passage! So close
were the banks that I could see a lizard sunning
himself on a rock (or perhaps, as a matter of fact, it
was a boot-lace). I once saw a cat descend from
the top of a flag-pole by one of the ropes, spiral
fashion. The Essex crawled just as warily. The
handful of passengers aboard her were the guests
of the managing director, Mr. Owen Cox. At
Brisbane we took in a quantity of frozen passen-
gers (beef carcases) destined for the Cape.
Our captain, kindly and Scotch, was a bit like
Kipling’s Macandrew and I am sure he saw
Predestination in the oscillation of his compass.
It was with him on the troopship Surrey that
“Breaker” Morant travelled to Capetown, and
he has the manuscript papers issued on the
voyage. They are bound in an exercise book, and
contain an account of the trip, in verse, by
Morant. The unlucky swashbuckler is spoken of
only in terms of praise by those who went with
him. He used to stand on deck at night and
quite regularly quote “A desolate shore, The
sinister seduction of the moon, The menace of the
irreclaimable sea.”
A man who has been in a book, and a popular
one at that, is of more interest than a sparrow
falling to the ground. Our chief engineer on the
Essex was, some twenty years ago, of the same
status on a cargo tramp. Something like the
Bolivar, it was—overloaded, undermanned, and
swamping in the Bay of Biscay. A week of
raging storm, and finally a wave picked up
the tramp’s lifeboat and hurled it down her sky-
light on to the engines in splinters. The tramp
crawled round and started back for Falmouth, but
stopped at midnight to stand by a big vessel
burning tar barrels and blue lights. Morning
proved her to be an Atlantic liner with 1600 pas-
sengers and crew on board, her propeller and hope
gone. It was a proud day for the tramp when
she towed the liner into Falmouth. The incident
is used with considerable thrill by Clarke Russell
in his book, “ My Watch Below.”
The remains of the late J. T. Toohey, who died
in America, are being brought to Sydney by his
widow and children. After a Requiem service at
St. Mary’s Cathedral they will be interred at
Rookwood. His memorial stone might be made
to record the fact that on one occasion he refused
aK. C.M.G. Few Australians can boast of a like
honorable refusal.
Some weeks ago, Sydney shops were full of
rugs and blankets and eiderdowns, seeming to
give a warm welcome and suggesting to the
hurrying crowds that toil was a vain thing, and
that they should do as the Polar bear does in
Winter and have a calm, woolly, sleepy time,
awakening only to the sights and sounds of Spring.
Now that aspect is no more. Shops are full of ball-
gowns, white as snow or pink as Summer dawn, and
underskirts to match them or any chrysanthemum
that blows. Spindrift handkerchiefs, and dancing
shoes and little floral fans are also behind the
plate-glass. If you see a woman at the forth-
coming ball with what looks like a stiff posy,
you’ll know it is a furled floral fan.
The ball season is upon us, and St. Vincent’s
Hospital annual waltz time, postponed to
June 9, promises to be a picturesque night.
The hon. Bees, are advertising it as exten-
sively as a patent medicine, and the floor-
space promises to be all occupied by previously-
arranged sets—Lord Richard Neville’s hunting
set, Mr. Robertson Clarke’s set, Mrs. Burdekins
and Miss Rawson’s Gainsborough set.
By the Moana which left last Monday en route
to Vancouver, with all its passenger accommoda-
tion full, went the junior Henniker-Heatons and
their Australian firstborn. The infant had the
original sin washed out of him at St. James’ last
Friday and got the names of John Victor
Peregrine. The last is a match in quaintness for
his mother’s first name, Sermonda. Prime
Minister Barton’s wife sponsored the bald dar-
ling, but only as a proxy. His real godmother is
Princess Edward of Saxe-Weimar, and his god-
father is Marconi, the wireless telegraph wizard.
They proved a popular, simple-mannered couple—
the junior ll.H.’s. He hadn t a trace of the gum
of the penny-postage worry, and she thought the
Hawkesbury finer than the Rhine. Mrs. H.H.
has left in Sydney some miniatures of her own
painting for exhibition at the Artists’ Spring
Show.
Another departure by the steamer was that
of Miss Fox-Strangways, the lady who caused
such a flutter in Melbourne some months ago by
being mistaken for the George Egerton who
writes problem novels. Also went Dowieites to
the number of fifty to seek a chance of wearing
purple wings. They and their friends on the
wharf joined in the singing of hymns, and the
vessel moved off to the crooning of “God be
with you till we meet again.” Evidently they’re
expected back, or those left behind them intend
to join them.
“To illustrate a sentiment.” That is what the
Great Exposition of 1904, to be held at St. Louis,
U.S.A., will do. A meeting to arrange a woman’s
side to the Ex. was held at Sydney Town Hall
last Monday, with Mayoress T. Hughes in the
chair. The “sentiment” to be celebrated by the
building of Palaces of Art, and Temples of Com-
merce, and Halls of Labor, which will show
earth’s inventions “brought under every star,
blown from over every main, and mixt
as life is mixt with pain,” is the centenary
of the U.S. acquisition of Louisiana (St. Louis).
Napoleon sold it—a million square miles
of territory—to the U.S. a hundred years ago,
when he had the idea that strengthening the
American republic was a good way to hamper
Britain. At last Monday’s meeting, things were
left rather nebulous. Miss Windeyer, perhaps
the best woman-speaker in the Commonwealth,
made some suggestions which had the value of
causing Dudley Cooper, the American convener
of the meeting, to reply. Incidentally he re-
marked, “ Why, you are already exporting coal
and wood and timber to Amer’ka. This pencil I
hoold in my haand was made in Amer’ka, but we
won’t make any more of the kind, for we haven’t
got the wood. You’ll have to send it to us. And
fruit—do you know we have now to buy fruit of
you? How’s that?” Waal, it strikes me that
it’s not quite so.
Another speaker at the meeting was Mrs.
Molyneux Parkes, a Swede with a Grace Palotta
accent. She is leader of the Women’s Liberal
League. We are strong in Women’s Leagues
now in Sydney. Miss Rose Scott heads the
Political and Educational League, and Miss
Golding rules the secessionists—the Women’s Pro-
gressive League.
G. H. Reid has been addressing Scotsmen
on Scotchmen. Listeners were the Burns Club
and its friends. Amongst the latter, a large pro-
portion of the fair sex—dreadful phrase, nearly as
bad as the “ most beautified Ophelia ! ” Well,
the fair sex, now that it has the franchise, usually
gets a nice marrowy bone thrown to it by male
speakers when it frou-frous into their meetings.
Mr. Reid threw his when he dwelt upon the
influence exercised over the careers of
great Scotsmen by their mithers. He wasn’t
very definite, but it was generally concluded that
he was thinking of the determination of the Scotch
mither that young Sandy should finish his porridge
because wilful waste made waeful want. The
wee, modest, crimson-tippit Sandies present
learned with great joy that some of the greatest
Scotsmen, Sir Thomas Chalmers and Lord
Brougham, for instance, had been expelled from
school for being incorrigible dunces. This sort of
reminder is soothing syrup to the mothers whose
sons have to put down strokes when doing sums.
Their boys have, of course, abilities that exams,
cannot test. A Scotsman, a recent fellow-voyager
of mine, asserted that he would prefer to live in
Scotland, “if they would civilise it.” When he
visited it, some years ago, and tried to get a meal
on the Sabbath, the publicans asked, “Dae ye
tak’ this for a Godless hoose?” And they cast
their shoes at him and bade him graze like
Nebuchadnezzar. At last he found an hotel whose
landlord had been some years in Australia, and
then . Anyhow, there’s no denying the men-
tal endowments of the Scotch, the value of oat-
meal as a food, and the beauty and intelligence of
Scotch collies.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ The world of flutter is moving briskly to
get steam up for the season of sneeze. The
two past winters were dull. Men were
scarce and girlhood depressed. All that is
to be changed. Determined and desperate
mammas, who mostly have a daughter a-piece,
are at the helm. The compass points to gay
times. The rush of ball-committees, rallying
from every suburb that boasts a rink or a barn,
is the surest sign of the revival movement. The
other day, a committee of the charity order was
torn in conflict as to the wisdom of hanging out
the hope of a card room on the ball bills. ‘ Cards
will draw the men,’ reasoned one half—the half
that knew. ‘ Yes—they draw them away from
the ball-room,’ retorted the other half. A casting
vote was against cards.
“ Miss ‘ Stonington ’ Clarke has not taken her-
self Marchesi-wards with any frivolous intent.
For party purposes her sweet, trained voice was
quite taking enough, beating any other heard at
those select Stonington teas. The idea of further
Marchesi gloss is to fit Miss Clarke for a platform
range. She always wanted it. Melba urged it.
* Are you quite wise ? ’ asked a privileged friend
on the deck of the Orontes. Melba chipped in,
turning from a group of her own, with a ‘Yes,
truly she is wise. She has art and a voice. Wait
and see.* The last word went with a pat of Miss
Violet’s shoulder, and there was an answering
caress in Miss Clarke’s eyes.
“The highest hurdle of self-sacrifice is cleared
by a society man as a tribute to his better half.
The pair put up at a smart city hotel. The tariff
rate is on the scale that the higher you go with the
lift boy, the smaller the figure you pay at the end
of the week. So the husband, in this case, con-
sents to take his gruel and lonely nap on the top
storey, while his life-partner is located in the
luxurious quarters of the lowest flat. There have
been instances —there are now—of the heads of
the family lodging lower down (‘higher up,’ in
the monetary sense) and nurse and kiddies taking
a perch nearer the roof, but the above shows un-
exampled self-sacrifice on the part of a spouse.
“When Minister Tommy Bent showed his
large frontage on the tram in Collins-street during
the strike the street crowds hailed him with
thunderous growls. Brollies rose with the voices,
and it took four members of the Foorce one day
to keep the most intense groaners from suffo-
cating Bent. It struck this scribe then to what
extent fat and whiskers can shield a face from
expression. There Thomas the Burly sat, resting
his forepaws on his paper, his face as complacent
in its bearded frame as if a smiling world
stretched out its hand to greet him with good-
will.
“One of Melba’s brothers has worked on a foot-
plate all the week as one of Bent’s bunions (defi-
nition—a bunion, an addition to a foot; most
frequent on a hob-nailed foot), and thus helped to
crush the railway men.
“The task of shopping was a penance during
strike times. Customers were so scarce that stray
ones were mobbed by frantic assistants, afraid of
being dismissed on a few weeks’ vacation (minus
screw) should the deal not pass through their
hands. I was so overcome by the rush of the
staff to serve me with a card of small hooks and
eyes, the other day, that I ran into riotous ex-
travagance, purchasing a dozen haberdashery
trifles to keep the shop going.
“ When Mr. Bent is only ruining the railways
in his ordinary fairly gradual fashion, and not
running them to sudden smash with the aid of a
strike, there is to be a grand official baptism of
che Wattle Club by Toby Barton. Already in-
formal recognition has been given this latest of
feminine emancipation clubs by the visits of all
the sinecured dames hereabouts. After the Barton
laying-on of tongue, great things are expected of
it. What Chamberlain did for the She-Empire
Club in the Big Smoke, Mr. Barton is expected to
do for the little local enterprise. Males are to be
given entree and welcomed, if not as permanent
members, as glad guests. Heaven only knows
how that plan will work. The masculine satellite
of club-women is not a grand figure in the eyes of
his fellows.
“ The M'Eacharn enthusiasm over two recent
trips to the Geisha country overflows in a variety
of ways. The most surprising is a printed article
in a local mag. contributed by the mistress of
‘ Goatlands, ’ who relates plain, simple, pleasant,
proper facts about the Jappy-Jap-Jappy. One
vindication of the race is contained in the news
item —‘ The wives of artisans have far more
liberty than the ladies of rank, and a Mrs.
Grundy is known as well amongst this class as
with us.’
“The trail of the Jap is over the land: the
other night a kimona competition party was
given in East Melbourne by a smart matron.
The one who carried off the prize was a chocolate-
eyed charmer, whose kimona was of cloud grey
crepe de chine, with large black birds for decora-
tion. The quaint design and sober coloring beat
easily the rainbow tints.
“ The Waxcelleney shows on a dozen platforms
during a work-a-day week. The other night he
was booked for a thanksgiving function at Cairns
Memorial Church, and a strange thing happened.
The night was dark, and the coachy dropped the
sometime Ex. down at the wrong holy door, turn-
ing his steeds a minute after to give them a prance
up and down. Madden, spirit undaunted when
the mistake was discovered, stepped out briskly
along the street towards the right edifice. It was
farther off than he guessed, and after a mile walk,
a very puffed and apologetic Waxcelleney arrived
to state reasons of his tardiness. Someone asked
what religion was that knowing Jehu, but the
cautious Chief Justice did not hear that and
similar questions. He knew the Scotchbyterians
among whom he was presiding.
“A remark made innocently by the Rev.
Ewing at that Cairns Church thanksgiving, to
the effect that he had only one regret to lodge in
the church business—namely, the small number
of baptisms, led to a few pointed jokes by Chief
Justice Madden. The ladies had been previously
thanked by Mr. Ewing for all the assistance ren-
dered to him in his shepherd’s work, and the
Waxcelleney saw a discrepancy in the two state-
ments that set the grave Scotchbyterians snigger-
ing greatly.
“ The sudden cards issued by the Vice-regals of
Stonington for an evening corroboree on Tuesday
(19th) give the season a fair authoritative start.
Indecision as to the hour of receiving is evidenced
by the smudged 8.45 on the pasteboards. The
old official fogies think the Clarkes sensible folk
to give parties at which they can discuss one
another’s characters in comfort to the strains of
classic music. The reception is the one evening
dissipation— apart from smalfdbniera xT" 55
at the Malvern mansion. Lady Silv”l o ck/rf ®
a gathering devoted to talk and music iu 6B
a gay pack of pirouetting pairs Shel ' *, han
a figurehead for a ballroom. So the^lf^ 6
party holds good. the e^erly’
“ The most absurd incident of a recent
knot-tying was the scattering of wSnV ? y
crumbs to ‘factory-hands’ and others
the scene of the junkets. Some, w e gby
too timid’ to approach and receive tV d ’ ? re
but others of the Lazarus order came untt’
and gathered the precious particles frorn YeS y
plush and his powdered mates at the wSj'
This ludicrous business is regarded bv mm* ° WS '
evidence of the charity of a dame who
time of such tension as the mating oUda "h a
with an imported eligible, thought of thet
passing her door ! ° 01 tne P°°r
There have been several ‘ red-anH
parties’ at Cliveden lately to farewell
Lindsay pair, scarlet flowers in honor 0 f 1®
military bridegroom, and bridal-white nln« L u
singing of ' Anld L.ng Syne,' ont of SS
to Wine. During the wedding festivity, ??
bride’s mother has flashed some riiS o th ®
toilettes, notably a sparkling, pure-white
glimmering with pearl embroidery andl elll?
with frosted sequins. Now the honevmonr, 0 m ' ng
bound for St. Petersburg, ThS
C O “e ** yftChtlng Crawford K
“An actress of much Australian importance
had many an eye-mopping behind the scene,
durmg the run of a spicy piece, because of eS
received from self-appointed censors regretS
the championship of immorality ‘by her hril J
art. Yet during the progress of a kingly p i a y k
where wickedness was rampant and infidelity £
only stimulus for court wits and poets, and he
same actress figured as a flagrant sinner, letters
of congratulation clotted with the cream 3
flattery, deluged her room day after day How
gracefully vice flaunts in court tinsel and em-
broidered hose and coronated garters !
“ Marshall-Hall, once the victim of a badgerine
press (the Argus, in particular) and the reproach
of snarling Scotchbyterians, is now supreme
monarch of the musical situation. Even the
Argus, by way of booming the Saturday Orches-
tral blast, ran into a half-column of applause and
enjoined all to subscribe to M.-H.’s musical move-
ment. And the more popularity Marshall-Hall
has thrust upon him in this fashion, the more
neglected and forgotten becomes the occupant of
the University Ormond Chair. Besides the
public’s waning interest in the ‘ Christian Con-
servatonum,’ the ill-health of Prof. Peterson has
sadly interfered with results.
“ The fairest member of the Kenric-Brodribb
family was wedded, while on tour, to a militaire
on the Indian staff—one Captain Clarence John-
son. The ‘ Clarence ’ sounds like the fourth son
of an English peer—but, so far, the family tree
has not been mapped out for the eyes of Toorak.
“The majority of she-visitors to the Rippon
Lea sale trooped into the house or grounds in a
picnic spirit. To some it was a pleasure excur-
sion ; to others a satisfying peep into the Sargood
cupboards—the bounty of which went for fame in
this cheese-paring community The kitchens,
larders, and bath-rooms noose'd the feminine
mind. It couldn’t get beyond them. Whole
families squatted for hours in the leading bed-
rooms, focussing the furnishings—lost in admir-
ation at the net-curtained beds, the Renaissance
drapes, the series of mirrors, the silver, and the
impressive ornaments. All day long the bedrooms
were crowded with curious, mixed companies.
When chairs and couches gave out, the late-comers
perched on tables. There they sat, gaping and
resting, resting and gaping.
“ They worshipped in dizzy awe that famous
Rippon Lea bathroom. Finished worshipping,
they took up a stand and watched others offering
up their gasps of admiration. It was a solemn
scene. The great marble basin where the orthodox
and most prosaic family took its turn at a plunge,
and a silver shower, and a silver shampoo, etc.,
etc. It is a fine, showy, ostentatious, hyberbolical
bath-room, without a doubt. Nothing poetical-
just a lavishly appointed wash apartment with
the best of everything turned on.
“The ways of the she-bidder are bewildering.
She was worth watching at the sale of the Sar-
good goods and chattels. She only wanted an
article badly when the bidding was brisk. Then
she ran up the price fatuously with a competitive
joy that by this time is turned, no doubt, toashes.
When she didn’t bid, and the dealers scooped the
pool, she grumbled for an hour. Then she wasn t
straight. She’d claim the final bid when the
hammer knocked it down to another. Unable to
argue the point crisply with the auctioneer, who
had a rush on, she murmured in a bitter under-
tone to her neighbors when they listened. Then
her ways of catching the hammerer’s eye. Some-
times she waved her gamp, sometimes her infants
bib. Here and there a sharp Todgers securing a
* storied urn ’ for her best boarder’s parlor nodded
—and thereby gained respect from the Jews in her
vicinity. But generally the she-bidder was an
object of mixed pity and ridicule.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


WOMAN’S ILLS.
A woman needs medicine more than a man. Her organisation is more delicate.
She needs plenty of pure, red blood, and sound nerves to carry her safely through her times of pain
and sickness.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are good for men—but they are good in a special way for women.
They actually make new blood. They give ease, strength and vigor. They stimulate all organs to
perform their functions regularly and well. They banish all pains and depression—all headaches, backaches and
sideaches, and all the secret distress that only a woman knows.
They bring the sparkle to dull eyes and the healthy glow to cheeks once pale and pinched with silent
suffering. They act when all else fails. Special directions with each box.
INTERNAL TROUBLES CURED.—“ Terrible internal troubles were the plague of my ife,” says Mrs. 0.
Shurmer, of Goulburn. “My stomach was terribly weak and I suffeiecf fiom the pains of indigestion after each meal.
Headaches also troubled me, and pains in the side and loss of sleep added to my misery. A doctor and specialist treated
me, but the internal weakness continued until I used Dr. Williams’Pink Pills. Two boxes increased my blood supply
and made me stronger and more energetic. I will always recommend Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills to suffering women.”
From Retailers and The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney. 2s. 9d. a box ; six boxes, 15s. 3d., post free.
THE GENUINE DR. WILLIAMS’ PINK PILLS ARE ALWAYS IN BOXES—NEVER IN BOTTLES.
till
ink pills for pale people
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Irvine was ambitious to make history and
has made hysterics.
Shiels is the only member of the Vic.
Cabinet who boasts an escutcheon. The Heralds*
College charges a little under £6OO for this sort of
foolery.
A. book by David Syme on “The Soul”
has just been published. What can Syme nowa-
days claim to know of the soul—the man who is
only a hobnail on the blucher boots of Bent ?
If new S.A. Governor Le Hunte escapes
the ignominy of knighthood he will be the first
plain “Mr.” who has governed an Australian
State since 1880, when Weld ran the little show
in Tasmania.
Cardinal Moran and Archdeacon Gunther
are the only clergymen of prominence to so far
take the Christian view of the Victorian railway
strike; all the other priests and parsons seem to
be on the Pontius Pilate side of the issue.
Letters published by Rev. Dill Macky in
the press show that Tam worth (N.S.W.) member
Garland is pledged to the noisome sectarian
P.D.A. This should mark him for political ex-
tinction at the first opportunity.
The Le Souefs, descendants of the original
director of Melb. Zoo, have practically established
a monopoly of that sort of billet in Australia.
One brother is now the Melbourne director, another
was lately appointed to Sydney, and a third has
charge at Perth.
Apropos people who have been school-
teachers. Judge Backhouse (N.S.W.) and Public
Librarian Anderson and Labor member Griffith
were all masters at Sydney Grammar School, and
Justice Hodges (Vic.) was a private tutor before
going to the bar.
In giving biographies of Premier Irvine
(Vic.) Australian newspapers carefully avoid
mentioning the fact that he is a near relative of
John Mitchell, the irreconcilable Irish rebel of
1848, who spent some time in Van Diemen’s Land,
and passed through Sydney on his way to the
United States, after his escape from the penal
island.
The recent death in Launceston (Tas.) of
“Professor” Davis, snake-charmer, from
the bite of one of his own reptiles,
which bite his alleged antidote failed
to cure, recalls a Victorian case of
the ’6o’s when one Shires, a fool
with an alleged antidote, caused
the death of Police Magis-
trate Drummond. It was
supposed that Shires
drew the fangs of the
snakes he exhibited,
and that he was
too ignorant to
know that they
would grow
again. He was
tried for the
manslaughter of
Drummond, but
acquitted.
Deceased J.
T. Toohey pos-
sessed one char-
acteristic that
entitles him to
a kindly remem-
brance though
he could talk he
didn’t, except in
case of absolute
necessity, and
then he said lit-
tle. He once
wrote out about
half a column of
a speeoh, but on
looking it over
pronounced it
rubbish and tore
it up. A jour-
nalist, still
aliye, offered
hiffi more than
a score of
speeches, but
he would not
buy. The
church asked
him “to rise
tn it. ” axe-
grinders begged him “to spread himself,” and
social function-runners wanted him “ to soar,” but
John sat tight in his chair And he was an Irish-
man.
Monsignor —better known as Father—
Rigney died at Prospect (N.S.W.) on May 9,
aged 90 years. He arrived in Sydney in 1838.
Father Rigney was a great horseman, who took
no heed of fenoes, but went straight.
Pastor Henry Hussey, who has just passed
over in Adelaide (S.A.), aged 77, had been by
turns office boy, sailor, postman, compositor,
master printer, editor, preacher, bookseller and
author of a history of S.A. He arrived in the
State in ’39.
S.A.’s prolific novelist, Guy Boothby
(many years now a British resident), has been
seriously ill, but is slowly mending. The
illness, no doubt, accounts for the fact that he
has published so few new books during the last
month or so.
The trail of the parson is now over both
Brisbane dailies. The oheerful Telegraph has
had an ex-Wesleyan (Woolnough) at the helm for
several years, and now the Rev. James of the
Albert-street Wesleyans has chucked his district
job for the loaves and fishes of the Courier.
“ Elijah ” Dowie has arranged to visit
Australia early next year, and he will especially
flap his two wings at Adelaide, where he began to
preach, and' where most of his relatives still
reside. Surely in these lean and harried times it
is hardly worth the bounding prophet’s while to
come here.
“ The British and Indian Empire League
of Australia ” (with a temporary office in Mel-
bourne) publishes the following names of provi-
sional committeemen —Teepoo, Hakumal, Miyan
Abdullah, Rochiram Daulatram Shamdas, Dalu-
mal, Gidamal Topandas. The British Empire is
mostly nigger.
H. C. Dangar, M.L.C., completes his
jubilee as a N.S.W. barrister next year, and
appreciative friends are getting ready to com
memorate the event. Mr. Dangar was called ,m
1854, and has the distinction of never having
addressed any court. A barrister who has been
■ilent for 50 years deserves some recognition.
Melbourne Herald makes an appeal on
behalf of Corporal M‘Cauley, ex-oohentingenfcer,
who was shot at Pink Hill, and as a result is now
stone-blind and destitute. The State Government
says, briefly, that the sightless ex-warrior is none
of its business. The Stock Exchange that got
beastly drunk and mafficked up and down the
streets on Mafeking night says nothing. The
frenzied merchants who chuoked a tram-car off
the rails in their joy and their exceeding great
drunk don’t say anything. But the asylum door
is open—or the gaol hospital perhaps.
The business details of Premier “Jack”
Robertson’s bronze statue have at last been
settled, and a semblance of the vivacious old poli-
tician will soon adorn a Sydney square. Hia
historic house at Watson’s Bay, and the grounds
about it, are still seeking a purchaser, the Govern-
ment showing reluctance to buy the place for a
public park out of loan money as a permanent and
reproductive job. Four classes of politicians with
strongly diverse minds successively occupied the
house—Parkes (Premier), Edward Flood (Minis-
ter for Works), Robertson (Premier), and W. H.
Traill, M.L.A., and author of one man one vote.
Ebenezer Ward, the derelict politician who
is now writing the records of his public life in
S.A., began life as a journalist on the London
Morning Post. He and the present proprietor.
Lord Glenesk (better known as Algernon Borth-
wick), joined together as junior reporters.
Ebenezer came to Melbourne, whence he was im-
ported to fill the vacancy on the Adelaide Adver-
tiser caused by the departure of R. S. Smythe,
the much-travelled. Ward was a very subordinate
member of G. V. Brooke’s company for a while,
and acted in Adelaide with that tragedian. He
has a longer stretch of political service in the
State than any other living ex-legislator.
Gov. Bedford, a bluff son of a gun, lately
told a drove of kowtowing Sandgropers that “a
Governor had nothing to do; or, at all events,
very little. At the same time, it required a cer-
tain amount of intelligence to do nothing and pro-
duce any kind of effect.” Also, he poked borak
at the vice-regal institution thus :
He hoped to gain the confidence —he might almost say
the affections—of the people during his tenure of office.
At all events, failure would not be for want of trying to
succeed, and if he did not open bazaars and make nice
speeches properly at first he would probably improve
with practice.
The toothless lion opening bazaars in his old age
to keep the blessed Empire together !
AND YET THEY SAY THERE IS NO
HUMOR IN AUSTRALIA.
GUARD (to passenger all broken up): “ What's
your address? ”
PASSENGER: “ The Morgue.”
NOT TAKING ANT.
Dun.can Gillies, nominal Speaker of Yic.
Assembly, had sufficiently recovered from his
recent attack of paralysis to come down to the
House and hear Irvine introduce the Strike
Suppression Bill. Irvine’s speech—or as much as
he heard of it—appeared to have an improving
effect on poor old Gillies. At the mention of
‘‘drastic measures ’’ and “maintenance of estab-
lished authority ” the ancient brightened up
greatly.
The secretary to Queensland’s first Agent-
General died the other day ; though the deceased
wasn’t described as such. After the Moreton Bay
settlement cut itself off from N.S.W. it wasn’t
long before it felt that it was due to its dignity
(also it wanted a loan, as usual) to have an Agent-
General ; and Henry Jordan, an ex-Mimster,
appointed himself to the job. After he got to the
other side, Jordan was the only person who seemed
to be getting anything out of the deal. The ardor
of the State to have an Agent-General slumped
suddenly to below freezing point ; and the am-
bassador’s supplies were reduced to skin and bone.
Yet, for the sake of his own dignity, he had to
have a secretary; and, as he couldn’t get anybody
else to take the billet for the honor and glory of
the thing, he appointed his own wife, and she did
the nothing there was to do and did it very well.
It was she who died.
“ H.” on certain old-time Irish patriots :
J. F. Hogan writes, in the Melb. Advocate, an informa-
tive page about T. F. Meagher, who published, long ago,
a book called “ Australiana.” However, Meagher never
was in Australia. His book refers to Tasmania. Smith
O’Brien, Mitohel, Meagher, M’Manus, and O’Doherty (of
Brisbane), were transported to Tasmania over the Rebel-
lion of ’4B. Mitchel, Meagher, and M’Manus escaped at
different times. O’Brien, Martin, and O’Doherty waited
not much longer, and got their pardons. These three
came over to Melbourne, and were treated to a banquet.
Meagher settled in a nice part of Tasmania, and married
a Miss Bennett. His escape was a remarkable event. It
had been arranged that a ship from Melbourne would
pick him up at Waterhouse Island, Bass’s Straits. He got
over to the island (40 miles) in a crazy boat. Then he had
to live for about 10 days on shellfish and what not, till the
ship came. It was bound for London, but landed Meagher
at Pernambuco, South America. Thence he made his way
to the United States, where he lectured successfully for
several years. On the Civil War outbreak, he joined as
major and worked up to general, with a record of world-
wide fame. Afterwards, he had a Government billet in
Montana, protecting the whites from the Indians.
Meagher was drowned, at the age of 43, in the Missouri
River, and his body could not be found. A companion
book to his “ Australiana ’’ is Mitchel’s well-known “ Jail
Journal.”
“ F.” writes :
Be sculptor Lorando Jones’ “blasphemy" alluded to
recently in Bulletin. He was tried, in Feb., 1871, at the
Parramatta Q.S. by Judge G. B. Simpson. Ex-Judge
Wilkinson was Crown Prosecutor, and David Buchanan
defended. The jury was peculiarly chosen ; the name of
each man commenced with the letter “ B.’’ There were
three Browns, two Byrnes, two Bergins, and one each Bell,
Booth, Braddick. Bettington, and Benson. Ninian Mel-
ville was called as a witness, but refused to be sworn,
making an affirmation. Melville admitted reading Tom
Paine’s “ Age of Reason,” but denied all knowledge of
Rollin, Volney, or Josephus. Ninian admitted that he
never remembered any more awful language than that
used by the Saviour against the Jews when he said that
the Scribes and Pharisees were hypocrites and a genera-
tion of vipers. A Bible was put in evidence and marked.
The jury, without leaving the court, found Jones guilty.
Two years hard labor and a fine of £lOO ! The severity
of the sentence created a profound sensation. Parlia-
ment was sitting, and William Forster drew the attention
of Premier Martin to the case. The Premier declined to
interfere, as points had been reserved. When these
points were decided the Cabinet would consider the
matter. The case did not come before the Full Court ;
the people took the matter up, and the Cabinet released
Jones in a few weeks and remitted the fine. Judge
Simpson soon after retired from the minor Bench, and
returned to practice, some years later gaining a seat on
the Supreme Court Bench.
A Maorilfinder writes :
A recent Bulletin recorded the disappearance of the
remains of the old time whaling ship uhance in M.L.
And now her famous skipper, Captain “ Paddy" Gilroy,
has crossed the bar, aged 85, or 90, or thereabouts.
A pen portrait of him is given by Frank Bullen in “ The
Cruise of the Oachelot." Bullen, who served under him,
describes his old skipper as a queer little figure of a man,
short, tubby, and with a brogue as thick as pea soup. He
seemed to select his dress on the principle of finding
the most unfitting things to wear. But there was no
carelessness or slovenliness about his seamanship, and his
crew adored him. Yankee whalers were on deck those
days, and smart as they were, Gilroy was unsurpassed as
a whale fisher or a seaman by any Yankee who ever
sailed from Martha’s Vineyard. When others of the
fleet got into difficulties with the weather, and had to
cut away their hard won prizes, and let £BOO worth of
oil drift out of sight, while they hove to under Stewart
Island for shelter, Gilroy’s Chance, as often as not, sailed
calmly into port with a whale in tow, and sometimes one
on each side. It is 70 years ago since Gilroy, then a boy
of about 15, left Sydney for a whaling cruise, pulling up
at the Bluff three years later. Between whiles he acted as
a sort of unauthorised pilot, brought the first Immigrant
ship in, and gained kudos from the U.S.A. Government
for bringing from the Auckland Islands the castaways of
the General Grant, who had been there 18 months-
There are now-no survivors of Maoriland’s
first Parliament ; the last of them, W. T. L.
Travers, died at Wellington a few days back. A
remarkable old man, with a remarkable career, he
over-rated at last the agility with which it had
been the proper thing to flatter him for 20 years
past ; tried to step off a moving tram, fell, and
was fatally crushed. Travers was a Minister once
for two days in the “Clean Shirt” Ministry,
which is not included in the list of M.L. Cabinets.
When the M.L. Constitution was sent out from
England it was found that someone had quite
forgotten to make Ministers responsible to Parlia-
ment, so for close on two years Maoriland had an
elected Parliament and an irresponsible Cabinet.
Travers and the rest of the Clean Shirt orowd
were of this period Five years later he was a
District Court Judge, but grew tired of the bench
and resumed bar practice, which he kept up till
his death. He reached M.L. in 1849, and before
that he had been, among other things, lieut. in
the Lancer regiment which served through the
Carlist war in Spain, and General Espartero’a
aide-de-camp. He was afterwards “ decorated ”
for his services in Spain. Years afterwards
France, too, “decorated” him for something or
other.
William Whaley Billyard, recently deceased
in England at the age of 88 years, was admitted a
solicitor in N.S.W. in 1847, and at his death had
but two seniors on the roll, A. H. M’Culloch
and Wm. Russell. Mr. Billyard came to Aus-
tralia under peculiar circumstances. In 1845 the
Imperial Government determined upon establish-
ing a penal settlement at Port Curtis. Colonel
Barney was to be the Governor; E. O. Merewether
(afterwards clerk to the Executive Counoil),
Colonial Secretary ; James Sheen Dowling
(lately deceased D.O. Judge), Attorney-General;
Captain Day, commanding the troops; there
were also George O. Allan and others,
Mr. Billyard being the Chief Judicial Officer,
or Judge. The party sailed in the Lord
Auckland from Sydney early in 1846. The vessel
was wrecked on Facing Island, off Port Curtis.
The shipwrecked party remained on the island
six months before rescue came, the only death in
that period being that of the infant son of Mr.
and Mrs. Billyard. The latter was the only
woman on board. She cooked, mothered, and
“ housekeeped ” for the lot. On the day of their
rescue the last pannikin of flour was baked into
a loaf, and, to make it larger, Mrs. Billyard mixed
the bran contents of her pincushion with it. The
projected colony was abandoned.


| FACILE PRINCEPS. |
SEMPER IDEM.
MR. J. SPENCER NOLAN, R.D.S,
DENTISTRY at lowest prices. Guaranteed absolutely painless extractions by latest American wearer eaS e,
success. Beautiful and perfect-fitting atmospheric suction sets of American teet “> & . m Qoraline is the
comfort and natural appearance. Coraline gum plates, without springs or wires. Eiast gQ na tural
most recent, up-to-date plate for mounting teeth. All wrinkles and hollow chee ' £S . :' us ] v introduced,
that it defies detection. For comfort, strength and lightness it surpasses everj thing [ ~> d on this ne w
Coraline is perfectly tasteless, and remains wholesome and pure. Badly fitting P“ te ®/, qets i rom £lls.
system. Up-to-date gold crowns. Call and see specimens of latest methods. Upper and ! ..: re< j
Single teeth from ss. Teeth filled, scaled and bleached. Country visitors fitted in one aaj 4 •
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Reach’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors.— ln the ease of ethnological and
natural history items, etc., always give date and
place of experience ;or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific
value.
During the recent floods up North some
lumpers were passing the time away by lassooing
the horns of the bullocks coming down and then
hauling them safely on the wharf. A large
bullock, alleged to have come about forty miles in
a little under an hour, was hauled up and in
return he promptly knocked four lumpers into the
stream and then cleared the wharf of all specta-
tors. After the flood waters went down a pony
was found by some aboriginals in a tree 10 feet
high, where it had been for some 18 hours. With
the assistance of tackle it was got down, but only
lived for three days.
A POINT OF HONOR.
MR. S. SOWNER : “I would gladly oblige ye,
Missus, but having on'y lately become a
member of the Anti-Sweatin' League it might
seem a bit like gain ’ back on my principles."
“Yanco”: Some of the virtues of the
Colored Alien have again been coming into
prominence. The dry West of N.S.W. has for
the past eight or nine years been a very rich milch
cow for the Afghan camel-proprietors. As a
concession to their usefulness the station owners
have during that time allowed the Afghans free
water, and the Afghans have allowed themselves
free grass. While there was plenty of grass the
station owners had no great objection, but now
that grass scarce, they have
to be a little more particular in ladling out their
charity. In return for past kindness and con-
sideration, the Afghan has proved himself an
ungrateful Asiatic blight On account of the
prolonge . ™|,’hYul Tnd °a ereat
parts has not been so Plentiful, and a great
pcfrary “white elephants” But the Abduls,
Mahomets, and Khans are *ot much concerned
over this because the camels cost them
nothing to keep. They are systematically de-
pastured wherever the best feed is obtainable,
Camels are running in almost every paddock of
every Western station, and, in many instances,
have ruined paddocks specially reserved for the
prospective limbing. (Sheep and cattle have an
instinctive objection to grazing on land which has
been over-run by camels.) The station-owners
say that, were it not for the Afghan camel-drivers,
a lot of them would have been compelled to
abandon their runs. But, if there were no
Afghan camel-drivers, white drivers would be
quickly on the scene, and only too glad of the
opportunity for work. It was recently reported
that one of the camel-kings had decided to do
away with colored labor and in future to employ
only white drivers. But whether he intends to
pay them white wages or colored wages is, at the
time of writing, a mystery.
* * * *
“Dram”: The crow—as well as the mag-
pie—is very fond of the prickly pear fruit, and
has done much to spread th at noio valuable fodder-
plant over the land and thus save the lives of
thousands of stock during the present drought.
“Klimo,” about a fool of a dog :
A party of men, out for the day, were accompanied by
a small bov.with an immense quantity of stickjaw. He
got tired of it and threw it at the inevitable dog.. The
dog, after a preliminary sniff and lick, took the lot in one
mouthful. About here the fun commenced. He pain-
fully and laboriously separated his jaws once or twice,
and then stopped and looked blank. He waved liis hind
foot about, trying to scrape the roof of his mouth with it,
and made valiant attempt? to run round himself. His
owner arrived. He looked scornfully at the con-
vulsed crowd, bared his arm, thrust itin the dog’s mouth
and threw the stickjaw several yards away. The dog,
however, resented this interference, and again tackled
the stickjaw, and commenced tying himself in knots all
over again. When I left, the dog, with his jaws slowly
opening and shutting, was dodging his owner and trying
to intimate that he would defend his stickjaw to the
bitter end.
« # * *
“B.”: In 8.,2/6/’O3, “H.P.,” an hysterical
person, assails me as a wanton and ruthless
destroyer of Australian fauna, merely because I
stated an alleged fact. Now, if this hysterical
person is as sincere as his shriek would imply,
then let him steal, buy, or borrow a pastoral
directory, and sool the “ local police ” on to every-
one whose name appears on its multitude of
pages ; they all use phosphorised pollard or wheat
as baits for rabbits ; and that has killed, within
the last few years, more “ maggies ’’ and innocent
birds than all the firearms of “ignorant new-
chums and callous brutes ” since the landing of
Capt. Cook! When “ H.P.” has finished with
them, I’ll be prepared to meet him. Anyway,
what’s sentimentally wrong with the protected
Soanna? Some aboriginaliars have been eating
im, too !
* * • •
“ Bunny ” : The horrible galvanized iron
houses of Broken Hill, when properly lined, are
cooler, on the whole, than stone or wooden
houses. Stone houses are fairly cool by day.
They heat slowly—but they also cool slowly;
and so, at night, when one wants rest, they often
are as hot as sheol because of their stored-up
heat. The zinc houses heat rapidly, and cool
rapidly ; and so one gets good sleep in them, even
in the blazing, blistering summer. . If they are
carefully built, they keep out the infernal dust
just as well as the solid-looking structures.
[Probably Broken Hill never tried the stone
house as it should be. The old Scotch article,
300 years of age and with walls three feet thick,
would keep out Beelzebub.]
“Kipawa” : In the old Otago
coaching days Cobb’s used to charge
9d. per lb. per passenger for a3OO-inile
trip, so that a 12st. man’s fare came to
£6 6s.
• • • •
“J.F.D.”: The cockie spreads
his household chattels over about
three acres. His hen roosts, dog ken-
nel, etc., are about a quarter of a mile
from the house, but his most dangerous
household weapon is his clothes line.
I was riding one day, about five hun-
dred yards from a cookie’s house,
when a clothes line slung between two
gum trees caught me round the neck
and unhorsed me in half a second.
The cockie was standing on the veran-
dah at the time but he never came down
to see what had struck me. I believe
he thought me a travelling circus show
doing a trick for his sole amusement.
When I had sufficiently recovered I
caught my horse and rode up to the
house to expostulate. When I told
him the real cause of my dismounting
so suddenly he laughed with such hear-
tiness that I thought he would take a
fit, while fourteen of his family poked
fun at me from the broken windows.
When I turned to ride away a young
imp planted behind the water barrel
threw a rock at me which startled my
horse and the cockie went off into
another fit of laughter. Yes, the ordi-
nary cockie is a very intelligent
animal.
In a West Queensland town, where the
deo jfl e whether it was possible to hire another
parson. The straggling remnant of the popula-
tion, after adding up its resources, found that it
couldn’t maintain a married one at all events, so
it was decided to let the manse at Bs. a week, it
being stipulated that one bedroom should be re-
served gratis for the cheap single parson that the
bony flock hopes to get, and that the tenant of
the manse should promise to board him at cut
rates. The Bs. rent derived from the manse is
ear-marked (as old Duncan Gillies used to put it)
to go towards the parson s salary and the rest of
the salary is doubtful and depenos largely on the
weather. The new tenant of the manse is a
Chinaman and his wife is a large woman from
Belfast The cheap, unmarried toiler in the vine-
yard who is to board with these two liasn t been
iound yet, but hopes are still entertained,
* * * *
“ Nvm.” : What a jolly, take-it-as-ifc-comes
fellow the average drought stricken cockie is after
Mefc , ialf . a s dozen O K f this ilk clustered round
a chemist’s shop t’other sale-day laughing fit to
burst their coat-buttons. Found they were cnti-
clsinS the abel on a tin of condition spice, which,
amongst other virtues, was warranted to increase
the animal’s appetite ! The idea of deliberately in-
creasing the animal s appetite when he is chewing
fence-posts to stay the little appetite he has, made
them laugh till they woke the adjacent auctioneer,
for whom they were waiting in hopes of raising
Bome more chaff on tic c.
* * * *
“ Jim Pan ” : Along the Darling, the
station-hands, coach-drivers, travellers, &e., in-
variably call the station-owner’s or manager’s
residence “ Government House.” This, too, not in
Hie wa y 0 f even mild sarcasm, but in the most
prosaic, matter-of-fact way. Never saw such
flocks of goats as are to be found in the townships
and on the stations and homestead leases of the
J)arling. Goats’ milk butter is snow-white in
color and of excellent taste. Even Government
House folk have, during drought, to use goats’
milk, &c. Was quite charmed with goats’-milk
cream and Mildura apricots, after a week of
grilled gohanner, stewed galah, curried cockatoo,
kangaroo cutlet, cold boiled goat, and quandong
pudding. The goat and the camel have come to
stay Out-back and Baclc-o’-Beyond.
Notice displayed by a large land-owner at
Warracknabeal (Vic.):
“ I dont Elow Annye Borde to Tack Warter out
this Damm.”
• * •
“Milky White” tells
about a dead tree :
Twelve years ago, near the
corner of Point Nepean-road
and Rusden-street, Elsternwick,
Vic., flour-
ished three
splendid
blue-gums ;
now only
one remains
One was re-
moved to
make room
for a crick-
et pitch;
but the
story of the
withering of
the second
is curious.
About ten
years ago a
drover was
bringing
some cattle
to the Mel-
bourne mar-
ket from
Hastings,
when two of
the mob
broke away.
The man
was gallop-
ing after
them, when
his horse bolted,
andj threw him
against this tree,
killing him on the
spot. A week later it
was noticed that the
leaves on the tree were either dead or dying, and fresh
foliage was never put forth. Gradually the tree took on
a leaden hue and eventually crumbled away, portions of
its broken branches, when striking the ground, disap-
pearing in spectral clouds of dust. I make no suggestion
of the supernatural, nor do I insinuate that the poor
victim’s head was any harder than the ordinary drover’s ;
but what an eerie tale some of the old-time balladists
would have made of the incident 1
• • • •
“Polstan”: Be that cocky who lost his
sown ground by flood (8., 2/5/’O3). At Rathscar
(Vic.) a cocky recently had a very large sowing of
wheat washed on to his neighbor’s ground, which
was sown with oats, though most of the oats had
just left through the same visitation for another
farmer’s paddock which had been turned up, but
not sown at all. Now, the man who sowed
nothing has oats, and the man who sowed oats
has wheat, and the man who sowed wheat has
nothing; which is a triangular arrangement of a
very unsatisfactory character.
• * • *
“ Occy ”: After many years of quail-shoot-
ing, I have found that all the dogs I have shot
over will point or set, as the case may be, at a
snake just as they would at a quail. I was very
nearly had once. Both my dogs made a beautiful
point close up to a tussock in a clear space. I
said to my companion, “I will catch this bird,”
and was about to fall on the tussock when a big
tiger-snake glided out almost from under my
nose. We had seven points in the long grass in
that paddock, and saw seven snakes, and then we
concluded it was time to leave.
ANOTHER CASE OF THE EVILS OF
STATE SOCIALISM.
“Yes, there's too much Government interference
with private enterprise. Look at those coppers,
they've been watchin’ me for the last two 'ours."
At Winton (Q.) they keep a Koran in the
Court - house for the purpose of swearing -in
Mahommedan witnesses. Recently a witness
borrowed the book and returned it protected by a
cover of Turkey twill. Outside the Turkey twill
was a further protection or adornment of two red
silk handkerchiefs, and the book was further
wrapped in a tasselled bag. Outside this again
was a striped cloth with braid dependencies. Is
there a Bible in the whole of Christendom treated
with similar reverence?
THEY MIGHT!
“ It has been suggested that landlords might supply
seed wheat to their tenants this year.”— News Item.
LANDLORD : “ You will see, therefore, that owing
to the extravagance of the Government, ruled by
the Labor Party, dec., dee., it is not only im-
possible to reduce your rent, but unless you
can obtain seed wheat relief from the Govern-
ment we shall be reluctantly compelled to take
very extreme steps,” &c., &c.
“ Jimmie Pannikin ” : Came across a
station gate on the Darling bearing a gigantic
wooden notice-board:
Be kind enough to shut this Gate.
The size of the board seems to have irritated
various travellers, for it bore the following ribald,
reckless remarks:
This is not a gate.—R.S.
Very much ditto.— Saltbush Sam.
Me, too, Charlie, only a bit more.—J.S.W.
Why the (hot place) don’t you put up a propper gate
what will keep shut after a bloke shuts it seven times?
It ain’t a white man’s gate.—Ross Auchterlonie.
Please shut the gentleman’s gate.—J.T.R.
He who wrote this, wrote it well,
Such a gate should be across the mouth of hell.
Tommy Tar.
Mates, do shut the blurred gate. The poor squattah is
afraid the drought will get out.— Billy Bong.
• * * »
“C.J.M." : Bill and I were out about
three miles from Bendigo one day when we
happened on a Chow carrying a kerosene tin and
a bit of rope. He looked so miserable and so
altogether down on his luck that Bill wanted to
follow him and watch developments. We
shadowed him for about a mile, when he stopped
under a tree, put down his tin, stood on it, and
proceeded to tie his rope to the lowest bough of
the tree, which looked hardly strong enough to
support his weight. “ He’s going to hang him-
self,” whispered Bill with unholy glee, for Bill,
in those days, was one of the biggest Chow-
haters on Bendigo. Thp yellow man then tied
the other end of the rope round his neck, made it
taut, and jumped off the tin. It took him about
three-quarters of a second to reach the ground—
which was probably, as it was a lonely place,
about a fortnight earlier than he expected—drag-
ging the rope and the limb to which it was
attached after him. He stood for a few seconds
looking considerably scared and very yellow.
Then he untied the rope and walked off, deciding
apparently to postpone the event. Bill and i
collected the rope and the tin, and went home.
“ Henkell ” : Be animal friendships. At
Tattersall’s hotel in Winton (Q.) .there used to be
a black cat and a black rooster which were
inseparable companions The, cause of the attocm
ment was undiscoverable, as there wer P a t-the
fowls and other cats about the place. A » t
Twelve Mile, below Winton, it was common to
see sheep sucking sows—the reason being -
poddy lambs, they had been reared onthel J
swine instead of on their own mother,
didn’t seem to mind. _
WHEN THE WHISKY TRAIN COMES THROUGH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
o Owing to the strike, several country towns are in a
state of enforced teetotalism.”— News item.
There was woe at Yackandandah—
All the town was looking blue ;
And on Hogan’s front verandah
Sat a sad, dejected crew,
Listening, each with fixed attention,
To the words that Hogan spoke :
“ Bhoys,” he said, “ I’m grieved to mention ”
(Here his voice with feeling broke);
“ ’Tis an awful thing, I’m thinkin’,
But me cellar wasn’t shtocked.
Yez’ll have to knock afl dhrinkin’,
For the whisky train is blocked”
Now the men of Yackandandah,
They are looking weak and lean,
As on Hogan’s front verandah
They sit drinking kerosene ;
Cursing Bent with deep emotion,
Praying for the train to come—
That each “ cove ” may name his potion,
Then they’ll make the township hum.
And, with Hogan as art-critic,
They will paint things red and blue ;
€ And they’ll all get paralytic
When the whisky train conies through.
SPINIFEX.
THE DAMNABLE SIN.
[Foe The Bulletin.]
Out In the back-blocks grimly trudging, far from the
city’s clanging noise,
Stolid women child-encumbered, bearded men wit
limping boys,
Looney swagmen, sneaks and spielers, cripples heaping
groan on groan ; ,
Ugly gaol-birds wanted somewhere, white-haired hatters
all alone, . .....
Men who once would scorn to palter, cadging now a 1
so bright and cheerful, getting dark and hard
and sour- . ...
Travel-tired they all trudge onward cursed with tha
most damning sin
Of (good God !) possessing stomachs when they ve nou ß
to put therein.
H.B.W.
ARTHUR A. D. BAYDON.


66
WHISKY
The See Govt.’s enemies are busy whisper-
ing into its ear to sack O’Sullivan for his Railway
speech. It can kill two birds with one stone, it
is told—it can cut off the extravagant borrowing-
and-spending connection, and it can get on the
“popular” side in.the Railway trouble. And
the men inside the Govt, who are encouraging
this sort of thing, are the very ones who have
oftenest “gone on their own,” and embroiled the
Govt, in most rows, and called for most sticking-
to.
“Wheels!” Yes, no doubt, but B. 0
Dunlop has also invented other things. For
instance, the “Crackajack” Mouth Organs, made
in 4 styles. No. 1, the “ Crackajack Professional,”
is 4s 6d. nett and has 40 reeds; No. 2, the
“Crackajack Senior ” (20 reeds), is 2s. 6d ; No. 3,
“ Crackajack Junior,” is a handy little organ with
20 reeds, with a rattling good tone; and the
“ Boss Cracker,” at Is., is the best Vamper ever
put on the market. Allan’s, of 276 Collins-street,
Melbourne, are the sole agents, and will send any
of the above on receipt of stamps.*
SHIRTS.
For oration and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throuyhout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS BRISBANE,
A shocking incident occurred at a recent
Australian military encampment. Outside the
tent of the greatest warrior of them all was
planted a flagstaff, dedicated to the Union Jack
which waved defiance to the Hempire’s foes from
the top of the pole. The great man had been
holding a council of war, or a prayer-meeting of
colonels and captains in his tent (it was Sunday
morning), or some other important function, and
the officer in command of the Horse Marines
Brigade was rather unsober. This in itself didn’t,
perhaps, amount to an outrage against the Field
Marshal-in-Chief, but when the little meeting
was over and all the warriors clanked forth from
the marquee, the Horse Marine aforesaid calmly
walked up to the flag-pole and did a dog’s deed.
And this right under the eyes of the supreme
military personage ! The outrage has been much
discussed in military circles.
REFORM WITHOUT REVOLUTION.—
The great and particular merit of Hunyadi Janos
is that it relieves without discomfort, in other
words, it effects reform without revolution. This
is because it is the best and safest natural
aperient.* »
“ C.A.R.0.” tells of a woman’s venge-
ance :
Saw a pretty little incident in a fashionable Sydney tea-
room the other afternoon. Seated at the next table to
ours was a widow and small boy. Latter had taken pos-
session of a vacant chair by placing on it a pet china doll,
upon which he gazed tenderly at intervals. Then in
sidled a fat woman, wondrous to gaze upon, of great
dimensions, with a ransom’s worth of lace draped around
her ample proportions, and seated herself at the same
table. She treated the others to a fat, insolent look,
shaking her wide expanse of chest, which would not have
disgraced an elephant, and snorted something. Then her
haughty eye fell upon the doll. Glaring contemptuously
at the kiddie, she motioned him to remove it. He gazed
back in awe, munching his cake. Again she motioned,
and he munched on. Before his mother could see what
was happening, the newcomer, with her fan, swept the
doll flying against one of the pillars, and used the chair
thus vacated to put her properties on. The child cried
at once, and flew to recover his broken treasure, ignoring
the comforts of his mother, and sat with the remains
huddled in his arms, the big tears streaming down his
cheeks. The fat one calmly consumed cakes and coffee.
I felt wrathful, and wondered at the calmness of the
mother. I noticed she had long received her ticket, and
had taken quite five minutes to put on her gloves. Pre-
sently, with a large sigh of repletion, and without
attempting to replace her gloves (which would have
required a maid and two bootjacks), the fat one arose,
spread her magnificent train behind her, and waddled off.
Then the widow got up absently, bowing to an acquaint-
ance, stepped off briskly, and stood on the tail of the
departing vision. There was a fiendish tearing and
ripping of lace—a shrill shriek—a beaming smile, and “ I
beg your pardon, really 1 ” Then a happy widow with a
tearful little boy went out into the street ; and a fat
woman, mouthing bad words, gathered up the wreck of
her once splendid tail, and, weeping with rage, fled to
the waiting-room, and from there despatched a man with
a hand-truck for a few cwt. of pins.
Patents for Inventions. — Arthur Griffith
and Allen, International Patent Agents and Con-
sulting Engineers, University Chambers, Phillip-
street, Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyright
throughout the world.*
Messrs. Thomas Cook and Sons have arranged
a unique and charming Winter Excursion to the islands
of the Western Pacific in the new steamer Victoria, 3000
tons, which only left the builder’s hands six months ago.
The Victoria will touch at Norfolk Island, cruise through
the Tongan, Samoan, Fijian, New Hebrides, and Loyalty
groups, and also call at other islands of interest. A
medical man will be on board to attend to attacks of
gout; a new steam launch will be provided to take
tourists through picturesque places approached only by
shallow water. Cardinal Moran and a clerical party will
join the expedition, but Dr. Dill Macky will unfortu-
nately be engaged elsewhere. The excursion will leave
Sydney late in July, and will occupy a trifle over fi\e
weeks.*
POOM ON TOP.^
ALWAYS ROOil ON TOP.
The Proprietors of the
“Fx. & R.” WATCH
have proved this truism with their watches.
There are Watches at lower prices obtainable.
There are Watches all show and no reliability.
There are Watches that go for 12 months and stop
there.
The “ Fx. & R.” Watches are on top—the highest
rung.
Because every latest improvement is put into them.
Because they last a lifetime.
Because they keep time to within a minute a
month.
Because a written guarantee is given with each.
15 Jewelled Lever, in open-
face Metal Case, 30/-
15 Jewelled Lever, in open-
face Silver Case. 42/-
Your
Initials
Engraved
as shown,
2/6
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery House In Sydney,
23 HUNTER STREET.
“Bullaman”: Re horse-memory. In
Aug., ’Bl, I saw a horse (which had been left
nine months previously, knocked up) on a station
near the Darling. He was running near the
river, which was 3£ miles from the main road.
In the division-fence near the river-bank was
a slip-panel for the convenience of the boundary-
rider, and the horse hung around this panel all
the time, probably because he had been brought
into the paddock that way. To prevent the
moke’s egress the wire-inspector used to let the
slip-rails down at one end only, making his horse
step over; but once, having a fresh horse that
wouldn’t step over the rails thus let down, his
mount started running back, and before the
boundary-rider coulf interpose the prisoner
popped over, stuck his tail in the air, and
galloped up the river to the next fence; and the
gate being close to the river and open, he got
away. In Aug., ’B3, while taking bulls into the
Wilson, I again encountered this horse, 240 miles
north, on the Paroo. As he was fat, and appeared
to be going my way, I took a sweat out of him.
For the first few nights he stopped all right, but
about the 4th night he did the disappearing-
trick —bell, hobbles and all/ A blackboy tracked
him till he got the broken hobble-strap, then
gave him best, saying “Baal ketch-em that
pfeller; broke em hobble; altogether gallop
away.” This horse had a Queensland brand, the
first letter of which was D, but the other letter
and numeral were so blotched that I was pre-
vented from finding whether he got home or not.
But as he had been nearly three years getting to
where I found him, over partially fenced country,
and was then clear of all fences, no doubt he
landed all right.
MRS. JOHN SEE, WIFE OF THE N.S.W. PREMIER.
“ Yarrum ” : Four of us were once charged,
with “ riotous conduct ” in an up-country oyster-
shop. There was really nothing worse than sing-
ing “Advance Australia Fair,” perhaps not too
melodiously ; but the police wanted to get at the
nigger-proprietor, who was charged with keeping
a disorderly house. When the silly old P.M.
who was quite satisfied that we were desperate
characters—intimated that we were fined, each
255. and costs, theoysterman asked, “How much
for tiie lot"? ” The Court went into figures, with
difficulty, and told him the amount. Then the
colored gentleman threw down a tenner, and told
it to “Take it out of that!” He was a real
“ white ’’ nigger.
• * • •
“Jim Pan”: The bike has largely re-
placed the horse out Back-o’-Beyond, but the bike
is a poor substitute on the black soil plains after a
shower of rain. Recently, a river identity got
caught in the rain, going from Pooncarie to
Menindie. He struggled on, pushing his bike,
carrying it, cursing it, till he was beaten. Then
he stuck it in a big clump of lignum. A whaler
found it there, bearing a card with this notice :
WITHOUT PREJUDICE.
This blanky bike, and the 10,000-acre homestead lease
plastered all over it, belongs to Jack Dash, of Mushroom
Flat. Trespassers will be prosecuted. Please shut the
gates. Poison laid for dogs.—J.D.
MR. N. HART, President, Victorian Engine-
Drivers' and Firemen’s Association.
“ Periwinkle ” sends this slandering report
from a big Australian job:
Life is life here, believe me ! There are eight shantie*
going day and night, and nearly 60 on pay-nights
—fortnightly. Pay-nights on the two big contracts
are on alternate Saturdays, so a weekly carousal can be
depended on by one section or t’other. The grog-shanties
are hessian structures, and most of them are untenanted
between the pays. At one shanty, the grog is of “ pass-
able ” quality, and the glasses are washed for each cus-
tomer. At most of the other places, you drink out of a jam
or treacle tin. When a lot of men pool to get a kerosene
tin full of beer from the depot, they drink from the
tin —turn about, swill as long as you can. There is a
local chemist to supply suffering brutanity with drug
comforts—only he is away somewhere ! His substitute
draws teeth with a pair of gas-plyers. Diseases of man
and beast are treated with dog and horse medicines.
Many a navvy will tell you that a distemper powder is
the best pick-me-up he ever tried; and a horse-
ball —why, he can eat like a horse after taking
one—in sections. Whisky is as plentiful as the
water on the camp, and just as bad. The microbes
eat deep into the better selves of the men, and
soon symptoms of degrading dirtiness, and a total
disregard of even a blackfellow’s idea of sanitation
are the outcome. The men, women, and children are
much to be pitied hereabouts. The work is intermittent
—nine days were lost out of one pay, leaving three days’
wages, not sufficient to keep the teams in horsefeed.
This was owing (the contractors aver) to the recent
showers. God help the toilers (and broilers) here during
the coming winter, for there is evidently less than a
treacle-and-bran menu before them 1
“ Ne-er-do-well ” : After the ’9O
flood, the Balonne River (Q.) was run-
ning high—on and off —for three years.
I was at Gfulnarber in ’92, and about
April or May of that year, we were
afflicted by a plague of water rats —
huge fellows. They simply swarmed at
night. Sitting outside, in front of the
verandah, we could see them running
about quite close to us, and we used
to have a good time killing them with
dogs, and trapping them. The house
was overrun by them, and we used to
get them nightly in the kitchen, dairy,
store, meat-house, and even in the bed-
rooms. They visited the poultry yards,
and every night frantic cacklings would
take us down at a run, only to find that
a marauding visit had been paid to the
chickens. As far as I remember the
visitation lasted about two months —cer-
tainly not longer—and from then until
the present time I have never seen a
water rat on the Balonne. They are
there, their tracks and holes shew that
—but they are rarely seen. In ’B6—l
think it was—travelling with horses from
N.S.W. to Texas, Allora, Hendon, and
across the range on to the Logan, we
passed through what appeared to be a
swarm of travelling mice. They were
in myriads, over-ran the tent at night,
and half a dozen would jump out of
the pack bags in the morning if they
were left open overnight. They gnawed
bridles, saddles, whips, and everything
else they could get at, and made general
nuisances of themselves. I was teetotal
on both the above occasions.
• • * *
“A.X.”: The “black” magpie is
one of the chief agents in scattering the
prickly pear through N.S.W. pastures.
Maggie swallows the seeds with the
fruit, and when the craw is full ejects
them again, thus originating new centres
of growth. Were it not for birds, in fact, the plant
would make little headway as it has little natural
power of self-extension.
MR. HENRY D. SCORER, Secretary, Victorian
Engine-Drivers’ and Firemen’s Association.
ORDERS FROM THE BANK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Old mate, I’m tired, disgusted ; Australia’s boomed an
busted;
We’re done with—we old fools who carry swags ;
The mortgages are squeezin’ till her big warm heart’s
nigh freezin’,
O land of empty hearts an’ tucker-bags !
Once kindly welcome waited a poor traveller belated—
Or in any other trouble on the track ;
Now, soulless city snavellers, with their “ Don’t feed any
travellers,”
Are spreadin’ squalid sordidness out-back.
O where’s the old cooks smilin’, the big tea-buckets bllin’,
The juicy chops a-frizzlin’ an’ hot,
All hands the table breastin’ where the brownie sweet’s
a-restin’,
The doughboys playfh’ leap-frog in the pot?
They’re passed ; they’re gone for ever ; no more we’ll see
them —never!
The hope but as a pleasant dream must rank ;
They’re callous now, an’ thrifty, and not one heart in
fifty
Dare beat—for fear of “ Orders from the Bank.”
T.
ALONE.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will betaken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken in any case re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted, whether sent by post or handed in ; and in
no case will MS. be returned unless stamps (of any
State) accompany.
C.W. : Once more, The Bulletin objects to
“ our beloved fellow-subject ” the Hindu entering Austra.
lia because it objects to him as a brother-in-law or son-in.
law; propinquity makes marriages, and, the black man
admitted, the half-black children are a logical conse-
quence J.D.M. : Your idea that no billet—even that of
head of a department of the State —“is worth'flOOOa year’,
is a sample of the ignorance which keeps this country back;
£lOOO a year is a “ sweating” wage for first-class brains ;
there would be sound economy in paying £5OOO a year for
some of the big State positions.... Grattai : Both declined
with a loud bang G.C.W. : “ Wattle Creek ” too long
andscantof new ideas A.M.B.R. : Will print “Tryst.”
Not sure about “Satiety.” F.E.: “False Heart”dread-
ful beyond words E.P.R.: (1) We are tired of arguing on
the Friedman case. (2) Your ideas of the scope of local
government are very crude. You say, “ with the excep-
tion of the administration of Law, Education and
Mining,” all the services of the State could be controlled
by local government. What about Lands and Works
(such as new railways)?... .F.W.H. : Rather high-strung
for the present situation. There’s a method in writing as
in singing, and part of it is not to try a high note too
often Atrose (Suva): Glad to hear from Fiji, but if
representative government is “impossible,” and the
Crown colony system is “ impossible,” and annexation is
“ impossible,” what on earth do you propose ? Battle-
Axe : Drivel. By the way, how soon you “ loyal ’’-slush
people have forgotten your once-grovelled-to Queen.
“ Fighting for King and country ” is the burden of all
the slush-poems now... .Rellug : Too uneven... .L.W.S.:
“ Deceived” rejected with some emphasis.. ..6xB: Will
print “Merino”; likewise" Bill Mayne.”.. ..Will J.: Nota
very promising batch of verses... . Elah: Not a success....
Roy : Verse medium and ideas very shaky. For instance,
what countries with less rainfall than Australia do the
wonders you suggest ?.... 11l : “When your Boot-
heels Wear Away ” too like a very slight variation of
Lawson on the Pants that Begin to Go Pax : Old
V. : “Breeders” unsuitable, but good for a first
attempt Bert M. : Can find no trace of “Tanta-
lus" having arrived at this office Adelaide: Consult
the nearest doctor who can keep you under observation
while treating y0u....5.G. : “A Marriage Postponed”
is good material, but your handling is
H. : The B. does not argue for the “ increase of the
illegitimate statistics,” or hold that the foundling infant
is a desirable phenomenon. But facts have to be faced.
The foundling illegitimate occurs and has to be either left
to inefficient private charity as at present (when it mostly
dies) or taken in charge by the State. We believe in the
latter system....J.D.L. (Paraguay): Story not brightly
enough told ; we have already one or two correspondents
at New Australia and Cosme.. ..Dick : Too crude....
Bowyang: Mostly good maxims, but roughly put
S.A. : Your idea of settling the unemployed difficulty by
“ sending the men to the centre of Australia to heap up
a chain of Alpine mountains” is only open to four
serious objections : (1) there are not 5,000,000 unemployed
to send (it would take at least that number to start such
a work); (2) there is not available £500,000,000 for pre-
liminary expenses; (3) the job would take a few cen-
turies ; (4) the material is wanted to make Australia with.
R. Stewart: Same man... .G.M.H. : Couldn’t quite
“take it on,” though it has a crude kind of merit in
places.... Wee-Wa : Well imagined, but very indifferently
versed P.A.G.: But you defeat your own argument;
for if “ nothing is certain,” then it’s not certain that
nothing is certain....B. Mac. : Such a hackneyed theme
would need heroic treatment to make it endurable....
Double S. : Certainly, if accepted.... Gian : “ Love ” un-
suitable 72 : Yes, “sketches of that kind” are accept-
able, when well enough done. Yours is hardly that....
Sandy M. : Poetical as half-a-brick !....E. Francis L. :
You have some verse-knack, but you grievously lack edu-
cation. First page of your prose-sketch has 10 common
words mis-spelt... .Python : You don’t coil round us, any-
how Rabbit: Not good enough, yet not very bad
Tiki: No hope T.L. (Invercargill): As far as we know
the thing is quite honest. Still you had better give it up
and organise a Maoriland State Lottery instead—profits
to go in reduction of the public debt C.Y.H. : Twins
joke quite venerable. ..W.F.C. : “Clunburg” none too
interesting John M. : Will probably print “ Daffodils.”
Quercus : Only room for the best variety of Sunset
Poem. Yours is fourth-rate F.H.B. : Pretty verses in
a way, but what is the “ Saddest Song” about ? Gian :
Declined Elmore: The wail of the farmer is far too
hackneyed P.M. : “Evading Payment" hardly up
to mark E.S. (Jolimont): Will probably use idea
—which cost 6d. for deficient postage Max
W. : “Froth” declined Jill: “Gum-blossoms”
accepted C.F.C.: Hopelessly out of our line
J.S.: Your intentions are good, but your verse is hor-
rible Sweet William: A good, bold stroke, but it
doesn’t get on to the right place.... Andrew B.: Yes, but
you swing too far over in the other direction... .W.F.
(Vic.): Needless complications. Simplicity of structure
is always more effective than elaboration Coppertail:
It was duly returned Vanity: Not much in “Shadows”
J.D.G. : Your seducer is altogether too crude
and ineffective A.S.M. : “Wise Twelve” lacks
dramatic power Ne’er-do-well: “Bush Spree” too
large A.A.K.: “ His Mother” declined ; the deceased
wasn’t picturesque. This paper likes an artistic finish
about its dead A.A.D.8.: The drought is always
being conquered, but comes up again, dusty and dread-
ful, like De Wet.... J.E.E.: “Friend from T’other-side ”
quite impossible W. Brenta: “Sleen” nearly got
there, but didn’t arrive after all.. . .J.B. : “Cuckold”
is written in such a Frenchy, dashed-off style that it is
difficult to identify anybody It isn’t even quite
clear which man “ Hemnia '• was married to
H.P.E. : If you want to learn to be a journalist, cultivate
judgment, and learn not to send to a paper like The
Bulletin a defence of the Japanese geisha in Australia—
L.M.N. : The “ other” side is such a small side that it is
not worth noticing... .Z. : Eva is evidently a nice girl,
but you shouldn’t “hear her pass where the velvet mosses
grow.” A fair-sized girl, who is not too plump, should
pass silently over the velvet mosses... .Ernest: We’re
anxious to publish a poem from a man who has seen
159 in. of rain fall, so far, this year, but effort not up to
mark... .Boro Belle : Don’t want to encourage cruelty to
cats.... H.M. : Just hunt up the Leopold Range, and you
will find that a tribe of Hebrew aboriginals, situated
“1000 miles beyond” it, is probably either well out at
sea, or else is camped near Redfern railway station, or
something equally ridiculous J.D.M. : Not worth
print... .Mirumbeck : Too trivial.. ..Woodie : Declined
with alacrity.. ..F.G.M. : Pale little poem about nothing
in particular Piper : You don’t make us dance worth
a cent Annie Mac. : Promising. Faults chiefly due to
lack of experience Florence R. : Too discursive and
gossipy B.W. : You’ve bitten off more than you can
chew. Try smaller literary mouthfuls.... Leon B. : Too
“naked” a yarn for print.... Con : What’s the use of
prating about “ octo-syllabic-iambic,” and so forth, when
you can’t spell common English words.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
D.8.G.: Sketch only moderate; joke aged . .H.S.: Regret
unsuitable.... M.S. : Your importer isn’t fat enough. He
looks like the lean and struggling manufacturer. Popu-
lation Question an old idea.... H.S.C. : “Dolly Gray”
not wildly humorous Leß. : Both quite impossible
W.R. : “ Missing” too farfetched A.W.: Unusable....
W.T.C. : “Something in the Smoke” very ancient wheeze.


boot"
\\z
U?
of (orrjn7CKce
"lff- notl« A
0 f ’f* r ~ j£e,*ier*My t y
*ftTv'*'s«|> p®'#? °f/
% irr Ifp, C r, 3j^>
/ l)
Cl/oKtv.s of (A MT »'W* . j
Of Com*">«- well I
r \ W * -j
do -jo I A "tpnK;
Bill -
HtjmK % iff ofj MV
-To felly I'ourjd 'ftfe S'Wt
orful cns's ef yer le< "7? owt
ter A enjin or *»iylWf
ill "le doofy loyally
wrttf jeromys
Jr'KitiflrS
/ x - °
\!%
<v
§§l
Mi VxD
/fdifyirr^
fxl7ibifion
ion Inr7cejc Dridez
/A God faVelf/e Km
pKocUrr7a(tTor7
WWn l»ued
l i7oT “fir looK 'teo
l^®-.
Va^*|e« r &7£JP*
| Driver^
1?e» C«$K
Scot* ®ff'«
(onsf-
will gef bis
little (?e«'qui^ile^
£> drrtfer of Roller (Xbol^oc^cAily);
Hullo, Wot! cuTyou u js tave If so WV-.
l/foroot' ir Watfn'T my old Ko&d Tio’cer I driviV
/ 'jrOrn«d 'gr on 'fall!'’
IrVitjc [>rooj-); *
Ijerfc Vouve in a striKe orj.
Editor .-"Well! I ‘ftougb'f’-r- -, ,
IrVirjG- , 17° ri Sh' IfynK , I'ie*'
*Hjens »n u s'|\.l>‘2 170 sfViKe
written .
PLEASANT TIMES IN MELBOURNE.


The logical result—every one in
, gaol but Irvine.'
The Ruffian You re a liar and a blackguard i r ,
chain, and don’t say a word for Tv. l ™ Glve me thafc ■
ment by Bent 1 " ’ f ° r Ive beeD offered employ, j
The Supreme Court driven from the
Bench by the no-bail party
This is the Rats’ Push destroying Cole’s Book Arcade, because it
contains publications likely to support the strikers.
The Vic. Cabinet—a meeting of six—is arrested (without
warrant) by a policeman for carrying The Bulletin
on its trains.
The offence of this desperado is that he said
“ Yah! ” to Josie Snike, whose pa is one of
Bent’s blacklegs.
Mas. SNIKE (to her neighbor) .
“You’re no lady, and you
haven’t got your marriage-
lines. Don’t you dare an-
swer—my man is working
for Bent.”
THE ANTI-STRIKE BILL OF A CALM, STRONG MAN.—SOME POINTS ILLUSTRATED.—("See BULLETIN Sub-Leader this issue.)


A. SAUNDERS FOR WEDDING PRESENTS.—SEND DIRECT TO 815 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
1
.K
W
m
m
K
■grw
VV
S
Q
□>;nJ
>:->
S 3
o
®ST
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class Hobrail Cut 6-Bottle CRUET, Pure Silver-
plated, on hard white metal, £8 j
4-Bottle, £2, without shield.
Send for Illustrated Price List.
A. SAUNDERS.
TEA SETS, Consist of 3 Articles, Tea Pot, Sugar Basin and Milk Jug. with Ms, Plt Silver-plated,
making a most useful and handsome present, £4 4s. Similar Pattern, 40'’°. size, £2 15s, £3, £8 10 .
Send for Complete Illustrated List of Tea Sets.
NW
-Ea.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ CARD RECEIVER, newest design, nioely chased
and embossed, pure Silyer-plated, 20s.
A. SOUNDERS.
SHAVER'S FRIEND, highly polished nickel silyer
mounts, bevelled edge Mirror, Shaving Brush,
Soap Basin, Paper Clip on Black Base, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-plated PICKLE
JAR, square-out glass,
27s 6d.
A. SAUNDEB’
SILVER PLATE
IS THE VERY BEST.
WE SELL ONLY HIGH-CLASS
QUALITY.
Post Free to any Speoial Address
Required.
SEND FOR OUR
1903
Illustrated Catalogue.
Post Free.
A. SAUNDERS.
Floral Crown Derby China BISCUIT
BARREL. Silver -plated mounts, 255.
Similar styles 20s, 22s 6d, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pin e Silver-elated on hard white
metal-BUTTER DISH,
Chased and Ornamented, 30s, £2.
S"wr««*s»sf'sSy
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver plated on hard white metal.
Oval-shapid BUTTER DISH 8s 6d,
Round 10s.
A. SAUNDEBS.
Silver-plated Nickel Silver TOAST BACK,
12s 6d Otner styles, 10s 6d, 15s, 20s.
:
Wx
BB
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silv r-plated Hobnail Cut Glass Trifle or
FRUIT DISH, £2, £3 10s,
mmmmmmM is i %
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Si ver-plated on hard white metal 4 o’clock
TEA SPOONS and TJNGS. nicely embossed handles*
12s 6d, 15s 6d.
CANDLESTICK, Silver-plated,
8s 6d ; other styles, 12s 6d, 15s 6d.
Breaklast CEXJBT, pure
silver, on hard white metal,
best quality, 10s 6d ;
very best quality, l‘2s 6d.
OV
Pure Silver-mounted Hob-
nail Cut Glass Cerebus
SALT CASTOR,
5a 6d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d.
S? Ks \
A^
H
©
I*B
JJ
A. SAUNDERS.
Handsome Presentation WALNUT CLOCK, 14 day, J hour
Cathedral double chiming gong, £5. Similar design, £5 ss, £5 10s.
Without Chimes, striking hours and half only, 355, £2, £2 10s, £3.
Send for Illustrated Book of Clocks.
5£
*Vstie*
m
* Si *30835
(F^
A. SAUNDERS.
Heart-shaped SALTS, Pure Silver-mounted,
with Solid Silver Spoons ; n Silk-lined Case, 13s 6d.
Four-bottle Lunch or Dinner
CRUET. Pure Silver Electro-
plated, 17a 6d.
Other styles, 21s, 255, 30s.
Send for price list.
A. SAL'JNDERS.
Latest Improved Rapid .Focusing FIE LI) GLASSES, very sharp and
effective, and most reliable, £2 10s.
Other Similar Styles 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s. 355, 403,
up to £lO 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-plated JAM SPOON and BUTTER KNIFE,
nicely eugTitved and beaded, in Silk-lined case l'2s 6d.
Similar 7s Bd, 10s, 15s. 20s.
A. BAUNDEBS.
TEAPOT, Pure Silver-plated Nicely Chased,
Similar patterns, 17s 6d. '2os, hOs, £2.
Jas. Dixon and Sons’ Famous Sliver plat*,.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-mounted Cut Glass KNIFE
REST 3, in Silk-lined Case, 15s 6d.
Extra ornamented cut g-lros ills.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR SCUTTLE, beautifully chased,
pure silver electro-plated on white
metal, 255. Similar 21s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Highly engraved, extra quality,
Silver-plated CAKE BASKET 25s
Other styles 21s, 30s, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
EGG CRUET and SPOONS 21s,
pure Silver -plated. Other styles 255, 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-plated Nickel Silver BUTTER
DISH, A 1 quality, 12s 6a.
A. SAUNDERS.
Combination TOAST RACK and EGG
FRAME, Silver-plated, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Two SERVIETTE RINGS, iu Silkdmed Case, pure Silver
plated on hard nickel silver, 12s .
Pure solid silver, same design, 20s. Extra heavy 2os.
Pa
A. SAUNDERS.
e Silver-platel BREAD BOARD and KNIJJh
complete, 255. Other styles, 30s, 355, xJ.
A. SAUNDERS
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER AND
SILVERSMITH,
809, 811, 813, 815, 817 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE REDFEKN
Railway station.)


The Waranga Basin camp (Vic.) recently
had 30 cases of typhoid. That took Dr. Gress-
well up to the scene, and he was horrified to find
that the 500 residents had no source of water
supply for domestic and drinking purposes other
than an open race. This race, being totally
unprotected, served as a popular bathing resort
for all the dogs in the district, and also as a
receptacle for all the wind-blown impurities of
the camp, in which the sanitary arrangements
were most primitive.
A “ ship on fire” is a fearful thing,
All helpless on the deep,
No vessel near her help to bring,
Whilst flames about her leap.
A cough or cold is bad enough,
Though we can help procure,
And never fail to drive them off
With Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
At Customs Minister Kingston’s inter-
view with representatives of the Sydney
Chamber of Commerce, the speakers were solid
on the fact that importers should not be treated
according to the cast-iron letter of the customs
law, but that it should be administered with a
sympathetic discrimination. Yet in the matter
of tea drawbacks, they gloried in the fact
that many of them had acted striotly in
accordance with the letter of the law,
whereby they had got to windward of the
customs to the extent of £lO,OOO. One deputa-
tionist admitted that drawbacks should only be
allowed on genuine re-exports, whereas the tea in
question was simply sent from Sydney to Mel-
bourne, and brought straight back again, and
drawback claimed on it to the amount of £lO,OO0 —
“after legal advice” ! Kingston also acted “after
legal advice” when he prosecuted fraudulent
importers, and, looking at the commercial morals
of the importer as revealed in that sham export
of tea for the sake of the drawback, it seems
almost a pity he doesn’t prosecute a lot more of
the class.
If the man on the Land wishes to remain
there in Peace, he should employ W. N. Willis,
Land Agent, 21 Bligh-street, as his Agent. No
results, no payments.*
A Federal High Court.
The experiment of investing the State courts
with judicial power in Federal matters —which
was the best expedient open to the Barton
Government, confronted by a savagely hostile
Opposition determined to block for a time the
appointment of a Federal High Court —has not
worked well in practice. The State court
appealed to on a Federal matter can only decide
for the area of the State in which the appeal is
made. A N.S.W. decision, though given at the
instance of the Australian Government on an
Australian subject, has no force in Victoria, or a
Victorian decision in Tasmania. But apart from
that, the expedient has developed other objec-
tionable expedients. The State Courts have
shown, in the few cases so far submitted to them,
a very' pronounced anti-Federal bias. That
jealousy and friction which the settingup of a
new power must inevitably cause has been most
marked in the social circles from which
the Judges are drawn and in which they
move. Anti-Federalism is a feeling which has
grown up to a great extent unconsciously.
The average Judge knows that, to do his
duty fairly, he must divest himself, bv an effort,
of the class bias which he has acquired ; and
generally he does so divest himself. But of the
existence of a feeling of unfair prejudice, and a
causeless irritation against Federation and the
Federal Government, the average Judge is pro-
bably not aware. The phenomenon is too recent
to have attracted his notice. Nevertheless, the
prejudice exists. A Chief Justice who, before
Federation, used to be at times acting-
Governor, and now finds, in Jhis. spells of
vice - regal magnificence, that it is a very
much dwindled magnificence; a puisne Judge
who sees in the chief places of power a Ministry,
with most members of which he is unfamiliar ; a
judicial gentleman who finds himself much
further back in the ranks of precedence
than he used to be, feels an irritation against
Federation, and gets unconsciously to look
upon the daily paper diatribes as to the
iniquity of Federation with a favorable eye.
On the whole, the State courts —with the con-
spicuous exception, so far, of those of Queensland
—have shown an anti-Federal feeling, uncon-
scious, no doubt, but still none the less tinging
their decisions. The fact goes to further
stress the necessity of establishing, at the
earliest possible moment, the Federal judiciary
—a body which, will be able to give effec-
tive, skilful and sympathetic interpretation
to the Federal Constitution and Federal
legislation. State judgments on Federal
matters are not effective because they cannot
have weight over the whole Common-
wealth. They are necessarily not as skilfully and
carefully thought out as they would be by a body
of Judges with only the Federal court to adminis-
ter (State Judges are hurried mortals, and it
takes them all their time to keep up with the
State law—they can only give the dregs of their
minds to Federal law). And they are certainly
not sympathetic, though it should be the rule of
a court to interpret a Constitution or an Act of
Parliament sympathetically— i.e., with a regard
for the obvious intentions of its makers, where
verbal quibbling suggests a flaw. Premier Barton
should make the Judiciary Bill the first measure
of the coming session.
4
“ J.F.D.” writes from a post-office :
One of the most soul-filling joys of the postal ser-
vice is the person inquiring- indignantly about a non-
delivered letter. Generally the case is something like
this The Girl makes an appointment with the Boy by
letter. The Boy has some other engagement that night,
possibly with another girl, and doesn’t keep the appoint-
ment, so he naturally gets out of the difficulty by swear-
ing that he didn’t receive the letter. Then the Girl,
furious at such an important missive going astray, rushes
to the office where she posted it, and receives from the
worried assistant-P.M. an inquiry-form, comprising a
dozen or more questions concerning time posted, con ten ts,
postage, address, &c. She generally excuses herself on
the ground of having her gloves on, and the clerk sighs
and fills the answers in at her dictation, while a struggling
crowd is clamoring for stamps, &c. Then the P.M.
writes the names of the officials in his office who would
handle the letter, and they report in order. Their re-
ports are attached to the original document, and the
whole conglomeration goes to head office ; sorter, stamper,
and letter-carrier report in turn, and finally the nearest
postmaster to the Boy’s lodgings makesa journey—some-
times two or three—to see if the Boy is in the habit of
receiving his mail personally, or through the hands of a
landlady, or how. All attempts failing, the Postmaster-
General acquaints the Girl on a beautiful typewritten,
stamped sheet that “ All efforts to trace the letter
have been unsuccessful, which he extremely regrets.”
In 99 cases out of 100 the “ missing letter” is explainable
on one or other of these grounds: (1) It was never
written ; the average individual who should have written
but didn’t, is much addicted to saying that he (or she)
did write, but the letter must have gone astray. (2) Or
else it was received, but the recipient, not wanting to do
what the letter requested him (or her) to do, and not
wishing to refuse, explains things afterwards by saying it
was never received. (3) Or the letter was dropped,
stolen, or mislaid by some landlady, office boy, or other
third party. But Nos. 1 and 2 are the commonest items.
If you could take any average society lady by the hair,
and persuade her to say truthfully how often she got out
of a social difficulty by saying that she had written when
she hadn’t, or that she hadn’t received the letter when
she had, the result would probably surprise you. The
maddest person in creation is Mrs. Fitzthompson clamor-
ing at the P.O. counter to know why the invitation to
Lady Fitzjones’s ball was lost, when there was never any
invitation, because the Fitzjoneses are beginning to drop
the Fitzthompsons, but want to let them down gently at
first.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance
is solicited
“ A.8.T.” : The number of men in various
Australian cities who have lately shot at their
best girls amounts to an alarming circumstance.
As regards the reason, it seems to me that the
Australian “ boy ” is jealous and excitable, and,
through the habit of putting his whole tuppence
on one horse, he has evolved the further habit of
putting his whole affections (temporarily) on one
girl. As for the Australian girl, she reads too
much fiction —too many Home Sniffs and Family
Fantods. I know a man who married his girl
instead of shooting her—you needn’t believe this
unless you like. He is tall, and dark, and silent.
His wife still reads Home Sniffs. When the hero
of the story she is reading in Sniffs is tall
and dark, she loves her husband.passionately for
being like.him, and does everything in her power
to make his life happy. At these times she would
deposit her small plump figure on the floor at his
feet, and let him stand on her if he wanted to—
which he doesn’t. What he chiefly wants is not
to be pawed and mauled to excess. When the
hero in the Home Sniffs tale is fair and the
villain is tall and dark, she is cold and hostile, and
the husband dines out. His home life revolves
round the tale in Home Sniffs. And here I get
to my theory. Australia is full of girls whose
opinions are similarly influenced. When a girl is
cold to her “bloke” it generally means that he is
like the bad character in the new tale in Home
Sniffs, and as her little group of idols is taken
from that publication, he has ceased to be an idol
for the time being. The final and indisputable
authority of Sniffs has laid it down (for the time
being) that a man with his colored hair is a sneak
and a base deceiver. And her “ boy,” instead of
waiting till Home Sniffs starts a new story, or
else buying her the Home Chump, in which the
hero has his colored hair, gets wild and shoots
around generally. It is all owing to Home Sniffs,
or the Home Chump, or the Kitchen Moaner, or
some similar publication.
An Unexpected Reprieve.
Examples of a soft answer turning away wrath
are unfortunately less numerous than examples of
the power of a sharply satirical rejoinder to rouse
anger. In 1787 eighteen criminals (eleven men
and seven women) were hanged one morning in
London. A woman, who was hawking an account
of the horrid event, shouted : “ Execution of nine-
teen criminals ! ” A gentleman inquired of her :
“ Why do you say nineteen? There were but
eighteen. Surely that is enough for you. ” “ Sir,”
said the hawker, “ I didn’t know you had been
reprieved.”
Ah! that word reprieve l By long association
with the remission of the law’s extremest penalty it
has come to be regarded as appropriate only to that
event. But it was not always so. In the dim and
distant past a man sentenced to any sort of penalty
was said to be reprieved if another and lesser
penalty were substituted for it, or he were par-
doned outright. Mother Seigel’s Curative Syrup
has conferred more reprieves than the most merci-
ful monarch that ever wore a crown, chiefly upon
those who in some way have transgressed the laws
of health—a thing which countless multitudes are
forced to do by the conditions of modern life.
Mr. Henry Gleeson lives at Pelaw Main, near
West Maitland, N.S.W., where is the most recent
and valuable addition to the collieries of that
State. Writing on October 21, 1902, Mr. Glee-
son says: “I am a miner, employed at the
recently opened coal mine at Pelaw Main.
Formerly, when working underground, I was
subject to bad attacks of chill and cramp.
After eating, I would feel as if I had a ball
of fire in my chest, and food would turn sour on
my stomach. I could not eat, and would get out
of breath after very slight exertion. I lost flesh,
and suffered from constipation, dizziness, and
headaches. Of course, my working power was
greatly diminished, and it was clear that I was in
a bad way. I tried many medicines, but got no
permanent good from any of them until a friend
recommended Mother Seigel’s Curative Syrup.
The very first bottle of that remedy afforded me
great relief, and, by the time I had emptied the
third bottle, I was cured of all my complaints.
It is now some months since I discontinued the
use of the Syrup, and I still remain strong, sound,
and hearty, in every respect, as well as e ver I was
in my life. I write this in the hope that my ex-
perience may be of service to those who are now
in the unhappy condition from which I have so
fortunately escaped.”
——
From early May to late September,
These are the ohilly months, remember,
When coughs and colds do most prevail
And weakened health begins to fail,
And all humanity’s coughing and sneezing,
And bronchial tubes are stuffed and wheezing,
It’s time to get that mixture, pure—
W. E. Woods’ Peppermint Cure.*
Dear Bulletin. —One of these days I will
be tempted to say something severe about that
antiquated publication, the Australian Hand-
book. Its triply dashed and benighted map of
Tasmania is so ancient that it doesn’t show the
railway from Waratah to Zeehan or the new line
from Ulverstone to Emu Bay, both of which were
in existence two years ago or more. I don’t know
if the rest of the business is equally oqt of date,
but this is an insult which calls for bloodshed.—
Tasmaniac.
DON’T FOOL WITH IT.
It will not do to fool with a bad cold. No one
can tell what the end will be. Pneumonia,
catarrh, chronic bronchitis, and consumption in-
variably result from a neglected cold. As a
medicine for the cure of colds, coughs and in-
fluenza, nothing can compare with Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy. It always cures, and cures
quickly. Is. 6d.#
KARTELLS
THREE STAR
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SCRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair,
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
i
7
Business, Robbery, etc.
For a cool swindler it will be hard to beat one
Thomas Foster, who, after receiving a full set of the
London Times Encyclopaedia Britannica, suddenly dis-
appeared after paying one instalment, but wa"S ultimately
found in gaol. Mr. Foster wrote to the Times people
imploring them not to take “ his precious treasure ” from
him, and in time he would pay to the last farthing. “ I
am,” he explained, “a begging-letter writer by profession,
and at present, though I owe you £l2 (I have only £7 in
the world) I’ll give you £6 and pay the balance
as soon as possible. But I must keep the volumes which
are invaluable to me.” Then he continued in the most
candid manner possible to explain that, having written a
letter in which he stated he was a homeless potter who
had been chemically poisoned, and left unfit for work,
he used the Encyclopaedia to get details of the pottery
trade of which he himself was entirely ignorant. The one
word “ Kaolin ” which he used in his letter, and his ex-
planation of the use of the materials, made everybody
believe in the genuineness of his appeal.
* • * •
Some people are so unsophisticated as to be
capable of purchasing their hair-restorer from a bald-
headed barber 1 A couple of Westralian mining thieves,
having decided to visit one of the mines professionally,
had the people of the Yankee Doodle and the adjacent
Cock-a-doodle carefully informed that a robbery was
arranged. The cute authorities of these mines got out
their collective gun, and, with the help of the people
from the neighboring properties, spent a long, tedious
night watching the collective key-hole of the premises.
Then in the morning, when it was found that much gold
had been stolen from the Shanghai Rooster mine, while
its people were helping to guard the Oock-a-doodle
property, great astonishment pervaded the district.
• • • *
“ J.F.D.”: In a city eating-house I was sitting
next to a Jew and his wife. He ordered rump steak ; she,
poached eggs on toast. The menu card said, “ three
poached eggs on toast, one shilling.” “You can hav’
vun of the eggs,” said the lady while they waited. The
waiter, it seems, when a woman orders poached eggs,
acquaints the man underground, and that subterranean
character reduces the number to two. The whole room
stopped chewing to listen to the lecture that waiter got.
He couldn’t get his explanation in. “ Ith isn’t bithnith,”
said Moses. “ It-h isn’t bithnith ; if you advertise a thing
stick to it. My vife vants just as much vor her shilling
as I do.” The waiter, as a peace offering, brought two
more, and Moses put them on his plate and ate them
with much relish, glaring the while at the waiter and
muttering to Mrs. Moses about robbery.
* * * •
Neatly-worded advertisement from the Empire
(published by Henry Parkes), of August, 1856 :
AN SALE. NOTICE.—To all the poor, hard-work*
' * ing people residing all over Cook’s River, in the
bi - i or out of the bush, also to all the respectable
inhabitants of Kingsgrove and Cook’s River, in every
part of the said district, that there is a store opened
opposite the Man of Kent public-house, hotel, inn,
and tavern, between Canterbury and the Cook’s
River dam, with provisions of all sorts required for
the belly, at from 30 to 50 per cent, cheaper than was
ever heard of before.
* • • *
“ Jimmy the Ringer ” sends some more registry r
office news:—lt seems from 8., 4/4/’O3, that the fee
charged to town employers is 2s. 6d. If that is so, they
in the bush are put on a different basis. We first patron-
ised a labor-agency run by a fruit merchant in the
adjoining township. Her charge to the station was 2s. 6d.
and nothing to the employee. In the country every-
body’s business is known, more or less ; a vacant job ia
soon public property; and an attempt to charge
employee would only result in direct application being
made for the job, to the prejudice of the agent’s half-
crown. We next gave the town crows a turn, and then
we commenced to pay for style. The firm advertised
branches in all the States and made “ country order' a
specialty.” We first got a housemaid ; wages, 14s. a
week. The fee charged was 10s., and at the foot of
the account, which included rail-fare (all of which
we had to send down in advance), was exchange, Is.
The girl’s fee was 15s. Total fees, 255. We next got a
groom at 20s. per week. He paid 20s. for the place, and
we paid 10s. A laundress came then, and she paid the
first week’s wages for the place. The scale for servants
was : First week’s wages whenever they exceeded 15s. ;
and 15s. where the wages were under that figure. Our
fee, 10s. in all cases. We then patronised another
agency. Here they were not so extortionate. Our fee
was ss. ; also the inevitable attempt to get Is. exchange
on the cheque ; while the servants paid from 10s. to 155.,
but not more. We next gave one of the women agents a
turn, and she seemed the fairest of the lot. Each side
paid 7s. 6d., and each paid for its own advertisements—if
any. Another charged us 65., and the servant 15s.
Another 10s., and the cook gave the first week's
wages. When we had exhausted the Sydney mar-
ket, we gave Melbourne a turn, and here we paid
55., but the employees paid anything that could be
knocked out of them. The agentstarted with a demand for
the first fortnight’s wages, and wound up by accepting
whatever they had. To avoid this sort of thing we got
our town merchant on the job, and explained our reasons
for doing so. He took it on valiantly, and advertised for
a storekeeper, and foolishly gave his business address.
Now, it is a pleasing delusion of every youth who works
“ in a orfis ” in Sydney that, if there is one thing he is
specially designed for, it is station storekeeping. They
rushed him in droves. He did no business at all that
day, except a little by telephone, and that was the end
of that system. We still worry him, but he hands it over
to some registry. We pay no fee, and the employee pays
a little more. But it is when the registries handle what
they call the professional class they shine at their best.
This embraces the shabby genteel portion of bush hu-
manity—the governesses, the tutors, the book-keepers,
the overseers, and all those who proudly stalk round the
bush under the weight of a “ Mr.” or a “ Miss." They
are treated like gentlefolk, certainly. They pay a pro-
fessional fee of 5 per cent, on the year’s salary, although
the engagement may only be made for six months. The
amusing part is the glib way the carrion of the labor
registries write and deplore the manner the Labor party
is allowed to rob the country.
* • w •
“F.C.”: “ P.F.F.’s” par (B. 28/3/’O3) about
firms who want one employee only yet advertise for
several, reminds me of a pleasing experience I (and others)
had back in the boom days. The advertiser was agent
for a new typewriter, and he wanted a mechanic to put
his machines together and repair some that were broken
—less than a week’s work. He advertised for engineers
Five of us lined up at an office in Elizabeth-st. (Melb.)
about 8 a.m. Cooled our heels at the door till 9, when a
dilettante clerk, in a stiff collar and a haughty expression,
arrived and invited us into the office. We sat and stood
around there till 11.30, the supercilious clerk disappearing
at times to see if his employer was coming. During one
of these absences we five came to an understanding as to
our wasted time (at least, four of us did, and we “ Taff
Valed ” the other). As the morning dragged on, after we
had all done with the paper, the disdainful assistant
mildly suggested that we unpack a case of typewriters
that stood in a corner and set the machines up. lo pass
the time we did so. At 12.30 the boss hurriedly entered.
The position was explained and he looked at our
references. To the question of wages we one and ail
replied, “£3 a week.” “O, that’s absurd; I only want
a young man for a week or so to fix up the machines.
“ What were you thinking of paying him? Well—
about 255., or perhaps 305.” We grinned, Thats
more than absurd; you want a competent fitter
at a boy’s wages.” “ Well, it’s no use y° ur
staying ; I’ll have to get somebody else.” Then we
casually observed that we had been kept waiting—at
his assistant’s request—for nearly four hours, and that
our time was worth Is. an hour, without charging for the
technical skill we had utilised in fitting up his machines.
We reckoned 4s. a man was a fair thing. He nearly went
off his head and raged for the space of 10 minutes at our
“ consummate cheek.” We insisted. Then he threatened
to send for the police. We immediately took our chairs
and sat in a row before the door. He desired the haughty
personage with the collar to go for assistance. That indi-
vidual moved languidly towards us and stood ; he couldn t
climb over us, and we neglected to shift. Finally,
after much argument—during which we steadfastly kept
our seats —we compromised for Lalf-a-crown a man, and
departed. Doubtless the proceeding was highly irregu-
lar, and nearly approached highway robbery ; but, as I
said, it was boom-time.
• • * •
There used to be a dark-green heavy object
lying on the mantelpiece of the biggest Ballarat share-
broker, and it instantly attracted the attention. of every
caller. All the mining experts examined the object from
time to time, and it was variously pronounced to be
every geological formation in the known world. At last
an old butcher, from out Soldier’s Hill way, strolled in
and inquired why the broker had “ one of them ’ in the
place of honor. “ Why, what do you know about it ?
“ Know about it,” said the man of meat, “ there’s stacks
of ’em on the vacant land nexter my place. They get s
chucked out of the fish shop opposite. Didn’t you know
it’s a cod’s head ?”
The story of a “ tug ” : —
Tony pulled his shabby cap over his red hair, and,
lighting his pipe, strolled into the hotel. Presently he
drifted into a small room, where four men were playing
poker. He watched the game for some minutes, then
said, stammering painfully,- “ What’s the g-g-game?”
“ Poker; take a hand.”
“ Well, I’m pretty new to it, but if you’ll give me a hint
or two, I v 'll try, just to kill time.”
The players, looking like hungry dogs, explained the
calls, and, after a few questions from Tony, the stakes
were agreed on, and the game began. For a time play
was pretty quiet, Tony just managing to hold his own.
Presently he asked if anything beat three cards.
“Great Scot, man, yes!” replied the player sitting
opposite, while the others exchanged sly winks,” straight,
flush, full hand, and more on top of that.”
“ Give us the calls again, then.”
“One pair, two pair, three cards, straight, flush, full
hand, four cards, routine flush.”
“Oh ! straight beats three cards, does it? Let’s see, a
straight is a run, isn’t it? Well, I d-d-dunno, but I think
it’s good enough for a rise.”
At this two players dropped out. The remaining two,
being persuaded they had a soft thing on, raised it several
times till at length the pool reached £l5.
“ By Jove ! it’s a lot of money,” said Tony in an awe-
struck whisper, “ I’ve just got enough to see you, though,
as I’m the last player.”
In turn the players exposed their hands, a flush being
the highest. As Tony was still studying his, his opponent
asked what he held.
“ T-t-two p-pair,” he replied in a disappointed tone.
There was a roar of laughter from the rest. “ You’re no
good, show us.”
“It’s t-t-two p-pair of—of —aces, I think you call
them,” remarked Tony as he laid down his four aces and
gathered up the money
When he had left, the losers were heard to agree that
“ these d—-d greenhorns always had the devil’s own
luck.”


ToCure Horse Ailments
Eminent V eterinary Surgeons
(see Book on Bottle) strongly
recommend Condy’S Fluid as ; -
speedy and absolutely Certain
Cure for Sore Shoulders, Sore ■
Backs, Broken Knees, Grease,'
Thrush, Cracked Heels ar.
Mud Fever in Horses.
Insist on having “Condy'S Fiji
Sold by all Chemists & Stores.
GrO TO HELL-
!GOLAN]) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred: Hager?,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
AUSTRAUAN'STAMPiS
Bought, Sold & Exchanged.
Gibbons’ Philatelic Albums
and all requirements. Price lists gratis.
J. H. SMYTH & CO.,
88 KING ST., SYDNEY
DEFECTIVE
VISION, to
COUNTRY READERS
who cannot visit us
personally, we send,
Post Free to any ad-
. ... . . dress, with full in-
structions and Price List, ourmarvellously-accurate
and popular SELF SICHT-MEASURINC PATENT.
By its use you can Test y ur own sight and de-
termine for yourself the style and quality of the
glasses you may need. Write for it to—
H. A. BARRACLOUGH, Optician,
385 Georg-e-sT., Sydney (opposite Strand Arcade).
t#
The Judge on the Bench, the lordly M.P.,
The man on the stage, whoever he be,
The lawyer so grave, the jolly Jack Tar,
The stern-visaged soldier who’s been in the war.
The hard-working man, the knowing M.D.,
All happen on this one point to agree—
That for very bad colds the thing to procure
Is W. E. Woods’Great Peppermint Cube. *
The above illustration of a useful and pretty
Bookmark is one of London’s latest styles. It is
of solid silver with a beautifully diamond cut
handle. The inside face is enamel of various
colours with a jewel at end of hilt. It is inch
long and the price is 4s 6d. post free. It is unique,
and a counterpart of the sword presented to His
Majesty, King Edward VII. by one of the Indian
chiefs as a memento of his coronation. This is
one of A. SAUNDERS’ newest designs and manu-
facture which he sends post free to any part of the
Commonwealth. A SAUNDERS, Sydneys
Leading Jeweller and Optician, 809, 811,
817, George-street, opposite Railway Station.*
Don’t shout
I bear you. I can hear now
as well as anybody.
How?’ Oh some-
thingnew— The Wilson.
Common-sense Ear-
Drum. I’ve a pair in my
ears now. you can't see them
-they're invisible. I wouldn
know I had them in mysel .
only that I hear all right.
The Wilson Ear-DrumJ*
really a substitute for me
working parts of the
natural ear Has no
wire. Invisible, easy to ad
just, comfortable * Totally
different from any other de-
• vice Descriptive pamphlet sent upon request
>». CKAIHtgS. nga-gai rnlllns Sf. f Heljb
POLITICAL
POINTS
“ S.P.” : “ Hop ” was wrong—Minister
O’Sullivan spells it “ The Owe’ld Folks at
Home.”
Vic. Premier Irvine, summed up by
Anstey, M.L.A. : “Goodness me, one would
think you were the Almighty.”
The Katanning (Westralian) paper records
the death of a small dog, “which looked exactly
like George Reid,” and was named after him.
“The best chance Australia has ever had
of crushing these pestilent Labor people has been
sacrificed,” said an embittered Tory as he read
the Anti-Strike Bill of Vic. Premier Irvine.
The Victorian Anti-Strike Bill of Premier
Irvine sought to give him power to put practically
everybody in gaol except corrupt land swindlers,
oustoms thieves, and hysterical equity lawyers.
Victorian Full Court, as was fully expected,
has upset the absurd decision of Chief-Justice
Madden, declaring the machinery Act of the
Federal Customs nugatory; and the Customs
swindler will have to go into the same old dock as
before.
The most notable features of the debate
on the Vic. Strike Suppression Bill were Bent’s
frantic shouts, yells, contradictions and cries of
“Shut up,” and the imploring addresses of the
Deputy-Speaker as he struggled to prevent
Thomas looking like a push out for a holiday.
Among all the deputations that waited on
Kingston in Bananaland, not one even mentioned
the Federal Government’s refusal to increase
Cobb and Co.’s subsidy when that cheeky firm
went on strike. This alleged “shockinginjustice”
seems to be buried now with the other dead
bogies.
Nobody having so far arisen to declare
that the strike, with its resultant disaster to all
classes, is a Divine visitation for Victoria’s part
in the S’African infamy, The Bulletin hereby
invites tenders from parsons prepared to preach
on the subject. The cheapest parson not neces-
sarily accepted.
THE PAROCHIAL POLITICIAN—A GENERAL
VIEW OF HIM.
“Hullo! Lost his reason ?”
“ Worse! worse! Ten thousand times worst I His
State Rights are gone!”
Within an hour after it was known that
the Victorian railway strike was imminent, two
things happened in almost every Victorian town-
ship : The aldermen wired to Irvine to stand
firm, and then tore back to their shops to raise
the price of flour by 3s. a bag and to mark up
spuds Is. 3d. per cwt.
N.S.W. Labor party platform, as regards
agricultural matters, should be, in a sentence, to
take the peopie off the Sand and put them on the
Land. The system of landlordism which forces
the settler away from the fairly well-watered coast
line out to the arid west is now the chief and most
costly curse of the State.
There is a big whipping-up of influence,
political and social, for the post of legal adviser
to N.S.W. Railway Commissioners, about to be
vacated by solicitor Thom. The billet is worth
£lOOO a year, and the work is not particularly
onerous. To get clear of local influences there is
a suggestion that the Commissioners should take
a man from another State.
N.S.W. Lands Minister Crick makes a
good move in transferring to the Sydney City
Council control of the Sydney parks. In all
other localities the parks should be handed over
to the municipal authority, and all State sub-
sidies for their maintenance withdrawn. A park
is a luxury which the city using it, and not the
general taxpayer, should pay for.
Recent utterance by Tom Mann, in the
Melbourne Trades Hall:
Oh yes, you have the Land Tax. I’m glad of that,
so far. This, mind you, is a very merciful Land Tn
The poor struggling holder, up to 640 acres, is
exempt. That is kind. Melbourne City is one
square mile. That is exempt. Oh, the mercy
of the Land Tax ! Seven millions annually is the
unearned increment drawn from less than the
whole of this Melbourne land. I think it could
yield a goodly slice of taxation for your necessi
ties. lam shown a place called Nicholson’s
corner out of which £40,000 is drawn annually
by a London absentee. (A voice : “He never
saw it!”) That £7,000,000 is the fruit of your
labor, the whole of which you ought to possess.
George D. Meudell, of Melbourne,
recently told a number of scorching truths
to the “National Citizens’Reform League,”
one of them being this :
If we stop borrowing and force Governments to pay for
development out of savings and out of revenue, there will
be less public waste and extravagance. In the past,
money has been borrowed for unproductive works, to
fill gaps in the revenue, to pay for renewal of worn-out
bridges and wharves and buildings, and to pay interest.
This latter statement is often challenged, yet it is true.
Why, every loan floated at a discount is merely a shabby,
evasive method of paying interest with borrowed money !
Further, every time a State Treasurer has a deficit, some
of his interest must have been paid with trust funds or
borrowed m oney.
The Westralian Government has not yet
made any move towards filling the vacancy in the
Senate caused by Ewing’s resignation. One
Labor man who might have the position for the
asking is J. A. Thomson, Labor member of the
Leg. Council and seventh at the Senatorial poll;
but it is understood that he doesn’t want the job.
No one else seems particularly to want it either.
Terribly depressing remark in Melbourne
Age, on the morning of the engine-drivers’
strike.
And the men who now rally to the aid of the State in
a time of trial should be remembered with as much honor
as the soldiers who carried to the front the national flag
in South Africa.
Just as much ! Let’s see ; which gaol are most of
those heroes in now ?
From the report of a storm, or a fire-ball
visitation, or something, at Cootamundra, N.S.W.:
The damage is estimated at £5OOO, and already the
need of Government relief is spoken of.
Of course. Every town tries to lean up against
the State Government and the State Government
in its turn leans on Cohen in London, and now
that Cohen threatens to put up a Wet Paint sign
the situation is serious.
After all that has been said about how the
mild helpless Christian Kanaka would be slain
by his savage relations as soon as he got back
his coral strand, it is a sorrowful thing to hear that
a recent cargo of returned islanders was found
taking back to its old home a large number of
Winchester rifles (one nigger had 14 rifles), also a
cwt. or two of dynamite, ammunition, fuse, &c.
The return of the Christian !
The Kyabramapootra flapped its
wings, at its first annual conference in
Melbourne lately, and crowed about
the great “Reform” it had achieved.
Nevertheless, the bird seems to have
assimilated one or two grains of good,
nourishing wheat. Among resolutions
which were passed, but which the morn-
ing dailies suppressed, were : That the
consolidation and conversion of State
loans by the Federal Government be
forced on the attention of the State
Parliament—with the addendum that
power must be given to the Federal
Government to prevent the States going
to the money market; that the office
of State Governor be abolished, and
the duties performed by the Chief
J ustice.
“ Kaiora ” reminisces ;
Your par. (B. 2/5/’O3) about the affluent
farmers asking for cartridges to shoot flying
foxes with reminds me of a case that occurred
at Newlyn, near Ballarat (Vic.), some few
years ago. That district is one of the richest
potato and wheat growing, as well as dairy-
ing, districts in the State, and it is popu-
lated by farmers who are almost without
exception of the very well-to-do variety,
nearly all owning the properties they are on)
besides having comfortable balances at the
bank. Yet this crowd actually had the
cheek to send a deputation to the then
Premier, asking for State “help” to get
rid of thistles growing on their own land,
the said thistles having grown through
their own neglect and meanness in not
employing a man for a few weeks to remove
them in the first place. When they did not
get the “ help,” they were highly indignant
and to a man voted against that Govern-
ment’s candidate at the next election
Seems to me that there is nothing under the
sun so mean as a well to-do “ man on the land.”
Sydney Telegraph sticks hard to its old
policy of repeating a lie so often that finally it
gets accepted by the unthinking :
At the recent general election Mr. Irvine put to the
people in a specific form the question whether the
Government or the public servants were to control the
various services of the State, including the railways.
Will the Telegraph back up this lie with any
concrete evidence whatever ? J
Agent-General Grainger (S.A.) is stump-
ing England, lecturing on behalf of the proposed
land-grant railway steal. Grainger, when in the
State Assembly, was some kind of a Democrat
and would undoubtedly have strongly opposed
this _ gigantic political fraud of giving away 90
million acres of mineral and pastoral lands to a
foreign shyndikit, but as paid agent for the
Jenkins Iscariot crowd he apparently simply
obeys orders. * 1
Some political babblers already prophesy
that Carruthers will knock out See whenever
N.S.W. Parliament meets, and that a Carruthers-
Garland Ministry will follow. Sydney Tele-
graph is allegedly at the back of the rumor—that
dismal false prophet which twice foretold that
the Federal party would go down at the Referen-
dum, which saw Reid coming as Federal Premier
and was quite sure that See was a lost man at
last State election.
HOW OUR CREDIT WAS SAVED.
“Our credit in London and the conversion of the
£5,000,000 loan would be at stake in the event of a
strike.”— AGE.
“A few more millions, please, to help to develop
our 'appy land. Can give you the best of
security now — we’ve got Labor by the neck.”
Sydney E. News strikes the ingenious
idea that the N.S.W. law helps Vic. “rebels,”
because the N.S.W. Arbitration law more or less
forces men into unions, and these unions help
those over the border. This the horrified News
says is proof that the N.S.W. law is vile, and
ought to be shot out. But it isn’t—it is only
proof that there ought to be the same Arbitration
law both sides of the border, so that there
wouldn’t be any “ rebels.”
There is serious talk in Melbourne of
upsetting Irvine’s “Reform” Act on legal
grounds.' One point is that Parliament was
summoned to meet at the Exhibition Building and
really met in the Spring-street house. Another is
that, though the second and third readings passed
by the statutory majority, the Bill was afterwards
altered; the alterations were not passed by the
requisite majority; and the Act now alleged to
exist is therefore not the Act that was passed by
the aforesaid statutory majority.
The independence of the sturdy Queens-
land rustic ! Recently a deputation interviewed
Q. Minister for Public Instruction and wanted a
grant to enable them to chop down a few shrubs
that had sprung up in a country school ground.
The deputation got a dreadful shock when the
Minister reckoned up the cost of their train fares
to Brisbane, added on the market value of their
lost time, and showed them they had already
spent far more in approaching the Department
than would have completed the work.
There is much dissatisfaction in the ranks
of Queensland Boodle party because of the con-
duct of its Federal representatives. While
Labor members are stumping the State, Mac-
donald-Paterson and Edwards are enjoying
themselves in Europe and Japan, and Senator
Ferguson rusticates at his quiet country residence.
There is talk of bringing out A. J. Thynne at
coming senatorial elections. If Thynne gets into
Federal politics and attacks Kingston, it will bo
very like hitting a giant with a thread.
A comical side issue in the late strike
campaigning was the daily cabled report from
London giving the opinions of persons 16,000
miles away, whose only source of information
was the tainted one controlled by the local press
ring. The gem of the collection was the last one
of the Sabbath Times :
Almost without exception, the newspapers, com-
menting on the Victorian strike, praise Mr. Irvine
and condemn the attitude of the workers.
The dispute , however, is not generally understood here.
Whenever men have struck work hitherto
the cry has been, “It’s all the work of the pro-
fessional agitator. He lives on the game. He’s
got nothing to lose.” Hart and Scorer, president
and secretary of the Engine Drivers, who were
not “professional agitators,” were the leaders of
the recent strike; with the result that not only
have they been “ removed,” but they stand to lose
their retiring compensation of between £4OO and
£5OO each. Yet talk of “ the professional
agitator who has nothing to lose ” still goes on.
The State politicians thought they were
doing a clever thing when they enacted that no
Commonwealth member could stand for their tin-
pot House—which he would hardly want to do.
The Australian Parliament retaliated by enacting
that no State member could stand for either
Federal House—which he badly wants to do.
Now the State men, having got all the worst of
their own dog-in-the-manger idea, would like the
law abolished, and hear with grief that there is so
much constructive work to do next session that
there won’t be time to abolish anything.
Customs Minister Kingston has found it
necessary to notify sugar-growers that, inasmuch
as unscrupulous persons have adopted the device
of changing the distinguishing tickets on cane
trucks at railways sidings in order to make it
appear that black-grown cane is white-grown, he
will be compelled to take measures, etc. The dis-
honesty of the trading classes of Australia is so
garish, truculent and utterly blastiferous that
Kingston, in his efforts to keep them even
moderately straight, has to spend so much time
“taking measures” that he has hardly time to
take sleep.
When a firm of importers was convicted of
robbing the Customs department of large sums
of money, Sydney Telegraph rose heavily, and
after wiping away a tear with the butt end of its
partisan pen, professed itself aghast that legisla-
tion that turned men who, a few days ago, were
reputable citizens into criminals, should be
allowed to remain on the Statute Book. That
the Telegraph, which has hitherto supported
the Vic. Government, did not rise to condemn
Irvine’s Bill, which was proposed with the avowed
intention of making criminals of at least 1400
men who weren’t criminals before, also of anyone
else who might stop to light his cigarette outside a
blackleg’s garden gate, is, presumably, because
the British language was not strong enough to
express its feelings.
A story from Adelaide :
A deputation of the unemployed waited n
Jenkins, asking him to provkte work for m, PrBml «
delegate said that things were so bad that many“'f
wives had had to pawn or sell their wedding
provide food. Then Mr. Jenkins promised thfm ft 8 ! J 0
would pay for the rings to be returned m- that he
husbands of the women could show that they hfd Dg the
spent the value of the ring, or price obtain^ n « ve '
drink or tobacco ! P tamed on it, m
As nobody could prove what he did with one
particular half-sovereign received, perhaps sir
rsfejEsa- & “ bo ™' if *"»• fi
Commission to go over the liquor question T
pressure should be firmly resisted. Members who
d ? n fc understand the subject now will not do so
after the report of a commission. Seventeen years
ago a Royal Commission sat on the subject 5
bydney and produced a report no one ever read
The chief drew four guineas a sitting, five mem
bers drew two guineas, and the commission sat
for seven months. Some of those barnacles are
pressure m C ° nneCtion with the P^sent
Postmaster-General Drake has informed
the British Government that Australia won’t
pay for mail contracts carried out by steamers
emptying colored labor, and Mr. Chamberla n
retorts that “he will not be able to endorse a
policy preventing the employment of colored
British subjects on British ships. ” But that’s not
exactly the issue. Australia does not seek to pre
vent the employment of colored sailors by John
Bull ; all Australia says is that none of its
subsidy will go to the payment of such sailors. If
John Bull is less fond of encouraging “the boys
of the bulldog breed ” than we are, that is John
Bull’s look-out. We don’t presume to oppose
such a policy, only refuse to subsidise it. Aus-
tralia is for the Bulldog Boy all tne time.
The unhappy little Victorian branch of
the “Freetrade and Liberal Association” (other-
wise the foreign importers’ flunkey society) held
its annual meeting at a Melbourne music shop a
few days ago. About 50 mentally-distressed
persons at tended, including Parson Bevan who can
afford to be a Freetrader as his industry isn’t
affected by imported goods, and who apparently
doesn’t care a Job’s boil about poorer men whose
industries are affected. Hickford, M.L.A., raised
a sickly laugh by calling the local Denton Hat
Mills the “Dent-in”—which pitiable joke is at
least ten years out of date. But poor as it was, it
enabled the importers’ flunkeys to show, in their
own poor, small, half-witted way, how they loathe
the Australian industries out of which the Aus-
tralian worker makes his bread and butter.
SOMETHING WRONG WITH THE
WORKS, EVIDENTLY.
DAVID (examining interior): “Wonder whats
the matter with the old thing? ’Tain't
working at all lately.”
The reactionary party in Victoria tries hard
to persuade the Bent-Irvine Ministry that by its
attempted gagging of the press and other insane
and unprincipled acts it has made itself secure in
office for years. Yet the way is strewn with the
bones of predecessors who made themselves solid
the same way, and died of it. Parkes was an
Irvine on a small scale over the Maritime strike—
and he went out next year. Dibbs did the Irvine
dodge at Broken Hill, also in a small way—and
he went out next election. Somebody named
Gillies earned the undying gratitude of Capital
in Irvine’s own State by being not quite so bad as
Irvine —and he disappeared. And none of these
men ever came back. Toryism is a luckless and
ungrateful boss to its beast of burden—and what-
ever may be said about the burden in this case,
the beast is all there.


LIPP PIANOS at PALING’S
The Best and most reliable German Piano made.
The Popular Piano in Australia.
i ■
rv
ssr
h
%
r*r
/
o
Sold on
Easy
Terms.
0
Catalogues
Free by Post.
0
Old Pianos
taken in
Exchange.
0
Beware 0*“ Imitations of the Wonderful Lipp Pianos. The Genuine Lipp Pianos are to
be bought only from
17. H. PALING & CO., Ltd., 338 George Street, Sydney;
Brisbane and Newcastle.
Hydatids on the Lungs.
Driven out of the System and Cured by
VITADATIO
Frank-street, off Munro-street,
Coburg, 27th March, 1901.
To Mr. S. A. PALMER.
Dear Sir,—For the benefit of suffering humanity t
make this statement. Five years ago l was verv.ill and
reduced to a shadow, the doctor who was treating me
said I was suffering from Consumption and he could not
cure me. In the beginning of the year 1898 Mr. Thomp-
son, who was for many years overseer in the Printing
Department at Pentridge, who had to give up that
position on account of suffering from Consumption and
who had derived great benefit from VITADATIO, advised
me to call at your Institute, 48 Bourke-street, and consult
you. I did so and you advised me to give VITADATIO
a fair trial, as it was a sure cure for me. I commenced
with the medicine and in a short time my disease began
to pass away from my system. I persevered with VITA-
DATIO for some time, gradually getting stronger and
eventually I became quite well and gained (1£) one and a
half stone in weight. It is now thee years since I left off
taking VITADATIO, and it is a proof that the disease
has completely left the system, as I have not had any
return of the trouble. I shall be pleased to give any
further information about my case to anyone calling at
my address.—l remain,
Yours faithfully,
ELIZABETH J. WILLIAMS.
For further particulars.
S. A. PALMER ,
Head Office: Clarendon Street JV.,
South Melbourne.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The price of medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
Elliot Bros., Sydney, Sole Agents for N. S. Wales.
‘SWAN’
PEN USERS never go
back to dipping.
This is
Not a |
Bayonet
Charge—
It is
merely a
necessary trip to *
the Ink well when
using the old style
pen. Avoid this,
save time by using
J?Svy^K
FouKTAItf
Always Ready—Always Sure.
MABIE, TODD Cf BARD.
London and Manchester, England.
Sold by Stationers, Jewellers, end Importers
The Cheviot Estate, with which old Jock
M'Kenzie pluckily began his closer settlement
policy in M.L., had, in LB9l, a population of 160
people, 51 dairy cows, 177 horses, and 82,000
sheep. The last census gave it 1120 people, 556
dairy cattle, 920 horses, and 196,882 sheep ; and
in the same period the grain returns have
increased threefold. If Bent wants to know how
to get traffic for the unpayable Vic. railways that's
the way.
INDICATION OF CROUP.
Hoarseness in a child that is subject to croup
is a sure indication of the approach of the disease.
If Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy is given as soon
as the child becomes hoarse, or even after the
croupy cough has appeared, it will prevent the
attack. It always cures, and cures quickly.
Is 6d.»
ARE YOU AWARE
THAT we not only make clothes to measure
but we make them to fit ? We trouble more
about the fit than our customers do. We consider
our reputation is at stake with every suit we
make; that is why we are sure we can satisfy
you. The highly efficient and experienced
measure cutters we employ make a specialty of
cutting to customers’ own measurements, and if
you patronise us you will be able to say, “ I am
thoroughly satisfied with my clothes.” We make
a first-class suit to measure from 50s. (carriage
paid) and send patterns and self-measurement
forms to any address in the Commonwealth. We
will do the same to you if you will write to Chas.
Gilbert, the leading cash tailor, Brisbane.
ARTIFICIAL LIMBS
with A. A. Marks.
PATENT
RUBBER
FEET and
HANDS
ARE THE BEST
PROCURABLE.
Sole Agents and Manufacturers:
DENYER BROTHERS,
281 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY,
and at cor. Lonsdale & Swanston Sts., Melbourne.
Catalogues and Prices on application.
WEBSTER'S
CARBOLIC
TOOTH
POWDER
Large Tins, 6 d.
All chemists.
Equal to any
imported article.
Cleans the teeth not merely by fric-
tion but antiseptically. It keeps them
bright, pure, healthy and strong.
If your chemist or storekeeper does not stock
it—take no other, but send 7d. in stamps direct
to us for a tin.
ALEXANDER J. WEBSTER,
SOLE PROPRIETOR A MANUFACTURER,
177 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
The CALLAGHAN
POST
FREE
DUTY
FREE
0
.
A Handsome
Boot
For Ladies
16/6
Bools Exchanged or
Money Refunded. . .
NO
MISTAKE
ABOUT
COMFORT
AND WEAR,
We can fill orders exactly, through
our Mail Order Department, for this
very stylish Boot. It is made of fine
American Glace Kid, with Patent Caps.
15/11—Post and Duty Free, 16/6,
Over all States except W.A,
“Mkssks. CALLAGHAN & SON,
“ Dear Sirs,—l am extremely satisfied with the boots. I have been in the habit of
paying a high price for boots made to order in Sydney, .but I can honestly say that I have
had a pair to fit me better than these.—C. S. F.”
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 ceorce st., Sydney.


Banking, Pnblio Companies, &c.
Upon
all - Classes - of
Security.-^
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
nxr.s.-w'-.
(||ont deplete 0.
$
I.Co.,[td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
•74. CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
1 SYDNEY
KTJSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
'-Tlllt-,
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices * * 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. RobbrtS
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Millbr.
Accumulated Funds, £2,595,870.
Policies issued 88,299 assuring £26,826,380.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,767,115.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums - moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—eouitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
The Bank of |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
j ]> Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL - £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 250 000 ... £350,000
Roval Bank of Queensland
J LIMITED.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £456,927
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 176,239
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 58,000
£691,166
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Queensland Smelting Qompy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
"DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
-D Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, the Branch
Office, 54 Market-street. Melbourne, or IRWIN HINDS,
Branch Manager, 6 Spring-street, Sydney.
savings bank
HAS MONEY TO LEND in VICTORIA
at 41 per cent., in sums of £5OO to £15,000, on Town
Properties : and £2OOO to £25,000 on BROAD ACRES
FOR FIVE YEARS, with option of paying off part
half-yearlv.
FARMERS’ CREDIT FONCIER.
Loans from £5O to £2OOO at 4J per cent, for 31J years.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
29 Market-street, Melbourne.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors —Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M. L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Hon. John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jbssop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M’Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar. J. J.ALLEN, General Manager for Australia
131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 600,000
Total Capitol ~ • • £2,500,000
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) . ••• £10,494 16 9
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager
o ur No. 56 ACETYLENE CAS Catalogue
s the MOST COMPLETE
and COMPREHENSIVE
ever issued.
Tells all about the Best
ACETYLENE CAS GENER-
ATORS, LAMPS, and
everything in connection
with ACETYLENE.
Nearly 400 of our
Reliable Automatic
Acetylene Gas
Generators
in dally use.
Large Stocks of the
Best
Carbide
ofCalcium
Quotations on application.
James MARTIN & CO.,
161 Clarence Street,
Nr. King-st., Sydney.
Shipping.
3XT. X 3. L.
(NORD-DKUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Four-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
‘Twin-screw steamer.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
Interstate First Class Return Tickets are now available
for Return by the Steamers of the P. and 0., Orient
Pacific, or M.M. Co.’s.
TO SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. DELI, 24th JUNE.
And Regularly Every 6 Weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent-
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to tlie Agents.
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
WHITE STAR LIME
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
MEDIC, to Sail on or about 22nd MAY,
AFRIC, SUEVIC, PERSIC and RUNIC
to follow.
FARES—Capetown .. .. £l6 16 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 27 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 33 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation*
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
Huddart, Parker $ Co’s [ine
MELBOURNE,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Tares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
Oceanic Steamship Company,
A. and. A. LIKTE,
T W O GRAND E XOURSIONS.
YOSEMITE VALLEY and CALIFORNIA BIG TREES,
UP IN THE HEART OF THE SIERRA NEVADA MOUNTAINS.
Travellers of note who have visited Switzerland say Yosemite surpasses even the grandeur of the Alps.
£72 (including everything).
HOTEL DEL MONTE (monterey).
ALL-THE-YEAR-ROUND HEALTH AND PLEASURE RESORT.
£65 (including everything).
Through Passengers to London and American centres may participate in these excursions.
BURNS PHILP and CO., Ltd., flanaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS,
SYDNEY.
Bank of New South Wales,
Established 1817.
Head Office—GEOßGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
2,000,000 0 0
1,300,000 0 0
2,000,000 0 0
Total 5,300,000 0 0
Directors:
Hon. Chas. K. Mackellar, M.L.G., President.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.O.
Senator James Thomas Walker.
Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L O.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors:
Harrington Palmer, Esq. Frederick W. Uther, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies, New Zealand
and Fiji; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
Tae Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; arid invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
GOUGHS
Powell’s Balsam
of Aniseed.
SAFE AND RELIABLE
Gives immediate Relief.
6
FOR 78 YEARS
THE POPULAR REMEDY FOR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza, and all Lung Troubles.
It loosens the Phlegm immediately, and removes
the tickling sensation in the Throat, which de-
prives so many of rest during the lt also
Strengthens the Voice and Cures Hoarseness.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers 9
But see the well-known Trade Mark—Lion, Net
and Mouse—is on each wrapper.
Prepared only by Thomas Powell, Ltd. f
Blackiriars, London, S.E. A
THE DEAF HEAR.
DEAF persons need no longer despair. Out of
mass of failures has come a genuine success;
Head noises can be cured and the deaf made to
hear so effectively that they wonder if they really
were deaf. Particulars of a startling discovery,
based upon the science of Metallic Galvanic Elec-
tricity, that will assist all persons suffering from
deafness, fully described.
UDT7I7 By sending your name and address to
riVEIl* T he L. R. VERNON CO., 60-64
HUNTER-ST., SYDNEY, you will receive a full
description of this remarkable method, which will
enable you to restore your hearing at a very slight
expense. The description is posted to you free,
and you will be delighted to learn how easily you
can obtain relief. It will pay you to write to-day.
Don’t neglect to do so.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
STEAMERS SAIL—
JUNE 15. JULY 13. AUGUST 10.
Cheapest Route to London.
Grand Excursion to Canada.
£6O for 63 days, including
expenses on steamer, railway
and at hotels.
ONLY CANADA HAS BEEN FAVORED WITH
THE WORLD’S BEST SCENERY.
Chance to See South Sea Islands.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
SOUTH SEA ISLANDS. WINTER EXCURSION,
A 38-day OCEAN CRUISE in Tropical Weather,
7000 miles cruising and 18 days ashore.
A select party to be accompanied by His Eminence
Cardinal Moran.
TONGA, SAMOA, FIJI, NEW HEBRIDES, and LOYALTY
GROUPS, and NORFOLK, WALLIS, FUTUNA, TANNA
and PINES ISLANDS.
The Splendid New Steamship, “ VICTORIA,” 3000 tons,
15£ knots, will leave Sydney on 25th July.
(Passengers live on Vessel in Ports.)
ty FARES : 42 GUINEAS AND UPWARDS.
For Illustrated Prospectus, Plan of Vessel, and Passage
Rates, apply W. J. SPRUSON, 169 KING ST., SYDNEY,
or IHOS. COOK & SON, Tourist Agents, 4 HUNTER
STREET, SYDNEY, and at Melbourne, Adelaide, Bris-
bane, Perth, Wellington, and Auckland.
“The Challenge”
Latest Scientific
Punching Machine.
A new World’s Record of 12251b5. was established on
the above machine at the Royal Agricultural Society’s
Show, Sydney, 1903, by Mr. T. W. Aulsebrook, of Messrs.
Aulsebrook and Sons, Ltd., the previous World’s Record,
held by Mr. Robert Fitzsimmons, champion pugilist,
being 10851bs.
The “Challenge” is an Automatic Penny-in-the-Slot
Machine, and is especially suitable for Hotels, Billiard
and Refreshment Rooms, Tobacconist Shops, etc.
It is a great attraction to any place, a first class money-
maker, never gets out of order, and requires no attention
whatever.
All other kinds of Automatic Slot Machines kept in
Stock. Illustrated Catalogue posted on application.
J. LANDES,
108 PITT ST., SYDNEY,
Sole Agent for Australasia.
Too Stout
I was for years ; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to lOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending 3tamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney
Sending, mention this paper.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIPCOi
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
Al f B^, * a *' an » South Australian
Victorian and Queensland Ports ’
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Rockton,
Friday, May 22.
S.S. Marloo,
Saturday, May 23
(Without Transhipment).
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE [
And Ports North to Oalrns I
S.S. Allinga.Pridav, May 22
S.S. Rockton Sat., May 30.
S.S. Ointra, June 4.
S.S. Innamincka, June 6.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
P.
AND
o.
COMPANY’S
ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Exnr P <w
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
. ot 2 t he subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.’
Sydney,
Noon.
May 30
June 13
June 27
July 11
July 25
rvei/urn xicaeis oaioonj oetween Inter-state Ports
are available for return by Orient-Pacific, Messageries
Mari times and N.D.L. Steamers having room.
63 Pitt-street.
A.
GORDON WESCHE,
Acting Agent.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE ADK-
LA IDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and POUT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Custom*
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
State Ports are available lor return by P. anJ 0.,
Orient Pacific and N.D.L. steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Office*
Queen's Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
L. BRICARD, Acting Principal Agent.
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. . BY THE . .
“E. and A.” LINE.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
•Does not call at Port Darwin.
EVERY CONVENIENCE FOR A TROPICAL VOYAGE.
The Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans. .
Through bookings at special rates to Europe via Canada,
U.S. America, or the Trans-Siberian Railway.
Forhandbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.,
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-st., Sydney.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
fHLOROPyNE
»is*
Caution. — Genuine Chlorodyna
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHtEA, *». •»“* oa
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
IHE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS al
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
If I were asked which single medicine I shoul 1
sr ter take abroad with me, as likely te> be
; generally useful, to the exclusion ot m
rs, I should say Chlorodynk. I never travel
out it, and its general applicability to
f of a large number of simple ailments torn
>est recommendation.”
ORNAMENTAL HAIR-
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each- Englwjj
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern ofHairM
write for any Information. Country Orders
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers a Wigmakers
Send to us for Price Lists of Anythin you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock. .
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing 0
pgr* Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Sroct
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to
any Part of Australasia
CRAIG & AITKBN,
N.S.W. Barber’s Supply House,
680-652 George Street, Sydney.
At Dawn and Dusk: ,
By V. J. Dalky. In handsome ciotn,
with portrait. Price 55.; postage,


This should be a favorable opportunity
for some Tory paper to say something kind about
the Law of Supply and Demand. The Victorian
railway workers control the supply of skilled rail-
way labor in their State, and being truculently
ordered to alter the terms on which they furnish
the commodity they refuse. In like manner the
Herald and Telegraph, in Sydney, and the
Argus and Age, m Melbourne, control the supply
of morning paper advertising, and, if they were
ordered by Tommy Bent to alter the terms on
which they furnish it, they would probably refuse
also. The alleged Law of Supply and Demand
gets there in each case. It may seem outrageous
to the Tory mind that the Bent Department
should be dictated to by “its employees,” but
when the present writer employed Sydney Tele-
graph for Is. to do a humble job for him in the
way of giving publicity to a lost dog, he was quite
as much shocked at the dictatorial manner of his
employee.
The long arm of coincidence again.
Federal Attorney-General Deakin, addressing
Melbourne tabbies’ union, said that
The Australasian union was only twelve months old. Yet
it discovered to them one of those great modern growths
which were doing so much to shake the history of our own
time, and promised to shake the history of times to come
(Applause.)
The very next day a man was “shot in ” at the
L. Bjurke-st. watchhouse for “ shaking ” a
copy of Macarthy’s “ History of Our Own
Times ” from a bookstall. He probably thought
he was following Deakin’s advice.
A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
cases in six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
only Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
Of Chemists, or from PARIS MEDICINE CO., 28, Shoe-
lane, London, England.*
Sydney Telegraph is a humorous object.
It spread itself recently on the subject of caucus
voting, and pointed out that when the Friedman
case was on, the Ministerialists voted for the Govt,
because they all conscientiously believed the
Government to be right, and the Opposition-
ists voted the other way because they all con-
scientiously and unanimously believed the Govern-
ment to be wrong, but the Labor party voted as
it did because the caucus majority told it to do so,
and there was nothing conscientious about it. So
the moral is : When See or Owe’Sullivan, or Wise
or Perry, or any other member of the Cabinet,
takes a certain course of action on some very
debatable question, the whole of the Ministerialists
honestly and conscientiously approve of it. When
Carruthers makes a false move in party tactics,
every man of his following, had he been the
leader, wculd have made exactly the same false
move, because, every man, by some remarkable
coincidence, thinks exactly the same as his leader.
It’s only the Labor party which compels men to
vote against their consciences ; the divine coinci-
dence doesn’t strike that depraved crowd. Surely
the Telegraph thinks that N.S.W. is a vast
lunatic asylum!
t
74 GANZ
ELECTRIC
MOTORS
with a total capacity of
100 Horse-Power, will
operate the Government
Printing Office of Victoria.
Canz Induction Motor. 80LE AGENTS :
The flustral Qtis Engineering Co., [tf,, South ff]elb.
THE
‘PLUM’
THE
‘PLUM’
(^T ENTLEMEN. This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, ring
hke a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 78. 6(L
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
Price / sin 8 le Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21a.
I Single Razoi, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 303.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part op the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
SORE
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT i
FOR SORB AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYELASHES-
A CERTAIN REMEDY
f r: o ALL EYE troubles.
L I Lw never rails.
Ask your Chemist for the Little Book:
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
CURED
= ns
= i
Hotelkeepers, make your own
~JERATED WATERS
Over 500 Austral Aerated Water Machines in use
in hotels throughout Australasia,
l w HAS OUTLIVED ALL OTHERS.
Write for Prices and Particulars.
Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers—
ECKERSLEY AND SONS,
214-216 Queen Street, Melbourne.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens
Seven
Prize Medals.
Works : Birmingham, England
V
7VT4V
These series
of Pens neither
(scratch nor spurt
They glide over
the roughest
paper with the
ease of a soft
lead pencil.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
M ELLIN’S
FOR INFANTS FOOD AND INVALIDS
I* adapted for use from birth.
Send for Pamphlet and Samples to GOLLIN & CO., Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide and Wellington.
HQHDAY, 3rd AUGUST, at 12 O’clock noon, STAPELTON’S HALL, GIN GIN,
Near Bundaborg (Queensland),
THE GIN GIN ESTATE FARMS
11,000 ACRES.
Will bo sold by PUBLIC AUCTION, by order of the Trustees In the settlements of
SIB THOMAS McILWRAITH, Deceased.
THE GIN GIN ESTATE is situated on the Mt. Perry Railway Line about 23 miles
from Bundaberg, Queensland, about 12£ hours train from Brisbane, with a frontage of
over 3 miles to the railway line and about 3$ miles to the fresh waters of the Burnett
River.
THE GIN GIN ESTATE which has long been coveted by Agriculturists has
now been SUBDIVIDED Into 103 FARMS
of various areas, well watered and drained and containing SOME of the BEST
AGRICULTURAL LAND in this already famous District.
THE SOIL CONSISTS OF LIGHT AND EASILY WORKED BLACK AND
CHOCOLATE VOLCANIC LOAMS and by analysis has been PROVED EQUAL
TO, AND IN MANY CASES SUPERIOR TO THAT OF THE CELEBRATED
DARLING DOWNS with the additional attraction of A BETTER RAINFALL
due to its proximity to the sea coast.
CLEARING WILL COST PRACTICALLY NOTHING as the estate has nearly
all been ringbarked for 14 years and you can start ploughing right away.
CROPS OF ALL CEREALS, SUGAR, POTATOES and ONIONS grow in
profusion and for general farming and dairying the land is unsurpassed.
MAROONDAN RAILWAY STATION IS RIGHT ON THE LAND and
allotments in the TOWNSHIP OF MAROONDAN will be sold immediately after
the farms.
The Gin Gin Central Sugar Mill (which cost £55,000) is close to the Farms, also
a Creamery and a Butter Factory.
UNPRECEDENTED TERMS (24 YEARS) are offered—ONE-TENTH
CASH. No Payments for 2 Years and the balance In 23 Annual
Instalments with interest at 4 per cent.
An ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET giving full particulars may be had on application
the office of this paper or from the Auctioneers,
ISLES, LOVE HO., The Pest Office Auction Mart,
Queen Street, BRISBANE.
TO YOUNG MEN Abraham Lincoln’s advice was “GO WEST”; out a d v ice in
“ GSJ N3RTH.”
2h.p. to lOOh.p.
KING. MARINE OIL ENGINES.
Launches built 20ft. to 80ft. overall.
PPPPI
&$■
EOiti
C'J—
aEHtfiSgSaSsS
Noiseless Uiiderwater. .
Exhaust.
Perfect Gas Generator.
Double Cylinder.
Automatic Oil Feed.
Simple Electric Ignition
with Dynamo.
J. F.
Telephone 267 r
WITH THE KING ENGINE —ONE LEVER CONTROLS THE WHOLE.
Ml g33ERM! O T T & c o IVT P _A. TXT 3T,
30 PITT STREET, 9YDOTEY.
DTROBERTS’
POOR MAN’S
FRIEND
HAS STOOD THE TEST OF TIME.
In over ioo years’ world-wide use it has proved itself the best Heal-
ing Ointment extant. It is particularly recommended for the cure of
Ulcerated Legs, Piles, and all long standing and painful
wounds; also for Blotches on the Skin, Pimples Eczema, Cuts,
Burns, Bruises, and all Skin Affections. Prices (in England) l lt 54,
2/9. 11 /-, and 22/- pots.
Dr.ROBERTS’ALTERATIVE PILLS
Purify the Blood. Cure Skin Disease.
A Gentle Aperient and Perfect Liver Pill.
40 in a box, t/t%; 3 quantities, 2/9.
Of all Drug Stores and Patent Medicine Vendors, and made only by
BEACH & BARNICOTT, Ltd., BRIDPORT, ENGLAND.
G. L. ROBERTS, M.D.
m
4
Born 1766. Died 1534. 9
The Best Thing
on Wheels.
a Oldsmohile
has demonstrated its ability to travel rough roads smoothly in all
kinds of weather. In a long distance endurance run between New
York and Boston in America— 500 miles—the Oldsmobile was the
only machine in the 1,000 lbs. and under class to make the run
without a penalized stop, winning the highest award.
This runabout sells for at factory in America
and the freight is not large.
Starts at will from seat and is under instant control of the
operator. The cheapest reliable
automobile made. 5,000 in use.
Write for free catalogue.
Agents :
W. A. RYAN & CO., LTD., Auckland.
OSiis /hlotos* Works,
Detroit, Mich,,
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK :
By Sixty Bulletin writers. Cloth, 300 pages ;
price, 4s. 6d. ; postage, 6d.
SOLE DISTRIBUTING AGENTS :
EDWARDS, DUNLOP & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
JAYNE S EXPECTORANT
CURES THE WORSTCOUGHiS.


From the Dunlop Tyre com nan v
beautiful little brochure entitled “ Alf aboJf n® 8 , a
Tyres for 1903.” For get up and mS- Dunlo P
production is certainly the finest of the
Australasia. From a cyclist’s standpoint th. L
is valuable as it contains some 28 P illustrah>d b °° k et
of information re the management and rl
pneumatic tyres that every cyclist should K f of
acquainted with. The publish™ willbe
to forward a copy gratis to any cyclists upon receft
their name and address to the Dunlop Go 01
street, Melbourne, or at any of the Company's depot*.”'
Are You Bilious?
There are few complaints that go to make
not worth living, worse than biliousness, i
coated tongue, bad taste in the mouth, be c ing
of wind from the stomach, yellow coraplexi .
jaundiced eye, all testify to the disordered c
dition of the stomach caused by the bile not 8
properly carried away. Dr. Morse s Indian
Pills touch the liver as no other remedy >
cleansing the system of all impurities, making •
stomach clean and pure. They assist Matur
the discharge of all her functions, increase
appetite, produce sound sleep, and give elas y
to the spirits. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root ri “
a permanent and positive cure for all b iver ~
kidney ailments. Packed in amber bottles wits
the full name blown thereon. *
ACCEPT NO SUBSTITUTES.
RESCH’S SELECT STOCK ALE ... LAGER
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives. BREWERY and OFFICES: DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
One of the many mysteries connected with the
Australian turf is how it happens that so many trainers
who hardly ever “ lead a winner in ” manage to keep
afloat without being compelled to do an occasional sprint
“ up King-street.” So great has competition grown
that many trainers now take horses in at fees that
barely pay first cost of the usual stable exes. Feed
has gone up so high that it takes every cent of £1 a week
to keep a horse, independent of the boy’s keep ; and yet
some trainers are willing to take horses on the off-chance
of being recompensed by half, or even a third, share of
any stakes that may be won. Such trainers need to
be financed by bookies or punters, so that odds against
the outside public getting a good run for its money
become greater day by day.
• • * *
Evidently the old proverb concerning the facility
with which fools are parted from their money still holds
goed, for odds of £5OOO to £lO that the nominal favorites
win the next Caulfield and Melbourne Cups have already
been taken, although the entries for those events have
not yet been made. Similar wagers have been taken
about the Grand National Hurdle and the Steeplechase
winners; and possibly we will yet hear of unborn
foals being backed the moment the mare has returned
from the stud paddock.
• • * *
The great trotting game is now on such a
prosperous footing in M.L. that owners are often
tempted to wait for a fairer day, and the disquali-
fication list is mounting rapidly. As many as seven
cases at a time came before the controlling associa-
tion for endorsement, and some of ’em were particularly
strong. Only way to minimise the evil is to impose
lengthy sentences, but even then the all too lenient
authorities whitewash the delinquents, long before the
time is up, at the instigation of a gentleman named
Influence.
• • • *
Looks as if aged Coralinga-Patience gelding
Coral is absolutely the best hurdler in the Common-
wealth. With 12.7 and 13st. up respectively (in first and
second hurdles of S.A.J.C. Autumn meet) he silenced all
opposition decisively, and, carrying 13.10 third day (last
Saturday), scored again easily. Rest of the field had big
concessions in weight—one of them as much as 4st. 101 b.
Crack cross-country jock Chevalley rode winner each
time. Coral has a big list of lepping successes; alto-
gether,’tis said, 14 jumping events have come his way,
also principal handicap at Clare, together with welter
races, trial stakes, &c. More than once he has appro-
priated hurdles and jumpers’ flat races during one after-
noon, and on one occasion four races in succession were
won by him. After latest success Coral was placed under
offer to the Sultan of Johore (who saw him win his last
three races) for £7OO, and it’s likely he’ll be sold.
* • « •
Sydney Tatt.’s Hurdles, Saturday, provided a
throw in" for the bejewelled. Race looked a cert, for
Champion, Jaques or Olymphus, and they were backed
accordingly. First named two lined up 2 to 1 against,
but froze from start. Olymphus hit second last lep hard
and came a cropper over the other. Cambooya then
went to the front and gave nothing else a hope. Previous
week, at Canterbury, Cambooya, well backed in a field of
five, finished a very bad fourth. The fatuousness of
punting!
• * * *
Speculum, who made such a one-horse thing of
Sydney Tatts. Stakes, Saturday, was bought by Mr.
E. E. A. Oatley at dispersal of late Mr. R. Richards’ stud
last August for 220 gs. Nag was bred by Mr. R. Baldwin
at Durham Court, and is by Nobleman (imp.) from
Lonely, by Beauchamp from The Wasp, by The Drummer,
and hence full brother to speedy Royal King.
• * * *
Trainer-owner Sam Fielder’s crack nag Sir
Roger, after missing twice (heavily backed) at Canter-
bury the week before, closed on Flying Handicap at Syd-
ney Tatt.’s meet on Saturday, and carried heaps of stable
and public coin. Subsequently Sir Roger was sold for
£450, to be sent to India. He was bred by Mr. A. Busby,
and is by Melos from Forget-Me-Not, by Darebin from
Lady Love, by Yattendon. Charged to the full of old
colonial strains of blood, Sir Roger thrives on work and
promises to improve further yet.
• * • »
pup Day (last week) of S.A.J.C. meet saw a
large gathering. Sojourner won the big thing easily,
and met with a very hostile reception from the crowd.
Sojourner’s miserably poor showing in St. Leger previous
Saturday made his chance seem hopeless, and betting
went from 3 to 1 almost to name-your-own-price against.
Tote paid £l3 11s. Two furlongs from home Sojourner
owned the race. Stewards started an inquiry into the
nag’s very contradictory displays, and adjourned till
Tuesday this week. Cross Keys, who ran the St. Leger
out so thoroughly, couldn’t stay the Cup’s lm. sfur.
While Sojourner, whom Cross Keys beat easily in the St.
Leger, won with a heap to the good, last-named finished
a bad fourth. Likely solution of this paralysing reversal
may be found in the fact that Sojourner, not having
raced for six months prior to the St. Leger, wanted that
run to tune him up. Both Leger and Cup distances were
covered in record times for those particular events.
* • * *
Death is announced from Yarrabee stud of
famous stallion, St. Swithin ; he was bred in M.L., and
proved a failure at the stud there, but after passing to
Mr. John M‘Caughey his success was remarkable. Mer-
loolas, Gnullo, Insulator, Trochon (who won twice at
latest S.A.J.C. meet), Florin, and many others are by
St. Swithin, who was by Cadogan (imp.) from Malice by
Traducer.
• • • *
Fitzgerald Bros.’ jumping wonder Newhaven,
which was backed to beat the record of any lepper at the
recent N.S.W. Agricultural Show, subsequently made
good the boast by clearing on two occasions, in the pre-
tence of reputable witnesses, a hurdle 7ft. high.
m * * *
The postal regulations prohibiting “Tatter-
Mil’s” Consultations avail very little, as is shown by the
filling up (25,000 shares) of three sweeps on Adelaide Cup.
m + + *
Four-year-old gelding, Rapid Pilgrim, by
Pilgrim’s Progress—Lady Bovis, which won S.A.J.C.
Handicap (22550v5.), Saturday, was previously sold to a
W.A. sport for £350, but prior to the nag’s success said
sport gave original owner (Mr. H. G. Wheeler) t'so to cry
the deal off. Race (ljm.) was won very easily in fast
time of 2.36 J, with Caulfield Cup winner (Lieutenant
Bill) second.
• * • •
Success of Sojourner in Adelaide Cup again
brought Pilgrim’s Progress top of the list of winning
stallions for the season ; -he was there during first half of
year, but Autumn meetings gave Lochiel pride of place.
Which recalls that Pilgrim’s Progress is now owned by
Mr. Hugo Friedlander, of Ashburton, M.L.
• • • •
Interesting that veteran Maoriland nag, The
Needle, has annexed Avondale Handicap thrice in past
five years. Third win saw him put up a record (2.10 3-5)
for the ljm.
• • • *
In reference to Yellerman’s win in the recent
Charters Towers goat-race, it is curious to recall the fact
that at a Towers meeting, held at the height of the war
boom, just when the public were suffering a recovery
from enthusiastic “Mafficking,” Baden Powell, a goat
defeated in the present instances, was the winner of
the two big goat events of the day. His double victory
sent the crowd into paroxysms of enthusiasm, and his
goatship was cheered as probably no goat was ever
cheered before. Now that the red glamor of the butchery
business has departed, poor Baden Powell, like his
human namesake, has slumped into just an ordinary kind
of goat after all.
• * * •
“Ye Olde Englishe Hunting” is to be the
victim of “special efforts to popularise the sport” during
the coming season. Hitherto few fanatics cared to risk
neck and limb by following a pack of dogs over fences,
ditches, farms, and anything that came in the way ; but
it is given out that henceforth the “ meets” will be over
less formidable country. This branch of sport isn’t
destined to greatness in Australia.
• • * •
“D. Harum ” : Strolled casually into an hotel
in Queenstown (Tas.) one night and found the bar full. I
had expected to see a good deal of gambling with cards,
as Queenstown is filled with miners and men from the
smelters, but I was mistaken. At one end of the room
some men were watching something going on upon the
floor. I shouldered my way to the front, and saw two
burly miners on their knees playing marbles. Spectators
were betting freely—in every case a drink to a drink.
When the game concluded almost every man in the bar
went up to the counter and the losers paid their debts of
honor in the shape of long beers. Landlord told me con-
fidentially during the evening that he made about £2 per
game.
• • • •
“Grab”: The wide gap between oar-rowing
capabilities of N.S.W. and Victoria is due to lack of
physical power on the part of the Cornstalks. Victorian
enthusiast and crack coach, Mr. Upward, spent many
weeks teaching N.S.W. men Victorian style, and yet they
finished as badly as in Adelaide last year, for both
Queensland and South Australia beat them again. Com-
parative inferiority of N.S.W. strength was, on Saturday,
indisputably demonstrated by the fact that they rowed
well and kept form all down the course, but their stroke
was short and lacked driving power. Queenslanders’
dash and force stood to them, as also did South Aus-
tralians’, and they would have been better placed but for
tumbling over their stretchers badly. Further proof of
the fact that N.S.W. wants brawn more than style comes
through West Australians (a powerful looking lot, rela-
tively crude in theirmethods)rowing the original Loan State
reps, to a quarter of a length. Though onlooking hun-
dreds cheered Queensland and South and West Australia
they didn’t take to Sydney’s light-looking combination,
who weren’t up to a good, solid effort at any stage.
• * * •
Just when the Bisley rifle team began to appear
to be a certainty came the withdrawal of several of the
best shots selected. The dropping-out of Whitehead,
Lake and Rickwood—undoubtedly the leading shots of
the team—weakens greatiy the shootists as representa-
tive of Australian riflemen. Each man seemingly has an
excuse ; but, at the same time, there’s an uncontradicted
rumor flying around that it’s just a matter of State
jealousy after all—the curse which sticks closer to sport
in Australia than anything else.
• • * •
Going Englandwards this month is once crack
athlete, Prof. Miller. Inducement is a fairly substantial
legacy, which the lucky dog says will fix him nicely for
life. Miller is an Englishman, and came to Australia as
a child 50 years ago ; was, in turn, telegraph operator
and instructor, booking clerk, and relieving s.m. with
old Hobson’s Bay Railway Co. Subsequently he spent
seven years in America, and was a top-notcher there at
all games—particularly ’rastling, strong-man business
and boxing. At New York, in ’7B, he met champion
wrestler Bauer, and they struggled seven hours before
Bauer scored first fall, and, two hours later, match was
declared a draw. Three months afterwards, same pair
met for world’s supremacy, and Miller won in three hours.
» • * •
“ Jab ” : It’s a popular error that because a man
is big and powerfully built he can strike a harder blow
than a smaller and less muscular individual. Ability
to hit hard calls particularly for freedom of shoulders, as
the blow to be effective must be sent in quick, hence
heavy-armed people are not hard punchers, for the weight
of the limb is against force in delivery. The most
punishing hitters in the fighting world have shown little
or no muscle on the arm and not over much flesh.
Whilom feather-weight champion of the world,
“ Torpedo ” Billy Murphy, the Maorilander, is a notable
instance among hundreds that could be named.
« * • »
“Westray”: A couple of Melbourne pugs, in-
dulged in a many-round bout not very long ago. Fight was
alleged to be for a purse of £5, and side wager of £2O ;
but when the victor, after 15 rounds hard slogging, went
to collect from promoter, he was handed 45., which
represented 75 per cent, of the gate after exes had been
paid. Such is the state of light-weight bruising in Mel-
bourne just now.
* • * *
Old shoe-black Paddy Lee (well above 70),
found drowned in Darling Harbor recently, is identical
with prominent pug. of that name who, 40 years ago,
was a noted bare-knuckle fighter. Paddy eked out a
hand-to-mouth existence for years blacking boots on the
edge of the footpath opposite Golden Gate A. 0., in
George-street, Sydney.
» * » *
Dear Bulletin. —ln your sporting notes
(10/5/’O3) an “ Austral Exile ” in London writes :—“ Turn-
ing up an old record of past events here I found under
date May 29th, 1842 —‘ Bungaree, the Australian pugilist,
died from injuries received in a fight with Browne at
Newmarket.’ And who was Bungaree ?” As usual with
such matters that record is a trifle mixed. Way back in
the thirties and forties “ Bungaree ” (real name Gorrick,
and a northerner, I think) was a pugilist of modern
repute. Amongst his records he fought the clever Lon-
doner, Johnny Browne, but was beaten easily. Later on
a “schlenter” fight came off in England between
“ Bungaree ” and R. Martin for £lOO a side, but, after four
rounds had been fought in 4§min., the fake began to emit
such a strong odor that the referee stopped the farce and
returned the respective backers their money. The shady
part of the scrap seems to have rested with Martin, how-
ever, for the backers put up £25 each and handed the
money to “ Bungaree.” On October 25,1842, in England,
“ Bungaree ” beat “ Sambo ” for £lOO a side in a 72 rounds
“ mill ” that lasted 71 minutes. “ Bungaree ” did not die
in England, however, but after being beaten by McGinty
and “Sambo” Sutton, he returned to Australia in
1844. J.I.H.
* * * *
Heavyweight bruise (not for championship, as
advertised—M’Oall is the top notcher) between lathy
black dude Peter Felix and sturdy Bill Doherty, at
Gaiety Theatre (Melbourne), Monday night, attracted an
enormous crowd (estimated at 2500). Though it was
exciting at times, the thing proved tame, mostly through
Felix’s desire to be at arm’s length (and such
an arm). Betting was 2 to 1 on the black. In
the second round Felix forced White to his knees, and
had the better of the fourth. Then matters oppressed
some till after the tenth—mostly through the elongated
one’s display of sprinting. Doherty forced whenever
opportunity offered, and in the 18th round was at it hard,
cornering the woolly-headed pug half a dozen times, with
excitement at high pitch. The 19th and 20th rounds
were torrid from gong sound. Doherty fought desperately,
throughout the concluding 3mins., and the house was
in an uproar. At the close referee Bastow’s verdict went
to Dpherty. Roof-lifting cheers evidenced how heartily
the decision was endorsed. Both men were in great
buckle—Felix exceptionally so.
* * » •
Champion bruiser M'Call’s injuries in Scanlan
fight were more painful than at first supposed. His grit
was remarkable, considering that ligaments of the collar-
bone are badly wrenched through dislocation and subse-
quent roughing back of the section. Probable, now, that
M’Call will be unable to fight again for perhaps two
months. Meantime, with his right arm in a sling, he is
endeavoring to fix up a match for £2OO a-side with Tas-
manian axeman-miner-pug. James. Only hitch is that
James wants to fight in Queenstown, where best purse
offered is £lOO, while £250 is available at Sydney National.
* * ■* *
On the cards that Soldier Jack Thompson
(from whom footballer fighter Cripps wrested the
Australian middleweight supremacy some weeks ago)
and his then conqueror may get together again, despite
that Thompson didn’t seem to have much of a hope from
go to stop. Thompson is hot after another match, and
offers to cover any stake t’other can find ; but Cripps is
silent. He has a good billet, and says (big purses not-
withstanding) that coin to be made out of bruising after
training exes., seconds, and numerous etceteras are
squared up isn’t worth talking about. All the same,
this writer thinks Thompson will drag the champion
out—Thompson is so eager, and the inducement to
Cripps is so great.
Those responsible for the management of Rugby
football in N.S.W. intend to make the visit of the Maori-
land toeballers pan out as financial as possible. With
that end in view, it is suggested that the usual rep. con-
tests should include at least two matches against Com-
bined Country teams. Doubtful if the M.L. authorities
will entertain such a proposal. It is a miserable attempt
by the Rugby authorities to boost up a few country
players who should have been long ago treated with a
deal more consideration.
m * • •
Secretaries of sporting associations don’t always
require to beg. One football secretary recently had five
separate donations of two guineas or more tendered him
by five men he didn’t know, and who, so far as the public
is aware, never kicked a ball in their lives. The serious
illness of the local M.L.A. had been announced that
morning, and they were all intending candidates.
• * ■ »
The “country week” in relation to N.S.W.
Rugby football is reaching huge dimensions, and
threatens to become a big asset of the N.S.W. Union.
Eight districts send teams of 16 players, which
meet each other once, when a representative team will
meet the pick of the metropolis, and perhaps M.L.
The N.S.W. Rugby Union pays train, travelling, and
hotel expenses, and in return scoops the gate receipts,
&c. —which is the vital part of the scheme. Still, it is a
genuine attempt to give country players a chance of
representation in State teams—something which in most
classes of sport has hitherto been scandalously neglected.
* * • *
The present football season in N.S.W. pro-
mises to be the most successful for many years. On
the Rugby side there are extra efforts to maintain
the stability of that department of the game ; then
there’s the new-fangled Australian branch being boomed
for all it’s worth ; not to speak of other branches of the
gore-spilling sport. But Rugby seems to be the favorite
among the public—that is, if the attendances at the
different club matches can be taken as a guide—and the
visit of M.L. and Q. representative teams tends to add
to the draw. As a counter attraction, two Victorian
teams play a competition fixture at Sydney Cricket
Ground, by way of advt.
« t » *
“Punt”: Saw it printed in Sydney, t’other
day, that H. Hedger’s 69yds. place-kick (made years since)
was the record, but in 1901 Waverley (Sydney) cricketer
Ebsworth drop-kicked 69yds. 2ft., and, some months
later, North Sydney cricketer R. N. Hickson place-kicked
69yds. Ift. 6in. Both were competition performances,
and conditions called for sending the oval between the
uprights and over the cross-bar.
• * * »
Dear B. —Re quail shooting at N.S. Wales Gun
Club grounds some time before the quail season opened.
O. H. Kerry, hon. sec. of the Gun Club (B. 9/5/’O3),
explains that the quail in question were imported,
“ large shipments reaching Sydney by the Ohina mail
boats.” I do not doubt that Mr. Kerry was informed
that the quail were imported before his club slaughtered
them, but surely the price they were offered at would
lead anyone to believe they were caught in N.S.W. The
vendor first approached me with the birds, and offered
them, one hundred and fifty pairs, at Is. 6d. per pair.
The Gun Club, after my refusing, had the offer, and,
I believe, accepted the birds at a figure a few pence less
than the original offer of Is. 6d. per pair. Surely it was
a low price for imported birds, considering how ex-
pensive it is to feed quail in captivity. Of course,
shooting at an unfortunate, trapped quail is nothing
much to brag about in the pre s or elsewhere. Pigeon
shooting is cowardly enough, but this is even more
unmanly; a quail, poor devil, r ins along the ground
and attempts to hide himself in a tussock. I have seen
quail caged up for a few weeks, and th"ir ui were raw
from knocking their heads against the lwi of the crate
in their vain efforts to escape.—J.F.D.
• « * •
An enthusiastic Sydney Telegraph scribe,
describing a Belmore coursing meeting last week:—
“ The rain of the previous day rendered the going just
what coursing men most desire, and hare and hound
fairly revelled in it.” The hare revelled?
a a a a
Top-notch Australian bikist of years ago, Tom
Busst, had a “cut” again (after lengthy abstention from
the game) at Lancaster Park (M.L.) recently, and, with
70yds. from local champion Sutherland, made a sorry
showing. ’Tis regrettable that Tom was forced or
tempted out again. He will always be remembered as
the best this continent ever knew on the old “ ordinary ”
machine, but cannot expect to do much among the
vigorous and up-to-date young-’uns of to-day.
• • » •
N.S.W. League has got itself into bad odor with
most cycling people (its own members included) and
the public generally, through attitude assumed with
regard to Dunlop road race—Goulburn to Sydney.
There is talk of substituting a race over same journey,
towards which members of League Council have promised
£4O, but, as the venture will cost at least 1150, and
League funds are not healthy enough to stand that, and
(under the circumstances) no help can be expected from
cycle trade, inference is this popular fixture may drop,
or at best fall comparatively flat.
* • • •
Turns out now that W. J. Hobbs, of H.M.S.
Katoomba, who has been swimming in Sydney during the
past couple of seasons as an amateur with more or less
success, and who recently set up a new record for 3 miles,
was a professional in England. Information came from
English swimming authorities, who noticed Hobbs’ per-
formances. Had the news been delayed a week Hobbs
would have been in possession of all his prizes and liber-
ally feted by Sydney swimmers, as ’twas given out that
he purposed going ’Ome within next week or two.
* * * *
The passing of the old long-rowing boat is com-
plete. All the scullers in recent Australian amateur
championship on the Yarra had short Nielsen shells.
* * * •
Armadale Bowling Club (as did Petersham B.C.
in N.S.W.) swept the board of all present year’s big bowl-
ing things—an achievement without an equal in Victorian
bowls’ history. The pennant, “Wood” and “Payne”
trophies, champion rink tourney and Moonee Ponds pairs,
all went one way. This is Armadale club’s fourth gather-
ing-in of the pennant, to win which it beat nine clubs,
and notched 974 to the opposing sides’ 731.
* * • *
“Westray”: Re “8.8.’5” remarks about
record-breaking on cycles and motors, and anent Henri
Fournier’s expectation to cover a mile in 30secs. on his
automobile, ’tis interesting to note how automobile
records have been broken during past twelve months.
Up to August last, W. K. Vanderbilt, jun., was the
holder of the world’s mile (straightaway) record, which
then stood at 51 4-5 secs. Fournier reduced the figures
to 48secs., and later on to 47 2-5 secs., but in November
M. Augiere, a Frenchman, set the record at 46secs. But
note the vast difference between the straightaway mile
and the mile on a circular track in which the best recog.
nised time is lmin. 2Jsecs. by A. Winton, at Cleveland,
U.S.A. Oldfield, another Yank, had a try at these
figures at Detroit and accomplished the distance in I min.
11-ssecs., but as he did not ask the Automobile Associa-
tion for permission to try and break records, his time,
though genuine, was passed out.
* • • •
The “confidence man” and the “sweep
promoter,” the “three-card individual,” “pea and pod
manipulator,” and the “ bookie ” seem to be a necessity
in all branches of sport-in Australasia. Tnree, at least,
of such nondescripts are always located at every gather-
ing—no matter whether it be a cricket or football
match, a bicycle or horse-race meeting—and their jolly
appearances denote that there are plenty of mugs on
whom they fall with a heavy thud. The “eleven-in-
and-ten-bob-the-winner ” cry is always met with, while in
a knot of people a few yards away you can see the “ pea ”
and “ card ” takers-down with an army of “buttoners.”
Somehow gambling is one of the things which the casual
Australian doesn’t cast aside too hurriedlv.
* * * " *
The Gippsland (Vic.) mining town of Walhalla
is situated in such uneven country that the only level
space large enough for a sports ground is on top of a hill
so steep that it can only be ascended by numorn,, -
mgs. The bicycle track is little more ffiSn
circumference and about 3yds. wide, and is gof lO
and downs that either the slowest or the w.° ups
nearly always wins ; the former through his wan?lf man
-which on such a track brings speedy downhm ‘ J* 0 *
latter through the narrowness of the track wi/u' 1 tlle
vents the other men from passing him
matches on this ground, also, a hit which, on an r,^ Cket
ground would score only 2or 3, sends the bah - ary
space, and the whole field generally goes s !„ f n- ut , lnto
into the township to look for it. g Bcu Hlmg down
Australian commandant Hutton has ordered
a parade of troops at Sydney in honor of our
coming Japanese naval visitors. Very many of
the men object to parade under the circumstance!
and their objection is reasonable. Australia Q
special legislation excluding Japanese immigran t
without entering into any question of the
Jap at home the Jap abroad, so far as Australia
knows him (or rather her), does not command our
respect. Japan s chief export to Australia i
women of loose character. Under the circum
stances the parade will be absurd.
“ F.C.” writes :
The mistake of the 1400 railway strikers (per,.,™ un
avoidable) was m giving their executive of 20 full Dower
These 20 delegated their powers to a committee of fivr
and these again left full control of the negotiations to two
—Hart and Scorer. These two, weakened perhaps bv the
strain, or naturally timid, gave way to the plausibilities
of Peacock and co. and handed over their mate,
bound hand and foot. When the two announced
the “surrender” decision to a big meeting of their
comrades at the Old Trades Hall, the latter were
for a moment utterly flabbergasted, paralysed • then
a fierce, unanimous cry of “No Surrender” struck
the two. Probably then they realised what they
had done, but it was too late to go back. Next day the
men met and denounced their representatives’ action
but by that time the weaker ones had given in their
names once more, and the determined stand of the
strongest and best was hopeless. Yet the exhibition of
a stiff upper lip and a backbone for another week or two
must have won the day—the Strike Suppression Bill
might have gaoled the men, but it wouldn’t have run the
trains, and it would infallibly have won sympathy for the
victims ; the goods traffic was at a standstill, and the
want of it was just beginning to be felt, and the
passenger traffic was, in spite of all the lies, little, if any
better than on the first or second day. Writer was com-
pelled to risk his life on Friday morning in the Sale train.
This was driven, not by a new man, but by a loco.-fore-
man, assisted by two firemen, two guards and four
policemen, yet it took him just 80 minutes to cover the
nine miles between Richmond and Clayton.
Monday’s proceedings in a Melbourne
police court exposed effectively the lawless spirit
of the Bent-Irvine Government, and indicated
the extent of the tyranny which would have re-
sulted if Mr. Irvine’s coup d’etat had succeeded.
Four strikers were charged with assault. The
Crown announced that it withdrew the charges.
(The defendants had been under arrest foraweek.)
Counsel for the accused insisted on the charges
being proceeded with, as he could prove them to
be “the grossest lies ever penned.” The Bench
(ever-scandalous Melbourne Bench !) refused to
give him a hearing, and dismissed the charges
without even allowing costs against the Crown.
It is reasonable to believe, since the Crown
dropped the charges, and since the men demanded
that the charges should be gone on with so as to
prove their falsity, that the charges were lies, and
that absolutely innocent men were arrested, held
for trial, then refused trial and penalised to the
extent of their defence expenses. Under the
Irvine Anti-Strike Bill almost every man, woman,
and child in the community could have been
treated similarly, or in worse fashion.
The useless Peacock was largely instru-
mental in bringing about the surrender of the
Victorian strikers by his assurances that they
would be treated with “ British fair play,” or
some such slushy substance. The very next day
the British fair play started. In additkm to the
complete surrender of the point at issue—their
connection with the Trades Hall —Irvine and
Bent demanded that the men should surrender, in
writing, all claim to the pension or compensation
secured to them by law when they leave the ser-
vice through old age or disablement, and also that
they should acknowledge that, even after this
surrender, they might still be sacked for the part
they had taken in the strike. . They were not only
to yield absolutely the point at issue in the
strike, but also to buy their pardou by the sur-
render of their pensions, and even then the
mean, shabby, malevolent, cold-blooded tyrants
who ran the show explained the pardon so dearly
bought might not be granted after all. A report
that the strike might resume after all induced the
grudging Irvine to so far mollify his conditions
that the men were not asked to actually sign the
document above described, but each man was to
receive a circular intimating that his retort' to
the service was on those conditions and those
only—which was practically the same thmg[. A
board is to consider which men shall be kickeo
out after giving up their pension rights, an
what further humiliation shall be inflicted. d)
way of foreshadowing the result, the said boar
is to consist of two bitter and venomous lories
from the Upper House—and Bent. The very
name of “British fair play” should smell like
the odor of Chinatown in Victoria after this.


New High-Grade Sports Goods.^
We never had oh show such a splendid assortment of SPORTS GOODS for every Game as we
now oner. These have been selected by experts in each Sport, and are offered at ... .
VERY MODERATE PRICES.
We desire to call special attention to NICHOLL’S SPECIAL GOLF CLUBS. Diamond-
face and Non-rustable Clubs. Metal-face Wood Clubs for Haskell Balls. Also, socket and Bead
Spliced Wood Clubs. Nicholl’s Special and Haskell Golf Balls.
Secretaries of Clubs, gentlemen amateurs, and others are invited to write to us for full lists and
prices. Special concessions to clubs. All our goods are guaranteed.
CANADA CYCLE & MOTOR CO., Ltd.,
Branches Id Every sut*. Sports Depot: 357 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
YOU GET THE BEST VALUE FOR YOUR MONEY WHEN YOU
BUY A
REMINGTON
Double-Barrel . .
Hammerless Gun.
Thoroughly Guaranteed.
Kept n Stock by tin Largest Gun Stores in Melbourne and Sydney.
Remington Arms Company,
Hkad Office : 315 BROADWAY, NEW YORK, U.S A.
REMINGTON GUNS, £5 10s. to £l5
REMINGTON RIFLES, 23/6 post free
McLEAN BROS. & RICG, Ltd., 107 Elizabeth-St., Melbourne.
A. JJEW MODEL,
RED BIRD
RED BIRD
RED BIRD
RED BIRD
RED BIRD
RED BIRD
RED BIRD
WORTH
A
VISIT.
1903
903
03
1903
1903
1903
1903
GOOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 King-st., Sydney.
A BEAUTIFUL FABRIC
THE
1 0U1S* Velveteen
NOTE WELL! —Each Yard of Genuine “LOUIS” Velveteen
bears the name (spelled L"0“U“l“S anc * * n no other
way) and is stamped with a guarantee of wear.
) Absolutely THE BEST.
KNORRS
Ready-Made Dried
PEA SOUP /
SHARPSNOOTINg
For Sport and War.
By W. W. GREENER.
HITS THE MARK l
180 Pagrs, 100 Illustrations, 1/- nbtt. ;
Posted, 1/2.
The best 1/- worth ever Published,
IF you wish to get good work and value
you should purchase W. W. GREENER’S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to —
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
(Greener’s Representative).
Unrivalled Position in LONDON
(England),
The Langham Hotel
PORTLAND PLACE
And REGENT STREET, LONDON, W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality.
riodern Appointments. Moderate Tariff.
VIBITORB TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsficld .Parade
ST. KCLDA.
fPHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boar3ing-h<n ise in the
Colonies. 10G rooms. Magnificent situatio tj, facing
Beaeh. Charges much lower than licensed hotKlS*,. City,
i-hou t by tram. Billiards, eto. 1
lOOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
- ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “ Ellis’ King Street Coffee Palace,” -a®
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor — GEO. IF. ELLIS.
HAND-IN-HAND
forEIGHTYYEARS
Williams'
Barbers' Bar,
WILLIAMS' Traveller's Shaving Stick.
You may worry thru a face
scrape on most “Any Old
Soap.” To enjoy the Luxury
of a Perfect Shave you must
use Williams’.
If youdoubt it, send a penny
stamp for Williams’ Changing
Face Puzzle. Tells you why.
J. B. WILLIAMS CO., Glas-
tonbury, Conn., U.S.A. Also
232 Clarence Street, Sydney.
in
me
At Dawn and Dusk:
By Victor J. Daley. Handsomely bound ;
makes a fine presentation volume to friends
abroad. Post free from The Bulletin
. Office, os. 4d. - -
VENTILATION
Our own breath is our greatest enemy."
NO MORE STUFFY ROOMS OR MEPHITIC ATHOSPHERE.—A person finds a room stuffy, opens the
window, sits in a draught and pays the penalty, and forthwith blames the fresh air. It must be admitted
that hitherto it has been a choice of evils, whether to breathe the polluted air of a room or run the risk of
cold from the draught of an open window or door. BUT ALL THIS IS NOW CHANGED.
THE PULLMAN AUTOHATIC VENTILATOR (the invention of the famous inventor and builder of the
luxurious Pullman Railway Carriages) admits into any room equipped with it a constant supply of outside fresh air
free from dust, smoke, or wet, and ABSOLUTELY WITHOUT DRAUGHT, irrespective of weather conditions. It
gently diffuses the air and also acts as an exhaust. IT SOLVES ABSOLUTELY THE PROBLEM OF HEALTHY
VENTILATION. For sleeping apartments, offices, hospitals, lodge and smoking rooms, factories, halls, public
buildings, enclosed vehicles, schools, churches, &c., the invention is invaluable. It can be fitted to the window or
brickwork without disfiguring the original structure, and cost is so moderate as to bring the invention within reach
of the householder of most modest means. VENTILATE AND THUS REMOVE ONE OF THE PRINCIPAL
CAUSES OF LOST HEALTH AND PREMATURELY LOST LIVES. Particulars on application.
The Pullman Automatic Ventilator Co. of Australasia, Ltd.,
MUTUAL LIFE OF NEW YORK BUILDINGS, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY,
Agents wanted in Every Town in Australia And at WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Minister Bill Lyne’s friend Martin now
occupies a curious position. Minister Bill tried
to make his friend Martin Chief Electoral Officer,
and failed. Then, as far as is known, he tried to
make him his official private secretary, and failed.
Now Minister Bill’s friend Martin is Minister
Bill’s unofficial private secretary, paid out of the
Minister’s own pocket, and a question is being
raised about the right of a man who isn’t in the
Commonwealth’s service, or responsible to the
Commonwealth, to occupy a room in the Com-
monwealth’s office building, and inspect, read,
and paw its documents, and have access to its
official information.
BABY’S COUGH MUST NEVER LINGER.
Nothing is more distressing than to see a
helpless little infant suffering with a cough, and
to be fearful of using a remedy which may con-
tain some harmful ingredient. The makers of
Chamberlain s Cough remedy positively guaran-
tee that this preparation does not contain opium
in any form, or any other harmful substance.
Mothers may confidently give this remedy to their
little ones. It gives prompt l-elief and is perfectly
safe. It always cures, and cures quickly. IsOd.*
A wearisome correspondent has been
writing to Brisbane Courier to state that it is no
use trying to keep Australia white because, in
Queensland at all events, the sun will turn the
white man black inside three generations. This
is a sorrowful thing to look forward to—still as
nearly 400 years haven’t blackened the Spaniard
in Southern Mexico, Venezuela, San Salvador,
or Peru, and the Boer has held out for about 200
years, we may struggle through. The Bulletin’s
idea is that Cowley will become black and the
rest of the people remain white.
George Reid got off an old wheeze on the
people of Devonport (Tas.): —
If it was a good thing to impose duties on goods manu-
factured elsewhere, why should it not be, also, a good
thing for your own town, and why should you not put a
fence round Devonport?
Exactly. And if it is a good thing for the country
to have a Cabinet, a mint, an army, a Government
House and a code of laws, why not have one of
each in Devonport and in every other town ? Why
not have one of each in every street, for that
matter? Also, if it is a good thing to have an
Archbishop for all Australia, why not have an
Archbishop in every house? Reid’s well-worn
jeer raises all these other questions, and they are
all equally in want of an answer.
The Westralian Parliamentary Labor party
was pretty nearly one short a few days back.
T. H. Bath, its newest member, got into the
’fracteur fumes in the Main Reef mine, became
unconscious, fell down a rise, and narrowly escaped
with his life.
“ The Pilgrim,” a long-haired religious
fanatic named Jeffries, who has been inducing
Benditro people to sell their property and wander
into the world as his disciples, is said to be the
father of the Los Angelos giant Jim Jeffries,
the champion bruiser of the world. “The Pil-
grim ” is stated to have sold his property in
America, valued at .£lOO,OOO, and distributed the
proceeds in charity. Echo answers “Dickon,”
or “ Rats,” or words to that effect.
Mr. E. T. DAVENPORT, Valley Head, Ala,
writes:
“ I have used Jayne’s Expectorant in my family for.
CROUP, and FIND NOTHING TO EQUAL IT.”*
Rev. D. S. M'Eachran, of Melb., retired
from the kirk ministry last week, with the usual
testimonies to his goodness and a cheque for £5lO
to help soothe his declining years. It was Rev.
M’Eachran (and Rentoul) who took the lead in
denouncing Rev. Chas. Strong as a “heretic,”
just 20 years ago. As the result of a solemn.
Presbyterian inquiry into the soundness of his
doctrines, Chas. Strong was removed from the
pulpit of Melb. Scots Church and wiped off the
roll of orthodox Kirk parsons. Whereupon his
admirers presented him with a purse of 3000 sovs.,
and he went home to Scotland. Next year
Strong, the heretic-martyr, returned to Melbourne,
and was set up in business “on his own ” as the
first pastor of a new Australian Church in
Flinders-street, where he still continues to preach
a diluted Presbyterian religion.
“ E.S.” : The death (supposed by suicide)
of William Lord of Eurombah Station (Q.),
removes another of the old Dawson squatters who
went through the wild times of some 40 odd years
ago. Eurombah, of the “ Bunyip-haunted
Lagoon ” and brumby fame, is only about a dozen
miles from Hornet Bank, where the Frasers were
massacred. Writer was, with others, in Eurom-
bah yard one day in 1895, buying brumbies. Lord
was then a big hearty man, clean shaven, with a
happy cast of countenance. A little brown weed
was run through the drafting gate. “What
price?” “A pound, from the scrub,” said Lord,
with a dry smile; “225. 6d. with an ordinary
pedigree ; and 255. with a good pedigree.” Lord
knew how to sell brumbies.
Solid Rubber (arriagc Tyres
For Fast t Pleasurable Driving.
No Noise or Vibration • Last for Yeans-and
Double the Life of Your Vehicle. From 15 &■
upwarcte a set.
Jhc DunlopPneumatic Tyre Co. of AuiLtd. Hel b. sydncv. sri bbanc .Adelaide Pcrtfi&Oich.N.Z^
Sydney Address: 150 Clarence Street.


UApMtd
BEFORE ACCEPTING IMITATIONS
Co/»y r 'qhP
/QO*
of
OGDEN’S
GUINEA GOLD
CIGARETTES.
Imitations are not ‘just as good.'
There is a charm and delight-
ful aroma about OGDEN’S which
no other cigarette possesses.
A Straight Statement.
GUINEA GOLD CIGARETTES smoke cool and sweet to the very end. That’s the statement—it’s a fact, and anybody can prove
it by smoking one. In doing so it will be found that they also possess another virtue—and that is “ delightful fragrance.”
BRITISH-AMERICAN TOBACCO CO., LTD, (OGDEN BRANCH), 45 York Street, Sydney.
“J.F.D.”: There is a close relationship
between religion and poor feeding. Looking
around for a suitable boarding-house once, a pro-
spective landlady was escorting me upstairs.
Noticed a text on the wall, “ The Lord is the head
of this house.” I stopped her, and explained that
I would not trouble her further. “Why?” she
exclaimed. “Well, ma’am,” I answered, point-
ing to the text, “I have always found where He
is the landlord, the meals are bad.” I was at the
garden gate before she recovered from the shock.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
“J.A.C.”: Recently dropped across a
Chinaman who can speak English better than
nine-tenths of the native-born. He is a native of
Singapore; father Chinese and mother Malay.
His parents being well-to-do, he was sent as a lad
to England, and was educated at Leeds Grammar
School. His English is grammatically correct,
though spoken with a slightly foreign accent, like
that of an educated Italian. He writes an excel-
lent hand, and was for long accountant to a lead-
ing insurance office in England, but now keeps a
grocery store.
CANNOT SLEEP.
When you cannot sleep for coughing, it is hardly
necessary that anyone should tell you that you
need a few doses of Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy
to allay the irritation of the throat and make sleep
possible. It always cures, and cures quickly.
Is. 6d.»
RfIHZ JOSEF
the best natural
'Aperient* water.
RfIHZ JOSEF
\ the best natural
I Aperienf water.
TJ -r
zr
-rcr
(0 (0
Sc
SI
a
iN
t/1
m
im
RfIHZ JOSEF
the best natural
I Aperient- water.
FREE! FREE!
&b
//
Cut this out and send it to us, and we will
send you free, postage prepaid, in plain wrapper,
a copy of the New Edition of our splendid, in-
valuable and standard illustrated medical work,
“Electro Therapeutics,” which acknowledged
medical treatise should be read by every adult.
The Twentieth Century Belt.
Our Improved Belt is the most modern and perfect in the world.
It is stronger than any other, and is a Certain Cure for All Cases
of Nervous Disorders, Weak Back, Lumbago, Rheumatism, Liver,
Kidney and Stomach Troubles, Come-and-Go Pains, and that Tired
Feeling. It will cure after all others fail. Our Belt gives a soothing,
warm, strengthening and delightful current of electricity into the
afflicted nerves and system while you sleep. It never blisters or
burns the body, because it is constructed to give electricity in a
proper way.
NO CURE, NO PAY.
Others claim this, but I am the only one who will really send a
valuable belt absolutely free, on^trial, for three months. If you
are cured I know you will willingly pay ; if you are not cured, you
will not have to pay one penny. Write at once, or call and test
my Belt free. No charge for personal consultation.
The Dr. J. n. Austin Electric Co. (Dept. M.)
49 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
*. . . I
■ ■
HERR RASSMUSSEN
will guarantee to cure Nervous Weak-
ness, Blood Diseases, Piles, Rheuma-
tism, Corpulency, Liver and Kidney
Troubles. He will send his Book Free.
' All correspondence will be held
confidential.
WEAK, NERVOUS MEN, WHY SUFFER
w
HEN you can be quickly and permanently cured bv taking Herr Rassmussen’s ALT ALINE Vitality Pills which have cured so many
thousand sufferers from DEBILITY, POOR MEMORY, WEAK SPINE, DESPONDENCY, and all which robs Manhood of that wine )
is dearest to it —Vital Strength. Herr Rassmussen will guarantee this remedy to cure every case, no matter of how long-standing, and he wi
give his skilled advice personally to all patrons of his remedies FREE OF CHARGE, either in his offices or by post. So don’t despair, tm
communicate with him without delay, no matter where you live. Treatment by Post a Speciality. Pamphlet sent Free.
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS. Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d., posted.
Blood and Skin Diseases
Blood Disorders, Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, Stone in the Bladder, and Blood
Impurities guaranteed to be removed and permanently cured by
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS. Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d. posted.
Anaemic Women
suffering from Wasting Diseases, Pale, Lifeless, and otherwise affected, should at once communicate with HERR
R ASSMUSSEN. His lifelong experience is at their service, and his
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS will cure them. Boxes, 6s; Courses, 235. 6d.
LIVER and KIDNEY TROUBLES cured at once by the ALFALINE LIVER and KIDNEY PILLS, Boxes 18.
His RHEUMATIC PILLS are World-famed, and his PILE POWDERS never fail ; 6s. per box each.
The ALFALINE REMEDIES can only beobtained from ... p J J
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office- Ueorge bt., bydney,
AND HIS BRANCHES AS FOLLOW—
BRISBANE: 309 Queen St.
MELBOURNE • 150 Bourke St.
ADELAIDE: 15 Pultensy St.
NZ. •• 91 Lambton Quay, Wellington.
W.A., PERTH; 481 Hay St.
EALGOORUE ; 111 Hannan St.
FREMANTLE: 117 High St-
BOULDER CITY: Piesse St.


DRYSDALE’S ANTIBILIOUS PILLS
indi & e stion headache, loss of appetite,
giddiness, &c., are prescribed by physicians of the highest
wl 3° ackn °wledge their thorough efficiency in
all cases. 1/1 per box, post paid. F J Timhnrv
chemist, Petrie’s Bight, Brisbane.* ' Tlmbur y»
Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Not genuine without the signature.
Be sure you get Martin’s. Sole proprietor, W.
England £ harmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
story told in Bulletin
(2/5/’O3) about a Hibernian lady telling some R.C.
critics to go to hell, where you won’t find so
many Romans, is probably based on this: There
. was ° n A ce inscribed on the door of Bandon (Ire-
land) Anglican Church the doggrel:
Atheist, Jew and Gentile may enter here
But Papist must not come near.
An irate Celt added underneath the further
doggrel:
Whoever wrote that wrote it well;
The same is written on the gates of hell
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEC
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not how being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERTS GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
Ac. Price, in Great Britain, 1/lid. per box. Prepared by
ALBERI, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents *. JCI.LIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for theregistered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. IRegd copyright*.
CAN YOU FIND
THE WAY OUT?
Mrs.
T
O
R
R
I
N
G
T
O
mm
123 Trafalgar Street, Annandale,
Sydney, August Bth, 1902.
Dear Sirs: Some time ago I was
attacked by illness. I had been in
very robust health, and weighed 10 stone. My
illness commenced by extreme nervousness.
Sleep failed, appetite failed ; I became very
weak, and my lungs seemed to ache terribly,
and breathing was most difficult. I could
hardly get about, so little strength had I.
My first result from taking Scott’s Emulsion
—which I then tried after having failed with
a number of other things—was an appetite
for natural food. I began to gain flesh, my
sleep came back ; and, in the end, I was com-
pletely restored to my usual health and weight.
The good results have been enduring, and I
attribute them entirely to Scott’s Emulsion.
Faithfully yours,
(Signed) Mrs Emily Tobbington.
Messrs. Scott & Bownk, Ltd.,
483 Kent Street, Sydney.
CAN YOU FIND THE WAY
OUT? It is exceedingly necessary, when
attacked by illness, not only to know the way
out, but the short way out! That is what one
must know. Now, this short way out is pro-
vided, in cases of general health-failure, by
Scott’s Emulsion. One who has seen the cure
performed has just told you so. We are sure
you do not wish us to dilate on the symptoms
of failing health; they are very obvious. What
you are anxious to hear about is the name of
the remedy. The remedy for failing health is
SCOTT’S EMULSION, it is .
great thing to get your sleep again, find your
flesh coming baok, to have the aching in the
lungs depart, and the breathing become
natural! This is what Scott’s Emulsion does.
It does it quickly, does it thoroughly, does it
to your satisfaction. It has done this for many
people whose health failed in other countries,
and will do it for those whose health is failing
here You have only one precaution to
take; and that is to see that on the wrapper
of the bottle there is a picture of a man carry-
ing a big cod-fish; if that cod-fish is not
there, you are not getting what we promise
you—a cure! You can obtain a sample of
Scott’s Emulsion, and the choicest children’s
booklet of the year, “A Bunch of Roses,”
beautifully printed in colours, by sending sd.
to Scott & Bowne, Ltd., 483 Kent Street,
Sydney, and mentioning this paper- All
chemists sell Scott’s Emulsion.
NATURE tT “• ™ m DEATH.
VERDICT FOR PLAINTIFFS.
An illustration of the manner in which Nature, though worn and weary, being aided by Human
Intelligence, gained a notable Victory over Death, is given in the following letter from Mr. James
Hutchinson, of North Road, North Brighton, Vio.:—
“In February, 1899, my wife was taken ill after her confinement. I had a doctor and a trained
nurse attending her for two months, at the end of which time she was so ill that the doctor came to
me and proposed to call in another medical man, not with any hope that doing so would be of any
use, but in order to assure me that all that human skill could do had been done to cure her. At this
juncture a friend offered to nurse my wife. Seeing how she was affected, the friend begged me to
send at once and get a bottle of Warner’s Safe Cure. I had no faith in patent medicines, but after
repeated solicitations I consented. I had to send ten miles to get a bottle, and well remember with
what little faith I gave it to my friend to try its effect. On the following Tuesday my wife was
slightly better, and in about two weeks she was able to sit up in the bed, and in about two more she
was able to attend to her household duties.
“ We had concealed from the doctor the change of medicine, and in four or five days after we
started giving Warner’s Safe Cure he said that he could hold out some hope of recovery, as he noticed
a decided change in her condition. I said nothing about the change of medicine, and when my wife
was up and well again, he presented me with his bill for £25. I then undeceived him, and told him
what had effected the cure. He told me that my wife’s was one of the most obstinate cases of
kidney trouble that he had ever met with, and that he had no hope of her recovery after the first
fortnight. ”
Nature cannot be outraged without affording Disease and Death an opportunity to defeat her,
and Disease and Death are ceaselessly waiting for opportunities. Any weakness or interruption of
the natural action of the
KIDNEYS OR LIVER
is a chance they eagerly embrace. Nature is strong, but Disease and Death are strong also. Human
Intelligence and Science are Nature’s allies in the struggle for victory. Ignorance and Stupidity are
on the side of Disease and Death.
The Kidneys. —To the kidneys belong the duty of cleansing the blood from certain impurities.
The kidneys of the average person filter and extract from the blood about three pints of water every
day. In this water should be dissolved about an ounce of urea, ten to twelve grains, in weight, of
uric acid, and other animal and mineral matter varying from a third of an ounce to nearly an ounce.
If the kidneys are weak or diseased a quantity of this refuse matter is suffered to remain in the
system, and becomes actively poisonous, causing us to suffer from Rheumatism, Gout, Lumbago,
Sciatica, Persistent Headache, Neuralgia, Anaemia, Gravel, Stone and Blade 1 e ■
Troubles. The commonest indication that there is anything wrong with the action of the kidneys i-s
PAIN IN THE BACK,
but a simple test as to whether they are doing their duty efficiently is to place some urine, passed the
first thing in the morning, in a covered glass and let it stand until next morning. If it is then
cloudy, shows a sediment like brick-dust, is of an unnatural color, or has particles floating about in
it, then the kidneys are weak or diseased, and steps must at once be taken to restore them to health
and activity, or Bright’s Disease, Diabetes, or some other serious illness will result.
The Liver. —The liver deals with a different class of waste matter of the body. There is
perfect sympathy between the kidneys and! the liver. When the one is sick the other is sick also. If
the liver is sluggish or diseased it not only affects the kidneys, but it causes biliary poisons to remain
in the system and produce Indigestion, Biliousness, Jaundice, Sick Headache, and Blood
Disorders.
Warner’s Safe Cure.
This remarkable medicine was discovered about thirty yean ago. It ia the only medicine known
to science which possesses the power to act beneficially alike upon the kidneys and upon the liver. It
restores those vital organs to health and vigor, and because it does this it necessarily cures
Rheumatism, Gout, Lumbago, Sciatica, Neuralgia. Persistent Headache, Anaemia,
Stone, Gravel, Bladder Troubles, Indigestion, Biliousness, Jaundice, Sick Head-
ache, Blood Disorders, and any disease due to the presence of urinary and biliary poisons in the
system.
A treatise explaining the curative action of Warner’s Safe Cure, and containing accounts of
many cases cured, when recovery was despaired of, will be sent free on application to H. H. Warner
and Co., Limited, Australasian Branch, Melbourne, Vic.
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manuf. Company,
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5 ; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7 ;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia. £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.— Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
"*ent. more for your requirements.
193 to 195 Clev«lan<fr«tmt| Redfern, SYDNEY
«ra snoui w*. s
£8 18/6
«»«7
"•••W. K*flw»y», BUUoa
£lO 10/-
DRI N u I—T
GARDNER’S SPA WATER
From our Springs at Helidon. OWEN GARDNER & SONS, Brisbane (Head Office) &at Helidon.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
Tho Old Reliable English Remedy • 1
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstkk & Tkuman, of
71 Old Kent lioad, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick 1
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all *
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists *
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy*
all Parasites of Head or Body. «
sold in two sizes, 9d. it Is. 6d. (
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S (
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur. 1
Prepared by Poingdkstrk <fe Tkuman, !
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all *
Chemists in the Australian Colonies. J
&qt &lu,Lq t IL Lghtks
TRY
n.
&Ae-
FOOD
Pc fuse a//fw/tat/ons
Satisfyi»ni, :Slrenjjfhenin£. Soothing for Infants
NcojjsJwig
AGFAffS FOfrSYD/VfY:
SAYFPS ALLPOfrT <5, POTTY#
RIDGES LONDON.Enc
"Watering the West.”
11l very few years, Australia, or a good part of it,
discovers that its hope for the future lies in
borrowing a hundred millions or so and irrigating
the interior. The amount to be borrowed varies,
but it is always something large and impressive.
If Australia could only be enterprising enough to
borrow that much, every man would soon have
his own fig-tree to smoke under, and there would
be no more unemployed, and everybody would be
jolly and fat. What the interior is that waits
for these millions, and how the millions are to be
spent, there are no very clear ideas about; trifles
such as these are only mentioned in a vague
and airy way as becomes a people with so
great a heritage. All, in fact, that Aus-
tralia is very sure and solid about is the need
to borrow the hundred millions or so. The idea
of using the small and apparently insignificant
means that lie at our hands in order to provide for
our future—means which can be used without
borrowing any gaudy hundred millions—is not
half so alluring, and is not viewed with much
favor. In all this Australia is like the usual small
boy, never willing to do the little familiar,
commonplace thing proportioned to his age and
Strength and knowledge ; always wanting to run
before he can crawl; always wanting to “play
tunes before he has got through the five finger
exercises.
• • • •
For what is this interior to which young Aus-
tralia turns with such a light heart and a great
hope? Taking N.S.W. alone, the best situated of
the four territorially great States, its western
plains, comprising nearly 150,000 sq. miles of terri-
tory, are “ watered ” by a single lazy and irregular
stream and its few still lazier and more irregular
tributaries, all of them deriving their supplies
from a country which is itself liable to droughts.
There certainly is not enough water available to
irrigate a strip of country two miles on each side
of the streams; yet, even if that much could be
done, there would still remain over 140,000 sq.
miles untouched, and for that vast area there is no
hope whatever from river irrigation. Of the coun-
try which might be irrigated, at least three-fourths
of it is wretchedly poor; usually on the western
frontage stations the frontage” is the poorest
part of the holdings. Along most rivers there
are rich mud flats, the fruits of many floods ; but
out in the West the slow streams, carrying no
burden of fatness, have simply eaten a way for
themselves across the plains. Moreover, practically
the whole of the land which might be irrigated
could only be so dealt with at heavy cost, because
every gallon of the water would have to be
pumped. Here, then, so far, are three conclu-
sions ;
(1; Bess than l-30th of “the waterless West” could
possibly be irrigated from the rivers, but it is certain
that there isn’t enough water to irrigate even that much
regularly. It is no use relying upon the big floods that
come down every 10 or 15 years, because the storage
must be in shallow lakes, the loss from which by evapora-
tion would exceed 10ft. a year.
(2) Most of this comparatively small area which might
be irrigated is very poor, by no means so good as "the
average of the country back from the rivers.
(3) By reason of the flatness of the country, even the
comparatively small area of generally poor country which
is irrigable can only be irrigated by means of "pumps,
which mean a big expense to start with and a continuous
expense afterwards.
To these it can be added that there isn’t any
industrial population within 500 miles to supply
with the vegetables and other things which the
country might grow, and the settlers couldn’t live
by selling vegetables to one another. There isn’t
much of an industrial population 500 miles away,
either ; and there is no cheap way of carrying the
cabbage, &c., to such industrial centres as there
are.
* * * •
The solid fact, therefore, is that, even though
perhaps we may some day be able to “ water the
West ” on a large scale, Australia will then find
itself with a shockingly tough job on its hands.
So far from success being a mere matter of borrow-
ing money and waiting for the fig-tree to grow,
there will be handicaps greater than have been
put upon any other country which has successfully
practised irrigation on a large scale—lndia,
China, Egypt, or the Western States of America.
With the growth of a large industrial popu-
lation around the coast, and with the gradual
spread of that population inland, some of
the handicap will be wiped out; but the greater
drawbacks will remain where they were.
Small schemes, worked in the most favorable
situations and under the most promising con-
ditions, may pay, after a great deal of hard toil
and patient waiting—there may be a Mildura
here and there, or a Jemalong—and from these
the thing may grow, little by little. But to
attempt anything in the way of a huge scheme
for the wholesale “watering of the West ” will be
great folly; and to borrow large sums to doit,
in the face of the handicaps to which we per-
sistently shut our eyes, will amount to the
recklessness of the fanatic.
• • • •
And to attempt this while yet we have
other untapped resources would be insanity.
Here is N.S.W., with over 18 million acres in
its coast lands alone, not to mention
the fertile table-lands and western slopes;
enough of coast-lands alone to provide every
household of five in the whole State with 65 acres
—country with a rainfall of from 30 to 60 inches.
And yet there is this unhealthy hunger to borrow
and spend a hundred millions or so more to settle
the desert interior, with its rainfall of from 5 to
12 inches, with its parching sun and winds, with
its handicap of distance from the consuming
centres, and with its hundred other disadvantages.
Some day it may have to be attempted, in spite of
all this, but it ought to be almost Australia’s last
resort; and certainly it ought not to be faced
until every available acre of arable land, moder-
ately well watered by natural means and within
comparatively easy reach of markets, has been
forced by a land tax or otherwise into cultivation.
About the flood of immigrants to Canada, this
item, which had a leading place in the London
papers, was, curiously enough, not cabled to the
Australian Foreign-trade press combine :
G. W. Ross, Premier of Ontario, was to-day interviewed
by the ironmasters of the province, and urged by them
to secure adequate supplies of skilled labor from abroad.
They represented to the Government that 5000 addi-
tional workmen were needed in connection with the iron
industries of the province. They were willing to pay
wages ranging from 9s. to 12s. per day.
That points the way to Australia. If she wants
population let her establish manufactures. It is
not the frozen fields but the high tariffs of Canada
that attract immigrants. Protected manufactures
are the great source of income in Canada, beating
agriculture and everything else out of sight—in
fact, manufactures beat the agricultural, pastoral,
mining and fishing industries all combined as a
eouroe of income to the people.
“L.W.” : Apropos of the provincial mag-
nate’s wife who is said to have asked Governor
Clarke’s spouse if she sweated much. It is
alleged that the wife of a Rockhampton Mount
Morganaire, chatting with a male acquaintance
over his visit to the seaside, ecstatically exclaimed,
“Oh, Mr. Blank ! why didn’t you bring me back
an oyster in your ’oiler tooth ! ”
Great unpremeditated truth from Melb.
Age leader, May 2nd : - *
The gain to mortality would be enormous if amid
these conflicting judgments, the churches would confer
among themselves as the natural guardians of the law.
Exactly. How these Christiana shove one
another !


Missing Friends.
ANDREW WHITE (formerly of Gympie,
Queensland, miner, now supposed to be in
Western Australia) or any person knowing his
whereabouts please communicate at once with the
undersigned.
WILLIAM ANDERSON,
Stanley Street, Crown Road,
GYMPIE, Q.
TNFORMATION is requested respecting STEPHEN
-L McALISTER, a native of New Brunswick, Canada,
who is said to have conie to Australia about 1861. If
living, would now be about 60 years of age. Supposed to
follow mining, railway works, timber cutting, or general
labor. Has given his address as Sydney, Tamworth and
Dubbo. May be employed in some country district.
Keplv, AGENT-GENERAL FOR NEW BRUNSWICK,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
Archibald (or arch bold), anne, Mother
of PHILIP ARCHIBALD, of San Francisco, by com-
municating with the undersigned will hear something
to her advantage.
a’BEOKETT and HORROCKS, Solicitors,
WENTWORTH COURT, SYDNEY.
amusements.
FIT ZG E RALD B R OS/
HUGE CIRCUS AND MZNACERIE.
LOCATED-B ELMORE PARK. SYDNEY.
THE GREAT SENSATION,
THE DIVING HORSES.
Every Evening and Matinee Performances.
SATURDAY, MAY 23, THE BIC SHOW OF AUSTRALASIA,
DAN, from New Zealand. TOM, here in Sydney.
THE FITZGERALD BROS’. COMBINED COMPANY
Prices—4s., 35., 2s. & Is. Paling’s for Box Plan.
PEC! AL GRAND HOSPITAL BENEFIT
NIGHT,
AT THE CIRCUS,
MAY 26th, MONDAY NEXT, MAY 26th,
in aid of
THE SYDNEY HOSPITAL,
Macquarie Street.
A MONSTER DOUBLE PROGRAMME.
AN ALL NEW SHOW.
S 3" Tickets Everywhere.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
SECOND WEEK AND CONTINUED SUCCESS of
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON’S POPULAR
MUSICAL COMEDY COMPANY,
in the Gayest of Gaiety Successes,
A CIRCUS GIRL.
(Presented by Arrangement with Mr. Geo. Edwardes.)
Box Plan at Paling’s. TBS 43T Prices as Usual.
A LAC E T H EAT RE, SYDNEY
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
ARE YOU A MASON ?
Interpreted by Mr. GEORGE GIDDENS
and Mr. Williamson's NEW COMEDY COMPANY.
SATURDAY EVENING NEXT, MAY 23,
OH! WHAT A NIGHT!
Box Plan at Paling's. Prices as Usual.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the Direction of Mr. FRANK THORNTON.
Representative .
Agent
Mr. Mayne.
Mr. H. P. Lyons
FRANK THORNTON COMEDY SEASON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
THE STRANGE ADVENTURES OF MISS BROWN
SATURDAY NEXT, FOR 6 NIGHTS ONLY,
A Little Ray of Sunshine,
“BRIGHT, SPARKLING, UNIQUE.”
Box Plan at Elvy’s.
PRICES—Ss., 3s. 2s. and Is. Early doors (from 7to
7.30, Is. extra. Ordinary Doors, 7.30. Overture 8
Carriages, 10.30. Children under 7 not admitted. ’
l Y<=E y M J» EA T R E. S Y DNU
■■ Sole Lessee and Manager .. Mr. Wm. Anderson.
TO-NIGHT, and EVERY EVENING, at 8,
William Anderson’s Famous Dramatic Organisation
in the Startling and Unique Melodramatic Production,
THE FACE AT THE WINDOW.
Prices—3/-, 2/- and 1/-, Box Plan open at Elvy’s Music
Warehouse, George Street.
ENTENARY HALL, YORK STREET
TUESDAY, MAY 26th, ’
GRAND DUAL ART RECITAL
(Elocution with Music),
by
MR. A. BERTRAM FLOHM,
with Piano and Organ Accompaniments by
Mr. MAURICE E. PRICE.
Admission, 3s. (Reserved Seats); 25., and Is.
Plan and Tickets at Paling’s and Mr. Flohm’s Studio,
Equitable Buildings.
T H
MUTOSCOPE.
WONDERFUL LIVING PICTURES
now on view at
KING STREET ARCADE CORNER,
and
74 OXFORD STREET.
Real Life Portrayed with a Vividness and Realism
Never Before Witnessed.
ADMISSION FREE.
Tivoli theatre, sydn e y.
Sole Proprietor and Manager— Mr. Harrv Rickards.
NEW FIRST PART-LAWN TENNIS.
Great Reception of Mr. TED E. BOX. Mr. FRANK YORKE,
LITTLE EILEEN MURRAY, Mr. KELSO HENDERSON.
Splendid Success of the
11 BOISSETT COMPANY 11
Splendid Success of SEELEY and WEST, RODDA PERRY
and all our Great Co.
OP ER A HO U SE, M E LBOURNE
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. H. Rickards.
SPLENDID SUCCESS of M. RUDINOFF.
The Greatest Entertainment in the world.
Enthusiastic Success of HILL and SYLVAINY.
FRED. RIVENHALL.
Pronounced Success of WILL WHITBURN, ERNEST
FITTS, 808 BELL, WALKER & MAY, BERT BRADLEY,
CONNIE HAMILTON, LINGARD SISTERS, FLORRIE
BARNES. PRACTICALLY A NEW COMPANY.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
EVERY EVENING, and SIXTH WEEK of
Mr. George Musgrove’s New English Company in
Shakespeare’s Delightful Comedy,
A MIDSUMMER NIGHT’S DREAM.
Splendid and Novel Effects. •,
USUAL PRICES. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Theatre royal Melbourne.
Lessee .. .. .. Mr. Bland Holt
Business Manager .. C. Simonsens.
EVERY EVENING, and SECOND WEEK
of the Bland • Holt Dramatic Co. in the Great
Drury Lane Success,
THE PRICE OF PEACE.
Prices—3s, 2s 6d. 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan's.
Efi MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. Tallis. Treas., E. J. Tait.
EVERY EVENING,
Mr. J. C. Williamson’s Comic Opera Co. in Mr. Sidney
Jones’ Latest Success,
MY LADY MOLLY,
with an exceptionally strong cast.
PRICES AS USUAL. TB& Box Plan at Allan’s.
OWN H ALL, MELBOURNE
THE MUSICAL EVENT OF THE YEAR,
Commencing SATURDAY NEXT, MAY 23rd.
MARK NAMBOUR6.
PRICES—Ss., Ss., and 2s.
Under Vice-Regal
Patronage
And by
Special Appointment
Mrs. William Green and Miss Green
Professors of Ballroom Dancing, Deportment,Grace u
Carriage, Etiquette and Calisthsnic Exerc
The Latest Society Skirt Dances. Classes a f ra d d
private residences. Colleges and Convents alt
Classes in all suburbs. Prospectus—
“ Ellerslie,” 100 NicHolson-«t..Fitzroy _
Business Announcements. _
64
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. C. ZEIiDZRUDG-IE & CO-,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies pro
attended to.
Gr— Britain
taken from the System^
Notning remains * h^ c oa
produce an -, ur nof
eat, sleep and .land exposure and re-
ijmptoinß. Cured to stay cured, , nr j c hed; nerr®*
Reliefs, or change of climate no “ T „ p ,tienta fjT
treated oeer 52,000 Asthma &n _ of .ve 32c post FRddS-
Buffalo, N. Y., U. S. A.
Free for Asking.
WRITE to us and we will forward you our W(1
book, which will show you how to cure - ,
become healthy, strong and visrorous-the en
fellow-men. The book is free tor the aste«J^ e 3 it co n-
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advi
tains, and ill-health and weakness of
vanish like magic, and you will “11 {ree . ffn»
strength and ambition once more. PwteQ 1
to G. Spicuic, Elisabeth street, North Msloo
ASTHMA
Briseis Co. (Tas.) is changing managers again,
but will that make any change in the nature or extent of
the overburden which has to be removed before there can
be production of tin on a large scale ? Shares down to
45., which is probably about as much as they are worth.
BuMiKTiN has always asserted that it was a shockingly
over-valued show. Finances are in an unsatisfactory
position. Melbourne men profess, according to the news-
papers, to be sceptical about a reconstruction, but it is
inevitable. Funds have to be raised and the only avail-
able source is shareholders’pockets. By the way, a big
Melbourne man who is supposed to be one of the largest
shareholders, is, according to the share register, one of
the smallest. The largest holding is in a Sydney trust
estate.
• • • •
Curtin-Davis Proprietary Co. the KnoX-
Schlapp Tasmanian failure —still in a quandary. There
is about £lO,OOO in hand, and shareholders are so indif-
ferent about the concern that several attempts which
have been made to get a quorum to decide what to do
with the money have failed. Melbourne directors are
looking out for a suitable prospecting show on which to
spend the money. They mu9t be hard to please, or fair
prospecting shows are scarce, for, although they have
been on the quest for over two years, they have not as
yet struck anything that is considered suitable. Recently
they tried a big andesite dyke near Braid wood (N.S.W.)
This dyke contains native copper, but is very patchy, and
as poor as it is patchy. Ourtin-Davis people have now
abandoned it.
a • • *
Smith’s Creek (N.Q.) Tin Co.’s first 2000 tons of
stone gave 97 tons of black tin and tin oxide—a trifle
below the co.’s estimate of 5 per cent, for the whole
40 000 tons said to be available. Most profit is now being
made out of the sluicing stuff ; from 700 to_ 800 tons is
being turned over fortnightly, and the yield is from 1 to
li per cent., equal to from £1 to £1 ss. per ton. Total
costs for this work are about 7s. A rough estimate gives
70 000 tons of available alluvial; but the value probably
varies. The mine still continues, however, a surface
show so far as it has been proved, just as it was when
Capt. Warren reported on it. "The manager’s instruc-
tions are to push on with a main shaft to prove the lode
at the 100 ft. level.” At the 100 ft. level—after all this
time and talk!
• • • •
“Fides”: Work is-upsetting some of Danvers
Power’s estimates of ore-values at Chillagoe. Power esti-
mated “probable ore in sight” in the Boomerang at
4000 tons. Already over 4000 tons of stuff have been
-smelted, and the old dumps are practically untouched ;
recovery is also above the estimate. Hobson lode, near
"Boomerang, same expert estimated ore in sight almost
•nil. Over 1000 tons ore have been mined, besides 1500 tons
ironstone, for fluxing, carrying 2 per cent, copper. Pre-
viously barren ironstone was used. Developments in
•sulphide lode, Penzance mine, at Redcap, are good; it
carries from 4 to 5 per cent, copper and soz. silver, and
•is almost entirely composed of copper and iron sulphides.
.. .* • • *
'Charters Towers (Q.) gold for April, 30,0840 z.
,(18 7650 z. from quartz and 11,3190 z. from tailings) ; divs.,
s£4s 450 " calls, £19,842. For the four months : Gold,
H24,1240z. ; divs., £144,400; calls, £53,399. Queen Cross
•easily keeps in the front; for the month, 1631 tons for
•46700 Z., with a £5OOO (6d. a share) bonus on top of the
usual £lO,OOO div., making £50,000 for the four months.
After the Queen Cross, Brilliant and St. George, 20650 z.
from 2783 tons (£3OOO div.) ; Victoria and Queen. 17120 z.
from 564 tons (£4800) ; and Brilliant Central, 24090 z. from
3015 tons (£5000).
• * * •
“ Eiddal ” : Since the Gippsland Lakes fisher-
men combined to regulate the supply of fish to the Mel-
bourne market they have been realising from 15s. to 17s.
a basket for their wares, where formerly they only
received 45., and often nothing-the freight absorbing
the whole lot. When there is a plentiful catch, the
fishers “ paddock ” the surplus in enclosures, fenced in
with wire-netting. Here they keep the fish till required,
the consequence being that, having had no food for days,
thev arrive on the market merely skin, tail and bone—
vet the price is the same. Talk of cruelty to fish ! Some
steps should be taken to combat this unfair move, for
meat is scarce, and now fish is retailed in inland towns
up to lOd. per lb. Of course, the fishermen are not
really to blame. Fish used to retail at 4d. to 6d. per lb.,
and then the fishermen got practically nothing, the
unspeakable middlemen annexing the lot. Now it is 10d.,
and the fishermen get a respectable figure—a higher one
than they need to make a fair living—but still the
middlemen annex the largest share. With less middle-
- m en, the fishermen would have made a good thing of it
on the old easy-going basis, and wouldn’t have been
tempted to work the present “ combine.”
Both Gympie and the Towers loom well
in the investor’s eve. The Towers hopes this year
to pay £500,000 in dividends. This will be high-water
mark. At Croydon, also, the outlook is promising, and
the deep levels are turning out well. Georgetown is
lving low, evidently waiting for its Adelaide syndicate.
The Towalla field (near rainy Geraldton) keeps 200
or 300 white men in tucker, and shows that the flam of
-steamy country and indispensable nigger labor is a lie of
rthe first.order.
* • * m
The Yelta copper-mine, next door to the
•Moonta (S. A.), has been bought by the mostly-French
-Parramatta Co., which, so far, hasn’t had much luck
itself with its own property. The Yelta has over a square
mile of good position blocks, carrying a great number of
lodes, which would be better if they were bigger. The
• new owners are to put up a badly-needed surface-plant
rfor a start.
?•• * •
Wanganui (M.L.), which had sense enough to
'buy out the local gas co. when the chance came 15 months
ago has just sent out its first year’s balance-sheet,
wherein a surplus of £2354 is shown after providing 4*
per cent, interest and 2 per cent, sinking fund. This
ought to be the sort of argument to make timid municipal
bodies move.
• • • •
N.S.W. Mines Secretary Pittman, in his annual
report,"condemns the prospecting vote. Over £300,000
has been spent and, he says, there is absolutely nothing
to show for it. He does not offer any suggestion for
reform. The system on which the vote has been applied
* is certainly rotten, but it does not follow that, because
administration has been wrong, the principle is bad. The
“vote” has been a modified benevolent institution.
Scores of men have been maintained by it for years, and
thev have manipulated it so cleverly as to ensure continu-
ance of it for themselves. Writer has frequently heard
“aid ” men declare that the worst thing that could happen
would be for them to strike anything considered payable
as their aid would be withdrawn. It is well known, too,
that many men who, by long usage of it, have come to
regard the vote as their natural perquisite, have been
unconscionable sweaters. They get, say, 10s. per foot
for sinking, and sublet the work at as low, sometimes, as
6s. The hard-up man has to toil like a slave for tucker,
while'the man who signs the pay requisition sits on top
whittling wood the while his mighty brain is at work
evolving schemes for the amelioration of the condition of
the masses.
-s • • • *
M.L. expects to get its State coal-mine at work
within 12 months. The property, which is outside Grey-
mouth, is being thoroughly opened up, so that an output
of at least 1000 tons a day can be maintained from the
jump The railway is now completed to within less than
H miles, and six months will see it right through ; inside
the mine little haulage will be necessary, as the tunnels
and drives are on an incline. The worst which the
Government is likely to strike is in connection with the
t distribution of the coal ; but if the existing steamship
co.’s can’t undertake the work, the Government is quite
prepared to put on a few colliers of its own.
Last year’s yield of gold in M.L. (508,0450 z.)
was the highest since 1871, and even in the “ roaring
sixties” was only exceeded six times. And dredging
wasn’t altogether responsible. The Reefton (quartz)
yields were more than double the average of the previoug
20 years. ,
As the Westralian public batteries have been
showing a little nominal profit lately it has been decided
to pull down the charge for treatment. It stands now
at 15s. per ton ; it is proposed to make it from 10s. to 14s
A sliding scale may be best; but it would be far better
to keep up the profits and put them to a fund, first for
wining out the cost of the present plant, and then for
providing other plant to deal with the refractory ore
which is bound to follow.
At Poverty Point.
Australian violinist Ernest Toy did not, seemingly, get
a fair deal at all from the Melbourne papers, and his
friends allege that his show was “ throttled ” in the
interests of the Lloyd concerts by the newspapers. The
day of his first concert the morning newspapers had
nothing to say at all by way of announcement, and on the
next day one morning rag absolutely ignored his recital
—though he advertised fairly well.
J. 0. Williamson is alleged to have unearthed a mag-
nificent voice in Melbourne: It belongs to a girl not-yet
16. Said that she has nothing to unlearn, that she has
wonderful volume and range, and that she might yet be
Australia’s greatest singer up to date.
Basso Peterkin, the second-best member of the dis-
banded Lloyd Concert Co., is staying in Australia to join
Ada Crosslev’s co., when the contralto arrives.
Enterprising show managers on the look-out for
novelties could strike nothing better than a shark-
taming exhibition. Lion-taming is as old as Julius
Csesar, and anyhow the public have been surfeited with
the game. If it were not for the fact that a tamer is
occasionally eaten, nobody would raise his head to see
the gentleman with the waxed moustachios put his skull
into the mouth of the king of beasts. But send an expert
swimmer—female for preference—into a big tank to
make a sixteen-foot shark dive through hoops and waltz
to music and a £2OO house would be secured nightly for
a three-months season.
The recent Floral Fair in Adelaide had, as one of its
attractions, a “ great guessing competition,” the public
being asked to pay a shilling a guess at the number of
shot in a bottle, exposed in a King William-street shop-
window for some weeks beforehand. The police do not
seem to have interfered in any way. The first prize-
winner presumably got a similar bottle and laboriously
counted the number of shot it would hold —anyhow, he
got within 12 of the 7696 shot actually there. How this
kind of thing pays the promoter is shown by a minor
prize-winner’s ticket being numbered 3606. This gives
probably well over 4000 people paying a shilling each
(£200) to get one sewing machine and three guineas in
cash.
It looks as though “ Billy ” Speed, one of the best-
known variety artists since the Hicks-Sawyer days, passed
out suddenly t’other day at Onslow, in the north-west
wilds of Westralia. He disappeared mysteriously from a
fishing party ; and all the rest seems to be told by some
empty clothes, with the rips of sharks’ teeth in them,
that were afterwards dragged up from near the jetty.
Fritz Muller, the Australian pianist (born in Germany),
returned to this country last week, with a concert tour
in view. Fritz’s age is now stated at 17. Three and a-hali
years ago, when he was sent to Germany from Melbourne,
he figured as an infant phenomenon of 11, and he made
his last public appearance on the Town Hall platform
with Amy Castles, who was then farewelling in a short
frock. How rapidly those children have grown older
since then!
Antoinette Sterling, the appalling stout lady who con-
tinues to sing “ The Lost Chord,” expresses her friend-
ship for any Australian artists she meets in England by
inviting them to take afternoon tea at her house from
“ the teapot the Queen gave her.” Late Queen Victoria
seems to have had an intelligent conception of the fitness
of things. Ordinary worldly star actors or singers re-
ceived articles of jewellery as rewards for performing at
Court, but the royal gift to Antoinette, the Christian
Endeavoress, was just a teapot.
“ Kauri” : Re Poverty Point par. (25/4/’O3) anent Maori-
land and theatre companies : I was lately at Hamilton, a
pretty little town of about 1200 people, and in about a
week the following companies appeared : Fitzgeralds’
Circus, Taylor-Carrington Dramatic Co., Montgomery’s
Biograph Co. (two nights), Dix’s Gaiety Co., and the
Steel-Payne Bellringers. In addition there was a benefit
concert to a local musician, and a sale of work in con-
nection with a church, and various other small attrac-
tions that 1 forget about. All this in about a week.
European ignorance of the Antipodes is pathetically
illustrated by six dumpy Italians in blue and white
striped shirts who appear at Rickards’s under the title of
the Vesuvio Concert Co. Rickards engaged them in the
West where they had just landed “ on their own ” with a
view to a triumphant tour through Australia. The mis-
guided foreigners must have been given to understand
that they were going to a semi-barbarous country, for the
musical entertainment they give could be excelled by six
amateurs picked from any town of 3000 inhabitants in the
Commonwealth. But in Italy nothing is known of Aus-
tralia except that it produces snakes, crocodiles and
aboriginals.
“J.F.D.”: There is an infernal machine erected on a
vacant piece of land near my home, and the individual
who owns it is doing his best to addle the brains of all
the youngsters in the neighborhood. It is a merry-go-
round with an up and down motion, imitative of a ship
in a heavy sea. He charges a penny for a ride, and if the
youngster is not sick with giddiness, he will take another
penny and give him another ride warranted to make him
deadly ill. Yesterday a boy fell off, too stupid and ill to
hold on any longer ; while two others were woefully ill
after getting off. He does a roaring business of an after-
noon , and on Saturday evenings he operates up till 11.
“ Make ’em sea-sick for a penny” is his advertising cry.
“ Pro.”: Davis, the snake-fooler, who pegged out to
the wriggles of one of his venomous pets in Tasmania
t’other °day, was an undesirable kind of individual
with a wooden leg. Met him some ten years ago at
Wangaratta (Vic.), and have had the creeps ever since.
Was sitting on the verandah with a friend, when he
hailed Davis, who was pegging his way home from a
snake-hunting expedition. “What have you got there,
old man ?” my friend queried, pointing to a well-worn
sugar bag Davis carried over his shoulder. “ Like to
see?” The snake-charmer’s eyes twinkled as he dived
his bared arm down to the bottom of the bag and
brought up a wriggling mass of freshly caught tiger-
snakes. I got—and as the pair wended their way to the
nearest pub a vicious old snake had a foot of his carcase
out of a hole in the bag, now slung over the charmer’s
shoulder. About this time Davis was an inmate of the
local hospital, and trouble arose as to the disposal of
a kerosene tin half full of snakes. They were eventually
destroyed, much to the owner’s anger. He stayed
around for some weeks after the meeting above recorded,
but it was months before the wandering reptiles that
had taken their crawling tickets while he was drunk
were finally exterminated from the verandahs, fowl-
yards, and stables of the residents of the town. All
snake-charmers should be clapped into “chokey ” at the
first symptom of their insanity.
The Anderson Dramatic Company in Maoriland, to
advertise “ The Mariners of England,” gave in each town
three prizes, up to the value of £lO, for the best essay on
“The Life and Death of Nelson,” written by youths
under the age of 16. Pressmen were appointed to do the
judging, and the decision was duly announced from the
stage. There was no applicant for the £lO prize in one
town, and the management wondered. The following
morning a man with an accent redolent of kilts and bag-
pipes called and represented himself as the “ feyther ” of
the boy who wrote the winning essay. This was proved.
Before obtaining'the prize he was asked why he had not
been present the night before. “ Weel, ye ken,” he said,
“ ahm a guid Presbyterian, and niver gang ta the play.”
“ Kauri” : At Te Aroha (M.L.), the other night, I went
to see Dix’s crowd in the Town Hall (I think they called
it the Town Hall, but I thought it was an old billiard
room). A family came in and sat in front of me—old
man, old woman, two girls, and three boys. At half-
time the old man started out for his beer, but stopped
to count the young ones. It seemed to strike him that
all wasn’t right. “ Where’s Jimmy ?” he demanded. “I
dunno,” said the old woman ; “ thought ’e wuz with the
others.” " But ’e ain’t ’ere,” replied the old man.
Chorus of “Where can’e be?” One of the girls piped
out, “I think ’e fell out o’ the cart. Bob knows all
about it.” Everyone turned to Bob, who admitted that
Jimmy did fall off the cart, but he thought if he (Bob)
mentioned the matter at the time they would be late for
the play. The old man’s language w’as beyond description,
and if Bob got half what he was threatened with I wouldn’t
care to be Bob. It appeared the party had driven in
from an out-lying settlement in a spring-cart, and as the
trap was loaded up with vegetables there wasn’t too
much room. Anyway, Jimmy was on the outside of the
row’ of bags, and lost the number of his mess. The play
was then half over, so they unanimously decided to
“ keep a look out for the little devil on the way home.”
Whether found or not I am unable to say.
“ W.D.8.” : The late Belle Russell (Mrs. J- W. Parsons)
played little Eva in “ Uncle Tom’s Cabin ” at the old
Princess Theatre, Melbourne, 26 years ago, under the
management of the late Mr. Tom Kennedy, when it had
a phenomenal run of 36 nights. “ Uncle Tom was
almost an institution then. Goodness only knows what it
is now.
There is a certain melancholy fitness in
the relief given by N.S.W. Governments to the
unemployed. Sand-shifting to the shiftless, and
stone-breaking to the stone-broke.
Constable Williams, of the Sydney police,
stands 6ft. Gin. in his stockings. One day last week
he presented at court an adult man 4ft. in height.
For the benefit of the Jewhannesburg
mineowners who are bent on getting a laborer still
cheaper than the Kaffir, the pay of the various
more-or-less skilled Asiatic miners is being sche-
duled. Working for American concessionaires
in Corea, Chinese coolies get a day and
native Coreans from to Is. 3d. The Jew-
hannesburgers have their eye on the Coreans,
who are being put through all sorts of tests.
Morally, it is explained, they are a bit crooked;
but that won’t matter.
THE AIRY FAIRY FABLECRAM!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
[•« English Press Opinions on the Railway Strike” is now
a pet head-line in Sydney and Melbourne dailies. It may
be as well to remember that no Australian newspaper
with any kind of account of the strike has yet reached
England, and that consequently “ English opinions,
besides Deing judiciously selected, can only be based on
the carefully-edited information sent “Home through
the newspaper cable syndicates at this end.]
There are many daily papers on this continent of
ours. . . .
(But they’re very much united in the syndicate.)
They are various in policies and principles and
powers. .
(But they nearly all are members of the syndicate.)
Do the London daily papers get a sparkle of the
truth?
Do they know what’s really happening, my gay
and festive youth ? . _
Why, the “ news” is always edited ! It has to be,
forsooth ! . , .
(When the fable-agent’s acting for the syndicate.)
Ananias couldn’t tell a really able cram !
There is little in the spirit-rapper’s table-cram!
And the true artistic whopper,
Well-designed in fashion proper,
Is the cablegram that should be called a Fable-
cram !
Now, the edited edition of the cable travels
“Home.”
(Through the customary channel of the syndicate.)
And the London pressman worries as the sheaves
of copy come, ,
(And he puzzles through the cable from the
syndicate.) . .
There are cablegrams from China, and from Bans
and Peru !
From Columbo, Yladivostock, San Francisco,
Timbuctoo?
Is it any blanky wonder if he don’t know what
to do
With the Melbourne message coming from the
syndicate ?
Well, the filtered message may receive a “notice”
mild and bland
(From a man, most likely, cursing at the syndi-
cate !); .
It’s a kind of “ Yes-no-notwithstanding-on-the-
other-hand 1”
(Sort of thing you always look for from a syndi-
cate);
But these mild remarks are burnished bright and
polished trim and neat.
Being carefully selected, as you winnow chaff
from wheat;
And they ’re magnified and cabled out to King or
Collins street
To be stuffed and filled and padded by a syndicate !
That accounts for all the capers of the cablegram !
For the stable able fable of the fablegram !
Bless the syndicated shapers
Of “ Opinions of the Papers,”
As we read them through the capers
Of the cablegram !
W. T. GOODGE.


HIS POWER REGAINED
Mr. ARTHUR HILL (of Hill and Sylvainy).
There are Men Living in
Australia To-Day
whose lives are failures, who are dying by- inches. Illness has brought them
adversity, ill-health has destroyed their energy. They have NEVER REACHED
the goal for which they have striven. They have lost hope and ambition.. In this
condition they became hopeless and ambitionless, finding life devoid of the joys that
make it worth the living.
Disease means an ENEMY. It may mean Death. A man likes to feel strong,
with no limit to his physical and domestic pleasures, He likes to feel
Every Inch a Strong, Vigorous Man
to feel in the flood of glorious youthful health. He does not want to pass through
life a burlesque upon manhood, a weakling. If he wants to be healthy, cured of any
complaint from any cause arising, he should consult those empowered by special study
to treat such diseases. The SPECIALISTS of «
The Freeman & Wallace Institute
he should consult, who practise in the front rank of Science, and whose keen insight
into diseases, and whose singular skill in CURING THEM have made their names
famous over Australia. Their ELECTRO-THERAPEUTIC methods, or the treat-
ment of Nerve Diseases by ELECTRICITY and MEDICINE, have been endorsed
by some of the leading persons of the land. In all instances where this treatment
has been adopted, speedy and
Remarkably Curative effects have Resulted,
the patients enjoying better health than they have experienced for years.
Here is the testimony of a splendid athlete, the finest art-cyclist who has visited
Australia, now starring the States under contract to Mr. Harry Rickards, the great
Vaudeville King. MR. ARTHUR HILL, of “ Hill and Sylvainy,” whose portrait
is here published, recently injured his back, suffering from
A Severe and Serious Strain,
which affected the kidneys and threatened to incapacitate him. Here is his testi-
mony to the SPECIALISTS’ ONE POUND ELECTRIC “ INVIGORATOR ”
BELT and to their Magical Electro-Medical treatment. In plain terms in a letter
to the SPECIALISTS he informs the public of Australia what it did for him —
“During April of this year I strained the
muscles of my hack, which threatened complete
prostration. To regain my nerve and muscular
strength speedily, I wore one of your much spoken
of Electric “ INVIGORATOR ” BELTS, and adopted
your treatment, It is a wonderfully curative in-
strument, for in a few days I regained that mus-
cular power essential to the great feats of strength
involved in my professional career.
“ (Signed) ARTHUR HILL
“ Tivoli Theatre, Sydney, (0f HiU and Sylvainy) -
April, 1903.”
The Cure of the Century. Remarkable Cases of Relief
Any man who may be ill or weak from any cause may regain his lost strength
in a few weeks by adopting THE SPECIALISTS’ wonderful modes of nerve
re-invigoration. Their Electric “IN YIGORATOR ” Belts are constructed
upon the finest scientific plans. They are locally manufactured, and locally
certificated.
They are Sold for One Pound Only,
and can be worn by any member of a family. £8 is allowed in return for their £lO
Electric “ INVIGORATOR ” Belt, which contains 2oz. 18ct. gold, even after a cure
has been effected. Duty on all Belts is paid throughout the States. There is no
Functional, Nerve, Stomach, or Kidney Disease which this treatment will not
alleviate and cure.
All these “INVIGORATOR” Belts bear the highest awards from such high
electrical authorities as Mr. A. C. Webb, M.1.E.E., late President Institute of
Electrical Engineers, Sydney, now occupying a high official position Sydney Univer-
sity, and Mr. Albert Libby, Consulting Engineer for Allis, Chalmers, Co., the largest
electrical firm in the world, and who supervised the formation of the present electric
car service of Sydney. These certificates may be inspected upon application.
THE SPECIALISTS have testimonies, in addition to Mr. Hill’s, from such men
as Mr. DANIEL O’CONNOR, M.P., Mr. PATRICK LARKIN, J.P., Inspector
FOWLER, N.S. Wales Police, and numerous others. These are but a few instances.
They have cured numberless men from such grave diseases as DYSPEPSIA, INDI-
GESTION, GOUT, NEURALGIA, SCIATICA, BLOOD COMPLAINTS,
BLADDER and
Liver Troubles, Prostratic Disorders, Varicocele, etc.
They have indisputable proof to this effect. Their Electric “ INVIGORATOR”
Belt, when worn round the waist nightly for a few hours, saturates the vital nerve
centres with a healthy natural energy. LACK OF NERVE FORCE is at the root
of the above diseases. Electricity restores nerve-power, and the current, assisted by
strong reconstructive remedies, soon effects a radical cure. Only in a few instances
has it been proved that the electric current administered individually has benefited
the patient, and where such benefit has been proved the nerve-system was but slightly
impaired. No amount of Eleotricity alone will renew an old kidney, or create the
necessary tissue essential to perfect health, and when time and money is spent upon
suoh a form of treatment the chances of a radical cure are rendered more remote and
hopeless.
The Specialists’ Fees are: Advice and Medicine, £1 only.
When under treatment you are under the care of an Internationally Registered
Physician and Specialist, Dr. R. WALLACE, M.D., who is registered by Medical Boards of
New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, England and America. He is the only
Registered Specialist in Australia who thoroughly understands Electrical treatment. (See
New South Wales Registered Medical Practitioners’ List.)
A GIFT BOOK.
A Great Medical Work, “CLINICAL EX-
PERIENCES,” 150 Medical Plates, 550 pages
instructive letterpress on General II j senses,
posted free, for ONE SHILLING IN STAMPS,
a Genuine Health Adviser. A chapter of 30
pages on Electricity fully explains how so many
wonderful cures are made by its use. Chapters
on Plague, Fevers, Sunstroke, Snakebite, Poi-
sons, and Antidotes, Treatment of Invalids, eta,
make it invaluable to country homes. ONE
SHILLING Is the only charge.
The FREEMAN & WALLACE
ELECTRO-MEDICAL and SURGICAL INSTITUTE,
Cor. Bathurst & Elizabeth Sts., Sydney.


Adelaide possesses a marvel in A. W.
Hendry, who, though totally blind, has triumph-
antly carried through a 14 days’ fair which has
earned over £3OOO for the Blind Institution of
which he is secretary. Hendry travels S. A. as far
north as Oodnadatta despite his affliction, and is
known to almost every business man in the settled
districts. Through his indomitable energy and
pluck during the last 20 years over a hundred
blind artisans are enabled to earn a living, and
this latest enterprise has brought work for an
additional number. ,
“T.D. Met him in Swanston-st., a
weird straw-in-the-hair person with a very large
book that he wanted to show me. He said he
was collecting the names of the Damned, and
asked for mine, also those of two other men who
had just emerged with me from a place where
drinks are 3d. His list was headed “Simultane-
ous Mission ” —apparent l j he was one of the
victims—and contained several hundred names,
some of which had been written in by sinners
like myself, but bore evidence of fictitiousness.
The bulk, however, were in the same thin and
disconnected outlines, the work of the Geil and
Torrey victim himself. They included Thomas
Bent and the Iceberg crowd (there will be no
icebergs there), Melba, John Norton, a big news-
paper proprietor, and an Archbishop. I inserted
the names of my two friends. There is still a lot
of room in the book.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Ebtablishkd 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle "
HAS MONEY TO LEND
sarfcrJßa:
Properties, or on " "
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Coternmn
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or Now Zealand
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilegs of repaying up to 20 Da
of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine. * pw
Esq.,Chairman ; The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.0., Deputy-Chairman •
i; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.O. ;F. E. WnteueoMii „ T|
Richard Teeck, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S. *'
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Our
cent
Directors— Thomas Littlejohn,
Esq. ; Senator J. T. Walker
General Manager and Actuary
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Hearne’s
Cure.
FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEWARE OF COUGHS!
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
CONSUMPTION,
iOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. —Dear Sir, —I am writing to tell you
about the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
my case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first, the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and.l became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest,. and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my ease to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks. —Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
'■ Severe Cough
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir. —I suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and “can’t be licked.”—Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Months OML
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
•mall bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
a«I cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid niedi-
cin for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mr*. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Viotoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
Llenwellyn,
“ Katunga, Vic.
“Mr. Hearne.—
“Dear Sir, —l am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to my mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“JOHN S. MORTIMER.”
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne’g Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
“ Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice, a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that, previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus —as walking caused me such pain and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
“Yours very truly,
“M. MORTIMER.
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows :—“ As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night’s rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Tears’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“ Sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried ;
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure.—l remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
‘‘WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Pive Years’ Case.
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE!.
Mr. W. G. Hearn*.—Dear Sir, —Kindly send me one
larjje bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. lam more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, asa
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not ftel safe to be withou
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Seven Years’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“ Dear Sir, —Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a.year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me weloome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as I am now, quite well.—Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney."
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS' CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charlevilie,
Queensland, writes :—“ After suffering from Asthma lot
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne s
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then
which was in the beginning of 1883— 15 years ago—l hav
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine qui
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommendingit
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states:— I
am keeping very well now. Never have the slighted
eturn of the Asthma.”
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARSME, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
branch d.pot office i No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally .
THE!
SMELTING £ REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
Works: DAPTO, LAKE ILLAWARRA (56 Miles from Sydney). 1901, Limited.
Highest Price paid for Gold, Silver, Lead, and Copper Ores,
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay. Qyailide, SlctgS, cllld JetftTSllerS SVfeBP. etC_
For all Information regarding Rates, apply to the Manages, Head Office, JJafio ;
or, A. E. RUDDER & CO., 40 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Forwarding Agents.
“ Retained when
all other Foods are
rejected. It is in-
valuable.”
London Medical Xecord.
“‘Benger*s Food*
has by its excellence
established a repu-
tation df its ■own.”
Lritish Medical Record.
GOLD JVIEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
r s Food
For Infants, Invalids, and the Aged, Delicious, Nutritive, end Digestible,
Benger’s Food is sold by Chemists, &c., Everywhere
Extracts from
Letters.
Private
“ My last little boy was
fed entirely upon it from
birth, and a healthier
child it would be difficult
*3 find. My wife sounds
the praise of ‘Benge*
Food ’ everywhere.
“If every mother h ll6
otner
value,
its


No. F5419—18c.
Gold Diamond and
Sapphire King:, £2.
No. F 2876. —Pretty Glass-lined Shell
Butter Dish, with Knife, 13 S 6d.
No. 30. —15c. Gold and Fine Opal and Pearl Bee
Brooch, £2 10s.
No. F 5931. —Exquisite Diamond and Ruby
Brooch, £l3 10s.
No. F 7419. —Novel
Charm, 9ct. Gold,
Mouse in a Hat, 8s 6d
No. F7393.—15c. Gold
Rope and Anchor
Charm, 8s 6d.
No. F6328.—18c. Gold
Diamond & Sapphire
King, £5 10s.
No. Gl39s.—Solid Silver Serviette
Ring, 4s 6d.
15 c. Gold and Fine
Pearl Star Pendant,
£4 IQs; others up to £lO
9ct. Gold Fashionable
Photo. Pendant, Vs 6d ;
larger, 8s Cd, 11s 6d.
With Pearls, 27s 6d.
No. F 3198. —Neat, Plain Onyx and
Gold Mourning Brooch, 13s 6d.
VIUE ChROEDS
a£
No. Fs9os.—Gentleman’s Embossed Solid Silv Vititing
Card Case 16s 6d
(^tZiVartQawsvn&'Q
“ D ETTER QUALITY FOR LESS MONEY.” That is the Stewart Dawson idea of
fl carrying on a business. It’s our way of winning and keeping your custom.
We admit we are in a better position to buy at the right prices than any
other firm in Australasia, but remember that it was through following the policy
mentioned above that we have grown from one Store to Eight. There is a reason at
the back of everything, and BETTER QUALITY FOR LESS MONEY Is the reason for
our growth and popularity. Orders by post have careful attention, and catalogues
and Information are gladly sent to enquirers.
No. E 7302.— Pearl,
Turquoise and 9c.
Gold Heart Pen-
dant, 17s 6d.
No. F 7392.—150-
Gold Filigree
Ornamented
Bean Charm,
10s 6d.
No. 215.—Fine
Pearl and Sapphire
Heart, 9c. Gold,
16s 6d.
No. F742o—Solid
Gold Perfect
Model Pipe
Charm,
8s 6d.
No. F44sl.—Fine
Quality Silver-plated
Centrepiece, 20in.
high, with Stag- Or-
naments and
Engraved Glass Dish
and Vase, £3 15s.
V
ft
w.
Ko. Gl399.—Solid Silver Queen Anne Salt Cellars and
Spoons, in Morocco Case, 52s Gd.
This shows the new Pearl Necklet made from real solid Mother of
Pearl and coated by a secret process to imitate the real
pearls. The imitation is practically perfect, and only an expert
can tell the difference. Prices, £4, £4 10s, £4 Ids, £5.
No. F 3738. —Neat Leather Purse, with Handsome
Silver Mounts and Lock, 13s 6d.
No. F9933.—Child’s Cup,
Silver Plated and En-
graved in case, 14s 6d.
No. 386.—Mother of Pearl Silver Plated and Engraved Butter Knife, 3t fld.
No G 1396. — Gadroon Edge Solid Silver
Serviette Ring, 11s 6d.
No. FB2lo.—Fine Leather and Solid
Silver Blotting Book, 255.
a_9 9
No. F976.—Fine Pearl Set, 15c. Gold 2 Bar
Brooch, 37s 6d.
Illustrated Catalogue
POST FREE.
No. 163.—18 c. Gold
Diamond and Ruby
Ring, £3 10*; larger
T
HERE ARE SEVERAL ....
TALKING MACHINES
. . BUT THERE IS ONLY ONE . .
WHICH IS MADE BY
The gramophone $ Typewriter [td.
This is a “JUNIOR fIONARCH ” GRAMOPHONE,
Price £6 10s., and it is unsurpassed by any
Talking Machine at any Price.
Other Styles, £3 to £l4 10s.
Read what ADELINA PATTI says:
To The Gramophone Co.,
City Road, London.
Gentlemen,
Craig-Y-Nos Castle,
Ystradgynlais, R.S.O
Breconshire,
South Wales
I have much pleasure in stating that I have heard your
Monarch Gramophone, and that I consider it a very remarkable instru-
ment of its kind, and quite the most perfect that I have ever heard.
It reproduces the human voice to such a fine point, that in listening
to the records of Caruso, Plancon, etc., it seemed to me as if those
artists were actually singing in my saloons. I have never heard
anything to equal it.
Australian Agencies—VlCTOßlA: A. P. Sykes, 227 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA : Messrs. S. B. Hunt & Co., 94 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
WESTRALIA: Messrs. Nicholson & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA: Messrs. Wertheimer, Benjamin, & Anderson, 71 Collins Street, Hobart.
QUEENSLAND : Messrs. Heindorff Bros., 210 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Represented all over
—the World.
WHOLESALE DEPOT FOR AUSTRALASIA -
AGENTS IN EVERY TOWN.
The Gramophone and Typewriter Ltd., 163 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.


TRADE FOX MARK
FOX Bros. & Co., Ltd., warn the public that their Trade Mark consists
ONLY OF THE WORD FOX
of soundness of material and quality of dye of all
Worsted Coatings, Serges & Tweeds
on which it is stamped. ___
As the result of many years of experience
FOX’S PURE INDIGO DYE
is recognised as the best in the market All FOX’S Standard Cloths are
stamped every two yards on the back —
FOX
PURE INDIGO
and without this stamp are not genuine. These celebrated serges can be
obtained from the leaping Tailors and Drapers throughout the Colonies.
fOX BROS & Co., Ltd., WELLINGTON, SOMERSET, England.
ENO’S
‘FRUIT
SALT.’
COOLING,
AND INVIGORATING.
HEALTH GIVING,
REFRESHING,
THERE IS NO DOUBT THAT where it has been
taken in the earliest stages of a disease, it has, in
innumerable instances, PREVENTED what would other-
wise have been a SERIOUS ILLNESS.
CAUTION.—See Captule marked ENA'S ' FRUIT SALT.’ Without it yon bay a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.. ‘ FRUIT SALT’ WORKS. LONDON, INGK,
by J. C. ENO'S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
THE PIANOLA
u
0 ❖
$
0 <2> &
a- e
v c
£ <■*
{? <?>
5 o
fl X>
* .*
Will
play
any
Piano
and
any
kind
of
Music.
We are mailing free, to anyone who will ask us,
a booklet called “ Music in the Home.”
It will be of interest to every person who loves
music. It will be of particular interest to the many
thousand owners of pianos whose instruments remain
unused for months at a time, and become practically
nothing more than articles of furniture.
The price of the Pianola is £6O prompt cash, or
£65 on moderate monthly payments.
HENRY M. BIRCE & CO.,
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA.
SYDNEY : 323 George St.
MELBOURNE: 185-187 Collins St.
APPENDICITIS PREVENTED.
Liver, Kidneys and Bowels Regulated.
IT is now common knowledge that the
term Appendicitis is applied to in-
flammation of that portion of the
bowel known as the appendix, and is
generally caused by the accumulation of
faecal matter, which in course of time
becomes hardened into a concrete mass.
Every stage of life, every condition of
existence, is susceptible to this disorder
The infant, the adult and the senile
the rich, the middle class and the poor,
the King and the peasant are all subject
to imperfect nutrition faultv assimila
tion, and the ailments arising therefrom.
The Court Chemist to
His Majesty King Edward VIE,
And to the late German Emperor Frederick. King of Prussia and to
other Foreign Courts, Mr. Frank R. Squire, of San Remo, while
on his holiday in England, writes •
“ London. Julv 9th, 1902.
“Messrs. S. Krrxow k Co., Ltd.
“Gentlemen, —I thank yon for your promptitude in sending your Kutnow's
Powder asked for • it is one of the most useful remedies I know, and I never like to be
without it. “I am, Gentlemen, ’■ours faithfully.
“FRANK R. SQUIRE.”
Success in business or the profession,
or in any walk in life, depends very
largely upon the state of health.
All who' work with the brain value
health, and all who* value health take
Kumow's Powder.
To be brief, the chief merit of Kut-
now's Powder is the remarkable power it
possesses of effectively cleansing the
bowels, stimulating the liver, clearing the
kidneys, irrigating the organs, and ex-
pelling all poisonous and putrefying
deposits which mav have accumulated in
the system.
Beneficial Effects in
Appendicities.
GALLOWAY KYLE. Esq., E.R.S.L.. Ac,. Editor of The
Cocnty Monthly and The British and Northern Magazine,
WTMeP “ July 3rd, 1902.
“ Sirs, —I have used vour Kutnows Powder after an attack of
appendicitis, and as a preventive to further attacks have found it
beneficial and satisfactory. In regulating stomachic disorders inci-
dental to a sedentary life. too. it has proved most usefuL and tne
preparation is agreeable and does not cause Any discomfort.—F am-
tullyyours. "Galloway Kyle.”
And attain, an Juiy JOtA, writes : —
“I believe the Powder saved me from a further attack of appendicitis
latelv, and has rendered me less liable to attacks. —Faithfully yours,
“Galloway Kyle.”
Accept no
Fraudulent Substitutes,
CAUTION. —There are some unscrupulous
dealers who. for the sake erf extra nrofit. try to
sell substitutes of Kotnovrs Powder. These may
be offered for a few pence less, but are worthless,
and consequently dear at any price. Firmly insist
upon having Kumow’s Powder, and do not allow
yourself to be persuaded to accept any substitute.
Accept only the Genuine
KUTROW'S POWDER.
The International
Journal of Surgery
sats:
"Despite the great progress in medical science, especially in sur
gery the most skilful operator has yet to combat with the distressing
nausea patients are subject to after the use of an asst he tics, which often
considerably retards recovery.
“ Our readers will, therefore, be pleased to have their attention
called to a very simple remedy to overcome this difficulty, which
will find in Kut now's Powder, a prophylactic and antiseptic aperient,
which was extensively used mid highly valued by the late Lawson
Tait. w
“Should the physician detsir* a peristaltic action witnin -1 to
hours, tie doses should be repeated about every two hours, yielding
most gratifying results without any danger or disco ml ort.”
KUTNOW’S POWDER can be obtained from all Chemists and Medicine Stores throughout the World.
Proprietors S. KUTNOW & CO.. Ltd., *1 Farringdon Road. London. E.C. Proprietors in U.S.A. ; KUTNOW BROS., Ltd., So 3 Broadway, New York.


mm
t:r
PD
CORSETS
The Recognised Standard
High-Class Corsets
LATEST SPECIALTY
STRAIGHT FRONT
NOUVELLE FORM
Obtainable from Leading
Drapers Everywhere.
Avoid Inferior Imitations, and see that
•aoh pair bears the Manufacturer’s “Trade
Mark ” on band inside, as above.
» r f
I "
-i
' !>,'
.
v'J'J'ftSi <
ime
ce
The basis of which is “ Montserrat ’’ Lime-Fruit Juice.
Far Superior to
all otHer Sauces.
AGENTS —Elliott Bros. Ltd., J. Connell & Co., D. Mitchell & Co., Sydney.
D. Cohen & Co., Newcastle.
HARDY BROS.,
Vice-Regal
Jewellers.
MUFF CHAINS, in Great Variety.
Heavy 15ct. from
£5 to £l2.
Other Patterns,
from 70s.
Heavy Enamel and
Gem Set, from
£7 to £2O.
«*.
Goods forwarded to all
parts of the States without
any inconvenience to Cus-
tomers.
Showrooms :
13 HUNTER STREET SYDNEY;
118 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
GUARANTEED THE HIGHEST QUALITY
TOBACCO
DARKandLIGHT plug
ALSO
CUT IN 2 OZ. AND 4ozTI N S
Locked-up as a Drunk.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I wanted to see for myself what it was like, and
they allowed me to do so. The cell was as large
as a banquet-hall, and I admired the thoughtful-
ness of the authorities, who made the ceiling pure
white, and the walls of white enamelled bricks.
You could not make snakes out of the pattern,
even if you wished to do so.
When the dawn stole in through the iron bars
I awoke from a refreshing sleep on my wooden bed,
and, to kill time until I was bailed-out, started to
count the bricks. I got as far as 75 longitudinally
and 54 in depth. Then I took a piece of string
out of my pocket and measured the floor. Fifteen
feet across. Here was at my hand an exercise in
cube-root. Given these data, to find the cubic
contents of the cell. He must be a stolid person
with no intellectual resources who cannot dis-
cover in any possible condition a problem to in-
terest him. My remembrance of cube-root was
rusty, and I began to doubt my own measure-
ments. I had started to measure again, and had
just discovered that the authorities had inserted
half a brick at the corner of the wall in order, I
suppose, to add a piquant difficulty to a problem
which might be too easily solved by mathe-
maticians like myself—when the iron door opened
and a genial constable remarked: “I have brought
a gentleman to keep you company.”
I looked at my new companion. White-headed,
white-bearded. Decently dressed in country
fashion. Had been drinking heavily, and was
evidently glad to lie down anywhere. His face
was flushed and his eyes congested, but he was
becoming sober. He sat on the edge of the
wooden bed which was large enough for four.
• » • •
“I was taken down for £75 last night,” he re-
marked heavily. “ All I had in the world. Came
down to Sydney to pay something off a mortgage
and take home some stores. Missus will be wor-
ried ”
“Nev’mind,” I said with rapid sympathy. I
saw in a moment that I was speaking to Steele
Rudd’s “Old Dad,” and that if I gave him a
chance he would go on talking until he would not
be fit to appear before the court in the morning.
“ What are you in here for?” he inquired after
a thoughtful pause.
“Murder with violence,” I replied.
He lay down on the far edge of the bed, and I
covered him with the grey-blue blankets. And he
fell asleep.
Later on a constable came in and informed me
that “ a lady wished to see me.”
* * • *
There was a bucket full of clean water in the
corner of the cell. No soap; no towels. But,
fortunately, I had a large handkerchief; dried my-
self on same and made myself as presentable as
possible. There were no mirrors, no combs, not
even a manicure set, in the apartment. My heart
throbbed as I walked to the grating to see the
lady. I had the feeling of all the heroes you have
ever read of—Jack Sheppard and Sixteen-Stringed
Jack and the rest—who had been visited by
beautiful women in the days of their misfortune.
And I did my best to look the characters—all of
them.
A stout, middle-aged lady, with a half-gallon
can of tea, came to the grating. She passed in
two half-pint pannikins full of tea and twoseparate
slices of bread and butter —cut thin and lightly
dusted with pepper and mustard, so as to encour-
age a drunkard’s appetite.
I thanked her, and she gave me a tract—“ The
Horrors of Drink ” —evidently written by a lady
who had once seen a drunken man through a
telescope, and had formed an idea that he was a
dangerous human wild-beast, but with some
remnants of feeling which might be appealed to
on evangelistic lines, by tea and dismal religious
conversation about souls and hell, and harmonium
tunes played by a young lady with a face like a
white rabbit.
* • • *
The lady with the tea meant well. She took
the trouble, and as I learnt afterwards, takes the
trouble regularly, day after day, at seven in the
morning, to come around with her tea —and good
tea with milk in it —to give to people whom most
members of the W.C.T.U. would not wipe their
dainty flat feet upon. Charity was never better
exercised. The man who is locked-up for being
intoxicated is usually a person who has seen better
days—or nights. And he is susceptible accord-
ingiy-
She told me in a low, kind sympathetic voice—
more like the voice of Annie Besant than any I
had ever heard before—that I was ruining my
health and going swiftly down the road to Hell,
and that the only way to save myself was to join
the Wesleyans.
“Better burn, madam.” I replied with reminis-
cences of St. Paul.
“Baptist, then.”
“No.”
“Is it possible then that you are a Roman
Catholic?”
“Madam,” I said, “let me be candid. I was
brought up as a Jesuit in Stonehenge. After-
wards I went to Louvain, which, as you know, is
in Belgium.”
She nodded emphatically.
‘ ‘ And then I was sent out as a missionary to
the East Indian Islands.”
She nodded ; she knew. I felt encouraged. I
was interesting her. The tall policeman walked
down the corridor and yawned. I had another
cup of tea. It exalted me. I told the lady that
I had voluntarily gone into gaol in order to offer
spiritual refreshment to some of the poor benighted
criminals.
“And why did you come back from the East
Indies? ” she enquired softly.
“Me?” I said. “You must have misunder-
stood me, madam. I never came back from the
East Indies.”
“But you said that you had been there,”
observed the Lady.
“Ah, yes, madam, I was there —in the fleshy
But they cut me into thirteen pieces in Szechnang.
Yet I have been permitted ”
The Lady was gone.
The police-clerk afterwards, when he was re-
cording my bail, told me that she thought I
should be in the asylum.
■ • • •
Those of us who are outside gaol—as yet—are
chained and fettered and rivetted by convention-
alities and customs and observances and decencies
to the extent that not one of us can truly call his
life his own. There is a perpetual revolt against
the chains, &c. Mostly it takes the form of in-
toxication. The drunken man has, for an hour
or two, or a day or two, or a week or two, accord-
ing to his position and the state of his funds, a
little French Revolution on his own account, and
dances the Carmagnole over the grave of dulness.
When Social Reformers begin to understand that,
T temperance Reform will begin to be a reality.
CREEVE ROE.
The Preacher.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The plain, ugly conventicle was moderately-
filled with the usual Sunday morning con-
gregation—in which women and girls largely
predominated—waiting for the service to begin.
One or two jerry-builders mused pleasantly on
last week’s specification-dodging; a sprinkling of
dealers in short weights and lying labels peered
round warily at customers; a man of opulence,
sitting next his wife, reflected uneasily at
Mam’selle Pirouette’s growing extravagance and
threats up at establishment No. 2 ; a lawyer
speculated on the chances of success of a “shares ”
blaokmailing action he had taken on.
_ With souls corroded by their respective appe-
tites, the overlying crust whereof had been beaten
to a cake of impregnable hardness by the weekly
assurance that they were the elect and saved,
they sat and waited.
No man of them, openly or in private chamber,
ever fell to his knees with a heart-broken “God
have mercy on me, a sinner ! ” No one was on
speaking terms with his God. An easy com-
promise with the conventions, however, a lowered
head for boot-survey or examination of hat-
lining was conceded. They were booked for
Heaven ‘ ‘ on the nod, ” and in those circumstances
a brief salutation to the door-keeper is discreet.
Room for the lady who has just entered and
taken a seat at the back. A brief glance at her
raises the question if she is a lady exactly.
Her attire carries the fashion well enough, and
the hat bears everything that could, in reason, be
got on it, but there is a betraying garish ness over
all, and the powder on her face is plain, even at a
distance. A Wife of the Town ; a Daughter of
the City ; whichever term may be preferred.
List now to the pastor, who has commenced his
address. A red-faced, black-suited young man,
with black, sleek, oily hair parted in the centre,
and a black, stubbly moustache that barely hides
a mouth Weak and cruel by turns. A snowy
shirt-front and tie, and a heavy presentation
watch-chain —testimony to Christian character.
Hear him :
“My friends, the terrible warning of the text
need not disturb you and me, for we are saved !
Saved by our faitn in One who has taken all our
sins upon Himself, and who will reward us for
holding fast to Him, and we will do so. How
different to wicked sinners outside, leading bad,
shameful lives, for whom there shall be no forgive-
ness ! But they cannot harm us, and we need no
forgiveness from them, for we are safe, and ”
Room once more for the Daughter of the City,
who moves up to the centre seats. Eyes are
turned speculatively upon her, for she has caused
a slight break in the discourse. The girl’s face is
hard, defiant, and aggressive; as of one who—con-
tention provoked—seizes it.
The pastor reaches for water placed on the desk
before him. He seems troubled with his throat,
which he tries to clear by coughing, and he re-
sumes with the feverish haste of one who apolo-
gises before it is too late.
“But, my friends, we can pray for the
wicked! Yes, yes! And, as God’s own people,
it is our duty to forgive them, too” —(we
do! we do!) —“in that they have turned their
lives so sadly from the straight and narrow way.
And if we pray for and forgive them, do we not
do all our duty to them? For they would but
wound and hurt us sorely if we pleaded or inter-
fered with them, and scoff at us if we tried to lift
them from the mire, and make them once more
respectable! ”
Another interruption. Room again for the
Daughter of the City, who rises and slowly ad-
vances to the front bench. She does not seat
herself at once, but in a moment or two does
so. Her face is set with something of fixed pur-
pose, and her dark eyes glitter amid its chalky
pallor.
“But, my friends,” exhorts the pastor, his
hoarse, grating voice rising almost to a shriek, his
face sweat-sprinkled, livid, and fear-stricken,
“there is more— much more! If, before we
became God’s chosen ones, any of us, out of the
wickedness of his heart, yielded to temptation of
the Devil, and harmed another sinner, so that
that other sinner fell into a life of sin and shame,
then it is the duty of such a one to fall upon his
knees, and beg forgiveness from the soul he has
injured, and ”
The Daughter of the City rises to her feet.
“Yes! even as I dot” he cries, falling to his
knees, his hands clasping the desk before
him, his look hunted, and terrorised. “Ah,
sinner! forgive! forgive! forgive!” (his voice
rising in crescendo) “for God’s sake, forgive
as you hope for forgiveness ! ”
The Wife of the Town gazes with a look of
supremest contempt at the abject being before
her. She hesitates during a few moments of
tense, painful silence. Then she turns, and with
a smile of disdain at the curious eyes attracted to
her, walks with ease and dignity the length of the
aisle, leaving behind, with the rustle of her skirts,
a faint odor of perfume. She reaches a door,
a shaft of sunlight enters and then disappears.
“That, my friends,” says the pastor, rising
quickly to his feet, his tones quavering yet with
excitement as he dries his face, “is the spirit in
which we should act, if necessary. But I do not
suppose,” he adds with a sickly smile, “ that any-
one in this congregation could ever be placed in
such a painful and humiliating position ! ”
* • • *
Outside the building were to be found a few
suburban paddocks—even some trees —and in the
stillness of the Sabbath morning it was not diffi-
cult to trace even the note of a bird. Over all
the sun shone : golden as Life, faithful as Death.
The sky was blife, and the air came from realms
beyond the haunts of man. All—everything—
seemed honest: Truth could be breathed in that
atmosphere.
So thought the girl, as expanding her lungs with
a deep sigh, and expelling the air she Lad been
breathing, she wandered on, choosing the green,
yellow-splashed paddocks, for it was October,
and Spring sat softly on the land.
“ A coward still,” she murmured. “ Too pitiful
even for the vengeance qf exposure.”
GEORCE MARTIN.
“ Matchbox ” moralises :
There is one particular aspect of the population ques-
tion. The married couple seem to sit down and delibe-
rately decide not to add any more to their quiver. The
unmarried couple, as a rule, have no control over the
addition. It pleases its own darned little cantankerous
self. And another : The average married woman makes
as much fuss over childbirth as if she were making a
high-class planet. The average unmarried woman effec-
tually conceals her condition from prying eyes, and
makes the addition often without any assistance.
Inference : Women are never backward in advertising
their potence as factors in man’s happiness. Give one a
legal claim and she makes 50 times the fuss she would
make otherwise. She hasn’t any distractions in the way
ol considering her reputation


Rheumatism
;\V\V:
«
i
\l\
HIS is one of the commonest ailments which afflict hundreds of
men and women in Australasia. It is most frequently caused bv
exposure to cold and damp, but a diseased condition of the liver
and digestive organs predisposes to it. When present it is re-
vealed by pain, and stiffness in fine or more joints which become
tender and swollen. The sufferer at first refrains from using
these joints, and they then become “set.” Now, Bile Beans for
Biliousness act directly on the liver and digestive organs, which
in turn purify the blood, and thus reduce the inflammation of
the joint surfaces. If a course of Beans is taken when first the
symptoms of rheumatism appear, and ordinary precautions such
as wearing warm garments and avoiding all colds and chills be
taken, this painful disease will be speedily removed from the
system. Zam-Buk Ointment rubbed into the parts affected will
greatly expedite the cure.
A CURE
“ About three months ago I was laid up with a
severe attack of rheumatism, which confined me to the
house for twelve weeks and kept me from business,”
says Mr. J. L. Williams, a prominent footballer and athlete,
of Norwood, Adelaide, S.A. “I could not walk about the
house without supporting myself by the walls and furniture.
The doctor’s medicine did me not a bit of good, so I gave Bile
Beans a trial. The pain and swellings m my legs began to
decrease with the First Dose. The Third Day after taking them I was able to get
on my boots and hobble up to businesss. In less than a month I was quite cured, and by
nothing but Bile Beans. They are the best medicine I ever tried, and I can honestly
recommend them.”
BILE BEANS have been proved to be an undoubted specific for BILIOUSNESS,
INDIGESTION, CONSTIPATION, PILES, BAD BLOOD, PIMPLES, AND ALL
SKIN ERUPTIONS, BAD BREATH, EXHAUSTION, FULNESS AFTER
EATING NERVOUSNESS, DYSPEPSIA, SICK AND NERVOUS HEADACHE,
DIZZINESS, LOSS OF APPETITE, INSOMNIA, ANAEMIA, and will fortify the
svstem to withstand the rapid changes of the present season.
m
FOR
Hi
Rhymes with
• - £)»
and so does
PEARS
Two Voices.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To the brilliant streets and bustle of a city full of
Spring,
To the soft, contented river and the sleeping,
shining spires,
From the distant hills disrobing there are messages
a-wing,
From the splendid dusk and dawnings, from the
flaming sunset fires.
I have heard them through the clamor of the
people in the sun,
And the winds that whine at midnight when the
city is at rest;
And the . harpstrings of my heart, are set
a-trembling one by one
Till the sweeping of their wide and keen har-
monics calls me West.
Oh ! the dew of darkling mornings on the grasses
green and grey !
Oh ! the flush before the saffron, and the blushes
of the snow !
Dark ratas stalking down the gorge (a-waiting for
the day)
To the sheen of rippling waters in the shingle
sweep below !
The threads of fire on mountain sides in purple of
the night—
The dusted gold of tussocks and the music of the
fords —
The gorse and wattle flame that sets the dusty
road alight—
The thin, bright air—my harmony has all of these
for chords.
But from eastward comes the call of glistening
beaches, sleeping bays',
And the pale, thin, shivering grasses in the land-
wind set astir ;
And the lace of broken rollers, wove for us in
summer days,
When I sought my ocean mother with my love,
and found her fair.
Oh the beach, of worlds forsaken ! Oh the pres-
sure of soft hands,
In our lotus land of ocean, lulled to mellow minor
keys!
Oh the kiss among the lupins, green among the
grey of sands,
When our swaying souls were shaken in the rush
of roaring seas !
How golden were the evenings in that slumbrous
summer weather,
When we plucked the scarlet poppies of delight
and of desire!
How musical the mornings when we wandered
forth together ! . ..
All royal the sea-kingdom where our feet could
never tire.
Rival chimings, murmuring still of mountain
pleasure, sea delight,
Mocking melodies of memories of what I loved
the most:
When morning’s golden promises have rolled away
the night,
It is cold in this my city, and the music all is
lost.
M.L.
R. CORMAC.
Drought-Scenes.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The worst feature of the misery caused by the
drought is its prolongation ; the cyclone and the
bush-fire cause distress enough, but they are swift
and soon only remembered by their debris. But
the drought is all-pervading and continuous,
killing silently, with its wretched environments,
with its years of blasted hopes and fruitless labor.
This morning I saw a cloud of dust creeping
along the road, and later I found behind it a flock
of sheep, with their flanks tucked in tightly, for
they had not been watered for two days. At the rear
rode the cockie who owned them (after the Bank,
and God help the Bank, too !) with his two lank,
bearded sons. A mile ahead bumped the dray
conveying the missus and the kids and the Lares
and Penates ; for the man was shifting right away
from the old place where, be said, it had not
rained since 1894. _
Last vear he cut scrub for his sheep, but lost
half of them. The year before he had them ou
rented country. Half his mob was perpetually
huddling up under bushes, and took an awful lot
of shifting. Occasionally some poor brute would
stand stock still with its glassy eyes staring any-
where, its nose on the ground, and its skeleton
legs trembling.
The cockie would look at the helpless beast and
then ride on with curses; and yet. strange to say,
when camped for the day he seemed unreasonably
hopeful and contented. That pure dry atmosphere
seems to cause such perfect physical health that as
long as food and drink are available the human
mind cannot wholly despair.
Just across the road, a little man is walking
through a dry, dusty paddock, with a bundle of
hav under each arm. In his wake there struggles
a ghastly procession of two cows, ten sheep and
three horses. One of the cows manages to snatch
awav a sheaf of the hay. and the little man drops
his load and pursues the pirate. In her hurry to
get away the cow falls down, and remains so.
Meanwhile, the other animals have rushed the
hav he has left, and it is with great difficulty the
little man can beat them off and recover it.
The animals are so weak that during the
struggle five of the sheep and two horses fall down
and cannot rise, and there they stav till the little
man returns with an assistant and gets them on
to their feet again with, in the case of the larger
stock, ropes and tail twistings.
That little man ia better off than most. His
mortgagee will not eject him—the land is quite
unsaleable.
A station-paddock shows another sight, grue-
some and unlovely. The country is grey and
encumbered with fallen scrub, and. as far as eye
can see, freckled over with yellow blotches.
They are sheepskins hanging on logs, stumps,
anywhere. Whiffs from decaying carcases sicken
the nostrils, and the air is full of the cawing of
millions of crows. They are posted on every tree,
watching. Sometimes, blood-greedy, they swoop
down on some animated skeleton, dance and
flutter before it, till it falls with fright or dizzi-
ness, and then, in a flash, its eyes are pecked out.
The scene is busy enough. Long saplings are
continually crashing down under the axes of the
regiment of scrub-cutters. Half-a-dozen men,
carrying gory knives, advance in a line skinning
the hundred sheep that died last night. Last of
all walks a man poisoning the carcases with phos-
phorus.
It is a scene of scurry—the scurry of the ant-bed
when the porcupine lies upon it sucking up the
denizens by scores and hundreds. An overseer,
who has been riding since dark of night, hurries
past to his breakfast. He sees a sheep go down on
its back, but does not stop. Much misery has
made him callous, and he feels the want of some-
thing to eat.
The pastoralist rides by, slowly, dejectedly, his
chin down on his chest, watching the grim
spectacle. He realises his mistake in not letting
the sheep die in the beginning. Now he must
struggle on in the hope of getting some of his out-
lay back, when it rains.
When it rains ! What pathos there is in the
words. It is the bright consummation that all
the back country is hoping for, and the vision of
sheets of falling water has displaced those of the
New Jerusalem and the Jasper Sea.
A. P. RODGER.
South Africa.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
After nearly a year’s intimacy with affairs
S’African, I am convinced that this is the land
of Good Hopeless. Why the Dutch ever fought
to hold it against John Bullion beats me. Pat-
riotism ? Possibly; but the patriotism of the
fanatic. And the Dutch would fight for it again.
Britannia is now spying after her asset in
S’Africa in vain. The British have the govern-
ment of the Transvaal and the O.R.C. ; the Boers
have the land; the Jews have the mines; and
the incoming Britishers have Buckley’s show of a
billet, or even of hard graft, in a country where
grog and grub and lodging are dearer and coarser
than anywhere else in the world, and where it is
cheaper to bury a corpse than carry a carcase to
the coast line. But things will improve, people
say. Bah ! As with garbage, time intensifies the
evil.
I know my Australia, and I have twice traversed
South Africa ; and I say better an Australian
acre than a South African square mile. This
country is barren beyond redemption—uot even
the flow of British, Boer, and black blood enriches
it. Australia has at times a drought; this coun-
try is never without one and, moreover, its entire
area nourishes every plague known to the animal
and vegetable kingdoms. Why isn't the Boer
agriculturist enterprising? Because if he has a
growing crop to-day, he depastures myriads of
locusts to-morrow.
But diamonds are here !—so is Kaffir labor.
But gold is here ! —so is Kaffir labor. Good for
diamond and gold magnates—absentees; useless
for white men. Good for Park Lane, Paris and
Berlin ; profitless to South Africa except that
Britishers rush hither with savings, and are
skinned by Jew and Christian sharks who do not
invest their money, that was once the Britishers’,
in the country.
It’s no use being a Democrat in this country.
The Dutch (who politically balance parties,
where they do not predominate) are Conservatives
who only employ Kaffir labor, and have neither
time, attention nor inclination to examine, let
alone to adopt, advanced views. The Progres-
sives, or Jingoes, vote for politicians who belong
to De Beers, or who hang about De Beers. The
Moderates on both sides are only moderate on
racial matters. As for local politics, they are
complacently antediluvian, while their best
energies are reserved for money-grubbing and
grabbing. All Radical Australians in this niggers’
and millionaires’ country are soon disgusted
with politics. They see the elemental hopeless-
ness of Reform. De Beers is straining every nerve
to further plunder this country through political
power. The Dutch keep De Beers slightly in
check, and Chamberlain administered it a blow
by practically calling it a conspirator and a
liar; but it is callous to insult, audacious
and undeterred. It owns the press and vents a
spurious South African opinion as fluently and
as impertinently as ever.
De Beers caused the war and cost the Empire
£300,000,000. It will cost the Britishers, coming
here to be fleeced and elbowed-out, many more
millions. Chamberlain pacified Briton and Boer,
but he did not quell the brutal ambition of De
Beets. The Dutch will yet have a bloody fight to
a finish with De Beers, which now’ holds a
monopoly in nearly everything. This time John
Bull’s sons and sovereigns will not back De Beers.
Chamberlain, Tor one, will- this time cheerfully
see the Dutch massacre De Beers. Then the
country may be fit for the toughest and roughest
type of Britisher to become a lonely hairy man in.
W. B. MELVILLE.
There had been many rumors as to bitter
dissensions in the Protectionist camp, and when
O Reilly (that wasn't quite his name) got up,
somebody made heckling references to these.
“Now, bhoys,” he protested, “don’t you be
belaving these stories of dissinsions. When
you’re in bed a-night, and hear the cats in the
back-yarrd a-squealing and a-yelling, you’d think
that they be tearing the throats out of one
another. But it doesn’t mane that at all; it
manes new eats. And whin you hear that there s
bin noises and ructious in our rooms, it doesn t
mane dissensions ; it manes eonvarsions ; it manes
we are making new Protectionists,”
“R.H.” : Those undertakers are cheerful
cusses. I was beguiling the leisure hour in a
“ factory ” the other night. Mr. Glum was doing
a little overtime ; his charming wife was sitting
on a trestle holding back a three-year-old infant
who was vainly struggling to reach its father and
inspect the coffin. “ Ain't it wonderful,” said
Mrs. G., “’ow children imitate their parents? ’E
wants that there tack ’amrner an’ cloth. Give it
to ’im, John, an’ see what ’e’ll do.” John passed
the hammer and stood off admiringly; but the
kid dropped it down a hole in the floor. “’E s a
trick,’ said John; “ I ’ave a ’ard job to keep the
saw an’ ’amrner away from ’im. ’E told me the
other day that e was going to build ‘one’ for the
cat. ’ The mother laughed and kissed the child
fervently. When Glum had finished he said to
me—seriously—“ Jump in an’ see ’ow it goes; it
ain’t everybody as can say they’ve been in one o’
them.”


Weak and Nervous
Loss of Appetite. Indigestion. Impure Blood. Severe Headaches.
An Easy and Prompt Cure.
rr-:
*•*
&
1
*
Mrs. Marian Pascoe, of Christ-
church, New Zealand, sends a photo-
graph of herself and little boy and
says:
“I had indigestion very badly.
My food rested heavy on my stom-
ach. I lost my appetite and rapidly
grew weak. My blood became im-
pure and I had almost constant
headache. I was so nervous I hardly
knew what to do. A friend sug-
gested that I try Ayer’s Sarsapa-
rilla, which I did, and only a few
bottles made me strong and hearty
again. My little boy began to com-
plain, said he was all tired out,
could not play, nor do anything.
He lost his appetite, and grew w eak
and languid. I tried the Sarsapa-
rilla on him also, and he was soon
perfectly well.”
“The World’s Createst Family Medicine.”
When you lose your appetite, when your food distresses you, and when
your nerves are weak, you may know that severe disease is not far away.
Taken in time, the cure is easy and prompt. You must strengthen your
digestive organs, purify your blood, and put your whole nervous system into
better condition. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla will do this for you every time. And
it will give to languid and thin children the energy and vitality natural to them.
Experiments are dangerous. Avoid imitation Sarsaparillas. Insist always
upon getting Ayer’s, the oldest, strongest, best Sarsaparilla.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Makes the Blood Rich and the Nerves Strong
Constipation, biliousness, sick-headache, all cured by Ayer’s Pills.
Martin’s Apiol and steel pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia. Not genuine
without the signature. Be sure you get Martin’s.
Sole proprietor, W. Martin, pharmaceutical
chemist, Southampton, England.*
“Bis.”: Remember the case referred to
by “Scalpel” (8., 10/11/’O3), in whicli a Melb.
surgeon (it was in the Alfred Hospital) left a pair
of forceps and a sponge inside the wound after an
abdominal operation on a woman. At the inquest,
a junior surgeon gave evidence that he saw
his senior was making the incision in a wrong
direction, but etiquette restrained him from
pointing out the mistake. The woman died.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
CAN OBTAIN
BY USING
ip;
&
&
ft«9'
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.'
BOTTLES, 6d., 1/- 4. 2/6.
Sole Makers— H. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND.
Felton, Grimwade & Co
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
FOR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache
1 Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Gold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Cos'iveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Tremblin<r Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
GUINEA A BOX ’’
BEECHAM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieinein
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, Is l£d, and 2s 9d each.
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
HIS MAJESTY
THE KING.
MOIRS
“MAYFAIR”
TABLE-JELLY
“Madeinhalf-
a minute by
the mere ad-
IN PINT
PACKETS.
CRYSTALS
Manufacturers—JOHN MOIR & SON, LTD., LONDON, ABERDEEN and SE
Head Office: 9 & 10, Great Tower Street, LONDON, E.C.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
Corner George & Market Sts., SYDNEY
The Best Luncheon in Town from ONE SHILLING, served from 12 sharp till 2.30 ;
Dinner from 5.30 to 7.30, same price.
The Most Convenient Place for Ladies and Gentlemen visiting the Theatres to dine at.
N.B.— Visitors oo?y pay far wbat fcbey actually ba^€-
TERMS. —The Convenient and Modern System of paying' for a
room on arrival, and Meals as they are had.
Apartments: BEDROOM, Single, 3s. per day; Double, 6s. per day.
ENGAGE ROOMS AT ROBERTS’ HOTEL, SYPNCY.
NOTE.—Send to ROBERTS’ WINE and SPIRIT STORE, MARKET ST., next GEORGE ST.,
for REVISED PRICE LIST. COUNTRY ORDERS PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO.
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commdnwealth and to the East
THE BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
M.D., C M., L.R.C.P.E., L.R.C.S.E.,
L.P.P.S.G., L.M., etc.,
Registered by the Medical Boards of Great
Britain, victoria, New South Wales,
etc.,
The Eminent Specialist, whose unparalleled success in the Treatment of Blood and Nerve
Diseases has earned for him a reputation unequalled by any other Specialist in Australia, may be consulted
iaily, personally or by letter, at “H-MLEY HOUSE,” 151 Elizabeth-st., Sydney. Old and Obsolete
Methods discarded. DR. MARTIN’S latest treatment has proved absolutely effective in all cases of Blood
Oisease, Nerve Affections, Paralys s, Loss of Energy, Lung, Heart, Skin, and all
Chronic Diseases of Men and Women. His Consulting Rooms are replete with all the
atest and most scientific improvements in Electric Appliances, etc. Country Patients
:reated by Correspondence at their own homes. Advice and Medicine, One
>ound. All Sufferers should write for a copy of Dr. Martin’s Latest Medical Work,
THE ‘ KNOX-MEROEIt ’ TREATMENT IN DISEASE.” This work should find a place in every
musehold, as it contains a full and explicit account of the Most Wonderful Treatment of the Present
v'e. It has been the means of Curing Thousands who fo lowed out the instructions contained
herein. This Marvellous Treatment Cleanses and Rejuvenates the Whole System, and is the Cheapest
r’.atment in Existence, as nothing but the Book is required.
Price, 55.; by post, ss. 6d.
CONSULTING HOURS: 10 to 2 and 7 to 9 Daily.
“ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
“L.W.”: I used to wonder why musicians, and people
who lifted up their voices to reach the public’s dollars,
wore their hair long—till I went to hear tenor Llo' id and
his co. at Sydney Town Hall. Then I knew. Lloyd
wore his hair just about the same length as Thb
Bulletin’s ; basso Peterkin wore his about as short
as is the rule in Darlinghurst, and the effect was simply
terrific. They looked absolutely inhuman. They were
simply two suits of human clothing surmounted by a
desert of bald, blear skulls, in the eye-holes of which
gleamed polished gems. From the skulls issued musical
sounds, articulate words, but nothing could make that
dreary waste of frontal bone human. Then I went to
hear the Hambourg brothers in the same hall; and now I
am wondering why musicians and singers who wear long
hair don’t a so wear a comb or something to keep it back.
Mark smacked and banged the instrument as a Rocks
washerwoman slaps the hussie she finds drinking with
the old man in the pub round the corner ; and all the
time his head bobbed up and down like a fishwife’s when
that lydy is expressing her opinion of the other lvdy who
said the first lydy was not in a position to show any
“ lines.” And his hair flew up and down also, and got in
front of his eyes, fell into his mouth; and completely
shut out the glitter of hi| diamond stud. Yet the women
all round made complimentary remarks. Some said,
“ isn’t he just too lovely ?” Others begged their neigh-
bors to say if he wasn’t “ real sweet.”
“ R.S.A.” : The accounts in the British papers of Ada
Orossley’s early career make me laugh long and hastily.
Mr. Orossley (who died at Malvern, Vic., last year) was
not a squatter. Also, Miss Orossley was not a dead shot
with the rifle, and did not make the wombat bite the
dust as he flew over the plains of Gippsland, in South
Australia, near Fiji. Moreover, with keen eye and
unerring aim she did not bring to earth the kangaroo
from his high perch amongst the topmost branches of the
salt-bush. Likewise she was never attacked by a pack of
native bears, and had to ride for her life ; and the yarn
about the kookaburra killing, and swallowing whole, her
pet retriever looks doubtful.
“Ferostag” : Lloyd leisurely, almost languidly, puts
on his gold-rimmed glasses with his right hand and care-
fully adjusts them with his left. For every song he
brings on the platform the ordinary full-sized sheet of
music, and frequently looks at the words or music of
songs he has been singing for a quarter of a century.
His voice is still beautiful, but to me it lacked passion
and pathos. I felt neither throb nor thrill. While sing-
ing “ Gome into the Garden, Maud,” I noticed he wore a
ring on the little finger of each hand and two rings on
the third finger of the left. He, furthermore, seemed
often to forget the name of the girl, which necessitated
frequent references to his music. Fearing that in a
moment of forgetful enthusiasm he might look as though
he felt what he was singing, Lloyd often steadied himself
by grasping the back of the Austrian chair in which sat
his accompanist—and thus held himself down. It was
not until I heard Melba that I thoroughly appreciated
Dolores, and after hearing Lloyd I can understand why I
have a soft spot in my heart for Philip Newbury.
“ Hamlet ” : I have done some considerable amount of
provincial touring in Australia in my time, and have
found most country towns a duplicate of any other you
would like to name—a lock-up, three or four pubs, and
churches, an institute, a post-office, a railway-station
(possibly), and a Salv’army, also a few business places
and houses. The provincial actor’s day is divided thus :
Sleep six hours, theatre six hours, in pubs, eight hours,
chiefly borrowing money and arguing t’other four hours.
As a rule he is not a church-goer, and, owing to his
profession, can’t chaff the Salv’army at night. He con-
verses on the one subject—which is “ Poverty Point,”
but will argue on anything, and in his opinion convince
you. He will drink, and then argpe, and drink twice and
argue once. He believes in having two drinks to a two-
sided argument, and if it happens to have three sides,
three drinks. The pub. is his home and only refuge.
“Petramos”: T’other day arrived at a Broken Hill
boarding-house, which I frequent periodically, and found
things in an uproar. The hard-working, hard-faced land-
lady had issued an ultimatum : all hoarders who couldn’t
pay were to leave the premises within 24 hours. Now,
the three daughters of the said landlady, having become
passionately attached to three stone-broke gentlemen of
the theatrical profession, objected strongly. The girls
(who had been in the habit of doing all the housework)
objected so strongly that they struck without giving the
usual week’s notice, and shut themselves up in their bed-
room and refused to surrender except on their own
terms. The strike lasted 1J days, the strikers and the
theatrical gentlemen (who still hung about) remaining
unfed all the time, whilst the old woman buzzed round
preparing savory dishes for me, the only paying person
about the premises. Towards the end of the second day,
however, the theatricals abandoned their girls and sought
the refuge of a fourpenny hash-house. I informed the
landlady, who informed the girls, whereupon the latter,
being faint for want of hash, gave in with a bad grace.
“ Melb.” : Re the late Julius Siede, best known as
Lyster’s opera conductor. A word on conductors.
Lavenu was the first to become notable in Australia.
Lyster brought Reiff. The flamboyant Marzorati will be
remembered, with the Oagli and Pompeii co. Linley
Norman came long before, with Julia Harland, Farquhar-
son, Sherwin, and Hoskins (Julia’s husband). Van Ghele
was an able man, with the Soldene co. Hazon and Slap-
offski are the two who have put the most elbow grease
into it, strenuously actilig the whole opera through.
Seide had Caron’s easy style. Peake, with the Melbourne
Philharmonic, is an excellent carpenter. Rev. Professor
Sugden, the Methodist, exults over working up the best
choir in Melbourne, that of the Carlton Wesleyan Church.
The latest Parisian sensation is “L’Enqu6te.” A
Judge is the central figure. He was dining with
the President of the Tribunal in a friendly way,
the night before the play begins, and left his friend
after dinner at the corner of a street where their roads
parted. A little later the President was found murdered,
and the Judge had to make an inquiry into the case. In
the pockets of the murdered man he finds letters and a
photo, proving he had been “carrying on” with a married
lady. The Judge also learns that this woman’s husband
had a violent quarrel with his wife early in the evening,
left the house, and did not return till after the murder
was committed, so when the curtain rises the Judge is
certain that, for once, the police have hold of the right
clue. The Judge sends for this man, and after the
French method tries to trap him into admissions. Then,
dismissing him, he sends for the wife, whom he confronts
with proofs of her infidelity. He is about to examine
husband and wife together, when a young lawyer
appears upon the scene and begins an inquiry. In the
end he fits the guilt of the murder clearly on the
Judge himself, who is an epileptic, and murdered the
President in one of his homicidal fits, remembering
nothing of the affair when he recovered.


as>
,oj'i3fu/r6t?U<s4>o€£A '
• • °
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK:
Price 4s (id, postage 6d.
CURIOUS
The Best Address for
English, French,
German
Books and Photos.
Apply—
-116 BOX, PARIS.
2/- for Oatal. and Miniat
Apply 116 BOX, PARIS.
WE SHIP ON APPROVAL
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles. Fully warranted.
10 t0£5.5.0
Duniop Tyres, Steel or Wood Rims,
Free Wheels, Mud Guards and Brakes.
CARRIAGE PAID
To any Fort in Australasia.
TYRES, ACCESSORIES,
Sperting Goods and Sewing
Machines Half Usual Prices.
Write for Catalogue and Special Offer
Using jjd. Stamp. Address Dept 34iD
Mead Cycle Co.
Chicago,
U.S.A.
SIMPSON BROTHERS
32 & 34 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Australasian Representatives for
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK.
Boiler Feed Pump.
Em~ SEND FOR CATALOGUES.
James Simpson & Co., Ltd. London and Newark.
Worthington Pumping Engine Co. London & NO w YO rk.
Warren Webster & Co. Newjerooy.
Enquiries Invited for ,
Worthington Pumps
Webster Feed Water Heaters & Purifiers
Cincinnati Air Compressors
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissors
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
MARK.
J. h J. MAXFIELT), Proprs., SHEFFIELD.
WOLF
At the Showrooms—
EMPIRE CHAMBERS, 93 YORK-ST.,
SYDNEY
Also at—
“ THE BLOCK,”
Collins-St., MELBOURNE
74 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
for sale „,rci to arrive- MELBOURNE: 435 Bourke Street.
PUMPING MACHINERY of every description, Woodworking Machinery, English and American Engines, Boilers,
Injectors, Reducing Valves, Steam Gauges, Steam Traps, Laundry Machinery, Painters’ and Bakers’
Machinery, Engineers’ Machine Tools, Shafting, Plummer Blocks, Pulleys, Hangers, Couplings, Collars,
Lubricating Oil, Erunton Pocket Transits, Shedd’s Electrical Fans, Hoisting Engines and Boilers.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.,
60 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
r#
ALL KINDS OF
ENGINES & BOILERS
PUMPS,
MINING MACHINERY
And APPLIANCES,
ENGINEERS’ TOOLS & FITTINGS,
WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY,
ETC., ETC.
Bushman
Pros 1/1
Post
Free.
V
Harry Morant:
His ’Ventures
and Verses.
and Buccaneer
By PRANK RBNAR.
EDWARDS, DUNLOP &CO.i
SYDNEY.^
A GO-AHEAD FIRM
PATESON & COBCROFT,
Auctioneers, Commission and Live Stock Agents,
and Produce Merchants.
Goods forwarded and received from this or any State. Agents for celebrated Corn Cob Bacon.
AUCTIONS ANYWHERE.
231
Sussex Street,
SYDNEY.
NERVOUSNESS.
_OSB Of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS of SELF
CURE, will forward the same, free of
charge, to anyone interested.
Address: A. MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Size, SJ" x Z\" x 5".
We are Direct Importers
AND HAVE FOR SALE—
Snow Duplex Pumps
(all sizes for all purposes),
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling
and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shaft -
ing, Hangers, Bearings, Collars, etc.
Engineers' Tools and Fittings, Valves,
Cocks, Gauges, etc., Cast, Tool and
Mining Steel, Wire Ropes and all RequF
sites for Contractors, Engineers, Sa u'
Mills and Mining Proprietors.
R. L. Scrutton &Co. Ltd,
97 Clarenee-st., Sydney.
Will
Cut
Close
Without
Injuring 1
the
Bud, or
Crushing
the Bark.
AUSTRALIAN
KEEN BLADES” PRUNER
(GAFFYS’ PATENT)
G
MADE IN SHEFFIELD.
For Sale by all
Seedsmen and
Ironmongers-
Price,
8/6
each,
or posted to any
town in N.8.W.,
6d: extra.
K GUTHRIDGE, LTD.,
CLARENCE STREET.
District Agents Wanted.
Trewhella Bros;
PATENT
LOG AND STUMP JACKS.
It you have Stumps, Roots, Stones, or Logs to dear, or
Threshers or Machinery to move, try these Jacks, in y
are used by thousands throughout Australasia, ana, tfle
sales are rapidly increasing, which proves their 'am .
You can obtain them from the ironmonger with "tiom
you deal, or I will supply\you direct.
The Melbourne and Sydney Prices are-
Lirf, Toi ' PRics
Double Purchase Jack 4 65-
6 75-
21 40 -
>9
99
Single „ 99
With AUTOMATIC LOWERINC GEAR, 5 - extra
Awarded Special Prize at R.A. Show, Sydney, 1903.
Full Information and Trade Discounts from
Trewliella Bros., Trentham, Victoria,
or H. HINDS, 17 Loftus St., Sydney.
